Besides, I do not know that you tell the truth.  Still, I can offer you
what pearls and emeralds you may find to your liking."
"Your Highness, there are those whose coming shortly will cause you
much annoyance if you refuse to give me proper aid.  There is no
possible way for you to cover up my appearance here.  Send me to the
commissioner's bungalow, where I may await the coming of my friends."
"Indeed!"  The Kumor saw here a conflict not altogether to his liking.
He was lazy, and there was the damnable, unrelenting hand of the
British Raj looming in the distance.  He shrugged.  "Achmet, call the
captain of the guard and have him convey this runaway queen to Allaha.
Surely, I may not meddle with the affairs of a friendly state."  With a
wave of his fat bejeweled hand he appeared to dismiss the matter from
his mind.
Kathlyn was led away.  The human mind can stand only so many shocks.
Outside the palace courtyard stood Rajah, the howdah securely attached
once more, Kathlyn was bidden to mount.  A water bottle and some cakes
were placed in the howdah beside her.  Then a drunken mahout mounted
behind Rajah's ears.  The elephant did not like the feel of the man's
legs, and he began to sway ominously.  Nevertheless, he permitted the
mahout to direct him to one of the city gates, the soldiers trooping
alongside.
It appeared that there was a much shorter route to Allaha.  Time being
essential, Bruce had had to make for the frontier blindly, as it were.
The regular highway was a moderately decent road which led along the
banks of one of those streams which eventually join the sacred Jumna.
This, of course, was also sacred.  Many Hindus were bathing in the
ghats.  They passed by these and presently came upon a funeral pyre.
Sometimes one sleeps with one's eyes open, and thus it was with
Kathlyn.  Out of that funeral pyre her feverish thoughts builded a
frightful dream.
      *      *      *      *      *      *
The drunken mahout slid off Rajah; the soldiers turned aside.  Hired
female mourners were kneeling about, wailing and beating their breasts,
while behind them stood the high caste widow, her face as tragic as
Dido's at the pyre of Aeneas.  Suddenly she threw her arms high over
her head.
"I am suttee!"
Suttee!  It was against the law of the British Raj.  The soldiers began
arguing with the widow, but only half heartedly.  It was a pious rite,
worthy of the high caste Hindu's wife.  Better death on the pyre than a
future like that of a pariah dog.  For a wife who preferred to live
after her husband was gone was a social outcast, permitted not to wed
again, to exist only as a drudge, a menial, the scum and contempt of
all who had known her in her days of prosperity.
The widow, having drunk from a cup which contained opium, climbed to
the top of the pyre where her husband lay, swathed in white.  She gazed
about wildly, and her courage and resolve took wings.  She stumbled
down.  A low hissing ran about.
"Make the white woman suttee in her place!" cried the drunken mahout.
The cry was taken up by the spectators.  Kathlyn felt herself dragged
from the elephant, bound and finally laid beside the swathed figure.
There could be no horror in the wide world like it.  Smoke began to
curl up from the underbrush.  It choked and stifled her.  Sparks rose
and dropped upon her arms and face.  And through the smoke and flame
came Rajah.  He lifted her with his powerful trunk and carried her off,
for hours and hours, back into the trackless jungle. . . .
Kathlyn found herself, all at once, sitting against the roots of an
aged banyan tree.  A few yards away an ape sat on his haunches and eyed
her curiously.  A little farther off Rajah browsed in a clump of weeds,
the howdah at a rakish angle, like the cocked hat of a bully.  Kathlyn
stared at her hands.  There were no burns there; she passed a hand over
her face; there was no smart or sting.  A dream; she had dreamed it; a
fantasy due to her light-headed state of mind.  A dream!  She cried and
laughed, and the ape jibbered at her uneasily.
In reality, Rajah, freed of his unwelcome mahout, had legged it down
the road without so much as trumpeting his farewell, and the soldiers
had not been able to stop him.
How she had managed to get down would always remain a mystery to her.
Food and water, food and water; in her present state she must have both
or die.  Let them send her back to Allaha; she was beaten; she was
without the will to resist further.  All she wanted was food and water
and sleep, sleep.  After that they might do what they pleased with her.
For the first time since the extraordinary flight from Allaha Kathlyn
recollected the "elephant talk" which Ahmed had taught her.  She rose
wearily and walked toward Rajah, who cocked his ears at the sound of
her approach.  She talked to him for a space in monotone.  She held out
her hands; the dry raspy trunk curled out toward them.  Rajah was
evidently willing to meet her half-way.  She ordered him to kneel.
Without even pausing to think it over Rajah bent his calloused knees,
and gratefully Kathlyn crawled back into the howdah.  Food and water:
these appeared at hand as if by magic.  So she ate and drank.  If she
could hold Rajah to a walk the howdah would last at least till she came
to some village.
Later, in the moonshine, she espied the ruined portico of a temple.
CHAPTER VI
THE TEMPLE
In the blue of night the temple looked as though it had been sculptured
out of mist.  Here and there the heavy dews, touched by the moon
lances, flung back flames of sapphire, cold and sharp.  To Kathlyn the
temple was of marvelous beauty.  She urged Rajah toward the crumbling
portico.
It was a temple in ruins, like many in Hind.  Broken pillars,
exquisitely carved, lay about, and some of the tall windows of marble
lace were punctured, as if the fist of some angry god had beaten
through.  Under the decayed portico stood an iron brazier.  Near this
reposed a cracked stone sarcophagus: an unusual sight in this part of
the world.  It was without its lid.  But one god now brooded
hereabouts--Silence.  Not a sound anywhere, not even from the near-by
trees.  She saw a noiseless lizard slide jerkily across a patch of
moonshine and dissolve into the purple shadow beyond.
What was this temple?  What gods had been worshiped here?  And why was
it deserted?  She had heard her father tell of the ruined city of
Chitor.  Plague? . . .  Kathlyn shuddered.  Sometimes villages, to the
last soul in them, were brushed from existence and known no more to
man.  And this might be one of them.  Yet indications of a village were
nowhere to be seen.  It was merely a temple, perhaps miles from the
nearest village, deserted save by prowling wild beasts, the winds, the
sunshine and the moonshine.  She looked far and wide for any signs of
human habitation.
She commanded Rajah to kneel.  So held by the enchanting picture was
Kathlyn that the elephant's renewed restlessness (and he had reason, as
will be seen) passed unobserved by her.  He came to his knees, however,
and she got out of the howdah.  Her legs trembled for a space, for her
nerves were in a pitiable condition.  Suddenly Rajah's ears went
forward, he rose, and his trunk curled angrily.  With a whuff he
wheeled and shuffled off toward the jungle out of which he had so
recently emerged.
"Halt!" cried Kathlyn.  What had he heard?  What had he seen?  "Halt!"
But even as she called the tall grass closed in behind the elephant.
What water and food she had disappeared with him.
She paused by the brazier, catching hold of it for support.  She
laughed hysterically: it was so funny; it was all so out of joint with
real things, with every-day life as she had known it.  Weird laughter
returned to mock her astonished ears, a sinister echo.  And then she
laughed at the echo, being in the grip of a species of madness.  In the
purple caverns of the temple she suddenly became conscious of another
presence.  A flash as of moonlight striking two chrysoberyls took the
madness out of her mind.  This forsaken temple was the haunt of a
leopard or a tiger.
She was lost.  That magnetism which ordinarily was hers was at its
nadir.  She hesitated for a second, then climbed into the empty
sarcophagus, crouching low.  Strangely enough, as she did so a calm
fell upon her; all the terrors of her position dropped away from her as
mists from the mountain peaks.  She had, however, got into the
hiding-place none too soon.
She heard the familiar pad-pad, the whiff-whiff of a big cat.
Immediately into the moonlight came an African lion, as out of place
here as Kathlyn herself; his tail slashed, there was a long black
streak from his mane to his tail where the hair had risen.  Kathlyn
crouched even lower.  The lion trotted round the sarcophagus, sniffing.
Presently he lifted his head and roared.  The echoes played battledore
and shuttlecock with the sound.  The lion roared again, this time at
the insulting echoes.  For a few minutes the noise was deafening.  A
rumble as of distant thunder, and the storm died away.
By and by she peered out cautiously.  She saw the lion crossing the
open space between the temple and the jungle.  She saw him pause, bend
his head, then lope away in the direction taken by Rajah.
To Kathlyn it seemed that she had no longer anything to do with the
body of Kathlyn Hare.  The soul of another had stepped into this
wearied flesh of hers and now directed its physical manifestations,
while her own spirit stood gratefully and passively aloof.  Nothing
could happen now; the world had grown still and calm.  The spirit drew
the sleeves of the robe snugly about her arms and laid Kathlyn's head
upon them and drew her down into a profound slumber.
Half a mile to the north of the ruined temple there lay, all
unsuspected by Kathlyn, a village--a village belonging solely to the
poor, mostly ryots or tillers of the soil.  The poor in Asia know but
two periods of time--for rarely do they possess such a thing as a watch
or a clock--sunset and sunrise.  Perhaps the man of the family may sit
a while at dusk on his mud door-sill, with his bubbling water pipe (if
he has one), and watch the stars slowly swing across the arch.  A pinch
of very bad tobacco is slowly consumed; then he enters the hunt
[Transcriber's note: hut?], flings himself upon his matting (perhaps a
cotton rug, more likely a bundle of woven water reeds) and sleeps.  No
one wakes him; habit rouses him at dawn.  He scrubs his teeth with a
fibrous stick.  It is a part of his religious belief to keep his teeth
clean.  The East Indian (Hindu or Mohammedan) has the whitest, soundest
teeth in the world if the betel-nut is but temperately used.
Beyond this village lay a ruined city, now inhabited by cobras and
slinking jackals.
Dawn.  A few dung fires smoldered.  From the doorway of one of the mud
huts came a lean man, his naked torso streaked with wet ashes, his
matted hair hanging in knots and tangles on his emaciated shoulders.
His aspect was exceedingly filthy; he was a holy man, which in this mad
country signifies physical debasement, patience and fortitude such as
would have adorned any other use.  A human lamprey, sticking himself
always at the thin and meager board of the poor, a vile parasite, but
holy!
The holy man directed his steps to the narrow beaten pathway which led
to the temple, where, every morning, he performed certain rites which
the poor benighted ryots believed would some day restore the ruined
city and the prosperity which attends fat harvests.  The holy man had
solemnly declared that it would take no less than ten years to bring
about this miracle.  And the villagers fell down with their foreheads
in the dust.  He was a Brahmin; the caste string hung about his neck;
he was indeed holy, he who could have dwelt on the fat of the land, in
maharajahs' courts.  The least that can be said is that he performed
his duties scrupulously.
So, then, the red rim of the March sun shouldered up above the rolling
jungle as he came into the beaten clay court which fronted the temple.
The lion stalked only at night, rarely appearing in the daytime.  Once
a month he was given a bullock, for he kept tiger and leopard away, and
the villagers dwelt in peace.  The lion had escaped from Allaha, where
the species were kept as an additional sport.  Since he had taken up
his abode in the temple there had been fewer thefts from the cattle
sheds.
The holy man was about to assume his squatting posture in the center of
the court, as usual, when from out of the sarcophagus rose languidly a
form, shrouded in white.  The form stretched its lovely arms, white as
alabaster, and presently the hands rubbed a pair of sleepy eyes.  Then
the form sat down within the sarcophagus, laid its arms on the rim, and
wearily hid its face in them.
The watcher was the most dumfounded holy man in all India.  For the
first time in his hypocritical life he found faith in himself, in his
puerile rites.  He had conjured up yonder spirit, unaided, alone.  He
rose, turned, and never a holy man ran faster.  When he arrived,
panting and voiceless, at the village well, where natives were coming
and going with water in goatskins and jars and copper vessels, he fell
upon his face, rose to his knees, and poured hands full of dust upon
his head.
"Ai, ai!" he called.  "It is almost done, my children.  The first sign
has come from the gods.  I have brought you in human form the ancient
priestess!"  And he really believed he had.  "O my children, my little
ones, my kids!  I have brought her who will now attend to the sacred
fires; for these alone will restore the city as of old, the fat corn,
the plentitude of fruit.  Since the coming of the lion two rains ago
the leopard and the striped one have forsaken their lairs.  One bullock
a month is better than fire, together with the kids and the children.
Ai!"  More dust.
Naturally the villagers set down their water skins and jars and copper
vessels and flocked about this exceptional holy man.  They wanted to
believe him, but for years nothing had happened but the advent of the
lion, whence no one exactly knew, though the holy man had not been
backward in claiming it was due to his nearness to the god Vishnu.
They followed him eagerly to the temple.  What they beheld transfixed
them.  A woman with skin like the petals of the lotus and hair like
corn sat in the sacred sarcophagus and braided her hair, gazing the
while toward the bright sun.
The intake of many breaths produced a sound.  Kathlyn turned instantly
toward this sound, for a moment expecting the return of the lion.
Immediately holy man and villagers threw themselves upon the ground,
striking their foreheads against the damp clay.  The alien spirit still
ruled the substance; Kathlyn eyed them in mild astonishment, not at all
alarmed.
"Ai!" shrilled the holy man, springing to his feet.  "Ai!  She is our
ancient priestess, rising from her tomb of centuries!  Ai, ai!  O thou
unholy children, to doubt my word!  Behold!  Henceforth she shall share
the temple with the lion, and later she will give us prosperity, and my
name shall ever be in your households."
Having secured a priestess, he was now determined that he should not
lose her.  The future was roseate indeed, and when he took his next
pilgrimage to holy Benares they would bestrew his pathway with lotus
flowers.
"Wood to start the sacred fires!" he commanded.
The villagers flew to obey his orders.  He was indeed a holy man.  Not
in the memory of the oldest had a miracle such as this happened.  Upon
their return with wood and embers the holy man built the fire, handing
a lighted torch to Kathlyn and signifying for her to touch the tinder.
The spirit in Kathlyn told her that these people meant her no immediate
harm, so she stepped out of the sarcophagus and applied the torch.  The
moment the flames began to crackle the villagers prostrated themselves
again and the holy man besmeared his bony chest with more ashes.
A second holy man appeared upon the scene, wanting in breath.  His jaw
dropped and his eyes started to leave their sockets.  Knowing his ilk
so thoroughly well, he flung himself down before the brazier and beat
his forehead upon the ground; not in any chastened spirit, but because
he had overslept that morning.  This glory might have been his!  Ai, ai!
Later the two conferred.  During the day they should guard the
priestess, because, having taken human form, she might some day tire of
this particular temple.  At night she would be well guarded by the lion.
Several awestricken women came forward with bowls of cooked rice and
fruits and a new copper drinking vessel.  These they reverently placed
at Kathlyn's feet.
Gradually the spirit which had comforted Kathlyn withdrew, and at
length Kathlyn became keenly alive.  It entered her mind clearly that
these poor foolish people really believed her a celestial being, and so
long as they laid no hand upon her she was not alarmed.  She had
recently passed through too many terrors to be disturbed by a bit of
kindness, even if stirred into being by a religious fanaticism.
Kathlyn ate.
By pairs the villagers departed, and soon none remained save her
self-appointed guardians, the two holy men.  Kathlyn felt a desire to
explore this wonderful temple.  She discovered what must have been the
inner shrine.  The chamber was filled with idols; here and there a bit
of gold leaf, centuries old, glistened upon the bronze, the clay, the
wood.  The caste mark on the largest idol's head was a polished ruby,
overlooked doubtless during the loot.  She swept the dust from the
jewel with the tip of her finger, and the dull fire sent a shiver of
delight over her.  She was still a woman.
As she wandered farther in her foot touched something and she looked
down.  It was a bone; in fact, the floor was strewn with bones.  She
quickly discerned, much to her relief, that none of these bones was
human.  This was, or had been, the den of the lion.  There was an acrid
unpleasant odor, so she hurried back to the brazier.  Vaguely she
comprehended that she must keep the fire replenished from time to time
in order to pacify the two holy men.  At night it would fend off any
approach of the lion.
Where was Bruce?  Would he ever find her?  That philosophy which she
had inherited from her father, that quiet acceptance of the inevitable,
was the one thing which carried her through her trials sanely.  An
ordinary woman would have died from mere exhaustion.
Bruce, indeed!  At that very moment he was rushing out of the Kumor's
presence, wild to be off toward the road to Allaha, since Kathlyn had
not been seen upon it.  He found where Rajah had veered off into the
jungle again, and followed the trail tirelessly.  But it was to be his
misfortune always to arrive too late.
To Kathlyn the day passed with nothing more than the curiosity of the
natives to disturb her.  They brought her cotton blankets which she
arranged in the sarcophagus.  There were worse beds in the world than
this; at least it shielded her from the bitter night wind.
She ate again at sundown and builded high the sacred fire and tried to
plan some manner of escape; for she did not propose to be a
demi-goddess any longer than was necessary.  From Pundita she had
learned many words and a few phrases in Hindustani, and she ventured to
speak them to the holy men, who seemed quite delighted.  They could
understand her, but she on her part could make little or nothing of
their jabbering.  Nevertheless, she pretended.
Finally the holy men departed, after having indicated the sacred fire
and the wood beside it.  This fire pleased Kathlyn mightily.  While it
burned brightly the lion would not prowl in her immediate vicinity.
She wondered where this huge cat had come from, since she knew her
natural history well enough to know that African lions did not inhabit
this part of the globe.  Doubtless it had escaped from some private
menagerie.
The fire, then, giving her confidence, she did not get into the
sarcophagus, but wandered about, building in her fancy the temple as it
had stood in its prime.  The ceilings had been magnificently carved, no
two subjects alike; and the walls were of marble and jasper and
porphyry.  A magic continent this Asia in its heyday.  When her
forefathers had been rude barbarians, sailing the north seas or
sacrificing in Druidical rites, there had been art and culture here
such as has never been surpassed.  India, of splendid pageants, of
brave warriors and gallant kings!  Alas, how the mighty had fallen!
About her, penury, meanness, hypocrisy, uncleanliness, thievery and
unbridled passions. . . .  What was that?  Her heart missed a beat.
That pad-pad; that sniffling noise!
She whirled about, knocking over an idol.  It came down with a crash
and, being of clay, lay in shards at her feet.  (Unfortunately it was
the holy of holies in this temple.)  How she gained the shelter of the
sarcophagus she never knew, but gain it she did, and cowered down
within.  She could hear the beast trotting round and round, sniffling
and rumbling in his throat.  Then the roaring of the preceding night
was repeated.  The old fellow evidently could not find those other
lions who roared back at him so valiantly.  Evidently fire had no
terrors for him.  For an hour or more he patrolled the portico, and all
this time Kathlyn did not stir, hardly daring to breathe for fear he
might undertake to peer into the sarcophagus.
Silence.  A low roar from the inner shrine told her that for the
present she was safe.  To-morrow she must fly, whither did not matter.
Toward four o'clock she fell into a doze and was finally awakened by
the sound of voices raised in anger.
Poor sheep!  They had discovered the shattered idol.  It did not matter
at all that the return of their ancient goddess was to bring back
prosperity.  She had broken their favorite idol.  Damnation would come
in a devil's wind that night.
The holy man who had missed the chance of claiming the miraculous
appearance of Kathlyn as a work of his own now saw an opportunity to
rehabilitate himself in the eyes of those who had made his holiness a
comfortable existence.  With a piece of the idol in his hand, he roused
Kathlyn and shook the clay before her face, jabbering violently.
Kathlyn understood readily enough.  She had unwittingly committed a
sacrilege.
The natives gathered about and menaced her.  Kathlyn rose, standing in
the sarcophagus, and extended her hands for silence.  She was
frightened, but it would never do to let them see it.  What Hindustani
she knew would in this case be of no manner of use.  But we human
beings can, by facial expression and gesture, make known our messages
with understandable clearness.  From her gestures, then, the holy men
gathered that she could recreate the god.  She pointed toward the sun
and counted on her fingers.
The premier holy man, satisfied that he understood Kathlyn's gestures,
turned to the justly angered villagers and explained that with his aid
their priestess would, in five suns, recreate Vishnu in all his beauty.
Instantly the villagers prostrated themselves.
"Poor things!" murmured Kathlyn.
The holy men sent the natives away, for it was not meet that they
should witness magic in the making.  They then squatted in the clay
court and curiously waited for her to begin.  There was a well in the
inner shrine.  To this she went with caution.  The lion was evidently
foraging in the jungle.  Kathlyn filled the copper vessel with water
and returned.  Next, she gathered up what pieces of the idol she could
find and pieced them together.  Here was her model.  She then
approached one of the fakirs and signified that she had need of his
knife.  He demurred at first, but at length consented to part with it.
She dug up a square piece of clay.  In fine, she felt more like the
Kathlyn of old than she had since completing the leopard in her outdoor
studio.  It occupied her thoughts, at least part of them, for she
realized that mayhap her life depended upon her skill in reproducing
the hideous idol.
As the two old hypocrites saw the clay take form and shape and the
mocking face gradually appear, they were assured that Kathlyn was
indeed the ancient priestess; and deep down in their souls they
experienced something of the awe they had often inspired in the poor
trusting ryot.
Kathlyn had talent bordering on genius.  The idol was an exact replica
of the original one; more, there was a subtle beauty now where before
there had been a frank repulsiveness.  It satisfied the holy men, and
the unveiling was greeted by the villagers with such joy that Kathlyn
forgave them and could have wept over them.  She had made a god for
them, and they fell down and worshiped it.
Five more days passed.  On the afternoon of the fifth day Kathlyn was
feeding the fire.  The holy men sat in the court at their devotions,
which consisted in merely remaining motionless.  Kathlyn returned from
the fire to see them rise and flee in terror.  She in turn fled, for
the lion stood between her and the sarcophagus!  The lion paused,
lashing his tail.  The many recent commotions within and without the
temple had finally roused his ire.  He hesitated between the holy men
and Kathlyn, and finally concluded that she in the fluttering robes
would be the most desirable.
There was no particular hurry; besides, he was not hungry.  The cat in
him wanted to play.  He loped after Kathlyn easily.  At any time he
chose a few swift bounds would bring him to her side.
Beyond the temple lay the same stream by which, miles away, Kathlyn had
seen the funeral pyre and about which she had so weird a fantasy.  If
this stream was deep there was a chance for life.
CHAPTER VII
QUICKSANDS
When Kathlyn came to the river she swerved toward the broadest part of
it.  Twice she stumbled over boulders, but rose pluckily and, bruised
and breathless, plunged into the water.  It was swift running and
shoulder deep, and she was forced to swim strongly to gain the opposite
shore.  She dragged herself up to the bank and, once there, looked
back.  What she saw rather astonished her.  She could not solve the
riddle at first.  The lion seemed to be struggling with some invisible
opponent.  He stood knee deep in the sands, tugging and pulling.  He
began to roar.  Even as Kathlyn gazed she saw his chest touch the sand
and his swelling flanks sink lower.  Fascinated, she could not withdraw
her gaze.  How his mighty shoulders heaved and pulled!  But down, down,
lower and lower, till nothing but the great maned head remained in
view.  Then that was drawn down; the sand filled the animal's mouth and
stopped his roaring; lower, lower . . .
Quicksands!  The spot where he had disappeared stirred and glistened
and shuddered, and then the eternal blankness of sand.
She was not, then, to die?  Should she return to the temple?  Would
they not demand of her the restoration of the lion?  She must go on,
whither she knew not.  She regretted the peace of the temple in the
daytime.  She could see the dome from where she stood.  Like Ishmael,
she must go on, forever and forever on.  Was God watching over her?
Was it His hand which stayed the onslaught of the beast and defeated
the baser schemes of men?  Was there to be a haven at the end?  She
smiled wanly.  What more was to beset her path she knew not, nor cared
just then, since there was to be a haven at the end.
Perhaps prescience brought to her mind's eye a picture; she saw her
father, and Bruce, and Winnie, and her sweetheart, and they seemed to
be toasting her from the end of a long table, under the blue California
sky.  This vision renewed her strength.  She proceeded onward.
She must have followed the river at least a mile when she espied a raft
moored to a clump of trees.  Here she saw a way of saving her weary
limbs many a rugged mile.  She forded the stream, freed the raft, and
poled out into the middle of the stream.
It happened that the Mohammedan hunters who owned the raft were at this
moment swinging along toward the temple.  On the shoulders of two
rested a pole from which dangled the lifeless body of a newly killed
leopard.  They were bringing it in as a gift to the head man of the
village, who was a thoroughgoing Mohammedan, and who held in contempt
Hinduism and all its amazing ramifications.
The white priestess was indeed a puzzle; for, while the handful of
Mohammedans in the village were fanatical in their belief in the true
prophet and his Koran, and put little faith in miracles and still less
in holy men who performed them, the advent of the white priestess
deeply mystified them.  There was no getting around this: she was
there; with their own eyes they saw her.  There might be something in
Hinduism after all.
When the hunters arrived at the portico of the temple they found two
greatly terrified holy men, shrilling their "Ai!  Ai!" in lamentation
and beating their foreheads against the earth.
"Holy men, what is wrong?" asked one of the hunters, respectfully.
"The lion has killed our priestess; the sacred fires must die again!
Ai!  Ai!"
"Where is the lion?"
"They fled toward the river, and there he has doubtless destroyed her,
for in evil, Siva, represented by the lion, is more powerful than
Vishnu, reincarnated in our priestess.  Ai!  Ai!  She is dead and we
are undone!"
"Come!" said the chief huntsman.  "Let us run to the river and see what
these queer gods are doing.  We'll present the skin of Siva to our
master!"  He laughed.
The leopard carriers deposited their burden and all started off at a
dog-trot.  They had always been eager regarding this lion.  In the
temple he was inviolable; but at large, that was a different matter.
Arriving at the river brink, they saw the foot-prints of the lion on
the wet sand which ran down to the water.  To leap from this spot to
the water was not possible for any beast of the jungle.  Yet the lion
had vanished completely, as though he had been given wings.  They stood
about in awe till one of the older hunters knelt, reached out, and dug
his hand into the innocent looking sand.  Instantly he leaped to his
feet and jumped back.
"The sucking sand!" he cried.  "To the raft!"
They skirted the dangerous quicksands and dashed along the banks to
discover that their raft was gone.  Vishnu, then, as reincarnated,
required solid transportation, after the manner of human beings?  They
became angry.  A raft was a raft, substantial, necessary; and there was
no reason why a god who had ten thousand temples for his own should
stoop to rob a poor man of his wherewithal to travel in safety.
"The mugger!" exclaimed one, "let the high priestess beware of the
mugger, for he is strong enough to tip over the raft!"
Nearly every village which lies close to a stream has its family
crocodile.  He is very sacred and thrives comfortably upon suicides and
the dead, which are often cast into the river to be purified.  The
Hindus are a suicidal race; the reverse of the occidental conception,
suicide is a quick and glorious route to Heaven.
The current of the stream carried Kathlyn along at a fair pace; all she
had to do was to pole away from the numerous sand-bars and such
boulders as lifted their rugged heads above the water.
Round a bend the river widened and grew correspondingly sluggish.  She
sounded with her pole.  Something hideous beyond words arose--a fat,
aged, crafty crocodile.  His corrugated snout was thrust quickly over
the edge of the raft.  She struck at him wildly with the pole, and in a
fury he rushed the raft, upsetting Kathlyn.
The crocodile sank and for a moment lost sight of Kathlyn, who waded
frantically to the bank, up which she scrambled.  She turned in time to
see the crocodile's tearful [Transcriber's note: fearful?] eyes staring
up at her from the water's edge.  He presently slid back into his slimy
bed; a few yellow bubbles, and he was gone.
Kathlyn's heart became suddenly and unaccountably swollen with rage;
she became primordial; she wanted to hurt, maim, kill.  Childishly she
stooped and picked up heavy stones which she hurled into the water.
The instinct to live flamed so strongly in her that the crust of
civilization fell away like mist before the sun, and for a long time
the pure savage (which lies dormant in us all) ruled her.  She would
live, live, live; she would live to forget this oriental inferno
through which she was passing.
She ran toward the jungle, all unconscious of the stone she still held
in her hand.  She lost all sense of time and compass; and so ran in a
half circle, coming out at the river again.
The Indian twilight was rising in the east when she found herself again
looking out upon the water, the stone still clutched tightly.  She
gazed at the river, then at the stone, and again at the river.  The
stone dropped with a thud at her feet.  The savage in her had not
abated in the least; only her body was terribly worn and wearied and
the robe, muddied and torn, enveloped her like a veil of ice.  Above
her the lonely yellow sky; below her the sickly river; all about her
silence which held a thousand menaces.  Which way should she go?  Where
could she possibly find shelter for the night?
The chill roused her finally and she swung her arms to renew the
circulation.  Near by she saw a tree, in the crotch of which reposed a
platform, and upon this platform sat a shrine.  A few withered flowers
hung about the gross neck of the idol, and withered flowers lay
scattered at the base of the tree.  There was also a bundle of dry
rushes which some devotee had forgotten.  At least, yonder platform
would afford safety through the night.  So, with the last bit of
strength at her command, she gathered up the rushes and climbed to the
platform, arranging her bed behind the idol.  She covered her shoulders
with the rushes and drew her knees up to her chin.  She had forgotten
her father, Bruce, the happy days in a far country; she had but a
single thought, to sleep.  What the want of sleep could not perform
exhaustion could; and presently she lay still.
Thus, she neither saw nor heard the pious pilgrims who were on their
way to Allaha to pray in that temple known to offer protection against
wild beasts.  Fortunately, they did not observe her.
The pilgrim is always a pilgrim in India; it becomes, one might say, a
fascinating kind of sport.  To most of them, short pilgrimages are as
tame as rabbits would be to the hunter of lions.  They will walk from
Bombay to Benares, from Madras to Llassa, begging and bragging all the
way.  Eventually they become semi-holy, distinguished citizens in a
clutter of mud huts.
They deposited some corn and fruit at the foot of the tree and
departed, leaving Kathlyn in peace.  But later, when the moon poured
its white, cold radiance over her face it awakened her, and it took her
some time to realize where she was.
Below, belly deep in the river, stood several water buffaloes, their
sweeping horns glistening like old ivory in the moonshine.  Presently a
leopard stole down to the brink and lapped the water greedily, from
time to time throwing a hasty, apprehensive glance over his sleek
shoulders.  The buffaloes never stirred; where they were it was safe.
Across the river a bulky shadow moved into the light, and a fat, brown
bear took his tithe of the water.  The leopard snarled and slunk off.
The bear washed his face, possibly sticky with purloined wild honey,
and betook himself back to his lair.
Kathlyn suddenly became aware of the fact that she was a spectator to a
scene such as few human beings are permitted to see: truce water, where
the wild beasts do not kill one another.  She grew so interested that
she forgot her own plight.  The tree stood only a few feet from the
water, so she saw everything distinctly.
Later, when his majesty the tiger made his appearance dramatically, the
buffaloes simply moved closer together, presenting a formidable
frontage of horns.
Never had Kathlyn seen such an enormous beast.  From his great padded
paws to his sloping shoulders he stood easily four feet in height, and
his stripes were almost as broad as her hand.  He drank, doubtless
eying the buffaloes speculatively; some other time.  Then he, too, sat
on his haunches and washed his face, but with infinite gracefulness.
It occurred to the watcher that, familiar as she was with the habits of
wild beasts, never had she witnessed a tiger or a lion enact this
domestic scene.  Either they were always pacing their cages, gazing far
over the heads of those who watched them, or they slept.  Even when
they finished a meal of raw meat they merely licked their chops; there
was no toilet.
Here, however, was an elaborate toilet.  The great cat licked his paws,
drew them across his face; then licked his beautiful sides, purring;
for the night was so still and the beast was so near that she could see
him quite plainly.  He stretched himself, took another drink, and
trotted off to the jungle.
Then came a herd of elephants, for each species seemed to have an
appointed time.  The buffaloes emerged and filed away into the dark.
The elephants plunged into the water, squealing, making sport,
squirting water over their backs, and rolling, head under; and they
buffeted one another amiably, and there was a baby who seemed to get in
everybody's way and the grown-ups treated him shabbily.  By and by
they, too, trooped off.  Then came wild pigs and furtive antelopes and
foolish, chattering apes.
At last the truce water became deserted and Kathlyn lay down again,
only to be surprised by a huge ape who stuck his head up over the edge
of the platform.  The surprise was mutual.  Kathlyn pushed the idol
toward him.  The splash of it in the water scared off the unwelcome
guest, and then Kathlyn lay down and slept.
A day or so later Bruce arrived at the temple.  Day after day he had
hung to the trail, picking it up here and losing it there.  He found
Rajah, the elephant, the howdah gone, and only the ornamental headpiece
discovered to Bruce that he had found his rogue.  Rajah was docile
enough; he had been domesticated so long that his freedom rather irked
him.
Bruce elicited from the mourning holy men the amazing adventure in all
its details.  Kathlyn had disappeared in the jungle and not even the
tried hunters could find her.  She was lost.  Bruce, though in his
heart of hearts he believed her dead, took up the trail again.  But
many weary weeks were to pass ere he learned that she lived.
He shook his fist toward Allaha.  "Oh, Durga Ram, one of these fine
days you and I shall square accounts!"
      *      *      *      *      *      *
Kathlyn had just completed herself a dress of grass.  Three years
before she had learned the trick from the natives in Hawaii.  The many
days of hardship had made her thinner, but never had she been so hardy,
so clear eyed, so quick and lithe in her actions.  She had lived
precariously, stealing her food at dusk from the tents of the ryots;
raw vegetables, plantains, mangoes.  Sometimes she recited verses in
order that she might break the oppressive silence which always
surrounded her.
She kept carefully out of the way of all human beings, so she had lost
all hope of succor from the brown people, who had become so hateful to
her as the scavengers of the jungle.  There was something to admire in
the tiger, the leopard, the wild elephant; but she placed all natives
(perhaps wrongly) in a class with the unclean jackals and hyenas.
Tanned deeply by wind and sun, Kathlyn was darker than many a native
woman.  Often she thought of Bruce, but hope of his finding her had
long since died within her.  Every night when she climbed to her
platform she vowed she would start south the next morning; south,
toward the land where there were white people; but each morning found
her hesitant.
Behind her tree there was a clearing, then a jumble of thickly growing
trees; beyond those was another clearing, upon which stood a deserted
elephant stockade.  The grass had grown rank in it for want of use.
She was in the act of putting on grass sandals when she saw, to her
dismay, the approach of men and elephants.  Two elephants were ridden
by mahouts.  Two other elephants were being jostled toward the
stockade, evidently new captives.  They proceeded passively, however,
for elephants submit to captivity with less real trouble than any other
wild beast.  Kathlyn crouched low in the grass and waited till the men
and elephants entered the stockade; then she ran quickly toward her
haven, the platform in the tree.  She never went very far from this,
save in search of food.  She had also recovered the idol and set it
back in its place.  It was not, fortunately, a much frequented spot.
It was for the benefit of the occasional pilgrim, the ryots having
shrines more conveniently situated.
She nestled down among her rushes and waited.  She could not see the
stockade from where she now was, but she could hear shouts from the
mahouts.
Recently she had discovered a leopard's lair near the stockade and was
very careful to avoid it, much as she wanted to seize the pretty cubs
and run away with them.  By this time she knew the habits, fears, and
hatreds of these people of the jungle, and she scrupulously attended
her affairs as they attended theirs.  Sometimes the great striped tiger
prowled about the base of the tree, sharpened his claws on the bark,
but he never attempted to ascend to the platform.  Perhaps he realized
the uselessness of investigation, since the platform made it impossible
for him to see what was up there.  But always now, to and from the
truce water, he paused, looked up, circled the tree, and went away
mystified.
Only the grass eating beasts came down to water that night, and Kathlyn
understood by this that the men and the elephants were still in the
stockade.
The following morning she went down to the stream to bathe; at the same
time the parent leopards came for drink.  They had not cared to seek
their lair during the night on account of the fires; and, worrying over
their cubs, they were not in the most agreeable mood.
Kathlyn saw their approach in time to reach her platform.  They snarled
about the tree, and the male climbed up as far as the platform.
Kathlyn reached over with a stout club and clouted the brute on his
tender nose.
A shot broke the silence and a bullet spat angrily against the tree
trunk.  Two cats fled.  Immediately there came a squealing and
trumpeting from the stockade.
This is what had happened: The chief mahout had discovered the cubs and
had taken them into the stockade just as another hunter had espied the
parent leopards.  The rifle shot had frightened one of the wild
elephants.  With a mighty plunge he had broken the chain which held him
prisoner to the decoy elephant and pushed through the rotten stockade,
heading straight for the river.
Kathlyn saw his bulk as it crashed straight through the brush.  He
shuffled directly toward her tree.  The ground about was of clay,
merging into sand as it sloped toward the river.  The frantic runaway
slipped, crushed against the tree trunk, recovered himself, and went
splashing into the water.
Kathlyn was flung headlong and only the water saved her from severe
bodily harm.  When she recovered her senses she was surrounded by a
group of very much astonished Mohammedans.
They jabbered and gesticulated to one another and she was conducted to
the stockade.  She understood but two words--"Allaha" and "slave."
CHAPTER VIII
THE SLAVE MART
Having decided upon the fate of Kathlyn, the natives set about
recapturing the wild elephant.  It took the best part of the morning.
When this was accomplished the journey to Allaha was begun.  But for
the days of peace and quiet of the wilderness and the consequent
hardness of her flesh, Kathlyn would have suffered greatly.  Half the
time she was compelled to walk.  There was no howdah, and it was a
difficult feat to sit back of the mahout.  The rough skin of the
elephant had the same effect upon the calves of her legs that sandpaper
would have had.  Sometimes she stumbled and fell, and was rudely jerked
to her feet.  Only the day before they arrived was she relieved in any
way: she was given a litter, and in this manner she entered the hateful
city.
In giving her the litter the chief mahout had been inspired by no
expressions of pity; simply they desired her to appear fresh and
attractive when they carried her into the slave mart.
In fitful dreams all that had happened came back to her--the story her
father had told about saving the old king's life, and the grim,
ironical gratitude in making Colonel Hare his heir--as if such things
could be!  And then her own journey to Allaha; the nightmarish durbar,
during which she had been crowned; the escape from the ordeals with
John Bruce; the terrors of the temple of the sun; the flight from there
. . .  John Bruce!  She could still see the fire in his eyes; she could
still feel the touch of his gentle yet tireless hand.  Would she ever
see him again?
On the way to the mart they passed under the shadow of the grim prison
walls of the palace.  The elephants veered off here into a side street,
toward the huge square where horses and cattle and elephants were
bought and sold.  The litter, in charge of the chief mahout, proceeded
to the slave mart.  Kathlyn glanced at the wall, wondering.  Was her
father alive?  Was he in some bleak cell behind that crumbling masonry?
Did he know that she was here?  Or was he really dead?  Ah, perhaps it
were better that death should have taken him--better that than having
his living heart wrung by the tale of his daughter's unspeakable
miseries.
Even as she sent a last lingering look at the prison the prisoner
within, his head buried in his thin wasted hands, beheld her in a
vision--but in a happy, joyous vision, busying about the living room of
the bungalow.
And far away a younger man beheld a vision as very tenderly he gazed at
Kathlyn's discarded robe and resumed his determined quest.  Often,
standing beside his evening fires, he would ask the silence, "Kathlyn,
where are you?"  Even then he was riding fast toward Allaha.
A slave mart is a rare thing these days, but at the time these scenes
were being enacted there existed many of them here and there across the
face of the globe.  Men buy and sell men and women these
times--enlightened, so they say--but they do it by legal contract or
from vile hiding places.
Allaha had been a famous mart in its prime.  It had drawn the agents of
princes from all over India.  Persia, Beloochistan, Afghanistan, and
even southern Russia had been rifled of their beauties to adorn the
zenanas of the slothful Hindu princes.
The slave mart in the capital town of Allaha stood in the center of the
bazaars, a great square platform with a roof, but open on all four
sides.  Here the slaves were exhibited, the poor things intended for
dalliance and those who were to struggle and sweat and die under the
overseer's lash.
Every fortnight a day was set aside for the business of the mart.
Owners and prospective buyers met, chewed betel-nut, smoked their
hookas, sipped coffee and tea, and exchanged the tattle of the hour.
It was as much an amusement as a business; indeed, it was the oriental
idea of a club, and much the same things were discussed.  Thus, Appaji
bought a beautiful girl at the last barter and Roya found a male who
was a good juggler, and only night before last they had traded.  The
bazaars were not what they used to be.  Dewan Ali had sold his wife to
a Punjab opium merchant.  Aunut Singh's daughter had run away with the
son of a bheestee.  All white people ate pig.  And no one read the
slokas, or moral, stanzas, any more.  Yes, the English would come some
day, when there would be enough money to warrant it.
All about there were barkers, and fruit sellers, and bangle wallas (for
slave girls should have rings of rupee silver about their ankles and
wrists), and solemn Brahmins, and men who painted red and ocher caste
marks on one's forehead, and ash covered fakirs with withered hands,
Nautch girls, girls from the bazaars, peripatetic jewelers, kites, and
red-headed vultures--this being a proper place for them.
The chief mahout purchased for Kathlyn a beautiful saree, or veil,
which partially concealed her face and hair.
"Chalu!" he said, touching Kathlyn's shoulder, whenever she lagged, for
they had dispensed with the litter, "Go on!"
She understood.  Outwardly she appeared passive enough, but her soul
was on fire and her eyes as brilliant as those of the circling,
whooping kites, watching that moment which was to offer some loophole.
On through the noisy bazaars, the object of many a curious remark,
sometimes insulted by the painted women at the windows, sometimes
jested at by the idlers around the merchants' booths.  Vaguely she
wondered if some one of her ancestors had not been terribly wicked and
that she was paying the penalty.
It seemed to her, however, that a film of steel had grown over her
nerves; nothing startled her; she sensed only the watchfulness she had
often noted in the captives at the farm.
At length they came out into the busy mart.  The old mahout
congratulated himself upon the docility of his find.  It would stiffen
the bidding to announce that she was gentle.  He even went so far as to
pat her on the shoulder.  The steel film did not cover all her nerves,
so it would seem; the patted shoulder was vulnerable.  She winced, for
she read clearly enough what was in the mind back of that touch.
She had made her plans.  To the man who purchased her she would assume
a meekness of spirit in order to lull his watchfulness.  To the man who
purchased her . . .  Kathlyn Hare!  She laughed.  The old man behind
her nodded approvingly, hearing the sound but not sensing its import.
Ah, when the moment came, when the fool who bought her started to lead
her home, she would beguile him and at the first sign of carelessness
she would trust to her heels.  She knew that she was going to run as
never a woman ran before; back to the beasts of the jungle, who at
least made no effort to molest her so long as she kept out of their way.
Wild and beautiful she was as the old mahout turned her over to a
professional seller.
"Circassian!"
"From the north!"
"A bride from the desert!"
"A yellow-hair!"
"A daughter of the north seas!"
The old mahout squatted close by and rubbed his hands.  He would be a
rich man that night; bags of rupees; a well thatched house to cover his
gray hairs till that day they placed him on the pyre at the burning
ghat.  The gods were good.
Durga Ram, known familiarly as Umballa, at this hour came forth into
the sunshine, brooding.  He was not in a happy frame of mind.  Many
things lay heavy upon his soul; but among these things there was not
one named remorse.  To have brought about all these failures this
thought irked him most.  Here was a crown almost within reach of his
greedy fingers, the water to Tantalus.  To have underestimated this
yellow haired young woman, he who knew women so well--there lay the
bitter sting.  He had been too impetuous; he should have waited till
all her fears had been allayed.  That spawn of Siva, the military, was
insolent again, and rupees to cross their palms were scarce.  Whither
had she blown?  Was she dead?  Was she alive?
The white hunter had not returned to his camp yet, but the sly Ahmed
was there.  The perpetual gloom on the face of the latter was
reassuring to Umballa.  Ahmed's master had not found her.  To wring the
white man's heart was something.  He dared not put him out of the way;
too many knew.
And the council was beginning to grow uneasy.  How long could he hold
them in leash?
What a woman!  As magnificent as the daughter of Firoz, shah of Delhi.
Fear she knew not.  At one moment he loved her with his whole soul, at
another he hated her, longed to get her into his hands again, to wreak
his vengeance upon her for the humiliation she had by wit and courage
heaped upon him.  "I am ready!"  He could hear it yet.  When they had
led her away to the ordeals--"I am ready!"  A woman, and not afraid to
die!
Money!  How to get it!  He could not plunge his hand into the treasury;
there were too many about, too many tongues.  But Colonel Hare knew
where the silver basket lay hidden, heaped with gold and precious
stones; and torture could not wring the hiding-place from him.  May he
be damned to the nethermost hell!  Let him, Durga Ram, but bury his
lean hands in that treasure, and Daraka swallow Allaha and all its
kings!  Rubies and pearls and emeralds, and a far country to idle in,
to be feted in, to be fawned upon for his riches!
And Ramabai and his wife, Pundita, let them beware; let them remain
wisely in their house and meddle not with affairs of state.
"A thousand rupees!"
Umballa looked up with a start.  Unconsciously he had wandered into the
slave mart.  He shrugged and would have passed on but for the strange,
unusual figure standing on the platform.  A golden haired woman with
neck and arms like Chinese bronze and dressed in a skirt of grass!  He
paused.
"Two thousand rupees!"
"What!" jeered the professional seller.  "For an houri from paradise?
O ye of weak hearts, what is this I hear?  Two thousand rupees?--for an
houri fit to dwell in the zenana of heaven!"
A keen-eyed Mohammedan edged closer to the platform.  He stared and
sucked in his breath.  He found himself pulled two ways.  He had no
money, but he had knowledge.
"Who sells this maiden?" he asked.
"Mohammed Ghori."
"Which is he?"
"He squats there."
The Mohammedan stopped and touched the old mahout on the shoulder.
"Call off this sale, and my master will make you rich."
The old sinner gingerly felt of the speaker's cotton garb.  "Ah!  'My
master' must be rich to dress thee in cotton.  Where is your gold?
Bid," satirically.
"Two thousand rupees!" shouted the professional seller.
"I have no gold, but my master will give 10,000 rupees for yonder maid.
Quick!  Old fool, be quick!"
"Begone, thou beggar!"
And the old man spat.
"Mem-sahib," the Mohammedan called out in English, "do not look toward
me, or all will be lost.  I am Ali, Bruce Sahib's chief mahout; and we
have believed you dead!  Take care!  I go to inform Ahmed.  Bruce Sahib
has not returned."
Kathlyn, when she heard that voice, shut her eyes.
Umballa had drawn closer.  There was something about this half veiled
slave that stirred his recollection.  Where had he seen that graceful
poise?  The clearness of the skin, though dark; the roundness of the
throat and arms. . . .
"Three thousand rupees!"
The old mahout purred and smoothed his palms together.  Three thousand
rupees, a rajah's ransom!  He would own his elephant; his wife should
ride in a gilded palanquin, and his children should wear shoes.  Three
thousand rupees!  He folded his arms and walked gently to and fro.
"Five thousand rupees!" said Umballa, impelled by he knew not what to
make this bid.
A ripple of surprise ran over the crowd.  The regent, the powerful
Durga Ram, was bidding in person for his zenana.
Kathlyn's nerves tingled with life again, and the sudden bounding of
her heart stifled her.  Umballa!  She was surely lost.  Sooner or later
he would recognize her.
The mahout stood up, delighted.  He was indeed fortunate.  He salaamed.
"Huzoor, she is gentle," he said.
The high-caste who had bid 3,000 rupees salaamed also.
"Highness, she is yours," he said.  "I can not bid against my regent."
It was the custom to mark a purchased slave with the caste of her
purchaser.  Umballa, still not recognizing her, waved her aside toward
the Brahmin caste markers, one of whom daubed her forehead with a
yellow triangle.  Her blue eyes pierced the curious brown ones.
"The sahib at the river," she whispered in broken Hindustani.  "Many
rupees.  Bring him to the house of Durga Ram."  This in case Ali failed.
The Brahmin's eyes twinkled.  Her Hindustani was execrable, but "sahib"
and "river" were plain to his understanding.  There was but one sahib
by the river, and he was the white hunter who had rescued the vanished
queen from the ordeals.  He nodded almost imperceptibly.  Inwardly he
smiled.  He was not above giving the haughty upstart a Thuggee's twist.
He spoke to his neighbor quietly, assigned to him his bowls and
brushes, rose, and made off.
"Follow me," said Umballa to the happy mahout.  Presently he would have
his bags of silver, bright and twinkling.
Fate overtook Ali, who in his mad race to Hare's camp fell and badly
sprained his ankle.  Moaning, less from the pain than from the
attendant helplessness, he was carried into the hut of a kindly ryot
and there ministered to.
The Brahmin, however, filled with greed and a sly humor, reached his
destination in safety.  Naturally cunning, double tongued, sly,
ingratiating, after the manner of all Brahmins, who will sink to any
base level in order to attain their equivocal ends his actions were
unhampered by any sense of treachery toward Umballa.  A Thuggee's twist
to the schemes of the street rat Umballa, who wore the Brahmin string,
to which he had no right!  The Brahmin chuckled as he paused at the
edge of Bruce's camp.  A fat purse lay yonder.  He approached, his
outward demeanor a mixture of pride and humility.
Bruce had returned but half an hour before, mind weary, bone tired.  He
sat with his head in his hands, his elbows propped upon his knees.  His
young heart was heavy.  He had searched the bewildering jungle as one
might search a plot of grass before one's door, blade by blade.  A
hundred times he had found traces of her; a hundred times he had called
out her name, only to be mocked and gibbered at by apes.  She had
vanished like a perfume, like a cloud shadow in the wind.
His soul was bitter; for he had built many dreams, and always this fair
haired girl had ridden upon them.  So straight she stood, so calm in
the eyes, mannered with that gentleness, known of the brave. . . .
Gone, and skilled as he was in jungle lore, he could not find her.
"Sahib, a Brahmin desires audience."
"Ask him what he wants."
"It is for the sahib's ear alone."
"Ah!  Bring him to me quickly."
The Brahmin approached, salaamed.
"What do you wish?" Bruce asked curtly.
"A thousand rupees, Huzoor!" blandly.
"And what have you that is worth that many rupees?" irritably.
The Brahmin salaamed again.  "Huzoor, a slave this day was purchased by
Durga Ram, Umballa, so-called.  She has skin the color of old tusks,
and eyes like turquoise, and lips like the flame of the jungle, and
hair like the sands of Ganges, mother of rivers."
Bruce was upon his feet, alive, eager.  He caught the Brahmin by the
arm.
"Is this woman white?" harshly.
"Huzoor, the women of Allaha are always dark of hair."
"And was sold as a slave?"
"To Durga Ram, the king without a crown, Huzoor.  It is worth a
thousand rupees," smiling.
"Tell me," said Bruce, stilling the tremor in his voice, "tell me, did
she follow him without a struggle?"
"Yes.  But would a struggle have done any good?"
Bruce took out his wallet and counted out a thousand rupees in Bank of
India notes.  "Now, listen.  Umballa must not know that I know.  On
your head, remember."
"Huzzor, the word of a Brahmin."
"Ah, yes; but I have lived long here.  Where is Ali?" cried Bruce,
turning to one of his men.
"He went into the city this morning, Sahib, and has not returned."
"Come," said Bruce to the waiting Brahmin, "We'll return together."  He
now felt no excitement at all; it was as if he had been immersed in ice
water.  It was Kathlyn, not the least doubt of it, bought and sold in
the slave mart.  Misery, degradation . . . then he smiled.  He knew
Kathlyn Hare.  If he did not come to her aid quickly she would be dead.
Now, when Umballa took her into his house, Kathlyn was determined to
reveal her identity.  She had passed through the ordeals; she was, in
law, a queen, with life and death in her hands.
"Do not touch me!" she cried slowly in English.
Umballa stepped back.
"I am Kathlyn Hare, and if all the world is not made up of lies and
wickedness, I am the queen you yourself made.  I can speak a few words,
enough to make myself known to the populace.  I will make a bargain
with you.  I will give you five times five thousand rupees if you will
deliver me safely in Peshawer.  On my part, I promise to say nothing,
nothing."
Umballa raised both his hands in astonishment.  He knew now why that
form had stirred his recollection.
"You!"  He laughed and clapped his hands to summon his servants.
Kathlyn, realizing that it was useless to attempt to move this man,
turned and started to run, but he intercepted her.  "My queen, my bride
that was to be, the golden houri!  Five times five thousand rupees
would not purchase a hair of your head."
"I am your queen!"  But she said it without heart.
"What!  Do you believe that?  Having passed the ordeals you nullified
the effect by running away.  You will be whatever I choose!  Oh, it
will be legally done.  You shall go with me to the council, and the
four of us shall decide.  Ah, you would not be my wife!"
"You shall die, Durga Ram," she replied, "and it will be the death of a
pariah dog."
"Ah!  Still that spirit which I loved.  Why, did I not buy you without
knowing who you were?  Are you not mine?  At this very moment I could
place you in my zenana and who would ever know?  And soon you would not
want any one to know."
"Are you without mercy?"
"Mercy?  I know not the word.  But I have an ambition which surpasses
all other things.  My wife you shall be, or worse.  But legally, always
legally!"  He laughed again and swiftly caught her in his arms.  She
struggled like a tigress, but without avail.  He covered her face and
neck with kisses, then thrust her aside.  "Poor little fool!  If you
