almost to a sense of shame, she held herself to a strict account. No
matter what she might gain here, she would always be considered Mrs.
Boyd's daughter. She had not expected to be received with the young
ladies of the school, and had taken no notice of the little rudenesses
that might have had a better excuse if she had been trying to crowd in.
So all the refinements of birth and education did not always conduce to
the higher generosity of heart.

Miss Arran came gently in the room with an anxious glance toward the
bed.

"Mrs. Barrington wishes to see you in the library, Miss Boyd. I will
stay here with your mother."

Lilian laid down her work as she rose and said: "Mother is asleep now."

Then she went slowly down the wide stairway, her eyes lingering on some
of the panels that had been painted in by a true artist.

"My dear child," the lady said in a voice that seemed full of emotion,
"you must have felt from the beginning that I had taken an unusual
interest in you. You suggested some person that I could not quite place,
but came to know afterward that it was one of my early scholars, a most
charming girl. She married happily and had two sons, but they both
longed for a daughter. Providence listened to their prayers and sent
them a double portion, two lovely girls. My friend's husband was a
soldier stationed on the frontier and in an Indian raid was quite
severely wounded. It was not deemed best to risk moving him and she
resolved to go out to him. One of the babies, the first born was larger
and stronger than the other, and she determined to take this one with a
most excellent nurse she had. You heard the story Mrs. Boyd told. My
friend was in the same frightful accident--the nurse was killed
outright, but the baby by some miracle had not so much as a scratch. The
only other baby was crushed beyond recognition."

Lilian sprang up, then the room seemed to swim round. She caught at the
chair back to steady herself and gave a great gasp.

"Oh, and my mother, Mrs. Boyd, took the child, but they all thought the
nurse the real mother. And, oh--she could not bear to give up the baby.
Oh, you must forgive her."

"In the confusion I can see that it was very easily done. Dr. Kendricks
went out at once. He found the mother gravely injured and the word was
that the baby was dead. It was beyond recognition. Mrs. Boyd, who had
only been stunned, had gone on her way. You have heard her side of the
story, knowing the other side when Miss Arran detailed it, we sent for
Dr. Kendricks and pieced it all together. You have been so occupied with
your supposed mother, and I must say you have been a devoted daughter,
that you have hardly noted our excitement and interest. The confession
established the facts beyond a doubt in our minds, but we were not sure
how the father would take it. And the place has altered immeasurably;
there have been so many accidents since, that that has passed into
oblivion. But no one can dispute the proof. Your mother was a noticeably
handsome girl; but there is a curious resemblance, and it grows upon
one."

"And I am scarcely handsome at all," the girl said, slowly.

"Have you no curiosity to know whom you belong to?" studying Lilian
intently.

"Oh, I dare not ask, I hardly dare believe! It is so mysterious. She,
yes, I will call her mother, though there might be a father somewhere.
And was that beautiful woman they believed dying----"

Lilian clasped her hands over her eyes. Like a flash it seemed to pass
before her. Zay Crawford's double, some of the girls had called her.

"Oh," she cried, "can I endure it? What if they do not want me?"

"If they had doubted the story it would have been kept from you. Can you
guess--"

Lilian flung herself in Mrs. Barrington's arms, with a long, dry sob.

"Oh, do not give me up," she cried imploringly. "Let me stay with you. I
will serve you faithfully for I love you, and these people are
strangers----"

"Think, what it must be after her years of sorrow to clasp her child in
her arms; to know that it had been well cared for, tenderly loved. Oh,
she is your own mother and you will come to love her dearly. This
morning Dr. Kendricks was to tell Major Crawford the story. Fifteen
minutes ago word came that they would be here. Lilian, your father feels
hard toward Mrs. Boyd. You know Dr. Kendricks would have recognized you
if she had not taken you away, and it is only natural that he should
feel indignant."

"Must I see him before she--she cannot last long. Oh, she must not hear
this, and I will not leave her until the very last."

Then the child suggested her father.

"There they come," exclaimed Mrs. Barrington.

The two men entered the drawing room. Lilian clung to Mrs. Barrington,
but that lady impelled her forward.

"This is your daughter, Major Crawford," she said, "and this, my dear,
is your own father."

Lilian stood like a statue. It was as if she was turning to stone. Oh,
he could not deny her. The clear cut features, the golden bronze hair,
the proud figure that seemed to add dignity to the whole. So, her mother
had stood, in girlhood.

"Oh, my child! my child! have you no word of gladness for me after these
long years! The baby I never saw--my Marguerite."

Was her tongue frozen and her lips stiff? Oh, what should she say? How
could she welcome this stranger?

"And that cruel woman has stolen your love from us, as she stole your
beautiful body. Oh, where is she? Let me see her!"

"You were to keep calm, Major," exclaimed the doctor. "We have gone over
all this, and the poor woman is dying. To upbraid her now would be
nothing short of murder."

The Major glanced wildly around. "Why think of our loss and sorrow.
She knew the child was not hers. And she ran off like a thief in the
night. Oh, I can't forgive her."

"Oh, you must," cried the girl with the first gleam of emotion she had
shown. "For she mistook the nurse for the mother. Everything must have
been in confusion. She thought of me as a motherless baby, perhaps to be
cast on charity----"

"But all these years! And poverty, when a lovely home awaited you;
brothers and a sweet sister and such a mother! Oh, she ought to know and
suffer for the crime."

"She was almost crazy with her own grief. And she was good and tender
and devoted to me. She shall not suffer for it in her dying moments."

She stood there proudly, her face a-light with a sort of heroic
devotion. So her mother would have taken up any wrong. Was he unduly
bitter?

"Oh, my darling, have you no love for me? No want for your own sweet
mother--"

Something in his pleading tone touched her and his face betrayed strong
agitation. His arms seemed to hang listlessly by his side. She took a
few steps toward him and then they suddenly clasped her in a vehement
embrace.

The doctor glanced at Mrs. Barrington and they both left the room.

"It has been a hard fight," he said. "He was so enraged at first that I
was afraid he would come and have it out with the dying woman. The fact
that she knew the child was not hers and yet took it away seemed to stir
all the blood in his body. Poor thing--one has to feel sorry for her;
but he raged over the privations he thought his child had endured, and
her being here in an equivocal position. The Crawfords were always very
proud. And one could not expect a girl just in the dawn of womanhood to
fly to a stranger's arms."

"Yet it took her so by surprise, and she has a proud, reticent nature."

"Let us go and see Mrs. Boyd."

Major Crawford felt the girl's heart beating against his own. He raised
the face and kissed it, amid tears, deeply touched.

"You must forgive me. You do not know what it is to have some one stand
between you and your child all these years. I used to dream how it would
have been with twin girls running about, climbing one's knees, doing a
hundred sweet and tender things. Zay has been so lovely, so loving; but
all these years we never forgot you. We gave the most fervent thanks for
your mother's recovery, and when you are safe in her arms--oh, it seems
almost as if it was too much joy."

"It is so strange," and her voice was tremulous. "For I never could have
dreamed of anything like this. I did not dream, for it seemed as if a
man who had lost wife and child would want to begin over again, and in a
good many ways I tried to believe I had been too visionary--longing for
things quite beyond my reach. So I have been praying that God would send
what was best for me and trying to make myself content. Oh, are you
quite sure there is no mistake?" and there was a pitifully beseeching
sound in her voice.

"If we can believe that thief of a woman. Oh, to think she should carry
away our baby and leave us her little dead child," and the only half
conquered passion flamed up in his face again.

"But, you see, if I had been the nurse's child as she thought, the poor
nurse who was dead, it would be a brave and tender act----"

"I have no pity for her. You must come away. Oh, Marguerite, there is
your own sweet mother, who when she hears will want to clasp you to her
heart at once. And Zaidee, your twin sister----"

She shrank and stiffened a little. Zaidee Crawford would not be so glad
to welcome her. She felt it in her inmost heart. For she had been the
pet and darling of the household all these years. All the girls had paid
her a curious sort of homage. She had been invested with a halo of
romance, and generous as she seemed with her equals, she had established
a rigorous distance between them. Lilian fancied she was annoyed by the
suggestion of a resemblance between them.

Her father was momentarily piqued by the unyielding lines of her figure
and the hesitancy.

"Oh, my child you must take in the strength, the absolute reality of our
claim, unless you cannot believe this woman--"

"I would stake my very life on her truth, and I can recall so many
things that seemed strange to me then, especially these last two years.
She so dreaded leaving me alone in the world, and I am not willing to
embitter her last moments. You see she never thought of my parents being
in a much higher walk in life, and the knowledge that she had kept me
out of so much would be a cruel stab. No, let me wait until it is all
over, and you have accepted the strange story truly. There are others
beside yourself----"

Her eyes were full of tears as she raised them. It was noble to take
this view, though he really grudged it.

"You mean then to stay here until--"

"I have promised sacredly, solemnly. There may be some things to
certify. Mrs. Barrington spoke of one, that the confession, ought to be
signed before witnesses."

"Yes, though we should never doubt. And if there was any question there
might be a legal adoption;" then he paused. His wife had not heard the
story yet. Yes, his anger had hurried him along with scarcely a thought
of all that needed to be done. He had dreamed of the joy of bringing the
mother and daughter together. Yes, she must be prepared.

"Perhaps you are right," he admitted, reluctantly. "Yet--oh, how can I
leave you. It seems as if the joy would vanish."

"I do not think I shall vanish," and she half smiled through her tears.

The doctor came downstairs with a grave face.

"There has been a sudden change. The paralysis has crept upward. She is
moaning for you. Go to her."

Lilian flashed out of the room.

"Are you convinced?" asked the doctor.

"Oh, positively. And what a noble girl! I hate to have her love that
woman so, and yet it shows a true and generous nature. Why, I think some
girls would have gone wild over the prospect."

"Mrs. Barrington is enthusiastic about her and she has had a wide
experience with girls. But my dear Major, there is a good deal to be
done. Your wife must hear the story, and we must consider her health,
her nervous system must not have too severe a shock. And this Mrs. Boyd
must attest her confession in some way. She can hardly speak
intelligibly. With your permission, I'll hunt up Ledwith. It's best to
have everything secure."

"Yes, yes. And, doctor, I want to apologize for my anger and unreason
this morning. Why, we are half brutes after all. I believe I could have
almost murdered that woman for stealing my darling baby and sneaking off
without a word of inquiry. I do not yet see how Marguerite can forgive
her for keeping her out off her birthright all these years; for dragging
her through poverty and all kinds of menial labor; and here she was the
caretaker's daughter! Think of it--my child, Zay's sister! Even now when
the child pleads for her so earnestly I cannot really forgive her. Will
you pardon me for my outbreak? My child is tenderer and more generous
than I."

"The poor woman has come to the last stages. It is a matter of only a
few days. It would be cruel to part them now."

"You are all against me," with a sad smile.

"You must go home and explain this matter to Mrs. Crawford, and to your
sister. Then send the confession to Ledwith. I will see him. And, oh, I
promised to drop in and see Zay. She has some nervous crochet in her
head."

"Is she really ill?" the father asked in alarm.

"She has some cold and a little fever. Don't excite her."

They walked away together. The doctor found Zay's fever much higher and
she was in a state of great excitement.

"Oh, what has happened," she cried. "What was papa so angry about? And
you took him away----"

"A matter of business that he could not look at reasonably at first. And
it may be a delightful surprise for you, so you must do your utmost to
get well. Men have many bothers, my dear."

"It was not about Vincent?"

"Oh, dear, no. There was a telegram from him. He reached West Point all
right, and all is going well. Now, I shall give you a composing draught
and order you to sleep all the afternoon."

"And the fever?" tremulously.

"That's simply cold and nervousness. You will be about well tomorrow,"
and he laughed.

"Mrs. Barrington was--oh, I suppose the girls who stayed had a dull
time."

"I didn't hear any complaints. I guess they are all right. Don't you
worry about them or anybody."

If she could hear that Louie Howe was well; maybe Phil would write
tomorrow. Oh, she couldn't be seriously ill or the doctor wouldn't be so
indifferent about it. If she only could go to sleep and forget about the
Clairvoyant's awful den!




CHAPTER XII

OH, WILL I BE WELCOME?


There was a late luncheon and then the Major returned to his wife's
sitting room where Aunt Kate was keeping her company with some exquisite
needlework for her darling, Zay, who had insisted upon being left alone.

"I have a curious story to read to you that concerns us all. I am glad
to have you here, Kate, as a sort of ballast. It was what excited me so
this morning and I was very unreasonable. The doctor threatened to put
me in a straight jacket."

Aunt Kate laughed. Mrs. Crawford studied her husband intently.

"Oh, go on with your work. I shall feel more composed." He turned his
chair a little, ostensibly for the light, but so that his wife might not
watch his face.

He began with Mrs. Boyd's list of misfortunes after her few years of
happiness and her resolve to go out to her brother's. At times he
stumbled over the poor penmanship and halted.

"Why, it must have been the train I was on," interrupted Mrs. Crawford.
"I remember there was a woman with a delicate looking child. I believe
ours were the only two babies. Oh, if I had not taken my little darling!
But she was so well and strong, such a fine happy baby, and nurse Jane
was so good."

Mrs. Boyd had hurried briefly over the terrible collision.

"Everett," interrupted his sister with an indignant emphasis, "why
recall that awful happening. It can do us no good now."

Mrs. Crawford leaned her head on her hand and balanced her elbow on the
broad arm of the chair.

The Major's voice shook slightly. Mrs. Boyd had been quite graphic about
her calling for the baby, her care of it from midnight to the next
morning and settling her mind to what the woman had said; her resolve to
keep the child when she heard the other mother had been killed. She
sprang up suddenly.

"Oh, it was nurse Jane who was killed. And she took my baby, my darling.
Oh, who was she? Can we ever find her?"

Then she fainted and her husband caught her in his arms.

"Oh, you have killed her!" cried Miss Crawford. "How could you recount
that awful time of suffering, and that the woman should steal the baby!
Oh, that was just it, there's no use mincing matters!"

It was some minutes before Mrs. Crawford regained consciousness, then
she gazed imploringly in her husband's face.

"Oh, tell me--where is my darling? Is she really alive. Can we find
her?"

"She has been found. She is well and in good hands. Oh, my dear wife, I
felt vengeful at first, but I have come to pity the poor thing.
Marguerite pleaded for her. And we must be thankful that she had the
courage to confess the matter."

"Then--you have seen her?"

The voice was shaken with emotion.

"She is at Mrs. Barrington's."

"Oh, can't we go to her? My dear baby, my darling Marguerite! Why, it is
almost as if she had been sent from heaven."

"My dear--" her husband caught her in his arms or she would have fallen
in her eagerness. "Oh, it will all come right, but you must be patient
and get stronger. There are reasons why she cannot come, or you cannot
go, and you must hear the rest of the story."

"Everett," began his sister, "how do you know but that this is a
scheme to extort money. How can you be sure it is your child? There are
so many swindlers or blackmailers in the world."

He was arranging his wife on the couch, thankful she had borne the
tidings so well. Then he seated himself beside her, bending over to kiss
the pallid lips.

"There can scarcely be any chance for fraud. No one would profit by it,
and now, shall I go on with the story?"

They both acquiesced.

There was something so pathetic in the fostermother's love for the child
and her fear of its being cast on the world as no one seemed to know
anything about the supposed mother. Then her return to her early home;
her struggles against misfortune, poverty and ill health, and after a
little, her dismay at finding the child so different from what she had
been herself, so ambitious, so longing for refinement and showing such a
distaste for common ways. The failure of her own health, the
impossibility of keeping the girl at school any longer when Mrs.
Barrington's proffer had seemed a perfect godsend. But it was too late
to recover the health that had been so shattered by poverty and hard
work.

"Well, if it is true she was a courageous woman," declared Miss
Crawford. "One can't forgive her for taking the child without making a
single inquiry."

"But everything was in such confusion, and you will remember that
Marguerite lay unconscious for a long while, just hovering between life
and death. And at that time, in the western countries there were not so
many safeguards. When Dr. Kendricks reached the place, Jane and the baby
had been temporarily buried. Yes, it was easy for the thing to happen
when Mrs. Boyd wanted the baby so much. I can hardly forgive her, but we
must admit that the confession showed an earnest desire to repair the
wrong."

"Where is she?"

"At Mrs. Barrington's. Dr. Kendricks thinks she can last but a few days
longer and the child is resolved to stay until the end. I tried to shake
her determination but found it useless."

"I admire her for it," said Mrs. Crawford.

"I should doubt her fervent love if it could be transferred so easily
from poverty to wealth. Yes, I am proud of my dear daughter whom I have
not seen in fifteen years. But the whole story is marvellous."

"And yet there is nothing impossible about it. We can see how simply it
all happened."

"What is she like?"

"Mrs. Barrington was quite puzzled about a resemblance to some one, and
she thinks it you. She has not the radiant beauty of your girlhood,
neither has she the dazzling charm of Zay. Oh, I think she is the most
like Willard; rather too grand for a girl of sixteen, with a great deal
of dignity. Oh, you should hear Mrs. Barrington talk about her. And how
do you suppose she and the doctor kept the secret yesterday! They knew
it would disturb our happy Christmas. And she was nursing the sick
woman."

"Oh, did she know?"

"Not that she was our daughter until this morning. I felt bewildered
over it all," and Major Crawford gave a deep drawn sigh.

His wife pressed his hand. Her tears were flowing silently.

"Well--it will be very strange to have her here," remarked Miss
Crawford. "But I warn you, Zay will always be the dearest to me."

Twilight was falling around them. Mrs. Crawford would never have her own
lights early. This was her favorite hour with her husband. Aunt Kate
stole softly to Zay's room and found her sleeping tranquilly, the fever
mostly gone.

"Oh, I wonder how you will take it," she mused. "You have been the
darling of the household so long."

For somehow, she was not in a mood to welcome this newcomer. True, there
must be the strongest proof or Major Crawford would not have been
convinced or allowed himself to get in such a passion with this Mrs.
Boyd. But a girl reared amid the commonest surroundings, enduring the
straits of poverty, lack of education, no accomplishments, how could she
take her place in the front rank of Mount Morris society? And the
boys--how would they accept this rusticity and probably self conceit?

Major Crawford and his wife often fell into tender and mysterious
confidences at this hour, that were never shared with others. They were
very happy in her recovery though the last two years she had suffered
very little. But she did not want to depute the care of her daughter
growing into womanhood entirely to Aunt Kate who had many worldly aims
and prejudices, and who was very proud of her niece's beauty. And now
such a load was lifted from her soul that had never quite forgiven
itself for taking her finest baby on the unfortunate journey.

"Oh, I must see her," she cried in a whisper.

"But she will not come here until all is over with that poor woman. I do
not see how she can care so much for her."

"My dear, it shows a true and strong regard. Remember it is the only
mother she has ever known. To turn at once would show a volatile
disposition. I have been afraid of that in Zaidee, who is easily taken
with new friends, though I will admit that she does not discard the old
ones. But I wish sometimes other people were not so easily attracted by
her."

"But she is charming," said the admiring father.

"I hope they will love each other. We must expect a little jealousy at
first. And you think she is not--that her narrow life has not dwarfed
her."

"Oh, you should listen to Mrs. Barrington's enthusiasm. You see, it was
not an easy place to fill, after all. She was in some of the classes,
but she held herself aloof. Then she taught a little among the younger
day scholars, and kept a certain supervision in the evening study hour.
Her mother's position was a sort of handicap, she was so very meek and
retiring. All women cannot add dignity to an inferior position, and
young people are very apt to take them according to the position. Mrs.
Barrington was planning some changes for the new term that would be
brought about by the passing away of the poor woman. I think she meant,
in a way, to adopt her."

"Oh, she must be worthy, to have made such a friend."

And the mother was wondering, but dared not ask what Marguerite had
grown into. She was not like Zay, all the coloring was darker. Willard
was fine looking for a young man, but would it not be rather masculine
for a girl? She had a fancy for the soft attractiveness in a woman.

Then the light came and dinner. Mrs. Crawford went to Zay's room
afterward and found her comfortable and better, with no recurrence of
fever, and they had a pleasant little chat.

The next morning a letter came from Phillipa, full of merry nonsense
about gifts and gayety and lovers. She was very well, with the very
underscored, and two engagements for every evening. She had not heard
from Louie, "but I should have if her little finger had ached; she
would have been afraid of some distemper. And I hope you are all having
a splendid time."

Afterward Dr. Kendricks came in. Yes, she was better, the throat was all
right; there was a slight remnant of the cold, and it would be best to
be careful for a few days. Oh, yes, she could dress herself and go about
the house, but not out driving.

"You danced a little too much Christmas night, though for the life of me
I don't see what you were so nervous about."

She flushed and laughed and felt that she had escaped a great danger.

Then he and the Major set out together, meeting Mr. Ledwith at the
school. The doctor went upstairs. Lilian met him with anxious eyes.

"Yes, there has been a great change. She has gone more rapidly than I
thought. Can she speak?"

"Hardly. Now and then a word. Yet she understands all that I say to
her," Lilian returned, gravely. "But she was quite restless during the
night."

He nodded. "You see, my dear Miss Boyd--you will be that until you take
your new name, the confession has no signature. It might never be
called in question but sometimes, years afterward, in the various
changes of property, it might be necessary to establish a legal
identity. Can you make her understand this? And you can attest most of
her story. I will call up Mr. Ledwith. And your father is most desirous
of being present. He will make no trouble."

She went out in the hall to meet him.

"My dear," he said, "I am more reasonable than I was yesterday. Your
lovely mother has placed some views in a different light, and she is
most glad that you have never lacked for a fervent love and care. And we
both forgive her."

"Oh, thank you for that. Though Mrs. Barrington advises that she had
better not be told of the discovery. You see she is so tranquil now,
knowing that I am provided for."

Then they entered the room. Mrs. Boyd scarcely noticed them, but her
eyes questioned Lilian, who began to explain, holding the poor hand in
hers. Mrs. Boyd seemed confused at first, then she said with some
difficulty--"Yes, yes."

Lilian and Miss Arran pillowed her up in a sitting posture and placed
the material on a portable desk.

"It is just to sign your name."

She seemed to listen as Mr. Ledwith read the affadavit, and nodded,
with her eyes on Lilian, who put the pen in her hand, but she could not
clasp it.

"I think you will have to guide it. She does not understand."

Lilian took the poor shaking hand in hers, and the sick woman looked up
into her face and smiled.

It was written, but even Lilian's hand shook a little. "Emma Eliza
Boyd."

"That is all, dear," said the girl.

She made a great effort to articulate, and her eyes had a frightened
look in them. "You--will not--go?"

"Oh, no, no," returned Lilian, with a kiss.

"Tired--tired," she gasped.

They laid her down and gave her a spoonful of stimulant but she only
swallowed a little of it.

The others left the room. Dr. Kendricks shook his head slowly. Mr.
Ledwith gave the last page of the confession to Major Crawford. Lilian
sat on the side of the bed, chafing the cool hands that had grown more
helpless since yesterday, and presently Mrs. Boyd slept, but one could
hardly note the breathing.

Mrs. Barrington looked in and beckoned to Lilian.

"Your own mother is here," she said softly. "And I feel like putting in
another claim, but I cannot displace the rightful one. You will find her
in the library."

Lilian went slowly down. The beautiful woman she had seen in church, the
woman who had lain like dead when Mrs. Boyd glanced upon her, the mother
who had missed her all these years! The tall figure rose with the
softness of a cloud longing to embrace the moon, with arms outstretched,
and the child went to them in the caress of divine satisfaction. For
this was the mother of her dreams and ideals, and their souls were as
one.

They kissed away each other's tears.

"I felt that I must come, that I must see you. But I am not going to
take you away, much as I long for you, since you have a sacred duty
here. When that is finished we will begin our lives together. At first,
your father was mad with jealousy that she should have dared to love
you so much, but now he is glad as I am that you did not suffer from
coldness or indifference. That would have broken my heart."

"And I am afraid I did not always return love for love. I was always
dreaming, desiring something I had not. She worked for me all those
early years. I had resolved as soon as was possible to be her caretaker,
to put in her life the things she desired, whether they pleased me or
not. It did not take much to make her happy."

"And no man can understand the longing of a woman's soul when her child
has been torn from her arms. Poor empty arms, that no prayer can fill.
And this was why she snatched at the baby, believing it was motherless.
Yes, I forgave her and so did he when he came to look at it in the true
light. Some women, when times pressed hard in work and poverty, would
have placed you in an institution----"

"Oh, I think she would have starved first!" interrupted the girl,
vehemently.

"And now, if God grants it, we may have a long, satisfying life
together. For He has given me back my health like a miracle, as we had
thought it could never be, and were quite resigned. And now He has
restored all that we missed, given us the oil of joy for mourning. Oh,
child, let me look at you. As a baby you were so different from Zaidee,
it hardly seemed as if you could be twins; and you are taller, yes, you
are more like Willard. But you have my eyes, and I never was fairy-like.
Oh, I hope you girls will love each other, and I want you to love me
with all your heart to make up for those years that have fallen out of
our lives."

The exquisitely soft, silvery laugh was music to the girl's heart. Yes,
this was the ideal mother. Was there some secret quality in heredity,
after all?

They talked on and on. She wanted to hear more particulars of her
daughter's life, but Lilian softened some of the roughest places, the
fights she had had with herself, when she felt she must give up her
cherished school, the pleasure of coming to an atmosphere like this, the
warm interest of Mrs. Barrington.

"And now I must leave you," said the mother, "but I take with me a
delightful hope. When your duty is done here, and I appreciate your
doing it, you will find your true home in my heart and my home. Oh, I
think you will never be able to understand all my joy."

She rose and wiped away her tears. Yes, she was beautiful enough to
adore. Her own mother! It thrilled every pulse.

"Oh, my dear, let us both thank God for this restoration. It is like a
heavenly dream. I must have time to get used to it."

Lilian watched her as she stepped into the phæton, with its handsome
bays and the silver mountings. And Zaidee could have every wish
gratified; friends, music, travel. It was there for her, also. She had
never dreamed of that.




CHAPTER XIII

A MOTHER'S LOVE


Mrs. Boyd had not stirred. Lilian bent over her and found the breathing
very faint. Miss Arran sat by the window and merely glanced up. The girl
buried her face in the pillow and heard again the soft, finely modulated
voice, the clasp of the hand that meant so much, the promise for
tomorrow.

"If they were not so rich," her musings ran, "If I could do something
for her. Oh, it seems too much. If we could go away--but to face all the
girls, to hear the comments."

"Miss Boyd, can you spare me a few moments," said Mrs. Dane. "Mrs. Arran
will watch."

Lilian followed to Mrs. Dane's room.

"Miss Boyd, I have an apology to make to you, and I am honest enough to
confess it. I can't just tell why, but I did take a dislike to you and
your mother. She seemed very weak and as if she was afraid a baleful
secret might come to light, and you were the master mind holding some
curious power over her."

"Oh, it was not that," cried Lilian, eagerly. "It was because in her
simple life she had not been accustomed to the usages that obtained in
the larger world. Often I did guide her a little. She was very timid."

"And it seemed to me--of course I understand it now, that you held your
head quite too high for your mother's daughter. I was brought up to do
my duty in that station of life to which it should please God to call
me, and not try to get out of it. You seemed above it--somehow----"

"Oh, did I act that way? I was only trying to do my duty to the
classes and to Mrs. Barrington. I did not mean to seem above my
station," and there was sob in her voice.

"My dear, don't cry. My apology would not be worth half so much if I
held back part of the price. I think I was a little jealous of Mrs.
Barrington's favor for you, as I had a curious suspicion that something
not quite orthodox might come out about you, that you really were not
her child. You see I was not so far out of the way after all, and that
evening I accused you of having gone to the Clairvoyants--we had just
heard the death was from malignant scarlet fever. It would have ruined
the school for a long while to have it break out here, you know. If the
person had come out in the open so that I could have seen, but her
darting back, and I think there was more than one. It seems even now as
if it did look like you, but it might have been because it was like the
Tam you wore. And you appeared so embarrassed over it."

"Oh, could you believe that I would have told such a falsehood?" she
cried, hurt to the very quick.

"We thought it best to take precautions. Then Mrs. Boyd had her stroke
and then came her confession and all that has happened since. Your
devotion to that poor woman was enough to stamp the nobleness of your
character, and it is not because you are Major Crawford's daughter that
I say this--that I am ashamed of my prejudices and beg you to forgive
me. Mrs. Barrington was right from the beginning and you are worthy of
the best of fortune."

"Oh, Mrs. Dane--" and her voice broke.

"I should have felt myself contemptible if I had not made this amends,
and now if you will shake hands with me----"

"Gladly. And I thank you for the kindliness towards my--yes, she was
my mother all these years and the sympathy you showed me even before it
was proved who my real father was."

"And I wish you much joy and happiness, which you will surely have. And
you will be fitted to grace any position. You will have one of the
loveliest of women for a mother, and two brothers who, so far, have been
most exemplary. And that darling, Zay--the whole town loves her."

Lilian wiped her eyes, and pressed Mrs. Dane's hand fervently. Would Zay
proffer her a sister's love?

She went back to Mrs. Boyd, who suddenly opened her eyes and smiled,
then the thin lids fell. How she had wasted away! She tried to recount
to herself all the kindnesses, the sacrifices Mrs. Boyd had made. And
though the boarding house had been of the commonest sort there had never
seemed any real pinches. She had even saved up money. It was the long
illness and the changes incident to it that had not only reduced their
little store, but broken her health and made her fearful of the future.
She had taken up the sewing then. Four years there had been of that.
Lilian remembered how proud she had been to enter the High School among
the best scholars.

And some day she would teach. It was such a delightful vision. She
studied other things beside the ordinary lessons. She loved to play and
at times when she had turned her brain almost upside down she ran out
and had a game of tag with the girls.

There were other evenings when she overcast long seams and pulled
bastings, and the last year she had learned to sew on the machine. With
scanty living and steady work, her mother had dropped down and down. But
she was glad she had offered to go in the shop. When matters were a
little easier she might try night school she had thought.

And this beautiful school was like an entrance into a land of romance.
The luxurious living, at least it seemed so to her, would soon restore
her mother's health. The duties were light. She had time for reading and
oh, the lovely things! She did at times wish there had been some other
position for her mother, like that of Miss Arran's. But she understood
that Mrs. Boyd could not fill that. She lacked something, she had no
real dignity, no self-assertion. She allowed the girls to order her, and
Lilian wondered how these rich girls, who in some respects had polished
manners, could be so ill bred. For somehow she understood the
difference.

There were several with whom she might have been good friends, but she
was too proud to step outside of what she considered her real station.

And now this wonderful event had come to her and she seemed to
understand the thoughts and feelings that had been such a mystery. When
she had been clasped to her true mother's heart, it appeared to her as
if a veil had been drawn aside, and she had stepped into a larger room,
replete with all she had vaguely dreamed about. That Crawford House was
one of the fine old places, she knew, but she never thought of that
luxurious living where all the tomorrows had been provided for. She
would have gone to the simplest cottage for that mother's love.

Would Zaidee Crawford give her a sister's warm welcome? She would never
grudge her anything money could buy; but she, Lilian, must seem like an
interloper to them. And to share her mother's love with a stranger!

Miss Arran entered the room.

"You ought to go to bed, Miss Boyd. I will sit here and watch. Your
mother seems asleep."

Lilian changed her dress for a comfortable wrapper, kissed her mother's
forehead and pressed the cold hands. She did not stir; but then she had
lain this way for hours at a time. The girl drew up her cot to the side
of her mother's bed and laid down. The clocks all about were striking
midnight.

It had not been so tranquil at Crawford House. Dinner had been rather
quiet; no one seemingly to want to talk at any length. Afterward, Major
Crawford had said--

"Let us all go up to mother's room. I have a singular explanation to
make to you two children. Aunt Kate has known it these two days."

"There has seemed something mysterious in the air," exclaimed Willard,
"only I am sure nothing worse has happened to mother. She looks so
extraordinarily happy, and Zay is about again."

"We must go back to the time of the accident," began the Major. "We
thought we had overlived the sorrow and we had never expected any joy
for the outcome."

He paused to steady his voice, then began the story of the other woman,
the only passenger who carried an infant, her hours of unconsciousness,
her hearing the cry of the child and claiming it and then learning that
the woman she believed its mother had been killed and full of pity for
it, since her own had been mangled and carried away, resolved to take it
and care for it. She left the next day--

"Oh, you don't mean she took our baby," cried Willard passionately, his
eyes aflame.

"She took our baby. She has cared for it all these years through poverty
and failing health and now that she is dying, she thought the child
ought to know. They have been at Mrs. Barrington's since some time in
August."

Zaidee sprang up, but her face was ghostly pale and there was a
tremulous protest in her voice.

"Oh, it is that Mrs. Boyd, the caretaker and her daughter!" she
exclaimed, drawing a long strangling breath full of protest.

"Our daughter," said her father with emphasis. Then he went on to relate
how the matter had been brought to his notice and his unreasonable anger
at first as he could not doubt the story vouched for by Doctor
Kendricks, his interview with the child and Mrs. Barrington, Mrs.
Crawford's visit to her yesterday.

"What a wonderful story!" Willard sprang up and began to pace the
floor. "I suppose it is true. That baby couldn't have died and she
adopted another one."

"How do we know that she did not?" said Miss Crawford, protestingly.

"She was anxious that the girl in some manner might find her father's
people. You see, she was sure the mother was dead. Oh, there is enough
to convince you all. Dr. Kendricks and Mr. Ledwith have no doubt of the
truth of her story. There is no scheme in it. And it was thought best,
in her weakened state, not to try any explanations."

"It was nurse Jane who died, and the dead baby was buried with her. Ah,
one glance at the girl would convince you," said the mother in the
tenderest voice.

"But--why didn't she come here at once?"

"She was very noble about it. And this is another factor in the story.
She would not leave the mother who had worked and toiled for her; so you
see she was not tempted by the thought of advancement. She was afraid to
believe the outcome of the story at first. Oh, I am proud of her, though
at first I was really cruel. I wanted the woman punished."

"After all," said Willard, "if the baby had been friendless and an
orphan it would have been very noble in her."

"You shall read her confession some day. It is pathetic. She thought
she had lost her all and clung to the baby. Oh, we must all forgive
her."

"And what do you mean to do?" asked Miss Crawford. "It is going to make
a great stir for it cannot be kept a secret, and I hate gossip about
families."

"Yes, the thing must be explained. I have given what of the story I want
known to a reporter this afternoon. After the poor woman has gone,
Marguerite will come here to her true home and life."

"Why, Zay, you must have known her at the school," said Willard. "It
seems she was studying----"

"Oh, they are all on the other side away from the boarders. She was in
the study room an hour in the evening, with the smaller girls. We were
all at a different table that we had to ourselves. And--somehow, I never
saw much of her. I didn't have to go to Mrs. Boyd for my mending."

Aunt Kate had put her arm about Zay at the beginning of the story. The
mother noted with a pang that there was no real welcome in this
daughter's face. Was it jealousy?

Willard stood between his parents and laid a hand on the shoulder of
each.

"Oh," in a voice freighted with emotion. "I can't tell you how glad and
thankful I am that this sorrow of years is to be turned into such a
great all-pervading joy. We will be a perfect family again. Why, it will
be the romance of our lives! It almost makes me wish I were not going
away. And since you have seen her and are satisfied--mother----"

He stooped to kiss her.

"Oh," she returned, brokenly, "I want you all to love her, and be
patient with Zay. She has always been first so long."

"I think if I was a girl I'd be wild to have a sister to tell things
to--the little things a fellow tells his sweetheart, I suppose, when he
has one," laughing. "Vin and I discuss our gettings along and our hopes
and some funny scrapes that boys get into. But girls look at the
romantic side. And you can't think--but I'm proud of this romance.
Why, it will be something to tell over to our children, and father's
been a trump, but I think it's a good deal owing to you. Oh, I hope
she is like you."

The mother smiled as she kissed him.

Zay came to say good-night. Her face had grave lines that were not wont
to be there.

"Oh, my darling," the mother said, "this is one of the things that
cannot make any difference in our love for you. And if you could only
understand the burthen it had lifted off my soul. A hundred times I have
said: 'Oh, why did I take baby Marguerite on that journey?' She was so
strong and well and I was so proud of her, I wanted your father to see
her."

"And you will be proud of her again. She is going to be a fine scholar,
and I'm just pretty to look at, that's all! I can't make myself love
anyone all in a moment," and she gave a little sob.

"My child, the love will come if you do not steel your heart against it.
Think, Zay, a twin sister----"

"But she is larger, different and a sort of story heroine. Everyone will
be interested in her and I shall be pushed quite to the wall."

"Oh, Zay, you are a foolish little girl. But you have had all the
admiration and love, and we must wait patiently until you understand
that love can never be impoverished by giving. Think of this, pray for a
generous heart, and let her love you."

Aunt Kate was waiting in her room. And Zay's overcharged heart gave way
to a passion of weeping on the friendly bosom.

"Dear, I know how hard it is to be crowded out. Of course everyone will
flock around her for a while and never having had much admiration she
will be the more eager for it. And as will be perfectly natural when the
first interest is worn off, the real grain will be apparent and I dare
say she will show her common breeding. Why, this Mrs. Boyd had next to
no education. I shouldn't want anyone to see that so-called confession,
but I dare say your father will keep it close enough, for he would be
ashamed to have any one see it. I'm sorry the story had to get abroad,
but your father thought there would be so many surmises, and perhaps,
exaggerations. It's a horrid thing to live through, but your mother is
so much happier. Why, she seemed ten years younger. And you will always
have a staunch friend in me. No one can oust you from my heart if she
had all the gifts of the nine graces. Oh, you will come back to your
rightful place, never fear."
