bringing a lively breeze with you.  I’ve never enjoyed anything half as
much!"

"It’s kind of you to take it so.  You’ve been very good to me, Warner.
I shan’t forget you—or the little lady yonder.  I’m sure this doesn’t
mean the end of our friendship."

"Not if it lies with us, Halkett.  I hope you’ll come through.  Good
luck, old fellow."

"Thanks!  Good luck and good-by."

Their gripped hands parted; Halkett turned, walked toward the stairs,
halted:

"I’ll send for my luggage," he said.

"I’ll look out for it."

"Thanks.  And be civil to Ariadne.  She’s a friendly old thing!"

"I’ll cherish her," said Warner, smiling.

So they parted.  He took leave of Madame Arlon and reckoned with her in
British gold; Magda and Linette were made happy with his generosity.

Out on the roadside they saw him swing up behind the soldier cyclist.  A
moment later there was only a trail of dust hanging along an empty road.

But Halkett had not yet done with Saïs.  At the school he dismounted and
ascended the steps.

The schoolroom was empty, the place very still. From a distance came the
voices of children.  It was the hour of their noonday recreation.

He entered the quiet schoolroom.  On the desk stood a vase of white
clove pinks.  He took one, inhaled its fragrance, touched it to his
lips, turned to the door, and suddenly flushed to the roots of his hair.

Sister Eila, on the doorstep, turned her head and looked steadily at the
soldier cyclist for a moment. But a moment was enough.

Yet, still looking away from Halkett, she said in her serene young
voice:

"Your uniform tells me your errand, Monsieur Halkett. You have come for
your papers."

"If I may trouble you——" His voice and manner were stiff and
constrained.

She let her eyes rest on him for a moment:

"A British uniform is pleasant to see in France," she said.  "One
moment——"  She stepped past him and entered the schoolroom.  "I shall
bring you your papers."

He walked slowly out to the road, holding in his hands, which were
clasped behind him, the clove pink. Standing so, he looked across the
fields to the river willows, from whence the shot had come.  Slowly,
clear-cut and in full sunshine, the scenes of that day passed through
his mind.  And after they had passed he turned and walked back to the
schoolroom.

Sister Eila was seated at her desk, the papers lying before her.

He took them, buttoned them inside his tunic.  She sat looking across
the dim room, her elbow on the desk, her chin resting on her palm.

"There is no use trying to thank you," he said with an effort—and
stopped.

After a silence:

"You are going into battle," she said.

"I hope so."

"Yes—I hope so....  God protect you, Mr. Halkett."

He could not seem to find his voice.

Perhaps the silence became unendurable to her; she fumbled for her
rosary, lifted it, and took the metal crucifix between both hands.

"Good-by," he said.

"Good-by."  Her eyes did not leave the crucifix.

He stood motionless, crushing his forage cap in his hands.  The white
flower broke from its stem and fell to the floor.  He bent and picked it
up, looked at it, looked at her, turned and went his way.

The crucifix in her tightening hand grew indistinct, blurring under her
steady gaze.  In her ears still sounded the retreating racket of the
motor cycle; the echoes lingered, grew fainter, died out in the golden
gloom of the room.

Sister Eila extended her arms in front of her and laid her colorless
face between them.  The room grew very still.




                             *CHAPTER XXI*


A line regiment came swinging along from the south, its band silent, but
the fanfare of its field music tremendously noisy—bass drums, snare
drums, hunting horns and bugles—route step, springy and slouchy,
officers at ease in their saddles: but, through the clinging aura of the
dust, faces transfigured, and in every eye a depth of light like that
which shines from the fixed gaze of prophets.

Rifles slung, equipments flapping, the interminable files trudged by
under the hanging dust, an endless, undulating blur of red and blue, an
immense shuffling sound, almost melodious, and here and there a
handsome, dusty horse pacing amid the steady torrent.

They occupied only half of the wide, military road; now and then a
military automobile came screaming past them with a flash of crimson and
gold in the tonneau, leaving on the retina a brilliant, glimmering
impression that faded gradually.

On the road across the Récollette, wagons, motor trucks, and field
artillery had been passing for hours; the barrier of dust had grown much
loftier, hanging suspended and unchanging against the hills, completely
obscuring them except for a blue summit here and there.

Fewer troops passed on this side of the river.  A regiment of dragoon
lancers rode by about one o’clock—slender, nervous, high-strung
officers, with the horse-hair blowing around their shoulders from their
silver helmets; the sturdy, bronzed young troopers riding with their
lances swung slanting from the arm loops—and all with that still, fixed,
enraptured expression of the eyes, as though under the spell of inward
meditation, making their youthful features dreamy.

In some village through which they had passed, people had hung wreaths
of leaves and flowers around their horses’ necks.  They still hung
there, wilting in the sun; some, unraveled and trailing, shed dying
blossoms at every step.

From the garden wall where she sat knitting beside Ariadne, Philippa
plucked and tossed rose after rose down into the ranks of the passing
horsemen.

There was no pleasantry, no jesting, scarcely a smile on the girl’s lips
or on theirs, but as each trooper caught the flung rose he turned his
helmeted head and saluted, and rode on with the fresh flower touching
his dusty lips.

And so they passed, squadron crowding on squadron, the solid trampling
thunder shaking the earth. Not a trumpet note, not a whistle signal, not
a voice, not a gilded sleeve upflung, not a slim saber lifted—only the
steady, slanting torrent of lances and the running glitter of slung
carbines, and a great flowing blaze of light from acres of helmets
moving through the haze, as in a vision of pomp and pageantry of ancient
days and brave.


Warner came across the fields swinging his walking stick reflectively as
the last peloton rode by.

Philippa looked down at him from her perch on the wall, and, unsmiling,
dropped him a rose.

"Thank you, pretty maiden," he said, looking up while he drew the
blossom through his lapel.  "I have something to talk over with you.
Shall I go around and climb up to you, or will you come down and walk to
the river with me?"

"Either will be a pleasure for me.  I desire only to be with you," she
said.  So frank were her grey eyes that again the dull, inward warning
of his increasing responsibility to her and for her left him silent and
disconcerted.

In his knowledge of her undisguised affection, and of the glamour with
which he realized she had already innocently invested him, he began to
comprehend the power over her which circumstances had thrust upon him.

It was too serious a burden for such a man as he, involved too deep a
responsibility; and he meant to shift it.

"Come and walk with me, then," he said, "—or we’ll take the punt, if you
like."

She nodded brightly, rolled up her knitting, looked around at the ladder
in the garden behind her, glanced down at him, which was the shorter
way.

"If I jump could you catch me?"

"I suppose I could, but——"

"Look out, then!  Garde à vous!"

He managed to catch her and ease her to the ground, and, as always, she
took possession of his arm with both of hers clasped closely around it,
as though he meditated flight.

"While you are absent," she said, "my thoughts are occupied only with
you.  When I have you by me"—her clasp tightened a little—"such
wonderful ideas come to inspire me—you can’t imagine!  I aspire to be
worthy of such a friendship; I feel that it is in me to be good and wise
and lofty of mind, and to think and believe generously....  Do you
understand me? ... Petty sorrows vanish—the smaller and selfish desires
and aspirations disappear.  Into my spirit comes a delicious exultation,
as though being with you cleansed my heart and filled my mind with
ardent and noble thoughts....  I don’t know whether you understand.  Do
you?"

"I understand that you are a very generous friend, who believes that her
new friend is everything with which her youthful heart invests him."

"And you are!"

"I’ve got to try to be, now," he said, laughingly. "There is no
unhappiness like that of a broken idol."

"Do I regard you as an idol?"

"Not me, but what your charming fancy pretends is me.  I dread the day
you find me out."

"You are laughing at me," she said happily, walking beside him with her
light, springy step.  "You may make fun of me; you may say what you
will.  I know."

"I think I do, too.  And this is what I know, Philippa; you have
within you some very rare and delicate and splendid qualities.  Also,
you are very young, and you need a guide——"

"You!"

"No."

"What!  Of course it’s you I need to guide me——"

"Listen.  You need a woman—older than yourself——"

"Please!—Warner, my friend——"

"I want you to listen, Philippa."

"Yes."

They walked over the clover in silence for a few moments, then, glancing
at her, he unconsciously tried his power:

"You like and trust me, don’t you?"

The girl lifted her grey eyes, and he looked straight ahead of him while
the flush lasted in his face.

He said:

"Because I like and respect you, and because you are my friend, I am
ambitious for you.  I want you to have your chance.  I can’t give it
to you, rightly. No man could do that very successfully or very
prudently.

"While you remain in my employment, of course, we shall see each other
constantly; when, eventually, you secure other employment, we can, at
intervals, meet.  But, Philippa, I don’t want that sort of chance for
you."

"I don’t understand."

"I know you don’t.  Let me tell you what I have done without consulting
you.  If it meets with your approval, the problem of your immediate
future is in a fair way of being solved."

They had reached the bank of the little river: the punt was drawn up
among the rushes; they seated themselves without pushing off.

"Over beyond the woods, yonder," he continued, nodding his head, "is the
Château des Oiseaux—a big, old-fashioned country house.  A friend of
many years lives there with her younger sister—Madame de Moidrey, the
widow of a French officer.  When she was Ethra Brooks, a little American
girl, we were playmates.  Her sister, Peggy, attends my painting class.
After Mr. Halkett left, I walked across to the Château des Oiseaux, and
I lunched there with Madame de Moidrey."

He hesitated: the girl looked up out of clear eyes that read him.

"Yes; I want you to walk over to the Château with me," he said.  "Madame
de Moidrey has asked me to bring you....  And if she likes you, and you
like her, she might desire to have you remain as her companion."

The girl remained silent, expressionless.  He went on, slowly:

"It would not be like securing employment among strangers.  Madame de
Moidrey knows that we are friends....  And, Philippa, you are very
young to go into employment among strangers.  Not that you cannot take
care of yourself.  But it is not a happy experience.  Besides, a
personal and sympathetic interest will be wanting—in the beginning at
least.  And that will mean loneliness for you——"

"It will mean it anyway if I am to leave you."

"But I shall see you at the Château——"

"For a little while yet.  Then you will be going back to Paris.  And
then—what shall I do?"

The candid tragedy in her eyes appalled him.

"Dear child," he said, "your duties with Madame de Moidrey will keep you
too busy to think about anybody in particular.  You will find in her a
friend; you will find happiness there, I am very certain——"

"If you wish it, I will go.  But when you leave, happiness departs."

"Philippa, that is nonsense——"

"No...  And I had supposed, if I earned my living, that you would permit
me to live with you—or near you somewhere....  Just to know you were
living near me—even if I did not see you every evening—would rest me....
I had hoped for that, mon ami."

"Philippa, dear, it would not do.  That is too Bohemian to be anything
safer than merely agreeable. But the surroundings and duties you are
going to have with Madame de Moidrey are exactly what you need and what
I could have desired for any friend of mine in your circumstances."

The girl’s head began to droop, where she was seated on the stern seat
of the boat.

He said:

"The influences of such a house, of such a home, of such people, are far
better for you than to saunter out and face the world, depending for
companionship upon a man not yet too old to arouse that fussy world’s
suspicion and perhaps resentment.  You must have a better purpose in
life."

She remained silent for a few moments, then, not lifting her head, and
her slim hands nervously plaiting her scarlet skirt:

"Anywhere alone with you in the world would be a sufficient purpose in
life for me....  No matter how I earned my bread—if, when toil ended
with evening, you were the reward—and—consolation——"  A single tear
fell, glittering; she turned her head sharply and kept it turned.

Deeply touched, even stirred, yet perfectly incredulous of himself, he
sat watching her, not knowing how best to meet such childish loyalty,
such blindly obstinate devotion.

Out of what had such a depth of feeling been born? Out of gratitude for
a pleasant and kindly word or two—an exaggerated sense of obligation for
a few services rendered—services that for sheer and loyal courage could
not match what she had done for Halkett?

And she seemed to be so sane, so clear-thinking, so competent in most
things!  This girlish and passionate attachment to him did not conform
to other traits which made up her character and made of her an
individual, specific and distinct.

He said:

"If you were my daughter, and I were in straitened circumstances and
unable to be with you, I should advise you as I have."

Without turning, she answered:

"I am too old and you are too young for us to think of each other in
that way....  I am not a child.... I am unhappy without you.  But I care
enough for you to obey you."

"And I care enough for you, Philippa, to remain in Saïs as long as you
think you want me," he said.

"What!"

She turned, her glimmering eyes radiant, stretching out both hands to
him.

"You are so good—so good!" she stammered.  "The Château will frighten
me; I shall be lonely.  The world is a very large place to be alone
in....  You are so good!—Stay in Saïs a little while yet—just a little
while....  I won’t keep you very long from Paris—only let me know you a
little longer....  I couldn’t bear it—so soon—the only happiness I have
ever known—to end—so soon——"

"You dear child, if I thought you really needed me——"

"No, I won’t let you be more generous than that! Just a few days,
please.  And a promise to let me see you again—something to remember—to
wait for——"

"Surely, surely, little comrade.  You don’t suppose I am going to let
you slip away out of my life, do you? And I don’t understand why you are
in such a sudden panic about my going away——"

"But you are going soon!—You were."

"How did you know?"

"Madame Arlon told me that you had already given congé.  I didn’t care;
I thought I was to go with you.  But now that you wish me to go to the
Château—it—it frightens me."

He rose, stood looking at her for a moment, turned and paced the river
bank once or twice, then came back to where she was seated.

"Come up to the Château now," he said.  "I give you this promise,
anyway; as long as you think you want me and need me in the world, you
have only to say so, Philippa.  And if I cannot come to you, then you
shall come to me."

He hadn’t quite analyzed what he was saying before he said it; he felt a
little confused and uncertain, even now, as to how deeply his promise
involved him.  But even while he was speaking, a subtle undercurrent of
approval seemed to reassure him that he was not all wrong, not too rash
in what he promised.  Or perhaps it was the very rashness of the impulse
that something obscure within him was approving.

As for the girl, she stood up, tremulous, deep-eyed, trying to smile,
trying to speak but failing, and only taking his arm into her possession
again and clasping it closely with a childishly unconscious and
instinctive sense of possession.

When she found her voice at last, she laughed and pressed her cheek
impulsively against his shoulder.

"Tiens!" she said.  "Your Château and its chatelaine have no terrors now
for me, Monsieur....  Did you tell her who I am, and what I have been,
and all that you know about me?"

"Yes, I did."

She dropped his arm, but kept step close beside him.

"You know," she said, "it is odd—perhaps it is effrontery—I don’t
know—but I, Philippa Wildresse—for want of another name—perhaps lacking
the right to any name at all—am tranquil and serene at heart in the
crisis so swiftly approaching."

"What crisis, Philippa?"

"My interview with a lady of the world, Monsieur—Madame la Comtesse de
Moidrey.  The caissière de cabaret should feel very humble and afraid.
Is it effrontery?  What is it that does not disturb me in the
slightest?"

"Perhaps it is that other comrade of many years, Philippa—your other and
inner self."

"It must be.  For she could not hesitate to look anybody in the
face—that wonderful and other self—wonderful as a bright dream,
Monsieur....  Which is all she is, I know."

"You are wrong, Philippa: she is even more real than you.  And some day
you shall be part of her. You are growing so every hour.  And when that
finally happens, then this—all this—will become unreal."

"Not you."

"We shall see....  Here are the gates of the Château des Oiseaux.  It is
you who enter, Philippa; but it shall be your inner and real self who
shall go out through the gates one day—God willing."

The girl smiled at him:

"They have but one soul between them," she said. "And that is yours and
God’s, I hope."




                             *CHAPTER XXII*


Madame de Moidrey, strolling with Warner on the south terrace of the
Château des Oiseaux, glanced sideways at intervals through the open
French windows, where, at the piano inside, Philippa sat playing, and
singing in a subdued voice ancient folk songs of the lost provinces.

Peggy Brooks, enchanted, urged her to more active research through the
neglected files of a memory still vivid; Philippa’s voice was
uncultivated, unplaced, but as fresh and carelessly sweet as a
blackbird’s in May. Some of these old ballads she had picked up from
schoolmates, many from the Cabaret de Biribi, where clients were
provincial and usually sentimental, and where some of the ancient songs
were sung almost every day.

Madame de Moidrey had not immediately referred to Philippa when, with
Warner, she had strolled out to the terrace, leaving the two younger
girls together at the piano.

They had spoken of the sudden and unexpected menace of war, of the
initial movements of troops along the Saïs Valley that morning; the
serious chances of a German invasion, the practical certainty that in
any event military operations were destined to embrace the country
around them.  Warner seemed very confident concerning the Barrier Forts,
but he spoke of Montmedy and of Mézières with more reserve, and of
Ausone not at all.

They promenaded for a few minutes longer in silence, each preoccupied
with anxious speculations regarding a future which began already to loom
heavy as a thundercloud charged with unloosed lightnings.

From moment to moment the handsome woman beside him glanced through the
open windows of the music room, where her younger sister and the girl
Philippa were still busily interested in working out accompaniments to
the old-time songs.

Philippa sang "J’ai perdu ma beauté":

    "I have lost my beauty—
    Fate has bereft me,
    Fortune has left me,
    None owes me duty.

    I have lost my lover;
    I shall not recover.
    Our Lady of Lorraine,
    Pity my pain!"


They paused to listen to this naïve melody of other days, then strolled
on.

Madame de Moidrey said:

"She is very interesting, your little friend from Ausone."

"I am glad you think so."

"Oh, yes, there is no doubt about her being clever and intelligent....
I wonder where she acquired her aplomb."

"Would you call it that?"

Madame de Moidrey smiled:

"No, it is a gentler quality—not devoid of sweetness. I think we may
label it a becoming self-possession.... Anyway, it is a quality and not
a trait—if that pleases you."

"She has quality."

"She has a candor which is almost disturbingly transparent.  When I was
a girl I saw Gilbert’s comedy, ’The Palace of Truth.’  And actually, I
believe that your little friend, Philippa, could have entered that
terrible house of unconscious self-revelation without any need of
worrying."

"You couldn’t praise her more sincerely if you think that," he said.
"She offers virgin soil for anybody who will take any trouble with her."

"Oh," said Madame de Moidrey, laughing, "I thought I was to engage her
to aid me and amuse me; but it seems that I have been engaged to
educate her in the subtler refinements of civilized existence!"

"Don’t you want to?" asked Warner, bluntly.

"Dear friend of many more years than I choose to own to, have I not
enough to occupy me without adopting a wandering caissière de
cabaret?"

"Is that the way you feel?" he said, reddening.

"Don’t be cross!  No; it isn’t the way I feel.  I do need a companion.
Perhaps your friend Philippa is not exactly the companion I might have
dreamed about or aspired to——"

"If you look at it in that way——"

"Jim!  Don’t be rude, either!  I desire two things; I want a companion
and I wish to oblige you.  You know perfectly well I do....  Besides,
the girl is interesting.  You didn’t expect me to sentimentalize over
her, did you?  You may do that if you like.  As for me, I shall consider
engaging her if she cares to come to me."

"She will be very glad to," he said, coolly.

Madame de Moidrey cast a swift side glance at him, full of curiosity and
repressed amusement.

"Men," she said, "are the real sentimentalists in this matter-of-fact
world, not women.  Merely show a man a pretty specimen of the opposite
sex in the conventional attitude of distress, and it unbalances his
intellect immediately."

"Do you imagine that my youthful friend Philippa has unbalanced my
intellect?" he asked impatiently.

"Not entirely.  Not completely——"

"Nonsense!"

"What a bad-mannered creature you are, Jim!  But fortunately you’re
something else, too.  For example, you have been nice about this very
unusual and somewhat perilously attractive young girl.  Few men would
have been so.  Don’t argue!  I have known a few men in my time.  And I
pay you a compliment."

She stopped and leaned back against a weatherworn vase of stone which
crowned the terrace parapet.

"Listen, Jim; for a woman to take into her house a young girl with this
girl’s unknown antecedents and perfectly well-known past performances
ought not to be a matter of romantic impulse, or of sympathy alone. What
you tell me about her, what I myself have already seen of her, are
sufficient to inspire the interest which all romance arouses, and the
sympathy which all lonely youth inspires.  But these are not enough.

"Choice of companionship is a matter for serious consideration.  You
can’t make a companion of the intellectually inferior, of one who
possesses merely the lesser instincts, of any lesser nature, whether
cultivated to its full extent or otherwise.  You know that. We shun what
is not congenial."

He looked at her very intently, the dull red still flushing his face;
and she surveyed him critically, amiably, amused at his attitude, which
was the epitome of everything masculine.

"What are you going to do about her?" he inquired at last.

"Offer to engage her."

"As what?"

"A companion."

"Oh.  Then you do appreciate her?"

Madame de Moidrey threw back her pretty head and laughed with delicious
abandon.

"Perhaps I don’t appreciate her as deeply as you do, Jim, but I shall
humbly endeavor to do so.  Now, suppose, when you go back to the Golden
Peach, you send Philippa’s effects up here, and in the meanwhile I’ll
begin my duty of finishing Philippa’s education—for which duty, I
understand, I’m engaged by you——"

"Ethra, you are a trump!  And I don’t really mind your guying me——"

"Indeed, I’m not guying you, dear friend!  I’m revealing to you the
actual inwardness of this entire and remarkable performance of yours.
And if you don’t know that you are engaging me to finish this young
girl’s education while you’re making up your mind about your sentiments
concerning her, then it’s time you did."

"That is utterly——"

"Please!  And it’s all the truer because you don’t believe it! ... Jim,
the girl really is a pathetic figure—simple, sweet, intelligent, and
touchingly honest.... And I’ll say another thing....  God knows what
mother bore her, what parents are responsible for this young thing—with
her delicate features and slender body.  But it was not from a pair of
unhappy nobodies she inherited her mind, which seems to seek
instinctively what is fine and right amid the sordid complexities of the
only world she has ever known.

"As for her heart, Jim, it is the heart of a child—with one heavenly and
exaggerated idol completely filling it.  You! ... And I tell you very
plainly that, if I were a man, the knowledge of this would frighten me a
little, and make me rather more serious than many men are inclined to
be."

He bit his lip and looked out across the southern valley, where already
the August haze was growing bluer, blurring the low-hanging sun.

She laid a friendly, intimate, half humorous hand on his arm:

"In all right-thinking men the boy can never die. No experience born of
pain, no cynicism, no incredulity acquired through disappointment, can
kill the boy in any man until it has first slain his soul.  Otherwise,
chivalry in the world had long since become extinct.

"You have done what you could do for Philippa. I am really glad to help
you, Jim.  But from now on, be very careful and very sure of yourself.
Because now your real responsibility begins."

He had not thought of it in that way.  And now he did not care to.

To sympathize, to protect, to admire—these were born of impulse and
reason, which, in turn, had their origin in unconscious condescension.

To applaud the admirable, to express a warm concern for virtue in
difficulties, meant merely sincere recognition, not the intimacy of that
equality of mind and circumstance which existed per se between himself
and such a woman as Madame de Moidrey.

The very word "protection" implies condescension, conscious or
unconscious.  We may love what we protect; we never, honestly, place it
on a pedestal, or even on a mathematical level with ourselves.  It can’t
be done.

And so, in a vague sort of way, Warner remained incredulous of the
impossible with which Madame de Moidrey had smilingly menaced him.

Only, of course, she was quite right; he must not thoughtlessly arouse
the woman in the girl Philippa.

But there is nothing in the world that ought more thoroughly to arouse
the best qualities of manhood in a man than the innocent adoration of a
young girl.  For if he could really believe himself to be even a shadow
of what she believes he is, the world might really become the most
agreeable of residential planets.

As Warner and Madame de Moidrey entered the music room through the open
French windows, Philippa turned from the piano and her soft voice died
out in the quaint refrain she had been accompanying.

She rose instinctively, which was more than Peggy did, having no
reverence for age in her own sister—and Madame de Moidrey came forward
and took the girl’s slender hands in hers.

"Have you concluded to remain with me?" she asked, smilingly.

"I did not understand that you had asked me," said the girl gravely.

"I do ask you."

Philippa looked at Warner, then lifted her grey eyes to the elder woman.

"You are very kind, Madame.  I—it will be a great happiness to me if you
accept my services."

The Countess de Moidrey regarded her, still retaining her hands, still
smiling.

"You have a very sweet way of making the acceptance mine and not yours,"
she said.  "Let us accept each other, Philippa.  Will you?"

"You are most kind, Madame——"

"Can kindness win you?"

"Madame, it has already."

The American widow of the recent Count de Moidrey felt a curious
sensation of uncertainty in the quiet self-possession of this young
girl—in her serenity, in her modulated voice and undisturbed manner.

An odd idea persisted that the graciousness was not entirely on her own
part; that there was something even more subtle than graciousness on the
part of this girl, whose delicate hands lay, cool and smooth, within her
own.

It was not manner, for there was none on Philippa’s part; not reticence,
for that argues a conscious effort or a still more conscious lack of
effort.  Perhaps, through the transparent simplicity of the girl, the
older woman’s intuition caught a glimpse of finer traditions than she
herself had been born to—sensed the far, faint ring of finer and more
ancient metal.

And after a moment she felt that courtesy, deference, and propinquity
alone held Philippa’s grave grey eyes; that the soul which looked
fearlessly and calmly out of them at her could not be lightly flattered
or lightly won; and that, released from their conventional duty, those
clear eyes of grey would seek their earthly idol as logically as the
magnetic needle swings to its magnet.

Very subtly, as she stood there, the sympathy of the older woman widened
to include respect.  And, unconsciously, she turned and looked at Warner
with the amused and slightly malicious smile of a woman who detects in a
man the characteristic obtuseness from which her own and feminine
instinct has rescued her just in time to prevent mistakes.

Then, turning to Philippa, she said:

"Our family of three is a very small one, dear, but I think it is
going to be a happy one....  What was that song that you and Peggy were
trying when we came in?"

"It is called ’Noblesse Oblige,’ Madame.  It is a very ancient song."

"It is as old as the world," said the Countess. "Peggy, will you try the
accompaniment?  And will you sing it, Philippa?"

"If you wish it, Madame."

The Countess de Moidrey stepped aside and seated herself; the grey eyes
left her to seek and find their magnet; and, having found it, smiled.

As for the magnet himself, he stood there deep in perplexity and
trouble, beginning slowly to realize how profoundly his mind and
affections had already become involved in the fate of a very young girl,
and in the problems of life which must now begin to threaten and
confront her.

    "Namur, Liége—
    Le dur siége
    Noblesse oblige

sang Philippa—

    "Namurois, Liégeois,
    La lois des Bois
      Exige
    Noblesse—noblesse oblige—"’


The Countess de Moidrey rested her face on her hand, looking curiously
at the young girl from whose lips the old phrase fell so naturally, so
confidently, with such effortless and inborn
understanding—noblesse—noblesse oblige.




                            *CHAPTER XXIII*


Philippa’s trunk had gone to the Château des Oiseaux, and the Inn of the
Golden Peach knew her no longer.

Warner, who usually adored the prospect of a month all alone after his
class had left for the season, found to his surprise that he was
experiencing a slight sense of loneliness.

The inn, the garden, seemed to him uncommonly still; and at first he
thought he missed the gallinaceous chatter of the Harem, then he was
very sure that he regretted Halkett acutely.

Ariadne, sitting in the sun by the deserted summer-house in the garden,
always greeted him with a plaintive little mew which, somehow or other,
sounded to him pointedly reproachful.

The cat evidently missed Halkett, perhaps Philippa. Warner remembered
that he had been requested to be polite and agreeable to Ariadne, and,
whenever he recollected these obligations, he dutifully hoisted the
animal to his shoulder and promenaded her.  For which, no doubt, the cat
was grateful, but as she was also beginning to shed her coat in
preparation for a brand-new set of winter furs, Warner found the
intimacy with Ariadne slightly trying.

There were no other guests at the inn.  Now and then during the next
three or four days officers stopped their automobiles for a few moments’
refreshment, or to replenish their gasoline tanks.  But early one
morning a big motor truck, driven by a little, red-legged, boyish
pioupiou, and guarded by three others, equally youthful, took away the
entire supply of gasoline and ordered Madame Arlon to remove the sign
advertising it.

They drove away through the early autumn sunshine, singing the "Adoro,"
not the one best known, but that version attributed to the Scottish
Queen, and they looked and sang like three little choir boys
masquerading in the uniforms of their fathers.

Warner had been sketching in the meadow across the road that day,
feeling restless and unaccountably depressed.  It was one of those
still, hazy mornings in early August, when the world seems too quiet and
the sky too perfect for inaction or repose.

He had pitched his easel near the river, perhaps because it remained
busy; and where, if any troops or military trains passed along the
quarry road, he could see them.  Also, from there he could look down
over the road hedge and see the motor cycles whiz by and military
automobiles with a streak of crimson, turquoise and silver uniforms in
the tonneau.

But none came.  Two or three gendarmes, with white and yellow trappings,
passed toward Ausone at a gallop while he sat there, but across the
river nothing stirred save a kestrel soaring.

According to the Petit Journal d’Ausone of the day before, war had
already burst over eastern Belgium full blast and the famous forts so
long celebrated as impregnable were beginning to crumble away under an
avalanche of gigantic shells.

As he sat there under the calm sky, painting leisurely, relighting his
pipe at intervals, he tried to realize that such things as bombardments
and sieges and battles were going on to the north of where he was—not so
very far north, either.  But he could not seem to grasp it as an actual
fact.  For the monstrous and imbecile actuality of such a war seemed
still to remain outside his comprehension; his intelligence had not yet
accepted it—not encompassed and digested the fact—and he could not get
rid of the hopefully haunting feeling that presently somebody or
something somewhere or other would stop all this amazing insanity, and
that the diplomats would begin again where they had left off only a few
days ago.

It was the illimitable proportions of the calamity—the magnitude of the
catastrophe—the cataclysmic menace of it that still left his mind
slightly stunned, as it had paralyzed the minds of every civilized human
being, and suspended for a space the power of thought in the world.

As yet, all these enormous, impossible threats of governments and
emperors seemed to be some gigantic, fantastic, and grotesque hoax which
the sovereigns and chancelleries of Europe were playing in concert to
frighten a humdrum world out of its five dull wits.

And yet, under the incredulity, and the mental obscurity and inertia,
deep within the dazed hearts of men a measured and terrible pulse had
already begun to throb steadily, with an unchanging and dreadful rhythm.
It was the clairvoyant prophecy of the world’s subconscious self
stirring, thrilling to that red future already breaking, and warning all
mankind that the day of wrath had dawned at last.

But to Warner the most unreal part of it all was not the dusty
fantassins in column, slouching forward toward the north—not the
clinking, jingling cuirassiers on their big battle horses, not the
dragoons riding with rapt, exalted faces under forests of tall lances,
not the clanking artillery, the heavy military wagons and motor trucks,
nor the galloping gendarmes which passed the inn every hour or two.

What had become suddenly unreal to him was the green and sunlit serenity
of the world itself—the breeze ruffling the clover, poppies glowing deep
in fields of golden wheat and barley, the melody of the flowing river,
the quiet blue overhead, the tenderness of leaf and blossom, and the
blessed stillness of the world.

Relighting his pipe, he looked at the swallows soaring and sailing high
above the Récollette; noticed butterflies hovering and flitting
everywhere; heard the golden splashing of the river, the sigh of leaves
and rushes.  The word "war" still remained a word to him, but in the
sunshine and the silence he began to divine the immobility of
menace—something unseen and evil which was quietly waiting.


Ariadne had come across from the garden, ostensibly to hunt meadow mice,
really for company.

Sniffing and snooping around his color box, she got one dainty whisker
in the ultramarine, and had enough of art.  So she went off, much
annoyed, to sit by herself in the grass and do some scrubbing.  After a
while the fixed persistency with which she stared across the meadow
attracted his attention and he, also, turned and looked that way.

As he saw nothing in particular to stare at, he presently resumed his
sketching and his troubled thoughts. The latter concerned the girl
Philippa.  Not since he had taken her to the Château had he seen her.
And that was four days ago.

He didn’t know exactly why he had not strolled over. Possibly a vague
idea that he had better not interfere to distract the girl’s attention
from her first lessons in the refinements of existence had kept him away
from her vicinity.

He didn’t even know that he had missed her; he knew only that for some
occult reason or other he had felt rather lonely lately.

He painted away steadily, pausing to relight his pipe now and then, and
all the while Ariadne, never stirring, stared persistently across the
landscape, neglecting her uncleansed whisker.

Suddenly, with a little mew of recognition and greeting, she trotted
forward through the grass; and the next moment two soft hands fell
lightly upon Warner’s shoulders from behind.

"Philippa!" he exclaimed, enchanted.

"Oh, Jim!" she cried joyously, abandoning both hands to him as he sprang
to his feet and faced her.

She was so eager, so pretty in her unfeigned delight, as though it had
been four years instead of four days since they had seen each other; and
he seemed to feel something of this, also, for he held her hands closely
and laughed without any apparent reason for mirth—unless the sheer
contentment of contact and possession be a reason.

"Are you well and happy, Philippa?"

"Yes, I am happy enough up there.  But, oh, how dreadfully I have missed
you, Jim—may I call you Jim?—I do to myself——"

"Of course!"

"I think of you that way—so it came very naturally to my lips—if you
really don’t mind?  And besides, I am so happy to be with you....  Peggy
Brooks and I were looking over maps in the library—you know, the Petit
Journal says that the Prussians are firing enormous shells into
Liége—and so Peggy and I were down on our knees over the maps of
Belgium. Oh, dear!  You know, it isn’t so very far from us here if you
take a ruler and measure by scale....  And it seemed to sober us both—we
had been laughing, I don’t remember exactly what about—but studying the
map made us both serious, and Peggy went upstairs to talk it over with
the Countess, and I felt that I couldn’t stand being away from you for a
single minute longer!"

"You dear child!"

"So I asked Peggy to ask Madame de Moidrey if I might pay you a little
visit, and she said, ’Of course.’  So I came as fast as I could——"  She
laughed and made a sweeping gesture with both arms outflung: "And here I
am!  Are you contented?"

She stooped and stroked Ariadne, looking up to smile at him.

"Careful of her whisker; there is blue paint on it," he warned Philippa;
but the girl wiped off the ultramarine with a green leaf and took the
cat to her heart, covering her with caresses and murmuring endearments.

"Jim, dear, what do you think?" she asked presently.

"About what?"

"About the war?"

He said gravely:

"I don’t quite understand how those magnificent Belgian forts are being
knocked to pieces—if what the paper says is true.  I supposed them to be
among the strongest fortifications in the world."

