"That man," said Burley, much hurt, "was 
a bow-legged driver of the Train-des-Equi- 
pages. I don't think he resembles me." 
As she made no comment and expressed no 
contrition for her mistake, he gazed about 
him at the sunny garden with a depressed 
expression. However, this changed presently 
to a bright and hopeful one. 
"Vooz ate tray, tray belle, mademoiselle!" 
he asserted cheerfully. 
"Monsieur!" Vexed perhaps as much at 
her own quick blush as his abrupt eulogy, she 
bit her lip and looked at him with an ominously level gaze. Then, suddenly, she smiled. 
"Monsieur Burley, one does not so express 
one's self without reason, without apropos, 
without without encouragement " 
She blushed again, vividly. Under her wide 
straw hat her delicate, sensitive face and 
dark blue eyes were beautiful enough to inspire eulogy in any young man. 
"Pardon," he said, confused by her repri 
mand and her loveliness. "I shall hereafter 
only think you are pretty, mademoiselle mais 
je ne le dirais ploo." 
"That would be perhaps more comme il 
faut, monsieur." 
"Ploo!" he repeated with emphasis. "Ploo 
jamais! Je vous jure " 
"Merci; it is not perhaps necessary to 
swear quite so solemnly, monsieur." 
She raised her eyes from the pan, moving 
her small, sun-tanned hand through the heaps 
of green peas, filling her palm with them and 
idly letting them run through her slim fingers. 
"L amour," he said with an effort "how 
funny it is isn't it, mademoiselle?" 
"I know nothing about it," she replied with 
decision, and rose with her pan of peas. 
"Are you going, mademoiselle?" 
"Yes." 
"Have I offended you?" 
"No." 
He trailed after her down the garden path 
between rows of blue larkspurs and holly 
hocks just at her dainty heels, because the 
brick walk was too narrow for both of them. 
"Ploo," he repeated appealingly. 
Over her shoulder she said with disdain: 
"It is not a topic for conversation among 
the young, monsieur what you call I amour" 
And she entered the kitchen, where he had 
not the effrontery to follow her. 
That evening, toward sunset, returning 
from, the corral, he heard, high in the blue 
sky above him, her bell-music drifting; and 
involuntarily uncovering, he stood with bared 
head looking upward while the celestial melody lasted. 
And that evening, too, being the fete of 
Alincourt, a tiny neighbouring village across 
the river, the bell-mistress went up into the 
tower after dinner and played for an hour 
for the little neighbour hamlet across the 
river Lesse. 
All the people who remained in Sainte 
Lesse and in Alincourt brought out their 
chairs and their knitting in the calm, fragrant 
evening air and remained silent, sadly enraptured while the unseen player at her keyboard 
aloft in the belfry above set her carillon 
music adrift under the summer stars golden 
harmonies that seemed born in the heavens 
from which they floated; clear, exquisitely 
sweet miracles of melody filling the world of 
darkness with magic messages of hope. 
Those widowed or childless among her lis 
teners for miles around in the darkness wept 
quiet tears, less bitter and less hopeless for 
the divine promise of the sky music which 
filled the night as subtly as the scent of 
flowers saturates the dusk. 
Burley, listening down by the corral, leaned 
against a post, one powerful hand across his 
eyes, his cap clasped in the other, and in his 
heart the birth of things ineffable. 
For an hour the carillon played. Then 
old Bayard struck ten times. And Burley 
thought of the trenches and wondered 
whether the mellow thunder of the great bell 
was audible out there that night. 
CHAPTER XVI 
 
There came a day when he did not see 
Maryette as he left for the corral in the 
morning. 
Her father, very stiff with rheumatism, sat 
in the sun outside the arched entrance to the 
inn. 
"Xo," he said, "she is going to be gone all 
day today. She has set and wound the drum 
in the belfry so that the carillon shall play 
every hour while she is absent." 
"Where has she gone?" inquired Burley. 
"To play the carillon at Nivelle." 
"Nivelle!" he exclaimed sharply. 
"Oui, monsieur. The Mayor has asked for 
her. She is to play for an hour to entertain 
the wounded." He rested his withered cheek 
on his hand and looked out through the window at the sunshine with aged and tragic 
eyes. "It is very little to do for our 
wounded," he added aloud to himself. 
Burley had sent twenty mules to Nivelle 
the night before, and had heard some disquieting rumours concerning that town. 
Now he walked out past the dusky, arched 
passageway into the sunny street and con 
tinued northward under the trees to the bar 
racks of the Gendarmerie. 
"Bon jour I ami Gargantua!" exclaimed the 
fat, jovial brigadier who had just emerged 
with boots shining, pipe-clay very apparent, 
and all rosy from a fresh shave. 
"Bong joor, mon vieux copain!" replied 
Burley, preoccupied with some papers he was 
sorting. "Be good enough to look over my 
papers." 
The brigadier took them and examined 
them. 
"Are they en regie?" demanded Burley. 
"Parfaiteme nt, mon ami" 
"Will they take me as far as Nivelle?" 
"Certainly. But your mules went forward 
last night with the Remount ".
"I know. I wish to inspect them again be 
fore the veterinary sees them. Telephone to 
the corral for a saddle mule." 
The brigadier went inside to telephone and 
Burley started for the corral at the same 
time. 
His cream-coloured, wall-eyed mule was 
saddled and waiting when he arrived; he 
stuffed his papers into the breast of his tunic 
and climbed into the saddle. 
"Allongs!" he exclaimed. "Hoop!" 
Half way to Nivelle, on an overgrown, 
bushy, circuitous path which was the only 
road open between Nivelle and Sainte Lesse, 
he overtook Maryette, driving her donkey and 
ancient market cart. 
"Carillonnette !" he called out joyously. 
"Maryette! C est je!" 
The girl, astonished, turned her head, and 
he spurred forward on his wall-eyed mount, 
evincing cordial symptoms of pleasure in the 
encounter. 
"Wee, wee!" he cried. "Je yoolay veneer 
avec voo!" And ere the girl could protest, 
he had dismounted, turning the wall-eyed 
one's nose southward, and had delivered a 
resounding whack upon the rump of that 
temperamental animal. 
"Allez! Go home! Beat it!" he cried. 
The mule lost no time but headed for the 
distant corral at a canter; and Burley, grin 
ning like a great, splendid, intelligent dog 
who has just done something to be proud of, 
stepped into the market cart and seated him 
self beside Maryette. 
"Who told you where I am going?" she 
asked, scarcely knowing whether to laugh or 
let loose her indignation. 
"Your father, Carillonnette." 
"Why did you follow me?" 
"I had nothing else to do " 
"Is that the reason?" 
"I like to be with you " 
"Really, monsieur! And you think it was 
not necessary to consult my wishes?" 
"Don't you like to be with me!" he asked, 
so naively that the girl blushed and bit her 
lip and shook the reins without replying. 
They jogged on through the disused by- 
way, the filbert bushes brushing axle and 
traces; but presently the little donkey relapsed into a walk again, and the girl, who 
had counted on that procedure when she 
started from Sainte Lesse, did not urge him. 
"Also," she said in a low voice, "I have 
been wondering who permits you to address 
me as Carillonnette. Also as Maryette. You 
have been, heretofore, quite correct in assum 
ing that mademoiselle is the proper form of 
address." 
"I was so glad to see you," he said, so sim 
ply that she flushed again and offered no fur 
ther comment. 
For a long while she let him do the talk 
ing, which was perfectly agreeable to him. 
He talked on every subject he could think of, 
frankly practicing idioms on her, pleased with 
his own fluency and his progress in French. 
After a while she said, looking around at 
him with a curiosity quite friendly: 
"Tell me, Monsieur Burley, why did you 
desire to come with me today?" 
He started to reply, but checked himself, 
looking into the dark blue and engaging eyes. 
After a moment the engaging eyes became 
brilliantly serious. 
"Tell me," she repeated. "Is it because 
there were some rumours last evening concerning Nivelle?" 
"Wee!" 
"Oh," she nodded, thoughtfully. 
After driving for a little while in silence 
she looked around at him with an expression 
on her face which altered it exquisitely. 
"Thank you, my friend," she murmured. 
. . . "And if you wish to call me Carillonnette 
do so." 
"I do want to. And my name's Jack. . . . 
If you don't mind." 
Her eyes were fixed on her donkey's ears. 
"Djack," she repeated, musingly. "Jacques 
Djack it's the same, isn't it Djack ?" 
He turned red and she laughed at him, no 
longer afraid. 
"Listen, my friend," she said, "it is ires 
beau what have you done." 
"Vooz etes tray belle " 
"Non! Please stop! It is not a question 
of me 
 
"Vooz etes tray chick- 
"Stop, Djack! That is not good manners! 
No! I was merely saying that you have 
done something very nice. Which is quite 
true. You heard rumours that Nivelle had 
become unsafe. People whispered last evening 
something about the danger of a salient 
being cut at its base. ... I heard the gos 
sip in the street. Was that why you came 
after me?" 
"Wee." 
"Thank you, Djack." 
She leaned a trifle forward in the cart, her 
dimpled elbows on her knees, the reins sag 
ging. 
Blue and rosy jays flew up before them, 
fluttering away through the thickets; a bull 
finch whistled sweetly from a thorn bush, 
watching them pass under him, unafraid. 
"You see," she said, half to herself, "I had 
to come. Who could refuse our wounded? 
There is no bell-master in our department; 
and only one bell-mistress. ... To find any 
one else to play the Nivelle carillon one would 
have to pierce the barbarians lines and search 
the ruins of Flanders for a Beiaardier a 
Klokkenist, as they call a carillonneur in the 
low countries. . . . But the Mayor asked it, 
and our wounded are waiting. You under 
stand, mon ami Djack, I had to come." 
He nodded. 
She added, naively: 
"God watches over our trenches. We shall 
be quite safe in Nivelle." 
A dull boom shook the sunlit air. Even in 
the cart they could feel the vibration. 
An hour later, everywhere ahead of them, 
a vast, confused thundering was steadily in 
creasing, deepening with every ominous reverberation. 
Where two sandy wood roads crossed, a 
mounted gendarme halted them and examined 
their papers. 
"My poor child," he said to the girl, shak 
ing his head, "the wounded at Nivelle were 
taken away during the night. They are 
fighting there now in the streets." 
"In Nivelle streets!" faltered the girl. 
"Oui, mademoiselle. Of the carillon little 
remains. The Boches have been shelling it 
 
since daylight. Turn again. And it is better 
that you turn quickly, because it is not known 
to us what is going on in that wooded district 
over there. For if they get a foothold in 
Nivelle on this drive they might cross this 
road before evening." 
The girl sat grief-stricken and silent in the 
cart, staring at the woods ahead where the 
road ran through taller saplings and where, 
here and there, mature trees towered. 
All around them now the increasing thun 
der rolled and echoed and shook the ground 
under them. Half a dozen gendarmes came 
up at a gallop. Their officer drew bridle, 
seized the donkey's head and turned animal 
and cart southward. 
"Go back," he said briefly, recognizing Burley and returning hie salute. "You may have 
to take your mules out of Sainte Lesse!" he 
added, as he wheeled his horse. "We are 
getting into trouble out here, nom de Dieu!" 
Maryette's head hung as the donkey jogged 
along, trotting willingly because his nose was 
now pointed homeward. 
The girl drove with loose and careless rein 
and in silence; and beside her sat Burley, his 
troubled gaze always reverting to the de 
spondent form beside him. 
"Too bad, little girl," he said. "But an 
other time our wounded shall listen to your 
carillon." 
"Never at Nivelle. . . . The belfry is be 
ing destroyed. . . . The sweetest carillon in 
France the oldest, the most beautiful. . . . 
Fifty-six bells, Djack a wondrous wilderness 
of bells rising above where one stands in the 
belfry, tier on tier, tier on tier, until one's 
gaze is lost amid the heavenly company aloft. 
. . . Oh, Djack! And the great bell, Clovis! 
He hangs there through hundreds of years 
he has spoken with his great voice of God! 
so that they heard him for miles and miles 
across the land " 
"Maryette I am so sorry for you 
"Oh! Oh! My carillon of Nivelle! My 
beloved carillon!" 
"Maryette, dear! My little Carillonnette " 
"No my heart is broken " 
"Vooz ates tray, tray bell.
 
The sudden crashing of heavy feet in the 
bushes checked him; but it was too late to 
heed it now too late to reach for his holster. 
For all around them swarmed the men in sea- 
grey, jerking the donkey off his forelegs, 
blocking the little wheels with great, dirty 
fists, seizing Burley from behind and drag 
ging him violently out of the cart. 
A near-sighted officer, thin and spare as 
Death, was talking in a loud, nasal voice and 
squinting at Burley where he still struggled, 
red and exasperated, in the clutches of four 
soldiers : 
"Also! That is no uniform known to us 
or to any nation at war with us. That is not 
regulation in England that collar insignia. 
This is a case of a f ranc-tireur ! Now, then, 
you there in your costume de f antasie ! What 
have you to say, eh?" 
There was a silence; Burley ceased struggling. 
"Answer, do you hear? What are you?" 
"American." 
"Pig-dog!" shouted the gaunt officer. "So 
you are one of those Yankee muleteers in 
your uniform, and armed! It is sufficient that 
you are American. If it had not been for 
America this war would be ended! But it is 
not enough, apparently, that you come here 
with munitions and food, that you insult us 
at sea, that you lie about us and slander us 
and send your shells and cartridges to Eng 
land to slay our people! No! Also you must 
come to insult us in your clown's uniform and 
with your pistol " The man began to choke 
with fury, unable to continue, except by 
gesture. 
But the jerky gestures were terribly sig 
nificant: soldiers were already pushing Bur- 
ley across the road toward a great oak tree; 
six men fell out and lined up. 
"M-my Government stammered the 
young fellow but was given no opportunity 
to speak. Very white, the chill sweat stand 
ing on his forehead and under his eyes, he 
stood against the oak, lips compressed, grey 
eyes watching what was happening to him. 
Suddenly he understood it was all over. 
"Djack!" 
He turned his gaze toward Maryette, where 
 
she struggled toward him, held by two sol 
diers. 
"Maryette Carillonnette " His voice sud 
denly became steady, perfectly clear. "Je 
vous aime, Carillonnette." 
"Oh, Djack! Djack!" she cried in terror. 
He heard the orders; was aware of the 
levelled rifles; but his reckless greyish eyes 
were now fixed on her, and he began to laugh 
almost mischievously. 
"Vooz etes tray belle," he said, " tray, 
tray chick " 
"Djack!" 
But the clang of the volley precluded any 
response from him except the half tender, 
half reckless smile that remained on his youth 
ful face where he lay looking up at the sky 
with pleasant, sightless eyes, and a sunbeam 
touching the metal mule on his blood-wet 
collar. 
CHAPTER XVII 
 
She tried once more to lift the big, warm, 
flexible body, exerting all her slender strength. 
It was useless. It was like attempting to lift 
the earth. The weight of the body fright 
ened her. 
Again she sank down among the ferns 
under the great oak tree; once more she took 
his blood-smeared head on her lap, smooth 
ing the bright, wet hair; and her tears fell 
slowly upon his upturned face. 
"My friend," she stammered, " my kind, 
droll friend. . . . The first friend I ever 
had " 
The gun thunder beyond Nivelle had ceased ; 
an intense stillness reigned in the forest; only 
a leaf moved here and there on the aspens. 
A few forest flies whirled about her, but 
 
as yet no ominous green flies came none of 
those jewelled harbingers of death which appear with horrible promptness and as though 
by magic from nowhere when anything dies 
in the open world. 
Her donkey, still attached to the little gaily 
painted market cart, had wandered on up the 
sandy lane, feeding at random along the fern- 
bordered thickets which walled in the Nivelle 
byroad on either side. 
Presently her ear caught a slight sound; 
something stirred somewhere in the woods 
behind her. After an interval of terrible 
stillness there came a distant crashing of 
footsteps among dead leaves and underbrush. 
Horror of the Hun still possessed her; the 
victim of Prussian ferocity still lay across 
her knees. She dared not take the chance 
that friendly ears might hear her call for aid 
dared not raise her voice in appeal lest she 
awaken something monstrous, unclean, inconceivable the unseen thing which she could 
hear at intervals prowling there among dead 
leaves in the demi-light of the woods. 
Suddenly her heart leaped with fright; a 
man stepped cautiously out of the woods into 
the road; another, dressed in leather, with 
dry blood caked on his face, followed. 
The first comer, a French gendarme, had 
already caught sight of the donkey and mar 
ket cart; had turned around instinctively to 
look for their owner. Now he discovered her 
seated there among the ferns under the oak 
tree. 
"In the name of God," he growled, "what's 
that child doing there!" 
The airman in leather followed him across 
the road to the oak; the girl looked up at 
them out of dark, tear-marred eyes that 
seemed dazed. 
"Well, little one!" rumbled the big, red- 
faced gendarme. "What's your name? you 
who sit here all alone at the wood's edge with 
a dead man across your knees?" 
She made an effort to find her voice to 
control it. 
"I am Maryette Courtray, bell-mistress of 
Sainte Lesse," she answered, trembling. 
"And this young man?" 
"They shot him the Prussians, monsieur." 
"My poor child! Was he your lover, then! "
Her tear-filled eyes widened: 
"Oh, no," she said naively; "it is sadder 
than that. He was my friend." 
The big gendarme scratched his chin; then, 
with an odd glance at the young airman who 
stood beside him: 
"To lose a friend is indeed sadder than to 
lose a lover. What was your friend's name, 
little one?" 
She pressed her hand to her forehead in 
an effort to search among her partly paralyzed thoughts: 
"Djack. . . . That is his name. ... He was 
the first real friend I ever had." 
The airman said: 
"He is one of my countrymen an American muleteer, Jack Burley in charge at 
Sainte Lesse." 
At the sound of the young man's name pro 
nounced in English the girl began to cry. The 
big gendarme bent over and patted her cheek. 
"Allans" he growled; "courage! little mis 
tress of the bells! Let us place your friend 
in your pretty market cart and leave this 
accursed place, in God's name!" 
He straightened up and looked over his 
shoulder. 
"For the Boches are in Nivelle woods," he 
added, with an oath, "and we ought to be on 
our way to Sainte Lesse, if we are to arrive 
there at all. Allans, comrade, take him by 
the head!" 
So the wounded airman bent over and took 
the body by the shoulders; the gendarme 
lifted the feet; the little bell-mistress followed, holding to one of the sagging arms, as 
though fearing that these strangers might 
take away from her this dead man who had 
been so much more to her than a mere lover. 
When they laid him in the market cart she 
released his sleeve with a sob. Still crying, 
she climbed to the seat of the cart and gathered up the reins. Behind her, flat on the 
floor of the cart, the airman and the gendarme 
had seated themselves, with the young man's 
body between them. They were opening his 
tunic and shirt now and were whispering to- 
 
gether, and wiping away blood from the naked 
shoulders and chest. 
"He's still warm, but there's no pulse," 
whispered the airman. "He's dead enough, I 
guess, but I'd rather hear a surgeon say so." 
The gendarme rose, stepped across to the 
seat, took the reins gently from the girl. 
"Weep peacefully, little one," he said; "it 
does one good. Tears are the tisane which 
strengthens the soul." 
"Ye-es. . . . But I am remembering that 
that I was not very k-kind to him," she 
sobbed. "It hurts here " She pressed a 
slim hand over her breast. 
"Allons! Friends quarrel. God under 
stands. Thy friend back there he also understands now." 
"Oh, I hope he does! . . . He spoke to me 
so tenderly yet so gaily. He was even 
laughing at me when they shot him. He was 
so kind and droll " She sobbed anew, 
clasping her hands and pressing them against 
her quivering mouth to check her grief. 
"Was it an execution, then!" demanded the 
gendarme in his growling voice. 
"They said he must be a franc-tireur to 
wear such a uniform " 
"Ah, the scoundrels! Ah, the assassins! 
And so they murdered him there under the 
tree?" 
"Ah, God! Yes! I seem to see him stand 
ing there now his grey, kind eyes and no 
thought of fear just a droll smile the way 
he had with me " whispered the girl, "the 
way his way with me " 
"Child," said the gendarme, pityingly, "it 
was love!" 
But she shook her head, surprised, the tears 
still running down her tanned cheeks: 
"Monsieur, it was more serious than love; 
it was friendship." 
CHAPTER XVIII 
 
Where the Fonianes highroad crosses the 
"byroad to Sainte Lesse they were halted by 
a dusty column moving rapidly west four 
hundred American mules convoyed by gen 
darmerie and remount troopers. 
The sweating riders, passing at a canter, 
shouted from their saddles to the big gen 
darme in the market cart that neither Nivelle 
nor Sainte Lesse were to be defended at pres 
ent, and that all stragglers were being directed to Fontanes and Le Marronnier. Mules 
and drivers denied at a swinging trot, enveloped in torrents of white dust; behind them 
rode a peloton of the remount, lashing recalcitrant animals forward; and in the rear of 
these rolled automobile ambulances, red 
crosses aglow in the rays of the setting sun. 
The driver of the last ambulance seemed 
to be ill; his head lay on the shoulder of a 
Sister of Charity who had taken the steering 
wheel. . 
The gendarme beside Maryette signalled 
her to stop; then he got out of the market 
cart and, lifting the body of the American 
muleteer in his powerful arms, strode across 
the road. The airman leaped from the mar 
ket cart and followed him. 
Between them they drew out a stretcher, 
laid the muleteer on it, and shoved it back 
into the vehicle. 
There was a brief consultation, then they 
both came back to Maryette, who, rigid in her 
seat and very pale, sat watching the pro 
cedure in silence. 
The gendarme said: 
"I go to Fontanes. There's a dressing sta 
tion on the road. It appears that your young 
man's heart hasn't quite stopped yet 
The girl rose excitedly to her feet, but the 
gendarme gently forced her back into her seat 
and laid the reins in her hands. To the air 
man he growled: 
 
"I did not tell this poor child to hope; I 
merely informed her that her friend yonder 
is still breathing. But he's as full of holes 
as a pepper pot!" He frowned at Maryette: 
" Allans! My comrade here goes to Sainte 
Lesse. Drive him there now, in God's name, 
before the Uhlans come clattering on your 
heels !" 
He turned, strode away to the ambulance 
once more, climbed in, and placed one big arm 
around the sick driver's shoulder, drawing the 
man's head down against his breast. 
"Bonne chance!" he called back to the air 
man, who had now seated himself beside 
Maryette. "Explain to our little bell-mistress 
that we're taking her friend to a place where 
they fool Death every day where to cheat 
the grave is a flourishing business! Good 
bye! Courage! En route, brave Sister of the 
World !" 
The Sister of Charity turned and smiled at 
Maryette, made her a friendly gesture, threw 
in the clutch, and, twisting the steering wheel 
with both sun-browned hands, guided the machine out onto the road and sped away swiftly 
after the cloud of receding dust. 
"Drive on, mademoiselle," said the airman 
quietly. 
In his accent there was something poign 
antly familiar to Maryette, and she turned 
with a start and looked at him out of her 
dark blue, tear-marred eyes. 
"Are you also American?" she asked. 
"Gunner observer, American air squadron, 
mademoiselle." 
"An airman?" 
"Yes. My machine was shot down in Ni- 
velle woods an hour ago." 
After a silence, as they jogged along be 
tween the hazel thickets in the warm after 
noon sunshine: 
"Were you acquainted with my friend?" 
she asked wistfully. 
"With Jack Burley? A little. I knew him 
in Calais." 
The tears welled up into her eyes: 
"Could you tell me about him? . . . He was 
my first friend. ... I did not understand him 
in the beginning, monsieur. Among children 
 
it is different; I had known boys as one 
knows them at school. But a man, never 
and, indeed, I had not thought I had grown 
up until he came Djack to live at our inn. 
. . . The White Doe at Sainte Lesse, mon 
sieur. My father keeps it." 
"I see," nodded the airman gravely. 
"Yes that is the way. He came my first 
friend, Djack with mules from America, mon 
sieur one thousand mules. And God knows 
Sainte Lesse had never seen the like! As for 
me I thought I was a child still until do 
you understand, monsieur?" 
"Yes, Maryette." 
"Yes, that is how I found I was grown up. 
He was a man, not a boy that is how I found 
out. So he became my first friend. He was 
quite droll, and very big and kind and timid 
following me about oh, it was quite droll 
for both of us, because at first I was afraid, 
but pretended not to be." 
She smiled, then suddenly her eyes filled 
with the tragedy again, and she began to 
whimper softly to herself, with a faint sound 
like a hovering pigeon. 
"Tell me about him," said the airman. 
She staunched her tears with the edge of 
her apron. 
"It was that way with us," she managed to 
say. "I was enchanted and a little frightened 
it being my first friendship. He was so big, 
so droll, so kind. . . . We were on our way 
to Nivelle this morning. I was to play the 
carillon being mistress of the bells at Sainte 
Lesse and there was nobody else to play the 
bells at Nivelle; and the wounded desired to 
hear the carillon." 
"Yes." 
"So Djack came after me hearing rumours 
of Prussians in that direction. They were 
true oh, God! and the Prussians caught us 
there where you found us." 
She bowed her supple figure double on the 
seat, covering her face with her sun-browned 
hands. 
The airman drove on, whistling "La Bra- 
bangonne" under his breath, and deep in 
thought. From time to time he glanced at 
the curved figure beside him; but he said no 
more for a long time. 
 
Toward sunset they drove into the Sainte 
Lesse highway. 
He spoke abruptly, dryly: 
"Anybody can weep for a friend. But few 
avenge their dead." 
She looked up, bewildered. 
They drove under the old Sainte Lesse gate 
as he spoke. The sunlight lay pink across the 
walls and tipped the turret of the watch tower 
with fire. 
The town seemed very still; nothing was 
to be seen on the long main street except here 
and there a Spahi horseman en vidette, and 
the clock-tower pigeons circling in their even 
ing flight. 
The girl, Maryette, looked dumbly into the 
fading daylight when the cart stopped before 
her door. The airman took her gently by 
the arm, and that awakened her. As though 
stiffened by fatigue she rose and climbed to 
the sidewalk. He took her unresisting arm 
and led her through the tunnelled wall and 
into the White Doe Inn. 
"Get me some supper," he said. "It will 
take your mind off your troubles." 
"Yes." 
"Bread, wine, and some meat, if you have 
any. I'll be back in a few moments." 
He left her at the inn door and went out 
into the street, whistling "La BrabanQonne." 
A cavalryman directed him to the military 
telephone installed in the house of the notary 
across the street. 
His papers identified him; the operator 
gave him his connection; they switched him 
to the headquarters of his air squadron, where 
he made his report. 
"Shot down?" came the sharp exclamation 
over the wire. 
"Yes, sir, about eleven-thirty this morning 
on the north edge of Nivelle forest." 
"The machine?" 
"Done for, sir. They have it." 
"You?" 
"A scratch nothing. I had to run." 
"What else have you to report?" 
The airman made his brief report in an 
unemotional voice. Ending it, he asked per 
mission to volunteer for a special service. 
And for ten minutes the officer at the other 
 
end of the wire listened to a proposition which 
interested him intensely. 
"When the airman finished, the officer said: 
"Wait till I relay this matter." 
For a quarter of an hour the airman waited. 
Finally the operator half turned on his camp 
chair and made a gesture for him to resume 
the receiver. 
"If you choose to volunteer for such service," 
came the message, "it is approved. But un 
derstand you are not ordered on such duty." 
"I understand. I volunteer." 
"Very well. Munitions go to you immedi 
ately by automobile. It is expected that the 
wind will blow from the west by morning. 
By morning, also, all reserves will arrive in 
the west salient. What is to be your signal?" 
"The carillon from the Nivelle belfry." 
"What tune?" 
" La Brabangonne. If not that, then the 
tocsin on the great bell, Clovis." 
In the tiny cafe the crippled innkeeper sat, 
his aged, wistful eyes watching three leather- 
clad airmen who had been whispering together 
around a table in the corner all the after 
noon. 
iliey nodded in silence to the new arrival, 
and he joined them. 
Daylight faded in the room; the drum in 
the Sainte Lesse belfry, set to play before 
the hour sounded, began to turn aloft; the 
silvery notes of the carillon seemed to shower 
down from the sky, filling the twilight world 
with angelic melody. Then, in resonant 
beauty, the great bell, Bayard, measured the 
hour. 
The airman who had just arrived went to a 
sink, washed the caked blood from his face 
and tied it up with a first-aid bandage. Then 
he began to pace the cafe, his head bent in 
thought, his nervous hands clasped behind 
him. 
The room was dusky when he came back 
to the table where his three comrades still 
sat consulting in whispers. The old inn 
keeper had fallen asleep on his chair by the 
window. There was no light in the room ex 
cept what came from stars. 
 
"Well," said one of the airmen in a care 
fully modulated voice, "what are you going 
to do, Jim!" 
"Stay." 
"What's the idea?" 
The bandaged airman rested both hands on 
the stained table-top: 
"We quit Nivelle tonight, but our reserves 
are already coming up and we are to retake 
Nivelle tomorrow. You flew over the town 
this morning, didn't you?" 
All three said yes. 
"You took photographs?" 
"Certainly." 
"Then you know that our trenches pass 
under the bell-tower?" 
"Yes." 
"Very well. The wind is north. When the 
Boches enter our trenches they'll try to gas 
our salient while the wind holds. But west 
winds are predicted after sunrise tomorrow. 
I'm going to get into the Nivelle belfry to 
night with a sack of bombs. I'm going to try 
to explode their gas cylinders if I can. The 
tocsin is the signal for our people in the 
salient." 
"You're crazy!" remarked one of the air 
men. 
"No; I'll bluff it out. I'm to have a Boche 
uniform in a few moments." 
"You are crazy! You know what they'll do 
to you, don't you, Jimf 
The bandaged airman laughed, but in his 
eyes there was an odd flicker like a tiny flame. 
He whistled "La Brabangonne" and glanced 
coolly about the room. 
One of the airmen said to another in a 
whisper : 
"There you are. Ever since they got his 
brother he's been figuring on landing a whole 
bunch of Huns at one clip. This is going to 
finish him, this business." 
Another said: 
"Don't try anything like that, Jim " 
"Sure, I'll try it," interrupted the bandaged 
airman pleasantly. "When are you fellows 
going?" 
"Now." 
 
"All right. Take my report. Wait a mo 
ment 
"For God's sake, Jim, act sensibly!" 
The bandaged airman laughed, fished out 
from his clothing somewhere a note book and 
pencil. One of the others turned an electric 
torch on the table; the bandaged man made 
a little sketch, wrote a few lines which the 
others studied. 
"You can get that note to headquarters in 
half an hour, can't you, Ed?" 
"Yes." 
"All right. I'll wait here for my answer." 
"You know what risk you run, Jim?" 
pleaded the youngest of the airmen. 
"Oh, certainly. All right, then. You'd bet 
ter be on your way." 
After they had left the room, the bandaged 
airman sat beside the table, thinking hard in 
the darkness. 
Presently from somewhere across the dusky 
river meadow the sudden roar of an airplane 
engine shattered the silence; then another 
whirring racket broke out; then another. 
He heard presently the loud rattle of his 
comrades machines from high above him in 
the star-set sky; he heard the stertorous 
breathing of the old innkeeper ; he heard again 
the crystalline bell-notes break out aloft, lin 
ger in linked harmonies, die away; he heard 
Bayard's mellow thunder proclaim the hour 
once more. 
There was a watch on his wrist, but it had 
been put out of business when his machine 
fell in Nivelle woods. Glancing at it mechan 
ically he saw the phosphorescent dial glimmer 
faintly under shattered hands that remained 
fixed. 
An hour later Bayard shook the starlit 
silence ten times. 
As the last stroke boomed majestically 
through the darkness an automobile came rac 
ing into the long, unlighted street of Sainte 
Lesse and halted, panting, at the door of the 
White Doe Inn. 
The airman went out to the doorstep, sa 
luted the staff captain who leaned forward 
from the tonneau and turned a flash on him. 
Then, satisfied, the officer lifted a bundle from 
 
the tonneau and handed it to the airman. A 
letter was pinned to the bundle. 
After the airman had read the letter twice, 
the staff captain leaned a trifle nearer. 
"Do you think it can be done?" he de 
manded bluntly. 
"Yes, sir." 
"Very well. Here are your munitions, too." 
He lifted from the tonneau a bomb-throw 
er's sack, heavy and full. The airman took 
it and saluted. 
"It means the cross," said the staff captain 
dryly. And to the engineer chauffeur: "Let 
loose !" 
CHAPTER XIX 
 
For a moment the airman stood watching 
and listening. The whir of the receding car 
died away in the night. 
Then, carrying his bundle and his bomber's 
sack, heavy with latent death, he went into 
the inn and through the cafe, where the sleep 
ing innkeeper sat huddled, and felt his way 
cautiously to the little dining room. 
The wooden shutters had been closed; a 
candle flared on the table. Maryette sat be 
side it, her arms extended across the cloth, 
her head bowed. 
He thought she was asleep, but she looked 
up as his footfall sounded on the bare floor. 
She was so pale that he asked her if she 
felt ill. 
"No. I have been thinking of my friend," 
she replied in a low but steady voice. 
"He may live," said the airman. "He was 
alive when we lifted him." 
The girl nodded as though preoccupied 
an odd, mysterious little nod, as though as 
senting to some intimate, inward suggestion 
of her own mind. 
Then she raised her dark blue eyes to the 
airman, who was still standing beside the 
table, the sack of bombs hanging from his 
left shoulder, the bundle under his arm. 
"Here is supper," she said, looking around 
absently at the few dishes. Then she folded 
her hands on the table's edge and sat silent, 
as though lost in thought. 
He placed the sack carefully on a cane chair 
beside him, the bundle on the floor, and seated 
himself opposite her. There was bread, meat, 
and a bottle of red wine. The girl declined 
to eat, saying that she had supped. 
"Your friend Jack," he said again, after a 
long silence, " I have seen worse cases. He 
may live, mademoiselle." 
"That," she said musingly, in her low, even 
voice, "is now in God's hands." She gave 
the slightest movement to her shoulders, as 
though easing them a trifle of that burden. 
"I have prayed. You saw me weep. That is 
ended so much. Now " and across her eyes 
shot a blue gleam, " now I am ready to lis 
ten to you! In the cart out on the road 
there you said that anybody can weep, but 
that few dare avenge." 
"Yes," he drawled, "I said that." 
"Very well, then; tell me how!" 
"What do you want to avenge? Your 
friend?" 
"His country's honour, and mine! If he 
had been slain otherwise I should have per 
haps mourned him, confident in the law of 
France. But I have seen the Rhenish swine 
on French soil I saw the Boches do this 
thing in France. It is not merely my friend 
I desire to avenge; it is the triple crime 
against his life, against the honour of his 
country and of mine." She had not raised 
her voice; had not stirred in her chair. 
The airman, who had stopped eating, sat 
with fork in hand, listening, regarding her 
intently. 
"Yes," he said, resuming his meal, "I under 
stand quite well what you mean. Some such 
philosophy sent my elder brother and me over 
here from New York the wild hogs trampling 
through Belgium the ferocious herds from 
the Rhine defacing, defiling, rending, obliterat 
ing all that civilized man has reverenced for 
centuries. . . . That's the idea the world 
wide menace of these unclean hordes and 
the murderous filth of them! . . . They got 
my brother." 
He shrugged, realizing that his face had 
flushed with the heat of inner fires. 
"Coolness does it," he added, almost apolo 
getically, " method and coolness. The world 
must keep its head clear: yellow fever and 
smallpox have been nearly stamped out; the 
Hun can be eliminated with intelligence and 
clear thinking. . . . And I'm only an Ameri 
can ainnan who has been shot down like a 
winged heron whose comrades have lingered a 
little to comfort him and have gone on. . . 
Yes, but a winged heron can still stab, little 
mistress of the bells. . . . And every blow 
counts. . . . Listen attentively for Jack's sake 
. . . and for the sake of France. For I am 
going to explain to you how you can strike 
