A man rose quickly from a leather chair, as though he were a little
lame. "Hello, Kervyn!" he said gaily, advancing with hand extended. "How
are you, old top!"
"Harry!" exclaimed Guild; "I'm terribly glad to see you!"
They stood for a moment smiling at each other, hand clasped in hand.
Then Darrel said:
"When your note came this morning, we decided to motor over, Miss
Courland and I--" He turned toward a brown-eyed, blond young girl:
"Valentine, this is the celebrated vanishing man I've been worrying over
so long. You may not think he is worth worrying over, now that you see
him, and maybe he isn't; but somehow or other I like him."
Miss Courland laughed. "I think I shall like him, too," she said, "now
that I know he isn't merely a figment of your imagination--" She turned
her brown eyes, pleasantly and a trifle curiously, toward Karen, who had
paused beside the long table--a lithe and graceful figure in silhouette
against the brilliancy of the sun-lit doorway.
"Karen," said Guild, "this is Miss Courland who extends her own and Mrs.
Courland's charity to me--" He checked himself, smiling. "Do you still
extend it, Miss Courland?"
Valentine had come forward and had offered her hand to Karen, and
retaining it for a second, she turned to answer Guild:
"Of course! We came to take you back with us." And, to Karen: "It
isn't a very gracious thing for us to do--to steal a guest from
Quellenheim--and I am afraid you do not feel very grateful toward me for
doing it."
Their hands parted and their eyes rested on each other for a second's
swift feminine appraisal.
"Baron von Reiter has not yet arrived," said Karen, "so I do not think
Mr. Guild has had a very interesting visit. I feel as though I ought to
thank you for asking him to Lesse."
Guild, who was talking to Darrel, heard her, and gave her a rather grim
look.
Then he presented Darrel; and the light, gossipy conversation became
general.
With one ear on duty and one listening to Darrel, Guild heard Karen
giving to Valentine a carelessly humorous outline of her journey from
England--caught the little exclamations of interest and sympathy from
the pretty brown-eyed American girl, and still was able to sketch for
Darrel the same theme from his own more sober point of view.
Neither he nor Karen, of course, spoke of the reason for Guild's going
to England, nor that the journey had been undertaken on compulsion, nor,
indeed, did they hint at anything concerning the more sinister and
personal side of the affair. It merely appeared that a German general,
presumably a friend of Guild, not being able to get his daughter out of
England after hostilities had commenced, had confided the task to a man
he trusted and who was able to go unquestioned into a country at war
with his own. But it all seemed quite romantic enough, even under such
circumstances, to thrill Valentine Courland.
"Do come back to Lesse with us, won't you?" she asked Karen. "My mother
and I would love to have you. You'd be bored to distraction here with
only the housekeeper. Do come!"
"I haven't any clothes," said Karen frankly.
"I have loads of them! We'd be so glad to have you at Lesse. Won't you
come back with us?"
Karen laughed, enchanted. She could see Guild without looking at him.
His attitude was eloquent.
"If you really do want me, I'll come," she said. "But you and Mr. Darrel
will remain to luncheon, won't you? I'll speak to the Frau Förster--if I
may be excused--" She fell for a moment again, unconsciously, into her
quaint schoolgirl manner, and dropped them a little curtsey.
Guild opened the pantry door for her and held it.
"May I explain to them a little more clearly who you are, Karen?" he
asked in a low voice.
"Yes, please."
He came back into the hall where Miss Courland and Darrel were talking.
Valentine turned swiftly.
"Isn't she the sweetest thing!" exclaimed the girl warmly.
"She is really very wonderful," said Guild; "let me tell you a little
about her accomplishments and herself."
They were still listening to Guild, with an interest which absorbed
them, when Karen returned.
"The few clothes I have," she said, "are being repacked by Frau Bergner.
Kervyn, shall she repack your sack?"
"No, I'll do that," he said, turning away with the happiest face he had
worn that morning. And the girl knew that it was because they were going
away together again--taking life's highway once more in each other's
company. Involuntarily she looked after him, conscious for a second,
again, of new and powerful motives, new currents, new emotions invading
her; and she wondered how vitally they concerned this man who had so
suddenly destroyed a familiar world for her and as suddenly was offering
her as substitute a new and strange one.
Emerging from her brief abstraction she looked across the hall at
Valentine Courland, who, seated on the oak table, chatted animatedly
with Darrel. The girl was exceedingly attractive; Karen realized that at
once. Also this pretty American had said very frankly that she was
certain to like Guild. Karen had heard her say it.
"Miss Girard," said Darrel, "is the shooting good at Quellenheim? I
imagine it must be, judging from these trophies." He waved a
comprehensive hand toward the walls of the room.
Karen came slowly over to Valentine: "I really don't know much about
shooting. There are boar and deer here. I suppose at Lesse Forest you
have really excellent sport, don't you?"
"Our guests seem to find the shooting good," replied Valentine. "My
mother and I go out with them sometimes. I don't know whether we shall
be able to offer anybody any shooting this autumn. We are exceedingly
worried about Lesse Forest. You see, every autumn we renew the lease,
but our lease expired last week, and we can't renew it because nobody
seems to know where our landlord is or where to find him."
"Is your landlord Belgian?"
"Yes. He is a wealthy brewer at Wiltz-la-Vallée. And the Germans
bombarded and burnt it--everything is in ruins and the people fled or
dead. So we are really very much concerned about the possible fate of
our landlord, Monsieur Paillard, and we don't exactly know what to do."
Guild returned, coming downstairs two at a time, his attractive features
very youthful and animated. And Karen, discreetly observing him and his
buoyant demeanour, felt a swift and delightful confusion in the
knowledge of her power to make or unmake the happiness of a grown man.
Frau Bergner appeared with cloth and covers, beaming, curtseying to all;
and very soon they were at luncheon--a simple but perfectly cooked
luncheon, where everything was delectable and there did not seem to be
very much of any particular variety, yet there was just a trifle more
than enough for everybody. Which is the real triumph of a good German,
French, or Belgian housekeeper's calculations.
And when luncheon was ended the luggage already had been placed in the
car; the chauffeur emerged from the kitchen where Frau Bergner had been
generous to him; and in a few moments the big blue machine was whirring
smoothly on its way to Lesse, through the beautiful Ardennes forests
over smooth, well-cared-for roads, the sun shining in a cloudless sky,
and four young people making rapid headway in a new acquaintanceship
which seemed to promise everything agreeable and gay.
At the huge, moss-grown gate-posts of Lesse a forester lifted his grey
felt hat and opened the gates; and around the first curve appeared the
celebrated and beautiful old lodge of weather-stained stone and slate,
the narrow terrace blazing with geraniums and scarlet sage.
Guild noticed a slender, red-haired girl seated on the steps, knitting,
with a heap of dark-blue wool in her lap; but when the car drew up,
Valentine Courland addressed her as "mother"--to the intense surprise of
Karen as well as of himself, for Mrs. Courland seemed scarce older than
her own daughter, and quite as youthfully attractive.
She welcomed Karen with a sweet directness of manner which won the girl
instantly; and her manner to Guild was no less charming--an older
woman's delightful recognition of a young man's admiration, and a
smiling concession to this young man's youth and good looks.
When Valentine mentioned Karen's plight in the matter of wardrobe, her
mother laughed gaily and, slipping one arm around Karen's waist, took
her off into the house.
"We shall remedy that immediately," she said. "Come and see what suits
you best."
"As for you," said Darrel to Guild, "your luggage is in your room. I
suppose you are glad of that."
"Rather," said Guild with such intense feeling that Valentine Courland
laughed outright.
"Take him to his beloved luggage," she said to Darrel; "I had no idea he
was so vain. You know the room, don't you? It is next to your own."
"Harry, why are you limping?" asked Valentine as Darrel rose to go.
"I'm not."
"You are. Why?"
"Rum. I drink too much of it," he explained seriously.
So the young men went away together; and presently Guild was flinging
from him the same worn clothing which, at one terrible moment, seemed
destined to become his shroud: and Darrel sat on the bed and gave him an
outline of the life at Lesse Forest and of the two American women who
lived there.
"Courland loved the place," said Darrel, "and for many years until his
death he spent the summers here with his wife and daughter.
"That's why they continue to come. The place is part of their life. But
I don't know what they'll do now. Monsieur Paillard, their landlord,
hasn't been heard of since the Germans bombarded and burnt
Wiltz-la-Vallée. Whether poor Paillard got knocked on the head by a
rifle-butt or a 41-centimetre shell, or whether he was lined up against
some garden wall with the other poor devils when the Prussian
firing-squads sickened and they had to turn the machine-guns on the
prisoners, nobody seems to know.
"Wiltz-la-Vallée is nothing but an ill-smelling heap of rubbish. The
whole country is in a horrible condition. You know a rotting cabbage or
beet or turnip field emits a bad enough smell. Add to that the stench
from an entire dead and decomposing community of three thousand people!
Oh yes, they dug offal trenches, but they weren't deep enough. And
besides there was enough else lying dead under the blackened bricks and
rafters to poison the atmosphere of a whole country. It's a ghastly
thing what they've done to Belgium!"
Guild went to his modern bathroom to bathe, but left the door open.
"Go on, Harry," he said.
"Well, that's about all," continued Darrel. "The Germans left death and
filth behind them. Not only what the hands of man erected is in ruins,
but the very face of the earth itself is mangled out of all recognition.
They tore Nature herself to pieces, stamped her features out,
obliterated her very body! You ought to see some of the country! I don't
mean where towns or solitary farms were. I mean the land, the
landscape!--all full of slimy pits from their shells, cut in every
direction by their noisome trenches, miles and miles of roadside trees
shot to splinters, woodlands burnt to ashes, forests torn to
slivers--one vast, distorted and abominable desolation."
Guild had reappeared, and was dressing.
"They didn't ransack the Grand Duchy," continued Darrel, "although I
heard that the Grand Duchess blocked their road with her own automobile
and faced the invaders until they pushed her aside with scant ceremony.
If she did that she's as plucky as she is pretty. That's the story,
anyway."
"Have the Germans bothered you here?" asked Guild, buttoning a fresh
collar.
"Not any to speak of. Of course they don't care anything about the
frontier; they'd violate it in a minute. And I've been rather worried
because a lot of these Luxembourg peasants, particularly the woodsmen
and forest dwellers, are Belgians, or are in full sympathy with them.
And I'm afraid they'll do something that will bring the Germans to Lesse
Forest."
"You mean some sort of franc-tireur business?"
"Yes, I mean just that."
"The Germans shoot franc-tireurs without court-martial."
"I know it. And there has been sniping across the border, everywhere,
even since the destruction of Wiltz-la-Vallée. I expect there'll be
mischief here sooner or later."
Guild, tall, broad-shouldered, erect, stood by the window looking out
between the gently blowing sash-curtains, and fastening his waistcoat.
And, standing so, he said: "Harry, this is no place for Mrs. Courland
and her daughter. They ought to go to Luxembourg City, or across the
line into Holland. As a matter of fact they really ought to go back to
America."
"I think so too," nodded Darrell. "I think we may persuade them to come
back with us."
Without looking at his business partner and friend, Guild said: "I am
not going back with you."
"What!"
"I can't. But you must go--rather soon, too. And you must try to
persuade the Courlands to go with you."
"What are you planning to do?" demanded Darrel with the irritable
impatience of a man who already has answered his own question.
"You can guess, I suppose?"
"Yes, dammit!--I can! I've been afraid you'd do some such fool thing.
And I ask you, Kervyn, as a sane, sensible Yankee business man, is it
necessary for you to gallop into this miserable free fight and wallow in
it up to your neck? Is it? Is it necessary to propitiate your bally
ancestors by pulling a gun on the Kaiser and striking an attitude?"
Guild laughed. "I'm afraid it's a matter of propitiating my own
conscience, Harry. I'm afraid I'll have to strike an attitude and pull
that gun."
"To the glory of the Gold Book and the Counts of Gueldres! I know!
You're very quiet about such things, but I knew it was inside you all
the time. Confound it! I was that worried by your letter to me! I
thought you'd already done something and had been caught."
"I hadn't been doing anything, but I had been caught."
"I knew it!"
"Naturally; or I shouldn't have written you a one-act melodrama instead
of a letter.... Did you destroy the letter to my mother?"
"Yes, I did."
"That was right. I'll tell you about it some time. And now, before we go
down, this is for your own instruction: I am going to try to get into
touch with the Belgian army. How to do it I don't see very clearly,
because there are some two million Germans between me and it. But that's
what I shall try to do, Harry. So, during the day or two I remain here,
persuade your friends, the Courlands, of the very real danger they run
in remaining at Lesse. Because any of these peasants at any moment are
likely to sally forth Uhlan sniping. And you know what German reprisals
mean."
"Yes," said Darrel uneasily. He added with a boyish blush: "I'm rather
frightfully fond of Valentine Courland, too."
"Then talk to the Courlands. Something serious evidently has happened to
their landlord. If he made himself personally obnoxious to the soldiery
which destroyed Wiltz-la-Vallée, a detachment might be sent here anyway
to destroy Lesse Lodge. You can't tell what the Teutonic military mind
is hatching. I was playing chess when they were arranging a shooting
party in my honour. Come on downstairs."
"Yes, in a minute. Kervyn, I don't believe you quite got me--about
Valentine Courland."
Guild looked around at him curiously.
"Is it the real thing, Harry?"
"Rather. With me, I mean."
"You're in love?"
"Rather! But Valentine raises the deuce with me. She won't listen,
Kervyn. She sits on sentiment. She guys me. I don't think she likes
anybody else, but I'm dead sure she doesn't care for me--that way."
Guild studied the pattern on the rug at his feet. After a while he said:
"When a man's in love he doesn't seem to know it until it's too late."
"Rot! I knew it right away. Last winter when the Courlands were in New
York I knew I was falling in love with her. It hurt, too, I can tell
you. Why, Kervyn, after they sailed it hurt me so that I couldn't think
of anything. I didn't eat properly. A man like you can't realize how it
hurts to love a girl. But it's one incessant, omnipresent, and devilish
gnawing--a sensation of emptiness indescribable filled with loud and
irregular heart-throbs--a happy agony, a precious pain----"
"Harry!"
"What?" asked that young man, startled.
"Do you realize you are almost shouting?"
"Was I? Well, I'm almost totally unbalanced and I don't know how long I
can stand the treatment I'm getting. I've told her mother, and she
laughs at me, too. But I honestly think she likes me. What would you do,
Kervyn, if you cared for a girl and you couldn't induce her to converse
on the subject?"
Guild's features grew flushed and sombre. "I haven't the faintest idea
what a man should do," he said. "The dignified thing would be for a man
to drop the matter."
"I know. I've dropped it a hundred times a week. But she seems to be
glad of it. And I can't endure that. So I re-open the subject, and she
re-closes it and sits on the lid. I tell you, Kervyn, it's amounting to
a living nightmare with me. I am so filled with tenderness and sentiment
that I can't digest it unaided by the milk of human kindness----"
"Do you talk this way to her?" asked Guild, laughing. "If you compare
unrequited love to acute indigestion no girl on earth is going to listen
to you."
"I have to use some flights of imagination," said Darrel, sulkily. "A
girl likes to hear anything when it's all dolled out with figures of
speech. What the deuce are you laughing at? All right! Wait until you
fall in love yourself. But you won't have time now; you'll enlist in
some fool regiment and get your bally head knocked off! I thought I had
troubles enough with Valentine, and now this business begins!"
He got up slowly, as though very lame.
"It's very terrible to me," he said, "to know that you feel bound to go
into this mix-up. I was afraid of it as soon as I heard that war had
been declared. It's been worrying me every minute since. But I suppose
it's quite useless to argue with you?"
"Quite," said Guild pleasantly. "What's the matter with your leg?"
"Barked the shin. Listen! Is there any use reasoning with you?"
"No, Harry."
"Well, then," exclaimed Darrel in an irate voice, "I'll tell you frankly
that you and your noble ancestors give me a horrible pain! I'm full of
all kinds of pain and I'm sick of it!"
Guild threw back his blond head and laughed out-right--a clear,
untroubled laugh that rang pleasantly through the ancient hall they were
traversing.
As they came out on the terrace where the ladies sat in the sun
knitting, Valentine looked around at Guild.
"What a delightfully infectious laugh you have," she said. "Was it a
very funny story? I can scarcely believe Mr. Darrel told it."
"But he did," said Guild, seating himself beside her on the edge of the
stone terrace and glancing curiously at Karen, who wore a light gown and
was looking distractingly pretty.
"Such an unpleasant thing has occurred," said Mrs. Courland in her
quiet, gentle voice, turning to Darrel. "Our herdsman has just come in
to tell Michaud that early this morning a body of German cavalry rode
into the hill pastures and drove off the entire herd of cattle and the
flock of sheep belonging to Monsieur Paillard."
There was a moment's silence; Darrel glanced at Guild, saying: "Was
there any explanation offered for the requisition?--any indemnity?"
"Nothing, apparently. Schultz, the herdsman, told Michaud that an Uhlan
officer asked him if the cattle and sheep did not belong to the Paillard
estate at Lesse. That was all. And the shepherd, Jean Pascal, tried to
argue with the troopers about his sheep, but a cavalryman menaced him
with his lance. The poor fellow is out in the winter fold, weeping like
Bo-Peep, and Schultz is using very excited language. All our forest
guards and wood-choppers are there. Michaud has gone to Trois Fontaines.
They all seem so excited that it has begun to disturb me a little."
"You see," said Valentine to Guild, "our hill pastures are almost on the
frontier. We have been afraid they'd take our cattle."
He nodded.
"Do you suppose anything can be done about it?" asked Mrs. Courland. "I
feel dreadfully that such a thing should happen at Lesse while we are in
occupation."
"May I talk with your head gamekeeper?" asked Guild.
"Yes, indeed, if you will. He ought to return from Trois Fontaines
before dark."
"I'll talk to him," said Guild briefly. Then his serious face cleared
and he assumed a cheerfulness of manner totally at variance with his own
secret convictions.
"Troops have got to eat," he said. "They're likely to do this sort of
thing. But the policy of the Germans, when they make requisition for
anything, seems to be to pay for it with vouchers of one sort or
another. They are not robbers when unmolested, but they are devils when
interfered with. Most troops are."
The conversation became general; Darrel, sitting between Karen and Mrs.
Courland, became exceedingly entertaining, to judge from Karen's quick
laughter and the more subdued amusement of Katharyn Courland.
Darrel was explaining his lameness.
But the trouble with Darrel was that his modesty inclined him to be
humorous at his own expense. Few women care for unattractive modesty;
few endure it, none adores it. He was too modest to be attractive.
"I was sauntering along," he said, "minding my own business, when I came
face to face with a wild boar. He was grey, and he was far bigger than I
ever again desire to see. Before I could recover my breath his eyes got
red and he began to make castanette music with his tusks, fox-trot time.
And do you know what happened--in your forest, Mrs. Courland? I went
up a tree, and I barked my shin in doing it. If you call that
hospitality, my notions on the subject are all wrong."
"Didn't you have a gun?" asked Karen.
"I did. I admit it without a blush."
"Why didn't you use it?" asked Mrs. Courland.
"Use it? How? A gun doesn't help a man to climb a tree. It is in the
way. I shall carry no more guns in your forest. A light extension ladder
is all I require. And a book to pass away the time when treed."
They all laughed. "Really," asked Guild curiously, "why didn't you
shoot?"
"First of all," said Darrel serenely, "I do not know how to fire off a
gun. Do you want any further reasons?"
"You looked so picturesque," said Valentine scornfully, "I never dreamed
you were such a dub! And you don't seem to care, either."
"I don't. I like to catch little fish. But my ferocity ends there.
Kervyn, shall we try the trout for an hour this afternoon?"
Valentine turned up her dainty nose. "I shall take Mr. Guild myself.
You'd better find a gamekeeper who'll teach you how to shoot off a gun."
And, to Guild: "I'll take you now if you like. It's only a little way to
the Silverwiltz. Shall I get a rod and fly-book for you?"
Karen, watching her, saw the frank challenge in her pretty brown eyes,
saw Guild's swift response to that gay defiance. It was only the light,
irresponsible encounter of two young people who had liked each other at
sight and who had already established a frank understanding.
So Valentine went into the house and returned presently switching a
light fly-rod and a cast of flies; and Guild walked over and joined her.
To Karen he looked very tall and sunburned, and unfamiliar in his
blue-serge lounging clothes--very perfectly groomed, very severe, and
unapproachable; and so much older, so much more mature, so much wiser
than she had thought him.
And, as her eyes followed him from where she was seated among the
terrace flowers, she realized more than ever that she did not know what
to say to him, what to do with him, or how to answer such a man.
Her face grew very serious; she was becoming more deeply impressed with
the seriousness of what he had asked of her; of her own responsibility.
And yet, as far as love was concerned, she could find no answer for him.
Friendship, swift, devoted, almost passionate, she had given him--a
friendship which had withstood the hard shocks of anger and distrust,
and the more bewildering shock of his kiss.
She still cared for him, relied on him; wished for his companionship.
But, beyond that, what had happened, followed by his sudden demand, had
startled and confused her, and, so far, she did not know whether it was
in her to respond. Love loomed before her, mighty and unknown, and the
solemnity of its pledges and of its overwhelming obligations had assumed
proportions which awed her nineteen years.
In her heart always had towered a very lofty monument to the sacredness
of love, fearsomely chaste, flameless, majestic. So pure, so immaculate
was this solemn and supreme edifice she had already builded that the
moment's thrill in his arms had seemed to violate it. For the girl had
always believed a kiss to be in itself part of that vague, indefinite
miracle of supreme surrender. And the knowledge and guilt of it still
flushed her cheeks at intervals and meddled with her heart.
She had forgiven, had tried to readjust herself before her mystic altar.
There was nothing else to do. And the awakened woman in her aided her
and taught her, inspiring, exciting her with a knowledge new to her, the
knowledge of her power.
Then, as she sat there looking at this man and at the brown-eyed girl
beside him, suddenly she experienced a subtle sense of fear: fear of
what? She did not know, did not ask herself. Not even the apprehension,
the dread of parting with him had made her afraid; not even the
certainty that he was going to join his regiment had aroused in her more
than a sense of impending loneliness.
But something was waking it now--something that pierced her through and
through: and she caught her breath sharply, like a child who has been
startled.
For the first time in her life the sense of possession had been aroused
in her, and with it the subtle instinct to defend what was her own.
She looked very intensely at the brown eyes of the young girl who stood
laughing and gossiping there with the man she did not know how to
answer--the man with whom she did not know what to do. But every
instinct in her was alert to place upon this man the unmistakable sign
of ownership. He was hers, no matter what she might do with him.
To Darrel, trying to converse with her, she replied smilingly,
mechanically; but her small ears were ringing with the gay laughter of
Valentine and the quick, smiling responses of Guild as they stood with
their heads together over the contents of the fly-book, consulting,
advising, and selecting the most likely and murderous lures.
Neither of them glanced in her direction; apparently they were most
happily absorbed in this brand new friendship of theirs.
Very slowly and thoughtfully Karen's small head sank; and she sat gazing
at the brilliant masses of salvia bloom clustering at her feet, silent,
overwhelmed under the tremendous knowledge of what had come upon her
here in the sunshine of a cloudless sky.
"Au revoir!" called back Valentine airily; "we shall return before dusk
with a dozen very large trout!"
Guild turned to make his adieux, hat in hand; caught Karen's eye, nodded
pleasantly, and walked away across the lawn, with Valentine close beside
him, still discussing and fussing over the cast they had chosen for the
trout's undoing.
                              CHAPTER XIX
                                THE LIAR
The lamps had not yet been lighted in the big, comfortable living-room
and late sunlight striped wall and ceiling with rose where Karen sat
sewing, and Darrel, curled up in a vast armchair, frowned over a book.
And well he might, for it was a treatise on German art.
His patience arriving at the vanishing point he started to hurl the book
from him, then remembering that it was not his to hurl, slapped it shut.
Which caused Karen to lift her deep violet eyes inquiringly.
"Teutonic Kultur! I've got its number," he said. Which observation
conveyed no meaning to Karen.
"German art," he explained. "It used to be merely ample, adipose, and
indigestible. Now the moderns have made it sinister and unclean. The
ham-fist has become the mailed fist; the fat and trickling source of
Teutonic inspiration has become polluted. There is no decadence more
hideous than the brain cancer of a Hercules."
Karen followed him with intelligent interest. She said with hesitation:
"The moderns, I think, are wandering outside immutable boundaries.
Frontiers are eternal. If any mind believes the inclosed territory
exhausted, there is nothing further to be found outside in the waste
places--only chaos. And the mind must shift to another and totally
different pasture--which also has its boundaries eternal and fixed."
"Right!" exclaimed Darrel. "No sculptor can find for sculpture any new
mode of expression beyond the limits of the materials which have always
existed; no painter can wander outside the range of black and white, or
beyond the surface allotted him; the composer can express himself in
music only within the limits of the audible scale; the writer is a
prisoner to grammatical expression, walled always within the margins of
the printed page. Outside, as you say, lies chaos, possibly madness. The
moderns are roaming there. And some of them are announcing the discovery
of German Kultur where they have barked their mental shins in outer
darkness."
Karen smiled. "It is that way in music I think. The dissonance of mental
disturbance warns sanity in almost every bar of modern music. It is that
which is so appalling to me, Mr. Darrel--that in some modernism is
visible and audible more and more the menace of mental and moral
disintegration. And the wholesome shrink from it."
Darrel said: "Three insane 'thinkers' have led Germany to the brink
where she now stands swaying. God help her, in the end, to
convalescence--" he stared at the fading sunbeams on the wall, and
staring, quoted:
  "'Over broken oaths and
  Through a sea of blood.'"
He looked up. "I'm sorry: I forget you are German."
"I forget that I am supposed to be, too.... But you have not offended
me. I know war is senseless. I know that war will not always be the
method used to settle disputes. There will be great changes beginning
very soon in the world, I think."
"I believe so, too. It will begin by a recognition of the rights of
smaller nations to self-government. It will be an area of respect for
the weak. Government by consent is not enough; it must become government
by request. And the scriptures shall remain no more sacred than the
tiniest 'scrap of paper' in the archives of the numerically smallest
independent community on earth.
"The era of physical vastness, of spheres of influence, of scope is
dying. The supreme wickedness of the world is Force. That must end for
nations and for men. Only one conflict remains inevitable and eternal;
the battle of minds, which can have no end."
For an American and an operator in real estate, Darrel's philosophy was
harmlessly respectable if not very new. But he thought it both new and
original, which pleased him intensely.
As for Karen, she had been thinking of Guild for the last few minutes.
Her sewing lay in her lap, her dark, curly head rested in the depths of
her arm-chair. Sunlight had almost faded on the wall.
Through the window she could see the trees. The golden-green depths of
the beech-wood were growing dusky. Against the terrace masses of salvia
and geraniums glowed like coals on fire. The brown-eyed girl had been
away with him a long while.
Mrs. Courland came in, looking more youthful and pretty than ever, and
seated herself with her knitting. The very last ray from the sinking sun
fell on her ruddy hair.
"Think you are right, Harry," she said quietly to Darrel. "I think we
will sail when you do. The men on the place are becoming very much
excited over this Uhlan raid on the cattle. I could hear them from my
bedroom window out by the winter fold, and they were talking loudly as
well as recklessly."
"There's no telling what these forest people may do," admitted Darrel.
"I am immensely relieved to know that you and Valentine are to sail when
I do. As for Kervyn Guild--" he made a hopeless gesture--"his mind is
made up and that always settles it with him."
"He won't return with you?"
"No. He's joining the Belgians."
"Really!"
"Yes. You see his people were Belgian some generations back. It's a
matter of honour with him and argument is wasted. But it hits me pretty
hard."
"I can understand. He is a most delightful man."
"He is as straight and square as he is delightful. His mother is
charming; his younger brother is everything you'd expect him to be after
knowing Kervyn. Theirs is a very united family, but, do you know I am as
certain as I am of anything that his mother absolutely approves of what
he is about to do. She is that sort. It may kill her, but she'll die
smiling."
Mrs. Courland's serious, sweet eyes rested on him, solemn with sympathy
for the mother she had never met.
"The horrid thing about it all," continued Darrel, "is that Kervyn is
one man in a million;--and in a more terrible sense that is all he can
be in this frightful and endless slaughter which they no longer even
pretend to call one battle or many.
"He's a drop in an ocean, only another cipher in the trenches where
hell's hail rains day and night, day and night, beating out lives
without distinction, without the intelligence of choice--just raining,
raining, and beating out life!... I can scarcely endure the thought of
Kervyn ending that way--such a man--my friend----"
His voice seemed hoarse and he got up abruptly and walked to the window.
Ashes of roses lingered in the west; the forest was calm; not a leaf
stirred in the lilac-tinted dusk.
Karen, who had been listening, stirred in the depths of her chair and
clasped her fingers over her sewing.
Mrs. Courland said quietly:
"It is pleasant for any woman to have known such a man as Mr. Guild."
"Yes," said Karen.
"If the charm of his personality so impresses us who have known him only
a very little while, I am thinking what those who are near and dear to
him must feel."
"I, too," said Karen, faintly.
"Yet she loves him best who would not have it otherwise it seems."
"Yes; he must go," said Karen. "Some could not have it--otherwise."
A man came to light the lamps. And a little while after they were
lighted Mrs. Courland quietly looked up from her knitting. One swift,
clear glance she gave; saw in the young girl's eyes what she had already
divined must be there. Then bent again above her ivory needles. After a
while she sighed, very lightly.
"They're late," remarked Darrel from the window.
"They are probably strolling up the drive; Valentine knows enough not to
get lost," said her mother.
After a few moments Karen said: "Would my playing disturb you?"
"No, dear. Please!"
So Karen rose and walked to the piano. Presently Darrel turned and
seated himself to listen to the deathless sanity of Beethoven flowing
from the keys under a young girl's slender fingers.
She was still seated there when Valentine came in, and turned her head
from the keyboard, stilling the soft chords.
"We had such a good time," said Valentine. "We caught half a dozen
trout, and then I took him to the Pulpit where we sat down and remained
very quiet; and just at sunset three boar came out to feed on the oak
mast; and he said that one of them was worth shooting!"
"You evidently have had a good time," said Darrel, smiling. "What
happened to Guild. Did the boar tree him?"
"I think he'd be more likely to tree the boar," remarked the girl. And
to her mother she said: "He went on toward the winter fold to talk to
Michaud who has just returned from Trois Fontaines. There were a lot of
men there, ours and a number of strangers. So I left him to talk to
Michaud. What have you all been doing this afternoon?" turning to Karen,
and from her, involuntarily to Darrel.
"Miss Girard and I have conversed philosophically and satisfactorily
concerning everything on earth," he said. "I wish my conversations with
you were half as satisfactory."
Valentine laughed, but there was a slight flush on her cheeks, and again
she glanced at Karen, whose lovely profile only was visible where she
bent in silence above the keyboard.
"Your mother," remarked Darrel, "has decided to sail with me. Would you
condescend to join us, Valentine?"
"Mother, are you really going back when Harry sails?"
"Yes. I don't quite like the attitude of the men here. And Harry thinks
there is very likely to be trouble between them and the Germans across
the border."
The girl looked thoughtfully at her mother, then at Darrel, rather
anxiously.
"Mother," she said, "I think it is a good idea to get Harry out of the
country. He is very bad-tempered, and if the Germans come here and are
impudent to us he'll certainly get himself shot!"
"I! I haven't the courage of a caterpillar!" protested Darrel.
"You're the worst fibber in the Ardennes! You did kill that grey boar
this morning! What do you mean by telling us that you went up a tree!
Maxl, the garde-de-chasse at the Silverwiltz gate, heard your shot and
came up. And you told him to dress the boar and send a cart for it.
Which he did!--you senseless prevaricator!"
"Oh, my!" said Darrel meekly.
"And you're wearing a bandage below your knee where the boar bit you
when you gave him the coup-de-grâce! Maxl washed and bound it for you!
What a liar you are, Harry! Does it hurt?"
"To be a liar?"
"No! where you were tusked?"
"Maxl was stringing you, fair maid," he said lightly.
"He wasn't! You walk lame!"
"Laziness and gout account for that débutante slouch of mine. But of
course if you care to hold my hand----"
The girl looked at him, vexed, yet laughing:
"I don't want people who do not know you to think you really are the
dub you pretend to be! Do you wish Miss Girard to believe it?"
"Truth is mighty and must----"
"I know more about you than you think I do, Harry. Mr. Guild portrayed
for me a few instances of your 'mouse'-like courage. And I don't wish
you to lose your temper and be shot if the Uhlans ride into Lesse and
insult us all! Therefore I approve of our sailing for home. And the
sooner the better!"
"You frighten me," he said; "I think I'll ask Jean to pack my things
now." And he got up, limping, and started for the door.
"Mother," she said, "that boar's tusks may poison him. Won't you make
him let us bandage it properly?"
"I think you had better, Harry," said Mrs. Courland, rising.
"Oh, no; it's all right----"
"Harry!" That was all Valentine said. But he stopped short.
"Take his other arm, mother," said the girl with decision.
She looked over her shoulder at Karen; the two young girls exchanged a
smile; then Valentine marched off with her colossal liar.
                               CHAPTER XX
                             BEFORE DINNER
Michaud, head forester, had taken off his grey felt hat respectfully
when Valentine introduced him to Guild, there in the lantern light of
the winter sheep fold. A dozen or more men standing near by in shadowy
groups had silently uncovered at the same time. Two wise-looking sheep
dogs, squatted on their haunches, looked at him.
Then the girl had left Guild there and returned to the house.
"I should like to have a few moments quiet conversation with you," said
Guild; and the stalwart, white-haired forester stepped quietly aside
with him, following the younger man until they were out of earshot of
those gathered by the barred gate of the fold.
"You are Belgian?" inquired Guild pleasantly.
"De Trois Fontaines, monsieur."
It was a characteristic reply. A Belgian does not call himself a
Belgian. Always he designates his nationality by naming his
birthplace--as though the world must know that it is in Belgium.
"And those people over there by the sheep fold?" asked Guild.
"Our men--some of them--from Ixl, from the Black Erenz and the White,
from Lesse--one from Liège. And there is one, a stranger."
"From where?"
"Moresnet."
"Has he any political opinions?"
"He says his heart is with us. It is mostly that way in Moresnet."
"In Moresnet ten per cent of the people are Germans in sympathy,"
remarked Guild. "What is this man? A miner?"
"A charcoal burner."
"Does he seem honest?"
"Yes, Monsieur," said the honest forester, simply.
Guild laid one hand on the man's broad shoulder:
"Michaud," he said quietly, "I know I am among friends if you say I am.
I mean friends to Belgium."
The dark eyes of the tall forester seemed to emit a sudden sparkle in
the dusk.
"Monsieur is American?"
"Yes. My grandfather was Belgian."
"Monsieur is a friend?"
"Michaud, my name, in America is Guild. My name in Belgian is Kervyn
Gueldres. Judge, then, whether I am a friend to your country and your
king."
"Gueldres!" whispered the forester, rigid. "Kervyn of Gueldres, Comte
d'Yvoir, Hastiere----"
"It is so written on the rolls of the Guides."
"Monsieur le Comte has served!"
"Two years with the colours. I am here to report for duty. Do you feel
safe to trust me now, Michaud, my friend?"
The tall, straight forester uncovered. "Trust a Gueldres! My God!"
"Put on your hat," said Guild, bluntly, "I am American when I deal with
men!"
"Monsieur le Comte----"
"'Monsieur' will do. Give me your hand! That is as it should be. We
understand each other I think. Now tell me very clearly exactly what
happened this morning on the hill meadows of the Paillard estate."
"Monsieur le----"
"Please remember!"
"Pardon! Monsieur Guild, the Grey Uhlans rode over the border and
laughed at the gendarme on duty. Straight they made for our hill
meadows, riding at ease and putting their horses to the hedges. Schultz,
our herdsman, saw them trotting like wolves of the Black Erenz, ran to
the wooden fence to close the gate, but their lances rattling on the
pickets frightened him.
"They herded the cattle while their officers sat looking on by the
summer fold.
"'Do not these cattle and sheep belong to the Paillard estate?' asks one
of the officers of Schultz. And, 'Very well then!' says he; 'we are
liquidating an old account with Monsieur Paillard!'
"And with that a company of the Grey Ones canters away across the valley
and up the slope beyond where our shepherd, Jean Pascal, is sitting with
his two dogs.
"'You, there!' they call out to him. 'Send out your dogs and herd your
sheep!' And, when he only gapes at them, one of their riders wheels on
him, twirling his lance and shoves him with the counter-balance.
"So they make him drive his flock for them across the valley, and then
over the border--all the way on foot, Monsieur; and then they tell him
to loiter no more but to go about his business.
"That is what has happened on our hill pasture. He, the lad, Pascal, is
over there with his dogs"--pointing toward the fold--"almost crazed with
grief and shame. And, Schultz, he wishes us to organize as a
franc-corps. Me? I don't know what to do--what with Monsieur Paillard
away, and the forests in my care. Were it not for my responsibility----"
"I know, Michaud. But what could an isolated franc-corps do? Far better
to join your class if you can--when your responsibility here permits.
Those young men, there, should try to do the same."
"Monsieur is right! Even the classes of 1915, '16, and '17 have been
called. I have reminded them. But this outrage on the hill pastures has
inflamed them and made hot-heads of everybody. They wish to take their
guns and hunt Grey Uhlans. They don't know what they are proposing. I
saw something of that in '70. Why the Prussians hung or shot every
franc-tireur they caught; and invariably the nearest village was burned.
And I say to them that even if Monsieur Paillard is dead, as many are
beginning to believe, his death does not alter our responsibility. Why
should we bring reprisals upon his roof, his fields, his forests? No,
that is not honest conduct. But if we are now really convinced of his
death, as soon as Madame Courland leaves, let us turn over the estate to
the proper authorities in Luxembourg. Then will each and all of us be
free to join the colours when summoned--if God will only show us how to
do it."
"Madame Courland and mademoiselle ought to go tomorrow," said Guild.
"One or another of your hotheads over there might get us into trouble
this very night."
"The man from Moresnet talks loudest. I have tried to reason with him,"
said Michaud. "Would you come to the fold with me?"
They walked together toward the lantern light; the men standing there
turned toward them and ceased their excited conversation.
"Friends," said old Michaud simply, "this gentleman's name is Kervyn of
Gueldres. I think that is sufficient for any Belgian, or for any man
from the Grand Duchy?"
Off came every hat.
"Cover yourselves," continued Michaud calmly. "Monsieur, who has become
an American, desires to be known as Monsieur Guild without further mark
of respect. This also is sufficient for us all, I suppose. Thou! Jean
Pascal, cease thy complaints and stand straight and wipe thy tears. By
God, I think there are other considerations in Lesse Forest than the
loss of thy sheep and of Schultz's cattle!"
"M-my sheep are gone!" blubbered the boy, "I was too cowardly to defend
them----"
"Be quiet," said Guild. "It was not a question of your courage! You did
wisely. Show equal wisdom now."
"But I shall go after Uhlans now with my fusil-de-chasse! Ah, the
cowards of Germans! Ah, the brigands----"
"Cowards! Assassins!" muttered the other. "Grey wolves run when a man
goes after them----"
"You are wrong," said Guild quietly. "Germans are no cowards. If they
were there would be no credit for us in fighting them. Don't make any
mistake you men of the Ardennes; their soldiers are as brave as any
soldiers. And where you belong is with your colours, with your classes,
and in uniform. That's where I also belong; that's where I am going if I
can find out how to go. Perhaps one of you can guide me. Think it over.
Keep cool, and listen to Michaud, who is older and wiser than all of
us."
There was a profound silence. Then a voice from the darkness, very
distinct:
"I have seen red. It is necessary for me to bleed an Uhlan!"
Guild walked toward the sound of the voice: "Who are you?" he demanded.
"Moi, je suis de Moresnet!"
"Then you'd better go back to the zinc mines of Moresnet, my friend. No
Uhlans will trouble you down there."
And, aside to Michaud: "Look out for that young man from Moresnet. He's
too hotly a Belgian to suit my taste."
"Monsieur, he is a talker," said Michael with a shrug.
"My friend, be careful that he is nothing more dangerous."
"Ah, sacré bleu!" exclaimed the forester, reddening to his white
temples--"if any of that species had the temerity to come among us!----"
"Michaud, they might even be among the King's own entourage.... No doubt
that fellow is merely, as you say, a talker. But--he should not be left
to wander about the woods alone. And, tell me, is there anybody else
you know of who might do something rash tonight along the boundary?"
"Monsieur--there are two or three poor devils who escaped the firing
squads at Yslemont. They live in our forest, hiding. Our people feed
them."
Guild said in a troubled voice: "Such charity is an obligation. But
nevertheless it is a peril and a menace to us all."
"Were this estate my own," said the sturdy forester, "I would shelter
them as long as they desired to remain. But I am responsible to Monsieur
Paillard, and to his tenant, Madame Courland. Therefore I have asked
these poor refugees to continue on to Diekirch or to Luxembourg where
the sight of an Uhlan's schapska will be no temptation to them."
"You are right, Michaud." He held out his hand; the forester grasped it.
"Tomorrow we should talk further. Our duty is to join the colours, not
to prowl through the woods assassinating Uhlans. Good night! In the
morning then?"
"At Monsieur's service."
"And both of us at the service of the bravest man in Europe--Albert, the
King!"
Off came their hats. And, as they stood there in silence under the
stars, from far away across the misty sea of trees came the sound of a
gun-shot.
"One of your men?" asked Guild sharply.
"I don't know, Monsieur. Big boar feed late. A poacher perhaps. Perhaps
a garde-de-chasse at Trois Fontaines."
"I hope nothing worse."
"I pray God not."
They continued to listen for a while, but no other sound broke the
starry silence. And finally Guild turned away with a slight gesture, and
walked slowly back to the Lodge.
Lights from the tall windows made brilliant patches and patterns across
terrace and grass and flowers; the front door was open and the pleasant
ruddy lamp-light streamed out.
Valentine passing and mounting the stairs caught sight of him and waved
her hand in friendly salute.
"We're sterilizing Harry's shins--mother and I. The foolish boy was
rather badly tusked."
"Is he all right?"
"Perfectly, and bored to death by our fussing."
She ran on up the stairs, paused again: "We're not dressing for dinner,"
she called down to him, and vanished.
Guild said, "All right!" glanced at the hall clock, and sauntered on
into the big living-room so unmistakably American in its brightness and
comfort.
But it was not until he had dropped back into the friendly embrace of a
stuffed arm-chair that he was aware of Karen curled up in the depths of
another, sewing.
"I didn't know you were here," he said coolly. "Have you had an
agreeable afternoon?"
"Yes, thank you."
"It's a very charming place."
"Yes."
"I think the Courlands are delightful."
"Very."
"Miss Courland and I had a wonderful walk. We had no trouble in taking
all the trout we needed for dinner, and then we went to a rock called
The Pulpit, where we lay very still and talked only in whispers until
three wild boars came out to feed."
Karen lifted her eyes from her sewing. They seemed unusually dark to
him, almost purple.
"After that," he went on, "we walked back along the main ride to a
carrefour where the drive crosses; and so back here. That accounts for
my afternoon." He added, smiling carelessly: "May I ask you to account
for yours?"
"Yes, please."
"Very well, then I do ask it."
She bent over her sewing again: "I have been idle. The sun was
agreeable. I went for a little stroll alone and found an old wall and a
pool and a rose garden."
"And then?"
"The rose garden is very lovely. I sat there sewing and--thinking----"
"About what?"
"About--you--mostly."
He said steadily enough: "Were your thoughts pleasant?"
"Partly."
"Only partly?"
"Yes.... I remembered that you are joining your regiment."
"But that should not be an unpleasant thought for you, Karen."
"No. I would have it so, of course. It could not be otherwise under the
circumstances."
"It could not be otherwise," he said pleasantly; but his grey eyes never
left the pale, sweet profile bent above the leisurely moving needle.
"I understand."
"I know you understand that--at least, Karen."
"Yes. Other matters, too--a little better than I did--this morning."
"What matters?" he asked casually. But his heart was threatening to
meddle with his voice; and he set his lips sternly and touched his short
mustache with careless fingers.
Karen bent still lower over her sewing. The light was perfectly good,
however.
"What," he asked again, "are the matters which you now understand better
than you did this morning?"
"Matters--concerning--love."
He laughed: "Do you think you understand love?"
"A little better than I did."
"In what way? You are not in love, are you, Karen?"
"I think--a--little."
"With whom?"
No answer.
"Not with me?"
"Yes." She turned swiftly in the depths of her chair to confront him as
he sprang to his feet.
"Wait!" she managed to say; and remained silent, one slim hand against
her breast. And, after a moment: "Would you not come any nearer,
please."
"Karen----"
"Not now, please.... Sit there where you were.... I can tell you
better--all I know--about it."
She bent again over her needle, sewing half blindly, the hurrying pulses
making her hand unsteady. After he was seated she turned her head partly
around for a moment, looking at him with a fascinated and almost
breathless curiosity.
"If I tell you, you will come no nearer; will you?" she asked.
"No. Tell me."
She sewed for a while at random, not conscious what her fingers were
doing, striving to think clearly in the menace of these new emotions,
the power of which she was divining now, realizing more deeply every
second.
"I'll try to tell you," she said: "I didn't know anything--about
myself--this morning. What we had been to each other I considered
friendship. Remember it was my first friendship with a man. And--I
thought it was that."
After a silence: "Was it anything deeper?" he asked.
"Yes, deeper.... You frightened me at first.... I was hurt.... But not
ashamed or angry. And I did not understand why.... Until you spoke and
said--what you said."
"That I love you?"
"Yes.... After that things grew slowly clearer to me. I don't know what
I said to you--half the things I said on the way back--only that I made
you angry--and I continued, knowing that you were angry and that I--I
was almost laughing--I don't know why--only that I needed time to try to
think.... You can't understand, can you?"
"I think so."
She looked up, then bowed her head once more.
"That is all," she said under her breath.
"Nothing more, Karen?"
"Only that--after you had gone away this afternoon I began to be a
little in love."
"Will it grow?"
"I think so."
"May I tell you that I love you?"
"Yes, please."
His clasped hands tightened on his knees; he said in a low unsteady
voice: "All my heart is yours, Karen--all there is in me of love and
loyalty, honour and devotion, is yours. Into my mind there is no thought
that comes which is not devoted to you or influenced by my adoration of
you. I love you--every word you utter, every breath you draw, every
thought you think I love. The most wonderful thing in the world would be
that you should love me; the greatest miracle that you might marry me.
Dare I hope for you, Karen?"
"Yes--please."
"That you will grow to really love me?"
"Yes."
"With all your heart?"
"I think so."
In the tremulous silence she turned again and looked at him, bending
very low over her work.
"Will you be gentle with me, Kervyn?"
"Dearest----"
"I mean--considerate--at first.... There is a great deal I don't know
about men--and being in love with one of them.... Brought up as I have
been, I could not understand that you should take me--in your arms.... I
was not angry--not even ashamed.... Only, never having thought of
it--and taking it for granted that, among people of your caste and mine,
to touch a man's lips was an act--of betrothal--perhaps of marriage----"
"Dearest, it was!"
"Yes, I understand now. But for a while I
felt--strangely--overwhelmed.... You can understand--having no
mother--and suddenly face to face with--you----"
She leaned her cheek against the back of the chair and rested so, her
small white hands folded over her sewing.
"I have yet to see Baron Kurt," she said half to herself. "I shall say
to him that I care for you. After that--when you come back, and if you
wish me to marry you--ask me."
He stood up: "How near may I come to you, Karen?"
"Not very near--just now."
"Near enough to kiss your finger-tip."
"Yes, please."
Without turning her head she extended her arm; his lips touched lightly
the fragrant skin, and she pressed her fingers a trifle closer--a second
only--then her arm fell to her lap.
"After dinner," she said, "I shall show you the roses in the garden."
"They are no sweeter than your hand, Karen."
She smiled, her flushed cheek still resting against the cushions.
"It is very wonderful, very gentle after all," she murmured to herself.
"What, Karen?"
"I meant love," she said, dreamily.
                              CHAPTER XXI
                                SNIPERS
Dinner was ended. Darrel lay on a lounge in the sitting-room, a victim
against his will to romance. Beside him on a low footstool sat
Valentine, reading aloud to him when she thought he ought to be read to,
fussing with his pillows when she chose to fuss, taking his cigarette
from his lips and inserting a thermometer at intervals, and always
calmly indifferent to his protests or to her mother's laughter.
For she had heard somewhere that a wild boar's teeth poisoned like a
lion's mauling; and the sudden revelation of a hero under the shattered
shell of modesty and self-depreciation which so long obscured the
romantic qualities in this young man determined her to make him continue
to play a rôle which every girl adores--the rôle of the stricken brave.
Never again could Darrel explain to her how timidity, caution, and a
native and unfeigned stupidity invariably characterized his behaviour at
psychological moments.
For Guild had told her all about this young man's cool resourcefulness
and almost nerveless courage during those hair-raising days in Sonora
when the great Yo Espero ranch was besieged, and every American prisoner
taken was always reported "Shot in attempting to escape."
She had never even known that Darrel had been in Mexico until Guild told
