friend's church opened, in the meanwhile, and--"
"By all means!" Mrs. Forsyth said from her mood of universal
approbation.
But Mr. Vanecken came back looking rather queer and crestfallen. "I
find my friend has gone into the country for a few days; and I don't
quite like to get the sexton to open the church without his authority,
and-- But New York is full of churches, and we can easily find another,
with a little delay, if--"
He looked at Peter, who looked at Charlotte, who burst out with
unprecedented determination. "No, we can't wait. I shall never marry
Peter if we do. Mother, you are right. But must it be in the old
ancestral five-dollar room?"
They all laughed except Charlotte, who was more like crying.
"Certainly not," Mr. Vanecken said. "I've no doubt the manager--"
He never seemed to end his sentences, and he now left this one broken
off while he penetrated the railing which fenced in the manager alone
among a group of vacated desks, frowning impatient. At some murmured
words from the dominie, he shouted, "What!" and then came out
radiantly smiling, and saying, "Why, certainly." He knew all the group
as old storers in the Constitutional, and called them each by name as
he shook them each by the hand. "Everything else has happened here,
and I don't see why this shouldn't. Come right into the
reception-room."
With some paintings of biblical subjects, unclaimed from the storage,
on the walls, the place had a religious effect, and the manager
significantly looked out of it a lingering stenographer, who was
standing before a glass with two hatpins crossed in her mouth
preparatory to thrusting them through the straw. She withdrew, visibly
curious and reluctant, and then the manager offered to withdraw
himself.
"No," Charlotte said, surprisingly initiative in these junctures, "I
don't know how it is in Mr. Vanecken's church, but, if father doesn't
come, perhaps you'll have to give me away. At any rate, you're an old
friend of the family, and I should be hurt if you didn't stay."
She laid her hand on the manager's arm, and just as he had
protestingly and politely consented, her father arrived in a taxicab,
rather grumbling from having been obliged to cut short a sitting. When
it was all over, and the Vaneckens were eliminated, when, in fact, the
Breams had joined the Forsyths at a wedding dinner which the bride's
father had given them at Delmonico's and had precipitated themselves
into a train for Niagara ("So banal," Mrs. Forsyth said, "but I
suppose they had to go somewhere, and we went to Niagara, come to
think of it, and it's on their way West"), the bride's mother remained
up late talking it all over. She took credit to herself for the whole
affair, and gave herself a great deal of just praise. But when she
said, "I do believe, if it hadn't been for me, at the last, Charlotte
would never have made up her mind," Forsyth demurred.
"I should say Peter had a good deal to do with making up her mind for
her."
"Yes, you might say that."
"And for once in her life Charlotte seems to have had her mind ready
for making up."
"Yes, you might say that, too. I believe she is going to turn out a
decided character, after all. I never saw anybody so determined not
to be married in a storage warehouse."
                                  II
                            A PRESENTIMENT
Over our coffee in the Turkish room Minver was usually a censor of our
several foibles rather than a sharer in our philosophic speculations
and metaphysical conjectures. He liked to disable me as one
professionally vowed to the fabulous, and he had unfailing fun with
the romantic sentimentality of Rulledge, which was in fact so little
in keeping with the gross super-abundance of his person, his habitual
gluttony, and his ridiculous indolence. Minver knew very well that
Rulledge was a good fellow withal, and would willingly do any kind
action that did not seriously interfere with his comfort, or make too
heavy a draft upon his pocket. His self-indulgence, which was quite
blameless, unless surfeit is a fault, was the basis of an interest in
occult themes, which was the means of even higher diversion to Minver.
He liked to have Rulledge approach Wanhope from this side, in the
invincible persuasion that the psychologist would be interested in
these themes by the law of his science, though he had been assured
again and again that in spite of its misleading name psychology did
not deal with the soul as Rulledge supposed the soul; and Minver's
eyes lighted up with a prescience of uncommon pleasure when, late one
night, after we had vainly tried to hit it off in talk, now of this,
now of that, Rulledge asked Wanhope, abruptly as if it followed from
something before:
"Wasn't there a great deal more said about presentiments forty or
fifty years ago than there is now?"
Wanhope had been lapsing deeper and deeper into the hollow of his
chair; but he now pulled himself up, and turned quickly toward
Rulledge. "What made you think of that?" he asked.
"I don't know. Why?"
"Because I was thinking of it myself." He glanced at me, and I shook
my head.
"Well," Minver said, "if it will leave Acton out in the cold, I'll own
that I was thinking of it, too. I was going back in my mind, for no
reason that I know of, to my childhood, when I first heard of such a
thing as a presentiment, and when I was afraid of having one. I had
the notion that presentiments ran in the family."
"Why had you that notion?" Rulledge demanded.
"I don't know that I proposed telling," the painter said, giving
himself to his pipe.
"Perhaps you didn't have it," Rulledge retaliated.
"Perhaps," Minver assented.
Wanhope turned from the personal aspect of the matter. "It's rather
curious that we should all three have had the same thing in mind just
now; or, rather, it is not very curious. Such coincidences are really
very common. Something must have been said at dinner which suggested
it to all of us."
"All but Acton," Minver demurred.
"I mightn't have heard what was said," I explained. "I suppose the
passing of all that sort of sub-beliefs must date from the general
lapse of faith in personal immortality."
"Yes, no doubt," Wanhope assented. "It is very striking how sudden the
lapse was. Everyone who experienced it in himself could date it to a
year, if not to a day. The agnosticism of scientific men was of course
all the time undermining the fabric of faith, and then it fell in
abruptly, reaching one believer after another as fast as the ground
was taken wholly or partly from under his feet. I can remember how
people once disputed whether there were such beings as guardian
spirits or not. That minor question was disposed of when it was
decided that there were no spirits at all."
"Naturally," Minver said. "And the decay of the presentiment must have
been hastened by the failure of so many presentiments to make good."
"The great majority of them have failed to make good, from the
beginning of time," Wanhope replied.
"There are two kinds of presentiments," Rulledge suggested, with a
philosophic air. "The true and the untrue."
"Like mushrooms," Minver said. "Only, the true presentiment kills, and
the true mushroom nourishes. Talking of mushrooms, they have a way in
Switzerland of preserving them in walnut oil, and they fill you with
the darkest forebodings, after you've filled yourself with the
mushrooms. There's some occult relation between the two. Think it out,
Rulledge!"
Rulledge ignored him in turning to Wanhope. "The trouble is how to
distinguish the true from the untrue presentiment."
"It would be interesting," Wanhope began, but Minver broke in upon him
maliciously.
"To know how much the dyspepsia of our predecessors had to with the
prevalence of presentimentalism? I agree with you, that a better diet
has a good deal to do with the decline of the dark foreboding among
us. What I can't understand is, how a gross and reckless feeder, like
Rulledge here, doesn't go about like ancestral voices prophesying all
sorts of dreadful things."
"That's rather cheap talk, even for you, Minver," Rulledge said. "Why
did you think presentiments ran in your family?"
"Well, there you have me, Rulledge. That's where my theory fails. I
can remember," Minver continued soberly, "the talk there used to be
about them among my people. They were serious people in an unreligious
way, or rather an unecclesiastical way. They were never spiritualists,
but I don't think there was one of them who doubted that he should
live hereafter; he might doubt that he was living here, but there was
no question of the other thing. I must say it gave a dignity to their
conversation which, when they met, as they were apt to do at one
another's houses on Sunday nights, was not of common things. One of my
uncles was a merchant, another a doctor; my father was a
portrait-painter by profession, and a sign-painter by practice. I
suppose that's where I got my knack, such as it is. The merchant was
an invalid, rather, though he kept about his business, and our people
merely recognized him as being out of health. He was what we could
call, for that day and region--the Middle West of the early fifties--a
man of unusual refinement. I suppose this was temperamental with him
largely; but he had cultivated tastes, too. I remember him as a
peculiarly gentle person, with a pensive cast of face, and the
melancholy accomplishment of playing the flute."
"I wonder why nobody plays the flute nowadays," I mused aloud.
"Yes, it's quite obsolete," Minver said. "They only play the flute in
the orchestras now. I always look at the man who plays it and think of
my uncle. He used to be very nice to me as a child; and he was very
fond of my father, in a sort of filial way; my father was so much
older. I can remember my young aunt; and how pretty she was as she sat
at the piano, and sang and played to his fluting. When she looked
forward at the music, her curls fell into her neck; they wore curls
then, grown-up women; and though I don't think curls are beautiful, my
aunt's beauty would have been less without them; in fact, I can't
think of her without them.
"She was delicate, too; they were really a pair of invalids; but she
had none of his melancholy. They had had several children, who died,
one after another, and there was only one left at the time I am
speaking of. I rather wonder, now, that the thought of those poor
little ghost-cousins didn't make me uncomfortable. I was a very
superstitious boy, but I seem not to have thought of them. I played
with the little girl who was left, and I liked going to my uncle's
better than anywhere else. I preferred going in the daytime and in the
summer-time. Then my cousin and I sat in a nook of the garden and
fought violets, as we called it; hooked the wry necks of the flowers
together and twitched to see which blossom would come off first. She
was a sunny little thing, like her mother, and she had curls, like
her. I can't express the feeling I had for my aunt; she seemed the
embodiment of a world that was at once very proud and very good. I
suppose she dressed fashionably, as things went then and there; and
her style as well as her beauty fascinated me. I would have done
anything to please her, far more than to please my cousin. With her I
used to squabble, and sometimes sent her crying to her mother. Then I
always ran off home, but when I sneaked back, or was sent for to come
and play with my cousin, I was not scolded for my wickedness.
"My uncle was more prosperous than his brothers; he lived in a much
better house than ours, and I used to be quite awe-struck by its
magnificence. He went East, as we said, twice a year to buy goods,
and he had things sent back for his house such as we never saw
elsewhere; those cask-shaped seats of blue china for the verandas, and
bamboo chairs. There were cane-bottom chairs in the sitting-room, such
as we had in our best room; in the parlor the large pieces were of
mahogany veneer, upholstered in black hair-cloth; they held me in awe.
The piano filled half the place; the windows came down to the ground,
and had Venetian blinds and lace curtains.
"We all went in there after the Sunday night supper, and then the
fathers and mothers were apt to begin talking of those occult things
that gave me the creeps. It was after the Rochester Knockings, as they
were called, had been exposed, and so had spread like an infection
everywhere. It was as if people were waiting to have the fraud shown
up in order to believe in it."
"That sort of thing happens," Wanhope agreed. "It's as if the seeds of
the ventilated imposture were carried atmospherically into the human
mind broadcast and a universal crop of self-delusion sprang up."
"At any rate," Minver resumed, "instead of the gift being confined to
a few persons--a small sisterhood with detonating knee-joints--there
were rappings in every well-regulated household; all the tables
tipped; people went to sleep to the soft patter of raps on the
headboards of their beds; and girls who could not spell were occupied
in delivering messages from Socrates, Ben Franklin and Shakespeare.
Besides the physical demonstrations, there were all sorts of psychical
intimations from the world which we've now abolished."
"Not permanently, perhaps," I suggested.
"Well, that remains to be seen," Minver said. "It was this sort of
thing which my people valued above the other. Perhaps they were
exclusive in their tastes, and did not care for an occultism which the
crowd could share with them; though this is a conjecture too long
after the fact to have much value. As far as I can now remember, they
used to talk of the double presence of living persons, like their
being where they greatly wished to be as well as where they really
were; of clairvoyance; of what we call mind-transference, now; of
weird coincidences of all kinds; of strange experiences of their own
and of others; of the participation of animals in these experiences,
like the testimony of cats and dogs to the presence of invisible
spirits; of dreams that came true, or came near coming true; and,
above everything, of forebodings and presentiments.
"I dare say they didn't always talk of such things, and I'm giving
possibly a general impression from a single instance; everything
remembered of childhood is as if from large and repeated occurrence.
But it must have happened more than once, for I recall that when it
came to presentiments my aunt broke it up, perhaps once only. My
cousin used to get very sleepy on the rug before the fire, and her
mother would carry her off to bed, very cross and impatient of being
kissed good night, while I was left to the brunt of the occult alone.
I could not go with my aunt and cousin, and I folded myself in my
mother's skirt, where I sat at her feet, and listened in an anguish of
drowsy terror. The talk would pass into my dreams, and the dreams
would return into the talk; and I would suffer a sort of double
nightmare, waking and sleeping."
"Poor little devil!" Rulledge broke out. "It's astonishing how people
will go on before children, and never think of the misery they're
making for them."
"I believe my mother thought of it," Minver returned, "but when that
sort of talk began, the witchery of it was probably too strong for
her. 'It held her like a two years' child'; I was eight that winter. I
don't know how long my suffering had gone on, when my aunt came back
and seemed to break up the talk. It had got to presentiments, and,
whether they knew that this was forbidden ground with her, or whether
she now actually said something about it, they turned to talk of other
things. I'm not telling you all this from my own memory, which deals
with only a point or two. My father and mother used to recur to it
when I was older, and I am piecing out my story from their memories.
"My uncle, with all his temperamental pensiveness, was my aunt's stay
and cheer in the fits of depression which she paid with for her usual
gaiety. But these fits always began with some uncommon depression of
his--some effect of the forebodings he was subject to. Her opposition
to that kind of thing was purely unselfish, but certainly she dreaded
it for him as well as herself. I suppose there was a sort of conscious
silence in the others which betrayed them to her. 'Well,' she said,
laughing, 'have you been at it again? That poor child looks frightened
out of his wits.'
"They all laughed then, and my father said, hypocritically, 'I was
just going to ask Felix whether he expected to start East this week or
next.'
"My uncle tried to make light of what was always a heavy matter with
him. 'Well, yesterday,' he answered, 'I should have said next week;
but it's this week, now. I'm going on Wednesday.'
"'By stage or packet?' my father asked.
"'Oh, I shall take the canal to the lake, and get the boat for Buffalo
there,' my uncle said.
"They went on to speak of the trip to New York, and how much easier it
was then than it used to be when you had to go by stage over the
mountains to Philadelphia and on by stage again. Now, it seemed, you
got the Erie Canal packet at Buffalo and the Hudson River steamboat at
Albany, and reached New York in four or five days, in great comfort
without the least fatigue. They had all risen and my aunt had gone out
with her sisters-in-law to help them get their wraps. When they
returned, it seemed that they had been talking of the journey, too,
for she said to my mother, laughing again, 'Well, Richard may think
it's easy; but somehow Felix never expects to get home alive.'
"I don't think I ever heard my uncle laugh, but I can remember how he
smiled at my aunt's laughing, as he put his hand on her shoulder; I
thought it was somehow a very sad smile. On Wednesday I was allowed to
go with my aunt and cousin to see him off on the packet, which came up
from Cincinnati early in the morning; I had lain awake most of the
night, and then nearly overslept myself, and then was at the canal in
time. We made a gay parting for him, but when the boat started, and I
was gloating on the three horses making up the tow-path at a spanking
trot, under the snaky spirals of the driver's smacking whip-lash, I
caught sight of my uncle standing on the deck and smiling that sad
smile of his. My aunt was waving her handkerchief, but when she turned
away she put it to her eyes.
"The rest of the story, such as it is, I know, almost to the very end,
from what I heard my father and mother say from my uncle's report
afterward. He told them that, when the boat started, the stress to
stay was so strong upon him that if he had not been ashamed he would
have jumped ashore and followed us home. He said that he could not
analyze his feelings; it was not yet any definite foreboding, but
simply a depression that seemed to crush him so that all his movements
were leaden, when he turned at last, and went down to breakfast in the
cabin below. The stress did not lighten with the little changes and
chances of the voyage to the lake. He was never much given to making
acquaintance with people, but now he found himself so absent-minded
that he was aware of being sometimes spoken to by friendly strangers
without replying until it was too late even to apologize. He was not
only steeped in this gloom, but he had the constant distress of the
effort he involuntarily made to trace it back to some cause or follow
it forward to some consequence. He kept trying at this, with a mind so
tensely bent to the mere horror that he could not for a moment strain
away from it. He would very willingly have occupied himself with other
things, but the anguish which the double action of his mind gave him
was such that he could not bear the effort; all he could do was to
abandon himself to his obsession. This would ease him only for a
while, though, and then he would suffer the misery of trying in vain
to escape from it.
"He thought he must be going mad, but insanity implied some definite
delusion or hallucination, and, so far as he could make out, he had
none. He was simply crushed by a nameless foreboding. Something
dreadful was to happen, but this was all he felt; knowledge had no
part in his condition. He could not say whether he slept during the
two nights that passed before he reached Toledo, where he was to take
the lake steamer for Buffalo. He wished to turn back again, but the
relentless pressure which had kept him from turning back at the start
was as strong as ever with him. He tried to give his presentiment
direction by talking with the other passengers about a recent accident
to a lake steamer, in which several hundred lives were lost; there
had been a collision in rough weather, and one of the boats had gone
down in a few minutes. There was a sort of relief in that, but the
double action of the mind brought the same intolerable anguish again,
and he settled back for refuge under the shadow of his impenetrable
doom. This did not lift till he was well on his way from Albany to New
York by the Hudson River. The canal-boat voyage from Buffalo to Albany
had been as eventless as that to Toledo, and his lake steamer had
reached Buffalo in safety, for which it had seemed as if those lost in
the recent disaster had paid.
"He tried to pierce his heavy cloud by argument from the security in
which he had traveled so far, but the very security had its
hopelessness. If something had happened--some slight accident--to
interrupt it, his reason, or his unreason, might have taken it for a
sign that the obscure doom, whatever it was, had been averted.
"Up to this time he had not been able to connect his foreboding with
anything definite, and he was not afraid for himself. He was simply
without the formless hope that helps us on at every step, through good
and bad, and it was a mortal peril, which he came through safely while
scores of others were lost, that gave his presentiment direction. He
had taken the day boat from Albany, and about the middle of the
afternoon the boat, making way under a head-wind, took fire. The pilot
immediately ran her ashore, and her passengers, those that had the
courage for it, ran aft, and began jumping from the stern, but a great
many women and children were burned. My uncle was one of the first of
those who jumped, and he stood in the water, trying to save those who
came after from drowning; it was not very deep. Some of the women lost
courage for the leap, and some turned back into the flames,
remembering children they had left behind. One poor creature stood
hesitating wildly, and he called up to her to jump. At last she did
so, almost into his arms, and then she clung about him as he helped
her ashore. 'Oh,' she cried out between her sobs, 'if you have a wife
and children at home, God will take you safe back to them; you have
saved my life for my husband and little ones.' 'No,' he was conscious
of saying, 'I shall never see my wife again,' and now his foreboding
had the direction that it had wanted before.
"From that on he simply knew that he should not get home alive, and he
waited resignedly for the time and form of his disaster. He had a sort
of peace in that. He went about his business intelligently, and from
habit carefully, but it was with a mechanical action of the mind,
something, he imagined, like the mechanical action of his body in
those organs which do their part without bidding from the will. He was
only a few days in New York, but in the course of them he got several
letters from his wife telling him that all was going well with her and
their daughter. It was before the times when you can ask and answer
questions by telegraph, and he started back, necessarily without
having heard the latest news from home.
"He made the return trip in a sort of daze, talking, reading, eating,
and sleeping in the calm certainty of doom, and only wondering how it
would be fulfilled, and what hour of the night or day. But it is no
use my eking this out; I heard it, as I say, when I was a child, and I
am afraid that if I should try to give it with the full detail I
should take to inventing particulars." Minver paused a moment, and
then he said: "But there was one thing that impressed itself indelibly
on my memory. My uncle got back perfectly safe and well."
"Oh!" Rulledge snorted in rude dissatisfaction.
"What was it impressed itself on your memory?" Wanhope asked, with
scientific detachment from the story as a story.
Minver continued to address Wanhope, without regarding Rulledge. "My
uncle told my father that some sort of psychical change, which he
could not describe, but which he was as conscious of as if it were
physical, took place within him as he came in sight of his house--"
"Yes," Wanhope prompted.
"He had driven down from the canal-packet in the old omnibus which
used to meet passengers and distribute them at their destinations in
town. All the way to his house he was still under the doom as regarded
himself, but bewildered that he should be getting home safe and well,
and he was refusing his escape, as it were, and then suddenly, at the
sight of the familiar house, the change within him happened. He looked
out of the omnibus window and saw a group of neighbors at his gate. As
he got out of the omnibus, my father took him by the hand, as if to
hold him back a moment. Then he said to my father, very quietly, 'You
needn't tell me: my wife is dead.'"
There was an appreciable pause, in which we were all silent, and then
Rulledge demanded, greedily, "And was she?"
"Really, Rulledge!" I could not help protesting.
Minver asked him, almost compassionately and with unwonted gentleness,
as from the mood in which his reminiscence had left him: "You
suspected a hoax? She had died suddenly the night before while she and
my cousin were getting things ready to welcome my uncle home in the
morning. I'm sorry you're disappointed," he added, getting back to his
irony.
"Whatever," Rulledge pursued, "became of the little girl?"
"She died rather young; a great many years ago; and my uncle soon
after her."
Rulledge went away without saying anything, but presently returned
with the sandwich which he had apparently gone for, while Wanhope was
remarking: "That want of definition in the presentiment at first, and
then its determination in the new direction by, as it were,
propinquity--it is all very curious. Possibly we shall some day
discover a law in such matters."
Rulledge said: "How was it your boyhood was passed in the Middle West,
Minver? I always thought you were a Bostonian."
"I was an adoptive Bostonian for a good while, until I decided to
become a native New-Yorker, so that I could always be near to you,
Rulledge. You can never know what a delicate satisfaction you are."
Minver laughed, and we were severally restored to the wonted relations
which his story had interrupted.
                                 III
                     CAPTAIN DUNLEVY'S LAST TRIP
  It was against the law, in such case made and provided,
  Of the United States, but by the good will of the pilots
  That we would some of us climb to the pilot-house after our breakfast
  For a morning smoke, and find ourselves seats on the benching
  Under the windows, or in the worn-smooth arm-chairs. The pilot,
  Which one it was did not matter, would tilt his head round and say,
          "All right!"
  When he had seen who we were, and begin, or go on as from stopping
  In the midst of talk that was leading up to a story,
  Just before we came in, and the story, begun or beginning,
  Always began or ended with some one, or something or other,
  Having to do with the river. If one left the wheel to the other,
  Going off watch, he would say to his partner standing behind him
  With his hands stretched out for the spokes that were not given up yet,
  "Captain, you can tell them the thing I was going to tell them
  Better than I could, I reckon," and then the other would answer,
  "Well, I don't know as I feel so sure of that, captain," and having
  Recognized each other so by that courtesy title of captain
  Never officially failed of without offense among pilots,
  One would subside into Jim and into Jerry the other.
  It was on these terms, at least, Captain Dunn relieved Captain Davis
  When we had settled ourselves one day to listen in comfort,
  After some psychological subtleties we had indulged in at breakfast
  Touching that weird experience every one knows when the senses
  Juggle the points of the compass out of true orientation,
  Changing the North to the South, and the East to the West. "Why, Jerry,
          what was it
  You was going to tell them?" "Oh, never you mind what it was, Jim.
  You tell them something else," and so Captain Davis submitted,
  While Captain Dunn, with a laugh, got away beyond reach of his protest.
  Then Captain Davis, with fitting, deprecatory preamble,
  Launched himself on a story that promised to be all a story
  Could be expected to be, when one of those women--you know them--
  Who interrupt on any occasion or none, interrupted,
  Pointed her hand, and asked, "Oh, what is that island there, captain?"
  "That one, ma'am?" He gave her the name, and then the woman persisted,
  "Don't say you know them all by sight!" "Yes, by sight or by feeling."
  "What do you mean by feeling?" "Why, just that by daylight we see them,
  And in the dark it's like as if somehow we felt them, I reckon.
  Every foot of the channel and change in it, wash-out and cave-in,
  Every bend and turn of it, every sand-bar and landmark,
  Every island, of course, we have got to see them, or feel them."
  "But if you don't?" "But we've got to." "But aren't you ever mistaken?"
  "Never the second time." "Now, what do you mean, Captain Davis?
  Never the second time." "Well, let me tell you a story.
  It's not the one I begun, but that island you asked about yonder
  Puts me in mind of it, happens to be the place where it happened,
  Three years ago. I suppose no man ever knew the Ohio
  Better than Captain Dunlevy, if any one else knew it like him.
  Man and boy he had been pretty much his whole life on the river:
  Cabin-boy first on a keelboat before the day of the steamboats,
  Back in the pioneer times; and watchman then on a steamboat;
  Then second mate, and then mate, and then pilot and captain and owner--
  But he was proudest, I reckon, of being about the best pilot
  On the Ohio. He knew it as well as he knew his own Bible,
  And I don't hardly believe that ever Captain Dunlevy
  Let a single day go by without reading a chapter."
  While the pilot went on with his talk, and in regular, rhythmical motion
  Swayed from one side to the other before his wheel, and we listened,
  Certain typical facts of the picturesque life of the river
  Won their way to our consciousness as without help of our senses.
  It was along about the beginning of March, but already
  In the sleepy sunshine the budding maples and willows,
  Where they waded out in the shallow wash of the freshet,
  Showed the dull red and the yellow green of their blossoms and catkins,
  And in their tops the foremost flocks of blackbirds debated
  As to which they should colonize first. The indolent house-boats
  Loafing along the shore, sent up in silvery spirals
  Out of their kitchen pipes the smoke of their casual breakfasts.
  Once a wide tow of coal-barges, loaded clear down to the gunwales,
  Gave us the slack of the current, with proper formalities shouted
  By the hoarse-throated stern-wheeler that pushed the black barges
          before her,
  And as she passed us poured a foamy cascade from her paddles.
  Then, as a raft of logs, which the spread of the barges had hidden,
  River-wide, weltered in sight, with a sudden jump forward the pilot
  Dropped his whole weight on the spokes of the wheel just in time to
          escape it.
  "Always give those fellows," he joked, "all the leeway they ask for;
  Worst kind of thing on the river you want your boat to run into.
  Where had I got about Captain Dunlevy? Oh yes, I remember.
  Well, when the railroads began to run away from the steamboats,
  Taking the carrying trade in the very edge of the water,
  It was all up with the old flush times, and Captain Dunlevy
  Had to climb down with the rest of us pilots till he was only
  Captain the same as any and every pilot is captain,
  Glad enough, too, to be getting his hundred and twenty-five dollars
  Through the months of the spring and fall while navigation was open.
  Never lowered himself, though, a bit from captain and owner,
  Knew his rights and yours, and never would thought of allowing
  Any such thing as a liberty from you or taking one with you.
  I had been his cub, and all that I knew of the river
  Captain Dunlevy had learnt me; and if you know what the feeling
  Is of a cub for the pilot that learns him the river, you'll trust me
  When I tell you I felt it the highest kind of an honor
  Having him for my partner; and when I came up to relieve him,
  One day, here at the wheel, and actu'lly thought that I found him
  Taking that island there on the left, I thought I was crazy.
  No, I couldn't believe my senses, and yet I couldn't endure it.
  Seeing him climb the spokes of the wheel to warp the Kanawha,
  With the biggest trip of passengers ever she carried,
  Round on the bar at the left that fairly stuck out of the water.
  Well, as I said, he learnt me all that I knew of the river,
  And was I to learn him now which side to take of an island
  When I knew he knew it like his right hand from his left hand?
  My, but I hated to speak! It certainly seemed like my tongue clove,
  Like the Bible says, to the roof of my mouth! But I had to.
  'Captain,' I says, and it seemed like another person was talking,
  'Do you usu'lly take that island there on the eastward?'
  'Yes,' he says, and he laughed, 'and I thought I had learnt you to do it,
  When you was going up.' 'But not going down, did you, captain?'
  'Down?' And he whirled at me, and, without ever stopping his laughing,
  Turned as white as a sheet, and his eyes fairly bulged from their
          sockets.
  Then he whirled back again, and looked up and down on the river,
  Like he was hunting out the shape of the shore and the landmarks.
  Well, I suppose the thing has happened to every one sometime,
  When you find the points of the compass have swapped with each other,
  And at the instant you're looking, the North and the South have changed
          places.
  I knew what was in his mind as well as Dunlevy himself did.
  Neither one of us spoke a word for nearly a minute.
  Then in a kind of whisper he says, 'Take the wheel, Captain Davis!'
  Let the spokes fly, and while I made a jump forwards to catch them,
  Staggered into that chair--well, the very one you are in, ma'am.
  Set there breathing quick, and, when he could speak, all he said was,
  'This is the end of it for me on the river, Jim Davis,'
  Reached up over his head for his coat where it hung by that window,
  Trembled onto his feet, and stopped in the door there a second,
  Stared in hard like as if for good-by to the things he was used to,
  Shut the door behind him, and never come back again through it."
  While we were silent, not liking to prompt the pilot with questions,
  "Well," he said, at last, "it was no use to argue. We tried it,
  In the half-hearted way that people do that don't mean it.
  Every one was his friend here on the Kanawha, and we knew
  It was the first time he ever had lost his bearings, but he knew,
  In such a thing as that, that the first and the last are the same time.
  When we had got through trying our worst to persuade him, he only
  Shook his head and says, 'I am done for, boys, and you know it,'
  Left the boat at Wheeling, and left his life on the river--
  Left his life on the earth, you may say, for I don't call it living,
  Setting there homesick at home for the wheel he can never go back to.
  Reads the river-news regular; knows just the stage of the water
  Up and down the whole way from Cincinnati to Pittsburg;
  Follows every boat from the time she starts out in the spring-time
  Till she lays up in the summer, and then again in the winter;
  Wants to talk all about her and who is her captain and pilot;
  Then wants to slide away to that everlastingly puzzling
  Thing that happened to him that morning on the Kanawha
  When he lost his bearings and North and South had changed places--
  No, I don't call that living, whatever the rest of you call it."
  We were silent again till that woman spoke up, "And what was it,
  Captain, that kept him from going back and being a pilot?"
  "Well, ma'am," after a moment the pilot patiently answered,
  "I don't hardly believe that I could explain it exactly."
                                  IV
                          THE RETURN TO FAVOR
He never, by any chance, quite kept his word, though there was a
moment in every case when he seemed to imagine doing what he said, and
he took with mute patience the rakings which the ladies gave him when
he disappointed them.
Disappointed is not just the word, for the ladies did not really
expect him to do what he said. They pretended to believe him when he
promised, but at the bottom of their hearts they never did or could.
He was gentle-mannered and soft-spoken, and when he set his head on
one side, and said that a coat would be ready on Wednesday, or a dress
on Saturday, and repeated his promise upon the same lady's expressed
doubt, she would catch her breath and say that now she absolutely must
have it on the day named, for otherwise she would not have a thing to
put on. Then he would become very grave, and his soft tenor would
deepen to a bass of unimpeachable veracity, and he would say, "Sure,
lady, you have it."
The lady would depart still doubting and slightly sighing, and he
would turn to the customer who was waiting to have a button sewed on,
or something like that, and ask him softly what it was he could do for
him. If the customer offered him his appreciation of the case in hand,
he would let his head droop lower, and in a yet deeper bass deplore
the doubt of the ladies as an idiosyncrasy of their sex. He would make
the customer feel that he was a favorite customer whose rights to a
perfect fidelity of word and deed must by no means be tampered with,
and he would have the button sewed on or the rip sewed up at once, and
refuse to charge anything, while the customer waited in his
shirt-sleeves in the small, stuffy shop opening directly from the
street. When he tolerantly discussed the peculiarities of ladies as a
sex, he would endure to be laughed at, "for sufferance was the badge
of all his tribe," and possibly he rather liked it.
The favorite customer enjoyed being there when some lady came back on
the appointed Wednesday or Saturday, and the tailor came soothingly
forward and showed her into the curtained alcove where she was to try
on the garments, and then called into the inner shop for them. The
shirt-sleeved journeyman, with his unbuttoned waistcoat-front all
pins and threaded needles, would appear in his slippers with the
things barely basted together, and the tailor would take them, with an
airy courage, as if they were perfectly finished, and go in behind the
curtain where the lady was waiting in a dishabille which the favorite
customer, out of reverence for the sex, forbore to picture to himself.
Then sounds of volcanic fury would issue from the alcove. "Now, Mr.
Morrison, you have lied to me again, deliberately lied. Didn't I
tell you I must have the things perfectly ready to-day? You see
yourself that it will be another week before I can have my things."
"A week? Oh, madam! But I assure you--"
"Don't talk to me any more! It's the last time I shall ever come to
you, but I suppose I can't take the work away from you as it is.
When shall I have it?"
"To-morrow. Yes, to-morrow noon. Sure!"
"Now you know you are always out at noon. I should think you would be
ashamed."
"If it hadn't been for sickness in the family I would have finished
your dress with my own hands. Sure I would. If you come here to-morrow
noon you find your dress all ready for you."
"I know I won't, but I will come, and you'd better have it ready."
"Oh, sure."
The lady then added some generalities of opprobrium with some
particular criticisms of the garments. Her voice sank into
dispassionate murmurs in these, but it rose again in her renewed sense
of the wrong done her, and when she came from the alcove she went out
of the street door purple. She reopened it to say, "Now, remember!"
before she definitely disappeared.
"Rather a stormy session, Mr. Morrison," the customer said.
"Something fierce," Mr. Morrison sighed. But he did not seem much
troubled, and he had one way with all his victims, no matter what mood
they came or went in.
One day the customer was by when a kind creature timidly upbraided
him. "This is the third time you've disappointed me, Mr. Morrison. I
really wish you wouldn't promise me unless you mean to do it. I don't
think it's right for you."
"Oh, but sure, madam! The things will be done, sure. We had a strike
on us."
"Well, I will trust you once more," the kind creature said.
"You can depend on me, madam, sure."
When she was gone the customer said: "I wonder you do that sort of
thing, Mr. Morrison. You can't be surprised at their behaving rustily
with you if you never keep your word."
"Why, I assure you there are times when I don't know where to look,
the way they go on. It is something awful. You ought to hear them
once. And now they want the wote." He rearranged some pieces of
tumbled goods at the table where the customer sat, and put together
the disheveled leaves of the fashion-papers which looked as if the
ladies had scattered them in their rage.
One day the customer heard two ladies waiting for their
disappointments in the outer room while the tailor in the alcove was
trying to persuade a third lady that positively her things would be
sent home the next day before dark. The customer had now formed the
habit of having his own clothes made by the tailor, and his system in
avoiding disappointment was very simple. In the early fall he ordered
a spring suit, and in the late spring it was ready. He never had any
difficulty, but he was curious to learn how the ladies managed, and he
listened with all his might while these two talked.
"I always wonder we keep coming," one of them said.
"I'll tell you why," the other said. "Because he's cheap, and we get
things from a fourth to a third less than we can get them anywhere
else. The quality is first rate, and he's absolutely honest. And,
besides, he's a genius. The wretch has touch. The things have a
style, a look, a hang! Really it's something wonderful. Sure it iss,"
she ended in the tailor's accent, and then they both laughed and
joined in a common sigh.
"Well, I don't believe he means to deceive any one."
"Oh, neither do I. I believe he expects to do everything he says. And
one can't help liking him even when he doesn't."
"He's a good while getting through with her," the first lady said,
meaning the unseen lady in the alcove.
"She'll be a good while longer getting through with him, if he
hasn't them ready the next time," the second lady said.
But the lady in the alcove issued from it with an impredicable smile,
and the tailor came up to the others, and deferred to their wishes
with a sort of voiceless respect.
He gave the customer a glance of good-fellowship, and said to him,
radiantly: "Your things all ready for you, this morning. As soon as
I--"
"Oh, no hurry," the customer responded.
"I won't be a minute," the tailor said, pulling the curtain of the
alcove aside, and then there began those sounds of objurgation and
expostulation, although the ladies had seemed so amiable before.
The customer wondered if they did not all enjoy it; the ladies in
their patience under long trial, and the tailor in the pleasure of
practising upon it. But perhaps he did believe in the things he
promised. He might be so much a genius as to have no grasp of facts;
he might have thought that he could actually do what he said.
The customer's question on these points found answer when one day the
tailor remarked, as it were out of a clear sky, that he had sold his
business; sold it to the slippered journeyman who used to come in his
shirt-sleeves, with his vest-front full of pins and needles, bringing
the basted garments to be tried on the ladies who had been promised
them perfectly finished.
"He will do your clothes all right," he explained to the customer. "He
is a first-rate cutter and fitter; he knows the whole business."
"But why--why--" the customer began.
"I couldn't stand it. The way them ladies would talk to a person, when
you done your best to please them; it's something fierce."
"Yes, I know. But I thought you liked it, from the way you always
promised them and never kept your word."
"And if I hadn't promised them?" the tailor returned with some show of
feeling. "They wanted me to promise them--they made me--they
wouldn't have gone away without it. Sure. Every one wanted her things
before every one. You had got to think of that."
"But you had to think of what they would say."
"Say? Sometimes I thought they would hit me. One lady said she had a
notion to slap me once. It's no way to talk."
"But you didn't seem to mind it."
"I didn't mind it for a good while. Then I couldn't stand it. So I
sold."
He shook his head sadly; but the customer had no comfort to offer him.
He asked when his clothes would be done, and the tailor told him when,
and then they were not. The new proprietor tried them on, but he would
not say just when they would be finished.
"We have a good deal of work already for some ladies that been
disappointed. Now we try a new way. We tell people exactly what we
do."
"Well, that's right," the customer said, but in his heart he was not
sure he liked the new way.
The day before his clothes were promised he dropped in. From the
curtained alcove he heard low murmurs, the voice of the new proprietor
and the voice of some lady trying on, and being severely bidden not to
expect her things at a time she suggested. "No, madam. We got too much
work on hand already. These things, they will not be done before next
week."
"I told you to-morrow," the same voice said to another lady, and the
new proprietor came out with an unfinished coat in his hand.
"I know you did, but I thought you would be better than your word, and
so I came to-day. Well, then, to-morrow."
"Yes, to-morrow," the new proprietor said, but he did not seem to have
liked the lady's joke. He did not look happy.
A few weeks after that the customer came for some little alterations
in his new suit.
In the curtained alcove he heard the murmurs of trying on, much
cheerfuller murmurs than before; the voice of a lady lifted in
gladness, in gaiety, and an incredible voice replying, "Oh, sure,
madam."
Then the old proprietor came out in his shirt-sleeves and slippers,
with his waistcoat-front full of pins and needles, just like the new
proprietor in former days.
"Why!" the customer exclaimed. "Have you bought back?"
"No. I'm just here like a journeyman already. The new man he want me
to come. He don't get along very well with his way. He's all right;
he's a good man and a first-class tailor. But," and the former
proprietor looked down at the basted garment hanging over his arm, and
picked off an irrelevant thread from it, "he thinks I get along better
with the ladies."
                                  V
                          SOMEBODY'S MOTHER
The figure of a woman sat crouched forward on one of the lowermost
steps of the brownstone dwelling which was keeping a domestic
tradition in a street mostly gone to shops and small restaurants and
local express-offices. The house was black behind its closed shutters,
and the woman remained sitting there because no one could have come
out of its door for a year past to hunt her away. The neighborhood
policeman faltered in going by, and then he kept on. The three people
who came out of the large, old-fashioned hotel, half a block off, on
their way for dinner to a French table d'hôte which they had heard
of, stopped and looked at the woman. They were a father and his son
and daughter, and it was something like a family instinct that
controlled them, in their pause before the woman crouching on the
steps.
It was the early dusk of a December day, and the day was very chilly.
"She seems to be sick or something," the father vaguely surmised. "Or
asleep."
The three looked at the woman, but they did nothing for a moment. They
would rather have gone on, but they waited to see if anything would
happen to release them from the spell that they seemed to have laid
upon themselves. They were conditional New-Yorkers of long sojourn,
and it was from no apparent motive that the son wore evening dress,
which his unbuttoned overcoat discovered, and an opera-hat. He would
not have dressed so for that problematical French table d'hôte;
probably he was going on later to some society affair. He now put in
effect the father's impulse to go closer and look at the woman.
"She seems to be asleep," he reported.
"Shouldn't you think she would take cold? She will get her death
there. Oughtn't we to do something?" the daughter asked, but she left
it to the father, and he said:
"Probably somebody will come by."
"That we could leave her to?" the daughter pursued.
"We could do that without waiting," the son commented.
"Well, yes," the father assented; but they did not go on. They waited,
helplessly, and then somebody came by. It was a young girl, not very
definite in the dusk, except that she was unmistakably of the working
class; she was simply dressed, though with the New York instinct for
clothes. Their having stopped there seemed to stay her involuntarily,
and after a glance in the direction of their gaze she asked the
daughter:
"Is she sick, do you think?"
"We don't know what's the matter. But she oughtn't to stay there."
Something velvety in the girl's voice had made its racial quality
sensible to the ear; as she went up to the crouching woman and bent
forward over her and then turned to them, a street lamp threw its
light on her face, and they saw that she was a light shade of colored
girl.
"She seems to be sleeping."
"Perhaps," the son began, "she's not quite--" But he did not go on.
The girl looked round at the others and suggested, "She must be
somebody's mother!"
The others all felt abashed in their several sorts and degrees, but in
their several sorts and degrees they all decided that there was
something romantic, sentimental, theatrical in the girl's words, like
something out of some cheap story-paper story.
The father wondered if that kind of thing was current among that kind
of people. He had a sort of esthetic pleasure in the character and
condition expressed by the words.
"Well, yes," he said, "if she has children, or has had." The girl
looked at him uncertainly, and then he added, "But, of course--"
The son went up to the woman again, and asked: "Aren't you well? Can
we do anything for you? It won't do to stay here, you know." The woman
only made a low murmur, and he said to his sister, "Suppose we get her
up."
His sister did not come forward promptly, and the colored girl said,
"I'll help you."
She took one arm of the woman and the son took the other, and they
lifted her, without her connivance, to her feet and kept her on them.
Then they walked her down the steps. On the level below she showed
taller than either of them; she was bundled up in different incoherent
wraps; her head was muffled, and she wore a battered bonnet at an
involuntary slant.
"I don't know exactly what we shall do with her," the son said.
"We ought to get her home somehow," the daughter said.
The father proposed nothing, but the colored girl said, "If we keep
walking her along, we'll come to a policeman and we can--"
A hoarse rumble of protest came from the muffled head of the woman,
and the girl put her ear closer. "Want to go home? Well, the policeman
will take you. We don't know where you live, and we haven't the time."
The woman seemed to have nothing to say further, and they began
walking her westward; the colored girl supported her on one hand, and
the son, in his evening dress and opera-hat, on the other.
The daughter followed in a vague anxiety, but the father went along,
enjoying the anomaly, and happy in his relish of that phrase, "She
must be somebody's mother." It now sounded to him like a catch from
one of those New York songs, popular in the order of life where the
mother represents what is best and holiest. He recalled a vaudeville
ballad with the refrain of "A Boy's Best Friend is his Mother," which,
when he heard it in a vaudeville theater, threatened the gallery floor
under the applauding feet of the frenzied audience. Probably this
colored girl belonged to that order of life; he wished he could know
her social circumstance and what her outlook on the greater world
might be. She seemed a kind creature, poor thing, and he respected
her. "Somebody's mother"--he liked that.
They all walked westward, aimlessly, except that the table d'hôte
where they had meant to dine was in that direction; they had heard of
it as an amusingly harmless French place, and they were fond of such
mild adventures.
The old woman contributed nothing to the definition of their progress.
She stumbled and mumbled along, but between Seventh Avenue and Eighth
she stubbornly arrested her guardians. "She says"--the colored girl
translated some obscure avowal across her back--"she says she wants to
go home, and she lives up in Harlem."
"Oh, well, that's good," the father said, with an optimistic
amiability. "We'd better help walk her across to Ninth Avenue and put
her on a car, and tell the conductor where to let her off."
He was not helping walk her himself, but he enjoyed his son's doing it
in evening dress and opera-hat, with that kind colored girl on the
other side of the mother; the composition was agreeably droll. The
daughter did not like it, and she cherished the ideal of a passing
policeman to take the old woman in charge.
No policeman passed, though great numbers of other people met them
without apparently finding anything noticeable in the spectacle which
their group presented. Among the crowds going and coming on the
avenues which they crossed scarcely any turned to look at them, or was
moved by the sense of anything odd in them.
The old woman herself did nothing to attract public notice till they
were midway between Seventh and Eighth avenues. She mumbled something
from time to time which the colored girl interpreted to the rest as
her continued wish to go home. She was now clearer about her street
and number. The girl, as if after question of her own generous spirit,
said she did not see how she could go with her; she was expected at
home herself.
"Oh, you won't have to go with her; we'll just put her aboard the
Ninth Avenue car," the father encouraged her. He would have encouraged
any one; he was enjoying the whole affair.
At a certain moment, for no apparent reason, the mother decided to sit
down on a door-step. It proved to be the door-step of a house where
from time to time colored people--sometimes of one sex, sometimes of
another--went in or came out. The door seemed to open directly into a
large room where dancing and dining were going on concurrently. At a
long table colored people sat eating, and behind their chairs on both
sides of the room and at the ends of the table colored couples were
waltzing.
The effect was the more curious because, except for some almost
inaudible music, the scene passed in silence. Those who were eating
were not visibly incommoded by those revolving at their backs; the
waltzers turned softly around and around, untempted by the table now
before them, now behind them. When some of the diners or dancers came
out, they stumbled over the old woman on the door-step without minding
or stopping to inquire. Those outside, when they went in, fell over
her with like equanimity and joined the strange company within.
The father murmured to himself the lines,
          "'Vast forms that move fantastically
             To a discordant melody--'"
with a remote trouble of mind because the words were at once so
graphic and yet so imperfectly applicable. The son and daughter
exchanged a silent wonder as long as they could bear it; then the
daughter asked the colored girl:
"What is it?"
"It's a boarding-house," the girl answered, simply.
"Oh," the daughter said.
Sounds of more decided character than before now came from the figure
on the door-step.
"She seems to be saying something," the daughter suggested in general
terms. "What is she saying?" she asked the colored girl.
The girl stooped over and listened. Then she answered, "She's swearing."
"Swearing? What about? Whom is she swearing at?"
"At me, I reckon. She says, why don't I take her home."
"Well, why doesn't she get up, then?"
"She says she won't."
"We can't carry her to the car," the daughter noted.
"Oh, why not?" the father merrily demanded.
The daughter turned to her brother. They were both very respectful to
their father, but the son agreed with his sister when she said: "Papa
would joke about anything. But this has passed a joke. We must get
this old thing up and start her off."
Upon experiment they could not get the old thing up, even with the
help of the kind colored girl. They had to let her be, and the colored
girl reported, after stooping over her again, "She says she can't
walk."
"She walked here well enough," the daughter said.
"Not very well," the father amended.
His daughter did not notice him. She said to her brother: "Well, now
you must go and find a policeman. It's strange none has gone by."
It was also strange that still their group remained without attracting
the notice of the passers. Nobody stopped to speak or even stare;
perhaps the phenomena of that boarding-house had ceased to have
surprises for the public of the neighborhood, and they in their
momentary relation to it would naturally be without interest.
The brother went away, leaving his sister with their father and that
kind colored creature in charge of the old woman, now more and more
quiescent on the door-step; she had ceased to swear, or even to speak.
The brother came back after a time that seemed long, and said that he
could not find a policeman anywhere, and at the same moment, as if the
officer had been following at his heels, a policeman crossed the
street from just behind him.
The daughter ran after him, and asked if he would not come and look at
the old woman who had so steadfastly remained in their charge, and she
rapidly explained.
"Sure, lady," the policeman said, and he turned from crossing the
street and went up to the old woman. He laid his hand on her shoulder,
and his touch seemed magical. "What's the matter? Can't you stand up?"
She stood up as if at something familiar in the voice of authority.
"Where do you live?" She gave an address altogether different from
that she had given before--a place on the next avenue, within a block
or two. "You'd better go home. You can walk, can't you?"
"I can walk well enough," she answered in a tone of vexation, and she
made her word good by walking quite actively away in the direction she
had given.
The kind colored girl became a part of the prevalent dark after
refusing the thanks of the others. The daughter then fervently offered
them to the policeman.
"That's all right, lady," he said, and the incident had closed except
for her emotion at seeing him enter a police-station precisely across
the street, where they could have got a dozen policemen in a moment.
"Well," the father said, "we might as well go to our French table
d'hôte now."
"Oh," the son said, as if that reminded him, "the place seems to be
shut."
"Well, then, we might as well go back to the hotel," the father
decided. "I dare say we shall do quite as well there."
On the way the young people laughed over the affair and their escape
from it, especially at the strange appearance and disappearance of the
kind colored girl, with her tag of sentiment, and at the instant
compliance of the old woman with the suggestion of the policeman.
The father followed, turning the matter over in his mind. Did mere
motherhood hallow that old thing to the colored girl and her sort and
condition? Was there a superstition of motherhood among such people
which would endear this disreputable old thing to their affection and
reverence? Did such people hold mothers in tenderer regard than people
of larger means? Would a mother in distress or merely embarrassment
instantly appeal to their better nature as a case of want or sickness
in the neighborhood always appealed to their compassion? Would her
family now welcome the old thing home from her aberration more fondly
than the friends of one who had arrived in a carriage among them in a
good street? But, after all, how little one knew of other people! How
little one knew of one self, for that matter! How next to nothing one
knew of Somebody's Mother! It did not necessarily follow from anything
they knew of her that she was a mother at all. Her motherhood might be
the mere figment of that kind colored girl's emotional fancy. She
might be Nobody's Mother.
When it came to this the father laughed, too. Why, anyhow, were
