
"I shan't.  So long."

That same night Braine paid the Russian woman a brief visit.

"I think that here's where we go forward.  The secret service will raid
the house to-morrow and then for a few days we'll roam about as we
bally please.  I'm hanged if I don't have every plank torn up and the
walls pulled down.  More and more I'm convinced that the money is in
that house."

"Don't be too confident," warned Olga.  "So many times we have been
tripped up when everything seemed in our hands.  The house should be
guarded but not entered for a day or two; at least not till after the
raid is cold.  I'm beginning to see traps everywhere."

"Nonsense!  Leave it to me.  We shan't stick our heads inside the
Hargreave house till we are dead certain that it is absolutely empty.
Olga, you're a gem.  I don't think Russia will bother us for a while.
Eh?  Paroff will not dare tell how he was flimflammed.  The least he
can do to save his own skin is to say that we are fully capable of
taking care of ourselves."

Olga laughed.  "To think of his writing a note like that!  Florence
would have recognized--and no doubt did--a palpable attempt to play an
old game twice."

"How does she act toward you?"

"Cordial as ever; and yet..."

"Yet what?"

"I thought her an ordinary schoolgirl, and yet every once in a while
she makes what you billiard players call a professional shot.  What
matter?  So long as they do not shut the door in my face, I ask nothing
more.  But do you want my opinion?  I feel it in my bones that
something will go wrong to-morrow."

"Good lord, are you losing your nerve?" cried Braine impatiently.  "The
secret service has the warning; they find the green stuff, and Jones &
Co. will mog off to the police station.  And there'll be a week of red
tape before they are turned loose again.  They'll dig into Hargreave's
finances and all that.  We'll have all the security in the world to
find out if the money is in the house or not.  Why worry?"

"It's only the way I feel.  There is something uncanny in the
regularity of that girl's good luck."

"Ah, but we're not after her this time; it's the whole family."

"The servants too?"

"Everybody in the house will be under suspicion."

"And can you trust Beggs?"

"His life is in the hollow of my hand.  You can always trust a man when
you hold the rope that's around his neck."

Still the frown did not leave Olga's brow.  With all her soul she
longed to be out of this tangle.  It had all looked so easy at the
start; yet here they were, weeks later, no further forward than at the
beginning, and added to this they had paid much in lives and money.
Well, if she would be fool enough to love this man she must abide with
the consequences.  She wanted him all by herself, out of danger, in a
far country.  He might tire, but she knew in her heart that she never
would.  This was her one great passion, and while her mode of living
was not as honest as might be, her love was honest enough and
unswerving, though it was not gilded by the pleasant fancies of youth.

"Of what are you thinking?" he asked when he concluded that the pause
had been long enough.

"You."

"H'm.  Complimentary?"

"No; just ordinary every-day love."

"Ah, Olga, why the deuce must you go and fall in love with a bundle of
ashes like myself?  Ashes, and bitter ashes, too.  Sometimes I regret.
But the regretting only seems to make me all the more savage.  What
opium and dope are to other men, danger and excitement are to me.  It
is not written that I shall die in bed.  I have told you that already.
There is no other woman--now.  And I do love you after a fashion, as a
man loves a comrade.  Wait till this dancing bout is over and I may
talk otherwise.  And now I am going to shake hands and hobnob with the
elite--beautiful word!  And while I bow and smirk and crack witticisms,
I and the devil will be chuckling in our sleeves.  But this I'll tell
you, while there's a drop of blood in my veins, a breath in my body,
I'll stick to this fight if only to prove that I'm not a quitter."

He caught her suddenly in his arms, kissed her, ran lightly to the
door, and was gone before she could recover from her astonishment.

The affair went smoothly, without a hitch.  Norton and his men gained
the house through the tunnel without attracting the least attention.
The Black Hundred, watching the front and rear of the house, never
dreamed that there existed another mode of entrance or that there was a
secret cabinet room.

Half an hour later the head of the secret service, accompanied by his
men, together with "Spider" Beggs, who was in high feather over his
success, arrived, demanded admittance, and went at the front of the
business at once.

"Your name is Jones?" began the chief.

The butler nodded, though his face evinced no little bewilderment at
the appearance of these men.

"What is it you wish, sir?"

"I am from the secret service and I have it from a pretty good source
that there is counterfeit money hidden in this house.  More than that,
I can put my hand on the very place it is hidden."

"That is impossible, sir," declared Jones indignantly.

"I am an old hand, Mr. Jones.  It will not do you a bit of good to put
on that bold front."

Beggs smiled.  How was he to know that this was a comedy set especially
for his benefit?

"I should like to see that money," said Jones, not quite so bravely.

"Come with me," said the secret service man.  "Where's the library?"

"Beyond that door, sir."

The chief beckoning to his men, entered the library, went directly to a
certain shelf, extracted three volumes, and there lay the money in
three neat packages.

"Good heavens!" gasped Jones.

"I shall have to request you and the family to accompany me to the
station."

"But it is all utterly impossible, sir!  I know nothing of that money
nor how it got there.  It's a plot.  I declare on my oath, sir, that I
am innocent, that Miss Florence and her companion know nothing about
it."

"You will have to tell that to the federal judge, sir.  My duty is to
take you all to the station.  It would be just as well not to say
anything more, sir."

"Very well; but some one shall smart for this outrage."

"That remains to be seen," was the terse comment of the secret service
man.

He led his prisoners away directly.

Norton and his men had to wait far into the night.  The Black Hundred
did not intend to make any mistake this time by a hasty move.  At
quarter after ten they descended.  Braine was not with them.  This was
due to the urgent request of Olga, who still had her doubts.  The men
rioted about the house, searching nooks and corners, examining floors
and walls, opening books, pulling out drawers, but they found nothing.
They talked freely, and the dictagraph registered every word.  The
printing plant, which had so long defied discovery, was in the cellar
of the house occupied by the Black Hundred.  Norton and his men
determined to follow and raid the building.  And the reporter promised
himself a good front-page story without in any way conflicting with his
promises to Jones.

[Illustration: THE MEN RIOTED ABOUT THE HOUSE SEARCHING NOOKS AND
CORNERS]

Events came to pass as they expected.  The trailing was not the easiest
thing.  Norton knew about where the building was, but he could not go
to it directly.  He was quite confident that its entrance was identical
with that which had the trap door through which he had been flung that
memorable day when he had been shanghaied.

When they reached the building he warned the men to hug the wall to the
stairs.  The trap yawned, but no one was hurt.  They scampered up the
stairs like a lot of eager boys; broke the door in--to find the weird
executive chamber dark and empty and an acrid smoke in their nostrils.
This latter grew stifling as they blundered about in the dark.  By luck
Norton found the exit and called to the men to follow.  They saw Beggs
at the top of the stairway and called out to him to surrender.  He held
up his hands and the stairs collapsed.  Real fire burst out and Norton
and his companions had a desperate battle with flame and smoke to gain
the street.

The fire was put out finally, but there was nothing in the ruins to
prove that there had been a counterfeiting den there.  There was,
however, at least one consoling feature: in the future the Black
Hundred would have to hold their star-chamber elsewhere.

It was checkmate; or, rather, it was a draw.




CHAPTER XV

If the truth is to be told, Jones was as deeply chagrined over the
outcome of the counterfeit deal as was Braine.  They had both failed
signally to reach the goal sought.  But this time the organization had
broken even with Jones, and this fact disturbed the butler.  It might
signify that the turning point had been reached, and that in the future
the good luck might swing over to the side of the Black Hundred.  Jones
redoubled his cautions, reiterated his warnings, and slept less than
ever.  Indeed, as he went over the ground he conceded a point to the
Black Hundred.  He would no longer be able to keep tab on the
organization.  They had deserted their former quarters absolutely.  The
agent of whom they had leased the building knew nothing except that he
would have to repair the place.  The rent had been paid a year in
advance, as it had been these last eight years.  He had dealt through
an attorney who knew no more of his clients than the agent.  So it will
be seen that Jones had in reality received a check.

More than all this, it would give his enemies renewed confidence; and
this was a deeper menace than he cared to face.  But he went about his
affairs as usual, giving no hint to any one of the mental turmoil which
had possession of him.

It is needless to state Norton did not scoop his rivals on the
counterfeit story.  But he set to work exploring the cellar of the
gutted building, and in one corner he found a battered die.  He turned
this over to the secret service men.  There was one man he wanted to
find--Vroon.  This man, could he find him, should be made to lead him,
Norton, to the new stronghold.  He saw the futility of trying to trap
Braine by shadowing him.  He desired Braine to believe that his escape
from the freighter had been a bit of wild luck and not a preconceived
plan.  Braine was out of reach for the present, so he began to search
for the man Vroon.  He haunted the water front saloons for a week
without success.

He did not know that it was the policy of the Black Hundred to lay low
for a month after a raid of such a serious character.  So the Hargreave
menage had thirty days of peace; always watched, however.  For Braine
never relaxed his vigilance in that part of the game.  He did not care
to lose sight of Jones, who he was positive was ready for flight if the
slightest opportunity offered itself.

Norton went back to the primrose paths of love; and sometimes he would
forget all about such a thing as the Black Hundred.  So the summer days
went by, with the lilacs and the roses embowering the Hargreave home.
But Norton took note of the fact that Florence was no longer the
light-hearted schoolgirl he had first met.  Her trials had made a
serious woman of her, and perhaps this phase was all the more
enchanting to him, who had his serious side also.  Her young mind was
like an Italian garden, always opening new vistas for his admiring gaze.

He went about his work the same as of old, interviewing, playing
detective, fattening his pay envelope by specials to the Sunday edition
and some of the lighter magazines.  Sometimes he had vague dreams of
writing a play, a novel, and making a tremendous fortune like that chap
Manders, who only a few years ago had been his desk mate.  He really
began the first chapter of a novel; but that has nothing to do with
this history.

All ready, then.  The chess are once more on the board, and it is the
move of the Black Hundred.

The day was rather cloudy.  Jones viewed the sky wearily.  He could
hear Florence playing rather a cheerless nocturne by Chopin.  Fourteen
weeks ago this warfare had begun, and all he had accomplished, he and
those with him, was the death or incarceration of a few inconsequent
members of the Black Hundred.  Always they struck and always he had to
ward off.  He had always been on the defensive; and a defensive fighter
may last a long while, but he seldom wins; and the butler knew that
they must win or go down in bitter defeat.  There was no half-way route
to the end; there could be no draw.  It all reminded him of
thunderbolts; one man knew where they were going to strike.

The telephone rang; at the same moment Florence left the piano.  She
stopped at the threshold.

"Hello!  You?  Where have you been?  What has happened?"

"Who is it?" asked Florence, stepping forward.

Jones held up a warning hand, and Florence paused.

"Yes, yes; I hear perfectly.  Oh!  You've been working out their new
quarters?  Good, good!  But be very careful, sir.  One never knows what
may happen.  They have been quiet for some time now....  Ah!  You can't
work the ceiling this time? ... Window over the way.  Very good, sir.
But be careful."

The word "sir" caught Florence's attention.  She ran to Jones and
seized him by the arm.

"Who was that?" she cried, as he turned away from the telephone.

"Why?"

"You said 'sir.'"

Jones' eyes widened.  "I did?"

"Yes, and it's the first time I ever heard you use it over the
telephone.  Jones, you were talking to my father!"

"Please, Miss Florence, do not ask me any questions.  I can not answer
any.  I dare not."

"But if I should command, upon the pain of dismissal?" coldly.

"Ah, Miss Florence," and Jones tapped his pocket, "you forget that you
can not dismiss me by word.  I am legally in control here.  I am sorry
that you have made me recall this fact to you."

Florence began to cry softly.

"I am sorry, very sorry," said the butler, torn between the desire to
comfort her and the law that he had laid down for himself.  "It is very
gloomy to-day, and perhaps we are a little depressed by it.  I am
sorry."

"Oh, I realize, Jones, that all this unending mystery and secrecy have
a set purpose at back.  Only, it does just seem as if I should go mad
sometimes with waiting and wondering."

"And if the truth must be told, it is the same with me.  We have to
wait for them to strike.  Shall I get you something to read?  I am
going down to the drug store and they have a circulating library."

"Get me anything you please.  But I'd feel better with a little
sunshine."

"That's universal," replied Jones, going into the hall for his hat.

Had the telephone rung again at that moment it is quite probable that
the day would have come to a close as the day before had, monotonously.
But the ring came five minutes after Jones had left the house.

"Is this the Hargreave place?"

"Yes," said Florence.  "Who is it?"

"This is Miss Hargreave talking?"

"Yes."

"This is Doctor Morse.  I am at the Queen Hotel.  Mr. Norton has been
badly hurt, and he wants you and Mr. Jones to come at once.  We can not
tell just how serious the injury is.  He is just conscious.  Shall I
tell him you will come immediately?"

"Yes, yes!"

Florence snapped the receiver on the hook.  She wanted to fly, fly.  He
was hurt.  How, when, where?

"Susan!  Susan!" she called.

"What is it?" asked Susan, running into the room.

"Jim is badly hurt.  He wants me to come at once.  Oh, Susan!  I've
been dreading something all day long."  Florence struck the maid's
bell.  "My wraps.  You will go with me, Susan."

"Where, Miss Florence," asked the maid, alive to her duty.

"Where?  What is that to you?" demanded Florence, who did not know that
this maid was a detective.

"Why not wait till Mr. Jones returns?" she suggested patiently.

"And let the man I love die?" vehemently.

"At least you will leave word where you are going, Miss Florence."

"The Queen Hotel.  And if you say another word I'll discharge you.
Come, Susan."

There happened to be a taxicab conveniently near (as Vroon took care
there should be), and Florence at once engaged it.  She did not see the
man hiding in the bushes.  The two young women stepped into the taxicab
and were driven off.  They had been gone less than five minutes when
Jones returned with his purchase, to find the house empty of its most
valuable asset.  He was furious, not only at the maid, who, he
realized, was virtually helpless, but at his own negligence.

In the midst of his violent harangue the bell sounded.  In his bones he
knew what was going to be found there.  It was a letter on the back of
which was drawn the fatal black mask.  With shaking fingers he tore
open the envelope and read the contents:


"Florence is now in our power.  Only the surrender of the million will
save her.  Our agent will call in an hour for an answer.  THE BLACK
HUNDRED."


As a matter of fact, they had wanted Jones almost as badly as Florence,
but her desire for a book--some popular story of the day--had saved him
from the net.  The letter had been written against this possibility.

Jones became cool, now that he knew just what to face.  The Queen Hotel
meant nothing.  Florence would not be taken there.  He called up
Norton.  It took all the butler's patience, however, as it required
seven different calls to locate the reporter.

Meantime the taxicab containing Florence and Susan spun madly toward
the water front.  Here the two were separated by an effective threat.
Florence recognized the man Vroon and knew that to plead for mercy
would be a waste of time.  She permitted herself to be led to a waiting
launch.  Always when she disobeyed Jones something like this happened.
But this time they had cunningly struck at her heart, and all thought
of her personal safety became as nothing.  For the present she knew
that she was in no actual physical danger.  She was merely to be held
as a hostage.  Would Susan have mentality enough to tell Jones where
the taxicab had stopped?  She doubted.  In an emergency Susan had
proved herself a nonentity, a bundle of hysterical thrills.

As a matter of fact, for once Florence's deductions were happily wrong.
When the chauffeur peremptorily deposited Susan on the lonely country
road, several miles from home, she ran hot-foot to the nearest
telephone and sent a very concise message home.  Susan was becoming
acclimated to this strange, exciting existence.

Norton arrived in due time, and he and Jones were mapping out a plan
when Susan's message came.



"Good girl!" said Jones.  "She's learning.  Can you handle this alone,
Norton?  They want me out of the house again, for I believe they were
after me as well as Florence.  Half an hour gone!"

"Trust me!" cried Norton.

And he ran out to his auto.  It was a wild ride.  Several policemen
shouted after him, but he went on unmindful.  They could take his
license number a hundred times for all he cared.  So they had got her?
They could wait till their enemy's vigilance slacked and then would
strike?  But Susan!  The next time he saw Susan he was going to take
her in his arms and kiss her.  It might be a new sensation to kiss
Susan, always so prim and offish.  Corey Street--that had been her
direction.  They had put Florence in a motor boat at the foot of Corey
Street.  He was perhaps half an hour behind.

Florence never opened her lips.  She stared ahead proudly.  She would
show these scoundrels that she was her father's daughter.  They plied
her with questions, but she pretended not to hear.

"Well, pretty bird, we'll make you speak when the time comes.  We've
got you this trip where we want you.  There won't be any jumping
overboard this session, believe me.  We've wasted enough time.  We've
got you and we're going to keep you."

"Let her be," said Vroon morosely.  "We'll put all the questions we
wish when we're at our destination."  And he nodded significantly
toward the ships riding at anchor.

Florence felt her heart sink in spite of her abundant courage.  Were
they going to take her to sea again?  She had acquired a horror of the
sea, so big, so terrible, so strong.  She had had an experience with
its sullen power.  They had gone about four miles down when she looked
back longingly toward shore.  Something white seemed to be spinning
over the water far behind.  At first she could not discern what it was.
As she watched it it grew and grew.  It finally emerged from the
illusion of a gigantic bird into the actuality of an every-day
hydroplane.  Her heart gave a great bound.  This flying machine was
coming directly toward the launch; it did not deviate a hair's breadth
from the line.  Fortunately the men were looking toward the huge
freighter a quarter of a mile farther on, and from their talk it was
evident that the freighter was to be her prison--bound for where?
Nearer and nearer came the hydroplane.  Was it for her?

It was impossible for the men not to take notice of the barking of the
engines at last.

"The thing's headed for us!"

Vroon stared under his palm.  It was not credible that pursuit had
taken place so quickly.  To test yonder man-bird he abruptly changed
the course of the launch.  The hydroplane veered its course to suit.

Florence heard her name called faintly.  One of the men drew his
revolver, but Vroon knocked it out of his hand.

"There's the police boat, you fool!"

"Jump!" a voice called to Florence.

She flung herself into the water without the slightest hesitation.

All this came about something after this fashion.  When Norton arrived
at the foot of Corey Street a boatman informed him that a young woman
of his description had got into a fast motor boat and had gone down the
river.

"Was there any struggle?"

"Struggle?  None that I could see.  She didn't make no fuss about
going."

"Have you a launch?"

"Yes, but the other boat has half an hour's start, and I'd never catch
her in a thousand years.  But there's a hydroplane a little above here.
You might interest the feller that runs it."

"Thanks!"

But the aviator would not listen.

"A life may hang in the balance, man!" expostulated Norton, longing to
pommel the stubborn man.

"What proof have I of that?"

Norton showed his card and badge.

"Oh, I see!" jeered the aviator.  "A little newspaper stunt in which I
am to be the goat.  It can't be done, Mr. Norton; it can't be done."

"A hundred dollars!"

"Not for five hundred," and the aviator callously turned away toward
the young woman with whom he had been conversing prior to Norton's
approach.  The two walked a dozen yards away.

Norton had not served twelve years as a metropolitan newspaper man for
nothing.  He approached the mechanics who were puttering about the
machine.

"How about twenty apiece?" he began.

"For what?" the men asked.

"For sending that paddle around a few times."

"Get into that seat, but don't touch any of those levers," one of them
warned.  "Twenty is twenty, Jack, and the boss is a sorehead to-day
anyhow.  Give her a shove for the fun of it."

It was a dumfounded aviator who saw his hydroplane skim the water and a
moment later sail into the air.  These swift moving days a reporter of
the first caliber is supposed to be able to run railroad engines,
submarines, flying machines, conduct a war, able to shoot, walk, run,
swim, fight, think, go without food like a python, and live without
water like a camel.  Norton had flown many times in the last four
years.  At the moment he called out to Florence to jump he dropped to
the water with all the skill of an old-timer and took her aboard.  And
he could not use a line of this exploit for his paper!


Jones heard the bell.  It was the agent from the Black Hundred.  He
smiled jauntily.

"Well, old fox, we've cornered you at last, haven't we?  I want that
money, or Hargreave's daughter takes another sea voyage, and this time
she will not jump overboard.  A million; and no more nonsense."

"Give me fifteen minutes to decide," begged Jones, hoping against hope.

"Fifteen seconds!"

"Then we can't do business.  What!  Give you a million, knowing you all
to be a pack of liars?  Bring Miss Florence back and the money is
yours.  We are tired of fighting."  As indeed Jones really was.  The
strain had been terrific for weeks.

"The money first.  We don't lie any better than you do.  Fork over.
You'll have to trust us.  We have no use for the girl once we get the
cash."

"And you'll never touch a penny of it, you blackguard!" cried Norton
from the doorway.

The agent turned to behold the reporter and the girl.  He did not stop
to ask questions, but bolted.  He never got beyond the door, however.

"Always the small fry," sighed Jones.  "And if I could have put my
hands on the money I'd have given it to him!  Ah, girl, it doesn't do
any good to talk to you, does it?"

"But they told me he was dying!"

Jones shrugged.




CHAPTER XVI

The maid stole into the house, wondering if she had been seen.  She
wanted to be loyal to this girl, but she was tired of the life; she
wanted to be her own mistress, and the small fortune offered her would
put her on the way to realize her ambition.  What had she not seen and
been of life since she joined the great detective force!  Lady's maid,
cook, ship stewardess, flash woman, actress, clerk, and a dozen other
employments.  Her pay, until she secured some fat reward, was but
twelve hundred a year; and here was five thousand in advance, with the
promise of five thousand more the minute her work was done.  And it was
simple work, without any real harm toward Florence as far as she was
concerned.  The whole thing rested upon one difficulty; would Jones
permit the girls to leave the house?

One day Florence found Susan sitting in a chair, her head in her hands.

"Why, Susan, what's the matter?" cried Florence.

"I don't know what is the matter, dear, but I haven't felt well for two
or three days.  I'm dizzy all the time; I can't read or sew or eat or
sleep."

"Why didn't you tell me?" said Florence, reproachfully.  She rang for
the detective-maid.  "Ella, I don't know anything about doctors
hereabouts."

"I know a good one, Miss Florence.  Shall I send for him?"

"Do; Susan is ill."

Jones was not prepared for treachery in his own household; so when he
heard that a doctor had been called to attend Susan he was without the
least suspicion that he had been betrayed.  More than this, there had
been no occasion to summon a doctor in the seven years Mr. Hargreave
had lived there.  So Jones went about his petty household affairs
without more thought upon the matter.  The maid had been recommended to
him as one of the shrewdest young women in the detective business.

The doctor arrived.  He was a real doctor; no doubt of that.  He
investigated Susan's condition--brought about by a subtle though not
dangerous poison--and instantly recommended the seashore.  Susan was
not used to being confined to the house; she was essentially an
out-of-doors little body.  The seashore would bring her about in no
time.  The doctor suggested Atlantic City because of its mildness
throughout the year and its nearness to New York.

"I'm afraid she'll have to go alone," said Jones gravely.

"I shan't stir!" declared Susan.  "I shan't leave my girl even if I am
sick."  Susan caught Florence's hand and pressed it.

"Would you like to go with her, Florence?" asked Jones, with a shy
glance at the strange doctor.  The shy glance was wasted.  The doctor
evinced no sign that it mattered one way or the other to him.

"It is nothing very serious now," he volunteered.  "But it may turn out
serious if it is not taken care of at once."

"What is the trouble?" inquired Jones, who was growing fond of Susan.

"Weak heart.  Sunshine and good sea air will strengthen her up again.
No, no!" as Jones drew forth his wallet.  "I'll send in my bill the
first of the month.  Sunshine and sea air; that's all that's necessary.
And now, good day."

All very businesslike; not the least cause in the world for any one to
suspect that a new trap was being set by the snarers.  The maid
returned to the sewing-room, while Florence coddled her companion and
made much of her.

Jones was suspicious, but dig in his mind as he would he could find no
earthly reason for this suspicion save that this attribute was now
instinctive, that it was always near the top.  If Susan was ill she
must be given good care; there was no getting around this fact.  Later,
he telephoned several prominent physicians.  The strange doctor was
recommended as a good ordinary practitioner and in good standing; and
so Jones dismissed his suspicions as having no hook to hang them on.

His hair would have tingled at the roots, however, had he known that
this same physician was one of the two who had signed the document
which had accredited Florence with insanity and had all but succeeded
in making a supposition a fact.  Nor was Jones aware of the fact that
the telephone wire had been tapped recently.  So when he finally
concluded to permit Florence to accompany Susan to Atlantic City he
telephoned to the detective agency to send up a trusty man, who was
shadowed from the moment he entered the Hargreave home till he started
for the railway station.  He became lost in the shuffle and was not
heard from till weeks later, in Havana.  The Black Hundred found a good
profit in the shanghaing business.

Susan began to pick up, as they say, the day after the arrival at
Atlantic City, due, doubtless, to the cessation of the poison she had
been taking unawares.  The two young women began to enjoy life for the
first time since they had left Miss Farlow's.  They were up with the
sun every day and went to bed tired but happy.  No one bothered them.
If some stray reporter encountered their signatures on the hotel
register, he saw nothing to excite his reportorial senses.  All this,
of course, was due to Norton's policy of keeping the affair out of the
papers.

Following Jones' orders, they made friends with none.  Those about the
hotel--especially the young men--when they made any advances were
politely snubbed.  Every night Florence would write to her good butler
to report what had taken place during the day, and he was left to judge
for himself if there was anything to arouse his suspicions.  He, of
course, believed the two were covertly guarded by the detective he had
sent after them.

When Braine called on Olga he found his doctor there.

"Well, what's the news?" he asked.

"I had better run down and inquire how the young lady is progressing,"
said the doctor, who was really a first-rate surgeon and who had
performed a number of skilled operations upon various members of the
Black Hundred anent their encounters with the police.  "I've got Miss
Florence where you want her.  It's up to you now."

"She ought to be separated from her companion.  We have left them alone
for a whole week, so Jones will not worry particularly.  A mighty
curious thing has turned up.  Before Hargreave's disappearance not a
dozen persons could recollect what Jones looked like.  He was rarely
ever in sight.  What do you suppose that signifies?"

"Don't ask me," shrugged the man of medicine.  "I shouldn't worry over
Jones."

"But we can't stir the old fool.  We can't get him out of that house.
I've tried to get that maid to put a little something in his coffee,
but she stands off at that.  She says that she did as she agreed in
regard to Florence, but her agreement ended there.  We have given the
jade five thousand already and she is clamoring for the balance."

"Have you threatened her?" asked Olga.

Braine smiled a little.  "My dear woman, it is fifty-fifty.  While I
have a hold on her, it is not quite so good as she has on me.  We are
not dealing with an ordinary servant we could threaten and scare.  No,
indeed; a shrewd little woman who desperately wanted money.  And she
will be paid; no getting out of it.  She will not move another step,
one way or the other, after she receives the balance.  Hargreave will
have a pretty steep bill to pay when the time comes."

"She has no idea where the million is?"

"If she had, she's quite capable of lugging it off all by herself,"
said Braine.

The doctor laughed.

"Olga," went on Braine, "you must look at it as I do; that it is still
in the middle of the game, and we have neither lost nor won."

"How do you know that Hargreave may not have at his beck and call an
organization quite as capable if not as large as ours?" suggested the
physician.

"That is not possible," Braine declared without hesitation.

"Well, it begins to look that way to me.  We've never made a move yet
that hasn't been blocked."

"Pure luck each time, I tell you; the devil's own luck always at the
critical moment, when everything seems to be in our hands.  Now, we
want Florence, and we've tried a hundred ways to accomplish this fact
and failed.  The question is, how to get her away from her companion?"

"Simple enough," said the doctor complacently.

"Out with it, if you have an idea."

The doctor leaned forward and whispered a few words.

"Well, I'm hanged!"  Braine laughed and slapped the doctor on the
shoulder.  "The simplest thing in the world.  Mad dog wouldn't be in
it.  I always said that you had gray matter if you cared to exert
yourself."

"Thanks," replied the doctor dryly.  "I'll drop down there to-morrow,
if you say so, ostensibly to see the other patient.  It will make a
deuce of a disturbance."

"Not if you scare the hotel people."

"That is what I propose to do.  They will not want such a thing known.
It would scare every one away for the rest of the season.  But of
course this depends upon whether they are honest or in the hotel
business to make money."

Again Braine laughed.  "Bring her back to New York alone, Esculapius,
and a fat check is yours.  Nothing could be simpler than an idea like
this.  It's a fact; no man can think of everything, and you've just
proved it to me.  I've tried to do a general's work without aids.
Olga, does any one watch me come and go any more?"

"No; I've watched a dozen nights.  The man has gone.  Either he found
out what he wanted or he gave up the job.  To my mind he found out what
he wanted."

"And what's that?"

"Heaven knows!" discouragedly.

"Come, doctor, suppose you and I go down to Daly's for a little turn at
billiards?"

"Nothing would suit me better."

"All aboard, then!  Good night, Olga, keep your hair on; I mean your
own hair.  We're going to win out, don't you worry.  In all games the
minute you begin to doubt you begin to lose."

That same night Norton sat at his desk, in his shirt sleeves, pounding
away at his typewriter.  From time to time he paused and teetered his
chair and scowled over his pipe at the starlit night outside.  Bang!
would go his chair again, and clickity-click would sing the keys of the
machine.  The story he was writing was in the ordinary routine; the
arrival of a great ocean liner with some political notables who were
not adverse to denouncing the present administration.  You will have
noticed, no doubt, that some disgruntled politician is always
denouncing the present administration, it matters not if it be
Republican or Democratic.  When you are out of a good job you are
always prone to denounce.  The yarn bored.  Norton because his thoughts
were miles southward.

He completed his story, yanked out the final sheet, called for a copy
boy, rose and sauntered over to the managing editor's door, before
which he paused indecisively.  The "old man" had been after him lately
regarding the Hargreave story, and he doubted if his errand would prove
successful.

However, he boldly opened the door and walked in.

"Humph!" said the "old man," twisting his cigar into the corner of his
mouth.  "Got that story?"

Norton sat down.  "Yes, but I have not got it for print yet.  Mr.
Blair, when you gave me the Hargreave job you gave me carte blanche."

"I did," grimly.  "But, on the other hand, I did not give you ten years
to clear it up in."

"Have I ever fallen down on a good story?" quietly.

"H'm, can't remember," grudgingly.

"Well, if you'll have patience I'll not fall down on this one.  It's
the greatest criminal story I ever handled, but it's so big that it's
going to take time."

"Gimme an outline."

"I have promised not to," with a grimness equal to the "old man's."
"If a line of this story trickles out it will mean that every other
paper will be moving around, and in the end will discover enough to
spoil my end of it.  I'll tell you this much: The most colossal band of
thieves this country ever saw is at one end of the stick.  And when I
say that counterfeiting and politics and millions are involved, you'll
understand how big it is.  This gang has city protection.  We are
running them all into a corner; but we want that corner so deep that
none of them can wriggle out of it."

"Umhm.  Go on."

"I want two months more."

The "old man" beat a tattoo with his fat pencil.  "Sixty days, then.
And if the yarn isn't on my desk at midnight, you--"

"Hunt for another job.  All right.  I came in to ask for three days'
leave."

"You're your own boss, Jim, for sixty days more.  Whadda y' mean
counterfeiting?"

"Those new tens and twenties.  If I stumble on that right, why, I can
turn it over without conflicting with the other story."

"Well, go to it."

"I'm turning in my regular work, day in and day out, and while doing it
I've gone through more hairbreadth escapes than you ever heard of.
They have been after me.  I've dodged falling safes; I've been
shanghaied, poisoned; but I haven't said a word."

"Good lord!  Do you mean all that?"

"Every word, sir."

"I'll make it ninety days, Jim; and if this story comes in I'll see
that you get a corking bonus."

"I'm not looking for bonuses.  I'm proud of my work.  To get this story
is all I want.  That'll be enough.  Thanks for the extension of time.
Good night."

So Florence received a long night letter in the morning.

And the doctor arrived at about the same time.  And called promptly
upon his patient.

"Fine!" he said.  "The sea air was just the thing.  A doctor always
likes to find his advice turning out well."

He glanced quizzically at Florence, who was the picture of glowing
health.  Suddenly he frowned anxiously.

"You need not look at me," she laughed.  "I never felt better in all my
life."

"Are you sure?"

"Why, what in the world do you mean?"

He did not speak, but stepped forward and took her by the wrist,
holding his watch in his other hand.  He shook his head.  He looked
very solemn, indeed.

"What is it?" demanded Susan, with growing terror.

"Go to your own room immediately and remain there for the present," he
ordered.  "I must see Miss Hargreave alone."

He opened the door and Susan passed out bewilderedly.  He returned to
Florence, who was even more bewildered than her companion.  The doctor
began to ask her questions; how she slept, if she was thirsty, felt
pains in her back.  She answered all these questions vaguely.  Not the
slightest suspicion entered her head that she was being hoodwinked.
Why should she entertain any suspicion?  This doctor, who seemed kindly
and benevolent, who had prescribed for Susan and benefited her, why
should she doubt him?

"In heaven's name, tell me what is the matter?" she pleaded.

"Stay here for a little while and I'll be back.  Under no circumstances
leave your room till I return."

He paced out into the hall, to meet the frantic Susan.

"We must see the manager at once," he replied to her queries.  "And we
must be extremely quiet about it.  There must be no excitement.  You
had better go to your room.  You must not go into Miss Hargreave's.
Tell me, where have you been?  Have you been trying to do any
charitable work among the poorer classes?"

"Only once," admitted Susan, now on the verge of tears.

"Only once is sufficient.  Come; we'll go and see the manager together."

They arrived at the desk, and the manager was summoned.

"I take it," began the doctor lowly, "that a contagious disease, if it
became known among your guests, would create a good deal of
disturbance?"

"Disturbance!  Good heavens, man, it would ruin my business for the
whole season!" exclaimed the astounded manager.

"I am sorry, but this young lady's companion has been stricken with
smallpox--"

The manager fell back against his desk, his jaw fallen.  Susan turned
as white as the marble top.

"The only way to avoid trouble is to have her conveyed immediately to
some place where she can be treated properly.  Not a word to any one
now; absolute secrecy or a panic."

The manager was glad enough to agree.

"She is not dangerous at present, but it is only a matter of a few
hours when the disease will become virulent.  If you will place a
porter before Miss Hargreave's door till I make arrangements to take
her away, that will simplify matters."

Smallpox!  Susan wandered aimlessly about, half out of her mind with
terror.  There was no help against such a dreaded disease.  Her
Florence, her pretty rosy-cheeked Florence, disfigured for life....!

"Miss Susan, where is Florence?"

"Oh, Mr. Norton!" she gasped.

"What's the trouble?" instantly alert.

"Florence has the smallpox!"

"Impossible!  Come with me."

But the porter having had the strictest orders from the manager,
refused to let them into Florence's room.

"Never mind, Susan.  Come along."  Out of earshot of the porter, he
said: "My room is directly above Florence's.  We'll see what can be
done.  This smells of the Black Hundred a mile off.  Smallpox!  Only
yesterday she wrote me that she never felt better.  Have you wired
Jones?"

"I never thought to!"

"Then I shall.  Our old friends are at work again."

"But it's the same doctor who sent me down here."

Norton frowned.

What followed all appeared in the reporter's story, as written three
months later.  He and Susan went up to his room, raised the flooring,
cut through the ceiling, and with the fire-escape rope dropped below.
One glance at Florence's tear-stained face was enough for him.
Norton's subsequent battle with the doctor and his accomplices made
very interesting reading.  Their escape from the hotel, their flight,
their encounter with one of the gang in the road, and Florence's
