"What else?"
"Nilan."
"Neeland?"
"I said so."
Sengoun placed the goldpiece in Nini's hand and looked at Neeland with
an uncomfortable laugh.
"I ought to know a gipsy, but they always astonish me, these Tziganes.
Tell us some more, Nini----" He beckoned a waiter and pointed
indignantly at the empty goblets.
The girls, resting their elbows on the tables, framed their faces with
slim and dusky hands, and gazed at Sengoun out of humorous,
half-veiled eyes.
"What do you wish to know, Prince Erlik?" they asked mockingly.
"Well, for example, is my country really mobilising?"
"Since the twenty-fifth."
"Tiens! And old Papa Kaiser and the Clown Prince Footit--what do
they say to that?"
"It must be stopped."
"What! Sang dieu! We must stop mobilising against the Austrians?
But we are not going to stop, you know, while Francis Joseph continues
to pull faces at poor old Servian Peter!"
Neeland said:
"The evening paper has it that Austria is more reasonable and that the
Servian affair can be arranged. There will be no war," he added
confidently.
"There will be war," remarked Nini with a shrug of her bare, brown
shoulders over which her hair and her gilded sequins fell in a bright
mass.
"Why?" asked Neeland, smiling.
"Why? Because, for one thing, you have brought war into Europe!"
"Come, now! No mystery!" said Sengoun gaily. "Explain how my comrade
has brought war into Europe, you little fraud!"
Nini looked at Neeland:
"What else except papers was in the box you lost?" she asked coolly.
Neeland, very red and uncomfortable, gazed back at the girl without
replying; and she laughed at him, showing her white teeth.
"You brought the Yellow Devil into Europe, M'sieu Nilan! Erlik, the
Yellow Demon. When he travels there is unrest. Where he rests there is
war!"
"You're very clever," retorted Neeland, quite out of countenance.
"Yes, we are," said Fifi, with her quick smile. "And who but M'sieu
Nilan should admit it?"
"Very clever," repeated Neeland, still amazed and profoundly uneasy.
"But this Yellow Devil you say I brought into Europe must have been
resting in America, then. And, if so, why is there no war there?"
"There would have been--with Mexico. You brought the Yellow Demon
here, but just in time!"
"All right. Grant that, then. But--perhaps he was a long time resting
in America. What about that, pretty gipsy?"
The girl shrugged again:
"Is your memory so poor, M'sieu Nilan? What has your country done but
fight since Erlik rested among your people? You fought in Samoa; in
Hawaii; your warships went to Chile, to Brazil, to San Domingo; the
blood of your soldiers and sailors was shed in Hayti, in Cuba, in the
Philippines, in China----"
"Good Lord!" exclaimed Neeland. "That girl is dead right!"
Sengoun threw back his handsome head and laughed without restraint;
and the gipsies laughed, too, their beautiful eyes and teeth flashing
under their black cascades of unbound hair.
"Show me your palms," said Nini, and drew Sengoun's and Neeland's
hands across the table, holding them in both of hers.
"See," she added, nudging Fifi with her shoulder, "both of them born
under the Dark Star! It is war they shall live to see--war!"
"Under the Dark Star, Erlik," repeated the other girl, looking closely
into the two palms, "and there is war there!"
"And death?" inquired Sengoun gaily. "I don't care, if I can lead a
sotnia up Achi-Baba and twist the gullet of the Padisha before I say
Fifi--Nini!"
The gipsies searched his palm with intent and brilliant gaze.
"Zut!" said Fifi. "Je ne vois rien que d'l'amour et la guerre aux
dames!"
"T'en fais pas!" laughed Sengoun. "I ask no further favour of
Fortune; I'll manage my regiment myself. And, listen to me, Fifi," he
added with a frightful frown, "if the war you predict doesn't arrive,
I'll come back and beat you as though you were married to a Turk!"
While they still explored his palm, whispering together at intervals,
Sengoun caught the chorus of the air which the orchestra was playing,
and sang it lustily and with intense pleasure to himself.
Neeland, unquiet to discover how much these casual strangers knew
about his own and intimate affairs, had become silent and almost
glum.
But the slight gloom which invaded him came from resentment toward
those people who had followed him from Brookhollow to Paris, and who,
in the very moment of victory, had snatched that satisfaction from
him.
He thought of Kestner and of Breslau--of Scheherazade, and the
terrible episode in her stateroom.
Except that he had seized the box in the Brookhollow house, there was
nothing in his subsequent conduct on which he could plume himself. He
could not congratulate himself on his wisdom; sheer luck had carried
him through as far as the rue Soleil d'Or--mere chance, and that
capricious fortune which sometimes convoys the stupid, fatuous, and
astigmatic.
Then he thought of Rue Carew. And, in his bosom, an intense desire to
distinguish himself began to burn.
If there were any way on earth to trace that accursed box----
He turned abruptly and looked at the two gipsies, who had relinquished
Sangoun's hand and who were still conversing together in low tones
while Sangoun beat time on the jingling table top and sang joyously
at the top of his baritone voice:
                            "Eh, zoum--zoum--zoum!
                            Boum--boum--boum!
                    Here's to the Artillery
                      Gaily riding by!
                    Fetch me a distillery,
                      Let me drink it dry--
                    Fill me full of sillery!
                    Here's to the artillery!
                            Zoum--zoum--zoum!
                            Boum--boum--boum!"
"Fifi!"
"M'sieu?"
"You're so clever! Where is that Yellow Devil now?"
"Pouf!" giggled Fifi. "On its way to Berlin, pardie!"
"That's easy to say. Tell me something else more expensive."
Nini said, surprised:
"What we know is free to Prince Erlik's friend. Did you think we sell
to Russians?"
"I don't know anything about you or where you get your information,"
said Neeland. "I suppose you're in the Secret Service of the Russian
Government."
"Mon ami, Nilan," said Fifi, smiling, "we should feel lonely
outside the Secret Service. Few in Europe are outside--few in the
world, fewer in the half-world. As for us Tziganes, who belong to
neither, the business of everybody becomes our secret to sell for a
silver piece--but not to Russians in the moment of peril!... Nor to
their comrades.... What do you desire to know, comrade?"
"Anything," he said simply, "that might help me to regain what I have
lost."
"And what do you suppose!" exclaimed Fifi, opening her magnificent
black eyes very wide. "Did you imagine that nobody was paying any
attention to what happened in the rue Soleil d'Or this noon?"
Nini laughed.
"The word flew as fast as the robber's taxicab. How many thousand
secret friends to the Triple Entente do you suppose knew of it half an
hour after it happened? From the Trocadero to Montparnasse, from the
Point du Jour to Charenton, from the Bois to the Bièvre, the word
flew. Every taxicab, omnibus, sapin, every bateau-mouche, every
train that left any terminal was watched.
"Five embassies and legations were instantly under redoubled
surveillance; hundreds of cafés, bars, restaurants, hôtels; all the
theatres, gardens, cabarets, brasseries.
"Your pigs of Apaches are not neglected, va! But, to my idea, they
got out of Paris before we watchers knew of the affair at all--in an
automobile, perhaps--perhaps by rail. God knows," said the girl,
looking absently at the dancing which had begun again. "But if we ever
lay our eyes on Minna Minti, we wear toys in our garters which will
certainly persuade her to take a little stroll with us."
After a silence, Neeland said:
"Is Minna Minti then so well known?"
"Not at the Opéra Comique," replied Fifi with a shrug, "but since
then."
"An artiste, that woman!" added Nini. "Why deny it? It appears that
she has twisted more than one red button out of a broadcloth coat."
"She'll get the Seraglio medal for this day's work," said Fifi.
"Or the croix-de-fer," added Nini. "Ah, zut! She annoys me."
"Did you ever hear of a place called the Café des Bulgars?" asked
Neeland, carelessly.
"Yes."
"What sort of place is it?"
"Like any other."
"Quite respectable?"
"Perfectly," said Nini, smiling. "One drinks good beer there."
"Munich beer," added Fifi.
"Then it is watched?" asked Neeland.
"All German cafés are watched. Otherwise, it is not suspected."
Sengoun, who had been listening, shook his head. "There's nothing to
interest us at the Café des Bulgars," he said. Then he summoned a
waiter and pointed tragically at the empty goblets.
CHAPTER XXXI
THE CAFÉ DES BULGARS
Their adieux to Fifi and Nini were elaborate and complicated by bursts
of laughter. The Tziganes recommended Captain Sengoun to go home and
seek further adventures on his pillow; and had it not been for the gay
babble of the fountain and the persistent perfume of flowers, he might
have followed their advice.
It was after the two young men had left the Jardin Russe that Captain
Sengoun positively but affectionately refused to relinquish possession
of Neeland's arm.
"Dear friend," he explained, "I am just waking up and I do not wish to
go to bed for days and days."
"But I do," returned Neeland, laughing. "Where do you want to go now,
Prince Erlik?"
The champagne was singing loudly in the Cossack's handsome head; the
distant brilliancy beyond the Place de la Concorde riveted his roving
eyes.
"Over there," he said joyously. "Listen, old fellow, I'll teach you
the skating step as we cross the Place! Then, in the first Bal, you
shall try it on the fairest form since Helen fell and Troy burned--or
Troy fell and Helen burned--it's all the same, old fellow--what you
call fifty-fifty, eh?"
Neeland tried to free his arm--to excuse himself; two policemen
laughed; but Sengoun, linking his arm more firmly in Neeland's,
crossed the Place in a series of Dutch rolls and outer edges, in which
Neeland was compelled to join. The Russian was as light and graceful
on his feet as one of the dancers of his own country; Neeland's
knowledge of skating aided his own less agile steps. There was
sympathetic applause from passing taxis and fiacres; and they might,
apparently, have had any number of fair partners for the asking, along
the way, except for Sengoun's headlong dive toward the brightest of
the boulevard lights beyond.
In the rue Royal, however, Sengoun desisted with sudden access of
dignity, remarking that such gambols were not worthy of the best
traditions of his Embassy; and he attempted to bribe the drivers of a
couple of hansom cabs to permit him and his comrade to take the reins
and race to the Arc de Triomphe.
Failing in this, he became profusely autobiographical, informing
Neeland of his birth, education, aims, aspirations.
"When I was twelve," he said, "I had known already the happiness of
the battle-shock against Kurd, Mongol, and Tartar. At eighteen my
ambition was to slap the faces of three human monsters. I told
everybody that I was making arrangements to do this, and I started for
Brusa after my first monster--Fehim Effendi--but the Vali telegraphed
to the Grand Vizier, and the Grand Vizier ran to Abdul the Damned, and
Abdul yelled for Sir Nicholas O'Connor; and they caught me in the Pera
Palace and handed me over to my Embassy."
Neeland shouted with laughter:
"Who were the other monsters?" he asked.
"The other two whose countenances I desired to slap? Oh, one was Abdul
Houda, the Sultan's star-reader, who chattered about my Dark Star
horoscope in the Yildiz. And the other was the Sultan."
"Who?"
"Abdul Hamid."
"What? You wished to slap his face?"
"Certainly. But Kutchuk Saïd and Kiamil Pasha requested me not
to--accompanied by gendarmes."
"You'd have lost your life," remarked Neeland.
"Yes. But then war would surely have come, and today my Emperor would
have held the Dardanelles where the Turkish flag is now flying over
German guns and German gunners."
He shook his head:
"Great mistake on my part," he muttered. "Should have pulled Abdul's
lop ears. Now, everything in Turkey is 'Yasak' except what Germans do
and say; and God knows we are farther than ever from St. Sophia....
I'm very thirsty with thinking so much, old fellow. Did you ever drink
German champagne?"
"I believe not----"
"Come on, then. You shall drink several gallons and never feel it.
It's the only thing German I could ever swallow."
"Prince Erlik, you have had considerable refreshment already."
"Copain, t'en fais pas!"
The spectacle of two young fellows in evening dress, in a friendly
tug-of-war under the lamp-posts of the Boulevard, amused the passing
populace; and Sengoun, noticing this, was inclined to mount a
boulevard bench and address the wayfarers, but Neeland pulled him down
and persuaded him into a quieter street, the rue Vilna.
"There's a German place, now!" exclaimed Sengoun, delighted.
And Neeland, turning to look, perceived the illuminated sign of the
Café des Bulgars.
German champagne had now become Sengoun's fixed idea; nothing could
dissuade him from it, nothing persuade him into a homeward bound taxi.
So Neeland, with a rather hazy idea that he ought not to do it,
entered the café with Senguon; and they seated themselves on a leather
wall-lounge before one of the numerous marble-topped tables.
"Listen," he said in a low voice to his companion, "this is a German
café, and we must be careful what we say. I'm not any too prudent and
I may forget this; but don't you!"
"Quite right, old fellow!" replied Sengoun, giving him an owlish look.
"I must never forget I'm a diplomat among these sales Boches----"
"Be careful, Sengoun! That expression is not diplomatic."
"Careful is the word, mon vieux," returned the other loudly and
cheerfully. "I'll bet you a dollar, three kopeks, and two sous that I
go over there and kiss the cashier----"
"No! Be a real diplomat, Sengoun!"
"I'm sorry you feel that way, Neeland, because she's unusually pretty.
And we might establish a triple entente until you find some Argive
Helen to quadruple it. Aha! Here is our German champagne! Positively
the only thing German a Russian can----"
"Listen! This won't do. People are looking at us----"
"Right, old fellow--always right! You know, Neeland, this friendship
of ours is the most precious, most delightful, and most inspiring
experience of my life. Here's a full goblet to our friendship! Hurrah!
As for Enver Pasha, may Erlik seize him!"
After they had honoured the toast, Sengoun looked about him
pleasantly, receptive, ready for any eventuality. And observing no
symptoms of any eventuality whatever, he suggested creating one.
"Dear comrade," he said, "I think I shall arise and make an incendiary
address----"
"No!"
"Very well, if you feel that way about it. But there is another way to
render the evening agreeable. You see that sideboard?" he continued,
pointing to a huge carved buffet piled to the ceiling with porcelain
and crystal. "What will you wager that I can not push it over with one
hand?"
But Neeland declined the wager with an impatient gesture, and kept his
eyes riveted on a man who had just entered the café. He could see only
the stranger's well-groomed back, but when, a moment later, the man
turned to seat himself, Neeland was not surprised to find himself
looking at Doc Curfoot.
"Sengoun," he said under his breath, "that type who just came in is
an American gambler named Doc Curfoot; and he is here with other
gamblers for the purpose of obtaining political information for some
government other than my own."
Sengoun regarded the new arrival with amiable curiosity:
"That worm? Oh, well, every city in Europe swarms with such maggots,
you know. It would be quite funny if he tries any blandishments on us,
wouldn't it?"
"He may. He's a capper. He's looking at us now. I believe he remembers
having seen me in the train."
"As for an hour or two at chemin-de-fer, baccarat, or roulette,"
remarked Sengoun, "I am not averse to a----"
"Watch him! The waiter who is taking his order may know who you
are--may be telling that gambler.... I believe he did! Now, let us
see what happens...."
Sengoun, delighted at the prospect of an eventuality, blandly emptied
his goblet and smiled generally upon everybody.
"I hope he will make our acquaintance and ask us to play," he said.
"I'm very lucky at chemin-de-fer. And if I lose I shall conclude that
there is trickery. Which would make it very lively for everybody," he
added with a boyish smile. But his dark eyes began to glitter and he
showed his beautiful, even teeth when he laughed.
"Ha!" he said. "A little what you call a mix-up might not come amiss!
That gives one an appetite; that permits one to perspire; that does
good to everybody and makes one sleep soundly! Shall we, as you say in
America, start something?"
Neeland, thinking of Ali-Baba and Golden Beard and of their undoubted
instigation by telegraph of the morning's robbery, wondered whether
the rendezvous of the robbers might not possibly be here in the Café
des Bulgars.
The gang of Americans in the train had named Kestner, Breslau, and
Weishelm--the one man of the gang whom he had never seen--as
prospective partners in this enterprise.
Here, somewhere in this building, were their gambling headquarters.
Was there any possible chance that the stolen box and its contents
might have been brought here for temporary safety?
Might it not now be hidden somewhere in this very building by men too
cunning to risk leaving the city when every train and every road would
be watched within an hour of the time that the robbery was
committed?
Leaning back carelessly on the lounge and keeping his eyes on the
people in the café, Neeland imparted these ideas to Sengoun in a low
voice--told him everything he knew in regard to the affair, and asked
his opinion.
"My opinion," said Sengoun, who was enchanted at any prospect of
trouble, "is that this house is 'suspect' and is worth searching. Of
course the Prefect could be notified, arrangements made, and a search
by the secret police managed. But, Neeland, my friend, think of what
pleasure we should be deprived!"
"How do you mean?"
"Why not search the place ourselves?"
"How?"
"Well, of course, we could be picturesque, go to my Embassy, and fill
our pockets with automatic pistols, and come back here and--well, make
them stand around and see how high they could reach with both hands."
Neeland laughed.
"That would be a funny jest, wouldn't it?" said Sengoun.
"Very funny. But----" He nudged Sengoun and directed his attention
toward the terrace outside, where waiters were already removing the
little iron tables and the chairs, and the few lingering guests were
coming inside the café.
"I see," muttered Sengoun; "it is already Sunday morning, and they're
closing. It's too late to go to the Embassy. They'd not let us in here
when we returned."
Neeland summoned a waiter with a nod:
"When do you close up inside here?"
"Tomorrow being Sunday, the terrace closes now, monsieur; but the café
remains open all night," explained the waiter with a noticeable German
accent.
"Thank you." And, to Sengoun: "I'd certainly like to go upstairs. I'd
like to see what it looks like up there--take a glance around."
"Very well, let us go up----"
"We ought to have some excuse----"
"We'll think of several on the way," rising with alacrity, but Neeland
pulled him back.
"Wait a moment! It would only mean a fight----"
"All fights," explained Sengoun seriously, "are agreeable--some more
so. So if you are ready, dear comrade----"
"But a row will do us no good----"
"Pardon, dear friend, I have been in serious need of one for an hour
or two----"
"I don't mean that sort of 'good,'" explained Neeland, laughing. "I
mean that I wish to look about up there--explore----"
"Quite right, old fellow--always right! But--here's an idea! I could
stand at the head of the stairs and throw them down as they mounted,
while you had leisure to look around for your stolen box----"
"My dear Prince Erlik, we've nothing to shoot with, and it's likely
they have. There's only one way to get upstairs with any chance of
learning anything useful. And that is to start a row between
ourselves." And, raising his voice as though irritated, he called for
the reckoning, adding in a tone perfectly audible to anybody in the
vicinity that he knew where roulette was played, and that he was going
whether or not his friend accompanied him.
Sengoun, delighted, recognised his cue and protested in loud, nasal
tones that the house to which his comrade referred was suspected of
unfair play; and a noisy dispute began, listened to attentively by the
pretty but brightly painted cashier, the waiters, the gérant, and
every guest in the neighbourhood.
"As for me," cried Sengoun, feigning to lose his temper, "I have no
intention of being tricked. I was not born yesterday--not I! If there
is to be found an honest wheel in Paris that would suit me. Otherwise,
I go home to bed!"
"It is an honest wheel, I tell you----"
"It is not! I know that place!"
"Be reasonable----"
"Reasonable!" repeated Sengoun appealingly to the people around them.
"Permit me to ask these unusually intelligent gentlemen whether it is
reasonable to play roulette in a place where the wheel is notoriously
controlled and the management a dishonest one! Could a gentleman be
expected to frequent or even to countenance places of evil repute?
Messieurs, I await your verdict!" And he folded his arms
dramatically.
Somebody said, from a neighbouring table:
"Vous avez parfaitement raison, monsieur!"
"I thank you," cried Sengoun, with an admirably dramatic bow.
"Therefore, I shall now go home to bed!"
Neeland, maintaining his gravity with difficulty, followed Sengoun
toward the door, still pretending to plead with him; and the gérant,
a tall, blond, rosy and unmistakable German, stepped forward to unlock
the door.
As he laid his hand on the bolt he said in a whisper:
"If the gentlemen desire the privilege of an exclusive club where
everything is unquestionably conducted----"
"Where?" demanded Neeland, abruptly.
"On the third floor, monsieur."
"Here?"
"Certainly, sir. If the gentlemen will honour me with their names, and
will be seated for one little moment, I shall see what can be
accomplished."
"Very well," said Sengoun, with a short, incredulous laugh. "I'm
Prince Erlik, of the Mongol Embassy, and my comrade is Mr. Neeland,
Consul General of the United States of America in the Grand Duchy of
Gerolstein!"
The gérant smiled. After he had gone away toward the further room in
the café, Neeland remarked to Sengoun that doubtless their real names
were perfectly well known, and Sengoun disdainfully shrugged his
indifference:
"What can one expect in this dirty rat-nest of Europe? Abdul the
Damned employed one hundred thousand spies in Constantinople alone!
And William the Sudden admired him. Why, Neeland, mon ami, I never
take a step in the streets without being absolutely certain that I am
watched and followed. What do I care! Except that towns make me sick.
But the only cure is a Khirgiz horse and a thousand lances. God send
them. I'm sick of cities."
A few moments later the gérant returned and, in a low voice,
requested them to accompany him.
They passed leisurely through the café, between tables where lowered
eyes seemed to deny any curiosity; but guests and waiters looked after
them after they had passed, and here and there people whispered
together--particularly two men who had followed them from the
sun-dial fountain in the rue Soleil d'Or to the Jardin Russe, across
the Place de la Concorde, and into the Café des Bulgars in the rue
Vilna.
On the stairs Neeland heard Sengoun still muttering to himself:
"Certainly I am sick of cities and narrow strips of sky. What I need
is a thousand lances at a gallop, and a little Kirghiz horse between
my knees."
CHAPTER XXXII
THE CERCLE EXTRANATIONALE
The suite of rooms into which they were ushered appeared to be
furnished in irreproachable taste. Except for the salon at the
further end of the suite, where play was in progress, the charming
apartment might have been a private one; and the homelike simplicity
of the room, where books, flowers, and even a big, grey cat confirmed
the first agreeable impression, accented the lurking smile on
Sengoun's lips.
Doc Curfoot, in evening dress, came forward to receive them, in
company with another man, young, nice-looking, very straight, and with
the high, square shoulders of a Prussian.
"Bong soire, mussoors," said Curfoot genially. "J'ai l'honnoor de
vous faire connaitre mong ami, Mussoor Weishelm."
They exchanged very serious bows with "Mussoor" Weishelm, and Curfoot
retired.
In excellent French Weishelm inquired whether they desired supper; and
learning that they did not, bowed smilingly and bade them welcome:
"You are at home, gentlemen; the house is yours. If it pleases you to
sup, we offer you our hospitality; if you care to play, the salon is
at your disposal, or, if you prefer, a private room. Yonder is the
buffet; there are electric bells at your elbow. You are at home," he
repeated, clicked his heels together, bowed, and took his leave.
Sengoun dropped into a comfortable chair and sent a waiter for caviar,
toast, and German champagne.
Neeland lighted a cigarette, seated himself, and looked about him
curiously.
Over in a corner on a sofa a rather pretty woman, a cigarette between
her jewelled fingers, was reading an evening newspaper. Two others in
the adjoining room, young and attractive, their feet on the fireplace
fender, conversed together over a sandwich, a glass of the widely
advertised Dubonnet, and another of the equally advertised Bon Lait
Maggi--as serenely and as comfortably as though they were by their own
firesides.
"Perhaps they are," remarked Sengoun, plastering an oblong of hot
toast with caviar. "Birds of this kind nest easily anywhere."
Neeland continued to gaze toward the salon where play was in
progress. There did not seem to be many people there. At a small table
he recognised Brandes and Stull playing what appeared to be bridge
whist with two men whom he had never before seen. There were no women
playing.
As he watched the round, expressionless face of Brandes, who was
puffing a long cigar screwed tightly into the corner of his
thin-lipped mouth, it occurred to him somewhat tardily what Rue Carew
had said concerning personal danger to himself if any of these people
believed him capable of reconstructing from memory any of the stolen
plans.
He had not thought about that specific contingency; instinct alone had
troubled him a little when he first entered the Café des Bulgars.
However, his unquiet eyes could discover nothing of either Kestner or
Breslau; and, somehow, he did not even think of encountering Ilse
Dumont in such a place. As for Brandes and Stull, they did not
recognise him at all.
So, entirely reassured once more by the absence of Ali-Baba and Golden
Beard, and of Scheherazade whom he had no fear of meeting, Neeland ate
his caviar with a relish and examined his surroundings.
Of course it was perfectly possible that the stolen papers had been
brought here. There were three other floors in the building, too, and
he wondered what they were used for.
Sengoun's appetite for conflict waned as he ate and drank; and a
violent desire to gamble replaced it.
"You poke about a bit," he said to Neeland. "Talk to that girl over
there and see what you can learn. As for me, I mean to start a little
flirtation with Mademoiselle Fortuna. Does that suit you?"
If Sengoun wished to play it was none of Neeland's business.
"Do you think it an honest game?" he asked, doubtfully.
"With negligible stakes all first-class gamblers are honest."
"If I were you, Sengoun, I wouldn't drink anything more."
"Excellent advice, old fellow!" emptying his goblet with satisfaction.
And, rising to his firm and graceful height, he strolled away toward
the salon where play progressed amid the most decorous and edifying
of atmospheres.
Neeland watched him disappear, then he glanced curiously at the girl
on the sofa who was still preoccupied with her newspaper.
So he rose, sauntered about the room examining the few pictures and
bronzes, modern but excellent. The carpet under foot was thick and
soft, but, as he strolled past the girl who seemed to be so intently
reading, she looked up over her paper and returned his civil
recognition of her presence with a slight smile.
As he appeared inclined to linger, she said with pleasant
self-possession:
"These newspaper rumours, monsieur, are becoming too persistent to
amuse us much longer. War talk is becoming vieux jeu."
"Why read them?" inquired Neeland with a smile.
"Why?" She made a slight gesture. "One reads what is printed, I
suppose."
"Written and printed by people who know no more about the matter in
question than you and I, mademoiselle," he remarked, still smiling.
"That is perfectly true. Why is it worth while for anyone to search
for truth in these days when everyone is paid to conceal it?"
"Oh," he said, "not everyone."
"No; some lie naturally and without pay," she admitted indifferently.
"But there are still others. For example, mademoiselle, yourself."
"I?" She laughed, not troubling to refute the suggestion of her
possible truthfulness.
He said:
"This--club--is furnished in excellent taste."
"Yes; it is quite new."
"Has it a name?"
"I believe it is called the Cercle Extranationale. Would monsieur also
like to know the name of the club cat?"
They both laughed easily, but he could make nothing of her.
"Thank you," he said; "and I fear I have interrupted your
reading----"
"I have read enough lies; I am quite ready to tell you a few. Shall
I?"
"You are most amiable. I have been wondering what the other floors in
this building are used for."
"Private apartments," she replied smiling, looking him straight in the
eyes. "Now you don't know whether I've told you the truth or not; do
you?"
"Of course I know."
"Which, then?"
"The truth."
She laughed and indicated a chair; and he seated himself.
"Who is the dark, nice-looking gentleman accompanying you?" she
enquired.
"How could you see him at all through your newspaper?"
"I poked a hole, of course."
"To look at him or at me?"
"Your mirror ought to reassure you. However, as an afterthought, who
is he?"
"Prince Erlik, of Mongolia," replied Neeland solemnly.
"I supposed so. We of the infernal aristocracy belong together. I am
the Contessa Diabletta d'Enfer."
He inclined gravely:
"I'm afraid I don't belong here," he said. "I'm only a Yankee."
"Hell is full of them," she said, smiling. "All Yankees belong where
Prince Erlik and I are at home.... Do you play?"
"No. Do you?"
"It depends on chance."
"It would give me much pleasure----"
"Thank you, not tonight." And in the same, level, pleasant voice:
"Don't look immediately, but from where you sit you can see in the
mirror opposite two women seated in the next room."
After a moment he nodded.
"Are they watching us?"
"Yes."
"Mr. Neeland?"
He reddened with surprise.
"Get Captain Sengoun and leave," she said, still smiling. "Do it
carelessly, convincingly. Neither of you needs courage; both of you
lack common sense. Get up, take leave of me nicely but regretfully, as
though I had denied you a rendezvous. You will be killed if you remain
here."
For a moment Neeland hesitated, but curiosity won:
"Who is likely to try anything of that sort?" he asked. And a tingling
sensation, not wholly unpleasant, passed over him.
"Almost anyone here, if you are recognised," she said, as gaily as
though she were imparting delightful information.
"But you recognise us. And I'm certainly not dead yet."
"Which ought to tell you more about me than I am likely to tell
anybody. Now, when I smile at you and shake my head, make your adieux
to me, find Captain Sengoun, and take your departure. Do you
understand?"
"Are you really serious?"
"It is you who should be serious. Now, I give you your signal,
Monsieur Neeland----"
But the smile stiffened on her pretty face, and at the same moment he
was aware that somebody had entered the room and was standing directly
behind him.
He turned on his chair and looked up into the face of Ilse Dumont.
There was a second's hesitation, then he was on his feet, greeting her
cordially, apparently entirely at ease and with nothing on his mind
except the agreeable surprise of the encounter.
"I had your note," he said. "It was charming of you to write, but very
neglectful of you not to include your address. Tell me, how have you
been since I last saw you?"
Ilse Dumont's red lips seemed to be dry, for she moistened them
without speaking. In her eyes he saw peril--knowledge of something
terrible--some instant menace.
Then her eyes, charged with lightning, slowly turned from him to the
girl on the sofa who had not moved. But in her eyes, too, a little
flame began to flicker and play, and the fixed smile relaxed into an
expression of cool self-possession.
Neeland's pleasant, careless voice broke the occult tension:
"This is a pretty club," he said; "everything here is in such
excellent taste. You might have told me about it," he added to Ilse
with smiling reproach; "but you never even mentioned it, and I
discovered it quite by accident."
Ilse Dumont seemed to find her voice with an effort:
"May I have a word with you, Mr. Neeland?" she asked.
"Always," he assured her promptly. "I am always more than happy to
listen to you----"
"Please follow me!"
He turned to the girl on the sofa and made his adieux with
conventional ceremony and a reckless smile which said:
"You were quite right, mademoiselle; I'm in trouble already."
Then he followed Ilse Dumont into the adjoining room, which was lined
with filled bookcases and where the lounges and deep chairs were
covered with leather.
Halting by the library table, Ilse Dumont turned to him--turned on him
a look such as he never before had encountered in any living woman's
eyes--a dead gaze, dreadful, glazed, as impersonal as the fixed regard
of a corpse.
She said:
"I came.... They sent for me.... I did not believe they had the right
man.... I could not believe it, Neeland."
A trifle shaken, he said in tones which sounded steady enough:
"What frightens you so, Scheherazade?"
"Why did you come? Are you absolutely mad?"
"Mad? No, I don't think so," he replied with a forced smile. "What
threatens me here, Scheherazade?"--regarding her pallid face
attentively.
"Death.... You must have known it when you came."
"Death? No, I didn't know it."
"Did you suppose that if they could get hold of you they'd let you
go?--A man who might carry in his memory the plans for which they
tried to kill you? I wrote to you--I wrote to you to go back to
America! And--this is what you have done instead!"
"Well," he said in a pleasant but rather serious voice, "if you
really believe there is danger for me if I remain here, perhaps I'd
better go."
"You can't go!"
"You think I'll be stopped?"
"Yes. Who is your crazy companion? I heard that he is Alak
Sengoun--the headlong fool--they call Prince Erlik. Is it true?"
"Where did you hear all these things?" he demanded. "Where were you
when you heard them?"
"At the Turkish Embassy. Word came that they had caught you. I did not
believe it; others present doubted it.... But as the rumour concerned
you, I took no chances; I came instantly. I--I had rather be dead
than see you here----" Her voice became unsteady, but she controlled
it at once:
"Neeland! Neeland! Why did you come? Why have you undone all I tried
to do for you----?"
He looked intently at Ilse Dumont, then his gaze swept the handsome
suite of rooms. No one seemed to notice him; in perspective, men moved
leisurely about the further salon, where play was going on; and
there seemed to be no one else in sight. And, as he stood there, free,
in full pride and vigour of youth and strength, he became incredulous
that anything could threaten him which he could not take care of.
A smile grew in his eyes, confident, humorous, a little hint of
tenderness in it:
"Scheherazade," he said, "you are a dear. You pulled me out of a
dreadful mess on the Volhynia. I offer you gratitude, respect, and
the very warm regard for you which I really cherish in my heart."
He took her hands, kissed them, looked up half laughing, half in
earnest.
"If you're worried," he said, "I'll find Captain Sengoun and we'll
depart----"
She retained his hands in a convulsive clasp:
"Oh, Neeland! Neeland! There are men below who will never let you
pass! And Breslau and Kestner are coming here later. And that devil,
Damat Mahmud Bey!"
"Golden Beard and Ali Baba and the whole Arabian Nights!" exclaimed
Neeland. "Who is Damat Mahmud Bey, Scheherazade dear?"
"The shadow of Abdul Hamid."
"Yes, dear child, but Abdul the Damned is shut up tight in a
fortress!"
"His shadow dogs the spurred heels of Enver Pasha," she said, striving
to maintain her composure. "Oh, Neeland!--A hundred thousand Armenians
are yet to die in that accursed shadow! And do you think Mahmud Damat
will hesitate in regard to you!"
"Nonsense! Does a murderous Moslem go about Paris killing people he
doesn't happen to fancy? Those things aren't done----"
"Have you and Sengoun any weapons at all?" she interrupted
desperately, "Anything!--A sword cane----?"
"No. What the devil does all this business mean?" he broke out
impatiently. "What's all this menace of lawlessness--this impudent
threat of interference----"
"It is war!"
"War?" he repeated, not quite understanding her.
She caught him by the arm:
"War!" she whispered; "War! Do you understand? They don't care what
they do now! They mean to kill you here in this place. They'll be out
of France before anybody finds you."
"Has war actually been declared?" he asked, astounded.
"Tomorrow! It is known in certain circles!" She dropped his arm and
clasped her hands and stood there twisting them, white, desperate,
looking about her like a hunted thing.
"Why did you do this?" she repeated in an agonised voice. "What can I
do? I'm no traitor!... But I'd give you a pistol if I had one----" She
checked herself as the girl who had been reading an evening newspaper
on a sofa, and to whom Neeland had been talking when Ilse Dumont
entered, came sauntering into the room.
The eyes of both women met; both turned a trifle paler. Then Ilse
Dumont walked slowly up to the other:
"I overheard your warning," she said with a deadly stare.
"Really?"
Ilse stretched out her bare arm, palm upward, and closed the fingers
tightly:
"I hold your life in my hand. I have only to speak. Do you
understand?"
"No."
"You are lying. You do understand. You take double wages; but it is
not France you betray! Nor Russia!"
"Are you insane?"
"Almost. Where do you carry them?"
"What?"
"Answer quickly. Where? I tell you, I'll expose you in another
moment if you don't answer me! Speak quickly!"
The other woman had turned a ghastly white; for a second or two she
remained dumb, then, dry-lipped:
"Above--the knee," she stammered; but there was scarcely a sound from
the blanched lips that formed the words.
"Pistols?"
"Yes."
"Loaded? Both of them?"
"Yes."
"Clips?"
"No."
"Unstrap them!"
The woman turned, bent almost double, twisting her supple body
entirely around; but Ilse Dumont was at her side like a flash and
caught her wrist as she withdrew her hand from the hem of her fluffy
skirt.
"Now--take your life!" said Ilse Dumont between her teeth. "There's
the door! Go out!"--following her with blazing eyes--"Stop! Stand
where you are until I come!"
Then she came quickly to where Neeland stood, astonished; and thrust
two automatic pistols into his hands.
"Get Sengoun," she whispered. "Don't go down-stairs, for God's sake.
Get to the roof, if you can. Try--oh, try, try, Neeland, my friend!"
Her voice trembled; she looked into his eyes--gave him, in that swift
regard, all that a woman withholds until the right man asks.
Her lips quivered; she turned sharply on her heel, went to the outer
hallway, where the other woman stood motionless.
"What am I to do with you?" demanded Ilse Dumont. "Do you think you
are going out of here to summon the police? Mount those stairs!"
The woman dropped her hand on the banisters, heavily, set foot on the
first stair, then slowly mounted as though her little feet in their
dainty evening slippers were weighted with ball and chain.
Ilse Dumont followed her, opened a door in the passage, motioned her
to enter. It was a bedroom that the electric light revealed. The woman
entered and stood by the bed as though stupefied.
"I'll keep my word to you," said Ilse Dumont. "When it becomes too
late for you to do us any mischief, I'll return and let you go."
And she stepped back across the threshold and locked the door on the
outside.
As she did so, Neeland and Sengoun came swiftly up the stairs, and she
beckoned them to follow, gathered the skirts of her evening gown into
one hand, and ran up the stairs ahead of them to the fifth floor.
In the dim light Neeland saw that the top floor was merely a vast
attic full of débris from the café on the ground floor--iron tables
which required mending or repainting, iron chairs, great jars of
artificial stone with dead baytrees standing in them, parts of rusty
stoves and kitchen ranges, broken cutlery in boxes, cracked table
china and heavier kitchen crockery in tubs which once had held
flowers.
The only windows gave on a court. Through their dirty panes already
the grey light of that early Sunday morning glimmered, revealing the
contents of the shadowy place, and the position of an iron ladder
hooked to two rings under the scuttle overhead.
Ilse Dumont laid her finger on her lips, conjuring silence, then,
clutching her silken skirts, she started up the iron ladder, reached
the top, and, exerting all her strength, lifted the hinged scuttle
leading to the leads outside.
Instantly somebody challenged her in a guttural voice. She stood there
a few moments in whispered conversation, then, from outside, somebody
lowered the scuttle cover; the girl locked it, descended the iron
ladder backwards, and came swiftly across to where Neeland and Sengoun
were standing, pistols lifted.
"They're guarding the roof," she whispered, "--two men. It is
hopeless, that way."
"The proper way," said Sengoun calmly, "is for us to shoot our way out
of this!"
The girl turned on him in a passion:
"Do you suppose I care what happens to you?" she said. "If there
were no one else to consider you might do as you pleased, for all it
concerns me!"
Sengoun reddened:
"Be silent, you treacherous little cat!" he retorted. "Do you imagine
your riffraff are going to hold me here when I'm ready to depart!
Me! A free Cossack! Bah!"
"Don't talk that way, Sengoun," said Neeland sharply. "We owe these
pistols to her."
"Oh," muttered Sengoun, shooting a menacing glance at her. "I didn't
understand that." Then his scowl softened and a sudden laugh cleared
his face.
"I'm sorry, mademoiselle," he said. "You're quite welcome to your low
opinion of me. But if anyone should ask me, I'd say that I don't
understand what is happening to us. And after a while I'll become
angry and go downstairs for information."
"They know nothing about you in the salle de jeu," she said, "but on
the floor below they're waiting to kill you."
Neeland, astonished, asked her whether the American gamblers in the
salon where Sengoun had been playing were ignorant of what was going
on in the house.
"What Americans?" she demanded, incredulously. "Do you mean
Weishelm?"
"Didn't you know there were Americans employed in the salle de jeu?"
asked Neeland, surprised.
"No. I have not been in this house for a year until I came tonight.
This place is maintained by the Turkish Government--" She flashed a
glance at Sengoun--"you're welcome to the information now," she
added contemptuously. And then, to Neeland: "There was, I believe,
some talk in New York about adding one or two Americans to the
personnel, but I opposed it."
"They're here," said Neeland drily.
"Do you know who they are?"
"Yes. There's a man called Doc Curfoot----"
"Who!!"
And suddenly, for the first time, Neeland remembered that she had been
the wife of one of the men below.
"Brandes and Stull are the others," he said mechanically.
The girl stared at him as though she did not comprehend, and she
passed one hand slowly across her forehead and eyes.
"Eddie Brandes? Here? And Stull? Curfoot? Here in this house!"
"In the salon below."
"They can't be!" she protested in an odd, colourless voice. "They
were bought soul and body by the British Secret Service!"
All three stood staring at one another; the girl flushed, clenched her
hand, then let it fall by her side as though utterly overcome.
"All this espionage!" cried Sengoun, furiously. "--It makes me sick, I
tell you! Where everybody betrays everybody is no place for a free
Cossack!----"
The terrible expression on the girl's face checked him; she said,
slowly:
"It is we others who have been betrayed, it seems. It is we who are
trapped here. They've got us all--every one of us. Oh, my God!--every
one of us--at last!"
She lifted her haggard face and stared at the increasing light which
was turning the window panes a sickly yellow.
"With sunrise comes war," she said in a stunned voice, as though to
convince herself. "We are caught here in this house. And Kestner and
Weishelm and Breslau and I----" she trembled, framing her burning face
in slim hands that were like ice. "Do you understand that Brandes and
Curfoot, bought by England, have contracted to deliver us to a French
court martial?"
The men looked at her in silence.
"Kestner and Breslau knew they had been bought. One of our own people
witnessed that treachery. But we never dreamed that these traitors
would venture into this house tonight. We should have come here
ourselves instead of going to the Turkish Embassy. That was Mahmud
Damat's meddling! His messenger insisted. God! What a mistake! What a
deathly mistake for all of us!"
She leaned for a moment against one of the iron pillars which
supported the attic roof, and covered her face with her hands.
After a moment, Neeland said:
"I don't understand why you can't leave this house if you are in
danger. You say that there are men downstairs who are waiting to kill
us--waiting only for Kestner and Breslau and Mahmud Damat to arrive."
She said faintly:
"I did not before understand Mahmud's delay. Now, I understand. He has
been warned. Breslau and Kestner will not come. Otherwise, you now
would be barricaded behind that breastwork of rubbish, fighting for
your lives."
"But you say there are men on the stairs below who are ready to kill
us if we try to leave the house."
"They, too, are trapped without knowing it. War will come with
sunrise. This house has been under surveillance since yesterday
afternoon. They have not closed in on us yet, because they are leaving
the trap open in hopes of catching us all. They are waiting for
Breslau and Kestner and Mahmud Damat.... But they'll never come,
now.... They are out of the city by this time.... I know them. They
are running for their lives at this hour.... And we--we lesser
ones--caught here--trapped--reserved for a French court martial and a
firing squad in a barrack square!"
She shuddered and pressed her hands over her temples.
Neeland said:
"I am going to stand by you. Captain Sengoun will do the same."
She shook her head:
"No use," she said with a shiver. "I am too well known. They have my
dossier almost complete. My procès will be a brief one."
"Can't you get away by the roof? There are two of your men up
there."
"They themselves are caught, and do not even know it. They too will
face a squad of execution before the sun rises tomorrow. And they
never dream of it up there----"
She made a hopeless gesture:
"What is the use! When I came here from the Turkish Embassy, hearing
that you were here but believing the information false, I discovered
you conversing with a Russian spy--overheard her warn you to leave
this house.
"And there, all the while, unknown to me, in the salle de jeu were
Curfoot and that unspeakable scoundrel Brandes! Why, the place was
swarming with enemies--and I never dreamed it!... Yet--I might have
feared some such thing--I might have feared that the man, Brandes, who
had betrayed me once, would do it again if he ever had the chance....
And he's done it."
There was a long silence. Ilse stood staring at the melancholy greyish
light on the window panes.
She said as though to herself:
"I shall never see another daybreak."... After a moment she turned and
began to pace the attic, a strange, terrible figure of haggard youth
in the shadowy light. "How horribly still it is at daybreak!" she
breathed, halting before Neeland. "How deathly quiet----"
The dry crack of a pistol cut her short. Then, instantly, in the dim
depths of the house, shot followed shot in bewildering succession,
faster, faster, filling the place with a distracting tumult.
Neeland jerked up his pistol as a nearer volley rattled out on the
landing directly underneath.
Sengoun, exasperated, shouted:
"Well, what the devil is all this!" and ran toward the head of the
stairs, his pistol lifted for action.
Then, in the garret doorway, Weishelm appeared, his handsome face
streaming blood. He staggered, turned mechanically toward the stairs
again with wavering revolver; but a shot drove him blindly backward
and another hurled him full length across the floor, where he lay with
both arms spread out, and the last tremors, running from his feet to
his twitching face.
CHAPTER XXXIII
A RAT HUNT
The interior of the entire house was now in an uproar; shots came fast
from every landing; the semi-dusk of stair-well and corridor was
lighted by incessant pistol flashes and the whole building echoed the
deafening racket.
"What do you make of it?" shouted Sengoun furiously, standing like a
baited and perplexed bull. "Who's fighting who in this fool of a
place? By Erlik! I'd like to know whom I'm to fire at!"
Ilse Dumont, creeping along the wall, looked fearfully down at
Weishelm who no longer moved where he lay on the dusty floor, with
eyes and mouth open and his distorted face already half covered by a
wet and crawling scarlet mask.
"Brandes and Stull are betraying us," she whispered. "They are killing
my comrades--on the stairs down there----"
"If that is true," called out Neeland in a low, cautious voice, "you'd
better wait a moment, Sengoun!"
But Sengoun's rage for combat had already filled him to overflowing,
and the last rag of patience left him.
"I don't care who is fighting!" he bellowed. "It's all one to me! Now
is the time to shoot our way out of this. Come on, Neeland! Hurrah for
the Terek Cossacks! Another town taken! Hurrah!"
Neeland caught Ilse by the wrist:
"You'd better get free of this house while you can!" he said, dragging
her with him after Sengoun, who had already reached the head of the
stairs and was starting down, peering about for a target.
Suddenly, on the landing below, Golden Beard and Ali Baba appeared,
caught sight of Sengoun and Neeland above, and opened fire on them
instantly, driving them back from the head of the staircase flat
against the corridor wall. But Golden Beard, seeming to realise now
that the garret landing was held and the way to the roof cut off,
began to retreat from the foot of the garret stairs with Ali Baba
following, their restless, upward-pointed pistols searching for the
slightest movement in the semi-obscurity of the hallway above.
Sengoun, fuming and fretting, had begun to creep toward the head of
the stairs again, when there came a rattling hail of shots from below,
a rush, the trample of feet, the crash of furniture and startling slam
of a door.
Downstairs straight toward the uproar ran Sengoun with Neeland beside
him. The halls were swimming in acrid fumes; the floors trembled and
shook under the shock as a struggling, fighting knot of men went
tumbling down the stairway below, reached the landing and burst into
the rooms of the Cercle Extranationale.
Leaning over the banisters, Neeland saw Golden Beard turn on Doc
Curfoot, raging, magnificent as a Viking, his blue eyes ablaze. He
hurled his empty pistol at the American; seized chairs, bronzes,
andirons, the clock from the mantel, and sent a storm of heavy
missiles through the doorway among the knot of men who were pressing
him and who had already seized Ali Baba.
Then, from the banisters above, Neeland and Sengoun saw Brandes,
moving stealthily, swiftly, edge his way to a further door.
Steadying the elbow of his pistol hand in the hollow cup of his left
palm, his weapon level, swerving as his quarry moved, he presently
fired at Golden Beard and got him through the back. And then he shot
him again deliberately, through the body, as the giant turned, made a
menacing gesture toward him; took an uncertain step in his direction;
another step, wavering, blindly grotesque; then stood swaying there
under the glare of the partly shattered chandelier from which hung
long shreds of crystal prisms.
And Brandes, aiming once more with methodical and merciless precision,
and taking what time he required to make a bull's-eye on this great,
reeling, golden-crowned bull, fired the third shot at his magnificent
