it's going to be the spoil of damned German efficiency. She thinks the
Huns are waking up and civilisations going under. But I don't. I believe
we're going to be a great unwieldy, industrial monster, no cohesion in
us and no patriotism, no citizenship."
"No patriotism!" Miss Amabel rose involuntarily and stood there
trembling. Her troubled eyes sought the pictured eyes of the old Judge.
"Jeff, you don't know what you're saying."
"I do," said Jeff, "mighty well. Sit down, dear, or I shall have to
salute the flag, too, and I'm too lazy."
She sat down, but she was trembling.
"And I'm going to save Addington, if I can," said Jeff. "I haven't the
tongue of men and angels or I'd go out and try to salvage the whole
business. But I can't. Addington's more my size. If there were invasion,
you know, a crippled man couldn't do more than try to defend his own
dooryard. Dear old girl, we've got to save Addington."
"I'm trying," said she. "Jeff, dear, I'm trying. And I've a lot of
money. I don't know how it rolled up so."
"Don't give it to Weedon Moore, that's all," he ventured, and then, in
the stiffening of her whole body, he saw it was a mistake even to
mention Moore. Her large charity made her fiercely partisan. He ventured
the audacious personal appeal. "Give me some, Amabel, if you've really
got so much. Let me put on some plays, in a simple way, and try to make
your workmen see what we're at, when we talk about home and country.
They despise us, Amabel, except on pay day. Let's hypnotise 'em, please
'em in some other way besides shorter hours and easier strikes. Let's
make 'em fall over themselves to be Americans."
Miss Amabel flushed all over her soft face, up to the line of her grey
hair.
"Jeff," she said.
"What'm?"
"I have always meant when you were at liberty again--" that seemed to
her a tolerable euphemism--"to turn in something toward your debt."
"To the creditors?" Jeff supplied cheerfully. "Amabel, dear, I don't
believe there are any little people suffering from my thievery. It's
only the big people that wanted to be as rich as I did. Anne and Lydia
are suffering in a way. But that's my business. I'm going to confess to
you. Dear sister superior, I'm going to confess."
She did not move, hardly by an eyelash. She was afraid of choking his
confidence, and she wanted it to come abundantly. Jeff sat for a minute
or two frowning and staring into the fire. He had to catch himself back
from what threatened to become silent reverie.
"I've thought a good deal about this," he said, "when I've had time to
think, these last weeks. I'd give a lot to stand clear with the world.
I'd like to do a spectacular refunding of what I stole and lost. But I'd
far rather pitch in and save Addington. Maybe it means I'm warped
somehow about money, standards lowered, you know, perceptions blunted,
that sort of thing. Well, if it's so I shall find it out sometime and be
punished. We can't escape anything, in spite of their doctrine of
vicarious atonement."
She moved slightly at this, and Jeff smiled at her.
"Yes," said he, "we have to be punished. Sometimes I suppose the full
knowledge of what we've done is punishment enough. Now about me. If
anybody came to me to-day and said, 'I'll make you square with the
world,' I should say, 'Don't you do it. Save Addington. I'd rather throw
my good name into the hopper and let it grind out grist for Addington.'"
Miss Amabel put out the motherly hand and he grasped it.
"And I assure you," he said again, "I don't know whether that's
common-sense--tossing the rotten past into the abyss and making a new
deal--or whether it's because I've deteriorated too much to see I've
deteriorated. You tell, Amabel."
She took out her large handkerchief--Amabel had a convenient pocket--and
openly wiped her eyes.
"I'll give you money, Jeff," she said, "and you can put it into plays.
I'd like to pay you something definite for doing it, because I don't see
how you're going to live."
"Lydia'll help me do it," said Jeff, "she and Anne. They're curiously
wise about plays and dances. No, Amabel, I sha'n't eat your money,
except what you pay me for evening school. And I have an idea I'm going
to get on. I always had the devil's own luck about things, you know.
Look at the luck of getting you to fork out for plays you've never heard
the mention of. And I feel terrible loquacious. I think I shall write
things. I think folks'll take 'em. They've got to. I want to hand over a
little more to Esther."
Even to her he had never mentioned the practical side of Esther's life.
Miss Amabel looked at him sympathetically, inquiringly.
"Yes," he said, "she's having a devil of a time. I want to ease it up
somehow--send her abroad or let her get a divorce or something."
"You couldn't--" said Amabel. She stopped.
His brows were black as thunder.
"No," said he, "no. Esther and I are as far apart as--" he paused for a
simile. Then he smiled at her. "No," he said. "It wouldn't do."
As he went out he stopped a moment more and smiled at her with the
deprecating air of asking for indulgence that was his charm when he was
good. His eyes were the soft bright blue of happy seas.
"Amabel," said he, "I don't want to cry for mercy, though I'd rather
have mercy from you than 'most anybody. Blame me if you've got to, but
don't make any mistake about me. I'm not good and I'm not all bad. I'm
nothing but a confusion inside. I've got to pitch in and do the best
thing I know. I'm an undiscovered country."
"You're no mystery to me," she said. "You're a good boy, Jeff."
He went straight home and called Lydia and Anne to council, the colonel
sitting by, looking over his glasses in a benevolent way.
"I've been trying to undermine Weedie," said Jeff, "with Amabel. I can't
quite do it, but I've got her to promise me some of her money. For
plays, Lydia, played by Mill End. What do you say?"
"She hasn't money enough for real plays," said Lydia. "All she's got
wouldn't last a minute."
"Not in a hall?" asked Jeff. "Not with scenery just sketched in, as it
were? But all of it patriotic. Teach them something. Ram it down their
throats. English language."
Lydia made a few remarks, and Jeff sat up and stared at her. The colonel
and Anne, endorsing her, were not surprised. They had heard it all
before. It seems Lydia had a theory that the province of art is simply
not to be dull. If you could charm people, you could make them do
anything. The kite of your aspirations might fly among the stars. But
you couldn't fly it if it didn't look well flying. The reason nobody
really learns anything by plays intended to teach them something, Lydia
said, is because the plays are generally dull. Nobody is going to listen
to "argufying" if he can help it. If you tell people what it is
beneficial for them to believe they are going home and to bed,
unchanged. But they'll yawn in your faces first. Lydia had a theory that
you might teach the most extraordinary lessons if you only made them
bewitching enough. Look at the Blue Bird. How many people who loved to
see Bread cut a slice off his stomach and to follow the charming
pageant of the glorified common things of life, thought anything save
that this was a "show" with no appeal beyond the visual one? Yet there
it was, the big symbolism beating in its heart and keeping it alive. The
Children of Light could see the symbolism quick as a wink. Still the
Children of Darkness who never saw any symbolism at all and who were the
ones to yawn and go home to bed, helped pay for tickets and keep the
thing running. We must bewitch them also. Jeff inquired humbly if she
would advise taking up Shakespeare with the Mill Enders and found she
still wouldn't venture on it at once. She'd do some fairy plays, quite
easy to write on new lines. Everything was easy if you had "go" enough,
Lydia said. Jeff ventured to inquire about scenic effects, and
discovered, to his enlightenment, that Lydia had the greatest faith in
the imagination of any kind of audience. Do a thing well enough, she
said, and the audience would forget whether it was looking at a painted
scene or not. It could provide its own illusion. Think of the players,
she reminded him, who, when they gave the Trojan Women on the road, and
sought for a little Astyanax, were forbidden by an asinine city
government to bring on a real child. Think how the actors crouched
protectingly over an imaginary Astyanax, and how plainly every eye saw
the child who was not there. Perhaps every woman's heart supplied the
vision of her dream-child, of the child she loved. Think of the other
play where the kettle is said to be hissing hot and everybody shuns it
with such care that onlookers wince too. Lydia thought she could write
the fairy plays and the symbolic plays, all American, if Jeff liked, and
he might correct the grammar.
Just then Mary Nellen, passionately but silently grieved to have lost
such an intellectual feast, came in on the tail of these remarks. She
brought Jeff a letter. It was a publisher's letter, and the publisher
would print his book about prisoners. It said nothing whatever of trying
to advertise him as a prisoner. Jeff concluded the man was a decent
fellow. He swaggered a little over the letter and told the family he had
to, it was such luck.
They were immensely proud and excited at once. The colonel called him
"son" with emphasis, and Lydia got up and danced a little by herself.
She invited Anne to join her, but Anne sat, soft-eyed and still, and was
glad that way. Jeff thought it an excellent moment to tell them he was
going to teach in the evening school, upon which Lydia stopped dancing.
"But I want to," he said to her, with a smile for her alone. "Won't you
let me if I want to?"
"I want you to write," said Lydia obstinately.
"I shall. I shall write. And talk. It's a talking age. Everybody's
chattering, except the ones that are shrieking. I'm going to see if I
can't down some of the rest."
XXXVI
A carnival of motor cars kept on whirling to all parts of the town where
Madame Beattie was likely to speak. She spoke in strange places: at
street corners, in a freight station, at the passenger station when the
incoming train had brought a squad of workmen from the bridge repairing
up the track. It was always to workmen, and always they knew, by some
effective communication, where to assemble. The leisure class, too, old
Addingtonians, followed her, as if it were all the best of jokes, and
protested they sometimes understood what she said. But nobody did,
except the foreigners and not one of them would own to knowing. Weedon
Moore made little clipped bits of speeches, sliced off whenever her car
appeared and his audience turned to her in a perfect obedience and
glowing interest. Jeff, speaking for Alston, now got a lukewarm
attention, the courtesy born out of affectionate regard. None of the
roars and wild handclappings were for him. Madame Beattie was eating up
all the enthusiasm in town. Once Jeff, walking along the street, came on
her standing in her car, haranguing a group of workmen, all intent,
eager, warm to her with a perfect sympathy and even a species of
adoration.
He stepped up in the car beside her. He had an irritated sense that, if
he got near enough, he might find himself inside the mystic ring. She
turned to him with a gracious and dramatic courtesy. She even put a hand
on his arm, and he realised, with more exasperation, that he was
supporting her while she talked. The crowd cheered, and, it appeared,
they were cheering him.
"What are you saying?" he asked her, in an irascible undertone. "Talk
English for ten minutes. Play fair."
But she only smiled on him the more sympathetically, and the crowd
cheered them both anew. Jeff stuck by, that night. He stayed with her
until, earlier than usual because she had tired her voice, she told the
man to drive home.
"I am taking you with me to see Esther," she mentioned unconcernedly, as
they went.
"No, you're not," said Jeff. "I'm not going into that house."
"Very well," said Madame Beattie. "Then tell him to stop here a minute,
while we talk."
Jeff hesitated, having no desire to talk, and she herself gave the
order.
"Poor Esther!" said Jeff, when the chauffeur had absented himself to a
sufficient distance, and, according to Madame Beattie's direction, was
walking up and down. "Isn't it enough for you to pester her without
bringing me into it? Why are you so hard on her?"
"I've been quite patient," said Madame Beattie, "with both of you. I've
sat down and waited for you to make up your minds what is going to be
done about my necklace. You're doing nothing. Esther's doing nothing.
The little imp that took it out of Esther's bag is doing nothing. I've
got to be paid, among you. If I am not paid, the little dirty man is
going to have the whole story to publish: how Esther took the necklace,
years ago, how the little imp took it, and how you said you took it, to
save her."
"I have told Weedon Moore," said Jeff succinctly, "in one form or
another that I'll break his neck if he touches the dirty job."
"You have?" said Madame Beattie. She breathed a dramatic breath,
whether of outraged pride or for calculated effect he could not tell.
"Jeff, I can assure you if the little man refuses to do it--and I doubt
whether he will--I'll have it set up myself in leaflets, and I'll go
through the town distributing them from this car. Jeff, I must have
money. I must have it."
He sat back immovable, arms folded, eyes on the distance, and frowningly
thought. What use to blame her who acted after her kind and was no more
to be stirred by appeals than a wild creature red-clawed upon its prey?
"Madame Beattie," said he, "if I had money you should have it. Right or
wrong you should have it if it would buy you out of here. But I haven't
got it."
"It's there you are a fool," she said, moved actually now by his
numbness to his own endowment. "I could beat my head and scream, when I
think how you're throwing things away, your time, in that beastly night
school, your power, your personal charm. Jeff, you've the devil's own
luck. You were born with it. And you simply won't use it."
He had said that himself in a moment of hope not long before: that he
had the devil's own luck. But he wasn't going to accept it from her.
"You talk of luck," he said, "to a man just out of jail."
"You needn't have been in jail," she was hurling at him in an unpleasant
intensity of tone, as if she would have liked to scream it and the quiet
street denied her. "If you hadn't pleaded guilty, if you hadn't handed
over every scrap of evidence, if you had been willing to take advantage
of what that clerk was ready to swear--why, you might have got off and
kept on in business and be a millionaire to-day."
How she managed to know some of the things she did he never fathomed.
He had never seen anybody of the direct and shameless methods of Madame
Beattie, willing to ask the most intimate questions, make the most
unscrupulous demands. He remembered the young clerk who had wanted to
perjure himself for his sake.
"That would have made a difference, I suppose," he said, "young
Williams' testimony. I wonder how he happened to think of it."
"He thought of it because I went to him," said Madame Beattie. "I said,
'Isn't there anything you could swear to that would help him?' He knew
at once. He turned white as a sheet. 'Yes,' he said, 'and I'll swear to
it.' I told him we'd make it worth his while."
"You did?" said Jeff. "Well, there's another illusion gone. I took a
little comfort in young Williams. I thought he was willing to perjure
himself because he had an affection for me. So you were to make it worth
his while."
She laughed a little, indifferently, with no bitterness, but in
retrospect of a scene where she had been worsted.
"You needn't mourn that lost ideal," she said. "Young Williams showed me
the door. It was in your office, and he actually did show me the door.
He was glad to perjure himself, he said, for you. Not for money. Not for
me."
Jeff laughed out.
"Well," he said, "that's something to the good anyway. We haven't lost
young Williams. He wrote to me, not long ago. When I answer it, I'll
tell him he's something to the good."
But Madame Beattie was not going to waste time on young Williams.
"It ought to be a criminal offence," she said rapidly, "to be such a
fool. You had the world in your hand. You've got it still. You and
Esther could run such a race! think what you've got, both of you, youth,
beauty, charm. You could make your way just by persuasion, persuading
this man to one thing and that man to another. How Esther could help
you! Don't you see she's an asset? What if you don't love her? Love! I
know it from the first letter to the last, and there's nothing in it,
Jeff, nothing. But if you make money you can buy the whole world."
Her eager old face was close to his, the eyes, greedy, ravenous,
glittered into his and struck their base messages deeper and deeper into
his soul. The red of nature had come into her cheeks and fought there
with the overlying hue of art. Jeff, from an instinct of blind courage,
met her gaze and tried to think he was defying it bravely. But he was
overwhelmed with shame for her because she was avowedly what she was.
Often he could laugh at her good-tempered cynicism. Over her now, for he
actually did have a kind of affection for her, he could have cried.
"Don't!" he said involuntarily, and she misunderstood him. His shame for
her disgrace she had taken for yielding and she redoubled the hot
torrent of temperamental persuasion.
"I will," she said fiercely, "until you get on your legs and act like a
man. Go to Esther. Go to her now, this night. Come with me. Make love to
her. She's a pretty woman. Sweep her off her feet. Tell her you're going
to make good and she's going to help you."
Jeff rose and stepped out of the car. The ravenous old hand still
dragged at his arm, but he lifted it quietly and gave it back to her. He
stood there a moment, his hat off, and signalled the chauffeur. Madame
Beattie leaned over to him until her eyes were again glittering into
his.
"Is that it?" she asked. "Are you going to run away?"
"Yes," said Jeff, quietly. "I'm going to run away."
The man came and Jeff stood there, hat still in hand, until the car had
started. He felt like showing her an exaggerated courtesy. Jeff thought
he had never been so sorry for anybody in his life as for Madame
Beattie.
Madame Beattie drew her cloak the closer, sunk her chin in it and
concluded Jeff was done with her. She was briefly sorry though not from
shame. It scarcely disconcerted her to find he liked her even less than
she had thought. Where was his large tolerance, she might have asked,
the moral neutrality of the man of the world?
He had made it incumbent on her merely to take other measures, and next
day, seeing Lydia walk past the house, she went to call on Anne. Her way
was smooth. Anne herself came to the door in the neighbourly Addington
fashion when help was busy, and took her into the library, expressing
regret that her father was not there. The family had gone out on various
errands. This she offered in her gentle way, even with a humorous
ruefulness, Madame Beattie would find her so inadequate. To Anne, Madame
Beattie was exotic as some strange eastern flower, not less impressive
because it was a little wilted and showed the results of brutal usage.
Madame Beattie composedly took off her cloak and put her feet up on the
fender, an attitude which perilously tipped her chair. On this Anne
solicitously volunteered to move the fender and did it, bringing the
high-heeled shoes comfortably near the coals. Then Madame Beattie,
wasting no time in preliminaries, began, with great circumspection and
her lisp, and told Anne the later story of the necklace. To her calm
statement of Esther's thievery Anne paid a polite attention though no
credence. She had not believed it when Lydia told her. Why should she be
the more convinced from these withered lisping lips? But Madame Beattie
went on explicitly, through the picturesque tale of Lydia and the
necklace and the bag. Then Anne looked at her in unaffected horror. She
sat bolt upright, her slender figure tense with expectation, her hands
clasped rigidly. Madame Beattie enjoyed this picture of a sympathetic
attention, a nature played upon by her dramatic mastery. Anne had no
backwardness in believing now, the deed was so exactly Lydia's. She
could see the fierce impulse of its doing, the reckless haste, no pause
for considering whether it were well to do. She could appreciate Lydia's
silence afterward. "Poor darling" she murmured, and though Madame
Beattie interrogated sharply, "What?" she was not to hear. All the
mother in Anne, faithfully and constantly brooding over Lydia, grew into
passion. She could hardly wait to get the little sinner into her arms
and tell her she was eternally befriended by Anne's love. Madame Beattie
was coming to conclusions.
"The amount of the matter is," she said, "I must be paid for the
necklace."
"But," Anne said, with the utmost courtesy, "I understand you have the
necklace."
"That isn't the point," said Madame Beattie. "I have been given a great
deal of annoyance, and I must be compensated for that. What use is a
necklace that I can neither sell nor even pawn? I am in honour bound
"--and then she went on with her story of the Royal Personage, to which
Anne listened humbly enough now, since it seemed to touch Lydia. Madame
Beattie came to her alternative: if nobody paid her money to ensure her
silence, she would go to Weedon Moore and give him the story of
Esther's thievery and of Lydia's. Anne rose from her chair.
"You have come to me," she said, "to ask a thing like that? To ask for
money--"
"You are to influence Jeff," Madame Beattie lisped. "Jeff can do almost
anything he likes if he doesn't waste himself muddling round with
turnips and evening schools. You are to tell him his wife and the imp
are going to be shown up. He wouldn't believe me. He thinks he can
thrash Moore and there'll be an end of it. But it won't be an end of it,
my dear, for there are plenty of channels besides Weedon Moore. You tell
him. If he doesn't care for Esther he may for the little imp. He thinks
she's very nice."
Madame Beattie here, in establishing an understanding, leered a little
in the way of indicating a man's pliability when he thought a woman
"very nice", and this finished the utter revolt of Anne, who stood, her
hand on a chair back, gazing at her.
"I never," said Anne, in a choked way, "I never heard such horrible
things in my life." Then, to her own amazement, for she hardly knew the
sensation and never with such intensity as overwhelmed her now, Anne
felt very angry. "Why," she said, in a tone that sounded like wonder,
"you are a dreadful woman. Do you know what a dreadful woman you are?
Oh, you must go away, Madame Beattie. You must go out of this house at
once. I can't have you here."
Madame Beattie looked up at her in a pleasant indifference, as if it
rather amused her to see the grey dove bristling for its young. Anne
even shook the chair she held, as if she were shaking Madame Beattie.
"I mean it," she said. "I can't have you stay here. My father might
come in and be civil to you, and I won't have anybody civil to you in
this house. Lydia might come in, and Lydia likes you. Why, Madame
Beattie, can you bear to think Lydia likes you, when you're willing to
say the things you do?"
Madame Beattie was still not moved except by mild amusement. Anne left
the chair and took a step nearer.
"Madame Beattie," she said, "you don't believe a word I say. But I mean
it. You've got to go out of this house, or I shall put you out of it
with my hands. With my hands, Madame Beattie--and I'm very strong."
Madame Beattie was no coward, but she was not young and she had a sense
of physical inadequacy. About Anne there was playing the very spirit of
tragic anger, none of it for effect, not in the least gauged by any idea
of its efficiency. Those slender hands, gripping each other until the
knuckles blanched, were ready for their act. The girl's white face was
lighted with eyes of fire. Madame Beattie rose and slowly assumed her
cloak.
"You're a silly child," she said. "When you're as old as I am you'll
have more common-sense. You'd rather risk a scandal than tell Jeff he
has a debt to pay. By to-morrow you'll see it as I do. Come to me in the
morning, and we'll talk it over. I won't act before then."
She walked composedly to the door and Anne scrupulously held it for her.
They went through the hall, Anne following and ready to open the last
door also. But she closed it without saying good-bye, in answer to
Madame Beattie's oblique nod over her shoulder and the farewell wave of
her hand. For an instant Anne felt like slipping the bolt lest her
adversary should return, but she reflected, with a grimness new to her
gentle nature, that if Madame Beattie did return her own two hands were
ready. She stood a moment, listening, and when the carriage wheels
rolled away down the drive, she went to the big closet under the stairs
and caught at her own coat and hat. She was going, as fast as her feet
would carry her, to see Alston Choate.
XXXVII
Alston Choate was working, and he was alone. Anne, bright-eyed and
anxious, came in upon him and brought him to his feet. Anne had learned
this year that you should not knock at the door of business offices, but
she still half believed you ought, and it gave her entrance something of
deprecation and a pretty grace.
"I am so troubled," she said, without preliminary. "Madame Beattie has
just been to see me."
Alston, smiling away her agitation, if he might, by a kind assumption
that there was no conceivable matter that could not be at once put
right, gave her a chair and himself went back to his judicial seat.
Anne, not loosening her jacket, looked at him, her face pure and
appealing above the fur about her throat, as if to beg him to be as kind
as he possibly could, since it all involved Lydia.
"I've no doubt it's Madame Beattie," said Alston carelessly, even it
might have been a little amused at the possibilities. "If there's a
ferment anywhere north of Central America she's pretty certain to have
set it brewing."
Anne told him her tale succinctly, and his unconcern crumbled. He
frowned over the foolishness of it, and considered, while she talked,
whether he had better be quite open with her, or whether it was
sufficient to take the responsibility of the thing and settle it like a
swaggering god warranted to rule. That was better, he concluded.
"I'll go to see Madame Beattie," he said. "Then I'll report to you. But
you'd better not speak to Lydia about it. Or Jeff. Promise me."
"Oh, I'll promise," said Anne, a lovely rose flush on her face. "Only,
if Lydia is in danger you must tell me in time to do something. I don't
know what, but you know for Lydia I'd do anything."
"I will, too," said Alston. "Only it won't be for Lydia wholly. It'll be
for you."
Then for an instant, though so alive to her, he seemed to withdraw into
remote cogitation, and she wondered whether he was really thinking of
the case at all. Because she was in a lawyer's office she called it a
case, timorously; that made it much more serious. But Alston, in that
instant, was thinking how strange it was that the shabby old office,
witness of his unwilling drudgery and his life-saving excursions into
the gardens of fiction, should be looking now on her, seated there in
her earnestness and purity, and that he should at last be recognising
her. She was a part of him, Alston thought, beloved, not because she was
so different but so like. There was no assault of the alien nature upon
his own, irresistible because so piquing. There were no unexplored
tracts he couldn't at least fancy, green swards and clear waters where a
man might be refreshed. Everything he found there would be, he knew, of
the nature of the approaches to that gentle paradise. What a thing,
remote, extraordinary to think of in his office while she brought him
the details of a tawdry scandal. Yet the office bore, to his eyes,
invisible traces of past occupancy: men and women out of books were
there, absolutely vivid to his eyes, more alive than half the
Addingtonians. The walls were hung with garlands of fancy, the windows
his dreaming eyes had looked from were windows into space beyond
Addington. No, these were no common walls, yet unfitting to gaze on
while you told a client you loved her. After all, on rapid second
thought, it might not seem so inapt seen through his mother's eyes, as
she was betraying herself now in more than middle age. "Ask her wherever
you find yourselves," he fancied his mother saying. "That is part of the
adventure."
Alston looked at Anne and smiled upon her and involuntarily she smiled
back, though she saw no cause for cheerfulness in the dismal errand she
had come on. She started a little, too, for Alston, in the most matter
of fact way, began with her first name.
"Anne," said he, "I have for a long time been--" he paused for a word.
The ones he found were all too dignified, too likely to be wanted in a
higher cause--"bewitched," he continued, "over Esther Blake."
The colour ran deeper into Anne's face.
"You don't want," she said, "to do anything that might hurt her? I
shouldn't want to, either. But it isn't Esther we're talking about. It's
Madame Beattie."
"I know," said Alston, "but I want you to know I have been very
much--I've made a good deal of a fool of myself over Mrs. Blake."
Still he obstinately would not say he had been in love. Anne, looking at
him with the colour rising higher and higher, hardly seemed to
understand. But suddenly she did.
"You don't mean--" she stammered. "Mr. Choate, she's married, you know,
even if she and Jeff aren't together any more. Esther is married."
"I know it," said Alston drily. "I've wished they weren't married. I've
wished I could ask her to marry me. But I don't any longer. You won't
understand at all why I say it now. Sometime I'll tell you when you've
noticed how I have to stand up against my cut and dried ways. Anne, I'm
talking to you."
She had got on her feet and was fumbling with the upper button of her
coat which had not been unloosed. But that she didn't remember now. She
was in a mechanical haste of making ready to go. Alston rose, too, and
was glad to find he was the taller. It gave him a mute advantage and he
needed all he could get.
"I'm telling you something quite important," he said, in a tone that set
her momentarily and fallaciously at ease. "It's going to be very
important to both of us. Dear Anne! darling Anne!" He broke down and
laughed, her eyes were so big with the surprise of it, almost, it might
be, with fright. "That's because I'm in love with you," said Alston.
"I've forgotten every other thing that ever happened to me, all except
this miserable thing I've just told you. I had to tell you, so you'd
know the worst of me. Darling Anne!" He liked the sound of it.
"I must go," said Anne.
"You'd better," said Alston. "It'll be much nicer to ask you the rest of
it in a proper place. Anne, I've had so much to do with proper places
I'm sick of 'em. That's why I've begun to say it here. Nothing could be
more improper in all Addington. Think about it. Be ready to tell me when
I come, though that won't be for a long time. I'm going to write you
things, for fear, if I said them, you'd say no. And don't really think.
Just remember you're darling Anne."
She gave him a grave look--Alston wondered afterward if it could
possibly be a reproving one--and, with a fine dignity, walked to the
door. Since he had begun to belie his nature, mischief possessed him. He
wanted to go as far as he audaciously could and taste the sweet and
bitter of her possible kindness, her almost certain blame.
"Good-bye," he said, "darling Anne."
This was as the handle of the door was in his grasp ready to be turned
for her. Anne, still inexplicably grave, was looking at him.
"Good-bye," she said, "Mr. Choate."
He watched her to the head of the stairs, and then shut the door on her
with a click. Alston was conscious of having, for the joy of the moment,
really made a fool of himself. But he didn't let it depress him. He
needed his present cleverness too much to spend a grain of it on
self-reproach. He went to his safe and took out a paper that had been
lying there ready to be used, slipped it into his pocket and went,
before his spirit had time to cool, to see Madame Beattie.
Sophy admitted him and left him in the library, while she went to summon
her. And Madame Beattie came, finding him at the window, his back turned
on the warm breathing presences of Esther's home. If he had penetrated,
for good cause, to Circe's bower, he didn't mean to drink in its subtle
intimacies. At the sound of a step he turned, and Madame Beattie met him
peaceably, with outstretched hand. Alston dropped the hand as soon as
possible. Lydia might swear she was clean and that her peculiarily
second-hand look was the effect of overworn black, but Alston she had
always impressed as much-damaged goods that had lost every conceivable
inviting freshness. She indicated a chair conveniently opposite her own
and he sat down and at once began.
"Madame Beattie, I have come to talk over this unfortunate matter of the
necklace."
"Oh," said Madame Beattie, with a perfect affability and no apparent
emotion, "Anne French has been chattering to you."
"Naturally," said Choate. "I am their counsel, hers and her sister's."
"These aren't matters of law," said Madame Beattie. "They are very
interesting personal questions, and I advise you to let them alone. You
won't find any precedent for them in your books."
"I have been unpardonably slow in coming to you," said Alston. "And my
coming now hasn't so very much to do with Lydia and Anne. I might have
come just the same if you hadn't begun to annoy them."
"Well," said Madame Beattie impatiently. She wanted her nap, for she was
due that evening at street corners in Mill End. "Get to the point, if
you please."
"The point is," said Alston, "that some months ago when you began to
make things unpleasant for a number of persons--"
"Nonsense!" said Madame Beattie briskly. "I haven't made things
unpleasant. I've only waked this town out of its hundred years' sleep.
You'd better be thankful to me, all of you. Trade is better, politics
are most exciting, everything's different since I came."
"I sent at once to Paris," said Alston, with an impartial air of
conveying information they were equally interested in, "for the history
of the Beattie necklace. And I've got it. I've had it a week or more,
waiting to be used." He looked her full in the face to see how she took
it. He would have said she turned a shade more unhealthy, in a yellow
way, but not a nerve in her seemed to blench.
"Well," said she, "have you come to tell me the history of the Beattie
necklace?"
"Briefly," said Alston, "it was given the famous singer, as she states,
by a certain Royal Personage. We are not concerned with his identity,
his nationality even. But it was a historic necklace, and he'd no
business to give it to her at all. There were some rather shady
transactions before he could get his hands on it. And the Royal Family
never ceased trying to get it back. The Royal Personage was a young man
when he gave it to her, but by the time the family'd begun to exert
pressure he wasn't so impetuous, and he, too, wanted it back. His
marriage gave the right romantic reason, which he used. He actually
asked the famous singer to return it to him, and at the same time she
was approached by some sort of agent from the family who offered her a
fat compensation."
"It was a matter of sentiment," said Madame Beattie loftily. "You've no
right to say it was a question of money. It is extremely bad taste."
"She had ceased singing," said Alston. "Money meant more to her than the
jewels it would have been inexpedient to display. For by that time, she
didn't want to offend any royal families whatever. So she was bought
off, and she gave up the necklace."
"It is not true," said she. "If it was money I wanted, I could have sold
it."
"Oh, no, I beg your pardon. There would have been difficulties in the
way of selling historic stones; besides there were so many royal
personages concerned in keeping them intact. It might have been very
different when the certain Royal Personage was young enough and
impetuous enough to swear he stood behind you. He'd got to the point
where he might even have sworn he never gave them to you."
She uttered a little hoarse exclamation, a curse, Alston could believe,
in whatever tongue.
"Besides," he continued, "as I just said, Madame Beattie wasn't willing,
on the whole, to offend her royal patrons, though she wasn't singing any
longer. She had a good many favours to ask of the world, and she didn't
want Europe made too hot to hold her."
He paused to rest a moment from his thankless task, and they looked at
each other calmly, yet quite recognising they were at grips.
"You forget," said she, "that I have the necklace at this moment in my
possession. You have seen it and handled it."
"No," said Alston, "I have never seen the necklace. Nobody has seen it
on this side the water. When you came here years ago and got Jeff into
difficulties you brought another necklace, a spurious one, paste, stage
jewels, I daresay, and none of us were clever enough to know the
difference. You said it was the Beattie necklace, and Esther was
hypnotised and--"
"And stole it," Madame Beattie put in, with a real enjoyment now.
"And Jeff was paralysed by loving Esther so much that he didn't look
into it. And as soon as he was out of prison you came here and
hypnotised us all over again. But it's not the necklace."
Madame Beattie put back her head and burst into hoarse and perfectly
spontaneous laughter.
"And it was for you to find it out," she said. "I didn't think you were
so clever, Alston Choate. I didn't know you were clever at all. You
refresh me. God bless us! to think not one of them had the sense, from
first to last, to guess the thing was paste."
Alston enjoyed his brief triumph, a little surprised at it himself. He
had no idea she would back down instantly, nor indeed, though it were
hammered into her, that she would own the game was up. The same recoil
struck her and she ludicrously cocked an eye.
"I shall give you a lot of trouble yet though. The necklace may be a
dead issue, but I'm a living dog, Alston Choate. Don't they say a living
dog is better than a dead lion? Well, I'm living and I'm here."
He saw her here indefinitely, rolling about in hacks, in phaetons, in
victorias, in motors, perpetually stirring two houses at least to
nervous misery. There would be no running away from her. They would have
her absurdly tied about their necks forever.
"Madame Beattie!" said he. This was Alston's great day, he reflected,
with a grimace all to himself. He had never put so much impetuosity, so
much daring to the square inch, into any day before. He lounged back a
little in his chair, put his hands in his pockets and tried to feel
swaggering and at ease. Madame Beattie, he knew, wouldn't object to
swagger. And if it would help him dramatically, so much the better.
"Madame Beattie," he repeated, "I've a proposition to make to you. I
thought of it within the last minute."
Her eyes gleamed out at him expectantly, avariciously, with some
suspicion, too. She hoped it concerned money, but it seemed unlikely, so
chill a habit of life had men of Addington.
"It is absolutely my own idea," said Alston. "Nobody has suggested it,
nobody has anything whatever to do with it. If I give myself time to
think it over I sha'n't make it at all. What would you take to leave
Addington, lock, stock and barrel, cut stick to Europe and sign a paper
never to come back? There'd be other things in the paper. I should make
it as tight as I knew how."
Madame Beattie set her lips and looked him over, from his well-bred face
and his exceedingly correct clothes to his feet. She would never have
suspected an Addington man of such impetus, no one except perhaps Jeff
in the old days. What was the utmost an Addington man would do? She had
been used to consider them a meagre set.
"Well?" said Alston.
Madame Beattie blinked a little, and her mind came back.
"Ten thousand," she tossed him at a venture, in a violence of haste.
Alston shook his head.
"Too much," said he.
Madame Beattie, who had not known a tear for twenty years at least,
could have cried then, the money had seemed so unreasonably, so
incredibly near.
"You've got oceans of money," said she, in a passion of eagerness, "all
you Addington bigwigs. You put it away and let it keep ticking on while
you eat noon dinners and walk down town. What is two thousand pounds to
you? In another year you wouldn't know it."
"I sha'n't haggle," said Alston. "I'll tell you precisely what I'll put
into your hand--with conditions--if you agree to make this your farewell
appearance. I'll give you five thousand dollars. And as a thrifty
Addingtonian--you know what we are--I advise you to take it. I might
repent."
She leaned toward him and put a shaking hand on his knee.
"I'll take it," she said. "I'll sign whatever you say. Give me the money
now. You wouldn't ask me to wait, Alston Choate. You wouldn't play a
trick on me."
Alston drew himself up from his lounging ease, and as he lifted the
trembling old hand from his knee, gave it a friendly pressure before he
let it fall.
"I can't give it to you now," he said. "Not this minute. Would you mind
coming to my office to-morrow, say at ten? We shall be less open to
interruption."
"Of course I'll come," she said, almost passionately.
He had never seen her so shaken or indeed actually moved from her
cynical calm. She was making her way out of the room without waiting for
his good-bye. At the door she turned upon him, her blurred old face a
sad sight below the disordered wig. Esther, coming downstairs, met her
in the hall and stopped an instant to stare at her, she looked so
terrible. Then Esther came on to Alston Choate.
"What is it?" she began.
"I was going to ask for you," said Alston. "I want to tell you what I
have just been telling Madame Beattie. Then I must see Jeff and his
sisters." This sounded like an afterthought and yet he was conscious
that Anne was in his mind like a radiance, a glow, a warm sweet wind.
"Everybody connected with Madame Beattie ought to understand clearly
what she can do and what she can't. She seems to have such an
extraordinary facility for getting people into mischief."
He placed a chair for her and when she sank into it, her eyes
inquiringly on his face, he began, still standing, to tell her briefly
the history of the necklace. Esther's face, as he went on, froze into
dismay. He was telling her that the thing which alone had brought out
passionate emotion in her had never existed at all. Not until then had
he realised how she loved the necklace, the glitter of it, the reputed
value, the extraordinary story connected with it. Esther's life had been
built on it. And when Alston had finished and found she could not speak,
he was sorry for her and told her so.
"I'm sorry," he said simply.
Esther looked at him a moment dumbly. Then her face convulsed. She was
crying.
"Don't," said Choate helplessly. "Don't do that. The thing isn't worth
it. It isn't worth anything to speak of. And it's made you a lot of
trouble, all of you, and now she's going back to Europe and she'll take
it with her."
"Going back?" Esther echoed, through her tears. "Who says she's going
back?"
"She says so," Alston rejoined weakly. He thought his hush money might
fairly be considered his own secret. It was like a candle burned in
gratitude for having found out he had dared to say, "darling Anne".
"If she would go back!" said Esther. "But she won't. She'll stay here
and talk to mill hands and drag dirty people up those stairs. And I
shall live here forever with her and grandmother, and nobody will help
me. Nobody will ever help me, Alston Choate. Do you realise that?
Nobody."
Her melting eyes were on his and she herself was out of her chair and
tremulously near. But Esther made no mistake of a too prodigal largess a
man like Reardon was bewitched by, even if he ran from it. She stood
there in sorrowful dignity and let her eyes plead for her. And Alston,
though he had accomplished something for her as well as for Anne, felt
only a sense of shame and the misery of falling short. He had thought he
loved her (he had got so far now as to say to himself he thought so) and
he loved her no more. He wished only to escape, and his wish took every
shred of the hero out of him.
"We'll all help you," he said with the cheerfulness exasperatingly ready
to be pumped up when things are bad and there is no adequate remedy.
"I'd like to. And so will Jeff."
With that he put out his hand to her, and when she unseeingly accorded
him hers gave it what he thought an awkward, cowardly pressure and left
her. There are no graceful ways for leaving Circe's isle, Alston
thought, as he hurried away, unless you have at least worn the hog's
skin briefly and given her a showing of legitimate triumph. And that
night, because he had a distaste for talking about it further, he wrote
the story to Jeff, still omitting mention of his candle-burning
honorarium. To Anne, he sent a little note, the first of a long series,
wondering at himself as he wrote it, but sticking madly to his audacity,
for that queerly seemed the way to win her.
  "Darling Anne," the note said. "It's all right. I'll tell you
  sometime. Meanwhile you're not to worry.
                                                  "Your lover,
                                                      "ALSTON CHOATE."
XXXVIII
While the motor cars were whirling about Addington and observers were in
an ecstasy over Madame Beattie's electioneering, Reardon was the more
explicitly settling his affairs and changing his sailing from week to
week as it intermittently seemed possible to stay. He was in an
irritation of unrest when Esther did not summon him, and a panic of fear
at the prospect of her doing it. He was beginning dimly to understand
that Esther, even if the bills were to be paid, proposed to do nothing
herself about getting decently free. Reardon thought he could interpret
that, in a way that enhanced her divinity. She was too womanly, he
determined. How could a creature like her give even the necessary
evidence? If any one at that time believed sincerely in Esther's clarity
of soul, it was Reardon who had not thought much about souls until he
met her. Esther had been a wonderful influence in his life, transmuting
everyday motives until he actually stopped now to think a little over
the high emotions he was not by nature accustomed even to imagine. There
was something pathetic in his desire to better himself even in spiritual
ways. No man in Addington had attained a higher proficiency in the
practical arts of correct and comfortable living, and it was owing to
the power of Esther's fastidious reserves that he had begun to think all
women were not alike, after all. There must be something in class,
something real and uncomprehended, or such a creature as she could not
be born with a difference. When she came nearer him, when she of her own
act surrendered and he had drawn the exquisite sum of her into his
arms, he still believed in her moral perfection to an extent that made
her act most terribly moving to him. The act grew colossal, for it meant
so matchless a creature must love him unquestioningly or she could not
step outside her fine decorum. Every thought of her drew him toward her.
Every manly and also every ambitious impulse of his entire life--the
ambition that bade him tread as near as possible to Addington's upper
class--forbade his seeking her until he had a right to. And if she would
not free herself, the right would never be his.
One day, standing by his window at dusk moodily looking out while the
invisible filaments that drew him to her tightened unbearably, he saw
Jeff go past. At once Reardon knew Jeff was going to her, and he found
it monstrous that the husband whose existence meant everything to him
should be seeking her unhindered. He got his hat and coat and hurried
out into the street in time to see Jeff turn in at her gate. He strode
along that way, and then halted and walked back again. It seemed to him
he must know at least when Jeff came out.
Jeff had been summoned, and Esther met him with no pretence at an
artifice of coolness. She did not ask him to sit down. They stood there
together in the library looking at each other like two people who have
urgent things to say and limited time to say them in.
"Jeff," she began, "you're all I've got in the world. Aunt Patrica's
going away."
Jeff clutched upon his reason and hoped it would serve him while
something more merciful kept him kind.
"Good!" said he. "That's a relief for you."
"In a way," said Esther. "But it leaves me alone, with grandmother. It's
like being with a dead woman. I'm afraid of her. Jeff, if you'd only
thought of it yourself! but I have to say it. Won't you come here to
live?"
"If he had only thought of it himself!" his heart ironically repeated.
Had he not in the first years of absence from her dreamed what it would
be to come back to a hearth she was keeping warm?
"Esther," he said, "only a little while ago you said you were afraid of
me."
Esther had no answer to make. Yet she could take refuge in a perfect
humility, and this she did.
"I ask you, Jeff," she said. "I ask you to come back."
The world itself seemed to close about him, straiter than the walls of
the room. Had he, in taking vows on him when he truly loved her, built a
prison he must dwell in to the end of his life or hers? Did moral law
demand it of him? did the decencies of Addington?
"I ask you to forgive me," said Esther. "Are you going to punish me for
what I did?"
"No," said Jeff, in a dull disclaimer. "I don't want to punish you."
But he did not want to come back. This her heart told her, while it
cautioned her not to own she knew.
"I shouldn't be a burden on you," she said. "I should be of use, social
use, Jeff. You need all the pull you can get, and I could help you
there, tremendously."
The same bribe Madame Beattie had held out to him, he remembered, with a
sorry smile. Esther, Madame Beattie had cheerfully determined, was to
help him placate the little gods. Now Esther herself was offering her
own abetment in almost the same terms. He saw no way even vaguely to
resolve upon what he felt able to do, except by indirection. They must
consider it together.
"Esther," he said, "sit down. Let me, too, so we can get hold of
ourselves, find out what we really think."
They sat, and she clasped her hands in a way prayerfully suggestive and
looked at him as if she hung on the known value of his words. Jeff
groped about in his mind for their common language. What had it
been?--laughter, kisses, the feverish commendation of the pageant of
life. He sat there frowning, and when his brow cleared it was because he
decided the only way possible was to open the door of his own mind and
let her in. If she found herself lonesome, afraid even in its
furnishings as they inevitably were now, that would tell them something.
She need never come again.
"Esther," he said, "the only thing I've found out about myself is that I
haven't found out anything. I don't know whether I'm a decent fellow,
just because I want to be decent, or whether I'm stunted, calloused, all
the things they say happen to criminals."
"Don't," said Esther sharply. "Don't talk of criminals."
"I've got to. You let me wander on a minute. Maybe it'll get us
somewhere." He debated whether he should tell her he wanted to save
Addington. No, she wouldn't understand. Could he tell her that at that
minute he loved Addington better than anything but Lydia? and Lydia he
must still keep hidden in the back of his mind under the green leaves of
secrecy. "Esther," said he, "Esther, poor child, I don't want you to be
a prisoner to me. And I don't want to be a prisoner to you. It would be
a shocking wrong to you to be condemned to live with me all your life
just because an old woman has scared you. What a penalty to pay for
being afraid of Madame Beattie--to live with a husband you had stopped
thinking about at all."
Esther gave a patient sigh.
"I don't understand," she said, "what you are talking about. And this
isn't the way, dear, for us to understand each other. If we love each
other, oughtn't we to forgive?"
"We do," said Jeff. "I haven't a hostile thought toward you. I should be
mighty sorry if you had for me. But, Esther, whatever we feel for each
other, will the thing stand the test of the plain truth? If it's going
to have any working basis, it's got to. Now, do you love me? No, you
don't. We both know we've changed beyond--" he paused for a merciful
simile--"beyond recognition. Now because we promised to live together
until death parted us, are we going to? Was that a righteous promise in
view of what might happen? The thing, you see, has happened. If we had
children it might be righteous to hang together, for their sakes. Is it
righteous now? I don't believe it."
Esther lifted her clasped hands and struck them down upon her knee. The
rose of her cheek had paled, and all expression save a protesting
incredulity had frozen out of her face.
"I have never," she said, "been so insulted in my life."
"That's it," said Jeff. "I tried to tell the truth and you can't stand
it. You tell it to me now, and I'll see if I can stand your side of it."
She was out of her chair and on her feet.
"You must go," she said. "You must go at once."
"I'm sorry," said Jeff. He was looking at her with what Miss Annabel
called his beautiful smile. "You can't possibly believe I want things to
be right for you. But it's true. I mean to make them righter than they
are, too. But I don't believe we can shackle ourselves together. I don't
believe that's right."
He went away, leaving her trembling. There was nothing for it but to go.
On the sidewalk not far from her door he met Reardon with a casual nod,
and Reardon blazed out at him, "Damn you!" At least that was what Jeff
for the instant thought he said and turned to look at him. But Reardon
was striding on and the back of his excellent great-coat looked so
handsomely conventional that Jeff concluded he had been mistaken. He
went on trying to sift his distastes and revulsions from what he wanted
to do for Esther. Something must be done. Esther must no more be bound
than he.
Reardon did not knock at her door. He opened it and went in and Esther
even passionately received him. They greeted each other like
acknowledged lovers, and he stood holding her to him while she sobbed
bitterly against his arm.
"What business had he?" he kept repeating. "What business had he?"
"I can't talk about it," said Esther. "But I can never go through it
again. You must take me away."
"I'm going myself," said Reardon. "I'm booked for Liverpool."
Esther was spent with the weariness of the years that had brought her no
compensating joys for her meagre life with grandmother upstairs and her
most uneasy one since Madame Beattie came. How could she, even if
Reardon furnished money for it, be sure to free herself from Jeff in
time to taste some of the pleasures she craved while she was at her
prime of beauty? After all, there were other lands to wander in; it
wasn't necessary to sit down here and do what Addingtonians had done
since they settled the wretched place on the date they seemed to find so
sacred. So she told him, in a poor sad little whisper:
"I shall die if you leave me."
"I won't go," said Reardon, at once. "I'll stand by."
"You will go," said Esther fiercely, half in anger because he had to be
cajoled and prompted, "and take me with you."
Reardon, standing there feeling her beating heart against his hand,
thought that was how he had known it would be. He had always had a fear,
the three-o'clock-waking-in-the-morning fear, that sometime his
conventions would fall from him like a garment he had forgotten, and he
should do some act that showed him to Addington as he was born. He had
too, sometimes, a nightmare, pitifully casual, yet causing him an
anguish of shame: murdering his grammar or smoking an old black pipe
such as his father smoked and being caught with it, going to the club in
overalls. But now he realised what the malicious envy of fortune had in
store for him. He was to run off with his neighbour's wife. For an
instant he weakly meant to recall her to herself, to remind her that she
didn't want to do it. But it seemed shockingly indecorous to assume a
higher standard than her own, and all he could do was to assure her, as
he had been assuring her while he was swept along that dark underground
river of disconcerted thought: "I'll take care of you."
"What do you mean?" she returned, like a wild thing leaping at him. "Do
you mean really take care of me? over there?"
"Yes," said Reardon, without a last clutch at his lost vision, "over
there. We'll leave here Friday, for New York."
"I shall send my trunks in advance," said Esther. "By express. I shall
say I am going for dressmaking and the theatre."
Reardon settled down to bare details. It would be unwise to be seen
leaving on the same train, and he would precede her to New York. It
would be better also to stay at different hotels. Once landed they
would become--he said this in the threadbare pathetic old phrase--man
and wife "in the sight of God". He was trying honestly to spare her
exquisite sensibilities, and Esther understood that she was to be saved
at all points while she reaped the full harvest of her desires. Reardon
kissed her solemnly and went away, at the door meeting Madame Beattie,
who gave him what he thought an alarming look, at the least a satirical
one. Had she listened? had she seen their parting? But if she had, she
made no comment. Madame Beattie had her own affairs to manage.
"I have told Sophy to do some pressing for me," she said to Esther.
"After that, she will pack."
"Sophy isn't very fond of packing," said Esther weakly. She was quite
sure Sophy would refuse and was immediately sorry she had given Madame
Beattie even so slight a warning. What did Sophy's tempers matter now?
She would be left behind with grandmother and Rhoda Knox. What
difference would it make whether in the sulks or out of them?
"Oh, yes," said Madame Beattie quietly. "She'll do it."
Esther plucked up spirit. For weeks she had hardly addressed Madame
Beattie at all. She dared not openly show scorn of her, but she could at
least live apart from her. Yet it seemed to her now that she might, as a
sort of deputy hostess under grandmother, be told whether Madame Beattie
actually did mean to go away.
"Are you--" she hesitated.
"Yes," said Madame Beattie, "I am sailing. I leave for New York Friday
morning."
Esther had a rudimentary sense of humour, and it did occur to her that
it would be rather a dire joke if she and Madame Beattie, inexorably
linked by destiny, were to go on the same boat. But Madame Beattie drily
if innocently reassured her. And yet was it innocently? Esther could not
be sure. She was sailing, she explained, for Naples. She should never
think of venturing the northern crossing at this season.
And that afternoon while Madame Beattie took her drive, Esther had her
own trunks brought to her room and she and Sophy packed. Sophy was
enchanted. Mrs. Blake was going to New York, so Mrs. Blake told her, and
as soon as she got settled Sophy would be sent for. She was not to say
anything, however, for Mrs. Blake's going depended on its being carried
out quietly, for fear Madame Beattie should object. Sophy understood.
She had been quiet about many things connected with the tranquillity
dependent on Madame Beattie, and she even undertook to have the express
come at a certain hour and move the trunks down carefully. Sophy held
many reins of influence.
When Madame Beattie came back from driving, Andrea was with her. She had
called at the shop and taken him away from his fruity barricades, and
they had jogged about the streets, Madame Beattie talking and Andrea
listening with a profound concentration, his smile in abeyance, his
black eyes fiery. When they stopped at the house Esther, watching from
the window, contemptuously noted how familiar they were. Madame Beattie,
she thought, was as intimate with a foreign fruit-seller as with one of
her own class. Madame Beattie seemed impressing upon him some command or
at least instructions. Andrea listened, obsequiously attentive, and when
it was over he took his hat off, in a grand manner, and bending, kissed
her hand. He ran up the steps and rang for her, and after she had gone
in, Esther saw him, dramatic despondency in every drooping muscle, walk
sorrowfully away.
Madame Beattie, as if she meant to accomplish all her farewells betimes,
had the hardihood, this being the hour when Rhoda Knox took an airing,
to walk upstairs to her step-sister's room and seat herself by the
bedside before grandmother had time to turn to the wall. There she sat,
pulling off her gloves and talking casually as if they had been in the
habit of daily converse, while grandmother lay and pierced her with
unyielding eyes. There was not emotion in the glance, no aversion or
remonstrance. It was the glance she had for Esther, for Rhoda Knox.
"Here I am," it said, "flat, but not at your mercy. You can't make me do
anything I don't want to do. I am in the last citadel of apparent
helplessness. You can't any of you drag me out of my bed. You can't even
make me speak." And she would not speak. Esther, creeping out on the
landing to listen, was confident grandmother never said a word. What
spirit it was, what indomitable pluck, thought Esther, to lie there at
the mercy of Madame Beattie, and deny herself even the satisfaction of a
reply. All that Madame Beattie said Esther could not hear, but evidently
she was assuring her sister that she was an arch fool to lie there and
leave Esther in supreme possession of the house.
"Get up," Madame Beattie said, at one point. "There's nothing the matter
with you. One day of liberty'd be better than lying here and dying by
inches and having that Knox woman stare at you. With your constitution,
Susan, you've got ten good years before you. Get up and rule your house.
I shall be gone and you won't have me to worry you, and in a few days
she'll be gone, too."
So she knew it, Esther realised, with a quickened heart. She slipped
back into her room and stood there silent until Madame Beattie, calling
