hasn't been a minute since our office was opened that we 
haven't had half a dozen on the other side of the street. 
Every man that comes to see us is followed back to his 
camp and fired that same day. They've broken into my 
desk at night and stolen my letters and papers; they've' 
threatened us with death a hundred times." 
" I don't see how you make any headway at all ! " 
" They can never stop us. They thought when they 
broke into my desk, they'd get a list of our organisers. 
.But you see, I carry the lists in my head ! " 
"No small task, either," put in Moylan. "Would 
you like to know how many organisers we have at work ? 
Ninety-seven. And they haven't caught a single one of 
them ! " 
Hal heard him, amazed. Here was a new aspect of the 
labour movement ! This quiet, resolute old " Dutchy," 
whom you might have taken for a delicatessen-proprietor; 
this merry-eyed Irish boy, whom you would have expected 
to be escorting a lady to a firemen's ball — they were cap- 
tains of an army of sappers who were undermining the 
towers of Peter Harrigan's fortress of greed ! 
Hartman suggested that Jerry might take a chance at 
this sort of work. He would surely be fired from North 
Valley, so he might as well send word to his family to come 
to Pedro. In this way he might save himself to work as 
an organiser ; because it was the custom of these company 
" spotters " to follow a man back to his camp and there 
identify him. If Jerry took a train for Western City, they 
 
would be thrown off the track, and he might get into some 
new camp and do organising among the Italians. Jerry 
accepted this proposition with alacrity; it would put off 
the evil day when Kosa and her little ones would be left to 
the mercy of chance. 
They were still talking when the telephone rang. It 
was Hartman's secretary in Sheridan, reporting that he 
had just heard from the kidnapped committee. The en- 
tire party, eight men and Mary Burke, had been taken to 
Horton, a station not far up the line, and put on the train 
with many dire threats. But they had left the train at the 
next stop, and declared their intention of coming to Pedro. 
They were due at the hotel very soon. 
Hal desired to be present at this meeting, and went 
downstairs to tell his brother. There was another dispute, 
of course. Edward reminded Hal that the scenery of 
Pedro had a tendency to monotony; to which Hal could 
only answer by offering to introduce his brother to his 
friends. They were men who could teach Edward much, 
if he would consent to learn. He might attend the session 
with the committee — eight men and a woman who had 
ventured an act of heroism and been made the victims of a 
crime. Nor were they bores, as Edward might be think- 
ing! There was blue-eyed Tim Bafferty, for example, 
a silent, smutty-faced gnome who had broken out of his 
black cavern and spread unexpected golden wings of ora- 
tory; and Mary Burke, of whom Edward might read in 
that afternoon's edition of the Western City Gazette 
— a "Joan of Arc of the coal-camps," or something 
equally picturesque. But Edward's mood was not to be 
enlivened. He had a vision of his brother's appearance 
in the paper as the companion of this Hibernian Joan ! 
Hal went off with Jerry Minetti to what his brother de- 
scribed as a "hash-house," while Edward proceeded in 
solitary state to the dining-room of the American Hotel. 
But he was not left in solitary state ; pretty soon a sharp- 
 
faced young man was ushered to a seat beside him, and 
started up a conversation. He was a " drummer," he 
said ; his " line " was hardware, what was Edward's ? Ed- 
ward answered coldly that he had no " line," but the young 
man was not rebuffed — apparently his " line " had hard- 
ened his sensibilities. Perhaps Edward was interested in 
coal-mines ? Had he been visiting the camps ? He ques- 
tioned so persistently, and came back so often to the sub- 
ject, that at last it dawned over Edward what this meant 
— he was receiving the attention of a " spotter ! " 
Strange to say, the circumstance caused Edward more irri- 
tation against Peter Harrigan's regime than all his 
brother's eloquence about oppression at North Valley. 
 Soon after dinner the kidnapped committee ar- 
rived, bedraggled in body and weary in soul. They in- 
quired for Johann Hartman, and were sent up to the 
room, where there followed a painful scene. Eight men 
and a woman who had ventured an act of heroism and been 
made the victims of a crime could not easily be persuaded 
to see their efforts and sacrifices thrown on the dump-heap, 
nor were they timid in expressing their opinions of those 
who were betraying them. 
" You been tryin' to get us out ! " cried Tim Rafferty. 
" Ever since I can remember you been at my old man to 
help you — an' here, when we do what you ask, you throw 
us down ! " ' 
" We never asked you to go on strike," said Moylan. 
" No, that's true. You only asked us to pay dues, so 
you fellows could have fat salaries." 
"Our salaries aren't very fat," replied the young 
leader, patiently. "You'd find that out if you investi- 
gated." 
" Well, whatever they are, they go on, while ours stop. 
We're on the streets, we're done for. Look at us — * and 
 
most of us has got families, too ! I got an old mother an' a 
lot of brothers and sisters, an' my old man done up an' 
can't work. What do you think's to become of us ? " 
" We'll help you out a little, Eafferty — " 
" To hell with you ! " cried Tim. " I don't want your 
help! When I need charity, I'll go to the county. 
They're another bunch of grafters, but they don't pretend 
to be friends to the workin' man." 
Here was the thing Tom Olson had told Hal at the out- 
set — the workingmen bedevilled, not knowing whom to 
trust, suspecting the very people who most desired to help 
them. " Tim," he put in, " there's no use talking like 
that We have to learn patience — " 
And the boy turned upon Hal. " What do you know 
about it ? It's all a joke to you. You can go off and for- 
get it when you get ready. You've got money, they tell 
me!" 
Hal felt no resentment at this; it was what he heard 
from his own conscience. " It isn't so easy for me as you 
think, Tim. There are other ways of suffering besides not 
having money — " 
" Much sufferin' you'll do — with your rich folks ! " 
sneered Tim. 
There was a murmur of protest from others of the com- 
mittee. 
" Good God, Eafferty ! " broke in Moylan. " We can't 
help it, man — we're just as helpless as you ! " 
" You say you're helpless — but you don't even try ! " 
" Try f Do you want us to back a strike that we know 
hasn't a chance? You might as well ask us to lie down 
and let a load of coal run over us. We can't win, man ! 
I tell you we can't win I We'd only be throwing away our 
organisation ! " 
Moylan became suddenly impassioned. He had seen a 
dozen sporadic strikes in this district, and many a dozen 
young strikers, homeless, desolate, embittered, turning 
 
their disappointment on him. " We might support you 
with our funds, you say — we might go on doing it, even 
while the company ran the mine with scabs. But where 
would that land us, Rafferty ? I seen many a union on the 
rocks — and I ain't so old either ! If we had a bank, we'd 
support all the miners of the country, they'd never need to 
work again till they got their rights. But this money we 
spend is the money that other miners are earnin' — right 
now, down in the pits, Rafferty, the same as you and your 
old man. They give us this money, and they say, * Use it 
to build up the union. Use it to help the men that aren't 
organised — take them in, so they won't beat down our 
wages and scab on us. But don't waste it, for God's sake; 
we have to work hard to make it, and if we don't see re- 
sults, you'll get no more out of us. Don't you see how 
that is, man ? And how it weighs on us, worse even then 
the fear that maybe we'll lose our poor salaries — though 
you might refuse to believe anything so good of us ? You 
don't need to talk to me like I was Peter Harrigan's son. 
I was a spragger when I was ten years old, and I ain't been 
out of the pits so long that I've forgot the feeling. I 
assure you, the thing that keeps me awake at night ain't the 
fear of not gettin' a living, for I give myself a bit of edu- 
cation, working nights, and I know I could always turn out 
and earn what I need; but it's wondering whether I'm 
spending the miners' money the best way, whether maybe 
I mightn't save them a little misery if I hadn't 'a' done this 
or had 'a' done that. When I come down on that sleeper 
last night, here's what I was thinking, Tim Rafferty — all 
the time I listened to the train bumping — ' Now I got to 
see some more of the suffering, I got to let some good men 
turn against us, because they can't see why we should get 
salaries while they get the sack. How am I going to show 
them that I'm working for them — working as hard as I 
know how — and that I'm not to blame for their 
trouble ?'" 
 
Here Wauchope broke in. " There's no use talking any 
more. I see we're up against it. We'll not trouble you, 
Moylan." 
" You trouble me," cried Moylan, " unless you stand by 
the movement ! " 
The other laughed bitterly. " You'll never know what 
I do. It's the road for me — and you know it ! " 
" Well, wherever you go, it'll be the same ; either you'll 
be fighting for the union, or you'll be a weight that we have 
to carry." 
The young leader turned from one to another of the 
committee, pleading with them not to be embittered by this 
failure, but to turn it to their profit, going on with the 
work of building up the solidarity of the miners. Every 
man had to make his sacrifices, to pay his part of the price. 
The thing of importance was that every man who was dis- 
charged should be a spark of unionism, carrying the flame 
of revolt to a new part of the country. Let each one do his 
part, and there would soon be no place to which the masters 
could send for " scabs." 
 There was one member of this committee whom 
Hal watched with especial anxiety — Mary Burke. She 
had not yet said a word ; while the others argued and pro- 
tested, she sat with her lips set and her hands clenched. 
Hal knew what rage this failure must bring to her. She 
had risen and struggled and hoped, and the result was 
what she had always said it would be — nothing ! Now 
he saw her, with eyes large and dark with fatigue, fixed on 
this fiery young labour-leader. He knew that a war must 
be going on within her. Would she drop out entirely 
now? It was the test of her character — as it was the 
test of the characters of all of them. 
" If only we're strong enough and brave enough," Jim 
Moylan was saying, " we can use our defeats to educate 
 
our people and bring them together. Right now, if we 
can make the men at North Valley see what we're doing, 
they won't go back beaten, they won't be bitter against the 
union, they'll only go back to wait. And ain't that a way 
to beat the bosses — to hold our jobs, and keep the union 
alive, till we've got into all the camps, and can strike and 
win?" 
There was a pause ; then Mary spoke. " How're you 
meanin' to tell the men ? " Her voice was without emo- 
tion, but nevertheless, Hal's heart leaped. Whether Mary 
had any hope or not, she was going to stay in line with the 
rest of the ants ! 
Johann Hartman explained his idea. He would have 
circulars printed in several languages and distributed se- 
cretly in the camp, ordering the men back to work. But 
Jerry met this suggestion with a prompt no. The people 
would not believe the circulars, they would suspect the 
bosses of having them printed. Hadn't the bosses done 
worse than that, " framing up " a letter from Joe Smith to 
balk the check-weighman movement ? The only thing that 
would help would be for some of the committee to get into 
the camp and see the men face to face. 
" And it got to be quick ! " Jerry insisted. " They 
get notice to work in morning, and them that don't be fired. 
They be the best men, too — men we want to save." 
Other members of the committee spoke up, agreeing with 
this. Said Rusick, the Slav, slow-witted and slow-spoken, 
" Them fellers get mighty damn sore if they lose their job 
and don't got no strike." And Zammakis, the Greek, quick 
and nervous, " We say strike ; we got to say no strike." 
What could they do ? There was, in the first place, the 
difficulty of getting away from the hotel, which was being 
watched by the " spotters." Hartman suggested that if 
they went out all together and scattered, the detectives 
could not follow all of them.* Those who escaped might 
 
get into North Valley by hiding in the " empties " which 
went up to the mine. 
But Moylan pointed out that the company would be 
anticipating this ; and Rusick, who had once been a hobo, 
put in : " They sure search them cars. They give us 
plenty hell, too, when they catch us." 
Yes, it would be a dangerous mission. Mary spoke 
again. " Maybe a lady could do it better." 
" They'd beat a lady," said Minetti. 
" I know, but maybe a lady might fool them. There's 
some widows that came to Pedro for the funerals, and 
they're wearin' veils that hide their faces. I might pre- 
tend to be one of them and get into the camp." 
The men looked at one another. There was an idea! 
The scowl which had stayed upon the face of Tim Raf- 
ferty ever since his quarrel with Moylan, gave place 
suddenly to a broad grin. 
" I seen Mrs. Zamboni on the street," said he. " She 
had on black veils enough to hide the lot of us." 
And here Hal spoke, for the first time since Tim Raf- 
ferty had silenced him. "Does anybody know where to 
find Mrs. Zamboni ? " 
" She stay with my friend, Mrs. Swajka," said Rusick. 
" Well," said Hal, " there's something you people don't 
know about this situation. After they had fired you, I 
made another speech to the men, and made them swear 
they'd stay on strike. So now I've got to go back and eat 
my words. If we're relying on veils and things, a man can 
be fixed up as well as a woman." 
They were staring at him. " They'll beat you to death 
if they catch you I " said Wauchope. 
" No," said Hal, " I don't think so. Anyhow, it's up 
to me " — he glanced at Tim Rafferty — " because I'm the 
only one who doesn't have to suffer for the failure of our 
strike." 
 
There was a pause. 
" I'm sorry I said that ! " cried Tim, impulsively. 
" That's all right, old man," replied Hal: " What you 
said is true, and I'd like to do something to ease my con- 
science." He rose to his feet, laughing. "I'll make a 
peach of a widow ! " he said. " I'm going up and have a 
tea-party with my friend Jeff Cotton ! " 
 Hal proposed going to find Mrs. Zamboni at the 
place where she was staying; but Moylan interposed, ob- 
jecting that the detectives would surely follow him. Even 
though they should all go out of the hotel at once, the one 
person the detective would surely stick to was the arch- 
rebel and trouble-maker, Joe Smith. Finally they de- 
cided to bring Mrs. Zamboni to the room. Let her come 
with Mrs. Swajka or some other woman who spoke Eng- 
lish, and go to the desk and ask for Mary Burke, ex- 
plaining that Mary had borrowed money from her, and 
that she had to have it to pay the undertaker for the burial 
of her man. The hotel-clerk might not know who Mary 
Burke was ; but the watchful " spotters " would gather 
about and listen, and if it was mentioned that Mary was 
from North Valley, some one would connect her with the 
kidnapped committee. 
This was made clear to Busick, who hurried off, and in 
the course of half an hour returned with the announcement 
that the women were on the way. A few minutes later 
came a tap on the door, and there stood the black-garbed 
old widow with her friend. She came in ; and then came 
looks of dismay and horrified exclamations. Busick was 
requesting her to give up her weeds to Joe Smith ! 
" She say she don't got nothing else," explained the 
Slav. 
" Tell her I give her plenty money buy more," said Hal. 
 
" Ai ! Jesu ! " cried Mrs. Zamboni, pouring out a sput- 
tering torrent. 
" She say she don't got nothing to put on. She say it 
ain't good to go no clothes ! " 
" Hasn't she got on a petticoat ? " 
" She say petticoat got holes ! " 
There was a burst of laughter from the company, and 
the old woman turned scarlet from her forehead to her 
ample throat. " Tell her she wrap up in blankets," said 
Hal. " Mary Burke buy her new things." 
It proved surprisingly difficult to separate Mrs. Zamboni 
from her widow's weeds, which she had purchased with so 
great an expenditure of time and tears. Never had a re- 
spectable lady who had borne sixteen children received such 
a proposition ; to sell the insignia of her grief — and here 
in a hotel room, crowded with a dozen men ! Nor was the 
task made easier by the unseemly merriment of the men. 
" Ai ! Jesu ! " cried Mrs. Zamboni again. 
" Tell her it's very, very important," said Hal. " Tell 
her I must have them." And then, seeing that Rusick was 
making poor headway, he joined in, in the compromise- 
English one learns in the camps. " Got to have I Sure 
thing! Got to hide! Quick! Get away from boss! 
See? Get killed if no go ! " 
So at last the frightened old woman gave way. " She 
say all turn backs," said Eusick. And everybody turned, 
laughing in hilarious whispers, while, with Mary Burke 
and Mrs. Swajka for a shield, Mrs. Zamboni got out of her 
waist and skirt, putting a blanket round her red shoulders 
for modesty's sake. When Hal put the garments on, there 
was a foot to spare all round ; but after they had stuffed two 
bed pillows down in the front of him, and drawn them 
tight at the waist-line, the disguise was judged more satis- 
factory. He put on the old lady's ample if ragged shoes, 
and Mary Burke set the widow's bonnet on his head and 
adjusted the many veils; after that Mrs. Zamboni's own 
 
brood of children would not have suspected the disguise. 
It was a merry party for a few minutes; worn and 
hopeless as Mary had seemed, she was possessed now by the 
spirit of fun. But then quickly the laughter died. The 
time for action had come. Mary Burke said that she 
would stay with what was left of Mrs. Zamboni, to answer 
the door in case any of the hotel people or the detectives 
should come. Hal asked Jim Moylan to see Edward, and 
say that Hal was writing a manifesto to the North Valley 
workers, and would not be ready to leave until the mid- 
night train. 
These things agreed upon, Hal shook hands all round, 
and the eleven men left the room at once, going down stairs 
and through the lobby, scattering in every direction on the 
streets. Mrs. Swajka and the pseudo-Mrs. Zamboni fol- 
lowed a minute later — and, as they anticipated, found the 
lobby swept clear of detectives. 
 Bidding Mrs. Swajka farewell, Hal set out for 
the railroad station. But before he had gone a block from 
the hotel, he ran into his brother, coming straight towards 
him. 
Edward's face wore a bored look; his very manner of 
carrying the magazine under his arm said that he had se- 
lected it in a last hopeless effort against the monotony of 
Pedro. Such a trick of fate, to take a man of important 
affairs, and immure him at the mercy of a maniac in a God- 
forsaken coal-town! What did people do in such a hole? 
Pay a nickel to look at moving pictures of cow-boys and 
counterfeiters ? 
Edward's aspect was too much for Hal's sense of 
humour. Besides, he had a good excuse ; was it not proper 
to make a test of his disguise, before facing the real danger 
in North Valley ? 
He placed himself in the pat&of his brother's progress, 
 
and in Mrs. Zamboni's high, complaining tones, began, 
"Mister!" 
Edward stared at the interrupting black figure. " Mis- 
ter, you Joe Smith's brother, hey ? " 
The question had to be repeated before Edward gave 
his grudging answer. He was not proud of the relation- 
ship. 
« Mister," continued the whining voice, " my old man 
got blow up in mine. I get five pieces from my man what 
I got to bury yesterday in grave-yard. I got to pay thirty 
dollar for bury them pieces and I don't got no more money 
left. I don't got no money from them company fellers. 
They come lawyer feller and he say maybe I get money for 
bury my man, if I don't jay too much. But, Mister, I 
got eleven children I got to feed, and I don't got no more 
man, and I don't find no new man for old woman like me. 
When I go home I hear them children crying and I don't 
got no food, and them company-stores don't give me no 
food. I think maybe you Joe Smith's brother you good 
man, maybe you sorry for poor widow-woman, you maybe 
give me some money, Mister, so I buy some food for them 
children." 
"All right," said Edward. He pulled out his wallet 
and extracted a bill, which happened to be for ten dollars. 
His manner seemed to say, " For heaven's sake, here ! " 
Mrs. Zamboni clutched the bill with greedy fingers, but 
was not appeased. " You got plenty money, Mister ! 
You rich man, hey ! You maybe give me all them moneys, 
so I got plenty feed them children ? You don't know them 
company-stores, Mister, them prices is way up high like 
mountains ; them children is hungry, they cry all day and 
night, and one piece money don't last so long. You give 
me some more piece moneys, Mister — hey ? " 
" I'll give you one more," said Edward. " I need some 
for myself." He pulled off another bill. 
" What you need so much, Mister ? You don't got so 
 
many children, hey? And you got plenty more money 
home, maybe ! " 
" That's all I can give you," said the man. He took a 
step to one side, to get round the obstruction in his path. 
But the obstruction took a step also — and with sur- 
prising agility. " Mister, I thank you for them moneys. 
I tell them children I get moneys from good man. I like 
you, Mister Smith, you give money for poor widow-woman 
— you nice man." 
And the dreadful creature actually stuck out one of her 
paws, as if expecting to pat Edward on the cheek, or to 
chuck him under the chin. He recoiled, as from a con- 
tagion ; but she followed him, determined to do something 
to him, he could not be sure what. He had heard that 
these foreigners had strange customs ! 
" It's all right ! It's nothing ! " he insisted, and fell 
back — at the same time glancing nervously about, to see 
if there were spectators of this scene. 
" Nice man, Mister ! Nice man ! " cried the old woman, 
with increasing cordiality. " Maybe some day I find man 
like you, Mr. Edward Smith — so I don't stay widow- 
woman no more. You think maybe you like to marry nice 
Slavish woman, got plenty nice children ? " 
Edward, perceiving that the matter was getting desper- 
ate, sprang to one side. It was a spring which should have 
carried him to safety ; but to his dismay the Slavish widow 
sprang also — her claws caught him under the arm-pit, 
and fastening in his ribs, gave him a ferocious pinch. 
After which the owner of the claws went down the street, 
not looking back, but making strange gobbling noises, which 
might have been the weeping of a bereaved widow in Slav- 
ish, or might have been almost anything else. 
 The train up to North Valley left very soon, and 
Hal figured that there would be just time to accomplish his 
 
errand and catch the last train back. He took his seat in 
the car without attracting attention, and sat in his place 
until they were approaching their destination, the last stop 
up the canyon. There were several of the miners' women 
in the car, and Hal picked out one who belonged to Mrs. 
Zamboni's nationality, and moved over beside her. She 
made place, with some remark; but Hal merely sobbed 
softly, and the woman felt for his hand to comfort him. 
As his hands were clasped together under the veils, she 
patted him reassuringly on the knee. 
At the boundary of the stockaded village the train 
stopped, and Bud Adams came through the car, scrutinis- 
ing £Sy passenger. Seeing this, Hal began to sob again, 
and murmured something indistinct to his companion — 
which caused her to lean towards him, speaking volubly in 
her native language. " Bud " passed by. 
When Hal came to leave the train, he took his com- 
panion's arm; he sobbed some more, and she talked some 
more, and so they went down the platform, under the 
very eyes of Pete Hanun, the "breaker of teeth." An- 
other woman joined them, and they walked down the 
street, the women conversing in Slavish, apparently with- 
out a suspicion of Hal. 
He had worked out his plan of action. He would not 
try to talk with the men secretly — it would take too long, 
and he might be betrayed before he had talked with a suf- 
ficient number. One bold stroke was the thing. In half 
an hour it would be supper-time, and the feeders would 
gather in Reminitsky's dining-room. He would give his 
message there ! 
Hal's two companions were puzzled that he passed the 
Zamboni cabin, where presumably the Zamboni brood were 
being cared for by neighbours. But he let them make 
what they could of this, and went on to the Minetti home. 
To the astonished Kosa he revealed himself, and gave her 
husband's message — that she should take herself and the 
 
children down to Pedro, and wait quietly until she heard 
from him* She hurried out and brought in Jack David, to 
whom Hal explained matters. " Big Jack's " part in the 
recent disturbance had apparently not been suspected ; he 
and his wife, with Rovetta, Wresmak, and Klowoski, would 
remain as a nucleus through which the union could work 
upon the men. 
The supper-hour was at hand, and the pseudo-Mrs. 
Zamboni emerged and toddled down the street. As she 
passed into the dining-room of the boarding-house, men 
looked at her, but no one spoke. It was the stage of the 
meal where everybody was grabbing and devouring, in the 
effort to get the best of his grabbing and devouring neigh- 
bours. The black-clad figure went to the far end of the 
room; there was a vacant chair, and the figure pulled it 
back from the table and climbed upon it. Then a shout 
rang through the room : " Boys ! Boys ! " 
The feeders looked up, and saw the widow's weeds 
thrown back, and their leader, Joe Smith, gazing out at 
them. "Boys! I've come with a message from the 
union ! " 
There was a yell ; men leaped to their feet, chairs were 
flung back, falling with a crash to the floor. Then, almost 
instantly, came silence; you could have heard the move- 
ment of any man's jaws, had any man continued to move 
them. 
" Boys ! I've been down to Pedro and seen the union 
people. I knew the bosses wouldn't let me come back, so 
I dressed up, and here I am ! " 
It dawned upon them, the meaning of this fantastic 
costume ; there were cheers, laughter, yells of delight. 
But Hal stretched out his hands, and silence fell again. 
" Listen to me ! The bosses won't let me talk long, and 
I've something important to say. The union leaders say 
we can't win a strike now." 
 
Consternation came into the faces before him. There 
were cries of dismay. He went on : 
" We are only one camp, and the bosses would turn us 
out, they'd get in scabs and run the mines without us. 
What we must have is a strike of all the camps at once. 
One big union and one big strike ! If we walked out now, 
it would please the bosses; but we'll fool them — we'll 
keep our jobs, and keep our union too ! You are members 
of the union, you'll go on working for the union ! Hooray 
for the North Valley union ! " 
For a moment there was no response. It was hard for 
men to cheer over such a prospect ! Hal saw that he must 
touch a different chord. 
" We mustn't be cowards, boys ! We've got to keep our 
nerve ! I'm doing my part — it took nerve to get in here ! 
In Mrs. Zamboni's clothes, and with two pillows stuffed in 
front of me ! " 
He thumped the pillows, and there was a burst of laugh- 
ter. Many in the crowd knew Mrs. Zamboni — it was 
what comedians call a " local gag." The laughter spread, 
and became a gale of merriment. Men began to cheer: 
" Hurrah for Joe ! You're the girl ! Will you marry me, 
Joe ? " And so, of course, it was easy for Hal to get a re- 
sponse when he shouted, " Hurrah for the North Valley 
union ! " 
Again he raised his hands for silence, and went on 
again. " Listen, men. They'll turn me out, and you're 
not going to resist them. You're going to work and keep 
your jobs, and get ready for the big strike. And you'll 
tell the other men what I say. I can't talk to them all, but 
you tell them about the union. Kemember, there are peo- 
ple outside planning and fighting for you. We're going 
to stand by the union, all of us, till we've brought these 
coal-camps back into America ! " There was a cheer that 
shook the walls of the room. Yes, that was what they 
wanted — to live in America ! 
 
A crowd of men had gathered in the doorway, attracted 
by the uproar ; Hal noticed confusion and pushing, and saw 
the head and burly shoulders of his enemy, Fete Hanun, 
come into sight. 
" Here come the gunmen, boys! " he cried; and there 
was a roar of anger from the crowd. Men turned, clench- 
ing their fists, glaring at the guard. But Hal rushed on, 
quickly : 
" Boys, hear what I say ! Keep your heads ! I can't 
stay in North Valley, and you know it! But I've done 
the thing I came to do, I've brought you the message from 
the union. And you'll tell the other men — tell them to 
stand by the union ! " 
Hal went on, repeating his message over and over. 
Looking from one to another of these toil-worn faces, he 
remembered the pledge he had made them, and he made it 
anew : " I'm going to stand by you ! I'm going on with 
the fight, boys ! " 
There came more disturbance at the door, and suddenly 
Jeff Cotton appeared, with a couple of additional guards, 
shoving their way into the room, breathless and red in the 
face from running. 
" Ah, there's the marshal ! " cried Hal. " You needn't 
push, Cotton, there's not going to be any trouble. We are 
union men here, we know how to control ourselves. Now, 
boys, we're not giving up, we're not beaten, we're only 
waiting for the men in the other camps ! We have a union, 
and we mean to keep it ! Three cheers for the union ! " 
The cheers rang out with a will : cheers for the union, 
cheers for Joe Smith, cheers for the widow and her 
weeds! 
" You belong to the union ! You stand by it, no matter 
what happens! If they fire you, you take it on to the 
next place ! You teach it to the new men, you never let it 
die in your hearts ! In union there is strength, in union 
there is hope ! Never forget it, men — Union I " 
 
The voice of the camp-marshal rang out. " If you're 
coming, young woman, come now ! " 
Hal dropped a shy curtsey. " Oh, Mr. Cotton! This 
is so sudden ! " The crowd howled ; and Hal descended 
from his platform. With coquettish gesturing he replaced 
the widow's veils about his face, and tripped mincingly 
across the dining-room. When he reached the camp- 
marshal, he daintily took that worthy's arm, and with the 
"breaker of teeth" on the other side, and Bud Adams 
bringing up the rear, he toddled out of the dining-room 
and down the street. 
Hungry men gave up their suppers to behold that sight. 
They poured out of the building, they followed, laughing, 
shouting, jeering. Others came from every direction — 
by the time the party had reached the depot, a good part 
of the population of the village was on hand; and every- 
where went the word, " It's Joe Smith ! Come back with 
a message from the union ! " Big, coal-grimed miners 
laughed till the tears made streaks on their faces ; they fell 
on one another's necks for delight at this trick which had 
been played upon their oppressors. 
Even Jeff Cotton could not withhold his tribute. " By 
God, you're the limit ! " he muttered. He accepted the 
" tea-party " aspect of the affair, as the easiest way to get 
rid of his recurrent guest, and avert the possibilities of 
danger. He escorted the widow to the train and helped 
her up the steps, posting escorts at the doors of her car; 
nor did the attentions of these gallants cease until the train 
had moved down the canyon and passed the limits of the 
North Valley stockade! 
 Hal took off his widow's weeds ; and with them 
he shed the merriment he had worn for the benefit of the 
men. There came a sudden reaction ; he realised that he 
was tired. 
 
For ten days he had lived in a whirl of excitement, 
scarcely stopping to sleep. Now he lay back in the car- 
seat, pale, exhausted; his head ached, and he realised that 
the sum-total of his North Valley experience was failure. 
There was left in him no trace of that spirit of adventure 
with which he had set out upon his " summer course in 
practical sociology." He had studied his lessons, tried to 
recite them, and been "flunked." He smiled a bitter 
smile, recollecting the careless jesting that had been on his 
lips as he came up that same canyon : 
" He keeps them a-roll, that merry old soul — 
The wheels of industree ; 
A-roll and a-roll, for his pipe and his bowl 
And his college facultee! " 
The train arrived in Pedro, and Hal took a hack at the 
station and drove to the hotel. He still carried the widow's 
weeds rolled into a bundle. He might have left them in 
the train, but the impulse to economy which he had ac- 
quired during the last ten weeks had become a habit. He 
would return them to Mrs. Zamboni. The money he had 
promised her might better be used to feed her young ones. 
The two pillows he would leave in the car ; the hotel might 
endure the loss ! 
Entering the lobby, the first person Hal saw was his 
brother, and the sight of that patrician face made human 
by disgust relieved Hal's headache in part. Life was 
harsh, life was cruel; but here was weary, waiting Ed- 
ward, that boon of comic relief ! 
Edward demanded to know where the devil he had been ; 
and Hal answered, "I've been visiting the widows and 
orphans." 
" Oh ! " said Edward. " And while I sit in this hole 
and stew ! What's that you've got under your arm ? " 
Hal looked at the bundle. " It's a souvenir of one of 
the widows," he said, and unrolled the garments and spread 
 
them out before his brother's puzzled eyes. "A lady 
named Mrs. Swajka gave them to me. They belonged to 
another lady, Mrs. Zamboni, but she doesn't need them any 
more." 
" What have you got to do with them ? " 
" It seems that Mrs. Zamboni is going to get married 
again." Hal lowered his voice, confidentially. "It's a 
romance, Edward — it may interest you as an illustration 
of the manners of these foreign races. She met a man on 
the street, a fine, fine man, she says — and he gave her a 
lot of money. So she went and bought herself some new 
clothes, and she wants to give these widow's weeds' to the 
new man. That's the custom in her country, it seems — 
her sign that she accepts him as a suitor." 
Seeing the look of wonderment growing on his brother's 
face, Hal had to stop for a moment to keep his own face 
straight. " If that man wasn't serious in his intention, 
Edward, he'll have trouble, for I know Mrs. Zamboni's 
emotional nature. She'll follow him about everywhere — " 
" Hal, that creature is insane ! " And Edward looked 
about him nervously, as if he thought the Slavish widow 
might appear suddenly in the hotel lobby to demonstrate 
her emotional nature. 
" No," replied Hal, " it's just one of those differences in 
national customs." And suddenly Hal's face gave way. 
He began to laugh ; he laughed, perhaps more loudly than 
good form permitted. 
Edward was much annoyed. There were people in the 
lobby, and they were staring at him. " Cut it out, Hal ! " 
he exclaimed. " Your fool jokes bore me ! " But never- 
theless, Hal could see uncertainty in his brother's face. 
Edward recognised those widow's weeds. And how could 
he be sure about the " national customs " of that grotesque 
creature who had pinched him in the ribs on the street ? 
" Cut it out ! " he cried again. 
Hal, changing his voice suddenly to the Zamboni key, 
 
exclaimed : " Mister, I got eight children I got to feed, 
and I don't got no more man, and I don't find no new man 
for old woman like me ! " 
So at last the truth in its full enormity began to dawn 
upon Edward. His consternation and disgust poured 
themselves out; and Hal listened, his laughter dying. 
" Edward," he said, " you don't take me seriously even 
yet!" 
" Good God ! " cried the other. " I believe you're really 
insane ! " 
" You were up there, Edward ! You heard what I said 
to those poor devils ! And you actually thought I'd go ofi 
with you and forget about them ! " 
Edward ignored this. " You're really insane! " he re- 
peated. " You'll get yourself killed, in spite of all I can 
do!" 
But Hal only laughed. "Not a chance of it! You 
should have seen the tea-party manners of the camp- 
marshal ! " 
 Edward would have endeavoured to carry his 
brother away forthwith, but there was no train until late 
at night ; so Hal went upstairs, where he found Moylan and 
Hartman with Mary Burke and Mrs. Zamboni, all eager 
to hear his story. As the members of the committee, 
who had been out to supper, came straggling in, the story 
was told again, and yet again. They were almost as much 
delighted as the men in Keminitsky's. If only all strikes 
that had to be called off could be called off as neatly as 
that! 
Between these outbursts of satisfaction, they discussed 
their future. Moylan was going back to Western City, 
Hartman to his office in Sheridan, from which he would 
arrange to send new organisers into North Valley. No 
doubt Cartwright would turn off many men — those who 
 
had made themselves conspicuous during the strike, those 
who continued to talk union out loud. But such men 
would have to be replaced, and the union knew through 
what agencies the company got its hands. The North 
Valley miners would find themselves mysteriously provided 
with union literature in their various languages ; it would 
be slipped under their pillows, or into their dinner-pails, or 
the pockets of their coats while they were at work. 
Also there was propaganda to be carried on among those 
who were turned away ; so that, wherever they went, they 
would take the message of unionism. There had been a 
sympathetic outburst in Barela, Hal learned — starting 
quite spontaneously that morning, when the men heard 
what had happened at North Valley. A score of workers 
had been fired, and more would probably follow in the 
morning. Here was a job for the members of the kid- 
napped committee ; Tim Kafferty, for example — would he 
care to stay in Pedro for a week or two, to meet such men, 
and give them literature and arguments ? 
This offer was welcome; for life looked desolate to 
the Irish boy at this moment. He was out of a job, his 
father was a wreck, his family destitute and helpless. 
They would have to leave their home, of course; there 
would be no place for any Kafferty in North Valley. 
Where they would go, God only knew ; Tim would become 
a wanderer, living away from his people, starving himself 
and sending home his pitiful savings. 
Hal was watching the boy, and reading these thoughts. 
He, Hal Warner, would play the god out of a machine in 
this case, and in several others equally pitiful. He had 
the right to sign his father's name to checks, a privilege 
which he believed he could retain, even while under- 
taking the role of Haroun al Kaschid in a mine-disaster. 
But what about the mine-disasters and abortive strikes 
where there did not happen to be any Haroun al Kaschid 
at hand ? What about those people, right in North Valley, 
 
who did not happen to have told Hal of their affairs ? He 
perceived that it was only by turning his back and running 
that he would escape from his adventure with any portion 
of his self-possession. Truly, this fair-seeming and won- 
derful civilisation was like the floor of a charnel-house or a 
field of battle ; anywhere one drove a spade beneath its sur- 
face, he uncovered horrors, sights for the eyes and stenches 
for the nostrils that caused him to turn sick ! 
There was Rusick, for example ; he had a wife and two 
children, and not a dollar in the world. In the year and 
more that he had worked, faithfully and persistently, to get 
out coal for Peter Harrigan, he had never once been able 
to get ahead of his bill for the necessities of life at Old 
Peter's store. All his belongings in the world could be 
carried in a bundle on his back, and whether he ever saw 
these again would depend upon the whim of old Peter's 
camp-marshal and guards. Rusick would take to the road, 
with a ticket purchased by the union. Perhaps he would 
find a job and perhaps not ; in any case, the best he could 
hope for in life was to work for some other Harrigan, and 
run into debt at some other company-store. 
There was Hobianish, a Serbian, and Hernandez, a 
Mexican, of whom the same things were true, except that 
one had four children and the other six. Bill Wauchope 
had only a wife — their babies had died, thank heaven, he 
said. He did not seem to have been much moved by Jim 
Moylan's pleadings ; he was down and out ; he would take 
to the road, and beat his way to the East and back to 
England. They called this a free country! By God, if 
he were to tell what had happened to him, he could not get 
an English miner to believe it ! 
Hal gave these men his real name and address, and made 
them promise to let him know how they got along. He 
would help a little, he said ; in his mind he was figuring 
how much he ought to do. How far shall a man go in re- 
lieving the starvation about him, before he can enjoy his 
 
meals in a well-appointed club? What casuist will work 
out this problem — telling him the percentage he shall re- 
lieve of the starvation he happens personally to know about, 
the percentage of that which he sees on the streets, the per- 
centage of that about which he reads in government reports 
on the rise in the cost of living. To what extent is he per- 
mitted to close his eyes, as he walks along the streets on 
his way to the club ? To what extent is he permitted to 
avoid reading government reports before going out to 
dinner-dances with his fiancee? Problems such as these 
the masters of the higher mathematics have neglected to 
solve ; the wise men of the academies and the holy men of 
the churches have likewise failed to work out the formulas ; 
and Hal, trying to obtain them by his crude mental arith- 
metic, found no satisfaction in the results. 
 Hal wanted a chance to talk to Mary Burke ; they 
had had no intimate talk since the meeting with Jessie 
Arthur, and now he was going away, for a long time. He 
wanted to find out what plans Mary had for the future, and 
— more important yet — what was her state of mind. If 
he had been able to lift this girl from despair, his summer 
course in practical sociology had not been all a failure ! 
He asked her to go with him to say good-bye to John 
Edstrom, whom he had not seen since their unceremonious 
parting at MacKellar's, when Hal had fled to Percy Harri- 
gan's train. Downstairs in the lobby Hal explained his 
errand to his waiting brother, who made no comment, but 
merely remarked that he would follow, if Hal had no ob- 
jection. He did not care to make the acquaintance of the 
Hibernian Joan of Arc, and would not come close enough 
to interfere with Hal's conversation with the lady ; but he 
wished to do what he could for his brother's protection. 
So there set out a moon-light procession — first Hal and 
 
Mary, then Edward, and then Edward's dinner-table com- 
panion, the " hardware-drummer ! " 
Hal was embarrassed in beginning his farewell talk with 
Mary. He had no idea how she felt towards him, and he 
admitted with a guilty pang that he was a little afraid to 
find out ! He thought it best to be cheerful, so he started 
to tell her how fine he thought her conduct during the 
strike. But she did not respond to his remarks, and at 
last he realised that she was labouring with some thoughts 
of her own. 
" There's somethin' I got to say to ye ! " she began, sud- 
denly. " A couple of days ago I knew how I meant to say 
it, but now I don't." 
" Well ' he laughed, " say it as you meant to." 
" No ; 'twas bitter — and now I'm on my knees before 
ye." 
" Not that I want you to be bitter," said Hal, still laugh- 
ing, " but it's I that ought to be on my knees before you. 
I didn't accomplish anything, you know." 
" Ye did all ye could — and more than the rest of us. 
I want ye to know I'll never forget it. But I want ye to 
hear the other thing, too ! " 
She walked on, staring before her, doubling up her hands 
in agitation. "Well?" said he, still trying to keep a 
cheerful tone. 
" Ye remember that day just after the explosion ? Ye 
remember what I said about — about goin' away with 
ye? I take it back." 
" Oh, of course ! " said he, quickly. " You were dis- 
tracted, Mary — you didn't know what you were saying." 
" No, no f That's not it ! But I've changed my mind ; 
I don't mean to throw meself away." 
" I told you you'd see it that way," he said. " No man 
is worth it." 
" Ah, lad ! " said she. " 'Tis the fine soothin' tongue ye 
 
have — but I'd rather ye knew the truth. 'Tis that I've 
seen the other girl ; and I hate her ! " 
They walked for a bit in silence. Hal had sense 
enough to realise that here was a difficult subject. " I 
don't want to be a prig, Mary," he said gently; " but you'll 
change your mind about that, too. You'll not hate her; 
you'll be sorry for her." 
She laughed — a raw, harsh laugh. " What kind of a 
joke is that ? " 
" I know — it may seem like one. But it'll come to you 
some day. You have a wonderful thing to live and fight 
for ; while she " — he hesitated a moment, for he was not 
sure of his own ideas on this subject — " she has so many 
things to learn; and she may never learn them. She'll 
miss some fine things." 
" I know one of the fine things she does not mean to 
miss," said Mary, grimly; "that's Mr. Hal Warner." 
Then, after they had walked again in silence : " I want ye 
to understand me, Mr. Warner — " 
" Ah, Mary ! " he pleaded. " Don't treat me that wsTy ! 
I'm Joe." 
" All right," she said, " Joe ye shall be. 'Twill remind 
ye of a pretty adventure — bein' a workin' man for a few 
weeks. Well, that's a part of what I have to tell ye. I've 
got my pride, even if I'm only a poor miner's (laughter ; 
and the other day I found out me place." 
" How do you mean ? " he asked. 
" Ye don't understand ? Honest ? " 
" No, honest," he said. 
" Ye're stupid with women, Joe. Ye didn't see what 
the girl did to me ! 'Twas some kind of a bug I was to her. 
She was not sure if I was the kind that bites, but she took 
no chances — she threw me off, like that." And Mary 
snapped her hand, as one does when troubled with a bug. 
" Ah, now ! " pleaded Hal. " You're not being fair ! " 
 
" I'm bein' just as fair as I've got it in me to be, Joe. 
I been off and had it all out. I can see this much — 'tis 
not her fault, maybe — 'tis her class ; 'tis all of ye — the 
very best of ye, even yeself , Joe Smith I " 
" Yes," he replied, " Tim Eafferty said that." 
" Tim said too much — but a part of it was true. Ye 
think ye've come here and been one of us workin' people. 
But don't your own sense tell you the difference, as if it 
was a canyon a million miles across — between a poor igno- 
rant creature in a minin' camp, and a rich man's daugh- 
ter, a lady? Ye'd tell me not to be ashamed of poverty; 
but would ye ever put me by the side of her — for all your 
fine feelin's of friendship for them that's beneath ye? 
Didn't ye show that at the Minettis' ? " 
"But don't you see, Mary — " He made an effort to 
laugh. " I got used to obeying Jessie I I knew her a long 
time before I knew you." 
" Ah, Joe ! Ye've a kind heart, and a pleasant way of 
speakin'. But wouldn't it interest ye to know the real 
truth ? Ye said ye'd come out here to learn the truth ! " 
And Hal answered, in a low voice, " Yes," and did not 
interrupt again. 
 Mary's voice had dropped low, and Hal thought 
how rich and warm it was when she was deeply moved. 
She went on: 
" I lived all me life in minin' camps, Joe Smith, and I 
seen men robbed and beaten, and women cryin' and childer 
hungry. I seen the company, like some great wicked beast 
that eat them up. But I never knew why, or what it 
meant — till that day, there at the Minettis'. I'd read 
about fine ladies in books, ye see ; but I'd never been spoke 
to by one, I'd never had to swallow one, as ye might say. 
But there I did — and all at once I seemed to know where 
the money goes that's wrung out of the miners. I saw why 
 
people were robbin' us, grindin' the life out of us — for 
fine ladies like that, to keep them so shinin' and soft! 
'Twould not have been so bad, if she'd not come just then, 
with all the men and boys dyin' down in the pits — dyin' 
for that soft, white skin, and those soft, white hands, and 
all those silky things she swished round in. My God, Joe 
— d'ye know what she seemed to me like ? Like a smooth, 
sleek cat that has just eat up a whole nest full of baby mice, 
and has the blood of them all over her cheeks ! " 
Mary paused, breathing hard. Hal kept silence, and 
she went on again : " I had it out with meself , Joe ! I 
don't want ye to think I'm any better than I am, and I 
asked meself this question — Is it for the men in the pits 
that ye hate her with such black murder ? Or is it for the 
one man ye want, and that she's got ? And I knew the an- 
swer to that ! But then I asked meself another question, 
too — Would ye be like her if ye could? Would ye do 
what she's doin' right now — would ye have it on your 
soul ? And as God hears me, Joe, 'tis the truth I speak — 
I'd not do it ! No, not for the love of any man that ever 
walked on this earth ! " 
She had lifted her clenched fist as she spoke. She let 
it fall again, and strode on, not even glancing at him. 
" Ye might try a thousand years, Joe, and ye'd not realise 
the feelin's that come to me there at the Minettis'. The 
shame of it — not what she done to me, but what she made 
me in me own eyes I Me, the daughter of a drunken old 
miner, and her — I don't know what her father is, but 
she's some sort of princess, and she knows it. And that's 
the thing that counts, Joe ! 'Tis not that she has so much 
money, and so many fine things; that she knows how to 
talk, and I don't, and that her voice is sweet, and mine is 
ugly, when I'm ragin' as I am now. No — 'tis that she's 
so sure! That's the word I found to say it ; she's sure — 
sure — sure! She has the fine things, she's always had 
