particular conditions finds them all unexpectedly 
and unmistakably "together", the discovery be- 
comes for him doubly illuminating. I might even 
better say trebly; showing him in the very first 
place that Horton has lied to him, and thereby 
that Horton can lie. This very interesting and 
important — but also, in a strange way, "fascinat- 
ing" to him. It shows in the second way how 
much Cissy is "thinking" of Horton, as well as 
he of her; and it shows in the last place, which 
makes it triple, how well Horton must think of 
the way his affairs are getting on that he can 
now consider the possibility of a marriage — that 
he can feel, I mean, he can afford to marry; not 
having need of one of the Rosannas to make up 
for his own destitution. This clinches enormously, 
as by a flash of vision, Gray's perception of what 
he is about; and is thus very intensely a Joint 
of the first water! What I want to be carried 
on to is the point at which all that he sees and 
feels and puts together in this connection eventu- 
ates in a decision or attitude, in a clearing-up of 
all the troubled questions, obscurities and diffi- 
culties that have hung for him about what I 
call his Solution, about what he shall be most 
at ease, most clear and consistent for himself, in 
making up his mind to. The process here and 
the position on his part, with all the implications 
and consequences of the same in which it results, 
 
is difficult and delicate to formulate, but I see 
with the last intensity the sense of it, and feel 
how it will all come and come as I get nearer to 
it. What is a big and beautiful challenge to a 
whole fine handling of these connections in partic- 
ular is the making conceivable and clear, or in 
other words credible, consistent, vivid and in- 
teresting, the particular extraordinary relation 
thus constituted between the two men. That 
one may make it these things for Gray is more 
or less calculable, and, as I seem to make out, 
workable; but the greatest beauty of the dif- 
ficulty is in getting it and keeping it in the right 
note and at the right pitch for Horton. Horton's 
"acceptance" — on what prodigious basis save 
the straight and practical view of Gray's exalted 
queerness and constitutional, or whatever, per- 
versity, can that be shown as resting? Two fine 
things — that is one of them strikes me as very 
fine — here come to me; one of these my seeing 
{don't I see it ?) how it will fall in, not to say fall 
out, as of the essence of the true workability, that 
the extent to which i's are not dotted between 
them, are left consciously undotted, to which, 
to the most extraordinary tune, and yet with the 
logic of it all straight, they stand off, or rather 
Gray does, the other all demonstrably thus taking 
his cue — the way, I say, in which the standing- 
off from sharp or supreme clearances is, and con- 
firms itself as being, a note of my hero's action 
 
in the matter, throws upon one the most in- 
teresting work. Horton accepts it as exactly 
part of the prodigious queerness which he humours 
and humours in proportion as Gray will have it 
that he shall; the "fine thing", the second of 
the two, just spoken of, being that Horton never 
flinches from his perfectly splendid theory that 
he is "taking care", consummately, of his friend, 
and that he is arranging, by my exhibition of 
him, just as consummately to show for so doing. 
No end, I think, to be got out of this wondrous 
fact of Gray's sparing Horton, or saving him, the 
putting of anything to a real and direct Test; 
such a Test as would reside in his asking straight 
for a large sum of money, a big amount, really 
consonant with his theoretically intact resources 
arid such as he with the highest propriety in the 
world might simply say that he has an imme- 
diate use for, or can make some important ap- 
plication of. No end, no end, as I say, to what 
I see as given me by this — this huge constituted 
and accepted eccentricity of Gray's holdings-off. 
I have the image of the relation between them 
made by it in my vision thus of the way 4 or the 
ways, they look at each other even while talking 
together to a tune which would logically or con- 
sistently make these ways other; the sort of edu- 
cation of the look that it breeds in Horton on 
the whole ground of "how far he may go." The 
things that pass between them after this fashion 
3 2 3 
 
.,- 
quite beautiful to do if kept from an overdoing; 
with Horton's formula of his "looking after" 
Gray completely interwoven with his whole 
ostensibility. It is with this formula that Hor- 
ton meets the world all the while — the world 
that at a given moment can only find itself so 
full of wonderment and comment. It is with it 
above all that he meets Cissy, who takes it from 
him in a way that absolutely helps him to keep 
it up; and it would be with it that he should 
meet Rosanna if, after a given' day or season, he 
might find it in him to dare, as it were, to "meet" 
Rosanna at all. It is with Horton's formula, 
which I think I finally show him as quite publicly 
delighting in, that Gray himself meets Rosanna, 
whom he meets a great deal all this time; with 
such passages between them as are only matched 
in another sense, and with all the other values 
with which they swell, so to speak, by his pas- 
sages with the consummate Horton. Charming, 
by which I mean such interesting, things resident 
in what I there touch on; with the way they look 
at each other, Rosanna and Gray, if one is talk- 
ing about looks. Gray keeps it in comedy, so 
far as he can — making a tone, a spell, that Ro- 
sanna doesn't break into, as she breaks, anything 
to call really breaks, into' nothing as yet: I seem 
to see the final, from-far-back-prepared moment 
when she does, for the first and last time, break 
as of a big and beautiful value. That will be a 
 
Joint of Joints; but meanwhile what is Between 
them is the sombre confidence, tenderness, fas- 
cination, anxiety, a dozen admirable things, with 
which she waits on Gray's tone, not playing up 
to it at all (playings-up and suchlike not being 
verily in her) but taking it from him, accom- 
modating herself to it with all her anxiety and 
her confidence somehow mixed together, as if to 
see how far it will carry her. Such a lot to be 
done with Gussie Bradham, portentous woman, 
even to the very cracking or bursting of the mould 
meanwhile — so functional do I see her, in spite 
of the crowding and pressing together of func- 
tions, as to the production of those (after all 
early-determined) reactions in Gray by the simple 
complete exhibition of her type and pressure 
and aggressive mass. She is really worth a book 
by herself, or would be should I look that way; 
and I just here squeeze what I most want about 
her into a sort of nutshell by saying that it marks 
for Gray just where and how his Solution, or at 
any rate some of its significant and attendant 
aspects, swims into his ken, with the very first 
scene she makes him about the meanness then 
of his conception of his opportunity. Then it is 
he feels he must be getting a bit into the truth of 
things — if that's the way he strikes her. His 
very measure of taste and delicacy and the sym- 
pathetic and the nice and the what he wants, 
becomes after a fashion what she will want most 
 
to make him a scene about. I have it at first 
that he lends himself, that her great driving tone 
and pressure, her would-be act of possession of 
him, Cissy and the question of Cissy being the 
link, have amounted to a sort of trouble-saving 
thing which he has let himself "go to", which he 
has suffered as his convenient push or handy 
determinant, for the hour (sceptical even then 
as to its lasting) — but which has inordinately 
overdosed him, overhustled him, almost, as he 
feels in his old habit of financial contraction, 
overspent and overruined him. He does the 
things, the social things, for the moment, that 
she prescribes, that she foists upon him as the 
least ones he can decently do; does them even 
with a certain bewildered amusement — while 
Rosanna, brooding apart, so to speak, out of 
the circle and on her own ground, but ever so 
attentive, draws his eye to the effect of what 
one might almost call the intelligent, the patience- 
invitingj wink! Oh for the pity of scant space 
for specific illustration of Mrs. Bradham; where- 
with indeed of course I reflect on the degree to 
which my planned compactness, absolutely pre- 
cious and not to be compromised with, must 
restrict altogether the larger illustrational play. 
Intensities of foreshortening, with alternate vivid- 
nesses of extension: that is the rough label of 
the process. I keep it before me how mixed 
Cissy is with certain of the consequences of this 
 
hustlement of Mrs. Bradham, and how bulby- 
ingly, so to call it almost, she has put the whole 
matter of what he ought to "do for them all," 
on the ground in particular of what it is so open 
to him, so indicated for him, to do for that poor 
dear exquisite thing in especial. Illustrational, 
illustrational, yes; but oh how every inch of it 
will have to count. I seem to want her to have 
made him do some one rather gross big thing 
above all, as against his own sense of fineness in 
these matters; and to have this thing count 
somehow very much in the matter of his relation 
with Cissy. I seem to want something like his 
having consented to be "put up" by her to the 
idea of offering Cissy something very handsome 
byway of a "kind" tribute to her mingled poverty 
and charm — jolly, jolly, I think I've exactly got 
it ! I keep in mind that Mrs. Bradham wants 
him to marry her — this amount of "disinterested- 
ness " giving the measure of Mrs. B. at her most 
exalted "best". Wherewith, to consolidate this, 
her delicacy being capable — well, of what we shall 
see, she works of course to exaggeration the idea 
of his "recognising" how nice Cissy was, over 
there in the other time, to his poor sick stepfather, 
who himself so recognised it, who wrote to her 
so charmingly a couple of times "about it", 
after her return to America and quite shortly 
before his death. Gray "knows about this", 
and of course will quite see what she means. 
 
Therefore wouldn't it be nice for Gray to give 
her, Cissy, something really beautiful and val- 
uable and socially helpful to her — as of course 
he can't give her money, which is what would 
be most helpful. Under this hustlement, in fine, 
and with a sense, born of his goodnature, his 
imagination, and his own delicacy, such a very 
different affair, of what Gussie Bradham has 
done for him, by her showing, he finds himself 
in for having bought a very rare single row of 
pearls, such as a girl, in New York at least, may 
happily wear, and presenting it to our young 
person as the token of recognition that Mrs. 
Bradham has imagined for them. The beauty 
in which, I see, is that it may be illustrational 
in more ways than one — illustrational of the 
hustle, of the length Gray has "appreciatively" 
let himself go, and, above all, of Cissy's really 
interesting intelligence and "subtlety". She 
refuses the gift, very gently and pleadingly, but 
as it seems to him really pretty well finally — 
refuses it as not relevant or proportionate or 
congruous to any relation in which they yet 
stand to each other, and as oh ever so much over- 
expressing any niceness she may have shown in 
Europe. She does, in doing this, exactly what 
he has felt at the back of his head that she would 
really do, and what he likes her for doing; — the 
effect of which is that she has furthered her in- 
terest with him decidedly more (as she of course 
 
says to herself) than if she had taken it. He is 
left with it for the moment on his hands, and 
what I want is that he shall the next thing find 
himself, in revulsion, in reaction, there being 
for him no question of selling it again etc., finds 
himself, I say, offering it to Mrs. Bradham her- 
self, who swallows it without winking. Yet, in 
a way, this little history of the pearls, of her not 
having had them, and of his after a fashion owing 
her a certain compensation for that, owing her 
something she can accept, is there between him 
and my young person. They figure again be- 
tween them, humorously, freely, ironically — the 
girl being of an irony! — in their appearances on 
Mrs. Bradham's person, to whose huge possession 
of ornament they none the less conspicuously 
add. 
But my point here is above all that Gray ex- 
actly doesn't put the question of what is becom- 
ing of his funds under Horty's care of them to 
the test by any cultivation of that courage for 
large drafts and big hauls, that nerve for be- 
lieving in the fairy-tale of his sudden fact of pos- 
session, which was briefly and in a manner amus- 
ingly possible to him at the first go off of his 
situation. He forbears, abstains, stands off, and 
finds himself, or in particular is found by others, 
to the extent of their observing, wondering and 
presently challenging him, to be living, to be 
drawing on his supposed income, with what might 
 
pass for the most extraordinarily timorous and 
limited! imagination. He likes this arrest, en- 
joys it and feels a sort of wondrous refreshing 
decency, at any rate above all a refreshing in- 
terest and curiosity about it, or, rather, for it; 
but what his position involves is his explaining 
it to others, his making up his mind, his having 
to, for a line to take about it,, without his thereby 
giving Horton away. He isn't to give Horton 
away the least scrap from this point on; but at 
the same time he is to have to deal with the world, 
with society, with the entourage consisting for 
him, in its most pressing form, of, say, three 
representative persons- — he has to deal with this 
challenge,, as I have called it, in some way that 
will sort of meet it without givings-away. These 
three persons are in especial Rosanna and the 
two Bradhams;, and it is before me definitely, I 
think, that I want to express, and in the very 
vividest way, his sense of his situation here, of 
what it means, and of what he means, in it, through 
what takes place for him about it with Rosanna 
and with the Bradhams. It is by what he "says" 
to the Bradhams and to Rosanna (in the way, 
that is largely, of not. saying) that I seem to see 
my values here as best got, and the presentation 
of their different states most vivified and drama- 
tised. These are scenes, and the function of them 
to serve up for us exactly, and ever so lucidly, 
what I desire them to represent. If the greatest 
 
interest of them, of sorts, belongs to them in so 
far as they are "with" Rosanna, there are yet 
particular values that belong to the relation with 
Davey, and the three relations, at any rate, work 
the thing for me. They are perfectly different, 
on this lively ground, though the "point" in- 
volved is the same in each; and the having each 
of them to do it with should enable me to do it 
beautifully; I mean to squeeze all the dramatic 
sense from it. The great beauty is of course for 
the aspects with Rosanna, between whom and 
him everything passes — and there is so much 
basis already in what has been between them — 
without his "explaining", as I have called it, 
anything. Even without explanations — or all 
the more by reason of their very absence — there 
is so much of it all; of the question and the dra- 
matic illumination. With Gussie Bradham — 
that aspect I needn't linger or insist on, here, so 
much as a scrap. I have that, see it all, it's then. 
But with Davey I want something very good, 
that is in other words very functional; and I 
think I even wonder if I don't want to see Davey 
as attempting to borrow money of him. This — - 
if I do see it — will take much putting on the right 
basis; and it seems to kind of glimmer upon me 
richly what the right basis is. My idea has been 
from the first that the Bradham money is all 
Gussie's; I have seen Davey, by the very type 
and aspect, by all his detached irony and humour 
 
and indiscretion and general value as the un- 
monied young man who has married the heiress, 
as Horton would have been had he been able 
to marry, Rosanna. But no interfering analogy 
need trouble me here; Horton's not having done 
that, and the essential difference between the 
men, eases off any such question. Only don't I 
seem to want it that Gussie's fortune, besides 
not having been even remotely comparable to 
Rosanna's, is, though with a fair outward face, 
a dilapidated and undermined quantity, much 
ravaged by Gussie's violent strain upon it, and 
representing thus, through her general enormous 
habit and attitude, an association and connec- 
tion with the money world, but all the more 
characteristically so, for Gray as he begins to see, 
that almost everything but the pitch of Gussie's 
wants and arrangements and ideals has been 
chucked, as it were, out of its windows and doors. 
Don't I really see the Bradhams thus as preda- 
tory ? Predatory on the very rich, that is; with 
Gussie's insistence that Gray shall be and shall 
proceed as quite one of the very, oh the very, 
very, exactly in order that she may so prey ? 
Yes and so it is that Gray learns — so it is that a 
part of Davey's abysses of New York financial 
history, is his own, their own, but his in partic- 
ular, abyss of inconvenience, abyss of inability 
to keep it up combined with all the social impos- 
sibility of not doing so. I somehow want such 
 
values of the supporting and functional and illus- 
trative sort in Davey that I really think I kind 
of want him to be the person, the person, to whom 
Gray gives — as a kind of recognition of the re- 
markable part, the precious part, don't I feel it 
as being? that Davey plays for him. He likes 
so the illuminating Davey, whom I'm quite sure 
I want to show in no malignant or vicious light, 
but just as a regular rag or sponge of saturation 
in the surrounding medium. He is beyond, he 
is outside of, all moral judgments, all scandalised 
states; he is amused at what he himself does, 
at his general and particular effect and effects 
on Gray, who is his luxury of a relation, as it 
were, and whom I somehow seem to want to show 
him feel as the only person in the whole medium 
appreciating his genius; in other words his de- 
tached play of mind and the deep "American 
humour" of it. Don't I seem to want him even 
as asking for something rather big? — a kind of 
a lump of a sum which Gray, always with amuse- 
ment, answers that he will have to see about. 
Gray's seeing about anything of this sort means, 
all notedly, absolutely all, as I think I have it, 
asking Horton whether he can, whether he may, 
whether Horton will give it to him, whether in 
short the thing will suit Horton; even without 
any disposition of the sum, any account of what 
he wants to do, indicated or reported or confessed 
to Horton ? Don't I see something like this ? — 
 
that Gray, having put it to Horton, has precisely 
determined, for his vision, on Horton's part, just 
that first important plea of "Really you can't, 
you know, at this rate" — even after Gray has 
been for some time so "ascetic" — "It won't be 
convenient for you just now; and I must ask 
you really, you know,, to take my word for it 
that you'd much better not distract from what 
I am in the act of doing for you such a sum" — by 
which I mean, for I am probably using here not 
the terms Horton would use — "much better not 
make such a call (call is the word) when I am ex- 
actly doing for you etc." What I seem to see is 
that Davey does have money from him,, but has 
it only on a scale that falls short, considerably, 
of his appeal or proposal or whatever; in other 
words that Gray accommodates him to the third, 
or some other fraction, of the whole extent; and 
that this involves for him practically the need 
of his saying that Horton won't let him have 
more. I want that,, I see it as a value; I see 
Davey's aspect on it as a value, I see what is de- 
termined thus between them as a value; and I 
seem to see most this covering by Gray of Horton 
in answer to the insinuations, not indignant but 
amused, in answer to the humorously fantastic 
picture, on Davey's lips, of the rate at which 
Horton is cleaning him out or whatever, this 
taking of the line of so doing and of piling up 
plausibilities of defence, excuse etc., so far as 
 
poor Gray can be plausible in these difficult 
"technical" connections, as the vivid image, the 
vividest, I am most concerned to give of what I 
show him as doing. The covering of Horton, the 
covering of Horton — this is much more than not 
giving him away; this active and positive pro- 
tection of him seems to me really what my sub- 
ject logically asks. Well then if that is it, is what 
it most of all, for the dramatic value, asks, how 
can this be consistently less than Gray's act of 
going all the way indeed ? I don't know why — 
as it has been hovering before me — I don't want 
the complete vivid sense of it to take the form 
of an awful, a horrible or hideous, crisis on Hor- 
ton's part which, under the stress of it, he "sud- 
denly" discloses to Gray, throwing himself upon 
him in the most fevered, the most desperate ap- 
peal for relief. What then constitutes the nature 
of the crisis, what then can, or constitute the 
urgency of the relief, unless the fact of his hav- 
ing something altogether dreadful to confess; so 
dreadful that it can only involve the very essence 
of his reputation, honour and decency, his safety 
in short before the law? He has been guilty of 
some huge irregularity, say — but which yet is a 
different thing from whatever irregularities he 
has been guilty of in respect to Gray himself; and 
which up to now, at the worst, have left a certain 
substantial part of Gray's funds intact. Say 
that, say that; turn it over, that is, to see if it's 
 
really wanted. I think of it as wanted because 
I feel the need of the effect of some acute deter- 
mination play up as I consider all this — and yet 
also see objections; which probably will multiply 
as I look a little closer. I throw this off, at all 
events, for the moment, as I go, to be looked at 
straighter, to return to presently — after I've got 
away from it a bit, I mean from this special aspect 
a little, in order to come back to it fresher; pick- 
ing up meanwhile two or three different matters. 
The whole question of what my young man 
has been positively interested in, been all the 
while more or less definitely occupied with, I 
have found myself leaving, or at any rate have 
left, in abeyance, by reason of a certain sense of 
its comparative unimportance. That is I have 
felt my instinct to make him definitely and frankly 
as complete a case as possible of the sort of thing 
that will make him an anomaly and an outsider 
alike in the New York world of business, the N. 
Y. world of ferocious acquisition, and the world 
there of enormities of expenditure and extrav- 
agance, so that the real suppression for him of 
anything that shall count in the American air 
as a money-making, or even as a wage-earning, 
or as a pecuniarily picking-up character, strikes 
i me as wanted for my emphasis of his entire dif- 
I ference of sensibility and of association. I have 
always wanted to do an out and out non-producer, 
in the ordinary sense of non-accumulator of ma- 
 
terial gain, from the moment one should be able 
to give him a positively interested aspect on an- 
other side or in another sense, or even definitely 
a generally responsive intelligence. I see my 
figure then in this case as an absolutely frank 
example of the tradition and superstition, the 
habit and rule so inveterate there, frankly and 
serenely deviated from — these things meaning 
there essentially some mode of sharp reaching 
out for money over a counter or sucking it up 
through a thousand contorted channels. Yet I 
want something as different as possible, no less 
different, I mean, from the people who are "idle" 
there than from the people who are what is called 
active; in short, as I say, an out and out case, 
and of course an avowedly, an exceptionally fine 
and special one, which antecedents and past 
history up to then may more or less vividly help 
to account for. A very special case indeed is 
of course our Young Man — without his being 
which my donnee wouldn't come off at all; his 
being so is just of the very core of the subject. 
It's a question therefore of the way to make him 
most special — but I so distinctly see this that I 
need scarce here waste words ! There are 
three or four definite facts and considerations, 
however; conditions to be seen clear. I want 
to steer clear of the tiresome "artistic" associa- 
tions hanging about the usual type of young 
Anglo-Saxon "brought up abroad"; though only 
 
indeed so far as they are tiresome. My idea in- 
volves absolutely Gray's taking his stand, a bit 
ruefully at first, but quite boldly when he more 
and more sees what the opposite of it over there 
is so much an implication of, on the acknowledg- 
ment that, no, absolutely, he hasn't anything at 
all to show in the way of work achieved — with 
such work as he has seen achieved, whether apolo- 
getically or pretentiously, as he has lived about; 
and yet has up to now not had at all the sense 
of a vacuous consciousness or a so-called wasted 
life. This however by reason of course of cer- 
tain things, certain ideas, possibilities, inclina- 
tions and dispositions, that he has cared about 
and felt, in his way, the fermentation of. Of 
course the trouble with him is a sort of excess 
of "culture", so far as the form taken by his 
existence up to then has represented the growth 
of that article. Again, however, I see that I 
really am in complete possession of him, and that 
no plotting of it as to any but one or two ma- 
terial particulars need here detain me. He isn't, 
N.B., big, personally, by which I mean physically; 
I see that I want him rather below than above 
the middling stature, and light and nervous and 
restless; extremely restless above all in presence 
of swarming new and more or less aggressive, in 
fact quite assaulting phenomena. Of course he 
has had some means — that he and his stepfather 
were able to live in a quiet "European" way 
 
and on an income of an extreme New York de- 
plorability, is of course of the basis of what has 
been before; with which he must have come in 
for whatever his late companion has had to leave. 
So with what there was from his mother, very 
modest, and what there is from this other source, 
not less so, he can? he could, go back to Europe 
on a sufficient basis: this fact to be kept in mind 
both as mitigating the prodigy of his climax in 
N.Y., and yet at the same time as making what- 
ever there is of "appeal" to him over there con- 
ceivable enough. Note that the statement he 
makes, when we first know him, to his dying 
uncle, the comipletemess of the picture of detach- 
ment then and there drawn for him, and which> 
precisely, by such an extraordinary and interest- 
ing turn, is what most "refreshes" and works 
upon Mr. Betterman— note, I say, that I ab- 
solutely require the utterness of his difference 
to be a sort of virtual determinant in this rela- 
tion. He puts it so to Rosanna, tells her how 
extraordinarily he feels that this is what it has 
been. Heaven forbid he should "paint" — but 
there glimmers before me the sense of the con- 
nection in which I can see him as more or less 
covertly and waitingly, fastidiously and often 
too sceptically, conscious of possibilities of "writ- 
ing". Quke frankly accept for him the complica- 
tion or whatever of his fastidiousness, yet of his 
recognition withal of what makes for steriEty; 
 
but again and again I have all this, I have it. 
His "culture", his initiations of intelligence and 
experience, his possibilities of imagination, if one 
will, to say nothing of other things, make for me 
a sort of figure of a floating island on which he 
drifts and bumps and coasts about, wanting to 
get alongside as much as possible, yet always 
with the gap of water, the little island fact, to be 
somehow bridged over. All of which makes him, 
I of course desperately recognise, another of the 
"intelligent", another exposed and assaulted, 
active and passive "mind" engaged in an ad- 
venture and interesting in itself by so being; but 
I rejoice in that aspect of my material as dra- 
matically and determinancy general. It isn't 
centrally a drama of fools or vulgarians; it's only 
circumferentially and surroundedly so — these 
being enormously implied and with the effect 
of their hovering and pressing upon the whole 
business from without, but seen and felt by us 
only with that rich indirectness. So far so good; 
but I come back for a moment to an issue left 
standing yesterday — and beyond which, for that 
matter, two or three other points raise their 
heads. Why did it appear to come up for me 
again — I having had it present to me before and 
then rather waved it away — that one might see 
Horton in the kind of crisis that I glanced at as 
throwing him upon Gray with what I called 
violence ? Is it because I feel "something more" 
 
is wanted for the process by which my Young 
Man works off the distaste, his distaste, for the 
ugliness of his inheritance — something more than 
his just generally playing into Horton's hands? 
I am in presence there of a beautiful difficulty, 
beautiful to solve, yet which one must be to the 
last point crystal-clear about; and this difficulty 
is certainly added to if Gray sees Horton as "dis- 
honest" in relation to others over and above his 
being "queer" in the condoned way I have so 
to picture for his relation to Gray. Here are 
complexities not quite easily unravelled, yet 
manageable by getting sufficiently close to them; 
complexities, I mean, of the question of whether 
? Horton is abysmal, yes — but with the 
mixture in it that Gray sees. Ergo I want the 
mixture, and if I adopt what I threw off specu- 
latively yesterday I strike myself as letting the 
mixture more or less go and having the non-mix- 
ture, that is the "bad" in him, preponderate. 
It has been my idea that this "bad" figures in 
a degree to Gray as after a fashion his own crea- 
tion, the creation, that is, of the enormous and 
fantastic opportunity and temptation he has held 
out — even though these wouldn't have operated 
in the least, or couldn't, without predispositions 
in Horton's very genius. If Gray saw him as a 
mere vulgar practiser of what he does practise, 
the interest would by that fact exceedingly drop; 
there would be no interest indeed, and the beauty 
 
of my "psychological" picture wouldn't come 
off, would have no foot to stand on. The beau- 
ty is in the complexity of the question — which, 
stated in the simplest terms possible, reduces 
itself to Horton's practically saying to Gray, or 
seeing himself as saying to Gray should it come 
to the absolute touch: "You mind, in your ex- 
traordinary way, how this money was accumulated 
and faanky-pankied, you suffer, and cultivate a 
suffering, from the perpetrated wrong of which 
you feel it the embodied evidence, and with which 
the possession of it is thereby poisoned for you. 
But I don't mind one little scrap — and there is 
a great deal more to be said than you seem so 
much as able to understand, or so much as able 
to want to, about the whole question of how 
money comes to those Who know how to make 
it. Here you are then, if it's so disagreeable to 
you — and what can one really say, with the chances 
you give me to say it, but that if you are so bur- 
dened and afflicted, there are ways of relieving 
you which, upon my honour, I should perfectly 
undertake to work — given the facilities that you 
so morbidly, so fantastically, so all but incredibly 
save for the testimony of my senses, permit me 
to enjoy." That, yes; but that is very different 
from the wider range of application of the apti- 
tudes concerned. The confession, and the delin- 
quency preceding it, that played a bit up for 
me yesterday — what do they do but make Hor- 
 
ton just as vulgar as I don't want him, and, as 
I immediately recognise, Gray wouldn't in the 
least be able to stomach seeing him under any 
continuance of relations. I have it, I have it, 
and it comes as an answer to why I worried ? Be- 
cause of felt want of a way of providing for some 
Big Haul, really big; which my situation ab- 
solutely requires. There must be at a given mo- 
ment a big haul in order to produce the big sacri- 
fice; the latter being of the absolute essence. I 
say I have it when I ask myself why the Big 
Haul shouldn't simply consist of the consequence 
of a confession made by Horton to Gray, yes; 
but made not about what he has lost, whether 
dishonestly or not, for somebody else, but what 
he has lost for Gray. Solutions here bristle, 
positively, for the case seems to clear up from 
the moment I make Horton put his matter as a 
mere disastrous loss, of unwisdom, of having 
been "done" by others and not as a thing in- 
volving his own obliquity. What I want is that 
he pleads the loss — whether loss to Gray, loss to 
another party, or loss to both, is a detail. I in- 
cline to think loss to Gray sufficient — loss that 
Gray accepts, which is different from his meet- 
ing the disaster inflicted on another by Horton. 
What I want a bit is all contained in Gray's 
question, afterwards determined, not absolutely 
present at the moment, of whether this fact has 
not been a feigned or simulated one, not a genuine 
 
gulf of accident, but an appeal for relinquishment 
practised on Gray by the latter's liability to be- 
lieve that the cause is genuine. I clutch the idea 
of this determinant of Tightness of suspicion 
being one With the circumstance that Cissy in 
a sort of thereupon manner "takes up" with 
Horton, instead of not doing so, as figures to 
Gray as discernible if Horton were merely minus. 
Is it cleared up for Gray that the cause is not 
genuine? — does he get, or does he seek, any 
definite light on this ? Does he tell any one, 
that is does he tell Rosanna of the incident 
(though I want the thing of proportions bigger 
than those of a mere incident) — does he put it 
to her, in short does he take her into his con- 
fidence about it ? I think I see that he does to 
this extent, that she is the only person to whom 
he speaks, but that he then speaks with a kind 
of transparent and, as it were, (as it is in her 
sight) "sublime" dissimulation. Yes, I think 
that's the way I want it — that he tells her what 
has happened, tells it to her as having happened, 
as a statement of what he has done or means to 
do — perhaps his mind isn't even yet made up to 
it; whereby I seem to get a very interesting pas- 
sage of drama and another very fine "Joint." 
He doesn't, no, decidedly, communicate anything 
to Davey Bradham — his instinct has been against 
that — and I feel herewith how much I want this 
D.B. relation for him to have all its possibility 
 
of irony, "comedy", humorous colour, so to 
speak. I want awfully to do D.B. to the full 
and give him all his value. However, it's of the 
situation here with Rosanna that the question 
is, and I seem to feel that still further clear up 
for me. There has been the passage, the big 
circumstance, with Horton — as to which, as to 
the sense of which and of what it involves for 
him, don't I after all see him as taking time? 
after all see him as a bit staggered quand meme, 
and, as it were, asking for time, though without 
any betrayal of "suspicion", any expression 
tantamount to "What a queer story!" Yes, 
yes, it seems to come to me that I want the de- 
termination of suspicion not to come at once; 
I want it to hang back and wait for a big "crystal- 
lisation," a falling together of many things, which 
now takes place, as it were, in Rosanna's presence 
and under her extraordinary tacit action, in that 
atmosphere of their relation which has already 
given me, or will have given, not to speak pre- 
sumptuously, so much. It kind of comes over 
me even that I don't want any articulation to 
himself of the "integrity" question in respect to 
Horton to have taken place at all — till it very 
momentously takes place all at once in the air, 
as I say, and on the ground, and in the course, 
of this present scene. Immensely interesting to 
have made Everything precedent to have con- 
sisted but in preparation for this momentousness, 
 
so that the whole effect has been gathered there 
ready to break. At the same time, if I make it 
break not in the right way, unless I so rightly 
condition its breaking, I do what I was moved 
just above to bar, the giving away of Horton 
to Rosanna in the sense that fixing his behaviour 
upon him, or inviting or allowing her to fix it, 
is a thing I see my finer alternative to. The 
great thing, the great find, I really think, for 
the moment, is this fact of his having gone to 
her in a sort of still preserved uncertainty of light 
that amounts virtually to darkness, and then 
after a time with her coming away with the un- 
certainty dispelled and the remarkable light in- 
stead taking its place. That gives me my very 
form and climax — in respect to the "way" that 
has most perplexed me, and gathers my action 
up to the fulness so proposed and desired; to 
the point after which I want to make it workable 
that there shall be but two Books left. In other 
words the ideal will be that this whole passage, 
using the word in the largest sense, with all the 
accompanying aspects, shall constitute Book 8, 
"Act" 8, as I call it, of my drama, with the de- 
noument occupying the space to the end — for 
the foregoing is of course not in the least the 
denotement, but only prepares it, just as what is 
thus involved is the occupancy of Book 7 by the 
history with Horton. Of course I can but reflect 
that to bring this splendid economy off it must 
 
have been practised up to VII with the most 
intense and immense art: the scheme I have al- 
ready sketched for I and II leaving me therewith 
but III, IV, V, and VI to arrive at the complete- 
ness of preparation for VII, which carries in its 
bosom the completeness of preparation for VIII 
— this last, by a like grand law, carrying in its 
pocket the completeness of preparation for IX 
and X. But why not ? Who's afraid ? and what 
has the very essence of my design been but the 
most magnificent packed and calculated close- 
ness ? Keep this closeness up to the notch while 
admirably animating it, and I do what I should 
simply be sickened to death not to ! Of course 
it means the absolute exclusively economic exist- 
ence and situation of every sentence and every 
letter; but again what is that but the most de- 
sirable of beauties in itself? The chapters of 
history with Rosanna leave me then 'to show, 
speaking simply, its effect with regard to (I as- 
sume I put first) Gray and Horton, to Gray and 
Cissy, to Cissy and Horton, to Gray and Mrs. 
Bradham on the one hand and to Gray and Davey 
on the other and finally and supremely to Gray 
and Rosanna herself. It is of course definitely 
on that note the thing closes — but wait a little 
before I come to it. Let me state as "plainly" 
as may be what "happens" as the next step in 
my drama, the next Joint in the action after the 
climax of the "scene" with Rosanna. Obviously 
 
the first thing is a passage with Horton, the pas- 
sage after, which shall be a pendant to the passage 
before. But don't I want some episode to inter- 
pose here on the momentous ground of the Girl ? 
These sequences to be absolutely planned and 
fitted together, of course, up to their last point 
of relation; to work such complexity into such 
compass can only be a difficulty of the most in- 
spiring; — the prize being, naturally, to achieve 
the lucidity with the complexity. What then is 
the lucidity for us about my heroine, and exactly 
what is it that I want and don't want to show ? 
I want something to take plape here between 
Gray and her that crowns his vision and his ac- 
tion in respect to Horton. As I of course want 
every point and comma to be "functional", so 
there's nothing I. want that more for than for 
this aspect of my crisis — which does, yes, de- 
cidedly, present itself before Gray has again seen 
Hqrton. I seem even to want this aspect, as I 
call it, to be the decisive thing in respect to his 
"decision". I want something to have still de- 
pended for him on the question of how she is, 
what she does, what she makes him see, 'however 
littfe intending it, of her sensibility to the crisis, 
as it were — knowing as I do what I mean by this. 
But what does come up for me, and has to be 
faced, is all the appearance that all this later 
development that I have sketched and am sketch- 
ing, rather directly involves a deviation from 
 
that help by alternations which I originally counted 
on, and which I began by drawing upon in the 
first three or four Books. What becomes after 
the first three or four then of that variation — if 
I make my march between IV and VIII inclusive 
all a matter of what appears to Gray ? Perhaps 
on closer view I can for the "finer amusement" 
escape that frustration — though it would take 
some doing; and the fact remains that I don't 
really want, and can't, any other exhibition than 
Gray's own except in the case of Horton and the 
Young Woman. I should like more variation 
than just that will yield me withal — so at least 
it strikes me; but if I press a bit a possibility 
perhaps will rise. Two things strike me: one of 
these being that instead of making Book 9 Gray's 
"act" I may make it in a manner Cissy's own; 
save that a terrific little question here comes up 
as involved in the very essence of my cherished 
symmetry and "unity". The absolute prime 
compositional idea ruling me is thus the unity of 
each Act, and I get unity with the Girl for IX 
only if I keep it to her and whoever else. To her 
and Horton, yes, to her and Gray (Gray first) 
yes; only how then comes in the "passage" of 
Gray and Horton without her, and which I don't 
want to push over to X. It would be an "aes- 
thetic" ravishment to make Book 10 balance 
with Book 1 as Rosanna's affair; which I glimmer- 
ingly see as interestingly possible if I can wind 
 
up somehow as I want to do between Gray and 
Horton. In connection with which, however, 
something again glimmers — the possibility of 
making Book 9 quand meme Cissy and Horton 
and Gray; twisting out, that is, some admirable 
way of her being participant in, "present at", 
what here happens between them as to their own 
affair. I say these things after all with the sense, 
so founded on past experience, that, in closer 
quarters and the intimacy of composition, pre- 
noted arrangements, proportions and relations, 
do most uncommonly insist on making themselves 
different by shifts and variations, always im- 
proving, which impose themselves as one goes 
and keep the door open always to something 
more right and more related. It is subject to 
that constant possibility, all the while, that one 
does pre-note and tentatively sketch; a fact so 
constantly before one as to make too idle any 
waste of words on it. At the same time I do ab- 
solutely and utterly want to stick, even to the 
very depth, to the general distribution here 
imagined as I have groped on; and I am at least 
now taking a certain Tightness and conclusiveness 
of parts and items for granted until the intimate 
tussle, as I say, happens, if it does happen, to 
dislocate or modify them. Such an assumption 
for instance I find myself quite loving to make 
in presence of the vision quite colouring up for 
me yesterday of Book 9 as given to Gray and 
35° 
 
Horton and Cissy Together, as I may rudely 
express it, and Book 10, to repeat, given, with a 
splendid richness and comprehensiveness, to Ro- 
sanna, as I hope to have shown Book I as so 
given. Variety, variety — I want to go in for 
that for all the possibilities of my case may be 
worth; and I see, I feel, how a sort of fond fancy 
of it is met by the distribution, the little cluster 
of determinations, or, so to speak, for the pleasure 
of putting it, determinatenesses, so noted. It 
gives me the central mass of the thing for my 
hero's own embrace and makes beginning and 
end sort of confront each other over it. 
Is it vain to do anything but say, that is but 
feel, that this situation of the Three in Book 9 
absolutely demands the intimate grip for clear- 
ing itself up, working itself out ? Yes, perfectly 
vain, I reflect, as at all precluding the high urgency 
and decency of my seeing in advance just how 
and where I plant my feet and direct my steps. 
Express absolutely, to this end, the conclusive 
sense, the clear firm function, of Book 9 — out of 
which the rest bristles. I want it, as for that 
matter I want each Book, with the last longing 
and fullest intention, to be what it is "amusing" 
and regaling to think of as "complete in itself"; 
otherwise a thoroughly expressed Occasion, or 
as I have kept calling it Aspect, such as one can 
go at, thanks to the flow of the current in it, in 
the firmest possible little narrative way. The 
 
form of the Occasion is the form that I somehow 
see as here very particularly presenting itself and 
contributing its aid to that impression of the 
Three Together which I try to focus. Where, 
exactly, and exactly how, are they thus vividly 
and workably together? — what is the most- 
"amusing" way of making them so ? It is funda- 
mental for me to note that my action represents 
and embraces the sequences of a Year, not going 
beyond this and not falling short of it.' I can't 
get my Unity, can't keep it, on the basis of more 
than a year, and can't get my complexity, don't 
want to, in anything a bit less. I see a Year right, 
in fine, and it brings me round therefore to the 
early summer from the time of my original Ex- 
position. With which it comes to me of course 
that one of the things accruing to Gray under 
his Uncle's Will is the house at Newport, which 
belonged to the old man, and which I have no 
desire to go into any reason whatever for his 
heir's having got rid of. There is the house at 
Newport — as to which it comes over me that I 
kind of see him in it once or twice during the 
progress of the autumn's, the winter's, the spring's 
events. Isn't it also a part of my affair that I 
see the Bradhams with a Newport place, and am 
more or less encouraged herewith to make out 
the Scene of Book 9, the embracing Occasion, of 
the three, as a "staying" of them, in the natural 
way, the inevitable, the illustrative, under some 
 
roof that places them vividly in relation to each 
other. Of course Mrs. Bradham has her great 
characteristic house away from N.Y., where any- 
thing and everything may characteristically find 
their background — the whole case being com- 
patible with that lively shakiness of fortune that 
