She lifted her heavy eyes to his. “I’m going to see my mother.”

The two men glanced at each other, and for a moment neither of them
spoke.

Then Mr. Miles said: “You look ill, my dear, and it’s a long way. Do you
think it’s wise?”

Charity stood up. “I’ve got to go to her.”

A vague mirthless grin contracted Liff Hyatt’s face, and Mr. Miles again
spoke uncertainly. “You know, then--you’d been told?”

She stared at him. “I don’t know what you mean. I want to go to her.”

Mr. Miles was examining her thoughtfully. She fancied she saw a change
in his expression, and the blood rushed to her forehead. “I just want to
go to her,” she repeated.

He laid his hand on her arm. “My child, your mother is dying. Liff Hyatt
came down to fetch me.... Get in and come with us.”

He helped her up to the seat at his side, Liff Hyatt clambered in at
the back, and they drove off toward Hamblin. At first Charity had
hardly grasped what Mr. Miles was saying; the physical relief of finding
herself seated in the buggy, and securely on her road to the Mountain,
effaced the impression of his words. But as her head cleared she
began to understand. She knew the Mountain had but the most infrequent
intercourse with the valleys; she had often enough heard it said that no
one ever went up there except the minister, when someone was dying. And
now it was her mother who was dying... and she would find herself as
much alone on the Mountain as anywhere else in the world. The sense of
unescapable isolation was all she could feel for the moment; then
she began to wonder at the strangeness of its being Mr. Miles who had
undertaken to perform this grim errand. He did not seem in the least
like the kind of man who would care to go up the Mountain. But here he
was at her side, guiding the horse with a firm hand, and bending on her
the kindly gleam of his spectacles, as if there were nothing unusual in
their being together in such circumstances.

For a while she found it impossible to speak, and he seemed to
understand this, and made no attempt to question her. But presently she
felt her tears rise and flow down over her drawn cheeks; and he must
have seen them too, for he laid his hand on hers, and said in a low
voice: “Won’t you tell me what is troubling you?”

She shook her head, and he did not insist: but after a while he said, in
the same low tone, so that they should not be overheard: “Charity, what
do you know of your childhood, before you came down to North Dormer?”

She controlled herself, and answered: “Nothing only what I heard Mr.
Royall say one day. He said he brought me down because my father went to
prison.”

“And you’ve never been up there since?”

“Never.”

Mr. Miles was silent again, then he said: “I’m glad you’re coming with
me now. Perhaps we may find your mother alive, and she may know that you
have come.”

They had reached Hamblin, where the snow-flurry had left white patches
in the rough grass on the roadside, and in the angles of the roofs
facing north. It was a poor bleak village under the granite flank of the
Mountain, and as soon as they left it they began to climb. The road was
steep and full of ruts, and the horse settled down to a walk while they
mounted and mounted, the world dropping away below them in great mottled
stretches of forest and field, and stormy dark blue distances.

Charity had often had visions of this ascent of the Mountain but she
had not known it would reveal so wide a country, and the sight of
those strange lands reaching away on every side gave her a new sense of
Harney’s remoteness. She knew he must be miles and miles beyond the last
range of hills that seemed to be the outmost verge of things, and she
wondered how she had ever dreamed of going to New York to find him....

As the road mounted the country grew bleaker, and they drove across
fields of faded mountain grass bleached by long months beneath the snow.
In the hollows a few white birches trembled, or a mountain ash lit its
scarlet clusters; but only a scant growth of pines darkened the granite
ledges. The wind was blowing fiercely across the open slopes; the horse
faced it with bent head and straining flanks, and now and then the buggy
swayed so that Charity had to clutch its side.

Mr. Miles had not spoken again; he seemed to understand that she wanted
to be left alone. After a while the track they were following forked,
and he pulled up the horse, as if uncertain of the way. Liff Hyatt
craned his head around from the back, and shouted against the wind:
“Left----” and they turned into a stunted pine-wood and began to drive
down the other side of the Mountain.

A mile or two farther on they came out on a clearing where two or three
low houses lay in stony fields, crouching among the rocks as if to brace
themselves against the wind. They were hardly more than sheds, built of
logs and rough boards, with tin stove-pipes sticking out of their roofs.
The sun was setting, and dusk had already fallen on the lower world,
but a yellow glare still lay on the lonely hillside and the crouching
houses. The next moment it faded and left the landscape in dark autumn
twilight.

“Over there,” Liff called out, stretching his long arm over Mr. Miles’s
shoulder. The clergyman turned to the left, across a bit of bare ground
overgrown with docks and nettles, and stopped before the most ruinous of
the sheds. A stove-pipe reached its crooked arm out of one window, and
the broken panes of the other were stuffed with rags and paper.

In contrast to such a dwelling the brown house in the swamp might have
stood for the home of plenty.

As the buggy drew up two or three mongrel dogs jumped out of the
twilight with a great barking, and a young man slouched to the door and
stood there staring. In the twilight Charity saw that his face had the
same sodden look as Bash Hyatt’s, the day she had seen him sleeping
by the stove. He made no effort to silence the dogs, but leaned in the
door, as if roused from a drunken lethargy, while Mr. Miles got out of
the buggy.

“Is it here?” the clergyman asked Liff in a low voice; and Liff nodded.

Mr. Miles turned to Charity. “Just hold the horse a minute, my dear:
I’ll go in first,” he said, putting the reins in her hands. She took
them passively, and sat staring straight ahead of her at the darkening
scene while Mr. Miles and Liff Hyatt went up to the house. They stood
a few minutes talking with the man in the door, and then Mr. Miles came
back. As he came close, Charity saw that his smooth pink face wore a
frightened solemn look.

“Your mother is dead, Charity; you’d better come with me,” he said.

She got down and followed him while Liff led the horse away. As
she approached the door she said to herself: “This is where I was
born... this is where I belong....” She had said it to herself often
enough as she looked across the sunlit valleys at the Mountain; but it
had meant nothing then, and now it had become a reality. Mr. Miles took
her gently by the arm, and they entered what appeared to be the only
room in the house. It was so dark that she could just discern a group
of a dozen people sitting or sprawling about a table made of boards laid
across two barrels. They looked up listlessly as Mr. Miles and Charity
came in, and a woman’s thick voice said: “Here’s the preacher.” But no
one moved.

Mr. Miles paused and looked about him; then he turned to the young man
who had met them at the door.

“Is the body here?” he asked.

The young man, instead of answering, turned his head toward the group.
“Where’s the candle? I tole yer to bring a candle,” he said with sudden
harshness to a girl who was lolling against the table. She did not
answer, but another man got up and took from some corner a candle stuck
into a bottle.

“How’ll I light it? The stove’s out,” the girl grumbled.

Mr. Miles fumbled under his heavy wrappings and drew out a match-box.
He held a match to the candle, and in a moment or two a faint circle of
light fell on the pale aguish heads that started out of the shadow like
the heads of nocturnal animals.

“Mary’s over there,” someone said; and Mr. Miles, taking the bottle in
his hand, passed behind the table. Charity followed him, and they stood
before a mattress on the floor in a corner of the room. A woman lay on
it, but she did not look like a dead woman; she seemed to have fallen
across her squalid bed in a drunken sleep, and to have been left lying
where she fell, in her ragged disordered clothes. One arm was flung
above her head, one leg drawn up under a torn skirt that left the other
bare to the knee: a swollen glistening leg with a ragged stocking rolled
down about the ankle. The woman lay on her back, her eyes staring up
unblinkingly at the candle that trembled in Mr. Miles’s hand.

“She jus’ dropped off,” a woman said, over the shoulder of the others;
and the young man added: “I jus’ come in and found her.”

An elderly man with lank hair and a feeble grin pushed between them. “It
was like this: I says to her on’y the night before: if you don’t take
and quit, I says to her...”

Someone pulled him back and sent him reeling against a bench along the
wall, where he dropped down muttering his unheeded narrative.

There was a silence; then the young woman who had been lolling against
the table suddenly parted the group, and stood in front of Charity.
She was healthier and robuster looking than the others, and her
weather-beaten face had a certain sullen beauty.

“Who’s the girl? Who brought her here?” she said, fixing her eyes
mistrustfully on the young man who had rebuked her for not having a
candle ready.

Mr. Miles spoke. “I brought her; she is Mary Hyatt’s daughter.”

“What? Her too?” the girl sneered; and the young man turned on her with
an oath. “Shut your mouth, damn you, or get out of here,” he said;
then he relapsed into his former apathy, and dropped down on the bench,
leaning his head against the wall.

Mr. Miles had set the candle on the floor and taken off his heavy coat.
He turned to Charity. “Come and help me,” he said.

He knelt down by the mattress, and pressed the lids over the dead
woman’s eyes. Charity, trembling and sick, knelt beside him, and tried
to compose her mother’s body. She drew the stocking over the dreadful
glistening leg, and pulled the skirt down to the battered upturned
boots. As she did so, she looked at her mother’s face, thin yet swollen,
with lips parted in a frozen gasp above the broken teeth. There was no
sign in it of anything human: she lay there like a dead dog in a ditch.
Charity’s hands grew cold as they touched her.

Mr. Miles drew the woman’s arms across her breast and laid his coat
over her. Then he covered her face with his handkerchief, and placed the
bottle with the candle in it at her head. Having done this he stood up.

“Is there no coffin?” he asked, turning to the group behind him.

There was a moment of bewildered silence; then the fierce girl spoke up.
“You’d oughter brought it with you. Where’d we get one here, I’d like
ter know?”

Mr. Miles, looking at the others, repeated: “Is it possible you have no
coffin ready?”

“That’s what I say: them that has it sleeps better,” an old woman
murmured. “But then she never had no bed....”

“And the stove warn’t hers,” said the lank-haired man, on the defensive.

Mr. Miles turned away from them and moved a few steps apart. He had
drawn a book from his pocket, and after a pause he opened it and began
to read, holding the book at arm’s length and low down, so that the
pages caught the feeble light. Charity had remained on her knees by the
mattress: now that her mother’s face was covered it was easier to stay
near her, and avoid the sight of the living faces which too horribly
showed by what stages hers had lapsed into death.

“I am the Resurrection and the Life,” Mr. Miles began; “he that
believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live.... Though after
my skin worms destroy my body, yet in my flesh shall I see God....”

IN MY FLESH SHALL I SEE GOD! Charity thought of the gaping mouth and
stony eyes under the handkerchief, and of the glistening leg over which
she had drawn the stocking....

“We brought nothing into this world and we shall take nothing out of
it----”

There was a sudden muttering and a scuffle at the back of the group. “I
brought the stove,” said the elderly man with lank hair, pushing his
way between the others. “I wen’ down to Creston’n bought it... n’ I got a
right to take it outer here... n’ I’ll lick any feller says I ain’t....”

“Sit down, damn you!” shouted the tall youth who had been drowsing on
the bench against the wall.

“For man walketh in a vain shadow, and disquieteth himself in vain; he
heapeth up riches and cannot tell who shall gather them....”

“Well, it ARE his,” a woman in the background interjected in a
frightened whine.

The tall youth staggered to his feet. “If you don’t hold your mouths
I’ll turn you all out o’ here, the whole lot of you,” he cried with many
oaths. “G’wan, minister... don’t let ‘em faze you....”

“Now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first-fruits of them
that slept.... Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but
we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at
the last trump.... For this corruptible must put on incorruption and this
mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruption shall have put
on incorruption, and when this mortal shall have put on immortality,
then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is
swallowed up in Victory....”

One by one the mighty words fell on Charity’s bowed head, soothing
the horror, subduing the tumult, mastering her as they mastered the
drink-dazed creatures at her back. Mr. Miles read to the last word, and
then closed the book.

“Is the grave ready?” he asked.

Liff Hyatt, who had come in while he was reading, nodded a “Yes,” and
pushed forward to the side of the mattress. The young man on the bench
who seemed to assert some sort of right of kinship with the dead woman,
got to his feet again, and the proprietor of the stove joined him.
Between them they raised up the mattress; but their movements were
unsteady, and the coat slipped to the floor, revealing the poor body in
its helpless misery. Charity, picking up the coat, covered her mother
once more. Liff had brought a lantern, and the old woman who had already
spoken took it up, and opened the door to let the little procession
pass out. The wind had dropped, and the night was very dark and bitterly
cold. The old woman walked ahead, the lantern shaking in her hand and
spreading out before her a pale patch of dead grass and coarse-leaved
weeds enclosed in an immensity of blackness.

Mr. Miles took Charity by the arm, and side by side they walked behind
the mattress. At length the old woman with the lantern stopped, and
Charity saw the light fall on the stooping shoulders of the bearers and
on a ridge of upheaved earth over which they were bending. Mr. Miles
released her arm and approached the hollow on the other side of the
ridge; and while the men stooped down, lowering the mattress into the
grave, he began to speak again.

“Man that is born of woman hath but a short time to live and is full
of misery.... He cometh up and is cut down... he fleeth as it were a
shadow.... Yet, O Lord God most holy, O Lord most mighty, O holy and
merciful Saviour, deliver us not into the bitter pains of eternal
death....”

“Easy there... is she down?” piped the claimant to the stove; and the
young man called over his shoulder: “Lift the light there, can’t you?”

There was a pause, during which the light floated uncertainly over the
open grave. Someone bent over and pulled out Mr. Miles’s coat----(“No,
no--leave the handkerchief,” he interposed)--and then Liff Hyatt, coming
forward with a spade, began to shovel in the earth.

“Forasmuch as it hath pleased Almighty God of His great mercy to take
unto Himself the soul of our dear sister here departed, we therefore
commit her body to the ground; earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to
dust...” Liff’s gaunt shoulders rose and bent in the lantern light as he
dashed the clods of earth into the grave. “God--it’s froze a’ready,”
 he muttered, spitting into his palm and passing his ragged shirt-sleeve
across his perspiring face.

“Through our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body that it
may be like unto His glorious body, according to the mighty working,
whereby He is able to subdue all things unto Himself...” The last
spadeful of earth fell on the vile body of Mary Hyatt, and Liff rested
on his spade, his shoulder blades still heaving with the effort.

“Lord, have mercy upon us, Christ have mercy upon us, Lord have mercy
upon us...”

Mr. Miles took the lantern from the old woman’s hand and swept its light
across the circle of bleared faces. “Now kneel down, all of you,” he
commanded, in a voice of authority that Charity had never heard.
She knelt down at the edge of the grave, and the others, stiffly and
hesitatingly, got to their knees beside her. Mr. Miles knelt, too. “And
now pray with me--you know this prayer,” he said, and he began: “Our
Father which art in Heaven...” One or two of the women falteringly took
the words up, and when he ended, the lank-haired man flung himself on
the neck of the tall youth. “It was this way,” he said. “I tole her the
night before, I says to her...” The reminiscence ended in a sob.

Mr. Miles had been getting into his coat again. He came up to Charity,
who had remained passively kneeling by the rough mound of earth.

“My child, you must come. It’s very late.”

She lifted her eyes to his face: he seemed to speak out of another
world.

“I ain’t coming: I’m going to stay here.”

“Here? Where? What do you mean?”

“These are my folks. I’m going to stay with them.”

Mr. Miles lowered his voice. “But it’s not possible--you don’t know what
you are doing. You can’t stay among these people: you must come with
me.”

She shook her head and rose from her knees. The group about the grave
had scattered in the darkness, but the old woman with the lantern stood
waiting. Her mournful withered face was not unkind, and Charity went up
to her.

“Have you got a place where I can lie down for the night?” she asked.
Liff came up, leading the buggy out of the night. He looked from one
to the other with his feeble smile. “She’s my mother. She’ll take you
home,” he said; and he added, raising his voice to speak to the
old woman: “It’s the girl from lawyer Royall’s--Mary’s girl... you
remember....”

The woman nodded and raised her sad old eyes to Charity’s. When Mr.
Miles and Liff clambered into the buggy she went ahead with the lantern
to show them the track they were to follow; then she turned back, and in
silence she and Charity walked away together through the night.




XVII


CHARITY lay on the floor on a mattress, as her dead mother’s body had
lain. The room in which she lay was cold and dark and low-ceilinged, and
even poorer and barer than the scene of Mary Hyatt’s earthly pilgrimage.
On the other side of the fireless stove Liff Hyatt’s mother slept on
a blanket, with two children--her grandchildren, she said--rolled up
against her like sleeping puppies. They had their thin clothes spread
over them, having given the only other blanket to their guest.

Through the small square of glass in the opposite wall Charity saw a
deep funnel of sky, so black, so remote, so palpitating with frosty
stars that her very soul seemed to be sucked into it. Up there
somewhere, she supposed, the God whom Mr. Miles had invoked was waiting
for Mary Hyatt to appear. What a long flight it was! And what would she
have to say when she reached Him?

Charity’s bewildered brain laboured with the attempt to picture her
mother’s past, and to relate it in any way to the designs of a just but
merciful God; but it was impossible to imagine any link between them.
She herself felt as remote from the poor creature she had seen lowered
into her hastily dug grave as if the height of the heavens divided them.
She had seen poverty and misfortune in her life; but in a community
where poor thrifty Mrs. Hawes and the industrious Ally represented the
nearest approach to destitution there was nothing to suggest the savage
misery of the Mountain farmers.

As she lay there, half-stunned by her tragic initiation, Charity vainly
tried to think herself into the life about her. But she could not even
make out what relationship these people bore to each other, or to her
dead mother; they seemed to be herded together in a sort of passive
promiscuity in which their common misery was the strongest link. She
tried to picture to herself what her life would have been if she had
grown up on the Mountain, running wild in rags, sleeping on the floor
curled up against her mother, like the pale-faced children huddled
against old Mrs. Hyatt, and turning into a fierce bewildered creature
like the girl who had apostrophized her in such strange words. She was
frightened by the secret affinity she had felt with this girl, and by
the light it threw on her own beginnings. Then she remembered what Mr.
Royall had said in telling her story to Lucius Harney: “Yes, there was
a mother; but she was glad to have the child go. She’d have given her to
anybody....”

Well! after all, was her mother so much to blame? Charity, since that
day, had always thought of her as destitute of all human feeling; now
she seemed merely pitiful. What mother would not want to save her child
from such a life? Charity thought of the future of her own child, and
tears welled into her aching eyes, and ran down over her face. If she
had been less exhausted, less burdened with his weight, she would have
sprung up then and there and fled away....

The grim hours of the night dragged themselves slowly by, and at last
the sky paled and dawn threw a cold blue beam into the room. She lay
in her corner staring at the dirty floor, the clothes-line hung with
decaying rags, the old woman huddled against the cold stove, and the
light gradually spreading across the wintry world, and bringing with it
a new day in which she would have to live, to choose, to act, to make
herself a place among these people--or to go back to the life she had
left. A mortal lassitude weighed on her. There were moments when she
felt that all she asked was to go on lying there unnoticed; then her
mind revolted at the thought of becoming one of the miserable herd from
which she sprang, and it seemed as though, to save her child from such
a fate, she would find strength to travel any distance, and bear any
burden life might put on her.

Vague thoughts of Nettleton flitted through her mind. She said to
herself that she would find some quiet place where she could bear her
child, and give it to decent people to keep; and then she would go out
like Julia Hawes and earn its living and hers. She knew that girls of
that kind sometimes made enough to have their children nicely cared for;
and every other consideration disappeared in the vision of her baby,
cleaned and combed and rosy, and hidden away somewhere where she could
run in and kiss it, and bring it pretty things to wear. Anything,
anything was better than to add another life to the nest of misery on
the Mountain....

The old woman and the children were still sleeping when Charity rose
from her mattress. Her body was stiff with cold and fatigue, and she
moved slowly lest her heavy steps should rouse them. She was faint with
hunger, and had nothing left in her satchel; but on the table she saw
the half of a stale loaf. No doubt it was to serve as the breakfast of
old Mrs. Hyatt and the children; but Charity did not care; she had her
own baby to think of. She broke off a piece of the bread and ate
it greedily; then her glance fell on the thin faces of the sleeping
children, and filled with compunction she rummaged in her satchel for
something with which to pay for what she had taken. She found one of
the pretty chemises that Ally had made for her, with a blue ribbon run
through its edging. It was one of the dainty things on which she had
squandered her savings, and as she looked at it the blood rushed to her
forehead. She laid the chemise on the table, and stealing across the
floor lifted the latch and went out....

The morning was icy cold and a pale sun was just rising above the
eastern shoulder of the Mountain. The houses scattered on the hillside
lay cold and smokeless under the sun-flecked clouds, and not a human
being was in sight. Charity paused on the threshold and tried to
discover the road by which she had come the night before. Across the
field surrounding Mrs. Hyatt’s shanty she saw the tumble-down house in
which she supposed the funeral service had taken place. The trail
ran across the ground between the two houses and disappeared in the
pine-wood on the flank of the Mountain; and a little way to the right,
under a wind-beaten thorn, a mound of fresh earth made a dark spot
on the fawn-coloured stubble. Charity walked across the field to the
ground. As she approached it she heard a bird’s note in the still air,
and looking up she saw a brown song-sparrow perched in an upper branch
of the thorn above the grave. She stood a minute listening to his small
solitary song; then she rejoined the trail and began to mount the hill
to the pine-wood.

Thus far she had been impelled by the blind instinct of flight; but each
step seemed to bring her nearer to the realities of which her feverish
vigil had given only a shadowy image. Now that she walked again in a
daylight world, on the way back to familiar things, her imagination
moved more soberly. On one point she was still decided: she could not
remain at North Dormer, and the sooner she got away from it the better.
But everything beyond was darkness.

As she continued to climb the air grew keener, and when she passed from
the shelter of the pines to the open grassy roof of the Mountain the
cold wind of the night before sprang out on her. She bent her shoulders
and struggled on against it for a while; but presently her breath
failed, and she sat down under a ledge of rock overhung by shivering
birches. From where she sat she saw the trail wandering across the
bleached grass in the direction of Hamblin, and the granite wall of the
Mountain falling away to infinite distances. On that side of the ridge
the valleys still lay in wintry shadow; but in the plain beyond the sun
was touching village roofs and steeples, and gilding the haze of smoke
over far-off invisible towns.

Charity felt herself a mere speck in the lonely circle of the sky. The
events of the last two days seemed to have divided her forever from
her short dream of bliss. Even Harney’s image had been blurred by that
crushing experience: she thought of him as so remote from her that he
seemed hardly more than a memory. In her fagged and floating mind only
one sensation had the weight of reality; it was the bodily burden of
her child. But for it she would have felt as rootless as the whiffs of
thistledown the wind blew past her. Her child was like a load that held
her down, and yet like a hand that pulled her to her feet. She said to
herself that she must get up and struggle on....

Her eyes turned back to the trail across the top of the Mountain, and
in the distance she saw a buggy against the sky. She knew its antique
outline, and the gaunt build of the old horse pressing forward with
lowered head; and after a moment she recognized the heavy bulk of the
man who held the reins. The buggy was following the trail and making
straight for the pine-wood through which she had climbed; and she knew
at once that the driver was in search of her. Her first impulse was
to crouch down under the ledge till he had passed; but the instinct of
concealment was overruled by the relief of feeling that someone was near
her in the awful emptiness. She stood up and walked toward the buggy.

Mr. Royall saw her, and touched the horse with the whip. A minute or two
later he was abreast of Charity; their eyes met, and without speaking he
leaned over and helped her up into the buggy.

She tried to speak, to stammer out some explanation, but no words came
to her; and as he drew the cover over her knees he simply said: “The
minister told me he’d left you up here, so I come up for you.”

He turned the horse’s head, and they began to jog back toward Hamblin.
Charity sat speechless, staring straight ahead of her, and Mr. Royall
occasionally uttered a word of encouragement to the horse: “Get along
there, Dan.... I gave him a rest at Hamblin; but I brought him along
pretty quick, and it’s a stiff pull up here against the wind.”

As he spoke it occurred to her for the first time that to reach the top
of the Mountain so early he must have left North Dormer at the coldest
hour of the night, and have travelled steadily but for the halt at
Hamblin; and she felt a softness at her heart which no act of his had
ever produced since he had brought her the Crimson Rambler because she
had given up boarding-school to stay with him.

After an interval he began again: “It was a day just like this, only
spitting snow, when I come up here for you the first time.” Then, as if
fearing that she might take his remark as a reminder of past benefits,
he added quickly: “I dunno’s you think it was such a good job, either.”

“Yes, I do,” she murmured, looking straight ahead of her.

“Well,” he said, “I tried----”

He did not finish the sentence, and she could think of nothing more to
say.

“Ho, there, Dan, step out,” he muttered, jerking the bridle. “We ain’t
home yet.--You cold?” he asked abruptly.

She shook her head, but he drew the cover higher up, and stooped to tuck
it in about the ankles. She continued to look straight ahead. Tears of
weariness and weakness were dimming her eyes and beginning to run over,
but she dared not wipe them away lest he should observe the gesture.

They drove in silence, following the long loops of the descent upon
Hamblin, and Mr. Royall did not speak again till they reached the
outskirts of the village. Then he let the reins droop on the dashboard
and drew out his watch.

“Charity,” he said, “you look fair done up, and North Dormer’s a goodish
way off. I’ve figured out that we’d do better to stop here long enough
for you to get a mouthful of breakfast and then drive down to Creston
and take the train.”

She roused herself from her apathetic musing. “The train--what train?”

Mr. Royall, without answering, let the horse jog on till they reached
the door of the first house in the village. “This is old Mrs. Hobart’s
place,” he said. “She’ll give us something hot to drink.”

Charity, half unconsciously, found herself getting out of the buggy and
following him in at the open door. They entered a decent kitchen with a
fire crackling in the stove. An old woman with a kindly face was setting
out cups and saucers on the table. She looked up and nodded as they
came in, and Mr. Royall advanced to the stove, clapping his numb hands
together.

“Well, Mrs. Hobart, you got any breakfast for this young lady? You can
see she’s cold and hungry.”

Mrs. Hobart smiled on Charity and took a tin coffee-pot from the fire.
“My, you do look pretty mean,” she said compassionately.

Charity reddened, and sat down at the table. A feeling of complete
passiveness had once more come over her, and she was conscious only of
the pleasant animal sensations of warmth and rest.

Mrs. Hobart put bread and milk on the table, and then went out of the
house: Charity saw her leading the horse away to the barn across the
yard. She did not come back, and Mr. Royall and Charity sat alone at the
table with the smoking coffee between them. He poured out a cup for her,
and put a piece of bread in the saucer, and she began to eat.

As the warmth of the coffee flowed through her veins her thoughts
cleared and she began to feel like a living being again; but the return
to life was so painful that the food choked in her throat and she sat
staring down at the table in silent anguish.

After a while Mr. Royall pushed back his chair. “Now, then,” he said,
“if you’re a mind to go along----” She did not move, and he continued:
“We can pick up the noon train for Nettleton if you say so.”

The words sent the blood rushing to her face, and she raised her
startled eyes to his. He was standing on the other side of the table
looking at her kindly and gravely; and suddenly she understood what he
was going to say. She continued to sit motionless, a leaden weight upon
her lips.

“You and me have spoke some hard things to each other in our time,
Charity; and there’s no good that I can see in any more talking now. But
I’ll never feel any way but one about you; and if you say so we’ll drive
down in time to catch that train, and go straight to the minister’s
house; and when you come back home you’ll come as Mrs. Royall.”

His voice had the grave persuasive accent that had moved his hearers at
the Home Week festival; she had a sense of depths of mournful tolerance
under that easy tone. Her whole body began to tremble with the dread of
her own weakness.

“Oh, I can’t----” she burst out desperately.

“Can’t what?”

She herself did not know: she was not sure if she was rejecting what he
offered, or already struggling against the temptation of taking what
she no longer had a right to. She stood up, shaking and bewildered, and
began to speak:

“I know I ain’t been fair to you always; but I want to be now.... I want
you to know... I want...” Her voice failed her and she stopped.

Mr. Royall leaned against the wall. He was paler than usual, but his
face was composed and kindly and her agitation did not appear to perturb
him.

“What’s all this about wanting?” he said as she paused. “Do you know
what you really want? I’ll tell you. You want to be took home and took
care of. And I guess that’s all there is to say.”

“No... it’s not all....”

“Ain’t it?” He looked at his watch. “Well, I’ll tell you another thing.
All I want is to know if you’ll marry me. If there was anything else,
I’d tell you so; but there ain’t. Come to my age, a man knows the things
that matter and the things that don’t; that’s about the only good turn
life does us.”

His tone was so strong and resolute that it was like a supporting arm
about her. She felt her resistance melting, her strength slipping away
from her as he spoke.

“Don’t cry, Charity,” he exclaimed in a shaken voice. She looked up,
startled at his emotion, and their eyes met.

“See here,” he said gently, “old Dan’s come a long distance, and we’ve
got to let him take it easy the rest of the way....”

He picked up the cloak that had slipped to her chair and laid it about
her shoulders. She followed him out of the house, and then walked across
the yard to the shed, where the horse was tied. Mr. Royall unblanketed
him and led him out into the road. Charity got into the buggy and he
drew the cover about her and shook out the reins with a cluck. When
they reached the end of the village he turned the horse’s head toward
Creston.




XVIII


They began to jog down the winding road to the valley at old Dan’s
languid pace. Charity felt herself sinking into deeper depths of
weariness, and as they descended through the bare woods there were
moments when she lost the exact sense of things, and seemed to be
sitting beside her lover with the leafy arch of summer bending over
them. But this illusion was faint and transitory. For the most part she
had only a confused sensation of slipping down a smooth irresistible
current; and she abandoned herself to the feeling as a refuge from the
torment of thought.

Mr. Royall seldom spoke, but his silent presence gave her, for the first
time, a sense of peace and security. She knew that where he was there
would be warmth, rest, silence; and for the moment they were all she
wanted. She shut her eyes, and even these things grew dim to her....

In the train, during the short run from Creston to Nettleton, the warmth
aroused her, and the consciousness of being under strange eyes gave her
a momentary energy. She sat upright, facing Mr. Royall, and stared out
of the window at the denuded country. Forty-eight hours earlier, when
she had last traversed it, many of the trees still held their leaves;
but the high wind of the last two nights had stripped them, and the
lines of the landscape’ were as finely pencilled as in December. A
few days of autumn cold had wiped out all trace of the rich fields and
languid groves through which she had passed on the Fourth of July; and
with the fading of the landscape those fervid hours had faded, too. She
could no longer believe that she was the being who had lived them; she
was someone to whom something irreparable and overwhelming had happened,
but the traces of the steps leading up to it had almost vanished.

When the train reached Nettleton and she walked out into the square at
Mr. Royall’s side the sense of unreality grew more overpowering. The
physical strain of the night and day had left no room in her mind for
new sensations and she followed Mr. Royall as passively as a tired
child. As in a confused dream she presently found herself sitting with
him in a pleasant room, at a table with a red and white table-cloth
on which hot food and tea were placed. He filled her cup and plate and
whenever she lifted her eyes from them she found his resting on her with
the same steady tranquil gaze that had reassured and strengthened
her when they had faced each other in old Mrs. Hobart’s kitchen. As
everything else in her consciousness grew more and more confused
and immaterial, became more and more like the universal shimmer that
dissolves the world to failing eyes, Mr. Royall’s presence began to
detach itself with rocky firmness from this elusive background. She had
always thought of him--when she thought of him at all--as of someone
hateful and obstructive, but whom she could outwit and dominate when
she chose to make the effort. Only once, on the day of the Old Home Week
celebration, while the stray fragments of his address drifted across
her troubled mind, had she caught a glimpse of another being, a being so
different from the dull-witted enemy with whom she had supposed herself
to be living that even through the burning mist of her own dreams he
had stood out with startling distinctness. For a moment, then, what he
said--and something in his way of saying it--had made her see why he had
always struck her as such a lonely man. But the mist of her dreams had
hidden him again, and she had forgotten that fugitive impression.

It came back to her now, as they sat at the table, and gave her, through
her own immeasurable desolation, a sudden sense of their nearness to
each other. But all these feelings were only brief streaks of light in
the grey blur of her physical weakness. Through it she was aware that
Mr. Royall presently left her sitting by the table in the warm room, and
came back after an interval with a carriage from the station--a closed
“hack” with sun-burnt blue silk blinds--in which they drove together
to a house covered with creepers and standing next to a church with a
carpet of turf before it. They got out at this house, and the carriage
waited while they walked up the path and entered a wainscoted hall and
then a room full of books. In this room a clergyman whom Charity had
never seen received them pleasantly, and asked them to be seated for a
few minutes while witnesses were being summoned.

Charity sat down obediently, and Mr. Royall, his hands behind his back,
paced slowly up and down the room. As he turned and faced Charity, she
noticed that his lips were twitching a little; but the look in his eyes
was grave and calm. Once he paused before her and said timidly: “Your
hair’s got kinder loose with the wind,” and she lifted her hands and
tried to smooth back the locks that had escaped from her braid. There
was a looking-glass in a carved frame on the wall, but she was ashamed
to look at herself in it, and she sat with her hands folded on her knee
till the clergyman returned. Then they went out again, along a sort of
arcaded passage, and into a low vaulted room with a cross on an altar,
and rows of benches. The clergyman, who had left them at the door,
presently reappeared before the altar in a surplice, and a lady who was
probably his wife, and a man in a blue shirt who had been raking dead
leaves on the lawn, came in and sat on one of the benches.

The clergyman opened a book and signed to Charity and Mr. Royall to
approach. Mr. Royall advanced a few steps, and Charity followed him as
she had followed him to the buggy when they went out of Mrs. Hobart’s
kitchen; she had the feeling that if she ceased to keep close to him,
and do what he told her to do, the world would slip away from beneath
her feet.

The clergyman began to read, and on her dazed mind there rose the memory
of Mr. Miles, standing the night before in the desolate house of the
Mountain, and reading out of the same book words that had the same dread
sound of finality:

“I require and charge you both, as ye will answer at the dreadful day
of judgment when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed, that if
either of you know any impediment whereby ye may not be lawfully joined
together...”

Charity raised her eyes and met Mr. Royall’s. They were still looking
at her kindly and steadily. “I will!” she heard him say a moment later,
after another interval of words that she had failed to catch. She was so
busy trying to understand the gestures that the clergyman was signalling
to her to make that she no longer heard what was being said. After
another interval the lady on the bench stood up, and taking her hand put
it in Mr. Royall’s. It lay enclosed in his strong palm and she felt
a ring that was too big for her being slipped on her thin finger. She
understood then that she was married....

Late that afternoon Charity sat alone in a bedroom of the fashionable
hotel where she and Harney had vainly sought a table on the Fourth of
July. She had never before been in so handsomely furnished a room. The
mirror above the dressing-table reflected the high head-board and fluted
pillow-slips of the double bed, and a bedspread so spotlessly white that
she had hesitated to lay her hat and jacket on it. The humming radiator
diffused an atmosphere of drowsy warmth, and through a half-open door
she saw the glitter of the nickel taps above twin marble basins.

For a while the long turmoil of the night and day had slipped away from
her and she sat with closed eyes, surrendering herself to the spell of
warmth and silence. But presently this merciful apathy was succeeded by
the sudden acuteness of vision with which sick people sometimes wake out
of a heavy sleep. As she opened her eyes they rested on the picture
that hung above the bed. It was a large engraving with a dazzling white
margin enclosed in a wide frame of bird’s-eye maple with an inner scroll
of gold. The engraving represented a young man in a boat on a lake
over-hung with trees. He was leaning over to gather water-lilies for the
girl in a light dress who lay among the cushions in the stern. The scene
was full of a drowsy midsummer radiance, and Charity averted her eyes
from it and, rising from her chair, began to wander restlessly about the
room.

It was on the fifth floor, and its broad window of plate glass looked
over the roofs of the town. Beyond them stretched a wooded landscape in
which the last fires of sunset were picking out a steely gleam. Charity
gazed at the gleam with startled eyes. Even through the gathering
twilight she recognized the contour of the soft hills encircling it, and
the way the meadows sloped to its edge. It was Nettleton Lake that she
was looking at.

She stood a long time in the window staring out at the fading water. The
sight of it had roused her for the first time to a realization of what
she had done. Even the feeling of the ring on her hand had not brought
her this sharp sense of the irretrievable. For an instant the old
impulse of flight swept through her; but it was only the lift of a
broken wing. She heard the door open behind her, and Mr. Royall came in.

He had gone to the barber’s to be shaved, and his shaggy grey hair had
been trimmed and smoothed. He moved strongly and quickly, squaring his
shoulders and carrying his head high, as if he did not want to pass
unnoticed.

“What are you doing in the dark?” he called out in a cheerful voice.
Charity made no answer. He went up to the window to draw the blind, and
putting his finger on the wall flooded the room with a blaze of light
from the central chandelier. In this unfamiliar illumination husband
and wife faced each other awkwardly for a moment; then Mr. Royall said:
“We’ll step down and have some supper, if you say so.”

The thought of food filled her with repugnance; but not daring to
confess it she smoothed her hair and followed him to the lift.

An hour later, coming out of the glare of the dining-room, she waited in
the marble-panelled hall while Mr. Royall, before the brass lattice
of one of the corner counters, selected a cigar and bought an
evening paper. Men were lounging in rocking chairs under the blazing
chandeliers, travellers coming and going, bells ringing, porters
shuffling by with luggage. Over Mr. Royall’s shoulder, as he leaned
against the counter, a girl with her hair puffed high smirked and nodded
at a dapper drummer who was getting his key at the desk across the hall.

Charity stood among these cross-currents of life as motionless and inert
as if she had been one of the tables screwed to the marble floor. All
her soul was gathered up into one sick sense of coming doom, and she
watched Mr. Royall in fascinated terror while he pinched the cigars in
successive boxes and unfolded his evening paper with a steady hand.

Presently he turned and joined her. “You go right along up to bed--I’m
going to sit down here and have my smoke,” he said. He spoke as easily
and naturally as if they had been an old couple, long used to each
other’s ways, and her contracted heart gave a flutter of relief. She
followed him to the lift, and he put her in and enjoined the buttoned
and braided boy to show her to her room.

She groped her way in through the darkness, forgetting where the
electric button was, and not knowing how to manipulate it. But a white
autumn moon had risen, and the illuminated sky put a pale light in the
room. By it she undressed, and after folding up the ruffled pillow-slips
crept timidly under the spotless counterpane. She had never felt such
smooth sheets or such light warm blankets; but the softness of the bed
did not soothe her. She lay there trembling with a fear that ran through
her veins like ice. “What have I done? Oh, what have I done?” she
whispered, shuddering to her pillow; and pressing her face against it
to shut out the pale landscape beyond the window she lay in the darkness
straining her ears, and shaking at every footstep that approached....

Suddenly she sat up and pressed her hands against her frightened heart.
A faint sound had told her that someone was in the room; but she must
have slept in the interval, for she had heard no one enter. The moon was
setting beyond the opposite roofs, and in the darkness outlined
against the grey square of the window, she saw a figure seated in the
rocking-chair. The figure did not move: it was sunk deep in the chair,
with bowed head and folded arms, and she saw that it was Mr. Royall who
sat there. He had not undressed, but had taken the blanket from the
foot of the bed and laid it across his knees. Trembling and holding her
breath she watched him, fearing that he had been roused by her movement;
but he did not stir, and she concluded that he wished her to think he
was asleep.

As she continued to watch him ineffable relief stole slowly over her,
relaxing her strained nerves and exhausted body. He knew, then... he
knew... it was because he knew that he had married her, and that he
sat there in the darkness to show her she was safe with him. A stir
of something deeper than she had ever felt in thinking of him flitted
through her tired brain, and cautiously, noiselessly, she let her head
sink on the pillow....

When she woke the room was full of morning light, and her first glance
showed her that she was alone in it. She got up and dressed, and as
she was fastening her dress the door opened, and Mr. Royall came in. He
looked old and tired in the bright daylight, but his face wore the same
expression of grave friendliness that had reassured her on the Mountain.
It was as if all the dark spirits had gone out of him.

They went downstairs to the dining-room for breakfast, and after
breakfast he told her he had some insurance business to attend to. “I
guess while I’m doing it you’d better step out and buy yourself whatever
you need.” He smiled, and added with an embarrassed laugh: “You know I
always wanted you to beat all the other girls.” He drew something from
his pocket, and pushed it across the table to her; and she saw that he
had given her two twenty-dollar bills. “If it ain’t enough there’s more
where that come from--I want you to beat ‘em all hollow,” he repeated.

She flushed and tried to stammer out her thanks, but he had pushed back
his chair and was leading the way out of the dining-room. In the hall he
paused a minute to say that if it suited her they would take the three
o’clock train back to North Dormer; then he took his hat and coat from
the rack and went out.

A few minutes later Charity went out, too. She had watched to see in
what direction he was going, and she took the opposite way and walked
quickly down the main street to the brick building on the corner of
Lake Avenue. There she paused to look cautiously up and down the
thoroughfare, and then climbed the brass-bound stairs to Dr. Merkle’s
door. The same bushy-headed mulatto girl admitted her, and after the
same interval of waiting in the red plush parlor she was once more
summoned to Dr. Merkle’s office. The doctor received her without
surprise, and led her into the inner plush sanctuary.

“I thought you’d be back, but you’ve come a mite too soon: I told you
to be patient and not fret,” she observed, after a pause of penetrating
scrutiny.

Charity drew the money from her breast. “I’ve come to get my blue
brooch,” she said, flushing.

“Your brooch?” Dr. Merkle appeared not to remember. “My, yes--I get so
many things of that kind. Well, my dear, you’ll have to wait while I get
it out of the safe. I don’t leave valuables like that laying round like
the noospaper.”

She disappeared for a moment, and returned with a bit of twisted-up
tissue paper from which she unwrapped the brooch.

Charity, as she looked at it, felt a stir of warmth at her heart. She
held out an eager hand.

“Have you got the change?” she asked a little breathlessly, laying one
of the twenty-dollar bills on the table.

“Change? What’d I want to have change for? I only see two twenties
there,” Dr. Merkle answered brightly.

Charity paused, disconcerted. “I thought... you said it was five dollars
a visit....”

“For YOU, as a favour--I did. But how about the responsibility and the
insurance? I don’t s’pose you ever thought of that? This pin’s worth a
hundred dollars easy. If it had got lost or stole, where’d I been when
you come to claim it?”

Charity remained silent, puzzled and half-convinced by the argument,
and Dr. Merkle promptly followed up her advantage. “I didn’t ask you for
your brooch, my dear. I’d a good deal ruther folks paid me my regular
charge than have ‘em put me to all this trouble.”

She paused, and Charity, seized with a desperate longing to escape, rose
to her feet and held out one of the bills.

“Will you take that?” she asked.

“No, I won’t take that, my dear; but I’ll take it with its mate, and
hand you over a signed receipt if you don’t trust me.”

“Oh, but I can’t--it’s all I’ve got,” Charity exclaimed.

Dr. Merkle looked up at her pleasantly from the plush sofa. “It seems
you got married yesterday, up to the ‘Piscopal church; I heard all about
the wedding from the minister’s chore-man. It would be a pity, wouldn’t
it, to let Mr. Royall know you had an account running here? I just put
it to you as your own mother might.”

Anger flamed up in Charity, and for an instant she thought of abandoning
the brooch and letting Dr. Merkle do her worst. But how could she leave
her only treasure with that evil woman? She wanted it for her baby: she
meant it, in some mysterious way, to be a link between Harney’s child
