full—experience everything....  Do you think I’m a fool, Jim?"
He smiled:
"No, but you make me feel rather unambitious and commonplace, Steve.
After all, I merely wish to write a few good novels.  That would content
me."
"Oh, Jim," she said, "you’ll do it, and I’ll probably amount to nothing.
I’ll just be a crazy creature flying about and poking my nose into
everything, and stirring it up a little and then fluttering on to the
next thing. Like the Bandar-log—that’s what I am—just a monkey,
enchanted and excited by everything inside my cage and determined to
find out what is hidden under every straw."
"Yours is a good mind, Steve," he said, still smiling.
The girl looked up at him wistfully:
"Is it?  I wish I knew.  I’m going to try to find out.  Have I really a
good mind?  Or is it just a restless one?  Anyway, there’s no use my
trying to be an ordinary girl.  I’m either monkey or genius; and I am
convinced that the world was made for me to rummage in."
He laughed.
"Anyway," she said, "I’ve amused you and cheered you up.  Good night,
Jim dear."
                             *CHAPTER XIII*
Stephanie, looking very slim and young in her deep mourning, went back
to college unreconciled and in tears.  Jim drove her to the station.
They stood together in the Pullman vestibule for a few minutes before
the train departed, and she clung to him, both black-gloved hands
holding tightly to his shoulders.
"Everything familiar in life seems to be ending," she said tremulously.
"I’m not very old yet, and I didn’t really wish to begin living
seriously so soon—no matter what nonsense I talked about
self-expression.  All I want now is to get off this train and go back
home with you."
"Poor little Steve," he said under his breath.  "But it’s better for you
to return to college.  The house would be too sad for you.  Go back to
college and study hard and play basket ball and skate——"
"Oh, I will," she said desolately.  "I’ll see the wretched term through.
I was merely telling you what I’d rather do—go home and just live there
all alone with you."
"You’d become tired of it pretty soon, Steve.  Don’t you think so?"
They looked at each other intently for a moment, then an odd expression
came into the girl’s grey eyes:
"It’s you who would tire of it, Jim," she said.  "I’m not old enough to
amuse you yet.  I’m still only a child to you."
"What nonsense——!"
"No.  You’ve been wonderful to me.  But you are older.  I’ve bored you
sometimes."
He protested; but she shook her head.
"A girl knows," she said.  "And a man can’t make a comrade of a girl who
has no experiences to swap with him, no conclusions to draw, none of
life’s discoveries to compare with his....  Don’t look so guilty and
distressed; you have always been a perfect dear.  But, oh, if you knew
how hard I’ve tried to catch up with you!—how desperately I try to be
old enough for you——"
"Steve, you are an ideal sister!  But you know how it is—when a man
has such a lot to think about——"
"I do know!  And that is exactly what I also am determined to have—a
lot to think about!"  Her colour was high and her grey eyes brilliant.
"In two years you shall see.  I shall be an interesting woman to you
when you come back!  I vow and declare I shall be interesting enough to
be friends with you on equal terms!  Wait and see!"
"But, Steve," he protested, smiling, yet bewildered by the sudden fiery
animation of the girl, "I never supposed you felt that I
condescended—patronized——"
"How could you help it!—a little fool who doesn’t know anything!"  She
was laughing unnaturally, and her nervous fingers tightened and relaxed
on his shoulders. "But when you come back after two years’ travel, I
shall at least be able to take your temperature, and keep you
entertained if you’re ill——!  Oh, Jim, I don’t know what I’m saying!
I’m just heart-broken at going away from you.  You do care a lot for me,
don’t you?"
"Of course I do."
"And I promise to be a very interesting woman when you come back from
abroad....  Oh, dear, the train is moving.  Good-bye, Jim dear!"  She
flung her veil aside and put both slim arms around his neck in a passion
of adoration and farewell.
He dropped to the platform from the slowly moving train and walked back
toward the station.  And he was uneasily conscious, for the first time
in his life, of the innocent abandon of this young girl’s
embrace—embarrassed by the softness of her mouth—impatient of himself
for noticing it.
When he arrived at the house Miss Quest’s luggage had gone and that
capable and determined lady was ready to depart for Bayport in a large,
powerful automobile bearing her monogram, which stood in front of the
house.
"Mr. Cleland," she said, "before I go, I have several things to say to
you.  One is that I like you."
He reddened with surprise, but expressed his appreciation pleasantly and
without embarrassment.
"Yes," continued Miss Quest, reflectively, "you’re much like your
father.  He and I began our acquaintance by differing: we ended friends.
I hope his son and I may continue that friendship."
"I hope so," he said politely.
"Thank you.  But the keynote to friendship is frankness.  Shall I sound
it?"
"Certainly," he replied, smiling.
"Very well: my niece ought to have a woman companion when she returns
from college at Easter."
"Why?" he asked, astonished.
"Because she isn’t your sister, and she’s an attractive girl."
After a silence she went on:
"I know that you and Stephanie regard each other as brother and sister.
But you’re not.  And the world knows it.  It’s an absurd world, Mr.
Cleland."
"It’s rather a rotten world if Steve and I can’t live here alone
together without gossip," he said hotly.
"Let’s take it as we find it and be practical.  Shall I look up a
companion for Stephanie, or shall I return here at Easter?"
He pondered the suggestion, frowning.  Miss Quest said pleasantly:
"Please, I don’t mean to interfere.  You are of age, and over.  But the
world, if it cares to think, will remember that you and Stephanie are
not related.  In two years, when you return from Europe, Stephanie will
be twenty and you twenty-four.  And, laying aside the suggestion that an
older woman’s presence might be advantageous under the circumstances,
who is going to control Stephanie?"
"Control her?"
"Yes, control, guide, steady her through the most critical period of her
life?"
The young fellow, plainly unconvinced, looked at Miss Quest out of
troubled eyes.
"Come," she said briskly, "let’s have a heart-to-heart talk and find out
what’s ahead of us.  Let’s be business-like and candid.  Shall we?"
"By all means."
"Then we’ll begin at the very beginning:
"Stephanie is a dear.  But she’s very young.  And at twenty she will
still be very, very young.  What traits and talents she may have
inherited from a clever, unprincipled father—my own nephew, Mr.
Cleland—I don’t know.  God willing, there’s nothing of him in her—no
tendencies toward irregularities; no unmoral inclination to drift,
nothing spineless and irresponsible.
"As for Stephanie’s mother, I know little about her. I think she was
merely a healthy young animal without education, submitting to and
following instinctively the first man who attracted her.  Which happened
to be my unhappy nephew."
She shook her head and gazed musingly at the window where the sunshine
fell.
"There are the propositions; this is the problem, Mr. Cleland.  Now, let
us look at the conditions which bear directly on it.  Am I boring you?"
"No," he said.  "It’s very necessary to consider this matter.  I’m just
beginning to realize that I’m really not fitted to guide and control
Stephanie."
She laughed.
"What a confession!  But do you know that, all over the world, men are
beginning to come to similar conclusions?  Conditions absolutely without
precedent have arisen within a few brief years.  And Stephanie, just
emerging into womanhood, is about to face them.  The day of the woman
has dawned.
"Ours is a restless sex," continued Miss Quest grimly. "And this is the
age of our opportunity.  I don’t know just what it is that animates my
enfranchised sex, now that the world has suddenly flung open doors which
have confined us through immemorial ages—each woman to her own narrow
cell, privileged only to watch freedom through iron bars.
"But there runs a vast restlessness throughout the world; in every
woman’s heart the seeds of revolution, so long dormant, are germinating.
The time has come when she is to have her fling.  And she knows it!"
She shrugged her trim shoulders:
"It is the history of all enfranchisement that license and excess are
often misconstrued as freedom by liberated prisoners.  To find ourselves
free to follow the urge of aspiration may unbalance some of us.  Small
wonder, too."
She sprang to her feet and began to march up and down in front of the
fireplace, swinging her reticule trimmed with Krupp steel.  Cleland
rose, too.
"What was all wrong in our Victorian mothers’ days is all right now,"
she said, smilingly.  "We’re going to get the vote; that’s a detail
already discounted.  And we’ve already got about everything else except
the right to say how many children we shall bring into the world.  That
will surely come, too; that, and the single standard of morality for
both sexes.  Both are bound to come.  And then," she smiled again
brightly at Cleland, "I have an idea that we shall quiet down and
outgrow our restlessness.  But I don’t know."
"What you say is very interesting," murmured the young fellow.
"Yes, it’s interesting.  It is significant, too.  So is the problem of
making something out of defectives. After a while there won’t be any
defectives when we begin to breed children as carefully as we breed
cattle. Sex equality will hasten sensible discussion; discussion will
result in laws.  A, B and C may have babies; D, E and F may not.  And,
after a few generations, the entire feminine alphabet can have and may
have babies. And if, here and there, a baby is not wanted, there’ll be
no sniveling sectarian conference to threaten the wrath of Mumbo-Jumbo!"
Miss Quest halted in her hearth-rug promenade:
"The doom of hypocrisy, sham and intolerance is already in sight.  Hands
off and mind your business are written on the wall.  So I suppose
Stephanie will think we ought to keep our hands off her and mind our
business if she wishes to go on the stage or dawdle before an easel in a
Washington Mews studio some day."
Her logic made Cleland anxious again.
"The trouble lies in this intoxicating perfume we call liberty.  We
women sniff it afar, and it makes us restless and excitable.  It’s a
heady odour.  Only a level mind can enjoy it with discretion.
Otherwise, it incites to excess.  That’s all.  We’re simply not yet used
to liberty.  And that is what concerns me about Stephanie—with her
youth, and her intelligence, her undoubted gifts and—her possible
inheritance from a fascinating rascal of a father.
"Well, that is the girl; there are the conditions; this is the
problem....  And now I must be going."
She held out her smartly gloved hand; retained his for a moment:
"You won’t sail before Stephanie’s Easter vacation?"
"No; I’ll probably sail about May first."
"In that case, I’ll come on from Bayport, and you won’t need to find a
companion for Stephanie.  After you sail, she’ll come to me, anyway."
"For hospital training," he nodded.
"For two years of it.  It’s her choice."
"Yes, I know.  She prefers it to college."
Miss Quest said very seriously:
"For a girl like Stephanie, it will be an excellent thing.  It will give
her a certain steadiness, a foundation in life, to have a profession on
which she may rely in case of adversity.  To care for and to be
responsible for others develops character.  She already seems
interested."
"She prefers it to graduating from Vassar."
Miss Quest nodded, then looking him directly in the eyes:
"I want to say one thing.  May I?"
"Certainly."
"Then, above all, be patient with Stephanie.  Will you?"
"Of course!" he replied, surprised.
"I am looking rather far into the future," continued Miss Quest.  "You
will change vastly in two years. She will, too.  Cherish the nice
friendship between you. A man’s besetting sin is impatience of women.
Try to avoid it.  Be patient, even when you differ with her. She’s going
to be a handful—I may as well be frank. I can see that—see it plainly.
She’s going to be a handful for me—and you must always try to keep her
affections.
"It’s the only way to influence any woman.  I know my sex.  You’re a
typical man, entirely dependent on logic and reason—or think you are.
All men think they are.  But logic and reason are of no use in dealing
with us unless you have our affections, too.  Good-bye.  I do like you.
I’ll come again at Easter."
Alone in the quiet house, with his memories for companions, the young
fellow tried to face the future;—tried to learn to endure the staggering
blow which his father’s death had dealt him,—strove resolutely to shake
off the stunned indifference, the apathy through which he seemed to see
the world as through a fog.
Gradually, as the black winter months passed, and as he took up his work
again and pegged away at it, the inevitable necessity for distraction
developed, until at last the deadly stillness of the house became
unendurable, driving him out once more into the world of living men.
So the winter days dragged, and the young fellow faced them alone in the
sad, familiar places where, but yesterday, he had moved and talked with
his only and best beloved.
Perhaps it was easier that way.  He had his memories to himself, sharing
none.  But he did not share his sorrow, either.  And that is a thing
that undermines.
At first he was afraid that it would be even harder for him when
Stephanie returned at Easter.  The girl arrived in her heavy mourning,
and he met her at the station, as his father used to meet him.
She lifted her rather pale face and passively received her kiss, but
held tightly to his arm as they turned away together through the
hurrying crowds of strangers.
Each one tried very hard to find something cheerful to talk about; but
little by little their narratives concerning the intervening days of
absence became spiritless and perfunctory.
The car swung into the familiar street and drew up before the house;
Stephanie laid one hand on Jim’s arm, stepped out to the sidewalk, and
ran up the steps, animated for a moment with the natural eagerness for
home.  But when old Meacham silently opened the door and her gaze met
his:
"Oh—Meacham," she faltered, and her grey eyes filled.
However, she felt her obligations toward Jim; and they both made the
effort, at dinner, and afterward in the library, fighting to keep up
appearances.
But silence, lurking near, crept in upon them, a living intruder whose
steady pressure gradually prevailed, leaving them pondering there under
the subdued lamplight, motionless in the depths of their respective
armchairs, until endurance seemed no longer possible—and speech no
longer a refuge from the ghosts of what-had-been. And the girl, in her
black gown, rose, came silently over to his chair, seated herself on the
arm, and laid her pale face against his.  He put one arm around her,
meaning to let her weep there; but withdrew it suddenly, and released
himself almost roughly with a confused sense of her delicate fragrance
clinging to him too closely.
The movement was nervous and involuntary; he shot a perplexed glance at
her, still uneasily conscious of the warmth and subtle sweetness which
had so suddenly made of this slender girl in black something unfamiliar
to his sight and touch.
"Let’s try to be cheerful," he muttered, scarcely understanding what he
said.
It was the first time he had ever repulsed her or failed to respond to
her in their mutual loneliness.  And why he did it he himself did not
understand.
He left the arm-chair and went and stood by the mantel, resting one
elbow on it and looking down into the coals; she slipped into the depths
of the chair and lay there looking at him.
For something in the manner of this man toward her had set her thinking;
and she lay there in silence, watching his averted face, deeply intent
on her own thoughts, coming to no conclusions.
Yet somehow the girl was aware that, in that brief moment of their grief
when she had sought comfort in his brotherly caress and he had offered
it, then suddenly repulsed her, a profound line of cleavage had opened
between him and her; and that the cleft could never be closed.
Neither seemed to be aware that anything had happened.  The girl
remained silent and thoughtful; and he became talkative after a while,
telling her of his plans for travel, and that he had arranged for
keeping open the house in case she and Miss Quest wished to spend any
time in town.
"I’ll write you from time to time and keep you informed of my
movements," he said.  "Two years pass quickly.  By the time I’m back
I’ll have a profession and so will you."
She nodded.
"Then," he went on, "I suppose Miss Quest had better come here and live
with us."
"I’m not coming back here."
"What?"
"I’m going about by myself—as you are going—to to observe and learn."
"You wish to be foot-free?"
"I do.  I shall be my own mistress."
"Of course," he said drily, "nobody can stop you."
"Why should anybody wish to?  I shall be twenty-one—nearly; I shall have
a profession if I choose to practise it; I shall have my income—and all
the world before me to investigate."
"And then what?"
"How do I know, Jim?  A girl ought to have her chance.  She ought to
have her fling, too, if she wants it—just as much as any man.  It’s the
only way she can learn anything.  And I’ve concluded," she added,
looking curiously at him, "that it’s the only way she can ever become
really interesting to a man."
"How?" he demanded.  "By having what you call her fling?"
"Yes.  Men aren’t much interested in girls who know nothing except what
men permit them to know.  A girl at college said that the one certain
source of interest to any man in any woman is his unsatisfied curiosity
concerning her.  Satisfy it, and he loses interest."
Cleland laughed:
"That’s college philosophy," he said.
Stephanie smiled:
"It is what a man doesn’t know about a woman that keeps his interest in
her stimulated.  It isn’t her mind which is merely stored with the
conventional—the conventional being determined and prescribed by men.
It isn’t even her character or her traits or her looks which can keep
his interest unflagging.  What deeply interests a man is an educated,
cultivated girl who has had as much experience as he has, and who is
likely to have further experience in the world without advice from him
or asking his permission.  No other woman can hold the interest of a man
for very long."
"That’s what you’ve learned at Vassar, is it?"
"It’s one of the things," said Stephanie, smiling faintly.
                             *CHAPTER XIV*
The boy—for as yet he was only a boy—sailed in May.  The girl—who was
swiftly stripping from her the last rainbow chiffons of girlhood—was at
the steamer to see him off—down from Poughkeepsie for that purpose.
And the instant she arrived he noticed what this last brief absence had
done for her; how subtly her maturing self-confidence had altered the
situation, placing her on a new footing with himself.
There was a little of the lean, long-legged, sweet-faced girl left: a
slender yet rounded symmetry had replaced obvious joints and bones.
"What is it—basket ball?" he inquired admiringly.
"You like my figure?" she inquired guilelessly.  "Oh, I’ve grown up
within a month.  It’s just what was coming to me."
"Nice line of slang they give you up there," he said, laughing.  "You’re
nearly as tall as I am, too.  I don’t know you, little sister."
"You never did, little brother.  You’ll be sorry some day that you
wasted all the school-girl adoration I lavished on you."
"Don’t you intend to lavish any more?" he inquired, laughing, yet very
keenly alert to her smiling assurance, which was at the same time
humourous, provocative and engaging.
"I don’t know.  I’m over my girlhood illusions.  Men are horrid pigs,
mostly.  It’s a very horrid thing you’re doing to me right now," she
said, "—going off to have a wonderful time by yourself for the next two
years and leaving me to work in a children’s hospital!  But I mean to
make you pay for it.  Wait and see."
"If you’ll come to Europe with me I’ll take you," he said.
"You wouldn’t.  You’d hate it.  You want to be free to prowl.  So do I,
and I mean to some day."
"Why not come now and prowl with me?  I’ll take care of you."
The girl looked at him with smiling intentness:
"If dad hadn’t expressed his wishes, and even if my aunt would let me
go, I wouldn’t—now."
"Why not?"
"Because I shall do no more tagging after you."
"What?"
"No.  And when you return I mean that you shall come and ask my
permission to prowl with me.... And if I find you interesting enough
I’ll let you. Otherwise, I shall prowl by myself or with some other
man."
He was laughing, and her face, also, wore a bright and slightly
malicious smile.
"You don’t believe that’s possible, do you, Jim?—a total reversal of our
rôles?  You think little sister will tag gratefully after you always,
don’t you?  Wouldn’t it astonish you if little sister grew up into a
desirable and ornamental woman of independent proclivities and tastes,
and with a mind and a will of her own?  And, to enjoy her company, you’d
have to seek her and prove yourself sufficiently interesting; and that
you would have to respect her freedom and individuality as you would any
man’s!"
"I think, little sister," he said, laughing, "that you’ve absorbed a
vast deal of modern nonsense at Vassar; that you’re as pretty as a
peach; and that you’ll not turn into a maid errant, but will become an
ornament to your sex and to society, and that you’ll marry in due time
and do yourself proud."
"In children, you mean?  Numerically?"
"Quantitatively and qualitatively.  Also, you’ll do yourself proud in
the matronly example you’ll set to all women of this great Republic."
"That’s what you think, is it?"
"I know it."
She smiled:
"Watch the women of my generation, Jim—when you can spare a few moments
of your valuable time from writing masterpieces of fiction."
"I certainly shall.  I’ll study ’em.  They’re material for me.  They
are funny, you know."
"They are, indeed," she said, her grey eyes full of malice, "funnier
than you dream of!  You are going to see a generation that will endure
no man-devised restrictions, submit to no tyrannical trammels, endure no
masculine nonsense.  You’ll see this new species of woman coming faster
and faster, thicker and thicker, each one knowing her own mind or intent
on knowing it. You’ll see them animated by a thousand new interests,
pursuing a thousand new vocations, scornful of masculine criticism,
impervious to admonition, regardless of what men think and say and do
about it.
"That’s what you’ll see, Jim, a restless sex destroying their last
barriers; a world of women contemptuous of men’s opinions, convinced of
their own rights, going after whatever they want, and doing it in their
own way.
"If they wish to marry and bother with children they’ll pick out a
healthy man and do it; if not, they won’t.  Love plays a very, very
small part in a man’s life.  Love, sentiment, domesticity, and the
nursery were once supposed to make up a woman’s entire existence.  Now
the time is coming very swiftly when love will play no more of a rôle in
a woman’s life than it does in a man’s.  She’ll have her fling, first,
if she chooses, just as freely as he does.  And some day, if she finds
it worth the inconvenience, she’ll marry and take a year or two off and
raise a few babies.  Otherwise, decidedly not!"
"These are fine sentiments!" he exclaimed, laughing, yet not too
genuinely amused.  "I’m not sure that I’d better go and leave you here
with that exceedingly pretty little head of yours stuffed and seething
with this sort of propaganda!"
"You might as well.  The whole world is beginning to seethe with it.
After all, what does it mean except equality of the sexes?  Hands
off—that’s all it means."
"Are you a suffragette, Steve?" he inquired, smilingly.
"Oh, Jim, that’s old stuff!  Everybody is.  All that is merely a matter
of time, now.  What interests us is our realization of our own
individual independence. Why, I can’t tell you what a delightful
knowledge it is to understand that we can do jolly well what we please
and not care a snap of our fingers for masculine opinion!"
"That’s a fine creed," he remarked.  "What a charming bunch you must be
training with at Vassar!  I think I’ll get off this steamer and remain
here for a little scientific observation of your development and
conduct."
"No use," she said gaily.  "I’ve promised to learn to be a hospital
nurse.  After that, perhaps, if you return, you’ll find me really worth
observing."
"Is that a threat, Steve?" he asked, not too sincerely amused, yet still
taking her and her chatter with a lightness and amiable condescension
entirely masculine.
"A threat?"
"Yes.  Do you mean that when I return I shall find my little sister a
handful?"
"A handful?  For whose hand?  Jim, dear, you are old-fashioned.  Girls
aren’t on or in anybody’s hands any more after they’re of age.  Do you
think you’ll be responsible for me?  Dear child, we’ll be comrades or
nothing at all to each other.  You really must grow up, little brother,
before you come back, or I’m afraid—much as I love you—I might find you
just a little bit prosy——"
The call for all ashore silenced her.  She stood confronting Cleland
with high colour and pretty, excited grey eyes, for a moment more, then
the gay defiance faded in her face and her attitude grew less resolute.
"Oh, Jim!" she said under her breath, "—I adore you——"  And melted into
his embrace.
As he held her in his arms, for a moment the instinct to repel her and
disengage himself came over him swiftly.  A troubled idea that her lips
were very soft—that he scarcely knew this girl whose supple figure he
held embraced, left him mute, confused.
"Dear Jim," she whimpered, "I love you dearly.  I shall miss you
dreadfully.  I’ll always be your own little sister Steve, and you can
come back and bully me and I’ll tag after you and adore you.  Oh,
Jim—Jim—my own brother—my own—my own——!"
It was a bright, sunny, windy May day.  He could still distinguish her
in her black gown on the crowded pier which was all a-flutter with
brilliant gowns and white handkerchiefs.
After the distant pier had become only a square of colour like a
flower-bed, he still stood on the hurricane deck of the huge liner
looking back at where he had last seen her.  The fragrance of her still
clung to him—seemed to have been inhaled somehow and to have subtly
permeated him—something of the warm, fresh, pliant youth of
her—unspoiled, utterly unawakened to anything more delicate or complex
than the frank, vigorous passion of her affection.
Yet, as her breathless, tearful lips had clung to his, so the perfume of
the embrace clung to him still, leaving him perplexed, vaguely
disturbed, yet intensely conscious of new emotion, unfamiliar in his
experience with this girl who yesterday had been what she always had
been to him—a growing child to be affectionately looked after and
chivalrously cherished and endured.
"I couldn’t be in love with Steve," he said to himself incredulously.
The thought amazed and exasperated him.  "I’m a fine sort of man," he
thought bitterly, "if I can’t kiss Steve as innocently as she kisses me.
There’s something wrong with me.  I must be a sort of dog—or crazy——"
He went below.
Stephanie went back in the car, alone.  She staunched her tears with her
black-edged handkerchief until they ceased to fill the wonderful grey
eyes.
Later, detaching the limousine hand-mirror, she inspected her
countenance, patted her chestnut-tinted hair, smoothed out her mourning
veil, and then, in order, lay back in the corner of the car and gave
herself up to passionate memory of this boy whom she had adored from the
first moment she ever laid eyes on him.
Two years’ absence?  She tried to figure to herself what that meant, but
could not compass it.  It seemed like a century of penance to be
endured, to be lived through somehow.
She wanted him dreadfully already.  She had no pride left, no purpose,
no threats.  She just wanted to tag after him—knowing perfectly well
that there could be no real equality of comradeship where youth and
inexperience fettered her.  She didn’t care; she wanted him.
No deeper sentiment, nothing less healthy and frank than her youthful
adoration for him, disturbed her sorrow.  The consanguinity might have
been actual as far as her affections had ever been concerned with him.
That she had, at various intervals, made of him a romantic figure,
altered nothing.  Stainlessly her heart enshrined him; he was her ideal,
hers; her brother, her idol, her paladin—the incarnation of all that was
desirable and admirable in a boy, a youth, a young man. Never in all her
life had any youth interested her otherwise—save, perhaps, once—that
time she had met Oswald Grismer after many years, and had danced with
him—and was conscious of his admiration.  That was the only time in her
life when her attitude toward any man had been not quite clear—not
entirety definable. She wrote many pages to Cleland that night.  And
cried herself to sleep.
The next day her aunt came up from Bayport.  And, a week later, she went
away to Bayport with Miss Quest to begin what seemed to her an endless
penance of two years’ hospital training.
The uniform was pink with white cuffs, apron, and cap.  She never forgot
the first blood that soiled it—from a double mastoid operation on a
little waif of twelve who had never been able to count more than six.
She held sponges, horrified, crushing back the terror that widened her
grey eyes, steeling herself to look, summoning every atom of strength
and resolution and nerve to see her through.
They found her lying across the corridor in a dead faint.
                              *CHAPTER XV*
The usual happened to James Cleland; for the first two months in Paris
he was intensely lonely.  Life in an English-speaking pension near the
Place de l’Etoile turned out to be very drab and eventless after he
returned to his rooms, fatigued from sight-seeing and exploration.  The
vast silver-grey city seemed to him cold, monotonously impressive and
oppressive; he was not in sympathy with it, being totally unaccustomed
to the splendour of a municipal ensemble with all its beauty of
reticence and good taste. The vast vistas, the subdued loveliness of
detail, the stately tranquillity of this capital, he did not understand
after the sham, the ignorance, the noisy vulgarity of his native
municipality.
Here were new standards; the grey immensity of the splendid capital gave
him, at first, an impression of something flat and almost featureless
under the horizon-wide sweep of sky.  There were no sky-scrapers.  With
exquisite discretion, Notre Dame dominated the east, the silvery majesty
of the Pantheon the south; in the west the golden bubble of the
Invalides burned; the frail tracery of the Eiffel Tower soared from the
city’s centre.
And for the first two months he was an alien here, depressed, silenced,
not comprehending, oblivious of the subtle atmosphere of civil
friendliness possessing the throngs which flowed by him on either hand,
unaware that he stood upon the kindly hearthstone of the world itself,
where the hospitable warmth never grew colder, where the generous glow
was for all.
He went to lectures at the Sorbonne; he attended a class in philology in
the Rue des Ecoles; he studied in the quiet alcoves of the great Library
of Ste. Genevieve; he paced the sonorous marble pavements of the Louvre.
And the austere statues seemed to chill him to the soul.
All was alien to him, all foreign; the English-speaking landlady of his
pension, with her eternal cold in the head and her little shoulder
shawl; the dreary American families from the Middle West who gathered
thrice a day at the pension table; passing wayfarers he saw from the
windows; red-legged soldiers in badly fitting uniforms, priests in
shovel hats and black soutanes, policemen slouching by under cowled
cloaks, their bayonets dangling; hatless, chattering shop girls, and the
uninteresting types of civilian citizens; men in impossible hats and
oddly awful clothes; women who all looked smart from the rear and
dubious from the front.
He found an annoying monotony in the trees of the Bois, a tiresome
sameness in square and circle and park and boulevard.  He found the
language difficult to understand, more difficult to speak.  Food,
accommodations, the domestic régime, were not to his liking. French
economies bored him.
At lectures his comrades seemed merely superficially polite and not very
desirable as acquaintances.  He felt himself out of place, astray from
familiar things, out of touch with this civilization, out of sympathy
with place and people.  He was intensely lonely.
In the beginning he wrote to Stephanie every other day.  That burst of
activity lasted about two months.
Also, in his rather dingy and cheerless suite of rooms, he began a
tragedy in five acts and a pessimistic novel called "Out of the Depths."
Also, he was guilty of a book of poems called "Day Dreams."
He missed his father terribly; he missed his home; he missed the noisy,
grotesque, half-civilized and monstrous city of his nativity.  And he
missed Stephanie violently.
He told her so in every letter.  The more letters he wrote the warmer
grew this abrupt affection for her. And, his being a creative talent,
with all its temperamental impulses, exaggerations and drawbacks, he
began to evolve, unconsciously, out of Stephanie Quest a girl based on
the real girl he knew, only transcendentally endowed with every
desirable and ornamental quality abstractly favoured by himself.
He began to create an ideal Stephanie to comfort him in his loneliness;
he created, too, a mutual situation and a sentimental atmosphere for
them both, neither of which had existed when he left America.
But now, in his letters, more and more this romantic and airy fabric
took shape.  Being young, and for the first time in his life thrown upon
his own resources—and, moreover, feeling for the first time the
pleasures of wielding an eloquent, delicate and capricious pen to voice
indefinable aspirations, he began to lose himself in romantic
subtleties, evoking drama out of nothing, developing it by implication
and constructing it with pensive and capricious humour hinting of dreamy
melancholy.
Until the Stephanie Quest of his imagination had become to him the fair,
and exquisitely indifferent little renaissance figure of his fancy; and
he, somehow or other, her victim.  And the more exquisite and
indifferent he created her, the more she fascinated him, until he
completely hypnotized himself with his own cleverly finished product.
A letter from her woke him up more or less, jolting him in his trance so
that the jingle and dissonance of the real world filled, for a moment,
his enchanted ears.
DEAR JIM:
Your letters perplex me more and more, and I don’t know at all how to
take them.  Do you mean you are in love with me?  I can’t believe it.  I
read and re-read your last three letters—such dear, odd, whimsical
letters!—so wonderfully written, so full of beauty and of poetry.
They do almost sound like love-letters—or at least as I imagine
love-letters are written.  But they can’t be!  How can they be?
And first of all, even if you meant them that way, I don’t know what to
think.  I’ve never been in love.  I know how I feel about you—have
always felt.  You know, too.
But you never gave me any reason to think—and I never dreamed of
thinking anything like that when you were here. It never occurred to
me.  It would not occur to me now except for your very beautiful
letters—so unlike you—so strangely sad, so whimsical, so skillful in
wonderful phrases that they’re like those vague prose poems you sent me,
which hint enough to awaken your imagination and set you aflame with
curiosity.
But you can’t mean that you’re in love with me.  I should be too
astonished.  Besides, I shouldn’t know what to do about it.  It wouldn’t
seem real.  I never have thought of you in such a way.
What makes a girl fall in love?  Do you know?  Could she fall in love
with a man through his letters because they are so beautiful and sad and
elusive, so full of charm and mystery?  I’m in love with them.  But,
Jim, I don’t know what to think about you.  I’d have to see you again,
first, anyway.  You are such a dear boy!  I can’t seem to think of you
that way.  You know it’s a different kind of love, ours. All I can think
about it is the tremendous surprise—if it’s true.
But I don’t believe it is.  You are lonely; you miss dad—miss me,
perhaps.  I think you do miss me, for the first time in your life.  You
see, I have rather a clear mind and memory, and I can’t help remembering
that when you were here you certainly could not have felt that way
toward me; so how can you now?  I did bore you sometimes.
Anyway, I adore you with all my heart, as you know. My affection hasn’t
changed one bit since I was a tiny girl and came into your room that day
and saw you down on the floor unpacking your suit-case.  I adored you
instantly.  I have not changed.  Girls don’t change.
Another letter from her some months later:
You’re such a funny boy—just a boy, still, while in these six months
I’ve overtaken and passed you in years.  You won’t believe it, but I
have.  Maturity has overtaken me. I am really a real woman.
Why are your letters vaguely reproachful?  Have I done anything?  Were
you annoyed when I asked you whether you meant me to take them as love
letters?  You didn’t write for a month after that.  Did I scare you?
You are funny!
I do really think you are in love—not with me, Jim—not with any other
particular girl—but just in love with love. Writers and artists and
poets are inclined to that sort of thing, I fancy.
That’s what worries me about myself; I am not inclined that way; I don’t
seem to be artistic enough in temperament to pay any attention to
sentiment of that sort.  I don’t desire it; I don’t miss it; it simply
is not an item in the list of things that interest me.  But of all
things in the world, I do adore friendship.
I had an afternoon off from the hospital the other day—I’m still a
probationer in a pink and white uniform, you know—and I went up to town
and flew about the shops and lunched with a college friend, Helen Davis,
at the Ritz and had a wonderful time.
And who do you suppose I ran into?  Oswald Grismer! Jim, he certainly is
the best-looking fellow—such red-gold hair,—such fascinating golden eyes
and colouring.
We chatted most amiably and he took us to tea, and then—I suppose it
wasn’t conventional—but we went to his studio with him, Helen Davis and
I.
He is the cleverest man!  He has done a delightful fountain and
several portrait busts, and a beautiful tomb for the Lidsey family, and
his studies in wax and clay are wonderful!
He really seems very nice.  And the life he leads is heavenly!  Such a
wonderful way to live—just a bed-room and the studio.
He’s going to give a little tea for me next time I have an afternoon
off, and I’m to meet a lot of delightful, unconventional people
there—painters, writers, actors—people who have done things!—I’m sure
it will be wonderful.
I have bought five pounds of plasticine and I’m going to model in it in
my room every time I have a few moments to myself.  But oh, it does
smell abominably, and it ruins your finger nails.
After that, Oswald Grismer’s name recurred frequently in her letters.
Cleland recognized also the names of several old schoolmates of his as
figuring at various unconventional ceremonies in Grismer’s studio—Harry
Belter, now a caricaturist on the New York Morning Star; Badger Spink,
drawing for the illustrated papers; Clarence Verne, who painted pretty
girls for the covers of popular magazines, and his one-time master, Phil
Grayson, writer for the better-class periodicals.
It’s delightful, she wrote; we sometimes have music—often celebrated
people from the Metropolitan Opera drop in and you meet everybody of
consequence you ever heard of outside the Social Register—people famous
in their professions—and it is exciting and inspiring and fills me with
enthusiasm and desire to amount to something.
Of course there are all kinds, Jim; but I’m old enough and experienced
enough to know how to take care of myself. Intellectuals are, of course,
broad, liberal and impatient of petty conventions: they live for their
professions, regardless of orthodox opinion, oblivious of narrow-minded
Philistines.
The main idea is to be tolerant.  That is the greatest thing in the
world, tolerance.  I may not care to smoke cigarettes myself or drink
cocktails and highballs, but if another girl does it it’s none of my
business.  That is the foundation of the unconventional and intellectual
world—freedom and tolerance of other people’s opinions and behaviour.
That is democracy!
As for the futurists and symbolists of various schools, I am not narrow
enough, I hope, to ridicule them or deny them the right to
self-expression, but I am not in sympathy with them.  However, it is
most interesting to listen to their views.
Well, these delightful treats are rare events in my horridly busy life.
I’m in the infirmary and the hospital almost all the time; I’m always on
duty or studying or attending lectures and clinics.  I don’t faint any
more.  And the poor little sufferers fill my heart with sympathy.  I do
love children—even defective ones.  It makes me furious that there
should be any.  We must regulate this some day. And regulate birth
control, too.
It is interesting; I am rather glad that I shall have had this
experience.  As a graduate nurse, some day, I shall add immensely to my
own self-respect and self-confidence.  But I should never pursue the
profession further; never study medicine; never desire to become a
professional physician. The minute I graduate I shall rent a studio and
start in to find out what most properly shall be my vehicle for
self-expression.
I forgot to tell you that Oswald Grismer’s father and mother are dead
within a week of each other.  Pneumonia! Poor boy, he is stunned.  He
wrote me.  He won’t give any every second to creative work without a
thought of financial gain.
Harry Belter is such a funny, fat man.  He asks after you every time I
meet him.  I sent you some of his cartoons in the Star.  Badger Spink
is an odd sort of man with his big, boyish figure and his mass of
pompadour hair and his inextinguishable energy and amazing talent.  He
draws, draws, draws all the time; you see his pictures in every
periodical; yet he seems to have time for all sorts of gaiety, private
theatricals, dances, entertainments.  He belongs to tie Players, the Ten
Cent Club, the Dutch Treat, Illustrators, Lotus, Coffee House, Two by
Four—and about a hundred others—and I think he’s president of most of
them.  He always sends his regards to you and requests to know whether
you’re not yet fed up with Latin Quarter stuff—whatever that means!
And Clarence Verne always mentions you.  Such a curious man with a face
like Pharaoh, and Egyptian hands, too, deeply cut in between thumb and
forefinger like the hands of people sculptured in bas reliefs on
Egyptian tombs.
But such lovely girls he paints!—so exquisite!  He is a very odd
man—with a fixed gaze, and speaks as though he were a trifle deaf—or
drugged, or something....
You haven’t said much about yourself, Jim, in your last letters; and
also your letters arrive at longer and longer intervals.
Somehow, I think that you are becoming reconciled to Paris.  I don’t
believe you feel very lonely any longer.  But what do you do to amuse
yourself after your hours of work are ended?  And who are your new
friends over there?  For, of course, you must have made new friends—I
don’t mean the students whose names you have occasionally mentioned.
Haven’t you met any nice girls?
He did not mention having met any girls, nice or otherwise, when he
wrote again.  He did say that he was enjoying his work and that he had
begun to feel a certain affection for Paris—particularly after he had
been away travelling in Germany, Spain and Italy. Really, he admitted,
it was like coming home.  The usual was still happening to James
Cleland.
He had an apartment, now, overlooking the Luxembourg Gardens.  He had
friends to dinner sometimes. There was always plenty to do.  Life had
become very inspiring.  The French theatres were a liberal education;
French literature a miracle of artistic clarity and a model for all
young aspirants.  In fact, the spring source of all art was France, and
Paris the ornamental fountain jet from which flashed the ever-living
waters that all may quaff.
Very pretty.  He did not add that some of the waters were bottled and
kept in pails of chopped ice. He wrote many gracefully composed
pages—when he wrote at all—concerning the misty beauty of the French
landscape and the effect of the rising sun of Notre Dame.  He had seen
it rise several times.
But, on the whole, he behaved discreetly and with much circumspection;
and within his youthful heart lay that deathless magic of the creative
mind which transmutes leaden reality into golden romance—which is blind
to the sordid and which transforms it into the picturesque.
A saucy smile from a pretty girl on an April day germinated into a
graceful string of verses by night; a chance encounter by the Seine, a
laugh, a gay adieu—and a delicate short story was born, perhaps to be
laboured over and groomed and swaddled and nourished into life—or to be
abandoned, perhaps, in the back yard of literary débris.
Life ran evenly and pleasantly for Cleland in those deathless
days—light, happy, irresponsible days when idleness becomes saturated
with future energy unawares; when the seeds of inspiration fall thicker
and thicker and take root; when the liberality, the vastness, and the
inspiration of the world begin to dawn upon a youthful intellect, not
oppressively, but with a wide and reassuring kindliness.
There was a young girl—very pretty, whose loneliness made her not too
conventional.  After several encounters on the stairs, she smiled in
response; and they crossed the Luxembourg Gardens together, strolling in
the chestnut shade and exchanging views of life.
The affair continued—charming and quite harmless—a touch of tragedy and
tears one evening—and the boy deeply touched and temporarily in love—in
love with love, temporarily embodied in this blue-eyed, white-skinned,
slender girl who had wandered with him close to the dead line and was
inclined to cross it—with him.
He had a delightfully wretched hour of renunciation—and was rewarded
with much future material, though he didn’t know it at the time.
There were tears—several.  It is not certain that she spiritually
appreciated the situation.  That sort of gratitude seldom is genuine in
the feminine heart.
But such things are very real to the creative mind, and Cleland was far
too unhappy to sleep—deeply wallowing in martyrdom.  Fate laughed and
pinned this little episode on the clothes-line to dry out with the
others—quite a little line-full, now, all fluttering gaily there and
drying in the sun.  And after a proper interval Cleland wont about the
business of washing out a few more samples of experience in the life and
manners and customs of his time, later to be added to the clothes-line
wash.
He had to prod himself to write to Stephanie.  He was finding it a
little difficult to discover very much to say to her.  In youth two
people grow apart during absence much faster than they grow together
when in each other’s company.
It was so with Cleland and Stephanie—less so with her.
Not seeing her for nearly two years left him with the unconscious
impression that she had not altered during that period—that she was
still the same young girl he had left, no more mature, no more
experienced, little wiser.
Her letters were interesting but he had lost touch, in a measure, with
interests and people at home.  He had adapted himself to the new angle
of vision, to the new aspect of life, to new ideals, new aspirations.
He was at the source of inspiration, drinking frequently at times,
always unconsciously absorbing.
At the end of the two years he had no desire to return to New York.
A series of voluminous letters passed between him and Stephanie and
between him and Miss Quest.
He had plenty of excuses for remaining another year; his education was
not completed; he needed a certain atmosphere and a certain environment
which could be enjoyed only in Europe.
Of course, if he were needed in New York, etc., etc. No, he wasn’t
needed.  Matters could be attended to.  The house in 80th Street ought
to be closed as it was a useless expense to keep the servants there.
Poor old Meacham had died; Janet, too, was dead; Lizzie had gone back to
Ireland.  The house in town should, therefore, be closed and wired; and
the house in the country, "Runner’s Rest," should remain closed and in
charge of the farmer who had always looked out for it.
This could be attended to; no need of his coming back.
So he wrote his directions to Stephanie and settled down again with a
sigh of relief to the golden days which promised.
His work, now deeply coloured by Gallic influence and environment, had
developed to that stage of embryonic promise marred by mannerisms and
affectations. His style, temporarily spoiled by a sort of
Franco-American jargon, became involved in the swamps of psychological
subtleties, emerging jerkily at times, or relapsing into Debussy-like
redundancy.
Nobody wanted his short stories, his poems, his impressions.  Publishers
in London and in America returned "Day Dreams" and "Out of the Depths"
with polite regrets.  He sounded every depth of despondency and
self-distrust; he soared on wings of hope again, striving to keep his
gaze on the blinding source of light, only to become confused and
dazzled in the upper oceans and waver and flutter and come tumbling
down, frantically beating the too rarified atmosphere with unaccustomed
wings.
Nobody could tell him.  He had to find out the way. He had within him
what was worth saying; had not yet learned how to say it.  The massed
testimony of the masters lay heavily undigested within him; he was too
richly fed, stuffed; the intricacies and complexities of technique
worried and disheartened him; he felt too keenly, too deeply to keep a
clear mind and a cool one.
Every sense he possessed was necessary to him in his creative work;
emotion, intense personal sympathy with his characters, his theme,
clogged, checked and halted inspiration, smothering simplicity and
clarity. This was a phase.  He had the usual experience.  He struggled
through it and onward.
Stephanie wrote that she had graduated, but that as her aunt was ill she
would remain for the present at the hospital.
He felt that he ought to go back.  And did not.  He was in a dreadfully
involved dilemma with his new novel, "Renunciation"—all about a
woman—one of the sort he never had met—and no wonder he was in a mess!
Besides that, and in spite of the gaily coloured line of rags fluttering
on the clothes-line of experience, he knew very little about women.  One
day, when he came to realize that he knew nothing at all about them, he
might begin to write about them, convincingly and acceptably.  But he
was not yet as far along as that in his education.
He had a desperate affair with an engaging woman of the real world—a
countess.  She took excellent care of herself, had a delightful time
with Cleland, and, in gratitude, opened his eyes to the literary morass
in which he had been wading.
Clear-minded, witty, charming, very lovely to look upon, she read and
criticised what he wrote, discussed, consulted, advised, and, with
exquisite tact, divining the boy’s real talent, led him deftly to solid
land again. And left him there, enchanted, miserable, inspired,
heart-broken, with a laughing admonition to be faithful to her memory
while she enjoyed her husband’s new post at the Embassy in Sofia.
He wrote, after her departure, a poem simple enough for a child to
understand.  And tucked it away with a ribbon and a dried flower in his
portfolio.  It was the first good thing he had ever written.  But he
remained unconscious of the fact for a long time.
Besides, other matters were bothering him, in particular a letter from
Miss Quest:
I am not well.  I shall not be better.  Still, there is no particular
hurry about your returning.
Stephanie remains with me very loyally.  She has graduated; she is
equipped with a profession.  She has turned into a very lovely woman to
look upon.
But that sex restlessness which now overwhelmingly obsesses the world,
possesses her.  Freedom from all restraint, liberty to work out and
accomplish her own destiny, contempt of convention, utter disregard of
established formality, and hostility to custom, enroll her among the
vast army of revolutionists now demanding a revision of all laws and
customs made by one sex alone to govern the conduct of both.
You and I once conversed on this subject, if you remember. I told you
what I feared.  And it has happened: Stephanie has developed along
radical lines.  With everything revolutionary in the world-wide feminist
movement she is in sympathy.  Standards that have been standards are no
longer so to her.  To the world’s conservatism she is fiercely and
youthfully hostile; equality, tolerance, liberty are the only
guide-posts she pretends to recognize.
I shall not live to see the outcome of this world-wide propaganda and
revolt.  I don’t want to.  But, in my opinion, it takes a strong
character, already accustomed to liberty, to keep its balance in this
dazzling flood let in by opening prison doors....
I have left Stephanie what property I have outside of that invested and
endowed to maintain my Home for Defective Children.  Securities have
shrunk; it is not much.  It may add four thousand dollars to her present
income.
Mr. Cleland, you and Stephanie have gradually and very naturally grown
apart since your absence.  I don’t know what you have developed into.
But you were a nice boy.
Stephanie is a beautiful, willful, intelligent, and I fear slightly
erratic woman, alive with physical and mental vigour, restless and
sensitive under pressure of control, yet to be controlled through her
affections first, and only afterward through her reason.
These are unconventional times; a new freedom is dawning, and to me the
dawn seems threatening.  I am too old, too near my end not to feel that
the old régime, with all its drawbacks, was safer for women, productive
of better results, less hazardous, less threatening.
But I don’t know: I am old-fashioned except in theory. I have professed
the creed of the new feminism; I have in my time—and very
properly—denounced the tyranny and selfishness and injustice of man-made
laws which fetter and cripple my sex.
But—at heart—and with not very many days left to me—at heart I am
returning rather wearily along the way I came toward what, now to me,
seems safer.  It may be only the notions of an old woman, very tired,
very sad, conscious of failure, and ready to rest and leave the
responsibility where it originated and where it belongs.  I don’t know.
But I wish Stephanie were not alone in the world.
Miss Quest died before the letter reached him. Stephanie’s next letter
informed him of all the details. She continued:
No use your coming back until you are quite ready, Jim. There’s nothing
for you to do.
I’ve taken a studio and apartment with Helen Davis, the animal sculptor.
I don’t yet know just what I shall do.  I’m likely to try several things
before I know what I ought to stick to.
Don’t feel any absurd sense of responsibility for me.  That would be too
silly.  Feel free to remain abroad as long as it suits you.  I also feel
absolutely free to go and come as I please.  That’s the best basis for
our friendship, Jim, and, in fact, the necessary and vital basis.  My
affection is unaltered, but, somehow, it has been such a long time that
you seem almost unreal to me.
He did not sail at once.  After all, in the face of such an unmistakable
declaration of independence, it did not seem worth while for him to
arouse himself from the golden lethargy of enchantment and break the
spell of Europe which held him content, amid the mellow ripeness of her
capitals and the tinted splendour of her traditions.
He wrote frequently for a few months.  Then his letters lagged.
Once his pretty Countess had warned him that, for an American, Europe
was merely the school-room but his own country was the proper and only
place for creative labour.
He remembered this at intervals, a little uneasy, a trifle
conscious-stricken because he shrank from making an end to
preparation—because he still loitered, disinclined to break the golden
web and return to the clear, shadowless skies and the pitiless sun of
the real world where he belonged, and where alone, he knew, was the
workshop for which he had been so leisurely preparing.
Then the shock came—the bolt out of the blue.
The cablegram said:
I married Oswald Grismer this morning.
STEPHANIE.
                             *CHAPTER XVI*
He sailed in April.  When he sailed, he knew he would not come back for
many years, if ever. His business here was done, the dream of Europe
ended.  The cycle of Cathay awaited him in all its acrid crudity.
Yes, the golden web was rent, torn across, destroyed. The shock to his
American mind left nothing of the lotus eater in him.  He was returning
where he belonged.
Married!  Steve married!  To Oswald Grismer, who, save as a schoolboy
and later in college, was a doubtful and unknown quantity to him.
He had never known Grismer well.  Since their schoolboy differences,
they had been good enough friends when thrown together, which had been
infrequently.  He had no particular liking for Grismer, no dislike.
Grismer had been a clever, adroit, amusing man in college, generally
popular, yet with no intimacies, no close friends.
As for Steve, he never dreamed that Stephanie would do such a thing.  It
was so damnably silly, so utterly unthinkable a thing to do.
And in his angry perplexity and growing resentment, Cleland’s conscience
hurt as steadily as a toothache. He ought to have been home long ago.
He should have gone back at the end of his two years.  His father had
trusted him to look out for Steve, and, in spite of her rather bumptious
letters proclaiming her independence, he should have gone back and kept
an eye on her, whether or not she liked it.
In his astonishment and unhappiness, he did not know what to write her
when the cablegram came hurtling into his calm and delightfully ordered
life and blew up the whole fabric.
Sometimes, to himself, he called her a "little fool"; sometimes "poor
little Steve."  But always he unfeignedly cursed Grismer and bitterly
blamed himself.
The affair made him sick at heart and miserable, and ruined any pleasure
remaining in his life and work.
He did not cable her; he wrote many letters and tore all of them to
bits.  It was beyond him to accept the fait accompli, beyond him to
write even politely, let alone with any pretense of cordiality.
His resentment grew steadily, increased by self-reproach.  What kind of
man had Oswald Grismer grown into?  What kind of insolence was this—his
marrying Steve——
"Damn his yellow soul, I’ll wring his neck!" muttered Cleland, pacing
