would dominate not serve. 
On the other hand civilization may for once prove 
stronger than Nature. Thinking women — and there 
are a few hundred thousands of them — may emerge 
from this hideous reversion of Europe to barbarism 
with an utter contempt for man. They may despise 
the men of affairs for muddling Europe into the most 
terrible war in history, in the very midst of the greatest civilization of which there is any record. They 
may experience a secret but profound revulsion from 
the men wallowing in blood and filth for months on 
end, living only to kill. The fact that the poor men 
can't help it does not alter the case. The women 
can't help it either. Women have grown very fastidious. The sensual women and the quite unimaginative 
 
women will not be affected, but how about the others ? 
And only men of the finest grain survive a long period 
of war with the artificial habits of civilization strong 
upon them. 
The end of this war may mark a conclusive revul- 
sion of the present generation of European women 
from men that may last until they have passed the 
productive age. Instead of softening, disintegrating 
back to type, they may be insensibly hardening inside 
a mould that will eventually cast them forth a more 
definite third sex than any that threatened before the 
war. Woman, blind victim of the race as she has 
been for centuries, seldom in these days loves with- 
out an illusion of the senses or of the imagination. 
She has ceased, in the wider avenues of life, lined as 
they are with the opulent wares of twentieth century 
civilization, to be merely the burden-bearing and reproductive sex. Life has taught her the inestimable 
value of illusions, and the more practical she becomes, 
the more she cherishes this divine gift. It is possible 
that man has forfeited his power to cast a glamour 
over all but the meanest types of women. If that 
should be the case women will ask : Why settle down 
and keep house for the tiresome creatures, study their 
whims, and meekly subside into the second place, or 
be eternally on the alert for equal rights? As for 
children ? Let the state suffer for its mistakes. Why 
bring more children into the world to be blown to 
pieces on the field of battle, or a burden to their women 
throughout interminable years? No! For a generation at least the world shall be ours, and then it may 
limp along with a depleted population or go to the 
dogs. 
Few, no doubt, will reason it out as elaborately as 
this or be so consciously ruthless, but a large enough 
number are likely enough to bring the light of their 
logic to bear upon the opportunity, and a still larger 
number to feel an obscure sense of revolt against man 
for his failure to uphold civilization against the Prussian anachronism, combined with a more definite de- 
sire for personal liberty. And both of these divisions 
of their sex are likely to alter the course of history — 
far more radically than has ever happened before at 
the close of any fighting period. Even the much depended upon maternal instinct may subside, partly 
under the horrors of field hospitals where so many 
mother's sons are ghastly wrecks, partly under a heavy 
landslide of disgust that the sex that has ruled the 
world should apparently be so helpless against so ob- 
scene a fate. 
They will reflect that if women are weak (com- 
paratively) physically, there is all the more hope they 
may develop into giants mentally; one of man's handicaps being that his more highly vitalized body with its 
coercive demands, is ever waging war with a consistent and complete development of the mind. And in 
these days, when the science of the body is so thoroughly understood, any woman, unless afflicted with 
an organic disease, is able to keep her brain constantly 
supplied with red unpoisoned blood, and may wax in 
 
mental powers (there being no natural physical deteriorations in the brain as in the body) so long as 
life lasts. 
Certainly these women will say: We could have 
done no worse than these chess players of Europe and 
we might have done better. Assuredly if we grasp 
and hold the reins of the world there will never be 
another war. We are not, in the first place, as greedy 
as men ; we will divide the world up in strict accordance with race, and let every nation have its own place 
in the sun. Commercial greed has no place in our 
make-up, and with the hideous examples of history 
it will never obtain entrance. 
How often has it been the cynical pleasure of mere 
ministers of state to use kings as pawns? Well, we 
despise the game. Also, we shall have no kings, and 
republics are loth to make war. Our instincts are 
humanitarian. We should like to see all the world as 
happy as that lovely countryside of Northeastern 
France before August 1914. We at least recognize 
that the human mind is as yet imperfectly developed; 
and if, instead of setting the world back periodically, 
and drenching mankind in misery, we would have all 
men and women as happy as human nature will permit, 
we should devote our abilities, uninterrupted by war, 
to solving the problem of poverty (the acutest evidence of man's failure), and to fostering the talents 
of millions of men and women that to-day constitute 
a part of the wastage of Earth. Of course, being 
mortal, we shall make mistakes, give way, no doubt, 
 
to racial jealousies, and personal ambitions; but our 
eyes have been opened wide by this war and it is impossible that we should make the terrible mistakes we 
inevitably would have made had we obtained power 
before we had seen and read its hideous revelations — 
day after day, month after month, year after year! 
It is true that men have made these resolutions many 
times, but men have too much of the sort of blood 
that goes to the head, and their lust for money is even 
greater than their lust for power. 
Now, this may sound fantastic but it is indisputably 
probable. Much has been said of the patriotic exalta- 
tion of young women during war and just after its 
close, which leads them to marry almost any one in 
order to give a son to the state, or even to dispense 
with the legal formality. But although I heard a great 
deal of that sort of talk during the first months of 
the war I don't hear so much of it now. Nor did I 
hear anything like as much of it in France as I expected. To quote one woman of great intelligence 
with whom I talked many times, and who is one of 
the Government's chosen aids; she said one day, "It 
was a terrible distress to me that I had only one child, 
and I consulted every specialist in France. Now I am 
thankful that I did have but one son to come home to 
me with a gangrene wound, and then, after months of 
battling for his life, to insist upon going back to the 
Front and exposing it every day. I used to feel sad, 
too, that Valentine Thompson" (who is not only beautiful but an Amazon in physique) "did not marry and 
,  
be happy like other girls, instead of becoming a public 
character and working at first one scheme or another 
for the amelioration of the lot of woman. Now, I am 
thankful that she never married. Her father is too 
old to go to war and she has neither husband nor 
son to agonize over. Far better she live the life of 
usefulness she does than deliberately take upon herself 
the common burdens of women." No Frenchwoman 
could be more patriotic than the one who made this 
speech to me, and if she had had many sons she would 
have girded them all for war, but she had suffered 
too much herself and she saw too much suffering 
among her friends daily, not to hate the accursed institution of war, and wish that as many women could 
be spared its brutal impositions as possible. 
Nobody has ever accused me of being a Pacifist. 
Personally, I think that every self-respecting nation on 
the globe should have risen in 1914 and assisted the 
Allies to blast Prussia off the face of the Earth, but 
after this war is over if the best brains in these nations 
do not at once get to work and police the world against 
future wars, it will be a matter for regret that they 
were not all on the German ship when she foundered. 
It is to be remembered that woman has, in her subconscious brain-cells, ancestral memories of the Ma- 
triarchate. It is interesting to quote in this connection 
what Patrick Geddes and G. Arthur Thompson have 
to say on the mooted question of the Mother-Age : 
"Prehistoric history is hazardous, but there is a 
good case to be made out for a Mother-Age. This 
has been reconstructed from fossils in the folk lore of 
agriculture and housewifery, in old customs, ceremonies, festivals, games; in myths and fairy tales and 
age-worn words. 
"Professor Karl Pierson finds in the study of witch- 
craft some of the fossils that point back to the 
Matriarchate. In the older traditions 'the witch re- 
sumes her old position as the wise-woman, the medicine woman, the leader of the people, the priestess.' 
'We have accordingly to look upon the witch as essen- 
tially the degraded form of the old priestess, cunning 
in the knowledge of herbs and medicine, jealous of the 
rights and of the goddess she serves, and preserving 
in spells and incantations such wisdom as early civilization possessed.' 
"The witch's weather wisdom is congruent with the 
fact that women were the earliest agriculturists; her 
knowledge of herbs with that of the ancient medicine 
women; her diablerie with that of the ancient group 
relations of the sexes so different from what we call 
marriage to-day ; her nocturnal dances with the ancient 
choruses of marriage-ripe maidens. The authority and 
magic circle kept by the broom are those of the hearth 
and floor in her primeval roundhut; and her distaff 
and pitchfork, her caldron, her cat and dog, are all in 
keeping with the role of woman in the Mother- Age. 
 
"But there is another way, and that certainly not 
less reliable, by which we can arrive at some understanding of the Mother-Age, and how it naturally 
came about, namely, by a study of our 'contemporary 
ancestors,' of people who linger on the matriarchal 
level. Such people, as well as others on the still 
lower nomad stage of civilization, are to be found at 
this day in Australia. 
"While the purely nomad stage lasted, little progress 
could be niade, because the possessions of a group 
were limited by the carrying powers of its members. 
But in a favorite forest spot a long halt was possible, 
the mothers were able to drop their babies and give a 
larger part of their attention to food-getting. As before, the forest products — roots and fruits — were 
gathered in, but more time and ingenuity were expended in making them palatable and in storing them 
for future use. The plants in the neighborhood, which 
were useful for food or for their healing properties, 
were tended and kept free of weeds, and by and by 
seeds of them were sown in cleared ground within easy 
reach of the camp. Animals gathered about the rich 
food area, and were at first tolerated — certain negro 
tribes to-day keep hens about their huts, though they 
eat neither them nor their eggs — and later encouraged 
as a stable source of food-supply. The group was 
anchored to one spot by its increasing possessions; 
and thus home-making, gardening, medicine, the domestication of animals and even agriculture, were 
fairly begun. Not only were all these activities in the 
 
hands of women, but to them, too, were necessarily 
left the care and training of the young. 
"The men meanwhile went away on warlike expeditions against other groups, and on long hunting and 
fishing excursions, from which they returned with 
their spoils from time to time, to be welcomed by the 
women with dancing and feasting. Hunting and war 
were their only occupations, and the time between 
expeditions was spent in resting and in interminable 
palavers and dances, which we may perhaps look upon 
as the beginnings of parliaments and music halls. 
"Whether this picture be accurate in detail or not 
there is at any rate a considerable body of evidence 
pointing to the 'Matriarchate' as a period during 
which women began medicine, the domestication of the 
smaller animals, the cultivation of vegetables, flax and 
corn, the use of the distaff, the spindle, the broom, 
the fire-rake and the pitchfork. 
"In the Mother-Age the inheritance of property 
passed through the mother; the woman gave the children her own name; husband and father were in the 
background — often far from individualized; the 
brother and uncle were much more important; the 
woman was the depository of custom, lore, and religious tradition; she was, at least, the nominal head 
of the family, and she had a large influence in tribal 
affairs." 
For some years past certain progressive women 
have shown signs of a reversion to the matriarchal 
state — or shall we say a disposition to revive it? In 
 
spite of human progress we travel more or less in 
circles, a truth of which the present war and its reversions is the most uncompromising example. 
In the married state, for instance, these women have 
retained their own name, not even being addressed 
as Mrs., that after all is a polite variation of the 
Spanish "de," which does not by any means indicate 
noble birth alone, women after marriage proudly announcing themselves as legally possessed. For in- 
stance a girl whose name has been Elena Lopez writes 
herself after marriage Elena Lopez de Morena, the 
"de" in this case standing for "property of." It will 
be some time before the women of Spain travel far on 
the Northern road toward pride in sex deliverance, 
but with us, and in Britain, the custom is growing 
prevalent. 
Then there is the hyphen marriage, more common 
still, in which the woman retains her own name, bul 
condescends to annex the man's. Once in a way a 
man will prefix his wife's name to his own, and there 
is one on record who prefixed his own to his wife's. 
But any woman may have her opinion of him. 
So far as I have been able to ascertain these marriages are quite as successful as the average; and if 
the woman has a career on hand — and she generally 
has — she pursues it unhampered. The grandmother 
or aunt takes charge of the children, if there are any, 
while she is at her duties without the home, and so 
far, the husband has been permitted the compensation 
of endowing the children with his name. 
 
The reversion to the prehistoric matriarchate can 
hardly be complete in these days, but there are many 
significant straws that indicate the rising of a new 
wind blown by ancient instincts. To look upon them 
as shockingly advanced or abnormal is an evidence of 
conservatism that does not reach quite far enough into 
the past. 
A still more significant sign of the times (in the 
sense of linking past with present) is the ever-increasing number of women doctors and their success. 
Men for the most part have ceased to sneer or even to 
be more than humanly jealous, often speaking in terms 
of the wannest admiration not only of their skill but 
of their conscientiousness and power of endurance. 
When I went to live in Munich (1903) a woman surgeon was just beginning to practice. This, to Germany, was an innovation with a vengeance, and the 
German male is the least tolerant of female encroachment within his historic preserves. The men practitioners threw every possible obstacle in her way, and 
with no particular finesse. But nothing could daunt 
her, and two or three years later she was riding round 
in her car — a striking red one — while the major number of her rivals were still dependent upon the ambling 
cab-horse, directed off and on by a fat driver who 
was normally asleep. Jealousy, however, for the most 
part had merged into admiration; for your average 
male, of whatever race, is not only philosophical but 
bows to success; she was both recognized and called 
in for consultation. Hang on! Hang on! should be 
 
the motto of all women determined to make their 
mark in what is still a man's world. Life never has 
denied her prizes to courage and persistence backed 
by ability. 
A curious instance of man's inevitable recognition 
of the places of responsibility women more and more 
are taking is in the new reading of the Income Tax 
papers for 191 7. Heretofore only married men were 
exempted taxation on the first $4000 but from now on, 
apparently, women who are also "heads of families" 
are likewise favored. As thousands of women are 
supporting their aged parents, their brothers while 
studying, their children and even their husbands, who 
for one reason or other are unequal to the family 
strain, this exemption should have been made coinciden tally with the imposing of the tax. But men are 
slow to see and slower still to act where women are 
concerned. 
As we all know, women have invaded practically 
every art, trade, and industry, but — aside from the 
arts, for occasionally Nature is so impartial in her 
bestowal of genius that art is accepted as sexless — in 
no walk of life has woman been so uniformly successful as in medicine. This is highly significant in view 
of the fact that they invented and practiced it in the 
dawn of history, while man was too rudimentary to 
do anything but fight and fill the larder. It would 
seem that the biological differences between the male 
and the female which are so often the cause of 
woman's failure in many spheres preempted through- 
 
out long centuries by man, is in her case counteracted 
not only by her ancestral inheritance, but by the high 
moral element without which no doctor or surgeon 
can long stand the exactions and strain of his terrible 
profession. No woman goes blithely into surgery or 
medicine merely to have a career or to make a living, 
although ten thousand girls to her one will essay to 
write, or paint, or clerk, or cultivate her bit of voice, 
with barely a thought expended upon her fitness or the 
obligations involved. 
But the woman who deliberately enters the profession of healing has, almost invariably, a certain nobility of mind, a lack of personal selfishness, and a 
power of devotion to the race quite unknown to the 
average woman, even the woman of genius when seeking a career. 
During the Great War there have been few women 
doctors at the Front, but hundreds of women nurses, 
and they have been as intrepid and useful as their rivals 
in sex. They alone, by their previous experience of 
human suffering, bad enough at best, were in a measure prepared for the horrors of war and the impotence 
of men laid low. But that will not restore any lost 
illusions, for they took masculine courage for granted 
with their mothers' milk, and they cannot fail to be 
imbued to the marrow with a bitter sense of waste 
and futility, of the monstrous sacrifice of the best blood 
of their generation. 
II 
THE TRIUMPH OF MIDDLE-AGE 
CERTAIN doctors of England have gone on 
record as predicting a lamentable physical future 
for the army of women who are at present doing the 
heavy work of men, particularly in the munition factories. They say that the day-long tasks which involve 
incessant bending and standing and lifting of heavy 
weights will breed a terrible reaction when the war 
ends and these women are abruptly flung back into 
domestic life. There is almost no man's place in the 
industrial world that English women are not satisfactorily filling, with either muscle or brains, and the 
doctors apprehend a new problem in many thousand 
neurotics or otherwise broken-down women at the 
close of the war. Although this painful result of 
women's heroism would leave just that many women 
less to compete for the remaining men sound of wind 
and limb, still, if true, it raises the acute question: 
Are women the equal of men in all things? Their 
deliverance from the old marital fetish, and successful 
invasion of so many walks of life, have made such a 
noise in the world since woman took the bit between 
her teeth, more or less en masse, that the feministic, 
paean of triumph has almost smothered an occasional 
protest from those concerned with biology; but as a 
matter-of-fact statistics regarding the staying power 
of women in what for all the historic centuries have 
been regarded as avocations heaven-designed and with 
strict reference to the mental and physical equipment 
of man, are too contradictory to be of any value. 
Therefore, the result of this prolonged strain on 
a healthy woman of a Northern race evidently predestined to be as public as their present accomplishment, will be awaited with the keenest interest, and no 
doubt will have an immense effect upon the future 
status of woman. She has her supreme opportunity, 
and if her nerves are equal to her nerve, her- body to 
her spirit, if the same women are working at the severe 
tasks at the end of the war as during the first months 
of their exaltation, and instead of being wrecks are 
as hardened as the miserable city boys that have become wiry in the trenches — then, beyond all question 
woman will have come to her own and it will be for 
her, not for man, to say whether or not she shall 
subside and attend to the needs of the next generation. 
Before I went to France in May 1916 I was inclined 
to believe that only a small percentage of women 
would stand the test; but since then I have seen hundreds of women at work in the munition factories of 
France. As I have told in another chapter, they had 
then been at work for some sixteen months-, and, of 
poor physique in the beginning, were now strong 
healthy animals with no sign of breakdown. They 
 
were more satisfactory in every way than men, for 
they went home and slept all night, drank only the 
light wines of their country, smoked less, if at all, 
and had a more natural disposition toward cleanliness. 
Their bare muscular arms looked quite capable of laying a man prostrate if he came home and ordered 
them about, and their character and pride had developed in proportion.
It is not to be imagined, however, that the younger, 
at least, of these women will cling to those greasy jobs 
when the world is normal again and its tempered 
prodigals are spending money on the elegancies of life 
once more. And if they slump back into the sedentary 
life when men are ready to take up their old burdens, 
making artificial flowers, standing all day in the fetid 
atmosphere of crowded and noisy shops, stitching everlastingly at lingerie, there, it seems to me, lies the 
danger of breakdown. The life they lead now, arduous as it is, not only has developed their muscles, their 
lungs, the power to digest their food, but they are useful members of society on the grand scale, and to 
fall from any height is not conducive to the well-being 
of body or spirit. No doubt, when the sudden release 
comes, they will return to the lighter tasks with a 
sense of immense relief; but will it last? Will it be 
more than a momentary reaction to the habit of their 
own years and of the centuries behind, or will they 
gradually become aware (after they have rested and 
* Dr. Rosalie Morton, the leading woman doctor and surgeon of New 
York, who also studied this subject at first hand, agrees with me that 
the war tasks have improved the health of the European women. 
 
romped and enjoyed the old life in the old fashion 
when off duty) that with the inferior task they have 
become the inferior sex again. The wife, to be sure, 
will feel something more than her husband's equal, 
and the Frenchwoman never has felt herself the inferior in the matrimonial partnership. But how about 
the wage earners? Those that made ten to fifteen 
francs a day in the Usines de Guerre, and will now 
be making four or five? How about the girls who 
cannot marry because their families are no longer in 
a position to pay the dot, without which no French 
girl dreams of marrying? These girls not only have 
been extraordinarily (for Frenchwomen of their class) 
affluent during the long period of the war, but they 
order men about, and they are further upheld with 
the thought that they are helping their beloved France 
to conquer the enemy. They live on another plane, 
and life is apt to seem very mean and commonplace 
under the old conditions. 
, That these women are not masculinized is proved 
by the fact that many have borne children during the 
second year of the war, their tasks being made lighter 
until they are restored to full strength again. They 
invariably return as soon as possible, however. It 
may be, of course, that the young men and women of 
the lower bourgeoisie will forswear the dot, for it 
would be but one more old custom giving way to 
necessity. In that case the sincere, hardworking and 
not very humorous women of this class no doubt would 
find full compensation in the home, and promptly do 
 
her duty by the State. But I doubt if any other alternative will console any but the poorest intelligence or 
the naturally indolent — and perhaps Frenchwomen, 
unless good old-fashioned butterflies, have less laziness in their make-up than any other women under 
the sun. 
The natural volatility of the race must also be taken 
into consideration. Stoical in their substratum, bubbling on the surface, it may be that these women who 
took up the burdens of men so bravely will shrug their 
shoulders and revert to pure femininity. Those past 
the age of allurement may fight like termagants for 
their lucrative jobs, their utter independence; but coquetry and the joy in life, or, to put it more plainly, 
the powerful passions of the French race, may do 
more to effect an automatic and permanent return to 
the old status than any authoritative act on the part 
of man. 
The women of England are (or were) far more 
neurotic than the women of France, as they have 
fewer natural outlets. And the struggle' for legal enfranchisement, involving, as it did, a sensationalism 
that affected even the non-combatants, did much to 
enhance this tendency, and it is interesting to speculate whether this war will make or finish them. Once 
more, personally, I believe it will make them, but as 
I was not able to go to London after my investigations in France were concluded and observe for myself 
 
I refuse to indulge in speculations. Time will show, 
and before very long. 
No doubt, however, when the greater question of 
winning the war is settled, the question of sex equality 
will rage with a new violence, perhaps in some new 
form, among such bodies of women as are not so 
subject to the thrall of sex as to desert their new 
colors. It would seem that the lot of woman is ever 
to be on the defensive. Nature handicapped her at 
the start, giving man a tremendous advantage in his 
minimum relationship to reproduction, and circumstances (mainly perpetual warfare) postponed the 
development of her mental powers for centuries. Certainly nothing in the whole history of mankind is so 
startling as the abrupt awakening of woman and her 
demand for a position in the world equal to that of 
the dominant male. 
I use the word abrupt, because in spite of the scattered instances of female prosiliency throughout history, and the long struggle beginning in the last century for the vote, or the individual determination to 
strive for some more distinguished fashion of coping 
with poverty than school-teaching or boarding-house 
keeping, the concerted awakening of the sex was 
almost as abrupt as the European War. Like many 
fires it smouldered long, and then burst into a menacing conflagration. But I do not for a moment apprehend that the conflagration will extinguish the complete glory of the male any more than it will cause a 
revulsion of nature in the born mother. 
 
But may there not be a shuffling of the cards ? Take 
the question of servant-girls for instance. Where 
there are two or more servants in a family their lot is 
far better than that of the factory girl. But it is 
quite a different matter with the maid-of -all- work, the 
household drudge, who is increasingly hard to find, 
partly because she, quite naturally, prefers the department store, or the factory, with its definite hours and 
better social status, partly because there is nothing in 
the "home" to offset her terrible loneliness but interminable hours of work. In England, where many 
people live in lodgings, fashionable and otherwise, and 
have all meals served in their rooms, it is a painful 
sight to see a slavey toiling up two or three flights 
of stairs — and four times a day. In the United States, 
the girls who come over from Scandinavia or Germany with roseate hopes soon lose their fresh color 
and look heavy and sullen if they find their level in 
the household where economy reigns. 
Now, why has no one ever thought of men as 
"maids" of all work? On ocean liners it is the stewards that take care of the state-rooms, and they keep 
them like wax, and make the best bed known to 
civilization. The stewardesses in heavy weather attend to the prostrate of their sex, but otherwise do 
nothing but bring the morning tea, hook up, and receive tips. Men wait in the diningroom (as they 
do in all first-class hotels), and look out for the passengers on deck. Not the most militant suffragette 
but would be intensely annoyed to have stewardesses 
 
scurrying about on a heaving deck with the morning 
broth and rugs, or dancing attendance in a nauseous 
sea. 
The truth of the matter is that there is a vast 
number of men of all races who are fit to be nothing 
but servants, and are so misplaced in other positions 
where habit or vanity has put them, that they fail 
far more constantly than women. All "men" are not 
real men by any means. They are not fitted to play 
a man's part in life, and many of the things they 
attempt are far better done by strong determined 
women, who have had the necessary advantages, and 
the character to ignore the handicap of sex. 
I can conceive of a household where a well-trained 
man cooks, does the "wash," waits on the table, 
sweeps, and if the mistress has a young child, or 
is indolent and given to the rocking-chair and a novel- 
a-day, makes the beds without a wrinkle. He may 
lack ambition and initiative, the necessary amount of 
brains to carry him to success in any of the old masculine jobs, but he inherits the thoroughness of the 
ages that have trained him, and, if sober, rides the 
heavy waves of his job like a cork. I will venture 
to say that a man thus employed would finish his work 
before eight p.m. and spend an hour or two before 
bed-time with his girl or at his club. 
Many a Jap in California does the amount of work 
I have described, and absorbs knowledge in and out 
of books during his hours of leisure. Sometimes they 
do more than I have indicated as possible for the white 
 
man. Energetic boys, who want to return to Japan 
as soon as possible, or, mayhap, buy a farm, make a 
hundred dollars a month by getting up at five in the 
morning to wash a certain number of stoops and sweep 
sidewalks, cook a breakfast and wash up the dinner 
dishes in one servantless household, the lunch dishes 
in another, clean up generally in another, cook the 
dinner, wait on the table, clean up in still another. 
As white men are stronger they could do even more, 
and support a wife in an intensive little flat where her 
work would be both light and spiritually remunerative. Domestic service would solve the terrible problem of life for thousands of men, and it would 
coincidentally release thousands of girls from the factory, the counter, and the exhausting misery of a 
'-'home" that never can be their own. At night he 
could feel like a householder and that he lived to some 
purpose. If he is inclined to complain that such a life 
is not "manly," let him reflect that as he is not first-
rate anyhow, and never can compete with the fully 
equipped, he had best be philosophical and get what 
comfort out of life he can. Certainly the increased 
economic value of thousands of men, at present slav- 
ing as underpaid clerks and living in hall bedrooms, 
would thin the ranks of the most ancient of all industries, if, according to our ardent reformers, they are 
recruited from the ranks of the lonely servant-girl, 
the tired shop-girl, and the despairing factory hand. 
For it is largely a question of muscle and biology. 
I have stated elsewhere that I believe in equal suffrage, if only because women are the mothers of men 
and therefore their equals. But I think there are several times more reasons why American women at least 
should not overwork their bodies and brains and wear 
themselves out trying to be men, than why it is quite 
right and fitting they should walk up to the polls and 
cast a vote for men who more or less control their 
destinies. 
To digress a moment : When it comes to the arts, 
that is quite another matter. If a woman finds herself 
with a talent (I refrain from such a big word as 
genius, as only posterity should presume to apply that 
term to any one's differentiation from his fellows), by 
all means let her work like a man, take a man's chances, 
make every necessary sacrifice to develop this blessed 
gift; not only because it is a duty but because the rewards are adequate. The artistic career, where the 
impulse is genuine, furnishes both in its rewards and 
in the exercise of the gift itself far more happiness, 
or even satisfaction, than husband, children, or home. 
The chief reason is that it is the supreme form of 
self-expression, the ego's apotheosis, the power to 
indulge in the highest order of spiritual pride, differentiation from the mass. These are brutal truths, and 
another truth is that happiness is the universal goal, 
whatever form it may take, and whatever form human 
 
hypocrisy may compel it to take, or even to deny. 
Scientific education has taught us not to sacrifice others 
too much in its pursuit. That branch of ancestral 
memory known as conscience has morbid reactions. 
To create, to feel something spinning out of your 
brain, which you hardly realize is there until formulated on paper, for instance; the adventurous life 
involved in the exercise of any art, with its uncertain- 
ties, its varieties, its disappointments, its mistakes; 
the fight, the exaltations, the supreme satisfactions — 
all this is the very best life has to offer. And as art 
is as impartial as a microbic disease, women do achieve, 
individually, as much as men; sometimes more. If 
their bulk has not in the past been as great, the original 
handicaps, which women in general, aided by science 
and a more enlightened public, are fast shedding, alone 
were to blame. Certainly as many women as men in 
the United States are engaged in artistic careers ; more, 
if one judged by the proportion in the magazines. 
Although I always feel that a man, owing to the 
greater freedom of his life and mental inheritances, 
has more to tell me than most women have, and I 
therefore prefer men as writers, still I see very little 
difference in the quality of their work. Often, indeed, 
the magazine fiction (in America) of the women 
shows greater care in phrase and workmanship than 
that of the men (who are hurried and harried by 
expensive families), and often quite as much virility. 
No one ever has found life a lake. Life is a 
stormy ocean at best, and if any woman with a real 
 
gift prefers to sink rather than struggle, or to float 
back to shore on a raft, she deserves neither sympathy 
nor respect. Women born with that little tract in 
their brain sown by Nature with bulbs of one of the 
arts, may conquer the world as proudly as men, although not as quickly, for they rouse in disappointed 
or apprehensive men the meanest form of sex jealousy; but if they have as much courage as talent, if 
they are willing to dedicate their lives, not their off 
hours, to the tending of their rich oasis in the general 
desert of mind, success is theirs. Biological differences between the sexes evaporate before these' impersonal sexless gifts (or whims or inadvertencies) of 
conservative Nature. 
Of course women have worked themselves to death 
in their passionate devotion to art. So have men. 
Women have starved to death in garrets, their fine 
efforts rejected by those that buy, and sell again to 
an uncertain public. So have men. The dreariest 
anecdotes of England and France, so rich in letters, 
are of great men-geniuses who died young for want 
of proper nourishment or recognition, or who struggled on to middle-age in a bitterness of spirit that 
corroded their high endowment. I do not recall that 
any first-rate women writers have died for Want of 
recognition, possibly because until now they have been 
few and far between. The, Brontes died young, but 
mainly because they lived in the midst of a damp old 
churchyard and inherited tubercular tendencies. The 
graves and old box tombs crowd the very walls of the 
 
parsonage, and are so thick you hardly can walk, between them. I spent a month in the village of 
Haworth, but only one night in the village inn. at the 
extreme end of the churchyard; I could read the inscriptions on the tombs from my windows. 
Charlotte had immediate recognition even from such 
men as Thackeray, and if the greater Emily had to 
wait for Swinburne and posterity it was inherited consumption that carried her off in her youth. Although 
much has been made of their poverty I don't think 
they were so badly off for their times. The parsonage is a well-built stone house, their father had his 
salary, and the villagers told me that the three girls 
looked after the poor in hard winters, often supplying 
whole families with coal. Of course they led lives 
of a maddening monotony, but they were neither hungry nor bitter, and at least two of them developed 
a higher order of genius than was possible to the gifted 
Jane Austin in her smug life of middle-class plenty, 
and, to my mind, far more hampering restrictions. 
Even if the Brontes had been sufficiently in advance 
of their times to "light out" and seek adventure and 
development in the great world, their low state of 
health would have kept them at home. So impressed 
was I wjth the (to a Californian) terrible pictures of 
poverty in which the Brontes were posed by their biographers that I grew up with the idea that one never 
could develop a gift or succeed in the higher manner 
unless one lived in a garret and half starved. I never 
had the courage to try the regimen, but so deep was 
 
the impression that I never have been able to work 
except in austere surroundings, and I have worked 
in most abominably uncomfortable quarters with an 
equanimity that was merely the result of the deathless insistence of an old impression sunk deep into a 
mind then plastic. 
Let me hasten to add that many successful authors 
work in the most luxurious quarters imaginable. It is 
all a matter of temperament, or, it may be, of accident. Moreover this outer evidence of prosperity 
makes a subtle appeal to the snobbery of the world 
and to a certain order of critic, by no means to be 
despised. Socially and in the arts we Americans are 
the least democratic of people, partly because we are 
so damnably unsure of ourselves; and if I were beginning my career to-day I doubt if I should be so 
unbusiness-like as to take the lowly Brontes as a 
model. 
If I have digressed for a moment from the main 
theme of this book it has been not only to show what 
the influence of such brave women as the Brontes has 
been on later generations of writers, but that biology 
must doff its hat at the tomb in Haworth Church. 
Their mental virility and fecundity equalled that of 
any man that has attained an equal eminence in letters, 
and they would have died young and suffered much 
if they never had written a line. They had not a 
constitution between the four of them and they spent 
their short lives surrounded by the dust and the corruption of death. 
 
IV 
But when it comes to working like men for the 
sake of independence, of avoiding marriage, of "doing 
something," that is another matter. To my mind it 
is abominable that society is so constituted that 
women are forced to work (in times of peace) for 
their bread at tasks that are far too hard for them, 
that extract the sweetness from youth, and unfit them 
physically for what the vast majority of women want 
more than anything else in life — children. If they 
deliberately prefer independence to marriage, well and 
good, but surely we are growing civilized enough 
(and this war, in itself a plunge into the dark ages, 
has in quite unintentional ways advanced civilization, 
for never in the history of the world have so many 
brains been thinking) so to arrange the social machinery that if girls and young women are forced to 
work for their daily bread, and often the bread of 
others, at least it shall be under conditions, including 
double shifts, that will enable them, if the opportunity comes, as completely to enjoy all that home 
means as falls to the lot of their more fortunate sisters. Even those who launch out in life with no- 
heavier need than their driving independence of 
spirit should be protected, for often they too, when 
worn in body and mind, realize that the independent 
life per se is a delusion, and that their completion as 
well as their ultimate happiness and economic security 
lies in a brood and a husband to support it. 
There used to be volumes of indignation expended 
 
upon the American mother toiling in the home, at the 
wash-tub for hire, or trudging daily to some remunerative task, while her daughters, after a fair education, idly flirted, and danced, and read, and finally 
married. Now, although that modus operandi sounds 
vulgar and ungrateful it is, biologically speaking, 
quite as it should be. Girls of that age should be 
tended as carefully as young plants; and, for that 
matter, it would be well if women until they have 
passed the high- water mark of reproductivity should 
be protected as much as possible from severe physical 
and mental strain. If women ever are to compete 
with men on anything like an equal basis, it is when 
they are in their middle years, when Nature's handicaps are fairly outgrown, child-bearing and its intervening years of lassitude are over, as well as the recurrent carboniferous wastes and relaxations. 
Why do farmers' wives look so much older than 
city women of the same age in comfortable circumstances? Not, we may be sure, because of exposure 
to the elements, or even the tragic loneliness that was 
theirs before the pervasion of the automobile. Women 
in city flats are lonely enough, but although those 
that have no children or "light housekeeping" lead 
such useless lives one wonders why they were born, 
they outlast the women of the small towns by many 
years because of the minimum strain on their bodies. 
As a matter of fact in the large cities where the 
struggle of life is superlative they outlast the men. 
*The French are far too clever to let the women in the munition factories injure themselves. They have double, treble, and even quadruple 
shifts. 
 
About the time the children are grown, the husband, 
owing to the prolonged and terrific strain in competing with thousands of men as competent as himself, 
to keep his family in comfort, educate his children, 
pay the interest on his life insurance policy, often 
finds that some one of his organs is breaking down 
and preparing him for the only rest he will ever find 
time to take. Meanwhile his prospective widow (there 
is, by the way, no nation in the world so prolific of 
widows and barren of widowers as the United States) 
is preparing to embark on her new career as a club 
woman, or, if she foresees the collapse of the family 
income, of self-support. 
And in nine cases out of ten, if she has the intelligence to make use of what a combination of aver- 
age abilities and experience has developed in her, she 
succeeds, and permanently; for women do not go to 
pieces between forty and fifty as they did in the 
past. They have learned too much. Work and multifarious interests distract their mind, which formerly 
dwelt upon their failing youth, and when they sadly 
composed themselves in the belief that they had given 
the last of their vitality to the last of their children; 
to-day, instead of sitting down by the fireside and 
waiting to die, they enter resolutely upon their second 
youth, which is, all told, a good deal more satisfactory than the first. 
Every healthy, and courageous woman's second 
vitality is stronger and more enduring than her first. 
Not only has her body, assisted by modern science, 
 
settled down into an ordered routine that is impregnable to anything but accident, but her mind is delivered from the hopes and fears of the early sex 
impulses which so often sicken the cleverest of the 
younger women both in body and mind, filling the 
body with lassitude and the mind either with restless 
impatience or a complete indifference to anything but 
the tarrying prince. To blame them for this would 
be much like cursing Gibraltar for not getting out of 
the way in a storm. They are the tools of the race, 
the chosen mediums of Nature for the perpetuation 
of her beloved species. But the fact remains — that 
is to say, in the vast majority of girls. There is, as 
we all know, the hard-shell division of their sex who, 
even without a gift, infinitely prefer the single and 
independent life in their early youth, and only begin 
to show thin spots in their armor as they approach 
thirty, sometimes not until it is far too late. But if 
you will spend a few days walking through the department stores, for instance, of a large city and observing 
each of the young faces in turn behind the counters, 
it will be rarely that you will not feel reasonably certain that the secret thoughts of all that vast army 
circle persistently about some man, impinging or 
potential. And wherever you make your studies, from 
excursion boats to the hour of release at the gates of 
a factory, you must draw the same conclusion that 
sex reigns, that it is the most powerful factor in life 
and will be so long as Earth at least continues to 
spin. For that reason, no matter how persistently 
 
girls may work because they must or starve, it is the 
competent older women, long since outgrown the 
divine nonsense of youth, who are the more satisfactory workers. Girls, unless indifferently sexed, do 
not take naturally to work in their youth. Whether 
they have the intelligence to reason or not, they know 
that they were made for a different fate and they 
resent standing behind a counter all day long or 
speeding up machinery for a few dollars a week. Even 
the highly intelligent girls who find work on news- 
papers often look as if they were at the end of their 
endurance. It is doubtful if the world ever can run 
along without the work of women but the time will 
surely come when society will be so constituted that 
no woman in the first flush of her youth will be forced 
to squander it on the meager temporary reward, and 
forfeit her birthright. If she wants to, well and 
good. No one need be deeply concerned for those 
that launch out into life because they like it. Women 
in civilized countries are at liberty to make their own 
lives ; that is the supreme privilege of democracy. But 
the victims of the propelling power of the world are 
greatly to be pitied and Society should come to their 
rescue. I know that the obvious answer to this is 
"Socialism." But before the rest of us can swallow 
Socialism it must spew out its present Socialists and 
get new ones. Socialists never open their mouths that 
they do not do their cause harm ; and whatever virtues 
their doctrine may contain we are blinded to it at 
present. This war may solve the problem. If Socialism should be the inevitable outcome it would at least 
come from the top and so be sufferable. 
It is all very well to do your duty by your sex and 
keep up the birth-rate, and there are compensations, no 
doubt of that, when the husband is amiable, the income 
adequate, and the children are dears and turn out well ; 
but the second life is one's very own, the duty is to 
one's self, and, such is the ineradicable selfishness of 
human nature after long years of self-denial and devotion to others, there is a distinct, if reprehensible, satis- 
faction in being quite natural and self-centered. If, 
on the other hand, circumstances are such that the 
capable middle-aged woman, instead of living entirely 
for herself, in her clubs, in her increasing interest in 
public affairs, and her chosen work, finds herself with 
certain members of her family dependent upon her, 
she also derives from this fact an enormous satisfaction, for . it enables her to prove that she can fill a 
man's place in the world, be quite as equal to her job. 
Instead of breaking down, this woman, who has 
outlived the severest handicap of sex without parting 
with any of its lore, grows stronger and more poised 
every year, retaining (or regaining) her looks if she 
has the wisdom to keep her vanity alive ; while the girl 
forced to spend her days on her feet behind a counter 
(we hear of seats for these girls but we never see 
them occupied), or slave in a factory (where there is 
 
no change of shift as in the munition factories of the 
European countries in war time), or work from morn- 
ing until night as a general servant — "one in help" — 
wilts and withers, grows pasee, fanee, is liable to ultimate breakdown unless rescued by some man. 
The expenditure of energy in these girls is enormous, especially if they combine with this devitalizing 
work an indulgence in their natural desire to play. 
Rapid child-bearing would not deplete them more; 
and it is an intensely ignorant or an intensely stupid 
or, in the United States, an exceptionally sensual 
woman who has a larger family than the husband can 
keep in comfort. Moreover, unless in the depths of 
poverty, each child means a period of rest, which is 
more than the girl behind the counter gets in her entire 
working period. 
These women, forced by a faulty social structure 
to support themselves and carry heavy burdens, lack 
the intense metabolism of the male, his power to husband his stores of carbon (an organic exception which 
renders him indifferent to standing), and the superior 
quality of his muscle. Biologically men and women 
are different from crown to sole. It might be said 
that Nature fashioned man's body for warfare, and 
that if he grows soft during intervals of peace it is 
his own fault. Even so, unless in some way he has 
impaired his health, he has heretofore demonstrated 
that he can do far more work than women, and stand 
several times the strain, although his pluck may be 
no finer. 
 
If one rejects this statement let him look about 
among his acquaintance at the men who have toiled 
hard to achieve an independence, and whose wives 
have toiled with them, either because they lived in 
communities where it was impossible to keep servants, 
or out of a mistaken sense of economy. The man 
looks fresh and his wife elderly and wrinkled and 
shapeless, even if she has reasonable health. It is quite 
different in real cities where life on a decent income 
(or salary) can be made very easy for the woman, as 
I have just pointed out; but I have noticed that in 
small towns or on the farm, even now, when these 
scattered families are no longer isolated as in the days 
when farmers' wives committed suicide or intoxicated 
themselves on tea leaves, the woman always looks far 
older than the man if "she has done her own work" 
during all the years of her youth and maturity. If 
she renounces housekeeping in disgust occasionally and 
moves to an hotel, she soon amazes her friends by 
looking ten years younger; and if her husband makes 
enough money to move to a city large enough to 
minimize the burdens of housekeeping and offer a rea- 
sonable amount of distraction, she recovers a certain 
measure of her youth, although still far from being at 
forty or fifty what she would have been if her earlier 
years had been relieved of all but the strains which 
Nature imposes upon every woman from princess to 
peasant. 
It remains to be seen whether the extraordinary 
amount of work the European women are doing in 
 
the service of their country, and the marked (improvement in their health and physique, marks a stride 
forward in the physical development of the sex, being 
the result of latent possibilities never drawn upon before, or is merely the result of will power and exaltation, and bound to exhibit its definite limit as soon 
as the necessity is withdrawn. The fact, of course, 
remains that the women of the farms and lower 
classes generally in France are almost painfully plain, 
and look hard and weather-beaten long before they 
are thirty, while the higher you mount the social scale 
in your researches the more the women of France, 
possessing little orthodox beauty, manage, with a combination of style, charm, sophistication, and grooming, 
to produce the effect not only of beauty but of a 
unique standard that makes the beauties of other na- 
tions commonplace by comparison. 
Nevertheless, the fact remains that these girls and 
young women working in the Usines de Guerre, are 
better looking than they were before and shine with 
health. The whole point, I fancy, lies in the fact that 
they work under merciful masters and conditions. If 
they were used beyond their capacity they would look 
like their sisters on the farms, upon whom fathers and 
husbands have little mercy. 
When girls in good circumstances become infected 
with the microbe of violent exercise and insist upon 
walking many miles a day, besides indulging for hours 
in games which permit no rest, they look like hags. 
Temporarily, of course. When they recover their 
 
common sense they recover their looks, for it is in 
their power to relax and recuperate. Men will walk 
twenty miles, take a cold shower, a good meal, a 
night's rest, and look as well as ever the next day — 
or at the end of the walk, for that matter. They can 
afford the waste. Women cannot. If women succeed 
in achieving hard unyielding muscles in the wrong 
place they suffer atrociously in childbirth ; for Nature, 
who is as old-fashioned and inhospitable to modern 
ideas as a Tory statesman, takes a vicious pleasure in 
punishing one sex every time it succeeds in approach- 
ing the peculiar level of the other, or which diverges 
from the normal in any way. Note how many artists, 
who are nine-tenths temperament and one-tenth male, 
suffer ; not only because they are beset with every sort 
of weakness that affects their social status, but because 
the struggle with life is too much for them unless 
they have real men behind them until their output is 
accepted by the public, and themselves with it. 
Some day Society will be civilized enough to rec- 
ognize the limitations and the helplessness of those 
who are artists first and men afterwards. But meanwhile we can only rely upon the sympathy and the 
understanding of the individual. 
Far be it from me to advise that girls refrain from 
doing their part in the general work of the home, 
if servants are out of the question; that won't hurt 
them; but if some one must go out and support the 
family it would better be the mother or the maiden 
aunt. 
 
Better still, a husband, if marriage is their goal and 
children the secret desire of their hearts. 
If girls are so constituted mentally that they long 
for the independent life, self-support, self-expression, 
they will have it and without any advice from the 
worldly-wise; it is as driving an impulse as the reproductive instinct in those who are more liberally sexed. 
And these last are still in the majority, no doubt of 
that. Therefore, far better they marry and have children in their youth. They, above all, are the women 
whose support and protection is the natural duty of 
man, and while it is one of life's misfortunes for a 
girl to marry simply to escape life's burdens, without 
love and without the desire for children, it is by far 
the lesser evil to have the consolation of home and 
children in the general barrenness of life than to slave 
all day at an uncongenial task and go "home" to a hall 
bedroom. 
These views were so much misunderstood when 
they appeared in magazine form that I have felt obliged to emphasize the differences between the still 
primitive woman and the woman who is the product 
of the higher civilization. One young socialist, who 
looked quite strong enough to support a family, asked 
me if I did not think it better for a girl to support 
herself than to be the slave of a man's lust and bear 
