father, earnest, hard working, but with an uncertain 
clutch that let opportunity slip, and he replied, in even 
a wounded earnestness, that the land was his and he had 
his family to support and couldn't sell. So it had been 
with the present Neale. On coming into his inheritance 
he had strenuously objected to the square cut out of his 
broad frontage, and begun, with the force of an inherited 
passion, to make offers for the land. But the Brocks had 
a sentiment for it. They were men of sentiment, of a shy 
sort, and it seemed to them just like a story that they 
had got their land by such an incredible gift — the more 
incredible because so many Neales wanted to take it back 
again, proving that old Tom Neale was one of a kind — 
and neither would the third Brock sell. And now he was 
dead and Thomas Neale thought his widow, in her pov- 
erty, might be prevailed upon, and was sending his wife 
to make inquiry. Mary had truly tried to ask the ques- 
tion last night when she went in, but Ardelia had received 
her so gladly so touched, in a wistful way, because Mary 
 
had come to her, that she had not been able to deliver 
her sordid errand. And she saw no better prospect of it 
now. 
As she sat and thought, her brows knit, her mouth set, 
she shook her head impatiently, hearing Aunt Tab sing- 
ing formlessly in a room above. It made it harder for 
her to think. Aunt Tab was Neale's sister, unmarried, 
older than he, and of a shrinking disposition that irritated him exceedingly. He had never known a Neale to 
be shy and quavering, and it filled him with a distaste he 
did not utter but which was so apparent to Tabitha that 
she kept her room most of the time when he was in the 
house and even, if there was a hot day or a cold day to 
give color to it, said she didn't feel like eating, and stole 
down to the kitchen after it was cleared up for the after- 
noon and pecked at the cooling dishes in the pantry. 
Hannah knew quite well what to expect on the days when 
Aunt Tab failed to appear at table, and left choice mor- 
sels conspicuous on a plate. Once Mary Neale came on 
her feeding delicately in the pantry, and thought now was 
the time to ask her not to be so foolish, to show some 
spirit and come to the table and face it out. What it " 
was, both she and Tabitha would have known perfectly. 
"I wish — " she began, and Tabitha, a morsel of lamb 
poised on her fork, turned on her eyes so full of a startled 
apprehension that she let the spirit of her sentence 
ignominously die, and finished, " I wish you'd tell me 
whether you think the pie is sweet enough." Mary believed Tabitha knew what that sentence was meant to be, 
and she covered it still deeper in oblivion by proffers of 
cream on the pie and a bit of cheese. Aunt Tab was, 
the neighbors said, a nice body. She had old-fashioned 
bonnets stored away in the attic and chests of bed-linen 
and old counterpanes. Mary thought of these hoarded 
possessions with a nervous dislike, and wished Aunt Tab 
would give them away or turn them into the common stock. 
They seemed almost unbearably pathetic, belonging to a 
woman who had no house of her own and was living in the 
room upstairs because her father's will had left her a 
home with Thomas. She had this habit of low singing, 
not unpleasant, though she never accomplished a tune, 
and Mary found something pathetic in that, too. It 
never seemed to give Aunt Tab any satisfaction. It 
might have been her way of announcing herself to a world 
that was unlikely to welcome her. " Here I am," it said. 
" Not quite a guest, yet not your kin. Don't say any- 
thing you'd rather I shouldn't hear." 
But Mary was really taking stock, in a way, of her 
intercourse with her husband, and remembermg she had ' 
never deceived him in words. There had been a time when 
she had hoodwinked herself to the point of believing she 
never wanted to deceive him ; but that had passed. It had 
slipped away before she missed it, and this was a moment 
when she knew, actuated by her sympathy for Ardelia 
Brock, how much she wanted to deceive. A running step 
came from without and Ben, her youngest son, flung into 
the sitting-room with a question on his tongue: 
" Are you going to do it? " 
He was seventeen, tall, weedy, with a wistful twist of 
the brows and a peculiarly radiant look in blue-gray eyes. 
He had a fine aquiline profile, of his father's cast, but he 
was of his mother's coloring, gold in the hair, and with 
the creamy skin a blonde girl might have coveted. There 
was something willful in his air and his way of asking 
her. Usually she felt she had to answer his questions, 
chiefly because they were so audacious ; but now she took 
the oblique course of asking another. 
" Do what?" 
" Ask Ardelia Brock to sell him her place." 
" I wish," said Mary, vaguely annoyed, " you wouldn't 
call your father  him.' " 
" I don't always," said Ben. A quizzical look ran over 
his face and ended in a smile, disclosing two dimples he 
hated. " Sometimes I say ' he.' When I speak to him 
I say ' you.' " 
" I ought," said Mary, rising, " to have punished you 
more." 
He slipped his arm about her waist. 
" Are you going to do it? " he pursued. " Gro over to 
Ardelia Brock's and tell her father wants her place? " 
" Yes," said Mary, with dignity. She stepped out from 
his beguiling arm, took off her apron, laid it an the table 
and walked away, ignoring him. He followed her, and 
when she had seated herself by the window looking out into 
the old-fashioned garden, just come awake after the snow, 
placed himself obstinately in front of her. 
" Don't you think it's a mean trick? " he inquired. 
Mary did not answer. She drew her workbasket 
toward her, and began assiduously to put it in an order 
it did not need. This was to escape his persistent look. 
But while she evaded the look, she was proud of it, the 
directness of it, the indignant protest. ''The young 
eagles " came into her mind, from her Bible. She thought 
both her boys were eagle-like in their fitness for the 
upper air, their strength and potential fierceness. Some- 
times she had to escape them when they wanted to 
know too circumstantially about him: for they both 
called their father "him." She could not prevent it, 
though they had taken no stand over it and sometimes 
tried to please her with the more dutiful word. 
''It's a ihean shame," said Ben again. "That's all 
she's got, she and Ellie." 
The lot belonged to this place years ago," said his 
mother, ranging herself with her husband against her own 
conviction. " It's natural for your father to want it 
back." 
" I don't call it natural," said Ben. He was frowning. 
His chestnut brows lost their wistful look and became 
grave. " I call it mean. No matter how they came by 
it, it's theirs." 
" Your fathered buy it," said Mary. " He'd pay them 
a good price." 
"Well," said Ben, "they wouldn't have a roof over 
their heads." 
It was an old-fashioned way to put it, and Mary asked 
involuntarily : 
"Where'd you get that? Who'd you hear say they 
wouldn't have a roof over their heads? " 
" She said it herself, — Mrs. Brock." 
" You haven't been thorning her about it? " 
" No, 'course not. But last night she said it to Ellen, 
just as I was going in. Ellie was crying, and her mother 
said, * Anyway we've got a roof over our heads.' " 
"Why!" said Mary. She flushed slightly with the 
interest of it. "D'you go over there last night? " 
" Yes," said Ben. He was looking absently out of the 
window now, at the waving green. 
"Before I went?" 
« No, after." 
" I don't know as I should have let you, if I'd known 
it," said Mary gravely, " the day of the funeral so. I 
shouldn't have gone myself, if your father hadn't insisted 
on it." 
" Oh, I went because it was the day of the funeral," said 
Ben, with a cheerful belief in himself. " I knew they'd 
be feeling bad, and I thought that was the time to go." 
 
" Well ! " said his mother. She put the spools back in 
her basket hastily. It seemed to her his mind had taken 
a safe sidetrack and the emergency was over. But Ben 
had returned to it by another route. 
« We've got acres of land," said he, " acres and acres." 
" Ben," said his mother, the more emphatically because 
she was speaking against her own convictions, " when you 
are older, you will understand how anybody might want 
to have a big place just as it was when the township was 
first settled, same as your father does." 
" I shouldn't," said Ben, in unexpected aptness, " if I 
had to get it away from the fatherless and the widow." 
He was not given to pious expression, and his mother 
was the less prepared. 
"Now," she said blankly, "where'd you get that?" 
"The minister said it at the funeral," returned Ben. 
" That ain't anything to say. It's only another way of 
putting it. That's what you can't get used to, mum. 
You know Ellie's father's dead, and you know Ardelia 
Brock's a widow. It's my saying it the way the minister 
did that knocks you. But what I want to know is, are 
you truly going to mind him and go over there and beg 
Mrs. Brock's land away from her? ", 
"Yes," said Mary, returning to the dignity that was 
often her marital defense. " I've told you once. But I'll 
tell you again, so you can put it out of your mind." She 
stopped short, her head up, listening, raising her hand 
also to enjoin his silence. Ben listened an instant, and 
turned to leave the room. 
« Yes, that's Hugh," he called back to her, "up attic." 
" Oh," said his mother, rising from her chair, alert and 
anxious, " he's practicing. You tell him — '' 
Still she listened, her head bent and her face all a 
frowning intentness. It only relaxed when the violin 
 
broke off half-way in its climbing scale. Then, in a mo- 
ment more, she heard the two boys clattering down the 
stairs, and began putting the room in order. She moved 
a chair an inch or two, straightened a rug, and was spe- 
ciously busy when her sons came in. Even to Hugh she 
had never owned that it was less than politic for him to 
play when his father was in hearing. She only invented 
little pretexts for calling him away from his loved task, 
and while he was at it watched and listened as a mother 
animal does when the cub is in danger. The boys came 
in together, and she smiled at them. They knew the smile. 
It was the special brand she used when she was protecting 
their father from what they knew to be their just con- 
clusions. 
" Hugh," said she, " will you move that backlog a mite 
to the left? It's too heavy for me." Then, for the arti- 
fice seemed as foolish to her as it did to them, she amended 
her speech. " Anjrways, it's heavier'n I often tackle.'' 
But Hugh made no pretense of carrying out her subter- 
fuge. He stood there gazing gravely at her, his mind 
still with his violin. 
" I looked out of the window once or twice," he said. 
" I didn't think he'd got back." 
" He's been back half an hour," said Ben. 
He went to the fireplace and adjusted the backlog, mov- 
ing it a little as his mother had prescribed. He did it to 
save her scruples, and he was the one to do it, she was 
aware, not because he respected her state of feeling more 
•than his brother did, but because his mind was more open 
to it. Not only to-day, but all days, Hugh's mind was with 
his violin as with a love he could approach by stealth 
only. He was either wondering whether he could slip off 
to Larry Greene in the back road and take a lesson, or 
 
get an hour's stolen practicing, or accomplish his grow- 
ing purpose and run away to a place where you were 
taught to play the violin by somebody who had made a 
name though playing it. As he stood there in his dark 
dream, his brows, beautiful black arcs drawn together, 
Mary glanced at him and felt the ecstatic pang of that 
mother-love she had for them both, but chiefly, though 
she had never owned it to herself, for Hugh, because he 
was her first-bom. She had for him a mingling of emo- 
tions borne like flowers on the rushing tide of her younger 
married life. He meant his father to her, his father 
when Mary had accepted his imperious sway with a pas- 
sionate desire tq give more even than he asked of her, to 
bum herself and her will on the altar of his just mastery. 
Hugh looked like him, too, dark, commanding, no trace 
near his firm mouth of the hated dimple, yet with some- 
thing his father never had: a sweetness of radiant faith, 
a warm unbending to what he loved. He had been an 
enchanting baby to her, and in his approaching man- 
hood he was still enchanting, the more poignantly because 
she knew how thwarted he was in his dear purposes. Ben 
always seemed abundantly able to pluck what he wanted 
off the tree of lifeflimt there were reasons why she could 
never think of him with an untroubled mind. He belonged 
to the later time when she had begun to escape from her 
husband in the secret desires of her soul, when overflowing 
love for him had been merged in obedience, when, even 
with little Hugh in her arms, she longed for the free air 
of youth at play, and the more passionately because she 
knew, by the terms of her bond, it would be denied her. 
And this was the time when, seeing paths of pleasure — pa- 
thetic little paths that led only to ribbons or a dance in 
town — she had longed to escape and take her joy of 
 
them. She looked about at other wives who managed 
cleverly and lied about it, and wondered if the lie was 
theirs or his who drove them to it, and then gravely kept 
her road* It was hard, seeing Mary Neale now in her 
majestic middle years, to suspect she had ever been 
tempted by trivial things ; but she had known imseasoned 
youth, with all youth's longings. And at that time 
of indignant servitude Ben had come, as she afterward 
thought, along the path of her desire for pleasure. Some- 
times when she was in church and heard the minister talk 
about the soul, she was warmly moved, and sat there blush- 
ing with the glory of it: to think she knew Hugh's soul, 
with its reaching desires, its shy fancies and aching loyal- 
ties. And then she would grow cold, and stop thinking 
about souls. For there was her other son : she had given 
him a beautiful body — but what more? 
Hugh was recalling her. 
"Mother," said he, "do you s'pose the Brocks have 
got any money? " 
His face had cleared of its dreamy absorption, and 
showed an intentness of interest in the thing he had to 
say. The question irritated her. It seemed to her she 
had got to encoimter them all, her husband, her sons and 
later Ardelia Brock herself, on the topic of Ardelia's for- 
tunes. 
" For mercy sake ! " she said, " what do you want to 
know that for? " 
"I shouldn't think they would have anything," said 
Hugh, ignoring her warmth. "Larry Greene was all 
broke up last night because she asked to get trusted for 
the coffin." 
" How's Larry Greene know? " said his mother impa- 
tiently. 
" He heard it over to Elkins', The men sit around there 
 
and talk. Maybe she's borrowed of Larry now. Maybe 
he made her. I don't know." 
" Sometimes I think you'd better not go over to Larry 
Greene's so much,", said Mary helplessly. " Your father 
don't consider him a very good character, and Elkins' 's 
nothing more nor less than a saloon. 
And immediately she was ashamed of herself, knowing 
she considered Larry a man of character and manners. 
"'Course it's a saloon," said Hugh. "Everybody 
knows that. Mother, when you going over to the 
Brocks' ? " 
" I went last night," said Mary, returning to the con- 
yenient dignity she donned when they questioned her too 
curiously. 
" She's going to-night," said Ben. He had been look- 
ing from one to the other, with the alertness of a clever 
fellow who is determined to possess himself of the situa- 
tion. " She's going over to ask Ardelia Brock — " 
His mother turned upon him. There was that in her 
air they knew and were accustomed to heed. Mary Neale, 
when she did put her foot down, had to be obeyed. 
" That will do, Ben," she said. " Not another word." 
The willfulness faded out of his face. He began to 
kick at the birch wood by the hearth. 
" Let the wood alone," said Mary, thankful to reprove 
him for something tangible. "Now I must get supper. 
Hannah won't be back to-night. You pick me up come 
kindling." 
Ben went silently off through the kitchen. 
He pursed his lips to whistle, but thought better of it, 
especially as his father's step was emphatic in the shed. 
Hugh, too, heard the step, and so did Mary. What hap- 
pened thereupon was precisely what always happened. 
Hugh went out the front way, so swiftly you might have 
 
thought he disappeared by miracle. She was used to 
these expert flights when the boys heard their father 
coming, and thought she had only postponed reasoning them 
out of an act so palpably lacking in respect ; but she did 
know there was unhappy cause for it, and to^y it hurt 
her more than ever. 
At supper that night, no one talked. Neale did not 
wittingly snuff out the spark of sociability, but his mind 
was unbrokenly on* affairs; for him, conversation as an 
art or a means of pleasure, did not exist. When he saw 
the boys laughing together, it seemed an ebulHfibn inci- 
dent to their youth; but if his wife joined them, he glanced 
at her briefly in a surprise he was not interested enough 
to satisfy. Nearly all the things he seemed to condemn 
he hardly saw at all. They were outside his vision. 
Sitting there at the table, Mary let her mind stray off 
to Ardelia Brock and her daughter, Ellen. Perhaps she 
was sorrier for the little daughter than for Ardelia even. 
She knew, in a fragmentary way, what Ellen's father had 
been to her. All the neighbors knew. They had said, 
from Ellen's birth, that Ardelia was a good enough mother, 
but that David took more care of the child than she did. 
David, who was now dead, had been a silent, ruminative 
man of no ambitions, but a deep wonder over the earth 
and its miracles and an absorbing love for his daughter. 
He seemed quite contented with days' works for " old 
Mendell " who raised vegetables and fruit for market, with 
mending locks and tinkering here and there. A man of 
a quick mind toward wood and metal he was eager to serve 
them when they were sick and needed him but had no 
ghost of an impulse toward making what would bring him 
in larger moneys. He was quite willing, it seemed, to have 
his wife swell the living account by helping out Larry 
Greene's small housekeeping, and he and Larry spent 
hours when, the neighbors said, they should have been 
at work, in talking, eyes fixed on vacancy, about, the 
neighbors again said, " nothing." But the things they 
turned over and over in those unproductive hours were 
what mankind must always muse upon so long as the earth 
spreads her lure of wonder. David and Ellen were hedged 
about in a solitude of their own. It was, though not of 
their will or knowledge, a solitude closed against Ar- 
delia. And she, not even guessing she was outside, was 
content with her own household tract. Ellen loved her 
mother as she loved the cat and the fireplace and her 
bread and milk; but David had loved her once with all 
the ardor of his imaginative springtime. To the last, 
he did not question her, even in his mind ; but all the sensi- 
tive filaments of it recoiled from her. And, quite uncon- 
sciously, he tried to make of Ellen the child of his own 
desires and though inevitably within the range of her 
mother's silliness unharmed by it. He told her grave 
stories of little girls who were certain to do delightful 
things: chiefly to see the Alps and Westminster Abbey. 
But strangely these little girls never seemed to grow up or 
marry. David, confronted from time to time by the un- 
dying youth of Ardelia's old coquetry, could not bear to 
think of Ellen bridling and holding her head enchantingly, 
if it meant so little — only something to hurt a man with 
in the end, like a golden apple tarnished. He was afraid 
of knowledge for his child, the false knowledge of what is 
called love, and would not even let her go to district 
school, but taught her himself, with the help of Larry 
Greene, so that she knew so little of the world, as children 
have found it in their explorations, that she was like a 
little alien among them, when they did briefly play to- 
gether, and they hooted her. Poor little pioneers who 
can't trust the elders entirely! they have to go out ex- 
 
plormg in squads* But Ellen went alone, timorously, 
and when she found the woods too thick called loudly on 
her father or Larry, and they were always there. For a 
year now she had been one of the dozen free out-of-town 
pupils at the Academy, absorbed in a rapture of the en- 
chantingly new ; but to her father this was a wrench from 
dear habit, a doubt and a ceaseless apprehension. It 
weakened him physically; he would have liked to spend 
the years of his life with a little Ellen, picking thimble- 
berries for her and threading them on a grass spire, tell- 
ing murmured stories in the dark before the fire, and 
counseling her vaguely to " be a good girl" 
Suddenly, Mary was aware, through her musing over 
Ellen, that Neale was speaking to her. He had risen 
from the table — this he always did before his wife — 
and now he stood looking down at her and frowning a 
little because she did not attend directly. 
"You better go over there right away." 
The boys glanced at her in a quick interrogation. Ben, 
not used to waiting for the satisfaction of his curiosities, 
asked eagerly, before his father was outside the door : 
"You going, mother?" 
Mary had not known whether she was going or not. 
She had felt, as her husband spoke, that a grave decision 
was before her. But now she answered at once, and with 
dignity: 
" Yes, I'm going right over." 
Ben looked disappointed; he had hoped for the excite- 
ment of rebellion. But Hugh, like his mother, was 
thoughtful, and when she rose from the table, stood by it 
waiting until Ben had remembered some quest of his own 
and loped off out of doors. 
"Mother," said Hugh, "you wait a minute." 
She was going rapidly back and forth, with a house- 
 
wife's precision of act, piling dishes and carrying away 
the food. Hugh had something difficult to present. It 
made him frown, and the colpr ran into his face. Mary 
knew something important was coming, and with a kindly 
wariness she ceased even her inward interrogation, to let 
him get hold of himself. 
" I guess your aunt don't mean to come down to sup- 
per," she volunteered. " I'll leave out the biscuits. 
'Twon't hurt 'em to dry off a little. I didn't think they 
were extra good, — not so good as Hannah's." 
Hugh plunged his hand into his pocket and brought 
out a wad of money. 
" Mother," said he, "here's six dollars. I want you 
to give it to her." 
"Who?" Mary stopped in her progress to-and-fro. 
" It's for Mrs. Brock." 
" Where'd you get this? " asked his mother, keeping an 
even tone. Yet her eyes brightened, and a warmer red 
ran into her cheeks. She had a glowing sense of the 
beauty of her son's compassion. 
" Aunt Tab gave it to me, a little at a time." 
" But, Hugh, you were saving it." A mother's regret 
that he was to lack the pleasure of his little hoard in no 
way tempered her pride in him. It made it more. 
"What's the use anyway?" said Hugh. "Aunt Tab 
gives it to me to go away with ; but it never'll be enough 
to go on, or to pay for lessons if I went. Sometimes one 
lesson's five dollars, sometimes more. It's no use. So 
you give it to Mrs. Brock." 
Mary shook her head. 
" No, Hugh," said she. " You keep your money. 
About Ardelia — well, I'll do what I can." 
"When folks say that," returned the boy unhappily, 
" they never do anything." 
 
He stuffed the money into his pocket again, and went 
off with a striding step, too much, Mary heavily felt, like 
his father's when circumstance had briefly withstood him. 
She stayed looking at the place where he had been, her 
mind a tumult of remonstrance against the nature of man 
and its ingratitude. She was standing by Hugh, against 
his will, and he was throwing off her compassion with a 
hopeless word. The tears rushed to her eyes, surprising 
her* She was not used to their traitorous overflow. She 
wiped them away, threw a shawl over her shoulders and, 
leaving the dishes for Hannah, went out of the kitchen 
and down the path into the road, to do her errand at 
the little house. It seemed rather foolish to go into the 
road and along to Ardelia's when she might have taken 
a short cut through the orchard, from back door to door. 
But no Neale with the desire of reclaiming the Brock 
place had ever approved of a path across lots. It would 
have threatened to establish some unwelcome intimacy. 
How could you cherish designs against a house you ap- 
proached familiarly? 
It was a small house, with two rooms in front and an 
entry between them. It was set low, entered by one step, 
and that pleasing humility gave it an attractive coziness. 
There were vines, jessamine and a honeysuckle, over the 
trellis at the door, and the very poverty of the place had 
made for a special beauty. Brock had left his clapboards 
unpainted and they had worn gray. Mary did not tap 
at the door. She opened it, in neighborly fashion, and 
found Ardelia in the kitchen, down a step in the ell, sit- 
ting by a side window with her hands folded in her lap, 
while Ellen, the daughter of sixteen, sat at the supper 
table eating bread and milk. Ardelia looked up when 
her neighbor came in. She did not speak, and Mary, 
used to that acceptance of good-will, threw off her shawl 
and took the chair Ellen at once drew forward for her. 
There was greeting in Ellen's haste, a warm desire to show 
her gratitude to one who came to mother while mother 
was so sad. There was no likeness between mother and 
daughter. Ellen was brown, red under the warmth of 
her cheeks, and with an extraordinary look of sincerity in 
the eyes. Some trick of the lids made them seem to be 
asking pathetic questions, assuring you of the desire be- 
hind them to meet you with the clearest answer, if she 
only knew. Her thick hair grew abundantly in a lovely 
line about her forehead, and gave her, for she was still in 
short dresses, an antiquated make of childish clothes worn 
threadbare, a curiously grown-up look, for she had wound 
it in its thick braid on the top of her head. 
"Why, Ellen," said Mrs. Neale, in involuntary com- 
ment, " you've done up your hair." 
Ellen put a hand quickly to the crown of braids, flushed 
and said nothing. 
" I dunno what possessed her," said her mother, in a 
vacuous tone. " She done it up this mornin'." 
Ellen herself could not have explained. She did know 
that when she got up that morning it was to a world en- 
tirely different from any world she could even fancy. 
Though her father had been dead four days, yet until 
yesterday, when he was carried out of the house, it had 
not seemed so irreparable a loss. While his poor body, 
mysteriously left among them for cruel, pathetic observ- 
ances, was still there, it had seemed possible that the ani- 
mating spirit also lingered. It might even, by miracle — 
and she had been told there were miracles — enter again 
into its deserted home. But now he was gone utterly, and, 
perhaps with an unformulated sense of her own new re- 
sponsibilities in his absence, she had made herself a woman. 
" She looks just like him, don't she? " Ardelia contin- 
ued, in the flat voice of one who marvels to no purpose 
and yet must voice her wonder. " Her hair's the color 
of his, an' so's her skin." 
Ellen, as if the discussion now ceased to concern her, 
sat down again at the table and went on with her bread 
and milk. 
« Yes," said Mrs. Neale, " Ellen's the picture of him." 
She was looking compassionately at the wreck of the 
woman before her. Ardelia had been a blonde beauty in 
her youth. Mary remembered her so: too beautiful to 
need cultivate the graces or the virtue of soft ways. All 
eyes turned to follow her in her slim perfection of morn- 
ing color. She had had a wonderful way of carrying her 
head and looking, as one of her lovers said, " slant-ways." 
It was, in her youth, unconscious. Ardelia had been 
bom out of some fortunate mood of the moment, some 
heavenly concourse of the stars. And now,, the radiant 
uplift of the head quite gone, all her color wiped and 
drained away from her by circumstance, she sat in a choco- 
late-colored wrapper and peered dimly and with distrust 
at fate. 
"Delia," said Mary, "you had your supper?" 
" I've had a cup o' tea," said Ardelia. " That'll keep 
me up. I don't feel to eat." 
" Well," said Mary, " you've got to eat to live. We've 
all got to." 
Ellen looked round in a quick, grateful assent. Mrs. 
Neale had confirmed her own inner belief which, added to 
a healthy appetite, had made her finish the bread and 
milk. But Ellen felt in her throat the choking misery 
of grief. She knew it would be easier really, not to eat, 
but to lie down and give way, perhaps cry and cry. 
"I feel queer," said Ardelia. "I've felt queer ever 
since the services. This mornin' I didn't know where the 
 
roller towel was, an' when Ellen told me, it looked 
strange." 
Here Ellen rose and, to her own despairing wonder, 
began to cry aloud, and Mary Neale got up and went 
to her. 
" There ! there ! '' she said. She put her hands on the 
girl's shoulders and seemed to hold her steady. Perhaps 
she would have drawn her to her warm breast, but Ellen 
stood like a young tree shaken, yet not to be uprooted, 
and cried into her hands spread desperately before her 
face. " You cry, Ellen," said Mary Neale, in her soft, 
kind voice, " Don't you try to keep it down. It'll do 
you good." 
" She ain't shed a tear," said Ardelia, in a pallid recog- 
nition of fact. " I dunno why she should cry about the 
roller towel." 
Mary knew. It had frightened Ellen to see her mother 
so different. It had almost frightened Mary to come in 
and find her so. 
" There," she said, taking her palms from Ellen's shoul- 
ders, with a last caressing pressure, " we needn't go back 
to the towel." 
" 'Twas the queerest thing that ever happened to me," 
said Ardelia, looking down at her hands in her lap, and 
seeming to be mildly interested in their movements, one 
over the other. " I come into the kitchen, an' Ellen was 
here buildin' the fire. I guess she got up 'fore day. 
Thinks I, * I'll put up a clean roller towel.' An' then I 
says to myself, ' Where is the roller? ' an' I looked round 
the kitchen an' couldn't see anything that looked like it, 
an' I says to Ellen, * Where's the roller? ' I says, an' she 
says, * There 'tis, same's it always is, behind the door.' 
An' she had to lead me up to it, an' then it didn't look 
right." 
 
Ellen, her tears staunched, was gazing at Mrs. Neale in 
an apprehensive challenging, as if she needed now to be 
told the worst. Mary gave her a smile and a reassuring 
nod. 
"You're worn out, Ardelia," she said. "That's all. 
It's enough, too. Didn't you know when anybody's in 
grief, their bodies get all worn out, and everything looks 
strange to 'em? I guess the whole world looks strange. 
Now you get to bed early — I won't stay long — 
and to-morrow morning maybe things'll look differ- 
ent." 
Ellen, clearing away, drew a long sobbing breath. She 
was grateful to Mary Neale for telling her other people 
had suffered just this mystery* of grief. The world was 
every minute more of an unfamiliar place to her. 
" Don't you go," said Ardelia. " I sha'n't get off to 
bed very early. It seems real good to have anybody come 
an' set a spell." 
Mary held her hands clasped tightly on her knee. She 
found she was drawing her breath with difficulty. There 
was a task before her. 
" Ardelia," said she, " I might as well say it now as any 
time. I've got something to ask you." 
"What is it?" returned Ardelia, from her state of 
numb acquiescence. 
Mary's hands gripped her knees the tighter. She 
opened her lips to speak, and what her tongue really said 
was so foreign to the words she had intended that she 
could have laughed with the grim humor of it. 
" I'm going to cut a ham to-morrow. I'll send you over 
two-three slices." And she had meant to ask: "Will 
you sell your house and lot? " 
Ardelia hardly woke from her numbness, but a slight 
warmth did appear in her voice. 
" Your hams are real, good," she said. " I guess El- 
len'd like a bite anyways." 
" Well," said Mary Neale, " I'll send one o' the boys 
over. I guess I'll be going now." 
She rose and put her shawl about her shoulders; but 
at that moment the door opened in a desperate, burst- 
ing way, and Ben, red in the face and mysteriously amused, 
came tumbling in. He went straight up to his mother, 
seized the hand that had not left the shawl and pressed 
into it something soft and tightly folded. 
" Here, mother," he said. " You didn't take it with 
you. It's the money you were going to give Mrs. Brock." 
Then he fixed her with his eyes, mischief incarnate and 
also innocence, and Mary helplessly looked at him. She 
knew she was trapped. Somehow, mysteriously, he was 
making her give Ardelia Brock Hugh's little money. El- 
len, standing near, glanced at her in a startled displeas- 
ure. She had every reason to doubt what Ben might do, 
or at least to reserve judgment until she had thought it 
over. But Ardelia, electrified by the mere hint of money, 
rose in her chair and glanced sharply from Mary to the 
boy. Mary, with a beautiful precision of judgment in 
the emergency, was making the best of it. She smoothed 
out the soft mishandled bills upon her palm and placed 
them accurately together. Then she spoke, in her clear 
voice of pleasant meanings. 
" Ardelia, it's some money — it's only a little — that 
I was asked to give you." 
Ardelia held out her thin hand. 
"I dunno what he'd say," she quavered. She looked 
tremulously at Ellen who was so like her father. "He 
never was one to take anything he hadn't earned." 
" It's only a little," said Mary again. " Maybe it will 
do — sometiiing." She laid the bills, carefully folded 
now into neat compass, in the eager hand. " Don't say 
anything," she said. She had often cautioned Ardelia 
thus, without explaining further, if she had given her a 
pat of butter or vegetables from the field, and Ardelia 
understood, without surprise, that it was Neale who was 
not to know. " Good-night. Come, Ben." 
But Ellen stepped forward in a haste that looked almost 
angry, her tear-washed eyes on Mary Neale. 
" Mother*ll pay you back," she said. " I'm going to 
pick peas for old Mendell. Then we can pay you." 
" There, there, Ellen ! " said her mother, with a pitiful 
little smile at Mary. 
The smile meant they both understood. This was only 
a child and must be humored. But Mary Neale was 
looking at Ellen, with a mother look of pity and en- 
couragement. 
" Don't you worry, Ellen," she said. " It's only a lit- 
tle mite. Now, Ben." 
Ben, as he passed Ellen, gave a swift motion of the 
hands up and over his head, indicating that he had done 
up his hair and was overcome by the wonder and glory 
of it, and then followed his mother. But she had gone 
faster than he and, when he overtook her, was outside the 
gate. She had waited to have it out with him. 
" That was Hugh's money," she said to him severely, in 
accusation he pursed his lips to whistle at. Things often 
seemed to him of less importance than people made of 
them. But he decided to postpone the whistling. Not 
much could be done with mother in certain moods of hers, 
brought on usually by family transgression. " You 
played a trick on me," she continued, with a swelling in- 
dignation. " I shall punish you." 
" It was Hugh's own money," said he cheerfully. 
" He'd a right to give it away, if he wanted to." 
" Did he tell you I wouldn't take it? »' 
" No." 
" How'd you know, then ? " 
" I heard him ask you. I was listening." 
" Oh ! then how'd the money come into your hands at 
all? " 
" I told Hugh I could get it to 'em. Oh, what's the 
use, mum? It's only six dollars anyway. It ain't worth 
such a fuss." 
Mary started slowly on and he went beside her. Anger 
had cooled in her as it always did over her children's small 
transgressions. After all, she, too, was glad Ardelia had 
the money, only she wanted to see, at the same time, a 
way of making it up to Hugh. But Ben, dismissing the 
whole affair in a haste he had, was slipping his hand under 
her soft arm and beguiling her. 
" Mum," he said, " did you ask her? " 
" Ask her what? " But she knew, and her guilty soul 
was debating how she could meet her husband and confess 
his errand was not done. 
"You know. Ask Mrs. Brock to sell." 
Mary pressed the arm so close to her that it hurt her 
softer breast. 
« No," she said violently, « I didn't." 
" Thunder ! " said Ben. " I guess you'll wish you had." 
Mary knew that, but she could not lay aside dignity of 
bearing toward her husband to acknowledge that to 
his son. "Aren't you ever going to ask her?" he was 
persisting. She did not answer, " Mum, truly, didn't 
you say one word? " 
Urged thus far, it was a relief to speak. 
"No," said she. "I couldn't ask her. How could I? 
Her husband dead and Ellie — " Her voice failed her 
there, and Ben's pressure on the soft arm told her he un- 
 
derstood and she needn't say it. And then they were at 
their own gate, and he slipped behind and went up the 
path in her wake. He wanted to know where father was, 
before deciding to go in. If father was there, he would 
be sure to send them all to bed untimely, under prophecy 
of " a hard day to-morrow." But if he had gone to bed 
himself in preparation for his own hard day, Ben and his 
brother could sit on the shed steps, well out of range, and 
talk in murmurs of the swimmin' hole and also the fu- 
ture which had begun to loom large before them. Father's 
voice came short and deep from the dimly lighted room, 
and Mary, too, stopped to listen. She noted that her 
husband had only a candle, and it tired her at the outset, 
like all those reiterated obstinacies that make family life 
intolerable. She liked a lamp, chiefly because it was more 
cheerful for the boys. She knew they hated the candle- 
lighted dusk. But Thomas's father had used candles, and 
his mother had dipped them, and he was of opinion that 
they saved appreciably. 
" There's no reason about it," he was saying. " I say 
so, that's all. An' I know, an' you don't." 
Mary guessed what he was talking about, he and Hugh. 
The boy had brought forth his long-cherished wish, the 
wish he was desperately afraid to put, lest the mere utter- 
ance should be its death, to go away and study the violin. 
His own voice now came out through the darkness, so 
stifled by emotion that the mother's heart stood still in 
its fury of compassion and then bounded as if it would 
break its walls for her darling's defense. 
" It'll be too late," Hugh was urging, in that choked, 
lifeless voice. " I don't know but it's too late now." 
" I'm givin' you both your full time at the 'Cademy," 
said his father. Ben accomplished a noiseless little leap 
on the grass. He had not been sure father meant them 
to finish the course, " Not many men'd do as much. In 
my time, boys worked an' paid their way. If there's any- 
thing in you, you'll be a minister, an' Ben'll be a lawyer." 
Ben, through the darkness, made a face at the maiden 
moon and swung his arms fantastically. What should 
he, the wordless comment said, do in a world of moons and 
hylas and sweet spring scents with a lawyer's quibblings 
for ultimate end? 
"But," Thomas went on, "beyond your majority, I 
can't control you. You'll do as you may. Till that 
time, I can. What do you think you'd do, a grown-up 
man, with a fiddle? go round play in' for dances, or live 
alone like Larry Greene, drinkin' all day an' fiddlin' all 
night?" 
Mary Neale held her breath to hear the answer. But 
Hugh said nothing. Perhaps Ben, better than she, knew 
what he was thinking. The urge of youth was in them 
both, and though neither had words to set it forth, they 
knew there was a world where the fiddle spoke so clearly 
that it uttered all the sweet madnesses of life and so, hav- 
ing said them, made the heart light of them forever. Ben, 
understanding Hugh as Hugh understood the fiddle, knew 
what a headlong passion this was of his and how horribly 
dangerous it was to thwart him in it. But being light of 
heart, he believed there were byways out of defeat, and so 
it seemed to him that Hugh would get his wish. 
" Come," his mother said to him, in a low tone charged 
with the passion risen in her from her listening. " Come 
in." She judged they had talked enough, and she wanted 
Ben to enter with her and somehow help her bear the sight 
of Hugh's defeated eyes. 
"That you?" called her husband, when her feet were 
barely over the sill. " Well, what d' she say? " 
Mary went on into the room, Ben lightly behind her. 
 
In his father's presence he always walked as if he trod on 
gossamer. 
" She's all worn out,'' said Mary, taking off her shawl 
and folding it into suitable length to hang over the back 
of a chair. " This morning she didn't know where the 
roller towel was." 
" Didn't know what? " 
His voice told her she had befogged him and how in 
his perplexity he was staring at her through the dusk, 
and she hastened to amend her speech. 
" She's tired out. I told her to go to bed and get a 
good night's rest." 
" Well," said her husband, " d'you ask her? " 
Ben was standing near her, hardly seeming to breathe, 
he was so still. Hugh was there in the corner, his 
wounded look mercifully hidden from her by the dark. 
The thought of them as they were and as their young 
blood urged them to be, assailed her mother-heart like an 
army swarming into a citadel and killed, in the rush, all 
her clarity of purpose. 
" Yes," she said calmly, " I asked her." Now she 
heard the little catch in Ben's breath. It wouldn't mean 
blame of her, she knew. It might even be admiration. 
"What'd she say?" 
" She said "no.' " 
" She wouldn't do it?" 
" No." 
" Wouldn't sell?" It seemed as if the insistent voice 
would never leave pursuing her to the limit of her du- 
plicity. " D'you make her understand 'twould be for her 
good in the end? " 
Mary thought they had approached the point where 
she might be allowed a little discursiveness, so that the 
guilt of her treachery might not burn her so hotly. 
 
" Thomas," she said, " it isn't for her good to sell. 
How could anybody make her see it's for her good to sell 
her home? " 
" D'you make her understand I stood ready to pay her 
all 'twas wuth, an' more? " 
" Yes." 
He was silent a moment, and she felt herself, inwardly, 
and in a different sort of silence, fighting off the question 
that was coming. 
"Well," he said, rising to his feet* "Then I've got 
to get at it some other way round. Come, le's go to bed. 
We're goin' to have a hard day to-morrer." 
He went off through the dark, carrying his shoes in his 
hand and shuffling in his stocking feet. 
"Don't you want the candle?" his wife called after 
him. 
But he did not answer, and in a moment she heard him 
on the stairs. Then, so swiftly that she seemed to run, 
though noiselessly, from place to place, she went to the 
table and lighted the great lamp there, and, without a 
look at her sons, hurried into the kitchen and lighted one 
there also. She had the desire that was so often with 
her to make smiling cheer for them out of the gloom their 
father was thrusting upon them from his uncomprehend- 
ing heart. When she came back, the two boys were stand- 
ing near the table, as if they wanted to be within the cir- 
cle of light. She did not glance at Hugh. Still she was 
afraid of the wounded look in his eyes. Ben made a dart 
at her and hugged her to him, awkwardly and with rap- 
ture. 
" mum," he said, " what a whopper ! Weren't you 
grand? " 
Then Mary knew her moral supremacy was lost indeed. 
She had lied outright to her husband — the first time, 
.  
truly the first time — and her sons knew she had lied. 
Ben knew it because she had told him she had not asked 
Ardelia to sell, and in the time of her delay in the kitchen 
Ben had told Hugh. She stood all the straighter in the 
poor defense of her outer dignity, ignoring Ben and try- 
ing, from her mother passion, to give them both some- 
thing that should send them to bed light-hearted. But 
she had nothing to give them but the lamp. 
" I guess I'll go now," she said. " You can sit up as 
long as you want to, if you'll come up quiet. Why don't 
you get out the checker-board? " 
There was a rustling through the kitchen, and then a 
clink of dishes. 
" There's Aunt Tab," she said, in relief at hearing an- 
other being astir to make a pretense at family life. " You 
both go and see 't she has something to eat. You open 
the cake jar. I made some cookies. You've lost a but- 
ton, Hugh. You bring it to me in the morning, dear." 
That was all she allowed herself. Even the endear- 
ment was perhaps the word too much. Hugh could not 
endure cosseting. But it soothed the mother heart in her. 
 
Aunt Tab was in the pantry, picking at a plate of 
cold greens left from dinner. Though she was thin and 
really frail looking, she had a hearty appetite for coun- 
try fare, and Hannah often found fragments left to be 
warmed over well depleted by her ravaging. But Han- 
nah never complained. Everybody in the house except 
its master recognized Aunt Tab's position as a lawless 
alien, and made it as easy for her as they might. It was, 
so far as hostile report went, as if she had eaten fern seed 
and walked invisible, Mary often wondered what Thomas 
thought when his sister did not appear at the table for 
days at a time. Aunt Tab herself never wondered. She 
spent as few minutes as possible in thinking about Brother 
Thomas. Perhaps she classed him among the embarras- 
sing spirits we are afraid of invoking by thought or name. 
When the boys, really not hungry but taking mother's 
suggestion of the pantry for lack of something else, to 
prolong the sweet spring evening, came upon her, 
delicately picking, she looked up at them with a gleam of 
welcome in her bright blue eyes. She was of spirit-like 
thinness, with sanguine complexion, the skin drawn tight 
over the bones, and the red hair streaked with gray some- 
times bound in a tight knot on the top of her head and 
sometimes curled and flying, and she wore a loose wrap- 
per — very beautiful indeed, of a soft ancient stuff, bright 
with palm leaves. She did not especially fancy the palm 
leaves, and thought a plain color far more suitable to 
her years. But the palm leaves had been waiting a long 
time in a chest under the eaves, indeed since the year when 
a Captain Neale made a voyage. to the land of palms; 
and even now, after gentle wear in her chamber, they 
seemed indestructible. 
" You boys want some greens? " she inquired, her fork 
poised as if she couldn't go on eating imless she knew 
whether the stock would go round. 
" No," said Ben, '' we're trailin' cookies. Where'd 
mother say? " 
Aunt Tab, with a crafty care, lifted the cover of the 
jar, and Ben plunged in a hand. As it came out with a 
clutch of cookies he glanced round at Hugh, who was 
standing in the doorway looking past Aunt Tab out of 
the window where the spring night hung like a curtain. 
But he was aware of Ben's inquiring gaze and twitched 
a shoulder impatiently, a habit he had, as if he threw off 
hindering thoughts. 
" No," he said, " I don't want any." 
Aunt Tab, returned to her greens, looked steadily at 
him as she ate. At length, just as she cleared the dish, 
the meaning of the boy's look was revealed to her, and 
she gasped, in a breath of terrified admiration: 
" You ain't asked him?" 
Hugh nodded. 
" Asked father? " Ben put it, his mouth full of cookies 
and the crumbles thick on his coat. " I heard him. 
D'you ask him to send you away to fiddle? " 
" Yes," said Hugh. There was not so much bitterness 
in his voice as a scorn of himself that he could have been 
a fool. " I asked him to lend me the money. I told him 
I promised mother not to go unless he said I might." 
" Well," said Tabitha thoughtfully, " I guess it's easy 
enough to tell what he'd say." 
 
" He said 'no '" returned Hugh violently. " I might 
go to the devil for all he'd care." 
" No, no," said Tabitha, startled. The devil was tech- 
nically as dangerous as the mention of her brother. 
" Don't you speak so." But she plucked up hope for the 
sake of Hugh, who was her best-beloved. " Don't you 
worry," she said, adding, with a cheerful indirectness, 
" you should have all I've got, if I had anything." 
The boys thought they knew she hadn't anything 
except stupid rights of living here and eating in the 
pantry, and a few acres of woodland. Ben had brought 
himself a large tumbler and filled it with milk from the 
top of a pan, and this he drank luxuriously, tilting the 
glass on his nose. Then he brushed the crumbs from his 
front and turned to Hugh. 
" Come," he said hopefully, " le's go down to Larry's." 
Hugh nodded, but Aunt Tab plucked up a timorous 
argument. 
" I don't know's I should hang round that Larry 
Greene's," she said, "if I's you boys. Your father 
never'd approve of it — never in the world. I don't know 
what he'd do to you." 
Hugh gave a short laugh. 
" He told me what he'd do. The time I went down to 
practice for the dance, he told me if I did it again he'd 
break every bone in my body." 
" There ! " said Aunt Tab, as if this made it conclu- 
sive. 
But Ben put a hand on his brother's shoulder and 
swung him round. 
" Come on," he said, " let's go and get our bones broke." 
They were as cautious in crossing the kitchen and steal- 
ing out through the shed, as if they had been pirates en- 
tering a port under cover of the dark; that was what it 
 
