and calling it wrong did not put a stop to it ! What the devil 
was a fellow to do ? 
As soon as Jimmie was able to work, they took him to the 
part of the camp where a motor-cycle division was training. 
Here was a big repair shop, with plenty of damaged machines 
upon which he might display his skill. He did not know the 
particular engine they used here, but he soon learned the secrets 
of it, and satisfied the officers in charge that he knew how to 
take one apart and put it together again, to replace and mend 
tires, to clean ball-bearings and true crooked rims. "You're 
all right' they said. "And you're needed like the devil over 
there. You won't have to wait long." 
There was a platform where the trains came into the camp, 
and every few hours now there came a long train to be loaded 
with men. Jinimie got his notice, and packed his kit and 
answered roll-call and took his place; at sun-down of the next 
day he was detrained at a "mobilisation-camp" another huge 
city, described in the cautious military fashion as "Somewhere 
in New Jersey," though everybody within a hundred miles knew 
its exact location. Here was a port, created for the purposes 
of war, with docks and wharves where the fleets of transports 
were loaded with supplies and troops. The vessels sailed in 
fleets, carrying thirty or forty thousand men at once. From 
the port of New York alone there was going out a fleet like this 
every week the answer of America to the new drive of the Hun. 
One met here, not merely the fighting-men, but the forces 
of all the complicated service behind the lines : gangs of lumber- 
men from the far Northwest, who were to fell the forests of 
France and make them into railroad-ties and timbers for 
trenches; railway-men, miners, and construction-gangs, engi- 
neers and signalmen, bridge-builders and road-makers, telephone- 
linemen and operators, the drivers of forty thousand motor- 
cars and of five thousand locomotives ; bakers and cooks, menders 
of shoes and of clothing, farmers to till the soil of France, and 
doctors and nurses to tend its sick and wounded. There was 
nothing which the skill and knowledge of a nation of a hundred 
million people had to offer that was not gathered into this vast 
encampment. All the youngest and keenest were here, eager 
to do their part, laughing at danger, tingling with excitement, on 
tiptoe with curiosity and delight. Jimmie Higgins, watching 
them, found his doubts melting like an April snow-storm. How 
could any man see this activity and not be caught up in it? 
How could he be with these laughing boys and not share their 
mood? 
Jimmie himself had not had a merry childhood, he did not 
know the youth of his own country the breezy, slangy, rather 
shocking, utterly irrepressible youth of this democratic world. 
If there was anything they did not know well, they did not 
 
know it; if there was anything they could not do their motto 
was: "Show me!" Jimmie, not having been to school, found 
himself having a hard time with their weird slang. When one 
of these fellows hailed you, "Hey, pimp !" it did not necessarily 
mean that he did not like you; when he greeted you, "Hey, 
sweetness I" it did not mean that he felt for you any overpower- 
ing affection. If he referred to his officer as "hard-boiled," he 
did not have in mind that this officer had been exposed to the 
action of water at 212 degrees Fahrenheit; he merely meant 
that the officer was a snob. When he remarked, "Good-night ? 
in broad daylight, he meant you to understand that he disagreed 
with you. 
He disagreed frequently and explosively with Jimmie Hig- 
gins, trying to point out a difference between the German rulers 
and the German people! Such subtleties had no interest for 
these all-knowing boys. When Jimmie persisted, they called 
him a "nut," a "poor cheese"; they told him that he was 
"cuckoo," that his "trolley was twisted"; they made whirling 
motions with their hands to indicate that he had "wheels in his 
head," they made flapping motions over him to signify that 
there were "bats in his belfry." So Jimmie subsided, and 
let them talk their own talk imploring one another to "have 
a heart," or to "get wise," or to "make it snappy," or to "cut 
out the rough stuff." And he would sit and listen while they 
sang with zest a song telling about what they were going to 
do when they got to France: 
Bring the good old bugle, boys, we'll sing another song, 
Sing it with a spirit that will move the world along, 
Sing it as we love to sing it, just two million strong 
While we are canning the Kaiser. 
CHOBUS : 
Oh, Bill! Oh, Bill! We're on the job to-day! 
Oh, Bill! Oh, Bill! We'll seal you so you'll stay! 
We'll put you up in ginger in the good old Yankee way 
While we are canning the Kaiser. 
Hear the song we're singing on the shining roads of France  
Hear the Tommies cheering, and see the Poilus prance; 
Africanders and Kanucks and Scots without their pants 
While we are canning the Kaiser. (Chorus) 
Bring the guns from Bethlehem, by way of old New York; 
Bring the beans from Boston, and don't leave put the pork ; 
Bring a load of soda-pop, and pull the grape- juice cork 
While we are canning the Kaiser. (Chorus) 
Come you men from Dixieland, you lumberjacks of Maine; 
Come you Texas cowboys, and you farmers of the plain; 
Florida to Oregon, we boast the Yankee strain 
While we are canning the Kaiser. (Chorus) 
Now we've started on the job, we mean to put it through; 
Ship the kings and kaisers all, and make the world anew; 
Clear the way for common folk, for men like me and you- 
While we are canning the kaiser. 
CHORUS : 
Oh, Bill! Oh, Bill! We're on the job to-day! 
Oh, Bill! Oh, Bill! We'll seal you so you'll stay! 
We'll put you up in ginger in the good old Yankee way 
While we are canning the Kaiser. 
They did not stop very long in the mobilisation-camp, for 
 the arrival of your train was timed with the arrival of the 
ship on which you were to sail. You had a meal, sometimes 
you slept a night, then you marched to the docks. Nor was 
there much of the traditional "sweet sorrow" about the de- 
parture of these great fleets; the weeping mothers and sisters 
had not been notified to be present, and the ladies of the canteen- 
service had given coffee and sandwiches, cigarettes and choco- 
late, to so many tens of thousands that they had forgotten about 
tears. It was like the emigration of a nation; the part of 
America that was now on the other side was so large that nobody 
would need to feel homesick. 
Jimmie's embarking was done at night ; on the long, covered 
piers lighted by arc-lights, the soldiers set down their kits and 
stood about, munching food, singing songs, and keeping one 
another's wits sharpened for battle. They filtered on board, 
and then without a light or a sound the vessel stole down the 
long stretches of the harbour, and out to sea. One never knew 
at what hour the enemy submarines might attempt a raid on 
the American side, so the entrance to the harbour was mined 
and blockaded, a narrow passage being opened when the ships 
passed through. 
When morning came the convoy was out at sea, amid glorious 
green rollers, and Jimmie Higgins was lying in his narrow 
berth, cursing the fates that had lured him, the monster of 
Militarism into whose clutches he had been snared. The army 
medical service had a serum to prevent small-pox and another 
to prevent typhoid, but they had nothing for sea-sickness as 
yet; so for the first four days of the trip Jimmie wished that 
a submarine would come and end his misery once for all. 
At last, however, he came on deck, an utterly humbled So- 
cialist agitator, asking only a corner to lie in the sunshine 
preferably where he could not see the Atlantic surges, the very 
thought of which turned him inside out. But gradually he 
found his feet again, and ate with permanence, and looked out 
over the water and saw the other vessels of the convoy, weirdly 
painted with many-coloured splotches, steaming in the shape of 
a gigantic V, with two cruisers in front, and another on each 
side, and another bringing up the rear. Day and night the 
look-outs kept watch, and the wig-wag men and the heliograph 
men were busy, and the wireless buzzed its warnings of the 
movements of the underwater foe. The U-boats had not yet 
got a transport, but they had made several tries, and every one 
knew that they would continue trying. Twice a day the clang- 
ing of bells sounded from one end of the vessel to the other, and 
the crews rushed to the boat-drill; each passenger had his 
number, and unless he was ill in his berth he had to take his 
specified place, with his life-preserver strapped about his waist. 
The passengers played cards, and read and sang and sky- 
larked about the decks. Up on the top deck, to which Jimmie 
was not invited, were officers, also a number of women and 
girls belonging to the hospital and ambulance units. "Janes" 
was the term by which the soldier-boys described these latter; 
you could see they were a good sort of "Janes," serious and 
keen for their job, looking businesslike and impressive in their 
uniforms with many pockets. Among them were suffragists, 
answering the taunt of the other sex, showing that in war as 
well as in peace the world needed them; it had to find a place 
for them on board the most badly crowded transport. 
Never having been on an ocean-liner before, Jimmie did 
not know that it was crowded ; it did not trouble him that there 
was hardly room for a walk on the decks. He watched the 
sea and the great white gulls and the piebald ships ; he watched 
the crew at work, and got acquainted with his fellow-passengers. 
Before long he found a driver of an ambulance who was a 
Socialist; also an I. W. W. from the Oregon lumber-camps. 
Even the "wobblies," it appeared, had come to hate the Kaiser; 
a bunch of them were in France, and more would have come, 
if the government had not kept them cross by putting their 
leaders into jail. An army-officer with some sense had gone into 
the spruce-country of the far North-west, and had appealed to 
 
the patriotism of the men, giving them decent hours and wages, 
and recognizing their unions; as a result, even the dreaded 
I. W. W. organization had turned tame, and all the lumber-jacks 
had pitched in to help in "canning the Kaiser"! 
II 
The fleet was nearing the submarine-zone and it was time 
for the convoying destroyers to arrive. Everybody was peering 
out ahead, and at last a cry ran along the decks: "There they 
are!" Jimmie made out a speck of smoke upon the horizon, 
and saw it turn into a group of swiftly flying vessels. He 
marvelled at the skill whereby they had been able to find the 
transports on this vast and trackless sea; he marvelled at the 
slender vessels with their four low, rakish stacks. These sea- 
terriers were thin skins of steel, covering engines of enormous 
power; they tore through the water, literally with the speed 
of an express-train, leaving a boiling white wake behind. See- 
ing them rock and swing from side to side in the waves, hurled 
this way and that, you marvelled that human beings could live 
in them and not be jerked to pieces. Jimmie never tired of 
observing them, nor did they tire of racing in and out between 
the vessels of the convoy, weaving patterns of foam, the men on 
their decks watching, watching for the secret foe. 
Every one on board the transports of course was on the 
alert. Jimmie in his secret heart was scared stiff, but he did 
not reveal it to these mocking soldier-boys, who made merry 
over German U-boats as they did over sauerkraut and pretzels 
and limburger and "wienies," otherwise known as "hot dogs." 
Actually, Jimmie found, they were hoping to encounter a sub- 
marine; not to be hit, of course, but to have the torpedo pass- 
within a foot or two, so that they might have something thrilling 
to write to the folks at home ! 
There came storms, and blinding sheets of rain across the 
water, and mists that hid everything from view; but still the 
little sea-terriers dashed here and there, winding their foam 
wakes about the fleet, by night as well as by day. How they 
managed to avoid collisions in the dark was a mystery beyond 
imagining; Jimmie lay awake, picturing one of them plunging 
like a sharp spear into the rows of bunks in the steerage where 
he had been stowed. But when morning dawned, his berth was 
unspeared, and the watch-dogs of the sea were still weaving their 
patterns. 
It was a day of high wind, with clouds and fitful bursts of 
sunshine in which the waves shone white and sparkling. Jimmie 
was standing by the rail with his "wobbly" friend, watching the 
white-caps, when his companion called his attention to a sparkle 
that seemed to persist, hitting one in the eye. They pointed it 
out to others, and as the orders were strict to report anything 
out of the way, some one shouted to the nearest look-out. A 
cry went over the ship, and there was hasty wigwagging of 
the signalmen, and three of the destroyers leaped away like 
hounds on the chase. 
There were some on board who had glasses, and they cried 
out that it was a black object, and finally reported it a raft 
with people on it. Later, when Jimmie reached port, he heard 
an explanation of the sparkle which had caught his eye a woman 
on the raft had a little pocket-mirror, and had used this to flash 
the sun's rays upon the vessel, until at last she had attracted 
attention. 
Those who had glasses were mostly on the upper deck, so 
Jimmie did not see anything of the rescue; the transports of 
course did not swerve or delay, for their orders forbade all 
altruisms. Even the little destroyers would not approach the 
raft until they had scoured the sea for miles about, and then 
they did not stop entirely, but slid by and tossed ropes to the 
people on the raft, dragging them aboard one by one. A sea- 
man standing near Jimmie explained this procedure; it ap- 
peared that the submarines were accustomed to lurk near rafts 
and life-boats, preying upon those vessels which came to their 
rescue. Distressed castaways were bait "live bait," explained 
the seaman; the U-boats would lurk about for days, sometimes 
for a week, watching the people in the life-boats struggle against 
the waves, watching them die of exposure and starvation and 
thirst, watching them signal frantically, waving rags tied onto 
oars, shouting and praying for help. One by one the castaways 
would perish, and when the last of them was gone, the U-boat 
would steal away. "Dead bait's no good," explained the seaman. 
 
This mariner, Toms by name, came from Cornwall; for the 
transport was British, and so also the convoying war-ships 
Jimmie's fate had been entrusted to "perfidious Albion" ! Seven 
times this Toms had been torpedoed and seven times rescued, 
and he had most amazing tales to tell to landlubbers, and a 
new light to throw on a subject which our Socialist landlubber 
had been debating x for several years the torpedoing of passenger- 
vessels with women and children on board. Somehow Jimmie 
found it a different proposition when he heard of particular 
women and children, how they looked and what they said, and 
what happened when they took to open boats in midwinter, and 
the boats filled up with water, and the children turned blue and 
then white, and were rescued with noses and ears and hands 
and feet frozen off. 
Jimmie was a workingman, and understood the language of 
workingmen, their standards and ways of looking at life. And 
here was a workingman; not a conscious Socialist, to be sure, 
but a union man, sharing the Socialist distrust of capitalists 
and rulers. What this weather-bitten toiler of the sea told to 
Jimmie, Jimmie was prepared to understand and believe; so he 
learned, what he had refused to learn from prostitute newspapers, 
that there was a code of sea-manners and sea-morals, a law of 
marine decency, which for centuries had been unbroken save 
by pirates and savages. The men who went down to the sea in 
ships were a class of their own, with instincts born of the 
peculiar cruelties of the element they defied instincts which 
broke across all barriers of nations and races, and even across 
the hatreds of war. 
But now these sea-laws had been defied, and the Hun who 
had defied them had placed himself outside the pale of the 
human race. In the souls of seamen there had been generated 
against him a hatred of peculiar and unique ferocity ; they hunted 
him as men hunt vipers and rattle-snakes. The union to which 
this Toms belonged had pledged itself, not merely for the war, 
but for years afterwards, that its members would not sail in 
German ships, nor in any ship in which a German sailed, nor 
in any ship which sailed to a German port, nor which carried 
German goods. It had refused to carry Socialist delegates de- 
siring to attend international conferences with German Social- 
ists; it had refused to carry for any purpose labour leaders 
whom it considered too mercifully disposed towards Germany. 
When Jimmie learned this, you can imagine the arguments, 
continuing far into the night ! Quite a crowd gathered about, 
and they gave it to the little Socialist hot and heavy. The 
upshot of it was that somebody reported him, and the officer in 
command of his "motor-unit" read him a stern lecture. He 
was not here to settle peace-terms, but to do his work and hold 
his tongue. Jimmie, awed by the fangs and claws of the mon- 
ster of Militarism, answered, "Yes, sir," and went away and 
sulked by himself the whole day, wishing that the submarines 
might get this transport, with everybody on board except two 
Socialists and one "wobbly." 
IV 
It was the morning of the day they were due in port. 
Everybody wore life-preservers, and stood at his station; when 
suddenly came a yell, and a chorus of shouts from the side of 
the ship, and Jimmie rushed to the rail, and saw a white wake 
coming like a swift fish directly at the vessel. "Torpedo I" was 
the cry, and men stood rooted to the spot. Far back, where the 
white streak started, you could see a periscope, moving slowly; 
there was a volley of cracking sounds, and the water all about 
it leaped high, and the little sea-terriers rushed towards it, 
firing, and getting ready their deadly depth-bombs. But of 
all that Jimmie got only a glimpse; there came a roar like the 
opening of hell in front of him ; he was thrown to the deck, half - 
stunned, and a huge fragment of the rail of the vessel whirled 
past his head, smashing into a stateroom behind him. 
The ship was in an uproar; people rushing here and there, 
the members of the crew leaping to get away the boats. Jimmie 
sat up and stared about him, and the first thing he saw was his 
friend the "wobbly," lying in a pool of blood, with a great gash 
in his head. 
Suddenly somebody began to sing: "Oh, say, can you see 
by the dawn's early light " Jimmie had always hated that 
song, because jingoes and patrioteers used it as an excuse to 
bully and humiliate radicals who did not jump to their feet 
with sufficient alacrity. But now it was wonderful to see the 
effect of the song; everybody joined, and the soldier-boys and 
 
workingmen and nurses and lady ambulance-drivers, no matter 
how badly scared, recalled that they were part of an army on 
the way to war. Some helped the crews to get the boats into 
the water; others bound up the wounds of the injured, and 
carried them across the rapidly slanting decks. 
The great ship was going down. It was horrible to realise 
this mighty structure, this home for two weeks of several 
thousand people, this moving hotel with its sleeping-berths, 
its dining-saloons, its kitchens with lunch ready to be eaten, its 
mighty engines and its cargo of every kind of necessity and 
comfort for an army all was about to plunge to the bottom of 
the sea! Jimmie Higgins had read about the torpedoing of 
scores of ocean-liners, but in all that reading he had learned 
less about the matter than he learned in a few minutes while he 
clung half -dazed to a stay-rope, and watched the life-boats swing 
out over the sides and disappear. 
"Women first !" was the cry; but the women would not go 
until the wounded had been taken, and this occasioned delay. 
Jimmie helped to get his friend the "wobbly," and passed him 
on to be lowered with a rope. By that time the deck had got 
such a slant that it was hard to walk on it ; the bow was settling, 
and the stern rearing up in the air. Never could you have 
realised the size of an ocean-liner, until you saw it rear itself 
up like a monstrous mountain, preparatory to plunging beneath 
the waves! "Jump for it!" shouted voices. "They'll pick 
jou up from the other vessels. Jump and swim." 
So Jimmie rushed to the rail. He saw a life-boat below, 
trying to push away, and being beaten against the vessel by the 
heavy waves. He heard a horrible scream, and saw a man slip 
between the boat and the side of the liner. People on every 
side of him were jumping so many that he could not find a clear 
spot in the water. But at last he saw one, and climbed upon 
the rail and took the plunge. 
He struck the icy water and sank, and a wave rolled over 
him. He came up quickly, owing to his life-preserver, and 
gasped for breath, and was choked by another rushing wave 
and then pounded on the head by an oar in the hands of a strug- 
gling sailor. He managed to get out of the way, and struck 
out to get clear of the vessel. He knew how to do this, thanks 
to many "swimmin'-holes" including the one he had visited 
with the Candidate. But he had never before swam in such 
deadly cold as this; it was colder than he had dreamed when 
he had talked about it with Comrade Meissner! Its icy hand 
seemed to smite him, to smite the life out of him; he struggled 
desperately, as one struggles against suffocation. 
The waves beat him here and there; and then suddenly he 
was seized as if by the falls of Niagara, drawn along and drawn 
under down, down. He thought it was the end, and when 
again he bobbed up to the surface, his breath was all but gone. 
The great bulk of the vessel was no longer in sight, and Jimmie 
was struggling in a whirlpool, along with upset boats and oars 
and deck-chairs and miscellaneous wreckage, and scores of 
people clinging to such objects, or swimming frantically to reach 
them. 
Jimmie was just about ready to roll over and let his face 
go under, when suddenly there loomed above him on the top 
of a wave a boat rowed swiftly by sailors. One in the boat 
flung a rope to him, and he tried to catch it, but missed; the 
boat plunged towards him, and an arm reached out, and caught 
him by the collar. It was a strong and comforting arm, and 
Jimmie abandoned himself to it, and remembered nothing more 
for a long time. 
VI 
When Jimmie opened his eyes again he was in a most 
extraordinary position. At first he could not make it out, he 
was only aware of endless bruises and blows, as if some one were 
shaking him about in a gigantic pepper-cruet. As nature pro- 
tested desperately against such treatment, Jimmie fought his 
way back to consciousness, and caught hold of something, in 
his neighbourhood, which presently turned out to be a brass rail- 
ing; he struggled to ward off the blows of his tormentors, which 
turned out to be the aforesaid railing, plus a wall, plus two 
other men, one on each side of him, the three of them being 
lashed to the brass railing with ropes. The wall and railing 
and Jimmie and the other men were behaving in an incredible 
fashion swinging down, as if they were plunging into a bottom- 
less abyss, then swinging up, as if they were going to part alto- 
 
gether from this mundane sphere; the total enormous swing, 
from bottom to top, being mathematically calculated to occupy 
a period of five and one half seconds of time. 
Jimmie discovered before long that there were a whole row 
of men, lashed fast and subjected to this perplexing form of 
torture. They made you think of a row of carcasses in a 
butcher-shop only, who could picture a butcher-shop whose 
floor careened to an angle of forty-five degrees in one direction, 
and then, in a space of precisely five and a half seconds, careened 
to an angle of forty-five degrees in the opposite direction? 
And they kept bringing more carcasses and hanging them in 
this insane butcher-shop ! Two sailors in uniforms would come 
staggering, carrying a man between them, clinging to the railing, 
to Jimmie, to the other men, to anything else they could grab. 
They would make a desperate rush while the swing was right, 
and get to a new place on the railing, where they would tie the 
new man with a bit of rope about his waist, and leave him 
there to be mauled and pounded. One side of the room was 
lined solid with carcasses, and then the other side, and still they 
came. This was apparently a dining-saloon, there being a table 
down the middle, and two rows of chairs; they lashed people into 
these chairs, they brought others and lashed them to the bottom 
of the chairs any old place at all! There were some who 
thought they could hold on for themselves; but after the sailors 
were gone they discovered that it took more skill to hold on 
than they realised, and they would come hurtling across the 
floor, winding up with a crash on top of some one else. 
It was not the first time in Jimmie's life that he had had to 
scramble for himself in some uncomfortable situation; he got 
his wits together quickly. He was shivering as if with ague, 
and he managed to get out of his wet coat. There being a 
couple of ladies strapped into chairs in front of him, he did 
not like to go further; but presently came sailors with armfuls 
of blankets, and made him perform the complicated feat of get- 
ting out of his dripping icy uniform and getting the blanket 
wrapped around his middle, so that the rope would not saw him 
into halves. Then came a steward with a pot of hot coffee; 
being marvellously expert at holding this at all angles of the 
ship, he poured it into cups with little funnels for drinking, and 
thus got some down Jimmie's throat. 
The little machinist felt better after that, and was able to 
devote attention to the man on his right, who had hit his nose 
so many times that it was bleeding in a stream, and had been 
tilted at so many angles that the blood had run into his eyes and 
made him blind. The man on the other side of him apparently 
could make no effort at all to keep his face from being pounded, 
or his feet from being thrown into the pit of Jimmie's stomach ; 
after Jimmie made a number of protests, an officer came along, 
and put his ear to the man's chest and pronounced him dead. 
They brought another rope, and lashed him tighter, so that he 
would behave himself. 
For several hours Jimmie clung to that railing. The de- 
stroyer would soon be in port, they kept telling him ; meantime 
they brought him hot soup to keep up his strength. Some peo- 
ple fainted, but there was nothing that could be done for them. 
The first boat-loads of the rescued had filled up the berths of 
both officers and crew ; the rest must hang on to the railings as 
best they could. They should be thankful it was decent weather, 
said one of the sailors; the vessel didn't roll any faster in bad 
weather, but it rolled much farther in the same time a dis- 
tinction which struck Jimmie as over-subtle. 
The poor fellow's arms were numb with exhaustion, he had 
lost hope that anything in the world ever could be still, when the 
announcement was made that the harbour was in sight, and 
everybody's troubles would soon be over. And sure enough, 
the rolling gradually became less. The little vessel still quivered 
from stem to stern with the movement of her enormous engines, 
but Jimmie didn't mind that he was used to machinery; he 
got himself untied from the railing, and lay down on the floor, 
right there where he was, and fell asleep. Nor did he open his 
eyes when they came with a stretcher, and carried him onto a 
pier and slid him into a motor-truck and whisked him off to a 
hospital. 
Jimmie took an interest in life again he was lying 
in a bed: a bed that actually was still, that did not rise 
with a leaping motion to the ceiling, and then sink like a swift 
elevator into the basement. Better yet was the fact that this 
bed had clean sheets, and a lovely angel in spotless white hover- 
ing about it. You who read of Jimmie Higgins' adventures 
have perhaps been blessed with some of the good things of life, 
and may need to have it explained to you that never before 
had Jimmie known what it was to sleep between sheets to 
say nothing of clean sheets; never had he known what it was 
to sleep in a night-gown ; never had he had hot broth fetched to 
him by a snow-white angel with a bright smile and an aureole 
of golden-brown hair! This marvellous creature waited on his 
slightest nod, and when she was not busy running errands for 
him, she sat by his bedside and chatted, asking him all sorts of 
questions about himself and his life. She thought he was a 
soldier, and he, shameless wretch, discovered what she thought, 
and delayed to tell her that he was a common repairer of 
motor-cycles ! 
This was a war-hospital, and there were terrible sights to 
be seen here, terrible sounds to be heard; but Jimmie for a 
long time missed them almost entirely he was so comfortable ! 
He lay like a nice dozy cat ; he ate good things and drank good 
things, and then he fell asleep, and then he opened his eyes in 
the sunshine of a golden brown aureole. It was only gradually 
that he realised that somewhere in the ward a man was choking 
and gasping all night, because the inside of his lungs had been 
partly eaten out with poisonous acids. 
Jimmie inquired and was told that more than a hundred 
people on the transport had lost their lives, including several 
women; the nurse brought a paper with a list of the casualties, 
among which he read the name of Mike Angoni his friend the 
"wobbly" from the far West ! Also the name of Peter Toms 
the seaman from Cornwall, caught at the eighth attempt ! 
Jimmie read that the submarine which had sunk the transport 
had been shattered by a depth-charge, and the sea all strewn 
with the wreckage of it; and strange and terrible as it might 
seem, Jimmie, the pacifist, the Socialist, experienced a thrill of 
satisfaction! Not once did he stop to reflect that on board 
this underwater craft might have been some German comrade, 
some poor, enslaved, unhappy internationalist like himself! 
Jimmie wanted the sneaking, treacherous terrors of the sea ex- 
terminated, regardless of everything! 
The nurse with the halo of golden-brown hair got interested 
in her American patient, and would sit and talk with him 
every chance she got. She learned about Eleeza Betooser and 
the babies who had been blown to pieces in the explosion. Also 
she learned about Jimmie's being a Socialist, and asked him 
questions about it. Wasn't he just a little hard on the leisure 
classes? Might it not be that some of the capitalists would 
be as glad as he to know about a better social system? The 
young lady pronounced the word "capitalists" with the accent 
on the "it," which puzzled Jimmie for a time; also she assured 
him that "wage shedules" would never go back to what they 
were before the war, and Jimmie had to ask what a "shedule" 
might be. He did not have to ask what she meant by a "tart," 
because there it was on his tray a delicious little strawberry 
pie. 
II 
This meant that the destroyer had come to an English 
port; the nurse was a Britisher. If Jimmie had had tact, he 
would have remembered that Britishers have an outfit of earls 
and dukes and lords and things, to which they are sentimentally 
attached. But tact is not the leading virtue of Socialists; in 
fact Jimmie made a boast of scorning it if people asked his 
opinion, he "gave it to ? em straight." So now he caused this 
white angel to understand that he regarded the effete aristocra- 
cies of the old world with abysmal contempt; he meant to put 
them out of business right off the bat. In vain the white angel 
 
pleaded that some of them might be useful people, or at any 
rate well-meaning; Jimmie pronounced them a bunch of para- 
sites and grafters; the thing to do was to make a clean sweep 
of them. 
"You won't cut off their heads ?" pleaded the nurse. "Sure- 
ly they ought to have a chance to reform V 
"Oh, sure I" answered Jimmie. "All I mean is, everybody's 
got to go to work the dooks an' aristercrats like the rest." 
The nurse went off, carrying Jimmie's chamber to be 
emptied; and while she was gone, the man in the next bed, a 
gun-pointer from an American destroyer with his head bandaged 
up so that he looked like a Hindoo swami, turned his tired eyes 
upon Jimmie and drawled : "Say, you guy, you better can that 
line o' talk!" 
"Whaddyer mean?" demanded Jimmie, scenting controversy 
with some militarist. 
"I mean that there young lady belongs to the nobility her- 
self." 
"Go on !" said Jimmie. 
"Straight !" said the other. "Her father's the earl of Skye- 
terrier, or some such damn place." 
"Aw, cut it out !" growled the little machinist for you never 
knew in dealing with these soldier boys whether you were being 
"kidded" or not. 
"Did you ask her name?" 
"She told me it was Miss Clendenning." 
"Well, you ask her if she ain't the Honourable Beatrice Clen- 
denning, and see what she says." 
But Jimmie could not get up the nerve to ask. When the 
young lady came back, carrying his chamber washed clean, her 
pet patient was lying still, but so red in the face that she sus- 
pected that he had been trying to get out of bed without per- 
mission. 
Nor was that the end of wonders. Next day there ran a 
murmur of excitement through the ward, and everything was 
cleaned up fresh, though there was really nothing that needed 
cleaning. Flowers were brought in, and each nurse had a flower 
pinned on her waist. When Jimmie asked what was "up," the 
Honourable Beatrice looked at him with a quizzical smile. 
"We're going to have some distinguished visitors' she said. 
"But you won't be interested a class-conscious proletarian like 
you."' 
And she would not tell him; but when she went out, the 
fellow in the next bed told. "It's the king and queen that's 
comin'," said the gun-pointer. 
"Aw, ferget it!" said Jimmie quite sure he was being 
"kidded" this time. 
"Comin' to see the submarine victims," said the gun-pointer. 
"You cut out your Socialist rough stuff for to-day." 
Jimmie asked the nurse when she came back; and sure 
enough, it was true the king and queen were to visit the hos- 
pital, and pay their respects to the victims of the U-boat. But 
that wouldn't interest Jimmie Higgins. Would he not rather 
be carried away and put in a private room somewhere, so that 
his revolutionary eyes would not be offended? Or would he 
stay, and make a soap-boxer of His Majesty? 
"Sure, he won't have no time to talk to a feller like me!" 
said Jimmie. 
"Don't you be too sure," replied the other. "He's got noth- 
ing to do but talk, you know !" 
Jimmie didn't venture any farther, because he knew that the 
Honourable Beatrice was laughing at him, and he had never been 
laughed at by a woman before, and didn't know quite how to 
take it. He could not have been expected to understand that 
the Honourable Beatrice was a suffragette, and laughed at all 
men on general principles. Jimmie lay quietly in his bed and 
concealed the unworthy excitement in his soul. Wasn't that 
the devil now? Him, a little runt of a workingman from no- 
where in particular, that had been brought up on a charity- 
farm, and spent a good part of his life on the bum him to be 
meeting the king of England ! Jimmie had a way of disposing 
of kings that was complete and final; he called them "kinks," 
and when he had called them that he had settled them, wiped 
them clean out. "None o' them kinks fer me!" he had said 
to the Honourable Beatrice. 
But now a "kink" was coming to the hospital ! And what was 
Jimmie going to do ? How the devil did you talk to 'em ? Did 
you have to say, "Your Majesty"? Jimmie gripped his hands 
under the bed-covers, "I'll be damned if I do !" He summoned 
his revolutionary fervour, he called up the spirits of his "wobbly" 
friends, "Wild Bill" and "Strawberry" Curran and "Flathead 
Joe" and "Chuck" Peterson. What would they do under these 
circumstances? What would the Candidate do? Somehow, 
Jimmie's revolutionary education had been neglected nothing 
had ever been said in any Socialist local as to how a comrade 
should behave when a "lank" came to visit him! 
Jimmy was naturally a kindly human being; he was ready 
to respond to the kindness of other human beings. But was 
it in accord with revolutionary ethics' to be polite to a "kink" ? 
Was it not his duty to do something to show his contempt for 
"kinks"? Maybe his Royal Nibs never had anybody to "stand 
up to him" in all his life before. Well, let him have it to-day t 
IV 
A nurse rushed into the ward in great excitement, and 
whispered, "They're coming!" And after that the nurses all 
stood round, twisting their hands together nervously, and the 
patients lay with their eyes glued on the door where the appari- 
tion was to appear. 
At last there came in sight a man dressed in uniform, who 
Jimmie would never have dreamed could be a king except that 
he had seen his picture in the illustrated papers. He was a 
medium-sized, rather stoop-shouldered little gentleman, decidedly 
commonplace-looking, with a closely trimmed brown beard turn- 
ing grey, and rosy cheeks such as all Englishmen have. He was 
escorted by the head of the hospital-staff ; and behind him came 
a lady, a severe-looking lady dressed in black, with a couple more 
doctors escorting her, and behind them several officers in uni- 
form. 
The king and queen stopped at the head of the room, and 
looked down the rows of beds. Each of them wore a friendly 
smile, and nodded, and said, "How do you do ?" And of course 
everybody smiled back, and the nurses curtsied and said, "How 
do you do, Your Majesties?" And then His Majesty said, "I 
hope everybody is doing well ?" And the doctor called the head 
nurse in charge of the ward, who came up smiling and bowing, 
and answered that everybody was doing beautifully, thank you ; 
at which both His Majesty and Her Majesty declared that they 
were so pleased. The queen looked about, and seeing a man with 
many bandages, went to him and sat by his bedside and began to 
ask him questions ; the king moved down the centre of the room, 
until suddenly his eye happened on the Honourable Beatrice. 
She had not moved; she stood at her place like the other 
nurses. But Jimmie, watching, saw a smile come upon the 
king's face, and he moved towards her, saying, "Oh! How do 
you do?" The young lady went to meet him, quite as if she 
were used to meeting kings every day. 
"How are your patients doing?" inquired His Majesty. 
"Beautifully," said she; and His Majesty said that he was 
pleased just as if he had not said the same words only a 
minute before. He looked at the patients with benevolent but 
tired-looking eyes ; and the Honourable Beatrice, by those subtle 
methods known to women, brought it about that he looked 
especially at her favourite. She knew that he would wish to talk 
to some of the patients, and by ever so slight a movement she 
brought it about that it was towards Jimmie Higgins he ad- 
vanced. 
"What is your name?" he asked, and then, <f Well, Higgins, 
how are you feeling ?" 
"Sure, I'm all right," said Jimmie sturdily; "I wanner get 
up, only she won't let me." 
"Well," said His Majesty, "the time was when the king was 
the tyrant, but now it's the nurse." He smiled at the Honour- 
able lady. "Are you an American soldier?" 
"Naw," replied Jimmie, "I'm only a machinist." 
"This is a war of machines," replied His Majesty, gra- 
ciously. 
"I'm a Socialist !" exclaimed Jimmie, right off the bat. 
"Indeed!" said His Majesty. 
"You bet !" was the reply. 
"But you're not one of those Socialists who oppose their 
country, I see." 
"I done it for a long time," said Jimmie. "I didn't see 
we had no business in this here war. But I been changin' a 
bit." 
"I'm glad to hear that," remarked His Majesty. "Doubtless 
your recent experience has helped you to change." 
"Sure," replied Jimmie. "But I'm still a Socialist, don't you 
make no mistake about that, Mr. King." 
"I won't' said His Majesty; and he looked at the Honour- 
 
able Beatrice, and between them there flashed one of those 
subtle messages which highly sophisticated people know how to 
give and to catch entirely over the heads of Socialist machin- 
ists from Leesville, U. S. A. To the Honourable Beatrice the 
message conveyed, "How perfectly delicious !" To His Majesty 
it conveyed, "I knew you'd enjoy it!" 
Jimmie's mind was of course occupied entirely with the 
idea of propaganda. He must make the most of this strange 
opportunity! "Things is goin' to be changed after this here 
war !" said he. "Fer the workin' people, I mean." 
"They'll be changed for all of us," said His Majesty. "The 
dullest of us know that." 
"The workin' people got to get what they earn!" persisted 
Jimmie. "Why, Mr. King back home where I come from a 
feller could work twelve hours a day all his life, an' not have 
enough saved up to bury himself with. An' they say it was 
worse here in England." 
"We have had terrible poverty," admitted His Majesty. 
"We shall have to find some way of getting rid of it." 
"There ain't no way but Socialism !" cried Jimmie. "Look 
into it, an' you'll see ! We gotter get rid o' the profit-system. 
The feller that does the work has gotter get what he produces." 
"Well," said His Majesty, "you'll agree with me this far at 
least we must beat the Germans first." And then he turned 
to the Honourable Beatrice. "We shall learn much from our 
American visitors," he said, and flashed her another of those 
subtle messages, which indicated that perhaps it was not a good 
thing for patients in hospitals to become excited over Socialist 
propaganda! So the Honourable Beatrice turned to the man 
in the other bed, and His Majesty turned also; he ascertained 
that the man's name was Deakin, and that he came from Cape 
Cod. His Majesty remarked how badly England needed good 
Yankee gun-pointers, and how grateful he was to those who came 
to help the British navy. Jimmie listened, just a tiny bit jealous 
not for himself, of course, but because he knew that Socialism 
was so much more important than gun-pointing ! 
At the foot of the bed there stood a military officer. He had 
been there for some time, but Jimmie did not notice him till the 
king arose and moved away. The officer was just the sort of 
hand-made aristocrat that Jimmie imagined all officers to be; 
smooth-shaven, except for a little toy moustache, with serene, im- 
passive features, a dapper and immaculate uniform, and a queer 
little fancy stick in his hand, to show that he never did anything 
resembling work. He was eyeing the machinist, with what the 
machinist suspected to be a superior air. "Well, my good man," 
said he, "you had a talk with the king !" 
That seemed obvious enough. "Sure !" said Jimmie. 
"Generally," continued the officer, "wFen one talks with the 
king, one addresses him as 'Your Majesty' not as 'Mr. King." 
Jimmie was tired now, and not looking for controversy; so 
he did not bridle as he might otherwise have done. "Nobody 
told me' said he. 
"Also," continued the other, "one is not supposed to volunteer 
opinions. One waits for the king to ask a question, and then one 
answers." 
Jimmie's eyes were closed, and he only half opened them as 
he answered. "They been tellin' me this here is a war for 
Democracy !" said he. 
THEY gave Jimmie Higgins a couple of days to lie about on 
 the grounds of the hospital, and make the acquaintance and 
hear the experiences of men who had lost arms and legs in bat- 
tle, or had been burned by flame-throwers, or ruined for life by 
poison-gases. Strange as it might seem, Jimmie found among 
these men not a few with whom he could talk, whose point of 
view was close to his own. These Britishers had been through 
the mill ; they knew. None of the glory stuff for them ! Leave 
that for the newspaper scribblers, the bloody rascals who stayed 
at home and beat on tomtoms, driving other men to march in 
and die. You went and got yourself battered up, ruined for 
life and then what would they do for you? It was a hard 
world to a man who was crippled and helpless. Yes, said 
Jimmie; the same hard world that it was to a Socialist, a 
dreamer of justice. 
But there was the old dilemma, from which he had never 
been able to find escape, whether in Leesville, U. S. A., or on 
the high seas, or here in old England. What were you going to 
do about the Huns? To hold out your hand to them was like 
putting it into a tiger's cage. No, by God, you had to fight 
them, you had to lick them, cost what it might! And the 
speaker would go on and tell of things he had seen : a Prussian 
officer who had shot a British surgeon in the back, after this 
surgeon had bound up his wounds; a commandant of a prison- 
camp who had withdrawn all medical aid in a typhus-epidemic, 
and allowed his charges to perish like rats. 
So, hell though it was, you had to go through with it ; if you 
were a man, you had to set your teeth and grip your hands and 
take your share of the horror, whatever it might be. And 
Jimmie, being something of a little man in his way, would set 
his teeth and grip his hands and take, in imagination, the share 
of the particular human wreck who happened to be talking to 
him. So Jimmie Higgins was battered back and forth, like a 
tennis-ball between the two forces of Militarism and Eevolution. 
Just now was another crisis the Huns had begun a furious 
drive in Flanders, the third battle of Ypres, and the British 
were falling back, not in rout, but in retreat which might be- 
come rout at any hour. The bulletins came in several times 
a day, and people on the streets would stop and read them, their 
faces full of fear. When the wind was right you could hear 
the guns across the channel; Jimmie would lie at night and 
listen to the dull, incessant thunder a terrific, man-made storm, 
in which showers of steel were raining down upon the heads of 
soldiers hiding in shell-holes and hastily dug trenches. The 
war seemed very near indeed when the wind was right ! 
Still, a fellow has to live. Jimmie was in a foreign land 
for the first time in his life, and when they turned him loose, 
he and a couple of other American chaps went wandering about 
the streets, staring at the sights of this town, which had been a 
small harbour before the war, but now was a vast centre of the 
world's commerce, one of the routes by which large sections of 
Britain were moved across the channel every day. 
You saw on the streets no men out of uniform, except a few 
old ones ; you saw nobody at all idle, except the young children. 
The women were driving the trucks, and operating the street- 
cars, which were called "trams," and the elevators, which were 
called "lifts." Everybody's face was sober and drawn, but they 
lightened up when they saw the Americans, who had come so 
far to help them in their trouble. In the cake-shops, and the 
queer little "pubs" where rosy-cheeked girls sold very thin beer, 
they could not be polite enough to the visitors from over-seas; 
even the haughtiest-looking "bobby" would stop to tell you the 
way about the streets. "First to the roight, third to the left," he 
would say, very fast ; and when you looked bewildered, he would 
say it again, as fast as ever. 
But they needed motor-cycles so badly in the new American 
armies that they didn't give Jimmie much time to be a hero; 
he got his orders, and a new outfit, and bade farewell to the 
 
Honourable Beatrice, promising to write to her now and then, 
and not to be too hard on the aristocracy. He crossed the chan- 
nel, alive with boats like the Hudson River with its ferries, 
and came to another and still bigger port, which the Americans 
had taken and made over new for the war. Long vistas of docks 
had been built since the fighting began ; Jimmie saw huge cranes 
that dipped down into the hold of a ship, and pulled out whole 
locomotives, or maybe half a dozen automobile trucks in one 
swoop. Behind these docks was a tangle of railroad-yards and 
tracks, and miles upon miles of sheds, piled to the top with 
stores of every sort you could imagine. A whole encampment- 
city covered the surrounding hills, crowned by an old, creaking, 
moss-grown windmill the Middle Ages looking in dismay upon 
these modern times. 
Nobody took the trouble to invite Jimmie to inspect these 
marvels, but he got glimpses here and there, and men with 
whom he chatted told him more. One man had been directing 
the unloading of canned tomatoes; for six months he had seen 
nothing but crates upon crates and car-loads upon car-loads of 
canned tomatoes, coming into one end of a shed and going out 
at the other. Somewhere in the higher regions dwelt a mar- 
vellous tomato-brain, which knew exactly how many cans a 
division of dough-boys in a training-camp would consume each 
day, how many would be needed by patients in hospitals, by 
lumbermen in French forests, by revellers in Y. M. C. A. huts. 
Every now and then a ship brought another supply, and the 
man who told Jimmie about it bossed a gang of negroes who 
piled the crates on trucks. 
And then Jimmie met a Frenchman, who had been a waiter 
in a Chicago hotel, and now was bossing a gang of wire-haired 
Korean labourers. Jimmie had thought he knew all the races 
of the earth in the shops and mills and mines of America; but 
here he heard of new kinds of men Annamese and Siamese, 
Paythans and Sikhs, Madagascans and Abyssinians and Alge- 
rians. All the British empire was here, and all the French 
colonies. There were Portuguese and Brazilians and West In- 
dians, bushmen from Australia and Zulus from South Africa; 
and these not having proven enough; America was now pouring 
out the partly melted contents of her pot Hawaiians and Porto 
Ricans, Filipinos and "spiggoties," Esquimaux from Alaska, 
Chinamen from San Francisco, Sioux from Dakota, and plain 
black plantation niggers from Louisiana and Alabama ! Jimmie 
saw a gang of these latter mending a track which had been blown 
out of place by a bomb from an aeroplane ; their black skins shin- 
ing with sweat, their white teeth shining with good-nature as 
they swung their heavy crow-bars, a long row of them moving 
like a machine, chanting to keep in unison. "Altogether- 
heave!" the officer would call, and the line would swing intc 
motion 
"Get a mule 
An' a jack! 
No slow, 
No slack! 
Put the hump 
In yo' back " 
III 
For nearly four years Jimmie had been reading about 
France, and now he was here, and could see the sights with his 
own eyes. People with wooden shoes, for example! It was 
worth coming across the seas to see women and kids going 
clatter, clatter along the cobbled streets. And the funny little 
railroad-coaches, with rows of doors like rabbit-pens. It was 
a satisfaction to notice that the train had a real man-sized engine, 
with U. S. A. painted thereon. Jimmie owned a share in that 
engine, and experienced socialistic thrills as he rode behind it. 
He had got separated from his "unit," thanks to the sub- 
marine and the sojourn in the hospital. They had given him 
a pass, with orders to proceed to a certain town, travelling on a 
certain train. Now Jimmie sat looking out of the window, as 
happy as a boy out of school. A beautiful country, the fresh 
green glory of spring everywhere upon it; broad, straight mili- 
tary highways lined with poplars, and stone houses with queer 
steep roofs, and old men and women and children toiling in the 
fields. 
Jimmie chattered with the men in the compartment, sol- 
diers and workers, each a cog in the big machine, each bound 
upon some important errand. Each had news to tell tales 
of the fighting, or of the progress of preparation. For more than 
a year now America had been getting ready, and here, in the 
most desperate crisis of the war, what was she going to do? 
Everybody was on tip-toe with excitement, with impatience to 
 
get into the scrap, to make good in the work upon which his 
soul was set. Every man knew that the "dough-boys" would 
show themselves the masters of "Fritz" ; they knew it as religious 
people know there is a God in Heaven only, unlike most re- 
ligious people, they were anxious to get to this heaven and meet 
this God at the earliest possible moment. Next to Jimmie sat a 
Wisconsin farmer-boy, German in features, in name, even in 
accent; yet he was ready to fight the soldiers of the Kaiser 
and quite sure he could lick them! Had he not lived since 
childhood in a free country, and been to an American public- 
school ? 
Everybody had funny stories to tell about the adventures 
of soldiers in a foreign land. The French were all right, of 
course, especially the girls; but the shop-keepers were frugal, 
and you had better count your change, and bite the coins they 
offered you. As for their language holy smoke! Why did a 
civilised people want to talk a lingo that made you grunt like 
a pig or like a penf ul of pigs of all sizes ? Across the way sat 
a Chicago street-car conductor with a little lesson-book, and now 
and then he would read something out loud. An, in, on, un, 
that many different sizes of pigs ! When you wanted bread, you 
asked for a pain, and when you wanted a dish of eggs, you asked 
for a cat-roof omelette. How was this for a tongue-twister 
Bay five hundred and fifty-five francs in French ! 
Fortunately, you didn't have to say that many not on the 
pay of a dough-boy, put in a plumber from up-state in New 
York. For his part, he did not bother to grunt he would make 
drinking motions or eating motions, and they would bring him 
things till they found what he wanted. One time he had met a 
girl that he thought was all right, and he wanted to blow her to 
a feed, so he drew a picture of a chicken, thinking he would 
get it roasted. She had chattered away to the waiter, and he 
had come back with two soft-boiled eggs. That was the French 
notion of taking a girl out to dinner ! 
IV 
They loaded Jimmie into a motor-lorry and whirled him 
away. You knew you were going to war then, by heck; there 
were two almost solid processions of wagons and trucks, loaded 
with French soldiers and materials going, and damaged French 
soldiers returning. It was like Broadway at the most crowded 
hour ; only here everything went by in a whirl of dust you got 
quick glimpses of drivers with tense faces and blood-shot eyes. 
Now and then there would be a blockade, and men would swear 
and fume in mixed languages ; staff-cars in an extra hurry would 
go off the road and bump along across country, while gangs of 
negro labourers, French colonials, seized the opportunity to fill 
up the ruts worn in the highway. 
They put Jimmie off at a village where his motor-unit was 
located, in a long shed made of corrugated iron, the sort of shed 
which the army threw up over night. Here were a score of 
men working at repairs, and Jimmie stopped for no formalities, 
but took off his coat and pitched in. There was plenty of 
work, he could see; the machines came, sometimes whole truck- 
loads of them, damaged in every way he had ever seen before, 
and in new ways not dreamed of in Kumme's bicycle-shop tires 
torn to shreds by fragments of shrapnel, frames twisted out of 
shape by explosions, and nasty splotches of blood completing the 
story. 
It was one of the many places where American units had 
been taken to plug the damaged French lines. There was a 
reserve battalion nearby, and outside this village a group of men 
at work, putting up tents for a hospital. Some thirty miles 
ahead was the front, and you heard the guns off and on, a low 
sullen roar, punctuated with hammer-strokes of big fellows. 
Millions of dollars every hour were being blown to nothingness 
in that fearful inferno; a gigantic meat-mill that was grinding 
up the bodies of men, and had never ceased day or night for 
nearly four years. You could be a violent pacifist in sound of 
those guns, or you could be a violent militarist, but you could not 
be indifferent to the war, you could not be of two minds about it. 
And yet Jimmie Higgins was of two minds! He wanted 
to beat back the Huns, who had made all this fearful mess ; but 
also he wanted to beat the profiteers who were making messes 
at home. It happened that Jimmie had reached the army at a 
trying moment, when there were no American big guns, and 
when promises of machine-guns and aeroplanes had failed. 
There was wild excitement in the home papers, and not a little 
