sprawling, shadowy shape under the dim drop-light which once had been
a mosque-lamp in Samarcand.
The girl flung stole and muff from her, rolled up her gloves and took
a shot at the piano, then, laughing, unpinned her hat and sent it
scaling away into the golden dusk somewhere.
"Are you sleepy, Jim?"
A sudden vision of his trouble in the long, long night to face--trouble,
insomnia, and the bitterness welling ever fresher with the interminable
thoughts he could not suppress, could not control----
"I'm not sleepy," he said. "But don't you want to turn in?"
She went over to the piano, and, accompanying herself on deadened
pedal where she stood, sang in a low voice the "Snow-Tiger," with
its uncanny refrain:
                            "Tiger-eyes
                            Tiger-eyes,
                            What do you see
                             Far in the dark
                             Over the snow?
                             Far in the dark
                             Over the snow,
                Slowly the ghosts of dead men go,--
                Horses and riders under the moon
                Trample along to the dead men's rune,
                            Slava! Slava!
                            Over the snow."
"That's too hilarious a song," said Jim, laughing. "May I suggest a
little rag to properly subdue us?"
"You don't like Tiger-eyes?"
"I've heard more cheerful ditties."
"When I'm excited by pleasure," said the girl, "I sing Tiger-eyes."
"Does it subdue you?"
She looked at him. "No."
Still standing, she looked down at the keys, struck the muffled chords
softly.
                     "Tiger-eyes
                      Tiger-eyes,
                      Where do they go,
                      Far in the dark
                      Over the snow?
                      Into the dark,
                      Over the snow,
              Only the ghosts of the dead men know
              Where they have come from, whither they go,
              Riding at night by the corpse-light glow,
                      Slava! Slava!
                      Over the snow."
"Well, for the love of Mike----"
Marya's laughter pealed.
"So you don't like Tiger-eyes?" she demanded, coming from behind the
piano.
"I sure don't," he admitted.
"The real Russian name of the song is 'Words! Words!' And that's all
the song is--all that any song is--all that anything amounts
to--words! words!--" She dropped onto the long couch,--"Anything
except--love."
"You may include that, too," he said, lighting a cigarette for her;
and she blew a ring of smoke at him, saying:
"I may--but I won't. For goodness sake leave me the last one of my
delusions!"
They both laughed and he said she was welcome to her remaining
delusion.
"Won't you share it with me?" she said, her smile innocent enough,
save for the audacity of the red mouth.
"Share your delusion?"
"Yes, that too."
This wouldn't do. He lighted a cigarette for himself and sauntered
over to the piano.
"I hope Vanya's concert is a success," he said. "He's such a charming
fellow, Vanya--so considerate, so gentle--" He turned and looked at
Marya, and his eyes added: "Why the devil don't you marry him and have
a lot of jolly children?"
There seemed to be in his clear eyes enough for the girl to comprehend
something of the question they flung at her.
"I don't love Vanya," she said.
"Of course you do!"
"As I might love a child--yes."
After a silence: "It strikes me," he said, "that you're passionately
in love."
"I am."
"With yourself," he added, smiling.
"With you."
This wouldn't do any longer. The place slightly stifled him with its
stillness, rugs--the odours that came from lacquered shapes, looming
dimly, flowered and golden in the dusk--the aromatic scent of her
cigarette----
"Hell!" he muttered under his breath. "This is no place for a white
man." But aloud he said pleasantly: "My very best wishes for Vanya
to-night. Tell him so when he returns--" He put on his overcoat and
picked up hat and stick.
"It's infernally late," he added, "and I've been a beast to keep you
up. It was awfully nice of you."
She rose from the lounge and walked with him to the door.
"Good night," he said cheerily; but she retained his hand, added her
other to it, and put up her face.
"Look here," he said, smilingly, "I can't do that, Marya."
"Why can't you?"
Her soft breath was on his face; the mouth too near--too near----
"No, I can't!" he said curtly, but his voice trembled a little.
"Why?" she whispered.
"Because--there's Vanya. No, I won't do it!"
"Is that the reason?"
"It's a reason."
"I don't love Vanya. I do love you."
"Please remember----"
"No! No! I have nothing to remember--unless you give me something----"
"You had better try to remember that Vanya loves you. You and I can't
do a thing like that to Vanya--"
"Are there no other reasons?"
He reddened to the temples: "No, there are not--now. There is no other
reason--except myself."
"Yourself?"
"Yes, damn it, myself! That's all that remains now to keep me
straight. And I've been so. That may be news to you. Perhaps you don't
believe it."
"Is it so, Jim?" she asked in a voice scarcely audible.
"Yes, it is. And so I shall keep on, and play the game that way--play
it squarely with Vanya, too----"
He had lost his heavy colour; he stood looking at her with a white,
strained, grim expression that tightened the jaw muscles; and she felt
his powerful hand clenching between hers.
"It's no use," he said between his set lips, "I've got to go on--see
it through in my own fashion--this rotten thing called life. I'm
sorry, Marya, that I'm not a better sport----"
A wave of colour swept her face and her hands suddenly crushed his
between them.
"You're wonderful," she said. "I do love you."
But the tense, grey look had come back into his face. Looking at her
in silence, presently his gaze seemed to become remote, his absent
eyes fixed on something beyond her.
"I've a rotten time ahead of me," he said, not knowing he had spoken.
When his eyes reverted to her, his features remained expressionless,
but his voice was almost tender as he said good night once more.
Her hands fell away; he opened the door and went out without looking
back.
He found a taxi at the Plaza. He was swearing when he got into it. And
all the way home he kept repeating to himself: "I'm one of those
cursed, creeping Josephs; that's what I am,--one of those pepless,
sanctimonious, creeping Josephs.... And I always loathed that poor
fish, too!"
CHAPTER XVIII
Shotwell Junior discovered in due course of time the memoranda of the
repeated messages which Palla had telephoned to his several clubs,
asking him to call her up immediately.
It was rather late to do that now, but his pulses began to quicken
again in the old, hopeless way; and he went to the telephone booth and
called the number which seemed burnt into his brain forever.
A maid answered; Palla came presently; and he thought her voice seemed
colourless and unfamiliar.
"Yes, I'm perfectly well," she replied to his inquiry; "where in the
world did you go that night? I simply couldn't find you anywhere."
"What had you wished to say to me?"
"Nothing--except--that I was afraid you were angry when you left, and
I didn't wish you to part with me on such terms. Were you annoyed?"
"No."
"You say it very curtly, Jim."
"Is that all you desired to say to me?"
"Yes.... I was a little troubled.... Something else went wrong,
too;--everything seemed to go wrong that night.... I thought
perhaps--if I could hear your voice--if you'd say something kind----"
"Had you nothing else to tell me, Palla?"
"No.... What?"
"Then you haven't changed your attitude?"
"Toward you? I don't expect to----"
"You know what I mean!"
"Oh. But, Jim, we can't discuss that over the telephone."
"I suppose not.... Is anything wrong with you, Palla? Your voice
sounds so tired----"
"Does it? I don't know why. Tell me, please, what did you do that
unhappy night?"
"I went home."
"Directly?"
"Yes."
"I telephoned your house about twelve, and was informed you were not
at home."
"They thought I was asleep. I'm sorry, Palla----"
"I shouldn't have telephoned so late," she interrupted, "I'm afraid
that it was your mother who answered; and if it was, I received the
snub I deserved!"
"Nonsense! It wasn't meant that way----"
"I'm afraid it was, Jim. It's quite all right, though. I won't do it
again.... Am I to see you soon?"
"No, not for a while----"
"Are you so busy?"
"There's no use in my going to you, Palla."
"Why?"
"Because I'm in love with you," he said bluntly, "and I'm trying to
get over it."
"I thought we were friends, too."
After a lengthy silence: "You're right," he said, "we are."
She heard his quick, deep breath like a sigh. "Shall I come
to-night?"
"I'm expecting some people, Jim--women who desire to establish a
Combat Club in Chicago, and they have come on here to consult me."
"To-morrow night, then?"
"Please."
"Will you be alone?"
"I expect to be."
Once more he said: "Palla, is anything worrying you? Are you ill? Is
Ilse all right?"
There was a pause, then Palla's voice, resolutely tranquil.
"Everything is all right in the world as long as you are kind to me,
Jim. When you're not, things darken and become queer----"
"Palla!"
"Yes."
"Listen! This is to serve notice on you. I'm going to make a fight for
you."
After a silence, he heard her sweet, uncertain laughter.
"Jim?"
"Yes, dear."
"I suppose it would shock you if I made a fight for--you!"
He took it as a jest and laughed at her perverse humour. But what
she had meant she herself scarcely realised; and she turned away
from the telephone, conscious of a vague excitement invading her and
of a vaguer consternation, too. For behind the humorous audacity
of her words, she seemed to realise there remained something
hidden--something she was on the verge of discovering--something
indefinable, menacing, grave enough to dismay her and drive from her
lips the last traces of the smile which her audacious jest had
left there.
The ladies from Chicago were to dine with her; her maid had hooked
her gown; orchids from Jim had just arrived, and she was still pinning
them to her waist--still happily thrilled by this lovely symbol of
their renewed accord, when the bell rang.
It was much too early to expect anybody: she fastened her orchids and
started to descend the stairs for a last glance at the table, when, to
her astonishment, she saw Angelo Puma in the hall in the act of
depositing his card upon the salver extended by the maid.
He looked up and saw her before she could retreat: she made the best
of it and continued on down, greeting him with inquiring amiability:
"Miss Dumont, a thousand excuses for this so bold intrusion," he
began, bowing extravagantly at every word. "Only the urgent importance
of my errand could possibly atone for a presumption like there never
has been in all----"
"Please step into the drawing room, Mr. Puma, if you have something of
importance to say."
He followed her on tiptoe, flashing his magnificent eyes about the
place, still wearing over his evening dress the seal overcoat with its
gardenia, which was already making him famous on Broadway.
Palla seated herself, wondering a little at the perfumed splendour of
her landlord. He sat on the extreme edge of an arm chair, his glossy
hat on his knee.
"Miss Dumont," he said, laying one white-gloved paw across his
shirt-front, "you shall behold in me a desolate man!"
"I'm sorry." She looked at him in utter perplexity.
"What shall you say to me?" he cried. "What just reproaches shall you
address to me, Miss Dumont!"
"I'm sure I don't know, Mr. Puma," she said, inclined to laugh,
"--until you tell me what is your errand."
"Miss Dumont, I am most unhappy and embarrass. Because you have pay me
in advance for that which I am unable to offer you."
"I don't think I understand."
"Alas! You have pay to me by cheque for six months more rent of my
hall."
"Yes."
"I have given to you a lease for six months more, and with it an
option for a year of renewal."
"Yes."
"Miss Dumont, behold me desolate."
"But why?"
"Because I am force by circumstance over which I have no control to
cancel this lease and option, and ask you most respectfully to be so
kind as to secure other quarters for your club."
"But we can't do that!" exclaimed Palla in dismay.
"I am so very sorry----"
"We can't do it," added Palla with decision. "It's utterly impossible,
Mr. Puma. All our meetings are arranged for months in advance; all the
details are completed. We could not disarrange the programme adopted.
From all over the United States people are invited to come on certain
fixed dates. All arrangements have been made; you have my cheque and I
have your signed lease. No, we are obliged to hold you to your
contract, and I'm very sorry if it inconveniences you."
Puma's brilliant eyes became tenderly apprehensive.
"Miss Dumont," he said in a hushed and confidential voice, "believe me
when I venture to say to you that your club should leave for reasons
most grave, most serious."
"What reasons?"
"The others--the Red Flag Club. Who knows what such crazy people might
do in anger? They are very angry already. They complain that your club
has interfere with them----"
"That is exactly why we're there, Mr. Puma--to interfere with them,
neutralise their propaganda, try to draw the same people who listen to
their violent tirades. That is why we're there, and why we refuse to
leave. Ours is a crusade of education. We chose that hall because we
desired to make the fight in the very camp of the enemy. And I must
tell you plainly that we shall not give up our lease, and that we
shall hold you to it."
The dark blood flooded his heavy features:
"I do not desire to take it to the courts," he said. "I am willing to
offer compensation."
"We couldn't accept. Don't you understand, Mr. Puma? We simply must
have that particular hall for the Combat Club."
Puma remained perfectly silent for a few moments. There was still, on
his thick lips, the suave smile which had been stamped there since his
appearance in her house.
But in this man's mind and heart there was growing a sort of dull and
ferocious fear--fear of elements already gathering and combining to
menace his increasing prosperity.
Sullenly he was aware that this hard-won prosperity was threatened.
Always its conditions had been unstable at best, but now the
atmospheric pressure was slowly growing, and his sky of promise was
not as clear.
Some way, somehow, he must manage to evict these women. Twice Sondheim
had warned him. And that evening Sondheim had sent him an ultimatum by
Kastner.
And Puma was perfectly aware that Karl Kastner knew enough about him
to utterly ruin him in the great Republic which was now giving him a
fortune and which had never discovered that his own treacherous
mission here was the accomplishment of her ruin.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Puma stood up, heavily, cradling his glossy hat. But his urbane smile
became brilliant again and he made Palla an extravagant bow.
"It shall be arrange," he said cheerfully. "I consult my partner--your
friend, Mr. Skidder! Yes! So shall we arrive at entente."
His large womanish eyes swept the room. Suddenly they were arrested by
a photograph of Shotwell Junior--in a silver frame--the only ornament,
as yet, in the little drawing room.
And instantly, within Angelo Puma, the venomous instinct was aroused
to do injury where it might be done safely and without suspicion of
intent.
"Ah," he exclaimed gaily, "my friend, Mr. Shotwell! It is from him,
Miss Dumont, you have purchase this so beautiful residence!"
He bent to salute with a fanciful inclination the photograph of the
man who had spoken so contemptuously of him the evening previous.
"Mr. Shotwell also adores gaiety," he said laughingly. "Last night I
beheld him at the Palace of Mirrors--and with an attractive young lady
of your club, Miss Dumont--the charming young Russian lady with whom
you came once to pay me the rent--" He kissed his hand in an ecstasy
of recollection. "So beautiful a young lady! So gay were they in their
box! Ah, youth! youth! Ah, the happiness and folly when laughter
bubbles in our wine!--the magic wine of youth!"
He took his leave, moving lightly to the door, almost grotesque in his
elaborate evolutions and adieux.
Palla went slowly upstairs.
The evening paper lay on a table in the living room. She unfolded it
mechanically; looked at it but saw no print, merely an unsteady haze
of greyish tint on which she could not seem to concentrate.
Marya and Jim ... together.... That was the night he went away
angry.... The night he told her he had gone directly home.... But it
couldn't have been.... He couldn't have lied....
She strove to recollect as she sat there staring at the newspaper....
What was it that beast had said about it?... Of course--last
night!... Marya and Jim had been together last night.... But where was
Vanya?... Oh, yes.... Last night Vanya was away ... in Baltimore.
The paper dropped to her lap; she sat looking straight ahead of her.
What had so shocked her then about Jim and Marya being together? True,
she had not supposed them to be on such terms--had not even thought
about it....
Yes, she had thought about it, scarcely conscious of her own
indefinable uneasiness--a memory, perhaps, of that evening when the
Russian girl had been at little pains to disguise her interest in this
man. And Palla had noticed it--noticed that Marya was seated too near
him--noticed that, and the subtle attitude of provocation, and the
stealthy evolution of that occult sorcery which one woman instantly
divines in another and finds slightly revolting.
Was it merely that memory which had been evoked when Puma's laughing
revelation so oddly chilled her?--the suspected and discovered
predilection of this Russian girl for Jim? Or was it something else,
something deeper, some sudden and more profound illumination which
revealed to her that, in the depths of her, she was afraid?
Afraid? Afraid of what?
Her charming young head sank; the brown eyes stared at the floor.
She was beginning to understand what had chilled her, what she had
unconsciously been afraid of--her own creed!--when applied to
another woman.
And this was the second time that this creed of hers had risen to
confront her, and the second time she had gazed at it, chilled by
fear: once, when she had waited for Ilse to return; and now once
again.
For now she began to comprehend how ruthless that creed could become
when professed by such a girl as Marya Lanois.
                  *       *       *       *       *
She was still seated there when Marya came in, her tiger-red hair in
fascinating disorder from the wind, her skin fairly breathing the warm
fragrance of exotic youth.
"My Palla! How pale you seem!" she exclaimed, embracing her. "You are
quite well? Really? Then I am reassured!"
She went to the mirror and tucked in a burnished strand or two of
hair.
"These Chicago ladies--they have not arrived, I see. Am I then so
early? For I see that Ilse is not yet here----"
"It is only a quarter to eight," said Palla, smiling; but the brown
eyes were calmly measuring this lithe and warm and lovely thing with
green eyes--measuring it intently--taking its measure--taking, for the
first time in her life, her measure of any woman.
"Was Vanya's concert a great success?" she asked.
"Vanya has not yet returned." She shrugged. "There was nothing in New
York papers."
"I suppose you were very nervous last night," said Palla.
For a moment Marya continued to arrange her hair by the aid of the
mantel mirror, then she turned very lithely and let her green gaze
rest full on Palla's face.
What she might possibly have divined was hidden behind the steady
brown eyes that met hers may have determined her attitude and words;
for she laughed with frank carelessness and plunged into it all:
"Fancy, Palla, my encountering Jim Shotwell in the Biltmore, and
dining with him at that noisy Palace of Mirrors last night! Did he
tell you?"
"I haven't seen him."
"--Over the telephone, perhaps?"
"No, he did not mention it."
"Well, it was most amusing. It is the unpremeditated that is
delightful. And can you see us in that dreadful place, as gay as a
pair of school children? And we must laugh at nothing and find it
enchanting--and we must dance amid the hoi polloi and clap our hands
for the encore too!----"
A light peal of laughter floated from her lips at the recollections
evoked:
"And after! Can you see us, Palla, in Vanya's studio, too wide awake
to go our ways!--and the song I sang at that unearthly hour--the song
I sing always when happily excited----"
The bell rang; the first guest had arrived.
CHAPTER XIX
Vanya's concert had been enough of a success to attract the
attention of genuine music-lovers and an impecunious impresario--an
irresponsible promoter celebrated for rushing headlong into things
and being kicked headlong out of them.
All promising virtuosi had cut their wisdom teeth on him; all had
acquired experience and its accompanying toothache; none had acquired
wealth until free of this ubiquitous impresario.
His name was Wilding: he seized upon Vanya; and that gentle and
disconcerted dreamer offered no resistance.
So Wilding began to haunt Vanya's apartment at all hours of the day,
rushing in with characteristic enthusiasm to discuss the vast campaign
of nation-wide concerts which in his mind's eye were already
materialising.
Marya had no faith in him and was becoming very tired of his noise and
bustle in the stillness and subdued light which meant home to her, and
which this loud, excitable, untidy man was eternally invading.
Always he was shouting at Vanya: "It's a knock-out! It will go big!
big! big! We got 'em started in Baltimore!"--a fact, but none of his
doing! "We'll play Philadelphia next; I'm fixin' it for you. All you
gotta do is go there and the yelling starts. Well, I guess. Some riot,
believe me!"
Wilding had no money in the beginning. After a while, Vanya had none,
or very little; but the impresario wore a new fur coat and spats. And
Broadway winked wearily and said: "He's got another!"--doubtless
deeming specification mere redundancy.
Yet, somehow, Wilding did manage to book Vanya in Philadelphia--at a
somewhat distant date, it is true--but it was something with which to
begin the promised "nation-wide tour" under the auspices of Dawson B.
Wilding.
Marya had money of her own, but trusted none of it in Wilding's
schemes. In fact, she had come to detest him thoroughly, and whenever
he was announced she would rise like some beautiful, disgusted feline,
which something has disturbed in her dim and favourite corner, and
move lithely away to another room. And it almost seemed as though her
little, warm, closely-chiselled ears actually flattened with bored
annoyance as the din of Wilding's vociferous greeting to Vanya arose
behind her.
                  *       *       *       *       *
One day toward Christmas time, she said to Vanya, in her level,
satin-smooth voice:
"You know, mon ami, I am tiring rapidly of this great fool who comes
shouting and tramping into our home. And when I am annoyed beyond my
nerve capacity, I am likely to leave."
Vanya said gently that he was sorry that he had entered into financial
relations with a man who annoyed her, but that it could scarcely be
helped now.
He was seated at his piano, not playing, but scoring. And he resumed
his composition after he had spoken, his grave, delicate head bent
over the ruled sheets, a gold pencil held between his long fingers.
Marya lounged near, watched him. Not for the first time, now, did his
sweet temper and gentleness vaguely irritate her--string her nerves a
little tighter until they began to vibrate with an indefinable longing
to say something to arouse this man--startle him--awaken him to a
physical tensity and strength.... Such as Shotwell's for example....
"Vanya?"
He looked up absently, the beauty of dreams still clouding his eyes.
And suddenly, to her own astonishment, her endurance came to its end.
She had never expected to say what she was now going to say to him.
She had never dreamed of confession--of enlightening him. And now, all
at once, she knew she was going to do it, and that it was a needless
and cruel and insane and useless thing to do, for it led her nowhere,
and it would leave him in helpless pain.
"Vanya," she said, "I am in love with Jim Shotwell."
After a few moments, she turned and slowly crossed the studio. Her hat
and coat lay on a chair. She put them on and walked out.
                  *       *       *       *       *
The following morning, Palla, arriving to consult Marya on a matter of
the Club's business, discovered Vanya alone in the studio.
He was lying on the lounge when she entered, and he looked ill, but he
rose with all his characteristic grace and charm and led her to a
chair, saluting her hand as he seated her.
"Marya has not yet arrived?" she inquired.
His delicate features became very grave and still.
"I thought," added Palla, "that Marya usually breakfasted at
eleven----"
Something in his expression checked her; and she fell silent,
fascinated by the deathly whiteness of his face.
"I am sorry to tell you," he said, in a pleasant and steady voice,
"that Marya has not returned."
"Why--why, I didn't know she was away----"
"Yesterday she decided. Later she was good enough to telephone from
the Hotel Rajah, where, for the present, she expects to remain."
"Oh, Vanya!" Palla's involuntary exclamation brought a trace of colour
into his cheeks.
He said: "It is not her fault. She was loyal and truthful. One may not
control one's heart.... And if she is in love--well, is she not free
to love him?"
"Who--is--it?" asked Palla faintly.
"Mr. Shotwell, it appears."
In the dead silence, Vanya passed his hand slowly across his temples;
let it drop on his knee.
"Freedom above all else," he said, "--freedom to love, freedom to
cease loving, freedom to love anew.... Well ... it is curious--the
scheme of things.... Love must remain inexplicable. For there is no
analysis. I think there never could be any man who cared as I have
cared, as I do care for her...."
He rose, and to Palla he seemed already a trifle stooped;--it may have
been his studio coat, which fitted badly.
"But, Vanya dear--" Palla looked at him miserably, conscious of her
own keen fears as well as of his sorrow. "Don't you think she'll come
back? Do you suppose it is really so serious--what she thinks
about--Mr. Shotwell?"
He shook his head: "I don't know.... If it is so, it is so. Freedom is
of first importance. Our creed is our creed. We must abide by what we
teach and believe."
"Yes."
He nodded absently, staring palely into space.
Perhaps his lost gaze evoked the warm-skinned, sunny-haired girl who
had gone out of the semi-light of this still place, leaving the void
unutterably vast around him. For this had been the lithe thing's
silken lair--the slim and supple thing with beryl eyes--here where
thick-piled carpets of the East deadened every human movement--where
no sound stirred, nor any air--where dull shapes loomed, lacquered and
indistinct, and an odour of Chinese lacquer and nard haunted the
tinted dusk.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Like one of those lazy, golden, jewelled sea-creatures of irresponsible
freedom brought seemed to fill the girl cooler currents arouses a
restlessness infernal, Marya's first long breath of freedom subtly
excited her.
She had no definite ideas, no plans. She was merely tired of Vanya.
Perhaps her fresh, wholesome contact with Jim had started it--the
sense of a clean vitality which had seemed to envelop her like the
delicious, half-resented chill of a spring-pool plunge. For the
exhilaration possessed her still; and the sudden stimulation which the
sense of irresponsible freedom brought seemed to fill the girl with a
new vigour.
Foot-loose, heart-loose, her green eyes on the open world where it
stretched away into infinite horizons, she paced her new nest in the
Hotel Rajah, tingling with subdued excitement, innocent of the
faintest regret for what had been.
For a week she lived alone, enjoying the sensation of being hidden,
languidly savouring the warm comfort of isolation.
She had not sent for her belongings. She purchased new personal
effects, enchanted to be rid of familiar things.
There was no snow. She walked a great deal, moving in unaccustomed
sections of the city at all hours, skirting in the early winter dusk
the glitter of Christmas preparations along avenues and squares,
lunching where she was unlikely to encounter anybody she knew, dining,
too, at hazard in unwonted places--restaurants she had never heard of,
tea-rooms, odd corners.
Vanya wrote her. She tossed his letters aside, scarcely read. Ilse and
Palla wrote her, and telephoned her. She paid them no attention.
The metropolitan jungle fascinated her. She adored her liberty, and
looked out of beryl-green eyes across the border of license, where
ghosts of the half-world swarmed in no-man's-land.
Conscious that she had been fashioned to trouble man, the knowledge
merely left her indefinitely contented, save when she remembered Jim.
But that he had checked her drift toward him merely excited her; for
she knew she had been made to trouble such as he; and she had seen his
face that night....
                  *       *       *       *       *
Ilse, on her way home to dress--for she was going out somewhere with
Estridge--stopped for tea at Palla's house, and found her a little
disturbed over an anonymous letter just delivered--a typewritten sheet
bluntly telling her to take her friends and get out of the hall where
the Combat Club held its public sessions; and warning her of serious
trouble if she did not heed this "friendly" advice.
"Pouf!" exclaimed Ilse contemptuously, "I get those, too, and tear
them up. People who talk never strike. Are you anxious, darling?"
Palla smiled: "Not a bit--only such cowardice saddens me.... And the
days are grey enough...."
"Why do you say that? I think it is a wonderful winter--a beautiful
year!"
Palla lifted her brown eyes and let them dwell on the beauty of this
clear-skinned, golden-haired girl who had discovered beauty in the
aftermath of the world's great tragedy.
Ilse smiled: "Life is good," she said. "This world is all to be done
over in the right way. We have it all before us, you and I, Palla, and
those who love and understand."
"I am wondering," said Palla, "who understands us. I'm not discouraged,
but--there seems to be so much indifference in the world."
"Of course. That is our battle to overcome it."
"Yes. But, dear, there seems to be so much hatred, too, in the world.
I thought the war had ended, but everywhere men are still in
battle--everywhere men are dying of this fierce hatred that seems to
flame up anew across the world; everywhere men fight and slay to gain
advantage. None yields, none renounces, none gives. It is as though
love were dead on earth."
"Love is being reborn," said Ilse cheerfully. "Birth means pain,
always----"
Without warning, a hot flush flooded her face; she averted it as the
tea-tray was brought and set on a table before Palla. When her face
cooled, she leaned back in her chair, cup in hand, a sort of confused
sweetness in her blue eyes.
Palla's heart was beating heavily as she leaned on the table, her cup
untasted, her idle fingers crumbing the morsel of biscuit between
them.
After a moment she said: "So you have concluded that you care for John
Estridge?"
"Yes, I care," said Ilse absently, the same odd, sweet smile curving
her cheeks.
"That is--wonderful," said Palla, not looking at her.
Ilse remained silent, her blue gaze aloof.
A maid came and turned up the lamps, and went away again.
Palla said in a low voice: "Are you--afraid?"
"No."
They both remained silent until she rose to go. Palla, walking with
her to the head of the stairs, holding one of her hands imprisoned,
said with an effort: "I am frightened, dear.... I can't help it....
You will be certain, first, won't you?----"
"It is as certain as death," said Ilse in a low, still voice.
Palla shivered; she passed one arm around her; and they stood so for a
while. Then Ilse's arm tightened, and the old gaiety glinted in her
sea-blue eyes:
"Is your house in order too, Palla?" she asked. "Turn around, little
enigma! There; I can look into those brown eyes now. And I see nothing
in them to answer me my question."
"Do you mean Jim?"
"I do."
"I haven't seen him."
"For how long?"
"Weeks. I don't know how long it has been----"
"Have you quarrelled?"
"Yes. We seem to. This is quite the most serious one yet."
"You are not in love with him."
"Oh, Ilse, I don't know. He simply can't understand me. I feel so
bruised and tired after a controversy with him. He seems to be so
merciless to my opinions--so violent----"
"You poor child.... After all, Palla, freedom also means the liberty
to change one's mind.... If you should care to change yours----"
"I can't change my inmost convictions."
"Those--no."
"I have not changed them. I almost wish I could. But I've got to be
honest.... And he can't understand me."
Ilse smiled and kissed her: "That is scarcely to be wondered at, as
you don't seem to know your own mind. Perhaps when you do he, also,
may understand you. Good-bye! I must run----"
Palla watched her to the foot of the stairs; the door closed; the
engine of a taxi began to hum.
Her telephone was ringing when she returned to the living room, and
the quick leap of her heart averted her of the hope revived.
But it was a strange voice on the wire,--a man's voice, clear,
sinister, tainted with a German accent:
"Iss this Miss Dumont? Yess? Then this I haff to say to you: You shall
find yourself in serious trouble if you do not move your foolish club
of vimmen out of the vicinity of which you know. We giff you one more
chance. So shall you take it or you shall take some consequences!
Goot-night!"
The instrument clicked in her ear as the unknown threatener hung up,
leaving her seated there, astonished, hurt, bewildered.
                  *       *       *       *       *
The man who "hung up on her" stepped out of a saloon on Eighth Avenue
and joined two other men on the corner.
The man was Karl Kastner; the other two were Sondheim and Bromberg.
"Get her?" growled the latter, as all three started east.
"Yess. And now we shall see what we shall see. We start the finish now
already. All foolishness shall be ended. Now we fix Puma."
They continued on across the street, clumping along with their
overcoat collars turned up, for it had turned bitter cold and the wind
was rising.
"You don't think it's a plant?" inquired Sondheim, for the third
time.
Bromberg blew his red nose on a dirty red handkerchief.
"We'll plant Puma if he tries any of that," he said thickly.
Kastner added that he feared investigation more than they did because
he had more at stake.
"Dot guy he iss rich like a millionaire," he added. "Ve make him pay
some dammach, too."
"How's he going to fire that bunch of women if they got a lease?"
demanded Bromberg.
"Who the hell cares how he does it?" grunted Sondheim.
"Sure," added Kastner; "let him dig up. You buy anybody if you haff
sufficient coin. Effery time! Yess. Also! Let him dig down into his
pants once. So shall he pay them, these vimmen, to go avay und shut
up mit their mischief what they make for us already!"
Sondheim was still muttering about "plants" in the depths of his
soiled overcoat-collar, when they arrived at the hall and presented
themselves at the door of Puma's outer office.
A girl took their message. After a while she returned and piloted them
out, and up a wide flight of stairs to a door marked, "No admittance."
Here she knocked, and Puma's voice bade them enter.
Angelo Puma was standing by a desk when they trooped in, keeping their
hats on. The room was ventilated and illumined in the daytime only by
a very dirty transom giving on a shaft. Otherwise, there were no
windows, no outlet to any outer light and air.
Two gas jets caged in wire--obsolete stage dressing-room effects--lighted
the room and glimmered on Puma's polished top-hat and the gold knob of
his walking-stick.
As for Puma himself, he glanced up stealthily from the scenario he was
reading as he stood by the big desk, but dropped his eyes again, and,
opening a drawer, laid away the typed manuscript. Then he pulled out
the revolving desk chair and sat down.
"Well?" he inquired, lighting a cigar.
There was an ominous silence among the three men for another moment.
Then Puma looked up, puffing his cigar, and Sondheim stepped forward
from the group and shook his finger in his face.
"What yah got planted around here for us? Hey?" he demanded in a low,
hoarse voice. "Come on now, Puma! What yeh think yeh got on us?" And
to Kastner and Bromberg: "Go ahead, boys, look for a dictaphone and
them kind of things. And if this wop hollers I'll do him."
A ruddy light flickered in Puma's eyes, but the cool smile lay
smoothly on his lips, and he did not even turn his head to watch them
as they passed along the walls, sounding, peering, prying, and jerking
open the door of the cupboard--the only furniture there except the
desk and the chair on which Puma sat.
"What the hell's the matter with yeh?" snarled Sondheim, suddenly
stooping to catch Puma's eye, which had wandered as though bored by
the proceedings.
"Nothing," said Puma, coolly; "what's the matter with you, Max?"
Kastner came around beside him and said in his thin, sinister tone:
"You know it vat I got on you, Angelo?"
"I do."
"So? Also! Vas iss it you do about doze vimmen?"
"They won't go."
In Bromberg's voice sounded an ominous roar: "Don't hand us nothing
like that! You hear what I'm telling you?"
Puma shrugged: "I hand you what I have to hand you. They have the
lease. What is there for me to do?"
"Buy 'em off!"
"I try. They will not."
"You offer 'em enough and they'll quit!"
"No. They will not. They say they are here to fight you. They laugh at
my money. What shall I do?"
"I'll tell you one thing you'll do, and do it damn quick!" roared
Bromberg. "Hand over that money we need!"
"If you bellow in so loud a manner," said Puma, "they could hear you
in the studio.... How much do you ask for?"
"Two thousand."
"No."
"What yeh mean by 'No'?"
"What I say to you, that I have not two thousand."
"You lying greaser----"
"I do not lie. I have paid my people and there remains but six hundred
dollars in my bank."
"When do we get the rest?" asked Sondheim, as Puma tossed the packet
of bills onto the desk.
"When I make it," replied Puma tranquilly. "You will understand my
receipts are my capital at present. What else I have is engaged
already in my new theatre. If you will be patient you shall have what
I can spare."
Bromberg rested both hairy fists on the desk and glared down at Puma.
"Who's this new guy you got to go in with you? What's the matter with
our getting a jag of his coin?"
"You mean Mr. Pawling?"
"Yeh. Who the hell is that duck what inks his whiskers?"
"A partner."
"Well, let him shove us ours then."
"You wish to ruin me?" inquired Puma placidly.
"Not while you're milkin'," said Sondheim, showing every yellow fang
in a grin.
"Then do not frighten Mr. Pawling out. Already you have scared my
other partner, Mr. Skidder, like there never was any rabbits scared.
You are foolish. If you are reasonable, I shall make money and you
shall have your share. If you are not, then there is no money to give
you."
Sondheim said: "Take a slant at them yellow-backs, Karl." And Kastner
screwed a powerful jeweller's glass into his eye and began a minute
examination of the orange-coloured treasury notes, to find out whether
they were marked bills.
Bromberg said heavily: "See here, Angelo, you gotta quit this damned
stalling! You gotta get them women out, and do it quick or we'll blow
your dirty barracks into the North River!"
Sondheim began to wag his soiled forefinger again.
"Yeh quit us cold when things was on the fritz. Now, yeh gotta pay. If
you wasn't nothing but a wop skunk yeh'd stand in with us. The way
you're fixed would help us all. But now yeh makin' money and yeh
scared o' yeh shadow!----"
Bromberg cut in: "And you'll be outside when the band starts playing.
Look what's doing all over the world! Every country is starting
something! You watch Berlin and Rosa Luxemburg and her bunch. Keep
your eye peeled, Angy, and see what we and the I. W. W. start in every
city of the country!"
Kastner, having satisfied himself that the bills had not been marked,
and pocketed his jeweller's glass, pushed back his lank blond hair.
"Yess," he said in his icy, incisive voice, "yoost vatch out already!
Dot crimson tide it iss rising the vorld all ofer! It shall drown
effery aristocrat, effery bourgeois, effery intellectual. It shall be
but a red flood ofer all the vorld vere noddings shall live only our
peoble off the proletariat!"
"And where the hell will you be then, Angelo?" sneered Bromberg. "By
God, we won't have to ask you for our share of your money then!"
Again Sondheim leaned over him and wagged his nicotine-dyed finger:
"You get the rest of our money! Understand? And you get them women
out!--or I tell you we'll blow you and your joint to Hoboken! Get
that?"
"I have understood," said Puma quietly; but his heavy face was a muddy
red now, and he choked a little when he spoke.
"Give us a date and stick to it," added Bromberg. "Set it yourself.
And after that we won't bother to do any more jawin'. We'll just
attend to business--your business, Puma!"
After a long silence, Puma said calmly: "How much you want?"
"Ten thousand," said Sondheim.
"And them women out of this," added Bromberg.
"Or ve get you," ended Kastner in his deadly voice.
Puma lifted his head and looked intently at each one of them in turn.
And seemed presently to come to some conclusion.
Kastner forestalled him: "You try it some monkey trick and you try it
no more effer again."
"What's your date for the cash?" insisted Sondheim.
"February first," replied Puma quietly.
Kastner wrote it on the back of an envelope.
"Und dese vimmen?" he inquired.
"I'll get a lawyer----"
"The hell with that stuff!" roared Bromberg. "Get 'em out! Scare 'em
out! Jesus Christ! how long d'yeh think we're going to stand for being
hammered by that bunch o' skirts? They got a lot o' people sore on us
now. The crowd what uster come around is gettin' leery. And who are
these damned women? One of 'em was a White Nun, when they did the
business for the Romanoffs. One of 'em fired on the Bolsheviki--that
big blond girl with yellow hair, I mean! Wasn't she one of those
damned girl-soldiers? And look what she's up to now--comin' over here
to talk us off the platform!--the dirty foreigner!"
"Yes," growled Bromberg, "and there's that redheaded wench of
Vanya's!--some Grand Duke's slut, they say, before she quit him for
the university to start something else----"
Kastner cut in in his steely voice: "If you do not throw out these
women, Puma, we fix them and your hall and you--all at one time, my
friend. Also! Iss it then for February the first, our understanding?
Or iss it, a little later, the end of all your troubles, Angelo?"
Puma got up, nodded his acceptance of their ultimatum, and opened the
door for them.
When they trooped out, under the brick arch, they noticed his splendid
limousine waiting, and as they shuffled sullenly away westward,
Bromberg, looking back, saw Puma come out and jump lightly into the
car.
"Swine!" he snarled, facing the bitter wind once more and shuffling
along beside his silent brethren.
Puma went east, then north to the Hotel Rajah, where, in a private
room, he was to complete a financial transaction with Alonzo B.
Pawling.
Skidder, too, came in at the same time, squinting rapidly at his
partner; and together they moved toward the elevator.
The elevator waited a moment more to accommodate a willowy, red-haired
girl in furs, whose jade eyes barely rested on Puma's magnificent
black ones as he stepped aside to make way for her with an extravagant
bow.
"Some skirt," murmured Skidder in his ear, as the car shot upward.
Marya left the car at the mezzanine floor: Puma's eyes were like coals
for a moment.
"You know that dame?" inquired Skidder, his eyes fairly snapping.
"No." He did not add that he had seen her at the Combat Club and knew
her to belong to another man. But his black eyes were almost blazing
as he stepped from the elevator, for in Marya's insolent glance he had
caught a vague glimmer of fire--merely a green spark, very faint--if,
indeed, it had been there at all....
Pawling himself opened the door for them.
"Is it all right? Do we get the parcel?" were his first words.
"It's a knock-out!" cried Skidder, slapping him on the back. "We
got the land, we got the plans, we got the iron, we got the
contracts!--Oh, boy!--our dough is in--go look at it and smell it for
yourself! So get into the jack, old scout, and ante up, because we
break ground Wednesday and there'll be bills before then, you
betcha!"
When the cocktails were brought, Puma swallowed his in a hurry, saying
he'd be back in a moment, and bidding Skidder enlighten Mr. Pawling
during the interim.
He summoned the elevator, got out at the mezzanine, and walked lightly
into the deserted and cloister-like perspective, his shiny hat in his
hand.
And saw Marya standing by the marble ramp, looking down at the bustle
below.
He stopped not far away. He had made no sound on the velvet carpet.
But presently she turned her head and the green eyes met his black
ones.
Neither winced. The sheer bulk of the beast and the florid magnificence
of its colour seemed to fascinate her.
She had seen him before, and scarcely noted him. She remembered. But
the world was duller, then, and the outlook grey. And then, too, her
still, green eyes had not yet wandered beyond far horizons, nor had
her heart been cut adrift to follow her fancy when the tides stirred
it from its mooring--carrying it away, away through deeps or shallows
as the currents swerved.
CHAPTER XX
The pale parody on that sacred date which once had symbolised the
birth of Christ had come and gone; the ghastly year was nearing its
own death--the bloodiest year, for all its final triumph, that the
world had ever witnessed--l'année horrible!
Nor was the end yet, of all this death and dying: for the Crimson
Tide, washing through Russia, eastward, seethed and eddied among the
wrecks of empires, lapping Poland's bones, splashing over the charred
threshold of the huns, creeping into the Balkans, crawling toward
Greece and Italy, menacing Scandinavia, and arousing the stern
watchers along the French frontier--the ultimate eastward barrier of
human liberty.
And unless, despite the fools who demur, that barrier be based upon
the Rhine, that barrier will fall one day.
Even in England, where the captive navies of the anti-Christ now
sulked at anchor under England's consecrated guns, some talked glibly
of rule by Soviet. All Ireland bristled now, baring its teeth at
government; vast armies, disbanding, were becoming dully restless; and
armed men, disarming, began to wonder what now might be their destiny
and what the destiny of the world they fought for.
And everywhere, among all peoples, swarmed the stealthy agents of the
Red Apocalypse, whispering discontent, hinting treasons, stirring the
unhappy to sullen anger, inciting the simple-minded to insanity, the
ignorant to revolution. For four years it had been a battle between
Light and Night; and now there threatened to be joined in battle the
uttermost forces of Evolution and Chaos--the spiritual Armageddon at
last, where Life and Light and Order must fight a final fight with
Degeneracy, Darkness and Death.
And always, everywhere, that hell-born Crimson Tide seemed to be
rising. All newspapers were full of it, sounding the universal alarm.
And Civilisation merely stared at the scarlet flood--gawked stupidly
and unstirring--while the far clamour of massacre throughout Russia
grew suddenly to a crashing discord in Berlin, shaking the whole world
with brazen dissonance.
Like the first ominous puff before the tempest, the deadly breath of
the Black Death--called "influenza," but known of old among the
verminous myriads of the East--swept over the earth from East to West.
Millions died; millions were yet to perish of it; yet the dazed world,
still half blind with blood and smoke, sat helpless and unstirring,
barring no gates to this pestilence that stalked the stricken earth at
noon-day.
New York, partly paralysed by sacrifice and the blood-sucking antics
of half-crazed congressmen, gorged by six years feeding after decades
of starvation, welcomed the incoming soldiers in a bewildered sort of
way, making either an idiot's din of dissonance or gaping in stupid
silence as the huge troop-ships swept up the bay.
The battle fleet arrived--the home squadron and the "6th battle
squadron"--and lay towering along the Hudson, while officers and
jackies swarmed the streets--streets now thronged by wounded,
too--pallid cripples in olive drab, limping along slowly beneath
lowering skies, with their citations and crosses and ribbons and
wound chevrons in glinting gold under the relighted lustres of the
metropolis.
So the false mockery of Christmas came to the city--a forced festival,
unutterably sad, for all that the end of the war was subject of thanks
in every church and synagogue. And so the mystic feast ended, scarcely
heeded amid the slow, half-crippled groping for financial readjustment
in the teeth of a snarling and vindictive Congress, mean in its envy,
meaner in revenge--a domestic brand of sectional Bolsheviki as dirty
and degenerate as any anarchist in all Russia.
The President had sailed away--(Slava! Slava! Nechevo!)--and the
newspapers were preparing to tell their disillusioned public all about
it, if permitted.
And so dawned the New Year over the spreading crimson flood, flecking
the mounting tide with brighter scarlet as it crept ever westward,
ever wider, across a wounded world.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Palla had not seen Jim for a very long time now. Christmas passed,
bringing neither gift nor message, although she had sent him a little
remembrance--The Divine Pantheon, by an unfrocked Anglican
clergyman, one Loxon Fettars, recently under detention pending
investigation concerning an alleged multiplicity of wives.
The New Year brought no greeting from him, either; nobody she knew had
seen him, and her pride had revolted at writing him after she had
telephoned and left a message at his club--her usual concession after
a stormy parting.
And there was another matter that was causing her a constantly
increasing unrest--she had not seen Marya for many a day.
Quiet grief for what now appeared to be a friendship ended--at
other times a tingle of bitterness that he had let it end so
relentlessly--and sometimes, at night, the secret dread--eternally
buried yet perennially resurrected--the still, hidden, ever-living
fear of Marya; these the girl knew, now, as part of life.
And went on, steadily, with her life's business, as though moving
toward a dark horizon where clouds towered gradually higher,
reflecting the glimmer of unseen lightning.
Somehow, lately, a vague sensation of impending trouble had invaded
her; and she never entirely shook it off, even in her lighter moods,
when there was gay company around her; or in the warm flush of
optimistic propaganda work; or in the increasingly exciting sessions
of the Combat Club, now interrupted nightly by fierce outbreaks from
emissaries of the Red Flag Club, who were there to make mischief.
Also, there had been an innovation established among her company of
moderate socialists; a corps of missionary speakers, who volunteered
on certain nights to speak from the classic soap-box on street
corners, urging the propaganda of their panacea, the Law of Love and
Service.
Twice already, despite her natural timidity and dread of public
speaking, Palla had faced idle, half-curious, half sneering crowds
just east or west of Broadway; had struggled through with what she had
come to say; had gently replied to heckling, blushed under insult,
stood trembling by her guns to the end.
Ilse was more convincing, more popular with her gay insouciance and
infectious laughter, and her unexpected and enchanting flashes of
militancy, which always interested the crowd.
And always, after these soap-box efforts, both Palla and Ilse were
insulted over the telephone by unknown men. Their mail, also,
invariably contained abusive or threatening letters, and sometimes
vile ones; and Estridge purchased pistols for them both and exacted
pledges that they carry them at night.
On the evening selected for Palla's third essay in street oratory, she
slipped her pistol into her muff and set out alone, not waiting for
Ilse, who, with John Estridge, was to have met her after dinner at her
house, and, as usual, accompany her to the place selected.
But they knew where she was to speak, and she did not doubt they would
turn up sooner or later at the rendezvous.
All that day the dull, foreboding feeling had been assailing her at
intervals, and she had been unable to free herself entirely from the
vague depression.
The day had been grey; when she left the house a drizzle had begun to
wet the flagstones, and every lamp-post was now hooded with ghostly
iridescence.
She walked because she had need of exercise, not even deigning to
unfurl her umbrella against the mist which spun silvery ovals over
every electric globe along Fifth Avenue, and now shrouded every
