"It was the Duc d'Aumale," Paliser was saying.
"Eh?" Abruptly Cassy awoke.
"Or, if not, some other chap who, recognising it, ordered his regiment
to halt and present arms."
"To whom?"
"To the vineyard where the grape in that bottle was grown."
Cassy shook out a napkin. "You talk just like my janitress. I never
understand a word she says."
But now a waiter was bringing delicacies other than those obtainable in
Harlem; in particular, a dish that had the merit of pleasing Cassy.
"What is it?" she asked.
"Muskrat."
"What!"
"Muskrat with terrapin for a pseudonym. The pseudonym shows imagination.
Let us be thankful for that. Gastronomy is bankrupt. Formerly it was
worshipped. Formerly gastronomy was a goddess. To-day the sole tributes
consist in bills-of-fare that are just like the Sahara minus the oases.
It is the oases we want and it is muskrat we get. That is all wrong. The
degree of culture that any nation may claim is shown in its cookery and
if there is anything viler than what we get here it must be served in
Berlin. It must have been Solon who said: 'Tell me what you eat and I
will tell you who you are.' He added, or should have, that animals feed,
man dines and, when permitted, dines devoutly. There are dishes, as
there are wines, to which one should rise and bow. But hereabouts it is
only by special dispensation that one gets them. In a hotel such as this
there is an outward show of reverence, but it is sheer hypocrisy; of
real piety there is none, a sham attempt to observe the sacred rites
without knowing how. I admit I don't know either. From me the divine
afflatus has been withheld. But elsewhere I have been conscious of the
presence. Once or twice I was blessed. Here, though, in default of
shrines there should be chairs. Harvard, Yale, Columbia, should
establish a few. When I was in college I was taught everything that it
is easiest to forget. If the youth of the land were instructed in
gastronomy we would all be wiser and better. Chairs on gastronomy, that
is what we need!"
Cassy laughed. "Why not tables?"
Paliser laughed with her. The laughter was a bond. It joined them
however tenuously. It was what he had been driving at. Accustomed to
easy successes, Cassy's atmosphere, with its flavour of standoffishness
and indifference, appealed to this man, who had supped on the facile and
who wanted the difficult. Cassy, he could have sworn, would supply it
and, if he had, he would have sworn very truly.
Meanwhile the muskrat had gone. Dishes less false but equally fair had
followed. Now, with the air of a conjurer, the waiter just showed them
an entremets which he hastened to serve. It was a soufflée.
At it, Cassy, just showing the point of her strawberry tongue, exclaimed
without rancour: "Ma Tamby has thrown us over."
Paliser lit a cigarette. "She may be singing in the private room."
Cassy laughed again. "Yes. 'Una voce poco fa!' That would be just the
thing--wouldn't it?--to sing privately in private."
Paliser answered, though what, she did not hear. The orchestra drowned
it and for a moment she considered him, conscious that he was less
objectionable than he had seemed, yet entirely unconscious that such
objection as she had experienced was due to his extreme good-looks,
which in a man are always objectionable to a woman when she herself is
handsome, for they make him resemble her and, in so doing, constitute an
encroachment on her prerogatives, which, in itself, is an affront.
Cassy, ignorant of the psychology of it, equally unaware that
familiarity which may breed contempt can also dissolve dislike, and
feeling merely a lessening of her instinctive hostility, told herself
that he was perhaps not as cocky as he looked and drank of the glass
before her.
The Clos de Vougeot which, to the educated palate, is art, literature
and song combined, meant nothing more to her than if it had been Médoc.
She drank it because it was there at her hand, as she would have drunk
water, without savouring it, without any realisation of the enormity of
the crime. Yet though it meant nothing, nothing at least of which she
was aware, the royal crû was affecting her. It modified and mollified,
admonishing her that this man was an inoffensive insect who,
circumstances favouring, might, as Ma Tamby when inserting the flea had
told her, put her father on his feet.
In just what the favouring circumstances could consist, the fallen star
had not bothered to indicate, and she had not bothered because they were
too obvious and also because she was sure that Cassy was not insane.
Paliser abandoned his cigarette. "If you like, we might look in at the
Metropolitan. I believe I have a box."
Apart from down-stage and the centre of it, apart, too, from the flys
and the dressing-rooms, Cassy's imagination had not as yet conceived
anything more beckoning than a box at the opera, even though, as on this
occasion, the opera happened to be a concert. "Why, yes. Only----"
Pausing, she looked about. The imperial lady had gone.
"Only what?" Paliser very needlessly asked for he knew.
"I fear I am a bit overdressed."
"Not for Sunday. The house will be full and nobody in it. Besides, what
do you care?"
Cassy shrugged. "Personally, not a rap. It was of you I was thinking."
Paliser, who had been signing the check and feeing the waiter, looked at
her. "I did not know that you were so considerate."
Cassy, in surprise not at him, but at herself, laughed. "Nor did I."
Paliser stood up and drew back her chair. "Be careful. You might become
cynical. It is in thinking of others that cynicism begins."
The platitude slipped from him absently. He had no wish for the concert,
no wish to hear Berlinese trulls and bubonic bassi bleat. But, for the
tolerably delicate enterprise that he had in hand, there were the
preliminary steps which could only be hastened slowly and anything
slower than the Metropolitan on a Sunday night, it was beyond him to
conjecture.
But though on that evening a basso did bleat, it may be that he was not
bubonic. Moreover he was followed by a soprano who, whether trullish or
not, at any rate was not Berlinese and whose voice had the lusciousness
of a Hawaiian pineapple. But the selections, which were derived from old
Italian cupboards, displeased Paliser, who called them painted mush.
But not twice! Cassy turned her back on him. The painted mush shook
stars in her ears, opened vistas on the beyond. Save for him she would
have been quite happy. But his remark annoyed her. It caused her to
revise her opinion. Instead of an inoffensive insect he was an offensive
fool. None the less, as the concert progressed, she revised it again. On
entering the box she had seen his name on the door. The memory of that,
filtering through the tinted polenta from the ancient cupboards,
softened her. A man so gifted could express all the imbecilities he
liked. Elle s'enfichait.
As a result, before it was over, in lieu of her back, she gave him the
seduction of her smile, and, later when, in his car, on the way to the
walk-up, he spoke of future dinners, fresher songs, she had so far
forgotten the painted mush insult, that momentarily she foresaw but one
objection. She had nothing to wear and frankly, with entire unconcern,
she out with it.
For that he had a solution which he kept to himself. The promptly
obliterating stare with which she would have reduced him to
non-existence, he dodged in advance.
Apparently changing the subject, he said: "You know--or know of--Mrs.
Beamish, don't you?"
"Never heard of her," said Cassy, entirely unaware that no one else ever
had either.
"She was at the Bazaar the other night and admired your singing."
"Very good of her I am sure," replied Cassy, who, a born anarchist and
by the same token a born autocrat, loathed condescension.
Paliser corrected it. "No, not good--appreciative. She wants you to sing
at her house. If you are willing, could she arrange about it through
Madame Tamburini?"
"If she tried very hard, I suppose she might," Cassy, with the same
loftiness, answered.
But the loftiness was as unreal as Mrs. Beamish. Inwardly she jubilated,
wondering how much she would get. A hundred? In that case she could
repay Lennox at once. At the thought of it, again she revised her
opinion. Paliser was young and in her judgment all young men were
insects. On the other hand he was serviceable. Moreover, though he
looked cocky, he did not presume. He talked rot, but he did not argue.
Then, too, his car was a relief.
But now the car, after bolting through the Park and flying along the
Riverside, had swerved. It was mounting the upper reaches of the longest
highway on the planet. There it swerved again. From Broadway it barked
loudly into a side-street where easily, with a soapy slide, it stopped.
Paliser got out, preceded Cassy to the steps of the walk-up and smiled
in her face. "When?"
Cassy, the revised opinion of him about her, gave him her hand. "Ask the
telephone."
The hall took her. She was scaling the stairs. On the way Mrs. Beamish
accompanied her. She wished she could tell her father. Yet, if she told
him, how could she account for what she did with the money? And would it
be a hundred? Perhaps fifty, perhaps less.
But Paliser saw to it that Mrs. Beamish behaved properly. On the morrow
Ma Tamby dumped in Cassy's astonished lap two hundred and fifty--less
ten per cent., business is business--for samples of the bel canto which
Mrs. Beamish was not to hear, and for an excellent reason, there was no
such person.
XI
Mrs. Austen looked at Lennox, who had been looking at her, but who was
then looking at the rug, in the border of which were arabesques. He did
not see them. The rug was not there. The room itself had disappeared.
The nymph, the dial, the furniture, the decorations and costly
futilities with which the room was cluttered, all these had gone. Mrs.
Austen had ceased to be. In that pleasant room, in the presence of this
agreeable woman, Lennox was absolutely alone, as, in any great crisis of
the emotions, we all are.
Of one thing he was conscious. He was suffering atrociously. Pain
blanketed him. But though the blanket had the poignancy of thin knives,
he kept telling himself that it was all unreal.
He raised his eyes. During the second in which they had been lowered, a
second that had been an eternity in hell, his expression had not
altered. He was taking it, apparently at least, unmoved.
Mrs. Austen, who was looking at him, saw it and thought: He is a
gentleman. The reflection encouraged her and she sighed and said:
"Believe me, I am sorry."
Lennox did not believe her, but he let it go. What he did believe was
that Margaret could not see him. But whether she would, if she could,
was another matter. On Saturday he had expected her at his rooms. She
had not come. In the evening he had called. She had a headache. On the
following day he had returned. She was not feeling well. Now on this
third day, Mrs. Austen, who on the two previous occasions had received
him, once more so far condescended, yet on this occasion to tell him
that he was free, that it was Margaret's wish, that the engagement was
ended.
In so telling him, Mrs. Austen told, for a wonder, the truth, though as
will sometimes happen even to the best of us, not all the truth. It were
extravagant to have expected it of her. But she told all that she
thought good for him; more exactly good for Margaret; more precisely for
herself.
It was then that the pleasant room with its clutter of costly futilities
disappeared and this agreeable woman ceased to be. The avalanche of the
modulated announcement sent Lennox reeling not merely out of the room,
but out of the world, deeply into hell.
It was then, too, that with a sigh, modulated also, Mrs. Austen had
added: "Believe me, I am sorry."
Lennox looked at her. "You say that Margaret wants our engagement
broken. Why?"
"She has changed her mind."
"So I infer. But why?"
"Because she is a woman."
"But not the ordinary woman. It is the ordinary woman who changes her
mind--when she has one to change. Margaret is not of that kind. Margaret
is not the kind to promise herself to a man and then throw him over. You
will forgive me if I speak heatedly, but I do not believe it."
With frosty indulgence Mrs. Austen reassured him. "You do not believe
that I will forgive you? But, really, there is nothing to forgive.
Though, whether Margaret is ordinary or superior, has nothing to do with
it. Dear me, no. Women are not what they were. One often hears that and
often, too, one hears people wondering why. That always amuses me. The
reason is so simple, isn't it? Women are not what they were because they
used to be girls. Before that they were children. At one time they were
babes. Naturally they change. They can't help it. It must be a general
law. Or at least one may suppose so. One may suppose, too, that, in
changing, they develop and in developing acquire the extraordinary
ability to think things over. That is just what Margaret had done. It is
no reflection on you, Mr. Lennox, and I should be very sorry if you
thought so. I am sure Margaret has the highest esteem for you. I know
that I have."
Mrs. Austen, smiling frostily as she lied, thought: Now why doesn't he
take it and go? I hope he won't be tedious.
Lennox too had his thoughts. She is trying to swamp me in words, he told
himself. That angered him and he showed it.
"What are these things? When I last saw Margaret she said nothing about
any things. There was no change in her then. I would stake my life that
she had no idea of breaking our engagement. There must be a reason for
it. What is it?"
Arrogantly Mrs. Austen took it up. "There is no reason for your raising
your voice, at any rate. As for the things, they ought to be obvious. In
addition to habits and customs, very suitable in Wall Street no doubt,
but not otherwise appealing, Margaret has found you a bit rough,
high-tempered, domineering for all I know to the contrary, and----"
That's a damned lie, thought Lennox, who aggressively cut in: "Margaret
never found me anything of the kind. What is more I will thank you to
understand that I will not accept this dismissal--if it be one--from
you."
There is a show of decency that is due to any woman. But the veneer of
civilisation is very thin. From beneath it, the potential troglodyte,
that lurks in us all, is ready enough to erupt. Ready and eager then, he
was visible in Lennox' menacing eyes, manifest in his threatening voice.
Mrs. Austen saw the brute, saw rather that little, if anything,
restrained Lennox from jumping up, banging about, hunting for Margaret's
room, entering there and catechising her violently. Margaret was ill but
never too ill to tell the truth. Once he learned that, there was the fat
in the fire.
She had no time to lose. From the wardrobe of the actress that she was,
she snatched at an oleaginous mask and with the mucilage of it smiled at
him.
"Why, of course not. Not for a moment would I have you accept it from
me. I never dreamed of such a thing. It wouldn't be right. Margaret
shall tell you herself. She would be here now, but the poor child had
such a wretched night. You never had neuralgia, have you? At her age I
was a martyr to it. I remember I took something that ended in 'ine.'
Yesterday I suggested it but the doctor would not hear of it. Said she
needed building up. Spoke of her just as though she were a town out
West; so unsympathetic I thought him, but of course I did not say so. He
might have charged extra and he is expensive enough as it is, and always
so ready to talk about his own affairs, just like my dentist. I told him
once--the dentist I mean--that I really could not afford to pay him
thirty dollars an hour to hear about his wife and I don't think he liked
it. I know I didn't when I got his bill. But where was I? Oh, yes.
To-morrow or the next day, as soon as Margaret is the least bit better,
you will be sure to have a line from her and if you do not, and you care
to, you must certainly look in. For you must always regard us as
friends. Me at any rate. Won't you, Mr. Lennox?"
Moistening her lips, mentally she continued: Yes, count on that. But
inwardly she relaxed. Such danger as there may have been had gone. Under
the dribble of the mucilage the fire in his eyes had flickered and sunk.
He was too glued now for revolt. So she thought, but she did not know
him.
During the sticky flow of her words, he knew she was trying to gammon
him. But he knew quite as well that Margaret would make no such attempt,
and he knew it for no other reason than because he knew she was
incapable of it. Incidentally he determined what he would do. Having
determined it, he stood up.
"Very good. I shall expect to hear from Margaret to-morrow. If I do not
hear I will come, and when I come----"
Lennox paused and compressed his lips. The compression finished the
sentence. If come he did, no power of hers, or of any one else, would
budge him an inch until he saw Margaret and had it out with her.
"Good-evening," he added and Mrs. Austen found herself looking at his
retreating back which, even in retreat, was a menace.
"Merciful fathers!" she exclaimed, and, with that sense of humour which
is the saving grace, the dear woman put her hand to her stays. She was
feeling for her heart. She had none. Or any appetite, she presently told
a servant who came to say that dinner was served.
She misjudged herself. For twenty-five minutes, in an adjoining room,
she ate steadily and uncomplainingly. She had bouillon, skate in black
butter, cutlets in curl-papers, sweetbread and cockscombs, a cold
artichoke, hot almond pudding, an apricot, a bit of roquefort, a pint of
claret, a thimble of bénédictine and not a twinge, none of the
indigestion of square-dealing, none of gastritis of good faith. She was
a well-dressed ambition, intent on her food. No discomfort therefore. On
the contrary. Margaret was in bed--safe there. Fate and the cook were
kind.
With the taste of the liqueur still in her mouth, she went to her
daughter who was ill with one of those maladies which, being primarily
psychical, science cannot treat. Science is a classification of human
ignorance. It has remedies for the flesh, it has none for the soul. The
remedies exist, but they are dispensed only by the great apothecaries
that time and philosophy are.
At the moment neither was available. Behind Margaret's forehead a
monster crouched and crunched. That was nothing. It was in the tender
places of her heart that the girl agonised and by comparison to the
torture there, the monster was benign.
Margaret was nineteen, which is a very mature age; perhaps the most
mature, since all girlhood lies behind it. Beyond are the
pharmacop[oe]ias of time and, fortune favouring, the sofas of
philosophy. But these sofas, even when within reach, are not adapted to
everybody. To the young, they are detestable. Reposefully they admonish
that nothing is important. They whisper patience to the impatient. To
hope, they say, "Be still"; to desire, "Be quiet"; to wisdom, "Be
foolish."
Conversation of that kind is very irritating, when you have heard it,
which Margaret never had. She was otherwise ignorant. She did not know
that a sage wrote a book in praise of folly. But she acted as though she
knew it by heart. She believed, as many of us do believe, that love
confers the right to run a fence around the happy mortals for whom we
care. It is a very astounding belief. Margaret, who believed in many
wonderful things, believed in that and, being credulous, believed also
that her betrothed had crawled under the fence and into what mire! It
polluted her, soiled her thoughts, followed and smeared her in the
secret chambers of her being. Any cross is heavy. This cross was
degrading.
In her darkened room, on her bed of pain, she had shrunk from it. Her
forehead was a coronet of fire. That was nothing. A greater pain
suppresses a lesser one. The burn of her soul was a moxa to the burn of
the flesh.
The cross, at first, seemed to her more than she could bear. She tried
to put it from her. Failing in that, she tried to endure it. But there
are times and occasions when resignation in its self-effacement
resembles suicide. She tried to resign herself, but she could not, her
young heart rebelled.
In that rebellion, evil came, peered at her, sat at her side, pulled at
her sleeve, sprang at her. The evil was hatred for this man who had
taken her love and despoiled it. She clasped it to her. It bruised but
it comforted. It dulled both the flame in her forehead and the shame in
her soul. Then as suddenly she began to cry.
Philosophy she lacked, but theosophy, which is a pansophy, she
possessed--when she did not need it. Now, when she needed it most, it
was empty as the noise in the street. Even otherwise it could not have
changed the unchangeable course of events.
There are sins that are scarlet. There are others, far worse, that are
drab. Melancholy tops them. It is a mere duty to be serene. That she
could not be. She could not face life, as life perhaps is. She could not
smile at a lover who loved elsewhere. It was not herself, it was he who
prevented her. So she thought and for hours in her darkened room she
washed her hands of him, washed them in tears. It took a wise man to
write the praise of folly.
The door of the room opened. It opened slowly, noiselessly, obviously.
With exasperating precautions Mrs. Austen entered. The taste of
bénédictine was still in her mouth and, savouring it, she whispered:
"Are you asleep?"
"No."
"Will you eat anything?"
"No."
"Are you able to talk?"
Margaret turned. She could talk, but to what end and to whom? Certainly
not to her mother, who possessed in its perfection, the household art of
misinterpreting everything. Margaret had tried to love her. But perhaps
any affection is a habit when it does not happen to be an instinct. The
habit had never been formed, the instinct had been repressed. Always her
mother had treated her with that indulgence which is as empty as an
unfilled grate. There was no heat there. You could not warm your heart
at it. But a child must love some one. Margaret had begun by loving her
mother. That is the way with children. They begin by loving their
parents. Later they judge them. Sometimes, though not always, they
forgive. One should not judge anybody. Margaret knew that, but she was a
human being. She thought her mother a worldly woman. The fact that she
was false as Judas was not apparent to this girl whose knowledge of
Iscariotism was as hearsay as her knowledge of gorillas.
Now, as she turned in her bed, it was in defence against intrusion.
Deference to her mother she had always observed. But she could not admit
her to the privacy of her thoughts and, in turning her face to the wall,
she told herself that she would not be cross-questioned.
Mrs. Austen had no intention of putting her daughter in the
confessional. Anything of the kind would have bored her. Besides, what
she thought was unimportant. It was what she did or might do that
mattered.
Vacating the door she approached the bed. "Are you feeling any better?"
Margaret was feeling, if possible, worse. But she never complained, or,
if she had to complain, then the complaint was solely by way of
explanation. She turned again.
"For if you are," Mrs. Austen continued, "I ought to say something."
Margaret put a hand to her forehead.
But Mrs. Austen persisted. "It is important."
Margaret's eyes were open. She closed them and said: "Yes, mother, what
is it?"
Through the door came light from the hall. Mrs. Austen looked about.
Nearby was a chair on which was one of those garments, made of
franfreluches, which the French call a Jump-from-bed. Removing it, she
sat down.
"It is too bad. I know you don't feel like discussing affairs of State,
but it is Luxemburg all over again. If I were alone concerned, I am sure
I would capitulate. But where the State is concerned, and by that I mean
you, I am like the little grand-duchess--pretty child, from her
pictures, didn't you think?--and I must resist the invader. It is true,
I don't know exactly what the grand-duchess did do, though they said she
sat in a motor on a bridge and flourished a revolver. But you never can
tell. I daresay she and her maids of honour hid in a cellar. Perhaps we
may have to."
Margaret lowered her hand. "Mother, what are you talking about?"
"Your young man, of course. What else? A half-hour ago, he was roaring
and stamping about and calling me a liar. If it had not been for my dead
body, he would have rushed in here and killed you. My dead body, or what
I told him about passing over it, was the revolver that I flourished. He
has gone, but he swore he would return. Now, unless you rally to the
colours, we will have to hide in the cellar, or rather, as we haven't
any, in the pantry. Don't you think you could eat a bit of sweetbread,
or perhaps some almond pudding?"
Again Margaret put her hand to her forehead. "Don't say that, mother.
Keith did not call you a liar and it is not like him to roar and stamp
about."
"My dear, I don't wonder you don't believe me. He went on like a madman.
He could not get over the fact that his dollymop was one too many for
you. He seemed to think that it was none of your business."
"Don't."
"My dear Margaret, you must do me the justice to admit that I stood up
for him. I said he was an attractive young man. So he is. But that is
just it. Attractive young men are most unreliable and reliable young men
are most unattractive. At your age, I used to like them fair and false.
That was your father's fault. He perverted me. He was so domestic!"
It was an old wound that Mrs. Austen touched then and under it Margaret
winced. "The poor dear! He was a saint and you know it."
"Know it! I should say I did. I know too that he made me hate saints.
But you love them and thought you had one, instead of which you got a
devil. Your luck is far better than mine. If you take my advice, you
will hang on to him like grim death. It is not too late. To-morrow he
will be here, thundering at the gates."
Dimly at the moment the girl's creed turned a ray on her. She lifted her
head.
"He will not thunder at the gates and he is not what you say. But
perhaps I am. I may have done worse than he has and what he has done is
my punishment."
It was very little but it was too much. Mrs. Austen, in spite of her
facile digestion, gagged at it.
"If that is theosophy, I will believe it when I am old, fat and a Hun."
Margaret sank back. "But I am sorry you have been annoyed. It won't
happen again. I will write to him."
Later, she did write.
     Forgive me, dear Keith, if I cause you pain, but I feel that I am
     not suited to you. Forgive me therefore for not recognising it
     sooner. I have thought it all over and, though it wrings my heart
     to say it, I cannot see you again. Forgive me and forget.
     MARGARET.
XII
Hell was supposed to be very hot, very red, full of pugnacious demons.
Educated people do not believe in it any more. It is curious how
ignorant educated people have become. Hell is an actual plane, less
vivid than was formerly imagined, not hot but cold, grey rather than
red, but amply provided with demons, with the devils of self-accusation,
with the fiends of insoluble queries. Very real and very actual, it is
surprising how many educated people are there. The oddity of that is
increased by the fact that they regard it as a private establishment.
They regard their hell as unique. Perhaps the idea flatters them. Yet
sooner or later everybody enters it. Hell may seem private. It is
universal.
Headlong into it, Margaret's letter precipitated Lennox. Being a man, he
struggled up. But not out. In hell there are no signposts. It takes time
to find one's way. It takes more, it takes resignation. When both have
been acquired, the walls part of themselves. The aspect of life has
altered, but you are free.
Lennox, in struggling up, encountered the demons of enigmatic riddles.
Each word of Margaret's letter they converted into a Why? They thrust it
at him, demanding an answer. But the answer her heart alone possessed.
That heart had been his. It was his no longer. The heart that she had
given him, she had taken away. Nothing could be simpler and nothing more
mysterious. The mystification was complete, but not the suffering.
Suffering is never complete. However deep the hell, there is always a
deeper one.
From the letter he looked at the walls. They were dumb. There was no
answer for the demons there, not anywhere, perhaps, except among
werewolves, basilisks and Mrs. Austens. These monsters did not occur to
him. The monstrous letter sufficed. But Margaret was still too near, her
vows were too recent for him to credit it, and the fact that he could
not disclosed itself in those words which all have uttered, all at least
before whom the inexplicable has sprung.
"It is impossible!"
Yet there it was. Yet there too was something else. But what? At once he
was back again in the issueless circle of infernal questions.
The day before he had known that something was amiss. The attitude of
Mrs. Austen had been too assured, too venomous, too smiling, for him to
doubt it. But though he did not doubt that, not for a second did he
doubt Margaret either. Always aware of the woman's hostility, he had
been equally aware that it could not influence the girl. Not for a
moment therefore had he accepted the statement that the engagement was
broken. At the time he had thought that when next he had a word with
Margaret it would all be explained. But all what? His life was as clean
as his face. It was not that then. On the other hand he was not rich. By
the same token, Margaret's only idea of money was to help others with
it. It was not that then either. Nor was it that she had not loved him.
She had loved him. He could have sworn it and not out of vanity, for he
had none, but because never could she have promised herself to him if
she had not. None the less, she could not see him again. She had thought
it over. She was not suited to him. He was told to forget her. Why?
That Why, repeating itself, forced him deeper into the circles of which
hell is made.
But even in hell despair is brief. Unless it consume you utterly, and it
would not be hell if it did, it goads. It compels you to seek an issue.
Apart from time, which is very slow, and resignation, which is never
prompt, there is another portal.
A poet, who discovered it, scrawled on it: "Lascia la donna e studia la
matematica"--a cryptogram which subsequent pilgrims variously
deciphered. To some, it spelled Thought; to others, Action. Action is
thought put in motion.
Lennox, to whom time was too dilatory and resignation too remote,
happened on the device which he translated after his manner.
But however you construe the hierograph, the door must be demolished
before you get out. Across the door is written: Hope. It is a very hard
door to crack. When you succeed you are covered with splinters. They
cling to you and pierce you. Joiners, carpenters, pilgrims, poets and
fiends have a name for them. They call the splinters Regrets. Though you
have escaped, they accompany you. Hell encircles you still.
It was on the day following the conversation with Mrs. Austen that
Lennox received Margaret's letter. In his dark rooms it was waiting. A
moment previous he had intended to go to her. He had it all planned.
Mrs. Austen could say what she liked; the physician might interfere; he
would submit to no one. He proposed to see her, to adjust it, to swing
up and out from the circles which already were closing about him.
On leaving Mrs. Austen he had gone to dinner. He could not eat. He had
gone to bed. He could not sleep. In the morning his face was flushed.
Always fit, hard as nails, these phenomena perplexed. Yet he knew it was
not illness that produced them. What he did not know was that poison
had. The poison was anger, an unphilosophic emotion which disturbs the
circulation, the stomach and social intercourse. He could have wrung
Mrs. Austen's neck.
In that murderous mood he went to Wall Street and in that mood returned.
Already hell was gaping. Headlong into it the letter threw him. Being a
man he sought and found the door, smashed it and passed out. Not at once
however. It took him many a sleepless hour before he deciphered the
device Lascia la donna. Leave the lady? Certainly. Since she so wished,
what else in decency could he do? Go and badger her with complaints and
questions? Not he. But how do you translate: Studia la matematica? The
dictionary that is in every man, who is a man, told him. Then he knew.
Meanwhile the flush in departing left him grey.
In every affection there is the germ of hate. Margaret, confronted by
the unawaited, hated Lennox. Lennox, confronted by the inexplicable,
hated Margaret. Hatred is love turned inside out. Love is perhaps a
fermentation of the molecules of the imagination. In that case so also
is hate. Of all things mystery disturbs the imagination most. Margaret
could not understand how Lennox could have acted as he had. Lennox could
not understand how Margaret could act as she did. Dual misunderstanding,
in which the imagination fermented. Hence the hate. Yet each, in hating,
loved the other. Each felt the splinters which, as Browning somewhere
noted, kept fresh and fine. Only a touch and the splinters would have
joined.
Mrs. Austen, for all her horrible shrewdness, could not have prevented
that. But pride, that gives so many of us a fall, was more potent than
she. Margaret, insulted, could but turn away. Lennox, dismissed, could
but let her go.
Any emotion is unbecoming. Pride is merely ridiculous. It resides in the
youthful-minded, however old. In residing in these young people, it
resisted the touch that would have combined them and, through its
opposition, made one of them ill and the other grey. To be proud! How
splendid it seems and how stupid it is. Hell is paved with just such
imbecilities.
It is said of Dante that children peered at him and whispered: "That man
has been in hell."
None of the children that clubmen are, pointed at Lennox, though two of
them whispered. The others did not know, not yet at least. But Verelst
knew and Jones guessed. The guess was due to the romantic profession
that endows a novelist with the wonderful faculty of putting two and two
together.
Hitherto, that is since the engagement was announced and, for that
matter, long previously, Lennox had passed the evening in Park Avenue.
Where else would he have passed it? After the rupture he sat about and
read all the papers. When a man is down and out that is just what he
does do, though not necessarily in the Athenæum Club.
Jones, noticing it, rapidly divined the reason which Verelst confirmed.
"Yes, her mother told me."
It was in a club window, of an afternoon. Before them was Fifth Avenue
which, in the Aprils of not so long ago, used to be a horse-show of fair
faces, ravishing hats, discreet liveries, folded arms and yards of
yodeling brass.
Verelst, eyeing the usurping motors, added: "It is because of some girl
I believe, or rather I don't believe it."
Jones sat back. Instantly the motors were replaced by the picture of a
girl whose face was noble and reserved. He had seen the face at the
Bazaar. He had seen Lennox talking to it. Afterward Lennox had told him
that the girl was Portuguese. The picture was attractive but
unconvincing. In agreement with Verelst he was about to say so. But
behind him he heard a voice that he knew and he switched and said:
"What a remarkable country Portugal is! Born dumb, she spoke twice: once
when she gave Asia to Europe, again when she presented the Lusiades to
the world. Her history is resumed in two miracles, a discovery and a
masterpiece. But when the Cape of Good Hope was succeeded by Camoens,
once more she relapsed into a silence that was broken only when she
shouted her defiance at the Huns."
Now though that voice was addressing them. Both turned and Lennox asked:
"What are you talking about--war?"
"Sit down," said Verelst, who gave him a hand.
Jones gave him another. "What else is there to talk about? It will be
talked of forever. So will that scrofulous Kaiser. Unfortunately he
knows it and that pleases him. Last year or the year before he called
for the death and destruction of all who opposed him. With singular
modesty he added: 'God who speaks through my mouth so orders!' Loti
claims that what spoke through him was a hyena. Loti is lacking in
literary sobriety. When a hyena has eaten he is at peace with the world.
But when was bestiality ever filled? It is insatiable and so is this
thug whom God, at most, may have permitted to look in the mirror without
vomiting. Meanwhile we stand by. A generation ago we fought for Cuba.
What is Hecuba to us in comparison to the Anima Mundi?"
Verelst turned on the novelist. "And what is literary sobriety? You are
hurling words in massed formation."
Jones smiled at him. "Where is my harp?"
"You mean your megaphone," Lennox put in. "You are always rehearsing
copy. One of these days I may give you some."
"From the front?" Jones asked.
"Yes, though I don't see how you knew. The President has asked for war.
Why aren't we up and at 'em? If Congress hems and haws over it much
longer, I'll get my gun and join the Foreign Legion."
Jones nodded. He had guessed that also and he said: "Wait and join the
legions here. At present, the country is alarmingly apathetic. The man
in the subway is muddled. The call to arms does not stir him. The
issues, clear enough to us, seem to him mixed as macaroni. He does not
understand a war that is three thousand miles away. But in a year, every
man in the country--a country that has never been beaten!--will be in it
body and soul. Undividedly, shoulder to shoulder, we will be in it as we
have never been in anything before."
The novelist touched a bell. "Lennox, have a Bronx. Verelst, what will
you take? I'll wager a pippin that war is declared to-morrow."
"Done," said Verelst--who lost it.
XIII
The two hundred and fifty--less ten per cent--which an imaginary Mrs.
Beamish had paid for the pleasure of not hearing Cassy sing, transported
the girl who was not given to transports. These subsiding, she viewed
the matter from its business aspect. She needed a frock, a wrap, a hat,
gloves, shoes and certain things that are nowhere visible except in
advertisements, shop-windows and extreme privacy. Also, her hair
required tralalaing. Meanwhile, first and foremost, Lennox must be paid.
The subsidy was not too much by a penny. These considerations occupied
but an instant.
"When is it?" she asked the Tamburini, who, a moment before, had
dumbfounded her with the money.
"When is what?" inquired the ex-star who already had forgotten Mrs.
Beamish.
"Why, the concert!"
Carlotta Tamburini was dressed like a fat idol, in silk and false
pearls. There the idolatry ceased. In her hand was an umbrella and on
her head a hat of rose-leaves which a black topknot surmounted. About
her shoulders was a feather boa. It seemed a bit mangy. Seated on
Cassy's bed she looked at a window that gave on a wall. Cassy was
standing. Behind Cassy was a door which the extinguished light had
closed. Beyond, in the living-room, was the marquis. Anything that he
did not hear would not hurt him.
"Oh, she'll let us know."
"What sort of a catamount is she?"
At that the former prima donna's imagination balked. But she got
something out. "Nice enough. What do you care?"
"I hate all those snobs."
"So do I," said the Tamburini, who worshipped the breed even when
non-existent. "But don't go and include him. If it hadn't been for
him----"
"Was he with her?"
"You ought to have heard the way he went on about you. She said: 'Why,
Monty, I do believe you'd like to marry her.'"
Cassy's mouth twitched as she munched it. "She presumed to say that!
She's an insolent beast."
"He shut her up, I can tell you. He said if he got on his knees, you
wouldn't dust your feet on him."
"That jackanapes! I should say not!"
"You might say worse. Take the Metro. You're spat on if you're down and
spat at if you're up. A dog's own life." Lifting her voice, the fat
woman sang: "Croyez-moi car j'ai passé par la."
"What has that to do with it?"
Nothing whatever, the Tamburini truthfully reflected but omitted to say
so. Paliser, in producing Mrs. Beamish, had also produced the programme.
With both was a cheque. With the cheque was the assurance of another and
a bigger one. She had only to earn it. To earn it she had only to follow
the programme. The poor soul was trying to. The job was not easy. Cassy
was skittish. A pull on the rein and she would kick the apple-cart over.
Femininely she discounted it all. Cassy was not worth the time, the
trouble, particularly the careful handling. There were girls in plenty,
quite as good-looking, who, without stopping to count two, or even one,
would jump at it. But there you were! Paliser did not want partridges
that flew broiled into his mouth. A true sportsman, he liked to snare
the bird. The feminine in her understood that also. Besides it was all
grist for her mill. But the grist was uphill, and if the noble marquis
got so much as an inkling of it, he was just the sort of damn fool to
whip out his sword-cane and run her through. The honour of the
Casa-Evora, what? Yet, being on the job, she buckled to it.
"What will you get, dearie?"
Cassy sat down. Her previous ruminations returned. Escorting them was a
vision of a baronial castle. In the hall, a guest-book in which you
wrote your name. A squad of lackeys that showed you into a suite of
salons. Rugs on which there was peace; sofas on which there was ease;
étagères on which there were reveries. Nothing else. No cupboards hung
with confections. No models sailing in and out. Nothing so commercial as
anything for sale. Nothing but patrician repose and the châtelaine--a
duchess disguised as a dressmaker--who might, or might not, ask you
upstairs.
In war time at that! Though, it is true, Congress had only just declared
it.
But, Cassy reflected, two hundred and fifty, with Lennox deducted and
less ten per cent, would not take her as far as the drawbridge. The
fleeting vision of the castle passed, replaced by the bargain seductions
of department-stores.
Fingering the money, she said: "Where does this person live? She ought
to send a taxi."
"Certamente," replied the fat woman, lapsing, as she occasionally did
lapse, into the easy Italian of the lyric stage. "She certainly will."
Cassy jumped up. "Well, then, you come along while I take a look about.
Afterward we will have lunch. I'll eat, you can watch me and I'll tell
you how it tastes. There's the telephone!"
Cassy opened the door, went out into the narrow and shadowy hall and
took the receiver.
"Yes? Oh! None the better for the asking. To-night? Impossible.
To-morrow? Perhaps. Good-bye."
"Who was that?" the noble marquis called from the room beyond.
"An imbecile who wants me to dine and go to the opera."
"Not that Paliser?"
Cassy, poking her head in at him, threw him a kiss and returned to the
Tamburini with whom, a little later, she was praying among the
worshippers that thread the sacred and silent way where Broadway and
Sixth Avenue meet.
In an adjacent basilica, the atmosphere charged with pious emanations,
with envy, malice, greed and all other charitableness, choked the girl.
But at last the holy rites were ended. To the voluntary of $109.99, she
passed into the peace of Herald Square where the ex-diva swayed, stopped
and holding her umbrella as one holds a guitar, looked hopelessly and
helplessly about.
"You're not preparing to serenade the Elevated?" Cassy bawled in her
ear.
In the slam-bang of trains and the metallic howls of surface cars that
herded and volplaned about them, the fat lady, now apparently gone mad,
was gesticulating insanely. Yet she was but indicating, or trying to
indicate, the relative refuge of a side street in which there was a
cook-shop.
Then, presently, after all the dangers that may be avoided in remaining
at home, and supplied with such delights as clam fritters offer, she
savorously remarked: "I hope I am not going to be sick."
The charm of scented streets, the sedatives of shopping, the joy of
lightsome fritters, these things, combined with the job, the unearned
cheque and the fear of losing both, made her ghastly.
Cassy, devoid of pity, said: "Have some beer."
The Tamburini gulped. "I couldn't talk to you this morning and I've got
to. It's for your own good, dearie; it is, so help me! Supposing he is a
jackanapes. What do you want? A prize-fighter? Take it from me, whether
he is one or the other, in no time it will be quite the same."
Cassy's lips curled. "Croyez-moi car j'ai passé par la." But, in mocking
the woman, she frowned. "What business is it of yours?"
The fallen star gulped again. Conscious that she had struck the wrong
note, she struck another. "Your papa is no better, is he? Between you
and me and the bedpost, I doubt if he ever will be. I doubt if he plays
again. You'll have to look after him. How're you going to? You can't
expect to sing every night to the tune of two hundred and fifty. Not
with war marching in on us. Not with everybody hard up."
Cassy had been about to order a chocolate éclair. The new note stayed
her. But though new, it was not novel. She had heard it before. It rang
true. Absently she shoved at her plate.
In theory she knew her way about. The migratory systems of domestic
experience said nothing to her, nor, thus far, had the charts of
matrimony either. In the sphere of life to which a walk-up leads, the
charts were dotted with but the postman and the corner druggist. Men and
plenty of them she had met, but they too said nothing and not at all
because they were dumb, but because, as the phrase is, they did not talk
her language. But for every exception there is perhaps a rule. The one
man who did speak her language, had held his tongue.
Now, as she shoved at her plate, she saw him, saw the tea-caddy, saw his
rooms and saw too, as she left them, the girl to whom he was engaged. In
the memory of that she lingered and looked down.
"Why, he could lead an orchestra of his own, your papa could."
Cassy looked up. She had been far away, too far, in a land where dreams
do not come true. Impatiently she twisted. "What?"
"Didn't you hear me, dearie? I was talking about money--bushels of it."
About the bushels the woman rolled her tongue. They tasted better than
the fritters.
A waiter approached. The room was long, dark, narrow, slovenly, spaced
with tables on which were maculate cloths and lamps with faded shades.
Greasily the waiter produced the bill.
"Bushels!" she appetisingly repeated.
Cassy paid. The waiter slouched away.
"You will drive through life in a hundred horsepower car and be fined
for speeding. The papers will say: 'Mrs. Pal----'"
"What did he pay you to tell me that?" Cassy exploded at her.
Unruffled by the shot, which was part and parcel of the job, and
realising that any denial would only confirm what at most could be but a
suspicion, the former diva fingered her pearls and assumed an air of
innocence.
But already Cassy had covered her with her blotting-paper look. "As if I
cared!"
"Dearie, he did pay me. He paid me the compliment of supposing that I
take an interest in you. But he said nothing except what I said he said.
He said if he got down on his knees you would turn your back on him."
"Then he is cleverer than he looks."
"Well, anyway, he is clever enough to have bushels of money and that is
the greatest cleverness there is."
"In New York," retorted Cassy, who had never been anywhere else,
physically at least, though mentally her little feet had trod the
streets of Milan, the boards of the Scala.
"It can't be much different in Patagonia," replied this lady, who, to
save her life, could not have told whether the land was Asiatic or
African, nor who, to save her soul--if the latter were still
salvable--could not have told that it was neither. "Besides," she added,
"I was only thinking of your poor, dear papa."
Cassy said nothing. She stood up. She was making for the door and the
charm of the scented streets.
Ma Tamby sighed, rose and followed. It was the devil's own job.
Housebreaking must be easier!
XIV
Cassy's department-store investments reached her the next day. Her
father, who opened the door to them, fell back before the sum total of
the C. O. D. With an arm in a sling, he could not hold the packages,
much less pay for them, and he gasped as he called for aid.
The money that Cassy then produced seemed to him darkly mysterious and
although he believed as firmly in her virtue, as, before the break, he
had believed in the maestria of his own right hand, none the less, in
addition to aid, he exacted light.
Cassy, dumping the packages on her bed, occupied herself in verifying
the change which amounted to one cent. Then she sketched it.
His surprise fell away. The mythical catamount, the imaginary concert,
the ponderable subsidy--two hundred and fifty, less ten per
cent.--seemed to him natural and an unnatural world.
"And there's about ten dollars remaining," Cassy resumed. "Ten dollars
and a penny. You can have the penny and I will keep the ten, or I'll
keep the ten and you can have the penny."
That also seemed natural. But the addition or subtraction disclosed a
deficit and he exclaimed at it. "You said two hundred and fifty!"
Cassy too saw the hole, but she could not lie out of it. "Well, I owed
the difference."
In speaking she turned. Before her was a mirror in which she glanced
at her hair that had been superiorly tralala'd. She turned again,
reflecting that Lennox must have already received the postal-order,
which she had mailed the night before, and wondering whether he had
liked her little scrawl of indignant thanks.
"I'll tell you about it later," she added. "Now I must get your dinner.
How would you like a tenderloin, a salad, and a box of Camembert?"
He shuffled. "There is no Camembert any more." The tragedy of that
seemed to overwhelm him. "I wish I were dead."
Cassy laughed. "Now it's the cheese. On Saturday it was the violin.
Well, you got it back. What will you say if I find some Camembert? Do
stop meowing. Any one might think you didn't have me."
At her young laughter, he groaned. "Formerly if I let a day go without
practising, I noticed it. If I let two days go, Toscanini noticed it.
Now it's weeks and weeks. It's killing me."
To cheer him, Cassy said gaily: "The artist never dies."
But it did not cheer him. Besides, though Cassy had laughed, there had
been a tugging at her heartstrings. Shabby, unkempt, in a frayed
dressing-gown, his arm in a dismal sling, he looked so out of it, so
forlorn, so old.
He had shuffled away. She bit her lip. Later, when he had had his
tenderloin and she had department-stored herself, a pint of grocer's
burgundy had reduced him to tears.
The day before it had seemed to her that the frock would do. But her
judgment had been hurried. Shops, crowds, the vibrations of both,
devitalised and confused her. In choosing the frock she had not
therefore given it the consideration which it perhaps did not merit, and
now her mirror shrieked it. The frock was not suited to her. Nothing was
suited to her, except the produce of baronial halls, where the simplest
thing exceeded the dreams of avarice, or else the harlequinades which
she herself devised. None the less she would have liked to have had her
father exclaim and tell her how smart she looked. He omitted it.
"Where are you going?"
"I told you. Dinner and the opera."
"Opera! There is no opera to-night. What do you mean? What did you tell
me?"
On the table were dishes and the lamentable bottle. Cassy, in doubt
whether to clear them then or later, hesitated. The hesitation he
misconstrued.
"You told me nothing. You tell me nothing. I am kept in the dark."
Cassy, adjusting the wrap which she had left open that he might admire
the unadmirable, moved to where he sat and touched him. "You're the
silliest kind of a silly. I told you yesterday. Perhaps the opera was
last night. But how could I go? Except that old black rag I had nothing
to wear. If there is no opera to-night, there will be a concert or
something. Don't you remember now? I was at the telephone."
He did remember, but apparently the recollection displeased. He growled.
"Yes. It was that Paliser."
"Well, why not? If it had not been for him, I would not have got the
catamount's money and you would not have had the burgundy."
But he was not to be mollified. The growl sharpened into a snarl.
"Paliser! I don't like the breed. By God, if----"
The peradventure of that Cassy got before he could utter it. Paliser! Of
all men! The absurdity convulsed her. Her laughter ran up and down the
scale.
"You're the dearest old duck of a goose I ever heard of." She turned.
Her wrap swished. "I only wish you were going too."
Below, in the street, a man, precipitatingly vacating the box of a
machine, touched his cap at her. "Beg pardon, mem. Miss Cara? Mr.
Paliser's compliments and he's sent a car."
Cassy glanced at the man, who looked like a Roman emperor. From the man
she turned to the car. Superiorly and soberly finished, it beckoned.
Now, though, the Cæsar was holding open the door. Cassy got in. The
emperor hopped up. The car leaped.
On the front seat was a box with her name on it. In it was a handful of
orchids. The luxury of the car, the beauty of the demon-flowers, the
flight from the walk-up, yet more, perhaps, the caresses and surrenders
of spring, affected her. If, she thought, if only the things that might
be could be the things that are! If only----
On the pale cushions she leaned back. Before her a curtain parted. In a
wide, marble-flagged hall she was looking at a girl who was looking at
her. A moment before he had said: "That is Miss Austen to whom I am
engaged." A moment before she had seen her picture. The girl was good to
look at, so good that, without further acquaintance, you knew she was
good through and through. There was no mistaking that. But was she good
enough? Was any girl good enough for him? And who was that with her?
Probably her mother who probably too was the catamount's sister. They
had a family likeness. Then at once the scene shifted. Cassy was in a
room floored with thick rugs, hung with heavy draperies, and in that
room the catamount had hired her to sing! But the disgust of it passed.
The curtain fell. Cassy turned to the window, through which a breath of
lilac blew.
She sniffed and stared. Where was she? Where was the Riverside? Where,
for that matter, was the roar of the glittering precinct in which the
Splendor tossed its turrets to the sky? Here were dirty and reeling
goblins; budding trees that bowed and fainted; a stretch of empty road
that the scudding car devoured. Afar was a house that instantly
approached and as suddenly vanished. Dimly beyond was another.
Cassy, leaning forward, poked at the emperor. "I will thank you to tell
me where you are going. Don't you know where the Splendor is?"
Back at her he mumbled, but what she could not hear.
"Stop at once," she called.
Easily, without a quiver, almost within its own length, the car drew in
and the Cæsar, touching his cap, was looking at her. "Beg pardon, mem.
There was a note for you in the box. Mr. Paliser said----"
But now Cassy had it.
     Chère demoiselle--though I do not know why I call you that, except
     that it sounds less perfunctory than dear Miss Cara, who, I hope
     will do me the honour of dining in the country, if for no better
     reason than because there is no opera to-night and I am her
     obedient servant.
     M. P., Jr.
Cassy looked up from it. "Country! He says country. What country? What
does this mean?"
"The Place, mem. Paliser Place. It's not far now."
Cassy had not bargained for that. Stories of girls decoyed, drugged,
spirited away, never heard of again, sprang at her. Quite as quickly she
dismissed them. But, being human, she had to find fault.
"You should have told me before. That will do. Drive on."
She sank back. The car leaped and she smiled. Paliser in the rôle of
white-slaver! Her momentary alarm was now a mile behind her. But would
they be alone? Though, after all, what did it matter? Yet in Harlem
there was a broken old man who would not like it. And the basilica
investments! If she had known she would have worn the black rag. But
they would do for that tiresome Mrs. Beamish. As yet she had not decided
what she would sing. The Caro nome occurred to her. Under her breath
she began it and abruptly desisted. The Dear Name suggested another.
For it she substituted the Ombra leggiera. In its scatter of trills
that mount, as birds mount, there were no evocations, though she did
begin wondering again about Mrs. Beamish's music-room. If it were not
too impossible she might give the Ernani involame. But at that and
very unintentionally she thought of Lennox again.
She made a face and looked through the window. As usual she was hungry.
The car now was bellowing through opening gates which, as she looked
back, a man in brown was closing. On either side was a high stone wall,
but beyond, as she looked again, was an avenue bordered with trees and
farther on a white house with projecting wings in which was a court, an
entrance and, above and about the latter, a pillared perron.
From the entrance she could see a man in livery hastening. Behind him, a
man in black appeared. The car stopped. The first man opened the door.
Cassy got out. The other man additionally assisted by looking on and
moving aside. Cassy went into a hall where a young person who did not
resemble the Belle Chocolatière but whose costume suggested her,
diligently approached.
"Would madame care to go upstairs?"
No, madame would not. But Cassy, instinctively insolent to
pretentiousness, was very simple with the simple. "Thank you. Will you
mind taking my wrap? Thank you again."
She looked about the hall. Before she could inventory it, here was
another man. "A nice trick you played on me," Cassy threw at him. "I was
half-way before I discovered it. The orchids reconciled me. Thank you
for them. Who is here?"
Smiling, deferential, apparently modest, perfectly sent out in perfectly
cut evening clothes, Paliser took her hand. "You are and, incidentally,
I am."
Cassy withdrew her hand. "I suppose you think you are a host in
yourself."
"Merely the most fortunate of mortals," replied Paliser, who could be
eighteenth-century when he liked, but who seldom bothered to keep it up.
Already he had been doing a little inventorying on his own account. The
basilica frock did not say much and what it did say was not to his
taste. The Sunday night fantasy he much preferred. It was rowdy, but it
was artistic. But beauty may be dishonoured, it cannot be vulgarised.
Even in pseudo-Parisianisms Cassy was a gem. A doubt though, one that
had already visited him, returned. Was the game worth the possible
scandal?
But now Cassy was getting back at him. "To stand about with the most
fortunate of mortals ought to be a shape of bliss. As it happens, I
would rather sit."
"Naturally. Only, worse luck, there is no throne."
Cassy gave it to him again: "There is a court fool, though. Where are
your cap and bells?"
"Not on you at any rate."
He motioned and Cassy passed on into a room beyond which other rooms
extended, each different, but all in the same key, a monotone attenuated
by lustres and the atmosphere, infinitely relaxing, which wealth
exhales.
Cassy's thin nostrils quivered. Since childhood, it was her first breath
of anything similar. It appeased and disarmed this anarchist who was
also an autocrat.
"Will you sit here?"
Paliser was drawing a chair. The table before it lacked the adjacent
severity. On it were dishes of Sèvres and of gold. Adjacently were three
men. Their faces were white and sensual. They moved as forms move in a
dream.
The stories of girls decoyed, spirited away, never heard of again,
returned to Cassy. She had put the orchids beside her. Her flexible
mouth framed a smile.
"You know, for a moment, I had the rare emotion of feeling and fearing
that I was being eloped with."
A pop interrupted. She turned to a man at her elbow. "Only half a glass,
please, and fill it with water." She returned to Paliser, who was
