After a moment Cleves's grip tightened.
"All right," he said.
Recklow went downstairs.
CHAPTER VI
IN BATTLE
Cleves went back into the apartment; he noticed that Miss Norne's door
was ajar.
To get to his own room he had to pass that way; and he saw her, seated
before the mirror, partly undressed, her dark, lustrous hair being
combed out and twisted up for the night.
Whether this carelessness was born of innocence or of indifference
mattered little; he suddenly realised that these conditions wouldn't do.
And his first feeling was of anger.
"If you'll put on your robe and slippers," he said in an unpleasant
voice, "I'd like to talk to you for a few moments."
She turned her head on its charming neck and looked around and up at him
over one naked shoulder.
"Shall I come into your room?" she inquired.
"No!... when you've got some clothes on, call me."
"I'm quite ready now," she said calmly, and drew the Chinese slippers
over her bare feet and passed a silken loop over the silver bell buttons
on her right shoulder. Then, undisturbed, she continued to twist up her
hair, following his movements in the mirror with unconcerned blue eyes.
He entered and seated himself, the impatient expression still creasing
his forehead and altering his rather agreeable features.
"Miss Norne," he said, "you're absolutely convinced that these people
mean to do you harm. Isn't that true?"
"Of course," she said simply.
"Then, until we get them, you're running a serious risk. In fact, you
live in hourly peril. That is your belief, isn't it?"
She put the last peg into her thick, curly hair, lowered her arms,
turned, dropped one knee over the other, and let her candid gaze rest on
him in silence.
"What I mean to explain," he said coldly, "is that as long as I induced
you to go into this affair I'm responsible for you. If I let you out of
my sight here in New York and if anything happens to you, I'll be as
guilty as the dirty beast who takes your life. What is your opinion?
It's up to me to stand by you now, isn't it?"
"I had rather be near you--for a while," she said timidly.
"Certainly. But, Miss Norne, our living here together, in my
apartment--or living together anywhere else--is never going to be
understood by other people. You know that, don't you?"
After a silence, still looking at him out of clear unembarrassed eyes:
"I know.... But ... I don't want to die."
"I told you," he said sharply, "they'll have to kill me first. So that's
all right. But how about what I am doing to your reputation?"
"I understand."
"I suppose you do. You're very young. Once out of this blooming mess,
you will have all your life before you. But if I kill your reputation
for you while saving your body from death, you'll find no happiness in
living. Do you realise that?"
"Yes."
"Well, then? Have you any solution for this problem that confronts you?"
"No."
"Haven't you any idea to suggest?"
"I don't--don't want to die," she repeated in an unsteady voice.
He bit his lip; and after a moment's scowling silence under the
merciless scrutiny of her eyes: "Then you had better marry me," he said.
It was some time before she spoke. For a second or two he sustained the
searching quality of her gaze, but it became unendurable.
Presently she said: "I don't ask it of you. I can shoulder my own
burdens." And he remembered what he had just said to Recklow.
"You've shouldered more than your share," he blurted out. "You are
deliberately risking death to serve your country. I enlisted you. The
least I can do is to say my affections are not engaged; so naturally the
idea of--of marrying anybody never entered my head."
"Then you do not care for anybody else?"
Her candour amazed and disconcerted him.
"No." He looked at her, curiously. "Do you care for anybody in that
way?"
A light blush tinted her face. She said gravely: "If we really are going
to marry each other I had better tell you that I did care for Prince
Sanang."
"What!" he cried, astounded.
"It seems incredible, doesn't it? Yet it is quite true. I fought him; I
fought myself; I stood guard over my mind and senses there in the
temple; I knew what he was and I detested him and I mocked him there in
the temple.... And I loved him."
"Sanang!" he repeated, not only amazed but also oddly incensed at the
naïve confession.
"Yes, Sanang.... If we are to marry, I thought I ought to tell you.
Don't you think so?"
"Certainly," he replied in an absent-minded way, his mind still grasping
at the thing. Then, looking up: "Do you still care for this fellow?"
She shook her head.
"Are you perfectly sure, Miss Norne?"
"As sure as that I am alive when I awake from a nightmare. My hatred for
Sanang is very bitter," she added frankly, "and yet somehow it is not my
wish to see him harmed."
"You still care for him a little?"
"Oh, no. But--can't you understand that it is not in me to wish him
harm?... No girl feels that way--once having cared. To become
indifferent to a familiar thing is perhaps natural; but to desire to
harm it is not in my character."
"You have plenty of character," he said, staring; at her.
"You don't think so. Do you?"
"Why not?"
"Because of what I said to you on the roof-garden that night. It was
shameful, wasn't it?"
"You behaved like many a thoroughbred," he returned bluntly; "you were
scared, bewildered, ready to bolt to any shelter offered."
"It's quite true I didn't know what to do to keep alive. And that was
all that interested me--to keep on living--having lost my soul and being
afraid to die and find myself in hell with Erlik."
He said: "Isn't that absurd notion out of your head yet?"
"I don't know ... I can't suddenly believe myself safe after all those
years. It is not easy to root out what was planted in childhood and what
grew to be part of one during the tender and formative period.... You
can't understand, Mr. Cleves--you can't ever feel or visualise what
became my daily life in a region which was half paradise and half
hell----"
She bent her head and took her face between her fingers, and sat so,
brooding.
After a little while: "Well," he said, "there's only one way to manage
this affair--if you are willing, Miss Norne."
She merely lifted her eyes.
"I think," he said, "there's only that one way out of it. But you
understand"--he turned pink--"it will be quite all right--your
liberty--privacy--I shan't bother you--annoy----"
She merely looked at him.
"After this Bolshevistic flurry is settled--in a year or two--or
three--then you can very easily get your freedom; and you'll have all
life before you" ... he rose: "--and a jolly good friend in me--a good
comrade, Miss Norne. And that means you can count on me when you go into
business--or whatever you decide to do."
She also had risen, standing slim and calm in her exquisite Chinese
robe, the sleeves of which covered her finger tips.
"Are you going to marry me?" she asked.
"If you'll let me."
"Yes--I will ... it's so generous and considerate of you. I--I don't ask
it; I really don't----"
"But I do."
"--And I never dreamed of such a thing."
He forced a smile. "Nor I. It's rather a crazy thing to do. But I know
of no saner alternative.... So we had better get our license
to-morrow.... And that settles it."
He turned to go; and, on her threshold, his feet caught in something on
the floor and he stumbled, trying to free his feet from a roll of soft
white cloth lying there on the carpet. And when he picked it up, it
unrolled, and a knife fell out of the folds of cloth and struck his
foot.
Still perplexed, not comprehending, he stooped to recover the knife.
Then, straightening up, he found himself looking into the colourless
face of Tressa Norne.
"What's all this?" he asked--"this sheet and knife here on the floor
outside your door?"
She answered with difficulty: "They have sent you your shroud, I think."
"Are not those things yours? Were they not already here in your
baggage?" he demanded incredulously. Then, realising that they had not
been there on the door-sill when he entered her room a few moments
since, a rough chill passed over him--the icy caress of fear.
"Where did that thing come from?" he said hoarsely. "How could it get
here when my door is locked and bolted? Unless there's somebody hidden
here!"
Hot anger suddenly flooded him; he drew his pistol and sprang into the
passageway.
"What the devil is all this!" he repeated furiously, flinging open his
bedroom door and switching on the light.
He searched his room in a rage, went on and searched the dining-room,
smoking-room, and kitchen, and every clothes-press and closet, always
aware of Tressa's presence close behind him. And when there remained no
tiniest nook or cranny in the place unsearched, he stood in the centre
of the carpet glaring at the locked and bolted door.
He heard her say under her breath: "This is going to be a sleepless
night. And a dangerous one." And, turning to stare at her, saw no fear
in her face, only excitement.
He still held clutched in his left hand the sheet and the knife. Now he
thrust these toward her.
"What's this damned foolery, anyway?" he demanded harshly. She took the
knife with a slight shudder. "There is something engraved on the silver
hilt," she said.
He bent over her shoulder.
"Eighur," she added calmly, "not Arabic. The Mongols had no written
characters of their own."
She bent closer, studying the inscription. After a moment, still
studying the Eighur characters, she rested her left hand on his
shoulder--an impulsive, unstudied movement that might have meant either
confidence or protection.
"Look," she said, "it is not addressed to you after all, but to a
symbol--a series of numbers, 53-6-26."
"That is my designation in the Federal Service," he said, sharply.
"Oh!" she nodded slowly. "Then this is what is written in the
Mongol-Yezidee dialect, traced out in Eighur characters: 'To 53-6-26! By
one of the Eight Assassins the Slayer of Souls sends this shroud and
this knife from Mount Alamout. Such a blade shall divide your heart.
This sheet is for your corpse.'"
After a grim silence he flung the soft white cloth on the floor.
"There's no use my pretending I'm not surprised and worried," he said;
"I don't know how that cloth got here. Do you?"
"It was sent."
"How?"
She shook her head and gave him a grave, confused look.
"There are ways. You could not understand.... This is going to be a
sleepless night for us."
"You can go to bed, Tressa. I'll sit up and read and keep an eye on that
door."
"I can't let you remain alone here. I'm afraid to do that."
He gave a laugh, not quite pleasant, as he suddenly comprehended that
the girl now considered their rôles to be reversed.
"Are you planning to sit up in order to protect me?" he asked,
grimly amused.
"Do you mind?"
"Why, you blessed little thing, I can take care of myself. How funny of
you, when I am trying to plan how best to look out for you!"
But her face remained pale and concerned, and she rested her left hand
more firmly on his shoulder.
"I wish to remain awake with you," she said. "Because I myself don't
fully understand this"--she looked at the knife in her palm, then down
at the shroud. "It is going to be a strange night for us," she sighed.
"Let us sit together here on the lounge where I can face that bolted
door. And if you are willing, I am going to turn out the lights----"
She suddenly bent forward and switched them off--"because I must keep my
mind on guard."
"Why do you do that?" he asked, "you can't see the door, now."
"Let me help you in my own way," she whispered. "I--I am very deeply
disturbed, and very, very angry. I do not understand this new menace.
Yezidee that I am, I do not understand what kind of danger threatens you
through your loyalty to me."
She drew him forward, and he opened his mouth to remonstrate, to laugh;
but as he turned, his foot touched the shroud, and an uncontrollable
shiver passed over him.
They went close together, across the dim room to the lounge, and seated
themselves. Enough light from Madison Avenue made objects in the room
barely discernible.
       *       *       *       *       *
Sounds from the street below became rarer as the hours wore away. The
iron jar of trams, the rattle of vehicles, the harsh warning of taxicabs
broke the stillness at longer and longer intervals, until, save only for
that immense and ceaseless vibration of the monstrous iron city under
the foggy stars, scarcely a sound stirred the silence.
The half-hour had struck long ago on the bell of the little clock. Now
the clear bell sounded three times.
Cleves stirred on the lounge beside Tressa. Again and again he had
thought that she was asleep for her head had fallen back against the
cushions, and she lay very still. But always, when he leaned nearer to
peer down at her, he saw her eyes open, and fixed intently upon the
bolted door.
His pistol, which still rested on his knee, was pointed across the room,
toward the door. Once he reminded her in a whisper that she was unarmed
and that it might be as well for her to go and get her pistol. But she
murmured that she was sufficiently equipped; and, in spite of himself,
he shivered as he glanced down at her frail and empty hands.
It was some time between three and half-past, he judged, when a sudden
movement of the girl brought him upright on his seat, quivering with
excitement.
"Mr. Cleves!"
"Yes?"
"The Sorcerers!"
"Where? Outside the door?"
"Oh, my God," she murmured, "they are after my mind again! Their
fingers are groping to seize my brain and get possession of it!"
"What!" he stammered, horrified.
"Here--in the dark," she whispered--"and I feel their fingers
caressing me--searching--moving stealthily to surprise and grasp my
thoughts.... I know what they are doing.... I am resisting.... I am
fighting--fighting!"
She sat bolt upright with clenched hands at her breast, her face palely
aglow in the dimness as though illumined by some vivid inward light--or,
as he thought--from the azure blaze in her wide-open eyes.
"Is--is this what you call--what you believe to be magic?" he asked
unsteadily. "Is there some hostile psychic influence threatening you?"
"Yes. I'm resisting. I'm fighting--fighting. They shall not trap me.
They shall not harm you!... I know how to defend myself and you!... And
you!"
Suddenly she flung her left arm around his neck and the delicate
clenched hand brushed his cheek.
"They shall not have you," she breathed. "I am fighting. I am holding my
own. There are eight of them--eight Assassins! My mind is in battle with
theirs--fiercely in battle.... I hold my own! I am armed and waiting!"
With a convulsive movement she drew his head closer to her shoulder.
"Eight of them!" she whispered,--"trying to entrap and seize my brain.
But my thoughts are free! My mind is defending you--you, here in my
arms!"
After a breathless silence: "Look out!" she whispered with terrible
energy; "they are after your mind at last. Fix your thoughts on me!
Keep your mind clear of their net! Don't let their ghostly fingers touch
it. Look at me!" She drew him closer. "Look at me! Believe in me! I
can resist. I can defend you. Does your head feel confused?"
"Yes--numb."
"Don't sleep! Don't close your eyes! Keep them open and look at me!"
"I can scarcely see you----"
"You must see me!"
"My eyes are heavy," he said drowsily. "I can't see you, Tressa----"
"Wake! Look at me! Keep your mind clear. Oh, I beg you--I beg you!
They're after our minds and souls, I tell you! Oh, believe in me," she
beseeched him in an agonised whisper--"Can't you believe in me for a
moment,--as if you loved me!"
His heavy lids lifted and he tried to look at her.
"Can you see me? Can you?"
He muttered something in a confused voice.
"Victor!"
At the sound of his own name, he opened his eyes again and tried to
straighten up, but his pistol fell to the carpet.
"Victor!" she gasped, "clear your mind in the name of God!"
"I can not----"
"I tell you hell is opening beyond that door!--outside your bolted door,
there! Can't you believe me! Can't you hear me! Oh, what will hold you
if the love of God can not!" she burst out. "I'd crucify myself for you
if you'd look at me--if you'd only fight hard enough to believe in
me--as though you loved me!"
His eyes unclosed but he sank back against her shoulder.
"Victor!" she cried in a terrible voice.
There was no answer.
"If the love of God could only hold you for a moment more!"--she
stammered with her mouth against his ear, "just for a moment, Victor!
Can't you hear me?"
"Yes--very far away."
"Fight for me! Try to care for me! Don't let Sanang have me!"
He shuddered in her arms, reached out and resting heavily on her
shoulder, staggered to his feet and stood swaying like a drunken man.
"No, by God," he said thickly, "Sanang shall not touch you."
The girl was on her feet now, holding him upright with an arm around his
shoulders.
"They can't--can't harm us together," she stammered. "Hark! Listen! Can
you hear? Oh, can you hear?"
"Give me my pistol," he tried to say, but his tongue seemed twisted.
"No--by God--Sanang shall not touch you."
She stooped lithely and recovered the weapon. "Hush," she said close to
his burning face. "Listen. Our minds are safe! I can hear somebody's
soul bidding its body farewell!"
White-lipped she burst out laughing, kicked the shroud out of the way,
thrust the pistol into his right hand, went forward, forcing him along
beside her, and drew the bolts from the door.
Suddenly he spoke distinctly:
"Is there anything outside that door on the landing?"
"Yes.... I don't know what. Are you ready?" She laid her hand on lock
and knob.
He nodded. At the same instant she jerked open the door; and a hunchback
who had been picking at the lock fell headlong into the room, his pistol
exploding on the carpet in a streak of fire.
It was a horrible struggle to secure the powerful misshapen creature,
for he clawed and squealed and bounced about on the floor, striking
blindly with ape-like arms. But at last Cleves held him down, throttled
and twitching, and Tressa ripped strips from the shroud to truss up the
writhing thing.
Then Cleves switched on the light.
"Why--why--you rat!" he exclaimed in hysterical relief at seeing a
living man whom he recognised there at his feet. "What are you doing
here?"
The hunchback's red eyes blazed up at him from the floor.
"Who--who is he?" faltered the girl.
"He's a German tailor named Albert Feke--one of the Chicago
Bolsheviki--the most dangerous sort we harbour--one of their vile
leaders who preaches that might is right and tells his disciples to go
ahead and take what they want."
He looked down at the malignant cripple.
"You're wanted for the I. W. W. bomb murder, Albert. Did you know it?"
The hunchback licked his bloody lips. Then he kicked himself to a
sitting position, squatted there like a toad and looked steadily at
Tressa Norne out of small red-rimmed eyes. Blood dripped on his beard;
his huge hairy fists, tied and crossed behind his back, made odd,
spasmodic movements.
Cleves went to the telephone. Presently Tressa heard his voice, calm and
distinct as usual:
"We've caught Albert Feke. He's here at my rooms. I'd like to have you
come over, Recklow.... Oh, yes, he kicked and scuffled and scratched
like a cat.... What?... No, I hadn't heard that he'd been in China....
Who?... Albert Feke? You say he was one of the Germans who escaped from
Shantung four years ago?... You think he's a Yezidee! You mean one of
the Eight Assassins?"
The hunchback, staring at Tressa out of red-rimmed eyes, suddenly
snarled and lurched his misshapen body at her.
"Teufelstuck!" he screamed, "ain't I tell efferybody in Yian
already it iss safer if we cut your throat! Devil-slut of
Erlik--snow-leopardess!--cat of the Yezidees who has made of Sanang a
fool!--it iss I who haf said always, always, that you know too damn
much!... Kai!... I hear my soul bidding me farewell. Gif me my shroud!"
Cleves came back from the telephone. With the toe of his left foot he
lifted the shroud and kicked it across the hunchback's knees.
"So you were one of the huns who instigated the massacre in Yian," he
said, curiously. At that Tressa turned very white and a cry escaped her.
But the hunchback's features were all twisted into ferocious laughter,
and he beat on the carpet with the heels of his great splay feet.
"Ja! Ja!" he shrieked, "in Yian it vas a goot hunting! English and
Yankee men und vimmens ve haff dropped into dose deep wells down. Py
Gott in Himmel, how dey schream up out of dose deep wells in Yian!" He
began to cackle and shriek in his frenzy. "Ach Gott ja! It iss not you
either--you there, Keuke Mongol, who shall escape from the
Sheiks-el-Djebel! It iss dot Old Man of the Mountain who shall tell your
soul it iss time to say farewell! Ja! Ja! Ach Gott!--it iss my only
regret that I shall not see the world when it is all afire! Ja! Ja!--all
on fire like hell! But you shall see it, slut-leopard of the snows! You
shall see it und you shall burn! Kai! Kai! My soul it iss bidding my
body farewell. Kai! May Erlik curse you, Keuke Mongol--Heavenly
Azure--Sorceress of the temple!--"
He spat at her and rolled over in his shroud.
The girl looking down on him closed her eyes for a moment, and Cleves
saw her bloodless lips move, and bent nearer, listening. And he heard
her whispering to herself:
"Preserve us all, O God, from the wrath of Satan who was stoned."
CHAPTER VII
THE BRIDAL
Over the United States stretched an unseen network of secret
intrigue woven tirelessly night and day by the busy enemies of
civilisation--Reds, parlour-socialists, enemy-aliens, terrorists,
Bolsheviki, pseudo-intellectuals, I. W. W.'s, social faddists, and
amateur meddlers of every nuance--all the various varieties of the
vicious, witless, and mentally unhinged--brought together through the
"cohesive power of plunder" and the degeneration of cranial tissue.
All over the United States the various departmental divisions of the
Secret Service were busily following up these threads of intrigue
leading everywhere through the obscurity of this vast and secret maze.
To meet the constantly increasing danger of physical violence and to
uncover secret plots threatening sabotage and revolution, there were
capable agents in every branch of the Secret Service, both Federal and
State.
But in the first months of 1919 something more terrifying than physical
violence suddenly threatened civilised America,--a wild, grotesque,
incredible threat of a war on human minds!
And, little by little, the United States Government became convinced
that this ghastly menace was no dream of a disordered imagination, but
that it was real: that among the enemies of civilisation there actually
existed a few powerful but perverted minds capable of wielding psychic
forces as terrific weapons: that by the sinister use of psychic
knowledge controlling these mighty forces the very minds of mankind
could be stealthily approached, seized, controlled and turned upon
civilisation to aid in the world's destruction.
In terrible alarm the Government turned to England for advice. But Sir
William Crookes was dead.
However, in England, Sir Conan Doyle immediately took up the matter, and
in America Professor Hyslop was called into consultation.
And then, when the Government was beginning to realise what this awful
menace meant, and that there were actually in the United States possibly
half a dozen people who already had begun to carry on a diabolical
warfare by means of psychic power, for the purpose of enslaving and
controlling the very minds of men,--then, in the terrible moment of
discovery, a young girl landed in America after fourteen years' absence
in Asia.
And this was the amazing girl that Victor Cleves had just married, at
Recklow's suggestion, and in the line of professional duty,--and moral
duty, perhaps.
It had been a brief, matter-of-fact ceremony. John Recklow, of the
Secret Service, was there; also Benton and Selden of the same service.
The bride's lips were unresponsive; cold as the touch of the groom's
unsteady hand.
She looked down at her new ring in a blank sort of way, gave her hand
listlessly to Recklow and to the others in turn, whispered a timidly
comprehensive "Thank you," and walked away beside Cleves as though
dazed.
There was a taxicab waiting. Tressa entered. Recklow came out and spoke
to Cleves in a low voice.
"Don't worry," replied Cleves dryly. "That's why I married her."
"Where are you going now?" inquired Recklow.
"Back to my apartment."
"Why don't you take her away for a month?"
Cleves flushed with annoyance: "This is no occasion for a wedding trip.
You understand that, Recklow."
"I understand. But we ought to give her a breathing space. She's had
nothing but trouble. She's worn out."
Cleves hesitated: "I can guard her better in the apartment. Isn't it
safer to go back there, where your people are always watching the street
and house day and night?"
"In a way it might be safer, perhaps. But that girl is nearly exhausted.
And her value to us is unlimited. She may be the vital factor in this
fight with anarchy. Her weapon is her mind. And it's got to have a
chance to rest."
Cleves, with one hand on the cab door, looked around impatiently.
"Do you, also, conclude that the psychic factor is actually part of
this damned problem of Bolshevism?"
Recklow's cool eyes measured him: "Do you?"
"My God, Recklow, I don't know--after what my own eyes have seen."
"I don't know either," said the other calmly, "but I am taking
no chances. I don't attempt to explain certain things that have
occurred. But if it be true that a misuse of psychic ability by
foreigners--Asiatics--among the anarchists is responsible for some of
the devilish things being done in the United States, then your wife's
unparalleled knowledge of the occult East is absolutely vital to us. And
so I say, better take her away somewhere and give her mind a chance to
recover from the incessant strain of these tragic years."
The two men stood silent for a moment, then Recklow went to the window
of the taxicab.
"I have been suggesting a trip into the country, Mrs. Cleves," he said
pleasantly, "--into the real country, somewhere,--a month's quiet in the
woods, perhaps. Wouldn't it appeal to you?"
Cleves turned to catch her low-voiced answer.
"I should like it very much," she said in that odd, hushed way of
speaking, which seemed to have altered her own voice and manner since
the ceremony a little while before.
Driving back to his apartment beside her, he strove to realise that this
girl was his wife.
One of her gloves lay across her lap, and on it rested a slender hand.
And on one finger was his ring.
But Victor Cleves could not bring himself to believe that this brand-new
ring really signified anything to him,--that it had altered his own life
in any way. But always his incredulous eyes returned to that slim finger
resting there, unstirring, banded with a narrow circlet of virgin gold.
In the apartment they did not seem to know exactly what to do or
say--what attitude to assume--what effort to make.
Tressa went into her own room, removed her hat and furs, and came slowly
back into the living-room, where Cleves still stood gazing absently out
of the window.
A fine rain was falling.
They seated themselves. There seemed nothing better to do.
He said, politely: "In regard to going away for a rest, you wouldn't
care for the North Woods, I fancy, unless you like winter sports. Do
you?"
"I like sunlight and green leaves," she said in that odd, still voice.
"Then, if it would please you to go South for a few weeks' rest----"
"Would it inconvenience you?"
Her manner touched him.
"My dear Miss Norne," he began, and checked himself, flushing painfully.
The girl blushed, too; then, when he began to laugh, her lovely, bashful
smile glimmered for the first time.
"I really can't bring myself to realise that you and I are married," he
explained, still embarrassed, though smiling.
Her smile became an endeavour. "I can't believe it either, Mr. Cleves,"
she said. "I feel rather stunned."
"Hadn't you better call me Victor--under the circumstances?" he
suggested, striving to speak lightly.
"Yes.... It will not be very easy to say it--not for some time, I
think."
"Tressa?"
"Yes."
"Yes--what?"
"Yes--Victor."
"That's the idea," he insisted with forced gaiety.
"The thing to do is to face this rather funny situation and take it
amiably and with good humour. You'll have your freedom some day, you
know."
"Yes--I--know."
"And we're already on very good terms. We find each other interesting,
don't we?"
"Yes."
"It even seems to me," he ventured, "it certainly seems to me, at times,
as though we are approaching a common basis of--of mutual--er--esteem."
"Yes. I--I do esteem you, Mr. Cleves."
"In point of fact," he concluded, surprised, "we are friends--in a
way. Wouldn't you call it--friendship?"
"I think so, I think I'd call it that," she admitted.
"I think so, too. And that is lucky for us. That makes this crazy
situation more comfortable--less--well, perhaps less ponderous."
The girl assented with a vague smile, but her eyes remained lowered.
"You see," he went on, "when two people are as oddly situated as we are,
they're likely to be afraid of being in each other's way. But they ought
to get on without being unhappy as long as they are quite confident of
each other's friendly consideration. Don't you think so, Tressa?"
Her lowered eyes rested steadily on her ring-finger. "Yes," she said.
"And I am not--unhappy, or--afraid."
She lifted her blue gaze to his; and, somehow, he thought of her
barbaric name, Keuke,--and its Yezidee significance, "heavenly--azure."
"Are we really going away together?" she asked timidly.
"Certainly, if you wish."
"If you, also, wish it, Mr. Cleves."
He found himself saying with emphasis that he always wished to do what
she desired. And he added, more gently:
"You are tired, Tressa--tired and lonely and unhappy."
"Tired, but not the--others."
"Not unhappy?"
"No."
"Aren't you lonely?"
"Not with you."
The answer came so naturally, so calmly, that the slight sensation of
pleasure it gave him arrived only as an agreeable afterglow.
"We'll go South," he said.... "I'm so glad that you don't feel lonely
with me."
"Will it be warmer where we are going, Mr. Cleves?"
"Yes--you poor child! You need warmth and sunshine, don't you? Was it
warm in Yian, where you lived so many years?"
"It was always June in Yian," she said under her breath.
She seemed to have fallen into a revery; he watched the sensitive face.
Almost imperceptibly it changed; became altered, younger, strangely
lovely.
Presently she looked up--and it seemed to him that it was not Tressa
Norne at all he saw, but little Keuke--Heavenly Azure--of the Yezidee
temple, as she dropped one slim knee over the other and crossed her
hands above it.
"It was very beautiful in Yian," she said, "--Yian of the thousand
bridges and scented gardens so full of lilies. Even after they took me
to the temple, and I thought the world was ending, God's skies still
remained soft overhead, and His weather fair and golden.... And when, in
the month of the Snake, the Eight Sheiks-el-Djebel came to the temple to
spread their shrouds on the rose-marble steps, then, after they had
departed, chanting the Prayers for the Dead, each to his Tower of
Silence, we temple girls were free for a week.... And once I went with
Tchagane--a girl--and with Yulun--another girl--and we took our keutch,
which is our luggage, and we went to the yaïlak, or summer pavilion on
the Lake of the Ghost. Oh, wonderful,--a silvery world of pale-gilt suns
and of moons so frail that the cloud-fleece at high-noon has more
substance!"
Her voice died out; she sat gazing down at her spread fingers, on one of
which gleamed her wedding-ring.
After a little, she went on dreamily:
"On that week, each three months, we were free.... If a young man should
please us...."
"Free?" he repeated.
"To love," she explained coolly.
"Oh." He nodded, but his face became rather grim.
"There came to me at the yaïlak," she went on carelessly, "one Khassar
Noïane--Noïane means Prince--all in a surcoat of gold tissue with green
vines embroidered, and wearing a green cap trimmed with dormouse, and
green boots inlaid with stiff gold....
"He was so young ... a boy. I laughed. I said: 'Is this a Yaçaoul? An
Urdu-envoy of Prince Erlik?'--mocking him as young and thoughtless girls
mock--not in unfriendly manner--though I would not endure the touch of
any man at all.
"And when I laughed at him, this Eighur boy flew into such a rage! Kai!
I was amazed.
"'Sou-sou! Squirrel!' he cried angrily at me. 'Learn the Yacaz, little
chatterer! Little mocker of men, it is ten blows with a stick you
require, not kisses!'
"At that I whistled my two dogs, Bars and Alaga, for I did not think
what he said was funny.
"I said to him: 'You had better go home, Khassar Noïane, for if no man
has ever pleased me where I am at liberty to please myself, here on the
Lake of the Ghost, then be very certain that no boy can please
Keuke-Mongol here or anywhere!'
"And at that--kai! What did he say--that monkey?" She looked at her
husband, her splendid eyes ablaze with wrathful laughter, and made a
gesture full of angry grace:
"'Squirrel!' he cries--'little malignant sorceress of Yian! May
everything high about you become a sandstorm, and everything long a
serpent, and everything broad a toad, and everything----'
"But I had had enough, Victor," she added excitedly, "and I made a wild
bee bite him on the lip! WHAT do you think of such a courtship?" she
cried, laughing. But Cleves's face was a study in emotions.
And then, suddenly, the laughing mask seemed to slip from the bewitching
features of Keuke Mongol; and there was Tressa Norne--Tressa
Cleves--disconcerted, paling a little as the memory of her impulsive
confidence in this man beside her began to dawn on her more clearly.
"I--I'm sorry----" she faltered.... "You'll think me silly--think evil
of me, perhaps----"
She looked into his troubled eyes, then suddenly she took her face into
both hands and covered it, sitting very still.
"We'll go South together," he said in an uncertain voice.... "I hope you
will try to think of me as a friend.... I'm just troubled because I am
so anxious to understand you. That is all.... I'm--I'm troubled, too,
because I am anxious that you should think well of me. Will you try,
always?"
She nodded.
"I want to be your friend, always," he said.
"Thank you, Mr. Cleves."
       *       *       *       *       *
It was a strange spot he chose for Tressa--strange but lovely in its own
unreal and rather spectral fashion--where a pearl-tinted mist veiled the
St. Johns, and made exquisite ghosts of the palmettos, and softened the
sun to a silver-gilt wafer pasted on a nacre sky.
It was a still country, where giant water-oaks towered, fantastic under
their misty camouflage of moss, and swarming with small birds.
Among the trees the wood-ibis stole; without on the placid glass of the
stream the eared grebe floated. There was no wind, no stirring of
leaves, no sound save the muffled splash of silver mullet, the
breathless whirr of a humming-bird, or the hushed rustle of lizards in
the woods.
For Tressa this was the blessed balm that heals,--the balm of silence.
And, for the first week, she slept most of the time, or lay in her
hammock watching the swarms of small birds creeping and flitting amid
the moss-draped labyrinths of the live-oaks at her very door.
It had been a little club house before the war, this bungalow on the St.
Johns at Orchid Hammock. Its members had been few and wealthy; but some
were dead in France and Flanders, and some still remained overseas, and
others continued busy in the North.
And these two young people were quite alone there, save for a negro cook
and a maid, and an aged negro kennel-master who wore a scarlet waistcoat
and cords too large for his shrunken body, and who pottered, pottered
through the fields all day, with his whip clasped behind his bent back
and the pointers ranging wide, or plodding in at heel with red tongues
lolling.
Twice Cleves went a little way for quail, using Benton's dogs; but even
here in this remote spot he dared not move out of view of the little
house where Tressa lay asleep.
So he picked up only a few brace of birds, and confined his sport to
impaling too-familiar scorpions on the blade of his knife.
And all the while life remained unreal for him; his marriage seemed
utterly unbelievable; he could not realise it, could not reconcile
himself to conditions so incomprehensible.
Also, ever latent in his mind, was knowledge that made him restless--the
knowledge that the young girl he had married had been in love with
another man: Sanang.
And there were other thoughts--thoughts which had scarcely even taken
the shape of questions.
One morning he came from his room and found Tressa on the veranda in her
hammock. She had her moon-lute in her lap.
"You feel better--much better!" he said gaily, saluting her extended
hand.
"Yes. Isn't this heavenly? I begin to believe it is life to me, this
pearl-tinted world, and the scent of orange bloom and the stillness of
paradise itself."
She gazed out over the ghostly river. Not a wing stirred its glassy
surface.
"Is this dull for you?" she asked in a low voice.
"Not if you are contented, Tressa."
"You're so nice about it. Don't you think you might venture a day's real
shooting?"
"No, I think I won't," he replied.
"On my account?"
"Well--yes."
"I'm so sorry."
"It's all right as long as you're getting rested. What is that
instrument?"
"My moon-lute."
"Oh, is that what it's called?"
She nodded, touched the strings. He watched her exquisite hands.
"Shall I?" she inquired a little shyly.
"Go ahead. I'd like to hear it!"
"I haven't touched it in months--not since I was on the steamer." She
sat up in her hammock and began to swing there; and played and sang
while swinging in the flecked shadow of the orange bloom:
    "Little Isle of Cispangou,
    Isle of iris, isle of cherry,
    Tell your tiny maidens merry
    Clouds are looming over you!
        La-[=e]-la!
        La-[=e]-la!
    All your ocean's but a ferry;
    Ships are bringing death to you!
        La-[=e]-lou!
        La-[=e]-lou!
    "Little Isle of Cispangou,
    Half a thousand ships are sailing;
    Captain Death commands each crew;
    Lo! the ruddy moon is paling!
        La-[=e]-la!
        La-[=e]-la!
    Clouds the dying moon are veiling,
    Every cloud a shroud for you!
        La-[=e]-lou!
        La-[=e]-lou!"
"Cispangou," she explained, "is the very, very ancient name, among the
Mongols, for Japan."
"It's not exactly a gay song," he said. "What's it about?"
"Oh, it's a very ancient song about the Mongol invasion of Japan. I know
scores and scores of such songs."
She sang some other songs. Afterward she descended from the hammock and
came and sat down beside him on the veranda steps.
"I wish I could amuse you," she said wistfully.
"Why do you think I'm bored, Tressa? I'm not at all."
But she only sighed, lightly, and gathered her knees in both arms.
"I don't know how young men in the Western world are entertained," she
remarked presently.
"You don't have to entertain me," he said, smiling.
"I should be happy to, if I knew how."
"How are young men entertained in the Orient?"
"Oh, they like songs and stories. But I don't think you do."
He laughed in spite of himself.
"Do you really wish to entertain me?"
"I do," she said seriously.
"Then please perform some of those tricks of magic which you can do so
amazingly well."
Her dawning smile faded a trifle. "I don't--I haven't----" She
hesitated.
"You haven't your professional paraphernalia with you," he suggested.
"Oh--as for that----"
"Don't you need it?"
"For some things--some kinds of things.... I could do--other
things----"
He waited. She seemed disconcerted. "Don't do anything you don't wish to
do, Tressa," he said.
"I was only--only afraid--that if I should do some little things to
amuse you, I might stir--stir up--interfere--encounter some sinister
current--and betray myself--betray my whereabouts----"
"Well, for heaven's sake don't venture then!" he said with emphasis.
"Don't do anything to stir up any other wireless--any Yezidee----"
"I am wondering," she reflected, "just what I dare venture to do to
amuse you."
"Don't bother about me. I wouldn't have you try any psychic stunt down
here, and run the chance of stirring up some Asiatic devil somewhere!"
She nodded absently, occupied with her own thoughts, sitting there, chin
on hand, her musing eyes intensely blue.
"I think I can amuse you," she concluded, "without bringing any harm to
myself."
"Don't try it, Tressa!----"
"I'll be very careful. Now, sit quite still--closer to me, please."
He edged closer; and became conscious of an indefinable freshness in the
air that enveloped him, like the scent of something young and growing.
But it was no magic odour,--merely the virginal scent of her hair and
skin that even clung to her summer gown.
He heard her singing under her breath to herself:
    "La-[=e]-la!
    La-[=e]-la!"
and murmuring caressingly in an unknown tongue.
Then, suddenly in the pale sunshine, scores of little birds came
hovering around them, alighting all over them. And he saw them swarming
out of the mossy festoons of the water-oaks--scores and scores of tiny
birds--Parula warblers, mostly--all flitting fearlessly down to alight
upon his shoulders and knees, all keeping up their sweet, dreamy little
twittering sound.
"This is wonderful," he whispered.
The girl laughed, took several birds on her forefinger.
"This is nothing," she said. "If I only dared--wait a moment!----" And,
to the Parula warblers:
"Go home, little friends of God!"
The air was filled with the musical whisper of wings. She passed her
right arm around her husband's neck.
"Look at the river," she said.
"Good God!" he blurted out. And sat dumb.
For, over the St. John's misty surface, there was the span of a
bridge--a strange, marble bridge humped up high in the centre.
And over it were passing thousands of people--he could make them out
vaguely--see them passing in two never-ending streams--tinted shapes on
the marble bridge.
And now, on the farther shore of the river, he was aware of a city--a
vast one, with spectral pagoda shapes against the sky----
Her arm tightened around his neck.
He saw boats on the river--like the grotesque shapes that decorate
ancient lacquer.
She rested her face lightly against his cheek.
In his ears was a far confusion of voices--the stir and movement of
multitudes--noises on ships, boatmen's cries, the creak of oars.
Then, far and sonorous, quavering across the water from the city, the
din of a temple gong.
There were bells, too--very sweet and silvery--camel bells, bells from
the Buddhist temples.
He strained his eyes, and thought, amid the pagodas, that there were
minarets, also.
Suddenly, clear and ringing came the distant muezzin's cry: "There is no
other god but God!... It is noon. Mussulmans, pray!"
The girl's arm slipped from his neck and she shuddered and pushed him
from her.
There was nothing, now, on the river or beyond it but the curtain of
hanging mist; no sound except the cry of a gull, sharp and querulous in
the vapours overhead.
"Have--have you been amused?" she asked.
"What did you do to me!" he demanded harshly.
She smiled and drew a light breath like a sigh.
"God knows what we living do to one another,--or to ourselves," she
said. "I only tried to amuse you--after taking counsel with the birds."
"What was that bridge I saw!"
"The Bridge of Ten Thousand Felicities."
"And the city?"
"Yian."
"You lived there?"
"Yes."
He moistened his dry lips and stole another glance at this very
commonplace Florida river. Sky and water were blank and still, and the
ghostly trees stood tall, reflected palely in the translucent tide.
"You merely made me visualise what you were thinking about," he
concluded in a voice which still remained unsteady.
"Did you hear nothing?"
He was silent, remembering the bells and the enormous murmur of a living
multitude.
"And--there were the birds, too." She added, with an uncertain smile: "I
do not mean to worry you.... And you did ask me to amuse you."
"I don't know how you did it," he said harshly. "And the details--those
thousands and thousands of people on the bridge!... And there was one,
quite near this end of the bridge, who looked back.... A young girl who
turned and laughed at us--"
"That was Yulun."
"Who?"
"Yulun. I taught her English."
"A temple girl?"
"Yes. From Black China."
"How could you make me see her!" he demanded.
"Why do you ask such things? I do not know how to tell you how I do it."
"It's a dangerous, uncanny knowledge!" he blurted out; and suddenly
checked himself, for the girl's face went white.
"I don't mean uncanny," he hastened to add. "Because it seems to me that
what you did by juggling with invisible currents to which, when attuned,
our five senses respond, is on the same lines as the wireless telegraph
and telephone."
She said nothing, but her colour slowly returned.
"You mustn't be so sensitive," he added. "I've no doubt that it's all
quite normal--quite explicable on a perfectly scientific basis. Probably
it's no more mysterious than a man in an airplane over midocean
conversing with people ashore on two continents."
       *       *       *       *       *
For the remainder of the day and evening Tressa seemed subdued--not
restless, not nervous, but so quiet that, sometimes, glancing at her
askance, Cleves involuntarily was reminded of some lithe young creature
of the wilds, intensely alert and still, immersed in fixed and dangerous
meditation.
About five in the afternoon they took their golf sticks, went down to
the river, and embarked in the canoe.
The water was glassy and still. There was not a ripple ahead, save when
a sleeping gull awoke and leisurely steered out of their way.
Tressa's arms and throat were bare and she wore no hat. She sat forward,
wielding the bow paddle and singing to herself in a low voice.
"You feel all right, don't you?" he asked.
"Oh, I am so well, physically, now! It's really wonderful, Victor--like
being a child again," she replied happily.
"You're not much more," he muttered.
She heard him: "Not very much more--in years," she said.... "Does
Scripture tell us how old Our Lord was when He descended into Hell?"
"I don't know," he replied, startled.
After a little while Tressa tranquilly resumed her paddling and singing:
        "--And eight tall towers
        Guard the route
        Of human life,
        Where at all hours
        Death looks out,
        Holding a knife
        Rolled in a shroud.
        For every man,
        Humble or proud,
        Mighty or bowed,
    Death has a shroud;--for every man,--
    Even for Tchingniz Khan!
        Behold them pass!--lancer.
        Baroulass,
        Temple dancer
        In tissue gold,
        Khiounnou,
        Karlik bold,
        Christian, Jew,--
    Nations swarm to the great Urdu.
        Yaçaoul, with your kettledrum,
    Warn your Khan that his hour is come!
        Shroud and knife at his spurred feet throw,
    And bid him stretch his neck for the blow!--"
"You know," remarked Cleves, "that some of those songs you sing are
devilish creepy."
Tressa looked around at him over her shoulder, saw he was smiling,
smiled faintly in return.
They were off Orchid Cove now. The hotel and cottages loomed dimly in
the silver mist. Voices came distinctly across the water. There were
people on the golf course paralleling the river; laughter sounded from
the club-house veranda.
They went ashore.
CHAPTER VIII
THE MAN IN WHITE
It was at the sixth hole that they passed the man ahead who was playing
all alone--a courteous young fellow in white flannels, who smiled and
bowed them "through" in silence.
They thanked him, drove from the tee, and left the polite and reticent
young man still apparently hunting for a lost ball.
Like other things which depended upon dexterity and precision, Tressa
had taken most naturally to golf. Her supple muscles helped.
At the ninth hole they looked back but did not see the young man in
white flannels.
Hammock, set with pine and palmetto, and intervals of evil-looking
swamp, flanked the course. Rank wire-grass, bayberry and scrub palmetto
bounded the fairgreen.
On every blossoming bush hung butterflies--Palomedes
swallowtails--drugged with sparkle-berry honey, their gold and black
velvet wings conspicuous in the sunny mist.
"Like the ceremonial vestments of a Yezidee executioner," murmured the
girl. "The Tchortchas wear red when they robe to do a man to death."
"I wish you could forget those things," said Cleves.
"I am trying.... I wonder where that young man in white went."
Cleves searched the links. "I don't see him. Perhaps he had to go back
for another ball."
"I wonder who he was," she mused.
"I don't remember seeing him before," said Cleves.... "Shall we start
back?"
They walked slowly across the course toward the tenth hole.
Tressa teed up, drove low and straight. Cleves sliced, and they walked
together into the scrub and towards the woods, where his ball had
bounded into a bunch of palm trees.
Far in among the trees something white moved and vanished.
"Probably a white egret," he remarked, knocking about in the scrub with
his midiron.
"It was that young man in white flannels," said Tressa in a low voice.
"What would he be doing in there?" he asked incredulously. "That's
merely a jungle, Tressa--swamp and cypress, thorn and creeper,--and no
man would go into that mess if he could. There is no bottom to those
swamps."
"But I saw him in there," she said in a troubled voice.
"But when I tell you that only a wild animal or a snake or a bird could
move in that jungle! The bog is one vast black quicksand. There's death
in those depths."
"Victor."
"Yes?" He looked around at her. She was pale. He came up and took her
hand inquiringly.
"I don't feel--well," she murmured. "I'm not ill, you understand----"
"What's the matter, Tressa?"
She shook her head drearily: "I don't know.... I wonder whether I should
have tried to amuse you this morning----"
"You don't think you've stirred up any of those Yezidee beasts, do you?"
he asked sharply.
And as she did not answer, he asked again whether she was afraid that
what she had done that morning might have had any occult consequences.
And he reminded her that she had hesitated to venture anything on that
account.
His voice, in spite of him, betrayed great nervousness now, and he saw
apprehension in her eyes, also.
"Why should that man in white have followed us, keeping out of sight in
the woods?" he went on. "Did you notice about him anything to disturb
you, Tressa?"
"Not at the time. But--it's odd--I can't put him out of my mind. Since
we passed him and left him apparently hunting a lost ball, I have not
been able to put him out of my mind."
"He seemed civil and well bred. He was perfectly good-humoured--all
courtesy and smiles."
"I think--perhaps--it was the way he smiled at us," murmured the girl.
"Everybody in the East smiles when they draw a knife...."
He placed his arm through hers. "Aren't you a trifle morbid?" he said
pleasantly.
She stooped for her golf ball, retaining a hold on his arm. He picked up
his ball, too, put away her clubs and his, and they started back
together in silence, evidently with no desire to make it eighteen holes.
"It's a confounded shame," he muttered, "just as you were becoming so
rested and so delightfully well, to have anything--any unpleasant flash
of memory cut in to upset you----"
"I brought it on myself. I should not have risked stirring up the
sinister minds that were asleep."
"Hang it all!--and I asked you to amuse me."
"It was not wise in me," she said under her breath. "It is easy to
disturb the unknown currents which enmesh the globe. I ought not to have
shown you Yian. I ought not to have shown you Yulun. It was my fault for
doing that. I was a little lonely, and I wanted to see Yulun."
They came down the river back to the canoe, threw in their golf bags,
and embarked on the glassy stream.
Over the calm flood, stained deep with crimson, the canoe glided in the
sanguine evening light. But Tressa sang no more and her head was bent
sideways as though listening--always listening--to something inaudible
to Cleves--something very, very far away which she seemed to hear
through the still drip of the paddles.
They were not yet in sight of their landing when she spoke to him,
partly turning:
"I think some of your men have arrived."
"Where?" he asked, astonished.
