
"Miss Norman? Come in, come in! Anything you need?" he asked with lively
interest.

"I should like to ask you some questions, Mr. Cunningham."

"Oh! Well, if I can answer them, I will."

He looked significantly at his companions, who rose and left the house by
the starboard door.

"They can't keep away from him, can they?" said Flint, cynically.
"Slue-Foot has the come-hither, sure enough. I had an idea she'd be hiking
this way the first chance she got."

"You haven't the right dope this trip," replied Cleve. "The contract
reads: Hands off women and booze."

"Psalm-singing pirates! We'll be having prayers Sunday. But that woman is
my style."

"Better begin digging up a prayer if you've got that bug in your head. If
you make any fool play in that direction Cunningham will break you. I saw
you last night staring through the transom. Watch your step, Flint. I'm
telling you."

"But if she should happen to take a fancy to me, who shall say no?"

"Hate yourself, eh? There was liquor on your breath last night. Did you
bring some aboard?"

"What's that to you?"

"It's a whole lot to me, my bucko--to me and to the rest of the boys.
Cleigh will not prosecute us for piracy if we play a decent game until we
raise the Catwick. On old Van Dorn's tub we can drink and sing if we want
to. If Cunningham gets a whiff of your breath, when you've had it, you'll
get yours. Most of the boys have never done anything worse than apple
stealing. It was the adventure. All keyed up for war and no place to go,
and this was a kind of safety valve. Already half of them are beginning to
knock in the knees. Game, understand, but now worried about the future."

"A peg or two before turning in won't hurt anybody. I'm not touching it in
the daytime."

"Keep away from him when you do--that's all. We're depending on you and
Cunningham to pull through. If you two get to scrapping the whole business
will go blooey. If we play the game according to contract there's a big
chance of getting back to the States without having the sheriff on the
dock to meet us. But if you mess it up because an unexpected stroke put a
woman on board, you'll end up as shark bait."

"Maybe I will and maybe I won't," was the truculent rejoinder.

"Lord!" said Cleve, a vast discouragement in his tone. "You lay a course
as true and fine as a hair, and run afoul a rotting derelict in the
night!"

Flint laughed.

"Oh, I shan't make any trouble. I'll say my prayers regular until we make
shore finally. The agreement was to lay off the Cleigh booze. I brought on
board only a couple of quarts, and they'll be gone before we raise the
Catwick. But if I feel like talking to the woman I'll do it."

"It's your funeral, not mine," was the ominous comment. "You've been on
the beach once too often, Flint, to play a game like this straight. But
Cunningham had to have you, because you know the Malay lingo. Remember, he
isn't afraid of anything that walks on two feet or four."

"Neither am I--when I want anything. But glass beads!"

"That was only a lure for Cleigh, who'd go round the world for any curio
he was interested in."

"That's what I mean. If it were diamonds or pearls or rubies, all well and
good. But a string of glass beads! The old duffer is a nut!"

"Maybe he is. But if you had ten or twelve millions, what would you do?"

"Jump for Prome and foot it to the silk bazaar, where there are three or
four of the prettiest Burmese girls you ever laid your eyes on. Then I'd
buy the Galle Face Hotel in Colombo and close it to the public."

"And in five years--the old beach again!"

Flint scowled at the oily, heaving rolls, brassy and dazzling. He was
bored. For twelve weeks he had circled the dull round of ship routine,
with never shore leave that was long enough for an ordinary drinking bout.
He was bored stiff. Suddenly his thin lips broke into a smile. Cleve,
noting the smile, divined something of the impellent thought behind that
smile, and he grew uneasy. He recalled his own expression of a few moments
gone--the unreckoned derelict.

                   *       *       *       *       *

"Thank you for coming up," said Cunningham. "It makes me feel that you
trust me."

"I want to," admitted Jane.

A disturbing phenomenon. Always there was a quickening of her heart-beats
at the beginning of each encounter with this unusual gentleman rover. It
was no longer fear. What was it? Was it the face of him, too strong and
vital for a woman's, too handsome for a man's? Was it his dark, fiery eye
which was always reversing what his glib tongue said? Some hidden
magnetism? Alone, the thought of him was recurrent, no matter how
resolutely she cast it forth. Even now she could not honestly say whether
she was here to ask questions of Cunningham or of herself. Perhaps it was
because he was the unknown, whereas Denny was for the most part as
readable as an open book. The one like the forest stream, sometimes
turbulent but always clear; the other like the sea through which they
plowed, smooth, secret, ominous.

"Do your guardians know where you are?"--raillery in his voice.

"No. I came to ask some questions."

"Curiosity. Sit down. What is it you wish to know?"

"All this--and what will be the end?"

"Well, doubtless there will be an end, but I'm not seer enough to foretell
it."

"Then you have some doubts?"

"Only those that beset all of us."

"But somehow--well, you don't seem to belong to this sort of game."

"Why not?"

Unexpectedly he had set a wall between. She had no answer, and her
embarrassment was visible on her cheeks.

"Here and there across the world rough men call me Slue-Foot. Perhaps my
deformity has reacted upon my soul and twisted that. Perhaps if my
countenance had been homely and rugged I would have walked the beaten
paths of respectability. But the two together!"

"I'm sorry!"

"A woman such as you are would be. You are a true daughter of the great
mother--Pity. But I have never asked pity of any. I have asked only that a
man shall keep his word to me as I will keep mine to him."

"But you are risking your liberty, perhaps your life!"

"I've been risking that for more than twenty years. The habit has become
normal. All my life I've wanted a real adventure."

She gazed at him in utter astonishment.

"An adventure? Why, you yourself told me that you had risked your life a
hundred times!"

"That?"--with a smile and a shrug. "That was business, the day's work. I
mean an adventure in which I am accountable to no man."

"Only to God?"

"Well, of course, if you want it that way. For myself, I'm something of a
pagan. I have dreamed of this day. When you were a little girl didn't you
dream of a wonderful doll that could walk and make almost human noises?
Well, I'm realizing my doll. I am going pearl hunting in the South
Seas--the thing I dreamed of when I was a boy."

"But why commit piracy? Why didn't you hire a steamer?"

"Oh, I must have my joke, too. But I hadn't counted on you. In every
campaign there is the hollow road of Ohain. Napoleon lost Waterloo because
of it. Your presence here has forced me to use a hand without velvet.
These men expected a little fun--cards and drink; and some of them are
grumbling with discontent. But don't worry. In five days we'll be off on
our own."

"What is the joke?"

"That will have to wait. For a few minutes I heard you reading to-day.
Your voice is like a bell at sea in the evening. 'Many waters cannot
quench love,'" he quoted, the flash of opals in his eyes, though his lips
were smiling gently. "The Bible is a wonderful book. Its authors were
poets who were not spoiled by the curse of rime. Does it amuse you to hear
me talk of the Bible?--an unregenerate scalawag? Well, it is like this: I
am something of an authority on illuminated manuscripts. I've had to wade
through hundreds of them. That is the method by which I became acquainted
with the Scriptures. The Song of Songs! Lord love you, if that isn't pure
pagan, what is? I prefer the Proverbs. Ask Cleigh if he has that
manuscript with him. It's in a remarkable state of preservation. Remember?
'There be three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, four which I
know not: The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent upon a
rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a man with
a maid.' Ask Cleigh to show you that."

Cleigh! The name swung her back to the original purpose of this visit.

"Do you know the Cleighs well?"

"I know the father. He has the gift of strong men--unforgetting and
unforgiving. I know little or nothing about the son, except that he is a
chip of the old block. Queer twist in events, eh?"

"Have you any idea what estranged them?"

"Didn't know they were at outs until the night before we sailed. They
don't speak?"

"No. And it seems so utterly foolish!"

"Cherchez la femme!"

"You believe that was it?"

"It is always so, always and eternally the woman. I don't mean that she is
always to blame; I mean that she is always there--in the background. But
you! I say, now, here's the job for you! Bring them together. That's your
style. For weeks now you three will be together. Within that time you'll
be able to twist both of them round your finger. I wonder if you realize
it? You're not beautiful, but you are something better--splendid. Strong
men will always be gravitating toward you, wanting comfort, peace. You're
not the kind that sets men's hearts on fire, that makes absconders, fills
the divorce courts, and all that. You're like a cool hand on a hot
forehead. And you have a voice as sweet as a bell."

Instinct--the female fear of the trap--warned Jane to be off, but
curiosity held her to the chair. She was human; and this flattery, free of
any suggestion of love-making, gave her a warming, pleasurable thrill.
Still there was a fly in the amber. Every woman wishes to be credited with
hidden fires, to possess equally the power to damn men as well as to save
them.

"Has there never been----"

"A woman? Have I not just said there is always a woman?" He was sardonic
now. "Mine, seeing me walk, laughed."

"She wasn't worth it!"

"No, she wasn't. But when we are twenty the heart is blind. So Cleigh and
the boy don't speak?"

"Cleigh hasn't injured you in any way, has he?"

"Injured me? Of course not! I am only forced by circumstance--and an
oblique sense of the comic--to make a convenience of him. And by the Lord
Harry, it's up to you to help me out!"

"I?"--bewildered.




CHAPTER XIV


Jane gazed through the doorway at the sea. There was apparently no
horizon, no telling where the sea ended and the faded blue of the sky
began. There was something about this sea she did not like. She was
North-born. It seemed to her that there was really less to fear from the
Atlantic fury than from these oily, ingratiating, rolling mounds. They
were the Uriah Heep of waters. She knew how terrible they could be, far
more terrible than the fiercest nor'easter down the Atlantic. Typhoon! How
could a yacht live through a hurricane? She turned again toward
Cunningham.

"You are like that," she said, irrelevantly.

"Like what?"

"Like the sea."

Cunningham rose and peered under the half-drawn blind.

"That may be complimentary, but hanged if I know! Smooth?--is that what
you mean?"

"Kind of terrible."

He sat down again.

"That rather cuts. I might be terrible. I don't know--never met the
occasion; but I do know that I'm not treacherous. You certainly are not
afraid of me."

"I don't exactly know. It's--it's too peaceful."

"To last? I see. But it isn't as though I were forcing you to go through
with the real voyage. Only a few days more, and you'll have seen the last
of me."

"I hope so."

He chuckled.

"What I meant was," she corrected, "that nothing might happen, nobody get
hurt. Human beings can plan only so far."

"That's true enough. Every programme is subject to immediate change. But,
Lord, what a lot of programmes go through per schedule! Still, you are
right. It all depends upon chance. We say a thing is cut and dried, but we
can't prove it. But so far as I can see into the future, nothing is going
to happen, nobody is going to walk the plank. Piracy on a basis of 2.75
per cent.--the kick gone out of it! But if you can bring about the
reconciliation of the Cleighs the old boy will not be so keen for chasing
me all over the map when this job is done."

"Will you tell me what those beads are?"

"To be sure I will--all in due time. What does Cleigh call them?"

"Love beads!" scornfully.

"On my solemn word, that's exactly what they are."

"Very well. But remember, you promise to tell me when the time comes."

"That and other surprising things."

"I'll be going."

"Come up as often as you like."

Cunningham accompanied her to the bridge ladder and remained until she was
speeding along the deck; then he returned to his chart. But the chart was
no longer able to hold his attention. So he levelled his gaze upon the
swinging horizon and kept it there for a time. Odd fancy, picturing the
girl on the bridge in a hurricane, her hair streaming out behind her, her
fine body leaning on the wind. A shadow in the doorway broke in upon this
musing. Cleigh.

"Come in and sit down," invited Cunningham.

But Cleigh ignored the invitation and stepped over to the steersman.

"Has Miss Norman been in here?"

"Yes, sir."

"How long was she here?"

"I don't know, sir; perhaps half an hour."

Cleigh stalked to the door, but there he turned, and for the first time
since Cunningham had taken the yacht Cleigh looked directly, with grim
intentness, into his enemy's eyes.

"Battle, murder, and sudden death!" Cunningham laughed. "You don't have to
tell me, Cleigh! I can see it in your eyes. If Miss Norman wants to come
here and ask questions, I'm the last man to prevent her."

Cleigh thumped down the ladder. Cunningham was right--there was murder in
his heart. He hurried into the main salon, and there he found Jane and
Dennison conversing.

"Miss Norman, despite my warning you went up to the chart house."

"I had some questions to ask."

"I forbid you emphatically. I am responsible for you."

"I am no longer your prisoner, Mr. Cleigh; I am Mr. Cunningham's."

"You went up there alone?" demanded Dennison.

"Why not? I'm not afraid. He will not break his word to me."

"Damn him!" roared Dennison.

"Where are you going?" she cried, seizing him by the sleeve.

"To have it out with him! I can't stand this any longer!"

"And what will become of me--if anything happens to you, or anything
happens to him? What about the crew if he isn't on hand to hold them?"

The muscular tenseness of the arm she held relaxed. But the look he gave
his father was on a par with that which Cleigh had so recently spent upon
Cunningham. Cleigh could not support it, and turned his head aside.

"All right. But mind you keep in sight! If you will insist upon talking
with the scoundrel, at least permit me to be within call. What do you want
to talk to him for, anyhow?"

"Neither of you will stoop to ask him questions, so I had to. And I have
learned one thing. He is going pearl hunting."

"What? Off the Catwick? There's no pearl oyster in that region," Dennison
declared. "Either he is lying or the Catwick is a blind. The only chance
he'd have would be somewhere in the Sulu Archipelago; and this time of
year the pearl fleets will be as thick as flies in molasses. Of course if
he is aware of some deserted atoll, why, there might be something in it."

"Have you ever hunted pearls?"

"In a second-hand sort of way. But if pearls are his game, why commit
piracy when he could have chartered a tramp to carry his crew? There's
more than one old bucket hereabouts ready to his hand for coal and
stores. He'll need a shoe spoon to get inside or by the Sulu fleets, since
the oyster has been pretty well neglected these five years, and every
official pearler will be hiking down there. But it requires a certain
amount of capital and a stack of officially stamped paper, and I don't
fancy Cunningham has either."

Cleigh smiled dryly, but offered no comment. He knew all about
Cunningham's capital.

"Did he say anything about being picked up by another boat?" asked
Dennison.

"No," answered Jane. "But I don't believe it will be hard for me to make
him tell me that. I believe that he will keep his word, too."

"Jane, he has broken the law of the sea. I don't know what the penalty is
these days, but it used to be hanging to the yard-arm. He won't be
particular about his word if by breaking it he can save his skin. He's
been blarneying you. You've let his plausible tongue and handsome face
befog you."

"That is not true!" she flared. Afterward she wondered what caused the
flash of perversity. "And I resent your inference!" she added with
uplifted chin.

Dennison whirled her about savagely, stared into her eyes, then walked to
the companion, up which he disappeared. This rudeness astonished her
profoundly. She appealed silently to the father.

"We are riding a volcano," said Cleigh. "I'm not sure but he's setting
some trap for you. He may need you as a witness for the defense. Of course
I can't control your actions, but it would relieve me immensely if you'd
give him a wide berth."

"He was not the one who brought me aboard."

"No. And the more I look at it, the more I am convinced that you came on
board of your own volition. You had two or three good opportunities to
call for assistance."

"You believe that?"

"I've as much right to believe that as you have that Cunningham will keep
his word."

"Oh!" she cried, but it was an outburst of anger. And it had a peculiar
twist, too. She was furious because both father and son were partly
correct; and yet there was no diminution of that trust she was putting in
Cunningham. "Next you'll be hinting that I'm in collusion with him!"

"No. Only he is an extraordinarily fascinating rogue, and you are wearing
the tinted goggles of romance."

Fearing that she might utter something regrettable, she flew down the port
passage and entered her cabin, where she remained until dinner. She spent
the intervening hours endeavouring to analyze the cause of her temper, but
the cause was as elusive as quicksilver. Why should she trust Cunningham?
What was the basis of this trust? He had, as Denny said, broken the law of
the sea. Was there a bit of black sheep in her, and was the man calling to
it? And this perversity of hers might create an estrangement between her
and Denny; she must not let that happen. The singular beauty of the man's
face, his amazing career, and his pathetic deformity--was that it?

                   *       *       *       *       *

"Where's the captain?" asked Cunningham, curiously, as he noted the vacant
chair at the table that night.

"On deck, I suppose."

"Isn't he dining to-night?"--an accent of suspicion creeping into his
voice. "He isn't contemplating making a fool of himself, is he? He'll get
hurt if he approaches the wireless."

"Togo," broke in Cleigh, "bring the avocats and the pineapple."

Cunningham turned upon him with a laugh.

"Cleigh, when I spin this yarn some day I'll carry you through it as the
man who never batted an eye. I can see now how you must have bluffed Wall
Street out of its boots."

When Cunningham saw that Jane was distrait he made no attempt to pull her
out of it. He ate his dinner, commenting only occasionally. Still, he bade
her a cheery good-night as he returned to the chart house, where he stayed
continually, never quite certain what old Captain Newton might do to the
wheel and the compass if left alone too long.

Dennison came in immediately after Cunningham's departure and contritely
apologized to Jane for his rudeness.

"I suppose I'm on the rack; nerves all raw; tearing me to pieces to sit
down and twiddle my thumbs. Will you forgive me?"

"Of course I will! I understand. You are all anxious about me.
Theoretically, this yacht is a volcano, and you're trying to keep me from
kicking off the lid. But I've an idea that the lid will stay on tightly if
we make believe we are Mr. Cunningham's guests. But it is almost
impossible to suspect that anything is wrong. Whenever a member of the
crew comes in sight he is properly polite, just as he would be on a liner.
If I do go to the bridge again I'll give you warning. Good-night, Mr.
Cleigh, I'll read to you in the morning. Good-night--Denny."

Cleigh, sighing contentedly, dipped his fingers into the finger bowl and
brushed his lips.

The son drank a cup of coffee hastily, lit his pipe, and went on deck. He
proceeded directly to the chart house.

"Cunningham, I'll swallow my pride and ask a favour of you."

"Ah!"--in a neutral tone.

"The cook tells me that all the wine and liquor are in the dry-stores
compartment. Will you open it and let me chuck the stuff overboard?"

"No," said Cunningham, promptly. "When I turn this yacht back to your
father not a single guy rope will be out of order. It would be a fine
piece of work to throw all those rare vintages over the rail simply to
appease an unsubstantial fear on your part! No!"

"But if the men should break in? And it would be easy, because it is
nearer them than us."

"Thank your father for building the deck like a city flat. But if the boys
should break in, there's the answer," said Cunningham, laying his
regulation revolver on the chart table. "And every mother's son of them
knows it."

"You refuse?"

"Yes."

"All right. But if anything happens I'll be on top of you, and all the
bullets in that clip won't stop me."

"Captain, you bore me. Your father and the girl are good sports. You ought
to be one. I've given you the freedom of the yacht for the girl's sake
when caution bids me dump you into the brig. I begin to suspect that your
misfortunes are due to a violent temper. Run along with your thunder; I
don't want you hurt."

"If I come through this alive----"

"You'll join your dad peeling off my hide--if you can catch me!"

It was with the greatest effort that Dennison crushed down the desire to
leap upon his tormentor. He stood tense for a moment, then stepped out
upon the bridge. His fury was suffocating him, and he realized that he was
utterly helpless.

Ten minutes later the crew in their quarters were astonished to see the
old man's son enter. None of them stirred.

"I say, any you chaps got an extra suit of twill? This uniform is getting
too thick for this latitude. I'm fair melting down to the bone."

"Sure!" bellowed a young giant, swinging out of his bunk. He rummaged
round for a space and brought forth a light-weight khaki shirt and a pair
of ducks. "Guess these'll fit you, sir."

"Thanks. Navy stores?"

"Yes, sir. You're welcome."

Dennison's glance travelled from face to face, and he had to admit that
there was none of the criminal type here. They might carry through
decently. Nevertheless, hereafter he would sleep on the lounge in the
main salon. If any tried to force the dry-stores door he would be likely
to hear it.

At eleven o'clock the following morning there occurred an episode which
considerably dampened Jane's romantical point of view regarding this
remarkable voyage. Cleigh had gone below for some illuminated manuscripts
and Dennison was out of sight for the moment. She leaned over the rail and
watched the flying fish. Suddenly out of nowhere came the odour of
whisky.

"You ought to take a trip up to the cutwater at night and see the flying
fish in the phosphorescence."

She did not stir. Instinctively she knew who the owner of this voice would
be--the man Cunningham called Flint. A minute--an unbearable
minute--passed.

"Oh! Too haughty to be a good fellow, huh?"

Footsteps, a rush of wind, a scuffling, and an oath brought her head
about. She saw Flint go balancing and stumbling backward, finally to sprawl
on his hands and knees, and following him, in an unmistakable attitude,
was Dennison. Jane was beginning to understand these Cleighs; their rage
was terrible because it was always cold.

"Denny!" she called.

But Dennison continued on toward Flint.




CHAPTER XV


Flint was a powerful man, or had been. The surprise of the attack over, he
jumped to his feet, and blazing with murderous fury rushed Dennison. Jane
saw a tangle of arms, and out of this tangle came a picture that would
always remain vivid--Flint practically dangling at the end of Dennison's
right arm. The rogue tore and heaved and kicked and struck, but futilely,
because his reach was shorter. Dennison let go unexpectedly.

"Listen to me, you filthy beachcomber! If you ever dare speak to Miss
Norman again or come within ten feet of her I'll kill you with bare hands!
There are no guns on board this yacht--bare hands. Now go back to your
master and say that I'd like to do the same to him."

Flint, his hands touching his throat with inquiring solicitude--Flint eyed
Dennison with that mixture of pain and astonishment that marks the face of
a man who has been grossly deceived. Slowly he revolved on his shaking
legs and staggered forward, shortly to disappear round the deck house.

"Oh, Denny, you've done a foolish thing! You've shamed that man before me
and put murder in his heart. It isn't as if we were running the yacht. We
are prisoners of that man and his fellows. It would have been enough for
you to have stepped in between."

"I haven't any parlour varnish left, Jane. His shoulder was almost
touching yours. It was an intentional insult, and that was enough for me.
The dog! Still looking at the business romantically?"

His tone was bitter. Her reproach, no doubt justified, cut deeply.

"No, I'm beginning to become a little afraid--afraid that the men may get
out of hand. I don't care what you and your father think, but I believe
Cunningham honestly wishes us to reach the Catwick without any conflict."

"Ah, Cunningham!"

"There you go again--angry and bitter! Why can't you take it sensibly,
like your father?"

"My father doesn't happen to be----"

He stopped with mystifying abruptness.

"Doesn't happen to be what?"

"The sort of fool I am!"

"You're not so good a comrade as you were."

"Can't you understand? I've been stood upon my head. The worry about you
on one side and the contact with my father on the other would be
sufficient. But Cunningham and this pirate crew as a tail to the kite!
But, thank God, I had the wit to come in search of you!"

"I thank God every minute, Denny! You are very strong," she added, shyly.

"Glad of that, too. But I repeat, I've lost the parlour varnish and the
art of parlour talk. For seven years I've been wandering in strange
places, most of them hard; so I say what I think and act on the spur. That
dog had liquor on his breath. Is Cunningham secretly letting them into the
dry-stores?"

"The man may have brought it aboard at Shanghai. What a horrible thing a
great war is! In a week it knocks aside all the bars of restraint it took
years to erect. Could a venture like this have happened in 1913? I doubt
it. There comes your father. But who is the man with him? He's been
hurt."

"Father's watchdog. They had to beat him up to get his gun away from him.
That was the racket we heard. Evidently Father expects you to read to him,
so I'll take a constitutional."

"Why, where's your uniform?" she cried.

"Laid it aside. From now on it will be stuffy. Those military boots were
killing me. I borrowed the rig from one of the pirates, but I'll have to
go barefoot."

"Will you come to your chair soon? I shall worry otherwise. You might run
into that man again."

"I shan't go below," he promised, starting off.

Twenty thousand at compound interest for seven years, he thought, as he
made the first turn. A tidy sum to start life with. Could he swallow his
pride? And yet what hope was there of making a real living? He had never
specialized in anything, and the world was calling for specialists and
discarding the others. Another point to consider: Foot-loose for seven
years, could he stand the shackles of office work, routine, the sameness
day in and day out? He was returning to the States without the least idea
what he wanted to do; that was the disturbing phase of it. If only he were
keen for something! A typical son of the rich man. The only point in his
favour was that he had not spent his allowances up and down Broadway. No,
he would never touch a dollar of that money. That was final.

What lay back of this sudden desire to make good in the world? Love! There
wasn't the slightest use in lying to himself. He wanted Jane Norman with
all the blood in his body, with all the marrow in his bones; and he had
nothing to offer her but empty hands.

He shot a glance toward the bridge. And because he had no right to
speak--obligated to silence by two reasons--that easy-speaking scoundrel
might trap her fancy. It could not be denied that he was handsome, but he
was nevertheless a rogue. The two reasons why he must not speak were
potent. In the first place, he had nothing to offer; in the second place,
the terror she was no doubt hiding bravely would serve only to confuse
her--that is, she might confuse a natural desire for protection with
something deeper and tenderer, and then discover her mistake when it was
too late.

What was she going to ask of his father when the time came for reparation?
That puzzled him.

He made the rounds steadily for an hour, and during this time Jane
frequently looked over the top of the manuscript she was reading aloud. At
length she laid the manuscript upon her knees.

"Mr. Cleigh, what is it that makes art treasures so priceless?"

"Generally the depth of the buyer's purse. That is what they say of me in
the great auction rooms."

"But you don't buy them just because you are rich enough to outbid
somebody else?"

"No, I am actually fond of all the treasures I possess. Aside from this,
it is the most fascinating game there is. The original! A painting that
Holbein laid his own brushes on, mixed his own paint for! I have then
something of the man, tangible, visible; something of his beautiful
dreams, his poverty, his success. There before me is the authentic labour
of his hand, which was guided by the genius of his brain--before machinery
spoiled mankind. Oh, yes, machinery has made me rich! It has given the
proletariat the privilege of wearing yellow diamonds and riding about in
flivvers. That must be admitted. But to have lived in those days when
ambition thought only in beauty! To have been the boon companions of men
like Da Vinci, Cellini, Michelangelo! Then there are the adventures of
this concrete dream of the artist. I can trace it back to the bare studio
in which it was conceived, follow its journeys, its abiding places, down
to the hour it comes to me."

Jane stared at him astonishedly. All that had been crampedly hidden in his
soul flowed into his face, warming and mellowing it, even beautifying it.
Cleigh went on:

"Where will it go when I have done my little span? What new adventures lie
in store for it? Across the Ponte Vecchio in Florence runs a gallery of
portraits: at the south end of this gallery there is or was a corner given
over to a copyist. He strikes you dumb with the cleverness of his work,
but he has only an eye and a hand--he hasn't a soul. A copy is to the
original what a dummy is to a live man, no matter how amazingly well done
the copy is. The original, the dream; nothing else satisfies the true
collector."

"I didn't know," said Jane, "that you had so much romance in you."

"Romance?" It was almost a bark.

"Why, certainly. No human being could love beauty the way you do and not
be romantic."

"Romantic!" Cleigh leaned back in his chair. "That's a new point of view
for Tungsten Cleigh. That's what my enemies call me--the hardest metal on
earth. Romantic!" He chuckled. "To hear a woman call me romantic!"

"It does not follow that to be romantic one must be sentimental. Romance
is something heroic, imaginative, big; it isn't a young man and a girl
spooning on a park bench. I myself am romantic, but nobody could possibly
call me sentimental."

"No?"

"Why, if I knew that we'd come through this without anybody getting hurt
I'd be gloriously happy. All my life I've been cooped up. For a little
while to be free! But I don't like that."

She indicated Dodge, who sat in Dennison's chair, his head bandaged, his
arm in a sling, thousands of miles from his native plains, at odds with
his environment. His lean brown jaws were set and the pupils of his blue
eyes were mere pin points. During the discussion of art, during the
reading, he had not stirred.

"You mean," said Cleigh, gravely, "that Dodge may be only the beginning?"

"Yes. Your--Captain Dennison had an encounter with the man Flint before
you came up. He is very strong and--and a bit intolerant."

"Ah!" Cleigh rubbed his jaw and smiled ruminatively. "He was always rather
handy with his fists. Did he kill the ruffian?"

"No, held him at arm's length and threatened to kill him. I'm afraid Flint
will not accept the situation with good grace."

"Flint? I never liked that rogue's face."

"He has found liquor somewhere, and I saw murder in his eyes. Denny isn't
afraid, and that's why I am--afraid he'll run amuck uselessly. His very
strength will react against him."

"I was like that thirty years ago." So she called him Denny? Cleigh laid
his hand over hers. "Keep your chin up. There's a revolver handy should we
need it. I dare not carry it for fear Cunningham might discover and
confiscate it. Six bullets."

"And if worse comes to worse, will--will you save one for me? Please don't
let Denny do it! You are old, and if you lived after it wouldn't be in
your thoughts so long as it would be in his--if he killed me. Will you
promise?"

"Yes--if worse comes to worse. Will you forgive me?"

"I do. But still I'm going to hold you to your word."

"I'll pay the score, whatever it is. Now suppose you come below with me
and take a look at the paintings? You haven't seen my cabin yet."

What was this unusual young woman going to ask of him? He wondered. The
more he thought over it the more convinced he was that she had assisted in
the abduction.




CHAPTER XVI


After they had gone below Dennison dropped into Jane's chair. Immediately
Dodge began to talk: "So you nearly throttled that ornery coyote, huh?
Whata you know about this round-up? The three o' 'em came in, and I never
smelt nothin' until they were on top o' me. How should I smell anythin'?
Hobnobbing together for days, how was I to know they were a bunch of
pirates? Is your old man sore?"

"Naturally."

"I mean appertainin' to me?"

"I don't see how he could be. Who took care of you--bound you up?"

"That nice-lookin' greaser with the slue foot. Soft speakin' like a woman
and an eye like a timber wolf. Some hombre! Where we bound for?"

"God knows!"--dejectedly.

"Bad as that, huh? Your girl?"

"No."

"No place for a girl. If they hadn't busted my arm I wouldn't care so
much! If it comes to a show-down I won't be no good to anybody. Gimme my
guns and we'd be headin' home in five minutes. These hombres know
somethin' o' my gun play. Gee, it's lonesome here!" Dodge mused for a
moment. "Say, what's your old man's idea hog-tyin' you that-a-way?"

"He'll tell you perhaps."

"Uh-huh. Say, what did the Lord make all that stuff for?" with a gesture
toward the brazen sea. "What's it good for, anyhow?"

"But for the sea we wouldn't have any oysters or codfish," said Dennison,
soberly.

Dodge chuckled.

"Oysters and codfish! Say, you're all right! Never knew the old man had a
son until you blew in. Back in New York nobody ever said nothin' about
you. Where you been?"

"Lots of places."

"Any ridin'?"

"Some."

"Can you shoot?"

"A little."

"Kill any o' them Bolsheviks?"

"That would be guesswork. Did you ever kill a man?"

"Nope. Didn't have to. I'm pretty good on the draw, and where I come from
they knew it and didn't bother me."

"I see."

"Shootin' these days is all in the movies. I was ridin' for a film company
when your old man lassoed me for this job. Never know when you're well
off--huh? I thought there wouldn't be nothin' to do but grub pile three
times a day and the old man's cheroots in between. And here I be now,
ridin' along with a bunch of pirates! Whata you know about that? And some
of them nice boys, too. If they were riff-raff, barroom bums, I could get
a line on it. But I'll have to pass the buck."

"You haven't got an extra gun anywhere, have you?"

"We'd be headin' east if I had"--grimly. "I'd have pared down the odds
this mornin'. That hombre with the hop-a-long didn't leave me a quill
toothpick. Was you thinkin' of startin' somethin'?"--hopefully.

"No, but I'd feel more comfortable if Miss Norman could carry a gun."

"Uh-huh. Say, she's all right. No hysterics. Ain't many of 'em that
wouldn't 'a' been snivellin' all day and night in her bunk. Been listenin'
to her readin'. Gee, you'd think we were floatin' round this codfish lake
just for the fun of it! She won't run to cover if a bust-up comes. None
whatever! And I bet she can cook, too. Them kind can always cook."

Conversation lapsed.

Below, Jane was passing through an unusual experience.

Said Cleigh at the start: "I'm going to show you the paintings--there are
fourteen in all. I will tell you the history of each. And above all,
please bear in mind the price of each picture."

"I'll remember."

But she thought the request an odd one, coming from the man as she knew
him.

Most of the treasures were in his own spacious cabin. There was a
Napoleonic corner--a Meissonier on one side and a Detaille on the other.
In a stationary cabinet there were a pair of stirrups, a riding crop, a
book on artillery tactics, a pair of slippers beaded with seed pearls, and
a buckle studded with sapphires.

"What are those?" she asked, attracted.

"They belonged to the Emperor and his first Empress."

"Napoleon?"

"The Corsican. Next to the masters, I've a passion for things genuinely
Napoleonic. The hussar is by Meissonier and the skirmish by Detaille."

"How much is this corner worth?"

"I can't say, except that I would not part with those objects for a
hundred thousand; and there are friends of mine who would pay half that
sum for them--behind my back. This is a Da Vinci."

Half an hour passed. Jane honestly tried to be thrilled by the splendour
of the names she heard, but her eye was always travelling back toward the
slippers and the buckle. The Empress Josephine! Romance and gallantry in
the old, old days!

"The painting in your cabin is by Holbein. It cost me sixteen thousand.
Now let us go out and look at the rug. That is the apple of my eye. It is
the second finest example of the animal rug in the world. A sheet of pure
gold, half an inch thick, covering the rug from end to end, would not
equal its worth."

Jane admired the rug, but she would have preferred the gold. Her sense of
the beautiful was alive, but there was always in her mind the genteel
poverty of the past. She was beginning to understand. To go in quest of
the beautiful required an unlimited purse and an endless leisure; and she
would have never the one nor the other.

"How much gold would that be?" she inquired, naïvely.

"Nearly eighty thousand. Have you kept in mind the sums I have given
you?"

"Yes. Let me see--good heavens, a quarter of a million! But why do you
carry them about like this?"

"Because I'm something of a rogue myself. I could not enjoy the rug and
the paintings except on board. The French, the Italian, and the Spanish
governments could confiscate every solitary painting except the Meissonier
and the Detaille, for the simple reason that they were stolen. Oh, I did
not steal them myself; I merely purchased them with one eye shut. If I
hadn't bought them they would have gone to some other collector. Do you
get a glimmer of the truth now?"

"The truth?"--perplexedly.

"Yes--where Cunningham will get his pearls?"--bitterly.

"Oh!"

"And I could not touch him. A quarter of a million! And with his knowledge
of the secret marts he could easily dispose of them. Worth a bold stroke,
eh?"

"But how will he get them off the yacht--transship them?"

Her faith in Cunningham began to waver. A quarter of a million! The
thought was as bells in her ears.

"Of the outside issues I have no inkling. But I have shown you his
pearls."

"But the crew! Certainly they will not return to any port with us. And why
should he lie to me? There is no reason in the world why he shouldn't
have told me, if he had committed piracy to obtain your paintings. And he
was poring over maps."

"Some tramp is probably going to pick him up. He's ordered us away from
the wireless. Cunningham must have his joke, so he is beguiling you with
twaddle about hunting pearls. He is robbing me of my treasures, and I
