
“It ought to be easy,” continued the detective. “Them Reds are all
free lovers, you know.”

“Free lovers!” exclaimed Peter. “How do you mean?”

“Didn’t you know about that?” laughed the other.

Peter sat staring at him. All the women that Peter had ever known or
heard of took money for their love. They either took it directly, or
they took it in the form of automobile rides and flowers and candy
and tickets to the whang-doodle things. Could it be that there were
women who did not take money in either form, but whose love was
entirely free?

The detective assured him that such was the case. “They boast about
it,” said he. “They think it’s right.” And to Peter that seemed the
most shocking thing he had yet heard about the Reds.

To be sure, when he thought it over, he could see that it had some
redeeming points; it was decidedly convenient from the point of view
of the man; it was so much money in his pocket. If women chose to be
that silly--and Peter found himself suddenly thinking about little
Jennie Todd. Yes, she would be that silly, it was plain to see. She
gave away everything she had; so of course she would be a “free
lover!”

Peter went away from his rendezvous with McGivney, thrilling with a
new and wonderful idea. You couldn’t have got him to give up his job
now. This sleuthing business was the real thing!

It was late when Peter got home, but the two girls were sitting up
for him, and their relief at his safe return was evident. He noticed
that Jennie’s face expressed deeper concern than her sister’s, and
this gave him a sudden new emotion. Jennie’s breath came and went
more swiftly because he had entered the room; and this affected his
own breath in the same way. He had a swift impulse towards her, an
entirely unselfish desire to reassure her and relieve her anxiety;
but with an instinctive understanding of the sex game which he had
not before known he possessed, he checked this impulse and turned
instead to the older sister, assuring her that nobody had followed
him. He told an elaborate story, prepared on the way; he had worked
for ten days for a fellow at sawing wood--hard work, you bet, and
then the fellow had tried to get out of paying him! Peter had caught
him at his home that evening, and had succeeded in getting five
dollars out of him, and a promise of a few dollars more every week.
That was to cover future visits to McGivney.




Section 18


Peter lay awake a good part of the night, thinking over this new
job--that of getting himself a girl. He realized that for some time
he had been falling in love with little Jennie; but he wanted to be
sane and practical, he wanted to use his mind in choosing a girl. He
was after information, first of all. And who had the most to give
him? He thought of Miss Nebbins, who was secretary to Andrews, the
lawyer; she would surely know more secrets than anyone else; but
then, Miss Nebbins was an old maid, who wore spectacles and
broad-toed shoes, and was evidently out of the question for
love-making. Then he thought of Miss Standish, a tall, blond beauty
who worked in an insurance office and belonged to the Socialist
Party. She was a “swell dresser,” and Peter would have been glad to
have something like that to show off to McGivney and the rest of
Guffey’s men; but with the best efforts of his self-esteem, Peter
could not imagine himself persuading Miss Standish to look at him.
There was a Miss Yankovich, one of the real Reds, who trained with
the I. W. W.; but she was a Jewess, with sharp, black eyes that
clearly indicated a temper, and frightened Peter. Also, he had a
suspicion that she was interested in McCormick--tho of course with
these “free lovers” you could never tell.

But one girl Peter was quite sure about, and that was little Jennie;
he didn’t know if Jennie knew many secrets, but surely she could
find some out for him. Once he got her for his own, he could use her
to question others. And so Peter began to picture what love with
Jennie would be like. She wasn’t exactly what you would call
“swell,” but there was something about her that made him sure he
needn’t be ashamed of her. With some new clothes she would be
pretty, and she had grand manners--she had not shown the least fear
of the rich ladies who came to the house in their automobiles; also
she knew an awful lot for a girl--even if most of what she knew
wasn’t so!

Peter lost no time in setting to work at his new job. In the papers
next morning appeared the usual details from Flanders; thousands of
men being shot to pieces almost every hour of the day and night, a
million men on each side locked in a ferocious combat that had
lasted for weeks, that might last for months. And sentimental little
Jennie sat there with brimming eyes, talking about it while Peter
ate his oatmeal and thin milk. And Peter talked about it too; how
wicked it was, and how they must stop it, he and Jennie together. He
agreed with her now; he was a Socialist, he called her “Comrade,”
 and told her she had converted him. Her eyes lighted up with joy, as
if she had really done something to end the war.

They were sitting on the sofa, looking at the paper, and they were
alone in the house. Peter suddenly looked up from the reading and
said, very much embarrassed, “But Comrade Jennie--”

“Yes,” she said, and looked at him with her frank grey eyes. Peter
was shy, truly a little frightened, this kind of detective business
being new to him.

“Comrade Jennie,” he said, “I--I--don’t know just how to say it, but
I’m afraid I’m falling a little in love.”

Jennie drew back her hands, and Peter heard her breath come quickly.
“Oh, Mr. Gudge!” she exclaimed.

“I--I don’t know--” stammered Peter. “I hope you won’t mind.”

“Oh, don’t let’s do that!” she cried.

“Why not, Comrade Jennie?” And he added, “I don’t know as I can
help it.”

“Oh, we were having such a happy time, Mr. Gudge! I thought we were
going to work for the cause!”

“Well, but it won’t interfere--”

“Oh, but it does, it does; it makes people unhappy!”

“Then--” and Peter’s voice trembled--“then you don’t care the least
bit for me, Comrade Jennie?”

She hesitated a moment. “I don’t know,” she said. “I hadn’t
thought--”

And Peter’s heart gave a leap inside him. It was the first time that
any girl had ever had to hesitate in answering that question for
Peter. Something prompted him--just as if he had been doing this
kind of “sleuthing” all his life. He reached over, and very gently
took her hand. “You do care just a little for me?” he whispered.

“Oh, Comrade Gudge,” she answered, and Peter said, “Call me `Peter.’
Please, please do.”

“Comrade Peter,” she said, and there was a little catch in her
throat, and Peter, looking at her, saw that her eyes were cast down.

“I know I’m not very much to love,” he pleaded. “I’m poor and
obscure--I’m not good looking--”

“Oh, it isn’t that!” she cried, “Oh, no, no! Why should I think
about such things? You are a comrade!”

Peter had known, of course, just how she would take this line of
talk. “Nobody has ever loved me,” he said, sadly. “Nobody cares
anything about you, when you are poor, and have nothing to offer--”

“I tell you, that isn’t it!” she insisted. “Please don’t think that!
You are a hero. You have sacrificed for the cause, and you are going
on and become a leader.”

“I hope so,” said Peter, modestly. “But then, what is it, Comrade
Jennie? Why don’t you care for me?”

She looked up at him, and their eyes met, and with a little sob in
her voice she answered, “I’m not well, Comrade Peter. I’m of no use;
it would be wicked for me to marry.”

Somewhere back in the depths of Peter, where his inner self was
crouching, it was as if a sudden douche of ice-cold water were let
down on him. “Marry!” Who had said anything about marrying? Peter’s
reaction fitted the stock-phrase of the comic papers: “This is so
sudden!”

But Peter was too clever to reveal such dismay. He humored little
Jennie, saying, “We don’t have to marry right away. I could wait, if
only I knew that you cared for me; and some day, when you get
well--”

She shook her head sadly. “I’m afraid I’ll never get really well.
And besides, neither of us have any money, Comrade Peter.”

Ah, there it was! Money, always money! This “free love” was nothing
but a dream.

“I could get a job,” said Peter--just like any other tame and
conventional wooer.

“But you couldn’t earn enough for two of us,” protested the girl;
and suddenly she sprang up. “Oh, Comrade Peter, let’s not fall in
love with each other! Let’s not make ourselves unhappy, let’s work
for the cause! Promise me that you will!”

Peter promised; but of course he had no remotest intention of
keeping the promise. He was not only a detective, he was a man--and
in both capacities he wanted Comrade Jennie. He had all the rest of
the day, and over the addressing of envelopes which he undertook
with her, he would now and then steal love-glances; and Jennie knew
now what these looks meant, and the faint flush would creep over her
cheeks and down into her neck and throat. She was really very pretty
when she was falling in love, and Peter found his new job the most
delightful one of his lifetime. He watched carefully, and noted the
signs, and was sure he was making no mistake; before Sadie came back
at supper-time he had his arms about Comrade Jennie, and was
pressing kisses upon the lovely white throat; and Comrade Jennie was
sobbing softly, and her pleading with him to stop had grown faint
and unconvincing.




Section 19


There was the question of Sadie to be settled. There was a certain
severe look that sometimes came about Sadie’s lips, and that caused
Peter to feel absolutely certain that Comrade Sadie had no sympathy
with “free love,” and very little sympathy with any love save her
own for Jennie. She had nursed her “little sister” and tended her
like a mother for many years; she took the food out of her mouth to
give to Jennie--and Jennie in turn gave it to any wandering agitator
who came along and hung around until mealtime. Peter didn’t want
Sadie to know what had been going on in her absence, and yet he was
afraid to suggest to Jennie that she should deceive her sister.

He managed it very tactfully. Jennie began pleading again: “We ought
not to do this, Comrade Peter!” And so Peter agreed, perhaps they
oughtn’t, and they wouldn’t any more. So Jennie put her hair in
order, and straightened her blouse, and her lover could see that she
wasn’t going to tell Sadie.

And the next day they were kissing again and agreeing again that
they mustn’t do it; and so once more Jennie didn’t tell Sadie.
Before long Peter had managed to whisper the suggestion that their
love was their own affair, and they ought not to tell anybody for
the present; they would keep the delicious secret, and it would do
no one any harm. Jennie had read somewhere about a woman poet by the
name of Mrs. Browning, who had been an invalid all her life, and
whose health had been completely restored by a great and wonderful
love. Such a love had now come to her; only Sadie might not
understand, Sadie might think they did not know each other well
enough, and that they ought to wait. They knew, of course, that they
really did know each other perfectly, so there was no reason for
uncertainty or fear. Peter managed deftly to put these suggestions
into Jennie’s mind as if they were her own.

And all the time he was making ardent love to her; all day long,
while he was helping her address envelopes and mail out circulars
for the Goober Defense Committee. He really did work hard; he didn’t
mind working, when he had Jennie at the table beside him, and could
reach over and hold her hand every now and then, or catch her in his
arms and murmur passionate words. Delicious thrills and raptures
possessed him; his hopes would rise like a flood-tide--but then,
alas, only to ebb again! He would get so far, and every time it
would be as if he had run into a stone wall. No farther!

Peter realized that McGivney’s “free love” talk had been a cruel
mistake. Little Jennie was like all the other women--her love wasn’t
going to be “free.” Little Jennie wanted a husband, and every time
you kissed her, she began right away to talk about marriage, and you
dared not hint at anything else because you knew it would spoil
everything. So Peter was thrown back upon devices older than the
teachings of any “Reds.” He went after little Jennie, not in the way
of “free lovers,” but in the way of a man alone in the house with a
girl of seventeen, and wishing to seduce her. He vowed that he loved
her with an overwhelming and eternal love. He vowed that he would
get a job and take care of her. And then he let her discover that he
was suffering torments; he could not live without her. He played
upon her sympathy, he played upon her childish innocence, he played
upon that pitiful, weak sentimentality which caused her to believe
in pacifism and altruism and socialism and all the other “isms” that
were jumbled up in her head.

And so in a couple of weeks Peter had succeeded in his purpose of
carrying little Jennie by storm. And then, how enraptured he was!
Peter, with his first girl, decided that being a detective was the
job for him! Peter knew that he was a real detective now, using the
real inside methods, and on the trail of the real secrets of the
Goober case!

And sure enough, he began at once to get them. Jennie was in love;
Jennie was, as you might say, “drunk with love,” and so she
fulfilled both the conditions which Guffey had laid down. So Jennie
told the truth! Sitting on Peter’s knee, with her arms clasped about
him, and talking about her girlhood, the happy days before her
mother and father had been killed in the factory where they worked,
little Jennie mentioned the name of a young man, Ibbetts.

“Ibbetts?” said Peter. It was a peculiar name, and sounded
familiar.

“A cousin of ours,” said Jennie.

“Have I met him?” asked Peter, groping in his mind.

“No, he hasn’t been here.”

“Ibbetts?” he repeated, still groping; and suddenly he remembered.
“Isn’t his name Jack?”

Jennie did not answer for a moment. He looked at her, and their eyes
met, and he saw that she was frightened. “Oh, Peter!” she whispered.
“I wasn’t to tell! I wasn’t to tell a soul!”

Inside Peter, something was shouting with delight. To hide his
emotion he had to bury his face in the soft white throat.
“Sweetheart!” he whispered. “Darling!”

“Uh, Peter!” she cried. “You know--don’t you?”

“Of course!” he laughed. “But I won’t tell. You needn’t mind
trusting me.”

“Oh, but Mr. Andrews was so insistent!” said Jennie, “He made Sadie
and me swear that we wouldn’t breathe it to a soul.”

“Well, you didn’t tell,” said Peter. “I found it out by accident.
Don’t mention it, and nobody will be any the wiser. If they should
find out that I know, they wouldn’t blame you; they’d understand
that I know Jack Ibbetts--me being in jail so long.”

So Jennie forgot all about the matter, and Peter went on with the
kisses, making her happy, as a means of concealing his own
exultation. He had done the job for which Guffey had sent him! He
had solved the first great mystery of the Goober case! The spy in
the jail of American City, who was carrying out news to the Defense
Committee, was Jack Ibbetts, one of the keepers in the jail, and a
cousin of the Todd sisters!




Section 20


It was fortunate that this was the day of Peter’s meeting with
McGivney. He could really not have kept this wonderful secret to
himself over night. He made excuses to the girls, and dodged thru
the chicken-yard as before, and made his way to the American House.
As he walked, Peter’s mind was working busily. He had really got his
grip on the ladder of prosperity now; he must not fail to tighten
it.

McGivney saw right away from Peter’s face that something had
happened. “Well?” he inquired.

“I’ve got it!” exclaimed Peter.

“Got what?”

“The name of the spy in the jail.”

“Christ! You don’t mean it!” cried the other.

“No doubt about it,” answered Peter.

“Who is he?”

Peter clenched his hands and summoned his resolution. “First,” he
said, “you and me got to have an understanding. Mr. Guffey said I
was to be paid, but he didn’t say how much, or when.”

“Oh, hell!” said McGivney. “If you’ve got the name of that spy, you
don’t need to worry about your reward.”

“Well, that’s all right,” said Peter, “but I’d like to know what I’m
to get and how I’m to get it.”

“How much do you want?” demanded the man with the face of a rat.
Rat-like, he was retreating into a corner, his sharp black eyes
watching his enemy. “How much?” he repeated.

Peter had tried his best to rise to this occasion. Was he not
working for the greatest and richest concern in American City, the
Traction Trust? Tens and hundreds of millions of dollars they were
worth--he had no idea how much, but he knew they could afford to pay
for his secret. “I think it ought to be worth two hundred dollars,”
 he said.

“Sure,” said McGivney, “that’s all right. We’ll pay you that.”

And straightway Peter’s heart sank. What a fool he had been! Why
hadn’t he had more courage, and asked for five hundred dollars? He
might even have asked a thousand, and made himself independent for
life!

“Well,” said McGivney, “who’s the spy?”

Peter made an agonizing, effort, and summoned yet more nerve.
“First, I got to know, when do I get that money?”

“Oh, good God!” said McGivney. “You give us the information, and
you’ll get your money all right. What kind of cheap skates do you
take us for?”

“Well, that’s all right,” said Peter. “But you know, Mr. Guffey
didn’t give me any reason to think he loved me. I still can hardly
use this wrist like I used to.”

“Well, he was trying to get some information out of you,” said
McGivney. “He thought you were one of them dynamiters--how could you
blame him? You give me the name of that spy, and I’ll see you get
your money.”

But still Peter wouldn’t yield. He was afraid of the rat-faced
McGivney, and his heart was thumping fast, but he stood his ground.
“I think I ought to see that money,” he said, doggedly.

“Say, what the hell do you take me for?” demanded the detective.
“D’you suppose I’m going to give you two hundred dollars and then
have you give me some fake name and skip?”

“Oh, I wouldn’t do that!” cried Peter.

“How do I know you wouldn’t?”

“Well, I want to go on working for you.”

“Sure, and we want you to go on working for us. This ain’t the last
secret we’ll get from you, and you’ll find we play straight with our
people--how’d we ever get anywheres otherwise? There’s a million
dollars been put up to hang that Goober crowd, and if you deliver
the goods, you’ll get your share, and get it right on time.”

He spoke with conviction, and Peter was partly persuaded. But most
of Peter’s lifetime had been spent in watching people bargaining
with one another--watching scoundrels trying to outwit one
another--and when it was a question of some money to be got, Peter
was like a bulldog that has got his teeth fixed tight in another
dog’s nose; he doesn’t consider the other dog’s feelings, nor does
he consider whether the other dog admires him or not.

“On time?” said Peter. “What do you mean by `on time’?”

“Oh, my God!” said McGivney, in disgust.

“Well, but I want to know,” said Peter. “D’you mean when I give the
name, or d’you mean after you’ve gone and found out whether he
really is the spy or not?”

So they worried back and forth, these snarling bulldogs, growing
more and more angry. But Peter was the one who had got his teeth in,
and Peter hung on. Once McGivney hinted quite plainly that the great
Traction Trust had had power enough to shut Peter in the “hole” on
two occasions and keep him there, and it might have power enough to
do it a third time. Peter’s heart failed with terror, but all the
same, he hung on to McGivney’s nose.

“All right,” said the rat-faced man, at last. He said it in a tone
of wearied scorn; but that didn’t worry Peter a particle. “All
right, I’ll take a chance with you.” And he reached into his pocket
and pulled out a roll of bills--twenty dollar bills they were, and
he counted out ten of them. Peter saw that there was still a lot
left to the roll, and knew that he hadn’t asked as much money as
McGivney had been prepared to have him ask; so his heart was sick
within him. At the same time his heart was leaping with
exultation--such a strange thing is the human heart!




Section 21


McGivney laid the money on the bed. “There it is,” he said, “and if
you give me the name of the spy you can take it. But you’d better
take my advice and not spend it, because if it turns out that you
haven’t got the spy, by God, I believe Ed Guffey’d twist the arms
out of you!”

Peter was easy about that. “I know he’s the spy all right.”

“Well, who is he?”

“He’s Jack Ibbetts.”

“The devil you say!” cried McGivney, incredulously.

“Jack Ibbetts, one of the night keepers in the jail.”

“I know him,” said the other. “But what put that notion into your
head?”

“He’s a cousin of the Todd sisters.”

“Who are the Todd sisters?”

“Jennie Todd is my girl,” said Peter.

“Girl!” echoed the other; he stared at Peter, and a grin spread over
his face. “You got a girl in two weeks? I didn’t know you had it in
you!”

It was a doubtful compliment, but Peter’s smile was no less
expansive, and showed all his crooked teeth. “I got her all right,”
 he said, “and she blabbed it out the first thing--that Ibbetts was
her cousin. And then she was scared, because Andrews, the lawyer,
had made her and her sister swear they wouldn’t mention his name to
a soul. So you see, they’re using him for a spy--there ain’t a
particle of doubt about it.”

“Good God!” said McGivney, and there was genuine dismay in his tone.
“Who’d think it possible? Why, Ibbetts is as decent a fellow as ever
you talked to--and him a Red, and a traitor at that! You know,
that’s what makes it the devil trying to handle these Reds--you
never can tell who they’ll get; you never know who to trust. How,
d’you suppose they manage it?”

“I dunno,” said Peter. “There’s a sucker born every minute, you
know!”

“Well, anyhow, I see you ain’t one of ‘em,” said the rat-faced man,
as he watched Peter take the roll of bills from the bed and tuck
them away in an inside pocket.




Section 22


Peter was warned by the rat-faced man that he must be careful how he
spent any of that money. Nothing would be more certain to bring
suspicion on him than to have it whispered about that he was “in
funds.” He must be able to show how he had come honestly by
everything he had. And Peter agreed to that; he would hide the money
away in a safe place until he was thru with his job.

Then he in turn proceeded to warn McGivney. If they were to fire
Ibbetts from his job, it would certainly cause talk, and might
direct suspicion against Peter. McGivney answered with a smile that
he wasn’t born yesterday. They would “promote” Jack Ibbetts, giving
him some job where he couldn’t get any news about the Goober case;
then, after a bit, they would catch him up on some mistake, or get
him into some trouble, and fire him.

At this meeting, and at later meetings, Peter and the rat-faced man
talked out every aspect of the Goober case, which was becoming more
and more complicated, and bigger as a public issue. New people were
continually being involved, and new problems continually arising; it
was more fascinating than a game of chess. McGivney had spoken the
literal truth when he said that the big business interests of
American City had put up a million dollars to hang Goober and his
crowd. At the very beginning there had been offered seventeen
thousand dollars in rewards for information, and these rewards
naturally had many claimants. The trouble was that people who wanted
this money generally had records that wouldn’t go well before a
jury; the women nearly always turned out to be prostitutes, and the
men to be ex-convicts, forgers, gamblers, or what not. Sometimes
they didn’t tell their past records until the other side unearthed
them, and then it was necessary to doctor court records, and pull
wires all over the country.

There were a dozen such witnesses as this in the Goober case. They
had told their stories before the grand jury, and innumerable flaws
and discrepancies had been discovered, which made more work and
trouble for Guffey and his lieutenants. Thru a miserable mischance
it happened that Jim Goober and his wife had been watching the
parade from the roof of a building a couple of miles away, at the
very hour when they were accused of having planted the suit-case
with the bomb in it. Somebody had taken a photograph of the parade
from this roof, which showed both Goober and his wife looking over,
and also a big clock in front of a jewelry store, plainly indicating
the very minute. Fortunately the prosecution got hold of this
photograph first; but now the defense had learned of its existence,
and was trying to get a look at it. The prosecution didn’t dare
destroy it, because its existence could be proven; but they had
photographed the photograph, and re-photographed that, until they
had the face of the clock so dim that the time could not be seen.
Now the defense was trying to get evidence that this trick had been
worked.

Then there were all the witnesses for the defense. Thru another
mischance it had happened that half a dozen different people had
seen the bomb thrown from the roof of Guggenheim’s Department Store;
which entirely contradicted the suit-case theory upon which the
prosecution was based. So now it was necessary to “reach” these
various witnesses. One perhaps had a mortgage on his home which
could be bought and foreclosed; another perhaps had a wife who
wanted to divorce him, and could be persuaded to help get him into
trouble. Or perhaps he was engaged in an intrigue with some other
man’s wife; or perhaps some woman could be sent to draw him into an
intrigue.

Then again, it appeared that very soon after the explosion some of
Guffey’s men had taken a sledge hammer and smashed the sidewalk,
also the wall of the building where the explosion had taken place.
This was to fit in with the theory of the suit-case bomb, and they
had taken a number of photographs of the damage. But now it
transpired that somebody had taken a photograph of the spot before
this extra damage had been done, and that the defense was in
possession of this photograph. Who had taken this photograph, and
how could he be “fixed”? If Peter could help in such matters, he
would come out of the Goober case a rich man.

Peter would go away from these meetings with McGivney with his head
full of visions, and would concentrate all his faculties upon the
collecting of information. He and Jennie and Sadie talked about the
case incessantly, and Jennie and Sadie would tell freely everything
they had heard outside. Others would come in--young McCormick, and
Miriam Yankovitch, and Miss Nebbins, the secretary to Andrews, and
they would tell what they had learned and what they suspected, and
what the defense was hoping to find out. They got hold of a cousin
of the man who had taken the photograph on the roof; they were
working on him, to get him to persuade the photographer to tell the
truth. Next day Donald Gordon would come in, cast down with despair,
because it had been learned that one of the most valuable witnesses
of the defense, a groceryman, had once pleaded guilty to selling
spoilt cheese! Thus every evening, before he went to sleep, Peter
would jot down notes, and sew them up inside his jacket, and once a
week he would go to the meeting with McGivney, and the two would
argue and bargain over the value of Peter’s news.




Section 23


It had become a fascinating game, and Peter would never have tired
of it, but for the fact that he had to stay all day in the house
with little Jennie. A honeymoon is all right for a few weeks, but no
man can stand it forever. Little Jennie apparently never tired of
being kissed, and never seemed satisfied that Peter thoroughly loved
her. A man got thru with his love-making after awhile, but a woman,
it appeared, never knew how to drop the subject; she was always
looking before and after, and figuring consequences and
responsibilities, her duty and her reputation and all the rest of
it. Which, of course, was a bore.

Jennie was unhappy because she was deceiving Sadie; she wanted to
tell Sadie, and yet somehow it was easier to go on concealing than
admit that one had concealed. Peter didn’t see why Sadie had to be
told at all; he didn’t see why things couldn’t stay just as they
were, and why he and his sweetheart couldn’t have some fun now and
then, instead of always being sentimental, always having agonies
over the class war, to say nothing of the world war, and the
prospects of America becoming involved in it.

This did not mean that Peter was hard and feelingless. No, when
Peter clasped trembling little Jennie in his arms he was very deeply
moved; he had a real sense of what a gentle and good little soul she
was. He would have been glad to help her--but what could he do about
it? The situation was such that he could not plead with her, he
could not try to change her; he had to give himself up to all her
crazy whims and pretend to agree with her. Little Jennie was by her
weakness marked for destruction, and what good would it do for him
to go to destruction along with her?

Peter understood clearly that there are two kinds of people in the
world, those who eat, and those who are eaten; and it was his
intention to stay among the former, group. Peter had come in his
twenty years of life to a definite understanding of the things
called “ideas” and “causes” and “religions.” They were bait to catch
suckers; and there is a continual competition between the suckers,
who of course don’t want to be caught, and those people of superior
wits who want to catch them, and therefore are continually inventing
new and more plausible and alluring kinds of bait. Peter had by now
heard enough of the jargon of the “comrades” to realize that theirs
was an especially effective kind; and here was poor little Jennie,
stuck fast on the hook, and what could Peter do about it?

Yet, this was Peter’s first love, and when he was deeply thrilled,
he understood the truth of Guffey’s saying that a man in love wants
to tell the truth. Peter would have the impulse to say to her: “Oh,
drop all that preaching, and give yourself a rest! Let’s you and me
enjoy life a bit.”

Yes, it would be all he could do to keep from saying this--despite
the fact that he knew it would ruin everything. Once little Jennie
appeared in a new silk dress, brought to her by one of the rich
ladies whose heart was touched by her dowdy appearance. It was of
soft grey silk--cheap silk, but fresh and new, and Peter had never
had anything so fine in his arms before. It matched Jennie’s grey
eyes, and its freshness gave her a pink glow; or was it that Peter
admired her, and loved her more, and so brought the blood to her
cheeks? Peter had an impulse to take her out and show her off, and
he pressed his face into the soft folds of the dress and whispered,
“Say kid, some day you an me got to cut all this hard luck business
for a bit!”

He felt little Jennie stiffen, and draw away from him; so quickly he
had to set to work to patch up the damage. “I want you to get well,”
 he pleaded. “You’re so good to everybody--you treat everybody well
but yourself!”

It had been something in his tone rather than his actual words that
had frightened the girl. “Oh Peter!” she cried. “What does it matter
about me, or about any other one person, when millions of young men
are being shot to fragments, and millions of women and children are
starving to death!”

So there they were, fighting the war again; Peter had to take up her
burden, be a hero, and a martyr, and a “Red.” That same afternoon,
as fate willed it, three “wobblies” out of a job came to call; and
oh, how tired Peter was of these wandering agitators--insufferable
“grouches!” Peter would want to say: “Oh, cut it out! What you call
your `cause’ is nothing but your scheme to work with your tongues
instead of with a pick and a shovel.” And this would start an
imaginary quarrel in Peter’s mind. He would hear one of the fellows
demanding, “How much pick and shovel work you ever done?” Another
saying, “Looks to me like you been finding the easy jobs wherever
you go!” The fact that this was true did not make Peter’s irritation
any less, did not make it easier for him to meet with Comrade Smith,
and Brother Jones, and Fellow-worker Brown just out of jail, and
listen to their hard-luck stories, and watch them take from the
table food that Peter wanted, and--the bitterest pill of all--let
them think that they were fooling him with their patter!

The time came when Peter wasn’t able to stand it any longer. Shut up
in the house all day, he was becoming as irritable as a chained dog.
Unless he could get out in the world again, he would surely give
himself away. He pleaded that the doctors had warned him that his
health would not stand indoor life; he must get some fresh air. So
he got away by himself, and after that he found things much easier.
He could spend a little of his money; he could find a quiet corner
in a restaurant and get himself a beefsteak, and eat all he wanted
of it, without feeling the eyes of any “comrades” resting upon him
reprovingly. Peter had lived in a jail, and in an orphan asylum, and
in the home of Shoemaker Smithers, but nowhere had he fared so
meagerly as in the home of the Todd sisters, who were contributing
nearly everything they owned to the Goober defense, and to the
“Clarion,” the Socialist paper of American City.




Section 24


Peter went to see Andrews, the lawyer, and asked for a job; he
wanted to be active in the case, he said, so he was set to work in
the offices of the Defense Committee, where he heard people talking
about the case all day, and he could pick up no end of valuable
tips. He made himself agreeable and gained friends; before long he
was intimate with one of the best witnesses of the defense, and
discovered that this man had once been named as co-respondent in a
divorce case. Peter found out the name of the woman, and Guffey set
to work to bring her to American City. The job was to be done
cleverly, without the woman’s even knowing that she was being used.
She would have a little holiday, and the spell of old love would
reassert itself, and Guffey would have a half dozen men to spring
the trap--and there would be a star witness of the Goober defense
clean down and out! “There’s always something you can get them on!”
 said McGivney, and cheerfully paid Peter Gudge five hundred dollars
for the information he had brought.

Peter would have been wildly happy, but just at this moment a
dreadful calamity befell him. Jennie had been talking about marriage
more and more, and now she revealed to him a reason which made
marriage imperative. She revealed it with downcast eyes, with
blushes and trembling; and Peter was so overcome with consternation
that he could not play the part that was expected of him. Hitherto
in these love crises he had caught Jennie in his arms and comforted
her; but now for a moment he let her see his real emotions.

Jennie promptly had a fit. What was the matter with him? Didn’t he
mean to marry her, as he had promised? Surely he must realize now
that they could no longer delay! And Peter, who was not familiar
with the symptoms of hysterics, lost his head completely and could
think of nothing to do but rush out of the house and slam the door.

The more he considered it, the more clearly he realized that he was
in the devil of a predicament. As a servant of the Traction Trust,
he had taken it for granted that he was immune to all legal
penalties and obligations; but here, he had a feeling, was a trouble
from which the powerful ones of the city would be unable to shield
their agent. Were they able to arrange it so that one could marry a
girl, and then get out of it when one’s job was done?

Peter was so uneasy that he had to call up the office of Guffey and
get hold of McGivney. This was dangerous, because the prosecution
was tapping telephone wires, and they feared the defense might be
doing the same. But Peter took a chance; he told McGivney to come
and meet him at the usual place; and there they argued the matter
out, and Peter’s worst fears were confirmed. When he put the
proposition up to McGivney, the rat-faced man guffawed in his face.
He found it so funny that he did not stop laughing until he saw that
he was putting his spy into a rage.

“What’s the joke?” demanded Peter. “If I’m ruined, where’ll you get
any more information?”

“But, my God!” said McGivney. “What did you have to go and get that
kind of a girl for?”

“I had to take what I could,” answered Peter. “Besides, they’re all
alike--they get into trouble, and you can’t help it.”

“Sure, you can help it!” said McGivney. “Why didn’t you ask long
ago? Now if you’ve got yourself tied up with a marrying proposition,
it’s your own lookout; you can’t put it off on me.”

They argued back and forth. The rat-faced man was positive that
there was no way Peter could pretend to marry Jennie and not have
the marriage count. He might get himself into no end of trouble and
certainly he would be ruined as a spy. What he must do was to pay
the girl some money and send her somewhere to get fixed up. McGivney
would find out the name of a doctor to do the job.

“Yes, but what excuse can I give her?” cried Peter. “I mean, why I
don’t marry her!”

“Make something up,” said McGivney. “Why not have a wife already?”
 Then, seeing Peter’s look of dismay: “Sure, you can fix that. I’ll
get you one, if you need her. But you won’t have to take that
trouble--just tell your girl a hard luck story. You’ve got a wife,
you thought you could get free from her, but now you find you can’t;
your wife’s got wind of what you’re doing here, and she’s trying to
blackmail you. Fix it up so your girl can’t do anything on account
of hurting the Goober defense. If she’s really sincere about it, she
won’t disgrace you; maybe she won’t even tell her sister.”

Peter hated to do anything like that. He had a vision of little
Jennie lying on the sofa in hysterics as he had left her, and he
dreaded the long emotional scene that would be necessary. However,
it seemed that he must go thru with it; there was no better way that
he could think of. Also, he must be quick, because in a couple of
hours Sadie would be coming home from work, and it might be too
late.




Section 25


Peter hurried back to the Todd home, and there was white-faced
little Jennie lying on the bed, still sobbing. One would think she
might have used up her surplus stock of emotions; but no, there is
never any limit to the emotions a woman can pour out. As soon as
Peter had got fairly started on the humiliating confession that he
had a wife, little Jennie sprang up from the bed with a terrified
shriek, and confronted him with a face like the ghost of an escaped
lunatic. Peter tried to explain that it wasn’t his fault, he had
really expected to be free any day. But Jennie only clasped her
hands to her forehead and screamed: “You have deceived me! You have
betrayed me!” It was just like a scene in the movies, the bored
little devil inside Peter was whispering.

He tried to take her hand and reason with her, but she sprang away
from him, she rushed to the other side of the room and stood there,
staring at him as if she were some wild thing that he had in a
corner and was threatening to kill. She made so much noise that he
was afraid that she would bring the neighbors in; he had to point
out to her that if this matter became public he would be ruined
forever as a witness, and thus she might be the means of sending Jim
Goober to the gallows.

Thereupon Jennie fell silent, and it was possible for Peter to get
in a word. He told her of the intrigues against him; the other side
had sent somebody to him and offered him ten thousand dollars if he
would sell out the Goober defense. Now, since he had refused, they
were trying to blackmail him, using his wife. They had somehow come
to suspect that he was involved in a love affair, and this was to be
the means of ruining him.

Jennie still would not let Peter touch, her, but she consented to
sit down quietly in a chair, and figure out what they were going to
do. Whatever happened, she said, they must do no harm to the Goober
case. Peter had done her a monstrous wrong in keeping the truth from
her, but she would suffer the penalty, whatever it might be; she
would never involve him.

Peter started to explain; perhaps it wasn’t so serious as she
feared. He had been thinking things over; he knew where Pericles
Priam, his old employer, was living, and Pericles was rich now, and
Peter felt sure that he could borrow two hundred dollars, and there
were places where little Jennie could go--there were ways to get out
of this trouble--

But little Jennie stopped him. She was only a child in some ways,
but in others she was a mature woman. She had strange fixed ideas,
and when you ran into them it was like running into a stone wall.
She would not hear of the idea Peter suggested; it would be murder.

“Nonsense,” said Peter, echoing McGivney. “It’s nothing; everybody
does it.” But Jennie was apparently not listening. She sat staring
with her wild, terrified eyes, and pulling at her dress with her
fingers. Peter got to watching these fingers, and they got on his
nerves. They behaved like insane fingers; they manifested all the
emotions which the rest of little Jennie was choking back and
repressing.

“If you would only not take it so seriously!” Peter pleaded. “It’s a
miserable accident, but it’s happened, and now we’ve got to make the
best of it. Some day I’ll get free; some day I’ll marry you.”

“Stop, Peter!” the girl whispered, in her tense voice. “I don’t want
to talk to you any more, if that’s all you have to say. I don’t know
that I’d be willing to marry you--now that I know you could deceive
me--that you could go on deceiving me day after day for months.”

Peter thought she was going to break out into hysterics again, and
he was frightened. He tried to plead with her, but suddenly she
sprang up. “Go away!” she exclaimed. “Please go away and let me
alone. I’ll think it over and decide what to do myself. Whatever I
do, I won’t disgrace you, so leave me alone, go quickly!”




Section 26


She drove him out of the house, and Peter went, though with many
misgivings. He wandered about the streets, not knowing what to do
with himself, looking back over the blunders he had made and
tormenting himself with that most tormenting of all thoughts: how
different my life might have been, if only I had had sense enough to
do this, or not to do that! Dinner time came, and Peter blew himself
to a square meal, but even that did not comfort him entirely. He
pictured Sadie coming home at this hour. Was Jennie telling her or
not?

There was a big mass meeting called by the Goober Defense Committee
that evening, and Peter attended, and it proved to be the worst
thing he could have done. His mind was in no condition to encounter
the fierce passions of this crowded assemblage. Peter had the
picture of himself being exposed and denounced; he wasn’t sure yet
that it mightn’t happen to him. And here was this meeting--thousands
of workingmen, horny handed blacksmiths, longshoremen with shoulders
like barns and truckmen with fists like battering rams, long-haired
radicals of a hundred dangerous varieties, women who waved red
handkerchiefs and shrieked until to Peter they seemed like gorgons
with snakes instead of hair.

Such were the mob-frenzies engendered by the Goober case; and Peter
knew, of course, that to all these people he was a traitor, a
poisonous worm, a snake in the grass. If ever they were to find out
what he was doing--if for instance, someone were to rise up and
expose him to this crowd--they would seize him and tear him to
pieces. And maybe, right now, little Jennie was telling Sadie; and
Sadie would tell Andrews, and Andrews would become suspicious, and
set spies on Peter Gudge! Maybe they had spies on him already, and
knew of his meetings with McGivney!

Haunted by such terrors, Peter had to listen to the tirades of
Donald Gordon, of John Durand, and of Sorensen, the longshoremen’s
leader. He had to listen to exposure after exposure of the tricks
which Guffey had played; he had to hear the district attorney of the
county denounced as a suborner of perjury, and his agents as
blackmailers and forgers. Peter couldn’t understand why such things
should be permitted--why these speakers were not all clapped into
jail. But instead, he had to sit there and listen; he even had to
applaud and pretend to approve! All the other secret operatives of
the Traction Trust and of the district attorney’s office had to
listen and pretend to approve! In the hall Peter had met Miriam
Yankovich, and was sitting next to her. “Look,” she said, “there’s a
couple of dicks over there. Look at the mugs on them!”

“Which?” said Peter.

And she answered: “That fellow that looks like a bruiser, and that
one next to him, with the face of a rat.” Peter looked, and saw that
it was McGivney; and McGivney looked at Peter, but gave no sign.

The meeting lasted until nearly midnight. It subscribed several
thousand dollars to the Goober defense fund, and adopted ferocious
resolutions which it ordered printed and sent to every local of
every labor union in the country. Peter got out before it was over,
because he could no longer stand the strain of his own fears and
anxieties. He pushed his way thru the crowd, and in the lobby he ran
into Pat McCormick, the I. W. W. leader.

There was more excitement in this boy’s grim face than Peter had
ever seen there before. Peter thought it was the meeting, but the
other rushed up to him, exclaiming: “Have you heard the news?”

“What news?”

“Little Jennie Todd has killed herself!”

“My God!” gasped Peter, starting back.

“Ada Ruth just told me. Sadie found a note when she got home. Jennie
had left--she was going to drown herself.”

“But what--why?” cried Peter, in horror.

“She was suffering so, her health was so wretched, she begs Sadie
not to look for her body, not to make a fuss--they’ll never find
her.”

And horrified and stunned as Peter was, there was something inside
him that drew a deep breath of relief. Little Jennie had kept her
promise! Peter was, safe!




Section 27


Yes, Peter was safe, but it had been a close call, and he still had
painful scenes to play his part in. He had to go back to the Todd
home and meet the frantic Sadie, and weep and be horrified with the
rest of them. It would have been suspicious if he had not done this;
the “comrades” would never have forgiven him. Then to his dismay, he
found that Sadie had somehow come to a positive conviction as to
Jennie’s trouble. She penned Peter up in a corner and accused him of
being responsible; and there was poor Peter, protesting vehemently
