going to be a home-maker for a husband, it is a simple, common-sense
proposition that the salary of the husband shall be divided into three
parts--first, the part which goes to the home, the benefit of which is
shared in common; second, the part which the husband has for his own
use; and third, the part which the wife has for hers. The second and
third parts should be equal, and the wife should have hers, not as a
favor, but as a right. If the two are making a homestead, or running a
farm, or building up a business, then half the proceeds should be the
woman's; and it should be legally in her name, and this as a matter of
course, as any other business contract. If the woman does not make a
home, but merely displays fine clothes at tea parties, that is of course
another matter. Just what she is to do is something that had better be
determined before marriage; and if a man wants a life-partner, to take
an interest in his work, or to have a useful work of her own, he had
better choose that kind of woman, and not merely one that has a pretty
face and a trim ankle.
The business side of marriage is something that has to be talked out
from time to time; there have to be meetings of the board of directors,
and at these meetings there ought to be courtesy and kindness, but also
plain facts and common sense, and no shirking of issues. Love is such a
very precious thing that any man or woman ought to be willing to make
money sacrifices to preserve it. But on the other hand, it is a fact
that there are some people with whom you cannot be generous; the more
you give them, the more they take, and with such people the only safe
rule is exact justice. Let married couples decide exactly what
contribution each makes to the family life, and what share of money and
authority each is entitled to.
I might spend several chapters discussing the various rocks on which I
have seen marriages go to wreck. For example, extravagance and worldly
show; clothes for women. In Paris is a "demi-monde," a world of brutal
lust combined with riotous luxury. The women of this "half-world" are in
touch with the world of art and fashion, and when the rich costumers and
woman-decorators want what they call ideas, it is to these lust-women
they go. The fashions they design are always depraved, of course; always
for the flaunting of sex, never for the suggestion of dignity and grave
intelligence. At several seasons of the year these lust-women are
decked out and paraded at the race-courses and other gathering places
of the rich, and their pictures are published in the papers and spread
over all the world. So forthwith it becomes necessary for your wife in
Oshkosh or Kalamazoo to throw away all the perfectly good clothes she
owns, and get a complete new outfit--because "they" are wearing
something different. Of course the costume-makers have seen that it is
extremely different, so as to make it impossible for your wife and
children to be happy in their last season's clothes. I have a winter
overcoat which I bought fourteen years ago, and as it is still as good
as new I expect to use it another fourteen years, which will mean that
it has cost me a dollar and a half per year. But think what it would
have cost me if I had considered it necessary each year to have an
overcoat cut as the keepers of French mistresses were cutting theirs!
But then, suppose you put it up to your wife and daughters to wear
sensible clothes, and they do so, and then they observe that on the
street your eyes turn to follow the ladies in the latest disappearing
skirt? The point is, you perceive, that you yourself are partly to blame
for the fashions. They appeal to a dirty little imp you have in your own
heart, and when the decent women discover that, it makes them blazing
hot, and that is one of the ways you may wreck your domestic happiness
if you want to. Unless I am greatly mistaken, when the class war is all
over we are going to see in our world a sex war; but it is not going to
be between the men and the women, it is going to be between the mother
women and the mistress women, and the mistress women are going to have
their hides stripped off.
Men wreck marriage because they are promiscuous; and women wreck it
because they are parasites. Woman has been for long centuries an
economic inferior, and she has the vices of the subject peoples and
tribes. Now there are some who want to keep these vices, while at the
same time claiming the new privileges which go with equality. Such a
woman picks out a man who is sensitive and chivalrous; who knows that
women suffer handicaps, pains of childbirth, physical weakness, and who
therefore feels impelled to bear more than his share of the burdens. She
makes him her slave; and by and by she gets a child, and then she has
him, because he is bowed down with awe and worship, he thinks that such
a miracle has never happened in the world before, and he spends the rest
of his life waiting on her whims and nursing her vanities. I note that
at the recent convention of the Woman's Party they demanded their rights
and agreed to surrender their privileges. There you have the final test
by which you may know that women really want to be free, and are
prepared to take the responsibilities of freedom.
CHAPTER XLIV
THE DEFENSE OF MONOGAMY
     (Discusses the permanence of love, and why we should endeavor to
     preserve it.)
So far in this discussion we have assumed that love means monogamous
love. We did so, for the reason that we could not consider every
question at once. But we have promised to deal with all the problems of
sex in the light of reason; and so we have now to take up the question,
what are the sanctions of monogamy, and why do we refuse sanction to
other kinds of love?
First, let us set aside several reasons with which we have nothing to
do. For example, the reason of tradition. It is a fact that Anglo-Saxon
civilization has always refused legal recognition to non-monogamous
marriage. But then, Anglo-Saxon civilization has recognized war, and
slavery, and speculation, and private property in land, and many other
things which we presume to describe as crimes. If tradition cannot
justify itself to our reason, we shall choose martyrdom.
Second, the religious reason. This is the one that most people give. It
is convenient, because it saves the need of thinking. Suffice it here to
say that we prefer to think. If we cannot justify monogamy by the facts
of life, we shall declare ourselves for polygamy.
What are the scientific and rational reasons for monogamy? First among
them is venereal disease. This may seem like a vulgar reason, but no one
can deny that it is real. There was a time, apparently, when mankind did
not suffer from these plagues, and we hope there may be such a time
again. I shall not attempt to prescribe the marital customs for the
people of that happy age; I suspect that they will be able to take care
of themselves. Confining myself to my lifetime and yours, I say that the
aim of every sensible man and woman must be to confine sex relations to
the smallest possible limits. I know, of course, that there are
prophylactics, and the army and navy present statistics to show that
they succeed in a great proportion of cases. But if you are one of
those persons in whose case they don't succeed, you will find the
statistics a cold source of comfort to you.
John and Mary go to the altar, or to the justice of the peace, and John
says: "With all my worldly goods I thee endow." But the formula is
incomplete; it ought to read: "And likewise with the fruits of my wild
oats." Marriage is a contract wherein each of the contracting parties
agrees to share whatever pathogenic bacteria the other party may have or
acquire; surely, therefore, the contract involves a right of each party
to have a say as to how many chances of infection the other shall incur.
John goes off on a business trip, and is lonesome, and meets an
agreeable widow, and figures to himself that there is very little chance
that so charming a person can be dangerous. But maybe Mary wouldn't
agree with his calculations; maybe Mary would not consider it a part of
the marriage bargain that she should take the diseases of the agreeable
widow. What commonly happens is that Mary is not consulted; John revises
the contract in secret, making it read that Mary shall take a chance at
the diseases of the widow. How can any thinking person deny that John
has thus committed an act of treason to Mary?
I know that there are people who don't mind running such chances; that
is one reason why there are venereal diseases. All I can say is that the
sex-code set forth in this book is based upon the idea that to deliver
mankind from the venereal plague, we wish to confine the sex
relationship within the narrowest limits consistent with health,
happiness and spiritual development; and that to this end we take the
young and teach them chastity, and we marry them early while they are
clean, and then we call upon them to make the utmost effort to make a
success of that union, and to make it a matter of honor to keep the
marital faith. We do this with some hope of effectiveness, because we
have made our program consistent with the requirements of nature, the
genuine needs of love both physical and spiritual.
The second argument for monogamy is the economic one. We have dreamed a
social order where every child will be guaranteed maintenance by the
state, and where women will be free from dependence on men. What will be
the love arrangements of men and women under this new order is another
problem which we leave for them to decide, in the certainty that they
will know more about it than we do. Meantime, we are for the present
under the private property régime, and have to love and marry and raise
our children accordingly. The children must have homes, and if they are
to be normal children, they must have both the male and female influence
in their lives; which means that their parents must be friends and
partners, not quarreling in secret. This argument, I know, is one of
expediency. I have adopted it, after watching a great number of people
try other than monogamous sex arrangements, and seeing their chances of
happiness and success wrecked by the pressure of economic forces. To
rebel against social compulsion may be heroism, and again it may be
merely bad judgment. For my part, the world's greatest evil is poverty,
the cause of crime, prostitution and war. I concentrate my energies upon
the abolishing of that evil, and I let other problems wait.
The third reason is that monogamy is economical of human time and
thought. The business of finding and wooing a mate takes a lot of
energy, and adjustment after marriage takes more. To throw away the
results of this labor and do it all over again is certainly not common
sense. Of course, if you bake a cake and burn it, you have to get more
material and make another try; but that is a different matter from
baking a cake with the deliberate intention of throwing it away after a
bite or two.
The advocates of varietism in love will here declare that we are begging
the question. We are assuming that love and the love chase are not
worthy in themselves, but merely means to some other end. Can it be that
love delights are the keenest and most intense that humans can
experience, and that all other purposes of life are contributory to
them? Certainly a great deal of art lends support to this idea, and many
poets have backed up their words by their deeds. As Coleridge phrased
it:
    "All thoughts, all passions, all delights,
     Whatever stirs this mortal frame,
     All are but ministers of Love
     And feed his sacred flame."
This is a question not to be played with. Experimenting in love is
costly, and millions have wrecked their lives by it. The sex urge in us
is imperious and cruel; it wants nothing less than the whole of us,
body, mind and spirit, and ofttimes it behaves like the genii in the
bottle--it gets out, and not all the powers in the universe can get it
back. I have talked with many men about sex and heard them say that it
presents itself to them as an unmitigated torment, something they would
give everything they own to be free of. And these, mind you, not men
living in monasteries, trying to repress their natural impulses, but men
of the world, who have lived freely, seeking pleasure and taking it as
it came. The primrose path of dalliance did not lead them to peace, and
the pursuit of variety in love brought them only monotony.
I stop and think of one after another of these sex-ridden people, and I
cannot think of one whom I would envy. I know one who in a frenzy of
unhappiness seized a razor and castrated himself. I think of another, a
certain classmate in college whom I once stopped in a conversation,
remarking: "Did you ever realize what a state you have got your mind
into? Everything means sex to you. Every phrase you hear, every idea
that is suggested--you try to make some sort of pun, to connect it
somehow or other with sex." The man thought and said, "I guess that's
true." The idea had never occurred to him before; he had just gone on
letting his instincts have their way with him, without ever putting his
reason upon the matter.
That was a crude kind of sex; but I think of another man, an idealist
and champion of human liberty. One of the forms of liberty he maintained
was the right to love as many women as he pleased, and although he was a
married man, one hardly ever saw him that he was not courting some young
girl. As a result, his mental powers declined, and he did little but
talk about ideas. I do not know anyone today who respects him--except a
few people who live the same sort of life. The thought of him brings to
my mind a sentence of Nietzsche--a man who surely stood for freedom of
personality: "I pity the lovers who have nothing higher than their
love."
A question like this can be decided only by the experience of the race.
Some will make love the end and aim of life, and others will make it the
means to other ends, and we shall see which kind of people achieve the
best results, which kind are the most useful, the most dignified, the
most original and vital. I have seen a great many young people try the
experiment of "free love," and I have seen some get enough of it and
quit; I could name among these half a dozen of our younger novelists. I
know others who are still in it--and I watch their lives and find them
to be restless, jealous, egotistical and idle. My defense of monogamy is
based upon the fact that I have never known any happy or successful
"free lovers." Of course, I know some noble and sincere people who do
not believe in the marriage contract, and refuse to be bound by law; but
these people are as monogamous as I am, even more tightly bound by honor
than if they were duly married.
It seems to be in the very nature of true and sincere love to imagine
permanence, to desire it and to pledge it. If you aren't that much in
love, you aren't really in love at all, and you had better content
yourself with strolling together and chatting together and dining
together and playing music together. So many pleasant ways there are in
which men and women can enjoy each other's company without entering upon
the sacred intimacy of sex! You can learn to take sex lightly, of
course, but if you do so, you reduce by so much the chances that true
and deep love will ever come to you; for true and deep love requires
some patience, some reverence, some tending at a shrine. The animals
mate quickly and get it over with; but the great discoveries about love,
and the possibilities of the human soul in love, have come because men
and women have been willing to make sacrifices for it, to take it
seriously--and more especially to take seriously the beloved person, the
rights and needs and virtues of that person. From the lives of such we
learn that love is nature's device for taking us out of ourselves, and
making us truly social creatures.
Early in my life as a writer I undertook to answer Gertrude Atherton, in
her glorification of the sex-corruptions of capitalist society. She
indicted American literature for its "bourgeois" qualities--among these
the fact that American authors had a prejudice in favor of living with
their own wives. Mrs. Atherton set forth the joys of sex promiscuity as
they are understood by European artists, and I ventured in replying to
remark that "one woman can be more to a man than a dozen can possibly
be." That sounds like a paradox, but it is really a profound truth, and
the person who does not understand it has missed the best there is in
the sex relation. There is a limit to the things of the body, but to
those of the mind and spirit there is no limit, and so there is no
reason why true love should ever fall prey to boredom and satiety.
CHAPTER XLV
THE PROBLEM OF JEALOUSY
     (Discusses the question, to what extent one person may hold another
     to the pledge of love.)
Once upon a time I knew an Anarchist shoemaker, the same who had me sent
to jail for playing tennis on Sunday, as I have narrated in "The Brass
Check." I remember arguing with him concerning his ideas of sex, which
were of the freest. I can hear the very tones of his voice as he put the
great unanswerable question: "What are you going to do about the problem
of jealousy?" And I had no response at hand; for jealousy is truly a
most cruel and devastating and unlovely emotion; and yet, how can you
escape it, if you are going to preserve monogamy?
The Anarchist shoemaker's solution was to break down all the prejudices
against sexual promiscuity. Free and unlimited license was every
person's right, and for any other person to interfere was enslavement,
for any other person to criticize was superstition. But the power of
superstition is strong in the world, and the shoemaker found men
resentful of his teachings, and disposed to confiscate the rights of
their wives and daughters. Hence the shoemaker's disapproval of
jealousy.
Other men, less purely physiological in their attitude to sex, have
wrestled with this same problem of jealousy. H. G. Wells has a novel,
"In the Days of the Comet," in which he portrays two men, both nobly and
truly in love with the same woman. One in a passion of jealousy is about
to murder the other, when a great social transformation is magically
brought about, and the would-be murderer wakes up to universal love, and
the two men nobly and lovingly share the same woman. Shelley also
dreamed this dream, inviting two women to share him. I have known others
who tried it, but never permanently. I do not say that it never has
succeeded, or that it never can succeed. In this book I am renouncing
the future--I am trying to give practical advice to people, for the
conduct of their lives here and now, and my advice on this point is
that polygamous and polyandrous experiments in modern capitalist society
cost more than they are worth.
I once knew a certain high school teacher, who believed religiously in
every kind of freedom. When she married, she and her husband, an artist,
made a vow against jealousy; but as it worked out, this vow meant that
the wife had a steady job and took care of the husband, while he loafed
and loved other women. When finally she grew tired of it, he accused her
of being jealous; also, she had brought it down to the matter of money!
I know another woman, an Anarchist, widely known as a lecturer on sex
freedom. She laid down the general principle of unlimited personal
freedom for all, and she tried to live up to her faith. She entered into
a "free union" with a certain man, and when she discovered that he was
making love to another woman, in the presence of a friend of mine she
threw a vase of flowers at his head. You see, her general principles had
clashed with another general principle, to the effect that a person who
feels deep and strong love inevitably desires that love to endure, and
cannot but suffer to see it preyed upon and destroyed.
Let us first consider the question, just what are the true and proper
implications of monogamous love? The Roman Catholic church advocates
"monogamy," and understands thereby that a man and woman pledge
themselves "till death do us part," and if either of them cancels this
arrangement it is adultery and mortal sin. I hope that none of my
readers understands by "monogamy" any such system of spiritual
strangulation. My own idea is rather what some churchman has
sarcastically described by the term "progressive polygamy." I believe
that a man and woman should pledge their faith in love, and should keep
that faith, and endeavor with all their best energies to make a success
of it; they should strive each to understand the other's needs, and
unselfishly to fulfill them, within the limits of fair play. But if,
after such an effort has been truly made, it becomes clear that the
union does not mean health and happiness for one of the parties, that
party has a right to withdraw from it, and for any government or church
or other power to deny that right is both folly and cruelty.
Now, on the basis of this definition of monogamy--or, if you prefer, of
progressive polygamy--we are in position to say what we think about
jealousy. If two people pledge their faith, and one breaks it, and the
other complains, we do not call that jealousy, but just common decency.
Neither do we call it jealousy if one expects the other to avoid the
appearance of guilt; for love is a serious thing, not to be played with,
and I think that a person who truly loves will do everything possible to
make clear to the beloved that he is keeping and means to keep the
plighted faith.
You may say that I am using words arbitrarily, in endeavoring thus to
distinguish between justifiable and unjustifiable jealousy, and calling
the former by some other name. It does not make much difference about
words, provided I make clear my meaning. I could point out a whole
string of words which have good meanings and bad meanings, and cannot be
discussed without preliminary explanations and distinctions; religion,
for example, and morality, and aristocracy, and justice, to name only a
few. Most people's thinking about marriage and love has been made like
soup in a cheap restaurant, by dumping in all kinds of scraps and
notions from such opposite poles of human thought as Christian monkery
and Renaissance license, absurdly called "romance." So before you can do
any thinking about a problem like jealousy, you have to agree to use the
word to mean something definite, whether good or bad.
We shall take jealousy as a "bad" word, and use it to mean the setting
up, by a man or woman, of some claim to the love of another person,
which claim cannot be justified in the court of reason and fair play.
This includes, in the first place, all claims based upon a courtship,
not ratified by marriage. It is to the interest of society and the race
that men and women should be free to investigate persons of the other
sex, and to experiment with the affections before pledges of marriage
are made. If sensible customs of love and just laws of marriage were
made, there would be no excuse for a woman's giving herself to a man
before marriage; she should be taught not to do it, and then if she does
it, the risk is her own, and the disgusting perversion of venality and
greed known as the "breach of promise suit" should be unknown in our
law. The young should be taught that it is the other person's right to
change his mind and withdraw at any time before marriage; whatever pains
and pangs this may cause must be borne in silence.
The second kind of jealousy is that which seeks to keep in the marriage
bond a person who is not happy in it and has asked to be released. The
law sanctions this kind of cowardly selfishness, which manifests itself
every day on the front pages of our newspapers--a spectacle of monstrous
and loathsome passions unleashed and even glorified. Husbands set the
bloodhounds of the law after wives who have fled with some other man,
and send the man to a cell, and drag the woman back to a loveless home.
Wives engage private detectives, and trail their husbands to some "love
nest," and then ensue long public wrangles, with washing of filthy
linen, and the matter is settled by a "separation." The virtuous wife,
who may have driven the man away by neglect or vanity or stupidity, is
granted a share of his earnings for the balance of her life; and two
more people are added to the millions who are denied sexual happiness
under the law, and are thereby impelled to live as law violators.
For this there is only one remedy conceivable. We have banned
cannibalism and slavery and piracy and duelling, and we must ban one
more ancient and cruel form of human oppression, the effort to hold
people in the bonds of sex by any other power save that of love. I am
aware that the reactionaries who read this book will take this sentence
out of its context and quote it to prove that I am a "free lover." I
shall be sorry to have that done, but even so, I was not willing to live
in slavery myself, and I am not willing to advocate it for others. I am
aware that there are degenerate and defective individuals, and that we
have to make special provision for them, as I shall presently set forth;
but the average, normal human being must be free to decide what is love
for him, and what is happiness for him. Every person in the world will
have to deny himself the right to demand love where love is not freely
given, and all lovers in the world will have to hold themselves ready to
let the loved one go if and when the loved one demands it. I am aware
that this is a hard saying, and a hard duty, but it is one that life
lays upon us, and one that there is no escaping.
CHAPTER XLVI
THE PROBLEM OF DIVORCE
     (Defends divorce as a protection to monogamous love, and one of the
     means of preventing infidelity and prostitution.)
You will hear sermons and read newspaper editorials about the "divorce
evil," and you will find that to the preacher or editor this "evil"
consists of the fact that more and more people are refusing to stay
unhappily married. It does not interest these moralizers if the
statistics show that it is women who are getting most of the divorces,
and that the meaning of the phenomenon is that women are refusing to
continue living with drunken and dissolute men. To the clergy, the
breaking of a marriage is an evil per se, and regardless of
circumstances. They know this because God has told them so, and in the
name of God they seek to keep people tied in sex unions which have come
to mean loathing instead of love.
Now, I will assert it as a mathematical certainty that a considerable
percentage of marriages must fail. It is essential to progress that
human beings should grow, both mentally and spiritually, and manifestly
they cannot all grow in the same way. If they grow differently, must
they not sometimes lose the power to make each other happy in the
marital bonds? Who does not know the man who masters life and becomes a
vital force, while his wife remains dull and empty? If such a man
changes wives, the world in general denounces him as a selfish beast;
but the world does not know nor does it care about those thousands of
men who, not caring to be branded as selfish beasts, fulfill the needs
of their lives by keeping mistresses in secret.
I knew a certain country school teacher, one of the most narrowly
conventional young women imaginable, who was engaged to a middle-aged
business man. He went to New York on a business trip, and stayed a
couple of months, and wrote her that he had met some Anarchists, and had
discovered that all he had read about them in the newspapers was false,
and that they were the true and pure idealists to whom the rest of his
life must be devoted. The young lady was horrified; nor was she any
happier when she came to New York and met her fiancé's new friends. She
ought in common sense to have broken the engagement; but she was in
love, and she married, as many another fool woman does, with the idea of
"reforming" the man. She failed, and was utterly and unspeakably
wretched.
I know another man, a conservative capitalist of narrow and aggressive
temper, whose wife turned into an ardent Bolshevik. The man thinks that
all Bolsheviks should be shut up in jail for life, while the wife is
equally certain that all jails should be razed to the ground and all
Bolsheviks placed in control of the government. These two people have
got to a point where they cannot sit down to the breakfast table without
flying into a quarrel. I know another case of a modern scientist, an
agnostic, whose wife, a half-educated, sentimental woman, took to
dabbling in mysticism, and drove him wild by setting up an image of
Buddha in her bedroom, and consorting with "swamis" in long yellow
robes. I know another whose wife turned into an ultra-pious Catholic,
and turned over the care of his domestic life to a priest. Is it not
obvious that the only possible solution of such problems lies in
divorce? Unless, indeed, we are all of us going to turn over the care of
our domestic lives to the priests!
Our grandfathers and grandmothers believed one thing, and believed the
same thing when they were seventy as when they were twenty; so it was
possible for them to dwell in domestic security and permanence till
death did them part. But we are learning to change our minds; and
whether what we believe is better or worse than what our ancestors
believed, at least it is different. Also we are coming to take what we
believe with more seriousness; the intellectual life means more and more
to us, and it becomes harder and harder for us to find sexual and
domestic happiness with a partner who does not share our convictions,
but, on the contrary, may be contributing to the campaign funds of the
opposition party.
I do not mean by this that people should get a divorce as soon as they
find they differ about some intellectual idea; on the contrary, I have
advocated that they should do everything possible to understand and to
tolerate each other. But it is a fact that intellectual convictions are
the raw material out of which characters and lives are made, and it is
inevitable that some characters and lives that fit quite well at twenty
should fit very badly at thirty or forty. When we refuse divorce under
such circumstances we are not fostering marriage, as we fondly imagine;
we are really fostering adultery. It is a fact that not one person in
ten who is held by legal or social force in an unhappy sex union will
refrain from seeking satisfaction outside; and because these outside
satisfactions are disgraceful, and in some cases criminal, they seldom
have any permanence. Therefore it follows that "strict" divorce laws,
such as the clerical propaganda urges upon us, are in reality laws for
the promotion of fornication and prostitution.
There is a short story by Edith Wharton, in which the "divorce evil" is
exhibited to us in its naked horror; the story called "The Other Two,"
in the volume "The Descent of Man." A society woman has been divorced
twice and married three times, and by an ingenious set of circumstances
the woman and all three of the men are brought into the same
drawing-room at the same time. Just imagine, if you can, such an
excruciating situation: a woman, her husband, and two men who used to be
her husbands, all compelled to meet together and think of something to
say! I cite this story because it is a perfect illustration of the
extent to which the "divorce problem" is a problem of our lack of sense.
Mrs. Wharton will, I fear, consider me a very vulgar person if I assert
that there is absolutely no reason whatever why any of those four people
in her story should have had a moment's discomfort of mind, except that
they thought there was. There is absolutely nothing to prevent a man and
woman who used to be married from meeting socially and being decent to
each other, or to prevent two men from being decent to each other under
such circumstances. I would not say that they should choose to be
intimate friends--though even that may be possible occasionally.
I know, because I have seen it happen. In Holland I met a certain
eminent novelist and poet, a great and lovable man. I visited his home,
and met his wife and two little children, and saw a man and woman living
in domestic happiness. The man had also two grown sons, and after a few
days he remarked that he would like me to meet the mother of these young
men. We went for a walk of a mile or so, and met a lady who lived in a
small house by herself, and who received us with a friendly welcome and
talked with us for a couple of hours about music and books and art. This
lady had been the writer's wife for ten years or so, and there had been
a terrible uproar when they voluntarily parted. But they had refused to
pay attention to this uproar; they understood why they did not wish to
remain husband and wife any longer, but they did not consider it
necessary to quarrel about it, nor even to break off the friendship
which their common interests made possible. The two women in the case
were not intimate, I gathered, but they frequently met at the homes of
others, and found no difficulty in being friendly. I suggest to Mrs.
Wharton that this story is at least as interesting as the one she has
told; but I fear she will not care to write it, because apparently she
considers it necessary that people who are well bred and refined should
be the helpless victims of destructive manias.
CHAPTER XLVII
THE RESTRICTION OF DIVORCE
     (Discusses the circumstances under which society has the right to
     forbid divorce, or to impose limitations upon it.)
We have quoted the old maxim, "Marry in haste and repent at leisure,"
and we suggested that parents and guardians should have the right to ask
the young to wait before marriage, and make certain of the state of
their hearts. We have now the same advice to give concerning divorce;
the same claim to enter on behalf of society--that it has and should
assert the right to ask people to delay and think carefully before
breaking up a marriage.
What interest has society in the restriction of divorce? What affair is
it of any other person if I choose to get a divorce and marry a new wife
once a month? There are many reasons, not in any way based upon
religious superstition or conventional prejudice. In the first place,
there are or may be children, and society should try to preserve for
every child a home with a father and a mother in it. Second, there are
property rights, of which every marriage is a tangle, and the settlement
of which the law should always oversee. Third, there is the question of
venereal disease, which society has an unquestionable right to keep
down, by every reasonable restriction upon sexual promiscuity. And
finally, there is the respect which all men and women owe to love. It
seems to me that society has the same right to protect love against
extreme outrage, as it has to forbid indecent exposure of the person on
the street.
There is in successful operation in Switzerland a wise and sane divorce
law, based upon common sense and not upon superstition. A couple wish to
break their marriage, and they go before a judge, and in private
session, as to a friendly adviser, they tell their troubles. He gives
them advice about their disagreement, and sends them away for three
months to think it over. At the end of three months, if they still
desire a divorce, they meet with him again. If he still thinks there is
a chance of reconciliation, he has the right to require them to wait
another three months. But if at the end of this second period they are
still convinced that the case is hopeless, and that they should part,
the judge is required to grant the divorce. You may note that this is
exactly what I have suggested concerning young couples who become
engaged. In both cases, the parties directly interested have the right
to decide their own fate, but the rest of the world requires them to
think carefully about it, and to listen to counsel. Except for grave
offenses, such as adultery, insanity, crime or venereal disease, I do
not think that anyone should receive a divorce in less than six months,
nor do I think that any personal right is contravened by the imposing of
such a delay.
Next, what are we going to say to the right, or the claim to the right,
on the part of a man or woman, to be married once a year throughout a
lifetime? In order to illustrate this problem, I will tell you about a
certain man known to me. In his early life he spent a couple of years in
a lunatic asylum. He lays claim to extraordinary spiritual gifts, and
uses the language of the highest idealism known. He is a man of culture
and good family, and thus exerts a peculiar charm upon young women of
refinement and sensitiveness. To my knowledge he was three times married
in six years, and each time he deserted the woman, and forced her to
divorce him, and to take care of herself, and in one case of a child. In
addition, he had begotten one child out of marriage, and left the mother
and child to starve. For ten years or so I used to see him about once in
six months, and invariably he had a new woman, a young girl of fine
character, who had been ensnared by him, and was in the agonizing
process of discovering his moral and mental derangement. Yet there was
absolutely nothing in the law to place restraint upon this man; he could
wander from state to state, or to the other side of the world, preying
upon lovely young girls wherever he went.
This particular man happens to call himself a "radical"; but I could
tell you of similar men in the highest social circles, or in the
political world, the theatrical world, the "sporting" world; they are in
every rank of life, and are just as definitely and certainly menaces to
human welfare and progress as pirates on the high seas or highwaymen on
the road. Nor are they confined to the males; the world is full of women
who use their sex charms for predatory purposes, and some of them are
far too clever for any law that you or I can contrive at present. But I
think we might begin by refusing to let any man or woman have more than
two divorces in one lifetime, in any state or part of the world. If any
man or woman tries three times to find happiness in love, and fails each
time, we have a right to assume that the fault must lie with that
person, and not with the three partners.
I think we may go further yet; having made wise laws of love and
marriage, taking into consideration all human needs, we have a right to
require that men and women shall obey the laws. At present the great
mass of the public has sympathy for the law-breaker; just as, in old
days, the peasants could not help admiring the outlaw who resisted
unjust land laws and robbed the rich, or as today, under the capitalist
régime, we can not withhold our sympathy from political prisoners, even
though they have committed acts of violence which we deplore. But when
we have made sex laws that we know are just and sensible--then we shall
consider that we have the right to restrain sex criminals, and in
extreme cases we shall avail ourselves of the skill of science to
perform a surgical operation which will render him unable in future to
prey upon the love needs of people who are placed at his mercy by their
best qualities, their unselfishness and lack of suspicion.
We clear out foul-smelling weeds from our garden, because we wish to
raise beautiful flowers and useful herbs therein. There lives in
California a student of plant life, who has shown us what we can do, not
by magic or by superhuman efforts, but simply by loving plants, by
watching them ceaselessly, understanding their ways, and guiding their
sex-life to our own purposes. We can perform what to our ignorant
ancestors would have seemed to be miracles; we can actually make all
sorts of new plants, which will continue to breed their own kind, and
survive forever if we give them proper care. In other words, Luther
Burbank has shown us that we can "change plant nature."
There flash back upon my memory all those dull, weary, sick human
creatures, who have repeated to me that dull, weary, sick old formula,
"You cannot change human nature." I do not think I am indulging either
in religious superstition or in blind optimism, but am speaking
precisely, in saying that whenever human beings get ready to apply
experimental science to themselves, they can change human nature just as
they now change plant nature. By putting human bodies together in love,
we make new bodies of children more beautiful than any who have yet
romped on the earth; and in the same way, by putting minds and souls
together, we can make new kinds of minds and souls, different from those
we have previously known, and greater than either the man-soul or the
woman-soul alone.
Also, by that magic which is the law of mind and soul life, each new
creation can be multiplied to infinity, and shared by all other minds
and souls that live in the present or may live in the future. We have
shown elsewhere how genius multiplies to infinity the joy and power of
life by means of the arts; and one of the greatest of the arts is the
art of love. Consider the great lovers, the true lovers, of history--how
they have enriched the lives of us all. It does not make any difference
whether these men and women lived in the flesh, or in the brain of a
poet--we learn alike from Dante and Beatrice, from Abélard and Héloïse,
from Robert and Elizabeth Browning, from Tristan and Isolde, from Romeo
and Juliet, what is the depth and the splendor of this passion which
lies hidden within us, and how it may enrich and vivify and glorify all
life.
PART FOUR
THE BOOK OF SOCIETY
CHAPTER XLVIII
THE EGO AND THE WORLD
     (Discusses the beginning of consciousness, in the infant and in
     primitive man, and the problem of its adjustment to life.)
We have now to consider the relationship of man to his fellows, with
whom he lives in social groups. Upon this problem floods of light have
been thrown by the new science of psycho-analysis. I will try to give,
briefly and in simple language, an idea of these discoveries.
One of the laws of biology is that every individual, in his development,
reproduces the history of the race; so that impulses and mental states
of a child reveal to us what our far-off ancestors loved and feared. The
same thing is discovered to be true of neurotics, people who have failed
in adjusting themselves to civilized life, and have gone back, in some
or all of their mental traits, to infantile states. If we analyze the
unconscious minds of "nervous patients," and compare them with what we
find in the minds of infants, and in savages, we discover the same
dreams, the same longings and the same fears.
The mental life of man begins in the womb. We cannot observe that life
directly, but we know that it is there, because there cannot be organic
life without mind to direct it, and just as there is an unconscious mind
that regulates the bodily processes in adults, so in the embryo there
must be an unconscious mind to direct the flow of blood, the building of
bones, muscle, eyes and brain. The mental life of that unborn creature
is of course purely egotistical; it knows nothing outside itself, and it
finds this universe an agreeable place--everything being supplied to it,
promptly and perfectly, without effort of its own.
But suddenly it gets its first shock; pain begins, and severe
discomfort, and the creature is shoved out into a cold world, yelling in
protest against the unsought change. And from that moment on, the
new-born infant labors to adjust itself to an entirely new set of
conditions. Discomforts trouble it, and it cries. Quickly it learns that
these cries are answered, and satisfaction of its needs is furnished.
Somehow, magically, things appear; warm and dry covering, a trickle of
delicious hot milk into its mouth. At first the infant mind has no idea
how all this happens; but gradually it comes to realize objects outside
itself, and it forms the idea that these objects exist to serve its
wants. Later on it learns that there are particular sounds which attach
to particular objects, and cause them to function. The sound "Mama," for
example, produces a goddess clothed in beauty and power, performing
miracles. So the infant mind arrives at the "period of magic gestures"
and the "period of magic words"; corresponding to a certain type of myth
and belief which we find in every race and tribe of human being that now
exists or ever has existed on earth. All these stories about magic
wishes and magic rings and magic spells of a thousand sorts; and nowhere
on earth a child which does not listen greedily to such fancies! The
reason is simply that the child has passed through this stage of mental
life, and so recently that the feelings are close to the surface of his
consciousness.
But gradually the infant makes the painful discovery that not everything
in existence can be got to serve him; there are forces which are proof
against his magic spells; there are some which are hostile, and these
the infant learns to regard with hatred and fear. Sometimes hatred and
fear are strangely mixed with admiration and love. For example, there is
a powerful being known as "father," who is sometimes good and useful,
but at other times takes the attention of the supremely useful "mother,"
the source of food and warmth and life. So "father" is hated, and in
fancy he is wished out of the way--which to the infant is the same thing
as killing. Out of this grows a whole universe of fascinating mental
life, which Freud calls by the name "the [OE]dipus complex"--after the
legend of the Greek hero who murdered his father and committed incest
with his mother, and then, when he discovered what he had done, put out
his own eyes. There is a mass of legends, old as human thought,
repeating this story; we cannot be sure whether they have grown out of
the greeds and jealousies of this early wish-life of the infant, or
whether they had their base in the fact that there was a stage in human
progress in which the father really was killed off by the sons.
This latter idea is discussed by Freud, in his book, "Totem and Taboo."
It appears that primitive man lived in hordes, which were dominated by
one old male, who kept all the women to himself, and either killed the
young males, or drove them out to shift for themselves; so the young men
would combine and murder their father. The forming of human society, of
marriage and the family, depended upon one factor, the decision of the
young victors to live and let live. The only way they could do this was
to agree not to quarrel over the women of their own group, but to seek
other women from other groups. This may account for what is known as
"exogamy," an almost universal marriage custom of primitive man, whereby
a man named Jones is barred by frightful taboos from the women named
Jones, but is permitted relations with all the women named Smith.
To return to our infant: he is in the midst of a painful process of
adjusting himself to the outside world; discovering that sometimes all
his magic words and gestures fail, his wishes no longer come true. There
are beings outside him, with wills of their own, and power to enforce
them; he has to learn to get along with these beings, and give up his
pleasures to theirs. These processes which go on in the infant soul, the
hopes and the terrors, the griefs and the angers, are of the profoundest
significance for the later adult life. For nothing gets out of the mind
that has once got into it; the infantile cravings which are repressed
and forgotten stay in the unconscious, and work there, and strive still
for expression. The conscious mind will not tolerate them, but they
escape in the form of fairy-tales and stories, of dreams and delusions,
slips of the tongue, and many other mental events which it is
fascinating to examine. Also, if we are weakened by ill health or
nervous strain, these infantile wishes may take the form of "neuroses,"
and fully grown people may take to stammering, or become impotent, or
hysterical, or even insane, because of failures of adjustment to life
that happened when they were a year or two old. These things are known,
not merely as a matter of theory, but because, as soon as by analysis
these infant secrets are brought into consciousness and adjusted there,
the trouble instantly ceases.
So it appears that the whole process of human life, from the very hour
of birth, consists of the correct adjustment of men and women in
relation to their fellows. Not merely is man a social being, but all the
prehuman ancestors of men, for ages upon geologic ages, have been
social beings; they have lived in groups, and their survival has
depended upon their success in fitting themselves snugly into group
relationships. Failure to make correct adjustments means punishment by
the group, or by enemies outside the group; if the failure is serious
enough, it means death. We may assert that the task of understanding
one's fellow men, and making one's self understood by them, is the most
important task that confronts every individual.
And if we look about the world at present, the most superficial of us
cannot fail to realize that the task is far from being correctly
performed. So many people unhappy, so many striving for what they cannot
get! So many having to be locked behind bars, like savage beasts,
because they demand something which the world is resolved not to let
them have! So many having to be killed, by rifles and machine-guns, by
high explosive shells and poison gas--because they misunderstood the
social facts about them, and thought they could fulfill some wishes
which the rest of mankind wanted them to repress! As I read the
psycho-analyst's picture of the newly born infant with its primitive
ego, its magic cries and magic gestures, I cannot be sure how much of it
is sober science and how much is mordant irony--a sketch of the mental
states of the men and women I see about me--whole classes of men and
women, yes, even whole nations!
The effort of the following chapters will be to interpret to men and
women the world which they have made, and to which they are trying to
adjust themselves. More especially we shall try to show how, by better
adjustments, men may change both themselves and the world, and make both
into something less cruel and less painful, more serene and more certain
and more free.
CHAPTER XLVIX
COMPETITION AND CO-OPERATION
     (Discusses the relation of the adult to society, and the part which
     selfishness and unselfishness play in the development of social
     life.)
Pondering the subject of this chapter, I went for a stroll in the
country, and seating myself in a lonely place, became lost in thought;
when suddenly my eye was caught by something moving. On the bare, hot,
gray sand lay a creature that I could see when it moved and could not
see when it was still, for it was exactly the color of the ground, and
fitted the ground tightly, being flat, and having its edges scalloped so
that they mingled with the dust. It was a lizard, covered with heavy
scales, and with sharp horns to make it unattractive eating. At the
slightest motion from me it vanished into a heap of stones, so quickly
that my eye could scarcely follow it.
This creature, you perceive, is in its actions and its very form an
expression of terror; terror of devouring enemies, of jackals that
pounce and hawks that swoop, and also of the hot desert air that seeks
to dry out its few precious drops of moisture. Practically all the
energies of this creature are concentrated upon the securing of its own
individual survival. To be sure, it will mate, but the process will be
quick, and the eggs will be left for the sun to hatch out, and the baby
lizards will shift for themselves--that is to say, they will be
incarnations of terror from the moment they open their eyes to the
light.
The jackal seeks to pounce upon the lizard, and so inspires terror in
the lizard; but when you watch the jackal you find that it exhibits
terror toward more powerful foes. You find that the hawk, which swoops
upon the lizard, is equally quick to swoop away when it comes upon a man
with a gun. This preying and being preyed upon, this mixture of cruelty
and terror, is a conspicuous fact of nature; if you go into any orthodox
school or college in America today, you will be taught that it is
nature's most fundamental law, and governs all living things. If you
should take a course in political economy under a respectable
professor, you would find him explaining that such cruelty-terror
applies equally in human affairs; it is the basis of all economic
science, and the effort to escape from it is like the effort to lift
yourself by your boot-straps.
The professor calls this cruelty-terror by the name "competition"; and
he creates for his own purposes an abstract being whom he names "the
economic man," a creature who acts according to this law, and exists
under these conditions. One of the professor's formulas is the so-called
"Malthusian law," that population presses always upon the limits of
subsistence. Another is "the law of diminishing returns of agriculture,"
that you can get only so much product out of a certain piece of land, no
matter how much labor and capital you put into it. Another is Ricardo's
"iron law of wages," that wages cannot rise above the cost of living.
Another is embodied in the formula of Adam Smith, that "Competition is
the life of trade." The professor enunciates these "laws," coldly and
impersonally, as becomes the scientist; but if you go into the world of
business, you find them set forth cynically, in scores of maxims and
witticisms: "Dog eat dog," "the devil take the hindmost," "business is
business," "do others or they will do you."
Evidently, however, there is something in man which rebels against these
"natural" laws. In our present society man has set aside six days in the
week in which to live under them, and one day in the week in which to
preach an entirely different and contradictory code--that of Christian
ethics, which bids you "love your neighbor," and "do unto others as you
would they should do unto you." Between these Sunday teachings and the
week-day teachings there is eternal conflict, and one who takes pleasure
in ridiculing his fellow men can find endless opportunity here. The
Sunday preachers are forbidden to interfere with the affairs of the
other six days; that is called "dragging politics into the pulpit." On
the other hand, incredible as it may seem, there are professors of the
week-day doctrine who call themselves Christians, and believe in the
Sunday doctrine, too. They manage this by putting the Sunday doctrine
off into a future world; that is, we are to pounce upon one another and
devour one another under the "iron laws" of economics so long as we live
on earth, but in the next world we shall play on golden harps and have
nothing to do but love one another. If anybody is so foolish as to apply
the Sermon on the Mount to present-day affairs, we regard him as a
harmless crank; if he persists, and sets out to teach others, we call
him a Communist or a Pacifist, and put him in jail for ten or twenty
years.
In the Book of the Mind, I have referred to Kropotkin's "Mutual Aid as a
Factor in Evolution," which I regard as one of the epoch-making books of
our time. Kropotkin clearly proves that competition is not the only law
of nature, it is everywhere modified by co-operation, and in the great
majority of cases co-operation plays a larger part in the relations of
living creatures than competition. There is no creature in existence
which is entirely selfish; in the nature of the case such a creature
could not exist--save in the imaginations of teachers of special
privilege. If a species is to survive, some portion of the energies of
the individual must go into reproduction; and steadily, as life
advances, we find the amount of this sacrifice increasing. The higher
the type of the creature, the longer is the period of infancy, and the
greater the sacrifice of the parent for the young. Likewise, most
creatures make the discovery that by staying together in herds or
groups, and learning to co-operate instead of competing among
themselves, they increase their chances of survival. You find birds that
live in flocks, and other birds, like hawks and owls and eagles, that
are solitary; and you find the co-operating birds a thousand times as
numerous--that is to say, a thousand times as successful in the struggle
for survival. You find that all man's brain power has been a social
product; the supremacy he has won over nature has depended upon one
thing and one alone--the fact that he has managed to become different
from the "economic man," that product of the imagination of the
defenders of privilege.
It is evident that both competition and co-operation are necessary to
every individual, and the health of the individual and of the race lies
in the proper combination of the two. If a creature were wholly
unselfish--if it made no effort to look after its own individual
welfare--it would be exterminated before it had a chance to reproduce.
If, on the other hand, it cannot learn to co-operate, its progeny stand
less chance of survival against creatures which have learned this
important lesson. We have a nation of a 110,000,000 people, who have
learned to co-operate to a certain limited extent. Some of us realize
how vastly the happiness of these millions might be increased by a
further extension of co-operation; but we find ourselves opposed by the
professors of privilege--and we wish that these gentlemen would go out
and join the lizards of the desert sands or the sharks of the sea,
creatures which really practice the system of "laissez faire" which the
professors teach.
The plain truth is that we cannot make a formula out of either
competition or co-operation. We cannot settle any problem of economics,
of business or legislation, by proclaiming, for example, that
"Competition is the life of trade." Competition may just as well turn
out to be the death of trade; it depends entirely upon the kind of
competition, and the stage of trade development to which it is applied.
In the early eighteenth century, when that formula of Adam Smith was
written, competition was observed to keep down prices and provide
stimulus to enterprise, and so to further abundant production. But the
time came when the machinery for producing goods was in excess, not
merely of the needs of the country, but of the available foreign
markets, and then suddenly the large-scale manufacturers made the
discovery that competition was the death of trade to them. They
proceeded, as a matter of practical common sense, and without consulting
their college professors, to abolish competition by forming trusts. We
passed laws forbidding them to do this, but they simply refused to obey
the laws. In the United States they have made good their refusal for
thirty-five years, and in the end have secured the blessing of the
Supreme Court upon their course.
So now we have co-operation in large-scale production and marketing. It
is known by various names, "pools," "syndicates," "price-fixing,"
"gentlemen's agreements." It is a blessing for those who co-operate, but
it proves to be the death of those who labor, and also of those who
consume, and we see these also compelled to combine, forming labor
unions and consumers' societies. Each side to the quarrel insists that
the other side is committing a crime in refusing to compete, and our
whole social life is rent with dissensions over this issue. Manifestly,
we need to clear our minds of dead doctrines; to think out clearly just
what we mean by competition, and what by co-operation, and what is the
proper balance between the two.
I have been at pains in this book to provide a basis for the deciding of
such questions. It is a practical problem, the fostering of human life
and the furthering of its development. We cannot lay down any fixed
rule; we have to study the facts of each case separately. We shall say,
this kind of competition is right, because it helps to protect human
life and to develop its powers. We shall say, this other kind of
competition is wrong because it has the opposite effect. We shall say,
perhaps, that some kind was right fifty years ago, or even ten years
ago, because it then had certain effects; but meantime some factor has
changed, and it is now having a different effect, and therefore ought to
be abolished.
There has never been any kind of human competition which men did not
judge and modify in that way; there is no field of human activity in
which ethical codes do not condemn certain practices as unfair. The
average Englishman considers it proper that two men who get into a
dispute shall pull off their coats, and settle the question at issue by
pummeling each other's noses. But let one of these men strike his
opponent in the groin, or let him kick his shins, and instantly there
will be a howl of execration. Likewise, an Anglo-Saxon man who fights
with the fists has a loathing for a Sicilian or Greek or other
Mediterranean man who will pull a knife. That kind of competition is
barred among our breeds; and also the kind which consists of using
poisons, or of starting slanders against your opponent.
If you look back through history, you find many forms of competition
which were once eminently respectable, but now have been outlawed. There
was a time, for example, when the distinction we draw between piracy and
sea-war was wholly unknown. The ships of the Vikings would go out and
raid the ships and seaports of other peoples, and carry off booty and
captives, and the men who did that were sung as heroes of the nation.
The British sea-captains of the time of Queen Elizabeth--Drake,
Frobisher, and the rest of them--are portrayed in our school books as
valiant and hardy men, and the British colonies were built on the basis
of their activities; yet, according to the sea laws in force today, they
were pirates. We regard a cannibal race with abhorrence; yet there was a
time when all the vigorous races of men were cannibals, and the habit of
eating your enemies in battle may well have given an advantage to the
races which practiced it.
On the other hand, you find sentimental people who reject all
competition on principle, and would like to abolish every trace of it
from society, and especially from education. But stop and consider for a
moment what that would mean. Would you abolish, for example, the
competition of love, the right of a man to win the girl he wants? You
could not do it, of course; but if you could, you would abolish one of
the principal methods by which our race has been improved. Of course,
what you really want is, not to abolish competition in love, but to
raise it to a higher form. There is an old saying, "All's fair in love
and war," but no one ever meant that. You would not admit that a man
might compete in love by threatening to kill the girl if she preferred a
rival. You would not admit that he might compete by poisoning the other
man. You would not admit that he might compete by telling falsehoods
about the other man. On the other hand, if you are sensible, you admit
that he has a right to compete by making his character known to the
girl, and if the other man is a rascal, by telling the girl that.
Would you abolish the competition of art, the effort of men to produce
work more beautiful and inspiring than has ever been known before? Would
you abolish the effort of scientists to overthrow theories which have
hitherto been accepted? Obviously not. You make these forms of
competition seem better by calling them "emulation," but you do not in
the least modify the fact that they involve the right of one person to
outdo other persons, to supplant them and take away something from them,
whether it be property or position or love or fame or power. In that
sense, competition is indeed the law of life, and you might as well
reconcile yourself to it, and learn to play your part with spirit and
good humor.
Also, you might as well train your children to it. You will find you
cannot develop their powers to the fullest without competition; in fact,
you will be forced to go back and utilize forms of competition which are
now out of date among adults. I have told in the Book of the Body how I
myself tried for ten years or more to live without physical competition,
and discovered that I could not; I have had to take up some form of
sport, and hundreds of thousands of other men have had the same
experience. What is sport? It is a deliberate going back, under
carefully devised rules, to the savage struggles of our ancestors. The
very essence of real sport is that the contestants shall, within the
rules laid down, compete with each other to the limit of their powers.
With what contempt would a player of tennis or baseball or whist regard
the proposition that his opponent should be merciful to him, and let him
win now and then! Obviously, these things have no place in the game, and
to be a "good sport" is to conform to the rules, and take with enjoyment
whatever issue of the struggle may come.
But then again, suppose you are competing with a child; obviously, the
conditions are different. You no longer play the best you can, you let
the child win a part of the time; but you do not let the child know
this, or it would spoil the fun for the child. You pretend to try as
hard as you know how, and you cry out in grief when you are beaten, and
the child crows with delight. And yet, that does not keep you from
loving the child, or the child from loving you.
The purpose of this elaborate exposition is to make clear the very vital
point that a certain set of social acts may be right under some
conditions, and desperately wrong under other conditions. They may be
right in play, and not in serious things; they may be right in youth,
and not in maturity; they may be right at one period of the world's
development, while at another period they are destructive of social
existence. If, therefore, we wish to know what are right and wrong
actions in the affairs of men, if we wish to judge any particular law or
political platform or program of business readjustment, the first thing
we have to do is to acquire a mass of facts concerning the society to
which the law or platform or program, is to be applied. We need to ask
