a thousand dollars. He had, through a mistaken order, 
been overstocked with a certain commodity from the 
Orient that the retail merchants of San Francisco bought 
very sparingly ; but he had found in Los Angeles a firm 
that did a large business with the swarming Japanese 



 

population and was glad to take it over at a reasonable 
figure. 



It "was after dinner; his taut trim body was relaxed 
in evening luxury before the wood fire of the back par- 
lor, and he was half way through a cigar when Alexina 
rose and extended one arm along the mantelpiece. She 
looked like a long black poplar with her round narrow 
flexible figure and her small head held with a lofty poise ; 
as serene as a poplar in France on a balmy day. But 
she quaked inside. 

She glanced at her happy unsuspecting husband with 
an engaging smile. " I 'm afraid you will be rather cross 
with me," she said softly. "But I went down to the 
City Hall yesterday and revoked my power of attorney 
to you." 

"You did what?" The slow blood rose to Dwight's 
hair. He mechanically took the cigar from his mouth. 
It lost its flavor. He had a sensation of falling through 
space . . . out of somewhere. . . . 

Alexina repeated her statement. 

He recovered himself. ' ' Tom Abbott has been at you 
again, I suppose. Or Judge Lawton." 

"Neither. Eeally, Morty, you must give me credit 
for a mind of my own. I did it for several reasons. 
Sibyl was here Sunday. She motored up from Bur- 
lingame with Aileen on purpose to talk to me. She has induced Mrs. Hunter and some other of the more intelligent 
women down there — those that read the serious new 
books and go to lectures when there are any worth while 
— to join a class in economics. One of the professors at 
Stanford is going to teach us. Aileen has lost frightfully 
at poker lately and wants a new interest ; she put Sibyl 
up to it — who was delighted with the suggestion as she 
hasn 't been intellectual for quite a while now, and really 
has a practical streak; so that studying economics appealed to her. 

"I jumped at the idea. It was a God-send. I have 
had so little to do. I don't care for poker and one can't 
read all the time. , . . But after they left I reflected that 



 

I should cut a rather ridiculous figure studying eco- 
nomics in the abstract if I didn't have sense and 'go' 
enough to manage my own affairs. Why, I was so ignorant I thought I couldn't draw any money from the 
bank because I had given you my power of attorney. 
Aileen has an allowance and the Judge makes her keep 
books. She usually comes out about even at poker in 
the course of the month, and if she doesn't she pawns 
something. I've been with her to pawn shops and it's 
the greatest fun. I don't mind telling you, as I know 
you never betray a confidence. The Judge would lock 
poor dear Aileen up on bread and water. 

' ' Sibyl manages those two great houses herself. Frank 
gives her some stupendous sum a year and she is proud 
of the fact that she never runs over it. You know how 
she entertains. 

"I should never dare admit to them — or to the professor if he asked my opinion on that sort of thing and 
it had to come out — that I was too lazy and too incompetent to manage my own little fortune. So I went down 
first thing Monday morning and revoked my power of 
attorney. I simply couldn't wait. When the estate is 
settled and turned over to me I shall attend to everything and not bother you, Morty dear." 



Morty dear looked at her with a long hard suspicious 
stare. Alexina thoughtfully turned up her eyes and 
changed promptly from a poplar into a saint. 

"I don't like it. I don't like it at all." 

Words were never his strong point and he could find 
none now adequate to express his feelings. 

"I may be old-fashioned " 

"You are, Morty. That is your only fault. You 
belong to the old school of American husbands " 

"There are plenty of old-fashioned people left in the 
world." 

"So there are, poor dears. It's going to be so hard 
for them " 

"Are you trying to be one of those infernal new 
women ? ' ' 



 

_ "Well, you see, I just naturally am a child of my 
times, in spite of my old-fashioned family. I'd be much 
the same if I'd never taken any interest in all these 
wonderful modem movements." 

"It's those chums of yours — Aileen, Sibyl, Janet. I 
never did wholly approve of them. ' ' 

"Neither did mother and Maria, but it never made 
any difference." 

"Do you mean to say that you intend to ignore me 
. . . disobey me ? " 

"Oh, Morty, I never promised to obey you. You 
know the fun we all had at the rehearsal. You haven't 
noticed, these three years, that I've had my way in 
pretty nearly everything, merely because it happened to 
be your way too. "We 've been living in a sort of pleasure 
garden, just playing about, with mother as the good old 
fairy. But everything has changed. We must look out 
for ourselves now, and I cannot put the whole burden 
on your shoulders " 

" I do not mind in the least. That is where it belongs. ' ' 

Alexina shook her wise little head. "Oh, no. It isn't 
done any more. No woman who has learned to think is 
so unjust as to throw Jthe whole burden of life on her 
husband's shoulders. You have your own daily battle 
in the business world. I will do the rest." 

"What damned emancipated talk." 

"What a funny old-fashioned word. We don't even 
say advanced or new any more. ' ' 

"It's nonsense anyhow. You're nothing but a child." 

"You may just bet your life I'm not a child. Nor 
have I awakened all of a sudden. In one sense I have. 
But not in this particular branch of modem science. 
I have read tons about it, and Aileen and I are always 
discussing everything that interests the public. I have 
even read the newspapers for two years." 

"Much better you didn't. There is no reason what- 
ever for a woman in your position knowing anything 
about public affairs. It detracts from your charm." 

"Maybe, but we'll find more charm in Life as we 
grow older." 

His memory ran back along a curved track and returned with something that looked like a bogey. 



 

"May I ask what your program is? Your household 
program? I had got everything down to a fine point. 
... It seems too bad you should bother. ..." 

"Bother? I've been bored to death, and feeling like 
a silly littirf good-for-nothing besides. The trouble is, 
it's too little bother. James and I have had a long talk. 
Housekeeping will be reduced to its elements with him, 
but at least I shall begin to feel really grown up when 
I pore over monthly bills and 'slips' and sign cheques." 

She hesitated. ' ' You mustn 't think for a minute that 
I want to make you feel out of it, Morty. It is only that 
I must. The time has come. ... Of course, you have 
been paying half the bills anyhow. We could simply go 
on along those lines. I will tell you what it all amounts 
to, shortly after the first of the month, and you'll give 
me half." 

IV 

Dwight stared at the end of his cigar. His was not 
an agile brain but in that moment it had an illuminating 
flash. He realized that this sheltered creature, with 
whom her mother had never discussed household economics, and from whom he had purposely kept all knowledge of his business, took for granted that he could pay 
his share of the monthly expenses, merely because all 
the men she knew did twice as much, however they might 
grumble. For the matter of that she never saw Tom 
Abbott that he did not curse the ascending prices, but 
there was no change whatever in his bountiful fashion 
of living. Alexina knew that the times were bad and 
that her husband was having something of a struggle, 
and, as a dutiful wife, was anxious to help him out for 
the present, but it was simply beyond her powers of 
comprehension to grasp the fact that he was in no position to pay half the expenses of their small establishment. 

If he told her . . . tried to make her understand . . . 
even if she did, how would he appear in her eyes ? 

Of all people in the world he wanted to stand high 
with Alexina ... he had never taken more pains to 
bluff the street when things were at their worst than this 



 

girl who was the symbol of all he had aspired to and 
precariously achieved. He had longed for riches, not 
because she craved luxury and pomp, but because she 
would be forced to look up to him with admiration and a 
lively gratitude. He had, in this spirit, given her, in the 
most casual manner, handsome presents, or brilliant little 
dinners at fashionable restaurants, in all of which she 
took a fervent young pleasure. He had dipped into his 
slender capital, but of this she had not even a suspicion 
... he had made some airy remark about celebrating a 
"good deal" ... no wonder ... he had her too well 
bluffed. 

For an instant he contemplated a plain and manly 
statement of fact. But he did not have the courage. 
Anything rather than that she should curl that short 
aristocratic upper lip of hers, stare at him with wide 
astonished eyes that saw him a failure, even if a temporary one. He set his teeth and vowed to go through 
with it, to make good. This thousand would last several 
months, even if he made no more than his expenses meanwhile. 

He shrugged his shoulders and lit another cigar. The 
first had died a lingering and malodorous death. 

"Have your own way," he said coldly. "I only 
wished to keep you young and carefree. If you choose 
to bother with biUs and investments it is your own look- 
out." 

"Thank you, Morty dear." 

She felt that it would be an act of wifely self-abnegation to defer the announcement of her interest in socialism and Mr. Kirkpatrick. Aileen and Sibyl had hailed 
her plan as even more exciting than the study of economics with an exceedingly good-looking young professor 
(who had been tutoring in Burlingame), and she had 
already dispatched a note to him whom Aileen disreputably called her Fillmore Street mash. 



 



CHAPTER IX 



KIRKPATRICK sat before a crescent composed of 
Mrs. Mortimer Dwight, Mrs. Francis Leslie Bascom and Miss Aileen Livingston Lawton. 

His reasons for coming to Ballinger House — when 
even he knew was inaccessible to the common herd — were 
separate and tabulated. Alexina had fascinated him 
against his best class principles ; but he not only jumped 
at the chance of meeting her again, he was excessively 
curious to understand a woman of her class, to watch her 
in different moods and situations. He was equally curious to meet other women of the same breed; he had 
never brushed their skirts before, but he had often stood 
and gazed at them hungrily as they passed in their 
limousines or driving their smart little electric cars. 

He was also curious to see several of those "interiors" 
he had read so much about, and hoped his pupils would 
meet in turn at their different homes. He was a sincere 
and honest socialist, was Mr. Kirkpatriek, and he had a 
good healthy class-consciousness and class-hatred. But 
he also had a large measure of intelligent curiosity. He 
had never expected to have the opportunity to gratify 
it in respect to "bourgeois" inner circles, and when it 
came he had only hesitated long enough to search his 
soul and assure himself that he was in no danger of 
growing compliant and soft. Moreover he might possibly make converts, and in any case it was not a bad way, 
society being still what it was, of turning an honest 
penny. 

But in this the first lesson he was as disconcerted as a 
socialist serene in his faith could be. 

The three girls had curved their slender bodies forward, resting one elbow on a knee. At the end of each 
of these feline arches was a pair of fixed and glowing 
eyes. No doubt there were faces also, but he was only 



 

vaguely aware of three white disks from which nowed 
forth lambent streams of concentrated light. They 
looked like three little sea-monsters, slim, flexible, malignant, ready to spring. 

He exaggerated in his embarrassment, but he was not 
so very far wrong. 

"The little devils!" he thought in his righteous 
wrath. "I'll teach 'em, all right." 

_As it was necessary to break the farcical silence he 
said in a voice too loud for the small library. "Well, 
what is it about socialism that you don't just know? 
Mrs. D wight told me you had read some." 

"There is one thing I want to say before we begin," 
said Aileen in her high light impertinent voice, "and 
that is that if there is one thing that makes us more 
angry than another it is to be called bourgeois." 

"And ain't you?" 

"We are not. I suppose your Marx didn't know the 
difference, although he is said to have married well, but 
hourgeois for centuries in Europe had meant middle- 
class. Just that and nothing more. Marx had no right 
to pervert an honest historic old word into something so 
different and so obnoxious." 

"To Marx all capitalists were in the same class. I 
suppose what you mean is that you society folks call 
yourselves aristocrats, even when you have less capital 
than some of them that can't get in." 

' ' Sure thing. Take it from me. ' ' 

He gazed at her astounded, and once more had recourse to his rather heavy sarcasm. 

' ' Even when they use slang. ' ' 

"Oh, we're never afraid to — like lots of the middle- 
class — bourgeois. Too sure of ourselves to care a hang 
what any one thinks of us." 

Alexina came hastily to the rescue, for a dull glow 
was kindling in Mr. Kirkpatrick 's small sharp eyes. She 
didn't mind baiting him a little, but as he was in a way 
her guest he must be protected from the naughtiness of 
Aileen and the insolence of Sibyl Bascom, who had taken 
a cigarette from a gold be jeweled case that dangled from 
her wrist and was asking him for a light. He gave her 



 

measure for measure, for he lifted his heavy boot and 
struck a match on the sole. 

"You must not be too hard on us, Mr. Kirkpatrick. " 
Alexina upreared and leaned against the high back of 
her chair with a sweet and gracious dignity. "We are 
really a pack of ignoramuses, full of prejudices, which, 
however, we would get rid of if we knew how. "We are 
hoping everything from these lessons." 

' ' Do you smoke ? ' ' 

"No, I don't happen to like the taste of tobacco, but 
I quite approve of my friends smoking — unless they 
smoke their nerves out by the roots, as Miss Lawton does. 
Don't give her a light. But I'm sure you smoke. I'll 
get you a cigar." 

She pinched Aileen, glared at Sibyl, and left the room. 



Mortimer was smoking furiously, trying to concentrate 
his mind on the evening paper. 

"Give me a cigar, Morty dear." 

"A cigar? What for?" 

"It would be too mean of those girls to smoke unless 
Mr. Kirkpatrick did too, and I am sure we couldn 't stand 
his tobacco. Even a whiff of bad tobacco makes me feel 
quite ill." 

"I'll be hanged if I give my cigars to that bounder. 
The kitchen is the place for him." 

' ' But not for us. And our minds are quite made up, 
you know. We are going to study with him just to find 
out what these strange animals called socialists are like. 
He is queer enough, to begin with. And the knowledge 
may prove useful one of these days. ... If you won't 
give me one I'll send James out " 

Mortimer handed over one of his choice cigars with ill 
grace, and Alexina returned to the library. Aileen was 
informing Mr. Kirkpatrick how intensely she disliked 
Marx's beard, not only as she had seen it in a photo- 
graph, but as she had smelt it in Spargo's too vivid de- 
scription. 

He rose awkwardly as she entered, but he rose. She 



 

handed him the cigar and struck a match and held it to 
one end while he drew at the other. Their faces were 
close and she gave him a smile of warm and spontaneous 
friendliness. 

Thought Mr. Kirkpatrick: "Oh, Lord, she's got me. 
I 'd better make tracks out of here. If she was a vamp 
like that Bascom woman she wouldn't get me one little 
bit. Plenty of them where I come from. But she's 
plain goddess with eyes like headlights on an engine." 

Perturbed as he was, however, he resumed his seat 
and drew appreciatively at the finest cigar that had ever 
come his way. It had the opportune effect of causing 
his class-hatred to flame afresh. No fear that he would 
be made soft by teaching in the homes of these pampered 
cats. For the moment he hated Alexina, seated in a 
carved high-back Italian chair like a young queen on a 
throne. 

"Well," he growled. "Let's get to business. I've 
brought Spargo. Marx is too much for me. He's terrible dull and involved. He was so taken up with his 
subject, I guess, that he forgot to learn how to write 
about it so's people without much time and education 
could understand without getting a pain in their beans. 
Of course I've heard him expounded many times from 
the platform, but there must have been about fifty 
Marxes, for I've heard — or read — just about that many 
expounders of him and no two agree so 's you 'd notice it. 
That, to my mind, is the only stumbling block for socialism — that we have a prophet who 's so hard to understand. 

"So, I've settled on Spargo. He has the name of being about the best student of Marx and of socialism generally — it's split up quite a bit — and he's easy reading. 
I fetched him along. " 

He produced "Socialism" from his hat and hesitated. 
"I don't know noth — a thing about teaching." 

"Oh, don't let that worry you," drawled Sibyl Bas- 
com in her low voluptuous voice and transfixing him with 
narrow swimming eyes; then as he refused to be over- 
come, she continued more humanly: "We've been to 
lots of classes, you know. There are all sorts of methods. Suppose one of us reads the first chapter aloud and 
then you expound. That is, we'll ask you questions." 

"That's fine," said Mr. Kirkpatrick with immense relief. "Fire away." 

And Alexina, who always read prefaces and introductions last, began with "Robert Owen and the Utopian 
Spirit." 



BOOK III 



CHAPTER I 



TVTR. KIRKPATRICK realized his ambition to see 
 with his own sharp puncturing little eyes (Aileen 
said they reminded her of a sewing-machine needle playing staccato) several of the most flagrant examples of 
capitalistic extravagance where parasitic femalehood 
idled away their useless lives and servitors battened. 
In other words the extremely comfortable or the shamelessly luxurious homes built for the most part by still 
active business men whose first real period of rest would 
be in a small stone residence in a certain silent city Down 
the Peninsula. 

Several were already occupied by their widows. In a 
climate where a man can work three hundred and sixty- 
five days of the year the temptation to do so is strong, 
and not conducive to longevity. 

The Ferdinand Thorntons, Trennahans, Hofers and 
others who had lost their city homes on Nob Hill had not 
rebuilt, but lived the year round in their country houses 
at Burlingame, San Mateo, Alta, Menlo Park, Atherton, 
or ' ' across the Bay, ' ' using the hotels when they came to 
town for dances, but motoring home after the theater. 

Fortunately the finest and all of the newest mansions 
had been built in the Western Addition and escaped the 
fire. Sibyl Bascom's father-in-law had erected, shortly 
before his death, a large square granite palace more or 
less in the Italian style, and as his widow preferred to 
live in Santa Barbara, Frank Bascom had taken it over 
for himself and his bride. 

Olive had carried her millions to France and found her 
marquis. (As he was wealthy himself they contributed 
little to the current gossip of San Francisco.) 

Janet Maynard lived with her mother, another widow 
of unrestricted means, in a large low Spanish house with 
a patio, built by a famous local architect with such success that Rex Roberts when he married Polly Luning, 
had bought the nearest vacant lot and ordered a romantic mansion as nearly like that of his wife's intimate 
friend as possible. He would live in it as soon as the 
idiosyncrasies of The Architect and Labor would permit. 

Mrs. Clement Hunter had another pale gray stone 
palace, supported in front by noble pillars and commanding a superb view of the Bay, the Golden Gate, 
and Mount Tamalpais. 

Aileen and her father lived in an old wooden house 
with a modern fagade of stucco, and surrounded by a 
garden filled with somewhat blighted geraniums, fuchsias, sweet alieias, heliotrope, mignonette, and other 
nineteenth-century posies beloved of Mrs. Lawton in
her romantic and innocent youth. 

Sibyl and Alice Thorndyke's father had left his girls 
a square bow-windowed mansard-roofed double house, 
built in eighteen-seventy-eight, and unreclaimed. With 
it went a moderate income, and Alice lived on under the 
ugly old roof chaperoned by an aunt, who had been 
chosen from a liberal assortment of relatives because she 
was almost deaf, quite myopic, and so terrified of 
draughts that her absence when convenient could always 
be counted on. 



All of these young women belonged to Alexina's per- 
sonal set, and joined the class in socialism, as they joined 
anything the stronger spirits among them suggested; 
and they attended as regularly as could be expected of 
"parasites" who were mainly interested in society, dress, 
poker, and some absorbing creature of the other sex. 

Mr. Kirkpatrick hated them all with the exception of 
Alexina, Aileen, Mrs. Price Ruyler, the half-French wife 
of a New Yorker, recently adopted by California, and 
Mrs. Hunter, who had joined out of curiosity, having 
read a certain amount of socialism, but never met a socialist. 

She confided to Mrs. Thornton that she was not acutely 



 

anxious to meet another, and Mrs. Thornton replied 
tartly : 

"What do you want to belong to such a class for? 
It's rank hyprocrisy to pretend interest in a question 
we all hate the very name of, and to give the creature 
money that he no doubt turns over to the 'cause' with 
his tongue in his cheek. I 'd never give one of them the 
satisfaction of knowing that I recognized his existence. 

Said Maria Abbott firmly : ' ' Exactly. We should ignore them, just as we ignore envious and spiteful and ill- 
bred outsiders of any sort." 

"But we may not be able to ignore them," said Mrs. 
Hunter. "Their organization is the best of any party 
even if their numbers are not overwhelming. If they are 
content to advance slowly and by purely political methods there is no knowing who will own this or any government fifty years hence. For my part I 'd rather they all 
turn raging anarchists ; then we could turn machine guns 
on them and clean 'em out. I hate them, for I was too 
long getting where I am now, and I want to stay. But 
I don't make the mistake of ignoring them, and I rather 
like having a squint at them at close quarters. Kirk- 
patrick has taken us to several socialist meetings . . . 
we borrow the servants' coats and mutilate our oldest 
hats. . . . Socialism seems to me rather more endurable 
than the socialists, and of these Kirkpatrick is about the 
sanest I have heard. They rant and froth, contradict 
themselves and one another, wander from the point and 
never get anywhere. . . . That would give me hope if it 
were not for the fact that poor California is a magnet 
for the cranks of every fad as well as for the riff-raff 
and derelicts. . . . My other hope is that even they — 
that is to say the least unbalanced of them — will come in 
time to realize that socialism is economically unsound " 

"Do you mean to say," cried Mrs. Abbott, "that Alexina has gone to socialist meetings ? ' ' 

' ' Rather. She 's very keen ' ' 

"Believes in it?" 

"Rather not. But she is naturally thorough — has a 




really extraordinary tendency, for a San Franciscan of 
her sex and status, to finish anything she has begun. 
Sometimes when she is arguing with Kirkpatrick she 
Sticks out that chin of hers so far that you notice how 
square it is. She has him pretty well tamed though. 
When he is ready to eat the rest of us alive she can 
smooth him down like a regular lion tamer." 

"Well, you're nothing but a lot of parlor socialists," 
said Mrs. Thornton disgustedly. "And just as ridicu- 
lous as any other hybrids. But I'm relieved that it 
hasn't spoiled your taste for the simpler pleasures of 
life. Maria, as you don't play poker we'll have a game 
of bridge. Lidie, ring for cocktails, will you — or would 
you rather have a gin fizz? Don't look so horrified, Maria. We're better than socialists, anyhow; if they did 
win out you'd have farther to fall than we, for you're a 
moss-backed old conservative who hates change of any 
sort, while we not only love change of all sorts but are 
regular anarchists : do as we please and snap our fingers 
at the world. Here we are. " 

The three were in Mrs. Thornton's Moorish palace half 
way between San Mateo and Burlingame, a situation that 
symbolized the connecting bridge between the old and 
new order for Mrs. Abbott. Mrs. Thornton was a lineal 
descendant of the Eincon Hill of the sixties and had 
made her debut with Maria Groome in the eighties. But 
she had married an immoderately rich man and had a 
barbaric taste for splendor that formed the proper setting for her own somewhat barbaric beauty, and imperious temper. Her dark and splendid beauty was waning, 
for in the matter of giving aid to nature with secrecy or 
with art she was faithful to the old tradition. But she 
was always an imposing figure and as close to being the 
first power in San Francisco society as that happy-go- 
lucky independent class would ever tolerate. 





Kirkpatrick liked Mrs. Hunter, regarding her as "an 
honest plain-spoken dame without any frills." This 
estimate applied not only to her temperament but to her 




costumes. He admired her severe tailored suits (although he sensed their cost) and her smart, plain, hard, 
little hats. 

The "frills and furbelows" of the younger "spenders" irritated the group of nerves appropriated by his 
class-consciousness almost beyond endurance; but he 
managed to stand it by reminding himself that irritation of all such was a healthy sign and vastly preferable 
to insidious tolerance. 

Mrs. Hunter was also as regular in her attendance as 
Mrs. Dwight, Miss Lawton and Mrs. Price Ruyler, and 
asked fairly intelligent questions. The others floated in 
and out, and one by one dropped from the class, until 
toward the middle of the second winter none remained 
but Alexina, Aileen, Mrs. Hunter and Helene Ruyler, 
who, like Aileen, found in the "frantic interest" of the 
materialistic creed which antagonized every instinct in 
them, a distraction from the excessive gambling which 
had threatened to wreck their nerves, purses, and peace 
of mind. They confided this artlessly to Mr. Kirkpatrick, who replied dryly that they were the best argument 
he had in stock. 

But if the major part of his fashionable class deserted 
him in due course he had meanwhile seen the inside of 
their homes ; and in each case, Alexina, who divined his 
interest, arranged to have him shown over the house 
from the kitchens and pantries straight up to the servants' quarters. 

These he found unexpectedly comfortable and complete. In fact, they were so much more modern and 
adorned than the little cottage in the Mission where he 
lived with his mother that he longed for the immediate 
installation of a system that would teach these workers 
what real work was. What enraged him further was 
their "airs." They too obviously looked upon him as 
an alien intruder, whereas their mistresses, until socialism bored them, were, for the most part, as charmingly 
courteous as his one reliable friend, Mrs. Mortimer 
Dwight. 



 

IV 

During the first winter and spring while his pupils 
were still fairly regular in their attendance, he was both 
incensed and grimly amused by their various idiosyncrasies. He soon became accustomed to their vanity boxes 
and their public application of powder and lip stick, 
the frank crossing of their knees that exhibited more 
diaphanous silk than he had ever seen in his life before, 
the polite excitement that any new article of attire worn 
by one seemed to induce in all, the wicked but on the 
whole good-natured baiting of Aileen Lawton and Polly 
Eoberts, the alternate insolence and Circean glances of 
Mrs. Bascom, who amused herself "practicing on him," 
and the constant smoking of most of them. 

But what he could neither understand nor accept was 
their attitude toward one another. They would all rush 
at the hostess of the day as they entered, or at late comers, with the excited enthusiasm of loved and loving intimates who had not met for months; and Kirkpatrick, 
who missed nothing, knew that they met once a day if 
not oftener. 

In spite of their intimacy their warm enraptured 
greetings carried a patent measure of admiration and 
even respect. It was always at least fifteen minutes before they would settle down for "work," and meanwhile 
they chattered about their common interests, but always 
with the air of relating long-delayed information and a 
frank desire to give of their best. He could have understood "gush," and sentimentalism, but this attitude of 
which he had neither heard nor read bothered him until 
one day he had a sudden flash of enlightenment. 



"Is it class-consciousness?" 

He asked the question of Gora, who dropped in upon a 
class at Alexina's or Aileen 's sometimes on a free afternoon, and with whom he was walking down to the trolley 
car. 

"Something like that. Caste they would call it if 



 

they thought about it at all, which to do them justice 
they don't. ... It used to be the fashion in San Francisco for everybody to 'knock' everybody else. Then 
came a revulsion and everybody began to praise and 
boost. You see it in all circles, but the way it has taken 
that crowd is to show their intense loyalty to one another 
by a constant reminder of it in manner, and in refraining from criticism of one another, no matter how much 
they may gossip about others outside of their particular 
set. Once, just to try my sister-in-law, I told her that 
in my nursing I had stumbled across evidence of an 
illicit love affair going on between one of her friends and 
a married man, the husband of my patient. My sister 
became so remote that I had the impression for a few 
moments that she really wasn't there. Once it would 
have infuriated me, but I have improved my sense of 
humor and developed my philosophy, so I merely turned 
the conversation, as she wouldn't speak at all. She had 
quite withdrawn — still further into the sacred preserves, 
I suppose. . . . 

"They are not only loyal but really seem to have the 
most exalted admiration for one another because they 
are all of the same heaven-bom stock. . . . That is not 
all, however. The truth of the matter is that they get so 
bored out here they would go frantic if they did not 
cultivate as many kinds of excitement and indigenous 
admirations as their wits are equal to. When they can, 
they vary the monotony of life with summers in Europe 
and winters in New York — or Santa Barbara, where they 
meet many interesting people from the East or England ; 
but some of them won't leave their busy husbands or the 
husbands won't be left; or parents are not amenable; so 
they try to create an atmosphere of high spirits and sheer 
delight in youth and one another, and the result is almost a work of art. I rather respect them, but I envy 
them a good deal less than before I knew them so well. ' ' 
' ' Oh, you envied them ? They should envy you. ' ' 
"Well, they don't! Yes, I envied them because it is 
my natural right to be one of them and fate slammed the 
door before I was bom. It embittered my first youth, 
and it might have become an obsession after my brother 



 

married into society if I had not found the right kind of 
work. That and the boring Sundays I've spent at Rincona, and the experiences I have had with that young 
set, who are always at Mrs. Dwight's more or less; be- 
sides a profound satisfaction in accomplishing literary 
work that not one of them could do to save their lives — 
all this has routed a good deal of my old bitterness of 
spirit. I am not sorry that I had it and mdulged it, 
however. Discontent and resentment put spurs on the 
soul. Anything is better than smugness." 

" It 's made you different enough from these others, all 
right. Even from Mrs. Dwight, who is different herself. 
... I'd rather you'd stayed discontented. The whole 
scheme's all wrong and you know it. You've suffered 
from it. You should be the last to tolerate it. When 
they're jabbering away about their ninny affairs they 
pay as little attention to you as they do to me. They 
forget our existence. We don't belong, as they say. 
There isn't one of them except Mrs. Dwight that I 
wouldn't give my eye teeth to see hanging out the wash 
or running a machine in a factory. ' ' 

Gora turned to him with a smile. At this time she 
was as nearly happy as was possible for that insurgent 
too aspiring spirit. 

"Nevertheless, they've made you over in a way — Oh, 
don't flame! I don't mean your principles . . . other 
ways that won't hurt you in the least. You cut your 
hair differently. You wear better shoes. You have your 
clothes pressed — the suit you wear up here anyhow. 
You've reformed your speech somewhat, and you know 
a good deal more about many things than you did a few 
months ago. I am expecting any day to see you wearing 
a 'boiled' shirt." 

"Oh, no, not that! It'd never do. It's true enough 
I got to feeling self-conscious about my rough clothes 
and boots, especially after I met that dude brother of 
yours one day in the hall and he gave me a once-over 
that made me feel like a tramp." 

"Oh! . . . But he was snubbed himself not so very 
long ago, and I suppose it gives him a certain pleasure 
to snub some one else. I am ashamed of him. . . . But 



 

tell me, don't you like them rather better than you expected? Find them rather a better sort? You must 
see that there is practically no leisure class as far as the 

men are concerned " 

"They have time enough to go chicken chasing- 



' Well, aside from that? At least they do work. And 
the younger women? You knew before that they were 
frivolous because they had too much money and too few 
responsibilities. Many of the older women have a serious 
and useful side, even if they do waste an unholy amount 
of time at cards." 

"Well, if you ask me, their manners, when they remember to use 'em, are better than I expected. Only that 
Miss Thorndyke is cold and haughty, but perhaps that's 
because she's poor (for her), or is covering up some- 
thing, or is just plain stupid. . . . Mrs. Dwight's man- 
ners are always perfect. She 's my idea of a lady — just ! 
And in the new system there'll be a long sight more ladies than is possible now, only no aristocrats. . . . Yes, 
they're decent enough considering they're rotten poisoned by money and thinkin' themselves better 'n the 
mass; and I like their affection for one another. But 
they could be all that in the socialist state and more too. 
They'd have to cut out drink and gambling, and a few 
other diversions some of 'em'll drift into, if one or two 
of 'em haven't already — just through being bored to 
death." 

"Do you honestly think socialism means universal 
virtue ? ' ' 

"No, I don't. I'm no such greenhorn ; though there's 
some that does, or pretends to. . . . But I mean there'd 
be no drifting into vice like there is now, no indulgence 
of any old weakness because temptation was always fol- 
lowing them about or just round the comer. That's 
the trouble now. . . . But in the most perfect state some 
would be watching out for their chance, just because the 
old Adam was too strong in spite of the fact that all the 
old reminders had disappeared. ' ' 

"More likely they'd all murder one another because 
they were some ten thousand times more bored than that 
poor little group whose brains you are addling." 



 

"I don't like to hear you talk like that, Miss Gora. 
You ought to give that pen of yours to socialism. There 
would be all the revenge you could want — and it's what 
you're entitled to. Then I could call you Comrade 
Gora." 

' ' Call me Comrade by all means if it hurts you to say 
Miss to a fellow worker. . . . You admit then that envy 
of a society you were not born into and which refuses to 
acknowledge you as an equal, is the secret of your desire 
to pull it down?" 

"Partly that," he admitted coolly. "Not that I'd 
change places with any of those fat millionaires I see 
shuiHing down the steps of the Pacific-Union Club — although I'll admit to you what I wouldn 't to those young 
devils in my class, that I know some socialists who would. 
I hate the sight of 'em. But I want to do away with 
class-rights and class-distinctions, not only because I just 
naturally have no use for them but because I want to 
put an end to the misery of the world." 

' ' You mean the material misery. What would you do 
with the other seven hundred different varieties?" 

"Well . . . I guess each case would have to take care 
of itself. Perhaps we'd get round to it after a while. 
Get poverty and class-envy out of the world, and some 
genius, like as not, would invent a post-graduate course 
at colleges for human nature. All things are possible. ' ' 

"You are an optimist! Here's our car. Come home 
with me and share the supper that I pay for with the 
tainted money of a plutocrat. Only we haven 't any real 
plutocrats in San Francisco. Only modest millionaires. 
Will you?" 

"Yes," said Mr. Kirkpatriek. "And thank you 
kindly." He even smiled, for he was developing a 
latent heavily overlain seed of humor; inherited from 
the full bay tree that had flourished in his grandfather, 
bom in County Clare, where men sometimes indulged in 
rebellion but did not take themselves too seriously withal. 



 



CHAPTEE II 



WHAT winter and the following seasons for the next 
few years passed very rapidly for Alexina. Besides her classes and the constant companionship of her 
friends (to say nothing of the excitement of helping one 
or two of them out of not infrequent scrapes), she had 
for a time the absorbing interest of refurnishing the best 
part of her house. 

The square lower hall which had been scantily furnished with the grandfather's clock, a hat-rack, and a 
settee, and whose walls were covered with "marble pa- 
per, ' ' was painted, walls and wood, a deep ivory white, 
and refurnished with light wicker furniture, palms, and 
growing plants. The hat-rack was abolished, and the 
small library on the left of the entrance turned into a 
men's dressing-room. The folding doors were removed 
from the great double parlors, the "body brussels" replaced by hardwood floors, the walls tinted a pale gray 
as a background for the really valuable pictures (includ- 
ing the proud and gracious and beautiful Alexina Ballinger, dust long since in Lone Mountain) , and the splen- 
did pieces of Italian furniture which had always seemed 
to sulk and bulge against the dull brown walls. The 
rep and walnut sets were sent to the auction room and 
replaced by comfortable chairs and sofas whose colors 
varied, but harmonized not only with one another but 
with the rugs that Alexina under Gora's direction had 
bought at auction. In fact she bought many of her new 
pieces at auction and with Aileen found it vastly exciting to pore over the advertisements and then go down 
to the crowded rooms and bid. 

The billiard room behind the former library she left 
as it was. Her mother's large bedroom upstairs she 
turned into a library with bookcases to the ceiling on 
three sides, and one of the carved oaken tables against 
an expanse of Pompeiian red relieved by one painting 



 

(a wedding gift from Judge Lawton, who believed in 
patronizing local art) that had despoiled a desert of its 
gorgeous yellow sunrise. 

The carpet and curtains were red without pattern. 
The coal grate had been removed and a fireplace built 
for logs. It was to be her own den for long rainy winter afternoons, or the cold and foggy days of summer 
when she remained in the city. 

The dining-room was also given a hardwood floor and 
a Japanese red and gold wall paper as a compliment 
to her martial ancestors ; but as the sideboards were built 
into the walls and could be replaced only at great cost 
they remained as a brooding reminder of the solid sixties, and no doubt exchanged resentful reminiscences 
at night with the chairs which had been merely recovered. 

As a matter of course modern bathtubs were installed 
and gas replaced by electricity. 

All this made a "hole" in Alexina's bonds, the wedding-present of her brothers, but Mortimer offered no 
objection, knowing as he did that to achieve his ambition 
of being master of a house to which fashionable people 
would come as a matter of course the outlay was imperative. Moreover, entertaining at home would be far 
cheaper for him than at the restaurants. 

He was doing fairly well at this time, for he had 
learned what commodities the retail men were likely to 
buy of a firm as small as his, and he had got into touch 
with one or two foreign markets not monopolized by the 
older houses. Moreover, he had been speculating a little 
