man is never so flattered as when some woman 
thinks him an oracle. Besides, although yours 
is the best mind in any pretty woman's head I 
know of — in any woman's head for that 
matter — you still have much to learn, and I 
should feel very jealous if you learned it elsewhere," 
" Oh, I could learn from books, I suppose. 
There are many more in the world than I 
shall ever be able to read. But — well, I had 
a friend for the first time — the kind of friend 
I wanted." 
"You are in no danger of losing him. I 
haven't the least intention of giving you up. 
Real friendships are too rare, especially those 
founded on mental sympathy, and a man's life 
is barren indeed when his friends are only 
men." 
"Have you had any woman friends be- 
fore ? " Her eyelids were lowered but she shot 
him a swift glance. 
" Well — no — to be honest, I cannot say I 
have. Flirtations and all that, yes. During 
the last eight years, between the war and earning my bread, I've had little time. Everything 
 
went, of course. I wrote for a while for a 
Richmond paper and then went to New York. 
That was hard sledding for a time and Southerners are not welcome in New York Society. 
If I bore you with my personal aflPairs it is 
merely to give you a glimpse of a rather and 
life, and, perhaps, some idea of how pleasant 
and profitable I have found our friendship." 
She drooped her head. He ground his teeth 
and lit another cigarette. His hand trembled 
but his tones were even and formal. 
" I shall go to Mrs. Abbott's tomorrow.'' 
" Quite right. And if a man strays in flirt 
with him — if you know how.'' 
" There are four other At Homes and kettle- 
drums this week and I shall go to those also. 
I don't know that I mind silly gossip, but it 
would not be fair to Howard. I shouldn't like 
to put him in the position of some men in this 
town; although they seem to console themselves! But Howard is not like that." 
" Not he. The best fellow in the world. I 
think your program admirable." He saw that 
he was trying her too far and added hastily: 
" It would be rather amusing to circumvent 
them, and it certainly would not amuse me to 
 
lose your charming companionship. I have 
fallen into the habit of imposing myself upon 
you from three until five or half -past. Perhaps you will admit me shortly after lunch 
and let me hang round until you are ready to 
go out ? '' 
She looked up with faintly sparkling eyes; 
then her face fell. 
" There are so many luncheons." 
" But surely not every day. You could refuse the informal affairs on the plea of a 
previous engagement, and give me the list of 
the inevitable ones the first of the week. And 
at least you are free from impertinent intrusion 
before three o'clock." 
« Yes, Pll do that ! I will ! It will be 
better than nothing." 
" Oh, a long sight better. And nothing can 
alter the procession of the seasons. Summer 
will arrive again in due course, and if your 
friends are not far more interested in something 
else by that time it is hardly likely that even 
Mrs. Abbott will sacrifice the comforts of Alta 
to spy on any one." 
" Not she ! She has asthma in San Francisco 
in siunmer." Madeleine spoke gaily, but she 
 
avoided his eyes. Whether he was maintaining 
a pose or not she could only guess, but she had 
one of her own to keep up. 
" You must have thought me very silly to 
cry — but — these people have all been quite 
angelic to me before, and Mrs. Abbott descended upon me like the Day of Judgment." 
" I should think she did, the old she-devil, 
and if you hadn't cried you wouldn't have been 
a true woman ! But we have a good half hour 
left. I'd like to read you — " 
At this moment Dr. Talbot's loud voice was 
heard in the hall. 
" All right. See you later. Sorry — '' 
XVII 
MADELEINE caught at the edge of the 
table. Had he met Mrs. Abbott ? 
But even in this moment of consternation she 
avoided a glance of too intimate understanding 
with Masters, She was reassured immediately, 
however. The Doctor burst into the room and 
exclaimed jovially: 
" You here ? What luck. Thought you 
would be at some infernal At Home or other. 
Just got a call to San Jose — consultation — 
must take the next train. Come, help me pack. 
Hello, Masters. If I'd had time Pd have 
looked you up. Got some news for you. 
Wait a moment." 
He disappeared into his bedroom and Madeleine followed. He had not noticed the books 
and Masters' first impulse was to gather them 
up and replace them in the chest. But he sat 
down to his proofs instead. The Doctor 
returned in a few moments. 
" Madeleine will finish. She's a wonder at 
packing. Hello! What's this?'' He had 
caught sight of the books, 
" Some of mine. Mrs. Talbot expressed a 
wish — " 
" Why in thunder don't you call her Madeleine? You're as much her friend as mine. . . . 
Well, I don't mind as much as I did, for I 
find women are all reading more than they 
used to, and I'm bound to say they don't have 
the blues while a good novel lasts. CXiida's a 
pretty good dose and lasts about a week. But 
don't give her too much serious stuff. It will 
only addle her brains." 
" Oh, she has very good brains. Mrs. 
Abbott was here just now, and although she is 
not what I should call literary — or too lit- 
erate — she seemed to think your wife was just 
the sort of woman who should read." 
"Mrs. Abbott's a danmed old nuisance. 
You must have been overjoyed at the interruption. But if Madeleine has to put on pince- 
nez — " 
" Oh, never fear! " Madeleine was smiling 
radiantly as she entered. Her volatile spirits 
were soaring. " My eyes are the strongest part 
of me. What did you have to tell Mr. Masters ? " 
 
" Jove ! I'd almost forgotten, and it's great 
news, too. What would you say. Masters, to 
editing a paper of your own ? " 
" What ? " 
" There's a conspiracy abroad — I won't 
deny I had a hand in it — no light under the 
bushel for me — to raise the Tiecessary capital 
and have a really first-class newspaper in this 
town. San Francisco deserves the best, and if 
we've had nothing but rags, so far — barring 
poor James King of William's Bulletin — it's 
because we've never had a man before big 
enough to edit a great one." 
" I have no words ! It is almost too good 
to be true ! " 
Madeleine watched him curiously. His voice 
was trembling and his eyes were flashing. He 
was tall but had drawn himself up in his excitement and seemed quite an inch taller. He 
looked about to wave a sword and lead a charge. 
Establishing a newspaper meant a hard fight 
and he was eager for the fray. 
She had had but few opportunities to study 
him in detail unobserved. She had never 
thought him handsome, for he was clean 
shaven, with deep vertical lines, and he wore 
 
his black hair very short. Her preference was 
for fair men with drooping moustaches and 
locks sweeping the collar j although her admiration for this somewhat standardized type had 
so far been wholly impersonal. Even the doctor clipped his moustache as it interfered with 
his soup, and his rusty brown hair was straight, 
although of the orthodox length. But she had 
not married Howard for his looks ! 
She noted the hard line of jaw and sharp 
incisive profile. His face had power as well as 
intellect, yet there was a hint of weakness somewhere. Possibly the lips of his well-cut mouth 
were a trifle too firmly set to be unselfconscious. And his broad forehead lacked serenity. There was a furrow between the eyes. 
It was with the eyes she was most familiar. 
They were gray, brilHant, piercing, wide apart 
and deeply set. She had noted more than once 
something alert, watchful, in their expression, 
as if they were the guardians of the intellect 
above and defied the weakness the lower part 
of his face barely hinted to clash for a moment 
with his ambitions. 
She heard little of his rapid fire of questions 
and Howard's answers} but when the doctor 
 
had pulled out his watch, kissed her hurriedly, 
snatched his bag and dashed from the room, 
Masters to<^ her hands in his, his eyes glowing. 
" Did you hear? " he cried. " Did you 
hear ? I am to have my own newspaper. My 
dream has come true ! A hundred thousand 
dollars are promised. I shall have as good a 
news service as any in New York." 
Madeleine withdrew her hands but smiled 
brightly and made him a pretty speech of 
congratulation. She knew little of news- 
papers and cared less, but there must be something extraordinary about owning one to excite 
a man like Langdon Masters. She had never 
seen him excited before. 
" Won't it mean a great deal harder work ?" 
" Oh, work ! I thrive on work. I've never 
had enough. Come and sit down. Let me talk 
to you. Let me be egotistical and talk about 
myself. Let me tell you all my pent-up ambitions and hopes and desires — you wonderful little Egeria! " 
And he poured himself out to her as he 
had never unbosomed himself before. He 
stayed on to dinner — she had no engagement 
— and left her only for the office. He had 
 
evidently forgotten the earlier episode, and he 
swept it from her own mind. That mind, 
subtle, feminine, yielding, melted into his. 
She shared those ambitions and hopes and de- 
sires. His brilliant and useful future was as 
real and imperative to her as to himself. It 
was a new, a wonderful, a thrilling experience. 
When she went to bed, smiling and happy, 
she slammed a little door in her mind and shot 
the bolt. A terrible fear had shaken her three 
hoiu-s before, but she refused to recall it. Once 
more the present sufficed. 
XVIII 
MADELEINE went to Mrs. Abbott's 
reception, but there was nothing conciliatory nor apologetic in her mien. She had intended to be merely natural, but when she met 
that battery of eyes, amused, mocking, sympathetic, encouraging, and realized that Mrs. 
Abbott's tongue had been wagging, she was 
filled with an anger and resentment that ex- 
pressed itself in a cold pride of bearing and a 
militant sparkle of the eye. She was gracious 
and aloof and Mrs. McLane approved her 
audibly. 
" Exactly as I should feel and look myself,'' 
she said to Mrs. Ballinger and Guadalupe 
Hathaway. " She's a royal creature and she 
has moved in the great world. No wonder she 
resents the petty gossip of this village." 
" Well, PU acquit her," said Mrs. Ballinger 
tartly. " A more cold-blooded and unattractive 
man I've never met." 
"Langdon Masters is by no means unattractive," announced Miss Hathaway out of 
her ten years' experience as a belle and an unconscionable flirt. " I have sat in the conservatory with him several times. It may be that 
Mrs. Abbott stepped in before it was too late. 
And it may be that she did not." 
" Oh, call no woman virtuous until she is 
dead," said Mrs. McLane lightly. "But I 
won't hear another insinuation against Madeleine Talbot." 
Mrs. Abbott kissed the singed brand it had 
been her mission to snatch in the nick of time 
and detained her in conversation with unusual 
empressement. Madeleine responded with an 
excessive politeness, and Mrs. Abbott learned 
for the first time that sweet brown eyes could 
glitter as coldly as her own protuberant orbs 
when pronouncing judgment. 
Madeleine remained for two hours, bored 
and disgusted, the more as Masters' name was 
ostentatiously avoided. Even Sally Ballinger, 
who kissed her warmly, told her that she 
looked as if she hadn't a care in the world and 
that it was because she had too much sense to 
bother about men! 
She had never been treated with more 
 
friendly intimaqr, and if she went home with a 
headache it was at least a satisfaction to know 
that her proud position was still scandal-proof. 
She wisely modified her first program and 
drifted back into afternoon society by degrees; 
a plan of defensive campaign highly approved 
by Mrs. McLane, who detested lack of finesse. 
The winter was an unsatisfactory one for 
Madeleine altogether. Society would not have 
bored her so much perhaps if that secret en- 
chanting background had remained intact. But 
her intercourse with Masters was necessarily 
sporadic. Her conscience had never troubled 
her for receiving his visits, for her husband 
not only had expressed his approval, but had 
always urged her to amuse herself with men. 
But she felt like an intriguante when she discussed her engagement lists with Masters, and 
she knew that he liked it as little. His dsits 
were now a matter for " sandwiching,'' to be 
schemed and planned for, and she dared not 
ask herself whether the persistent sense of fear 
that haunted her was that they both must be- 
tray self -consciousness in time, or that the more 
difficult order would bore him: their earlier intimacy had coincided with his hours of leisure. 
After all, he was not her lover, to delight in 
intrigue J and in time, it might be, he would not 
think the game worth th» candle. She dreaded 
that revived gossip might drive him from the 
hotel, and that would be the miserable begin- 
ning of an unthinkable end. 
There were other interruptions. He paid 
a flying visit to Richmond to visit the death-bed 
of his mother, and he took a trip to the Sand- 
wich Islands to recover from a severe cold on 
the chest. Moreover, his former placidity had 
left him, for one thing and another delayed the 
financing of his newspaper. One of its 
founders was temporarily embarrassed for 
ready money, another awaited an opportune 
moment to realize on some valuable stock. 
There was no doubt that the entire amoimt 
would be forthcoming in time, but meanwhile 
he fumed, and expressed himself freely to 
Madeleine. That he might have a more poisonous source of irritation did not occur to her. 
Fortunately she did not suspect that gossip 
was still rife. Madeleine might have a subtle 
mind but she had a candid personality. It was 
quite patent to sharp eyes that she was unhappy 
once more, although this time her health was 
unaffected. And Society was quite aware that 
she still saw Langdon Masters, in spite of her 
perfunctory appearances} for suspicion once 
roused develops antennae that traverse space 
without effort and return with accumulated 
minute stores of evidence. Masters had been 
seen entering or leaving the Talbot parlor by 
luncheon guests in the hotel. Old Ben Travers, 
who had chosen to ignore his astonishing and 
humiliating experience and always treated 
Madeleine with exaggerated deference, called 
one afternoon on her (in company with Mrs. 
Ballinger) and observed cigarette ends in the 
ash tray. Talbot smoked only cigars. Masters was one of the few men in San Francisco who smoked cigarettes and there was no 
mistaking his imported brand. Mr. Travers 
paid an immediate round of visits, and called 
again a fortnight later, this time protected 
by Mrs. Abbott. There were several books on 
the table which he happened to know Masters 
had received within the week. 
When the new wave reached Mrs. McLane 
she announced angrily that all the gossip in 
San Francisco originated in the Union Club, 
and refused to listen to details. But she was 
 
anxious, nevertheless, for she knew that Madeleine, whether she recognized the fact or not, 
was in love with Langdon Masters, and she 
more than suspected that he was with her. 
He went little into society, even before his 
mother's death, pleading press of work, but 
Mr. McLane often brought him home quietly 
to dinner and she saw more of him than aay one 
did but Madeleine. Men had gone mad over 
her in her own time and she knew the stamp 
of baffled passions. 
It was on New Year's Day, during Masters' 
absence in Richmond, that an incident occurred 
which turned Society's attention, diverted for 
the moment by an open divorce scandal, to 
Madeleine Talbot once more. 
XIX 
NEW YEAR'S DAY in San Francisco was 
one of pomp and trivimphs, and much 
secret heart-burning. Every woman who had 
a house threw it open and the many that lived 
in hotels were equally hospitable. There was 
a constant procession of family barouches, 
livery stable buggies and hacks. The " whips '' 
drove their mud-bespattered traps with as grand 
an air as if on the ClifF House Road in fine 
weather} and while none was ignored whose 
entertaining was lavish, those who could count 
only on admiration and friendship compared 
notes eagerly during the following week. 
But yoimg men in those days were more 
gallant or less snobbish than in these, and few 
pretty girls, however slenderly dowered, were 
forgotten by their waltzing partners. The 
older men went only to the great houses, 
and frankly for eggnog. Mrs. Abbott's was 
famous and so was Mrs. McLane's. Ladies 
who lived out of town the year round, that 
 
their husbands might " sleep in the country! '' 
received with their more fortunate friends. 
It had been Madeleine's intention to have 
her own reception at the hotel as usual, but 
when Mrs, McLane craved her assistance — 
Marguerite was receiving with Mrs. Abbott, 
now her mother-in-law — she consented will- 
ingly, as it would reduce her effort to entertain 
progressively illuminated men to the minimum. She felt disinclined to effort of any 
sort. 
Mrs. McLane, after her daughter's marriage, had tired of the large house on Rincon 
Hill and the exorbitant wages of its staff of 
servants, and returned to her old home in South 
Park, furnishing her parlors with a red satin 
damask, which also covered the walls. She 
had made a trip to Paris meanwhile and 
brought back much light and graceful French 
furniture. The long double room was an ad- 
mirable setting for her stately little figure in 
its trailing gown of wine-colored velvet 
trimmed with mellowed point lace (it had been 
privately dipped in coffee) and her white high- 
piled hair. There was no watchful anxiety in 
Mrs. McLane's lofty mien. She knew that the 
best, old and young, would come to her New 
Year's Day reception as a matter of course. 
Mrs. Ballinger had also gratefully accepted 
Mrs. McLane's invitation, for Sally had recently married Harold Abbott and was receiving on Rincon Hill, and Maria was in modest 
retirement. She wore a long gown of silver 
gray poplin as shining as her silver hair and 
as she was nearly a foot taller than her 
hostess, the two ladies stood at opposite ends 
of the mantelpiece in the front parlor with 
Annette McLane and two young friends between. 
The reception was at its height at four 
o'clock. The rooms were crowded, and the 
equipages of the guests packed not only South 
Park but Third Street a block north and south. 
Madeleine sat at the end of the long double 
room behind a table and served the eggnog. 
The men hovered about her, not, as commonly, 
in unqualified admiration, or passed on the goblets, slices of the monumental cakes, and Peter 
Job's famous cream pie. 
She had taken a glass at once and raised her 
spirits to the necessary pitch  but its effect wore 
off in time and her hand began to tremble 
 
slightly as she ladled out the eggnog. She 
had not heard from Masters since he left and 
her days were as vacant as visible space. She 
had felt nervous and depressed since morning 
and would have spent the day in bed had she 
dared. 
Mr. McLane, Mr. Abbott, Colonel " Jack " 
Belmont, Alexander Groome, Mr. Ballinger, 
Amos Lawton and several others were chatting 
with her when Ben Travers sauntered up to 
demand his potion. He had already paid 
several visits, and although he carried his 
liquor well, it was patent to the eyes of his 
friends he was in that particular stage of 
inebriation that swamped his meagre stock of 
good nature and the superficial cleverness 
which made him an agreeable companion, and 
set free all the maliciousness of a mind contracted with years and disappointments: he had 
never made " his pile " and it was current history that he had been refused by every belle 
of his youth. 
He made Madeleine a courtly bow as he 
took the goblet from her hands, not forgetting 
to pay her a well-turned compliment on those 
hands, not the least of her physical perfections. Then he balanced himself an the edge 
of the table with a manifest intention of joining in the conversation. Madeleine felt an 
odd sense of terror, although she knew nothing 
of his discoveries and communications; there 
was a curious hard stare in his bleared eyes and 
it seemed to impale her. 
He began amiably enough. '' Best looking 
frocks in this house I've seen today. At least 
five from Paris. Mrs. McLane brought back 
four of them besides her own. Seen some 
awful old duds today. 'Lupie Hathaway had 
on an old black silk with a gaping placket and 
three buttons off in front. Some of the other 
things were new enough, but the dressmakers 
in this town need waking up. Of course yours 
came from New York, Mrs. Talbot. Charming, simply charming.'' 
Madeleine wore a gown of amber-colored 
silk with a bertha of fine lace and mousseline 
de soie, exposing her beautiful shoulders. The 
color seemed reflected in her eyes and the 
bright waving masses of her hair. 
" Madame Def orme made it,'' she said triumphantly. "Now don't criticize our dress- 
makers again." 
 
" Never criticize anybody but can't help no- 
ticing things. Got the observing eye. Nothing 
escapes it. How are you off for books now that 
Masters has deserted us? " 
Madeleine turned cold, for the inference 
was unmistakable, and she saw Mr. McLane 
scowl at him ferociously. But she replied 
smilingly that there was always the Mercantile 
Library. 
" Never have anything new there, and even 
C. Beach hasn't had a new French novel for 
six months. If Masters were one of those 
considerate men, now, he'd have left you the 
key of his rooms. Nothing compromising in 
that. But it would be no wonder if he forgot 
it, for I hear it wasn't his mother's illness that 
took him to Richmond, but Betty Thornton 
who's still a reigning toast. Old flame and they 
say she's come round Had a letter from my 
sister." 
Madeleine, who was lifting a goblet, let it 
fall with a crash. She had turned white and 
was trembling, but she lifted another with an 
immediate return of self-control, and said, 
"How awkward of me! But I have had a 
headache for three days and the gas makes the 
room so warm.'' 
And then she fainted. 
Mr. McLane, who was more impulsive than 
tactful, took Travers by the arm and pushed 
him through the crowd surging toward the 
table, and out of the front door, almost fling- 
ing him down the front steps. 
" Damn you for a liar and a scandalmonger 
and a malicious old woman! " he shouted, oblivious of many staring coachmen. "Never 
enter my house again." 
But the undaunted Travers steadied himself 
and replied with a leer, "Well, I made her 
give herself dead away, whether you like it or 
not. And it'll be all over town in a week." 
Mr. McLane turned his back, and ordering 
the astonished butler to take out the man's 
hat and greatcoat, returned to a scene of excitement. Madeleine had been placed full 
length on a sofa by an open window, and was 
evidently reviving. He asked the men who 
had overheard Travers' attack to follow him to 
his study. 
" I want every one of you to promise me 
that you will not repeat what that little brute 
said," he commanded. "Fortunately there 
were no women about. Fainting women are no 
novelty. And if that cur tells the story of his 
dastardly assault, give him the lie. Swear that 
he never said it. Persuade him that he was too 
drunk to remember." 
" I'll follow him and threaten to horsewhip 
him if he opens his mouth ! " cried Colonel Belmont, who had been a dashing cavalry officer 
during the war. He revered all women of his 
own class, even his wife, who rarely saw him; 
and he was so critical of feminine perfections 
of any sort that he changed his mistresses 
oftener than any man in San Francisco. " I'll 
not lose a moment." And he left the room 
as if charging the enemy. 
" Good. Will the rest of you promise?" 
" Of course we'll promise." 
But alas, wives have means of extracting 
secrets when their suspicions are alert and clam- 
oring that no husband has the wit to elude, 
man being too ingenuous to follow the circumlocutory methods of the subtler sex. Not that 
there was ever anything subtle about Mrs. Abbott's methods. Mr. Abbott had a perpetual 
catarrh and it had long since weakened his fibre. 
It was commonly believed that when Mrs. 
Abbott, her large bvdk arrayed in a red flannel 
 
nightgown, sat up in the connubial bed and 
threatened to pour hot mustard up his nose 
unless he opened his sluices of information he 
ingloriously succumbed. 
At all events, how or wherefore, Travers' 
prediction was fulfilled, although he shiveringly held his own tongue. The story was all 
over town not in a week but in three days. 
But of this Madeleine knew nothing. The doctor, who feared typhoid fever, ordered her to 
keep quiet and see no one until he discovered 
what was the matter with her. Her return to 
Society and Masters' to San Francisco coincided, but at least her little world knew that 
Dr. Talbot had been responsible for her retirement. It awaited future developments 
with a painful and a pleasurable interest. 
XX 
THE rest of the season, however, passed 
without notable incident. But it was 
known that Madeleine saw Masters constantly, 
and she was so narrowly observed during his 
second absence that the nervousness it induced 
made her forced gaiety almost hysterical. During the late spring her spirits grew more even 
and her migraines less frequently sustained as 
she was by the prospect of her old uninterrupted relations with Masters. 
But more than Mrs. Abbott divined the 
cause of her ill-suppressed expectancy and 
never had she received so many invitations to 
the country. Mrs. McLane spent her summers 
at Congress Springs, but even she pressed 
Madeleine to visit her. Sally Abbott lived 
across the Bay on Lake Merritt and begged for 
three days a week at least; while as for Mrs. 
Abbott and Mr. and Mrs. Tom, who lived with 
her, they would harken to no excuses. 
Madeleine was almost nonplussed, but if her 
 
firm and graceful refusals to leave the doctor 
had led to open war she would have accepted 
the consequences. She was determined that 
this summer she had lived for throughout 
seven long tormented months should be as vin- 
broken and happy as the other fates would permit. She had a full presentiment that it would 
be the last. 
Masters glided immediately into the old 
habit and saw her of tener when he could. Of 
coiu-se no phase ever quite repeats itself. The 
blithe unconsciousness of that first immortal 
summer was gone for ever; each was playing a 
part and dreading lest the other suspect it. 
Moreover, Masters was irritated almost beyond 
endurance at the constant postponement of the 
financial equipment for his newspaper. The 
man who had promised the largest contribution 
had died suddenly, and although his heir was 
more than eager to be associated with so il- 
lustrious an enterprise he must await the settlement of the estate. 
"I am beginning to believe I never shall 
have that newspaper," Masters said gloomily to 
Madeleine. "It looks like Fate. When the 
subject was first broached there was every 
 
prospect that I should get the money at once. 
It has an ugly look. Any man who has been 
through a war is something of a fatalist." 
They were less circumspect than of old and 
were walking out the old Mission Road. In 
such moods it was impossible for him to idle 
before a fire and read aloud. Madeleine had 
told her husband she would like to join Masters 
in his walks occasionally, and he had replied 
heartily: " Do you good. He'll lead you some 
pretty tramps! I can't keep up with him. You 
don't walk half enough. Neither do these 
others women, although my income would be 
cut in half if they did." 
It was a cool bracing day without dust or 
wind and Madeleine had started out in high 
spirits, induced in part by a new and vastly becoming walking suit of forest green poplin and 
a hat of the same shade rolled up on one side 
and trimmed with a drooping grey feather. 
Her gloves and shoes were of grey suede, there 
was soft lace about her white throat and a coquettish little veil that covered only her eyes. 
She always knew what to say when Masters 
was in one of his black moods, and today she 
reminded him of the various biographies of 
great men they had read together. Had not . 
all of them suflfered every disappointment and 
discouragement in the be'ginning of their 
careers? Overcome innumerable obstacles? 
Many had been called upon to endure grinding poverty as well until they forced recognition from the world, and he at least was 
spared that. If Life took with one hand while 
she gave with the other, the reverse was 
equally true^ and also no doubt it was a part 
of her beneficence that she not only strengthened the character by preliminary hardships, 
but amiably planned them that success might 
be all the sweeter when it came. 
Masters laughed. " Incontrovertible. Mind 
you practice your own philosophy when you 
need it. All reverses should be temporary if 
people are strong enough." 
She lost her color for a moment, but 
answered lightly: " That is an easy philosophy 
for you. If one thing failed you would simply 
move on to another. Men like you never really 
fail, for your rare abilities give you the 
strength and resource of ten men." 
"I wonder! The roots of strength sometimes lie in slimy and corrupting waters that 
 
spread their miasma upward when Life frowns 
too long and too darkly. Somedmes misfortunes pile up so remorselessly, this miasma 
whispers that a man's chief strength consists 
in going straight to the devil and be done with 
it all. A resounding slap on Life's face. An 
insolent assertion of the individual will against 
Society. Or perhaps it is merely a disposition 
to run full tilt, hoping for the coup de grace — 
much as I felt when I lay neglected on the 
battlefield for twenty-four hours and longed 
for some Yank to come along and blow out my 
brains.^ 
"That is no comparison," she said scorn- 
fully. "When the body is whole nothing is 
impossible. I should feel that the Universe 
was reeling if I saw you go down before adversity. I could as readily imagine myself 
letting go, and I am only a woman." 
" Oh, I should never fear for you," he said 
bitterly. "What with your immutable principles, your religion, and your proud position 
in the Society of San Francisco to sustain you 
you would come through the fiery furnace unscathed." 
"Yes, but the furnace! The furnace! " 
She threw out her hands with a gesture of despair, her high spirits routed before a sudden 
blinding vision of the future. "Does any 
woman ever escape that? " 
One of her hands brushed his and he caught 
it irresistibly. But he dropped it at once. 
There was a sound of horses' hoofs behind 
them. He had been vaguely aware of canter- 
ing hoof -beats in the distance for several 
minutes. 
Two men passed, and one of them took off 
his hat with a low mocking sweep and bowed 
almost to the saddle. It was old Ben Travers. 
" What on earth is he doing in town? " muttered Masters in exasperation. No one had 
told him of the New Year's Day episode, but 
he knew him for what he was. 
Madeleine was following the small trim 
figure on the large chestnut with expanded 
eyes, but she answered evenly enough : " He 
has some ailment and is remaining in town 
under Howard's care." 
"Liver, no doubt," said Masters viciously. 
"Too bad his spleen doesn't burst once far 
all." 
He continued unguardedly, "Well, if he 
 
tries to make mischief, Howard will tell him 
bluntly that we walk together with his permission and invite him to go to the devil.'' 
Her own guard was up at once, although it 
was not any gossip carried to Howard she 
feared. " He has probably already forgotten 
us," she said coldly. " Have you finished that 
paper for Putnam^s? '' 
" Three days ago, and begun another for the 
Edinburgh Review. That is the first time I 
have been invited to write for an English review." 
" You see ! " she cried gaily. " You are 
famous already. And ambitious! You were 
once thinking of writing for our Overland 
Monthly only. Bret Harte told me you had 
promised him three papers this year." 
" I shall write them." 
" Perfunctory patriotism. You'd have to 
write the entire magazine and bring it out 
weekly to get rid of all your ideas and superfluous energy." 
" Well, and wouldn't the good Calif omians 
rather read any magazine but their own? Even 
Harte is far better known in the East than here. 
I doubt if I've heard one of his things men- 
 
tioned but 'The Heathen Chinee' He has 
been here so long they regard him as a mere 
native. If I am advancing my reputation in 
the East I am making it much faster than if 
I depended upon the local reputation alone. 
San Francisco is remarkably human,'' 
" When I first came here — it seems a life- 
time ago! — I never saw an Eastern magazine 
of the higher class and rarely a book. I believe you have done as much to wake them up 
as even the march of time. They read news- 
papers if they won't read their own poor little 
Overland. And you are popular personally 
and inspire a sort of uneasy emulation. You 
are a sort of illuminated bridge. Now tell 
me what your new paper is about.'' 
AWHILE later they came to the old Mission Dolores, long ago the center of a 
flourishing colony of native Indians, who, under the driving energy of the padres, manufac- 
tured practically every simple necessity known 
to Spain. There was nothing left but the crumbling church and its neglected graveyard, alone 
in a waste of sand. The graves of the priests 
and grandees were overrun with periwinkle, and 
the only other flower was the indestructible 
Gistilian rose. The heavy dvdl green bushes 
with their fluted dull pink blooms surrounded 
by tight little buds, were as dusty as the memory of the Spaniard in California. 
They went into the church to rest. Madeleine 
had never taken any interest in the history of 
her adopted state, and as they sat in a pew at 
the back, surrounded by silence and a deep twilight gloom. Masters told her the tragic story 
of Rezanov and Concha Arguello, who would 
have married before that humble altar and 
the history of California changed if the ironic 
fates had permitted. The story had been told 
him by Mrs. Hathaway, who was the daughter 
of one of the last of the grandees, and whose 
mother had lived in the Presidio when 
Rezanov sailed in through the Golden Gate 
and Concha Arguello had been La Favorita of 
Alta California. 
The little church was very quiet. The rest 
of the world seemed far away. Madeleine's 
fervid yielding imagination swept her back to 
that long-forgotten past when a woman to 
whom the earlier fates had been as kind as to 
herself had scaled all but the highest peaks of 
happiness and descended into the prof oundest 
depths of despair. Her sympathies, enhanced 
by her own haunting premonition of disaster, 
shattered her guard. She dropped her head 
into her hands and wept hopelessly. Masters 
felt his own moorings shake. He half rose 
to flee. But he too had been living in the 
romantic and passionate past and he too had 
been visited by moments of black forebodings. 
Love had tormented him to the breaking point 
before this and his ambition had often been 
submerged in his impatience for the excess of 
 
work which his newspaper would demand, exhausting to body and imagination alike. He 
had long ceased to doubt that she loved him, 
but her self-command had protected them 
both. He had believed it would never desert 
her and when it did his pulses had their way. 
He took her in his arms and strained her to 
him as if with the strength of his muscles and 
his will he would defy the blundering fates. 
Madeleine made no resistance. She was 
oblivious of everything but the ecstasy of the 
moment. When he kissed her she clung to 
him as ardently, and felt as mortals may, when, 
in dissolution, they have the vision of immortal bliss. She had the genius for completion and neither the past nor the future intruded upon the perfect moment when love 
was all. 
But the moment was brief. A priest entered and knelt before the altar. She disengaged herself and adjusted her hat with hands 
that trembled violently, then almost ran out 
of the church. Masters followed her. As they 
descended the steps Travers and his companion 
passed again, after their short canter down the 
peninsula. He stared so hard at Madeleine's 
 
revealing face that he almost forgot to take 
off his hat, and half reined in as if he would 
pause and gratify his curiosity} but thought 
better o£ it and rode on. 
Masters and Madeleine did not exchange a 
word until they had walked nearly a mile. 
But his brain was working as clearly as if passion had never clouded it, and although he 
could see no hope for the future he was determined to gain time and sacrifice anything 
rather than lose what little he might still 
have of her. He said finally, in a matter-of-fact voice: 
" I want you to use your will and imagination and forget that we ever entered that 
church.''
" Forget ! The memory of it will scourge 
me as long as I live. I have been unfaithful 
to my husband! '' 
" Oh, not quite as bad as that! " 
" What difference? I had surrendered completely and forgotten my vows, my religion, 
every principle that has guided my life. If 
— if — circumstances had been different that 
would not have been the end. I am a bad 
wicked woman.^ 
 
"Oh, no, you are not. You are a terribly 
good one. If you were not you would take 
your life in your hands and make it over." 
He did not dare mention the word divorce, 
and lest it travel from his mind to hers and 
cause his immediate repudiation, he added 
hastily: 
" You were immortal for a moment and it 
should be your glory, not a whip to scourge 
you. The time will come when you will remember it with gratitude and without a blush. 
You know now what you could be and feel. 
If we part at least you will have been saved 
from the complete aridity — '' 
" Part? " She looked at him for the first 
time, and although she had believed she never 
could look at him again without turning scarlet, 
there was only terror in her eyes. 
" I have been afraid of banishment." 
" It was my fault as much as yours." 
"I am not so sure. We won't argue that 
point. Is anything perfect arguable? But if 
I am to stay in San Francisco I must see you." 
" I'll never see you alone again." 
" I have no intention of pressing that point ! 
But the open is safe and you must walk with 
me every day." 
 
" I don't know! Oh — I don't know! And 
I think that I should tell Howard." 
" You will not tell Howard because you are 
neither cowardly nor cruel. Nor will you ruin 
a perfect memory that belongs to us alone. 
You do love me and that is the end of it — or 
the beginning of God knows what! " 
" Love ! " She shivered. " Yes, I love 
you. Why do poets waste so many beautiful 
words over love? It is the most terrible thing 
in the world." 
"Let us try to forget it for the present," 
he said harshly. " Forget everything we can- 
not have — " 
"You have your work. You have only to 
work harder than ever. What have I? " 
" We will walk together every day. We can 
take a book out on the beach and sit on the 
rocks. Read more fiction. That is its mission 
— to translate one for a time from the terrible 
realities of life. Your religion should be of 
some use to you. It is almost a pity there is 
no poverty out here. Sink your prejudices and 
seek out poor Sibyl Forbes. Every woman in 
town has cut her. In healing her wounds you 
could forget your own. Above all, use your 
 
"will. We are neither of us weaklings, and it 
could be a thousand times worse. Nothing 
shall take from us what we have, and there 
may be a way out." 
" There is none," she said sadly. " But I 
will do as you tell me. And PU forget — not 
remember — if I can." 
XXII 
THE END came swiftly. The next day 
Ben Travers drove down to Rincona. 
Mrs. Abbott listened to his garnished tale with 
bulging eyes and her three chins quivering with 
excitement. She had heard no gossip worth 
mentioning since she left town, and privately 
she hated the summer and Alta. 
" You should have seen her face when she 
came out of that church," cried Travers for the 
third timej he was falling into the senile habit 
of repeating himself. " It was fairly distorted 
and she looked as if she had been crying for a 
week. Mark my words, Masters had been 
making the hottest kind of love to her — he 
was little more composed than she. Bet you an 
eagle to a dime they elope within a week." 
" Serve Howard Talbot right for marrying 
a woman twenty years younger than himself 
and a Northerner to boot. Do you think he 
suspects? " 
"Not he. Now, I must be off. If I didn't 
 
call on the Hathaways and Montgomerys while 
I'm down here they'd never forgive me.'' 
" Both have house parties," said Mrs. Abbott 
enviously. " Just like you to get it first! I'd 
go with you but I must write to Antoinette 
McLane. She'll have to believe that her paragon is headed for the rocks this time." 
Mrs. McLane was having an attack of the 
blues when the letter arrived and did not open 
her mail until two days later. Then she drove 
at once to San Francisco. She was too wise in 
women to remonstrate with Madeleine, but she 
went directly to Dr. Talbot's office. It was the 
most unpleasant duty she had ever undertaken, 
but she knew that Talbot would not doubt his 
wife's fidelity, and she was determined to save 
Madeleine. She had considered the alternative of going to Masters, but even her strong 
spirit quailed before the prospect of that interview. Besides, if he were as deeply in love 
with Madeleine as she believed him to be, it 
would do no good. She had little faith in 
the self-abnegation of men where their passions were concerned. 
Dr. Talbot was in his office and saw her at 
once, and they talked for an hour. His face 
 
was purple and she feared a stroke. But he 
heard her quietly, and told her she had proved 
her friendship by coming to him before it was 
too late. When she left him he sat for another 
hour, alone. 
XXIII 
IT WAS six o'clock. San Francisco was enjoying one of its rare heat waves and 
Madeleine had put on a frock of white lawn 
made with a low neck and short sleeves, and 
tied a soft blue sash round her waist. As the 
hour of her husband's reasonably prompt homing approached she seated herself at the piano. 
She could not trust herself to sing, and played 
the " Adelaide." The past three days had not 
been as unhappy as she had expected. She had 
visited Sibyl Forbes, living in lonely splendor, 
and listened enthralled to that rebellious young 
woman (who had received her with passionate 
gratitude) as she poured out humiliations, bitter resentment, and matrimonial felicity. 
Madeleine had consoled and rejoiced and 
promised to talk to the all-powerful Mrs. McLane. 
Twice she had gone to hear John Mc- 
Cullough at his new California Theatre, with 
another dutiful doctor's wife who lived in the 
 
hotel, and she had walked for three hours with 
Masters every afternoon. He had always 
found it easy to turn her mind into any channel he chose, and he had never exerted himself 
to be more entertaining even with her. 
Today he had been jubilant and had swept 
her with him on his high tide of anticipation 
and triumph. Another patriotic San Franciscan had come to the rescue and the himdred 
thousand dollars lay to Masters* credit in the 
Bank of California. He had taken his 
offices an hour after the deposit was made; his 
business manager was engaged, and every 
writer of ability on the other newspapers was 
his to command. " Masters' Newspaper '' had 
been the talk of the journalistic world for 
months. He had picked his staff and he now 
awaited only the presses he had ordered that 
morning from New York. 
Madeleine had sighed as she listened to him 
dilate upon an active brilliant future in which 
she had no place, but she was in tune with him 
always and she could only be happy with him 
now. Moreover, it was an additional safe- 
guard. He would be too busy for dreams and 
human longings. As for herself she would go 
 
along somehow. Tears, after all, were a wonderful solace. Fear had driven her down a 
light romantic by-way of her nature. Even if 
days passed without a glimpse of him she could 
dwell on the pleasant thought that he was not 
far away, and now and then they would take 
a long walk together. 
The door opened and Dr. Talbot entered. 
His face was no longer purple. It was sallow 
and drawn. Her hands trailed off the keys, 
her arms fell limply. Not even during an epidemic, when he found little time for sleep, 
had his roimd face lost its ruddy brightness, 
his black eyes their look of jovial good-fellow- 
ship, his mouth its amiable cynicism. 
" Something has happened," she said faintly. 
" What is it? " 
" Would you mind sitting here? " He fell 
heavily into a chair and motioned to one opposite. She left the shelter of the piano with 
dragging feet, her own face drained of its 
color. Ben Travers! She knew what was 
coming. 
His arms lay limply along the arms of his 
chain As she gazed at him fascinated it 
seemed to her that he grew older every minute. 
And she had never seen any one look as sad. 
 
" I have been a bad husband to you," he said. 
