heavy hand on his shoulder; but the young man shook it off.
"Shut up," he said sharply. "You've a private war on your hands. So have
I. I'll take care of my own."
"What's your grievance?" demanded Clinch, surprised.
"Jake Kloon played a dirty trick on me."
"When was that?"
"Not very long ago."
"I hadn't heard," said Clinch.
"Well, you hear it now, don't you? All right. All right; I'm going after
him."
As he started again across the marsh, Clinch called out in a guarded
voice: "Take good care of that packet if you catch them rats. It belongs
to Eve."
"I'll take such good care of it," replied Smith, "that its proper owner
need not worry."
II
The "proper owner" of the packet was, at that moment, on the Atlantic
Ocean, travelling toward the United States.
Four other pretended owners of the Grand Duchess Theodorica's jewels,
totally unconscious of anything impending which might impair their
several titles to the gems, were now gathered together in a wilderness
within a few miles of one another.
José Quintana lay somewhere in the forests with his gang, fiercely
planning the recovery of the treasure of which Clinch had once robbed
him. Clinch squatted on his runway, watching the mountain flank with
murderous eyes. It was no longer the Flaming Jewel which mattered. His
master passion ruled him now. Those who had offered violence to Eve must
be reckoned with first of all. The hand that struck Eve Strayer had
offered mortal insult to Mike Clinch.
As for the third pretender to the Flaming Jewel, Jake Kloon, he was now
travelling in a fox's circle toward Drowned Valley--that shaggy
wilderness of slime and tamarack and depthless bog which touches the
northwest base of Star Peak. He was not hurrying, having no thought of
pursuit. Behind him plodded Leverett, the trap thief, very, very busy
with his own ideas.
To Leverett's repeated requests that Kloon halt and open the packet to
see what it contained, Kloon gruffly refused.
"What do we care what's in it?" he said. "We get ten thousand apiece
over our rifles for it from them guys. Ain't it a good enough job for
you?"
"Maybe we make more if we take what's inside it for ourselves," argued
Leverett. "Let's take a peek, anyway."
"Naw. I don't want no peek nor nothin'. The ten thousand comes too easy.
More might scare us. Let that guy, Quintana, have what's his'n. All I
ask is my rake-off. You allus was a dirty, thieving mink, Earl. Let's
give him his and take ours and git. I'm going to Albany to live. You bet
I don't stay in no woods where Mike Clinch dens."
They plodded on, arguing, toward their rendezvous with Quintana's
outpost on the edge of Drowned Valley.
       
The fourth pretender to the pearls, rubies, and great gem called the
Flaming Jewel, stolen from the young Grand Duchess Theodorica of
Esthonia by José Quintana, was an unconscious pretender, entirely
innocent of the rôle assigned her by Clinch.
For Eve Strayer had never heard where the packet came from or what it
contained. All she knew was that her stepfather had told her that it
belonged to her. And the knowledge left her incurious.
III
Eve slept the sleep of mental and physical exhaustion. Reaction from
fear brings a fatigue more profound than that which follows physical
overstrain. But the healthy mind, like the healthy body, disposes very
thoroughly of toxics which arise from terror and exhaustion.
The girl slept profoundly, calmly. Her bruised young mind and body left
her undisturbed. There was neither restlessness nor fever. Sleep swept
her with its clean, sweet tide, cleansing the superb youth and health of
her with the most wonderful balm in the Divine pharmacy.
She awoke late in the afternoon, opened her flower-blue eyes, and saw
State Trooper Stormont sitting by the window, and gazing out.
Perhaps Eve's confused senses mistook the young man for a vision; for
she lay very still, nor stirred even her little finger.
After a while Stormont glanced around at her. A warm, delicate colour
stained her skin slowly, evenly, from throat to hair.
He got up and came over to the bed.
"How do you feel?" he asked, awkwardly.
"Where is dad?" she managed to inquire in a steady voice.
"He won't be back till late. He asked me to stick around--in case you
needed anything----"
The girl's clear eyes searched his.
"Trooper Stormont?"
"Yes, Eve."
"Dad's gone after Quintana."
"Is he the fellow who misused you?"
"I think so."
"Who is he?"
"I don't know."
"Is he your enemy or your stepfather's?"
But the girl shook her head: "I can't discuss dad's affairs
with--with----"
"With a State Trooper," smiled Stormont. "That's all right, Eve. You
don't have to."
There was a pause; Stormont stood beside the bed, looking down at her
with his diffident, boyish smile. And the girl gazed back straight into
his eyes--eyes she had so often looked into in her dreams.
"I'm to cook you an egg and bring you some pie," he remarked, still
smiling.
"Did dad say I am to stay in bed?"
"That was my inference. Do you feel very lame and sore?"
"My feet burn."
"You poor kid!... Would you let me look at them? I have a first-aid
packet with me."
After a moment she nodded and turned her face on the pillow. He drew
aside the cover a little, knelt down beside the bed.
Then he rose and went downstairs to the kitchen. There was hot water in
the kettle. He fetched it back, bathed her feet, drew out from cut and
scratch the flakes of granite-grit and brier-points that still remained
there.
From his first-aid packet he took a capsule, dissolved it, sterilized
the torn skin, then bandaged both feet with a deliciously cool salve,
and drew the sheets into place.
Eve had not stirred nor spoken. He washed and dried his hands and came
back, drawing his chair nearer to the bedside.
"Sleep, if you feel like it," he said pleasantly.
As she made no sound or movement he bent over to see if she had already
fallen asleep. And noticed that her flushed cheeks were wet with tears.
"Are you suffering?" he asked gently.
"No.... You are so wonderfully kind...."
"Why shouldn't I be kind?" he said, amused and touched by the girl's
emotion.
"I tried to shoot you once. That is why you ought to hate me."
He began to laugh: "Is that what you're thinking about?"
"I--never can--forget----"
"Nonsense. We're quits anyway. Do you remember what I did to you?"
He was thinking of the handcuffs. Then, in her vivid blush he read what
she was thinking. And he remembered his lips on her palms.
He, too, now was blushing brilliantly at memory of that swift, sudden
rush of romantic tenderness which this girl had witnessed that memorable
day on Owl Marsh.
In the hot, uncomfortable silence, neither spoke. He seated himself
after a while. And, after a while, she turned on her pillow part way
toward him.
Somehow they both understood that it was friendship which had subtly
filled the interval that separated them since that amazing day.
"I've often thought of you," he said,--as though they had been
discussing his absence.
No hour of the waking day that she had not thought of him. But she did
not say so now. After a little while:
"Is yours a lonely life?" she asked in a low voice.
"Sometimes. But I love the forest."
"Sometimes," she said, "the forest seems like a trap that I can't
escape. Sometimes I hate it."
"Are you lonely, Eve?"
"As you are. You see I know what the outside world is. I miss it."
"You were in boarding school and college."
"Yes."
"It must be hard for you here at Star Pond."
The girl sighed, unconsciously:
"There are days when I--can scarcely--stand it.... The wilderness would
be more endurable if dad and I were all alone.... But even then----"
"You need young people of your own age,--educated companions----"
"I need the city, Mr. Stormont. I need all it can give: I'm starving for
it. That's all."
She turned on her pillow, and he saw that she was smiling faintly. Her
face bore no trace of the tragic truth she had uttered. But the tragedy
was plain enough to him, even without her passionless words of revolt.
The situation of this young, educated girl, aglow with youth, fettered,
body and mind, to the squalor of Clinch's dump, was perfectly plain to
anybody.
She said, seeing his troubled expression: "I'm sorry I spoke that way."
"I knew how you must feel, anyway."
"It seems ungrateful," she murmured. "I love my step-father."
"You've proven that," he remarked with a dry humour that brought the hot
flush to her face again.
"I must have been crazy that day," she said. "It scares me to remember
what I tried to do.... What a frightful thing--if I had killed
you----How can you forgive me?"
"How can you forgive me, Eve?"
She turned her head: "I do."
"Entirely?"
"Yes."
He said,--a slight emotion noticeable in his voice: "Well, I forgave you
before the darned gun exploded in our hands."
"How could you?" she protested.
"I was thinking all the while that you were acting as I'd have acted if
anything threatened my father."
"Were you thinking of that?"
"Yes,--and also how to get hold of you before you shot me." He began to
laugh.
After a moment she turned her head to look at him, and her smile
glimmered, responsive to his amusement. But she shivered slightly, too.
"How about that egg?" he inquired.
"I can get up----"
"Better keep off your feet. What is there in the pantry? You must be
starved."
"I could eat a little before supper time," she admitted. "I forgot to
take my lunch with me this morning. It is still there in the pantry on
the bread box, wrapped up in brown paper, just as I left it----"
She half rose in bed, supported on one arm, her curly brown-gold hair
framing her face:
"--Two cakes of sugar-milk chocolate in a flat brown packet tied with a
string," she explained, smiling at his amusement.
So he went down to the pantry and discovered the parcel on the bread box
where she had left it that morning before starting for the cache on Owl
Marsh.
He brought it to her, placed both pillows upright behind her, stepped
back gaily to admire the effect. Eve, with her parcel in her hands,
laughed shyly at his comedy.
"Begin on your chocolate," he said. "I'm going back to fix you some
bread and butter and a cup of tea."
When again he had disappeared, the girl, still smiling, began to untie
her packet, unhurriedly, slowly loosening string and wrapping.
Her attention was not fixed on what her slender fingers were about.
She drew from the parcel a flat morocco case with a coat of arms and
crest stamped on it in gold, black, and scarlet.
For a few moments she stared at the object stupidly. The next moment she
heard Stormont's spurred tread on the stairs; and she thrust the morocco
case and the wrapping under the pillows behind her.
She looked up at him in a dazed way when he came in with the tea and
bread. He set the tin tray on her bureau and came over to the bedside.
"Eve," he said, "you look very white and ill. Have you been hurt
somewhere, and haven't you admitted it?"
She seemed unable to speak, and he took both her hands and looked
anxiously into the lovely, pallid features.
After a moment she turned her head and buried her face in the pillow,
trembling now in overwhelming realization of what she had endured for
the sake of two cakes of sugar-milk chocolate hidden under a bush in the
forest.
       
For a long while the girl lay there, the feverish flush of tears on her
partly hidden face, her nervous hands tremulous, restless, now seeking
his, convulsively, now striving to escape his clasp--eloquent, uncertain
little hands that seemed to tell so much and yet were telling him
nothing he could understand.
"Eve, dear," he said, "are you in pain? What is it that has happened to
you? I thought you were all right. You seemed all right----"
"I am," she said in a smothered voice. "You'll stay here with me, won't
you?"
"Of course I will. It's just the reaction. It's all over. You're
relaxing. That's all, dear. You're safe. Nothing can harm you now----"
"Please don't leave me."
After a moment: "I won't leave you.... I wish I might never leave you."
In the tense silence that followed her trembling ceased. Then his heart,
heavy, irregular, began beating so that the startled pulses in her body
awoke, wildly responsive.
Deep emotions, new, unfamiliar, were stirring, awaking, confusing them
both. In a sudden instinct to escape, she turned and partly rose on one
elbow, gazing blindly about her out of tear-marred eyes.
"I want my room to myself," she murmured in a breathless sort of way,
"--I want you to go out, please----"
A boyish flush burnt his face. He got up slowly, took his rifle from
the corner, went out, closing the door, and seated himself on the
stairs.
And there, on guard, sat Trooper Stormont, rigid, unstirring, hour after
hour, facing the first great passion of his life, and stunned by the
impact of its swift and unexpected blow.
       
In her chamber, on the bed's edge, sat Eve Strayer, her deep eyes fixed
on space. Vague emotions, exquisitely recurrent, new born, possessed
her. The whole world, too, all around her seemed to have become misty
and golden and all pulsating with a faint, still rhythm that indefinably
thrilled her pulses to response.
Passion, full-armed, springs flaming from the heart of man. Woman is
slow to burn. And it was the delicate phantom of passion that Eve gazed
upon, there in her unpainted chamber, her sun-tanned fingers linked
listlessly in her lap, her little feet like bruised white flowers
drooping above the floor.
Hour after hour she sat there dreaming, staring at the tinted ghost of
Eros, rose-hued, near-smiling, unreal, impalpable as the dusty sunbeam
that slanted from her window, gilding the boarded floor.
       
Three spectres, gliding near, paused to gaze at State Trooper Stormont,
on guard by the stairs. Then they looked at the closed door of Eve's
chamber.
Then the three spectres, Fate, Chance and Destiny, whispering together,
passed on toward the depths of the sunset forest.
EPISODE FIVE
DROWNED VALLEY
I
The soft, bluish forest shadows had lengthened, and the barred sun-rays,
filtering through, were tinged with a rosy hue before Jake Kloon, the
hootch runner, and Earl Leverett, trap thief, came to Drowned Valley.
They were still a mile distant from the most southern edge of that vast
desolation, but already tamaracks appeared in the beauty of their burnt
gold; little pools glimmered here and there; patches of amber sphagnum
and crimson pitcher-plants became frequent; and once or twice Kloon's
big boots broke through the crust of fallen leaves, soaking him to the
ankles with black silt.
Leverett, always a coward, had pursued his devious and larcenous way
through the world, always in deadly fear of sink holes.
His movements and paths were those of a weasel, preferring always solid
ground; but he lacked the courage of that sinuous little beast, though
he possessed all of its ferocity and far more cunning.
Now trotting lightly and tirelessly in the broad and careless spoor of
Jake Kloon, his narrow, pointed head alert, and every fear-sharpened
instinct tensely observant, the trap-thief continued to meditate murder.
Like all cowards, he had always been inclined to bold and ruthless
action; but inclination was all that ever had happened.
Yet, even in his pitiable misdemeanours he slunk through life in terror
of that strength which never hesitates at violence. In his petty
pilfering he died a hundred deaths for every trapped mink or otter he
filched; he heard the game protector's tread as he slunk from the bagged
trout brook or crawled away, belly dragging, and pockets full of snared
grouse.
Always he had dreamed of the day when, through some sudden bold and
savage stroke, he could deliver himself from a life of fear and live in
a city, grossly, replete with the pleasures of satiation, never again to
see a tree or a lonely lake or the blue peaks which, always, he had
hated because they seemed to spy on him from their sky-blue heights.
They were spying on him now as he moved lightly, furtively at Jake
Kloon's heels, meditating once more that swift, bold stroke which
forever would free him from all care and fear.
He looked at the back of Kloon's massive head. One shot would blow that
skull into fragments, he thought, shivering.
One shot from behind,--and twenty thousand dollars,--or, if it proved a
better deal, the contents of the packet. For, if Quintana's bribery had
dazzled them, what effect might the contents of that secret packet have
if revealed?
Always in his mean and busy brain he was trying to figure to himself
what that packet must contain. And, to make the bribe worth while,
Leverett had concluded that only a solid packet of thousand-dollar bills
could account for the twenty thousand offered.
There might easily be half a million in bills pressed together in that
heavy, flat packet. Bills were absolutely safe plunder. But Kloon had
turned a deaf ear to his suggestions,--Kloon, who never entertained
ambitions beyond his hootch rake-off,--whose miserable imagination
stopped at a wretched percentage, satisfied.
One shot! There was the back of Kloon's bushy head. One shot!--and fear,
which had shadowed him from birth, was at an end forever. Ended, too,
privation,--the bitter rigour of black winters; scorching days; bodily
squalor; ills that such as he endured in a wilderness where, like other
creatures of the wild, men stricken died or recovered by chance alone.
A single shot would settle all problems for him.... But if he missed?
At the mere idea he trembled as he trotted on, trying to tell himself
that he couldn't miss. No use; always the coward's "if" blocked him; and
the coward's rage,--fiercest of all fury,--ravaged him, almost crazing
him with his own impotence.
       
Tamaracks, sphagnum, crimson pitcher-plants grew thicker; wet woods set
with little black pools stretched away on every side.
It was still nearly a mile from Drowned Valley when Jake Kloon halted in
his tracks and seated himself on a narrow ridge of hard ground. And
Leverett came lightly up and, after nosing the whole vicinity, sat down
cautiously where Kloon would have to turn partly around to look at him.
"Where the hell do we meet up with Quintana?" growled Kloon, tearing a
mouthful from a gnawed tobacco plug and shoving the remainder deep into
his trousers pocket.
"We gotta travel a piece, yet.... Say, Jake, be you a man or be you a
poor dumb critter what ain't got no spunk?"
Kloon, chewing on his cud, turned and glanced at him. Then he spat, as
answer.
"If you got the spunk of a chipmunk you and me'll take a peek at that
there packet. I bet you it's thousand-dollar bills--more'n a billion
million dollars, likely."
Kloon's dogged silence continued. Leverett licked his dry lips. His
rifle lay on his knees. Almost imperceptibly he moved it, moved it
again, froze stiff as Kloon spat, then, by infinitesimal degrees,
continued to edge the muzzle toward Kloon.
"Jake?"
"Aw, shut your head," grumbled Kloon disdainfully. "You allus was a
dirty rat--you sneakin' trap robber. Enough's enough. I ain't got no use
for no billion million dollar bills. Ten thousand'll buy me all I
cal'late to need till I'm planted. But you're like a hawg; you ain't
never had enough o' nothin' and you won't never git enough,
neither,--not if you wuz God a'mighty you wouldn't."
"Ten thousand dollars hain't nothin' to a billion million, Jake."
Kloon squirted a stream of tobacco at a pitcher plant and filled the
cup. Diverted and gratified by the accuracy of his aim, he took other
shots at intervals.
Leverett moved the muzzle of his rifle a hair's width to the left,
shivered, moved it again. Under his soggy, sun-tanned skin a
pallor made his visage sickly grey.
"Jake?"
No answer.
"Say, Jake?"
No notice.
"Jake, I wanta take a peek at them bills."
Merely another stream of tobacco soiling the crimson pitcher.
"I'm--I'm desprit. I gotta take a peek. I gotta--gotta----"
Something in Leverett's unsteady voice made Kloon turn his head.
"You gol rammed fool," he said, "what you doin' with your----"
The loud detonation of the rifle punctuated Kloon's inquiry with a final
period. The big, soft-nosed bullet struck him full in the face, spilling
his brains and part of his skull down his back, and knocking him flat as
though he had been clubbed.
Leverett, stunned, sat staring, motionless, clutching the rifle from the
muzzle of which a delicate stain of vapour floated and disappeared
through a rosy bar of sunshine.
In the intense stillness of the place, suddenly the dead man made a
sound; and the trap-robber nearly fainted.
But it was only air escaping from the slowly collapsing lungs; and
Leverett, ashy pale, shaking, got to his feet and leaned heavily against
an oak tree, his eyes never stirring from the sprawling thing on the
ground.
       
If it were a minute or a year he stood there he could never have
reckoned the space of time. The sun's level rays glimmered ruddy through
the woods. A green fly appeared, buzzing about the dead man. Another
zig-zagged through the sunshine, lacing it with streaks of greenish
fire. Others appeared, whirling, gyrating, filling the silence with
their humming. And still Leverett dared not budge, dared not search the
dead and take from it that for which the dead had died.
A little breeze came by and stirred the bushy hair on Kloon's head and
fluttered the ferns around him where he lay.
Two delicate, pure-white butterflies--rare survivors of a native species
driven from civilization into the wilderness by the advent of the
foreign white--fluttered in airy play over the dead man, drifting away
into the woodland at times, yet always returning to wage a fairy combat
above the heap of soiled clothing which once had been a man.
Then, near in the ferns, the withering fronds twitched, and a red
squirrel sprung his startling alarm, squeaking, squealing, chattering
his opinion of murder; and Leverett, shaking with the shock, wiped icy
sweat from his face, laid aside his rifle, and took his first stiff step
toward the dead man.
But as he bent over he changed his mind, turned, reeling a little, then
crept slowly out among the pitcher-plants, searching about him as though
sniffing.
In a few minutes he discovered what he was looking for; took his
bearings; carefully picked his way back over a leafy crust that trembled
under his cautious tread.
He bent over Kloon and, from the left inside coat pocket, he drew the
packet and placed it inside his own flannel shirt.
Then, turning his back to the dead, he squatted down and clutched
Kloon's burly ankles, as a man grasps the handles of a wheelbarrow to
draw it after him.
Dragging, rolling, bumping over roots, Jake Kloon took his last trail
through the wilderness, leaving a redder path than was left by the
setting sun through fern and moss and wastes of pitcher-plants.
Always, as Leverett crept on, pulling the dead behind him, the floor of
the woods trembled slightly, and a black ooze wet the crust of withered
leaves.
At the quaking edge of a little pool of water, Leverett halted. The
water was dark but scarcely an inch deep over its black bed of silt.
Beside this sink hole the trap-thief dropped Kloon. Then he drew his
hunting knife and cut a tall, slim swamp maple. The sapling was about
twenty feet in height. Leverett thrust the butt of it into the pool.
Without any effort he pushed the entire sapling out of sight in the
depthless silt.
He had to manoeuvre very gingerly to dump Kloon into the pool and keep
out of it himself. Finally he managed it.
To his alarm, Kloon did not sink far. He cut another sapling and pushed
the body until only the shoes were visible above the silt.
These, however, were very slowly sinking, now. Bubbles rose, dully
iridescent, floated, broke. Strings of blood hung suspended in the
clouding water.
Leverett went back to the little ridge and covered with dead leaves the
spot where Kloon had lain. There were broken ferns, but he could not
straighten them. And there lay Kloon's rifle.
For a while he hesitated, his habits of economy being ingrained; but he
remembered the packet in his shirt, and he carried the rifle to the
little pool and shoved it, muzzle first, driving it downward, out of
sight.
As he rose from the pool's edge, somebody laid a hand on his shoulder.
That was the most real death that Leverett ever had died.
II
A coward dies many times before Old Man Death really gets him.
The swimming minutes passed; his mind ceased to live for a space. Then,
as through the swirling waters of the last dark whirlpool, a dulled roar
of returning consciousness filled his being.
Somebody was shaking him, shouting at him. Suddenly instinct resumed its
function, and he struggled madly to get away from the edge of the
sink-hole--fought his way, blindly, through tangled undergrowth toward
the hard ridge. No human power could have blocked the frantic creature
thrashing toward solid ground.
But there Quintana held him in his wiry grip.
"Fool! Mule! Crazee fellow! What you do, eh? For why you make jumps like
rabbits! Eh? You expec' Quintana? Yes? Alors!"
Leverett, in a state of collapse, sagged back against an oak tree.
Quintana's nervous grasp fell from his arms and they swung, dangling.
"What you do by that pond-hole? Eh? I come and touch you, and, my
God!--one would think I have stab you. Such an ass!"
The sickly greenish hue changed in Leverett's face as the warmer tide
stirred from its stagnation. He lifted his head and tried to look at
Quintana.
"Where Jake Kloon?" demanded the latter.
At that the weasel wits of the trap-robber awoke to the instant crisis.
Blood and pulse began to jump. He passed one dirty hand over his mouth
to mask any twitching.
"Where my packet, eh?" inquired Quintana.
"Jake's got it." Leverett's voice was growing stronger. His small eyes
switched for an instant toward his rifle, where it stood against a tree
behind Quintana.
"Where is he, then, this Jake?" repeated Quintana impatiently.
"He got bogged."
"Bogged? What is that, then?"
"He got into a sink-hole."
"What!"
"That's all I know," said Leverett, sullenly. "Him and me was travellin'
hell-bent to meet up with you,--Jake, he was for a short cut to Drowned
Valley,--but 'no,' sez I, 'gimme a good hard ridge an' a long deetoor
when there's sink-holes into the woods----'"
"What is it the talk you talk to me?" asked Quintana, whose perplexed
features began to darken. "Where is it, my packet?"
"I'm tellin' you, ain't I?" retorted the other, raising a voice now
shrill with the strain of this new crisis rushing so unexpectedly upon
him: "I heard Jake give a holler. 'What the hell's the trouble?' I
yells. Then he lets out a beller, 'Save me!' he screeches, 'I'm into a
sink-hole! The quicksand's got me,' sez he. So I drop my rifle, I
did,--there she stands against that birch sapling!--and I run down into
them there pitcher-plants.
"'Whar be ye!' I yells. Then I listens, and don't hear nothin' only a
kina wallerin' noise an' a slobber like he was gulpin' mud.
"Then I foller them there sounds and I come out by that sink-hole. The
water was a-shakin' all over it but Jake he had went down plum out o'
sight. T'want no use. I cut a sapling an' I poked down. I was sick and
scared like, so when you come up over the moss, not makin' no noise, an'
grabbed me--God!--I guess you'd jump, too."
Quintana's dark, tense face was expressionless when Leverett ventured to
look at him. Like most liars he realised the advisability of looking his
victim straight in the eyes. This he managed to accomplish, sustaining
the cold intensity of Quintana's gaze as long as he deemed it necessary.
Then he started toward his rifle. Quintana blocked his way.
"Where my packet?"
"Gol ram it! Ain't I told you? Jake had it in his pocket."
"My packet?"
"Yaas, yourn."
"My packet, it is down in thee sink 'ole?"
"You think I'm lyin'?" blustered Leverett, trying to move around
Quintana's extended arm. The arm swerved and clutched him by the collar
of his flannel shirt.
"Wait, my frien'," said Quintana in a soft voice. "You shall explain to
me some things before you go."
"Explain what!--you gol dinged----"
Quintana shook him into speechlessness.
"Listen, my frien'," he continued with a terrifying smile, "I mus' ask
you what it was, that gun-shot, which I hear while I await at Drown'
Vallee. Eh? Who fire a gun?"
"I ain't heard no gun," replied Leverett in a strangled voice.
"You did not shoot? No?"
"No!--damn it all----"
"And Jake? He did not fire?"
"No, I tell yeh----"
"Ah! Someone lies. It is not me, my frien'. No. Let us examine your
rifle----"
Leverett made a rush for the gun; Quintana slung him back against the
oak tree and thrust an automatic pistol against his chin.
"Han's up, my frien'," he said gently, "--up! high up!--or someone will
fire another shot you shall never hear.... So!... Now I search the
other pocket.... So!... Still no packet. Bah! Not in the pants,
either? Ah, bah! But wait! Tiens! What is this you hide inside your
shirt----?"
"I was jokin'," gasped Leverett; "--I was jest a-goin' to give it to
you----"
"Is that my packet?"
"Yes. It was all in fun; I wan't a-going to steal it----"
Quintana unbuttoned the grey wool shirt, thrust in his hand and drew
forth the packet for which Jake Kloon had died within the hour.
Suddenly Leverett's knees gave way and he dropped to the ground,
grovelling at Quintana's feet in an agony of fright:
"Don't hurt me," he screamed, "--I didn't meant no harm! Jake, he wanted
me to steal it. I told him I was honest. I fired a shot to scare him,
an' he tuk an' run off! I wan't a-goin' to steal it off you, so help me
God! I was lookin' for you--as God is my witness----"
He got Quintana by one foot. Quintana kicked him aside and backed away.
"Swine," he said, calmly inspecting the whimpering creature who had
started to crawl toward him.
He hesitated, lifted his automatic, then, as though annoyed by
Leverett's deafening shriek, shrugged, hesitated, pocketed both pistol
and packet, and turned on his heel.
By the birch sapling he paused and picked up Leverett's rifle. Something
left a red smear on his palm as he worked the ejector. It was blood.
Quintana gazed curiously at his soiled hand. Then he stooped and picked
up the empty cartridge case which had been ejected. And, as he stooped,
he noticed more blood on a fallen leaf.
With one foot, daintily as a game-cock scratches, he brushed away the
fallen leaves, revealing the mess underneath.
After he had contemplated the crimson traces of murder for a few
moments, he turned and looked at Leverett with faint curiosity.
"So," he said in his leisurely, emotionless way, "you have fight with my
frien' Jake for thee packet. Yes? Ver' amusing." He shrugged his
indifference, tossed the rifle to his shoulder and, without another
glance at the cringing creature on the ground, walked away toward
Drowned Valley, unhurriedly.
III
When Quintana disappeared among the tamaracks, Leverett ventured to rise
to his knees. As he crouched there, peering after Quintana, a man came
swiftly out of the forest behind him and nearly stumbled over him.
Recognition was instant and mutual as the man jerked the trap-robber to
his feet, stifling the muffled yell in his throat.
"I want that packet you picked up on Clinch's veranda," said Hal Smith.
"M-my God," stammered Leverett, "Quintana just took it off me. He ain't
been gone a minute----"
"You lie!"
"I ain't lyin'. Look at his foot-marks there in the mud!"
"Quintana!"
"Yaas, Quintana! He tuk my gun, too----"
"Which way!" whispered Smith fiercely, shaking Leverett till his jaws
wagged.
"Drowned Valley.... Lemme loose!--I'm chokin'----"
Smith pushed him aside.
"You rat," he said, "if you're lying to me I'll come back and settle
your affair. And Kloon's, too!"
"Quintana shot Jake and stuck him into a sink-hole!" snivelled Leverett,
breaking down and sobbing; "--oh, Gawd--Gawd--he's down under all that
black mud with his brains spillin' out----"
But Smith was already gone, running lightly along the string of
footprints which led straight away across slime and sphagnum toward the
head of Drowned Valley.
In the first clump of hard-wood trees Smith saw Quintana. He had halted
and he was fumbling at the twine which bound a flat, paper-wrapped
packet.
He did not start when Smith's sharp warning struck his ear: "Don't move!
I've got you over my rifle, Quintana!"
Quintana's fingers had instantly ceased operations. Then, warily, he
lifted his head and looked into the muzzle of Smith's rifle.
"Ah, bah!" he said tranquilly. "There were three of you, then."
"Lay that packet on the ground."
"My frien'----"
"Drop it or I'll drop you!"
Quintana carefully placed the packet on a bed of vivid moss.
"Now your gun!" continued Smith.
Quintana shrugged and laid Leverett's rifle beside the packet.
"Kneel down with your hands up and your back toward me!" said Smith.
"My frien'----"
"Down with you!"
Quintana dropped gracefully into the humiliating attitude popularly
indicative of prayerful supplication. Smith walked slowly up behind him,
relieved him of two automatics and a dirk.
"Stay put," he said sharply, as Quintana started to turn his head. Then
he picked up the packet with its loosened string, slipped it into his
side pocket, gathered together the arsenal which had decorated Quintana,
and so, loaded with weapons, walked away a few paces and seated himself
on a fallen log.
Here he pocketed both automatics, shoved the sheathed dirk into his
belt, placed the captured rifle handy, after examining the magazine, and
laid his own weapon across his knees.
"You may turn around now, Quintana," he said amiably.
Quintana lowered his arms and started to rise.
"Sit down!" said Smith.
Quintana seated himself on the moss, facing Smith.
"Now, my gay and nimble thimble-rigger," said Smith genially, "while I
take ten minutes' rest we'll have a little polite conversation. Or,
rather, a monologue. Because I don't want to hear anything from you."
He settled himself comfortably on the log:
"Let me assemble for you, Señor Quintana, the interesting history of the
jewels which so sparklingly repose in the packet in my pocket.
"In the first place, as you know, Monsieur Quintana, the famous Flaming
Jewel and the other gems contained in this packet of mine, belonged to
Her Highness the Grand Duchess Theodorica of Esthonia.
"Very interesting. More interesting still--along comes Don José Quintana
and his celebrated gang of international thieves, and steals from the
Grand Duchess of Esthonia the Flaming Jewel and all her rubies, emeralds
and diamonds. Yes?"
"Certainly," said Quintana, with a polite inclination of acknowledgment.
"Bon! Well, then, still more interesting to relate, a gentleman named
Clinch helps himself to these famous jewels. How very careless of you,
Mr. Quintana."
"Careless, certainly," assented Quintana politely.
"Well," said Smith, laughing, "Clinch was more careless still. The
robber baron, Sir Jacobus Kloon, swiped,--as Froissart has it,--the
Esthonian gems, and, under agreement to deliver them to you, I suppose,
thought better of it and attempted to abscond. Do you get me, Herr
Quintana?"
"Gewiss."
"Yes, and you got Jake Kloon, I hear," laughed Smith.
"No."
"Didn't you kill Kloon?"
"No."
"Oh, pardon. The mistake was natural. You merely robbed Kloon and
Leverett. You should have killed them."
"Yes," said Quintana slowly, "I should have. It was my mistake."
"Signor Quintana, it is human for the human crook to err. Sooner or
later he always does it. And then the Piper comes around holding out two
itching palms."
"Mr. Smith," said Quintana pleasantly, "you are an unusually agreeable
gentleman for a thief. I regret that you do not see your way to an
amalgamation of interests with myself."
"As you say, Quintana mea, I am somewhat unusual. For example, what do
you suppose I am going to do with this packet in my pocket?"
"Live," replied Quintana tersely.
"Live, certainly," laughed Smith, "but not on the proceeds of this
coup-de-main. Non pas! I am going to return this packet to its rightful
owner, the Grand Duchess Theodorica of Esthonia. And what do you think
of that, Quintana?"
Quintana smiled.
"You do not believe me?" inquired Smith.
Quintana smiled again.
"Allons, bon!" exclaimed Smith, rising. "It's the unusual that happens
in life, my dear Quintana. And now we'll take a little inventory of
these marvellous gems before we part.... Sit very, very still,
Quintana,--unless you want to lie stiller still.... I'll let you take a
modest peep at the Flaming Jewel----" busily unwrapping the
packet--"just one little peep, Quintana----"
He unwrapped the paper. Two cakes of sugar-milk chocolate lay within.
Quintana turned white, then deeply, heavily red. Then he smiled in
ghastly fashion:
"Yes," he said hoarsely, "as you have just said, sir, it is usually the
unusual which happens in the world."
EPISODE SIX
THE JEWEL AFLAME
I
Mike Clinch and his men "drove" Star Peak, and drew a blanket covert.
There was a new shanty atop, camp débris, plenty of signs of recent
occupation everywhere,--hot embers in which offal still smouldered,
bottles odorous of claret dregs, and an aluminum culinary outfit,
unwashed, as though Quintana and his men had departed in haste.
Far in the still valley below, Mike Clinch squatted beside the runway he
had chosen, a cocked rifle across his knees.
The glare in his small, pale eyes waned and flared as distant sounds
broke the forest silence, grew vague, died out,--the fairy clatter of a
falling leaf, the sudden scurry of a squirrel, a feathery rustle of
swift wings in play or combat, the soft crash of a rotten bough sagging
earthward to enrich the soil that grew it.
And, as Clinch squatted there, murderously intent, ever the fixed
obsession burned in his fever brain, stirring his thin lips to incessant
muttering,--a sort of soundless invocation, part chronicle, part prayer:
"O God A'mighty, in your big, swell mansion up there, all has went
contrary with me sence you let that there damn millionaire, Harrod, come
into this here forest.... He went and built unto hisself an
habitation, and he put up a wall of law all around me where I was
earnin' a lawful livin' in Thy nice, clean wilderness.... And now comes
this here Quintana and robs my girlie.... I promised her mother I'd
make a lady of her little Eve.... I loved my wife, O Lord.... Once she
showed me a piece in the Bible,--I ain't never found it sence,--but it
said: 'And the woman she fled into the wilderness where there was a
place prepared for her of God.' ... That's what you wrote into your
own Bible, O God! You can't go back on it. I seen it.
"And now I wanta to ask, What place did you prepare for my Eve? What
spot have you reference to? You didn't mean my 'Dump,' did you? Why,
Lord, that ain't no place for no lady.... And now Quintana has went and
robbed me of what I'd saved up for Eve.... Does that go with Thee, O
Lord? No, it don't. And it don't go with me, neither. I'm a-goin' to git
Quintana. Then I'm a-goin' to git them two minks that robbed my
girlie,--I am!... Jake Kloon, he done it in cahoots with Earl Leverett;
and Quintana set 'em on. And they gotta die, O Lord of Israel, them
there Egyptians is about to hop the twig.... I ain't aimin' to be mean
to nobody. I buy hootch of them that runs it. I eat mountain mutton in
season and out. I trade with law-breakers, I do. But, Lord, I gotta get
my girlie outa here; and Harrod he walled me in with the chariots and
spears of Egypt, till I nigh went wild.... And now comes Quintana, and
here I be a-lyin' out to get him so's my girlie can become a lady,
same's them fine folks with all their butlers and automobiles and
what-not----"
A far crash in the forest stilled his twitching lips and stiffened every
iron muscle.
As he lifted his rifle, Sid Hone came into the glade.
"Yahoo! Yahoo!" he called. "Where be you, Mike?"
Clinch slowly rose, grasping his rifle, his small, grey eyes ablaze.
"Where's Quintana?" he demanded.
"H'ain't you seen nobody?"
"No."
In the intense silence other sounds broke sharply in the sunset forest;
Harvey Chase's halloo rang out from the rocks above; Blommers and the
Hastings boys came slouching through the ferns.
Byron Hastings greeted Clinch with upflung gun: "Me and Jim heard a shot
away out on Drowned Valley," he announced. "Was you out that way,
Mike?"
"No."
One by one the men who had driven Star Peak lounged up in the red sunset
light, gathering around Clinch and wiping the sweat from sun-reddened
faces.
"Someone's in Drowned Valley," repeated Byron. "Them minks slid off'n
Star in a hurry, I reckon, judgin' how they left their shanty. Phew! It
stunk! They had French hootch, too."
"Mebby Leverett and Kloon told 'em we was fixin' to visit them,"
suggested Blommers.
"They didn't know," said Clinch.
"Where's Hal Smith?" inquired Hone.
Clinch made no reply. Blommers silently gnawed a new quid from the
remains of a sticky plug.
"Well," inquired Jim Hastings finally, "do we quit, Mike, or do we
still-hunt in Drowned Valley?"
"Not me, at night," remarked Blommers drily.
"Not amongst them sink-holes," added Hone.
Suddenly Clinch turned and stared at him. Then the deadly light from his
little eyes shone on the others one by one.
"Boys," he said, "I gotta get Quintana. I can't never sleep another wink
till I get that man. Come on. Act up like gents all. Let's go."
Nobody stirred.
"Come on," repeated Clinch softly. But his lips shrank back, twitching.
As they looked at him they saw his teeth.
"All right, all right," growled Hone, shouldering his rifle with a jerk.
The Hastings boys, young and rash, shuffled into the trail. Blommers
hesitated, glanced askance at Clinch, and instantly made up his mind to
take a chance with the sink-holes rather than with Clinch.
"God A'mighty, Mike, what be you aimin' to do?" faltered Harvey.
"I'm aimin' to stop the inlet and outlet to Drowned Valley, Harve,"
replied Clinch in his pleasant voice. "God is a-goin' to deliver
Quintana into my hands."
"All right. What next?"
"Then," continued Clinch, "I cal'late to set down and wait."
"How long?"
"Ask God, boys. I don't know. All I know is that whatever is livin' in
Drowned Valley at this hour has gotta live and die there. For it can't
never live to come outen that there morass walkin' onto two legs like a
real man."
He moved slowly along the file of sullen men, his rifle a-trail in one
huge fist.
"Boys," he said, "I got first. There ain't no sink-hole deep enough to
drowned me while Eve needs me.... And my little girlie needs me bad....
After she gits what's her'n, then I don't care no more...." He looked up
into the sky, where the last ashes of sunset faded from the zenith....
"Then I don't care," he murmured. "Like's not I'll creep away like some
shot-up critter, n'kinda find some lone, safe spot, n'kinda fix me f'r
a long nap.... I guess that'll be the way ... when Eve's a lady down to
Noo York 'r'som'ers----" he added vaguely.
Then, still looking up at the fading heavens, he moved forward, head
lifted, silent, unhurried, with the soundless, stealthy, and certain
tread of those who walk unseeing and asleep.
II
Clinch had not taken a dozen strides before Hal Smith loomed up ahead in
the rosy dusk, driving in Leverett before him.
An exclamation of fierce exultation burst from Clinch's thin lips as he
flung out one arm, indicating Smith and his clinking prisoner:
"Who was that gol-dinged catamount that suspicioned Hal? I wa'nt worried
none, neither. Hal's a gent. Mebbe he sticks up folks, too, but he's a
gent. And gents is honest or they ain't gents."
Smith came up at his easy, tireless gait, hustling Leverett along with
prods from gun-butt or muzzle, as came handiest.
The prisoner turned a ghastly visage on Clinch, who ignored him.
"Got my packet, Hal?" he demanded.
Smith poked Leverett with his rifle: "Tune up," he said; "tell Clinch
your story."
As a caged rat looks death in the face, his ratty wits working like
lightning and every atom of cunning and ferocity alert for attack or
escape, so the little, mean eyes of Earl Leverett became fixed on Clinch
like two immobile and glassy beads of jet.
"G'wan," said Clinch softly, "spit it out."
"Jake done it," muttered Leverett, thickly.
"Done what?"
"Stole that there packet o' yourn--whatever there was into it."
"Who put him up to it?"
"A fella called Quintana."
"What was there in it for Jake?" inquired Clinch pleasantly.
"Ten thousand."
"How about you?"
"I told 'em I wouldn't touch it. Then they pulled their guns on me, and
I was scared to squeal."
"So that was the way?" asked Clinch in his even, reassuring voice.
Leverett's eyes travelled stealthily around the circle of men, then
reverted to Clinch.
"I dassn't touch it," he said, "but I dassn't squeal.... I was huntin'
onto Drowned Valley when Jake meets up with me."
"'I got the packet,' he sez, 'and I'm a-going to double criss-cross
Quintana, I am, and beat it. Don't you wish you was whacks with me?'
"'No,' sez I, 'honesty is my policy, no matter what they tell about me.
S'help me God, I ain't never robbed no trap and I ain't no skin thief,
whatever lies folks tell. All I ever done was run a little hootch,
same's everybody.'"
He licked his lips furtively, his cold, bright eyes fastened on Clinch.
"G'wan, Earl," nodded the latter, "heave her up."
"That's all. I sez, 'Good-bye, Jake. An' if you heed my warnin',
ill-gotten gains ain't a-going to prosper nobody.' That's what I said to
Jake Kloon, the last solemn words I spoke to that there man now in his
bloody grave----"
"Hey?" demanded Clinch.
"That's where Jake is," repeated Leverett. "Why, so help me, I wa'nt
gone ten yards when, bang! goes a gun, and I see this here Quintana come
outen the bush, I do, and walk up to Jake and frisk him, and Jake still
a-kickin' the moss to slivers. Yessir, that's what I seen."
"G'wan."
"Yessir.... 'N'then Quintana he shoved Jake into a sink-hole. Thaswot I
seen with my two eyes. Yessir. 'N'then Quintana he run off, 'n'I jest
set down in the trail, I did; 'n'then Hal come up and acted like I had
stole your packet, he did; 'n'then I told him what Quintana done.
'N'Hal, he takes after Quintana, but I don't guess he meets up with him,
for he come back and ketched holt o' me, 'n'he druv me in like I was a
caaf, he did. 'N'here I be."
The dusk in the forest had deepened so that the men's faces had become
mere blotches of grey.
Smith said to Clinch: "That's his story, Mike. But I preferred he should
tell it to you himself, so I brought him along.... Did you drive Star
Peak?"
"There wa'nt nothin' onto it," said Clinch very softly. Then, of a
sudden, his shadowy visage became contorted and he jerked up his rifle
and threw a cartridge into the magazine.
"You dirty louse!" he roared at Leverett, "you was into this, too,
a-robbin' my little Eve----"
"Run!" yelled somebody, giving Leverett a violent shove into the woods.
In the darkness and confusion, Clinch shouldered his way out of the
circle and fired at the crackling noise that marked Leverett's
course,--fired again, lower, and again as a distant crash revealed the
frenzied flight of the trap-robber. After he had fired a fourth shot,
somebody struck up his rifle.
"Aw," said Jim Hastings, "that ain't no good. You act up like a kid,
Mike. 'Tain't so far to Ghost Lake, n'them Troopers might hear you."
After a silence, Clinch spoke, his voice heavy with reaction:
"Into that there packet is my little girl's dower. It's all I got to
give her. It's all she's got to make her a lady. I'll kill any man that
robs her or that helps rob her. 'N'that's that."
"Are you going on after Quintana?" asked Smith.
"I am. 'N'these fellas are a-going with me. N' I want you should go back
to my Dump and look after my girlie while I'm gone."
"How long are you going to be away?"
"I dunno."
There was a silence. Then,
"All right," said Smith, briefly. He added: "Look out for sink-holes,
Mike."
Clinch tossed his heavy rifle to his shoulder: "Let's go," he said in
his pleasant, misleading way, "--and I'll shoot the guts outa any fella
that don't show up at roll call."
III
For its size there is no fiercer animal than a rat.
Rat-like rage possessed Leverett. In his headlong flight through the
dusk, fear, instead of quenching, added to his rage; and he ran on and
on, crashing through the undergrowth, made wilder by the pain of vicious
blows from branches which flew back and struck him in the dark.
Thorns bled him; unseen logs tripped him; he heard Clinch's bullets
whining around him; and he ran on, beginning to sob and curse in a
frenzy of fury, fear, and shame.
Shots from Clinch's rifle ceased; the fugitive dropped into a heavy,
shuffling walk, slavering, gasping, gesticulating with his weaponless
fists in the darkness.
"Gol ram ye, I'll fix ye!" he kept stammering in his snarling, jangling
voice, broken by sobs. "I'll learn ye, yeh poor danged thing, gol ram
ye----"
An unseen limb struck him cruelly across the face, and a moose-bush
tripped him flat. Almost crazed, he got up, yelling in his pain, one
hand wet and sticky from blood welling up from his cheek-bone.
He stood listening, infuriated, vindictive, but heard nothing save the
panting, animal sounds in his own throat.
He strove to see in the ghostly obscurity around him, but could make out
little except the trees close by.
But wood-rats are never completely lost in their native darkness; and
Leverett presently discovered the far stars shining faintly through
rifts in the phantom foliage above.
These heavenly signals were sufficient to give him his directions. Then
the question suddenly came, which direction?
To his own shack on Stinking Lake he dared not go. He tried to believe
that it was fear of Clinch that made him shy of the home shanty; but, in
his cowering soul, he knew it was fear of another kind--the deep,
superstitious horror of Jake Kloon's empty bunk--the repugnant sight of
Kloon's spare clothing hanging from its peg--the dead man's shoes----
No, he could not go to Stinking Lake and sleep.... And wake with the
faint stench of sulphur in his throat.... And see the worm-like leeches
unfolding in the shallows, and the big, reddish water-lizards, livid as
skinned eels, wriggling convulsively toward their sunless lairs....
At the mere thought of his dead bunk-mate he sought relief in vindictive
rage--stirred up the smouldering embers again, cursed Clinch and Hal
Smith, violently searching in his inflamed brain some instant vengeance
upon these men who had driven him out from the only place on earth where
he knew how to exist--the wilderness.
All at once he thought of Clinch's step-daughter. The thought instantly
scared him. Yet--what a revenge!--to strike Clinch through the only
creature he cared for in all the world!... What a revenge!... Clinch
was headed for Drowned Valley. Eve Strayer was alone at the Dump....
Another thought flashed like lightning across his turbid mind;--the
packet!
Bribed by Quintana, Jake Kloon, lurking at Clinch's door, had heard him
direct Eve to take a packet to Owl Marsh, and had notified Quintana.
Wittingly or unwittingly, the girl had taken a packet of sugar-milk
chocolate instead of the priceless parcel expected.
Again, carried in, exhausted, by a State Trooper, Jake Kloon had been
fooled; and it was the packet of sugar-milk chocolate that Jake had
purloined from the veranda where Clinch kicked it. For two cakes of
chocolate Kloon had died. For two cakes of chocolate he, Earl Leverett,
had become a man-slayer, a homeless fugitive in peril of his life.
He stood licking his blood-dried lips there in the darkness, striving to
hatch courage out of the dull fury eating at a coward's heart.
Somewhere in Clinch's Dump was the packet that would make him rich....
Here was his opportunity. He had only to dare; and pain and poverty and
fear--above all else fear--would end forever!...
       
When, at last, he came out to the edge of Clinch's clearing, the dark
October heavens were but a vast wilderness of stars.
Star Pond, set to its limpid depths with the heavenly gems, glittered
and darkled with its million diamond incrustations. The humped-up lump
of Clinch's Dump crouched like some huge and feeding night-beast on the
bank, ringed by the solemn forest.
There was a kerosene lamp burning in Eve Strayer's rooms. Another
light--a candle--flickered in the kitchen.
Leverett, crouching, ran rat-like down to the barn, slid in between the
ice house and corn-crib, crawled out among the wilderness of weeds and
lay flat.
The light burned steadily from Eve's window.
IV
From his form among frost-blackened rag-weeds, the trap-robber could see
only the plastered ceiling of the bed chamber.
But the kerosene lamp cast two shadows on that--tall shadows of human
shapes that stirred at times.
The trap-robber, scared, stiffened to immobility, but his little eyes
remained fastened on the camera obscura above. All the cunning,
patience, and murderous immobility of the rat were his.
Not a weed stirred under the stars where he lay with tiny, unwinking
eyes intent upon the shadows on the ceiling.
       
The shadows on the ceiling were cast by Eve Strayer and her State
Trooper.
Eve sat on her bed's edge, swathed in a lilac silk kimona--delicate
relic of school days. Her bandaged feet, crossed, dangled above the
rag-rug on the floor; her slim, tanned fingers were interlaced over the
book on her lap.
Near the door stood State Trooper Stormont, spurred, booted, trig and
trim, an undecided and flushed young man, fumbling irresolutely with the
purple cord on his campaign-hat.
The book on Eve's knees--another relic of the past--was Sigurd the
Volsung. Stormont had been reading to her--they having found, after the
half shy tentatives of new friends, a point d'appui in literature. And
the girl, admitting a passion for the poets, invited him to inspect the
bookcase of unpainted pine which Clinch had built into her bedroom wall.
Here it was he discovered mutual friends among the nobler
Victorians--surprised to discover Sigurd there--and, carrying it to
her bedside, looked leisurely through the half forgotten pages.
"Would you read a little?" she ventured.
He blushed but did his best. His was an agreeable, boyish voice,
betraying taste and understanding. Time passed quickly--not so much in
the reading but in the conversations intervening.
And now, made uneasy by chance consultation with his wrist-watch, and
being rather a conscientious young man, he had risen and had informed
Eve that she ought to go to sleep.
And she had denounced the idea, almost fretfully.
"Even if you go I shan't sleep till daddy comes," she said. "Of course,"
she added, smiling at him out of gentian-blue eyes, "if you are sleepy
I shouldn't dream of asking you to stay."
"I'm not intending to sleep."
"What are you going to do?"
"Take a chair on the landing outside your door."
"What!"
"Certainly. What did you expect me to do, Eve?"
"Go to bed, of course. The beds in the guest rooms are all made up."
"Your father didn't expect me to do that," he said, smiling.
"I'm not afraid, as long as you're in the house," she said.
