but he politely declined all the proffered courtesies. 
Getting back the ice was rather a serious affair. He 
loaded the launch with a thousand pounds — all she 
could carry — and started home immediately after 
sundown; but even then he lost from a hundred to a 
hundred and fifty pounds before he had the stuff 
cached in McClintock's bamboo-covered sawdust 
pit. This ice was used for refrigerator piuposes and 
for McClintock's evening peg. 
Ruth with Rollo as her guide explored the island. 
In the heart of the jungle the dog had his private 
muck baths. Into one of these he waded and rolled 
and rolled, despite her commands. At first she 
thought he was endeavouring to rid himself of the 
fleas, but after a time she came to understand that 
the muck had healing qualities and soothed the 
burning scratches made by his claws. In the pre- 
sence of the husband of his mistress Rollo was al- 
ways digmfiedly cheerful, but he never leaped or 
cavorted as he did when alone with Ruth. 
Spurlock was fond of dogs; he was fond of this off- 
 
spring of many mesalliances; but he never made any 
attempt to win Rollo» to share him. The dog was, 
in a sense, a gift of the gods. He filled the rdle of 
conurade which Spurlock dared not enact, at least 
not utterly as he would have liked. Yes —  as he 
would have liked. 
For Ruth grew lovelier as the days went on. She 
was as lovely in the spirit as in the flesh. Her 
moods were many and always striking. She was 
never violent when angry: she became as calm and 
baffling as the sea in doldrums. She never grew 
angry for anything her husband did: such anger as 
came to her was directed against the lazy, incom« 
petent servant who was always snooping about in 
the inner temple — Spurlock's study. 
She formed a habit which embarrassed Spurlock 
greatly, but at first he dared not complain. She 
would come and sit cross-legged just beyond the 
bamboo curtain and silently watch him at work. 
One night she apparently fell asleep. He could not 
permit her to remain in that position. So, very 
carefully, he raised her in his arms and carried her to 
her bed. The moment he was out in the hall, Ruth 
sat up hugging and rocking her body in delight. This 
charming episode was repeated three times. Then 
he sensed the trap. 
'"Ruth, you must not come and sit on the thres' 
hold. I can't concentrate on my work. It doesn't 
annoy me; it only disturbs me. I can't help look- 
ing at you frequently. You don't want me to spo3 
the story> do you? '' 
'' No. But it's so wonderful to watch you ! When- 
ever you have written something beautiful  your 
face shows it.'' 
"I know; but . . . . " 
''And sometimes you say out loud: 'That's great 
stuff!' I never make any sound." 
"But it is the sight of you!" 
"All right, Hoddy. I promise not to do it again." 
She rose. " Good night." 
He stared at the agitated curtain; and slowly his 
chin sank until it touched his chest. He had hurt 
her. But the recollection of the warm pliant body 
in his arms . . . ! 
"I am a thief!" he whispered. He had only to 
recall this fact (which he did in each crisis) to erect a 
barrier she could not go around or over. 
Sometimes it seemed to him that he was an im- 
postor: that Ruth believed him to be one Howard 
Spurlock, when he was only masquerading as Spur- 
lock. If ever the denouement came — if ever the 
Hand reached him —  Ruth would then understand 
why he had rebuffed all her tender advances. The 
law would accord her all her previous rights: she 
would return to the exact status out of which in 
his madness he had taken her. She might even 
forgive him. 
He thanked God for this talent of his. He codd 
 
lose himself for hours at a time. 'Whatever he 
wrote he was: he became this or that eharacter, he 
suflFered or prospered equally. He was the beach- 
comber, or the old sailor with the black pearl (Ruth's 
tales), or the wastrel musician McClintock had de- 
scribed to him. There was a fourth story; but he 
never told either Ruth or McClintock about this. 
He called it "The Man Who Could Not Go Home.'' 
Himself. He did not write this with lead but with 
his heart's blood. 
By the middle of July he was in full health. In 
the old days he had been something of an athlete — 
a runner, an oarsman, and a crack at tennis. The 
morning swims in the lagoon had thickened the red 
corpuscle. For all the enervating heat, he applied 
himself vigorously to his tasks. 
Late in July he finished the fourth story. This 
time there wasn't any doubt. He had done it. 
These were yams! As he was about to slip the 
manuscripts into the enveloi>e, something caught 
his eye: by Howard Spurlock. Entranced, he stared 
at the name. Suddenly he understood what had 
happened. A wrathful God was watching him. 
Howard Spurlock. The honey on his tongue turned 
to ashes. To write under a pseudonym! — to be 
forced to disown his children! He could not write 
under his own name, enjoy the fruits of fame should 
these tales prove successful. 
Here was a thundering blow. All his dreams 
shattered in an instant. What is the supreme idea 
in the heart and mind of youth? To win fame and 
fortune: and particularly to enjoy them. Spurlock 
slumped in his chair, weak and empty. This was the 
bitterest hour he had ever known. From thoughts 
of fame to thoughts of mere bread and butter! It 
seemed to Spurlock that he had tumbled off the edge 
of Somewhere into the abyss of Nowhere. 
At lengthy when he saw no escape from the in- 
evitable, he took the four title pages from the manu- 
scripts and typed new ones, substituting Taber for 
Spurlock. A vast indifference settled down upon 
him. He did not care whether the stories were ac- 
cepted or not. He was so depressed and disheart- 
ened that he did not then believe he would ever 
write again. 
Both Ruth and McClintock came down to the 
launch to wish him God-speed and good luck. Ruth 
hugged the envelope and McClintock, with the end 
of a burnt match, drew a cabalistic sign. Through 
it all Spurlock maintained a gaiety which deceived 
them completely. But his treasured dream lay 
shattered at his feet. 
And yet — such is the buoyancy of youth —  within 
a fortnight he began his first novel, pretending to 
himself that it was on Ruth's account. To be alone 
with her, in idleness, was an intolerable thought. 
Coconuts grew perpetually. There will often be 
six growths in a single palm. So proas loaded with 
nuts were always landing on the beach. The Ti- 
gress went prowling for nut, too. Once, both Ruth 
and Spurlock accompanied McClintock far south, 
to an island of blacks; and Spurlock had his first ex-' 
perience with the coconut dance and the booming 
of wooden tom-toms. 
At first Spurlock tasted coconut in his eggs, in 
what meat he ate; it permeated everything, taste 
and smell. For a long time even the strong pipe 
tobacco (with which McClintock supplied him) 
possessed a coconut flavour. Then, mysteriously, 
he no longer smelled or tasted it. 
On the day he carried the manuscript to Copeley's 
he brought back a packet of letters, magazines, and 
newspapers. McClintock never threw away any 
advertising matter; in fact, he openly courted pam- 
phlets; and they came from automobile dealers and 
great mail-order houses, from haberdashers and 
tailors and manufacturers of hair-tonics, razors, 
gloves, shoes, open plumbing. In this way (he in- 
formed Spurlock) he kept posted on what was going 
on in the strictly commercial world. "Besides, 
lad, even an advertisement of a cough-drop is some  
thing to read." So there was always plenty of mail. 
Among the commercial enticements McClintock 
found a real letter. In privacy he read and reread 
it a dozen times, and eventually destroyed it by fire. 
It was, in his opinion, the most astonishing letter 
he had ever read. He hated to destroy it; but that 
was the obligation imposed; and he was an honourable 
man. 
Not since she had discovered it had Ruth touched 
or opened the mission Bible; but to-night (the same 
upon which the wonderful manuscripts started on 
their long and circuitous voyage to America) she 
was inexplicably drawn to it. In all these weeks she 
had not once knelt to pray. Why should she? she 
asked rebelliously. God had never answered any of 
her prayers. But this time she wanted nothing for 
herself: she wanted something for Hoddy —  success. 
So, not exactly hopefully but earnestly, she returned 
to the feet of God. She did not open the Bible but 
laid it on the edge of the bed, knelt and rested her 
forehead upon the worn leather cover. 
It was not a long prayer. She said it audibly, 
having learned long since that an audible prayer was 
a concentrated one. And yet, at the end of this 
prayer a subconscious thought broke through to 
consciousness. " And someday let him care for me ! " 
She sprang up, alarmed. This unexpected in- 
terpolation might spoil the efficacy of all that had 
gone before. She hadn't meant to ask anything for 
herself. Her stifled misery had betrayed her. She 
had been fighting down this thought for days: that 
Hoddy did not care, that he did not love her, that he 
had mistaken a vagary of the mind for a substance, 
  .nd now regretted what he had done —  married a 
 
' 
girl who was not his equal in anything. The agony 
on the sands now ceased to puzzle her. 
All her tender lures, inherent and acquired, had 
scattered themselves futilely against the reserve he 
liad set between them. Why had he offered her 
tbat kiss on board The Tigress? Perhaps that had 
l>een his hour of disenchantment. She hadn't 
measured up; she had been stupid; she hadn't known 
how to make love. 
Loneliness. Here was an appalling fact: all her 
previous loneliness had been trifling beside that which 
now encompassed her and would for years to come. 
If only sometimes he would grow angry at her, 
impatient! But his tender courtesy was unfailing; 
and under this would be the abiding bitterness of 
having mistaken gratitude for love. Very well. She 
would meet him upon this ground: he should never 
be given the slightest hint that she was unhappy. 
She still had her letter of credit. She could run 
away from him, if she wished, as she had run away 
from her father; she could carry out the original ad- 
venture. But the cases were not identical. Her 
father —  man of rock —  had never needed her, where- 
as Hoddy, even if he did not love her, would always 
be needing her. 
Love stories ! .... A sob rushed into her throat, 
and to smother it she buried her face in a pillow. 
Spurlock, filled with self-mockery, sat in a chair 
on the west veranda. The chair had extension 
arms over which a man might comfortably dangle 
his legs. For awhile he watched the revolving 
light on Copeley's. Occasionally he relit his pipe. 
Once he chuckled aloud. Certain phases of irony 
always caused him to chuckle audibly. Every one 
of those four stories would be accepted. He knew 
it absolutely, as if he had the check in his hand. 
Why? Because Howard Spurlock the author dared 
not risk the liberty of Howard Spurlock the male- 
factor; because there were still some dregs in this 
cup of irony. For what could be more ironical 
than for Howard Spurlock to see himself grow famous 
under the name of Taber? The ambrosia of which he 
had so happily dreamt ! —  and this gall and wormwood ! 
He stood up and rapped his pipe on the rail. 
''A11 right," he said. "Whatever you say —  you, 
behind those stars there, if you are a God. We 
Spurlocks take our medicine, standing. Pile it on! 
But if you can hear the voice of the mote, the speck, 
don't let her suflFer for anything I've done. Be a 
sport, and pile it all on me!" 
He went to bed. 
There is something in prayer; not that there may 
be any noticeable result, any definite answer; but 
no human being can oflFer an honest prayer to God 
without gaining immeasurably in courage, in forti- 
tude, in resignation, and that alone is worth the effort. 
On the morrow Spurlock (who was unaware that 
he had offered a prayer) let down the bars to his re- 
 
serve. He became really companionable, discussed 
the new story he had in mind, and asked some ques- 
tions about colour. Ruth, having decided a course 
for herself — that of renunciation — and having the 
strength to keep it, met these advances in pre- 
cisely the mood they were offered. So these two 
yoimg philosophers got along very well that day; 
and the succeeding days. 
She taught him all the lore she had; about bird- 
life and tree-life and the changing mysteries of the 
sea. She taught him how to sail a proa, how to 
hack open a milk-coconut, how to relish bamboo 
sprouts. Eventually this comradeship (slightly re- 
sented by Rollo) reached a point where he could call 
out from the study: ''Hey, Ruth! — come and tell me 
what you think of this." 
Her attitude now entirely sisterly, he ceased to be 
afraid of her; there was never anything in her eyes 
(so far as he could see) but friendly interest in all he 
said or did. And yet, often when alone, he won- 
dered: had McClintock been wrong, or had she 
ceased to care in that way? The possibility that 
she no longer cared should have filled him with 
unalloyed happiness, whereas it depressed him, cut 
the natural vanity of youth into shreds and tatters. 
Yesterday this glorious creature had loved him; to- 
day she was only friendly. No more did she offer her 
forehead for the good-night kiss. And instead of ac- 
cepting the situation gratefully, he felt vaguely hiu't ! 
One evening in September a proa rasped in upon 
the beadi. It brought no coconut. There stepped 
forth a tall brown man. He remained standing by 
the stem of the proa, his glance roving investigat- 
ingly. He wore a battered sim-helmet, a loin-cloth 
and a pair of dilapidated canvas shoes. At length 
he proceeded toward McClintock's bungalow, drawn 
by the lights and the sound of music. 
Sure of foot, noiseless, he made the veranda and 
paused at the side of one of the screened windows. 
By and by he ventured to peer into this window. 
He saw three people: a yoimg man at the piano, an 
elderly man smoking in a comer, and a yoimg woman 
reclining in a chair, her eyes closed. The watcher's 
intake of breath was sibilant. 
It was she ! The Dawn Pearl ! 
He vaulted the veranda rail, careless now whether 
or not he was heard, and ran down to the beach. He 
gave an order, the proa was floated and the sail run 
up. In a moment the brisk evening breeze caught 
the lank canvas and bellied it taut. The proa bore 
away to the northwest out of which it had come. 
James Boyle O'Higgins knew little or nothing of 
the South Seas, but he knew human beings, all 
colours. His deduction was correct that the beauty 
of Ruth Enschede could not remain hidden long even 
on a forgotten isle. 
CHAPTER XXIV 
SPURLOCK'S novel was a tale of regeneration. 
For a long time to come that would naturally 
be the theme of any story he undertook to 
write. After he was gone in the morning, Ruth 
would steal into the study and hurriedly read what 
he had written the previous night. She never ques- 
tioned the motives of the characters; she had neither 
the ability nor the conceit for that; but she could 
and often did correct his lapses in colour. She never 
touched the manuscript with pencil, but jotted down 
her notes on slips of paper and left them where he 
might easily find them. 
She marvelled at his apparent imperviousness to 
the heat. He worked afternoons, when everybody 
else went to sleep; he worked at night under a heat- 
giving light, with insects buzzing and dropping 
about, with a blue haze of tobacco smoke that tried to 
get out and could not. With his arms bare, the neck- 
band of his shirt tucked in, he laboured. Frequently 
he would take up a box of talc and send a shower 
down his back, or fill his palms with the powder and 
rub his face and arms and hands. He kept at it 
even on those nights when the monsoon began to 
break with heavy storms and he had to weight down 
 
with stones everything on his table. Soot was 
everywhere, for the lamp would not stay trimmed in 
the gale. But he wrote on. 
As the novel grew Ruth was astonished to see her- 
self enter and dominate it: sometimes as she ac- 
tually was, with all her dreams reviewed —  as if he 
had caught her talking in her sleep. It frightened 
her to behold her heart and mind thus laid bare; but 
the chapter following would reassure her. Here 
would be a woman perfectly unrecognizable, strong, 
ruthless but just. 
This heroine ruled an island which (in the '80s) 
was rich with shell —  pearl-shell; and she fought 
pearl thievers and marauding beadicombers, fought 
them with weapons and with woman's gulle. No 
man knew whence she had come nor why. That 
there would eventually be a lover Ruth knew; and 
she waited his appearance upon the scene, waited 
with an impatience which was both personal and 
literary. K the creator drew a hero anything like 
himself, she would accept it as a sign that he did 
care a little . 
Ruth did not resent the use of her mind and body 
in this tale of adventure. She gloried in it: he 
needed her. When the hero finally did appear, 
Ruth became filled with gentle self-mockery. He 
was no Hoddy, but a tremendous man, with hairy 
arms and bearded face and drink-shattered intellect. 
Day by day she followed the spiritual and physical 
contest between this man and woman. One day a 
pall of blackness encompassed the sick mind of the 
giant; and when he came to his senses, they properly 
functioned: and he saw his wife by his bedside! 
An astonishing idea entered Ruth's head one day 
—  when the novel was complete in the rough —  an 
astonishing idea because it had not developed long 
ago. A thing which had mystified her since child- 
hood, a smouldering wonder why it should be, and 
imtil now she had never felt the urge to investigate. 
She tucked the mission Bible imder her arm, and 
crooking a finger at Rollo, went forth to the west 
beach where the sou'-west surge piled up muddily, 
burdened with broken spars, crates, boxes, and weeds. 
During the wet monsoon the west beach was always 
littered. Where the stuff came from was always a 
mystery. 
The Enschede Bible —  the one out of which she 
read — had been strangely mutilated. Sections and 
pages had been pasted together, and all through both 
Testaments a word had been blotted out. The open 
books she knew by heart; aye, they had been ground 
into her, morning and night. One of her duties, 
after she had been taught to read, had been to read 
aloud after breakfast and before going to bed. The 
same old lines and verses, over and over, until there 
had come times when shrieking would have relieved 
her. How she had hated it!         All these mum' 
blings which were never explained, which carried 
no more sense to her brain than they would have 
carried to Old Morgan's swearing parrot. Like the 
parrot, she could memorize the lines, but she could 
not imderstand them. Never had her father explained. "Read the first chapter of Job''; beyond 
that, nothing. Whenever she came upon the obliterated word and paused, her father would say: 
"Faith. Go on.'' So, after a time, encountering 
the blot, she herself would supply the word Faith. 
But was it Faith? That is what she was this day 
going to find out. 
She closed her eyes more vividly to recall some 
line which had carried the blot. And so she came 
upon the word Love. Blotted out —  Love! With 
infinite care, through nearly a thousand pages, her 
father had obliterated the word Love. Why? Love 
was a word of God's, and yet her father had denied 
it — denied it to the Book, denied it to his own flesh 
and blood. Why? He could preach the Word and 
deny Love! — tame the savage heart, succour broken 
white men! —  pray with his face strained with re- 
ligious fervour! The idea made her dizzy because it 
was so inexplicable. She could accord her father 
with one grace: he was not in any manner a hypo- 
crite. Tender with the sick, firm with the strcmg, 
fearless, with a body that had the resistance of 
iron, there was nothing of the hypocrite in him. 
She recalled hiok - A gaunt, powerful man: no 
feature of his face decided, and yet for all that it had 
 
the significance of a countenance hewn out of rock. 
Never had he corrected her with hand or whip, 
the ring in his voice had always been sufficient to 
cower her. But never had the hand touched her 
with a father s caress; never had he taken her into 
his arms; never had he kissed her. She had never 
been "My child" or "My dear"; always her name — 
Ruth. 
Love, obliterated, annihilated; out of his heart and 
out of his Bible. Why? Here was a curtain in- 
deed. No matter. It was ended. She herself had 
cut the slender tie that had bound them. Ah, but 
she could remember; and many things there were 
that she would never forgive. Sometimes — a lonely 
forlorn child — she had gone to hiin and put her arms 
aroimd his neck. Stonily he had disengaged him- 
self. "I forbid you to do that." She had brought 
home a puppy one day. He had taken it back. He 
destroyed her clumsily made dolls whenever he 
found them. 
Once she had asked him: "Are you my father?" 
He had answered: "I am." 
She had no reason to doubt him. Her father, her 
own father! She remembered now a verse from the 
Psalms her father had always been quoting; but 
now she recited it with perfect understanding. 
Haw long will thou forget me  Lord? for ever? How 
long wilt thou hide thy fojce from me? 
She came upon the Song of Songs — which had been 
pasted down in the Enschede Bible —  the burning 
litany of love; and from time to time she intoned 
some verse of tender lyric beauty. There was one 
verse that haimted and mocked her. 
Stay me withflagonsy comfort me with apples, for I 
am sick of love. 
Here was Ruth Enschede — sick of love! Love — 
something the world would always keep hidden from 
her, at least human love. All she had found was 
the love of this dog. She threw her arms around 
Rollo's n ck and laid her cheek upon the flea-bitten 
head. 
"Oh, Rollo, there are so many things I don't 
know! But you love me, don't you?" 
Rollo wagged his stump violently and tried to 
lick her face. He imderstood. When she released 
him he ran down the beach for a stick which he 
fetched and laid at her feet. But she was staring 
seaward and did not notice the offering. 
October. The skies became, brilliant; the dry 
monsoon was setting in. Then came the great day. 
It was at limch when McClintock announced that 
in the mail-pouch he had found a letter addressed to 
Howard Taber, care of Donald McClintock and so- 
forth. 
Spurlock grew cold. All that confidence, bom of 
irony, disappeared; and fear laid hold of him. The 
envelope might contain only a request as to what he 
 
\7anted done with the manuscripts. In mailing the 
tales he had not enclosed return postage or the 
equivalent in money. 
"So you're writing under a nom de plume, eh?'' 
said McClintock, holding out the letter. 
"You open it, Ruth. I'm in a funk," Spurlock 
confessed. 
McClintock laughed as he gave the letter to Ruth. 
She, having all the confidence in the world, ripped oflE 
an end and drew out the contents — a letter and a 
check. What the editor had to say none of the 
three cared just then. Spurlock snatched the check 
out of Ruth's hands and ran to the window. 
"A thousand dollars in British poimds! .... A 
thousand dollars for four short stories!" The tan 
on Spurlock's face lightened. He was profoimdly 
stirred. He txuned to Ruth and McClintock. "You 
two .... both of you! But for you I couldn't 
have done it. If only you knew what this means to 
me!" 
"We do, lad," replied McClintock, gravely. The 
youth of them! And what was he going to do when 
they left his island? What would Donald McCUn- 
tock be doing with himself, when youth left the 
island, never more to return? 
Ruth was thrilling with joy. Every drop of 
blood in her body glowed and expanded. To go to 
Hoddy, to smother him with kisses and embraces 
in this hour of triumph! To save herself from com- 
mitting the act —  the thought of which was positive 
hypnotism — she began the native dance. Spurlock 
(himself verging upon the hysterical) welcomed the 
diversion. He seized a tray, squatted on the floor, 
and imitated the tom-tom. It was a mad half- 
hour. 
"Well, lad, supposing you read what the editor 
has to say?'' was McClintock's suggestion, when the 
frolic was over. 
"You read it, Ruth. You're luck." 
"Aye!" was McClintock's inaudible affirmative. 
Luck. The boy would never know just how lucky 
he was. Ruth read: 
"Dear Sm: 
"We are delighted to accept these four stories, particularly 
The Man Who Could Not Go Home.' We shall be pleased to 
see more of your work. 
"'The Man Who Could Not Go Home.  Why," 
said Ruth, "y   did not read that to us." 
"Wanted to see if I could tiun out one all on my 
own," replied Spurlock, looking at McClintock, who 
nodded slightly. "It was the story of a man, so to 
speak, who had left his vitals in his native land and 
wandered strange paths emptily. But never mind 
that. Come along home, Ruth. I'm burning to 
get to work." 
After all those former bitter failures, this cup was 
sweet, even if there was the flavour of irony. At 
least, he would always be able to take care of Ruth. 
The Dawn Pearl ; how well th  had named her ! The 
pearl without price —  his and not his! 
He took her arm and drew it under his; and to- 
gether they went down the veranda steps. Ruth's 
arm trembled and her step faltered, but he was too 
far away in thought to be observant. He saw rifts 
in clouds — sunshine. The future was not so black. 
All the money he earned — serving M cClintock and 
the muse — could be laid away. Then, in a few years, 
he and Ruth might fare forth in comfort and se- 
curity. After five or six years it would not be 
difficult to hide in Italy or in France. No; the 
future was not so dark; there was a bit of dawn 
visible. If this success continued, it would be easy 
to assume the name of Taber. Ruth could not very 
well object, since an air of distinction would go with 
Taber. 
Suddenly he felt Ruth swing violently away from 
him, and he wheeled to learn the cause. 
He beheld a tall gaunt man, his brown face corru- 
gated like a winter's road, grim, stony. His gangling 
body was clothed in rusty twill trousers and a long 
black seersucker coat, buttoned to the throat, around 
which ran a collar which would have marked him the 
world over as a man of the Word. His hand rested 
heavily and cruelly upon Ruth 's shoulder. 
"So, wanton, I have foimd you!" 
"Wanton! Why, you infernal har!" cried Spur- 
lock, striking at the arm. But the free arm of the 
stranger hit  itvi a flail-like blow on the chest and 
sent him sprawling into the yielding sand. Ber- 
serker, Spurlock rose, head down, and charged. 
"Hoddy, Hoddy! .... No, no! This is 
my father!" warned Ruth. 
Spurlock halted in his tracks.   But what does 
he mean by calling you a wanton? —  you, my wife?" 
Enschede's hand slipped from his daughter's 
shoulder. The iron slipped from his face, leaving 
it blank with astonishment. "Your wife?" 
"His lawful wife," said Ruth, with fine dignity. 
For a moment none of them stirred; then slowly 
Enschede turned away. To Spurlock's observing 
eye, Enschede's wrinkles multiplied and the folds in 
his clothes. The young man's imagination suddenly 
pictiu'ed the man as a rock, loosed from its ancient 
bed, crumbling as it fell. But why did he turn away? 
"Wait!" Ruth called to her father. 
The recollection of all her unhappiness, the love- 
less years, the imending loneliness, the injustice of it, 
rolled up to her lips in verbal lava. It is not well 
that a daughter should talk to her father as Ruth 
talked to hers that day. 
The father, granite; the daughter, fire: Spurlock 
saw the one and heard the other, his amazement 
indescribable. Never before had he seen a man like 
Enschede nor heard a voice like Ruth's. But as the 
mystery which surrounded Ruth fell away that which 
enveloped her father thickened. 
 
"I used to cry myself to sleep, Hoddy, I was so 
forlorn and lonely. He heard me; but he never 
came in to ask what was the matter. For fifteen 
years! —  so long as I can remember! All I wanted 
was a little love, a caress now and then. But I 
waited in vain. So I ran away, blindly, knowing- 
nothing of the world outside. Youth! You denied 
me even that," said Ruth, her glance now flashing 
to her father. "Spring! —  I never knew any. I 
dared not sing, I dared not laugh, except when you 
went away. What little happiness I had I was 
forced to steal. I am glad you found me. I am 
out of your life forever, never having been in it. 
Did you break my mother's heart as you tried to 
break mine? I am no longer accpimtable to you for 
anything. Wanton! Had I been one, even God 
would have forgiven me, imderstanding. Some day 
I may forgive you; but not now. No, no! Not 
now!'' 
Ruth turned abruptly and walked toward the 
bungalow, mounted the veranda steps, and vanished 
within. Without a word, without a sign, Enschede 
started toward the beach, where his proa waited. 
For a time Spurlock did not move. This in- 
credible scene robbed him of the sense of locomotion. 
But his glance roved, to the door through which 
Ruth had gone, to Enschede's drooping back. 
Unexpectedly he found himself speeding toward the 
father. 
''Enschede!" he called. 
Enschede halted. ""Well?" he said, as Spurlock 
reached his side. 
  Are you a human being, to leave her thus?" 
''It is better so. You heard her. What she said 
is true." 
"But why? In the name of God, why? Your 
flesh and blood ! Have you never loved anything? " 
"Are you indeed my daughter's lawful husband?" 
Enschede countered. 
"I am. You will find the proof in McClintock's 
safe. You called her a wanton ! " 
"Because I had every reason to believe she was 
one. There was every indication that she fled the 
island in company with a dissolute rogue." Still 
the voice was without emotion; calm, colourless. 
Fired with wrath, Spurlock recounted the Canton 
episode. "She travelled alone; and she is the 
purest woman God ever permitted to inhabit the 
earth. What! —  you know so little of that child? 
She ran away from you. Somebody tricked you 
back yonder —  baited you for spite. She ran away 
from you; and now I can easily understand why. 
What sort of a human being are you, anyhow?" 
Enschede gazed seaward. When he faced Spur- 
lock, the granite was cracked and rived; never had 
Spurlock seen such dumb agony in human eyes. 
"What shall I say? Shall I tell you, or shall I leave 
you in the dark —  as I must always leave her? What 
 
shall I say except that I am accursed of men? Yes; 
I have loved something —  her mother. Not wisely 
but too well. I loved her beyond anything in heaven 
or on earth — to idolatry. God is a jealous God, and 
He turned upon me relentlessly. I had consecrated 
my life to His Work; and I took the primrose path.'' 
''But a man may love his wife!" cried Spurlock, 
utterly bewildered. 
"Not as I loved mine. So, one day, because God 
was wroth, her mother ran away with a blackguard, 
and died in the gutter, miserably. Perhaps IVe 
been mad all these years; I don't know. Perhaps I 
am still mad. But I vowed that Ruth should never 
suffer the way I did — and do. For I still love her 
mother. So I undertook to protect her by keeping 
love out of her life, by crushing it whenever it ap- 
peared, obliterating it. I made it a point to bring 
beachcombers to the house to fill her with horror of 
mankind. I never let her read stories, or have pets, 
dolls. Anything that might stir the sense of love. 
And God has mocked me through it all." 
"Man, in God's name, come with me and tell 
her this!" urged Spurlodc. 
"It is too late. Besides, I would tear out my 
tongue rather than let it speak her mother's infamy. 
To tell Ruth anything, it would be necessary to tell 
her everything; and I cannot and you must not. 
She was always asking questions about her mother 
and supplying the answers. So she built a shrine. 
Always her prayers ended — 'And may my beautiful 
mother guide me!' No. It is better as it is. She 
is no longer mine; she is yours ' 
"What a mistake!'' 
"Yes. But you —  you have a good face. Be kind 
to her. Whenever you grow impatient with her, 
remember the folly of her father. I can now give 
myself to God utterly; no human emotion will ever 
be shuttling in between." 
"And all the time you loved her?" — appalled. 
"Perhaps." 
Enschede stepped into the proa» and the natives 
shoved off. Spurlock remained where he was until 
the sail became an infinitesimal speck in the distance. 
His throat filled; he wanted to weep. For yonder 
went the loneliest man in all God's unhappy world. 
SPURLOCK pushed back his helmet and sat 
down in the white sand, buckling his knees 
and folding his arms around them —  ponder- 
ing. Was he really awake? The arrival and de- 
parture of this strange father lacked the essential 
human touch to make it real. Without a struggle 
he could give up his flesh and blood like that! ' I 
can now give myself to God utterly; no human emo- 
tion will ever be shuttling in between." The mortal 
agony behind those eyes! And all the while he had 
probably loved his child. To take Spring and Love 
out of her life, as if there were no human instincts 
to tell Ruth who t was being denied her! And 
what must have been the man's thought as he 
came upon Ruth wearing a gown of her mother's? — 
a fair picture of the mother in the primrose days? 
Not a flicker of an eyelash; steel and granite out- 
wardly. 
The conceit of Howard Spurlock in imagining 
he knew what mental suffering was! But Enschede 
was right: Ruth must never know. To find the 
true father at the expense of the beautiful fairy tale 
Ruth had woven around the woman in the locket 
was an intolerable thought. But the father, to go 
 
his way forever alone! The iron in the man! —  the 
iron in this child of his! 
Wanting a little love, a caress now and then. 
Spurlock bent his head to his knees. He took into 
his soul some of the father's misery, some of the 
daughter's, to mingle with his own. Enschede, to 
have starved his heart as well as Ruth's because, 
having laid a curse, he knew not how to turn aside 
from it ! How easily he might have forgotten the un- 
worthy mother in the love of the child! And this day 
to hear her voice lifted in a quality of anathema. Poor 
Ruth : for a father, a madman ; for a husband —  a thi  ! 
Spurlock rocked his body slightly. He knew that 
at this moment Ruth lay upon her bed in torment, 
for she was by nature tender; and the reaction of her 
scathing words, no matter how justifiable, would be 
putting scars on her soul. And he, her lawful hus- 
band, dared not go to her and console her ! Accursed 
— all of them —  Enschede, Ruth, and himself. 
"What's the matter, lad, after all the wonderful 
fireworks at lunch?" 
Spurlodc beheld McClintodc istanding beside him. 
He waved a hand toward the sea. 
"A sail?" said McClintock. "What about it?" 
"Enschede." 
"Enschede? — her father? What's happened?" 
McClintock sat down. " Do you mean to tell me he's 
come and gone in an hour? What the devil kind 
if a father is he?" 
 
Spurlock shook his head. 
"What's become of Ruth?" 
"Gone to her room." 
Come, lad; let's have it," said McClintoek. 
'' Anything that concerns Ruth is of interest to me. 
l at happened between Ruth and her father that 
made him hurry off without passing ordinary 
courtesies with me?" 
"I suppose I ought to tell you," said Spurlock; 
"but it is understood that Ruth shall never know 
the truth." 
"Not if it will hurt her." 
"Hurt her? It would tear her to pieces; 
God knows she has had enough. Her mother .   . 
Do you recall the night she showed you the face in 
the locket? Do you remember how she said — 'If 
only my mother had lived'? Did you ever see any- 
thing more tender or beautiful?" 
"I remember. Go on and tell me." 
When Spurlodc had finished the tale, touched here 
and there by his own imagination, McClintoek 
made a negative sign. 
"So that was it? And what the devil are you 
doing here, moping alone on the beach? Why aren't 
you with her in this hour of bitterness?" 
"What can I do?" 
"You can go to her and take her in your arms." 
"I might have been able to do that if you hadn't 
told me . . . she cared." 
''Man, she's your wife!" 
"And I am a thief," 
"You're a damn fool, too!" exploded the trader. 
"I am as God made me." 
"No. God gives us an equal chance; but we 
make ourselves. You are captain of your soul; 
don't forget your Henley. But I see now. That 
poor child, trying to escape, and not knowing how. 
Her father for fifteen years, and you now for the 
rest of her life! Tell her you're a thief. Get it off 
your soul." 
"Add that to what she is now suffering? It's too 
late. She would not forgive me." 
"And why should you care whether she forgave 
you or not?" 
Spurlock jumped to his feet, the look of the 
damned upon his face. "Why? Because I love 
her! Because I loved her at the start, but was too 
big a fool to know it!" 
His own astonishment was quite equal to McClin- 
tock's. The latter began to heave himself up from 
the sand. 
Did I hear you. . . ." began McClintock. 
Yes!" interrupted Spurlock, savagely. "You 
heard me say it! It was inevitable. I might have 
known it. Another labyrinth in hell!" 
A smile broke over the trader's face. It began in 
the eyes and spread to the lips: warm, embracing, 
even fatherly. 
 'Man, man! You're coming to life. There's 
something human about you now. Go to her and 
tell her. Put your arms around her and tell her 
you love her. Dear God, what a beautiful moment ! " 
The fire went out of Spurlodc's eyes and the 
sliadow of hopeless weariness feH upon him.   I 
can't make you understand; I can't make you see 
things as I see them. As matters now stand, I'm 
only a thief, not a blackguard. What ! —  add another 
drop to her cup? Who knows? Any day they 
may find me. So long as matters remain as they 
are, and they found me, there would be no shame 
for Ruth. Can't I make you see?" 
"But I'm telling you Ruth loves you. And her 
kind of love forgives everything and anything but 
infidelity." 
"You did not hear her when she spoke to her 
father; I did." 
"But she would understand you; whereas she 
will never understand her father. Spurlodc: 'tis 
Roundhead, sure enough. Go to her, I say, and 
take her in your arms, you poor benighted Iron- 
sides ! I can't make you see. Man, if you tell her 
you love her, and later they took you away to prison, 
who would sit at the prison gate until your term was 
up? Ruth. Why am I here — thirty years of 
loneliness? Because I know women, the good and the 
bad; and because I could not have the good, I would 
not take the bad. The woman I wanted was another 
man's wife. So here I am, king of all I survey, with 
a predilection for poker, a scorched liver, and a 
piano-player. But you! Ruth is your lawful wife. 
Not to go to her is wickeder than if I had run away 
with my friend's wife. You're a queer lad. With 
your pencil you see into the hearts of all; and without 
your pencil you are dumb and blind. Ruth is not 
another man's wife; she is all your own, for better 
or for worse. Have you thought of the monstrous 
lie you are adding to your theft? " 
''Lie?" said Spurlodc, astounded. 
"Aye — to pretend to her that you don't care. 
That's a most damnable lie; and when she finds 
out, 'tis then she will not forgive. She'll have this 
hour always with her; and you failed her. Gro to 
her." 
"I can't." 
"Afraid?" 
"Yes." 
This shnple admission disarmed McClintock. 
"Well, well; I have given out of my wisdom. I'd 
like to shake you imtil your bones rattled; but the 
bones of a Roundhead wouldn't rattle to any pur- 
pose. Lad, I admire you even in your folly. Mount- 
ains out of molehills and armies out of windmills; 
and you'll tire yourself in one direction and shatter 
yourself in the other. There is strength in you — 
misguided. You will torture yourself and torture 
her all through life; but in the end she will pour the 
  i ine of her faith into a sound chalice. I would 
tlaat you were my own ' 
"I, a thief?" 
 'Aye; thief. Roundhead and all. If a certain 
Isink in your sense of honour will not permit you to 
gjo to her as a lover, go to her as a comrade. Talk 
to her of the new story; divert her; for this day her 
lieart has been twisted sorely." 
McClintock without further speech strode toward 
liis bimgalow; and half an hour later Spurlock, pass-' 
ing, heard the piano-tuning key at work. 
Spurlock plodded through the heavy sand, leaden 
in the heart and mind as well as in the feet. But 
recently he had asked God to pile it all on him; and 
€rod had added this, with a fresh portion for Ruth. 
One thing —  he could be thankful for that —  the peak 
of his misfortunes had been reached; the world might 
come to an end now and not matter in the least. 
Love       to take her in his arms and to 
comfort her: and then to add to her cup of bitterness 
the knowledge that her husband was a thief! For 
himself he did not care; God could continue to 
grind and pulverize him; but to add another grain 
to the evil he had already wrought upon Ruth was 
imthinkable' The future? He dared not speculate 
upon that. 
He paused at the bamboo curtain of her room, 
which was in semi-darkness. He heard Rollo's 
stump beat a gentle tattoo on the floor. 
Silence for a moment. ''Yes. What is it?'' 
"Is there anything I can do?" The idiocy of the 
question filled him with the craving of laughter. 
Was there anything he could do! 
"No, Hoddy; nothing." 
"Would you like to have me come in and talk?" 
How tender that sounded! —  talk! 
"K you want to." 
Bamboo and bead tinkled and slithered behind 
him. The dusky obscurity of the room was twice 
welcome. He did not want Ruth to see his own 
stricken coimtenance; nor did he care to see hers, 
ravaged by tears. He knew she had been weepings 
He drew a chair to the side of the bed and sat down, 
terrified by the utter fallowness of his mind. Filled 
as he was with conflicting emotions, any stretch of 
silence would be dangerous. The fascination of 
the idea of throwing himself upon his knees and 
crying out all that was in his heart! As his eyes 
began to focus objects, he saw one of her arms 
extended upon the counterpane, in his direction, 
the hand clenched tightly. 
"I am very wicked," she said. "After all, he is 
my father, Hoddy; and I cursed him. But all those 
empty years! . . . My heart was hot. I'm 
sorry. I do forgive him; but he will never know 
now. 
Write him," urged Spurlock, finding sx>eech. 
''He would return my letters unopened or destroy 
them' 
That was true, thought Spurlodc. No matter 
what happened, whether the road smoothed out or 
became still rougher, he would always be carrying 
this secret with him; and each time he recalled it, 
the rack. 
"Would you rather be alone?" 
''No, It's kind of comforting to have you there. 
You understand. I sha'n't cry any more. Tell 
me a story — with apple-blossoms in it — about people 
who are happy." 
Miserably his thoughts shuttled to and fro in 
search of what he knew she wanted — a love story. 
Presently he began to weave a tale, sorry enough, 
with all the ancient claptraps and rusted platitudes. 
How long he sat there, reeling oflf this drivel, he 
never knew. When he reached the happy ending, 
he waited. But there was no sign from her. By 
and by he gathered enough courage to lean toward 
her. She had fallen asleep. The hand that had 
been clenched lay open, relaxed; and upon the palm 
he saw her mother's locket. 
CHAPTER XXVI 
SFURIOCK went out on his toes, careful 
lest the bamboo curtain rattle behind him. 
He went into the study and sat down at his 
table, but not to write. He drew out the check and 
the editorial letter. He had sold half a dozen short 
tales to third-rate magazines; but this letter had 
been issued from a distinguished editorial room, of 
international reputation. If he could keep it up — 
style and calibre of imagination —  within a year 
the name of Taber would become widely known. 
Everything in the world to live for! —  fame that he 
could not reap, love that he must not take! What 
was all this pother about hell as a future state? 
By and by things began to stir on the table: 
little invisible things. The life with which he had 
endued these sheets of paper began to beckon im- 
periously. So he sharpened a score of pencils, and 
after fiddling about and rewriting the last page he 
had written the previous night, he plunged into 
work. It was hot and dry. There were mysterious 
rustlings that made him glance hopefully toward the 
sea. He was always deceived by these rustlings 
which promised wind and seldom fulfilled that 
promise. 
''Time to dress for dinner," said Ruth from be- 
Iiind the curtain. "I don't see how you do it, 
SEoddy . It's so stuffy —  and all that tobacco smoke ! " 
He inspected his watch. Half after six. He was 
Astonished. For four hours he had shifted his 
own troubles to the shoulders of these imaginative 
characters. 
''He called me a wanton, Hoddy. That is what 
I don't imderstand." 
"There isn't an angel in heaven, Ruth, purer or 
sweeter than you are. No doubt —  because he did 
not understand you —  he thought you had run away 
with someone. The trader you spoke about: he 
disliked your father, didn't he? Well, he probably 
played your father a horrible practical joke." 
'' Perhaps that was it. I always wondered why he 
bought my mother's pearls so readily. I am dread- 
fully sad." 
''I'll tell you what. I'll speak to McClintock 
to-night and see if he won't take us for a jimket on 
