the thought of the butler and footman.  An hour under their supercilious
eyes would mean the most impersonal kind of small talk.  But they'd
hardly stand round the library.
However, the small table before the blazing logs looked very cosy and the
imposing room was full of mellow light.  Two Gothic chairs had been drawn
to the table.  They, at least, looked uncomfortable enough to avert
sentiment.  Not that he felt sentimental.  He was holding down something
a good deal stronger than sentiment, but he flattered himself that he
looked as saturnine as Satan himself as he warmed his back at the fire.
He hoped she had a cold in her head.
But she had not.  As she entered, dressed in a white tea gown of chiffon
and lace, she looked like a moonbeam, and as if no mortal indisposition
had ever brushed her in passing.  Instead of her pearls she wore a long
thin necklace of diamonds that seemed to frost her gown.  She was smiling
and gracious and infinitely remote.  The effect was as cold and steadying
as his morning's icy shower.
He shook her hand firmly.  "Sorry you've been seedy.  Hope it didn't lay
you up."
"Oh, no.  I fancy I merely wanted an excuse to see Atlantic City.  It was
just a touch of bronchitis and fled at once."
"Like Atlantic City?"
"No.  It is merely an interminable line of ostentatiously rich hotels on
a board walk!  None of the grace and dignity of Ostend--poor Ostend as
it used to be.  The digue was one of the most brilliant sights in
Europe--but no doubt you have seen it," she added politely.
"Yes, I spent a week there once, but Bruges interested me more.  I was
very young at the time."
"You must have been!  Don't you like to gamble?  The Kursaal could be
very exciting."
"Oh, yes, I like to gamble occasionally."  (God!  What banal talk!)
"Gambling with life, however, is a long sight more exciting."
"Yes, is it not?  Atlantic City might do you good.  You do not look at
all well."
"Never felt better in my life.  A bit tired.  Generally am at this time
of the year.  May take a run down to Florida."
"I should," she said politely.  "Shall you stay long?"
"That depends."  (Presence of servants superfluous!)  "Are you fond of
the sea?"
"I detest it--that boundless flat gray waste.  A wild and rocky coast in
a terrific storm, yes--but not that moving gray plain that comes in and
falls down, comes in and falls down.  It is the mountains I turn to when
I can.  I often long for the Austrian Alps.  The Dolomites!  The
translucent green lakes like enormous emeralds, sparkling in the sun and
set in straight white walls.  A glimpse of pine forest beyond.  The roar
of an avalanche in the night."
"New York and Atlantic City must seem prosaic."  He had never felt so
polite.  "I suppose you are eager to return?"  (Why in hell don't those
servants bring the dinner!)
"I have not seen the Alps since two years before the war.  Some day--yes!
Oh, yes!  Shall we sit down?"
The two men entered with enormous dignity bearing plates of oysters as if
offering the Holy Grail and the head of Saint John the Baptist on a
charger.  Impossible to associate class-consciousness with beings who
looked as impersonal as fate, and would have regarded a fork out of
alignment as a stain on their private 'scutcheon.  They performed the
rite of placing the oysters on the table and retired.
Madame Zattiany and Clavering adjusted themselves to the Gothic period.
The oysters were succulent.  They discussed the weather.
"This was a happy thought," he said.  "It feels like a blizzard outside."
"The radiator in the dining-room is out of order."
"Oh!"
She was a woman of the world.  Why in thunder didn't she make things
easier?  Had she asked him here merely because she was too bored to eat
alone?  He hated small talk.  There was nothing he wanted less than the
personalities of their previous conversations, but she might have
entertained him.  She was eating her oysters daintily and giving him the
benefit of her dark brown eyelashes.  Possibly she was merely in the mood
for comfortable silences with an established friend.  Well, he was not.
Passion had subsided but his nerves jangled.
And inspiration came with the soup and some excellent sherry.
"By the way!  Do you remember I asked you--at that last first-night--if
you wouldn't like to see something of the Sophisticates?"
"The what?"
"Some of them still like to call themselves Intellectuals, but that
title--Intelligentsia--is now claimed by every white collar in Europe who
has turned Socialist or Revolutionist.  He may have the intellect of a
cabbage, but he wants a 'new order.'  We still have a few
pseudo-socialists among our busy young brains, but youth must have its
ideals and they can originate nothing better.  I thought I'd coin a new
head-line that would embrace all of us."
"It is comprehensive!  Well?"
"A friend of mine, Gora Dwight--at present 'foremost woman author of
America'--is giving a party next Saturday night.  I'd like enormously to
take you."
"But I do not know Miss Dwight."
"She will call in due form.  I assure you she understands the
conventions.  Of course, you need not see her, but she will leave a card.
Not that it wouldn't be quite proper for me merely to take you."
"I should prefer that she called.  Then--yes, I should like to go.  Thank
you."
The men arrived with the entrée and departed with the soup plates.
Once more he had an inspiration.
"Poor old Dinwiddie's laid up with the gout."
"Really?  He called a day or two after the dinner, and I enjoyed hearing
him talk about the New York of his youth--and of Mary's.  Unfortunately,
I was out when he called again.  But I have seen Mr. Osborne twice.
These are his flowers.  He also sent me several books."
"What were they?" growled Clavering.  He remembered with dismay that he
hadn't even sent her the usual tribute of flowers.  There had been no
place in his mind for the small amenities.
"A verboten romance called 'Jurgen.'  Why verboten?  Because it is too
good for the American public?  'Main Street.'  For me, it might as well
have been written in Greek.  'The Domesday Book.'  A great story.  'Seed
of the Sun.'  To enlighten me on the 'Japanese Question.'  'Cytherea.'
Wonderful English.  Why is it not also verboten?"
"Even censors must sleep.  Is that all he sent you?"
"I am waiting for the chocolates--but possibly those are sent only by the
very young men to the very young girls."
He glowered at his plate.  "Do you like chocolates?  I'll send some
tomorrow.  I've been very remiss, I'm afraid, but I've lost the habit."
"I detest chocolates."
Squabs and green peas displaced the entree.  The burgundy was admirable.
Once more he was permitted to gaze at her eyelashes.  He plunged
desperately.  "The name Marie doesn't suit you.  If ever I know you well
enough I shall call you Mary.  It suits your vast repose.  That is why
ordinary Marys are nicknamed 'Mamie' or 'Mame.'"
"I was christened Mary."  She raised her eyes.  They were no longer wise
and unfathomable.  They looked as young as his own.  Probably younger, he
reflected.  She looked appealing and girlish.  Once more he longed to
protect her.
"Do you want to call me Mary?" she asked, smiling.
"I hardly know whether I do or not. . . .  There's something else I
should tell you.  I swore I'd never ask you any more questions--but
I--well, Dinwiddie kept on the scent until he was laid up.  One of the
Thornhills verified your story in so far as he remembered that a cousin
had settled in Virginia and then moved on to Paris.  There his
information stopped. . . .  But . . .  Dinwiddie met a Countess Loyos at
dinner."
"Countess Loyos?"
"Yes--know her?"
"Mathilde Loyos?  She is one of my oldest friends."
"No doubt you'd like to see her.  I can get her address for you."
"There is nothing I want less than to see her.  Nor any one else from
Austria--at present."
"I think this could not have been your friend.  She emphatically said--I
am afraid of being horribly rude----"
"Ah!"  For the first time since he had known her the color flooded her
face; then it receded, leaving her more pale than white.  "I understand."
"Of course, it may be another Countess Loyos.  Like the Zattianys, it may
be a large family."
"As it happens there is no other."
Silence.  He swore to himself.  He had no desire to skate within a mile
of her confounded mysteries and now like a fool he had precipitated
himself into their midst again.  But if she wouldn't talk. . . .
"Suppose we talk of something else," he said hurriedly.  "I assure you
that I have deliberately suppressed all curiosity.  I am only too
thankful to know you on any terms."
"But you think I am in danger again?"
"Yes, I do.  That is, if you wish to keep your identity a secret--for
your own good reasons.  Of course, no harm can come to you.  I assume
that you are not a political refugee--in danger of assassination!"
"I am not.  What is Mr. Dinwiddie's inference?"  She was looking at him
eagerly.
"That you really are a friend of Countess Zattiany, but for some motive
or other you are using her name instead of your own.  That--that--you had
your own reasons for escaping from Austria----"
"Escaping?"
"One was that you might have got into some political mess--restoration of
Charles, or something----"
She laughed outright.
"The other was--well--that you are hiding from your husband."
"My husband is dead," she said emphatically.
He had never known that clouds, unless charged with thunder, were noisy.
But he heard a black and ominous cloud gather itself and roll off his
brain.  Had that, after all, been . . .  Nevertheless, he was annoyed to
feel that he was smiling boyishly and that he probably looked as
saturnine as he felt.
"Whatever your little comedy, it is quite within your rights to play it
in your own way."
"It is not a comedy," she said grimly.
"Oh!  Not tragedy?" he cried in alarm.
"No--not yet.  Not yet! . . .  I am beginning to wish that I had never
come to America."
"Now I shall ask you why."
"And I shall not tell you.  I have read your Miss Dwight's novel, by the
way, and think it quite hideous."
"So do I.  But that is the reason of its success."  And the conversation
meandered along the safe bypaths of American fiction through the ices and
coffee.
XIX
They sat beside the fire in chairs that had never felt softer.  He
smoked a cigar, she cigarettes in a long topaz holder ornamented with a
tiny crown in diamonds and the letter Z.  She had given it to him to
examine when he exclaimed at its beauty.
Z!
But he banished both curiosity and possible confirmation.  He was
replete and comfortable, and almost happy.  The occasional silences
were now merely agreeable.  She lay back in her deep chair as relaxed
as himself, but although she said little her aloofness had mysteriously
departed.  She looked companionable and serene.  Only one narrow foot
in its silvery slipper moved occasionally, and her white and beautiful
hands, whose suggestion of ruthless power Clavering had appreciated
apprehensively from the first, seemed, although they were quiet, subtly
to lack the repose of her body.
Once while he was gazing into the fire he felt sure that she was
examining his profile.  He made no pretensions to handsomeness, but he
rather prided himself on his nose, the long fine straight nose of the
Claverings.  His brow was also good, but although his hair was black,
his eyes were blue, and he would have preferred to have black eyes, as
he liked consistent types.  Otherwise he was one of the "black
Claverings."  Northumbrian in origin and claiming descent from the
Bretwaldes, overlords of Britain, the Claverings were almost as fair as
their Anglian ancestors, but once in every two or three generations a
completely dark member appeared, resurgence of the ancient Briton;
sometimes associated with the high stature of the stronger Nordic race,
occasionally--particularly among the women--almost squat.  Clavering
had been spared the small stature and the small too narrow head, but
saving his steel blue eyes--trained to look keen and hard--he was as
dark as any Mediterranean.  His mouth was well-shaped and closely set,
but capable of relaxation and looked as if it might once have been full
and sensitive.  It too had been severely trained.  The long face was
narrower than the long admirably proportioned head.  It was by no means
as disharmonic a type as Gora Dwight's; the blending of the races was
far more subtle, and when making one of his brief visits to Europe he
was generally taken for an Englishman, never for a member of the Latin
peoples; except possibly in the north of France, where his type, among
those Norman descendants of Norse and Danes, was not uncommon.
Nevertheless, although his northern inheritance predominated, he was
conscious at times of a certain affinity with the race that two
thousand years ago had met and mingled with his own.
He turned his eyes swiftly and met hers.  She colored faintly and
dropped her lids.  Had she lowered those broad lids over a warm glow?
"Now I know what you look like!" he exclaimed, and was surprised to
find that his voice was not quite steady.  "A Nordic princess."
"Oh!  That is the very most charming compliment ever paid me."
"You look a pretty unadulterated type for this late date.  I don't mean
in color only, of course; there are millions of blondes."
"My mother was a brunette."
"Oh, yes, you are a case of atavism, no doubt.  If I were as good a
poet as one of my brother columnists I should have written a poem to
you long since.  I can see you sweeping northward over the steppes of
Russia as the ice-caps retreated . . . reëmbodied on the Baltic coast
or the shores of the North Sea . . . sleeping for ages in one of the
Megaliths, to rise again a daughter of the Brythons, or of a Norse
Viking . . . west into Anglia to appear once more as a Priestess of
the Druids chaunting in a sacred grove . . . or as Boadicea--who
knows!  But no prose can regenerate that shadowy time.  I see
it--prehistory--as a swaying mass of ghostly multitudes, but always
pressing on--on . . . as we shall appear, no doubt, ten thousand years
hence if all histories are destroyed--as no doubt they will be.  If I
were an epic poet I might possibly find words and rhythm to fit that
white vision, but it is wholly beyond the practical vocabulary and
mental make-up of a newspaper man of the twentieth century.  Some of us
write very good poetry indeed, but it is not precisely inspired, and it
certainly is not epic.  One would have to retire to a cave like Buddha
and fast."
"You write singularly pure English, in spite of what seems to me a
marked individuality of style, and--ah--your apparent delight in
slang!"  Her voice was quite even, although her eyes had glowed and
sparkled and melted at his poetic phantasma of her past (as what
woman's would not?).  "I find a rather painful effort to be--what do
you call it? highbrow?--in some of your writers."
"The youngsters.  I went through that phase.  We all do.  But we
emerge.  I mean, of course, when we have anything to express.
Metaphysical verbosity is a friendly refuge.  But as a rule years and
hard knocks drive us to directness of expression. . . .  But poets must
begin young.  And New York is not exactly a hot-bed of romance."
"Do you think that romance is impossible in New York?" she asked
irresistibly.
"I--oh--well, what is romance?  Of course, it is quite possible to fall
in love in New York--although anything but the ideal setting.  But
romance!"
"Surely the sense of mystery between a man and woman irresistibly
attracted may be as provocative in a great city as in a feudal castle
surrounded by an ancient forest--or on one of my Dolomite lakes.  Is it
not that which constitutes romance--the breathless trembling on the
verge of the unexplored--that isolates two human beings as
authentically--I am picking up your vocabulary--as if they were alone
on a star in space?  Is it not possible to dream here in New York?--and
surely dreams play their part in romance."  Her fingertips, moving
delicately on the surface of her lap, had a curious suggestion of
playing with fire.
"One needs leisure for dreams."  He stood up suddenly and leaned
against the mantelpiece.  The atmosphere had become electric.  "A good
thing, too, as far as some of us are concerned.  The last thing for a
columnist to indulge in is dreams.  Fine hash he'd have for his readers
next morning!"
"Do you mean to say that none of you clever young men fall in love?"
"Every day in the week, some of them.  They even marry--and tell
fatuous yarns about their babies.  No doubt some of them have even
gloomed through brief periods of unreciprocated passion.  But they
don't look very romantic to me."
"Romance is impossible without imagination, I should think.  Aching for
what you cannot have or falling in love reciprocally with a charming
girl is hardly romance.  That is a gift--like the spark that goes to
the making of Art."
"Are you romantic?" he asked harshly.  "You look as if born to inspire
romance--dreams--like a beautiful statue or painting--but mysterious as
you make yourself--and, I believe, are in essence--I should never have
associated you with the romantic temperament.  Your eyes--as they too
often are----  Oh, no!"
"It is true that I have never had a romance."
"You married--and very young."
"Oh, what is young love!  The urge of the race.  A blaze that ends in
babies or ashes.  Romance!"
"You have--other men have loved you."
"European men--the type my lot was cast with--may be romantic in their
extreme youth--I have never been attracted by men in that stage of
development, so I may only suppose--but when a man has learned to
adjust passion to technique there is not much romance left in him."
"Are you waiting for your romance, then?  Have you come to this more
primitive civilization to find it?"
She raised her head and looked him full in the eyes.  "No, I did not
believe in the possibility then."
"May I have a high-ball?"
"Certainly."
He took his drink on the other side of the room.  It was several
minutes before he returned to the hearth.  Then he asked without
looking at her: "How do you expect to find romance if you shut yourself
up?"
"I wanted nothing less.  As little as I wanted it to be known that I
was here at all."
"That damnable mystery!  Who are you?"
"Nothing that you have imagined.  It is far stranger--I fancy it would
cure you."
"Cure me?"
"Yes.  Do you deny that you love me?"
"No, by God!  I don't!  But you take a devilish advantage.  You must
know that I had meant to keep my head.  Of course, you are playing with
me--with your cursed technique! . . .  Unless . . ."  He reached her in
a stride and stood over her.  "Is it possible--do you--you----"
She pushed back her chair, and stood behind it.  Her cheeks were very
pink, her eyes startled, but very soft.  "I do not admit that yet--I
have been too astounded--I went away to think by myself--where I was
sure not to see you--but--my mind seemed to revolve in circles.  I
don't know!  I don't know!"
"You do know!  You are not the woman to mistake a passing interest for
the real thing."
"Oh, does a woman ever--I never wanted to be as young as that again!
I should have believed it impossible if I had given the matter a
thought--It is so long!  I had forgotten what love was like.  There was
nothing I had buried as deep.  And there are reasons--reasons!"
"I only follow you vaguely.  But I think I understand--worse luck!
I've hated you more than once.  You must have known that.  I believe
you are deliberately leading me on to make a fool of myself."
"I am not!  Oh, I am not!"
"Do you love me?"
"I--I want to be sure.  I have dreamed . . .  I--I have leisure, you
see.  This old house shuts out the world--Europe--the past.  The war
might have cut my life in two.  If it had not been for that--that long
selfless interval . . .  I'd like you to go now."
"Will you marry me?"
"It may be.  I can't tell.  Not yet.  Are you content to wait?"
"I am not!  But I've no intention of taking you by force, although I
don't feel particularly civilized at the present moment.  But I'll win
you and have you if you love me.  Make no doubt of that.  You may have
ten thousand strange reasons--they count for nothing with me.  And I
intend to see you every day.  I'll call you up in the morning.  Now I
go, and as quickly as I can get out."
XX
He plunged down the steps into a snowstorm.  Even during his
precipitate retreat he had realized the advisability of telephoning for
a taxi, but had been incapable of the anti-climax.  He pulled his hat
over his eyes, turned up the collar of his coat, and made his way
hastily toward Park Avenue.  There was not a cab in sight.  Nor was
there a rumble in the tunnel; no doubt the cars were snow-bound.  He
hesitated only a moment: it would hardly take him longer to walk to his
hotel than to the Grand Central Station, but he crossed over to Madison
Avenue at once, for it was bitter walking and there was a bare chance
of picking up a cab returning from one of the hotels.
But the narrow street between its high dark walls looked like a
deserted mountain pass rapidly filling with snow.  The tall
street-lamps shed a sad and ghostly beam.  They might have been the
hooded torches of cave dwellers sheltering from enemies and the storm
in those perpendicular fastnesses.  Far down, a red sphere glowed
dimly, exalting the illusion.  He almost fancied he could see the
out-posts of primeval forests bending over the cañon and wondered why
the "Poet of Manhattan" had never immortalized a scene at once so
sinister and so lovely.
And no stillness of a high mountain solitude had ever been more
intense.  Not even a muffled roar from trains on the distant "L's."
Clavering wondered if he really were in New York.  The whole evening
had been unreal enough.  Certainly all that was prosaic and ugly and
feverish had been obliterated by what it was no flight of fancy to call
white magic.  That seething mass of humanity, that so often looked as
if rushing hither and thither with no definite purpose, driven merely
by the obsession of speed, was as supine in its brief privacy as its
dead.  In spite of the fever in him he felt curiously uplifted--and
glad to be alone.  There are moods and solitudes when a man wants no
woman, however much he may be wanting one particular woman. . . .  But
the mood was ephemeral; he had been too close to her a moment before.
Moreover, she was still unpossessed. . . .  She seemed to take shape
slowly in the white whirling snow, as white and imponderable. . . .  A
Nordic princess drifting northward over her steppes. . . .  God!  Would
he ever get her? . . .  If he did not it would be because one of them
was qualifying for another incarnation.
He walked down the avenue as rapidly as possible, his hands in his
pockets, his head bent to the wind, no longer transported; forcing his
mind to dwell on the warmth of his rooms and his bed. . . .  His head
ached.  He'd go to the office tomorrow and write his column there.
Then think things out.  How was he to win such a woman?  Make her sure
of herself?  Convert her doubts into a passionate certainty?  She, with
her highly technical past!  Make no mistakes?  If he made a precipitate
ass of himself--what comparisons! . . .  His warm bed . . . the
complete and personal isolation of his rooms . . . he had never given
even a tea to women . . . he gave his dinners in restaurants. . . .
How many more blocks?  The snow was thicker.  He couldn't even see the
arcade of Madison Square Garden, although a faint diffused radiance
high in air was no doubt the crown of lights on the Metropolitan
Tower. . . .  Had he made a wrong move in bolting----?
His thoughts and counter-thoughts came to an abrupt end.  At the corner
of Thirtieth Street he collided with a small figure in a fur coat and
nearly knocked it over.  He was for striding on with a muttered
apology, when the girl caught him by the arm with a light laugh.
"Lee Clavering!  What luck!  Take me home."
He was looking down into the dark naughty little face of Janet
Oglethorpe, granddaughter of the redoubtable Jane.
"What on earth are you doing here?" he asked stupidly.
"Perhaps I'll tell you and perhaps I won't.  On second thoughts don't
take me home.  Take me to one of those all-night restaurants.  That's
just the one thing I haven't seen, and I'm hungry."
He subtly became an uncle.  "I'll do nothing of the sort.  You ought to
be ashamed of yourself--alone in the streets at this hour of the night.
It must be one o'clock.  I shall take you home.  I suppose you have a
latch-key, but for two cents I'd ring the bell and hand you over to
your mother."
"Mother went to Florida today and dad's duck-hunting in South Carolina.
Aunt Mollie's too deaf to hear doorbells and believes anything I tell
her."
"I am astonished that your mother left you behind to your own devices."
"I wouldn't go.  She's given me up--used to my devices.  Besides, I've
one or two on her and she doesn't dare give me away to dad.  He thinks
I'm a darling spoilt child.  Not that I'd mind much if he didn't, but
it's more convenient."
"You little wretch!  I believe you've been drinking."
"So I have!  So I have!  But I've got an asbestos lining and could
stand another tall one.  Ah!"  Her eyes sparkled.  "Suppose you take me
to your rooms----"
"I'll take you home----"
"You'll take me to one of those all-nighters----"
"I shall not."
"Then ta! ta!  I'll go home by myself.  I've had too good a time
tonight to bother with old fogies."
She started up the street and Clavering hesitated but a moment.  Her
home was on East Sixty-fifth Street.  Heaven only knew what might
happen to her.  Moreover, although her mother was one of those women
whose insatiable demand for admiration bored him, he had no more
devoted friends than her father and her grandmother.  Furthermore, his
curiosity was roused.  What had the little devil been up to?
He overtook the Oglethorpe flapper and seizing her hand drew it through
his arm.
"I'll take you where you can get a sandwich," he said.  "But I'll not
take you to a restaurant.  Too likely to meet newspaper men."
"Anything to drink?"
"Ice cream soda."
"Good Lord!"
"You needn't drink it.  But you'll get nothing else.  Come along or
I'll pick you up and carry you to the nearest garage."
She trotted obediently beside him, a fragile dainty figure; carried
limply, however, and little more distinguished than flappers of
inferior origin.  He led her to a rather luxurious delicatessen not far
from his hotel, kept by enterprising Italians who never closed their
doors.  They seated themselves uncomfortably at the high counter, and
the sleepy attendant served them with sandwiches, then retired to the
back of the shop.  He was settling himself to alert repose when Miss
Oglethorpe suddenly changed her mind and ordered a chocolate ice cream
soda.  Then she ordered another, and she ate six sandwiches, a slice of
cake and two bananas.
"Great heaven!" exclaimed Clavering.  "You must have the stomach of an
ostrich."
"Can eat nails and drink fire water."
"Well, you won't two years hence, and you'll look it, too."
"Oh, no I won't.  I'll marry when I'm nineteen and a half and settle
down."
"I should say you were heading the other way.  Where have you been
tonight?"
"Donny Farren gave a party in his rooms and passed out just as he was
about to take me home.  I loosened his collar and put a pillow under
his head, but I couldn't lift him, even to the sofa.  Too fat."
[Illustration: Returning home one night Clavering (Conway Tearle) found
Janet Oglethorpe (Clara Bow), daughter of his old friend, in a
semi-intoxicated condition.  (Screen version of "The Black Oxen.")]
"I suppose you pride yourself on being a good sport."
"Rather.  If Donny'd been ill I'd have stayed with him all night, but
he was dead to the world."
"You say he had a party.  Why didn't some of the others take you home?"
"Ever hear about three being a crowd?  Donny, naturally, was all for
taking me home, and didn't show any signs of collapse till the last
minute."
"But I should think that for decency's sake you'd all have gone down
together."
"Lord!  How old-fashioned you are.  I was finishing a cigarette and
never thought of it."  She opened a little gold mesh bag, took out a
cigarette and lit it.  Her cheeks were flushed under the rouge and her
large black eyes glittered in her fluid little face.  She was one of
the beauties of the season's débutantes, but scornful of nature.  Her
olive complexion was thickly powdered and there was a delicate smudge
of black under her lower lashes and even on her eyelids.  He had never
seen her quite so blatantly made up before, but then he had seen little
of her since the beginning of her first season.  He rarely went to
parties, and she was almost as rarely in her own home or her
grandmother's.  Her short hair curled about her face.  In spite of her
paint she looked like a child--a greedy child playing with life.
"Look here!" he said.  "How far do you go?"
"Wouldn't you like to know?"
"I should.  Not for personal reasons, for girls of your age bore me to
extinction, but you've a certain sociological interest.  I wonder if
you are really any worse than your predecessors?"
"I guess girls have always been human enough, but we have more
opportunities.  We've made 'em.  This is our age and we're enjoying it
to the limit.  God! what stupid times girls must have had--some of them
do yet.  They're naturally goody-goody, or their parents are too much
for them.  Not many, though.  Parents have taken a back seat."
"I don't quite see what you get out of it--guzzling, and smoking your
nerves out by the roots, and making yourselves cheap with men little
older than yourselves."
"You don't see, I suppose, why girls should have their fling, or"--her
voice wavered curiously--"why youth takes naturally to youth.  I
suppose you think that is a cruel thing for a girl to say."
"Not in the least," he answered cheerfully.  "Don't mind a bit.  But
what do you get out of it--that's what I'm curious to know."
She tossed her head and blew a perfect ring.  "Don't you know that
girls never really enjoyed life before?"
"It depends upon the point of view, I should think."
"No, there's a lot more in it than you guess.  The girls used to sit
round waiting for men to call and wondering if they'd condescend to
show up at the next dance; while the men fairly raced after the girls
with whom they could have a free and easy time--no company manners, no
chaperons, no prudish affectations about kisses and things.  No fear of
shocking if they wanted to let go--the strain must have been awful.
You know what men are.  They like to call a spade a spade and be damned
to it.  Our sort didn't have a chance.  They couldn't compete.  So, we
made up our minds to compete in the only way possible.  We leave off
our corsets at dances so they can get a new thrill out of us, then sit
out in an automobile and drink and have little petting parties of two.
And we slip out and have an occasional lark like tonight.  We're not to
be worried about, either."
"Why cryptic after your really admirable frankness?  But there's always
a point beyond which women never will go when confessing their
souls. . . .  I suppose you think you're as hard as nails.  Do you
really imagine that you will ever be able to fall in love and marry and
want children?"
"Don't men?"
"Ancient standards are not annihilated in one generation."
"There's got to be a beginning to everything, hasn't there?  One would
think the world stood still, to hear you talk.  But anything new always
makes the fogies sick."
"Nothing makes me as sick as your bad manners--you and all your
tribe.  Men, at least, don't lose their breeding if they choose to sow
wild oats.  But women go the whole hog or none."
"Other times, other manners.  We make our own, and you have to put up
with them whether you like it or not.  See?"
"I see that you are even sillier than I thought.  You need nothing so
much as a sound spanking."
"Your own manners are none too good.  You've handed me one insult after
another."
"I've merely talked to you as your father would if he were not blind.
Besides, it would probably make you sick to be 'respected.'  Come
along.  We'll go round to a garage and get a taxi.  Why on earth didn't
you ring for a taxi from Farren's?"
"I tried to, but it's an apartment house and there was no one
downstairs to make the connection.  Too late.  So I footed it."  She
yawned prodigiously.  "I'm ready at last for my little bunk.  Hope
you've enjoyed this more than I have.  You'd be a scream at a petting
party."
Clavering paid his small account and they issued into the storm once
more.  It was impossible to talk.  In the taxi she went to sleep.
Thank Heaven!  He had had enough of her.  Odious brat.  More than once
he had had a sudden vision of Mary Zattiany during that astonishing
conversation at the counter.  The "past" she had suggested to his
tormented mind was almost literary by contrast.  She, herself, a queen
granting favors, beside this little fashionable near-strumpet.  They
didn't breathe the same air, nor walk on the same plane.  Who, even if
this little fool were merely demi-vierge, would hesitate between them?
One played the game in the grand manner, the other like a glorified
gutter-snipe.  But he was thankful for the diversion, and when he
reached his own bed he fell asleep immediately and did not turn over
for seven hours.
XXI
He had informed Madame Zattiany's butler over the telephone that he
would call that evening at half-past nine, but he returned to his rooms
after a day at the office with lagging steps.  He dreaded another
evening in that library by the fire.  It was beyond his imagination to
foresee how she would treat him, what rôle she would choose to play,
and although he was grimly determined to play whatever rôle she
assigned to him (for the present!), he hated the prospect.  He was in
no mood for a "game."  This wooing was like nothing his imagination had
ever prefigured.  To be put on trial . . . to sit with the woman in the
great solitude of the house and the very air vibrating between
them . . . or frozen . . . self-conscious as a schoolboy up for
inspection . . . afraid of making a false move. . . .  What in God's
name would they talk about?  Politics?  Books?  Art?  Banalities! . . .
he'd half a mind to go to Florida after all . . . or join Jim
Oglethorpe in South Carolina: he had a standing invitation . . . he'd
return by the next train; he'd felt as if existing in a vacuum all
day. . . .
When he reached his rooms he found his problem solved for the
moment--possibly.  A telephone slip informed him that Madame Zattiany
would be at home, and a note from Mrs. Oglethorpe enclosed tickets for
her box at the opera that night.
If she would only go!
He called the house.  The butler answered and retired to summon Madame
Zattiany.  Her voice came clear and cool over the telephone.  He
invited her to go to Sherry's for dinner and to hear Farrar in
Butterfly afterward.  "I must tell you that we shall sit in a box,"
he added.  "Mrs. Oglethorpe's."
"Oh!"  There was a pause that seemed eternal.  Then she laughed
suddenly, a laugh of intense amusement that ended on a note of
recklessness.  "Well!  Why not?  Yes, I will go.  Very many thanks."
"Good.  It means an early dinner.  I'll call for you at a quarter to
seven."
"I'm promptness itself.  Au 'voir."
So that was that!  One night's respite.  He'd leave her at her door.
He wondered if his voice had been as impersonal as her own: he had
almost barked into the telephone and had probably overdone it.  But was
any man ever in such a ghastly position before?  Well, he'd lose the
game before he'd make a fool of himself again. . . .  Ass . . . he'd
had the game in his own hands last night . . . could have switched off
any moment.  He'd let go and delivered himself into hers.
He took a cold shower, and made a meticulous toilet.
When he arrived at the house he was shown into the drawing-room.  He
had never seen it before and he glanced about him with some curiosity.
It was a period room: Louis Quinze.  The furniture looked as if made of
solid gold and Madame Du Barry herself might have sat on the dainty
brocades.  The general effect was airy and graceful, gay, frivolous,
and subtly vicious.  (An emanation to which the chaste Victorian had
been impervious.)  He understood why Madame Zattiany did not use it.
She might be subtly anything, but assuredly she was neither airy nor
frivolous.
Then he realized that there was a painting of a girl over the mantel
and that the girl was Mary Ogden.  He stepped forward eagerly, almost
holding his breath.  The portrait ended at the tiny waist, and the
stiff satin of the cuirass-like bodice was softened with tulle which
seemed to float about the sloping shoulders.  The soft ashen hair,
growing in a deep point on the broad full brow, was brushed softly back
and coiled low on the long white neck.  The mouth was soft and pouting,
with a humorous quirk at the corners, and the large dark gray eyes were
full of a mocking light that seemed directed straight into the depths
of his puzzled brain as he stood gazing at that presentment of a once
potent and long vanished beauty. . . .  Extraordinarily like and yet so
extraordinarily unlike!  But the resemblance may have well been exact
when Mary Zattiany was twenty.  How had Mary Ogden looked at thirty?
That very lift of the strong chin, that long arch of nostril . . .
something began to beat in the back of his brain. . . .
"What a beauty poor Mary must have been, no?"
He turned, and forgot the portrait.  Madame Zattiany wore a gown of
that subtle but unmistakable green that no light can turn blue; thin
shimmering velvet to the knees, melting into satin embroidered with
silver and veiled with tulle.  On her head was a small diamond tiara
and her breast was a blaze of emeralds and diamonds.  She carried a
large fan of green feathers.
He had believed he had measured the extent of her beauty, but the crown
gave her a new radiance--and she looked as attainable as a queen on her
throne.
He went forward and raised her hand to his lips.  "I insist," he said
gallantly.  "Anything else would be out of the picture.  I need not
tell you how wonderful you look--nor that after tonight you will hardly
remain obscure!"
"Why do things halfway?  It has never been my method.  And Mary told me
once that Nile-green had been her favorite color until she lost her
complexion.  So--as I am to exhibit myself in a box--enfin! . . .
Besides, I wanted to go."  She smiled charmingly.  "It was most kind of
you to think of me."
"Would that all 'kind' acts were as graciously rewarded.  I shall be
insufferably conceited for the rest of my life--only it is doubtful if
I shall be seen at all.  Shall we go?"
When they arrived at Sherry's they found the large restaurant almost
deserted.  It was barely seven.  After he had ordered the dinner--and
he thanked his stars that he knew how to order a dinner--she said
casually:
"I had a call from your friend, Miss Dwight, today."
"Yes?  You did not see her, I suppose?"
"Oh, but I did.  We talked for two hours.  It was almost comical--the
sheer delight in talking to a woman once more.  I have never been what
is called a woman's woman, but I always had my friends, and I suddenly
realized that I had missed my own sex."
"I shouldn't fancy that you two would have much in common."
"You forget that we were both nurses.  We compared experiences: methods
of nursing, operations, doctors, surgeons, shell shock, plastic
surgery, the various characteristics of wounded men--all the rest of
it."
"It must have been an exciting conversation."
"You never could be brought to believe it, but it was.  Afterward, we
talked of other things.  She seems to me quite a remarkable woman."
"Entirely so.  What is it she lacks that prevents men from falling in
love with her?  Men flock there, and she is more discussed as a mind
and a personality than any woman among us; but it is all above the
collar.  And yet those handsome-ugly women often captivate men."
"You ask one woman why another cannot fascinate men!  I should say that
it is for want of transmission.  The heart and passions are there--I
will risk guessing that she has been tragically in love at least
once--but there is something wrong with the conduit that carries sexual
magnetism; it has been bent upward to the brain instead of directed
straight to the sex for which it was designed.  Moreover, she is too
coldly and obviously analytical and lacks the tact to conceal it.  Men
do not mind being skewered when they are out for purely intellectual
enjoyment, but they do not love it."
Clavering laughed.  "I fancy your own mind is quite as coldly
analytical, but nature took care of your conduits and you see to the
tact.  You cannot teach Gora how to redistribute her magnetism, but you
might give her a few points."
"They would be wasted.  It is merely that I am a woman of the world,
something she will never be.  And in my hey-day, I can assure you, I
was not analytical."
"Your hey-day?"
"I was a good many years younger before the war, remember.  Heavens!
How rowdy those young people are!  A month ago I should have asked if
they were ladies and gentlemen, but I have been quite close to their
kind in the tea rooms and their accent is unmistakable; although the
girls talk and act like gamines.  One of them seems to know you."
Clavering had been conscious that the restaurant was filling with
groups and couples, bound, no doubt, for the opera or theatre.  He
followed Madame Zattiany's eyes.  In the middle of the room was a large
table surrounded by very young men and girls; the latter as fragile and
lovely as butterflies: that pathetic and swiftly passing youth of the
too pampered American girl.  The youth of this generation promised to
be briefer than ever!
He gave them a cursory glance, and then his chair turned to pins.
Janet Oglethorpe sat at the head of the table.  What would the brat do?
She had been fond of him as a child, but as he had found her detestable
in her flapperhood, and been at no pains to conceal his attitude, she
had taken a violent dislike to him.  Last night he had deliberately
flicked her on the raw.
He was not long in doubt.  She had returned his perfunctory bow with a
curt nod, and after a brief interval--during which she appeared to be
making a communication that was received with joyous hilarity--she left
her seat and ran across the room.  She might have been in her own house
for all the notice she took of the restaurant's other guests.
Clavering rose and grimly awaited the onslaught.  Even the waiters were
staring, but for the moment only at the flashing little figure whose
cheeks matched to a shade the American Beauty rose of her wisp of a
gown.
Her big black eyes were sparkling wickedly, her vivid little mouth wore
a twist that can only be described as a grin.  She had come for her
revenge.  No doubt of that.
She bore down on him, and shook his unresponsive hand heartily.  "I've
been telling them how dear and noble you were last night, dear Mr.
Clavering, just like a real uncle, or what any one would expect of one
of granny's pets.  No doubt you saved my life and honor, and I want to
tell the world." Her crisp clear voice was pitched in G.  It carried
from end to end of the silent room.
"Would that I were your uncle!  Won't you sit down?  I believe that you
have not met Madame Zattiany."
Miss Oglethorpe had not cast a glance at her victim's companion,
assuming her to be some writing person; although he did once in a while
take out Anne Goodrich or Marian Lawrence: old girls--being all of
twenty-four--in whom she took no interest whatever.
She half turned her head with a barely perceptible nod.  The tail of
her eye was arrested.  She swung round and stared, her mouth open.  For
the moment she was abashed; whatever else she may have submerged, her
caste instinct remained intact and for a second she had the unpleasant
sensation of standing at the bar of her entire class.  But she
recovered immediately.  Grandes dames were out of date.  Even her
mother had worn her skirts to her knees a short time since.  What fun
to "show this left-over."  And then her spiteful naughtiness was
magnified by anger.  Madame Zattiany had inclined her head graciously,
but made no attempt to conceal her amusement.
"Yes, I'll sit down.  Thanks."  She produced a cigarette and lit it.
"Granny's got a lot of ancient photographs of her girlhood friends,"
she remarked with her insolent eyes on Madame Zattiany, "and one of
them's enough like you to be you masquerading in the get-up of the
eighties.  Comes back to me.  Just before mother left I heard her
discussing you with a bunch of her friends.  Isn't there some mystery
or other about you?"
"Yes, indeed!  Is it not so?"  Madame Zattiany addressed her glowering
host, her eyes twinkling.  It was evident that she regarded this
representative of the new order with a scientific interest, as if it
were a new sort of bug and herself an entomologist.  "Probably," she
added indulgently, "the most mysterious woman in New York.  What you
would call an adventuress if you were not too young to be uncharitable.
Mr. Clavering is kind enough to take me on trust."
Miss Oglethorpe's wrath waxed.  This creature of an obsolete order had
the temerity to laugh at her.  Moreover----  She flashed a glance from
Clavering's angry anxious face to the beautiful woman opposite, and a
real color blazed in her cheeks.  But she summoned a sneer.
"Noble again!  Has he told you of our little adventure last night?"
"Last night?"  A flicker crossed the serenity of Madame Zattiany's
face.  "But no.  I do not fancy Mr. Clavering is in the habit of
telling his little adventures."
"Oh, he wouldn't.  Old standards.  Southern chivalry.  All the rest of
it.  That's why he's granny's model young man.  Well, I'll tell you----"
"You've been drinking again," hissed Clavering.
"Of course.  Cocktail party at Donny's----"
"Well, moderate your voice.  It isn't necessary to take the entire room
into your confidence.  Better still, go back to your own table."
She raised her voice.  "You see, Madame Zattiany, I was running round
loose at about one o'clock A. M. when whom should I run into but dear
old Uncle Lee.  He looked all shot to pieces when he saw me.  Girls in
his day didn't stay out late unless they had a beau.  Ten o'clock was
the limit, anyhow.  But did he take advantage of my unprotected maiden
innocence?  Not he.  He stood there in the snow and delivered a lecture
on the error of my ways, then took me to a delicatessen shop--afraid of
compromising himself in a restaurant--and stuffed me with sandwiches
and bananas.  Even there, while we were perched on two high stools, he
didn't make love to me as any human man would have done.  He just ate
sandwiches and lectured.  God!  Life must have been dull for girls in
his day!"
People about them were tittering.  One young man burst into a guffaw.
Madame Zattiany was calmly eating her dinner.  The tirade might have
fallen on deaf ears.
Clavering's skin had turned almost black.  His eyes looked murderous.
But he did not raise his voice.  "Go back to your table," he said
peremptorily.  "You've accomplished your revenge and I've had all I
propose to stand. . . .  By God!  If you don't get out this minute I'll
pick you up and carry you out and straight to your grandmother."
"Yes you would--make a scene."
"The scene could hardly be improved.  Will you go?"
He half rose.  Even Madame Zattiany glanced at him apprehensively.
Miss Oglethorpe laughed uncertainly.  "Oh, very well.  At least we
never furnish material for your newspapers.  That's just one thing we
think beneath us."  She rose and extended her hand.  "Good night,
Madame Zattiany," she said with a really comical assumption of the
grand manner.  "It has been a great pleasure to meet you."
Madame Zattiany took the proffered hand.  "Good night," she said
sweetly.  "Your little comedy has been most amusing.  Many thanks."
Miss Oglethorpe jerked her shoulders.  "Well, console dear unky.  He'd
like the floor to open and swallow him.  Ta!  Ta!"
She ran back to her table, and its hilarity was shortly augmented.
Madame Zattiany looked at Clavering aghast.  "But it is worse than I
supposed!" she exclaimed.  "It is really a tragedy.  Poor Mrs.
Oglethorpe."  Then she laughed, silently but with intense amusement.
"I wish she had been here!  After all! . . .  Nevertheless, it is a
tragedy.  An Oglethorpe!  A mere child intoxicated . . . and truly
atrocious manners.  Why don't her people put her in a sanitarium?"
"Parents count about as much today as women counted in the cave era.
But it is abominable that you should be made conspicuous."
"Oh, that!  I have been conspicuous all my life.  And you must admit
that she had the centre of the stage!  If any one is to be
commiserated, it is you.  But you really behaved admirably; I could
only admire your restraint."
Clavering's ferment subsided, and he returned her smile.  "I hope I
didn't express all I felt.  Murder would have been too good for her.
But you are an angel.  And for all her bravado you must have made her
feel like the little vulgarian she is.  Heavens, but the civilization
varnish is thin!--and when they deliberately rub it off----"
"Tell me of this adventure."
"It was such a welcome adventure after leaving you!  She told
practically the whole of it.  She had been to a party and her host was
too drunk to take her home.  She couldn't get a taxi, so started to
walk.  After I had fed the little pig I took her home.  Of course I had
no intention of mentioning it to any one, but I hardly feel that I am
compromising my honor as a gentleman!"
"But will Society permit this state of things to last?  New York!  It
seems incredible."
"Heaven knows.  It might as well try to curb the lightning as these
little fools.  Their own children, if they have any, will probably be
worse."
"I wonder.  Reformed rakes are not generally indulgent to adventurous
youth.  There will probably be a violent revulsion to the rigors of the
nineteenth century."
"Hope so.  Thank Heaven we can get out of this."
They left the table.  As he followed her down the long room and noted
the many eyes that focussed on the regal and beautiful figure in its
long wrap of white velvet and fox he set his lips grimly.  Another
ordeal before him.  For a moment he wished that he had fallen in love
with a woman incapable of focussing eyes.  He hated being conspicuous
as he hated poverty and ugliness and failure and death.  Then he gave
an impatient sigh.  If he could win her he cared little if the entire
town followed her every time she appeared on the street.  And she had
been very sweet after that odious flapper had taken herself off.  He
had ceased to feel at arm's length.
XXII
They entered the box during the nuptial hymn.  Farrar, almost supine in
the arms of the seducer, was singing with the voluptuous abandon that
makes this scene the most explicit in modern opera.  She had sung it a
thousand times, but she was still the beautiful young creature exalted by
passion, and her voice seemed to have regained its pristine freshness.
She had done many things to irritate New Yorkers, but in this scene,
whether they forgave her or not, they surrendered; and those to whom love
and passion were lost memories felt a dim resurgence under that golden
tide.
Clavering had no desire to surrender.  In fact he endeavored to close his
ears.  He had received a cold douche and a hot one in the course of the
past hour, and he felt that his equilibrium was satisfactorily
established.  He had forgotten to warn Madame Zattiany of the step at the
front of the box, down which so many novices had stumbled, but she had
taken it and settled herself with the nonchalance of custom.  Odd.  Once
more something beat in the back of his brain.  But he dismissed it
impatiently.  No doubt many boxes in Europe were constructed in the same
fashion.
He had seated himself a little to the right and behind her.  He saw her
lids droop and her hands move restlessly.  Then, as the curtain went down
and Farrar was accepting the customary plaudits, her eyes opened and
moved over the rich and beautiful auditorium with a look of hungry
yearning.  This was too much for Clavering and he demanded abruptly:
"Why do you look like that?  Have you ever been here before?"
She turned to him with a smile.  "What a question! . . .  But opera, both
the silliest and the most exalting of the arts, is the Youth of Life, its
perpetual and final expression.  And when the house is dark I always
imagine it haunted by the ghosts of dead opera singers, or of those whose
fate is sadder still.  Does it never affect you in that way?"
"Can't say it does. . . .  But . . .  I vaguely remember--some ten years
ago a young singer with a remarkable voice sang Marguerite once on that
stage and then disappeared overnight . . . lost her voice, it was
said. . . ."
She gave a low choking laugh.  "And you think I am she?  Really!"
"I think nothing, but that I am here with you--and that in another moment
I shall want to sit on the floor--Oh, Lord!"
The house was a blaze of light.  It looked like a vast gold and red jewel
box, built to exhibit in the fullness of their splendor the most
luxurious and extravagant women in the world.  And it was filled tonight
from coifed and jewelled orchestra to highest balcony, where plainer
people with possibly jewelled souls clung like flies.  Not a box was
empty.  Clavering's glance swept the parterre, hoping it would be
occupied for the most part by the youngest set, less likely to be
startled by the resemblance of his guest to the girl who had sat among
their grandmothers when the opera house was new.  But there were few of
the very young in the boxes.  They found their entertainment where
traditions were in the making, and dismissed the opera as an old
superstition, far too long-winded and boring for enterprising young
radicals.
Against the red backgrounds he saw the austere and homely faces of women
who represented all that was oldest and best in New York Society, and
they wore their haughty bones unchastened by power.  There were many more
of the succeeding generation, of course, many more whose ancestry derived
from gold not blood, and they made up in style and ritual what they
lacked in pulchritude.  Lack of beauty in the parterre boxes was as
notorious as the "horseshoe" itself, Dame Nature and Dame Fortune, rivals
always, having been at each other's throats some century and
three-quarters ago, and little more friendly when the newer aristocracy
of mere wealth was founded.  All the New York Society Beauties were
historical, the few who had survived the mere prettiness of youth
entering a private Hall of Fame while still alive.
It had begun!  Clavering fell back, folded his arms and set his teeth.
First one pair of opera glasses in the parterre, then another, then
practically all were levelled at Mrs. Oglethorpe's box.  Young men and
old in the omnibus box remained in their seats.  Very soon white
shoulders and black in the orchestra chairs began to change their angle,
attracted by the stir in the boxes.  That comment was flowing freely, he
made no doubt.  In the boxes on either side of him the occupants were
staring less openly, but with frequent amazed side glances and much
whispering.  Madame Zattiany sat like an idol.  She neither sought to
relieve what embarrassment she may have felt--if she felt any! thought
Clavering--by talking to her escort nor by gazing idly about the house
comparing other women's gowns and crowns with her own.  She might have
been a masterpiece in a museum.
A diversion occurred for which Clavering at least was grateful.  The door
opened and Mr. Dinwiddie entered, limping and leaning on a cane.  He
looked pale and worried.  Clavering resigned his seat and took one still
further in the rear.  But the low-pitched dialogue came to him distinctly.
"Is this prudent?" murmured Dinwiddie, as he sat himself heavily beside
her.  "There will be nothing else talked of in New York tomorrow.  So far
there have only been rumors.  But here!  You look like Mary Ogden risen
from the dead.  There's a rumor, by the way, that she is dead."
"She was alive the last time I heard from Vienna.  But why imprudent?
Mr. Clavering told me of your kind concern, but I assure you that I am
neither a political nor a marital refugee."
"But you have a secret you wish to keep.  Believe me, you can do so no
longer.  The Sophisticates are generous and casual.  They take you on
your face value and their curiosity is merely human and good-natured.
But this!  In Jane Oglethorpe's box!  It is in the nature of an invasion.
You hardly could have done more if you had forced yourself into a
drawing-room uninvited.  You must either come out tomorrow and tell them
who you are, establish yourself . . . or . . . or----"
"Well?"  Madame Zattiany was smiling, and, probably, the most serene
person in the house.
"I--I--think you had better go back to Europe.  I must be frank.
Anything less would be cowardly.  You interest me too much. . . .  But I
can only suppose that your secret is of the sort that if discovered--and
they will discover it!--would cause you grave embarrassment."
"You mean if I am Mary Zattiany's illegitimate daughter?"
"I don't think they would have minded that if you had brought letters to
them from Mary asking them to be kind to you--and if you had made a good
marriage.  But to have it flung in their faces like this--they will never
forgive you."
"And you think I am Mary Zattiany's daughter?"
"I--yes--I think I have gone back to my original theory.  But there must
be something behind.  She never would have let you come over here with a
letter only to Trent.  She knew that she could rely on many of her old
friends.  No people in the world are more loyal to their own than these
old New Yorkers."
"And suppose she did give me letters--and that I have not been interested
enough to present them?"
"I knew it!  But I am afraid it's too late now.  They not only will
resent your indifference, but they are extremely averse to anything like
sensational drama in private life.  And your appearance here tonight is
extremely dramatic!  They'll never forgive you," he reiterated solemnly.
"Really?  Well, let us enjoy the next act," she added indulgently.  "I
hope you will remain here."
The curtain had gone up.  The audience, balked of the private drama, in
which they had manifested no aversion whatever from playing their own
rôle, transferred their attention to the stage, although Clavering saw
more than one glance wander across the house, and those in the adjoining
boxes felt themselves free to peer persistently.
Farrar had not finished bowing and kissing her hands before the next
curtain when the door of the box opened once more and Mr. Osborne
entered.  After a few words with Madame Zattiany he went out and returned
almost immediately with three other men, two of his own generation, and a
tall, dark, extremely good-looking young man, whose easy negligent air
was set askew by the eager expression of his eyes.  Clavering, not
waiting to be introduced, fled to the smoking-room and took a seat in a
corner with his back to the other occupants lest some one recognize and
speak to him.  A hideous fear had invaded his soul.  If this world, so
indisputably her own, did accept her--as he had not a doubt it would if
she demanded it; he made light of Dinwiddie's fears, knowing her as he
did--where would he come in?  Sheer luck, supplemented by his own
initiative, had given him a clear field for a few weeks, but what chance
would he have, not only if her house were overrun with people, but if she
were pursued by men with so much more to offer, with whom she must have
so much more in common?  He might be the equal of the best of them in
blood and the superior of many, but his life had not been of the order to
equip him with those minor but essential and armorial arts, that assured
ease and distinction, possessed by men not only born into the best
society but bred in it, and who had lived on their background, not on
their nerves.  To be "born" is not enough.  It is long association that
counts, and the "air" may be acquired by men of inferior birth but the
supreme opportunity.  He had managed to interest her because he had no
rival, and he was young and his mind in tune with hers.  That alone, no
doubt, was the secret of her imaginative flight in his direction.  For
the first time in his life he felt a sense of inferiority, and for the
