dutiful I cannot but be affectionate to her if she will con 
tinue to live with you." 
" My precious girl, what an impulsive creature you are ! 
You plead like a frightened child, who fears to be left alone 
with me ! Am I such an ogre that Aunt Ruth must not 
abandon you to my tender mercies ? Before we go any fur 
ther, dear Helen," he continued, dropping his jesting tone, 
"I must say one thing. Whether Aunt Ruth remains an 
inmate of my house or not, you, and not she, must be its 
mistress, its irresponsible controller. She understands this. 
It is no novel idea to her, and she has the good sense to 
admit the wisdom of the arrangement. If she goes to Maple 
Hill, it will not be to avoid the necessity of taking what would 
be her proper place in my family, in the event of my marriage, but at Aleck's instance and earnest solicitation. He 
will be very lonely there without her, he represents, and no 
man of my acquaintance is less fitted than he to be happy in 
a veritable bachelor establishment." 
Helen brought out her next sentence with an effort. 
" But, in time, he will have no need of her in the capacity 
of housekeeper or companion, if what we have heard be 
true." 
"An important if Taking it for granted that he means 
to install his Fraulein as Mrs. Lay, in the course of a year or 
less, I question her ability to undertake the charge of an 
American menage. He has not showed any disposition to 
speak upon this point since his return, and I would not force 
his confidence. Aleck is a queer fellow in some respects. 
The very depth and might of his feelings seem to deprive him 
of the power to express them fluently. I can divine them; 
yet, loving one another as we do, there are many reserves on 
both sides. If he marries a true, loving woman, who can 
enter into the peculiarities of his disposition, she may unseal 
the tide. I hope that his Gretchen, if she be indeed his, may 
bring him one-half the heart satisfaction, the fulness of joy, 
that my love has brought me." 
There was no " Amen" from the figure at his side. They 
were rambling along a narrow footpath, which wound about 
the slope of the wooded hill, and her regards were bent 
upon the ground. 
"You will speak to your aunt tell her what my earnest 
desire and petition is, however will you not?" she said, ab 
ruptly recurring to the original topic. 
"Assuredly, if you still wish it !" 
" I do !" 
They stopped under a large oak tree, whose far-reaching 
branches cast fantastic shadows upon the whitened turf of 
the hill-side. Helen withdrew her hand from Robert's hold, 
and, folding her arms, leaned against the giant trunk of the 
forest monarch, and appeared to be lost in the contemplation 
of the landscape. 
" Colonel Floyd has the finest site for a house that can 
be found on this side of the Potomac," observed Robert. 
" It crowns that knoll grandly." 
" That reminds me that I have another matter on my 
mind," replied Helen, arousing herself. "I was so fortunate or unfortunate, as the event will decide, as to overhear, 
awhile ago, a part of a conversation between two ladies, that 
was not intended for the ears of any member of Colonel 
Floyd's family." 
"It was delicate and kind in them to introduce such mat 
ters while partaking of his hospitality!" was Robert's ironical 
interruption. 
"His extravagance and gaming propensities," said Helen, 
" were animadverted upon in one sentence, for I heard but 
two. The other imparted the, to me, unpleasing intelli 
gence that he was heavily in your debt, you having, it was 
said, lent him money at several different times. I trust this 
is a mistake or a fabrication." 
Robert laughed. 
" The meddling gossip was partly correct, but I am sorry 
that you troubled yourself about her story. We should 
have no secrets from each other, and I do not see why those 
pertaining to money matters should be an exception to this 
rule. I have let Colonel Floyd have a small sum now and 
then, but not enough to beggar me, should he never return 
any part of the amount." 
"It was very unwise in you," replied Helen, reprovingly. 
"You should have remembered what reputation he bears 
among his creditors. They say that he never pays debts 
that honest men consider sacred and confidential, unless 
forced to it by the strong arm of the law. He is thoroughly 
conscious that you will never resort to this means of recov 
ering what you have advanced. Now, answer me frankly ; 
were his applications to you for assistance out of his difficulties made prior to our our to the formation of our present 
relations ?" 
" What terrible relations they must be, to require that 
tremendous amount of stammering and circumlocution ! I 
have a wretched memory for dates !" 
" I am answered ! It is as I have suspected ! He has 
taken a base and unwarrantable, a most indelicate advantage 
of your attachment to his ward to extort money from you ! 
He is no stranger to your generous and pliant temper ! He 
reckoned shrewdly upon his customer. It is infamous !" 
" Gently ! gently, Nelly, dear ! Do not tilt too ferociously 
with your windmill before daylight is let in upon it ! There 
 was no extortion in the affair. He was hard up excuse 
the slang ! I was easy in purse, and felt it to be a privilege, not a hardship, to help a neighbor in his embarrass 
ment." 
" I comprehend fully ! My opinion is unchanged, Robert ! 
I have a favor to ask of you in my turn. It is not fair that 
Colonel Floyd should enjoy a monopoly of this kind of 
