ing but money." His own act mftde perpetual demand 
the sole means of home subsistence. 
 
Was Lydia really in earnest in what she had said ? 
He dwelt on her declaration curiously, even hopefully. 
No sense of shame touched him. Avarice had long ago 
smothered shame. 
" We shall see ! " fell from his lips, as he moved 
about the room, conscious relief following the words, 
" We shall see ! Home will become a .second para 
dise ! " 
The dinner bell rang, and Mr. Guy stalked moodily 
into the dining room. A side-glance at his wife's face, 
who did not look towards him, revealed an expression 
of fixed resolve not often seen there. He was a little 
puzzled. The meal passed in almost dead silence. As 
for the children, they read in their parents' faces 
enough of warning to induce orderly conduct. Expe 
rience had made them observant; and they knew when 
trespass would be visited by certain banishment. 
As Mr. Guy arose at the conclusion of his hastily 
eaten meal, he tossed the little roll of bank bills across 
the table, and without a word, retired. 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
DEAD calm followed this scene of 
contention between Lydia and her hus 
band. One week, two weeks, glided 
away, and, sure enough, Adam had 
not heard the word money issuing 
from the lips of his wife nor, in 
^ ac ^' man y otner words. She moved 
about, when he was at home, in a 
silent, gliding, ghost-like .way, that 
struck him as unnatural. When he spoke to her, she 
usually answered without looking at him. If her eyes 
rested in his, their expression caused an uneasy feeling 
to creep through his mind. 
x " We'll see how long this will last," expressed Adam's 
thought and purpose. " A thing worth having, is worth 
asking for." So, money was not offered to Lydia. 
One day, early in the third week of this new order 
of things, as Mr. Guy sat in his counting-room, talking 
with a merchant on business, a black man came in. and 
handed him a note. 
" Good morning, Abe," said the merchant, recogniz 
ing, in a kind way, the black man. 
" Good mornin', Massa Williams," returned the negro, 
respectfully. 
 
" What's this ? " asked Mr. Guy, knitting his brows, 
and speaking sharply. He had opened the note, and 
read 
" Due Abe for Whitewashing, $5. 
"LYDIA GUY." 
" Missus guv it to me, sir. I'se done de whitewash- 
in'." 
" Didn't she pay you? " demanded Guy, not clearly 
understanding what the due-bill meant, and exposing to 
the merchant-friend more than he found at all pleasant 
to think about afterwards. 
" Oh, no, Massa Guy. She say, take dat to Massa, 
and he'll pay. The whitewashing all done fust-rate, 
Massa Guy ! " 
" Why didn't you wait until I came home this even 
ing? What did you call here for ? " said Mr. Guy, as 
he drew out his pocket-book. He was excessively an 
noyed, and had not sufficient control of mind to hide 
his feelings. 
" Missus say, go to de store ! " Abe's white teeth 
glistened, as he stood smiling and apologetic. 
The five dollars were paid, and Abe retired ; but, 
scarcely had he passed into the street, when a stout 
countryman entered, and presented another piece of 
paper. Mr. Guy caught at it in a nervous way. 
" Due John Thomas, $10, for milk and cream. 
"LYDIA GUY." 
 
"Who told you to bring this here? "asked Guy, 
roughly. 
" Your good lady, sir," replied the man, respectfully. 
" Henry, pay this, and take a receipt to date," said 
Mr. Guy, looking round at the clerk ; and he turned 
from the man with a most ungracious air. But, ere 
the broken thread of business conversation had been 
fairly taken up, one of his house-servants entered the 
counting-room. 
" What do you want, Hannah ? " said Mr. Guy, 
knitting his just relaxed brows. 
" Mrs. Guy said ye'd give me my money," replied 
the girl, handing him a folded note. The contents 
were 
" Due Hannah, one month s wages, $6 
LYDIA GUY." 
Couldn't you have waited until I got home ? ; ' angrily 
demanded the merchant ! 
" No, sir. I'm to send it till Ireland ; and it must 
go the day. I towld her yestherday that I'd want it, 
and she said, very well. An ; to-day she gev me this 
to bring till yez, sir." 
" Outrageous ! " muttered Guy to himself. " What 
