tans as dark, don't we ? " 
" I believe we do,  ' assented Dunham. " Per- 
haps on account of their black clothes." 
" Perhaps," said Stamford. " At any rate, I 'm 
so tired of the blonde type in fiction that I rather 
like the other thing in life. Every novelist runs a 
blonde heroine ; I wonder why. This girl has the 
clear Southern pallor ; she 's of the olive hue ; and 
her eyes are black as sloes, — not that I know what 
sloes are. Did she remind you of anything in par- 
ticular?" 
" Yes ; a little of Faed's Evangeline, as she sat 
in the door-way of the warehouse yesterday." 
" Exactly. I wish the picture were more of a 
picture ; but I don't know that it matters. She 's 
more of a picture." 
" ' Pretty as a bird,' the captain said." 
" Bird isn 't bad. But the bird is in her manner. 
There 's something tranquilly alert in her manner 
that 's like a bird ; like a bird that lingers on its 
perch, looking at you over its shoulder, if you 
come up behind. That trick of the heavily lifted, 
half lifted eyelids, — I wonder if it 's a trick. The 
long lashes can't be ; she can't make them curl up 
at the edges. Blood, — Lurella Blood. And she 
wants to know." Stamford's voice fell thoughtful. 
 
"She's more slender than Faed's Evangeline. Faed 
painted rather too fat a sufferer on that tombstone. 
Lurella Blood has a very pretty figure. Lurella. 
Why Lurella ? " 
" Oh, come, Staniford ! " cried Dunham. " It is 
n't fair to call the girl by that jingle without some 
ground for it." 
"I 'm sure her name 's Lurella, for she wanted 
to know. Besides, there 's as much sense in it as 
there is in any name. It sounds very well. Lurella. 
It is mere prejudice that condemns the novel col- 
location of syllables." 
" I wonder what she 's thinking of now, — what's 
passing in her mind," mused Dunham aloud. 
" You want to know, too, do you ? " mocked his 
friend. " I 'll tell you what : processions of young 
men so long that they are an hour getting by a 
given point. That 's what 's passing in every girl's 
mind — when she 's thinking. It 's perfectly right. 
Processsions of young girls are similarly passing in 
our stately and spacious intellects. It 's the chief 
business of the youth of one sex to think of the 
youth of the other sex." 
" Oh, yes, I know," assented Dunham ; " and I 
believe in it, too " — 
" Of course you do, you wicked wretch, you aban- 
doned Lovelace, you bruiser of ladies' hearts ! You 
hope the procession is composed entirely of your- 
self. What would the divine Hibbard say to your 
goings-on ? " 
 
" Oh, don't, Staniford ! It isn 't fair," pleaded 
Dunham, with the flattered laugh which the best of 
men give when falsely attainted of gallantry. " I 
was wondering whether she was feeling homesick, 
or strange, or " — 
" I will go below and ask her," said Staniford. 
" I know she will tell me the exact truth. They 
always do. Or if you will take a guess of mine in- 
stead of her word for it, I will hazard the surmise 
that she is not at all homesick. What has a pretty 
young girl to regret in such a life as she has left ? 
It 's the most arid and joyless existence under the 
sun. She has never known anything like society. 
In the country with us, the social side must always 
have been somewhat paralyzed, but there are mon- 
umental evidences of pleasures in other days that 
are quite extinct now. You see big dusty ball- 
rooms in the old taverns : ball-rooms that have had 
no dancing in them for half a century, and where 
they give you a bed sometimes. There used to be 
academies, too, in the hill towns, where they fur- 
nished a rude but serviceable article of real learn- 
ing, and where the local octogenarian remembers 
seeing something famous in the way of theatricals 
on examination-day ; but neither his children nor 
his grandchildren have seen the like. There 's a 
decay of the religious sentiment, and the church is 
no longer a social centre, with merry meetings 
among the tombstones between the morning and 
the afternoon service. Superficial humanit&rianism 
 
of one kind or another has killed the good old or- 
thodoxy, as the railroads have killed the turnpikes 
and the country taverns ; and the common schools 
have killed the academies. Why, I don't suppose 
this girl ever saw anything livelier than a town- 
ship cattle show, or a Sunday-school picnic, in her 
life. They don't pay visits in the country except at 
rare intervals, and their evening parties, when they 
have any, are something to strike you dead with 
pity. They used to clear away the corn -husks and 
pumpkins on the barn floor, and dance by the light 
