call the amphitheatre by a short passageway, 
and by double and deadened walls. Every de- 
vice that the modern building art could offer 
for the dulling of sound had been employed. 
Floors and ceilings were tremendously thick, 
and heavily lined with mineral wool. In the 
basement of the building the unhappy crea- 
tures who furnished the material for experi- 
mental physiology were confined. The room 
where the dumb prisoners were incarcerated 
was in a wing ; some of its windows looked upon 
a yard that separated it from the hospital. 
This lower room could be reached in several 
ways ; for instance, by two flights of stairs — 
one running from the physiological labora- 
tory — and by a corridor that led out to the 
rear of the building. This corridor, which 
ramified in more than one direction, led to a 
low door (one of several exits) somewhat hid- 
den from observation by a porch or balcony 
whose purpose seemed to be ornamental only. 
This door, which opened upon an alle} r , was 
 
used by the janitor and laboratory assistants. 
Most of the students knew nothing of its ex- 
istence, and a casual passer would not have 
noticed it. The corridor of which mention has 
been made contained two closets ; one was 
used for the disposal of brooms, mops, snow- 
shovels, pails, and so on ; another for hanging 
coats and hats. This latter closet was not far 
from the low door of which we have spoken. 
It was now eleven o'clock. In the hospital 
the sick slept, or prayed that they might do 
so before dawn. In the school of the arts 
the silent studio, at night given over to the 
shades and shapes of beautiful things, aroused 
slowly to the consciousness of itself. The 
antiques regarded each other solemnly ; the 
statue of Pity seemed to breathe and turn 
its face ; but the figure of the Christ did not 
stir ; it hung at about the height of a cross, 
upon the wall. In the medical school a few 
stray students had finished their work in the 
dissecting room and had gone for the night. 
With the exception of the janitor and the 
engineer, the building was deserted now of 
human presence, and in its upper stories quiet. 
In the basement it could seldom be called 
quiet. In that inferno the circles of misery 
gave out the inarticulate expression of a doom 
worse because neither understood, elected, nor 
deserved. For the most part these signs of 
anguish were gentle and docile, and at night 
were much in abeyance. Now and then a dog 
howled, or, if not badly injured, barked ; and 
broken moans of pain answered from some 
awakened or some dreaming creature ; but 
most of the victims endured with the silence 
and patience by which the suffering animal 
shames the human race. 
The room was dark, and the atmosphere 
heavy, as has been said. Creatures accustomed 
to freedom and to fresh air gasped the night 
away. The large place was lined with cages, 
each occupied by its little prisoner. The in- 
oculated victims were many — rabbits, guinea 
pigs, and the like — all vicariously, and for 
the most part uselessly, enduring for the va- 
garies of science the maladies of man. Sights 
which the readers of these pages could not 
bring their delicate sensibilities to witness, 
facts which you who follow this narrative 
would not permit its writer to relate, crowded 
that den of anguish. 
 
Those four walls, packed with suffering I, 
kept their secrets well. Into this tragic place 
no curious reporter was admitted ; from it the 
omnipotence of the press was excluded ; into 
this pit no sister of mercy stepped ; to these 
wounded no hospital nurse brought the ministrations 
of her gentle art ; into this lair no 
preacher entered, and, leaving it, challenged 
Christian civilization with its existence ; into 
this hell no Christ descended. 
It was well after midnight when a slight 
disturbance occurred in the animal room. A 
newcomer, who had not yet been operated 
upon, and who was not caged, but tied, awoke 
whining. Restless calls of response echoed 
throughout the large room. The little white 
dog that had caused the trouble pulled franti- 
cally at its rope, and in its most pathetic way 
called for its master. A low reply came from 
an adjoining cage, and a black muzzle pressed 
itself against the netting. The white poodle 
returned a few sympathetic remarks, and the 
two carried on a short conversation. The 
debutante in that sad society, who though 
