money to be paid for everything, no one haggles over the price. So,
Miss Gaines, we will wish you success and a fortune."
"Thank you for your hand in it;" and Miss Gaines nodded merrily.
"Hillo!" cried a bright voice, as Laverne stood talking to the
beautiful big dog in the hall. "Why, I've not seen you for ever so
long. Where have you been?"
"Home--I suppose that's home over there," and she nodded her head,
while the dimple in her cheek deepened. "But it is all so queer. Well,
when you are over on the other side of the world,--turned upside
down"----and she looked half funny, half perplexed.
"Are you homesick? Do you want to go back to Maine?"
"But there isn't any one to care for me there," she said a little
sadly. "Uncle Jason's all I have. It's so queer for winter, though. No
snow, no sliding, no skating, no fun at snowballing. And between the
rains things spring up and grow. I've tamed two funny little
squirrels, so one of them will eat out of my hand. And the birds come
to be fed."
"You can see snow enough up on the mountain-tops. It never melts away.
I like the fun and stir and strange people. It makes you believe in
Sir Francis Drake and the pirates and everything. But my! how they
spend money and gamble it away! I hope your uncle will have a level
head and hold on to what he gets."
"I've found three Spanish girls that are just lovely. There are so few
little girls about," in a rather melancholy tone. "And Miss Holmes
teaches me at home. I'd rather go to school, but it's too far, and
uncle says wait until I get older."
"I guess that's best," returned the experienced youth. "Sometimes it
is hardly safe for a little girl in the street. There are so many
drunken rowdies."
"Oh, I never do go out alone, except over at the cedars. They are sort
of scrubby and look like Maine. The little girls live there. I don't
quite like their mother; she has such sharp black eyes. Why do you
suppose so many people have black eyes?"
Dick considered a moment. "Why, the tropical nations are darker, and
the Mexicans, and those queer people from Hawaii and all the islands
over yonder. Your uncle will know all about them. When I am a few
years older I mean to travel. I'll go up to the gold fields and make a
pile, and you bet I won't come in town and gamble it away in a single
night, the way some of them do. I'll go over to Australia and China."
Laverne drew a long breath. What a wonderful world it was! If she
could be suddenly dropped down into the small district school and tell
them all she had seen!
Some one called Dick. She sauntered back into the room, but the women
were still talking business and clothes. There was a beautiful big
hound who looked at her with wistful eyes, and she spoke to him. He
nodded and looked gravely wise.
"You've a most uncompromising name," Mrs. Latham was saying. "You
can't seem to Frenchify the beginning nor end. You must put a card in
the paper." For the newspaper had been a necessity from the very
first, and the Alta Californian was eagerly scanned.
"Yes," Miss Gaines returned, "Calista Gaines. It has a sound of the
old Bay State. Well, I'm not ashamed of it," almost defiantly.
"And we shall have to get most of our fashions from the States for
some time to come. We are not in the direct line from Paris. And I
really don't see why we shouldn't have fashions of our own. Here are
the picturesque Spanish garments that can be adapted. Oh, you will do,
and we shall be glad enough to have you," giving a most hearty and
encouraging laugh.
"Fortune-making is in the very air," declared Miss Gaines on the
homeward way. "Well, I think I like a new, energetic country. And what
a delicious voice that Jacintha has! I wonder if voices do not get
toned down in this air. Our east wind is considered bad for them. And
it is said a foggy air is good for the complexion. We may end by being
rich and beautiful, who knows!"
Laverne ran out to look after her squirrels, and chattered with them.
Then something bright caught her eye up among the tangles of vines and
shrubs. Why, flowers, absolutely in bloom in December! She gathered a
handful of them and hurried back overjoyed.
"Oh, see, see!" she cried, out of breath. "They are up here on the
hill, and everything is growing. Isn't it queer! Do you suppose the
real winter will come in July?"
"If stories are true we will hardly have any winter at all," was the
reply.
"And they are all snowed up in Maine. Oh, I wish there was some one to
write me a letter."
CHAPTER IV
A QUEER WINTER
Christmas and New Year's brought a mad whirl. All that could, came in
from the mines. The streets were thronged. Banjo and guitar were
thrummed to the songs and choruses of the day, and even the accordion
notes floated out on the air, now soft and pathetic with "Annie
Laurie", "Home, Sweet Home," and "There's Nae Luck About the House,"
"The Girl I Left Behind Me," or a jolly song from fine male voices.
Then there were balls, and a great masquerade, until it seemed as if
there was nothing to life but pleasure.
Miss Gaines came in with some of the stories. But the most delightful
were those of the three little Estenega girls about the Christmas eve
at the church and the little child Jesus in the cradle, the wise men
bringing their gifts, the small plain chapel dressed with greens and
flowers in Vallejo Street. Laverne had not been brought up to
Christmas services and at first was quite shocked. But the child's
heart warmed to the thought, and Miss Holmes read the simple story of
Bethlehem in Judea, that touched her immeasurably.
And then there seemed a curious awakening of spring. Flowers sprang up
and bloomed as if the rain had a magic that it scattered with every
drop. The atmosphere had a startling transparency. There were the
blue slopes of Tamalpais, and far away in the San Matteo Range the
redwood trees stood up in their magnificence. Out through the Golden
Gate one could discern the Farallones forty miles away. The very air
was full of exhilarating balm, and the wild oats sprang up in the
