should I be so cursed? And then, somehow, I imagined 
that I told you, and that you laughed at me, that you 
pitied me and that you held out your hand, and said, 
'Come, you shall find beauty poor, deluded, wretched, 
little creature !' I really imagined that this had hap- 
pened, and I was relieved as with a draught of fresh 
air. 
"Oh, God in Heaven, to think that I could ever have 
been so degraded! My head hurts, and I absolutely 
am dazed, to think that I have been able to write you of 
something for which (though it has not been my mak- 
ing) I am so ashamed and humiliated I can hardly hold 
my head up. I think in my short life I have atoned for 
the sins of many souls." 
3. SUCH was the old-time letter. "And now," 
wrote Corydon, "I don't want you to think that if I did 
not send you this, it was because I was afraid to do 
it, or unwilling to trust to your love. It was simply 
because I felt that I could conquer these things that 
it would be weak and contemptible of me not to do so. 
Nor is the -reason I write you now that I have not been 
able to conquer them, that I am still at the mercy of 
such habits. I am a grown woman, and I am not afraid 
of words ; I tell myself this a hundred times ; and it is 
true and yet there is a way in which it is not true. 
The thing is so intricate I never get to the end of it; 
I rid myself of the fear of a hateful idea, but there 
remains the fact that I should have been afraid; there 
is the fear of fear. And then comes a flood of shame 
that I should have it in me to be afraid of fear ! 
"Thyrsis, as I write to you now I see clearly how 
perfectly preposterous and unreal all this is ; and again 
there comes to me the impulse to tear up this letter, 
 
and banish the troop of hob-goblins from my mind. 
But no, this time I am determined to make a clean breast 
of the thing for I see that secrecy and solitude are 
what it feeds on. If I were happy and busy with you, 
such ideas would have no power over me. But think 
how it is, with my loneliness and despair ! I don't want 
to say anything to make your task harder but oh, 
Thyrsis, it is frightful to have nothing to do but wait, 
and wait, and wait ! The baby wakes me up in the 
night and I lie for hours it is at such times that these 
phantoms take hold of me. Do you realize that I liter- 
ally never know what it is to have more than three or 
four consecutive hours of sleep? 
"No, I am not insane, I tell myself ; I am not insane ! 
It is the circumstances of my life that cause this melan- 
cholia and misery. It has been my life, from the very 
beginning for what a hopeful and joyous creature I 
would have been, had I only had a chance as a girl! 
I know that ; and you must tell it to me, and help me 
to believe it." 
Thyrsis read this with less surprise than Corydon 
had imagined ; for she had been wont to drop hints 
about her trouble from time to time. He was shocked, 
however, to find what a hold it had taken upon her ; 
the thing sent a chill of fear to his heart. Could it be 
after all that she had some taint? But he saw at once 
that he must not let her see any such feeling; the least 
hint of it would have driven her to distraction. On 
the contrary, he must minimize the trouble, must help 
her to laugh it away, as she asked. 
He went to meet her in the park, and found her in 
an agony of distress ; she had mailed the letter, and 
then she had wished to recall it, and had been struggling 
ever since with the idea that he would be disgusted with 
her. Now, when she found that such was not the case, 
that he still loved her and trusted her, she was trans- 
ported with gratitude. 
"But dearest," he said, "how absurd it is to be 
ashamed of an idea ! If ugly things exist, don't we have 
to hear of them and know of them? And so why 
frighten ourselves because they are in our minds ?" 
"But Thyrsis," cried she, "they are so hateful!" 
"Yes," he said. "But then the more you hate them, 
the more they haunt you !" 
"That's just it !" she exclaimed. 
"But what harm can they do? Can they have any 
effect upon your character? You must say to yourself 
that all this is a consequence of the structure of your 
brain-cells. What could be more futile than trying to 
forget? As if the very essence of the trying was not 
remembering!" 
So Thyrsis went on to argue with her. He made her 
promise him that in future she would tell him of all 
her obsessions, permitting no fear or shame to deter 
her ; and so thereafter he would have to listen periodi- 
cally to long accounts of her psychological agonies, 
and help her to hunt out the "hob-goblins" from the 
tangled thickets of her mind. They were forever set- 
tling the matter, positively and finally but alas, only 
to have something uniettle it again. So Thyrsis had 
to add to his other accomplishments the equipment of 
a psycho-pathologist ; he brushed up his French, and 
read learned treatises upon the researches in the Sal- 
petriere, and the theories of the "Nancy School". 
4. ANOTHER month passed by, and still there was 
no rift in the clouds. Once more Corydon was for- 
