" Where is she .'" mimicking the tones and man- 
ner of the boy. " At your grandmother's," said 
Mr. Archer. — " Go along after her, and be quick. 
She ought to have been home more than an hour 
ago." 
John went out slowly and sulkily. 
''' If that boy goes to ruin, you will have no one 
to blame but yourself," said Mr. Archer, ill-na- 
turedly. 
"I don't know how you are going to make that 
out," returned his wife in a voice quite as amiable 
as that in which he had spoken. 
"You have no ijovernment over him." 
 
"I have quite as much as yourself," retorted 
Mrs. Archer. 
" Humph ! You don't think so, do you ?" — he 
spoke in a sneering tone. 
' ' I think just what I say. If you paid the least 
attention to your children, they would grow up 
very differently. As it is, I have no comfort with 
them, and never hope to have any. I expect to 
see them go to ruin." 
"So I should think, by the way you let them 
run. You talk about my government over them, 
but I should like to know what I can do, when I 
am not with them an hour in the day. Whatever 
is tlic result, vou will have only yourself to 
blame." 
"That's just it. Instead of staying at home 
with your children, and trying to make something 
out of them, you are off every night the dear 
knows where, but after no good, of course." 
" Hold your tongue, will you ?" Mr. Archer gave 
his wife an angry scowl as he said this. 
The wife felt little inclination to contend further. 
There was a brutality in her husband's tone and 
manner that stunned her. She said nothing more. 
While the father and mother were engaged in a 
war of words, the little boy, before mentioned, was 
amusing himself by spinning his spoon around in 
 
his plate, which made a most annoying clatter, and 
served to add to the irritation felt by both Mr. and 
Mrs. Archer, although the cause was not noticed 
until their contention was over. 
"Do be quiet, child," said the mother, as the 
noise of the rattling spoon continued to fall upon 
her ear. 
She might as well not have spoken. If any 
change was produced by her words, it was an in- 
creased vigor in the movement of the spoon. 
She laid her hand upon the boy's head and said — 
"Don't make that noise, Bill — you distract me." 
The moment the pressure of the hand was re- 
moved, like a re-acting spring the movement went 
on again; the noise, if any thing, louder than ever. 
A vigorous box on the ear signified that poor JMrs. 
Archer's patience was exhausted. Almost simul- 
taneous with the loud scream of the child came 
