" There is something wrong then with you, Ellie," he said 
gently. " How has it been through the week ? If you can 
let day after day pass without remembering your best friend, 
it may be that when you feel the want you will not readily 
find him. How is it daily, EUie? is seeking his face your 
first concern ? do you give a sufficient time faithfully to your 
Bible and prayer ?" 
Ellen shook her head ; no words were possible. He took 
up his walk again. The silence had lasted a length of tirae 
and he was still walking, when Ellen came to his side and 
laid her hand on his arm. 
" Have you settled that question with your conscience, 
Ellie ?" 
She weepingly answered yes. They walked a few turns 
up and down. 
" Will you promise me, Ellie, that every day when it shall 
be possible, you will give an hour at least to this business ? — 
whatever else may be done or undone ?" 
Ellen promised ; and then with her hand in his they continued their walk through the room till Mr. Humphreys and 
the servants came in. Her brother's prayer that night Ellen 
never forgot. 
No more was said at that time about her going to Ventnor, 
But a week or two after John smilingly told her to get all her 
private affairs arranged and to let her friends know they need 
not expect to see her the next Sunday, for that he was going to 
take her with him. As she saw he had made up his mind, 
Ellen said nothing in the way of objecting ; and now that the 
decision was taken from her was really very glad to go. She 
arranged everything, as he had said ; and was ready Saturday morning to set off with a very light heart. 
They went in the sleigh. In a happy quiet mood of mind, 
Ellen enjoyed everything exceedingly. She had not been to 
Ventnor in several months ; the change of scene was very 
grateful. She could not help thinking, as they slid along 
smoothly and swiftly over the hard-frozen snow, that it loas 
a good deal pleasanter, for once, than sitting alone in the parlor at home with her work-basket. Those days of solitary 
duty, however, had prepared her for the pleasure of this one ; 
Ellen knew that, and was ready to be thankful for everything. 
Throughout the whole way, whether the eye and mind silently 
indulged in roving, or still better loved talk interrupted that, 
as it often did, Ellen was in a state of most unmixed and unruffled satisfaction. John had not the slightest reason to 
doubt the correctness of his judgment in bringing her. He 
went in but a moment at Yentnor, and leaving her there, proceeded himself to Randolph. 
Ellen was received as a precious lending that must be taken 
the greatest care of and enjoyed as much as possible while 
one "has it. Mrs. Marsliman and Mrs. Chauncey treated her 
as if she had been their own child. Ellen Chauncey overwhelmed her with joyful caresses, and could scarcely let her 
out of her arms by night or by day. She was more than 
ever Mr. Marshman's pet ; but indeed she was well petted by 
all the family. It was a very happy visit. 
Even Sunday left nothing to wish for. To her great joy 
not only Mrs. Chauncey went with her in the morning to hear 
her brother, (for his church was not the one the family attended,) but the carriage was ordered in the afternoon also ; 
and Mrs. Chauncey and her daughter and Miss Sophia went 
with her again. When they returned. Miss Sophia, who had 
taken, a very great fancy to her, brought her into her own 
room and made her lie down with her upon the bed, though 
Ellen insisted she was not tired. 
" Well you ought to be, if you are not," said the lady. "I 
am. Keep away, Ellen Chauncey — you can't be anywhere 
without talking. You can hve without Ellen for half an hour, 
