difficulty on either hand. I will let you go and see what you 
can do. It would be a great relief to me to get this merino 
by any means." 

" Then shall I go right away, mamma ? " 

" As well now as ever. You are not afraid of the wind ? " 

" I should think not," said Ellen ; and away she scampered 
up stairs to get ready. With eager haste she dressed herself ; 
then with great care and particularity took her mother's 
instructions as to the article wanted ; and finally set out, sensible that a great trust was reposed in her, and feeling busy 
and important accordingly. But at the very bottom of Ellen's 
heart there was a little secret doubtfulness respecting her 
undertaking. She hardly knew it was there, but then she 
couldn't tell what it was that made her fingers so inclined to 
be tremulous while she was dressing, and that made her 
heart beat quicker than it ought, or than was pleasant, and 
one of her cheeks so much hotter than the other. However, 
she set forth upon her errand with a very brisk step, which 
she kept up till on turning a corner she came in sight of the 
place she was going to. Without thinking much about it, 
Ellen had directed her steps to St. Clair and Fleury's. It 
was one of the largest and best stores in the city, and the one 
she knew where her mother generally made her purchases ; 
and it did not occur to her that it might not be the best for 
her purpose on this occasion. But her steps slackened as 
soon as she came in sight of it, and continued to slacken as 
she drew nearer, and she went up the broad flight of marble 
steps in front of the store very slowly indeed, though they 
were exceeding low and easy. Pleasure was not certainly 
the uppermost feeling in her mind now ; yet she never 
thought of turning back. She knew that if she could succeed in the object of her mission her mother would be relieved 







from some anxiety ; that was enough ; she was bent on accomplishing it. 

Timidly she entered the large hall of entrance. It was full 
of people, and the buzz of business was heard on all sides. 
Ellen had for some time past seldom gone a shopping with 
her mother, and had never been in this store but once or 
twice before. She had not the remotest idea where, or in 
what apartment of the building, the merino counter was 
situated, and she could see no one to speak to. She stood 
irresolute in the middle of the floor. Everybody seemed to 
be busily engaged with somebody else ; and whenever an 
opening on one side or another appeared to promise her an 
opportunity, it was sure to be filled up before she could reach 
it, and disappointed and abashed she would return to her own station in the middle of the floor. Clerks frequently passed 
her, crossing the store in all directions, but they were always 
bustling along in a great hurry of business ; they did not 
seem to notice her at all, and were gone before poor Ellen 
could get her mouth open to speak to them. She knew well 
enough now, poor child, what it was that made her cheeks 
burn as they did, and her heart beat as if it would burst its 
