
"I consider the championship of yesterday given up, of
course," Thorn went on in a kind of aside, not looking at
anybody, and striking his cigar against the guards to clear it
of ashes;  "the champion has quitted the field, and the
little princess but lately so walled in with defences must now
listen to whatever knight and squire may please to address to
her. Nothing remains to be seen of her defender but his
spurs."

"They may serve for the heels of whoever is disposed to annoy
her," said Mr. Carleton. "He will need them."

He left the group with the same air of imperturbable self-
possession which he had maintained during the conference. But
presently, Rossitur, who had his private reasons for wishing
to keep friends with an acquaintance who might be of service
in more ways than one, followed him, and declared himself to
have been, in all his nonsense to Fleda, most undesirous of
giving displeasure to her temporary guardian, and sorry that
it had fallen out so. He spoke frankly, and Mr. Carleton, with
the same cool gracefulness with which he had carried on the
quarrel, waived his displeasure, and admitted the young
gentleman apparently to stand as before in his favour. Their
reconciliation was not an hour old when Captain Beebee joined
them.

"I am sorry I must trouble you with a word more on this
disagreeable subject, Mr. Carleton," he began, after a
ceremonious salutation, "My friend, Lieutenant Thorn,
considers himself greatly outraged by your determination not
to meet him. He begs to ask, by me, whether it is your purpose
to abide by it at all hazards?"

"Yes, Sir."

"There is some misunderstanding here, which I greatly regret.
I hope you will see and excuse the disagreeable necessity I
am. under of delivering the rest of my friend's message."

"Say on, Sir."

"Mr. Thorn declares that if you deny him the common courtesy
which no gentleman refuses to another, he will proclaim your
name with the most opprobrious adjuncts to all the world; and,
in place of his former regard, he will hold you in the most
unlimited contempt, which he will have no scruple about
showing on all occasions."

Mr. Carleton coloured a little, but replied, coolly 

"I have not lived in Mr. Thorn's favour. As to the rest, I
forgive him!  except indeed, he provoke me to measures for
which I never will forgive him."

"Measures!" said the Captain.

"I hope not! for my own self-respect would be more grievously
hurt than his. But there is an unruly spring somewhere about
my composition, that when it gets wound up, is once in a while
