I had not in the world a friend in whom I could have entire
sympathy. And if I am rich now, it is not in any treasure that
I look to enjoy in this world alone."
"Oh, do not, Mr. Carleton!" exclaimed Fleda, bowing her head
in distress, and giving his hand an earnest entreaty.
"What shall I not do?" said he, half laughing and half gently,
bringing her face near enough for his lips to try another kind
of eloquence. "You shall not do this, Elfie, for any so light
occasion. Was this the whole burden of those grave thoughts?"
"Not quite  entirely"  she said, stammering. "But grave
thoughts are not always unhappy."
"Not always. I want to know what gave yours a tinge of that
colour this morning."
"It was hardly that. You know what Foster says about 'power to
its very last particle being duty.'  I believe it frightened
me a little."
"If you feel that as strongly as I do, Elfie, it will act as a
strong corrective to the danger of false estimates."
"I do feel it," said Fleda. "One of my fears was that I should
not feel it enough."
"One of my cares will be that you do not act upon it too
fiercely," said he, smiling. "The power being limited, so is
the duty. But you shall have power enough, Elfie, and work
enough. I have precisely what I have needed  my good sprite
back again."
"With a slight difference."
"What difference?"
"She is to act under direction now."
"Not at all  only under safe control," he said, laughing.
"I am very glad of the difference, Mr. Carleton," said Fleda,
with a grave and grateful remembrance of it.
"If you think the sprite's old office is gone, you are
mistaken," said he. "What were your other fears?  one was
that you should not feel enough your responsibility, and the
other that you might forget it."
"I don't know that there were any other particular fears,"
said Fleda;  "I had been thinking of all these things "
"And what else?"
Her colour and her silence begged him not to ask. He said no
more, and let her stand still again, looking off through the
roses, while her mind more quietly and lightly went over the
same train of thoughts that had moved it before; gradually
calmed; came back from being a stranger to being at home, at
least in one presence; and ended, her action even before her
look told him where, as her other hand unconsciously was
joined to the one already on his arm. A mute expression of
feeling, the full import of which he read, even before her
eye, coming back from its musings, was raised to him, perhaps
unconsciously, too, with all the mind in it; its timidity was
not more apparent than its simplicity of clinging affection
and dependence. Mr. Carleton's answer was in three words, but
in the tone and manner that accompanied them there was a
response to every part of her appeal  so perfect that Fleda
was confused at her own frankness.
They began to move towards the house, but Fleda was in a maze
again and could hardly realize anything. "His wife!"  was she
that?  had so marvellous a change really been wrought in her?
 the little asparagus-cutter of Queechy transformed into the
mistress of all this domain, and of the stately mansion of
which they caught glimpses now and then, as they drew near it
