It was now the season of incipient preparation for dinner. 
Dinah, who required large intervals of reflection and repose, 
and was studious of ease in all her arrangements, was seated 
on the kitchen floor, smoking a short stumpy pipe, to which 
she was much addicted, and which she always kindled up, as 
a sort of censer, whenever she felt the need of an inspiration 
in her arrangements. It was Dinah's mode of invoking the 
domestic Muses. 
Seated around her were various members of that rising 
race with which a Southern household abounds, engaged in 
shelling peas, peeling potatoes, picking pin-feathers out of 
fowls, and other preparatory arrangements, Dinah every 
once in a while interrupting her meditations to give a poke 
or a rap on the head to some of the young operators, with 
the pudding-stick that lay by her side. In fact, Dinah ruled 
over the woolly heads of the younger members with a rod of 
iron, and seemed to consider them born for no earthly 
purpose but to " save her steps," as she phrased it. It was 
the spirit of the system under which she had grown up, and 
she carried it out to its full extent. '  
Miss Ophelia, after passing on her reformatory  
through all the other parts of the establishment, now 
what was going on, and resolved to stand on defensive and 
conservative ground, mentally determined to oppose and  
ignore every new measure, without any actual and observable
contest. 
The kitchen was a large brick-floored apartment, with a 
great old-fashioned fireplace stretching along one side of it, 
an arrangement which St. Clare had vainly tried to persuade 
Dinah to exchange for the convenience of a modern cook- 
stove. Not she. No Puseyite, or Conservative of any 
school, was ever more inflexibly attached to time-honoured 
inconveniences than Dinah. 
"When St. Clare had first returned from the north, im- 
pressed with the system and order of his uncle's kitchen 
arrangements, he had largely provided his own with an array 
of cupboards, drawers, and various apparatus, to induce 
systematic regulation, under the sanguine illusion that it 
would be of any possible assistance to Dinah in her 
arrangements. He might as well have provided them for a 
squirrel or a magpie. The more drawers and closets there 
were, the more hiding-holes could Dinah make for the 
accommodation of old rags, hair-combs, old shoes, ribbons, 
cast-off artificial flowers, and other articles of virtue, wherein 
her soul delighted. 
When Miss Ophelia entered the kitchen, Dinah did not 
rise, but smoked on in sublime tranquillity, regarding her 
movements obliquely out of the corner of her eye, but 
apparently intent only on the operations around her. 
Miss Ophelia commenced opening a set of drawers. 
" What is this drawer for, Dinah ? " she said. 
" It's handy for most anything, missis," said Dinah. So 
it appeared to be. From the variety it contained, Miss 
Ophelia pulled out first a fine damask table-cloth stained 
with blood, having evidently been used to envelope some 
raw meat. 
" What's this, Dinah ? You don't wrap up meat in your 
mistress's best table-cloths ? " 
" Lor, missis, no ; the towels was all a missin' so 
I jest did it. I laid out to wash that ar that's why I put 
