  approving conscience none can know but those who enjoy it. It nerves
  us in the hour of trial to bear our sufferings with fortitude, and
  even with cheerfulness. The greatest affliction I have is the
  reflection of the sorrow and anxiety my friends will have to endure
  on my account. But I can assure thee, brother, that with the
  exception of this reflection, I am far, very far, from being one of
  the most miserable of men. Nay, to the contrary, I am not terrified
  at the prospect before me, though I am grieved about it; but all
  have enough to grieve about in this unfriendly wilderness of sin and
  woe. My hopes are not fixed in this world, and therefore I have a
  source of consolation that will never fail me, so long as I slight
  not the offers of mercy, comfort and peace, which my blessed Saviour
  constantly privileges me with.
  One source of almost constant annoyance to my feelings is the
  profanity and vulgarity, and the bad, disagreeable temper, of two or
  three fellow-prisoners of my cell. They show me considerable
  kindness and respect; but they cannot do otherwise, when treated
  with the civility and kindness with which I treat them. If it be my
  fate to go to the penitentiary for eight or ten years, I can, I
  believe, meet my doom without shedding a tear. I have not yet shed a
  tear, though there may be many in store. My bail-bonds were set at
  seven thousand dollars. If I should be bailed out, I should return
  to my trial, unless my security were rich, and did not wish me to
  return; for I am Richard yet, although I am in the prison of my
  enemy, and will not flinch from what I believe to be right and
  honorable. These are the principles which, in carrying out, have
  lodged me here; for there was a time, at my arrest, that I might
  have, in all probability, escaped the police, but it would have
  subjected those who were arrested with me to punishment, perhaps
  even to death, in order to find out who I was, and if they had not
  told more than they could have done in truth, they would probably
  have been punished without mercy; and I am determined no one shall
  suffer for me. I am now a prisoner, but those who were arrested with
  me are all at liberty, and I believe without whipping. I now stand
  alone before the Commonwealth of Tennessee to answer for the affair.
  Tell my friends I am in the midst of consolation here.
Richard was engaged to a young lady of amiable disposition and fine
mental endowments.
To her he thus writes:
  O, dearest! Canst thou upbraid me? canst thou call it crime? wouldst
  thou call it crime, or couldst thou upbraid me, for rescuing, or
  attempting to rescue, thy father, mother, or brother and sister,
  or even friends, from a captivity among a cruel race of oppressors?
  O, couldst thou only see what I have seen, and hear what I have
  heard, of the sad, vexatious, degrading, and soul-trying situation
  of as noble minds as ever the Anglo-Saxon race were possessed of,
  mourning in vain for that universal heaven-born boon of freedom,
  which an all-wise and beneficent Creator has designed for all, thou
  couldst not censure, but wouldst deeply sympathize with me! Take all
  these things into consideration, and the thousands of poor mortals
  who are dragging out far more miserable lives than mine will be,
  even at ten years in the penitentiary, and thou wilt not look upon
  my fate with so much horror as thou would at first thought.
In another letter he adds:
  I have happy hours here, and I should not be miserable if I could
  only know you were not sorrowing for me at home. It would give me
  more satisfaction to hear that you were not grieving about me than
  anything else.
  The nearer I live to the principle of the commandment, “Love thy
  neighbor as thyself,” the more enjoyment I have of this life. None
