immediately on his errand of good will.
For a time after Andrew left the store of his father, Mr. Howland
sat half bewildered by the strange occurrence that had just taken
place, while his heart felt emotions of tenderness going deeper and
deeper toward its centre. Though confessed to no one, he had felt
greatly troubled in regard to the iron discipline to which he had
subjected his wayward boy, and had tried for years, but in vain, to
force from his mind the conviction that upon his own head rested the
sin of his ruin. Long since had he given him up as lost to this
world, and, he sadly feared, lost in the next. To have him return,
as he did, without even a foreshadowing sign of his coming, was an
event that completely broke down his feelings. Moreover, he was
touched by the spirit in which his son came back; a spirit of
practical forgiveness; the first act flowing from which was the
conference of a great benefit.
"There was good in the boy," sighed the old man, as he mused on what
had just occurred. "Alas! that it should have been so long
overshadowed. A milder course might have done better. Ah, me! we are
weak and shortsighted mortals."
Mr. Howland remained in his store until the late mails were
distributed at the post-office, when, unexpectedly, a letter came
from Edward. It contained a draft for a thousand dollars, and was in
these words--
"DEAR FATHER--I received your two letters. To the first returned no
answer; I need hardly give you the reason. It was a hard, harsh,
insulting letter, charging me with extensive frauds on you and
others, assuming that I was in possession of large sums of money
thus obtained, and imperiously demanding restitution. As to your
sources of information, I know nothing; but I trust, that before you
take such stories for granted, you will, at least, look well to
their authenticity. Your second letter was in a different tone, and
awoke in me a far different spirit from that awakened by the one
first received. I am pained to hear of your great embarrassment,
which I did not anticipate. I thought that the extension of time you
received, would enable you to meet all demands, and deeply regret
that such has not proved to be the case. Enclosed, I send you a
draft for one thousand dollars, which I have raised with great
difficulty; I wish, for your sake, that it were ten times the
amount. But it is the best I can do. When I came here I had about
fifteen hundred dollars in money; upon this I commenced business,
and have done tolerably well, but I am still on the steep up-hill
side, and it is far from certain whether I will go up or down from
the point I now occupy. Give my love to mother and Martha,
Affectionately yours,
EDWARD."
Mr. Howland mused for some time after receiving the letter;
then he turned to his desk, and wrote briefly, as follows--
"MY DEAR SON--I have your letter enclosing a draft for one thousand
dollars. I thank you for the remittance, but, happily, have received
aid from an unexpected quarter, and do not now need the money. With
this I return the draft you sent. I regret any injustice I may have
done you in a former letter, and hope you will forgive a too warm
expression of my feelings.
Yours, &c.,
ANDREW HOWLAND."
This letter was dispatched by the Southern mail, and then Mr.
Howland turned his steps homeward. He felt strangely. There was a
pressure on his bosom; but it was not the pressure of trouble that
had rested upon it so long, but a pressure of conflicting emotions,
all tending to soften and subdue his feelings, to bend the iron man,
