too threatening;--so I choked myself with a pretty speech, and she
bowed condescendingly. I gave her one look, though, when he did not
see--and she glared back at me. I'll warrant there'll be no love lost!"
"But what is she like? She may be an agreeable companion," said Ida.
"Ida Ross! I didn't come to you for canting consolation! I was too full
to keep my fury to myself--and I hate her rather more than I do you.
This is why I have told you about the wretch. 'Companion!' I'll be
company for her! She had better be burned alive, than come here. She
will wish she had been, or my name is not Read!"
"But you can escape by marriage;" suggested Ida, who perceived that the
girl was suffering, and pitied her, while she trembled at her frenzy.
"Say that again, and I will murder you!" retorted Josephine, in the
white heat of concentrated passion. "You will make me remember that our
old scores are not quite settled yet."
"I have no scores against you;" said Ida, firmly. "The past cannot
return--why refer to it?"
Josephine regarded her fixedly. "You are wise!" she said, presently,
breaking into a contemptuous laugh. "To another, you would preach
repentance--you know I never repent!" and with this strange speech, she
quitted her.
Now that he had broken the matter to his daughter, the bridegroom used
the utmost celerity in the despatch of preliminaries. The house was
filled with workmen, upholsterers and cooks, whose din destroyed the
quiet of Ida's chamber, the only one left unaltered. Josephine adhered
to her resolution not to move a finger in the preparations for the
detested intruder's reception. She would not go to the marriage, which
took place at the bride's father's, in the country. Mr. Read did not
insist; he was secretly pleased to be free for this evening--conscious
that he could acquit himself more creditably, if her eyes were not
upon him. The wedding party was to be at his house, the next night but
one. The supper was in the hands of the profession; Mr. Read being
too prudent to risk the probability of a grievous mortification, by
entrusting the most trifling arrangement to his filial mar-plot.
It was dark when the bridal party arrived. The girls were dressed,
and in the drawing-room. Ida's picture of the bride, drawn from
Josephine's representment, was of an overdressed, forward country
girl, who had wheedled and flattered a man of treble her age, into an
offer of his hand and fortune; and she was puzzled by the elaborate
toilette of the step-daughter. If her aim was to outshine the creature
she had described, she had certainly over-estimated the labor its
accomplishment required. She swept into the apartment with a hauteur,
that made her diminutive form appear two inches taller; her jetty
hair, almost an incumbrance from its length and profusion, dressed
partly in ringlets, partly in braids--instead of, as she usually wore
it at parties, and as her father liked to see it--in natural curls
floating upon her shoulders. This style gave her a juvenile air,
pleasing, heretofore--discarded by the full-fledged woman she acted
to-night. Her robe was of white satin; the falling shoulders and proud
swell of the throat exhibited to fine advantage by the low bodice.
Ida was dressed in a silver-grey silk, with a berthe of rich black
lace; the throat-latch and cuffs of black velvet and jet, making her
extreme paleness more striking. Her figure and expression of repose
had its opposite in the impersonation of splendid inquietude, which
trod the rooms impatiently, rustling and gleaming in the blaze of the
chandeliers.
"They have come!" said Ida, with a pitying accent, she could not
repress, as Josephine turned deadly pale at the sound of wheels.
"We must meet them," and she took her hand. Hers was fiercely
thrown off. Repellant, defiant, she disdained support. The bride's
brother and bridemaids had accompanied her; but Ida scarcely remarked
