mountain air inspiring our way. At last, while we were riding 
in the very lap of a rolling field full of grass and flowers, the 
sharp blue and white crystals of the glacier rose at once before us. 
" O, I want to get down," said I, " and go near them." 
Down I did get, and taking what seemed to be the straight- 
est course, began running down the hill side towards them. 
" No, no ! Back, back ! " shouted the guide, in unimaginable French and German. " Ici, ici I " 
I came back ; and taking my hand, he led me along a path 
where travellers generally go. I went closer, and sat down 
on a rock under them, and looked up. The clear sun was 
 
shining through them ; clear and blue looked the rifts and 
arches, all dripping and beautiful. We went down upon them 
by steps which a man had cut in the ice. There was one rift 
of ice we looked into, which was about fifty feet high, going 
up into a sharp arch. The inside of this arch was clear blue 
ice, of the color of crystal of blue vitriol. 
Here, immediately under, I took a rude sketch just to show 
you how a glacier looks close at hand. 
C. wanted, as usual, to do all sorts of improper things. He 
wanted to stone down blocks of ice, and to go inside the cave, 
and to go down into holes, and insisted on standing particular- 
ly long on a spot which the guide told him was all undermined, 
in order that he might pelt a cliff of ice that seemed inclined 
to fall, and hear it smash. 
The poor guide was as distressed as a hen when her ducks 
take to the water ; he ran, and called, and shouted, in Ger- 
man, French, and English, and it was not till C. had contrived 
to throw the head of the little boy's hatchet down into a cre- 
vasse, that he gave up. There were two francs to pay for this 
experiment ; but never mind ! Our guide book says that a 
clergyman of Vevay, on this glacier, fell into a crevasse sev- 
eral hundred feet deep, and was killed ; so I was glad enough 
when C. came off safe. 
He ought to have a bell on his neck, as the cows do here ; 
and apropos to this, we leave the glacier, and ride up into a 
land of pastures. Here we see a hundred cows grazing in the 
field — the field all yellow with buttercups. They are a very 
small breed, prettily formed, and each had on her neck a bell. 
How many notes there are in these bells ! quite a diapason — 
some very deep toned, and so on up to the highest ! how pret- 
tily they sound, all going together ! The bells are made of 
the best of metal, for the tone is of an admirable quality. 
O, do look off there, on that patch of snow under the Wet- 
terhorn ! It is all covered with cows ; they look no bigger 
than insects. " "What makes them go there ? " said we to our 
guides. 
" To be cool" was the answer. 
Hark ! what's that ? a sudden sound like the rush of a 
cascade. 
" Avalanche ! avalanche ! " exclaimed the guide. And now, 
pouring down the sides of the "Wetterhorn, came a milk-white 
 
cascade, looking just like any other cascade, melting gracefully 
over the rocks, and spreading, like a stream of milk, on the 
soiled snow below. 
This is a summer avalanche — a mere hijou — a fancy ar- 
ticle, got up, or rather got down, to entertain travellers. The 
winter avalanches are quite other things. Witness a little 
further in our track, where our guide stops us, and points to a 
