silver and gold in the other end of the purse.
"I never did such a thing in my life."
"No matter; there must be a beginning to everything."
"What would my mother say?"
"She will say you are a clever fellow if you don't get found out. Eleven
dollars and a quarter in specie! That makes seventy-one
twenty-five--don't it?"
"Yes."
"All right! We will just dig a little hole here, and put the purse into
it," continued Tim, as he scooped out a hole in the sand, and dropped
the ill-gotten treasure into it.
Filling up the hole, he placed a large flat stone upon the spot, which
further secured the purse, and concealed the fact that the sand had been
disturbed.
"I am sure we shall get found out," said Charles, trembling with
apprehension.
"Nonsense! Keep a stiff upper lip; don't stop to think, and all will go
well. But, my hearty, if you peach on me, I give you my word, I will
take your life before you are one month older--do you hear?" And Tim's
fierce looks gave force to his words. "Now, we will go back to the rest
on 'em before they miss us. Mind you don't say anything, nor look
anything."
Charles followed Tim back to the other side of the island, and both of
them joined the sports of the day. The afternoon passed away, and
nothing was said of the purse. The owner had not missed it, and Tim
congratulated himself on the circumstance. Charles tried to be joyous,
and though he did not feel so, he acted it so well that no one suspected
him of harboring so vile a sin within his bosom.
"All aboard!" said Frank, and the band commenced playing "Home, Sweet
Home."
In due time the party were all transported to the shore, and everybody
went home highly delighted with the day's amusements. The Zephyr was
housed, and the crew dismissed, but not a word was said about the purse.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE LIGHTHOUSE.
During the month of May, the members of the two clubs continued to spend
many of their leisure hours on the lake; but my young friends must not
suppose that life was to them a continuous holiday; and, because these
books are devoted chiefly to their doings on the water, that boating was
the only, or the principal business that occupied them. They had their
school duties to perform, their errands to do, wood to split, yards to
sweep; in short, they had to do just like other boys. A portion of
Wednesday and Saturday afternoon, and of their other holidays, was given
to these aquatic sports; so that they were really on the lake but a
small part of the time. Probably, if they had spent all their leisure in
the boats, the exercise would have lost its attractions, besides
interfering very much with their home and school affairs. Pleasures, to
be enjoyed, should be partaken of in moderation. Boys get sick of most
sports in a short time, because they indulge in them too freely.
Nothing specially worthy of note occurred in either club till near the
end of the month of May. The intimacy between Charles Hardy and Tim
Bunker was observed to increase, though no one had any suspicion of the
secret which had cemented the bond of their union.
The lost purse was the property of Mr. Walker. At a subsequent visit to
Rippleton, he had mentioned his loss, but he had no idea where he had
dropped it. Tim congratulated his still unwilling confederate on the
success of his villainy. Mr. Walker did not even know whether he had
lost his money in the town or not; so, of course, he had no suspicion of
them.
"You are a first-rate fellow, Charley, but you are too chickenish by
