done; but don’t you think that, while you have devoted yourself so
untiringly to other affairs, you have been obliged to neglect your own
family in order to gain time for this? One cannot live two lives at
once, you know.”
“No, madam, certainly we cannot live two lives at once, but we can glean
a much larger harvest from the one which is, bestowed upon us than we
are accustomed to think. I do not, by any means, think that I have ever
neglected my own family in the performance of other duties, and I trust
my children are proving, by their hearty co-operation with me, that I am
not mistaken. Our first duty, certainly is at home, and I determined,
at the outset, that nothing should call me from the performance of this
first charge. I do not think anything can excuse a mother from devoting
a large portion of her life in personal attention to the children God
has given her. But I can assure you that, to those things which I have
done of which the world could take cognisance, I have given far less
time than I used once to devote to dress and amusement, I found, by
systematizing everything, that my time was more than doubled; and,
certainly, I was far better fitted to attend properly to my own family,
when my eyes, were opened to the responsibilities of life, than when my
thoughts were wholly occupied by fashion and display.”
ANTIDOTE FOR MELANCHOLY.
“AH, friend K----, good-morning to you; I’m really happy to see you
looking so cheerful. Pray, to what unusual circumstance may we be
indebted for this happy, smiling face of yours, this morning?” (Our
friend K----had been, unfortunately, of a very desponding and somewhat
of a choleric turn of mind, previously.)
“Really, is the change so perceptible, then? Well, my dear sir, you
shall have the secret; for, happy as I appear--and be assured, my
appearances are by no means deceptive, for I never felt more happy in my
life--it will still give me pleasure to inform you, and won’t take long,
either. It is simply this; I have made a whole family happy!”
“Indeed! Why, you have discovered a truly valuable: recipe for blues,
then, which may be used ad libitum, eh, K----?”
“You may well say that. But, really, my friend, I feel no little
mortification at not making so simple and valuable a discovery at an
earlier period of my life, Heaven knows,” continued K----, “I have
looked for contentment everywhere else. First, I sought for wealthy in
the gold mines of California, thinking that was the true source of
all earthly joys; but after obtaining it, I found myself with such a
multiplicity of cares and anxieties, that I was really more unhappy than
ever. I then sought for pleasure in travelling. This answered somewhat
the purpose of dissipating cares, &c., so long as it lasted; but, dear
me, it gave no permanent satisfaction. After seeing the whole world, I
was as badly off as Alexander the Great. He cried for another world to
conquer, and I cried for another world to see.”
The case of our friend, I imagine, differs not materially from that of
a host of other seekers of contentment in this productive world. Like
“blind leaders of the blind,” our invariable fate is to go astray in the
universal race for happiness. How common is it, after seeking for it
in every place but the right one, for the selfish man to lay the whole
blame upon this fine world--as if anybody was to blame but himself. Even
some professors of religion are too apt to libel the world. “Well, this
is a troublesome world, to make the best of it,” is not an uncommon
expression; neither is it a truthful one. “Troubles, disappointments,
losses, crosses, sickness, and death, make up the sum and substance of
our existence here,” add they, with tremendous emphasis, as if they had
no hand in producing the sad catalogue. The trouble is, we set too
high a value on our own merits; we imagine ourselves deserving of great
favours and privileges, while we are doing nothing to merit them. In
this respect, we are not altogether unlike the young man in the parable,
