    Of Truth's bright treasure though he love to tell,
  In barren mines of lore he hath not found it,
    Bowing beneath his idol's deadly spell.
  But gaze on One, who seeks in all around him,
    Lessons of good to cheer him on his way,
  As every golden year through life hath found him
    Nearer the realms of Heaven's eternal day.
  With him events of earth are sweet evangels,
    All meaner things but step-stones hurled beneath;
  Whilst nobler lead to Eden-realms of angels,
    With shining robes, and crown, and amaranth wreath.
  Oh! fellow-pilgrims through this desert dreary,
    In all the scenes of life God's mercy trace,
  Then though with grief cast down, with watching weary,
    Strong shall ye stand in His sufficient grace!
  Thus sweet, melodious tones and forms of beauty,
    All glorious sights and sounds may ever prove
  Angels to lure us on the path of duty,
    Echoes of symphonies that float above!
BODILY DEFORMITY, SPIRITUAL BEAUTY.
WHO has not observed in passing through the crowded streets of our
city, how great, comparatively, is the number of those, who are more
or less deformed? My heart aches for these poor unfortunates, who
are deprived of some of the legitimate avenues of enjoyment which
God has so bounteously vouchsafed to me.
Here is one (and it would seem to me the most unmitigated of all the
catalogue) who is groping his way along in darkness, holding fast by
the hand of a little girl. There is another who has lost a limb, and
makes his way along with the utmost difficulty. Yonder is one so
extremely deformed, that his sensitiveness forbids him often to
appear in the crowded streets. And there is another still, who is
quite helpless, sitting in a little wagon drawn about by a faithful
dog.
In the minds of different individuals, these various aspects of
deformity produce pity, disgust, and horror; but I have often
thought, could we but look, as God looks--down into the audience
chamber of the spirit--the heart--how differently our minds would be
affected at the sight of these bodily deformities. Perhaps yon poor
blind man, grinding away upon his hand-organ, whose natural eyes for
long, weary years, have been closed against the profusion of beauty
around him, has had the eyes of his understanding opened, and the
pure light from the eternal throne illumes the depth of his soul.
Perhaps he, who hobbles slowly and sadly along upon his crutches,
treads with care and unknown joy, the narrow way,--and when,
life's journey's over, he walks through the valley of the shadow of
death, he will fear no evil; for a rod and a staff unknown to his
earthly pilgrimage, they will comfort him. Who shall say but he,
whose deformity drives him from the public way, walks continually
before God and Angels--a perfect man? It may be, that yon helpless
one--so helpless that his mother feeds him--has power to move the
arm that moves the world; for God hears prayer.
It is a most solemn truth that He who is the judge of quick and
dead, looks not upon the outer man; but upon his inner, spiritual
nature. With His judgment, it matters not, that a man be deformed;
that his eyes be blind or his tongue be tied: is the heart all
right?--has it become a sanctuary, meet for the spirit's residence
and lighted by the Sun of Righteousness, where every word, thought,
and deed, becomes an acceptable sacrifice to God? is it not
disturbed by sin or blinded by passion? These are the things which
have to do in the estimate which God puts upon every intelligent
