a treasure. She told Emily that, "Give her time, nobody could beat
her at a boiled dish, apple-dumplings, or a loaf of bread," and the
result proved that her words were no vain boast.
"I have concluded to follow your advice," said Emily, the next time
she saw her mother, "and look into the kitchen occasionally."
"I am glad to hear it, and I have no doubt that you will enjoy
yourself much better for it."
"I am certain that I shall--I do already. You can't imagine what
queer, fretful-looking lines were beginning to show themselves on
George's brow. He would have looked old enough for a grandfather in
a few years, if I had gone on trying to realize the hope he
expressed, that I would abstain from the performance of all
household tasks. And I should have looked quite as old as he, I
suspect, for I believe that the consciousness of neglected duties is
one of the heaviest burdens which can be borne."
TO AN ABSENT WIFE.
  'TIS Morn:--the sea breeze seems to bring
  Joy, health, and freshness on its wing;
  Bright flowers, to me all strange and new,
  Are glittering in the early dew,
  And perfumes rise from every grove,
  As incense to the clouds that move
  Like spirits o'er yon welkin clear,--
  But I am sad--thou are not here!
  'Tis Noon:--a calm, unbroken sleep
  Is on the blue waves of the deep;
  A soft haze, like a fairy dream,
  Is floating over wood and stream;
  And many a broad magnolia flower,
  Within its shadowy woodland bower,
  Is gleaming like a lovely star,--
  But I am sad--thou art afar!
  'Tis Eve:--on earth the sunset skies
  Are painting their own Eden dyes;
  The stars come down and trembling glow,
  Like blossoms in the waves below;
  And like an unseen sprite, the breeze
  Seems lingering midst these orange trees,
  Breathing its music round the spot,--
  But I am sad--I see thee not!
  'Tis Midnight:--with a soothing spell
  The far-off tones of ocean swell--
  Soft as a mother's cadence mild,
  Low bending o'er her sleeping child;
  And on each wandering breeze are heard
  The rich notes of the mocking bird,
  In many a wild and wondrous lay,--
  But I am sad--thou art away!
  I sink in dreams:--low, sweet, and clear,
  Thy own dear voice is in my ear:--
  Around my cheek thy tresses twine--
  Thy own loved hand is clasped in mine,
  Thy own soft lip to mine is pressed--
  Thy head is pillowed on my breast;
  Oh, I have all my heart holds dear,
  And I am happy--thou art here!
THE WORD OF PRAISE.
A LITTLE thing is a sunbeam--a very little thing. It streams through
our casement, making the cheerful room still more cheerful; and yet
so accustomed are we to its presence, that we notice it not, and
