their mistake. 
A short distance from the institution was what ap- 
peared to be a very extensive wood. Beyond this, 
many miles distant, he could see the ocean glittering 
like a sheet of ice under the setting sun. 
He carefully observed the hills, and obtained the 
bearings of various prominent objects in the vicinity, 
which would aid him in his flight. The boys gave 
him all the information in their power about the 
localities of the country. They seemed to feel that 
he was possessed of a superior spirit, and that he 
would not long remain among them ; but, whatever 
they thought, they kept their own counsel. 
Bobby behaved well, and was so intelligent and 
prompt that he obtained the confidence of the super- 
intendent, who began to employ him about the house, 
and in his own family. He was sent of errands in 
the neighborhood, and conducted himself so much to 
the satisfaction of his guardians that he was not re- 
quired to work in the field after the second day of his 
residence on the farm. 
One afternoon he was told that his clothes were 
ready, and that he might put them on the next morn- 
ing. This was a disagreeable announcement ; for 
Bobby saw that, with the uniform of the institution 
upon his back, his chance of escape would be very 
slight. But about sunset, he was sent by the super- 
intendent's lady to deliver a note at a house in the 
vicinity. 
 
"Now or never ! " said Bobby to himself, after he 
had left the house. " Now's my time." 
As he passed the gate, he secured his money, and 
placed it in the secret receptacle of his jacket. After 
he had delivered the letter, he took the road and 
hastened off in the direction of the wood. His heart 
beat wildly at the prospect of once more meeting his 
mother, after nearly four weeks' absence. Annie Lee 
would welcome him ; she would not believe that he 
was a thief. 
He had been four days an inmate of the Reform 
School, and nothing but the hope of soon attaining 
his liberty had kept his spirits from drooping. He 
had not for a moment despaired of getting away. 
He reached the entrance to the wood, and taking a 
cart path, began to penetrate its hidden depths. The 
night darkened upon him ; he heard the owl screech 
his dismal note, and the whip-poor-will chant his 
cheery song. A certain sense of security now per- 
vaded his mind, for the darkness concealed him from 
the world, and he had placed six good miles between 
him and the prison, as he considered it. 
He walked on, however, till he came to what 
seemed to be the end of the wood, and he hoped to 
reach the blue ocean he had seen in the distance be- 
fore morning. Leaving the forest, he emerged into 
the open country. There was here and there a house 
before him ; but the aspect of the country seemed 
strangely familiar to him. He could not understand 
it. He had never been in this part of the country 
