
On the other hand, he did not like to pause so neai 
Itedfield. He had scarcely entered upon the consid- 
eration of this side of the question, before his quick 
ear detected the sound of rattling wheels in the direc- 
tion from which he had come. His heart beat vio- 
lently. It was Squire Walker and Jacob Wire, ha 
was sure, in pursuit of him ; but his courage did not 
fail him. 

Leaping over the stone wall by the side of the 
road, he secured the only retreat which the vicinity 
afforded, and waited, with his heart in his throat, for  
the coming of the pursuers, as he had assured him- 
self they were. The present seemed to be his only 
chance of escape,, and if he failed now, he might 
soon have another opportunity to " try again." 

The vehicle was approaching at a furious pace, and

as the noise grew more distinct, his heart leapt  the 

more violently. He thought he recognized the sounc 

'"* Squire Walker's wagon. There was not mucb 

-*ie for his fancy to conjure up strange things, for  




the carriage soon reached the place where he was 
concealed. . 

" Ur-r — woo ! " said a big bull-dog, placing his 
ugly nose against the wall, behind which Harry was 
lying. 

" Whoa ! " added a voice, which the trembling 
fugitive recognized as that of George Leman. 

" The dog has scented him," said another — that 
of Jacob Wire. 

Harry's heart sunk within him, and he felt as faint 
as though every drop of blood had been drawn from 
his veins. 

" I knew the dog would fetch him," said George 
Leman, as he leaped from the wagon, followed by 
Jacob Wire. " At him, Tiger ! " 

In obedience to this command, Tiger drew back a 
few steps, and then leaped upon the top of the wall. 
The prospect of being torn in pieces by the bull-dog 
was not pleasant to Harry, and with a powerful effort 
he summoned his sinking energies for the struggle 
before him. Grasping two large stones, he stood 
erect as the dog leaped on the wall. Inspired by the
imminence of his peril, he hurled one of the stonei 
