after breakfast, how a man went driving by in a chaise, and the Deacon,
he went out and stopped him for travelling on the Lord’s day (’cause,
you know, he was a justice of the peace), and who should it be but
Tom Seaforth, and he told the Deacon his father had got a shipload
of negroes just come in, and the Deacon he just let him go, ’cause I
remember he said that was a plain work of necessity and mercy.[A]
Well now, who would have thought it? I believe the Doctor is better
than most folks; but then the best people may be mistaken, you know.’
‘The Doctor has made up his mind that it’s his duty,’ said Mrs.
Scudder. ‘I’m afraid it’ll make him very unpopular; but I, for one,
shall stand by him.’
‘Oh, certainly, Miss Scudder, you’re doing just right, exactly. Well,
there’s one comfort, he’ll have a great crowd to hear him preach,
’cause as I was going round through the entries last night, I heard ’em
talking about it; and Colonel Burr said he should be there, and so did
the General, and so did Mr. What’s-his-name there, that senator from
Philadelphia. I tell you you’ll have a full house.’
It was to be confessed that Mrs. Scudder’s heart rather sank than
otherwise at this announcement, and those who have felt what it
is to be almost alone in the right, in the face of all the ‘first
families’ of their acquaintance, may perhaps find some compassion for
her; since after all, truth is invisible, but ‘first families’ are
very evident. First families are often very agreeable, undeniably
respectable—fearfully virtuous; and it takes great faith to resist
an evil principle which incarnates itself in the suavities of their
breeding and amiability; and therefore it was that Mrs. Scudder felt
her heart heavy within her, and could with a very good grace have
joined the Doctor’s Saturday fast.
As for the Doctor, he sat the while tranquil in his study, with his
great Bible and his Concordance open before him, culling, with that
patient assiduity for which he was remarkable, all the terrible texts
which that very unceremonious and old-fashioned book rains down so
unsparingly on the sin of oppressing the weak. First families, whether
in Newport or elsewhere, were as invisible to him as they were to
Moses during the forty days that he spent with God on the Mount. He
was merely thinking of his message, thinking only how he should shape
it so as not to leave one word of it unsaid, not even imagining in
the least what the result of it was to be: he was but a voice, but an
instrument,—a passive instrument through which an Almighty will was
to reveal itself: and the sublime fatalism of his faith made him as
dead to all human considerations as if he had been a portion of the
immutable laws of nature herself.
So the next morning, although all his friends trembled for him when he
rose in the pulpit, he never thought of trembling for himself: he had
come in the covered way of silence from the secret place of the Most
High, and felt himself still abiding under the shadow of the Almighty.
It was alike to him whether the house was full or empty. Whoever were
decreed to hear the message would be there; whether they would hear or
forbear was already settled in the counsels of a mightier will than
his: he had the simple duty of utterance.
The ruinous old meeting-house was never so radiant with station and
gentility as on that morning: a June sun shone brightly, the sea
sparkled with a thousand little eyes, the birds sang all along the
way, and all the notables turned out to hear the Doctor.
Mrs. Scudder received into her pew, with dignified politeness, Colonel
Burr, and Colonel and Madame de Frontignac.
General Wilcox and his portly dame, Major Seaforth, and we know not,
what not of Vernons and De Wolfs, and other grand old names were
present there. Stiff silks rustled, Chinese fans fluttered, and the
last court fashion stood revealed in bonnets; everybody was looking
