"Satan--applying to Uriel for guidance to the new created earth and its
inhabitants, on the same plea that Herod presented to the wise men."
"But that's a story?" said Faith.
"Yes. The Bible only tells the work done by him after he got here."
"Mr. Linden, will you read that over once more for me."
She listened with a face of absorbed intentness while it was read; then
looked away from the book with an unconscious but very audible sigh.
"Well?" Mr. Linden said, smiling as he looked at her.
"I like it very much!" was Faith's answer.
"Is that what made you sigh?"
"Sigh!" she said starting a little and colouring. "No,--I didn't mean
to sigh."
"The fact is more than the intention. Whence came that?"
"It was only--Please don't ask me, Mr. Linden. I can't tell you."
He made no answer to that, but turning over the leaves read to her here
and there without much comment,--then asked her if she was tired of
hearing about angels.
"I think I should never be tired!" said Faith. "But you must be, Mr.
Linden. Please," she said putting her hand gently on the book,--"don't
read for me any more. Is all the book like that?"
"Not quite all--I have given you some bits that I particularly like,
but there is much more. You need not be uneasy about my being tired,"
he said smiling; "if I were, by your own shewing I can have rest.
However, Miss Faith--lessons being the order of the day--will you read
French to me?"
In her reading, Faith came to the description of the philosopher's
perplexity in finding that the birds would not pick up the crumbs he
threw to them on the roof as usual. He concluded the feathered things
were not more reason able than mankind, and had taken fright for
nothing.
"J'allais fermer ma fenêtre sur cette réflexion, quand j'aperçois tout
à coup, dans l'espace lumineux qui s'étend à droite, l'ombre de deux
oreilles qui se dressent, puis une griffe qui s'avance, puis la tête
d'un chat tigré qui se montre à l'angle de la gouttière. Le drôle était
là en embuscade, espérant que les aniettes lui amèneraient du gibier.
"Et moi qui accusais la couardise de mes hôtes! J'étais sûr qu'aucun
danger ne les menaçait! je croyais avoir bien regardé partout! je
n'avais oublié que le coin derrière moi!
"Dans la vie comme sur les toits, que de malheurs arrivent pour avoir
oublié un seul coin!"
Faith closed the book then, very much amused with the philosopher's
"chat tigré."
"But often one can't see round the corner," she remarked.
A little gesture of lips and brow, half asserted that if one could not,
one could: but Mr. Linden only said,
"Most true! Miss Faith. Nevertheless, the knowledge that there are
corners is not to be despised."
"I don't know. I shouldn't like to live always in fear of seeing the
shadow of a cat's ears come in."
"Have you quite outgrown the love of cats?" said Mr. Linden smiling.
"No, but I was talking of the fear of corners," she said with an
answering smile. "I don't think I want to remember the corners, Mr.
Linden."
"I don't think I want you should. Philosophers and birds, you know, go
through the world on different principles."
She laughed a little at that, gave the hearth a parting brush, and went
off to dinner.
Business claimed its place after dinner, business of a less pleasant
kind, quite up to the time when Faith must put on her bonnet to walk
with Dr. Harrison.
