So Debby and Jane King walked off 
after the other children, and Debby held 
her head down and peeped at Jane round 
the* edge of her sunbonnet. She wife a 
nice-looking child, with good, plump 
cheeks and brown hair, and quiet, pleasant 
little face. But she was a poor child : that 
was plain. Her dress was clean, but very 
old and faded and patched up, and she had 
no shoes at all ! To be sure, her bare feet 
were as clean as if they had just come out 
of the brook. Debby looked at them. 
They went sturdily plodding on through 
the grass, with Debby’ s red shoes twinkling about alongside of them. 
“How queer it is!” thought Debby. 
“What could make her come to a festival 
with no shoes?” Then, as they walked 
on, suddenly Debby began to think of 
something else: — 
“Who are they whose little feet, 
Pacing life’s dark journey through, 
Now have reach’d that heavenly seat 
They had ever kept in view ?” 
“ Red shoes or no shoes, it doesn’t make 
much difference,” Debby repeated to herself, thinking of her mother’s words. And 
yet it seemed to make a good deal, too. 
“ I wonder which way she’s walking?” 
thought Debby again. “I guess I’ll ask 
her. Jane, do you know how to walk 
well?” 
“I don’t know — I think I don’t know — 
what you mean,” Jane answered, colouring. 
For she had been watching Debby ’s red 
shoes, too, and thought that may -be Debby 
was laughing at her bare feet. 
“Well, which way are you going, then?” 
said Debby. 
“I’m going up to the festival,” said 
Jane, quietly. “ Mrs. Singleton told me to 
come.” 
“Is that all?” said Debby. 
“ Yes,” said Jane, “that’s all. I knew 
I might come if she told me to. I guess 
they've all got shoes but me ; — but I 
couldn’t help that. We’re too poor to wear 
shoes in summer.” 
“Oh, but, ’ ’ said Debby, ‘ ‘ my mother says 
it don’t make much difference.” 
“I think it does make some,” said Jane, 
looking down again at the little red shoes. 
“I think it makes a good deal.” 
“No, it don’t,” said Debby, “if you 
only walk well.” 
Jane looked at her own bare feet this 
time, plodding on as before, and wondered 
what in the world Debby meant. 
“ I can get along fast enough,” she said, 
“but it a’n’t so pretty to look at.” 
“Oh, but I don’t mean that, at all,” 
said Debby. “Why, didn’t you ever hear 
