serpent folds, and boughs wreathed and knotted into wild, unnatural
contractions, as if their growth had been a series of spasmodic
convulsions, instead of a calm and gentle development of Nature. There
were overgrown clumps of aloes, with the bare skeletons of former
flower-stalks standing erect among their dusky horns or lying rotting
on the ground beside them. The place had evidently been intended for
the culture of shrubbery and flowers, but the growth of the trees had
long since so intercepted the sunlight and fresh air that not even
grass could find root beneath their branches. The ground was covered
with a damp green mould, strewn here and there with dead boughs, or
patched with tufts of fern and lycopodium, throwing out their green
hairy roots into the moist soil. A few half-dead roses and jasmines,
remnants of former days of flowers, still maintained a struggling
existence, but looked wan and discouraged in the effort, and seemed
to stretch and pine vaguely for a freer air. In fact, the whole garden
might be looked upon as a sort of symbol of the life by which it was
surrounded,--a life stagnant, unnatural, and unhealthy, cut off from
all those thousand stimulants to wholesome development which are
afforded by the open plain of human existence, where strong natures
grow distorted in unnatural efforts, though weaker ones find in its
lowly shadows a congenial refuge.

We have given the brighter side of conventual life in the days we are
describing: we have shown it as often a needed shelter of woman's
helplessness during ages of political uncertainty and revolution; we
have shown it as the congenial retreat where the artist, the poet, the
student, and the man devoted to ideas found leisure undisturbed to
develop themselves under the consecrating protection of religion. The
picture would be unjust to truth, did we not recognize, what, from our
knowledge of human nature, we must expect, a conventual life of far
less elevated and refined order. We should expect that institutions
which guaranteed to each individual a livelihood, without the necessity
of physical labor or the responsibility of supporting a family, might
in time come to be incumbered with many votaries in whom indolence and
improvidence were the only impelling motives. In all ages of the world
the unspiritual are the majority,--the spiritual the exceptions. It was
to the multitude that Jesus said, "Ye seek me not because ye saw the
miracles, but because ye did eat and were filled,"--and the multitude
has been much of the same mind from that day to this.

The convent of which we speak had been for some years under the lenient
rule of the jolly Brother Girolamo,--an easy, wide-spread, loosely
organized body, whose views of the purpose of human existence were
decidedly Anacreontic. Fasts he abominated,--night-prayers he found
unfavorable to his constitution; but he was a judge of olives and good
wine, and often threw out valuable hints in his pastoral visits on
the cooking of macaroni, for which he had himself elaborated a savory
recipe; and the cellar and larder of the convent, during his pastorate,
presented so many urgent solicitations to conventual repose, as to
threaten an inconvenient increase in the number of others. The monks
in his time lounged in all the sunny places of the convent like so
many loose sacks of meal, enjoying to the full the dolce far niente
which seems to be the universal rule of Southern climates. They ate
and drank and slept and snored; they made pastoral visits through the
surrounding community which were far from edifying; they gambled, and
tippled, and sang most unspiritual songs; and keeping all the while
their own private pass-key to Paradise tucked under their girdles,
were about as jolly a set of sailors to Eternity as the world had to
show. In fact, the climate of Southern Italy and its gorgeous scenery
are more favorable to voluptuous ecstasy than to the severe and grave
