Jeannie's eyes beamed delightedly. "Oh, if you only 
would !" 
Sarah looked down into the eager face and saw, in anticipation, her own little Belle imploring some boon, as impor- 
 
tant to her, as easy to be granted by another as this, and 
consented with a kiss. 
" Run away and bring your finery here ! Mother is too 
busy to attend to you. Mary can dress you." 
The order was obeyed with lightning speed ; and Sarah, 
still beholding in the excited child the foreshadowing of her 
darling's girlhood, superintended the toilet, while she made 
herself ready. 
" What shall I wear, Jeannie ?" "she asked, carelessly, 
holding open the door of her wardrobe. 
" Oh, that lovely fawn-colored silk, please ! the one with 
the black lace flounces ! It is the prettiest color I ever saw; 
and I heard Mrs. Greyling tell another lady the night you 
wore it, when brother Lewis was here, you know, that it 
was one of the richest dresses in the room, modest as it 
looked, and that the flounces must have cost a penny !" 
" Probably more !" 
Sarah proceeded to array herself in the fortunate robe 
that had won the praises of the fashionably distinguished 
Mrs. Greyling. Her abundant dark hair was lighted by two 
coral sprigs, which formed the heads of her hair-pins, and, 
handkerchief and gloves in hand, she was taking a last survey of Jeannie's more brilliant costume, when there came a 
knock at the door. 
"Mr, Benson !" said Mary, unclosing it. 
" May I come in ?" he asked. 
The tidy Mary had removed all trace of the recent tiring 
operations from the apartment, which was a compound of 
parlor and dressing-room, a necessary adjunct to the small 
chamber and smalher nursery, leading out of it, at the side 
and rear. 
"You may!" replied Sarah. "Here is an aspirant for 
ball-room honors, who awaits your approval." 
Mademoiselle, que vous e"tes charmante ! I am penetrated with profound admiration!" exclaimed the teasing 
brother-in-law, raising his hands in true melodramatic style. 
Jeannie laughed and blushed until her cheeks matched 
the grenadine. 
" Mrs. Hunt told me that you had changed your mind, 
and intended to grace the festive scene with your presence, * 
continued Philip, addressing Sarah. " She and Lucy are 
there, and the dancing has begun. I came to escort you 
and our fair debutante here that is, unless some one else 
has oifered his services and been accepted." 
" That is not likely, since Mr. Hammond left us in your 
care. Do not your fourfold duties oppress you ?" 
"Not in the least. If all my charges were as chary of 
their calls upon me as you are, my time would hang heavily 
upon my hands. No one would imagine, from your reluctance to be waited upon, that you had been spoiled at home. 
If Mr. Hammond were here now, he would tell you to draw 
that shawl" 
" It is an opera cloak !" interrupted Jeannie. 
" A ball-cloak to-night, then, is it not ? I was saying that, 
although the night is not cool for sea air, you had better 
wrap that mantle about your chest and throat as we go 
out." 
Just outside the door a waiter passed them with a note 
in his hand. He stopped, on seeing Philip. 
