held on each side of her by a group of eight or ten strong men, the two
groups pulling opposite ways. She was dead, the poor victim underneath
the veil, in a minute or two after the missionaries entered; and the
veil being taken off they saw that it was a woman who had professed
Christianity. Her sons were among those who had strangled her. Another
woman came forward with great shew of bravery when her name was called;
offered her hand to the missionaries as she passed them; and with great
pride of bearing submitted herself to the death which probably she knew
she could not avoid. Everybody was quiet and cheerful, and the whole
thing went on with the undisturbed order of a recognized and accustomed
necessity; only the old king's son, the reigning chief for a long time
back, was very uneasy at the part he was playing before the
missionaries; he was the only trembling or doubtful one there. Yet he
would not yield the point. Pride before all; his father must not be
buried without the due honours of his position. Mr. Rhys and Mr.
Lefferts had staid to make their protest and offer their entreaties and
warnings, to the very last; and then heart-sick and almost faint with
the disgusting scene, had returned home.

Yet the influence of the truth was increasing and the good work was
spreading and growing around them, steadily and in every direction. A
great many had renounced heathenism; not a small number were earnest
Christians and shewed the truth of their religion in their changed
lives. A great number of reports proved this.

"It is work that tries what stuff men's hearts are of, however,"
remarked Mr. Morrison as he folded up one packet of letters. Neither of
his hearers made him any answer. Mrs. Caxton sat opposite to him,
deeply attentive but silent, with her hand always lying upon her own
particular packet. Eleanor had turned a little away and sat with her
side face towards Mr. Morrison, looking into the fire. Her work was
dropped; she sat motionless.

"I have a letter to read you now of a later date," Mr. Morrison went
on,--"from Mr. Rhys, which shews how well he has got hold of the people
and how much he is regarded by them already. It shews the influence
gained by the truth, too, which is working there fast."

After giving some details of business and of his labours, Mr. Rhys
wrote--"My last notable piece of work, has been in the character of an
ambassador of peace--not heavenly but earthly. News was brought four or
five days ago that the heathen inhabitants of two neighbouring
districts had engaged in open hostilities. Home business claimed me one
day; the next morning I set out on my mission, with one or two
Christian natives. The desolations of war soon met our eyes, in
destroyed crops and a deserted village. Nobody was to be seen. I and
those who were with me sat down in the shade of some trees, while a
native went to find the inhabitants who had hid themselves in a thicket
of mangroves. As soon as the chief heard that I was there, and what I
had come for, he declared he would be a Christian forthwith; and four
or five of his principal men followed his example. They came to me, and
entered fully into my object; and it was decided that we should go on
immediately to the fortress where those who wished to carry on war had
intrenched themselves. We got there just as the sun was setting; and
from that time till midnight I was engaged in what I saw now for the
first time; a savage council of war. Grim black warriors covered with
black powder sat or stood about, on a little clear spot of ground where
the moon shone down; muskets and clubs and spears lay on the glass and
were scattered about among the boles of the trees; a heathen-looking
scene. Till midnight we talked, and hard talking too; then it was ended
