could not only see the committee and the squire, but he could hear all
they said. He was perfectly delighted with the manner in which the captain
put the question to the squire; and when the latter ordered Fred to hang
out the flag, he was a little disposed to imitate the masculine occupants
of the hen-house, a short distance from his perch; but Tom, as we have
before intimated, had a very tolerable idea of the principles of strategy,
and had the self-possession to hold his tongue, and permit the triumphant
scene within to pass without a crow or a cheer.
The battle had been fought and the victory won; and though Tom felt that
he was one of the victors, he deemed it prudent, for strategical reasons,
to commence a retreat. The cellar doors, as we have before hinted, were
very slippery, having been thoroughly soaked with moisture while covered
with the seaweed. When the hero of this unauthorized reconnoissance
wheeled about to commence his retreat, his feet incontinently slipped up
upon the inclined surface of the doors, and he came down heavily upon the
rotten boards. This, in itself, would have been but an inconsiderable
disaster, and he might still have withdrawn from the inconvenient
locality, if circumstances had not conspired against him, as circumstances
sometimes will, when they ought to be conciliatory and accommodating. The
force with which Tom fell upon the decayed boards was too much for them,
and the unlucky adventurer became another victim to the treachery of
rotten wood, which has hurled so many thousands from time into eternity.
But Tom was not hurled so far as that on the present occasion, though for
all practical purposes, for the succeeding half hour, he might as well
have been a hundred fathoms under water, or beneath the wreck of a
twenty-ton locomotive at the bottom of the river. That cellar door was a
bad place to fall through, which may be accounted for on the supposition
that it was not made to fall through. In his downward progress, Tom had
unluckily struck his head against the side of the house; and when he
landed at the bottom of the stairs, he was utterly oblivious to all
distinctions between treason and loyalty. Tom was not killed, I need not
inform the ingenious reader, or this would otherwise have been the last
chapter of the story; but the poor fellow did not know whether he was dead
or alive.
In fact, he had not sense enough left to consider the question at all; for
there he lay, in the gloom of the traitor's dark cellar, silent and
motionless--a solemn warning to all our young readers of the folly and
wickedness of indulging an illegal and sinful curiosity. It may seem cruel
and inhuman in us to forsake poor Tom in this sad plight; but we must,
nevertheless, go up stairs, in order that the sufferer may be duly and
properly relieved in due and proper season.
When the committee of three, appointed by the indignant loyalists of
Pinchbrook, had completed their mission in the house of the squire, like
sensible men they proposed to leave; and they so expressed themselves,
through their spokesman, to the unwilling host. They put their hats on,
and moved into the front entry, whither they were followed by the
discomfited traitor. They had scarcely left the room before a tremendous
crash greeted the ears of that portion of the family which remained in the
apartment. This was the precise moment at which poor Tom Somers found
himself on the bottom of the cellar; or, to be entirely accurate, when he
lost himself on the bottom of the cellar.
Mrs. Pemberton heard the crash, and she very naturally concluded that the
hour of retribution had actually come; that the terrible mob had commenced
the work of destruction. To her "fear-amazed" mind it seemed as though the
whole side of the house had fallen in, and, for a moment, she confidently
expected the chimneys would presently go by the board, and the roof come
thundering down upon the devoted heads of her outraged family. Perhaps, at
that terrible moment, she wished her husband had been like other women's
husbands, a true and loyal man, cheering the old flag, and hurling
harmless anathemas at the graceless rebels.
