have never mentioned the little circumstance of my pro- 
motion before. Your srood fortune was so similar to my 
own. that I was surprised into doing so." 
" What do you mean by my good fortune, captain?" 
TThv. you are promoted asrain. I will bet my vear's 
pay you have had another lift." 
" Nonsense ! I have just been promoted." 
Bah ! what was that to a man of your merit, with a 
senator to speak at court for you ? A petty first-lieu- 
tenancv is nothing for a brilliant fellow like you." 
' I am not half so brilliant a fellow as you declare, 
and I think that a commission as first lieutenant is a 
bis: thins: for a young man like me. I'm sure I never 
had an idea of being an officer at all ; and, when I was 
made a sergeant, I didn't think I deserved it." 
" AVhat do you suppose a major-general can want 
with you t You have heard from Senator Guilford once 
before, and I am satisfied you will hear from him aorain. 
Now. Somers, what do you suppose the general wants 
of you?" 
" I don't know : I think it very likely he wants a man 
of my size to go up the river, or on the other side, scouting ; 
nothing more than that. I am satisfied. But I must obey 
the order.'' added Somers, who had been making his 
preparations during the conversation. 
 
" Well, good-by, my boy ; and I shall have to stand 
one side for you after this, and salute you as major." 
"As what?" 
" Major." 
" How absurd you are, captain ! You always talk 
like a sensible fellow ; that is, when you mean what 
you say." 
" A hard hit ; and very likely the first thing you do, 
when you get to be a major, will be to arrest me for 
lying." 
" Your hit is the hardest, my dear captain. .We have 
seen some hard times together ; and you may be sure, 
that, whatever I am, I shall never forget you." 
" That's hearty, my boy ! Your hand once more," 
replied De Banyan, extending his own. "After the 
battle of Solferiuo " 
" Really, captain, you must excuse me this' time, or 
the general will put me under arrest for my want of 
promptness, instead of sending me on special duty." 
"Well, good luck to you, Somers," said the captain, as 
the lieutenant started for the division headquarters. 
As he passed out of sight, an expression of sadness 
-ottled clown upon Captain de Banyan's face. He looked 
disappointed and uncomfortable, and it is quite probable 
that he envied the good fortune of his young companion 
in arms. If Somers had been brave, and attentive to his 
duty, he had been no less so himself: and he could not 
help feeling that the destruction of those railroad cars 
had made the young man's fortune ; that his rapid 
advancement was a mere stroke of good luck. 
Lieutenant Somers, wondering what could possibly be 
wanted of him, hastened to the headquarters of the 
division. He had no faith whatever in the prognosti- 
cations of Captain de Banyan, and was too modest to 
