and she sent me to you. 

" For money to buy them ? " said Guy. 

" No, sir. She didn't say anything about money. 
She just told me to come to you." 

" Will a dollar get what you want ? " asked the per 
plexed man, diving into his pocket. 

" Yes sir," replied Margaret. 

Guy handed the cook a dollar, and then went striding, 
in high feeling, up stairs, to demand of his wife what she 
meant by all this. 

" Nothing more nor less," was her cold answer, 
" than what I have already declared. You are a hard 
man for a woman to come in contact with, Adam Guy 
a hard, selfish, iron-hearted man ! For years I have 
been wounded and bruised in the contact. Now, I re 
tire from the strife. Flesh has nothing to gain in react 
ing upon iron. It must, sooner or later, become para 
lyzed. If gold is your idol, worship on I shall be no 


priestess to keep the fires burning on your unhallowed 
altars." 

It was all in vain that Adam Guy stormed, threaten 
ed, remonstrated even persuaded. Lydia had retired 
from the strife. Folding her arms passively, she sat 
down, in dreamy introversion of state taking no care 
or responsibility in her household, and even becoming 
strangely indifferent towards, and neglectful of her chil 
dren. The whole care of the household devolved on 
her husband, who had to order and superintend, as best 
he could, in every depai'tment. In doing this, however, 
he had an intelligent auxiliary in Adam, his oldest son, 
now in his twelfth year a boy who inherited from his 
father a strong love of money, with the instinct of hoard 
ing. Guy could trust Adam. So, to this boy was del 
egated certain functions in the household. He and his 
father held a conference every evening, and Adam ren 
dered accounts of expenditure in the various depart 
ments over which he had control. He, also, in the ca 
pacity of spy, kept his father informed of everything that 
went on during the hours he was at home from school ; 
and often, through the influence of a morbidly excited 
imagination, of things that had no existence in time and 
space. Particularly was Adam sharp-eyed in regard to 
the conduct of his mother ; stimulated thereto by the 
eagerness with which his father listened to every word 
that threw shadow, blame, or doubt 'upon her. 

So entire a change in the order of life, could not but 
prove hurtful to a mind already pushed from its even 
balance. Mrs. Guy's thought and care in her household, 
under all the painful obstructions that were in her way, 

