young.
“Cousin Robert,” said Lewis, with an air of grave courtesy, “although
our grief is so fresh that all other thoughts seem intrusive, yet there
are certain things that must be thought of. It is right and proper that
you should participate with me in paying the last offices of respect and
affection to our lamented relative. You were nearer to him than I. It is
fitting that, from you, should proceed the orders relative to the
funeral.”
“It is a right which I have no disposition to exercise. I would much
rather leave it entirely in your hands. My mind is not in a fit state to
enter upon such arrangements.”
“You have stated my own case,” said Lewis, in a voice of
well-counterfeited emotion. “The death of my dear uncle, for whom I
cherished so deep an affection, and to whom I am indebted for so many
acts of kindness, weighs most heavily upon my heart. Nothing but an
imperative sense of duty would enable me to bear up under it. But I
will, if you desire it, so far overcome my grief, as to give the
necessary directions.”
“I shall be glad to have you do so,” said Robert, briefly. There had
been a time when he would not have questioned his cousin’s sincerity,
but gratefully accepted his proffered sympathy,—when his own heart would
have been soothed by this companionship in grief. But the revelation of
his cousin’s perfidy had been too recent,—the memory of his wrongs was
too fresh. He might, in time, forgive, but he could not at once forget.
He did not look towards his cousin, but his eyes were fixed continually
upon the father from whom he had been separated for eighteen years,—from
whom the grave must soon separate him, till he too lay as still and
motionless as his father now lay, outstretched before him.
Lewis was about to leave the room, when he paused, as if struck by a
sudden thought.
“Pardon me,” he said, hesitatingly, “but this unhappy separation has
left us so much in ignorance of each other, that I am not informed
whether you have children.”
“I have one daughter.”
“And your wife?”
“Is no longer living.”
“Will you leave me your direction, that I may send a carriage?”
“It will not be necessary. We will take a carriage from here.”
“As you please. One thing more. Pardon me if I am wrong, for I know
nothing of your circumstances; you may require a sum of money to procure
proper mourning.”
“It is needless,” said Robert, briefly. “We are sufficiently provided.”
“Proud as ever!” muttered Lewis, to himself. “We’ll see how long that
continues. If I am not greatly mistaken, he will be glad enough to avail
himself of my offers before long.”
Meanwhile, Helen had reached home, and was wondering what had detained
her father so long. He had gone out with Mr. Sharp, not mentioning where
he was going.
She began to be afraid that, in one of his not unusual fits of
abstraction, he had met with some accident, perhaps been run over by
some passing vehicle, while crossing the street.
“Where can he be?” she was asking, anxiously, for the tenth time at
least, when, to her great joy, she at length heard his familiar step
upon the stairs.
She hastened to the door, exclaiming, “Why, papa, why have you been gone
so long?”
She looked into his face, and suddenly stopped short. She saw, by his
expression, that something had happened.
“What is the matter, papa?” she asked, apprehensively.
“We have met with a great misfortune, Helen,” said Mr. Ford, gravely.
