against his sides or against something else he carried. No ; 
the bottle Abraham gave Hagar and put on her shoulder 
was a skin bottle. The same sort have been in use ever 
since his time, and are in use now. The Arabs strip off the 
skin of a goat whole, without cutting it ; only taking off the 
head and feet; the holes are sewed up, except at the neck, 
and that makes the neck of the bottle. To cure the skins, 
they are first stuffed into shape with bits of wood, driven 
in tight; and then they are filled with an infusion of oak 
bark; the same thing that we use for tanning leather. After 
a while this does the work ; the skins are tanned, and the 
bottles are finished. 
''I should think they would be horrid bottles," said 
Priscilla. 
" I should think the water would taste very bad oat of 
them," said L 
" It often does before it is put in them," said uncle Sam. 
"Well, no; when the skins are well cured, it isn't bad; 
when they are not well cured, it is. But you are not nice in 
the desert ; you are so glad to get water at all, that you 
drink bitter and soiled water that you would not look at in 
America. Such a goat-skin bottle as I have been desczibing, 
is a pretty good lift for a woman when it is full of water. I 
have told you the way they prepare them in Hebron, where 
I have seen fifteen hundred skins at once going through the 
tanning process ; the Arabs use a little different way." 
" Ishmael ought to have carried the goat's-skin, I think," 
said I. 
" That is not Eastern custom. The women go with the 
skins to the well or the fountain always, even if it be half an 
hour offl I have seen women filling their bottles at the pool 
of Siloam, and bearing them away on their shoulders, like 
Hagar ; and I have seen it in many other places. Among 
the Arabs the women always go for water, unless it be so 
far that camels or asses must be sent for it ; and that is not 
often. 
" The next thing we hear about Abraham, it seems that he 
had so greatly prospered, and was so wealthy and mighty a 
prince, that the king of the Philistines thought it safe to 
make a treaty with him. So Abimelech and the captain of 
his host had a meeting with him. And after beginning by 
an acknowledgment that the favour of God was certainly 
with His servant, the king desired Abraham to pledge himself upon oath to remain friends with the people of the 
Philistines and with their kings, even after he himself, the 
present king, might be dead. Abraham was willing to give 
the pledge; but first let Abimelech know that he had a 
cause of complaint against him. Abraham's servants had 
digged a well, which Abimelech's servants had taken into 
their own possession, and by violence. Abimelech declared 
it was none of his doings, and that he had not so much as 
heard of the matter before. So then Abraham gave a present 
of sheep and oxen to the king, and they both of them made 
a covenant ; that is, a solemn agreement together." 
" What did Abraham make him a present for ?" 
" I dare say he could afford it," said uncle Sam ; " and it 
is written in the Bible, Liph, that ' a man's gift maketh room 
for him.'" 
"It seems to me, that a well of water was a very queer 
thing for a king and a great prince to quarrel about," said 
Priscilla. 
