had no time to follow out to its legitimate issue.
"Excuse me, Mr. Wynkoop," said Lieutenant Pillgrim, as he paused at the
side of the table, "for entering in this abrupt manner. I have been
knocking at your door for some time, without obtaining a response."
"You went to the wrong door. That's my bedroom."
"So I perceive, now."
"But there is no harm done; on the contrary, I am very glad to see you.
Sit down and take a glass of wine with me. Mr. Somers does not indulge."
"Mr. Somers is a very proper young man," said the lieutenant, with a
pleasant smile, as he glanced again at the papers which lay open on the
table. "I have been looking for you, Somers, but it was only to ask you
what the prospect is on board the Chatauqua. I have not been on board
to-day."
"I think we shall be wanted by to-morrow or next day," replied Somers,
who could not help seeing that the eye of his superior officer was fixed
on the commander's commission, which lay open before him.
"Indeed! I am glad to know this, for I had made up my mind to go to New
York in the morning. Of course I shall not go."
"Sit down, Mr.--Really, sir, you must excuse me, but I have forgotten
your name," said Mr. Wynkoop.
"Lieutenant Pillgrim--at your service. It is not very surprising that
you should forget it, since we have met but once; not half so
surprising as that I should force myself into your rooms, on so short an
acquaintance."
"Don't mention it, my dear fellow. We sailors are brothers all over the
world. Sit down, and take a glass of sherry with me. It's a capital
wine--made two voyages to India."
"Excuse me, Mr. Wynkoop; I merely called to invite you to spend the
evening with me. I have a plan that will use up two or three hours very
pleasantly."
"Thank you, Mr. Pillgrim. You are a friend in need, and a friend
indeed."
"I see that you and Mr. Somers have business, and I will take my leave."
"I should be happy to have you remain, but if you will not, I will join
you in half an hour in the reading-room. Better sit down, and wait
here."
"I will not interrupt your business with Mr. Somers," replied Lieutenant
Pillgrim, again glancing curiously at the documents on the table.
Greatly to the relief of Somers, his fellow-officer left the room. This
visit had been a most unfortunate one, for the lieutenant could not have
avoided seeing the nature of the papers on the table. But as Somers was
a true and loyal man, his conscience accused him of no wrong, and he had
no fears in regard to the result. This revelation simply imposed upon
him the necessity of making Mr. Pillgrim his confidant, which he
proposed to do at the first convenient opportunity.
"You think you will not sign the oath to-night, Mr. Somers?" said his
companion.
"It had better be deferred," replied Somers, as he folded up the
commission, and put it in his pocket, regarding it as the most important
evidence in his possession against Coles, and a sufficient confirmation
of the truth of the statement he had so carefully written out the night
before.
"Suit yourself, Somers. We shall not differ about these small matters,"
added Wynkoop, as he folded up the oath, and put it in his pocket. "By
the way, Somers, what do you think of our friend Pillgrim?"
"He is a fine fellow, and I am told he is a good officer. I was not
aware that you knew him."
"I have only met him once, just as I met you. How do you think he stands
affected towards our cause?"
"Not well."
