“Come in, then. Here, Ida, I want you.”

“Yes, Peg.”

“This young man wants to copy your face.”

Ida looked surprised.

“I am an artist,” said the young man, with a reassuring smile. “I will
endeavor not to try your patience too much. Do you think you can stand
still for half an hour, without much fatigue?”

Ida was easily won by kindness, while she had a spirit which was roused
by harshness. She was prepossessed at once in favor of the young man,
and readily assented.

He kept her in pleasant conversation while with a free, bold hand, he
sketched the outlines of her face and figure.

“I shall want one more sitting,” he said. “I will come to-morrow at this
time.”

“Stop a minute,” said Peg. “I should like the money in advance. How do I
know that you will come again?”

“Certainly, if you prefer it,” said the young man, opening his
pocket-book.

“What strange fortune,” he thought, “can have brought these two
together? Surely there can be no relationship.”

The next day he returned and completed his sketch, which was at once
placed in the hands of the publisher, eliciting his warm approval.



CHAPTER XVII. JACK OBTAINS INFORMATION.



JACK set out with that lightness of heart and keen sense of enjoyment
that seem natural to a young man of eighteen on his first journey.
Partly by cars, partly by boat, he traveled, till in a few hours he was
discharged, with hundreds of others, at the depot in Philadelphia.

Among the admonitions given to Jack on leaving home, one was prominently
in his mind, to beware of imposition, and to be as economical as
possible.

Accordingly he rejected all invitations to ride, and strode along, with
his carpet-bag in hand, though, sooth to say, he had very little idea
whether he was steering in the right direction for his uncle’s shop.
By dint of diligent and persevering inquiry he found it at length, and,
walking in, announced himself to the worthy baker as his nephew Jack.

“What, are you Jack?” exclaimed Mr. Abel Crump, pausing in his labor;
“well, I never should have known you, that’s a fact. Bless me, how
you’ve grown! Why, you’re most as big as your father, ain’t you?”

“Only half an inch shorter,” returned Jack, complacently.
