'" If you had, I don't believe there'd have been much 
left of him, for he was a spindling sort of a man, tall 
and thin." 
" And how did the young fellow like his place? " 
"Not very much. He found they were going to half- 
starve him, too. However, he wouldn't have minded 
that so much as seeing the poor children abused. While 
all this was going on, the school-master's daughter fell 
in love with him." 
"Was she pretty?" 
" No," said Charlie. " She was the image of her 
father, and he wasn't anything of a beauty. She was 
thin, with a hatchet face and yellow hair. However, 
she continued to make herself think that Nicholas was 
in love with her, and one day, when her father and 
mother were gone to London to get a new scholar, she 
~ osted off to a female friend of hers, and told her that 
she had got a beau, and invited her friend and her beau 
to come to tea. When tea-time came, there they all 
were in the sitting-room, drinking tea, and faring a 
great deal better than Nicholas had before, since he had 
been at the school, when the other young lady and her 
beau began to poke fun at Nicholas, all on account of 
Matilda Squeers, whom they supposed him to be in love 
with. He didn't understand it at all, and told them so. 
"'Why said John Brodie, — that was the other 
girl's beau, — ' ain't you courtin' Tilda, here ? ' 
"Nicholas protested that he never, so much as thought 
of the thing. At this, Matilda turned all sorts of 
colors, for she had confidently told both of them that he 
was in love with her, and, besides, she had no idea that 
a poor, under-paid teacher would think of refusing her, 
the " 
 " Ciaptain's daughter," suggested Bill Sturdy. 
" Exactly so. So you see the tea-party didn't end 
quite so pleasantly as it began, and from that moment 
Nicholas had a bitter enemy in the daughter of his 
employer." 
" That's the way with.female craft," said Bill. " What ' 
happened next ? " 
" Mr. and Mrs. Squeers came home, bringing the new 
boy with them. The first thing they did was to give a 
whipping all round, to make up for the time they'd been 
away." 
"I wish I'd been there," said Bill, swinging his 
brawny arms. 
"Among the scholars was one, worse tteated than 
the rest, named Smike. He had been with them ever 
since he was a boy of six or eight, aud his friends had 
deserted him. Mr . Squeers would have cast him off, 
only he found his work more than paid for the scanty 
food he ate, so he kept him ; but he was so beaten and 
 
caffed, and made to drudge so constantly, that it woald 
have been better for him if he had been turned away. 
At last he determined to run away.'' 
" Good for him ! '' said Bill. 
 As soon ad Mr. Squeers found he was gone, he went 
after him post haste, and, as the boy was weak and 
couldn't travel very fast, he soon overtook him, and 
