“Why, you know, Tom thinks you — you 
don’t take things just like mother,” said honest 
Gypsy, afraid that she was going to be disrespectful, 
but not knowing any other way than 
to tell the truth. “ Sometimes you are very 
much displeased, you know, and you talk to 
him a good deal and he gets angry, — and of 
course that’s very wrong in him; but then he 
seems to get along better with mother; and 
he said he knew he had no business to have 
borrowed, but he didn’t dare to have you 
know, and you see, sir, I wasn’t to say a 
word about it, and I don’t know what he 
will do.” 
Mr. Breynton made no answer, but strode on 
faster than ever, his face flushing and paling 
and working strangely. Gypsy wondered what 
he was thinking; whatever it was, she never 
knew, nor any one else, perhaps. 
” I do hope you won’t scold him very hard,” 
she ventured at last, in a very faint voice. 
“ He didn’t mean to, oh, I know he didn’t 
mean to.” 
“ Do you think you have been doing right 
to start off in this way without the knowledge 
of either your mother or father, selling jewelry 
in the stores to help him when he doesn’t deserve 
to be helped? That money was really 
stolen from me, as much as it will be stolen 
from his class-mate if it is not paid. He knew 
I hadn’t it for him to spend,” said Mr. Breyn- 
ton, taking no notice of what she said. 
“ I ’m sure I don’t know,” said poor Gypsy. 
I was so troubled and bothered, and I wanted 
to tell mother. I tried to do right, any way ” 
She raised her great brown eyes just then, 
and nobody looking into them could doubt 
it. Her father did not, and he spoke more 
gently. 
“ Well, well, my child, I hope so. Tom 
makes us all a great deal of trouble. I don’t 
understand it. I ’m sure I have taken care 
enough of that boy.” 
Gypsy might have said a thing or two to that, 
if she had not been his daughter ; but she did 
something that was much better. She began to 
plead again — and Gypsy made a very pretty 
pleader — for Tom. 
“You know, father, he will never do it again 
as long as he lives, never, and he is so dread- 
fully sorry and ashamed and all, and if he gets 
angry, and goes and acts worse after it, why, I 
should cry so, father ! ” 
Her father drew her hand up into his, his 
nervous face pale and puzzled and grave. 
“ He has done wrong, Gypsy, and I must tell 
him so. But I will be gentle with him, and I 
will pay the debt this time, though I never shall 
again. Now, my child, I hope you will conceal 
nothing of this sort from me after this.” 
