various parts of the deck. Of the four quartermasters, one was attached
to each quarter watch. The wheel was given to two hands for the first
hour, and two were placed on the top-gallant forecastle, to act as the
lookout men, to be relieved after one hour's service. The rest of the
boys were required to keep awake, but no special duty was assigned to
them. There were hands enough on deck to "tack ship," or to take in the
sails, one or two at a time.
Though the ship was nominally in the hands and under the direction of
her juvenile officers, who performed all the duties required in working
her, yet they were closely watched by the principal, who, if there was
anything wrong, informed the captain of the fact. The commander kept no
watch, but he was responsible for every manoeuvre, and for the regular
routine of duty. Mr. Lowington seldom spoke to any other officer in
regard to ship's duty or the navigation.
When the watch was set, at eight bells, most of the boys who were off
duty went into the steerage. Some of them turned in; but the novelty of
the occasion was too great to permit them to sleep. They collected in
groups, to talk over the prospects of the voyage, and the duties
required of them, as indicated by the watch bill.
Shuffles sat on a stool in the brig, still nursing his wrath. When his
supper was carried to him by the steward, his irons had been taken off.
He refused to eat, and the food was removed. As he was now quiet, the
irons were not replaced. The prisoner was far from penitent for his
offence.
Mr. Agneau, the chaplain, was very much concerned about the prisoner. He
was shocked by his disobedience, and pained to find that one who had
done so well could do so ill. The case had been fully considered in the
professors' cabin; and Mr. Lowington declared that Shuffles should stay
in the brig till he had repented of his folly, and promised obedience
for the future. The chaplain was a tender-hearted man, and he thought
that some gentle words might touch the feelings of the prisoner, and
bring him to a sense of duty. With the principal's permission,
therefore, he paid a visit to Shuffles in the evening.
"I am very sorry to find you here, Shuffles," said Mr. Agneau, when he
had locked the door behind him.
"Has Lowington sent you to torment me?" demanded the prisoner.
"Mr. Lowington, you mean," added the chaplain, gently.
"No, I mean Lowington. When a man has abused and insulted me, I can't
stop to put a handle to his name."
"I regret to find you in such an unhappy frame of mind, my young friend.
I came here of my own accord, to do what I might to help you."
"Did you, indeed!" sneered Shuffles.
"That was my only object."
"Was it? Well, if you want to help me, you will induce Lowington to let
me out of this crib, apologize for what he has done, and give me my
place in the after cabin."
"That is plainly impossible," replied the astonished chaplain.
"Then you can't do anything for me; and I think I can take care of
myself."
"I entreat you, my young friend, to consider the error of your ways."
"There is no error in my ways, Mr. Agneau."
"You are unreasonable."
"No, I'm not. I only want what is fair and right."
"Was it right for you, Shuffles, to refuse obedience to the principal,
when he told you to go aft?"
"I have always obeyed all proper orders; and under the circumstances, I
think it was right for me to refuse."
"You fill me with amazement!" exclaimed the chaplain.
"You know it was not fair to give out the offices by last year's marks,"
protested Shuffles.
