"Don't she move?"
"No--she hasn't started yet. They probably expect us to go ashore
before we get through the channel."
"Well, the longer she waits there, the better for us, for she can't
come through," I added.
The Adieno passed safely through the channel, and came out into the
broad lake beyond The Sisters. I rang to go ahead at full speed again,
for we had now a clear run to Parkville before us.
"The Champion has started her wheels again, Ernest," said Bob Hale,
as I rang the bell; "she is backing out of the inlet into the open
lake."
"All right--let her back. We have a good three miles the start of her,
and she can't catch us before we get to Parkville," I replied.
I informed Vallington through the speaking tube in regard to the
situation, with which he was entirely satisfied. I asked him to keep
the boat moving at her best pace, assuring him, if he did so, that we
were perfectly safe from capture. In half an hour we passed Pine
Island, with the Champion, which did not appear to be straining
herself, fully three miles astern. I was afterwards told that the
captain of the Adieno held her back, fearing that if she crowded us
again, we should run ashore, burst the boiler, or otherwise damage his
steamer.
In an hour and a half after the passage of The Sisters Channel, we
were off the bluff, within half a mile of the steamboat pier, which we
saw crowded with people. It was plain that we had succeeded in
creating an excitement, and not a few of us had some delicacy about
landing in the presence of the multitude. The Champion still kept her
relative distance from us, and was now more than a mile beyond Cleaver
Island.
"Where shall we land?" I asked of Vallington through the tube, after
Bob and I had considered the matter a little.
"Wherever you please, commodore," replied our chief.
"What do you say, Bob?" I added, turning to my companion.
"Can't we land at the boat pier, in front of the Institute?"
"No; there isn't water enough to float the Adieno. In fact the only
safe place is the regular steamboat pier."
"I suppose my father is there, and I don't like to meet him just yet,"
replied Bob, earnestly.
"We can anchor within a few rods of the Institute pier, and land in
the Splash," I suggested.
"I like that better."
"But the Splash would have to go three or four times to land the
fellows, and the Champion would be upon us before we could all get
ashore," I added.
I stated the plan and the objections to Vallington.
"Let us face the music like men," said he, decidedly.
"I think that is the better way," I continued to Bob. "So far as we
have done wrong, let us acknowledge the corn, and take the
consequences."
Bob Hale assented, overcoming his modesty with an effort, and I headed
the Adieno for the steamboat pier. I think we all felt a little
bashful about landing in the presence of so many people. The students
were directed to make no noisy demonstrations of any kind, and to
repair directly to the school-room of the Institute, where Mr.
Parasyte would soon find us, and where we hoped to make a final
adjustment of all the difficulties.
As we approached the pier, the boat was "slowed down," and the fasts
got ready for landing; and other work was done as regularly and
properly as though we were all old steamboat men. At the regular time,
I stopped her wheels, and she ran her bow up gently to the wharf, and
