night had fallen upon the scene. 
In all our ramble we met not a soul, and I scarcely 
know what it is makes this walk upon the Campagna 
one of my vividest recollections of Rome, unless it 
be the opportunity it gave me to weary myself upon 
that many-memoried ground as freely as if it had 
been a woods-pasture in Ohio. Nature, where his- 
tory was so august, was perfectly simple and moth- 
erly, and did so much to make me at home, that, as 
the night thickened and we plunged here tind there 
into ditches and climbed fences, and struggled, heavy- 
footed, back through the suburbs to the city gate, I 
felt as if half my boyhood had been passed upon 
the Campagna. 
x. 
PASQUINO, like most other great people, is not very 
interesting upon close approach. There is no trace 
now in his aspect to show that he has ever been 
satirical ; but the humanity that the sculptor gave him 
is imperishable, though he has lost all character as a 
public censor. The torso is at first glance nothing 
but a shapeless mass of stone, but the life can never 
 
die out of that which has been shaped by art to 
the likeness of a man, arid a second look restores 
the lump to full possession of form and expression. 
For this reason I lament that statues should ever 
be restored except by sympathy and imagination. 
XI. 
REGARDING the face of Pompey's statue in the 
Spada Palace, I was more struck than ever with a 
resemblance to American politicians which I had 
noted in all the Roman statues. It is a type of 
face not now to be found in Rome, but frequent 
enough here, and rather in the South than in the 
North. Pompey was like the pictures of so many 
Southern Congressmen that I wondered whether 
race had not less to do with producing types than 
had similarity of circumstances ; whether a republi- 
canism based upon slavery could not so far assimi- 
late character as to produce a common aspect in 
people widely separated by time and creeds, but hav- 
ing the same unquestioned habits of command, and 
the same boundless and unscrupulous ambition. 
XII. 
WHEN the Tiber, according to its frequent habit, 
rises and inundates the city, the Pantheon is one of 
the first places to be flooded the sacristan told 
us. The water climbs above the altar-tops, sapping, 
in its recession, the cement of the fine marbles which 
 
incrust the columns, so that about their bases the 
pieces have to be continually renewed. Nothing 
vexes you so much in the Pantheon as your con- 
sciousness of these and other repairs. Bad as ruin 
is, I think I would rather have the old temple ru- 
inous in every part than restored as you find it. 
The sacristan felt the wrongs of the place keenly, 
and said, referring to the removal of the bronze 
roof, which took place some centuries ago, " They 
