After which, she went to bed. To do Gypsy 
justice, the management at the Golden Cres 
cent was not such as was calculated to help a 
rollicking, frolicking, bright girl who could 
skim over a lesson in ten minutes, make a fait 
recitation, and forget it within an hour in 
the formation of solid habits of study. Mrs. 
McMunn was just what she looked to be, an 
awkward, good-natured, easy-going, and by no 
means scholarly woman. In fact, she owed her 
position to the reputation of a distinguished 
brother, rather than to any attainments or suit 
abilities for the work of a teacher which any 
body had ever been so fortunate as to discover 
in her. Miss Ayre was a severe disciplinarian, 
and Chaplain Goss a thorough mathematical 
instructor; but under-teachers cannot guide 
the helm. Mrs. McMunn was careless about 
enforcing their rules, and made herself no sys 
tem of marks, rewards, or punishments, to 
serve as incitement to the ambitious, or threat 
to the lazy; so it was small wonder that 
even Gypsy 's most violent efforts to become 
that " exemplary scholar " flagged after a 
day or two, and subsided into taffy and 
novels. 
But Jane 's did not Nor Lou Armstrong s. 
Nor the efforts of one or two others. Had 
Gypsy shown a little of the application of any 
one of them, she might have outstripped them 
all. She was simply spending her school-days 
as many another thoughtless, talented girl is 
spending them, the world over; neither better 
nor worse, " I won't be a dunce, but I can't 
be a model," just expressed it. 
But Gypsy was not, as she used to say for 
lornly sometimes to her mother, " just a 
jumble of naughtiness, without any goodness 
sprinkled in." Taking, for instance, a thing 
that happened soon after the beginning of the 
term; it was a very little thing, but not too 
small to be without its uses. 
It was one Sunday noon, just after church; 
several of the girls had come up into Gypsy 's 
room ; one or two with a headache or " the 
blues," hunting for Jane; the rest Gypsy 's 
friends. It chanced that they were all busy 
for a few moments about Jane, who was ex 
plaining the Bible lesson to them, and that 
Gypsy, turning away to the table to hunt for 
her Testament, came upon " The Shadow of a 
Life-time." It lay open where she had left it 
at eleven o'clock Saturday night. The lachry 
mose Lorina was in a thrilling crisis of her 
history ; tangled by her hair in a thorn-bush, I 
believe, or something of the sort, with two 
wild bulls, three robbers, and a rattlesnake 
funning after her if rattlesnakes may, with 
zoological propriety, be said to run. 
Gypsy took up the book, thinking that she 
