until the completion of the new house. Mrs. Vennard's 
elegant dresses were the town talk ; and Joe, like many 
another foolish woman, was delighted with a sight of 
her in the carriage, driving with the little girl. 
" But such a child I There ain't nothin' to her. She 
looks, for all the world, like an angel. Light, yellow 
curls, and a face as white as a ghost. She's enough- 
sight more like her step-mother than her father. Won- 
der if she'll be good to Rer, Stephen ? " 
"Why not?" with a sort of grave, preoccupied air. 
Stephen no longer went to the tavern, but he was still 
busy pondering the problem of destiny. 
" Step-mothers ain't always good." And Joe tossed 
her head with a quick jerk, as if she was enunciating a 
great truth. 
Stephen wondered just then how much Mr. Vennard 
cared for his child if indeed he could care for any- 
thing. What a life she would have ! Always to be 
surrounded by beauty and luxury; never, perhaps, to 
know a want. And his soul must be starved in order 
to pamper her. 
If Stephen Dane could have looked down this child's 
future ! But not the wildest dream could have con- 
nected him with her then. 
Orders poured in upon Mr. Vennard. Night and 
day the great engines were in motion. What did he 
 
care if some of the poor wretches at the tavern mut- 
tered threats and imprecations ? If they had chosen to 
obey the rules, they might have still held their places. 
It was not his fault. 
One night they were casting. There was no moon, 
and the great sheet of flame from the chimney struck 
vividly against the deep-blue sky. Myriads of sparks 
rayed off like shooting stars. It was a strange, weird 
sight from without, but a hundred fold more intense 
within. And so Mrs. Vennard brought her guests 
down to inspect it. Few of them had witnessed the 
work on so grand a scale. 
They looked like spirits from another world, those 
gayly-dressed ladies and fine gentlemen. Little shrieks 
and exclamations were drowned amid the unearthly din. 
They gathered up their dresses daintily, and kept by 
the open windows to avoid the smothering heat, peering 
now and then into these molten red streams, that seemed 
to crawl along the ground like fiery serpents. It 
formed a striking picture, with just sufficient of the 
weird to give it a touch of diablerie. 
Stephen Dane was not very busy: in fact he had 
been promoted from the casting-shop to one of the 
forges ; though he came down nearly every night, be- 
cause he liked it, and he could think better here than 
in that comfortless home, with Joe's unceasing chatter. 
The man had begun to find much enjoyment in the use 
of his faculties. Convinced that he .was not a mere 
 
animal product of nature, but held, somewhere within, 
a sentient, spiritual vitality, he put forth some feeble 
efforts, like a child's walking at first ; but there was 
something fascinating in it that lured him on. 
