“Much mischief may be done in a week, and this is the beginning of it,”
 muttered Treherne, as he raised himself to look under the bronze vase
for the note. It was gone!
Chapter III
WHO WAS IT?
Who had taken it? This question tormented Treherne all that sleepless
night. He suspected three persons, for only these had approached the
fire after the note was hidden. He had kept his eye on it, he thought,
till the stir of breaking up. In that moment it must have been removed
by the major, Frank Annon, or my lady; Sir Jasper was out of the
question, for he never touched an ornament in the drawing room since he
had awkwardly demolished a whole étagère of costly trifles, to
his mother’s and sister’s great grief. The major evidently suspected
something, Annon was jealous, and my lady would be glad of a pretext to
remove her daughter from his reach. Trusting to his skill in reading
faces, he waited impatiently for morning, resolving to say nothing to
anyone but Mrs. Snowdon, and from her merely to inquire what the note
contained.
Treherne usually was invisible till lunch, often till dinner; therefore,
fearing to excite suspicion by unwonted activity, he did not appear till
noon. The mailbag had just been opened, and everyone was busy over their
letters, but all looked up to exchange a word with the newcomer, and
Octavia impulsively turned to meet him, then checked herself and hid her
suddenly crimsoned face behind a newspaper. Treherne’s eye took in
everything, and saw at once in the unusually late arrival of the mail a
pretext for discovering the pilferer of the note.
“All have letters but me, yet I expected one last night. Major, have you
got it among yours?” And as he spoke, Treherne fixed his penetrating
eyes full on the person he addressed.
With no sign of consciousness, no trace of confusion, the major
carefully turned over his pile, and replied in the most natural manner,
“Not a trace of it; I wish there was, for nothing annoys me more than
any delay or mistake about my letters.”
He knows nothing of it, thought Treherne, and turned to Annon, who was
deep in a long epistle from some intimate friend, with a talent for
imparting news, to judge from the reader’s interest.
“Annon, I appeal to you, for I must discover who has robbed me of
my letter.”
“I have but one, read it, if you will, and satisfy yourself” was the
brief reply.
“No, thank you. I merely asked in joke; it is doubtless among my lady’s.
Jasper’s letters and mine often get mixed, and my lady takes care of his
for him. I think you must have it, Aunt.”
Lady Treherne looked up impatiently. “My dear Maurice, what a coil about
a letter! We none of us have it, so do not punish us for the sins of
your correspondent or the carelessness of the post.”
She was not the thief, for she is always intensely polite when she
intends to thwart me, thought Treherne, and, apologizing for his
rudeness in disturbing them, he rolled himself to his nook in a sunny
window and became apparently absorbed in a new magazine.
Mrs. Snowdon was opening the general’s letters for him, and, having
finished her little task, she roamed away into the library, as if in
search of a book. Presently returning with one, she approached Treherne,
and, putting it into his hand, said, in her musically distinct voice,
“Be so kind as to find for me the passage you spoke of last night. I am
curious to see it.”
Instantly comprehending her stratagem, he opened it with apparent
carelessness, secured the tiny note laid among the leaves, and,
selecting a passage at hazard, returned her book and resumed his own.
Behind the cover of it he unfolded and read these words:
