and almost bewildered, he would still find spare hours when at the
bedside of some desponding invalid, or in the cheerless chamber of old
age, he would make all ring again with a flow of mimicry and wit and
fun, as jolly as a bob-o-link on a clover head.
Some of the most affecting testimonials to his worth come from these
obscure and secluded sources. One aged friend of seventy or more, tells
how daily, amid all the cares of the state house and the war, he found
some interval to come in and shed a light and cheerfulness in her
shaded chamber.
His pastor speaks of him as performing the duties of a Sunday school
superintendent during the labors of his arduous station. He was a lover
of children and young people, and love made labor light. While he did
not hesitate, when necessary, to carry forward the great public cause
on the Sabbath day, yet his heart and inclinations ever inclined him
to the more purely devotional uses of those sacred hours. The flame of
devotion in his heart was ever burning beneath the crust of earthly
cares, but ready to flame up brightly in those hours consecrated by the
traditions of his Puritan education.
In one respect Governor Andrew was not patterned on the old first
magistrates of Massachusetts. Massachusetts was at first decidedly an
aristocratic community. A certain of idea rank and stateliness hedged
in the office of the governor. He stood above the people at an awful
distance and moved among them as a sort of superior being.
Nothing could be more opposed to the frank, companionable nature of
Governor Andrew than any such idea. He was a true democrat to the tips
of his finger nails, and considered a Governor only as the servant of
the people. In this respect, more truly than even the first Puritan
governors, did he express the idea given by Christ of rank and dignity,
"Whosoever will be chief among you let him be your servant."
Governor Andrew from the first rejected and disclaimed everything
which seemed to mark him out from the people by outward superiority.
He chose to live in a small, plain house, in a retired and by no
means fashionable part of the city, and to conduct all his family
arrangements on a scale of the utmost simplicity. When the idea was
suggested to him that the Governor of Massachusetts ought to have some
extra provision to enable him to appear with more worldly pomp and
stateliness, he repelled it with energy, "Never, while the country
was struggling under such burdens, and her brave men bearing such
privations in the field, would he accept of anything more than the
plain average comforts of a citizen." The usual traditional formulas
and ceremonials of his position were only irksome and embarrassing to
him. One of his aids relates that being induced by urgent solicitation
to have the accustomed military coat of the Governor of Massachusetts,
with all its gold lace and buttons, he wore it twice, and then
returning with his aids to his private cabinet, he pulled it off and
threw it impatiently into a corner, saying, "Lie there, old coat--you
won't find me wearing you again, soon." The ceremonies on public
occasions were always irksome and fatiguing to him, and he would
recreate himself by singing "Johnny Schmauker" with his aids in his
private apartments afterwards. We think good Governor Winthrop would
have rolled up his eyes in horror at such carelessness of etiquette and
station.
As a public man, Governor Andrew was distinguished for quickness,
perspicasity, and energy. The electric, social element of his being
made him an apt reader of human nature, and gave him that prophetic
insight into what would arise from the doings of men, which enabled him
to see afar off and provide for possible emergencies. Thus at the time
he was appointed Governor, nothing was farther from the thoughts of the
body of Northern men than that there could ever be really and in fact a
war in America. All the war talk and war threats that had come from the
