strength, for Dr. Sandford stood at my side. A good-humoured
sort of a tower he looked to me, in his steady, upright
bearing; and his military coat helped the impression of that.
I can see now his touch of his cap to Miss Pinshon, and then
the quick glance which took in Margaret and me. In another
minute I had shaken hands with my governess, and was in a
carriage with Margaret opposite me; and Dr. Sandford was
giving my baggage in charge to somebody. And then he took his
place beside me and we drove off. And I drew a long breath.

"Punctual to your time, Daisy," said the doctor. "But what
made you choose such a time? How much of yourself have you
left by the way?"

"Miss Pinshon liked better to travel all night," I said,
"because there was no place where she liked to stop to spend
the night."

"What was your opinion on that subject?"

"I was more tired than she was, I suppose."

"Has she managed things on the same system for the four years
past?"

The doctor put the question with such a cool gravity, that I
could not help laughing. Yet I believe my laughing was very
near crying. At first he did so put me in mind of all that was
about me when I used to see him in that time long before. And
an inexpressible feeling of comfort was in his presence now;
a feeling of being taken care of. I had been looked after,
undoubtedly, all these years;  sharply looked after; there
was never a night that I could go to sleep without my
governess coming in to see that I was in my room, or in bed,
and my clothes in order, and my light where it ought to be.
And my aunt had not forgotten me; nor her perplexities about
me. And Preston had petted me, when he was near. But even
Preston sometimes lost sight of me in the urgency of his own
pleasure or business. There was a great difference in the
strong hand of Dr. Sandford's care; and if you had ever looked
into his blue eyes, you would know that they forgot nothing.
They had always fascinated me; they did now.

Mrs. Sandford was not up when we got to the house where she
was staying. It was no matter, for a room was ready for me;
and Dr. Sandford had a nice little breakfast brought, and saw
me eat it, just as if I were a patient. Then he ordered me to
bed, and charged Margaret to watch over me, and he went away,
as he said, till luncheon time.

I drew two or three long breaths as Margaret was undressing
me; I felt so comfortable.

"Are Miss Pinshon done gone away, Miss Daisy?" my handmaid
asked.

"From Magnolia? yes."

"Where she gwine to?"

