and there is no difficulty in believing that he behaved like a true
soldier.

We slept upon the field, as we have slept upon many a field since, but
only to awake to another and fiercer battle the next day. The enemy
had taken up a strong position near Resaca de la Palma, three miles
from Fort Brown. Whatever may be said of the Mexicans, judged by the
measure of their success in the war of 1846, they were by no means a
contemptible foe. They were not deficient in military science, and
they stood their ground bravely, as the vast numbers of them slain in
the various battles fully attest. At Resaca they were well posted in a
ravine, with their flanks protected by an impenetrable jungle of scrub
oaks. The battle opened with artillery, but the enthusiasm of both
sides would not permit it to be continued at long range, and infantry
and cavalry made some handsome charges. The Mexicans fought with dogged
courage; but, in spite of this, and of the fact that they were three to
our one, they were utterly defeated and routed.

The Mexican artillery was handled by General La Vega, a brave and
skilful fellow, and did us much mischief. Taylor ordered Captain May,
of the dragoons, to charge upon this battery, which was so gallantly
done that the feat has passed into history. He was supported by the
infantry, and the entire Mexican line was shattered by the onslaught.
The demoralized foe fled in terror, leaving their guns and ammunition
on the field, a prey to our conquering arms. La Vega, who had no talent
for running away, was taken prisoner. When the night of the second
battle-day closed upon the scene, not a single Mexican soldier was to
be found on the east side of the Rio Grande.

General Taylor fought his battles thoroughly, and in this school of
conflict Lieutenant Grant took his first lessons in actual warfare.
His quaint criticism that the army of the Potomac "did not fight its
battles through" conveys a vivid impression of his views on this
important subject. After blood and treasure have been freely expended
to procure a military success, nothing can excuse the commander from
following out the results of victory to the utmost extent within his
means. This was the practice of "Old Rough and Ready" in the Mexican
war. He "fought his battles through," as Resaca, Monterey, and Buena
Vista fully testify, thus making a wise and economical use of the
resources intrusted to his keeping. Grant is a greater general than
Taylor ever was, and it would not be respectful to say that he followed
the example of the worthy veteran; but the experience of this period
doubtless assisted in the preparation of the man for the gigantic work
he was to accomplish eighteen years after.

Three months later in the year the army of General Taylor crossed
the Rio Grande, and marched upon Monterey. On the 20th of September
he appeared before the city with an army of six thousand men, to
attack a position strong in its natural and artificial defences,
and garrisoned by ten thousand troops. The conditions of successful
warfare, as usually recognized by prudent commanders, were nearly
reversed against the American army. Instead of having two or three to
one of the garrison in force, they were nearly outnumbered in this
numerical ratio. But the attack was promptly commenced, not by the
slow and tedious process of regular siege operations, but by a direct
assault, without wasting a single day. The battle opened on the morning
following the arrival of the troops, and continued with unabated spirit
during the day. Several fortified heights were carried before night,
and the soldiers rested only to renew the assault the next day.

