If the students had known of this decision, they would have remonstrated
against it. As it was, they protested in their own way. On Saturday
night, after the return of the students from the excursion, while the
savant was promenading the deck for his needed exercise, not less than
three practical jokes were played off upon him. The crew were squaring
the yards, hauling taut the sheets, lifts, and braces, and putting the
deck in order for Sunday. The professor was tipped over by getting
entangled in a piece of rigging, a bucket of water was dashed upon his
legs, and a portion of the contents of a slush-tub was poured upon him
from the main-top. No one seemed to see him; the students appeared to be
struck with blindness, so far as the learned gentleman was concerned. It
is true that the rogues who pulled the brace, dashed the water, and
upset the slush-tub, were immediately committed to the brig; but this
did not seem to afford much comfort to the victim.
On Sunday morning it was necessary to commit three more; but the whole
six were released in the evening, because they could not sleep in the
brig. Mr. Lowington was annoyed quite as much as the professor; and when
Mr. Fluxion came on board, he had a long conversation with him on the
subject.
"I was a boy once, Mr. Lowington," said the vice-principal; "and I am
free to say I would not have tolerated such an instructor as Mr.
Hamblin. He hasn't a particle of sympathy with the students. He is
haughty, stiff, and overbearing. He is imperious, fretful, snarling, and
tyrannical. In a word, I don't blame the boys for disliking him."
"I am conscious that he is not the right person. In the case of Kendall,
he protested against my decision, and had the impudence to tell me that
I lacked judgment. I have engaged him for a year. What shall I do?"
replied the principal.
"I hardly know; but we shall be in trouble as long as he is in the
squadron. We must give the boys fair play, if we expect them to do their
duty."
"I have kept Duncan on board the ship, and I suppose I must punish him,"
added Mr. Lowington. "He plotted mischief, but he has really done
nothing."
"Excuse me," said Dr. Winstock, as he opened the door, but retreated
when he saw that he disturbed a private interview.
"Come in, doctor; I wish to see you," replied the principal.
The surgeon was admitted to the conference, and the case stated to him.
"The pedagogue of the past is rapidly going out of fashion," said the
doctor. "Our educational system is progressive, and it will no longer
tolerate the teacher who is the petty tyrant he was twenty years ago.
Mr. Hamblin is an old-school pedagogue. His will is law, which is all
right to a certain extent. The teacher must be the judge between right
and wrong; but he must be gentle and kind, and raise no false issues
between his pupil and himself. Mr. Hamblin is not gentle and kind. He is
capricious, wilful, and passionate."
"I agree with you in regard to Mr. Hamblin; but what shall I do?"
"Discharge him," replied the doctor, promptly. "Any instructor who
cannot get along with Paul Kendall, without quarrelling, is not fit for
his place. The students of the Josephine have hazed Mr. Hamblin out of
pure sympathy for their captain."
"I have engaged Mr. Hamblin for a year from the 1st of July."
"I should pay him his salary in full, and let him depart in peace, if he
would."
"We need his services as an instructor."
"So far as that is concerned, I will volunteer to take the department of
mathematics. I was a tutor in college in that branch for a couple of
years."
Mr. Lowington thanked the surgeon for this offer; and the call to divine
service in the steerage terminated the interview. The principal's
