phantoms half human, and my mood, speculative and 
questioning, chimes in with it. Since my little bark of 
life, freighted with one human heart, is about to commence 
her voyage on the broad ocean of the world, it may inter- 
est me to note the incidents. 
Three months ago I was eighteen. Now it is July. I 
have graduated at school, nnd am awaiting the arrival of 
my guardian, who is doubtless an elderly, good-natured, 
prosy sort of man, of whom I know absolutely nothing, 
except that I am to be brought out under the auspices of 
his sister, who is a widow. My dear, kind Mr. Anthon, 
whom I did love, has been dead two years, and these St. 
Johns are distant relatives of his. 
Some curious spell has followed me thus far. A life 
not wanting in incident, but deficient in all the brightness 
and glad hopes that make childhood a fairy land, an en- 
chanted country that one can retire to when the cares of 
the world press hard and close. But if the tales of poets 
are true, I do not think I had any childhood. 
My first remembrance seems to be of a deep forest, so 
thickly wooded that the light penetrated only at rare in- 
tervals. A ledge of rock ran through it, threaded by a 
small rivulet, whose trickle made a pleasant melody. I 
believe that spot was my birthplace. No matter where 
my mortal eyes first saw the light, my soul sprang into 
existence there, baptized in floods of solemn glory, and my 
natal hymn chanted by winds that blew "gales from 
heaven." 
After this comes a picture of a dark, gloomy house, with 
great eaves shadowing the windows; trees, tall and 
straight; old-fashioned flower-beds, stiff and formal, unlike the freedom and grace of nature. I wonder now if 
they never felt tempted to rebel? I did when my opportunity came. 
The place was roomy, but only three apartments were 
in general use. Once a year, when the clergyman came 
to tea, the parlor was opened. The furniture was all 
heavy and dark, every article kept strictly in its place. 
Here I lived with my two great-aunts and a serving man. 
The former were maiden ladies, always old to me, reticent 
to sternness, yet not harsh. They were invariably dressed 
with the utmost neatness ; they never talked loud or fast ; 
went about the house quietly, and performed the same 
tapir".
Aunt Mildred was a trifle the smaller. I think, too, she 
had a gentler nature ; and though I never clung to her, I 
had a different feeling concerning her. Children soon 
learn to make distinctions. They were not tender women. 
Neither ever caressed me. I did not miss it, for all those 
early years my life must have been mere negation. 
One day an incident occurred that changed the tenor 
of my thoughts. A lady visited us, bringing a little girl 
of my own age. I was shy at first, but she most gracious. 
Golden-haired and fair as a lily, I took her at once as a 
type of the angels of my Bible stories. But, alas ! she was 
vain, self-willed, imperious in temper, and full of petty 
deceit. My creed up to this time had been very simple, 
and the child astonished me. Her mother kissed and 
petted her continually, and there came to my heart a 
strange want. 
Being a novice in the art of entertainment, I took her 
to my nook in the woods, and I certainly must have 
