you gratooitous, and never send in no bills."
Another of Dick's faults was his extravagance. Being always
wide-awake and ready for business, he earned enough to have
supported him comfortably and respectably. There were not a few
young clerks who employed Dick from time to time in his professional
capacity, who scarcely earned as much as he, greatly as their style
and dress exceeded his. But Dick was careless of his earnings. Where
they went he could hardly have told himself. However much he managed
to earn during the day, all was generally spent before morning. He
was fond of going to the Old Bowery Theatre, and to Tony Pastor's,
and if he had any money left afterwards, he would invite some of
his friends in somewhere to have an oyster-stew; so it seldom
happened that he commenced the day with a penny.
Then I am sorry to add that Dick had formed the habit of smoking.
This cost him considerable, for Dick was rather fastidious about his
cigars, and wouldn't smoke the cheapest. Besides, having a liberal
nature, he was generally ready to treat his companions. But of
course the expense was the smallest objection. No boy of fourteen
can smoke without being affected injuriously. Men are frequently
injured by smoking, and boys always. But large numbers of the
newsboys and boot-blacks form the habit. Exposed to the cold and wet
they find that it warms them up, and the self-indulgence grows upon
them. It is not uncommon to see a little boy, too young to be out
of his mother's sight, smoking with all the apparent satisfaction
of a veteran smoker.
There was another way in which Dick sometimes lost money. There was
a noted gambling-house on Baxter Street, which in the evening was
sometimes crowded with these juvenile gamesters, who staked their
hard earnings, generally losing of course, and refreshing themselves
from time to time with a vile mixture of liquor at two cents a
glass. Sometimes Dick strayed in here, and played with the rest.
I have mentioned Dick's faults and defects, because I want it
understood, to begin with, that I don't consider him a model boy.
But there were some good points about him nevertheless. He was above
doing anything mean or dishonorable. He would not steal, or cheat,
or impose upon younger boys, but was frank and straight-forward,
manly and self-reliant. His nature was a noble one, and had saved
him from all mean faults. I hope my young readers will like him as
I do, without being blind to his faults. Perhaps, although he was
only a boot-black, they may find something in him to imitate.
And now, having fairly introduced Ragged Dick to my young readers,
I must refer them to the next chapter for his further adventures.
CHAPTER II
JOHNNY NOLAN
After Dick had finished polishing Mr. Greyson's boots he was
fortunate enough to secure three other customers, two of them
reporters in the Tribune establishment, which occupies the corner
of Spruce Street and Printing House Square.
When Dick had got through with his last customer the City Hall clock
indicated eight o'clock. He had been up an hour, and hard at work,
and naturally began to think of breakfast. He went up to the head
of Spruce Street, and turned into Nassau. Two blocks further, and he
reached Ann Street. On this street was a small, cheap restaurant,
where for five cents Dick could get a cup of coffee, and for ten
cents more, a plate of beefsteak with a plate of bread thrown in.
These Dick ordered, and sat down at a table.
It was a small apartment with a few plain tables unprovided with
cloths, for the class of customers who patronized it were not very
particular. Our hero's breakfast was soon before him. Neither the
coffee nor the steak were as good as can be bought at Delmonico's;
