"How did it take fire, Levi?" she asked.
"I don't know. Aunt had a tremendous fire in the oven."
"There comes your uncle," added Bessie, pointing to the poor old man,
as he reeled up the road in his weakness, like a drunken man. "How
awful he looks!"
"He feels badly about it, I suppose," replied Levi.
Uncle Nathan's face did indeed present an aspect which was almost
hideous. It was still as pale and ghastly as death itself; and upon it
there was an expression of the most intense agony. His wife was
following him, hardly able to keep pace with the long strides he made.
"It's all right, uncle Nathan; we saved the house, and not much damage
has been done to it," said Levi, as the old man passed him.
Uncle Nathan took no notice of him; perhaps he did not even hear him,
so deeply was he absorbed in thinking about the gold. Levi and Bessie
followed him into the house. The wretched miser rushed into his
chamber. Mat Mogmore was there, and seemed to be busy in wiping the
water from the floor. Dock Vincent was in the next room, apparently as
busy as the carpenter's son.
The miser, with all the powers of his being concentrated in his eyes,
gazed tremblingly at the board which covered the hiding-place of his
money. That dark hole was the temple of his god, and all his hopes
seemed to be shrouded in its gloom. But the board was where he left it,
and as he left it, and the miser breathed a little easier.
"It was rather hard on you, Mr. Fairfield; but it's lucky it ain't no
worse," said Dock Vincent.
"It's bad enough," groaned the miser.
"That's so; but 'tain't so bad as it might be. I was just coming down
from the ledges when I saw the smoke; and I've been to work like a good
one ever since," added Dock.
"If I can do anything more for you, I'm willing to help as much as I
can," said Mat Mogmore.
"There ain't nothing more to do," replied Mr. Fairfield, who only
desired that the neighbors would leave, so that he could assure himself
of the safety of his gold.
They did go, without even the thanks of the miser. Levi was in the
kitchen with Mrs. Fairfield, trying to make out how the fire had
caught.
"Sech a piece of work, massy knows!" exclaimed the old lady, as she
looked about her in dismay at the water which was still dripping down
from above. "It'll take a whole month to put things to rights agin. I
can't tell, for the life of me, how it ketched."
"You had a large fire in the oven, aunt," suggested Levi.
"But the fire in the oven didn't set the ruff afire! Sunthin was the
matter with that chimbly, and your uncle fixed it e'enamost a month
ago. I don't know nothin' what he did to it. Mebbe there was a hole in
that chimbly--For massy sake! What's comin' now!"
This exclamation had been brought from her by a loud, despairing howl
from her husband, who at this moment rushed into the kitchen, with such
a look of anguish on his face that it frightened Bessie.
"O, my money!" groaned the wretched man.
"For pity's sake, husband, what's the matter?" cried Mrs. Fairfield.
"It's all gone!" gasped uncle Nathan.
"What's all gone?"
"The money!" he replied in a whisper.
His nature could endure no more. He tottered on his legs, and Levi
sprang to his assistance just as he dropped senseless on the floor.
CHAPTER III.
THE HOLE IN THE WALL.
As soon as Dock Vincent and Mat Mogmore had left the house, Mr.
Fairfield procured a case-knife,--for he was not the owner of so useful
