"Won't your old woman let you go?"
"I never have any money to go."
"If I was flush I'd take you myself. It's only fifteen cents," said
Ben. "But I haven't got money enough only for one ticket. I'm goin'
to-night."
"Are you?" asked Mark, a little enviously.
"Yes, it's a good way to pass a rainy evenin'. You've got a warm room
to be in, let alone the play, which is splendid. Now, if you could only
beg fifteen cents from some charitable cove, you might go along of me."
"If I get any money I've got to carry it home."
"Suppose you don't, will the old woman cut up rough?"
"She'll beat me with a strap," said Mark, shuddering.
"What makes you let her do it?" demanded Ben, rather disdainfully.
"I can't help it."
"She wouldn't beat me," said Ben, decidedly.
"What would you do?" asked Mark, with interest.
"What would I do?" retorted Ben. "I'd kick, and bite, and give her one
for herself between the eyes. That's what I'd do. She'd find me a hard
case, I reckon."
"It wouldn't be any use for me to try that," said Mark. "She's too
strong."
"It don't take much to handle you," said Ben, taking a critical survey
of the physical points of Mark. "You're most light enough to blow away."
"I'm only ten years old," said Mark, apologetically. "I shall be bigger
some time."
"Maybe," said Ben, dubiously; "but you don't look as if you'd ever be
tough like me."
"There," he added, after a pause, "I've smoked all my 'baccy. I wish
I'd got some more."
"Do you like to smoke?" asked Mark.
"It warms a feller up," said Ben. "It's jest the thing for a cold, wet
day like this. Didn't you ever try it?"
"No."
"If I'd got some 'baccy here, I'd give you a whiff; but I think it
would make you sick the first time."
"I don't think I should like it," said Mark, who had never felt any
desire to smoke, though he knew plenty of boys who indulged in the
habit.
"That's because you don't know nothin' about it," remarked Ben. "I
didn't like it at first till I got learned."
"Do you smoke often?"
"Every day after I get through blackin' boots; that is, when I aint
hard up, and can't raise the stamps to pay for the 'baccy. But I guess
I'll be goin' up to the Old Bowery. It's most time for the doors to
open. Where you goin'?"
"I don't know where to go," said Mark, helplessly.
"I'll tell you where you'd better go. You won' find nobody round here.
Besides it aint comfortable lettin' the rain fall on you and wet you
through." (While this conversation was going on, the boys had sheltered
themselves in a doorway.) "Just you go down to Fulton Market. There
you'll be out of the wet, and you'll see plenty of people passin'
through when the boats come in. Maybe some of 'em will give you
somethin'. Then ag'in, there's the boats. Some nights I sleep aboard
the boats."
"You do? Will they let you?"
"They don't notice. I just pay my two cents, and go aboard, and snuggle
up in a corner and go to sleep. So I ride to Brooklyn and back all
night. That's cheaper'n the Newsboys' Lodgin' House, for it only costs
two cents. One night a gentleman came to me, and woke me up, and said,
'We've got to Brooklyn, my lad. If you don't get up they'll carry you
