knew her to do such a thing before, and I've lived here three years
come October."
CHAPTER XXI.
SQUIRE SELWYN'S CALL.
Mrs. Oakley's door-bell rang, and Hannah answered the summons.
"Is Mrs. Oakley at home?" inquired Squire Selwyn, for it was he.
"Yes, sir. Will you walk in?"
"I think I will. Let her know that I wish to see her, if you please."
Hannah did as directed.
"Squire Selwyn?" asked Mrs. Oakley. "Where is he?"
"In the parlor."
"Very well. I will go in at once."
"Has he found out anything about John, I wonder?" thought Mrs. Oakley.
"Good-morning, sir," she said, as she entered the lawyer's presence.
"Good-morning, Mrs. Oakley."
"Is your family well?"
"Quite well. My son tells me that John has been absent from school for
two or three days past."
"Yes."
"He is not sick, I suppose?"
"No."
"You will excuse my questions; but his father and myself were very
intimate friends. Is he at home?"
"No, he is not."
"I suppose you have no objection to telling me where he is?"
"Suppose I have?" said Mrs. Oakley, coolly.
"Then I should think it very strange."
"You are at liberty to think it very strange," said Mrs. Oakley,
composedly.
"Why should you object to telling me that he went away with your
brother, Mr. Huxter, and is now at his house?"
Mrs. Oakley started in surprise. The lawyer was better informed than
she supposed.
"If you knew," she answered, after a slight pause, "why need you
inquire?"
"I wished to know whether you had sent him away, intending to keep his
destination a secret."
"I suppose he has written to you."
"He did write to me; but the letter was suppressed by your brother.
May I inquire whether this was by your wish?"
"What you tell me is news to me," said Mrs. Oakley; "but I have no
hesitation in saying that my brother understands my wishes, and will
carry them out."
"I am answered," said the lawyer. "Is it your intention to permit John
to continue his studies preparatory for college?"
"It is not."
"It was his father's wish and intention. That wish ought to be sacred
with you."
"I understand my duty."
"I trust you will do something more than understand it," said the
lawyer, gravely. "I must remonstrate with you on your intentions with
regard to John. He is an excellent scholar, and his abilities are
superior. It would be a great pity that he should be debarred from the
privilege of a college education."
"You say he is an excellent scholar," said Mrs. Oakley. "Then, if his
education is already so excellent, there is no further need of his
studying. He can begin to earn his living."
"Surely you do not mean what you say. If he were poor, and such a
necessity existed, it would be well enough that he should go to work;
but you well know that no such necessity exists."
