mutiny had ever been dreamed of.
The captain called the officers around him, and all of them eagerly
obeyed the summons.
"We are going to sea immediately," said he, with none of the anxiety
which was visible in his face before. "As we are short-handed, I have a
favor to ask. Those below the rank of lieutenant, who are willing to
serve as seamen until the discipline of the ship can be restored, will
signify it by walking over to the starboard side."
All below the grade indicated, with a single exception, promptly
marched over to the other side of the ship. The four lieutenants
stepped out of the way, so that the single dissenter might stand alone.
It is hardly necessary to say that Perth was the person who was so
largely in the minority among the officers.
"You decline to serve with the other masters?" said Shuffles.
"I prefer to be excused. I have had considerable experience as a
seaman, and would like a little more as an officer," replied Perth,
politely.
"We shall dispense with the services of all the officers except the
lieutenants," added the captain. "There will be nothing for you to do,
but you shall not be compelled to serve as a seaman."
"Permit me to take his place," interposed Gordon, the senior past
officer.
"Thank you, Gordon," replied Shuffles.
"Please enroll me also as a seaman," added Haven, good-naturedly.
"And me also," laughed Paul.
"I suggest that the past officers take the places of the second, third,
and fourth lieutenants, who shall do duty as seamen," said Leavitt, the
second officer.
"By all means," added Foster, the third.
"With all my heart," followed Prescott, the fourth.
The captain adopted this suggestion, and Gordon, as second lieutenant,
was sent off to the Josephine in the second cutter, which was pulled by
three masters and the three midshipmen. When it was ready to leave, Mr.
Lowington stepped into the boat, for he desired to satisfy himself that
the crew of the consort were not also demoralized. Haven in the third
cutter, with a volunteer crew, left the ship to procure a tug-steamer.
Peaks, Bitts, Leach, and the head steward had been privately requested
to be on deck, in case any unexpected demonstration was made by the
mutineers.
In the steerage everything was very quiet. The sensation below was
decidedly superior to that on deck. The rebels were patiently waiting
to be called upon for an explanation of their remarkable conduct.
Probably none of them even noticed that the grating had been put upon
the main hatch by the cautious Peaks, to prevent them from leaving the
steerage. The boatswain's call had sounded twice, and they supposed the
faculty of the Academy were consulting upon the proper measures to be
taken. Most of them believed that they would be invited on deck, where
the principal would "preach" to them, as usual, and thus afford them an
opportunity to state their grievances. Perhaps, with the exception of
the runaways, they were willing to return to their duty after they had
recorded their protest. The principal still purposed to let them wait.
The third cutter, all of whose volunteer crew wore shoulder-straps,
came up to the gangway of the Josephine, which, like the ship, was all
ready to weigh anchor.
"You come with a very nobby crew," said Mr. Fluxion, as the principal
stepped upon the deck of the consort.
"The ship is in a state of mutiny," replied Mr. Lowington, with a smile
upon his face, which softened the astounding declaration.
"Mutiny!" exclaimed Mr. Fluxion.
"Precisely so. We called all hands to weigh anchor, and less than
