day was cloudless, the dresses in order, the carriage not a 
moment behindhand. 
They passed down the road by the quarry. Victor Hurst 
and Trewartha stood talking, and both bowed. 
"Who is that young man, Sylvia?" her mother asked. 
 
"A connection of Mrs. McRae's. He has taken charge of 
the quarry, and " 
"That is enough," decisively. "That woman's blood 
would taint anything for me." 
A chill crept over Sylvia as she relapsed into silence. 
She had no keener eyes to-day for the beautiful road than 
her mother. Winding around the lofty hills bathed in pur 
ple splendor, passing narrow defiles where the wind swept 
through with the sad undertone of the sea, masses of rock 
tumbled together in great crags, veined with what seemed both 
silver and gold, and now and then a glimpse of the river, 
blue in its shaded depths as the sky above. But she did not 
see these grand shifting pictures ; and all she could think of 
was some poor wretch going to a dreaded fate : something 
which turned her cold and sick. 
It was almost dusk when they entered St. Albans, a tiny, 
quaint old town, perched on a level plateau between two 
mountains, while a host of smaller hills seemed to lie sleeping 
at its feet. For the last hour Mrs. Redmond had been exceed 
ingly irritable ; and Sylvia was glad to hear a pleasant voice. 
"So you have brought her back our little Sylvia;" and 
she felt her hand taken in a gracious clasp. 
"Oh, Mr. Gilliat!" 
" We are glad to see you again, my child, very glad ;" and 
yet it appeared to Sylvia there was a touch of pain and weari 
ness in the tone that she had never discerned there before. 
For all her complaints and fatigue, Mrs. Redmond under 
went a somewhat elaborate dressing at the hands of her tire 
woman. Mrs. Gilliat's prestige had gathered a number of 
notabilities at St. Albans, and this weak, foolish creature wished 
to shine among them it would always be the ambition of her 
vapid, narrow life. And now was added to it the zest of marry 
ing her daughter. 
Eustace Gilliat was lounging in the spacious parlor as they 
entered. To Sylvia he looked weaker and more effeminate 
 
than ever before, and something else that she discerned but 
could not reduce to words. The faded eyes were vicious, the 
mouth cruel and sensual, the drawling tone seemed to rasp 
every nerve. And when she contrasted him with such men as 
Trewartha and Victor Hurst, a shiver of disgust ran over 
her. 
Not a son to be proud of, was Eustace Gilliat. He appeared 
to have set at defiance all the laws and salient peculiarkies of 
his long line of ancestry. The strength, manliness, and beauty 
which had been a distinctive feature in them for generations, 
failed to catch the subtile trick here. Perhaps the blood was 
effete, worn out, or in some mysterious manner the father had 
failed to give the son his own physical vitality, as well as mental 
power. Or going still farther back, there might be some hid 
den but avenging curse. 
He had been recently expelled from a German university ; 
and his father had paid his gambling debts, that were a serious 
matter even to the Gilliat income. It could not be said that 
