"I thought it was a very good thing. Faxon uses it a great deal, and
says he can tell what stock he has on hand, when a customer comes,
without going out of the counting-room."
"It is not reliable. The only way to know what stock we have is by
looking it over."
Very likely he would have destroyed it if Mr. Collingsby had not called
him into the private counting-room at this moment. He evidently had a
hearty grudge against the book, which I thought was entirely
groundless.
"Mr. Whippleton don't think much of your lumber book," said I, when the
head salesman came in a moment later.
"Why, what's the matter with it?" asked the man.
"He says it is not reliable."
"I think it is; and since I adopted it, two or three other concerns
have kept one like it, after asking me about it. What's the reason it
isn't reliable?"
"You may neglect to enter invoices or sales."
"Your ledger wouldn't be good for anything if you neglected to carry
all your items to its pages."
I was about to specify more particularly that the firm had about forty
thousand dollars' worth of stock on hand more than appeared in the
lumber book, when Mr. Whippleton returned. He evidently understood what
I was doing, and told me to make up the bank account.
"You needn't say anything to Faxon about his book. Let him keep it, if
he wishes to do so," said he.
"I did say something to him."
"You did? What did you say?"
"I only told him you didn't think his book was reliable."
"That's no more than the truth, but you need not mention the matter
again. It will only make unpleasant feeling. Smooth it over if he says
anything more about it, and let the matter drop."
I was rather puzzled, but I went on with the bank account.
"And by the way, Phil, you needn't say anything to Mr. Collingsby about
those invoices," he added, a little while after.
"I shall not be likely to do so. He hardly ever speaks to me, and I
never do to him, unless it is to answer a question."
"He's very fussy and particular. It was careless in me to leave those
papers at home, but it is all right now. This is a fine day, Phil, and
we will take a sail about four o'clock if you like."
I did like; I always liked to take a sail. I had been with him a dozen
times already, and had been promoted to the position of able seaman on
board, for I had taken the helm, and actually worked the boat alone for
hours at a time. I had been out with the junior partner in some pretty
heavy blows, and enjoyed them too. In fact, I considered myself as
competent to handle the Florina as I was to make out a trial balance. I
looked into the theory of sailing a boat, and understanding the
principles, I found the practice easy.
After the business of the day was done, we embarked, and sailed with a
stiff breeze to the head of the lake. Mr. Whippleton was more than
usually kind and considerate, but he appeared to be thoughtful and
troubled. He gave me the helm, and went into the cabin as soon as we
were out of the river. He sat at the table, with a pencil and paper,
and seemed to be absorbed in some difficult calculation.
At dark we were off Indiana City. I reported to Mr. Whippleton, and he
came on deck. He told me to come about, and I did so without any
assistance from him. He talked a little about the business of the firm,
but soon relapsed into silence. His manner was somewhat strange, but I
attributed it to his ill health. We had an abundant supply of
provisions on board, such as crackers, sardines, lambs' tongues; and we
usually took our supper on board, as we did not return to the city till
