the money you stole."
"How dare you--"
But he checked himself, for two or three persons had already stopped;
and their example was so contagious, in a populous city, that there was
danger of collecting a crowd, to which my sensitive friend seemed to
have very strong constitutional objections. He moved on, and I followed
him into Market Street. I was anxious to meet a policeman, that I might
state my case to him, and invoke his aid; but the officers, justifying
all the traditions of their craft, were somewhere else, because they
were wanted in Market Street.
Lynch quickened his pace, and turned into Fourth Street; but I kept
close to his heels till we were near the Planters' Hotel. I concluded
that he was going to this grand establishment, and that he expected to
shake me off within its sumptuous walls. I did not believe he would,
though the want of an officer was a sore inconvenience to me. Just
as he was about to cross the street, a shabby genteel and very seedy
gentleman confronted him.
"How are you, Lynch?" exclaimed the dilapidated individual, extending
his hand.
"How do you do, Farringford?" replied Lynch.
Farringford! This must be the decayed steamboat owner of whom Lynch had
before spoken to me. He was apparently about forty-five years of age,
and he looked as though the world had used him very roughly.
"I'm glad to see you, Lynch," said Farringford. "I'm always glad to see
an old friend. I'm hard up, and I want to borrow a dollar."
Lynch took two half dollars in silver from his pocket. Perhaps the
present generation of young people never saw a half dollar; but it
is true that there was a time when such a coin was in general use!
He handed the money to the seedy gentleman, and then said something
to him in a whisper, which I could not hear, though I had planked
myself close by the side of the villain. Lynch then turned to cross the
street, and I started to follow him.
  [Illustration: PHIL MEETS LEONIDAS LYNCHPINNE. Page 100.]
"See here, my lad," said Farringford, grasping me by the arm.
"Let me alone!" I cried, struggling to escape, fearful that I should
lose sight of Lynch.
"Hold still, my lad. I only want to speak to you," replied Farringford,
in cheerful tones, though he did not relax his grasp. "Don't be afraid.
I won't hurt you. I've known you ever since you were a baby."
"Known me?"
I was startled by his words, for they seemed to have some relation to
the mystery of my being.
"Certainly I have, Phil."
"Do you know me?" I demanded, forgetting, for the moment, all about
Lynch and my hard money.
"Known you from your babyhood, my lad," said he, glancing towards the
hotel.
This act reminded me of my business again. I turned my face towards the
hotel. Lynch had disappeared.
"That's all, Phil; you can go now," said Farringford, laughing.
"What do you mean, sir?"
"That's all, my lad. I only stopped you to prevent you from following
my friend."
"You said you knew me."
"Never saw you or heard of you before in my life," chuckled he,
evidently pleased at the trick he had played upon me.
I left him, and rushed into the hotel. I looked for Lynch in all the
public rooms, but I could not find him. I inquired at the office for
him, and the clerks answered me, very curtly, that no such person was
in the house. I asked a porter, who sat near the entrance, describing
