with the rheumatiz. You've been a good boy, and I don't blame you much
for cryin' now the old man's dead and gone. I think we will have
sunthin' to eat now."
I went to the Castle, and prepared a supper of fried bacon and
johnny-cake, which I carried to the block house. My companions ate as
though life had no sorrows; but we had all worked very hard in the
construction of our fortress, and the circumstances did not favor the
development of much fine sentiment. I carried the supper things back to
the Castle, washed the dishes, gave the pigs their supper, watered and
fed the horses, and then returned to the block house. Kit had brought
an armful of hay from the barn, and some blankets from the house, with
which he had prepared sleeping accommodations for two of the party. Mr.
Mellowtone was walking up and down between the two fires, smoking his
pipe, and doing duty as sentinel.
"Now, boy, you kin turn in and sleep," said Kit. "Mr. Mell'ton kin
sleep too, and I will keep an eye on the Injuns. 'Pears like they won't
come when they finds we are all ready for 'em."
"I'm not sleepy, Kit," I replied; "but I'm rather tired."
"You mought turn in and rest, then," replied Kit, as he left the block
house.
Mr. Mellowtone, relieved by the old hunter, soon joined me. I lay down
on the hay, and covered myself with a blanket. My friend sat down on
the ground and smoked his pipe. I could not sleep. Old Matt was in my
mind all the time. I continued to see him fall before the bullet of the
savage, and I still saw him lying silent and motionless on the ground.
"I think the Indians will be shy about coming here again," said Mr.
Mellowtone, after I had rolled about on my bed for a time; and I think
he spoke to turn my thoughts away from the engrossing subject which
burdened me.
"I wish they had not come at all. They have made it a sad day for me,"
I replied, bitterly.
"You mustn't take it too hardly, Phil Farringford."
"How can I help it?"
"It is not strange that you weep; but you are young, and your spirits
are buoyant. You will feel better in a few days."
"What is to become of me now?" I asked. "Old Matt is gone, and I need
stay here no longer."
"Why not? You can carry on Matt's farm, with the help of Kit and me.
You have done most of the work for the last year, and you can get along
as well in the future as you have in the past."
"Shall I live here alone?"
"Of course you may do as you please. You are your own master now, as
not many boys of your age are. But it is rather early now to consider a
matter of so much importance."
"What should I do if the Indians came upon me?"
"You would defend yourself, as you do now. But the Indians will be
taken care of. As soon as we can send word up to the fort, the officer
in charge will detail a force to punish them for what they have done,
and secure our safety in the future. I have been in this vicinity for
five years, and this is the first time I have known any serious
difficulty with the savages."
Mr. Mellowtone smoked his pipe out, and then lay down by my side. In a
few moments he dropped asleep. I was very tired after the severe labor
of the day, and I had been up most of the preceding night. Nature at
last asserted her claim, and I slept.
When I awoke, the sun was shining in through the loopholes of the block
house. Kit Cruncher lay by my side, still fast asleep. I realized that
the Indians had not made an assault during the night. I rose carefully,
stepped over the long gaunt form of the stalwart hunter, and left the
fortress. Mr. Mellowtone was walking up and down, with his pipe in his
