Lady Byron's statements to me in 1856;
Lord Lindsay's communication, giving an extract from Lady Anne
Barnard's diary, and a copy of a letter from Lady Byron dated 1818,
about three years after her marriage;
Mrs. Mimms' testimony, as given in a daily paper published at
Newcastle, England;
And Lady Byron's letters, as given recently in the late 'London
Quarterly.'
All which documents appear to arrange themselves into a connected
series.
From these, then, let us construct the story.
According to Mrs. Mimms' account, which is likely to be accurate, the
time spent by Lord and Lady Byron in bridal-visiting was three weeks at
Halnaby Hall, and six weeks at Seaham, when Mrs. Mimms quitted their
service.
During this first period of three weeks, Lord Byron's treatment of his
wife, as testified to by the servant, was such that she advised her
young mistress to return to her parents; and, at one time, Lady Byron
had almost resolved to do so.
What the particulars of his conduct were, the servant refuses to state;
being bound by a promise of silence to her mistress. She, however,
testifies to a warm friendship existing between Lady Byron and Mrs.
Leigh, in a manner which would lead us to feel that Lady Byron received
and was received by Lord Byron's sister with the greatest affection.
Lady Byron herself says to Lady Anne Barnard, 'I had heard that he was
the best of brothers;' and the inference is, that she, at an early
period of her married life, felt the greatest confidence in his sister,
and wished to have her with them as much as possible. In Lady Anne's
account, this wish to have the sister with her was increased by Lady
Byron's distress at her husband's attempts to corrupt her principles
with regard to religion and marriage.
In Moore's Life, vol. iii., letter 217, Lord Byron writes from Seaham
to Moore, under date of March 8, sending a copy of his verses in Lady
Byron's handwriting, and saying, 'We shall leave this place to-morrow,
and shall stop on our way to town, in the interval of taking a house
there, at Colonel Leigh's, near Newmarket, where any epistle of yours
will find its welcome way. I have been very comfortable here, listening
to that d----d monologue which elderly gentlemen call conversation, in
which my pious father-in-law repeats himself every evening, save one,
when he played upon the fiddle. However, they have been vastly kind and
hospitable, and I like them and the place vastly; and I hope they will
live many happy months. Bell is in health and unvaried good-humour and
behaviour; but we are in all the agonies of packing and parting.'
Nine days after this, under date of March 17, Lord Byron says, 'We
mean to metropolize to-morrow, and you will address your next to
Piccadilly.' The inference is, that the days intermediate were spent
at Colonel Leigh's. The next letters, and all subsequent ones for six
months, are dated from Piccadilly.
As we have shown, there is every reason to believe that a warm
friendship had thus arisen between Mrs. Leigh and Lady Byron, and that,
during all this time, Lady Byron desired as much of the society of her
sister-in-law as possible. She was a married woman and a mother, her
husband's nearest relative; and Lady Byron could with more propriety
ask, from her, counsel or aid in respect to his peculiarities than she
could from her own parents. If we consider the character of Lady Byron
as given by Mrs. Mimms,--that of a young person of warm but repressed
feeling, without sister or brother, longing for human sympathy,
and having so far found no relief but in talking with a faithful
dependant,--we may easily see that the acquisition of a sister through
Lord Byron might have been all in all to her, and that the feelings
