heartily, he praised, in gentlemanly moderation, the viands selected by
his consort for his delectation after his wet ride, and pleaded a late
dinner as the reason of his present abstinence. Then they adjourned to
the apartment where they had left Mr. Dorrance, and the host produced
his cigar-case.
“Mabel says that smoke never offends your olfactories, or affects your
head unpleasantly, when you are suffering from this nervous affection,”
 he said to Herbert.
“On the contrary, it often acts as a sedative,” was the reply.
Winston lighted a cigar with an allumette from a bronze taper-stand--a
Christmas gift from his wife, which she kept supplied with fanciful
spiles twisted and fringed into a variety of shapes; drew several long
breaths to be certain that the fire had taken hold of the heart of the
Havana, tossed the pretty paper into the embers, and resumed his seat in
the chimney corner.
“A sedative is a good thing for people who allow their nerves to get out
of gear,” he remarked, dryly and leisurely, puffing contentedly in the
middle and at the end of the sentence. “But he who does this subverts
the order of the ruler and the ruled. I supposed I had nerves once,
but it is an age since they have dared molest me. I know that I had my
impulses when I was younger.”
He stopped to fillip the ash forming upon the ignited end of his cigar,
performing the operation with nicety, using the extreme tip of his
middle-finger nail over the salver attached for the purpose to the
bronze smoking-set.
“I obeyed one, above a dozen years ago. I learned only to-day that it
was rash and unwise, and to how much evil it may lead.”
“Not a very active evil, if you have just discovered it to be such.”
The speaker was his sister. Herbert was motionless upon his couch. Mrs.
Aylett, in the lounging-chair at the opposite side of the hearth from
her husband, was cutting the leaves of a new magazine he had brought
from the post-office, and did not seem to hear his remark.
“You reason upon the assumption that ignorance is bliss,” said Mr.
Aylett. “Allow me to express the opinion that the adage embodying
that idea is the refuge of cowards and fools. No matter how grievous a
bankrupt a man may be financially in spirit, he is craven or a
blockhead to shrink the investigation of his accounts. Which allusion
to bankruptcy brings me to the recital of a choicely offensive bit of
scandal I heard to-day. It is seldom that I give heed to the like, but
the delicious rottenness revealed by this tale enforced my hearing, and
fixed the details in my mind. I could not but think, as I rode home,
of the accessories which would add effectiveness, to-night, to my
second-hand narrative. I had the whole scene, which is now before me,
in my mind’s eye--the warm firelight and the shaded lamp brightening all
within, while the rain pattered without; the interesting invalid over
there gradually stirring into interest as the story progressed; you,
Mabel, calmly and critically attentive; and my Lady Aylett, too proud to
look the desire she really feels to handle the lovely carrion.”
“Your figures are not provocative of insatiable appetite,” returned his
wife, with inimitable sang-froid, staying her paper knife that she might
examine an engraving.
“Your appetite needs further excitants, then? So did mine until I began
to suspect that the history might be authentic, and not a figment of
the raconteur’s imagination. The hero’s name at first disposed me to set
down the entire relation as a fiction. It is romantic enough to perfume
a three-volume novel--Julius Lennox!”
Mabel’s instinctive thought was for her husband, but, in turning to
him she could not but notice that Mrs. Aylett sat motionless, the
paper-cutter between two leaves, and her left hand pressed hard upon the
upper, but without attempting to sever them.
