Fairyland never knew such a drive, surely. 
The afternoon was just right, as Norton had 
said ; there was no dust, and not too much 
sun ; the roads were in fine order ; arid they 
bowled along as if the ponies had had nothing 
to do in a great while. Now it was hardly 
within the memory of Matilda to have seen 
the country around Shadywalk as she saw it 
this afternoon. Every house had the charm 
of a picture; every tree by the roadside 
seemed to be planted for her pleasure. The 
meadows and fields of stubble and patches of 




ploughed land, were like pieces ot a new 
world to the long housed child. Norton told 
her to whom these fields belonged, which 
increased the effect, and gave bits of family 
history, as he knew it, connected with the 
names. These meadows belonged to such a 
gentleman ; his acres counted so many ; were 
good for so much ; taken capital care of. 
Here were the fields and woods of such a 
one's farm ; he kept cows and sent milk to 
New York. That house among the trees was 
the homestead of one of the old county families ; the place was beautiful ; Matilda would 
see it some day with Mrs. Laval ; that little 

cottage by the gate was only a lodge. Matilda desired to know what a lodge was ; and 

upon the explanation, and upon many more 
details correlative and co-related, went into 
musings of her own. But the sky was so 
fair and blue ; the earth was so rich and 
sunny ; the touches of sear or yellow leaves 
here and there on a branch gave such emphasis to the deep hues still lingering on the 



 

vegetation, the phaeton wheels rolled so 
smoothly ; that Matilda's musings did not 
know very well what course to keep. 

" Well what are you thinking of?" said 
Norton after a silence of some time. 

" I was thinking of Lilac lane, just then." 

" Lilac lane ! Do you want to see it ? " 

" Very much, Norton," said Matilda gleefully ; " but not this afternoon. I haven't 
been there in a great, great while." 

" I should not think you would want to be 
ever there again. I can't see why." 

