as I can see that. The people get rather hazy, occasionally, and have
no features to speak of. But I don’t know that I look very impressive
myself,” he added in the jesting mood which seems the natural condition
of Americans in the face of all embarrassments.
“O, you’ll do!” the apothecary answered, with a laugh; but he said, in
answer to an anxious question from the lady, “He mustn’t be moved for an
hour yet,” and gayly pestled away at a prescription, while she resumed
her office of grinding the pounded ice round and round upon her
husband’s skull. Isabel offered her the commiseration of friendly words,
and of looks kinder yet, and then seeing that they could do nothing, she
and Basil fell into the endless procession, and passed out of the side
door. “What a shocking thing!” she whispered. “Did you see how all the
people looked, one after another, so indifferently at that couple, and
evidently forgot them the next instant? It was dreadful. I shouldn’t
like to have you sun-struck in New York.”
“That’s very considerate of you; but place for place, if any accident
must happen to me among strangers, I think I should prefer to have it
in New York. The biggest place is always the kindest as well as the
cruelest place. Amongst the thousands of spectators the good Samaritan
as well as the Levite would be sure to be. As for a sun-stroke, it
requires peculiar gifts. But if you compel me to a choice in the matter,
then I say, give me the busiest part of Broadway for a sun-stroke. There
is such experience of calamity there that you could hardly fall
the first victim to any misfortune. Probably the gentleman at the
apothecary’s was merely exhausted by the heat, and ran in there for
revival. The apothecary has a case of the kind on his hands every
blazing afternoon, and knows just what to do. The crowd may be a little
‘ennuye’ of sun-strokes, and to that degree indifferent, but they most
likely know that they can only do harm by an expression of sympathy, and
so they delegate their pity as they have delegated their helpfulness to
the proper authority, and go about their business. If a man was overcome
in the middle of a village street, the blundering country druggist
wouldn’t know what to do, and the tender-hearted people would crowd
about so that no breath of air could reach the victim.”
“May be so, dear,” said the wife, pensively; “but if anything did happen
to you in New York, I should like to have the spectators look as if they
saw a human being in trouble. Perhaps I’m a little exacting.”
“I think you are. Nothing is so hard as to understand that there are
human beings in this world besides one’s self and one’s set. But let us
be selfishly thankful that it isn’t you and I there in the apothecary’s
shop, as it might very well be; and let us get to the boat as soon as
we can, and end this horrible midsummer-day’s dream. We must have a
carriage,” he added with tardy wisdom, hailing an empty hack, “as we
ought to have had all day; though I’m not sorry, now the worst’s over,
to have seen the worst.”
III. THE NIGHT BOAT.
There is little proportion about either pain or pleasure: a headache
darkens the universe while it lasts, a cup of tea really lightens the
spirit bereft of all reasonable consolations. Therefore I do not think
it trivial or untrue to say that there is for the moment nothing more
satisfactory in life than to have bought your ticket on the night boat
up the Hudson and secured your state-room key an hour or two before
departure, and some time even before the pressure at the clerk’s office
has begun. In the transaction with this castellated baron, you have of
course been treated with haughtiness, but not with ferocity, and your
self-respect swells with a sense of having escaped positive insult; your
key clicks cheerfully in your pocket against its gutta-percha number,
and you walk up and down the gorgeously carpeted, single-columned,
two-story cabin, amid a multitude of plush sofas and chairs, a glitter
of glass, and a tinkle of prismatic chandeliers overhead, unawed even by
