cotton," said the young lady to Stephen Garrick. 
" That would be such exorbitant waste." 
" There 's waste enough at those looms," said 
Mr. Garrick, pointing to his mills, " to enrich a 
Commonwealth perceptibly. We live fast down 
there among the engines. It is hot-house 
growth. There's the difference between a man 
brought up at machinery and a man brought 
up at a hoe, for instance, that there is between 
forced fruit and frozen fruit. Few countries 
understand what possibilities they possess in 
their factory population. We are a fever in the 
national blood that it will not pay to neglect ; 
there 's kill or cure in us." 
" What 's the use .' " said Sip, with sullen, 
unresponsive eyes. " You 'll have all your bother 
for nothing. Miss Kelso. If I get away from my 
loom, I shall come back to my loom. Look at 
the factory-folks in England ! From father to 
child, from children to children's children, — a 
whole race of 'em at their looms. It 's in the 
blood." 
"Try it," urged Perley. "Try it for Catty's 
sake, at least. There are so many ways in which 
it would be better for Catty." 
"I should like it," said Sip, slowly, "to get 
Catty among some other folks than mill-folks. 
It seems as if I could have done it once ; but 
it 's too late now." 
Now Sip was barely twenty-one. She said 
this with the unconscious assurance of fifty. 
" I 'd try anything for Catty ; and almost 
anything for you ; and almost anything to get 
out of the mills ; but I 'm afraid it 's too late." 
But Perley was persistent in her fancy, and 
between them they managed to " try it " 
faithfully. 
Sip went out as somebody's cook, and burned 
all the soup and made sour bread. She drew 
about a baby's carriage for a day and a half, and 
left because the baby cried and she was afraid 
that she should shake it. She undertook to be a 
hotel table-girl, and was saucy to the house- 
keeper before night. She took a specimen of 
her sewing to a dressmaker, and was told that 
the establishment did not find itself in need of 
another seamstress. She stood behind a dry- 
goods counter, but it worried her to measure off 
calico for the old ladies. Finally, Perley put her 
at the printer's trade, and Sip had a headache 
and got inky for a fortnight. 
Then she walked back to her overseer, and 
" asked in " for the next morning. 
" I told you it was no use," she said, shaking 
her head at Miss Kelso, half whimsically, half 
sadly too. " It 's too late. What am I fit for ?
Nothing. What do I know .' Nothing. I can 
weave ; that 's all. I 'm used to that. I 'm used 
to the noise and the running about. I 'm used to 
the dirt and the roughness. I can't sit still on 
