be. The captain mounted the rostrum with the principal, and took off
his cap.

"I appoint Thomas Scott," said he.

The announcement was greeted with the most emphatic applause on the
part of the seamen, in which a few of the officers joined.

"Of course Scott knew he was to be appointed before," sneered De
Forrest.

"He did not know it," replied Sheridan; "and if he did, I don't know
that it alters anything."

"Scott made him captain, and this is his reward."

"You made Cantwell captain," retorted Sheridan. "Scott worked for him,
and I am glad to see that he remembers his friends."

"I supposed the captain would appoint himself."

"You judged him by yourself. I can tell you one thing, De Forrest:
these fellows that work for themselves don't accomplish much."

"The ballot for the other two will be taken in half an hour," said the
principal, who had been studying the effect of the captain's choice
upon the students.

"I congratulate you, Scott," said Sheridan. "You are sure of going, for
one."

"Thank you. I am sure, and I hope I shall have good fellows to go with
me," replied Scott.

"How about the caucus?"

"I have talked with some of the fellows forward, and they prefer to
have every fellow vote as he likes."

"All right. I am satisfied."

Scott went to the captain, and thanked him heartily for the favor he
had bestowed upon him.

"I am glad to serve you," replied Cantwell, "We are not even yet. I owe
my position to you, and I am grateful for your interest."

"Not at all; you may thank De Forrest more than me for your election,
for if those fellows in the cabin had not got up a conspiracy against
you, we could not have carried you in."

"I am trying hard to make myself worthy of the place; and I want to
add, that what you said to me that Sunday did me a great deal of good.
I shall try to make my shipmates like me," added the captain, as he
went aft.

"He's a good fellow, after all," said Scott to himself.

Certainly he had improved wonderfully since his election, for he was
gentlemanly and kind to all, and used no offensive condescension to
