Ethel will never lack for friends. William felt it with great
certainty."
Another duty was laid upon Kathie. This orphan was to be more to her
than any chance friend. What could she do of her own self? Only to show
her now how truly she appreciated the sacrifice and loss, and to put a
few simple pleasures in her life, to give her tenderness and affection
that might make some slight amends.
She thought of something else that evening.
"Uncle Robert," she said, "do you believe there is any hope that Mr.
Morrison may still be alive?"
"It is very slight now," he answered. "And yet I can hardly be
reconciled to the loss amid this general rejoicing. It seems so much
harder to have him dead now that the war is over and many of the
soldiers will soon return home."
"I feel so sorry that he had to die out there alone. If some one could
have given him only a cup of cold water--"
"Perhaps they did."
"But if it had been you!" Kathie clung closely to him as if there might
be danger yet.
"It was not, my darling. God seems to hold me in the hollow of his hand,
and while he takes such care of me I feel more than ever the need of
doing his work. And now little Ethel has been added to us."
"Uncle Robert, I think I ought to take a special share in it, since God
has left me the delight of your love."
"As Ethel grows older, there will be many things that you can do."
"But I have thought of this one now. The interest on Ethel's little
fortune amounts to almost one hundred dollars."
"A little more than that. I put it in bonds."
"And if it could be saved for her,--since she will want but very little.
She will have her home with her aunt, and need only her clothes. I'd
like to buy those for her as a kind of thank-offering."
"But, my darling, in a few years more you will be a young lady, and
there will come parties, journeys, and pleasures of different kinds,
where it may be necessary for you to be dressed in something besides the
simple garments of childhood. Perhaps you will want more money
yourself!"
"I never have to give up anything needful, but I was thinking that I
should like now and then to make a real sacrifice, relinquish some
article that I wanted very much, and use it for her instead. It would
help me to remember what her father had done for me."
Uncle Robert stooped and kissed her, touched to the heart by her simple
act of self-denial.
"It shall be as you wish," he replied, tenderly. "And, my dear child, I
am glad to see you willing to take your share in the great work there
is to be done in the world."
"It is so little, after all, and so many blessings come to me."
Ah, was it not true that God restored fourfold? After many days the
bread we have cast upon the waters comes floating back to us. Well for
us then if we are not shamed by niggardly crumbs and crusts flung out
impatiently to some wayside beggar while we ourselves feasted. For God's
work and love go together, and there is always something for the willing
hand.
CHAPTER XII.
HOME AGAIN.
THE pony phaeton stood before the school-house. Jasper and Hero nodding
their heads impatiently in the April sunshine. The prettiest striped
lap-robe imaginable was thrown over the empty seat, the plating of the
harness made a silvery glitter, and altogether it was a turnout that one
might be rather proud of, if one's self-complacency was nurtured upon
such things.
