“I hope you won’t go to hurt the child,” said kind-hearted Mrs. Murphy.
“I’ll be much obliged to you, Mrs. Murphy, if you’ll mind your own
business,” said granny, loftily. “When I want your advice, mum, I’ll
come and ask it; begging your pardon, mum.”
“She’s a tough craythur,” said Mrs. Murphy to herself. “She beats that
poor child too bad entirely.”
Granny drew Tom into the room with no gentle hand.
“Now you’re goin’ to catch it,” said she, grimly.
Tom was of the same opinion, and meant to defend herself as well as she
knew how. She had all her wits about her, and had already planned out
her campaign.
On the chair was a stout stick which granny was accustomed to use on
such occasions as the present. When wielded by a vigorous arm, it was
capable of inflicting considerable pain, as Tom very well knew. That
stick she determined to have.
Accordingly when granny temporarily released her hold of her, as she
entered the room, Tom sprang for the chair, seized the stick, and sent
it flying out of the window.
“What did you do that for?” said granny, fiercely.
“I don’t want to be licked,” said Tom, briefly.
“You’re going to be, then.”
“Not with the stick.”
“We’ll see.”
Granny poked her head out of the window, and saw Tim down in the court.
“Bring up that stick,” she said; “that’s a good boy.”
Tim picked up the stick, and was about to obey the old woman’s request,
when he heard another voice—Tom’s—from the other window.
“Don’t you do it, Tim. Granny wants to lick me.”
That was enough. Tim didn’t like the old woman,—no one in the building
did,—and he did like Tom, who, in spite of being a tough customer, was
good-natured and obliging, unless her temper was aroused by the old
woman’s oppression. So Tim dropped the stick.
“Bring it right up,” said granny, angrily.
“Are you goin’ to lick Tom?”
“None of your business! Bring it up, or I’ll lick you too.”
“No, you don’t!” answered Tim. “You must come for it yourself if you
want it.”
Granny began to find that she must do her own errands. It was an
undertaking to go down three flights of stairs to the court and return
again, especially for one so indolent as herself; but there seemed to be
no other way. She inwardly resolved to wreak additional vengeance upon
Tom, and so get what satisfaction she could in this way. Muttering
imprecations which I do not care to repeat, she started downstairs,
determined to try the stick first upon Tim. But when she reached the
court Tim had disappeared. He had divined her benevolent intentions, and
thought it would be altogether wiser for him to be out of the way.
Granny picked up the stick, and, after a sharp glance around the court,
commenced the ascent. She did not stop to rest, being spurred on by the
anticipated pleasure of flogging Tom. So, in a briefer space of time
than could have been expected, she once more arrived at her own door.
But Tom had not been idle.
No sooner was the door closed than Tom turned the key in the lock,
making herself a voluntary prisoner, but having in the key the means of
deliverance.
Granny tried the door, and, to her inexpressible wrath, discovered Tom’s
new audacity.
“Open the door, you trollop!” she screamed.
“You’ll lick me,” said Tom.
“I’ll give you the wust lickin’ you ever had.”
“Then I shan’t let you in,” said Tom, defiantly.
