bums out of the sky. The windows are, in fact, best 
after nightfall, when they are brilliantly lighted from 
within ; and when, if it is a dark, warm night, and 
the briny fragrance comes up strong from the falling 
tide, the lights reflected far down in the still water, 
bring a dream, as I have heard travelled Bostonians 
say, of Venice and her magical effects in the same 
kind. But for me the beauty of the scene needs the 
help of no such association ; I am content with it for 
what it is. I enjoy also the hints of spring which 
one gets in riding over the Long Bridge at low tide 
in the first open days. Then there is not only a 
vernal beating of carpets on the piers of the draw- 
bridge, but the piles and walls left bare by the re- 
ceding water show green patches of sea-weeds and 
mosses, and flatter the willing eye with a dim hint 
of summer. This reeking and saturated herbage, 
— which always seems to me, in contrast with dry- 
land growths, what the water-logged life of seafaring 
folk is to that which we happier men lead on shore, 
— taking so kindly the deceitful warmth and bright- 
ness of the sun, has then a charm which it loses 
when summer really comes ; nor does one, later, have 
so keen an interest in the men wading about in the 
shallows below the bridge, who, as in the distance 
they stoop over to gather whatever shell-fish they 
seek, make a very fair show of being some ungainlier 
sort of storks, and are as near as we can hope to come 
to the spring-prophesying storks of song and story. 
A sentiment of the drowsiness that goes before the 
awakening of the year, and is so different firom the 
drowsiness that precedes the great autumnal slumber, 
is in the air, but is gone when we leave the river 
behind, and strike into the straggling village be- 
yond. 
I maintain that Boston, as one approaches it and 
passingly takes in the line of Bunker Hill Monument, 
soaring preeminent among the emulous foundry- 
chimneys of the sister city, is fine enough to need 
no comparison with other fine sights. Thanks to the 
mansard curves and dormer-windows of the newer 
houses, there is a singularly picturesque variety 
among the roofs that stretch along the bay, and rise 
one above another on the city's three hills, grouping 
themselves about the State House, and surmounted 
by its India-rubber dome. But, after all, does human 
weakness crave some legendary charm, some grace 
of uncertain antiquity, in the picturesqueness it sees ? 
I own that the fiiture, to which we are often re- 
 
ferred for the " stuff that dreams are made of," is 
more difBcult for the fancy than the past, that the 
airy amplitude of its possibilities is somewhat chilly, 
and that we naturally long for the snug quarters of 
old, made warm by many generations of life. Be- 
sides, Em-ope spoils us ingenuous Americans, and 
flatters our sentimentality into ruinous extrava- 
gances. Looking at her many-storied former times, 
we forget our own past, neat, compact, and conven- 
ient for the poorest memory to dwell in. Yet an 
