not likely to,” said John.
“Why can’t we? Mrs. Follingsbee said that a man in your profession,
and with your talents, could command a fortune in New York.”
“If it would give me the mines of Golconda, I would not go there,” said
John.
“How stupid of you! You know you would, though.”
“No, Lillie; I would not leave Springdale for any money.”
“That is because you think of nobody but yourself,” said Lillie. “Men
are always selfish.”
“On the contrary, it is because I have so many here depending on me, of
whom I am bound to think more than myself,” said John.
“That dreadful mission-work of yours, I suppose,” said Lillie; “that
always stands in the way of having a good time.”
“Lillie,” said John, shutting his book, and looking at her, “what is
your ideal of a good time?”
“Why, having something amusing going on all the time,—something bright
and lively, to keep one in good spirits,” said Lillie.
“I thought that you would have enough of that with your party and all,”
said John.
“Well, now it’s all over, and duller than ever,” said Lillie. “I think
a little spirit of gayety makes it seem duller by contrast.”
“Yet, Lillie,” said John, “you see there are women, who live right here
in Springdale, who are all the time busy, interested, and happy, with
only such sources of enjoyment as are to be found here. Their time does
not hang heavy on their hands; in fact, it is too short for all they
wish to do.”
“They are different from me,” said Lillie.
“Then, since you must live here,” said John, “could you not learn to be
like them? Could you not acquire some of these tastes that make simple
country life agreeable?”
“No, I can’t; I never could,” said Lillie, pettishly.
“Then,” said John, “I don’t see that anybody can help your being
unhappy.” And, opening his book, he sat down, and began to read.
Lillie pouted awhile, and then drew from under the sofa-pillow a copy
of “Indiana;” and, establishing her feet on the fender, she began to
read.
Lillie had acquired at school the doubtful talent of reading French
with facility, and was soon deep in the fascinating pages, whose theme
is the usual one of French novels,—a young wife, tired of domestic
monotony, with an unappreciative husband, solacing herself with the
devotion of a lover. Lillie felt a sort of pique with her husband. He
was evidently unappreciative: he was thinking of all sorts of things
more than of her, and growing stupid, as husbands in French romances
generally do. She thought of her handsome Cousin Harry, the only man
that she ever came anywhere near being in love with; and the image of
his dark, handsome eyes and glossy curls gave a sort of piquancy to the
story.
John got deeply interested in his book; and, looking up from time to
time, was relieved to find that Lillie had something to employ her.
“I may as well make a beginning,” he said to himself. “I must have my
time for reading; and she must learn to amuse herself.”
After a while, however, he peeped over her shoulder.
“Why, darling!” he said, “where did you get that?”
“It is Mrs. Follingsbee’s,” said Lillie.
“Dear, it is a bad book,” said John. “Don’t read it.”
“It amuses me, and helps pass away time,” said Lillie; “and I don’t
think it is bad: it is beautiful. Besides, you read what amuses you;
and it is a pity if I can’t read what amuses me.”
“I am glad to see you like to read French,” continued John; “and I can
get you some delightful French stories, which are not only pretty and
