
"Do they try you?"

"Well, no; they like me pretty well at St. Giles'."

"And they don't like David?"

"They let him alone," said Norton. "No, they don't like him much. He
keeps himself to himself too much for their liking. They would forget
he is a Jew, if he would forget it; but he never does."

Matilda's thoughts had got into a new channel and ran along fast, till
Norton brought them back.

"So we have got to look out for Christmas, Pink, as I told you. It's
only just three weeks from to-morrow."

"What then, Norton? What do you do?"

"Everything we can think of," said Norton; "and to begin, everybody in
the house gives something to every other body. That makes confusion, I
should think!"

"Do you give things to your mother? and to Mrs. Lloyd?"

"To every one of 'em," said Norton; "and it's a job. I shall begin next
week to get ready; and so must you."

Matilda had it on her tongue to say that she had no money and therefore
nothing to get ready; but she remembered in time that if she said that
or anything like it, Norton would report and ask for a supply for her.
So she held her tongue. But how delightful it must be to get presents
for everybody! Not for Mrs. Lloyd, exactly; Matilda had no special
longings to bestow any tokens upon her; or Mrs. Bartholomew; but Maria,
and Anne, and Letitia! And Norton himself. How she would like to give
him something! And if she could, what in the world would it be? On this
question Matilda's fancy fairly went off and lost itself, and Norton
got no more talk from her till they reached home.

She mused about it again when she was alone in the carriage that
afternoon driving to Mme. Fournisson's. As she had not the money, she
thought she might as well have the comfort of fancying she had it and
thinking what she would do with it; and so she puzzled in delightful
mazes of dreamland, thinking what she would get for Norton if she had
the power. It was so difficult a point to decide that the speculation
gave her a great deal to do. Norton was pretty well supplied with
things a boy might wish for; he did not want any of the class of
presents Matilda had carried to Maria. But Norton was very fond of
pretty things. Matilda knew that; yet her experience of delicate
matters of art was too limited, and her knowledge of the resources of
New York stores too unformed, to give her fancy much scope. She had a
vague idea that there were pretty things that he might like, if only
she knew where they were to be found. In the mean time, it was but the
other day, she had heard him complaining that the guard of his watch
was broken. Matilda knew how to make a very pretty, strong sort of
watch guard; if she only had some strong brown silk to weave it of.
That was easy to get, and would not cost much; if she had but a few
shillings. Those round toed boots! It darted into her mind, how the two
dollars and a half she had paid for those round toes, would have bought
the silk for a watch guard and left a great deal to spare. There was a
