wonderful power which a dream often exercises over the waking hours for
weeks after--and it will not appear incredible that after that, instead
of shunning the meadow where we used to play, it was my delight to
wander there alone, to gather the strawberries--tend the birds' nests,
and lie down on my back in the grass and look up into the blue sky
through an overarching roof of daisies, with a strange sort of feeling
of society, as if my little Daisy were with me.
And is it not perhaps so? Right along side of this troublous life, that
is seen and temporal, may lie the green pastures and the still waters of
the unseen and eternal, and they who know us better than we know them,
can at any time step across that little rill that we call Death, to
minister to our comfort.
For what are these child-angels made, that are sent down to this world
to bring so much love and rapture, and go from us in such bitterness and
mourning? If we believe in Almighty Love we must believe that they have
a merciful and tender mission to our wayward souls. The love wherewith
we love them is something the most utterly pure and unworldly of which
human experience is capable, and we must hope that every one who goes
from us to the world of light, goes holding an invisible chain of love
by which to draw us there.
Sometimes I think I would never have had my little Daisy grow older on
our earth. The little child dies in growing into womanhood, and often
the woman is far less lovely than the little child. It seems to me that
lovely and loving childhood, with its truthfulness, its frank sincerity,
its pure, simple love, is so sweet and holy an estate that it would be a
beautiful thing in heaven to have a band of heavenly children,
guileless, gay and forever joyous--tender Spring blossoms of the Kingdom
of Light. Was it of such whom he had left in his heavenly home our
Saviour was thinking, when he took little children up in his arms and
blessed them, and said, "Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven?"
CHAPTER IV.
MY SHADOW-WIFE.
My Shadow Wife! Is there then substance in shadow? Yea, there may be. A
shadow--a spiritual presence--may go with us where mortal footsteps
cannot go; walk by our side amid the roar of the city: talk with us amid
the sharp clatter of voices; come to us through closed doors, as we sit
alone over our evening fire; counsel, bless, inspire us; and though the
figure cannot be clasped in mortal arms--though the face be veiled--yet
this wife of the future may have a power to bless, to guide, to sustain
and console. Such was the dream-wife of my youth.
Whence did she come? She rose like a white, pure mist from that little
grave. She formed herself like a cloud-maiden from the rain and dew of
those first tears.
When we look at the apparent recklessness with which great sorrows seem
to be distributed among the children of the earth, there is no way to
keep our faith in a Fatherly love, except to recognize how invariably
the sorrows that spring from love are a means of enlarging and
dignifying a human being. Nothing great or good comes without
birth-pangs, and in just the proportion that natures grow more noble,
their capacities of suffering increase.
The bitter, silent, irrepressible anguish of that childish bereavement
was to me the awakening of a spiritual nature. The little creature who,
had she lived, might have grown up perhaps into a common-place woman,
became a fixed star in the heaven-land of the ideal, always drawing me
to look upward. My memories of her were a spring of refined and tender
feeling, through all my early life. I could not then write; but I
remember that the overflow of my heart towards her memory required
expression, and I taught myself a strange kind of manuscript, by copying
the letters of the alphabet. I bought six cents' worth of paper and a
tallow candle at the store, which I used to light surreptitiously when I
