noise near him, and, raising his head, discovered a small schooner,
under full sail, headed directly upon him. He had hardly time to stand
up before the bow of the vessel was within his reach.
"Hallo!" shouted he, in terror, for the thought of being carried under
the keel of the schooner was appalling.
But the cutter was crowded aside by the vessel, and Clyde sprang upon
her deck, while his boat went astern of her.
Too late, the schooner luffed up, and Clyde seated himself on the rail
to catch his breath. Two men came to him, and spoke in Norwegian.
"I speak English," replied Clyde.
"You are English?" said the captain.
"Yes; I don't speak anything else."
"I speak English," replied the skipper, as he went back to the helm,
and Clyde followed him.
"Where are you bound?" asked the runaway.
"To Stockholm."
"You are Danish, I suppose."
"No, Norwegian."
"All the same."
"What shall I do with you?"
"I will go to Stockholm with you, and pay my passage, if you like,"
added Clyde, who wished to get as far as possible from the ship.
"You shall, if you like; or you shall work, if you please. I lose a
young sailor, and I want another, to work in his place."
"No; I will go as a passenger, or not at all," replied Clyde, very
decidedly.
"What you do in a boat so late in the night?" asked the skipper.
"I was going on shore to find a steamer for Stockholm. I will pay you
twenty species for my passage," added the runaway.
"You are very kind to pay so much. You shall have my berth; but it
will be long time to Stockholm in my vessel."
"No matter; I am satisfied."
"I shall pick up the boat you lose?"
"No; never mind the boat," answered Clyde, impatiently, as he glanced
at the ship.
The captain questioned him about the boat more particularly; but the
fugitive gave such answers as he pleased. Though the skipper was very
rough and savage to the two men who formed his crew, he treated his
passenger at first with much consideration. The little cabin of the
schooner was a nasty hole, and if Clyde had not been very sleepy, he
could hardly have closed his eyes there; but before the vessel was out
of sight of Copenhagen, his slumber was deep and heavy.
The shout of the fugitive when he was in danger of being run down had
been heard by the officer on the quarter-deck of the Young America. He
saw the collision, and discovered the cutter when it went astern of
the vessel; but he did not suspect that it belonged to the ship. The
schooner filled away on her course again, after she had luffed up, and
the boat was adrift. He deemed it his duty to secure it before it was
stove by some early steamer from Malmö, or elsewhere, and calling the
two seamen, he directed them to lower the fourth cutter. But the
fourth cutter was already lowered, and the officer began to think that
the boat adrift was the missing one. The third cutter, therefore, was
used, and when the two seamen had pulled off in her, the officer went
below and called Peaks.
The boatswain took his lantern, and went to the brig, as soon as he
was told that the fourth cutter was adrift. The bird had flown. The
door was secure, and all the slats were apparently in their place;
but the appearance of a small quantity of saw-dust indicated where the
breach had been made. A little pressure forced in the sawn slat, and
Peaks understood why the prisoner had only desired to be left alone.
