“Old Black Hoss he bounced right over in his bed with his back to the
minister.
“‘The devil!’ says he: ‘’twill take all I’ve got.’ And he never spoke
another word, though Parson Lothrop he prayed with him, and did what he
could for him.
“Wal, that night I sot up with him; and he went off ‘tween two and three
in the mornin’, and I laid him out regular. Of all the racks o’ bone
I ever see, I never see a human critter so poor as he was. ‘Twa’n’t
nothin’ but his awful will kep’ his soul in his body so long, as it was.
“We had the funeral in the meetin’-house a Sunday; and Parson Lothrop he
preached a sarmon on contentment on the text, ‘We brought nothin’ into
the world, and it’s sartin we can carry nothin’ out; and having food and
raiment, let us be therewith content.’ Parson Lothrop he got round the
subject about as handsome as he could: he didn’t say what a skinflint
old Black Hoss was, but he talked in a gineral way about the vanity o’
worryin’ an’ scrapin’ to heap up riches. Ye see, Parson Lothrop he could
say it all putty easy, too, ‘cause since he married a rich wife he never
hed no occasion to worry about temporal matters. Folks allers
preaches better on the vanity o’ riches when they’s in tol’able easy
circumstances. Ye see, when folks is pestered and worried to pay their
bills, and don’t know where the next dollar’s to come from, it’s a great
temptation to be kind o’ valooin’ riches, and mebbe envyin’ those that’s
got ‘em; whereas when one’s accounts all pays themselves, and the money
comes jest when its wanted regular, a body feels sort o’ composed like,
and able to take the right view o’ things, like Parson Lothrop.
“Wal, arter sermon the relations all went over to the old house to hear
the will read; and, as I was kind o’ friend with the family, I jest
slipped in along with the rest.
“Squire Jones he had the will; and so when they all got sot round all
solemn, he broke the seals and unfolded it, cracklin’ it a good while
afore he begun; and it was so still you might a heard a pin drop when
he begun to read. Fust, there was the farm and stock, he left to his son
John Brown over in Sherburne. Then there was the household stuff and all
them things, spoons and dishes, and beds and kiver-lids, and so on, to
his da’ter Polly Blanchard. And then, last of all, he says, he left to
his da’ter Miry the pitcher that was on the top o’ the shelf in his
bedroom closet.
“That ‘are was an old cracked pitcher that Miry allers hed hated the
sight of, and spring and fall she used to beg her father to let her
throw it away; but no, he wouldn’t let her touch it, and so it stood
gatherin’ dust.
“Some on ‘em run and handed it down; and it seemed jest full o’
scourin’-sand and nothin’ else, and they handed it to Miry.
“Wal, Miry she was wrathy then. She didn’t so much mind bein’ left out
in the will, ‘cause she expected that; but to have that ‘are old pitcher
poked at her so sort o’ scornful was more’n she could bear.
“She took it and gin it a throw across the room with all her might; and
it hit agin the wall and broke into a thousand bits, when out rolled
hundreds of gold pieces; great gold eagles and guineas flew round
the kitchen jest as thick as dandelions in a meadow. I tell you, she
scrabbled them up pretty quick, and we all helped her.
“Come to count ‘em over, Miry had the best fortin of the whole, as
‘twas right and proper she should. Miry she was a sensible gal, and
she invested her money well; and so, when Bill Elderkin got through his
law-studies, he found a wife that could make a nice beginnin’ with him.
And that’s the way, you see, they came to be doin’ as well as they be.
“So, boys, you jest mind and remember and allers see what there is in a
providence afore you quarrel with it, ‘cause there’s a good many things
in this world turns out like Mis’ Elderkin’s pitcher.”
THE GHOST IN THE CAP’N BROWNHOUSE.
