"I can't help it. The last time Captain Chinks was in the boat, he
pitched into me; and that's where he got that black eye. I don't want
anything more to do with him."
"I'll pay for the boat," said the captain, who seemed desirous at this
point to change the subject of the conversation.
"You can't have her. She is engaged."
"Who is to have her?"
"Two or three parties want her. I'm going off for two days."
"Where are you going?"
"I don't know. The folks didn't tell me where."
"Who are the folks?" demanded Captain Chinks.
"It don't make any difference who they are. But I haven't time to stand
here talking all day. If you want anything of me, I'm ready to face the
music."
"Captain Chinks wants your boat to investigate the matter of the
letter," said Squire Gilfilian. "He is going to Bar Harbor, and wants
the boat so as to find the person who bought her, for of course she will
be known there. You had better let him have her."
"I can't let him have her. She is engaged."
"But this is a case that will warrant you in breaking your engagement."
"I don't think so."
"Your character is involved in this matter; and it is for your interest
to have the case cleared up."
"I don't believe Captain Chinks will clear it up. I know more about him
than some other fellows do, and I don't want him to whitewash my
character. I can't stop any longer, sir," said Bobtail, as he saw Mr.
Hines and the deputy-sheriff watching his movements.
Captain Chinks was very angry at the boy's last remarks, and began to
storm at him. Squire Gilfilian tried to calm him, and Bobtail walked off
while he was doing so.
"What's the matter, Bobtail?" asked Mr. Hines, when the boy joined him
in the office of the hotel.
"They are trying to make it out now that I bought the Skylark with the
money taken from the letter," answered the skipper, as he proceeded to
give the substance of the conversation with the squire and Captain
Chinks.
"Then the captain is going to Bar Harbor--is he?" laughed Mr. Hines. "I
hope he will go. I may want to use him there."
"Are you going to Bar Harbor, sir?" asked Bobtail.
"That's where we are bound."
"But I am not a pilot beyond Sedgwick. I have been there, but never to
Mount Desert," said the skipper.
"No matter, my lad; I'm a pilot to Bar Harbor, and it's quite time you
learned the way there," replied Mr. Hines. "Now get ready as fast as you
can, Bobtail, and don't say where you are going or who is going with
you; for I don't believe Captain Chinks would go to Bar Harbor if he
expected to meet me there."
The skipper purchased some provisions and stores for the yacht, which
Monkey had sailed up to the wharf at the head of the harbor, as he had
been instructed to do. Bobtail sent word to his mother that he should
be gone two or three days, and went on board. But his passengers did not
appear, and he waited impatiently for them. Captain Chinks was loafing
about the wharf, and Bobtail concluded that this was the reason they did
not come. The captain was evidently curious to know who were to go in
the Skylark. After waiting half an hour, a boy brought a note to the
skipper. It was from Mr. Hines, desiring him to sail at once, and to
stand up towards North-East Point. He obeyed his written order, and
beyond the point, a boat with his passengers came off from the shore.
Mr. Hines and the deputy sheriff went below, so as not to be recognized
by any persons in the boats which were sailing about in the vicinity.
