day he did it. They all made money for a while. 
Some made a good deal, and kept it. But, oh dear ! 
all the money in the world wouldn 't buy what most 
of them lost." 
" There ! there ! That will do, my friend," said I, 
breaking in upon his untimely speech. " We don 't  
care about a temperance lecture to-night." 
Lloyd rose to his feet suddenly ; there was a 
heavy frown on his face. 
"All right, gentlemen, all right!" muttered the 
old man. " I 've said my say. Perry Flint hasn 't 
lived sixty-five years for nothing. Go ahead ! But 
it won t come out right. It never does." 
" Oh, shut up !" exclaimed Lloyd, unable to re 
strain himself. 
" Never did that in my life at any man 's word," 
answered Flint, growing angry, " and don 't  mean to 
do it now. You tell me to shut up !" His voice was 
full of contempt for the man he addressed. " And 
who are you, I wonder ?" 
The weak, almost tottering, old man drew him 
self up into a firm, dignified attitude, and fixed his 
eyes in scorn and rebuke on Lloyd. 
" Come," said the latter, addressing me. I went 
out with him, leaving Flint in the tavern. 
We walked nearly half a square before either of 
us spoke. Lloyd was the first to break silence. 
" It 's well I got out as quickly as I did," he said, 
speaking like one from whose feelings some great 
pressure was but half removed. " I don 't  know 
what devil got into me, but it was as much as I 
could do to keep my hands off of that cursed old 
wretch." 
" Why, Tom Lloyd!" I exclaimed, not concealing 
the surprise I felt. " The poor old man didn 't mean 
any harm ; he wanted to do us a service." 
" Yes, I suppose he did, and I was a fool to let it 
anger me so. But I couldn 't help it ; my mind was 
setting all one way, you see, and when that is the 
case, anything like opposition ruffles me." 
We did not return to Lloyd 's house, but went into 
another saloon, that we might sit together and talk 
further on what was uppermost in both of our minds, 
and also to take note of what went on therein. We 
had seen and heard and thought enough on that Sun 
day afternoon and evening to satisfy us that the dif 
ference between bookbinding and liquor-selling was 
the difference between hard work and poor pay and 
ease and competence. 
During the hour that we sat there thirty-two 
glasses of ale and beer and sixteen of spirits in one 
form or another were drank, and we counted the 
profit on an hour 's business at not less than four 
dollars. 
Before separating we had agreed, if it were pos 
sible to raise enough money to furnish and stock a 
small saloon, to open one as near the bindery as it 
was possible to get, for it was from the bindery and 
printing-office that we counted on getting the chief 
part of our custom. 
