if they had a calculable vegetable development, 
neither can we gain much knowledge of them by 
comparison. It does not help me at all in my 
estimate of their characters to compare Mande- 
ville with the Young Lady, or Our Next Door 
with the Parson. The wise man does not permit 
himself to set up even in his own mind any com 
parison of his friends. His friendship is capable 
of going to extremes with many people, evoked as 
it is by many qualities. When Mandeville goes 
into my garden in June I can usually find him in 
a particular bed of strawberries, but he does not 
speak disrespectfully of the others. When Nature, 
says Mandeville, consents to put herself into any 
sort of strawberry, I have no criticisms to make, 
I am only glad that I have been created into the 
same world with such a delicious manifestation 
of the Divine favor. If I left Mandeville alone in 
the garden long enough, I have no doubt he 
would impartially make an end of the fruit of all 
the beds, for his capacity in this direction is as 
all-embracing as it is in the matter of friendships. 
 
The Young Lady has also her favorite patch of 
berries. And the Parson, I am sorry to say, pre 
fers to have them picked for him the elect of 
the garden and served in an orthodox manner. 
The strawberry has a sort of poetical precedence, 
and I presume that no fruit is jealous of it any 
more than any flower is jealous of the rose ; but 
I remark the facility with which liking for it is 
transferred to the raspberry, and from the rasp 
berry (not to make a tedious enumeration) to the 
melon, and from the melon to the grape, and the 
grape to the pear, and the pear to the apple. 
And we do not mar our enjoyment of each by 
comparisons. 
Of course it would be a dull world if we could 
not criticise our friends, but the most unprofit 
able and unsatisfactory criticism is that by com 
parison. Criticism is not necessarily uncharita- 
bleness, but a wholesome exercise of our powers 
of analysis and discrimination. It is, however, a 
very idle exercise, leading to no results when we 
set the qualities of one over against the qualities 
of another, and disparage by contrast and not by 
independent judgment. And this method of procedure 
creates jealousies and heart-burnings in 
numerable. 
Criticism by comparison is the refuge of inca- 
pables, and especially is this true in literature. 
It is a lazy way of disposing of a young poet to 
bluntly declare, without any sort of discrimina 
tion of his defects or his excellences, that he 
equals Tennyson, and that Scott never wrote 
anything finer. What is the justice of damning 
a meritorious novelist by comparing him with 
Dickens, and smothering him with thoughtless 
and good-natured eulogy? The poet and the 
novelist may be well enough, and probably have 
