pounding, some women even stick pins into those who 
are in the way. I hope this latter is not true ; but it is 
certain that the conduct of most of the women is brutal. 
A weak or modest or timid woman stands no more 
chance than she would in a herd of infuriated Campagna 
cattle. The same scenes are enacted in the efforts to 
see the pope wash feet, and serve at the table. For the 
possession of the seats under the dome on Palm Sunday 
and Easter there is a like crush. The ceremonies do 
not begin until half-past nine ; but ladies go between 
five and six o'clock in the morning, and when the pas- 
sages are open they make a grand rush. The seats, 
except those saved for the nobility, are soon all taken ; 
and the ladies who come after seven are lucky if they 
can get within the charmed circle, and find a spot to sit 
down on a camp-stool. They can then see only a part 
of the proceedings, and have a weary, exhausting time 
of it for hours. This year Rome is more crowded 
than ever before. There are American ladies enough 
to fill all the reserved places ; and I fear they are ener- 
getic enough to get their share of them. 
It rained Sunday ; but there was a steady stream of 
people and carriages all the morning pouring over the 
Bridge of St. Angelo, and discharging into the piazza 
of St. Peter's. It was after nine when I arrived on the 
ground. There was a crowd of carriages under the 
colonnades, and a heavy fringe in front of them ; but 
the hundreds of people moving over the piazza, and up 
the steps to the entrances, made only the impression of 
dozens in the vast space. I do not know if there*, are 
people enough in Rome to fill St. Peter's ; certainly there 
was no appearance of a crowd as we entered, although 
they had been pouring in all the morning, and still 
thronged the doors. I heard a traveller say that he fol- 
lowed ten thousand soldiers into the church, and then 
lost them from sight : they disappeared in the side 
chapels. He did not make his affidavit as to the num- 
ber of soldiers. The interior area of the building is not 
much greater than the square of St. Mark in Venice. 
To go into the great edifice is almost like going out doors. 
Lines of soldiers kept a wide passage clear from the front 
door away down to the high altar ; and there was a good 
mass of spectators on the outside. The tribunes for the 
ladies, built up under the dome, were, of course, filled 
with masses of ladies in solemn black ; and there was 
more or less of a press of people surging about in that 
vicinity. Thousands of people were also roaming about 
in the great spaces of the edifice ; but there was no- 
where else any thing like a crowd. It had very much 
the appearance of a large fair-ground, with little crowds 
about favorite booths. Gentlemen in dress-coats were 
admitted to the circle under the dome. The pope's 
choir was stationed in a gallery there opposite the high 
altar. Back of the altar was a wide space for the dig- 
nitaries ; seats were there, also, for ambassadors and 
those born to the purple ; and the pope's seat was on a 
raised dais at the end. Outsiders could see nothing of 
what went on within there ; and the ladies under the 
dome could only partially see, in the seats they had 
fought so gallantly to obtain. 
