Richmond?" And he had answered very gravely that he did not know; he
would see.
Easter fell this year rather late in April; late, that is, for Easter.
Schools were dismissed on Thursday; and Thursday afternoon Matilda and
Norton were to take the cars for Shadywalk. She could not say another
word to David, or about him; she made her happy preparations with a
secret unsatisfied longing running through them all. Judy had made an
earnest endeavour to be one of the party; and Matilda did not know how,
but the endeavour had failed. And now the early dinner was eaten, her
little travelling bag was packed, the carriage was at the door, good
byes were said, and Matilda got into the carriage. At that exact minute
David came out of the house with his travelling bag in hand, and in a
minute more the house door was shut, so was the carriage door, and they
were all three rolling off towards the Station.
"O David, I'm so glad!" burst from Matilda. "How did you manage it?"
"Like himself," said Norton; "kept his own counsel and had his own way.
It's a good thing to be Davy Bartholomew."
"I don't know about that," said David.
"Don't you? Never heard a doubt on that subject expressed before. But
anyhow, it's jolly to have you along, Davy. Why you've never seen
Shadywalk, nor Briery Bank."
Matilda smiled a very bright and expressive smile at David which said,
"nor Mr. Richmond either." The smile was so genial and glad and winsome
that it cheated David out of some part of his gloom; or perhaps he
thought it unworthy to shew it before his kind little companion. He
brightened up, and talked about the things that were interesting her
and Norton; and at the station behaved like the manly boy he was;
getting tickets and taking care of Matilda and finding a good place in
the cars where they could all sit together. The moment was so full of
joy to Matilda that it made her sober. Going to see her old haunts and
old friends was a great deal of itself; going on an expedition with
Norton was delightsome; but that David should really be going too, to
see Mr. Richmond, almost took away her breath with gladness. The slow
movement of the cars, beginning to roll away from the station, was
accompanied by a perfect leap and bound of her little heart making an
aerial flight on the instant to the end of the journey.
The end of the journey, however, had to be reached by the usual
patient, or impatient, stages. Patient in this case, to Matilda. She
was so happy that she enjoyed every foot of the way. The spring
sunlight on the river it was quite delightful to see again; the
different stations on the road were passed with curious recollections
of the last time, and comparisons of herself now and herself then. The
evening fell by the time they reached Poughkeepsie; and shadowy visions
of Maria seemed to occupy all the place while the train stopped there.
Poor Maria! Matilda was glad to have the cars move on, since she could
get no nearer than visions. Then it grew dark; and she sat musing and
dreaming pleasant dreams, till the station of Shadywalk was whistled
for.
The old omnibus was in waiting, as usual, and it happened that no other
passenger occupied it to-night except their three selves and one cosy
old lady, who "didn't count," Norton said. It was dark; they could not
see the landscape.
"Briery Bank ought to be worth a good deal," said David, "when it takes
so long to reach it."
"So it is," said Norton.
"O it's lovely, David!" cried Matilda. "Not so much now, though, when
the leaves are not out."
"Are you going to the minister's to-night?"
"To be sure I am. Mr. Richmond would be very much surprised if I went
anywhere else."
