have no force. The statements wanted so badly must have been desired for 
some other purpose. 
Second — The other theory has so dark and wilfully murderous a look 
that I shrink from writing it, yet as in all probability my death at the earli- 
est practicable moment has already been decreed, I feel I should do all I can 
before my hour arrives, at least to show others how to break up that aristo- 
cratic rule and combination which has robbed all Nevada of true freedom, if 
not of manhood itself. Although I do not prefer this hypothesis as a 
"charge," I feel that as an American citizen I still have a right both to think 
and to speak my thoughts even in the land of Sharon and Winters, and as 
much so respecting the theory of a brutal assault (especially when I have 
been its subject) as respecting any other apparent enormity. I give the mat- 
ter simply as a suggestion which may explain to the proper authorities and to 
the people whom they should represent, a well ascertained but notwithstand- 
ing a darkly mysterious fact. The scheme of the assault may have been 
First — To terrify me by making me conscious of my own helplessness 
after making actual though not legal threats against my life. 
Second — To imply that I could save my life only by writing or signing 
certain specific statements which if not subsequently explained would eter- 
nally have branded mo as infamous and would have consigned my family to 
ehame and want, and to the dreadful compassion and patronage of the rich. 
Third — To blow my brains out the moment I had signed, thereby pre- 
venting me from making any subsequent explanation suck as could remove 
the infamy. 
Fourth — Philip Lynch to be compelled to testify that I was killed by 
John B. Winters in self-defence, for the conviction of Winters would bring 
him in as an accomplice. If that was the programme in John B. Winters' 
mind nothing saved my life but my persistent refusal to sign, when that 
refusal seemed clearly to me to be the choice of death. 
The remarkable assertion made to me by Mr. Winters, that pity only 
spared my life on Wednesday evening last, almost compels me to believe 
that at first he could not have intended me to leave that room alive ; and 
why I was allowed to, unless through mesmeric or some other invisible influ- 
ence, I cannot divine. The more I reflect upon this matter, the more probable 
as true does this horrible interpretation become. 
The narration of these things I might have spared both to Mr. Winters 
and to the public had he himself observed silence, but as he has both verb- 
ally spoken and suffered a thoroughly garbled statement of facts to ajjpear 
in the Gold Hill News I feel it due to myself no less, than to this community, 
and to the entire independent press of America and Great Britain, to give 
a true account of what even the Gold Hill Neics has pronounced a disgrace- 
ful affair, and which it deeply regrets because of some alleged telegraphic 
mistake in the account of it. [Who received the erroneous telegrams ?] 
Though he may not deem it prudent to take my life just now, the publi- 
cation of this article I feel sure must compel Gen. Winters (with his peculiar 
views about his right to exemption from criticism by 7ne) to resolve on my 
violent death, though it may take years to compass it. Notwithstanding I  
bear him, no ill will ; and if W. C. Ralston and William Sharon, and other 
members of the San Francisco mining and milling Ring feel that he above all 
other men in this State and California is the most fitting- man to supervise 
and control Yellow Jacket matters, until I am able to vote more than half 
their stock I presume he will be retained to grace his present post. 
Meantime, I cordially invite all who know of any sort of important villainy 
which only can be cured by exposure (and who would expose it if they felt 
sure they would not be betrayed under bullying threats), to communicata 
with the People's Tribtine ; for until I a7n murdered, so long as I can raise 
the means to publish, I propose to continue my efforts at least to revive th» 
liberties of the State, to curb oppression, and to benefit man's world and 
God's earth. CONRAD WIEGAND. 
[It does seem a pity that the Sheriff was shut out, since the good 8ens» 
