summer comes. The weather is bad now, of course.”
“I don’t think I shall, Filippo. Do you remember Matteo?”
“Yes, I remember him.”
Matteo was a comrade who had died six months before. He was a young boy,
about the size and age of Giacomo.
“I dreamed of him last night, Filippo. He held out his hand to me.”
“Well?”
“I think I am going to die, like him.”
“Don’t be foolish, Giacomo,” said Phil. But, though he said this, even
he was startled by what Giacomo had told him. He was ignorant, and the
ignorant are prone to superstition; so he felt uncomfortable, but did
not like to acknowledge it.
“You must not think of this, Giacomo,” he said. “You will be an old man
some day.”
“That’s for you, Filippo. It isn’t for me,” said the little boy.
“Come, let us go,” said Phil, desirous of dropping the subject.
He went up to the desk, and paid for both, the sum of thirty cents.
“Now, come,” he said.
Giacomo followed him out, and they turned down the street, feeling
refreshed by the supper they had eaten. But unfortunately they had been
observed. As they left the restaurant, they attracted the attention
of Pietro, whom chance had brought thither at an unfortunate time. His
sinister face lighted up with joy as he realized the discovery he had
made. But he wished to make sure that it was as he supposed. They might
have gone in only to play and sing.
He crossed the street, unobserved by Phil and Giacomo, and entered the
restaurant.
“Were my two brothers here?” he asked, assuming relationship.
“Two boys with fiddles?”
“Yes; they just went out.”
“Did they get supper?”
“Yes; they had some roast beef and coffee.”
“Thank you,” said Pietro, and he left the restaurant with his suspicions
confirmed.
“I shall tell the padrone,” he said to himself.
“They will feel the stick to-night.”
CHAPTER X
FRENCH’S HOTEL
Pietro had one of those mean and malignant natures that are best pleased
when they are instrumental in bringing others into trouble. He looked
forward to becoming a padrone himself some time, and seemed admirably
fitted by nature to exercise the inhuman office. He lost no time, on his
return, in making known to his uncle what he had learned.
For the boys to appropriate to their own use money which had been
received for their services was, in the eyes of the padrone, a crime of
the darkest shade. In fact, if the example were generally followed, it
would have made a large diminution of his income, though the boys might
have been benefited. He listened to Pietro with an ominous scowl, and
decided to inflict condign punishment upon the young offenders.
Meanwhile Phil and Giacomo resumed their wanderings. They no longer
hoped to make up the large difference between what they had and the sum
they were expected by the padrone to bring. As the evening advanced the
cold increased, and penetrated through their thin clothing, chilling
them through and through. Giacomo felt it the most. By and by he began
to sob with the cold and fatigue.
“What is the matter, Giacomo?” asked Phil, anxiously.
“I feel so cold, Filippo--so cold and tired. I wish I could rest.”
The boys were in Printing House Square, near the spot where now stands
the Franklin statue.
“If you want to rest, Giacomo,” said Phil, pityingly, “we will go into
