me. I am confident that Mrs. Baxter is ignorant of the particulars
of her cousin's ill-health. She has spoken to me with apparent
frankness of her early life--of her marriage, and the seclusion that
followed it."
"For which she blames my father!" interrupted Eunice, red
indignation staining her fair face. "Because he would not subject
his wife to the indifferent or pitying observation of those who had
been the associates of her brilliant girlhood; because he indulged
her longing for solitude and quiet; guarded her sedulously and
tenderly from all that could tax and jar upon her tortured
nerves--he fell under their ban! He gave me some letters to examine
and file--or burn, if I thought fit--ten years ago. Among them I
found one from Mrs. Baxter--one from another cousin of Ginevra
Lanneau. They were written to him, just after her death. Both
reproached him--Mrs. Baxter (then Miss Jane Lanneau) gently, the
other harshly, for separating his young wife from her friends and
'immersing her in a savage solitude, where, cut off from all
congenial associations, a nature so refined as hers could not but
pine itself to death.' I do not quote from Mrs. Baxter. If she had
upbraided the best of men and most loving of husbands in these
terms, Jessie should never enter her house, unless under my
protest."
"You are right. But, believe me, she will be safe and happy in Mrs.
Baxter's care. Her goodness of heart is undeniable; her impulses are
amiable, and she is, moreover, a woman of sound principles and
genuine piety. She is vain, but never unkind or censorious. She
always reminds me of the pretty bas bleu immortalized by the
'Spectator'--or is it the 'Tattler'? 'When'--says the essayist--'she
would look languishing, there is a fine thing to be said at the same
time that spoils all. Thus, the unhappy Merab, although a wit and a
beauty, hath not the credit of being either, and all because she
would be both.' Our Hamilton Merab has sterling traits,
nevertheless, and is incapable of using the language you have
quoted. No one but a vulgar idiot could apply it to Mr. Kirke. The
writer had, I take it, never seen him. You have every reason to be
proud of your father, Miss Eunice. He is that best work of the
Creator--a Christian gentleman,--I say it without reverence,--a
prince of the blood royal."
The golden lights glanced up from the dark wells of her eyes; her
smile was grateful and exultant.
"Thank you! I know you mean what you say, and it is but the truth."
Neither spoke for a brief space. The soughing of the pine-tree was
annoyingly continuous to Orrin's ear; the fire-flashes were silent.
He tried to forget the vexing sound in remarking that Eunice's bent
profile showed against the dark wood of the high, carved mantel,
clear and fine as a cameo cutting, but it would be heard.
"You were very young at the time of your step-mother's death to be
your father's assistant and co-adviser," he said, to prevent an
awkward break in their talk. "I am surprised at the accuracy of your
recollections."
"I was fifteen. The elder daughter of a family early learns to
assume and to bear domestic cares; is more mature at the same age
than are those who come after her. I remember my own mother, who
died eleven years earlier than did Jessie's. I was thirty last
month."
She picked up her sewing without a flutter or a blush, and Orrin,
not daring to offer her the flimsy compliment of incredulity he
would have paid another woman who had volunteered a confession
disparaging to her personal charms, was still casting about in his
mind for words that should praise, yet not offend, when his
