thieves that harbored in the quarter.
“It’s a lie!” Pinky answered back as she confronted the crowd.
At this moment another boy, who had come up behind Pinky, gave her dress
so violent a jerk that she fell over backward on the pavement, striking
her head on a stone and cutting it badly. She lay there, unable to rise,
the crowd laughing with as much enjoyment as if witnessing a dog-fight.
“Give her a dose of mud!” shouted one of the boys; and almost as soon
as the words were out of his mouth her face was covered with a paste of
filthy dirt from the gutter. This, instead of exciting pity, only gave
a keener zest to the show. The street rang with shouts and peals of
merriment, bringing a new and larger crowd to see the fun. With them
came one or two policemen.
Seeing that it was only a drunken woman, they pushed back the crowd and
raised her to her feet. As they did so the blood streamed from the back
of her head and stained her dress to the waist. She was taken to the
nearest station-house.
At eleven o’clock on the next morning, punctual to the minute, came Mrs.
Dinneford to the little third-story room in which she had met Mrs. Bray.
She repeated her rap at the door before it was opened, and noticed that
a key was turned in the lock.
“You have seen the woman?” she said as she took an offered seat, coming
at once to the object of her visit.
“Yes.”
“Well?”
“I gave her the money.”
“Well?”
Mrs. Bray shook her head:
“Afraid I can’t do much with her.”
“Why?” an anxious expression coming into Mrs. Dinneford’s face.
“These people suspect everybody; there is no honor nor truth in them,
and they judge every one by themselves. She half accused me of getting a
larger amount of money from you, and putting her off with the paltry sum
of thirty dollars.”
Mrs. Bray looked exceedingly hurt and annoyed.
“Threatened,” she went on, “to go to you herself--didn’t want any
go-betweens nor brokers. I expected to hear you say that she’d been at
your house this morning.”
“Good Gracious! no!” Mrs. Dinneford’s face was almost distorted with
alarm.
“It’s the way with all these people,” coolly remarked Mrs. Bray. “You’re
never safe with them.”
“Did you hint at her leaving the city?--going to New Orleans, for
instance?”
“Oh dear, no! She isn’t to be managed in that way--is deeper and more
set than I thought. The fact is, Mrs. Dinneford”--and Mrs. Bray lowered
her voice and looked shocked and mysterious--“I’m beginning to suspect
her as being connected with a gang.”
“With a gang? What kind of a gang?” Mrs. Dinneford turned slightly pale.
“A gang of thieves. She isn’t the right thing; I found that out long
ago. You remember what I said when you gave her the child. I told you
that she was not a good woman, and that it was a cruel thing to put a
helpless, new-born baby into her hands.”
“Never mind about that.” Mrs. Dinneford waved her hand impatiently.
“The baby’s out of her hands, so far as that is concerned. A gang of
thieves!”
“Yes, I’m ‘most sure of it. Goes to people’s houses on one excuse and
another, and finds out where the silver is kept and how to get in. You
don’t know half the wickedness that’s going on. So you see it’s no use
trying to get her away.”
Mrs. Bray was watching the face of her visitor with covert scrutiny,
