It was in this time of rather impatient waiting that Philip was
one morning walking down Broadway with Henry Brierly. He frequently
accompanied Henry part way down town to what the latter called his
office in Broad Street, to which he went, or pretended to go, with
regularity every day. It was evident to the most casual acquaintance
that he was a man of affairs, and that his time was engrossed in the
largest sort of operations, about which there was a mysterious air. His
liability to be suddenly summoned to Washington, or Boston or Montreal
or even to Liverpool was always imminent. He never was so summoned, but
none of his acquaintances would have been surprised to hear any day that
he had gone to Panama or Peoria, or to hear from him that he had bought
the Bank of Commerce.

The two were intimate at that time,--they had been classmates--and saw
a great deal of each other. Indeed, they lived together in Ninth Street,
in a boarding-house, there, which had the honor of lodging and partially
feeding several other young fellows of like kidney, who have since gone
their several ways into fame or into obscurity.

It was during the morning walk to which reference has been made that
Henry Brierly suddenly said, “Philip, how would you like to go to St.
Jo?”

“I think I should like it of all things,” replied Philip, with some
hesitation, “but what for.”

“Oh, it’s a big operation. We are going, a lot of us, railroad men,
engineers, contractors. You know my uncle is a great railroad man. I’ve
no doubt I can get you a chance to go if you’ll go.”

“But in what capacity would I go?”

“Well, I’m going as an engineer. You can go as one.”

“I don’t know an engine from a coal cart.”

“Field engineer, civil engineer. You can begin by carrying a rod, and
putting down the figures. It’s easy enough. I’ll show you about that.
We’ll get Trautwine and some of those books.”

“Yes, but what is it for, what is it all about?”

“Why don’t you see? We lay out a line, spot the good land, enter it up,
know where the stations are to be, spot them, buy lots; there’s heaps of
money in it. We wouldn’t engineer long.”

“When do you go?” was Philip’s next question, after some moments of
silence.

“To-morrow. Is that too soon?”

“No, its not too soon. I’ve been ready to go anywhere for six months.
The fact is, Henry, that I’m about tired of trying to force myself
into things, and am quite willing to try floating with the stream for a
while, and see where I will land. This seems like a providential call;
it’s sudden enough.”

The two young men who were by this time full of the adventure, went down
to the Wall street office of Henry’s uncle and had a talk with that
wily operator. The uncle knew Philip very well, and was pleased with his
