as if the digestive fluids had somewhat corroded them. The fore leg and
paw of the alligator has a pitiful and rather shocking resemblance to a
black human hand; and the muscular power is so great, that in case of
the particular alligator I speak of, even after his head was taken off,
when the incision was made into the pectoral muscle for the purpose of
skinning, this black hand and arm rose up, and gave the operator quite a
formidable push in the chest.
We hope to see some of these creatures out; but none appear. The
infrequency of their appearance marks the lateness and backwardness of
our spring. There!--a cry of victory is heard from the forward boat; and
Mademoiselle Nelly is seen energetically working her elbows: a scuffle
ensues, and the captive has a free berth on a boat, without charge for
passage-ticket. We shout like people who are getting hungry, as in truth
we are. And now Elsie starts in our boat; and all is commotion, till a
fine blue bream, spotted with black, is landed. Next a large black
trout, with his wide yellow mouth, comes up unwillingly from the
crystal flood. We pity them; but what are we to do? It is a question
between dinner and dinner. These fish, out marketing on their own
account, darted at our hook, expecting to catch another fish. We catch
them; and, instead of eating, they are eaten.
After all, the instinct of hunting and catching something is as strong
in the human breast as in that of cat or tiger; and we all share the
exultation which sends a shout from boat to boat as a new acquisition is
added to our prospective dinner-store.
And now right in front of us looms up from the depth of a group of pines
and magnolias a white skeleton of a tree, with gnarled arms, bleached by
years of wind and sun, swathed with long waving folds of gray moss. On
the very tip-top of this, proudly above all possibility of capture, a
fish-hawk's nest is built. Full eighty feet in the air, and about the
size of a flour-barrel; built like an old marauding baron's stronghold
in the middle ages, in inaccessible fastnesses; lined within and swathed
without with gray moss,--it is a splendid post of observation. We can
see the white head and shoulders of the bird perched upon her nest; and
already they perceive us. The pair rise and clap their wings, and
discourse to each other with loud, shrill cries, perhaps of indignation,
that we who have houses to dwell in, and beef and chickens to eat,
should come up and invade their fishing-grounds.
The fish-hawk--I beg his pardon, the fish-eagle; for I can see that he
is a bird of no mean size and proportions--has as good a right to think
that the river and the fish were made for him as we; and better too,
because the Creator has endowed him with wonderful eyesight, which
enables him, from the top of a tree eighty feet high, to search the
depths of the river, mark his prey, and dive down with unerring
certainty to it. He has his charter in his eyes, his beak, his claws;
and doubtless he has a right to remonstrate, when we, who have neither
eyes, beaks, nor claws adapted to the purpose, manage to smuggle away
his dinner. Thankful are we that no mighty hunter is aboard, and that
the atrocity of shooting a bird on her nest will not be perpetrated
here. We are a harmless company, and mean so well by them, that they
really might allow us one dinner out of their larder.
We have rowed as far up Julington as is expedient, considering that we
have to row down again; and so we land in the immediate vicinity of our
fish-eagle's fortress, greatly to his discontent. Wild, piercing cries
come to us now and then from the heights of the eyry; but we, unmoved,
proceed with our dinner-preparations.
Do you want to know the best way in the world of cooking fish? Then
listen.
The fish are taken to the river by one, and simply washed of their
superfluous internals, though by no means scaled. A moment prepares them
for the fire. Meanwhile a broad hole has been dug in the smooth white
