Philip stood there bravely conscious of his own inno- 
cence, every feature in his face proud and calm. Not any 
guilt or deceit, not any subterfuge or underhand dealing 
would be found there. 
Mr. Graham colored and hesitated, half wishing that 
Madge were not present. 
"I desire to know just the truth." 
" There was a deficit," Mr. Graham replied almost under 
his breath. 
How much ? " 
" Two thousand dollars." 
Philip started as if he had been stung ; Madge uttered 
a sharp cry of anguish. 
"I will tell my story first," Mr. Graham resumed. 
" You went home ill one afternoon I believe I was not 
there. But the next day, Howard, who took charge of 
your books, discovered some false entries and this defi- 
ciency. Mr. Bromley went over it again, and attested the 
truth. Howard, it appears, had given in his resignation 
that morning, though he had told Bromley nearly a week 
before that he had been offered a better situation. My 
 
father asked him to come the next day, but he failed to 
make his appearance. I was on the eve of a business 
tour to Europe, as you will remember, and very much 
engrossed ; so we did nothing all that day except to send 
for a private detective, who came too late for an interview 
with my father. I had just placed the matter in his 
hands, subject to some instructions the next morning, 
when your sister called. I believe I suspected Howard 
somewhat " 
" And you thought that I meant to plead for Philip ! "* 
Madge exclaimed, almost angrily, as he paused. 
" I felt that if he were sick, we ought to defer any harsh 
measures. Pardon me if I was tempted to comfort you. 
Your youth, your agitation, your unbounded faith in your 
brother, moved me strongly; and that evening I met Dr. 
Conway, with whom I was slightly acquainted. He men- 
tioned your family, and I heard some of your misfortunes, 
becoming convinced in my own mind that you were not 
the criminal. Before I left the next morning I made 
good the missing amount, and begged my father to keep 
the whole affair a secret. I felt certain that some expla- 
nation would be made upon your recovery." 
Philip's countenance had gone through scarlet flushes of 
indignation and white heats of keenest pain, every feature 
being roused to play its part. 
" The whole thing was false ! " Madge said, haughtily. 
" Worse than that cruel, unjust " 
"Hush, my darling. It is bitter enough, God knows, 
I have only to say, Mr. Graham, that I am no thiefj 
though I cannot prove it now by anything beyond my 
simple word." 
But Philip's clear, untrembling tone was suflicient guar- 
antee to Mr. Graham. 
"Had you any cause for distrusting Howard ?" 
"He had been dabbling a little in gold, through a 
friend, and was rather fortunate than otherwise, I fancied ; 
but on the morning of my last day at the store, Le came 
to me in great distress, admitting that he had been un- 
