his bent body, and raising his whitened head with a proud happiness in
his old eyes, he answered,
“I breave anoder breff ebber sense, mistis, dat I do.”
Farther on I found a woman sitting at the door of a little shop with
sweets to sell, and purchased some for the sake of making a mental
sketch of her picturesque head with its white turban. “I have not the
exact change, but will send it to you to-morrow,” I said, intending to
fee the Sabre to execute the errand. “Who shall I say it is?”
“Why, Viny, course. Every body knows Aunt Viny.”
“I want to go over to Africa, Aunt Viny. Can you tell me the way?”
“Certain. You goes--You know St. Francis Street?”
“No.”
“De Bravo’s Lane, den?”
“No.”
“Well, nebber mind. You goes ’long down Bridge Street--you knows dat?”
“No.”
“I declar’ for’t, mistis, I don’t jes know how to tell you, but
whenebber I wants to go dar, I jes goes.”
I laughed, and so did Aunt Viny. A colored girl came round the corner
with a pail on her head. “Dar’s Victoria; she’ll show yar,” said Aunt
Viny.
“Your daughter?”
“Yas. Victoria Linkum is her name, mistis. You see, she was jes borned
when Linkum died, and so I named her from him,” said the woman, with
simple earnestness.
The funny little Victoria showed me the way across a bridge over the
Maria Sanchez Creek.
“Why is it called so--who was this Maria?” I asked. But Victoria Linkum
did not know. Africa was a long straggling suburb, situated on a
peninsula in shape not unlike the real Africa, between the Maria Sanchez
Creek and the Sebastian River; it was dotted with cabins and an
easy-going idle population of freedmen, who had their own little church
there, and a minister whose large silver-rimmed spectacles gave dignity
to his ebony countenance. “They do not quite know how to take their
freedom yet,” said a lady, a fellow-boarder, that evening. “The colored
people of St. Augustine were an isolated race; they had been family
servants for generations, as there were few plantations about here, and,
generally speaking, they were well cared for, and led easy lives. They
held a great celebration over their freedom; but the truth is they don’t
know what to do with it yet, and their ideas take the oddest shapes. The
Sabre, for instance, always insists upon going and coming through the
front-door; he calmly brings in all his provisions that way--quarters of
venison, butter, fish, whatever it may be, no matter who is present.”
“Did you enjoy the afternoon, Sara?” I asked that evening.
“I can not tell you how much. If you could only have seen it--the blue
inlet, the island, and the two light-houses, the surf breaking over the
bar, and in front the broad ocean, thousands of miles of heaving water,
with no land between us and Africa.”
“You absurd child! as though that made any difference.”
“But it does make a difference, Martha. If I thought there was so much
as one Canary Island, the sense of vastness would be lost. I stood on
that beach and drew in a long breath that came straight from the Nile.”
“And Aunt Diana?”
“Oh, she was happy.”
“Iris smiled upon Mokes, then?”
“Conspicuously.”
“Naughty little flirt! And Miss Sharp?”
“One summer day--with pensive thought--she wandered on--the sea-girt
shore,” chanted Sara. “The madam-aunt had the Professor, and kept him!”
“And John Hoffman?”
