artists in New York, if he knew the Vervains ; the 
Providence man said that he did know them a little 
when he was much younger ; they had been abroad 
a great deal ; he believed in a dim way that they 
were still in Europe. The young one, he added, 
used to have a temper of her own. 
" Indeed ! " said Ferris stiffly. 
 
. The one fast friend whom he found in New York 
was the governor's dashing aide. The enthusiasm 
of this recruiter of regiments had not ceased with 
Ferris's departure for the front ; the number of dis 
abled officers forbade him to lionize any one of 
them, but he befriended Ferris ; he made a feint of 
discovering the open secret of his poverty, and 
asked how he could help him. 
" I don 't know," said Ferris, " it looks like a 
hopeless case, to me." 
" Oh no it is n t," retorted his friend, as cheer 
fully and confidently as he had promised him that 
he should not be shot. " didn 't you bring back 
any pictures from Venice with you ? " 
"I brought back a lot of sketches and studies. 
I'm sorry to say that I loafed a good deal there ; 
I used to feel that I had eternity before me ; and I 
was a theorist and a purist and an idiot generally. 
There are none of them fit to be seen." 
" Never mind ; let's look at them." 
They hunted out Ferris's property from a catch- 
all closet in the studio of a sculptor with whom he 
had left them, and who expressed a polite pleasure 
in handing them over to Ferris rather than to his 
heirs and assigns. 
" Well, I'm not sure that I share your satisfac 
tion, old fellow," said the painter ruefully; but he 
unpacked the sketches. 
Their inspection certainly revealed a dishearten 
ing condition of half-work. " And I can 't do any- 
A FOREGONE CONCLUSION. 
thing to help the matter for the present," groaned 
Ferris, stopping midway in the business, and mak 
ing as if to shut the case again. 
"Hold on," said his friend. "What's this? 
Why, this isn 't  so bad." It was the study of Don 
Ippolito as a Venetian priest, which Ferris beheld 
with a stupid amaze, remembering that he had 
meant to destroy it, and wondering how it had got 
where it was, but not really caring much. " It's 
worse than you can imagine," said he, still looking 
at it with this apathy. 
" No matter ; I want you to sell it to me. 
Come ! " 
" I can 't ! " replied Ferris piteously. " It would 
be flat burglary." 
" Then put it into the exhibition." 
The sculptor, who had gone back to scraping the 
chin of the famous public man on whose bust he 
was at work, stabbed him to the heart with his 
modeling-tool, and turned to Ferris and his friend. 
He slanted his broad red beard for a sidelong look 
