leisurely steamboat tied up here in the afternoon and spent the night,
giving the passengers an opportunity to make thorough acquaintance with
the town. It has the appearance of a place from which something has
departed; a wooden town, with wide and vacant streets, and the air of
waiting for something. Almost melancholy is the aspect of its freestone
colonial building, where once the colonial legislature held its
momentous sessions, and the colonial governor shed the delightful aroma
of royalty. The mansion of the governor--now vacant of pomp, because
that official does not exist--is a little withdrawn from the town,
secluded among trees by the water-side. It is dignified with a winding
approach, but is itself only a cheap and decaying house. On our way to
it we passed the drill-shed of the local cavalry, which we mistook for a
skating-rink, and thereby excited the contempt of an old lady of whom
we inquired. Tasteful residences we did not find, nor that attention
to flowers and gardens which the mild climate would suggest. Indeed,
we should describe Charlottetown as a place where the hollyhock in the
dooryard is considered an ornament. A conspicuous building is a large
market-house shingled all over (as many of the public buildings are),
and this and other cheap public edifices stand in the midst of a large
square, which is surrounded by shabby shops for the most part. The town
is laid out on a generous scale, and it is to be regretted that we could
not have seen it when it enjoyed the glory of a governor and court and
ministers of state, and all the paraphernalia of a royal parliament.
That the productive island, with its system of free schools, is about to
enter upon a prosperous career, and that Charlottetown is soon to become
a place of great activity, no one who converses with the natives can
doubt; and I think that even now no traveler will regret spending an
hour or two there; but it is necessary to say that the rosy inducements
to tourists to spend the summer there exist only in the guide-books.
We congratulated ourselves that we should at least have a night of
delightful sleep on the steamboat in the quiet of this secluded harbor.
But it was wisely ordered otherwise, to the end that we should improve
our time by an interesting study of human nature. Towards midnight, when
the occupants of all the state-rooms were supposed to be in profound
slumber, there was an invasion of the small cabin by a large and
loquacious family, who had been making an excursion on the island
railway. This family might remind an antiquated novel-reader of the
delightful Brangtons in “Evelina;” they had all the vivacity of the
pleasant cousins of the heroine of that story, and the same generosity
towards the public in regard to their family affairs. Before they had
been in the cabin an hour, we felt as if we knew every one of them.
There was a great squabble as to where and how they should sleep; and
when this was over, the revelations of the nature of their beds and
their peculiar habits of sleep continued to pierce the thin deal
partitions of the adjoining state-rooms. When all the possible
trivialities of vacant minds seemed to have been exhausted, there
followed a half-hour of “Goodnight, pa; good-night, ma;” “Goodnight,
pet;” and “Are you asleep, ma?” “No.” “Are you asleep, pa?” “No; go to
sleep, pet.” “I’m going. Good-night, pa; good-night, ma.” “Goodnight,
pet.” “This bed is too short.” “Why don’t you take the other?” “I’m all
fixed now.” “Well, go to sleep; good-night.” “Good-night, ma; goodnight,
pa,”--no answer. “Good-night,pa.” “Goodnight, pet.” “Ma, are you
asleep?” “Most.” “This bed is all lumps; I wish I’d gone downstairs.”
 “Well, pa will get up.” “Pa, are you asleep?” “Yes.” “It’s better now;
good-night, pa.” “Goodnight, pet.” “Good-night, ma.” “Good-night, pet.”
 And so on in an exasperating repetition, until every passenger on the
boat must have been thoroughly informed of the manner in which this
interesting family habitually settled itself to repose.
Half an hour passes with only a languid exchange of family feeling, and
then: “Pa?” “Well, pet.” “Don’t call us in the morning; we don’t want
