housekeeping, Clara."
"I shall always think of Joe as well as you," she said in a soft
whisper to Hal, holding the thin fingers a moment.
After that they had a pleasant time singing. Hal was very fond of vocal
music. It seemed to him about the happiest night of his life. Then the
crowd began to disperse.
"I have thought of something new, Hal," said Dr. Meade. "I sent to New
York this morning for a small galvanic battery, to try if electricity
will not help you. We shall have you around yet: do not be discouraged."
"Everybody is so kind"--and Hal's voice quivered. "This has been a
lovely surprise party."
After they were gone Charlie began to count up the spoils; and every
exclamation grew longer and louder. There was a large ham, a fine
turkey, tea and coffee and butter, flour, rice, farina, cake and
biscuit, a bag of apples, and some cans of fruit.
"We shall live like kings," said Granny, with a little sound in her
voice that might have been a sob or a laugh. "And only this morning I
was a wondering how we should get along."
"And twenty-six dollars. Why, it is almost as good as being a minister,
and having a donation-party."
"God doesn't forget us, you see," said Hal with great thankfulness.
He finished the spread a few days afterward, and sent it to Miss Clara;
and then Mrs. Meade brought him the materials to make her one.
The fracture had united; but there seemed such a terrible weakness
of the muscles in Hal's back, that Dr. Meade had become rather
apprehensive. But, after using electricity a few weeks, there was an
improvement. And one day Hal balanced himself upon two crutches.
"That's red hot!" ejaculated Charlie.
"O Charlie! worthy follower of Joe, what will you do when you get to be
a young lady?"
"Oh, dear! I wish I didn't have to be one;" and Charlie began to cry.
"I'll wear a big stone on top of my head."
"I am afraid it is too late. You are as tall as Granny now."
Hal gained slowly. All this time he was thinking what he should do?
for he had a presentiment that he might never be very strong again.
No more working around on farms; and, though there were some sedentary
trades in cities, he would meet with no chance to attain to them. So he
must have the green-house.
By spring he was able to go about pretty well. But he looked white as a
ghost, quite unlike the round rosy Hal of other days.
"Kit," said he, "you'll have to be my right-hand man this summer. Maybe
by another Christmas we might have the violin."
"O Hal! I'd work from morning till night," and the eager eyes were
luminous.
"Well, we'll see."
Charlie was seized with a helpful fit also. After the garden was
ploughed, they all planted and hoed and weeded; and, as it was an early
season, they had some quite forward vegetables.
One day Hal went over to Salem, and invested a few dollars in
tuberoses, besides purchasing some choice flower-seeds. Then he stopped
into a small place where he had noticed cut-flowers, and began to
inquire whether they ever bought any.
"All I can get," said the man. "Flowers are coming to be the rage.
People think they can't have weddings or funerals without them."
"But you want white ones mostly?"
"White ones for funerals and brides. There are other occasions, though,
when colored ones are worth twice as much, and as much needed."
"You raise some?" said Hal.
"All I can. I have a small green-house. Come in and see it. Did you
think of starting in the business?"
