charity ought to be buried. But for the Sir Walter 
disease, the character of the Southerner — or Southron, 
according to Sir Walter's starchier way of phrasing it — 
would be wholly modern, in place of modern and 
mediaeval mixed, and the South would be fully a 
generation further advanced than it is. It was Sir 
Walter that made every gentleman in the South a 
major or a colonel, or a general or a judge, before the 
war; and it was he, also, that made these gentlemen 
value these bogus decorations. For it was he that 
created rank and caste down there, and also reverence 
for rank and caste, and pride and pleasure in them. 
Enough is laid on slavery, without fathering upon it 
these creations and contributions of Sir Walter. 
Sir Walter had so large a hand in making Southern 
character, as it existed before the war, that he is in 
great measure responsible for the war. It seems a 
little harsh toward a dead man to say that we never 
should have had any war but for Sir Walter; and yet 
something of a plausible argument might, perhaps, be 
made in support of that wild proposition. The 
Southerner of the American Revolution owned slaves ; 
so did the Southerner of the Civil War; but the 
former resembles the latter as an Englishman resem- 
bles a Frenchman. The change of character can be 
traced rather more easily to Sir Walter’s influence than 
to that of any other thing or person. 
One may observe, by one or two signs, how deeply 
that influence penetrated, and how strongly it holds. 
If one take up a Northern or Southern literary periodi- 
cal of forty or fifty years ago, he will find it filled with 
wordy, windy, flowery “eloquence’ romanticism, 
sentimentality — all imitated from Sir Walter, and 
sufficiently badly done, too — innocent travesties of his 
style and methods, in fact. This sort of literature 
being the fashion in both sections of the country, 
there was opportunity for the fairest competition ; and 
as a consequence, the South was able to show as many 
well-known literary names, proportioned to population, 
as the North could. 
But a change has come, and there is no opportunity 
now for a fair competition between North and South. 
For the North has thrown out that old inflated style, 
whereas the Southern writer still clings to it — clings to 
it and has a restricted market for his wares, as a conse- 
quence. There is as much literary talent in the South, 
now, as ever there was, of course; but its work can 
gain but slight currency under present conditions ; the 
authors write for the past, not the present; they use 
obsolete forms and a dead language. But when a 
Southerner of genius writes modern English, his book 
goes upon crutches no longer, but upon wings; and 
they carry it swiftly all about America and England, 
and through the great English reprint publishing 
houses of Germany — as witness the experience of Mr. 
Cable and “Uncle Remus ’ two of the very few 
Southern authors who do not write in the Southern 
style. Instead of three or four widely-known literary 
names, the South ought to have a dozen or two — and 
will have them when Sir Walter’s time is out. 
