the while I sat by that trap-door. Depend upon it, 
he had his dream, his ideal; and this country girl 
with her great eyes and wealth of hair represented 
 
the beautiful to his hungry soul. He gave his whole 
life and hope into her hands, and woke to find his 
goddess a common wooden image." 
" Waste sympathy upon a coal-miner ! " I said, imi- 
tating my cousin's former tone. 
" If any one is blind, it is you," she answered, 
with gleaming eyes. " That man's whole history stood 
revealed in the selfish complainings of that creature. 
He had been in the Community from boyhood, there- 
fore of course he had no chance to learn life, to see 
its art-treasures. He has been shipwrecked, poor soul, 
hopelessly shipwrecked." 
"She too, Ermine." 
"She!" 
"Yes. If he loved pictures, she loved her chany 
and her feather-beds, not to speak of the big looking- 
glass. No doubt she had other lovers, and might 
have lived in a red brick farmhouse with ten un- 
opened front windows and a blistered front door. 
The wives of men of genius are always to be pitied ; 
they do not soar into the crowd of feminine admirers 
who circle round the husband, and they are therefore 
called 'grubs/ 'worms of the earth,' 'drudges,' and 
other sweet titles." 
" Nonsense," said Ermine, tumbling the arched coals 
into chaos with the poker ; " it 's after midnight, let 
us go up stairs." I knew very well that my beau- 
tiful cousin enjoyed the society of several poets, 
 
painters, musicians, and others of that ilk, without 
concerning herself about their stay-at-home wives. 
The next day the winds were out in battle array, 
howling over the Strasburg hills, raging up and down 
the river, and whirling the colored leaves wildly 
along the lovely road to the One-Leg Creek. Evidently 
there could be no rambling in the painted woods 
that day, so we went over to old Fritz's shop, played 
on his home-made piano, inspected the woolly horse 
who turned his crank patiently in an underground 
den, and set in motion all the curious little images 
which the carpenter's deft fingers had wrought. 
Fritz belonged to the Community, and knew nothing 
of the outside world; he had a taste for mechanism, 
which showed itself in many labor-saving devices, 
and with it all he was the roundest, kindest little 
man, with bright eyes like a canary-bird. 
" Do you know Solomon the coal-miner ? " asked 
Ermine, in her correct, well-learned German. 
" Sol Bangs ? Yes, I know him," replied Fritz, in 
his "Wiirtemberg dialect. 
" What kind of a man is he ? " 
" Good for nothing," replied Fritz, placidly. 
"Why?" 
" Wrong here " ; tapping his forehead. 
" Do you know his wife ? " I asked. 
"Yes." 
