"Drunk!" ejaculated Sam, rather frightened, for he was still
unsophisticated compared with his companion.
"Just so. I say, you must be a chicken to get tight on one
whiskey-punch," added Jim, rather contemptuously.
"It was strong," said Sam, by way of apology, leaning against a
lamp-post for support.
"It was stiffish," said Jim. "I always take 'em so."
"And don't you feel it at all?" queried Sam.
"Not a bit," said Jim, decidedly. "I aint a baby."
"Nor I either," said Sam, with a spark of his accustomed spirit. "Only
I aint used to it."
"Why, I could take three glasses, one after the other, without gettin'
tight," said Jim, proudly. "I tell you, I've got a strong stomach."
"I wish I hadn't taken the drink," said Sam. "When will I feel
better?"
"In an hour or two."
"I can't go back to the doctor this way. He'll know I've been
drinkin'. I wish I could lie down somewhere."
"I'll tell you what. Come round to the ferry-room. You can sit down
there till you feel better."
"Give me your arm, Jim. I'm light-headed."
With Jim's assistance Sam made his way to Fulton Ferry, but instead of
going over in the next boat he leaned back in his seat in the
waiting-room, and rested. Jim walked about on the pier, his hands in
his pocket, with an independent air. He felt happy and prosperous.
Never before in his life, probably, had he had so much money in his
possession. Some men with a hundred thousand dollars would have felt
poorer than Jim with nine dollars and a half.
By and by Sam felt enough better to start on his homeward journey. Jim
agreed to accompany him as far as the New York side.
"I don't know what the doctor will say when he finds out the money is
gone," said Sam, soberly.
"You just tell him it was stolen from you by a pickpocket."
"Suppose he don't believe it?"
"He can't prove nothin'."
"He might search me."
"So he might," said Jim. "I'll tell you what you'd better do."
"What?"
"Just give me the money to keep for you. Then if he searches you, he
won't find it."
If Jim expected this suggestion to be adopted, he undervalued Sam's
shrewdness. That young man had not knocked about the streets eight
months for nothing.
"I guess not," said Sam, significantly. "Maybe I wouldn't find it any
easier if you took it."
"You don't call me a thief, do you?" demanded Jim, offended.
"It looks as if we was both thieves," said Sam, candidly.
"You needn't talk so loud," said Jim, hurriedly. "There's no use in
tellin' everybody that I see. I don't want the money, only, if the old
man finds it, don't blame me."
"You needn't be mad, Jim," said Sam. "I'll need the money myself. I
guess I'll have to hide it."
"Do you wear stockin's?" asked Jim.
"Yes; don't you?"
"Not in warm weather. They aint no good. They only get dirty. But if
you wear 'em, that's the place to hide the money."
"I guess you're right," said Sam. "I wouldn't have thought of it.
Where can I do it?"
"Wait till we're on the New York side. You can sit down on one of the
piers and do it. Nobody'll see you."
