way. I am afraid — " 
" Yes, that Cameron and that beautiful woman are 
in league. Could Ralph get a divorce, so soon, and re- 
pudiate me utterly? He denied it, but he might not 
have understood their devices. He is so honest and 
unsuspicious, and he did love her once* What a web 
it all is, Catherine." 
"There bairn, we Lad best think of other things, 
and six weeks will pass, as you say. "We may see 
clearer, then." 
Dora wiped away a few tears. She had a sanguine 
nature, and, this being the first promise of any turn in 
affairs, she caught at it eagerly. And now she regretted, 
so bitterly, her hasty, angry words, that evening, at 
Woodlea. If she could but see him, again, and learn 
the truth ! 
If she had known, ten minutes ago, that he had so far 
overcome all his scruples, as to haunt this place, in the 
forlorn hope of catching some glimpse of her ! How 
easy to have run out, with a glad cry, to have brought 
him in, and begged him to be merciful. How many just 
such times of explanation people pass bj*, their hearts 
growing harder with the delay. 
It was not the only turn of fate he was destined to 
miss. When he returned to the office, he found a tele- 
gram awaiting him, announcing the death of a friend 
in a neighboring city, and an urgent request for him to 
come, at once. Looking over his time table, he found 
there was a train in an hour. In his present state of 
mind, he was glad of an excuse to absent himself from 
Woodlea. It was only to telegraph, and to leave word 
with his bookkeeper. He would be but poor company 
for his aunt and cousin, to-night. 
Once settled, and whirling comfortably along in the 
train, he began to look seriously at his present life, 
that was rapidly becoming unendurable. No explana- 
tion had ever been made, save that Mrs. Tremaine had 
gone away on a visit. Yet he fancied that people 
began to look at him with a kind of pity and suspicion. 
He had resolved not to say one word to Dora's preju- 
dice, but matters could not go on this way, forever. 
That Jasper Cameron was a favored guest, he had seen 
with his own eyes. When this truce of two or. three 
-came to an end, Dora would — oh, could it be possible 
that she would go away with her first lover? 
Tremaine gave a great gasp. It would be very bit- 
ter to give her up. No, that was not the point around 
which matters revolved. She gave him up. Could 
Jasper Cameron coerce her in any way? She was with 
her own friend. How strange that she should have 
chosen such an humble one, when there were others in 
the city, who would have opened hospitable doors to 
her. Had she some design in it? 
How tired he was of this endless thinking ! And 
then a refreshing idea crossed his mind. Why not take 
a trip to London and Paris for a few weeks? Some 
one ought to go for the sake of business interests. Yes, 
that was it. Mrs. Lester and Edith should go on with 
the house — he paused for a moment, remembering 
Dora's foolish and unreasonable jealousy. How full of 
