adapted to the profession I have chosen. I don't think I have. I am
more certain of it from comparing myself from day to day with Ida,
who certainly is born and made for it, if ever a woman was. My choice
of it has been simply and only for the reason that I must choose
something as a means of self-support, and more than that, as a refuge
from morbid distresses of mind which made the still monotony of my New
England country life intolerable to me. This course presented itself
to me as something feasible. I thought it, too, a good and worthy
career--one in which one might do one's share of good for the world.
But, Eva, I can feel that there is one essential difference between
Ida and myself: she is peculiarly self-sustained and sufficient to
herself, and I am just the reverse. I am full of vague unrest; I
am chased by seasons of high excitement, alternating with deadly
languor. Ida has hard work to know what to do with me. You were right
in supposing, as you intimate in your letter, that a certain common
friend has something to do with this unrest, but you cannot, unless
you know my whole history, know how much. There was a time when he
and I were all the world to each other--when shall I ever forget that
time! I was but seventeen; a young girl, so ignorant of life! I never
had seen one like him; he was a whole new revelation to me; he woke
up everything there was in me, never to go to sleep again; and then to
think of having all this tide and current of feeling checked--frozen.
My father overwhelmed him with accusations; every baseness was laid
to his charge. I was woman enough to have stood for him against the
world if he had come to me. I would have left all and gone to the ends
of the earth with him if he had asked me, but he did not. There was
only one farewell, self-accusing letter, and even that fell into my
father's hands and never came to me till after his death. For years I
thought myself wantonly trifled with by a man of whose attentions I
ought to be ashamed. I was indignant at myself for the love that might
have been my glory, for it is my solemn belief that if we had been let
alone he would have been saved all those wretched falls, those blind
struggles that have marred a life whose purpose is yet so noble.
"When the fates brought us together again in New York, I saw at a
glance that whatever may have been the proud, morbid conscientiousness
that dictated his long silence, he loved me still;--a woman knows that
by an unmistakable instinct. She can feel the reality through all
disguises. I know that man loves me, and yet he does not now in word
or deed make the least profession beyond the boundaries of friendship.
He is my friend; with entire devotion he is willing to spend and be
spent for me--but he will accept nothing from me. I, who would give my
life to him willingly--I must do nothing for him!
"Well, it's no use writing. You see now that I am a very unworthy
disciple of your sister. She is so calm and philosophical that I
cannot tell her all this; but you, dear little Eva, you know the
heart of woman, and you have a magic key which unlocks everybody's
heart in confidence to you. I seem to see you, in fancy, with good
Cousin Harry, sitting cosily in your chimney-corner; your ivies and
nasturtiums growing round your sunny windows, and an everlasting
summer in your pretty parlors, while the December winds whistle
without. Such a life as you two lead, such a home as your home, is
worth a thousand 'careers' that dazzle ambition. Send us more letters,
journals, of all your pretty, lovely home life, and let me warm myself
in the glow of your fireside.
     Your Cousin,
          CARRY."
       *       *       *       *       *
Eva finished this letter, and then folding it up sat with it in her
lap, gazing into the fire, and pondering its contents. If the truth
must be told, she was revolving in her young, busy brain a scheme for
