objection to such indications in a man's face,even a man that 
loves her,as Hazel saw now; the grave purpose, the manly 
power, the thoughtful reserve. When at last he spoke and looked 
up, he was grave still.
'Have you any idea what you are to expect, Hazel?'
'Expect!'Then rather slowly, 'I believe I am not given to 
expectations.'
Then he smiled, but went on, 'Do you remember our talk that 
evening, last winter?'
'Of course.'
'Then you know in what service I have taken a commission?'
'I know.'
The quiet reserved voice seemed suddenly to lose its flexibility, 
and the crimson leaf came fluttering down from between her 
fingers.
'Are you content, Hazel? This fact will make my life more or less 
what people call singular.'
'But you were always called that,' she said without looking at him.
'Was I? It will be in another way now, Wych. How will you like 
it?'
'It? your life?very well, I suppose. If I like you,' she answered 
frankly, though in the same deliberate, abstracted way.
'But a soldier must obey orders, and has no choice. Are you 
content to go with me, upon such conditions?'
She turned upon him with eyes that seemed half inquiry, half 
surprise, her colour flitting back and forth in its vivid way. Then 
she rose suddenly to her feet, and setting her back against the tree 
and dropping her folded hands, stood looking down at him.
'Will you tell me exactly what you mean?' she said.
He rose too and stood beside her.
'It would never do for me to go one way, and my wife another.'
From under the shield of her drooping hat Hazel answered. 
'Suppose you have to meet that difficulty? Suppose I should say I 
am not content?'
'I will tell you, when you have said it.'
'No,' she said,'before. I am not content with anything till you do.'
'I should know in that case I had something to do, Hazel.'
'That is waiving the question.'
'No, for that something would beto make you willing.'
She unclasped her hands, putting behind her round the tree.
'How, Mr. Rollo?'
'I suppose'demurely'I should use my influence.'
'Twenty questions!' said Hazel. 'If I were not content, it would 
show that you had not much influence to use.'
'Are you content, Hazel?'
'How are you going to be singular?' she said abruptly.
'It's my turn'said he smiling, 'Hazel, are you content?'
'But you always ask suchunreasoningquestions.'
'Give me a reasonable answer."
'I am never anything but reasonable,' she said; 'it is you. You want 
to know if I am content to have you true to yourself,that is about 
the point, is it not? I think, on the whole, I am.'
'Will you help me?'
'So far as I can. But remember, that may not be very far.'
'I want your help a dozen ways at this moment.'
'Would you like to specify just a few?'
'You will see, as soon as you begin to get the run of what I am 
doing. I want counselI want coöperation. I want you to set me 
upon some of the woman's work that a man does not readily find 
out for himself. I am going to take you off to the Hollow as soon 
