to see the ship and her consorts. The several craft
were not men–of–war or merchantmen; and they
seemed to excite a great deal of curiosity. Not a few
of the boats came up to the gangway, their occupants
asking permission to go on board; but they were
politely refused by the officers in charge.
Some of the boats carried lateen, or leg–of–mutton
sails, which are used more than any other on the
Mediterranean. A long yard, or spar, is slung at an
angle of forty–five degrees, on a short mast, so that
one–fourth of the spar is below and the rest above the
mast. The sail is triangular, except that the part
nearest to the tack is squared off. It is attached to the
long yard on the hypothenuse side. On the larger
craft, the sail is hauled out on the long spar, sliding on
hanks, or rings. It is a picturesque rig; and some of
the students who had a taste for boating were anxious
to try their skill in handling a sail of this kind.
One of these feluccas, with two gentlemen in the
stern, seemed to be more persistent than the others
to obtain admission for its occupants on board of the
Prince. Her huge sail was brailed up, and she had
taken a berth at the gangway of the steamer. Peaks,
the adult boatswain of the ship, obeyed his orders to
the letter, and would not permit any one to put foot
on the deck. One of the gentlemen who came off
in her had ascended the accommodation steps, and
insisted upon holding a parley with Peaks; but as the
old salt understood only a few words of Spanish, and
the stranger did not speak English, they did not get
ahead very well. The boatswain resolutely but good–naturedly
refused to let the visitor pass him, or to disturb
the lecture by sending to the saloon for some one
to act as interpreter. The gentleman obstinately
declined to give up his point, whatever it was, and
remained at the gangway till the students were dismissed
from the exercise.
When the lecture was finished, Mr. Lowington came
out of the saloon; and, as he passed the gangway,
Peaks touched his cap, and informed him that a Spaniard
on the steps insisted upon coming on board.
“I don’t understand his lingo, and can’t tell what he
is driving at,” added Peaks.
“Somebody that wishes to visit the ship, probably,”
replied the principal.
“I have turned back more than fifty, but this one
won’t be turned back,” continued Peaks, as Mr. Lowington
stepped up to the gangway.
As soon as the Spanish gentleman saw him, he raised
his hat, and addressed him in the politest terms, begging
pardon for the intrusion. The principal invited
him to come on board, and then immediately directed
the people of the Josephine and Tritonia to return to
their vessels. While the Tritonias were piping over the
side, Mr. Lowington gave his attention to the visitor.
“Have you a student in your ship by the name of
Enrique Raimundo?” asked the Spanish gentleman,
after he had properly introduced the subject of his
visit.
Mr. Lowington spoke Spanish, having learned it
