Dr. Kinnard looked at her in amazement. 
" My child," he answered gravely, ' ; I am your father, 
and the proper person to decide. When you are older, if 
you should wish to reside with your aunt, I will interpose 
no obstacle ; but at present you are in my charge." 
Maud's lip quivered ; and her  shot out an angry 
light. 
" My little girl, you may feel disappointed for a while ; 
but some time you will see the wisdom of this step. I 
think I have some right to your affection and interest ; 
and I do desire to have your love." 
All these years Aunt Adelaide had been nursing the 
child's jealousy and distrust. Under the placid exterior 
raged fires ready to burst out at a word, temper that used 
to find a ready vent upon Bertie, but now was seldom 
crossed. 
" If you desired it," she said with the passionate vehe 
mence of a woman, " why did you forget my own dear 
dead mother? Why did you put another in her place? 
You care for no one but her ; you ' ' 
" Hush, Maud ! " he interrupted sternly. " You have 
no right to arraign me, or the generous woman I have put 
in j-our mother's place, when you have received only 
kindness at both oar hands. She has alwaj-s been ready 
to love you. If I had wavered before, this exhibition of 
disrespect and anger would have decided me. After your 
aunt's marriage, }*ou will go to Melrose Hall to stay until 
Christmas. No persuasion on any one's part will induce 
me to relent. I shall explain it to Aunt Adelaide imme 
diately." 
Miss Grove expressed much indignation, and stigmatized 
the whole proceeding as cruel. 
"Adelaide," he said, "the child is surely mine. I 
think I hardly need remind you now of the little care 
cither of these children received from their mother. Do 
you suppose, had she been well, and able to go into 
society, she would have attended Bertie through his long 
illness, as his stepmother did? Did she ever care for my 
comfort or pleasure ? Truth is truth. It is ungracious to 
remember the faults of the dead ; but you compel me to. 
And it is doubly ungenerous of you to set Maud up in 
rebellion." 
" Of course, of course ! " she retorted fiercely. " The 
child cannot see a large girl like Maud ! She is capable 
of forming no conclusion whatever." And her tall figure 
dilated with angry passion. 
" The whole world would be welcome to see and judge. 
But recrimination is worse than folly. We have lived on 
friendly terms so far ; and I am obliged for ever} r kindly 
act of j-ours. Do not let us mar the remaining da}*s. 
My mind is firmly made up in every thing." 
He turned and left her without another word. Yet 
never had he felt so profound a pity for the woman tying 
in her grave, that her life should have left so scant a 
record of love and good deeds. 
Maud and her aunt went into town, and did not appear 
at either dinner or supper. The nexUmorning both were 
cold and haughty, Maud's demeanor an absolute and 
almost laughable caricature on her aunt's. 
The invitations were sent out; and then the family 
