over its banks we had forsaken our old paths and 
were hourly climbing over bars that had stood ten 
feet out of water before ; we were shaving stumpy 
shores, like that at the foot of Madrid Bend, which 
I had always seen avoided before ; we were clat- 
tering through chutes like that of 82, where the 
opening at the foot was an unbroken wall of timber 
till our nose was almost at the ver}'- spot. Some of 
these chutes were utter solitudes. The dense, un- 
touched forest overhung botl? banks of the crooked 
little crack, and one could believe that human crea- 
tures had never intruded there before. The sving- 
ing grape-vines, the grassy nooks and vistas glimpsed 
as we swept by, the flowering creepers waving their 
red blossoms from the tops of dead trunks, and all 
the spendthrift richness of the forest foliage, were 
wasted and thrown away there. The chutes were 
lovely places to steer in ; they were deep, except at 
the head; the current was gentle; under the "points" 
the water was absolutely dead, and the invisible 
banks so bluff that where the tender willow thickets 
pijected you could buiy your boat's broadside in 
them as you tore along, and then you seemed fairly 
to fly. 

Behind other islands we found wretched little 
farms, and wretcheder little log-cabins ; there were 
crazy rail-fences sticking a foot or two above the 
water, with one or two jeans-clad, chills-racked, 
yellow-faced male miserables roosting on the top- 
rail, elbows on knees, jaws in hands, grinding to- 
bacco and discharging the result at floating chips 
through crevices left by lost milk-teeth ; while the 
rest of the family and the few farm animals were 
huddled together in an empty wood-flat riding at 
her moorings close at hand. In this flatboat the 
family would have to cook and eat and sleep for a 
lesser or greater number of days (or possibly weeks), 
until the river should fall two or three feet and let 
them get back to their log-cabin and their chills 
again — chills being a merciful provision of an all- 
wise Providence to enable them to take exercise 
without exertion. And this sort of watery camp- 
ing out was a thing which these people were rather 
liable to be treated to a couple of times a year : by 
the December rise out of the Ohio, and the June 
rise out of the Mississippi. And yet these were 
kindly dispensations, for they at least enabled the 
poor things to rise from the dead now and then, and 
look upon life when a steamboat went by. They 
appreciated the blessing, too, for they spread their 
mouths and eyes wide open, and made the most of 
these occasions. Now what could these banished 
creatures find to do to keep from dying of the blues 
during the low- water season ! 

Once, in one of these lovely island chutes, we 
found our course completely bridged by a great 
fallen tree. This will serve to show how narrow 
some of the chutes were. The passengers had an 
