Dageförde to the lords of Lüneburg, and they again sold it to some
peasants, after they had divided the farm into two. So these farms have
again become what they were originally--peasant farms. God grant to the
present owners that they may stand firm and true to the pure faith of
our beloved church, that they may earnestly strive to be genuine
Christians and genuine Saxon peasants; then will it go well with them
and with those that come after them.'"




CHAPTER XII.


Meredith paused, half closed his book, was evidently pondering for a
minute, and then exclaimed, "I have learned something!"

"Why, so have we all," said his sister. "What now particularly?"

"I have got a hint."

"What about? There is no fortress for you to storm, and you do not want
the treasure."

"I think I should like to have lived in those times," Meredith went on.
"People were in earnest, Mr. Murray."

"Yes. So are some people in these times."

"But not the world generally; or only about making money. Then people
were in earnest about things worth the while."

"It does seem so from these stories," said Mr. Murray; "but, dear
Meredith, you may be equally in earnest about the same things now, and
with as good reason."

"Isn't it more difficult, sir, when nobody else, or only a few here and
there, think and feel with you?"

"Yes, more difficult; or rather, more easy to go to sleep; but so much
the greater need of men who are not asleep. What is your hint? I am
curious, with Miss Flora."

"The way that fellow spent his treasure, sir. I was thinking, wouldn't a
chapel--that is, a little church--a little free church, at Meadow Park
be a good thing? The nearest church is two miles off; we can drive to
it, but the people who have no horses cannot, and the poor people"----

Meredith got a variety of answers to this suggestion. His sister opened
her mouth for an outcry of dismay. Maggie clapped her hands with a burst
of joy. Esther stared; and a smile, very sweet and wise, showed itself
on Mr. Murray's lips.

"Quixotic!--ridiculous!" said Flora. "Isn't it, Mr. Murray? Ditto has
not money enough for everything, either. A church!--and then, I suppose,
a minister!"

"Is it a bad notion, Mr. Murray?" inquired Meredith.

"I should think not very."
