no great possibility, I imagine, of Madame de Cintré being forsaken.”
“Not much!” said Newman. “But what becomes of the Don?”
“The devil comes down--or comes up,” said Madame de Bellegarde, “and
carries him off. I suppose Zerlina reminds you of me.”
“I will go to the foyer for a few moments,” said the marquis, “and
give you a chance to say that the commander--the man of stone--resembles
me.” And he passed out of the box.
The little marquise stared an instant at the velvet ledge of the
balcony, and then murmured, “Not a man of stone, a man of wood.” Newman
had taken her husband’s empty chair. She made no protest, and then she
turned suddenly and laid her closed fan upon his arm. “I am very glad
you came in,” she said. “I want to ask you a favor. I wanted to do so on
Thursday, at my mother-in-law’s ball, but you would give me no chance.
You were in such very good spirits that I thought you might grant my
little favor then; not that you look particularly doleful now. It is
something you must promise me; now is the time to take you; after you
are married you will be good for nothing. Come, promise!”
“I never sign a paper without reading it first,” said Newman. “Show me
your document.”
“No, you must sign with your eyes shut; I will hold your hand. Come,
before you put your head into the noose. You ought to be thankful to me
for giving you a chance to do something amusing.”
“If it is so amusing,” said Newman, “it will be in even better season
after I am married.”
“In other words,” cried Madame de Bellegarde, “you will not do it at
all. You will be afraid of your wife.”
“Oh, if the thing is intrinsically improper,” said Newman, “I won’t go
into it. If it is not, I will do it after my marriage.”
“You talk like a treatise on logic, and English logic into the bargain!”
 exclaimed Madame de Bellegarde. “Promise, then, after you are married.
After all, I shall enjoy keeping you to it.”
“Well, then, after I am married,” said Newman serenely.
The little marquise hesitated a moment, looking at him, and he wondered
what was coming. “I suppose you know what my life is,” she presently
said. “I have no pleasure, I see nothing, I do nothing. I live in Paris
as I might live at Poitiers. My mother-in-law calls me--what is the
pretty word?--a gad-about? accuses me of going to unheard-of places, and
thinks it ought to be joy enough for me to sit at home and count over my
ancestors on my fingers. But why should I bother about my ancestors?
I am sure they never bothered about me. I don’t propose to live with
a green shade on my eyes; I hold that things were made to look at. My
husband, you know, has principles, and the first on the list is that
the Tuileries are dreadfully vulgar. If the Tuileries are vulgar, his
principles are tiresome. If I chose I might have principles quite as
well as he. If they grew on one’s family tree I should only have to give
mine a shake to bring down a shower of the finest. At any rate, I prefer
clever Bonapartes to stupid Bourbons.”
“Oh, I see; you want to go to court,” said Newman, vaguely conjecturing
that she might wish him to appeal to the United States legation to
smooth her way to the imperial halls.
The marquise gave a little sharp laugh. “You are a thousand miles away.
I will take care of the Tuileries myself; the day I decide to go they
will be very glad to have me. Sooner or later I shall dance in an
imperial quadrille. I know what you are going to say: ‘How will you
dare?’ But I shall dare. I am afraid of my husband; he is soft,
smooth, irreproachable; everything that you know; but I am afraid of
him--horribly afraid of him. And yet I shall arrive at the Tuileries.
But that will not be this winter, nor perhaps next, and meantime I must
live. For the moment, I want to go somewhere else; it’s my dream. I want
to go to the Bal Bullier.”
