know her. ' And we are so glad to meet you ; for we are 
strangers here, you know. I never was at Bear Hill in my 
life, but they told us of wonderful blackberries here and 
such multitudes of them ; and we persuaded Evan to 
drive us ; you know we don't often have him to do anything for us ; so we came ; but I don't know what we 
should have done if we had not met you. Gertrude and I 
thought we would come and see what a picnic on Bear 
Hill meant.' And she laughed again ; smiles came very 
easily to her pretty little face. And then she introduced 
Miss Masters. Knowlton stood by, looking on at them all. 
' These elegant women ! ' thought Diana l what must 
I seem to him ? ' And truly her print gown was of homely 
quality and country wear ; she did not take into the account 
a fine figure, which health and exercise had made free and 
supple in all its movements, and which the quiet poise of 
her character made graceful, whether in motion or rest. 
For grace is no gift of a dancing master or result of the 
schools. It is the growth of the mind more than of the 
body ; the natural and almost necessary symbolization in 
outward lines of what is noble, simple, and free from 
self ; and not almost but quite necessary, if the further con- 
ditions of a well made and well jointed figure and a free and 
unconstrained habit of life, are not wanting. The conditions all met in Diana ; the harmony of development was, as 
it always is, lovely to see. 
But a shadow fell on her heart as she turned to lead the 
way through the wood to the blackberry field. For in the 
artistic elegance of the ladies beside her, she thought she 
recognized somewhat that belonged to Mr. Knowlton's 
sphere and not to her own ; something that removed her 
 
from him and drew them near; she thought he could not 
fail to find i-t so. What then ? She did not ask herself 
what then. Indeed she had no leisure for difficult analysis 
of her thoughts. 
' Dear me, how rough ! ' Mrs. Reverdy exclaimed. 
' Really, Evan, I did not know what you were bringing us 
to. Is it much further we have to go ? ' 
' It is all rough,' said Diana. ' You ought to have 
thick shoes.' 
' O, I have ! I put on horridly thick ones, look ! Isn't 
that thick enough ? But I never felt anything like these 
stones. Is the blackberry field full of them too ? Really, 
Evan,I think I cannotget along if you don't give me your arm.' 
'You have two arms, Mr. Knowlton can't I have the 
other one ? ' cried Miss Masters dolefully. 
' I have got trees on my other arm, Gatty I don't see 
where I should put you. Can't you help Miss Starling 
along, till we get out of the woods ? ' 
' Isn't it very impertinent of him to call me Gatty ? ' said 
the little beauty tossing her long locks and speaking in a 
half aside to Diana. ' Now he would like that I should re- 
turn the compliment and call him Evan ; but I won't. What 
do you do, when men call you by your Christian name ? ' 
She was trying to read Diana as she spoke, eyeing 
her with sidelong glances ; and as they went, laying her 
daintily gloved hand on Diana's arm to help herself along. 
Diana was astounded both at her confidence and at her request for council ; but as to meet the request would be to 
return the confidence, she was silent. She was thinking 
too of the elegant little boot Mrs. Reverdy had displayed, 
and contrasting it with her own coarse shoes. And how 
