what a concerted attack upon the clapboards; how the floors squeaked,
and what gusts from round corners came to snatch the feeble flame of
the candle from the boy's hand! How he shivered, as he paused at the
staircase window to look out upon the great fields of snow, upon the
stripped forest, through which he could hear the wind raving in a kind
of fury, and up at the black flying clouds, amid which the young moon
was dashing and driven on like a frail shallop at sea! And his teeth
chattered more than ever when he got into the icy sheets, and drew
himself up into a ball in his flannel nightgown, like a fox in his hole.
For a little time he could hear the noises downstairs, and an
occasional laugh; he could guess that now they were having cider, and
now apples were going round; and he could feel the wind tugging at the
house, even sometimes shaking the bed. But this did not last long. He
soon went away into a country he always delighted to be in; a calm
place where the wind never blew, and no one dictated the time of going
to bed to any one else. I like to think of him sleeping there, in such
rude surroundings, ingenuous, innocent, mischievous, with no thought
of the buffeting he is to get from a world that has a good many worse
places for a boy than the hearth of an old farm-house, and the sweet
though undemonstrative affection of its family life.
But there were other evenings in the boy's life that were different
from these at home, and one of them he will never forget. It opened
a new world to John, and set him into a great flutter. It produced a
revolution in his mind in regard to neckties; it made him wonder if
greased boots were quite the thing compared with blacked boots; and he
wished he had a long looking-glass, so that he could see, as he walked
away from it, what was the effect of round patches on the portion of
his trousers he could not see except in a mirror; and if patches were
quite stylish, even on everyday trousers. And he began to be very much
troubled about the parting of his hair, and how to find out on which
side was the natural part.
The evening to which I refer was that of John's first party. He knew
the girls at school, and he was interested in some of them with a
different interest from that he took in the boys. He never wanted to
"take it out" with one of them, for an insult, in a stand-up fight,
and he instinctively softened a boy's natural rudeness when he was
with them. He would help a timid little girl to stand erect and slide;
he would draw her on his sled, till his hands were stiff with cold,
without a murmur; he would generously give her red apples into which
he longed to set his own sharp teeth; and he would cut in two his
lead-pencil for a girl, when he would not for a boy. Had he not some of
the beautiful auburn tresses of Cynthia Rudd in his skate, spruce-gum,
and wintergreen box at home? And yet the grand sentiment of life was
little awakened in John. He liked best to be with boys, and their
rough play suited him better than the amusements of the shrinking,
fluttering, timid, and sensitive little girls. John had not learned
then that a spider-web is stronger than a cable; or that a pretty
little girl could turn him round her finger a great deal easier than a
big bully of a boy could make him cry "enough."
John had indeed been at spelling-schools, and had accomplished the
feat of "going home with a girl" afterwards; and he had been growing
into the habit of looking around in meeting on Sunday, and noticing
how Cynthia was dressed, and not enjoying the service quite as much if
Cynthia was absent as when she was present. But there was very little
sentiment in all this, and nothing whatever to make John blush at
hearing her name.
But now John was invited to a regular party. There was the invitation,
in a three-cornered billet, sealed with a transparent wafer: "Miss C.
Rudd requests the pleasure of the company of," etc., all in blue ink,
and the finest kind of pin-scratching writing. What a precious document
