as their noble purity of manners. By about noon 
of the above-named day, all the free men of that 
whole region had gathered together at the altar of 
 
sacrifice. This altar consisted, as may still be seen 
by the so-called stone-houses now standing, of four 
slabs of granite set up in a quadrangle; with four 
openings, or doors, towards the four quarters of the 
heaven, broad enough to let a man go through; 
and covered over on the top with another great, 
granite block. The young warriors brought up 
two prisoners, who had been taken in a late cam 
paign and fetched along. One of them was made 
to go under the sacrifice altar through the north 
and south doors, the other through the east and 
west doors. Then stepped forth two priests, having their long, flowing hair bound with a mistletoe 
branch, and a sharp knife of flint in the hand. 
You must know that the mistletoe, which is still 
to be found in plenty in our woods, growing especially on birch trees, was held among our fore 
fathers to be sacred. For since it does not grow 
upon the ground like other plants, but upon trees, 
birches particularly, it was' believed that the seed 
of this plant fell down from heaven; and this 
belief was strengthened by the remarkable manner 
of its growth, so unlike other plants, with its forking opposite branches and shining white berries. 
After solemn prayers, which were half sung, half 
said, to the two gods Woden and Thor, and the 
two goddesses Hela and Hertha, the captive men 
were one after the other laid each upon his back 
on the altar, so that his head hung down over the 
edge of the altar/ " 
" stop, Ditto ! " cried Maggie. 
 
"Why?" 
" It is too horrible*" 
" It is pretty horrible. But men did it, and men 
suffered it. Can't you hear it ? " 
" Men were dreadful ! " 
" Men are dreadful, where the light of the Gospel has not come. ' The dark places of the earth 
are full of the habitations of cruelty.' " 
" Tell me about those gods and goddesses." 
" Were those Saxon Druids ? " Flora asked. 
" It sounds so. But I don't know the gods of the 
Teutons as well as I do those of the Greeks ; I can't 
tell you much about Woden and Thor, Maggie. 
We'll look when we go home. Now am I to go 
on?" 
"I suppose so. yes, I want you to go on. 
But it is dreadful." 
"Well, the captives werfc laid on the altar, as I 
read, 'and the priests cut their throats with their 
knives of flint. When the quivering victim had 
ceased to bleed, the body was taken up by the 
young warriors and cast into the Deep Moor, where 
it immediately sunk in the bog. Landolf had not 
recovered from the shock for he had never seen a 
human sacrifice before, having gone while yet a 
boy into the country of the Christians when his 
attention was fettered by another dreadful drama. 
" ' Some of the young men fetched a long and 
