browm maid ; ” and Adrienne ! — a little lithe midget, with 
great, saucy brown eyes, an impertinent nose, a rosebud 


 


mouth, a fair, satiny skin, and a great coil of rippling 
golden hair, that looked as if it would tumble down the 
next moment. How she contrived to make it stay just at 
that point, I could not determine. Jo had two long 
thick curls tied together in the neck, and some short ones 
hanging about her eyes ; though the “ banged ” style had 
not fully come in yet. 

Mrs. Henderson was dressed in black silk. I found 
afterward that her wardrobe consisted of just four dresses, 
— a very shabby and disreputable wTapper wdth frayed 
sleeves, and pockets, and border ; a respectable wrapper 
made and trimmed in the same manner, black silk and 
some kind of purple stuff; a very handsome black silk 
trimmed with thread lace and velvet ; and an ordinary one ' 
with less velvet, and the lace Brussels, — the best one made 
over when it had grown shabby. A full white lace frill 
was around her neck, fastened by a single diamond. For 
ordinary, she wore a rather soiled Shetland shawl, that 
was alwayS dropping off her shoulders, and sliding about. 
On state occasions it was replaced by one of very hand- 
some black lace. 

I learned in the course of the conversation that “ pa ” had 
gone to Virginia. When grown-up men and women say 
“ ma ” and “pa,” I instantly think of Mrs. Willifer and the 
cherub. But Mrs. Henderson was not at all on the order 
of the renowned Mrs. Willifer. She never would have 
hidden her elegant white hands in mittens. 

Reggy — his mother called him Fairfax, wdiich I 
thought an improvement — was up the Hudson, at Mrs. 
Somebody’s grand summer-house, wdiere they were ha\dng 
a birthday party, and a week of visiting, quite in the 
English style. 

“ We don’t have much good of Regg}%” explained 
Mollie. “ Some one is always carrying him off. He 
sings, dances to perfection, has such exquisite taste in 
tableaux and private theatricals, and such hosts of friends J 
I don’t wonder he never gets along at his work.” 



“ It would be better if he kept at it a little steadier,” 
commented Percy. ‘ ‘ And if he would ever finish any 
thing ! ” 

She did not say it crossly. Portia laughed. Ad, as they 
called her, contributed a sage observation ; and some one 
else laughed. They were bright, piquant, good-humored ; 
not a sentimental family, by any means, but bound together 
by an odd element of interest and affection, — going sepa- 
