fancy. It'll be some little relief to know that it's 
real. 
Cummings: "It's real enough, my dear fellow. 
And it is a trial, more than I could have be- 
lieved such a fantastic thing could be." 
Bartlett: " Trial? Ordeal by fire! Torment! I 
can't stand it any longer." 
Cumminys, musingly : " She is beautiful, isn't 
she, with that faint dawn of red in her cheeks, 
not a color, but a colored light like the light that 
hangs round a rose-tree's boughs in the early 
spring! And what a magnificent movement, what 
a stately grace ! The girl must have been a god- 
dess!" 
Bartlett: "And now she's a saint for sweet- 
ness and patience! You think she 's had nothing 
to suffer before from me ? You know me better ! 
Well, I 'm going away." 
 
Cummings: Perhaps it will be the best. You 
can go back with me to-morrow." 
Bartlett: "To morrow? Go back with you to- 
morrow? What are you talking about, man?" 
Cummings smiles. "I can't go to-morrow. I 
can't leave her hating me." --. 
Cummin gs: " I knew you never meant to go. 
Well, what will you do ? " 
Bartlett: "Don't be so cold-blooded! What 
would you do ? " 
Cummings: "I would have it out, somehow." 
Bartlett : " Oh, you talk ! How ? " 
Cummings: "I am not in love with Miss 
Wyatt." 
Bartlett : " Oh, don't try to play the cynic with 
me ! It doesn't become you. I know I Ve used 
you badly at times, Cummings. I behaved abomi- 
nably in leaving you to take the brunt of meeting 
General Wyatt that first day ; I said so then, and 
f shall always say it. But I thought you had for- 
given that." 
Cummings, with a laugh : " You make it hard to 
treat you seriously, Bartlett. What do you want 
 
me to do ? Do you want me to go to Miss Wyatt, 
and explain your case to her?" 
Bartlett, angrily: "No!" 
Gumming s : "Perhaps to Mrs. Wyatt?" 
Bartlett, infuriate : " No ! " 
, Cummings : " To the General ? " 
Bartlett, with sudden quiet: "You had better 
go away from here, Cummings while you can." 
Cummings : " I see you don't wish me to do 
anything, and you 're quite right. Nobody can do 
anything but yourself." 
Bartlett : " And what would you advise me to 
do?" 
Cummings: "I've told you that I would have 
it out. You can't make matters worse. You can't 
go on in this way indefinitely. It's just possible 
that you might find yourself mistaken, that Miss 
