" C'est bien vague," remarked the Baroness. 
" What are they like ? " 
" Like nothing you ever saw." 
" I am sure I am much obliged ; but that is 
hardly more definite. Seriously, they were glad 
to see you ? " 
" Enchanted. It has been the proudest day of 
my life. Never, never have I been so lionized ! 
I assure you, I was cock of the walk. My dear 
sister," said the young man, "nous n'avons qu'a 
nous tenir ; we shall be great swells ! " 
Madame Minister looked at him, and her eye 
exhibited a slight responsive spark. She touched 
her lips to a glass of wine, and then she said, "Describe them. Give me a picture." 
Felix drained his own glass. " Well, it 's in 
the country, among the meadows and woods; a 
wild sort of place, and yet not far from here. 
Only, such a road, rny dear ! Imagine one of the 
Alpine glaciers reproduced in mud. But you will 
not spend much time on it, for they want you to 
come and stay, once for all." 
" Ah," said the Barohess, " they want me to 
come and stay, once for all ? Bon." 
" It 's intensely rural, tremendously natural ; 
and all overhung with this strange white light, this 
far-away blue sky. There 's a big wooden house 
a kind of three-story bungalow ; it looks like 
a magnified Nuremberg toy. There was a gentle- 
man there that made a speech to me about it and 
 
called it a ' venerable mansion ; ' but it looks as if 
it had been built last night." 
"Is it handsome is it elegant?" asked the 
Baroness. 
Felix looked at her a moment, smiling. " It 's 
very clean ! No splendors, no gilding, no troops 
of servants ; rather straight-backed chairs. But 
you might eat off the floors, and you can sit down 
on the stairs." 
" That must be a privilege. And the inhabitants are straight-backed too, of course." 
" My dear sister," said Felix, " the inhabitants 
are charming." 
" In what style ? " 
" In a style of their own. How shall I de- 
scribe it? It's primitive; it's patriarchal; it's 
the ton of the golden age." 
"And have they nothing golden but their ton? 
Are there no symptoms of wealth ? " 
" I should say there was wealth without symp- 
toms. A plain, homely way of life : nothing for 
show, and very little for what shall I call it ? 
for the senses : but a great aisance, and a lot of 
money, out of sight, that comes forward very 
quietly for subscriptions to institutions, for repairing tenements, for paying doctor's bills ; perhaps even for portioning daughters." 
" And the daughters ? " Madame Miinster de- 
manded. " How many are there ? " 
   
" There are two, Charlotte and Gertrude." 
" Are they pretty ? " 
" One of them," said Felix. 
