passed for a striking specimen of the tall, muscular, fair-bearded, clear-eyed Englishman. Just 
now Beaumont 's clear eyes, which were small 
and of a pale gray color, had a rather troubled 
light, and, after glancing at Bessie Alden while 
she spoke, he rested them upon his kinsman. 
Mrs. Westgate meanwhile, with her superfluously pretty gaze, looked at every one alike. 
"You had better wait till the time comes," 
she said to her sister. " Perhaps next May you 
won 't care so much about London. Mr. Beaumont and I," she went on, smiling at her companion, "have had a tremendous discussion. 
We don 't agree about any thing. It 's perfectly 
delightful." 
" Oh, I say, Percy !" exclaimed Lord Lambeth. 
"I disagree," said Beaumont, stroking down 
his back hair, " even to the point of not thinking 
it delightful." 
" Oh, I say !" cried Lord Lambeth again. 
" I don 't see any thing delightful in my disagreeing with Mrs. Westgate," said Percy Beaumont. 
" Well, I do !" Mrs. Westgate declared ; and 
she turned to her sister. " You know you have 
to go to town. The phaeton is there. You had 
better take Lord Lambeth." 
At this point Percy Beaumont certainly looked 
straight at his kinsman ; he tried to catch his 
eye. But Lord Lambeth would not look at him ; 
his own eyes were better occupied. " I shall be 
very happy," cried Bessie Alden. "I am only 
going to some shops. But I will drive you about 
and show you the place " 
" An American woman who respects herself," 
said Mrs. Westgate, turning to Beaumont with 
her bright expository air, " must buy something 
every day of her life. If she can not do it herself, she must send out some member of her family for the purpose. So Bessie goes forth to fulfill my mission." 
The young girl had walked away, with Lord 
Lambeth by her side, to whom she was talking 
still ; and Percy Beaumont watched them as they 
passed toward the house. " She fulfills her own 
mission," he presently said ; " that of being a 
very attractive young lady." 
" I don 't know that I should say very attractive," Mrs. Westgate rejoined. "She is not so 
much that as she is charming when you really 
know her. She is very shy." 
" Oh, indeed !" said Percy Beaumont. 
"Extremely shy," Mrs. Westgate repeated. 
" But she is a dear good girl ; she is a charming 
species of girl. She is not in the least a flirt; 
that isn't at all her line ; she doesn 't know the 
alphabet of that sort of thing. She is very simple, very serious. She has lived a great deal in 
Boston, with another sister of mine the eldest 
of us who married a Bostonian. She is very 
cultivated, not at all like me ; I am not in the 
least cultivated. She has studied immensely and 
read every thing ; she is what they call in Boston  thoughtful. " 
"A rum sort of girl for Lambeth to get hold 
of !" his lordship 's kinsman privately reflected. 
"I really believe," Mrs. Westgate continued, 
"that the most charming girl in the world is a 
Boston superstructure upon a New York fonds ; 
or perhaps a New York superstructure upon a 
Boston fonds. At any rate, it 's the mixture," 
said Mrs. Westgate, who continued to give Percy 
