depends upon clothes with the best people ; but, with 
others, behavior hangs almost entirely upon dress. 
Many good habits are easily got rid of in the woods. 
Doubt sometimes seems to be felt whether Sunday is a 
legal holiday there. It becomes a question of casuistry 
with a clergyman whether he may shoot at a mark on 
Sunday, if none of his congregation are present. He 
intends no harm : he only gratifies a curiosity to see if 
he can hit the mark. Where shall he draw the line ? 
Doubtless he might throw a stone at a chipmunk or 
shout at a loon. Might lie fire at a mark with an 
air-gun that makes no noise ? He will not fish or 
hunt on Sunday (although he is no more likely to 
catch anything that day than on any other) ; but 
may he eat trout that the guide has caught on Sun- 
day, if the guide swears he caught them Saturday 
night ? Is there such a thing as a vacation in reli- 
gion ? How much of our virtue do we owe to inher- 
ited habits ? 
I am not at all sure whether this desire to camp 
outside of civilization is creditable to human nature, 
or otherwise. We hear sometimes that the Turk has 
been merely camping for four centuries in Europe. 
I suspect that many of us are, after all, really camp- 
ing temporarily in civilized conditions ; and that 
going into the wilderness is an escape, longed forp 
into our natural and preferred state. Consider what 
this " camping out " is, that is confessedly so agreeable 
to people most delicately reared. I have no desire 
to exaggerate its delights. 
The Adirondack wilderness is essentially unbroken. 
A few bad roads that penetrate it, a few jolting 
wagons that traverse them, a few barn-like boarding- 
houses on the edge of the forest, where the boarders 
are soothed by patent coffee, and stimulated to unnat- 
ural gayety by Japan tea, and experimented on by 
unique cookery, do little to destroy the savage f ascina* 
tion of the region. In half an hour, at any point, one 
can put himself into solitude and every desirable dis- 
comfort. The party that covets the experience of the 
camp comes down to primitive conditions of dress and 
equipment. There are guides and porters to carry 
the blankets for beds, the raw provisions, and the 
camp equipage ; and the motley party of the tempo- 
rarily decivilized files into the woods, and begins, per- 
haps by a road, perhaps on a trail, its exhilarating and 
weary march. The exhilaration arises partly from 
the casting aside of restraint, partly from the adven- 
ture of exploration ; and the weariness, from the in- 
terminable toil of bad walking, a heavy pack, and the 
grim monotony of trees and bushes, that shut out all 
prospect, except an occasional glimpse of the sky. 
Mountains are painfully climbed, streams forded, 
lonesome lakes paddled over, long and muddy '' car- 
ries " traversed. Fancy this party the victim of polit- 
ical exile, banished by the law, and a more sorrowful 
march could not be imagined ; but the voluntary 
hardship becomes pleasure, and it is undeniable that 
the spirits of the party rise as the difficulties increase. 
For this straggling and stumbling band the world is 
