stand thus until you are ready for it. The tapioca should have been
soaking two hours in a little cold water. When the soup is cold, take
off fat and scum—every particle; return to the scalded pot; boil up
once, put in tapioca, and strain the sugar-water upon it. Simmer ten
minutes, or until the tapioca is clear; skim once again, and pour out.
This is a fine company soup, but you should make it once or twice
for family dinners in order to manage it properly. It is really not
difficult.
HAM AND OMELETTE.
  3 lbs. of ham, cut in very thin slices.
  7 eggs.
  4 tablespoonfuls of milk.
  Pepper and a little salt.
  1 large spoonful of butter.
Lay the ham in boiling water fifteen minutes, then let it get cold. Cut
off all the rind and trim each slice neatly; then broil upon a greased
gridiron. Pepper and keep hot while you prepare the omelette. Beat
whites and yolks together with a few whirls of the beater; put in the
milk and beat fast for one minute; season and pour into a frying-pan in
which the butter is heating—not hissing. Shake briskly over the fire,
slipping your cake-turner under it to prevent sticking, and in four
minutes, double it over in the middle and turn out into a hot dish by a
dexterous inversion of the pan. Lay the ham about it in the dish.
LADIES’ CABBAGE.
Boil a firm cabbage in two waters, and let it get perfectly cold.
Chop fine; add two beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of melted butter,
pepper, salt, and a few spoonfuls of milk. Stir all up well; put into
a buttered bake-dish, strew with fine crumbs; bake, covered, half an
hour, then brown quickly. Eat hot.
BUTTERED RICE.
Boil a cup of rice soft in hot, salted water. Drain, and heap in a
deep dish. Fry an onion (sliced) very lightly in two tablespoonfuls
of butter; add pepper, and strain the hot butter over the rice in the
dish. Pass grated cheese with it.
SUMMER SALAD.
  3 heads of lettuce.
  2 handfuls cresses.
  1 cucumber, pared and sliced.
  4 radishes, also pared and cut up.
  3 hard-boiled eggs cut lengthwise into sixths.
Cut lettuces and cresses with a sharp knife, and mix with the other
vegetables in a bowl. Pour over them a dressing made as directed on
Thursday of the second week in this month. Lay the sliced eggs on the
top of all.
IRISH POTATO PIE.
  1 lb. mashed potato, rubbed through a colander.
  ½ lb. butter, creamed with the sugar.
  6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.
  1 lemon, squeezed into the hot potato.
  1 teaspoonful of nutmeg, and the same of mace.
  2 cups of sugar.
Mix as you would cake, putting the whites in last, and bake in open
shells of paste. Eat cold.
  Fourth Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  German Sago Soup.
  Roast Lamb.      Green Peas.
  Young Onions, Stewed.      Potato Puff.
  ——
  Strawberries and Cream.
