"Such nuggets are as rare as large prizes in a lottery, I suspect," said
Mark Nelson, who had a large share of plain common-sense.
Walter looked rather disappointed, having made up his mind that Tom
would certainly find a big lump of gold, and come home rich.
"Don't you think Tom will find some gold?" he asked.
"Yes, I have no doubt he will gather some gold-dust. I have no doubt,
too, that he will earn more than he or I can do at home; but I haven't
much faith in these extraordinary pieces of good luck."
"Still, Tom may find a nugget," persisted Walter.
"Yes, he may, and I shall be very glad if he does; but we must not
build too many air-castles on that chance."
"I wish I could see the dear boy again," sighed his mother, looking up
from the stocking she was laboriously darning.
"So do I," said Walter. "He would have a lot to tell us."
"California seems so far away," resumed Mrs. Nelson, "and he has no one
there to look after him, and mend his clothes--"
"And darn his stockings," said Walter, smiling.
"If he walked all the way across the continent," said Sarah, "I don't
believe he would have larger holes in his stockings than you have,
Walter."
"Oh, well, I exercise a good deal," said Walter. "Ask father if I
don't."
"Walter will be more successful as a farmer than as a scholar," said Mr.
Nelson. "He helps me a good deal."
"Tom was a good scholar," said Sarah, "and he was always ready to work
too. Walter will never astonish or electrify the world by his learning."
"I don't want to," said her brother. "It isn't in my line."
"That's true enough."
"Don't tease Walter," said Mrs. Nelson. "He helps your father a good
deal, and he is not a dunce."
"Thank you, mother, for taking my part. Sarah is going to be a
strong-minded woman. I should not wonder if she came out as a lecturer
on 'Woman's Rights' some time. I think I see her, with a pair of
iron-bowed spectacles on her nose, and her back hair tied up in a big
knot, flinging her arms about, and--"
"That'll do, Walter," said Sarah. "It is an unusually powerful effort
for you. I have no desire to lecture on 'Woman's Rights,' though I think
they ought to have them all the same."
"I guess you'll get yours. You'll make your husband stand round, if you
ever get one."
Sarah laughed good-naturedly, and retorted, "I shall pity your wife, if
she has to darn your stockings."
The next day about dinner-time Squire Hudson walked up to the front
door, and knocked. His approach was witnessed, not without trepidation,
for he was not an easy creditor.
The squire looked about him searchingly as he entered. He suspected that
the interest was not ready, and the farmer's grave face confirmed his
suspicions. That he was glad of this of course Mark Nelson did not
dream, for he was not aware of his creditor's deep-laid plans.
"A fine day!" said the squire, with suavity. "I hope you are well, Mrs.
Nelson."
"Pretty well, thank you, sir."
"Have you heard from Tom lately?"
"Yes; he had just reached California."
"Then of course he could not say anything of his prospects?"
"It was too soon."
"You must miss him a good deal--all of you."
"I am thinking of him all the time," said Mrs. Nelson.
"To be sure, that is natural in a mother. But if the boy does well, that
will repay you hereafter."
