     Your aunt and I hope that you will steer clear of the temptations
     of the city. Do not seek after vain amusements, but live a sober
     life, never spending a cent unnecessarily, and you will in time
     become a prosperous man. I would invite you to come and stop with
     us over Sunday, but for the railroad fare, which is high. It will
     be better to save your money, and put off the visit till you can
     afford it.
     Your uncle,
     PELATIAH KAVANAGH.
Reading this letter, it would hardly be supposed that the writer owned
ten thousand dollars in stocks, bonds, and mortgages, over and above an
excellent farm. Such, however, was the worldly position of the man who
sent Frank to the city in quest of a living, because he could not afford
to provide for him. With some men prudence is a virtue; with Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh it was carried so far as to be a positive defect.
CHAPTER XXI.
FRANK'S FIRST DISCOVERY.
So far as Frank could observe, Mr. Haynes was an active, energetic
salesman. He appeared to understand his duties thoroughly, and to go
about them in a straightforward manner. So far as his personal habits
were concerned, they seemed irreproachable. He was neatly but plainly
dressed, wore no jewelry, and carried a plain silver watch, which, when
new, probably did not cost over twenty dollars.
Frank had no difficulty in ascertaining where he lived. It was in a
brick house, on Waverley place, very unpretentious and certainly not
fashionable. In order to find out how much he paid for his
accommodations Frank visited the house on pretence of being in search of
board.
"We have a hall bed-room on the third floor, at five dollars a week,
including board," said the landlady. "How would that suit you?"
"I may have a friend board with me," said Frank. "In that case we should
need a large room. Have you any vacant?"
"There is the front room on the third floor. We would let it to two
gentlemen at eleven dollars for the two."
"Isn't the back room cheaper?" inquired our hero.
"Yes; but it is occupied by a business gentleman."
"Can you tell me his name? I may be acquainted with him."
"His name is Haynes."
"How much does he pay?"
"He pays eight dollars a week, and has the room alone."
"I suppose his room is not likely to become vacant soon?"
"Oh, dear, no. He has been with us for several years. We should be sorry
to lose him. Last Christmas he gave my daughter a present of a nice
silk-dress pattern."
Frank was struck by this information.
"I don't believe he paid anything for the silk," thought he. "I wish I
could find out."
He had learned all he cared for, and left, saying he might call again.
"His expenses seem very moderate for a man in his position," thought
Frank. "I wonder if he makes any investments."
Fortune favored our hero in the prosecution of his inquiry. Keeping
Haynes in sight, as was his custom, he observed that the latter, in
pulling out a handkerchief from the breast-pocket of his coat, had
brought with it a letter also. Frank, quickly and unobserved, picked it
up, and when he was alone looked at the address. It was directed to
James Haynes, at his residence in Waverley place. On the envelope was
the printed address of a real-estate broker in Brooklyn.
Frank knew that there was at that time considerable speculation in
Brooklyn real estate, and he examined the letter. It ran thus:--
     We have found a corner lot, with several lots adjoining, near
