noon, contrived to pass near Staniford. " Why, 
there wa'n 't no need of your doing it," he said, in 
a bated tone. " I could ha' had him out with the 
boat, soon enough." 

Staniford treasured up these meagre expressions 
of the general approbation, and would not have had 
them different. From this time, within the nar- 
row bounds that brought them all necessarily to- 
gether in some sort, Hicks abolished himself as 
nearly as possible. He chose often to join the sec- 
ond mate at meals, which Mr. Mason, in accordance 
with the discipline of the ship, took apart both 



 

from the crew and his superior officers. Mason 
treated the voluntary outcast with a sort of sarcas- 
tic compassion, as a man whose fallen state was not 
without its points as a joke to the indifferent ob- 
server, and yet might appeal to the pity of one who 
knew such cases through the misery they inflicted. 
Staniford heard him telling Hicks about his brother- 
in-law, and dwelling upon the peculiar relief which 
the appearance of his name in the mortality list 
gave all concerned in him. Hicks listened in apa- 
thetic patience and acquiescence ; but Staniford 
thought that he enjoyed, as much as he could enjoy 
anything, the second officer's frankness. For his 
own part, he found that having made bold to keep 
this man in the world he had assumed a curious re- 
sponsibility towards him. It became his business to 
show him that he was not shunned by his fellow- 
creatures, to hearten and cheer him up. It was 
heavy work. Hicks with his joke was sometimes 
odious company, but he was also sometimes amus- 
ing ; without it, he was of a terribly dull conver- 
sation. He accepted Stamford's friendliness too 
meekly for good comradery ; he let it add, appar- 
ently, to his burden of gratitude, rather than lessen 
it. Staniford smoked with him, and told him sto- 
ries ; he walked up and down with him, and made 
a point of parading their good understanding, but 
his spirits seemed to sink the lower. u Deuce take 
him ! " mused his benefactor ; "he 's in love with 
her ! " But he now had the satisfaction, such as it 



 

was, of seeing that if he was in love he was quite 
without hope. Lydia had never relented in her 
abhorrence of Hicks since the day of his disgrace. 
There seemed no scorn in her condemnation, but 
neither was there any mercy. In her simple life 
she had kept unsophisticated the severe morality 
of a child, and it was this that judged him, that 
