a queer sensation ; and yet, so simple and free and 
sweet in all her words and ways as might have become seven instead of seventeen. St. Leger might 
be glad if he could get her ! Yet she was inconvenient to Mr. Copley. She stood in his way, like 
the angel in Balaam's ; only not with a sword drawn, 
but with loving looks, and kisses, and graces, and 
wiles of affection ; and who could withstand an angel ? He gave up trying ; he let her have her way ; 
and when dinner time came, Dolly and he had an 
almost jovial dinner. Until Mr. Copley rose from 
table, unlocked a cupboard, and took out a bottle 
of wine. Dolly's heart gave a sudden leap that 
meant a throe of pain. Was there another fight 
 
to be fought? How should she fight another fight? 
But the emergency pressed her. 
" father," she cried, "is that sherry? " 
" No, it is better," said her father pouring out a 
glass, "is is Madeira." 
Dolly saw the hand tremble that grasped the 
bottle, and she sprang up. She went round to her 
father, fell down on her knees before him, and laid 
one hand on the hand that had just seized the 
glass, the other on his shoulder. 
" Please, father, don't take it ! please don't take 
it ! " she said in imploring tones. Mr. Copley 
paused. 
"Not take it? Why not?" said he. 
" It is not good for you. I know you ought not 
to take it, father. Please, please, don't ! " 
Dolly's eagerness and distress were too visible to 
be disregarded, by Mr. Copley at least. Her hand 
was trembling too. His still held the glass, but he 
looked uncertainly at Dolly, and asked her why it 
should not be good for him ? Every gentleman in 
the land drank wine that could afford it. 
"But father," said Dolly, "can you afford it?" 
" Yes," said Mr. Copley. " Get up, Dolly. Here 
is the wine ; it costs no more to drink it than to let 
it alone." And he swallowed the wine in the glass 
at a single draught. 
"0 father, don't take any more! " cried Dolly seeing a preparatory movement of the hand towards 
the bottle. " father, don't, don't ! One glass is 
enough. Don't take any more to-day!" 
 
"You talk like a goose, Dolly," said Mr. Copley 
filling his glass. "I feel better already for that. 
It has done me good." 
"You only think so. It is not doing you good. 
father, if you love me, put the bottle away. Don't 
take a drop more ! " 
Dolly had turned pale in her agony of pleading; 
and her father, conscious in part, and ashamed with 
that secret consciousness, and taken by surprise at 
her action, looked at her and did not drink. 
"What's the matter with you, child?" he said, 
trying for an unconcerned manner. "Why should 
not I take wine, like everybody else in the world?" 
" Father, it isn't good for people." 
"I beg your pardon; it is very good for me. 
Indeed I cannot be well without it." 
"That's the very thing, father; people cannot do 
