of the words ; it was the most calculated, the most 
dramatic little speech the Doctor had ever uttered. 
She felt that it was a great thing for her, under the 
circumstances, to have this fine opportunity of show- 
ing him her respect ; and jet there was something 
else that she felt as well, and that she presently ex- 
pressed. " I sometimes think that if I do what you 
dislike so much, I ought not to stay with you." 
" To stay with me ?" 
" If I live with you, I ought to obey you." 
" If that's your theory, it's certainly mine," said 
the Doctor, with a dry laugh. 
" But if I don't obey you, I ought not to live with 
you to enjoy your kindness and protection." 
This striking argument gave the Doctor a sud- 
den sense of having underestimated his daughter ; 
it seemed even more than worthy of a young wom- 
an who had revealed the quality of unaggressive 
obstinacy. But it displeased him displeased him 
deeply, and he signified as much. " That idea is in 
very bad taste," he said. " Did you get it from Mr. 
Townsend?" 
" Oh no ; it's my own," said Catherine, eagerly. 
" Keep it to yourself, then," her father answered, 
more than ever determined she should go to Eu- 
rope. 
XXIII. 
IF Morris Townsend was not to be included in 
this journey, rio more was Mrs. Penniman, who 
would have been thankful for an invitation, but 
who (to do her justice) bore her disappointment in 
a perfectly lady-like manner. " I should enjoy see- 
ing the works of Raphael and the ruins the ruins of 
the Pantheon," she said to Mrs. Almond ; " but, on 
the other hand, I shall not be sorry to be alone and 
at peace for the next few months in Washington 
Square. I want rest ; I have been through so much 
in the last four months." Mrs. Almond thought it 
rather cruel that her brother should not take poor 
Lavinia abroad; but she easily understood that, if 
the purpose of his expedition was to make Catherine 
forget her lover, it was not in his interest to give his 
daughter this young man's best friend as a compan- 
ion. " If Lavinia had not been so foolish, she might 
visit the ruins of the Pantheon," she said to herself ; 
and she continued to regret her sister's folly, even 
though the latter assured her that she had often 
heard the relics in question most satisfactorily de- 
scribed by Mr. Penniman. Mrs. Penniman was per- 
fectly aware that her brother's motive in undertak- 
ing a foreign tour was to lay a trap for Catherine's 
constancy ; and she imparted this conviction very 
frankly to her niece. 
" He thinks it will make you forget Morris," she 
said (she always called the young man "Morris" 
now) : " out of sight, out of mind, you know. He 
thinks that all the things you will see over there 
will drive him out of your thoughts." 
Catherine looked greatly alarmed. " If he thinks 
that, I ought to tell him beforehand." 
