ply, without excuse or disguise ; he did not ask her again. 
The expedition was to start on Monday night. The whole 
village, in the mean time, had been carefully intrusted with 
the secret that it was to go on Tuesday. But on Sunday 
evening Honor discovered that before midnight the hounds 
were to be let slip. The very soldiers themselves did not 
know it. How did the girl learn it, then ? She divined it 
from some indefinable signs in Royce. Even Adelaide did 
not suspect it ; and Stephen saw only the girl's own restless 
ness. She slipped away like a ghost so like one that Stephen 
himself did not see her go. He followed her, however, almost 
immediately ; it was too late for her to go through the village 
alone. He was some distance behind her. To his surprise, 
she did not go homeward, but walked rapidly down toward 
the river-road. There was fickle moonlight now and then ; 
he dropped still farther behind, and followed her, full of con 
jecture, which was not so much curiosity as pain. It was 
still early in the evening, yet too late for her to be out there 
on the river-road alone. This innocent young girl this child 
where, where was she going ? He let her walk on for a 
mile, and then he made up his mind that he must stop her. 
They were far beyond the houses now, and the road was 
lonely and wild ; the roar of the river over its broad, rock- 
 
dotted, uneven bed, hid the sound of his footsteps as he 
climbed up the steep bank, ran forward, and came down into 
the road in advance of her. 
" Where are you going, Miss Honor ? " he said, showing 
himself, and speaking quietly. 
She started back, and gasped out his name. 
" Yes, it is I," he answered, " Stephen Wainwright. I am 
alone ; you need not be frightened." 
She came close up to him and took his hand. 
" Do not stop me," she said entreatingly. " I am on an 
errand of life and death ! " 
" I will go in your place, Honor." 
" You can not." 
" Yes, I can. Rutyou shall not." 
" Will you betray me, then ? " she said, in an agonized 
tone. 
" No ; but you will tell me what it is, and I will go for 
you." 
" I tell you, you can not go." 
" Why ? " 
"You do not know; and, besides you would not." 
" I will do anything you ask me to do," said Stephen. 
" Anything ? " 
" Anything." 
She hesitated, looking at him. 
" Do you give me your word ? " 
"I do." 
" But but it is an enormous thing you are doing for me." 
" I know it is." 
" Oh, let me go let me go myself ! " she cried suddenly, 
with a half sob ; " it is so much better." 
" I will never let you go," said Stephen. His voice was in 
flexible. She surveyed him tremulously, hopelessly ; then sank 
down upon her knees, praying, but not to him. Stephen took 
off his hat, and waited, bareheaded. It was but a moment ; 
then she rose. " My cousin, Richard Eliot, my uncle's eldest 
