candy, and a splendid wax doll with real hair I For she 
had no business to keep Queenie so long, and Queenie 
never staid home with them now, and 
But Queenie was telling Miss Madeira about the lovely 
drive, when Moppet cried out, 
" Oh, I saw you ! I saw you ! And you had on Miss Fay's 
beautiful white hat, and you looked magnificent ! I was out 
on the avenue buying a spool of silk for auntie Madeira, and 
you flashed by. I knew Miss Fay, but oh, wasn't it funny that 
I didn't know you ? Dear Queenie, won't you buy a white 
hat with blue velvet and a beautiful blue feather, and " 
" Let me eat a little mouthful of supper, and then I must 
be off Have you all been good children, and not worried 
auntie Madeira ? Yes, Polly, I won't forget to kiss you, 
and you shall have the wagon some day "when the 
debts are all paid, she was about to add, but checked her- 
self. 
It seemed as if the little crew would never get done 
kissing her. She was seldom impatient with them, though 
sometimes their caresses had to be shortened. Tip was 
never home early enough to see her to the theatre, but she 
often went with Miss Fay, as she had engaged to, this 
evening. 
The children had been rendered wildly happy by the in- 
dulgence of a matinee, and now Cissy's great ambition was 
to have a lovely dress, and dance on the stage, just like 
Queenie. Miss Madeira shook her head gravely. 
Were they all to go on, and be dependent upon Queen- 
ie's exertions for their chief support ? She often thought 
it over. Would she dare begin dress-making in a great 
city, where style and fashion overwhelmed one ? And the 
pittance she could earn, even with Queenie's assistance, 
would be so small. There was her little cottage in the 
country, but if they went thither Tip must be left alone to 
struggle with the temptations that beset homeless youths. 
Could she even take care of the others, then ? and the poor 
woman would shake her head slowly. 
Tip and she used to talk it over sometimes. The big 
boy was getting to be such a comfort to her, so thoughtful 
and sensible. He had improved so much that his employ- 
ers had raised his wages a dollar a week ; but what was 
eight dollars to that great crowd ! And so they went on, 
trying to be hopeful. 
There had been some talk of changing the play, but the 
house was still crowded, and the manager making money. 
But Queenie knew, in any event, she would not want for 
an engagement. She did not trouble herself about the fu- 
ture, but just lived in her art and in the present. 
Queenie found, in making that one exception to her 
strict seclusion, she had opened the door to numerous invi- 
tations. 
"Though I really don't see why you should make such a 
nun of yourself," said Dolly Denzil. " If you adopt the 
stage as a profession, and you can make money no other 
way as easily, you can hardly help coming in contact with 
your fellow-creatures. Your youth and inexperience 
shield you a good deal here, but it is bad in another way. 
It makes enemies for you. Women begin to hate the 
one who seems to stand on a higher pedestal of goodness 
than the others. Not that I should want you to go down 
