free enough, certainly. But it's tiie general fact I 
mean ; I wish you would tell him about the general 
fact. I think he would believe you, because he 
knows you know a great deal about history and all 
that. I don't mean this evening, but some time when 
it is convenient. He didn't want to come in — he 
wanted to stay in the carriage and smoke a cigar ; he 
thought you wouldn't like it, his coming with me 
the first time. But I told him he needn 't mind that, 
for I would certainly explain. I would be very care- 
ful to let you know that I brought him only as a 
substitute. A substitute for whom ? A substitute 
for my husband, of course. My dear Mrs. Vivian, of 
course T ought to bring you some pretty message 
from Gordon — that he is dying to come and see you, 
only that he had nineteen letters to write and that he 
couldn 't possibly stir from his fireside. I suppose a 
good wife ought to invent excuses for her husband — 
ought to throw herself into the breach; isn't that 
what they call it ? But T am afraid I am not a good 
wife. Do you think I am a good wife, Mr. Longue- 
ville ? You once stayed three months with us, and 
you had a chance to see. I don't ask you that seri- 
ously, because you never tell the truth. I always 
do ; so I will say I am not a good wife. And then 
the breach is too big, and I am too little. Oh, I am 
too little, Mrs. Vivian; I know I am too little. I 
am the smallest woman living ; Gordon can scarcely 
Bee me with a microscope, and I believe he has the 
most powerful one iii America. He is going to get 
another here; that is one of the things he came 
abroad for ; perhaps it will do better. I do tell the 
truth, don't I, Mrs. Vivian ? I have that merit, if I 
haven 't any other. You once told me so at Baden ; 
you said you could say one thing for me, at any rate 
— that I didn' t tell fibs. You were very nice to me 
at Baden," Blanche went on, with her little intent 
smile, laying her hand in that of her hostess. " You 
see, I have never forgotten it. So, to keep up my 
reputation, I must tell the truth about Gordon. He 
simply said he wouldn 't come — voila ! He gave no 
reason and he didn' t send you "any pretty message. 
He simply declined, and he went out somewhere else. 
So you see he isn't writing letters. I don't know 
where he can have gone ; perhaps he has gone to the 
theatre. I know it isn 't proper to go to the theatre 
on Sunday evening; but they say charity begins at 
home, and as Gordon's doesn 't begin at home, per- 
haps it doesn 't begin anywhere. I told him that if 
he wouldn 't come with me I would come alone, and 
he said I might do as I chose — that he was not in 
a humor for making visits. I wanted to come to you 
very much ; I had been thinking about it all day ; 
and I am so fond of a visit like this in the evening, 
without being invited. Then I thought perhaps you 
had a salon — doesn 't , every one in Paris have a 
salon ? I tried to liave a salon in New York, only 
Gordon said it wouldn 't do. He said it wasn 't in our 
manners. Is this a salon to-night, Mrs. Vivian ? Oh, 
do say it is ; I should like so much to see Captain 
