"I don't know nothin' about books. I don't have no use for no books, my 
own self. I don't read none--'cept my 'little blue John.'" 
"Your 'little blue John'? What is that?" 
"I s'pose you have a big one." 
"I do not know what you mean." 
"I don't mean nothin'," said the woman impatiently. "There's my 'little 
blue John'--up on the mantel shelf; you can look at it if you want to." 
Looking to the high shelf above the kitchen fireplace, Rotha saw a little 
book lying there. Taking it down, she was greatly astonished to find it a 
copy of the gospel of John, a little square copy, in limp covers, very 
much read. More surprised Rotha could hardly have been. 
"Why, do you like this?" she involuntarily exclaimed. 
"Sometimes I think I do,"--was Mrs. Purcell's ambiguous, or ironical, 
answer; as she carefully spread neat cloths over her pans of bread. Rotha 
wondered at the woman. She was handsome, she had a good figure and 
presence; but there was a curious mixture of defiance and recklessness in 
her expression and manner. 
"I see you have read it a good deal." 
"It's easy readin',"--was the short answer. 
"Do you like the gospel of John so much better than all the rest of the 
Bible?" 
"I don' know. The rest has too many words I can't make out." 
"Well, I am very fond of the gospel of John too," said Rotha. "I think 
everybody is,--that loves Christ." 
"Do you love him?" Mrs. Purcell asked quickly and with a keen look. 
"Yes, indeed. Do you?" 
Mrs. Purcell laughed a little laugh, which Rotha could not understand. "I 
aint one o' the good folks"--she said. 
"But you might love him, still," said Rotha, drawn on to continue the 
conversation, she hardly knew why, for she certainly believed the woman's 
last assertion. 
"The folks that love him are good folks, aint they?" 
"They ought to be," said Rotha slowly. 
"Well, that's what I think. There's folks that say they love him, and I 
can't see as they're no better for it. I can't." 
"Perhaps they are trying to be better." 
"Do you think Mis' Busby is?" 
The question came with such sharp quickness that Rotha was at a loss how 
to answer. 
"She says she do. I aint one o' the good folks; and sometimes I tells Joe 
I'm glad I aint." 
"But Mrs. Purcell, that is not the way to look at it. I have seen other 
people that said they loved Christ, and they lived as if they did. They 
were beautiful people!" 
Rotha spoke with emphasis, and Mrs. Purcell gave her one of her sideway 
glances. "I never see no such folks," she returned cynically. 
"I am very glad I have," said Rotha; "and I know religion is a blessed, 
beautiful truth. I have seen people that loved Jesus, and were a little 
bit like him in loving other people; they did not live for themselves; 
they were always taking care of somebody, or teaching or helping 
somebody; making people happy that had been miserable; and giving, 
everywhere they could, pleasure and comfort and goodness. I have seen 
such people." 
"Where did they live?" 
"In New York." 
"Was they in Mis' Busby's house?" 
"Not those I was speaking of." 
"When I see folks like that, I'll be good too," was Mrs. Purcell's 
conclusion. 
"But you love this little book?" said Rotha, recurring to the thumb-worn 
