ing’s experiences had wonderfully built up his 
confidence; the poor little ash-cat was already more 
wonted to his strange garret, after four days’ habit, 
than a mature person could have become in a full 
month. A child’s facility in accommodating itself 
to circumstances was never more strikingly illus- 
trated. 
Let us privileged ones htury to the great banquet- 
ing-room and have a glance at matters there while 
Tom is being made ready for the imposing occasion. 
It is a spacious apartment, with gilded pillars and 
pilasters, and pictured walls and ceilings. At the 
door stand tall guards, as rigid as statues, dressed 
in rich and picturesque costumes, and bearing hal- 
berds. In a high gallery which runs all around the 
place is a band of musicians and a packed com- 
pany of citizens of both sexes, in brilliant attire. 
In the center of the room, upon a raised platform, 
is Tom’s table. Now let the ancient chronicler 
speak: 
“A gentleman enters the room bearing a rod, 
and along with him another bearing a table-doth, 
which, after they have both kneeled three times with 
the utmost veneration, he spreads upon the table, 
and after kneeling again they both retire ; then come 
two others, one with the rod again, the other with 
a salt-cellar, a plate, and bread; when they have 
kneeled as the others had done, and placed what was 
brought upon the table, they too retire with the 
same ceremonies performed by the first; at last 
come two nobles, richly clothed, one bearing a 
tasting-knife, who, after prostrating themselves in 
the most graceful manner, approach and rub the 
table with bread and salt, with as much awe as if 
the king had been present.” 
So end the solemn preliminaries. Now, far down 
the echoing corridors we hear a bugle-blast, and the 
indistinct cry, "Place for the king! way for the 
king’s most excellent majesty!” These sounds are 
momently repeated — they grow nearer and nearer — 
and presently, almost in our faces, the martial note 
peals and the cry rings out, “Way for the king!” 
At this instant the shining pageant appears, and 
files in at the door, with a measured march. Let 
the chronicler speak again: 
“First come Gentlemen, Barons, Earls, Knights 
of the Garter, all richly dressed and bareheaded; 
next comes the Chancellor, between two, one of 
which carries the royal scepter, the other the Sword 
of State in a red scabbard, studded with golden 
fleurs-de-lis, the point upwards; next comes the King 
himself — whom, upon his appearing, twelve trumpets 
and many drums salute with a great burst of welcome, 
whilst all in the galleries rise in their places, 
crying ‘God save the King!’ After him come 
nobles attached to his person, and on his right and 
left march his guard of honor, his fifty Gentlemen 
Pensioners, with gilt battle-axes.” 
This was all fine and pleasant. Tom’s pulse beat 
high and a glad light was in his eye. He bore himself 
