" How can I encourage him ? " 
" I don't know. Your father must tell you that." 
 
Pansy said nothing for a moment ; she only continued to 
smile as if she were in possession of a bright assurance. " There 
is no danger no danger ! " she declared at last. 
There was a conviction in the way she said this, and a felicity 
in her believing it, which made Isabel feel very awkward" She 
felt accused of dishonesty, and the idea was disgusting. To 
repair her self-respect, she was on the point of saying that 
Lord Warburton had let her know that there was a danger. 
Eut she did not ; she only said in her embarrassment rather 
wide of the mark that he surely had been most kind, most 
friendly. 
" Yes, he has been very kind," Pansy answered. " That's 
what I like him for." 
" Why then is the difficulty so great ? " 
" I have always felt sure that he knows that I don't want 
what did you say I should do? to encourage him. He knows 
I don't want to marry, and he wants me to know that he there- 
fore won't trouble me. That's the meaning of his kindness. 
It's as if he said to me, ' I like you very much, but if it doesn't 
please you I will never say it again.' I think that is very kind, 
very noble," Pansy went on, with deepening positiveness. " That 
is all we have said to each other. And he doesn't care for me, 
either. Ah no, there is no danger ! " 
Isabel was touched with wonder at the depths of perception 
of which this submissive little person was capable ; she felt 
afraid of Pansy's wisdom began almost to retreat before it. 
" You must tell your father that," she remarked, reservedly. 
" I think I would rather not," Pansy answered. 
" You ought not to let him have false hopes." 
" Perhaps not ; but it will be good for me that he should. 
So long as he believes that Lord Warburton intends anything of 
the kind you say, papa won't propose any one else. And that 
will be an advantage for me," said Pansy, very lucidly. 
There was something brilliant in her lucidity, and it made 
Isabel draw a long breath. It relieved her of a heavy responsi- 
bility. Pansy had a sufficient illumination of her own, and 
Isabel felt that she herself just now had no light to spare from 
her small stock. Nevertheless it still clung to her that she must 
be loyal to Osmond, that she was on her honour in dealing with 
his daughter. Under the influence of this sentiment she threw 
out another suggestion before she retired a suggestion with 
which it seemed to her that she should have done her utmost. 
" Your father takes for granted at least that you would like to 
marry a nobleman." 
 
Pansy stood in the open doorway ; she had drawn back the 
curtain for Isabel to pass. " I think Mr. Eosier looks like one ! >; 
she remarked, very gravely. 
XLVL 
LORD WARBURTON was not seen in Mrs. Osmond's drawing- 
room for several days, and Isabel could not fail to observe that 
her husband said nothing to her about having received a letter 
from him. She could not fail to observe, either, that Osmond 
was in a state of expectancy, and that though it was not agree- 
able to him to betray it, he thought their distinguished friend 
kept him waiting quite too long. At the end of four days he 
alluded to his absence. 
