ulousness of the last two words sends a smile to her still 
rather wan face, and she asks with an arch credulousness, — 
" Do you really suppose Christmas would confide any of 
her ponderous secrets to me? " 
He laughs too. Of what avaQ is it to open one's finer 
nature to her ; to appeal to any pure, sweet sensitiveness 
such as he has fancied all women must possess? Dolly 
Allidre has stood in her short life so completely under the 
shadow of the reverent trust and appreciation he has paid 
her mother, that he has believed no daughter of Mrs. 
Allaire's could be deficient in fine and noble qualities. 
All this long time of absence should have done some- 
thing for Dolly ; but with a secret sigh he finds her still 
the child, without the graces of innocent fascination. 
There is a soft swish as of a trained dress coming down 
the stairs. St. George straightens himself a trifle, and 
Dolly rises, trying to pick up her rug; but making a 
graceful failure of it, St. Goie does it for her. 
" Put it in the hammock," she begs languidly. 
"How pale you are, Dolly ! " is Miss Ormiston's oom- 
Aent. " Have you not been over-exerting?" Then she 
 
 
 
colors faintly with the thought of the natoral agitation 
she must feel at meeting her lover after so long an ab- 
sence. 
St. Greorge's fine sense upbraids him for brutality ; yet 
he seems to himself not lacking in delicacy. Dolly gets 
settled in the hammock and looks very picturesque with 
her bronze-gold hair blown about her white forehead. 
The wonderful bloom of her cheeks has mostly faded, 
and as Christmas watches her a strange feeling of awe 
thrills through her. Is not Dolly more seriously ill than 
any one believes? 
Not stranger does it seem to Christmas Ormiston than 
to him, that they three should be sitting here with such 
defined relationships between them, mysterious as well. 
What has given her this subtile ease and self-possession in 
the presence of St. George ? Nay, she can even inquire into 
his joumeyings, and he describes them well, eloquently. 
That land of weird beauty and antiquity, the birthplace of 
olderreligions, of curious lore, of strange haunts and silences 
that might well have been chosen by the severer gods to 
whom human souls are but the everlasting food to nour- 
ish them. St. Greorge's sensitive and artistic appreciation 
is an inspiration in itself. Miss Ormiston listens in a rapt 
sort of a way. This was the St. George of Philip Donald- 
son's belief, and she did not wonder now that they two 
might pass half the night away in conversation. 
Dolly grows restless presently. She is one of the 
women who can endure no kind of a rival. So far she 
and Christmas have never come into absolute contact 
where admiration is concerned. For a while she listens 
warily, then rouses herself and joins them. That they 
have access to something higher and more grand than the 
artificial requirements of her life does not in the least 
disconcert her. She can assume an interest that she does 
not feel, that she does not even believe in, and tincture it 
■o with her own grace that her listeners are compelled to 
