pleasure. Marcia was a lady ; she had a good edu 
cation ; she had been away two years at school ; and, 
 
when she came back at the end of the second winter, 
he knew that she had fallen in love with him at 
sight. He believed that he could time it to a second. 
He remembered how he had looked up at her as he 
passed, and she had reddened, and tried to turn away 
from the window as if she had not seen him. Bart- 
ley was still free as air ; but if he could once make 
up his mind to settle down in a hole like Equity, lie 
could have her by turning his hand. Of course she 
had her drawbacks, like everybody. She was proud, 
and she would be jealous ; but, with all her pride 
and her distance, she had let him see that she liked 
him ; and with not a word on his part that any one 
could hold him to. 
" Hollo ! " he cried, with a suddenness that startled 
the boy, who had finished his meditation upon Bart- 
ley 's trousers, and was now deeply dwelling on his 
boots. " Do you like em ? See what sort of a shine 
you can give em for Sunday-go-to-meeting to-morrow 
morning." He put out his hand and laid" hold of the 
boy 's head, passing his fingers through the thick red 
hair. " Sorrel-top ! " he said, with a grin of agreea 
ble reminiscence. "They emptied all the freckles 
they had left into your fax^e, didn 't they, Andy ? " 
This free, joking way of Bartley 's was one of the 
things that made him popular; he passed the time of 
day, and was give and take right along, as his admir 
ers expressed it, from the first, in a community where 
his smartness had that honor which gives us more 
smart men to the square mile than any other country 
in the world. The fact of his smartness had been 
affirmed and established in the strongest manner by 
the authorities of the college at which he was gradu 
ated, in answer to the reference he made to them 
when negotiating with the committee in charge for 
the place he now held as editor of the Equity Free 
Press. The faculty spoke of the solidity and vari- 
 
ety of his acquirements, and the distinction with 
which he had acquitted himself in every branch of 
study he had undertaken. They added that he de 
served the greater credit because his early disadvan 
tages as an orphan, dependent on his own exertions 
for a livelihood, had been so great that he had entered 
college with difficulty, and with heavy conditions. 
This turned the scale with a committee who had 
all been poor boys themselves, and justly feared the 
encroachments of hereditary aristocracy. They per 
haps had their misgivings when the young man, in 
his well-blacked boots, his gray trousers neatly 
fitting over them, and his diagonal coat buttoned 
high with one button, stood before them with his 
thumbs in his waistcoat pockets, and looked down 
over his mustache at the floor with sentiments con- 
corning their wisdom which they could not explore ; 
they must have resented the fashionable keeping of 
everything about him, for Bartley wore his one suit 
