     "We passed through the spacious court, up the noble staircase, and
     through the long suites of apartments of this splendid edifice,
     most of them silent and vacant, the casements closed to keep out
     the heat, so that a twilight reigned throughout the mighty pile,
     not a little emblematical of the dubious fortunes of its inmates.
     It seemed more like traversing a convent than a palace. I ought to
     have mentioned that in ascending the grand staircase we found the
     portal at the head of it, opening into the royal suite of
     apartments, still bearing the marks of the midnight attack upon the
     palace in October last, when an attempt was made to get possession
     of the persons of the little Queen and her sister, to carry them
     off.... The marble casements of the doors had been shattered in
     several places, and the double doors themselves pierced all over
     with bullet holes, from the musketry that played upon them from the
     staircase during that eventful night. What must have been the
     feelings of those poor children, on listening, from their
     apartment, to the horrid tumult, the outcries of a furious
     multitude, and the reports of fire-arms echoing and reverberating
     through the vaulted halls and spacious courts of this immense
     edifice, and dubious whether their own lives were not the object of
     the assault!
     "After passing through various chambers of the palace, now silent
     and sombre, but which I had traversed in former days, on grand
     court occasions in the time of Ferdinand VII., when they were
     glittering with all the splendor of a court, we paused in a great
     saloon, with high-vaulted ceiling incrusted with florid devices in
     porcelain, and hung with silken tapestry, but all in dim twilight,
     like the rest of the palace. At one end of the saloon the door
     opened to an almost interminable range of other chambers, through
     which, at a distance, we had a glimpse of some indistinct figures
     in black. They glided into the saloon slowly, and with noiseless
     steps. It was the little Queen, with her governess, Madame Mina,
     widow of the general of that name, and her guardian, the excellent
     Arguelles, all in deep mourning for the Duke of Orleans. The little
     Queen advanced some steps within the saloon and then paused. Madame
     Mina took her station a little distance behind her. The Count
     Almodovar then introduced me to the Queen in my official capacity,
     and she received me with a grave and quiet welcome, expressed in a
     very low voice. She is nearly twelve years of age, and is
     sufficiently well grown for her years. She had a somewhat fair
     complexion, quite pale, with bluish or light gray eyes; a grave
     demeanor, but a graceful deportment. I could not but regard her
     with deep interest, knowing what important concerns depended upon
     the life of this fragile little being, and to what a stormy and
     precarious career she might be destined. Her solitary position,
     also, separated from all her kindred except her little sister, a
     mere effigy of royalty in the hands of statesmen, and surrounded by
     the formalities and ceremonials of state, which spread sterility
     around the occupant of a throne."
I have quoted this passage not more on account of its intrinsic
interest, than as a specimen of the author's consummate art of conveying
an impression by what I may call the tone of his style; and this appears
in all his correspondence relating to this picturesque and eventful
period. During the four years of his residence the country was in a
constant state of excitement and often of panic. Armies were marching
over the kingdom. Madrid was in a state of siege, expecting an assault
at one time; confusion reigned amid the changing adherents about the
person of the child Queen. The duties of a minister were perplexing
enough, when the Spanish government was changing its character and its
personnel with the rapidity of shifting scenes in a pantomime. "This
