She did not make any direct reply. “But I supposed that you only made
this distinction, as you call it, in cases where there is no immediate
danger; that in a matter of life and death you would waive it. Mrs.
Maynard is really--”
“There are no conditions under which I could not conscientiously refuse
to waive it.”
“Then,” cried Grace, “I withdraw the word! It is not ridiculous. It is
monstrous, atrocious, inhuman!”
A light of humorous irony glimmered in Dr. Mulbridge’s eye. “I must
submit to your condemnation.”
“Oh, it isn’t a personal condemnation!” she retorted. “I have no
doubt that personally you are not responsible. We can lay aside our
distinctions as allopathist and homoeopathist, and you can advise with
me”--
“It’s quite impossible,” said Dr. Mulbridge. “If I advised with you,
I might be--A little while ago one of our school in Connecticut was
expelled from the State Medical Association for consulting with”--he
began to hesitate, as if he had not hit upon a fortunate or appropriate
illustration, but he pushed on--“with his own wife, who was a physician
of your school.”
She haughtily ignored his embarrassment. “I can appreciate your
difficulty, and pity any liberal-minded person who is placed as you are,
and disapproves of such wretched bigotry.”
“I am obliged to tell you,” said Dr. Mulbridge, “that I don’t disapprove
of it.”
“I am detaining you,” said Grace. “I beg your pardon. I was curious to
know how far superstition and persecution can go in our day.” If
the epithets were not very accurate, she used them with a woman’s
effectiveness, and her intention made them descriptive. “Good-day,” she
added, and she made a movement toward the door, from which Dr. Mulbridge
retired. But she did not open the door. Instead, she sank into the chair
which stood in the corner, and passed her hand over her forehead, as if
she were giddy.
Dr. Mulbridge’s finger was instantly on her wrist. “Are you faint?”
“No, no!” she gasped, pulling her hand away. “I am perfectly well.” Then
she was silent for a time before she added by a supreme effort, “I have
no right to endanger another’s life, through any miserable pride, and
I never will. Mrs. Maynard needs greater experience than mine, and she
must have it. I can’t justify myself in the delay and uncertainty of
sending to Boston. I relinquish the case. I give it to you. And I will
nurse her under your direction, obediently, conscientiously. Oh!” she
cried, at his failure to make any immediate response, “surely you won’t
refuse to take the case!”
“I won’t refuse,” he said, with an effect of difficult concession. “I
will come. I will drive over at once, after dinner.”
She rose now, and put her hand on the door-latch. “Do you object to my
nursing your patient? She is an old school friend. But I could yield
that point too, if”--
“Oh, no, no! I shall be only too glad of your help, and your”--he was
going to say advice, but he stopped himself, and repeated--“help.”
They stood inconclusively a moment, as if they would both be glad of
something more to say. Then she said tentatively, “Good-morning,” and
he responded experimentally, “Good-morning”; and with that they
involuntarily parted, and she went out of the door, which he stood
holding open even after she had got out of the gate.
His mother came down the stairs. “What in the world were you quarrelling
with that girl about, Rufus?”
“We were not quarrelling, mother.”
“Well, it sounded like it. Who was she?
“Who?” repeated her son absently. “Dr. Breen.”
