to hold on to my faith, if I can, if I had no 
other reason, just as I should wish to keep my 
paintings or bronzes. But I know it is harder for 
a camel to go through the knee of an idol, as the 
little boy said, than for a student of science to 
enter the kingdom of heaven. Are you one of the 
two atheists, in the historic three doctors ? " 
" God forbid ! " she cried. " I am a seeker, still. 
That is all I mean to say. And I know I must 
seem " She paused, stricken by an unprece 
dented and beautiful blushing embarrassment. 
" What must you seem ? " 
" It was nothing, a foolish speech. It is time 
for you to go home, Mr. Yorke, and go to bed." 
" What must it make you seem ? I will go 
when I know. Tell me, you shall ! Indulge 
me, please." He limped over towards her ; his 
words fell over each other ; his figure towered 
above her. 
She gave one glance at his agitated face, and 
 
collected herself by a movement swift and secre 
tive as the opening of a water-lily. 
"I only meant to say that a woman usually 
naturally, perhaps is the guide in matters of 
belief. Spiritual superiority belongs to her histor 
ically, and prophetically too, I do not dispute. It 
occurred to me, at that moment, how it must strike 
a man, if she were below him on that basis; if 
she had no power to heighten or deepen his ideal, 
that was all. Good-night, Mr. Yorke. If you 
don't sleep, take that powder marked Cham. 5 
m. Now go ! " 
"You heighten and deepen every other ideal I 
have," said the young man, solemnly. "You can 
not fail me there. It will not be possible to you." 
His agitation had urged itself upon her now, 
against her will; he was half shocked, half trans 
ported, to see that a slow pallor advanced like a 
spirit towards him, over her resolute face. He 
watched it with a kind of awe, and made a gesture 
with one of his thin hands, as if to check an invisible
presence which he was not strong enough to 
meet. It was the movement of a sick man whose 
physical strength was spent by emotion. The 
physician perceived this instantly. 
" There is the office-bell," she said, in her
business tone. " I will answer it as I help you out." 
 
He made no reply, and they left the parlor in 
uneasy silence. He had tried to come on one 
crutch that night ; now, weakened with excite 
ment, he made bad work of the experiment. 
" Put your hand on my shoulder," ordered Doc 
tor Zay. 
"You are not tall enough," he objected. 
" I am strong enough," she insisted. 
He obeyed her, and thus came limping to the 
front door between the lady and the crutch. The 
patient who had rung the office-bell stood in the 
