"If you want your nephew, there he is, Captain Gildrock," replied
Pearl, pointing to the forward deck. "I don't think you have any right
to interfere with my affairs. I will put Dory Dornwood into one of your
boats, and you can take him away with you."
"All I want is my nephew; and I don't intend to meddle with what don't
concern me," said Captain Gildrock.
"That's the sort of man you are; and I always knew you were as
straightforward as a gun," added Pearl, delighted with this statement of
the owner of the steamer. "Which boat shall I put the boy into?"
Pearl sprang upon the forward deck, and rushed towards Dory. The boy did
not take kindly to this proceeding. He dodged around the foremast, and
leaped down into the standing-room.
"Captain Gildrock, this boat belongs to Dory, and Hawlinshed has taken
her from him by force," interposed the detective.
"My nephew stole the money with which he bought her," added Captain
Gildrock. "I don't think he owns her any more than I do."
"You are mistaken, sir. I don't know where your nephew got the money
with which he bought this boat, but the charge made against him in
Plattsburgh is not a true bill. I came over here to arrest Hawlinshed,
and that is the reason why I am a prisoner in this coop at this moment."
"You have no right to arrest me in the State of Vermont," protested
Pearl, standing on the forward deck. "Captain Gildrock, this is a
conspiracy. I had a little difficulty with my father, and this is a
trumped-up charge to get me back to Plattsburgh."
This was an entirely new presentation of the case, and Captain Gildrock
was confused by the differing statements.
"I am not disposed to interfere in this business. I came for my nephew,
and I was astonished and surprised to hear that he was accused of
robbery. All I want is my nephew."
"If you are willing to assist a robber to escape into Canada, Captain
Gildrock, I have nothing further to say," said Peppers. "If you take
your nephew away and leave things as you find them, that will be just
what you will do."
"Of course, I don't mean to render assistance to any fugitive from
justice," replied the captain, more perplexed than ever.
"If you will let us out of this place, I will prove to your satisfaction
that Hawlinshed is a robber," added the detective.
"And I can prove that I am the victim of a conspiracy," protested Pearl.
"I can prove it by Dory Dornwood, if he will only speak the truth, which
he never does, except by accident."
"I am sorry to hear such bad stories about my nephew," added the
captain. "I have been told that he was wild, and was going to ruin."
"He can't deny that he had a talk with my father," said Pearl; "and my
father and I don't agree very well."
Dory thought they didn't agree at all, but he determined not to say a
word on the forbidden topic. He had made up his mind in the beginning
not to go on board of the Sylph, and the present aspect of things made
him more decided than before. If his uncle and Pearl decided that he
should go into one of the boats, he meant to jump into the water, and
wade to the shore.
Captain Gildrock was silent, looking from the officer in the cuddy to
Pearl. He was considering what he should do. Peppers thought it was a
plain case. He desired the visitor to act for himself, after he had
looked the case over, and listened to the facts.
"I think I will hear what you have to say, officer," said he, after a
few moments' reflection. "It is none of my business; but I want my
nephew, though I don't like to do any wrong in taking him away. The only
way I can do to leave things as I find them is to let my nephew remain;
and I can't do that under the present circumstances. Mr. Hawlinshed,
will you unlock those doors?"
