was not there Helen sank rapidly. I took care of the poor girl for
weeks; she ate only from my hand. As she grew stronger, I taught her to
walk again, and carried her in my arms up and down stairs. When at last
she began to improve, she gained strength rapidly; she is now well, save
that she will never be able to walk far or dance. I think she is happy.
It seems a feeble thing to say, and yet it is something--I am always
kind to Helen.
"As for you--it was all a wild, sudden temptation.
"I will go back to my regiment (as to my being in the army, after that
attack on Sumter it seemed to me the only thing to do). I will make no
attempt to follow you. In short, I will do--as well as I can. It may not
be very well.
W. H."
     
That was all. Anne, miserable, lonely, broken-hearted, as she was, felt
that she had in one way conquered. She leaned her head against the tree
trunk, and sat for some time with her eyes closed. Then she tore the
letter into fragments, threw them into the river, and watched the slow
current bear them away. When the last one had disappeared, she rose and
went back to the hospital.
"The clean clothes have been brought in, Miss Douglas," said the
surgeon's assistant. "Can you sort them?"
"Yes," she replied. And dull life moved on again.
CHAPTER XXVII.
     "O Toil, O Loneliness, O Poverty, doing the right makes ye no
     easier."
The next morning the new nurses, long delayed, sent by the Weston Aid
Society, arrived at Number One, and Mary Crane, Mrs. Barstow, and Anne
were relieved from duty, and returned to their Northern home. During the
journey Anne decided that she must not remain in Weston. It was a hard
decision, but it seemed to her inevitable. This man whom she loved knew
that her home was there. He had said that he would not follow her; but
could she depend upon his promise? Even in saying that he would try to
do as well as he could, he had distinctly added that it might "not be
very well." She must leave no temptation in his path, or her own. She
must put it out of his power to find her, out of hers to meet him. She
must go away, leaving no trace behind.
She felt deeply thankful that at the present moment her movements were
not cramped by the wants of the children; for if they had been in
pressing need, she must have staid--have staid and faced the fear and
the danger. Now she could go. But whither? It would be hard to go out
into the broad world again, this time more solitary than before. After
much thought, she decided to go eastward to the half-house,
Jeanne-Armande having given her permission to use it. It would be at
least a shelter over her head, and probably old Nora would be glad to
come and stay with her. With this little home as background, she hoped
to be able to obtain pupils in the city, little girls to whom she could
be day governess, giving lessons in music and French. But the pupils:
how could she obtain them? Whose influence could she hope for? She could
not go to Tante, lest Helen should hear of her presence. At first it
seemed as if there were no one; she went over and over in vain her
meagre list of friends. Suddenly a remembrance of the little German
music-master, who had taught classical music, and hated Belzini, came to
her; he was no longer at the Moreau school, and she had his address. He
had been especially kind. She summoned her courage and wrote to him.
Herr Scheffel's reply came promptly and cordially. "I have your letter
received, and I remember you entirely. I know not now all I can promise,
as my season of lessons is not yet begun, but two little girls you can
have at once for scales, though much they will not pay. But with your
voice, honored Fräulein, a place in a church choir is the best, and for
