Douglas," she said, "if that man Campbell calls, leave me to deal with
him."
"How would you propose to do it?" asked Florence, smiling.
"I would give him a piece of my mind, you may depend upon that."
"He would be rude to you."
"In that case I would order him out of the house," said Mrs. Armstrong,
resolutely. "The man needs a lesson, and I should like to be the one to
give it to him."
"I shall be very glad to have you meet him in my place," said the young
lady. "An interview with him is something which I would gladly avoid."
"That you shall! I only hope he'll come soon. He'll find one woman that
isn't afraid of him."
"I am not afraid of him, Mrs. Armstrong, but I own that I am
apprehensive of what he may do. It would not surprise me at all if he
should make his appearance with some needy physician who for a fee will
be ready to pronounce me insane."
"Don't be alarmed, Miss Florence. I'll send the doctor packing, as well
as his employer. Perhaps he will pronounce me insane. If he does, he is
welcome to. I think he would find me an unsatisfactory patient."
"I think so too," said Florence, smiling, as she scanned the firm,
determined face and the tall and muscular form of her hostess, who
certainly would never be classed as a weak or timid woman.
On the afternoon of the third day a knock was heard at the door, for as
yet it was unprovided with a bell.
Mrs. Armstrong and Florence were sitting together.
The two glanced at each other, and the same thought came to each.
"It may be Orton Campbell," said Florence, who was the first to speak.
"Then let me go to the door. Stay where you are, Miss Douglas; I will
receive the gentleman."
But when the landlady opened the door she saw a man who looked like a
coachman. A covered carriage was at the gate, which he had evidently
driven.
"Well, sir, what can I do for you?" demanded the landlady, sharply.
"Is there a young lady living with you named Florence Douglas?" asked
the man.
"Miss Florence Douglas boards here," answered Mrs. Armstrong.
"I've got a message for her, ma'am."
"If it's from Mr. Orton Campbell, you can go back and tell him that she
won't receive any messages from him," said the landlady, resolutely.
"I don't know who you mean, ma'am," replied the man, in apparent
surprise. "I don't know any such gentleman."
"Then who sent you?" inquired the landlady, whose turn it was to be
surprised.
"It's a man just come from the mines," said the driver--"a Mr. Dewey."
Florence had drawn near to the head of the stairs in her interest to
hear who had called, and she caught the name of her lover. She came
flying down stairs, and demanded breathlessly, "What about Richard
Dewey? I am Miss Douglas, and your message is for me."
Jones, for it was he, touched his hat respectfully, and held out a note
penned on rough paper and written in pencil.
"This will explain everything, miss," he said.
Florence took the paper, and with some difficulty read it. It ran thus:
     "DEAR FLORENCE: I have struggled to reach you, but
     have been struck down by fever when I was nearly at
     the end of my journey. I have had bad luck at the
     mines, and was almost discouraged, when I learned
     that you were in San Francisco. Poor as I was, I
     determined to come to you, even at the risk of your
     misjudging me. I am not able to write much, and must
     defer particulars till I see you. I am staying at
