talent," he said. "You may be sure that I have 
employed a native architect for the large residential 
structure that I am erecting on the banks of the Ohio. 
I have sustained a considerable loss ; but are we not told 
that art is a consolation ? That 's why I have come to 
you, sir. In a tasteful home, surrounded by the memo 
rials of my wanderings, I hope to recover my moral tone. 
 
I ordered in Paris the complete appurtenances of a 
dining-room. Do you think you could do something 
for my library? It is to be filled with well-selected 
authors, and I think a pure white image in this style" 
pointing to one of Roderick 's statues "standing out 
against the morocco and gilt, would have a noble effect. 
The subject I have already fixed upon. I desire an 
allegorical representation of Culture. Do you think 
now," asked Mr. Leavenworth, encouragingly, "you 
could rise to the conception ? " 
" A most interesting subject for a truly serious mind," 
remarked Miss Blanchard. 
Roderick looked at her a moment, and then "The 
simplest thing I could do," he said, " would be to make 
a full-length portrait of Miss Blanchard. I could give 
her a scroll in her hand, and that would do for the 
allegory." 
Miss Blanchard coloured ; the compliment might be 
ironical ; and there was ever afterwards a reflection of 
her uncertainty in her opinion of Roderick 's genius. Mr. 
Leavenworth responded that, with all deference to Miss 
Blanchard 's beauty, he desired something colder, more 
monumental, more impersonal. " If I were to be the 
happy possessor of a likeness of Miss Blanchard," he 
added, " I should prefer to have it in no factitious 
disguise ! " 
Roderick consented to entertain the proposal, and 
while they were discussing it, Rowland had a little talk 
with the judicious Augusta. " Who is your friend ?" he 
asked. 
"A very worthy man. The architect of his own 
fortune which is magnificent. One of nature 's gentle 
men !" 
This was a trifle sententious, and Rowland turned to 
the bust of Miss Light. Like every one else in Rome 
by this time, Miss Blanchard had an opinion on the young 
girl 's beauty, and in her own fashion she expressed it in 
a quotable phrase. She looks half like a Madonna." 
Mr. Leavenworth and Roderick came to an under 
standing, and the young sculptor good-naturedly pro 
mised to do his best to rise to his patron 's conception. 
"His conception be hanged !" Roderick exclaimed, after 
he had departed. " His conception is sitting on an 
india-rubber cushion, with a pen in her ear and the lists 
of the stock exchange in her hand. I shall have to invent 
something myself. For the money I ought to be able to !" 
Mrs. Light meanwhile had fairly established herself in 
Roman society. "Heaven knows how!" Madame 
Grandoni said to Rowland, who had mentioned to her 
several evidences of the lady 's prosperity. " In such a 
case there is nothing like audacity. A month ago she 
knew no one but her washerwoman, and now I am told 
