about it.”
“I never saw the money before; and I didn’t know till this minute that
Dory had it,” protested Bolingbroke earnestly.
“He tells the exact truth,” added Dory. “Neither he nor any one but my
mother, who is at Genverres, knew that I had the money. I think you
had better hear the whole story, and then you can judge for yourself.”
Mr. Longbrook was quite willing to hear the story, for he was deeply
interested by this time. He asked Dory and his companion into the
store, and locked the door again. Bolingbroke gave his part of the
narrative first, and Dory finished it out.
“I believed Bolingbroke told me the truth; and I accepted Mr.
Lingerwell’s statement that one of the two must have stolen the
money,” said Dory. “When the skipper and engineer left the Juniper to
catch my passenger, I looked the steamer over, and found the
pocket-book. I put the piece of newspaper into the place where I took
out the bills, hoping that Mr. Lingerwell would suppose he had the
bills until he got to Burlington.”
Then followed the skipper’s account of the quarrel on board of the
Juniper, which confirmed Dory’s statement. It was as clear to the
merchant as it was to Dory, that the head man had stolen the money.
“Where is Lingerwell now?” asked Mr. Longbrook.
“He is on board of the Juniper, tied hand and foot; and the engineer
is keeping guard over him. He did not know I had been on board of the
Juniper in his absence; and he was sure that Greeze must have taken
the money from the pocket-book, and put the newspaper in its place.
You can do what you like with him.”
“I knew that man was a villain!” exclaimed Bolingbroke when Dory had
finished his explanation. “I saw why I was sent to the safe for the
cash-book, when it was almost within reach of his hands; and that was
one of my reasons for running away. I was a fool, but I was
frightened.”
“I wish I had known that Lingerwell was a rascal a little sooner.
Since he went after this young man yesterday, I have been examining my
books. I am satisfied that he has robbed me of hundreds, if not
thousands, of dollars. I can see just how he has done it. Now we will
go down and see him, and we will have a warrant for his arrest.”
By this time it was seven o’clock, and the merchant departed for the
warrant and the officer to serve it. Dory and Bolingbroke went with
him. As they passed the Van Ness House, Dory was not a little surprised
to see his uncle standing at the entrance of the hotel with quite a
little crowd of boys. The skipper counted ten of them, and he wondered
if they were to be pupils in the Beech-Hill Industrial School.
“You are here in good time, Theodore,” demanded Captain Gildrock, as
he recognized his nephew.
“I came up on a little business, uncle,” replied Dory.
“Very important business it was to me, Captain Gildrock,” added Mr.
Longbrook. “I am under very great obligations to him.”
The breakfast-bell rang, and the boys were sent in to obtain the
morning meal. The merchant gave an outline of the loss and recovery of
his money. The captain asked a great many questions, which were all
answered to his satisfaction. Then he insisted that the party should
breakfast with him.
Mr. Longbrook accepted the invitation, and they entered the hotel. In
the vestibule the merchant met the justice to whom he intended to
apply for the warrant. He stated his case to him, and the gentleman
promised to have the warrant ready by the time he had finished his
breakfast. The party seated themselves at the table.
“A telegram for you, Captain Gildrock,” said one of the clerks,
bringing the message to him.
“‘Dory away; no pilot; cannot go up the lake.--JEPSON,’” read the
