At last they spoke of carrying him back to the inn. 
" There must be three or four men," Rowland said, 
and they must be brought here quickly. I have not the 
least idea where we are." 
" We are at about three hours walk from home," said 
Singleton. " I will go for help ; I can find my way." 
" Remember whom you will have to face !" said Row 
land. 
"I remember," the excellent fellow answered. "There 
was nothing I could ever do for him in life ; I will do 
what I can now." 
He went off, and Rowland stayed there alone. He 
watched for seven long hours, and his vigil was for ever 
memorable. The most rational of men was for an hour 
the most passionate. He reviled himself with transcend 
ent bitterness, he accused himself of cruelty and injustice, 
he would have lain down there in Roderick 's place to 
unsay the words that had yesterday driven him forth on 
his lonely ramble. Roderick had been fond of saying 
that there are such things as necessary follies, and Row 
land was now proving it. At last he grew almost used 
to the dumb exultation of the cliff above him, and he 
tried to understand what had happened. Not that it 
helped him ; before the absoluteness of the fact one hypo 
thesis after another lost its interest. Roderick 's passion 
ate walk had carried him farther and higher than he knew ; 
he had outstayed supposably the first menace of the 
storm, and perhaps even found a defiant entertainment in 
watching it. Perhaps he had simply lost himself. The 
tempest had overtaken him, and when he tried to return 
it was too late. He had attempted to descend the cliff 
in the darkness, he had made the inevitable slip, and 
whether he had fallen fifty feet or three hundred little 
mattered now. The condition of his body indicated the 
shorter fall. Now that all was over Rowland understood 
how exclusively, for two years, Roderick had filled his 
life. His occupation was gone. 
Singleton came back with four men one of them the 
landlord of the inn. They had formed a sort of rude 
bier of the frame of a chaise a porteurs, and by taking a 
very roundabout course homeward were able to follow 
a tolerably level path and carry their burden with a 
certain decency. To Rowland it seemed as if the little 
procession would never reach the inn ; but as they drew 
near it he would have given his right hand for a longer 
delay. The people of the hotel came forward to meet 
them in a little silent solemn convoy. In the doorway, 
clinging together, appeared the two bereaved women. 
Mrs. Hudson tottered forward with outstretched hands 
and the expression of a blind person ; but before she 
reached her son Mary Garland had rushed past her, and, 
in the face of the staring, pitying, awe -stricken crowd, 
had flung herself, with the magnificent movement of one 
whose rights were supreme and with a loud tremendous 
cry, upon the senseless vestige of her love. 
That cry still lives in Rowland 's ears. It interposes 
persistently against the reflection that when he sometimes 
very rarely sees her, she is unreservedly kind to him ; 
against the memory that during the dreary journey back 
to America, made of course with his assistance, there 
