can only have one small piece here. But she is making a 
better woman than I ever fancied she would. After all, I 
think it takes love and mothering to make true girls and 
women, and heaven knows she had little enough of 
that." 
"And I had so much," said Kathie, with a thrill of 
strange, secret joy. 
Beside the operas and dinner parties, Kathie went to 
some quite gay entertainments, where she danced to her 
heart's content. Weeks flew by rapidly. Gen. Mackenzie 
was up once on business, armed with entreaties that Mrs. 
Alston and Kathie would spend the remainder of the win- 
ter in Washington. 
"Well, why should you not?" asked Uncle Robert. 
" There is really nothing to confine you at home, and you 
are not so old as to have lost all zest for society. Ruth 
would be delighted, I know, and Kathie would have a 
glimpse of the most important men and women of her own 
country. Congress will be in session ; and so many ce- 
lebrities seek Washington in the winter to see and be 
seen." 
Kathie was enchanted with the idea, and so the elders 
laid their plans accordingly. The Collamores were to 
come up and keep Christmas with some cousins, and they 
hoped Kathie would stay. There was shopping and dress- 
making, and no diminution of enjoyments. Kathie was 
the same favorite here that she had been in childhood. 
" I will tell you what I want to do Christmas morning, 
Uncle Robert," she said, her eyes softened with emotion. 
" Let us go to some quiet church for morning service. I 
want to think of the winter when I was here with Aunt 
Ruth, while she was being cured. It was so hard to stay 
away from you all, and somehow she and I both fell into 
the Slough of Despond, I believe " ; and a soft, sad smile 
played over her face at the remembrance. " But Christ- 
mas morning brought great joy to our souls, and I would 
like to keep the feast reverently, thanking God for all the 
blessings." 
It surprised all her friends that Kathie resisted the grand 
music and elaborate decorations of the great churches, and 
went off with Uncle Robert to a plain church to celebrate her 
festival. They could not understand what it was to her, 
but Uncle Robert knew by that how little the child's 
heart had changed, that under all the lightness there 
were deep soundings to be touched by the greater hand, 
and to answer in kind. 
Eugene Collamore came up Christmas eve to stay over 
Sunday with his sisters, who were already very much at 
home at Mrs. Meredith's, and having no end of enjoyment 
with the young College Clan, as Lou called it. They were 
nice, jolly fellows, and Eugene had enjoyed Charlie and 
Dick wonderfully the summer before ; but he soon made 
the discovery that he had not come to see the boys, and as 
for Kathie, one could never get near her any more. When 
she was talking and laughing with Dick Grayson he was 
very sure she liked him best, and when Sunday evening 
they were all singing hymns, as Charlie played on the organ, 
there came a rapt, heavenly look in their faces that 
seemed to make them so of one kin, of one mind, that 
Eugene turned sorrowfully away with a pang he could not 
