" When, dearest love ? " 
"I cannot tell. What shall we do?" very tearfully. 
" I will follow you immediately ; only let me know 
when and where." 
" If you do not hear by some other means, come 
here to-morrow night. I hear steps. Go at on-ce." 
" Good-night, dearest," he murmured ; but the win 
dow was already closed, and the fresh breeze that 
springs up after one o clock blew from the air the 
remembrance of the loving speech that had passed 
upon it, 
On the following night he was at his post, and 
again threw the shot against the pane for a signal. 
After a long time Hedwig opened the window very 
cautiously. 
" Quick I " she whispered down to him, " go I they 
 
are all awake," and she dropped something heavy and 
white. Perhaps she added some word, but Nino 
would not tell me, and never would read me the letter. But it contained the news that Hedwig and her 
father were to leave Rome for Paris on the following 
morning ; and ever since that night Nino has worn 
upon his little finger a plain gold ring, I cannot 
tell why, and he says he found it. 
The next day he ascertained from the porter of the 
Palazzo Carmandola that the count and contessina, 
with their servants, had actually left Rome that 
morning for Paris. From that moment he was sad 
as death, and went about his business heavily, being 
possessed of but one idea, namely, to sign an engagement to sing in Paris as soon as possible. In that 
wicked city the opera continues through Lent, and 
after some haggling, in which De Pretis insisted on 
obtaining for Nino the most advantageous terms, the 
contract was made out and signed. 
I see very well that unless I hurry myself I shall 
never reach the most important part of this story, 
which is, after all, the only part worth telling. I 
am sure I do not know how I can ever tell it so 
quickly, but I will do my best, and you must have 
a little patience ; for though I am not old, I am not 
young, and Nino's departure for Paris was a great 
shock to me, so that I do not like to remember it, 
and the very thought of it sickens me. If you have 
ever had any education, you must have seen an experiment in which a mouse is put in a glass jar, and 
all the air is drawn away with a pump, so that the 
poor little beast languishes and rolls pitifully on its 
 
side, gasping and wheezing with its tiny lungs for 
the least whiff of air. That is just how I felt when 
Nino went away. It seemed as though I could not 
breathe in the house or in the streets, and the little 
rooms at home were so quiet that one might hear a 
pin fall, and the cat purring through the closed 
doors. Nino left at the beginning of the last ten 
days of Carnival, when the opera closed, so that it 
was soon Lent ; and everything is quieter then. 
But before he left us there was noise enough and 
bustle of preparation, and I did not think I should 
miss him; for he always was making music, or 
walking about, or doing something to disturb me, 
