through the western windows. It might not be the shadow of Dupont, of
course; he was ashamed of himself for his quick suspicion. It might be
that of some other visitor, or of one of their poor pensioners, or of
Caleb Inches. But no masculine visitor came to the Farms at this hour
save, now and then, the junior warden, whose small figure never cast
shadow like that; and all the pensioners of whom he had knowledge were
women. He decided that, of course, it was Inches; and then, on his way
down Carroll Lane, he met Inches coming up. Still, it was but a
supposition. He forced himself to cast it aside.
Chance, however, seemed determined to disturb him, for she soon threw in
his way other knowledge, and this not a shadow, but reality. He caught a
glimpse of Sara Carroll turning into a little-used path, which led up
the mountain to a fir-wood. His own road (he was on horseback, as usual,
on his way to a mission station) led him by Walley's Cove, and here,
fifteen minutes later, he distinctly saw the figure of Louis Dupont
entering the same wood at its upper edge, and by the path which would
bring him directly to her, the same path she herself was following.
Owen's trouble now took complete possession of him; up to this time he
had fought it off. He felt that he ought to do something, to act. Dupont
was a dissipated, erratic adventurer, whose history no one knew. Should
he let this proud, fastidious, delicate-minded girl fall into such a
vulgar trap as this? Before his eyes, within reach of his hand? Yet
there it was again--if she were in reality as proud and fastidious as he
had supposed her to be (and he had thought her the proudest girl he had
ever known), how could she, of her own accord, endure Louis Dupont? At
one time she had not endured him. There had been a memorable moment when
the expression of her eyes (how well he remembered it!) had been
unmistakable; the moment when he had met her, coming from the
drawing-room, with that alluring voice floating forth behind her. What
could have changed her--changed her so completely as this?
The one answer presented itself with pitiless promptness: Dupont had
changed her. He had accomplished it himself, with the aid of a handsome
face, fine eyes, and an audacity which stopped at nothing; for the
clergyman had always felt sure that the audacity was there, although it
had not, in Far Edgerley, at least, been much exerted. This was so
acutely disagreeable to the man who was thinking of it, that there was
in his own eyes (handsome ones, too, in their way--a blue way) angry
moisture as he went over its possibilities. He clinched his hand and
rode on; it would have fared hardly with the musician had he crossed his
path just then. Owen was a clergyman. But he had been a man, and a free
one, first; he had not gone from college and seminary directly into the
ministry. He was thirty-one years old, and he had taken orders but two
years before; the preceding interval had not been spent in country
villages.
With all this surging feeling, however, he had as yet nothing definite
against this stranger--this stranger whose bad manners had been
protected by his "genius," and whose bad aspects had not been perceived
by the innocent little town. By nothing definite he meant nothing that
he could use. But now Chance, having given him three heavy burdens of
knowledge to carry (he had carried them as well as he could, with a
heavy heart as well)--the knowledge of those three meetings which, if
not clandestine, were at least concealed--this same Chance relented so
far as to present him with other knowledge--knowledge of a different
hue. She put in his possession some recent facts concerning the
musician which were proof, and proof positive, against him.
But what could Owen do with his facts? If he had not known what he knew
of Sara Carroll's interest in him, he could have proceeded against the
fellow at once; it needed but the statement which he was now able to
make to close every door in Far Edgerley against him, for the little
town, though not strait-laced, had a standard of morals as pure as its
