was a perfect gem in arrangement. Celia paused on the 
threshold. Out of an engraving, she had never seen any- 
thing so lovely. The room was long, with an inlaid floor and 
soft rugs — something bright tone with a tawny hue, here 
the dull rich colors of Eastern handiwork, there a white 
wolf rug, over in the corner a tiger skin with claws and 
head. The front window was large, with stained glass 
bordering and diamonded panes — you could see where 
one silken curtain was pulled carelessly aside. Easels 
standing here and there, some rich and quaintly carved, a 
great wide fireplace, with tiling and red bricks, and the 
chimney-piece with stores of bric-a-brac going up to the 
ceiling. A curious sort of cabinet table, easy chairs, and 
one supreme Elizabethan, a bright Mexican hammock swung 
across one of the back corners, and here another large 
French window, half open, on a great porch, where clus- 
tering vines filtered a most exquisite light of opalescent 
green. 

Celia could have stood there forever. One of the ladies 
rose, and she glanced at her. It was Mrs. Van Cleve, who 
made a gentle inclination of the head. Mrs. Thierry 
turned toward her with a bright look of inquiry, then 
both passed out of the lower door. 

" What a simply pretty girl ! " exclaimed Mrs. Thierry. 
" She looks as if she might have just stepped out of some 
quaint old English picture. How refreshing after scores 
and hundreds of girls of the period. Do you know, I 
wonder why girls do not vary their styles, and not always 





present an exact copy of each other's clothes. Who is 
this sweet Saint Agnes ? " 

Mrs. Van Cleve smiled. "A Miss Celia Marshall." 

"Not — not the milliner's daughter." 

"The very same." 

"Oh," and a nod concluded that subject. 

Celia, meanwhile, after the introduction and the first 
embarrassment was over, turned to a picture that in- 
terested her, while Mr. Thierry held a little compas- 
sionate aside with Archer. Then he began to talk to viva- 
cious Daisy, who had a frank, but not unpleasant way of 
making dainty comments, and expressing opinions with a 
kind of worldly-wise air that sat charmingly upon her, and 
presently drew Celia into the conversation. Some curi- 
osities were explained, some engravings glanced over, and 
by degrees they came to the pictures. She could talk 
readily enough to Mr. Archer, but now she was as shy as 
some fair spring snowdrop. If she displayed no self- 
assertion, her eyes were eloquent with the passion of her 
soul. There was no need of repression here, no call to 
