through, and many miles from home. She had no sooner freed her hands,
therefore, than he took a firmer hold of her, so that she could not
stir.
But she still openly exulted; her face, close to his, was brilliant with
light and mirth. "That's of no use," she said. "You cannot possibly walk
backward on this narrow tree, even if you could carry me--which I
doubt."
It was true that his back was towards the bank which was near, the one
they had been approaching, and that he could not make his way thither on
that narrow surface without seeing where he was going. He had flushed a
little at her taunt. "I can carry you back to the side we started from,"
he said.
"No, you cannot do that, either. For I could easily blind you with my
hands, and make you stumble."
"Garda!--how absurd!"
"Yes; but it's you who look so," she answered, bursting into a peal of
irrepressible glee.
Winthrop had the feeling that she might be right. He knew that he was
flushed and angry; no man likes to be laughed at, even by a girl of
sixteen. Her eyes, though over-flowing with mirth, had still an
unconquerable look in them. Suddenly he released her. "Your actions are
ridiculous," he said; "I can only leave you to yourself." And turning,
he crossed to the near bank. He had successfully resisted his impulse,
which had been to take her, mocking and mirthful as she was, and carry
her back to the bank from which they had started; he felt sure that he
could have done it in spite of any resistance she might have offered.
Garda ran after him, and put her arm in his. "Are you vexed with me?"
she said, looking up coaxingly in his face.
"Don't you think you are old enough now, Garda, not to act so much like
a child?"
"It isn't a child," she answered, as it seemed to him rather strangely.
"I shall always be like this."
"Do you mean that you never intend to be reasonable?"
"Oh, I don't know what I intend, I don't think I intend anything;
intending's a trouble. But don't be angry with me," she went on; "you
and Margaret are all I have now." And she looked up at him still
coaxingly, but this time through a mist of tears.
"I am not vexed," answered Winthrop, quickly. "Will you have the
kindness to glance at your feet?" he added, by way of diversion into
another channel.
They had been standing among the low bushes on the further shore, and
Garda was again holding her skirt slightly lifted; her thin slippers
were seen to be as completely drenched as though they had been in the
stream. "Yes, they're wet," she assented, lifting first one, and then
the other, so as to get a good view; "they're quite wet through, soles
and all. And, do you know, my feet are already very cold."
"And we have still the long drive home! You must acknowledge that you
are wise."
At this moment they heard a sound, and turned; Madam Giron's horse had
broken his fastenings, and started down the barren, the phaeton gently
rolling along behind him. Winthrop ran across the pine-tree bridge and
after him, as swiftly yet as noiselessly as he could, so that the sound
of pursuit should not increase his speed. But Madam Giron's horse
enjoyed a run on his own account, and after trotting for a while, he
broke into the pace which suited him best, a long-stepped easy gallop;
thus, with the phaeton bounding at his heels, he took his way down the
broad green vista, faster and faster, yet still with a regular motion,
which was doubly exasperating because it seemed so much more like an
easy gait for the saddle (which it was) than a demoralized running away.
At length, when Winthrop himself had run half a mile, in the vain hope
