stiff legs would carry him along the bed of the stream, coming at last
into the welcome shelter of the woods, which seemed more beautiful than
ever, after the bleak region of granite in which he had been all night.
Anxious to report himself alive, and relieve his mother's anxiety, he
pressed on till he struck the path, and soon saw, not far away, the old
cabin Abner had spoken of. Just before this happy moment he had heard a
shot fired somewhere in the forest, and as he hurried toward the sound
he saw an animal dart into the hut, as if for shelter.
Whether it was a rabbit, woodchuck or dog, he had not seen, as a turn in
the path prevented a clear view; and hoping it was old Buff looking for
him, he ran in, to find himself face to face with a catamount at last.
There she was, the big, fierce cat, crouched in a corner, with fiery
eyes, growling and spitting at sight of an enemy, but too badly wounded
to fight, as the blood that dripped from her neck, and the tremble of
her limbs plainly showed.
"Now's my chance! Don't care who shot her, I'll kill her, and have her
too, if I pay my last dollar," thought Corny; and catching up a stout
bit of timber fallen from the old roof, he struck one quick blow, which
finished poor puss, who gave up the ghost with a savage snarl, and a
vain effort to pounce on him.
This splendid piece of good luck atoned for all the boy had gone
through, and only waiting to be sure the beast was quite dead and past
clawing, he flung his prize over his shoulder, and with renewed strength
and spirit trudged along the woodland road toward home, proudly
imagining his triumphal entry upon the scene of suspense and alarm.
"Wish I didn't look so like a scare-crow; but perhaps my rags will add
to the effect. Won't the girls laugh at my swelled face, and scream at
the cat. Poor mammy will mourn over me and coddle me up as if I'd been
to the wars. Hope some house isn't very far off, for I don't believe I
can lug this brute much farther, I'm so starved and shaky."
Just as he paused to take breath and shift his burden from one shoulder
to the other, a loud shout startled him, and a moment after, several men
came bursting through the wood, cheering like lunatics as they
approached.
It was Abner, Chris, and some of the neighbors, setting out again on
their search, after a night of vain wandering. Corny could have hugged
them all and cried like a girl; but pride kept him steady, though his
face showed his joy as he nodded his hatless head with a cool--
"Hullo!"
Chris burst into his ringing laugh, and danced a wild sort of jig round
his mate, as the only way in which he could fitly express his relief;
for he had been so bowed down with remorse at his imprudence in letting
Corny go that no one could find the heart to blame him, and all night
the poor lad had rushed up and down seeking, calling, hoping, and
fearing, till he was about used up, and looked nearly as dilapidated as
Corny.
The tale was soon told, and received with the most flattering signs of
interest, wonder, sympathy, and admiration.
"Why in thunder didn't you tell me?--and I'd a got up a hunt wuth
havin',--not go stramashing off alone on a wild goose chase like this.
Never did see such a chap as you be for gittin' inter scrapes,--and out
of 'em too, I'm bound to own," growled Abner.
"That isn't a wild goose, is it?" proudly demanded Corny, pointing to
the cat, which now lay on the ground, while he leaned against a tree to
hide his weariness; for he felt ready to drop, now all the excitement
was over.
"No it ain't, and I congratulate you on a good job. Where did you shoot
her?" asked Abner, stooping to examine the creature.
"Didn't shoot her; broke my gun when I took that header down the
mountain. I hit her a rap with a club, in the cabin where I found her,"
