gave a like melancholy hint to Mrs. Nye, and she 
watched Elizabeth jealously, trying so hard not to an- 
noy her by anxiety that the girl never suspected its 
existence, wandered dreamily about, helping with the 
housework, and giving herself up to the enjoyment of 
peace at other times. 
Elizabeth had been starved of the food which youth 
demands, and will have, if it break over boundaries to 
crop forbidden herbage. Her home life had been one 
of repression rather than growth ; the home atmos- 
phere close ^and deadening, and the medium through 
which she looked at her narrow world a dense and 
 
lead-colored one. There had once been relief in 
lavishing affection on Philip, infusing the freshness of 
her own life into his hopes, without stopping to con- 
sider that such an indirect channel was not the legiti- 
mate one. Even that failed of effect now. Her grow- 
ing nature demanded nourishment. She felt vaguely 
the need of something life had not yet supplied ; an 
unknown quantity, too, for she could not even specify 
it. She wondered if books or activity would satisfy 
her. It seemed not. Her mind felt unequal to the 
task of opening its doors to intellectual truth. The 
very thought of effort tired her as much as that of 
new people. There was a question in her mind 
whether there were people really worth knowing ex- 
cept the standard wise man and woman, who must be 
exceedingly fatiguing and she clung all the more 
closely to Philip and her mother. They would take 
affection for granted without worrying her. Elizabeth 
had not, as happens with so many women, grown to 
the point at which definite work becomes a necessity. 
I am inclined to think her one of those whose whole 
strength runs to the expansion and intensifying of 
character. All the mental food she could digest would 
go towards broadening her sympathies rather than the 
making of a book or picture. She would more natur- 
ally become a moving impulse in the lives of others, 
than a worker of tangible deeds herself. Such women 
are among the mothers of thought. 
.... 
It was a warm April morning, one on which you 
saw the face of May, as in a glass, peering over the 
shoulder of her fickle mother. Oswald Craig, hat in 
hand, stepped in at the open door of the kitchen, where 
Mrs. Nye was beating eggs for a custard. 
' Si said you wouldn't, but I was sure you would," 
he said, including the three in a sweeping bow, his 
eyes dancing with laughter. ' I have come down for 
a visit, and the Sea View doesn't look inviting. My 
own house did very well for a few nights in the fall, 
but not for more, and I want you to take me to board." 
Mrs. Nye saw Philip's eager face, and Elizabeth's 
glance with more interest in it than there had been for 
months. 
" I'm not sure. Perhaps we could for a few weeks." 
" In that time I shall have had my taste of the sea 
and gone home," said Oswald, promptly. ' I eat plain 
things and not much of them. I shall be out of doors 
