Oscar Chester were near him, out of breath after the run they had made.
Tom Topover had retreated to the shore of the pond; and the coxswain of
the Winooski, not wishing to engage in a fight, had neglected to follow
him. Nim Splugger had taken command of the Gildrock, and Kidd Digfield
of the Winooski. They had made sure to put a couple of lengths between
the barges and the wharf, and in this position they were as safe from
any interference of the boys on shore as though they had been in the
middle of the lake.
There was no boat at the grove, and no means of pursuing the captors of
the barges. In fact, nothing at all could be done, and for the moment
the situation looked hopeless to the coxswains. Kidd proceeded to give
directions to his crew as soon as the immediate danger of capture was
passed. Taking the tiller-lines himself, he brought something like order
out of the confusion in his crew. After a great deal of sharp talk, he
succeeded in getting his fellows so that they could pull a stroke
together, and the Winooski slowly moved towards the lower end of the
lake.
Kidd could not help seeing the chief Topover on the shore, and as soon
as his crew were in working order, he headed to the point where he
stood. Dory immediately observed the change in the course of the
Winooski, and understood the purpose of her present coxswain, which was
to take Tom on board. By this time Matt and Oscar were as near the spot
where Tom was waiting for the boat as Dory was.
"Head them off!" shouted Dory, as he started at the top of his speed.
"Pull lively, fellers!" yelled Kidd Digfield, when he saw the three
students running towards his leader.
They did pull with all their might, and as the Winooski was bound to go
ahead when the oars crossed her gunwale, she was too much for the
runners on the shore. Dory hoped one of the clumsy oarsmen would "catch
a crab" at that important moment, but not one of them gratified his
desire. He was within a couple of rods of Tom, and was all ready to
pitch into him, when Kidd ordered his crew to stop rowing, and then to
back water.
The inexperienced coxswain had not calculated well, and the boat lost
her headway when her sharp bow was within ten feet of the shore. Dory's
hopes swelled when he saw the boat come to a stand, and he increased his
speed.
"Pull again!" shouted Kidd, almost crazy with excitement, when he
realized that he was losing the game.
But his undisciplined crew were in confusion, and only half of them
could bring their oars to bear. The barge went ahead again just as Dory
was about to pounce on Tom Topover. The leader of the ruffians saw his
peril, and he did not seem to be "spoiling for a fight" at just that
moment, perhaps because his late victim had been reinforced by a couple
of his companions. He had not another instant to spare, and Tom made a
vigorous leap for the bow of the Winooski.
The stem of the barge was not more than three or four feet distant when
the Topover made his leap, but the pointed bow was an ugly foundation to
strike upon. He could not throw his body into the fore sheets, but he
succeeded in grasping the gunwale with both hands, while the lower half
of his body went into the water. Unfortunately the force of his blow had
been imparted to the forward part of the barge, and it had been shoved
farther away from the shore.
Tom Topover dragged himself into the Winooski. Seizing a boathook, he
stood up in the bow of the boat, evidently intending to use it in case
of need in defending himself from an attack of his pursuers. The two
coxswains reached the shore with their wind about gone, to find that ten
feet of deep water lay between them and the nearest part of the
Winooski. They could leap into the water and swim to her, and Oscar
Chester proposed to do so; but this would have been folly, for the
