Mr. Dallas made no answer. 
"And I wish she was out of Seaforth; for as we 
cannot get rid of her we must send away our own 
boy." 
"Humph!" said her husband. "Are you sure? 
Is that a certain necessity ? " 
" Hildebrand, you would like to have him finish 
his studies at Oxford ? " said his wife appealingly. 
" Yes, to be sure; but what has that to do with 
the other thing ? You started from that little girl 
over there." 
" Do you want Pitt to make her his wife? " 
" No ! " with quiet decision. 
"He'll do it; if you do not take all the better 
care." 
" I don't see that it follows." 
" You do not see it, Hildebrand, but I do. Trust 
me." 
" What do you reason from ? " 
" You won't trust me. Well, the girl will be 
very handsome; she'll be very handsome; and that 
always turns a young man's head; and then, you 
see, she is a forlorn child, and Pitt has taken it in 
to his head to replace father and mother and be her 
good genius. I leave you to judge if that is not 
a dangerous part for him to play. He writes to 
me every now and then about her." 
Not very often ; but Mrs. Dallas wanted to scare 
her husband. And so there came to be more and 
more talk about Pitt's going abroad; and Esther 
felt as if the one spot of brightness in her sky were 
closing up for ever. If Pitt did go, what would 
be left. 
It was a token of the real strength and fine prop 
erties of her mental nature, that the girl did not, 
in any true sense, mope. In want of comfort she 
was; in sad want of social diversion and cheer, and 
of variety in her course of thought and occupation ; 
she suffered from the want ; but Esther did not sink 
into idleness and stagnation. She worked like a 
beaver; that is, so far as diligence and purpose 
characterize those singular animals working. She 
studied resolutely and eagerly the things she had 
studied with Pitt, and which he had charged her 
to go on with. His influence was a spur to her 
constantly ; for he had wished it, and he would be 
corning home by and by for the long vacation, and 
then he would want to see what she had done. 
Esther was not quite alone, so long as she had the 
thought of Pitt and of that long vacation with her. 
If he should go to England, then indeed it would 
 
be loneliness. Now she studied, at any rate, having that spur; and she studied things also with 
which Pitt had had no connection; her Bible for 
instance. The girl busied herself with fancy work 
too, every kind which Mrs. Barker could teach herand 
her father did not forbid. And in one other pleas 
ure her father was helpful to her. Esther had been 
trying to draw some little things, working eagerly 
with her pencil and a copy, absorbed in her en 
