as in a balance ; and it was a secret consolation to 
her to know that he had been faithful to her after 
all, and that it was for her sake that he had with- 
drawn into the desert and given himself to those 
meditations from which he had only issued to enjoy 
the highest power. And as she looked at him, she 
saw how he was much changed, and it hardly seemed 
as though in his body he were the same man she had 
so loved. Only when he spoke, and she heard the 
even, musical tones of his commanding voice, she 
Si^metimes felt the blood rise to her cheeks with the 
"^ouging to hear once more some word of tender love, 
 
such as lie had been used to speak to her. But 
though he often looked at her and greeted her ever 
kmdly, his quiet, luminous eyes changed not when 
they gazed on her, nor was there any warmer touch 
of colour in the waxen whiteness of his face. His 
youth was utterly gone, as the golden light had 
faded from his hair. He was not like an old man — 
he was hardly like a man at all; but rather like 
some beautiful, strange angel from another world, 
who moved among men and spoke with them, but 
was not of them. She seemed to look upon a mem- 
ory, to love the shadow cast on earth by a being that 
was gone. But she loved the memory and the 
shadow well, and month by month, as she gazed, she 
grew more wan and weary. 
It would not have been like Darius to take any 
notice of a trouble that did not present itself palpa- 
bly before him and demand his attention. Nehushta 
scarcely ever spoke of Zoroaster, and w^hen the king 
mentioned him to her, it was always in connection 
with affairs of state. She seemed cold and indiffer- 
ent, and the hot-blooded soldier monarch no longer 
looked on Zoroaster as a possible rival. He had 
white hair — he was therefore an old man, out of all 
questions of love. But Darius was glad that the 
Hebrew queen never referred to former times, nor 
ever seemed to regret her old lover. Had he known 
of that night meeting in Atossa's toilet chamber, and 
of what Atossa had said then, his fury would prob- 
ably have had no bounds. But he never knew. 
Nehushta was too utterly broken-hearted by the blow 
she had received to desire vengeance, and though she 
 
quietly scorned all intercourse with the woman who 
had injured her, she cared not to tell the king of the 
injury. It was too late. Had she known of the 
cruel deception that had been practised on her, one 
hour before she had married Darius, Atossa would 
have been in her grave these three years, and 
Nehushta would not have been queen. But the king 
knew none of these things, and rejoiced daily in the 
wisdom of his chief counsellor and in the favour 
Auramazda had shown in sending him such a man in 
his need. 
Meanwhile, Atossa's hatred grew apace. She saw 
with anger that her power of tormenting Nehushta 
was gone from her, that the spirit she had loved to 
