" I wish he could have avoided the occasion for 
his bravado," said Mrs. Bowen. 
" I think I was a little to blame, perhaps," said 
the girl. " I beckoned him to come and take the 
vacant place." 
" I don't see that that vras an excuse,'' returned 
Mrs. Bowen primly. 
Imogene seemed insensible to the tone, as it con- 
cerned herself ; it only apparently reminded her of 
something. " Guess what Mr. Colville said, when I 
had been silly, and then tried to make up for it by 
being very dignified all of a sudden ? " 
" I don't know. How had you been silly ? " 
The servant brought in some cards. Imogene 
caught up the pelisse which she had been gradually 
shedding as she sat talking to Mrs. Bowen, and ran 
out of the room by another door. 
They did not recur to the subject. But that 
night, when Mrs. Bowen went to say good night to 
Effie, after the child had gone to bed, she lingered. 
" Effie," she said at last, in a husky whisper, 
" what did Imogene say to Mr. Colville to-day that 
made him laugh ? " 
"I don't know," said the child. "They kept 
laughing at so many things." 
" Laughing ? " 
" Yes ; he laughed. Do you mean toward the 
last, when he had been throwing stones into the 
river ? " 
" It must have been then." 
The child stretched herself drowsily. "Oh I 
couldn't understand it all. She wanted to throw a 
stone in the river, but he told her she had better 
not. But that didn't make him laugh. She was so 
very stiff just afterward that he said the weather 
had changed, and that made us laugh." 
" Was that all ? " 
" We kept laughing ever so long. I never saw 
any one like Mr. Colville. How queerly the fire 
shines on your face ! It gives you such a beautiful 
complexion." 
" Does it ? " 
" Yes, lovely." The child's mother stooped over 
and kissed her. " You 're the prettiest mamma in 
the world," she said, throwing her arm's round her 
 
neclc. " Sometimes I can't tell whether Imogene is 
prettier or not, but to-night I 'm certain you are. 
Do you like to have me think that *! " 
" Yes — yes. But don't pull me down so ; you 
hurt my neck. Good night." 
The child let her go. "I haven't said my prayer 
yet, mamma. I was thinking." 
"Well, say it now, then,'' said the mother gently. 
When the child had finished she turned upon her 
cheek. " Good night, mamma." 
Mrs. Bowen went about the room a little while, 
picking up its pretty disorder. Then she sat down 
in a chair by the hearth, where a log was still burn- 
ing. The light of the flame flickered upon her face, 
