that member with the familiarity of glad recognition; 
for it was only surprise that had kept me even for a 
moment from accepting the genial Francesco as an 
ornament of the landscape of Touraine. What on 
earth the phrase is the right one was a Venetian 
gondolier doing at Chenonceaux? He had been 
brought from Venice, gondola and all, by the mistress 
of the charming house, to paddle about on the Cher. 
Our meeting was affectionate, though there was a kind 
of violence in seeing him so far from home. He was 
too well dressed, too well fed; he had grown stout, 
and his nose had the tinge of good claret. He re 
marked that the life of the household to which he had 
the honor to belong was that of a casa regia; which 
must have been a great change for poor Checco, whose 
habits in Venice were not regal. However, he was 
the sympathetic Checco still; and for five minutes 
after I left him I thought less about the little plea 
sure-house by the Cher than about the palaces of the 
Adriatic. 
But attention was not long in coming round to the 
charming structure that presently rose before us. The 
pale yellow front of the chateau, the small scale of 
which is at first a surprise, rises beyond a consider 
able court, at the entrance of which a massive and 
detached round tower, with a turret on its brow (a 
relic of the building that preceded the actual villa), 
appears to keep guard. This court is not enclosed 
or is enclosed, at least, only by the gardens, portions 
of which are at present in a state of violent reforma 
tion. Therefore, though Chenonceaux has no* great 
height, its delicate fajade stands up boldly enough. 
This faade, one of the most finished things in Tou- 
raine, consists of two stories, surmounted by an attic 
which, as so often in the buildings of the French 
Renaissance, is the richest part of the house. The 
high-pitched roof contains three windows of beautiful 
design, covered with embroidered caps and flowering 
into crocketed spires. The window above the door 
is deeply niched; it opens upon a balcony made in 
the form of a double pulpit, one of the most charm- 
  
ing features of the front. Chenonceaux is not large, 
as I say, but into its delicate compass is packed a 
great deal of history, history which differs from that 
of Amboise and Blois in being of the private and sen 
timental kind. The echoes of the place, faint and far 
as they are to-day, are not political, but personal. 
Chenonceaux dates, as a residence, from the year 1515, 
when the shrewd Thomas Bohier, a public functionary 
who had grown rich in handling the finances of Nor 
mandy, and had acquired the estate from a family 
which, after giving it many feudal lords, had fallen 
into poverty, erected the present structure on the 
foundations of an old mill. The design is attributed, 
with I know not what justice, to Pierre Nepveu, alias 
Trinqueau, the audacious architect of Chambord. On 
the death of Bohier the house passed to his son, who, 
however, was forced, under cruel pressure, to surrender 
it to the crown, in compensation for a so-called deficit 
