notice," continued the major.
"I thought she had a right to choose her own company," said Mrs. Bristol
with proper humility.
"I have allowed you to live on my land for two years without a penny of
rent, woman; and this is the return I get for it," replied the great
man, in whose heart the poor woman's ingratitude was beginning to make
havoc.
"You have been very kind to us, Major Billcord, and we are very grateful
for all you have done for us. I am so sorry that this sad thing has
happened!" pleaded Mrs. Bristol.
"And still you try to fasten the blame on my son," retorted the
proprietor of Sandy Point and its surroundings.
"I am very sorry he meddled with Lily; if he hadn't done it, there would
have been no trouble, for Paul has always treated Mr. Walker with
respect."
"At it again!" exclaimed the major. "You will insist that my son was to
blame, simply because he was polite enough to invite your daughter to
take a row with him in the boat."
"She was not willing to go; and I didn't know that she was obliged to go
out on the lake with him. She declined his invitation, and Mr. Walker
tried to force her into the boat."
"It was not civil in her to decline the invitation, and I don't wonder
that Walker was a little vexed at her refusal. She is a pert minx, marm,
and has not been well brought up, or she would have known better than to
decline," added the magnate, bestowing a look of severity upon the fair
maiden.
Mrs. Bristol and Paul saw that it was useless to attempt to reason with
such a man, and they were silent. The major took out his handkerchief,
and wiped the perspiration from his face. Then he felt of his nose and
the region about his two eyes, between which the son of toil had planted
his hard fist. Doubtless there was a soreness in those parts, and
perhaps the visual organs of the father would be clothed in sable
wreaths by the next day.
"That boy must be punished, severely punished, for what he has done,"
the major resumed. "He has had the audacity to strike me in the
face,--me, the benefactor of the whole family!"
"Didn't you catch me by the throat, and hit me with your riding-whip,
sir?" asked Paul calmly and meekly.
"What if I did! Do you mean to put yourself on a level with me, you
young reprobate?" demanded the magnate, his wrath beginning to boil
again. "Woman, I say that boy must be severely punished for this," he
continued, turning to Mrs. Bristol again. "He must be whipped till he
can't stand up!"
"Who will whip him, sir?" asked the poor woman innocently.
"I will do it, if you don't, marm," replied the major savagely.
"I could not whip him, sir; he is a great deal stronger than I am; and,
if he is whipped at all, you must do it, sir;" but Mrs. Bristol seemed
to think there was something a little satirical in what she said.
"Then I will do it!" said the magnate, raising his riding-whip.
"Perhaps he will not allow you to whip him, sir," suggested Mrs.
Bristol; and even her anger appeared to be approaching the
boiling-point.
"The boy deserves to be severely punished. If he submits to the
whipping which Walker and I will give him, we may be willing to let the
matter drop where it is."
"You had better arrange it with Paul, sir. I should as soon think of
whipping Colonel Buckmill as my son," replied the poor woman with a
decided touch of satire in her tones and manner.
"If the young villain submits, very well."
"If you should begin to punish him, I have no doubt he will speak or act
