"He was one of Dickens’s best people, and you can read the charming
story some day. He hated Christmas until a strange dream showed him how
dear and beautiful it was, and made a better man of him."
"I shall read it; for I like dreams, and have a great many curious ones
myself.  But they don’t keep me from being tired of Christmas," said
Effie, poking discontentedly among the sweeties for something worth
eating.
"Why are you tired of what should be the happiest time of all the year?"
asked mamma, anxiously.
"Perhaps I should n’t be if I had something new.  But it is always the
same, and there is n’t any more surprise about it.  I always find heaps
of goodies in my stocking.  Don’t like some of them, and soon get tired
of those I do like. We always have a great dinner, and I eat too much,
and feel ill next day.  Then there is a Christmas tree somewhere, with a
doll on top, or a stupid old Santa Claus, and children dancing and
screaming over bonbons and toys that break, and shiny things that are of
no use. Really, mamma, I ’ve had so many Christmases all alike that I
don’t think I can bear another one."  And Effie laid herself flat on
the sofa, as if the mere idea was too much for her.
Her mother laughed at her despair, but was sorry to see her little girl
so discontented, when she had everything to make her happy, and had
known but ten Christmas days.
"Suppose we don’t give you any presents at all,--how would that suit
you?" asked mamma, anxious to please her spoiled child.
"I should like one large and splendid one, and one dear little one, to
remember some very nice person by," said Effie, who was a fanciful
little body, full of odd whims and notions, which her friends loved to
gratify, regardless of time, trouble, or money; for she was the last of
three little girls, and very dear to all the family.
"Well, my darling, I will see what I can do to please you, and not say a
word until all is ready.  If I could only get a new idea to start with!"
And mamma went on tying up her pretty bundles with a thoughtful face,
while Effie strolled to the window to watch the rain that kept her
in-doors and made her dismal.
"Seems to me poor children have better times than rich ones.  I can’t go
out, and there is a girl about my age splashing along, without any maid
to fuss about rubbers and cloaks and umbrellas and colds.  I wish I was
a beggar-girl."
"Would you like to be hungry, cold, and ragged, to beg all day, and
sleep on an ash-heap at night?" asked mamma, wondering what would come
next.
"Cinderella did, and had a nice time in the end.  This girl out here has
a basket of scraps on her arm, and a big old shawl all round her, and
does n’t seem to care a bit, though the water runs out of the toes of
her boots.  She goes paddling along, laughing at the rain, and eating a
cold potato as if it tasted nicer than the chicken and ice-cream I had
for dinner. Yes, I do think poor children are happier than rich ones."
"So do I, sometimes.  At the Orphan Asylum to-day I saw two dozen merry
little souls who have no parents, no home, and no hope of Christmas
beyond a stick of candy or a cake. I wish you had been there to see how
happy they were, playing with the old toys some richer children had sent
them."
"You may give them all mine; I ’m so tired of them I never want to see
them again," said Effie, turning from the window to the pretty
baby-house full of everything a child’s heart could desire.
"I will, and let you begin again with something you will not tire of, if
I can only find it."  And mamma knit her brows trying to discover some
grand surprise for this child who did n’t care for Christmas.
Nothing more was said then; and wandering off to the library, Effie
found "A Christmas Carol," and curling herself up in the sofa corner, it
