since, at an operation performed in a German hospital. A common soldier
had been thrown from a horse with such force that his elbow was
dislocated; in the Klinik he put his uninjured arm around a post, and
then let the surgeon pull on a strap which had been fastened to the
other, until the joint was once more in position. His arm was then
bandaged, and he was told to return in a fortnight. On his second visit
the bandage was removed, and the surgeon, after a violent effort, moved
the stiffened joint backwards and forwards. During both operations,
the only noticeable evidence of pain was a slight contraction of the
upper lip, while the general expression of his face was that of a calm
as stolid as is required of the soldier when in the presence of his
superior. To such an one as he life is no more an affliction than it is
to the turtle.

Then, there are those to whom life is the amusing dream of an hour, who
flit through existence in loops of yellow light, who find pleasure in
all things, and are careless of the morrow; and these, perhaps, above
all others, are the most to be envied. It is such natures as theirs
that are usually met with in ordinary fiction, and which are so
singularly infrequent in real life. In fancy they are evoked with ease,
and yet somehow they do not seem to bear the stamp which experience has
set upon the real. That there are such natures it is, of course, absurd
to deny, but to affirm that they are persistent types is scarcely in
accordance with facts. There are, for instance, many young people who
enter life with a prodigality of supposition which is certainly lavish;
they see that others are smiling, and that life, even to its outskirts,
presents an appearance of pleasing serenity. The supposition which they
foster, that a percentage of happiness will be allotted to them, is
then not unreasonable; on the contrary, it is very natural; but as far
as the expectation goes, we are, most of us, very well aware that it
holds its own but for a short space of time.

This fact, while self-evident, is not always satisfactorily explained;
indeed, the reason why so many become disappointed with life is,
perhaps, explainable only on psychological grounds. By all means the
most important rôle throughout the entire length and breadth of
humanity is that which is played by thought. Its influence is as
noticeable in a bakeshop as in the overthrow of an empire; yet, in
spite of the results which are constantly springing from it, it was
Rousseau's opinion that "l'homme qui pense est un animal dépravé."
Balzac caught at this theme, and wrung from it its most severe
deductions. To him it was a dissolvent of greater or less activity,
according to the nature of the individual in whom it worked. Others
have considered it to be the corrosive acid of existence, and the
mainspring of every misfortune; all this it may or may not be, but that
at least it is the prime factor of disenchantment is evidenced by such
an every-day instance as that man, as a rule, and with but few
exceptions, pictures in advance the pleasures and sensations which the
future seems to hold, and yet when the pictured future becomes the
actual present the disproportion between fact and fancy is so great
that it results, in nine cases out of ten, in a complete insolvency.
After one or more bankruptcies of this description the individual very
generally finds that he has had enough, so to speak, and lets hope ever
after alone, whereupon disillusionment steps in and takes its place.

It is thought, then, that does the mischief; or to be more exact, it
is the inability to maintain an equilibrium between the real and the
ideal; that is, in the majority of cases, the cause of disenchantment.
To this it may be also added that it is because every one is so well
organized for misfortune that such a small amount of open revolt is
