at all ashamed of it." 
She put the Advertiser in her lap, and leaned 
defiantly forward, while she stirred her coffee, and 
Sewell unfolded the little sheet, and glanced up and 
down its columns. " Go on ! If you can't find it, 
I can." 
" Never mind ! Here it is," said Sewell, and he 
began to read 
" The mill opened yesterday morning with a 
smaller number of grists than usual, but they made 
up in quality what they lacked in quantity. 
" Our friend 's metaphor seems to have weakened 
under him a little," commented Sewell, and then he 
pursued 
"A reasonable supply of drunks were de 
spatched 
" Come, now, Lucy ! You'll admit that this is 
horrible ! " he broke off. 
"No," said his wife, " I will admit nothing of the 
kind. It 's flippant,. I'll allow. Go on ! " 
" I can t," said Sewell ; but he obeyed. 
" A reasonable supply of drunks were despatched, 
and an habitual drunk, in the person of a -burly 
dame from Tipperary, who pleaded not guilty and 
then urged the "poor childer" in extenuation, was 
sent down the harbour for three months ; Uncle 
Cook had been put in charge of a couple of young 
frailties whose hind name was woman 
" How do you like that, my dear ? " asked Sewell 
exultantly. 
Mrs. Sewell looked grave, and then burst into a 
shocked laugh. " You must stop that paper, David ! 
I can't have it about for the children to get hold of. 
But it is funny, isn't it ? That will do " 
" No, I think you'd better have it all, now. There 
can't be anything worse. It 's funny, yes, with that 
truly infernal drollery which the newspaper wits 
seem to have the art of." He read on 
" c when a case was called that brought the 
breath of clover blossoms and hay-seed into the 
sultry court-room, and warmed the cockles of the 
habitue 's toughened pericardiums with a touch of real 
poetry. This was a case of assault, with intent to 
rob, in which a lithe young blonde, answering to the 
good old Puritanic name of Statira Dudley, was the 
complainant, and the defendant an innocent-looking, 
bucolic youth, yclept " 
Sewell stopped and put his hand to his fore 
head. 
 
" What is it, David ? " demanded his wife. " Why 
don't you go on ? Is it too scandalous ? " 
" No, no," murmured the minister. 
"Welir 
" I can't go on. But you must read it, Lucy," 
he said, in quite a passion of humility. "And 
you must try to be merciful. That poor boy 
that 
He handed the paper to his wife, and made no 
attempt to escape from judgment, but sat submissive 
