' Very likely, of course ; and so she does me.' 
' May I inquire what you are wretched about ? ' Muni- 
ment went on. 
'About nothing at all. That's the worst of it. But 
I am much happier now than I have ever been.' 
' Is that also about nothing ?' 
' No, about a sort of change that has taken place in 
my life. I have been able to do some little things.' 
' For the poor, I suppose you mean. Do you refer 
to the presents you have made to Rosy ? ' the young man 
inquired. 
' The presents ? ' The Princess appeared not to re- 
member. ' Oh, those are trifles. It isn't anything one 
has been able to give ; it's some talks one has had, some 
convictions one has arrived at.' 
'Convictions are a source of very innocent pleasure,' 
said the young man, smiling at his interlocutress with his 
bold, pleasant eyes, which seemed to project their glance 
further than any she had seen. 
'Having them is nothing. It's the acting on them,' 
the Princess replied. 
' Yes ; that doubtless, too, is good.' He continued to 
look at her peacefully, as if he liked to consider that this 
might be what she had asked him to come for. He said 
nothing more, and she went on : 
' It's far better, of course, when one is a man.' 
' I don't know. Women do pretty well what they like. 
My sister and you have managed, between you, to bring me 
to this.' 
'It's more your sister, I suspect, than I. But why, 
after all, should you have disliked so much to come ? ' 
 
' Well, since you ask me,' said Paul Muniment, ' I will 
tell you frankly, though I don't mean it uncivilly, that 
I don't know what to make of you.' 
' Most people don't,' returned the Princess. ' But they 
usually take the risk.' 
' Ah, well, I'm the most prudent of men.' 
' I was sure of it ; that is one of the reasons why I 
wanted to know you. I know what some of your ideas are 
Hyacinth Robinson has told me ; and the source of my 
interest in them is partly the fact that you consider very 
carefully what you attempt.' 
' That I do I do,' said Muniment, simply. 
The tone in which he said this would have been almost 
ignoble, as regards a kind of northern canniness which it 
expressed, had it not been corrected by the character of his 
face, his youth and strength, and his military eye. The 
Princess recognised both the shrewdness and the latent 
audacity as she rejoined, ' To do anything with you would 
be very safe. It would be sure to succeed.' 
' That's what poor Hyacinth thinks,' said Paul Muni- 
ment. 
The Princess wondered a little that he could allude in 
that light tone to the faith their young friend had placed in 
him, considering the consequences such a trustfulness 
might yet have ; but this curious mixture of qualities could 
only make her visitor, as a tribune of the people, more 
interesting to her. She abstained for the moment from 
touching on the subject of Hyacinth's peculiar position, and 
