These, however, were doubtless the normal proceedings of 
women. He begged her to sit down again ; he was sure 
Miss Chancellor would be sorry to part with her. Verena, 
looking at her friend, not for permission, but for sympathy, 
dropped again into a chair, and Ransom waited to see Miss 
Chancellor do the same. She gratified him after a moment, 
because she could not refuse without appearing to put a 
hurt upon Verena ; but it went hard with her, and she was 
altogether discomposed. She had never seen any one so 
free in her own drawing-room as this loud Southerner, 
to whom she had so rashly offered a footing ; he extended 
invitations to her guests under her nose. That Verena 
should do as he asked her was a signal sign of the absence 
of that 'home-culture' (it was so that Miss Chancellor 
expressed the missing quality) which she never supposed 
the girl possessed : fortunately, as it would be supplied to 
her in abundance in Charles Street. (Olive of course held 
that home-culture was perfectly compatible with the widest 
emancipation.) It was with a perfectly good conscience 
that Verena complied with Basil Ransom's request ; but it 
took her quick sensibility only a moment to discover that 
 
her friend was not pleased. She scarcely knew what had 
ruffled her, but at the same instant there passed before her 
the vision of the anxieties (of this sudden, unexplained sort, 
for instance, and much worse) which intimate relations with 
Miss Chancellor might entail. 
'Now, I want you to tell me this,' Basil Ransom said, 
leaning forward towards Verena, with his hands on his 
knees, and completely oblivious to his hostess. ' Do you 
really believe all that pretty moonshine you talked last 
night? I could have listened to you for another hour; 
but I never heard such monstrous sentiments. I must 
protest I must, as a calumniated, misrepresented man. 
Confess you meant it as a kind of rednctio ad absurdum 
a satire on Mrs. Farrinder?' He spoke in a tone of 
the freest pleasantry, with his familiar, friendly Southern 
cadence. 
Verena looked at him with eyes that grew large. ' Why, 
you don't mean to say you don't believe in our cause ?' 
'Oh, it won't do it won't do!' Ransom went on, 
laughing. ' You are on the wrong tack altogether. Do 
you really take the ground that your sex has been without 
influence ? Influence ? Why, you have led us all by the 
nose to where we are now ! Wherever we are, it's all 
you. You are at the bottom of everything.' 
' Oh yes, and we want to be at the top,' said Verena. 
' Ah, the bottom is a better place, depend on it, when 
from there you move the whole mass ! Besides, you are 
on the top as well ; you are everywhere, you are everything. 
I am of the opinion of that historical character wasn't he 
some king ? who thought there was a lady behind every- 
thing. Whatever it was, he held, you have only to look 
for her; she is the explanation. Well, I always look for 
her, and I always find her ; of course, I am always delighted 
to do so ; but it proves she is the universal cause. Now, 
you don't mean to deny that power, the power of setting 
men in motion. You are at the bottom of all the wars.' 
' Well, I am like Mrs. Farrinder ; I like opposition,' 
Verena exclaimed, with a happy smile. 
