and the maintenance for the pastor, naturally desired to be free in
their choice of their minister, while the Church authorities in Salem
considered themselves responsible for the maintenance of true doctrine,
and for leaving no opening for Satan to enter the fold in the form of
heresy, or any kind or degree of dissent. Their fathers, the first
settlers, had made the colony too hot for one of their most virtuous
and distinguished citizens, because he had views of his own on Infant
Baptism; they had brought him to judgment, magistrate and church member
as he was, for not having presented his infant child at the font; he had
sold his estates and gone away. If such a citizen as Townsend Bishop
was thus lost to their society, how could the guardians of religion
surrender their control over any church or pastor within their reach?
They had spiritual charge of a community which had made its abode on the
American shore for the single purpose of living its own religious life
in its own way; and no dissent or modification from within could be
permitted, any more than intrusion or molestation from without. Between
the ecclesiastical view on the one hand, and the civil view on the
other, there was small chance of harmony between town and village, or
between pastor, flock, and the overseers of both. The great point on
which they were all agreed was that they were all in special danger from
the extreme malice of Satan, who, foiled in Puritan England, was bent
on revenge in America, and was visibly and audibly present in the
settlement, seeking whom he might devour.
Quarreling began with the appearance of the first minister, a young Mr.
Bayley, who was appointed from year to year, but never ordained the
pastor till 1679, when the authorities of Salem tried to force him
upon the people of Salem Village in the face of strong opposition. The
farmers disregarded the orders issued from the town, and managed their
religious affairs by general meetings of their own congregation; and at
length Mr. Bayley retired, leaving the society in a much worse temper
than he had found on his arrival. A handsome gift of land was settled
upon him, in acknowledgment of his services; he quitted the ministry,
and practiced medicine in Roxbury till his death, nearly thirty years
afterward.
REV. MR. BURROUGHS.
His partisans were enemies of his successor, of course. Mr. Burroughs
was a man of even distinguished excellence in the pastoral relation, in
days when risks from Indians made that duty as perilous as the career
of the soldier in war time; but his flock were divided, church business
was neglected, he was allowed to fall into want. He withdrew, was
recalled to settle accounts, was arrested for debt in full meeting--the
debt being for the funeral expenses of his wife--was absolved from all
blame under the cruel neglect he had experienced--and left the Village.
Before he could hear in his remote home in Maine what was doing at
Salem in the first days of the Witch Tragedy, he was summoned to his
old neighborhood, was charged with sorcery on the most childish and
absurd testimony conceivable, and executed in August, 1692. One of the
witnesses--a young girl morbid in body and mind--poured out her remorse
to him the day before his death. He, believing her a victim of Satan,
forgave her, prayed with her, and died honored and beloved by all who
were not under the curse of the bigotry of the time.
DEODAT LAWSON.
The third minister was one Deodat Lawson, who is notable--besides his
learning--for his Sermon on the Devil, and for some mournful mystery
about his end. Of his last days there is nothing known but that
there was something woeful in them; but his sermon, preached at the
commencement of the outbreak in Salem, remains to us. It was published
in America, and then widely circulated in England. It met the popular
craving for light about Satan and his doings; and thus, between its
appropriateness to the time and occasion, and the learning and ability
