considers her husbaai perfection. Would Frances, if 
her husband could ror/Ound her with as much luxury? 
He sighs to himseK. Are women always thinking of 
material comforts? li there some one whose life has 
been like a poem tbu one finds in the comer of an out-of- 
 
 
 
the-way country newspaper, and yet once read can never 
quite vanish from one's mind or the soul's sight ? 
Basil Wentworth takes up life with a manful humility 
the next morning. He has made this part of it himself, 
and he will do his best to mend instead of marring it any 
further. He is courteous to his wife and affable to his 
brother. He goes to his business, promising himself an 
early return. The journey that looked so tempting must 
be given up. It is hardly likely that Doris and Mrs. Gil- 
bert would care to spend a fortnight anywhere for the 
sake of an ailing child, even if — and he is not sure that 
it would be best to ask them. 
When he returns, he finds an empty house. Rose has 
taken the baby, who is much better, around to the Elms. 
Frances and Graham started at two, and will not be back 
before seven. Basil wanders forlornly from room to 
room, picks up a book and lays it down again, drums a 
little on the open piano, and then saunters out with no 
specially definite purpose, feeling as if he was wasting 
precious time ; but presently he finds himself at the Elms, 
and goes slowly up the winding avenue, his heart heavy 
with memories. 
They are all on the veranda. The baby is in Doris's 
lap, and is actually smiling. Lloyd is swinging in the 
hammock, and Rose is repeating a nursery medley. Mrs. 
Gilbert has some bright embroidery in her hands, and 
altogether it is a pretty picture. He puts it beside that 
of Doris singing to her landlady at the little inn. 
She colors, and her eyes droop exquisitely. It seems 
so strange to have Ids child in her arms, though it was 
natural enough a moment before. There is a little con- 
straint all around ; he feels it perceptibly. 
But they do settle to a degree of cordiality. He will 
not walk in, but prefers sitting on the step, — one of his 
old places. After a little he persuades Lloyd to come to 
him, and talks business with Doris in the intervals of 
 
 
 
amusement. How clear and well-disciplined Doris's mind 
seems ! Yet it certainly is 7iot unfeminine or narrow. He 
bethiuks himself of Mr. Stirling's admiration of her that 
he has sometimes listened to with a sneer, — heaven for- 
give him ! How harsh and maleficent he has been in bis 
judgments! Can anything ever make amends? It is 
like his marriage : even if the wrong is forgiven, the 
consequences reach out like the roots of some deadly 
plant and blight more than one life. His fate is hopeless. 
Let him accept it with what courage he may, and do his 
best in the future ; but, ah ! he recognizes the hard fact 
that the works of the past throw limitations around the 
deeds of the future. 
