He had forgotten all about the baby. There had 
been so many. 
" You 'd better get up, Teen," he said as he went 
out; "it's cryin' after you." 
He shut the door and staggered down the steps.- He 
hesitated once, and thought he would go back and say 
to her : 
" What 's the use of layin' there ? " 
But he thought better, or worse, of it, and went his 
way. He went out and reshipped at once, lingering 
only long enough to drink madly on the way, at a place 
he knew, where he was sure to be let alone. The men 
were afraid of Jack, when he was so far gone under as 
this. Nobody spoke to him. He went down to Salt 
Brothers' wharf, opposite Salt & Co.'s, and found the 
Daredevil, just about to weigh. She was short by one 
hand, and took him as he was. 
He was surprised to find himself aboard when the 
next sun went down ; he had turned in his bunk and was 
overheard to call for Teen, ordering her to do some service 
for him, testily enough. 
" Oh," he muttered, " she ain't here, is she ? Be 
blasted if I ain't on the Daredevil." 
He was good for nothing, for a matter of days, and 
silent or sullen for the trip. It had been a heavy spree. 
He fell to, when he came to himself, and fished desperately ;
his luck turned, and he made money ; he made 
seventy - five dollars. They were gone three weeks. 
They had a bitter voyage, for it was March. 
They struck a gale at Georges', and another coming 
home. It snowed a great deal, and the rigging froze. 
The crew were uncommonly cold. They kept the stew- 
ard cooking briskly, and four or five hot meals a clay 
were not enough to keep one's courage up. They were 
particular about their cooking, as fishermen are, and 
the steward of the Daredevil was famous in his calling. 
But it was conceded to be unusually cold, even for 
March, at Georges'. One must keep the blood racing, 
somehow, for life's sake. 
Whiskey flowed fast between meals. Jack was ob- 
served not to limit himself. " It was for luck," he said. 
Take it through, it was a hard trip. The sober men — 
there were some — looked grim and pinched ; the drink- 
ers ugly. 
" It 's a hound's life," said a dory-mate of Jack's one 
day. His name was Rowe — Rowe Salt ; he was a half- 
brother of Jim's. But Jim was at home. And Teen, 
of course, was at home. Jack had not spoken of her ; 
he had thought of her, — he had thought of nothing 
else. God knows what those thoughts had been. When 
Rowe spoke to him in this fashion, Jack looked hard at 
him. 
" I 've been thinkin' ef it disobligated a feller," he 
said. 
" Hey ? " asked Rowe. 
" If you was treated like folks ; but you ain't. You 're 
froze. You 're soaked. You 're wrecked. Your nets 
is stole. You 're drove off in the fog. You 're drownded, 
and you lose your trawls. If you swear off, you 
miss your luck. It 's dirty aboard. Folks don't like 
