With the "Herald" in my hand, I made haste to meet him.
"Brake!" I cried, "Mr. Brake!  Thank Heaven, you have come!  I have
passed such a night--and look here!  Have you seen this abominable
canard?  This is what has come of my being locked into your"--
The broker regarded me with a strange look; so strange, that for very
amazement I stood still before it.  He did not advance to meet me;
neither his hand nor his eyes gave me the human sign of welcome; he
looked over me, he looked through me, as a man does at one whose
acquaintance he has no desire to recognize.
I thought:--
"Drayton has crammed him.  He too believes that I was shut in here to
sleep it off.  The story will get out in two hours.  I am doomed in
this town henceforth for a drunken doctor.  I'd better have been killed
instantly, as this infernal paper says."
But I said,--
"Mr. Brake?  You don't recognize me, I think.  It is I, Dr. Thorne.  I
couldn't get here before two.  I went to your house last evening.  I
got the impression you were here, so I came after you.  I was locked in
here by your confounded watchman.  They have this minute let me free.
I am in a great hurry to get home.  Nice job this is going to be!  Have
you seen that?"
I put my shaking finger upon the "Herald's" fiery capitals, and held
the column folded towards him.
"Jason," he said, after an instant's pause, "pick up the 'Herald,' will
you?  A gust of wind has blown it from the table.  There must be a
draught.  Please shut the door."
To say that I know of no earthly language which can express the
sensation that crawled over me as the broker uttered these words is to
say little or nothing about it.  I use the expression "crawled" with
some faint effort to define the slowness and the repulsiveness with
which the suspicion of that to which I dared not and did not give a
name, made itself manifest to my mind.
"Excuse me, Brake," I said with some agitation, "you did not hear what
I said.  I was locked in.  I am in a hurry to get home.  Ask Drayton.
Drayton let me in.  I must get home at once.  I shall sue the 'Herald'
for that outrageous piece of work--  What do you suppose my wife--
Good God!  She must have read it by this time!  Let me by, Brake!"
"Jason," said the broker, "this is a terrible thing!  I feel quite
broken up about it."
"Brake!" I cried, "Henry Brake!  Let me pass you!  Let me home to my
wife!  You're in my way--don't you see?  You're standing directly
between me and the door.  Let me pass!"
"There's a private dispatch come," said the clerk Badly.  "It is for
you, sir.  It is from Mrs. Thorne herself."
"Brake!" I pleaded, "Brake, Brake!--Jason!--Mr. Brake!  Don't you hear
me?"
"Give me the message, Jason," said Brake, holding out his hand; he
seated himself, as he did so, at the office table, where I had sat the
night out; he looked troubled and pale; he handled the message
reluctantly, as people do in the certainty of bad news.
"In the name of mercy, Henry Brake!" I cried, "what is the meaning of
this?  Don't you hear a word I say?  Don't you feel me?--There!"  I
gripped the broker by the shoulder, and clinched both hands upon him
with all my might.  "Don't you feel me?  God Almighty! don't you
see me, Brake?"
"When did this dispatch come, Jason?" said the broker.  He laid Helen's
message gently down; he had tears in his eyes.
"Henry Brake," I pleaded brokenly, for my heart failed me with a mighty
fear, "answer me, in human pity's name.  Are you gone deaf and blind?
Or am I struck dumb?  Or am I"--
