audacious proposal; and yet a sudden delicious hope sprung up in her
heart that there might, perhaps, be a spark of real virtue in the
little fire which burned within her, warming and brightening her
dull life.
“Let us ask Mamma; she will tell us what is best to do first, for
she knows all sorts of literary people, and won’t say any more than
you want her to. I’m bent on having my way, Becky, and the more
modest you are, the surer I am that you are a genius. Real geniuses
always ARE shy; so you just make up your mind to give me the best of
your pieces, and let me prove that I’m right.”
It was impossible to resist such persuasive words, and Becky soon
yielded to the little siren who was luring her out of her safe,
small pool into the deeper water that looks so blue and smooth till
the venturesome paper boats get into the swift eddies, or run
aground upon the rocks and sandbars.
The greatest secrecy was to be preserved, and no one but Mrs.
Spenser was to know what a momentous enterprise was afoot. The girls
sat absorbed in their brilliant plans till it was nearly dark, then
groped their way home hand in hand, leaving another secret for the
laurels to keep and dream over through their long sleep, for blossom
time was past, and the rosy faces turning pale in the July sun.
Neither of the girls forgot the talk they had that night in Emily’s
room, for she led her captive straight to her mother, and told her
all their plans and aspirations without a moment’s delay.
Mrs. Spenser much regretted her daughter’s well-meant enthusiasm,
but fearing harm might be done, very wisely tried to calm the
innocent excitement of both by the quiet matter-of-fact way in which
she listened to the explanation Emily gave her, read the verses
timidly offered by Becky, and then said, kindly but firmly:--
“This is not poetry, my dear girls, though the lines run smoothly
enough, and the sentiment is sweet. It would bring neither fame nor
money, and Rebecca puts more real truth, beauty, and poetry into her
dutiful daily life than in any lines she has written.”
“We had such a lovely plan for Becky to come to town with me, and
see the world, and write, and be famous. How can you spoil it all?”
“My foolish little daughter, I must prevent you from spoiling this
good girl’s life by your rash projects. Becky will see that I am
wise, though you do not, and SHE will understand this verse from my
favorite poet, and lay it to heart:--
  “So near is grandeur to our Dust,
   So nigh is God to man,
   When Duty whispers low, ‘Thou must!’
    The youth replies, ‘I can!’”
“I do! I will! please go on,” and Becky’s troubled eyes grew clear
and steadfast as she took the words home to herself, resolving to
live up to them.
“Oh, mother!” cried Emily, thinking her very cruel to nip their
budding hopes in this way.
“I know you won’t believe it now, nor be able to see all that I mean
perhaps, but time will teach you both to own that I am right, and to
value the substance more than the shadow,” continued Mrs. Spenser.
“Many girls write verses and think they are poets; but it is only a
passing mood, and fortunately for the world, and for them also, it
soon dies out in some more genuine work or passion. Very few have
the real gift, and those to whom it IS given wait and work and
slowly reach the height of their powers. Many delude themselves, and
try to persuade the world that they can sing; but it is waste of
time, and ends in disappointment, as the mass of sentimental rubbish
we all see plainly proves. Write your little verses, my dear, when
the spirit moves,--it is a harmless pleasure, a real comfort, and a
