A YELLOW ENVELOPE.
There is a peculiarity about Baden-Baden which no other watering-place
seems to share--it has the aroma of a pretty woman. In August it is
warm, crowded, enervating, tiresome as are all warm and crowded places,
but the air is delicately freighted and a pervasive fragrance is
discerned even by the indifferent.
In the summer that succeeded Maida’s marriage Baden was the same tame,
perfumed zwei und funfzig that it has ever been since the war. The
ladies and gentlemen who were to regard it as a sort of continuation of
the Bois de Boulogne had departed never to return. Gone was Benazet,
gone, too, the click of the roulette ball. The echoes and uproars of
the Second Empire had died away, as echoes and uproars ever must, and
in place of the paint and cleverness of the dames du-lac had come the
stupid loveliness of the schwärmerisch Mädchen.
But though Paris had turned her wicked back, the attitude of that
decadent capital in no wise affected other cities. On the particular
August to which allusion is made, interminable dinners were consumed
by contingents from the politest lands, and also from some that were
semi-barbaric.
In the Lichenthal Allée and on the promenade in front of the Kursaal
one could hear six languages in as many minutes, and given a
polyglottic ear the number could have been increased to ten. Among
those who added their little quota to this summer Babel were Mr. and
Mrs. Incoul.
The wedding had been very simple. Mrs. Barhyte had wished the ceremony
performed in Grace Church, and to the ceremony she had also wished that
all New York should be bidden. To her it represented a glory which in
the absence of envious witnesses would be lustreless indeed. But in
this respect her wishes were disregarded. On a melting morning in early
June, a handful of people, thirty at most, assembled in Mrs. Hildred’s
drawing-room. The grave service that is in usage among Episcopalians
was mumbled by a diligent bishop, there was a hurried and heavy
breakfast, and two hours later the bride and groom were on the deck of
the “Umbria.”
The entire affair had been conducted with the utmost dispatch. The
Sunday Sun chronicled the engagement in one issue, and gave the date
of the wedding in the next. It was not so much that Harmon Incoul was
ardent in his wooing or that Miss Barhyte was anxious to assume the
rank and privileges that belong to the wedded state. The incentives
were other if equally prosaic. The ceremony if undergone needed to be
undergone at once. Summer was almost upon them, and in the code which
society has made for itself, summer weddings are reproved. There was
indeed some question of postponing the rites until autumn. But on that
Mrs. Barhyte put her foot. She was far from sure of her daughter,
and as for the other contracting party, who could tell but that he
might change his mind. Such changes had been, and instances of such
misconduct presented themselves unsummoned to the woman’s mind. The
fish had been landed almost without effort, a fish more desirable than
any other, a very prize among fishes, and the possibility that he might
slip away and without so much as a gill awry float off into clearer
and less troubled seas, nerved her to her task anew.
In the interview which she enjoyed with her prospective son-in-law
she was careful, however, to display no eagerness. She was sedate
when sedateness seemed necessary, but her usual attitude was one of
conciliatory disinterestedness. Her daughter’s choice she told him
had met with her fullest approval, and it was to her a matter of deep
regret that neither her husband nor her father--the late Chief Justice
Hildred, with whose name Mr. Incoul was of course familiar--that
neither of them had been spared to join in the expression of her
satisfaction. Of Maida it was unnecessary to speak, yet this at least
