Do you understand ?' 
'No. I do not understand such language from my 
daughter ; and as for your determination, I tell you that you 
will most certainly end by acting as I wish you to act.' 
'You cannot force me to marry. What can you do] 
You can put me into a convent. Do you think that would 
make me change my mind ? I would thank God for any 
asylum in which I might find refuge from such tyranny.' 
' My daughter,' replied the prince in bland tones, ' I am 
fully resolved not to be angry with you. Your undutiful 
conduct proceeds from ignorance, which is never an offence, 
though it is always a misfortune. If you will have a little 
patience ' 
' I have none ! ' exclaimed Faustina, exasperated by her 
father's manner. ' My undutiful conduct does not proceed 
from ignorance it proceeds from love, from love for another 
man, whom I will marry if I marry any one.' 
'Faustina!' cried Montevarchi, holding up his hands in 
horror and amazement. ' Do you dare to use such language 
to your father ! ' 
'I dare do anything, everything I dare even tell you 
the name of the man I love Anastase Gouache !' 
' My child ! My child ! This is too horrible ! I must 
really send for your mother.' 
' Do what you will.' 
Faustina had risen to her feet and was standing hefore 
one of the old bookcases, her hands folded before her, her 
eyes on fire, her delicate mouth scornfully bent Monte- 
varchi, who was really startled almost out of his senses, 
moved cautiously towards the bell, looking steadily at his 
daughter all the while as though he dreaded some fresh out 
break. There was something ludicrous in his behaviour 
which, at another time, would not have escaped the young 
girl. Now, however, she was too much in earnest to perceive 
anything except the danger of her position and the necessity 
for remaining firm at any cost. She did not understand 
why her mother was to be called, but she felt that she could 
face all her family if necessary. She kept her eyes upon 
her father and was hardly conscious that a servant entered 
the room. Montevarchi sent a message requesting the 
princess to come at once. Then he turned again towards 
Faustina. 
'You can hardly suppose,' he observed, 'that I take 
seriously what you have just said ; but you are evidently 
very much excited, and your mother's presence will, I 
trust, have a soothing effect. You must be aware that it 
is very wrong to utter such monstrous untruths even in 
jest ' 
' I am in earnest. I will marry Monsieur Gouache or I 
will marry no one.' 
Montevarchi really believed that his daughter's mind was 
deranged. His interview with Gouache had convinced him 
that Faustina meant what she said, though he affected to 
laugh at it, but he was wholly unable to account for her 
conduct on any theory but that of insanity. Being at his 
wits' end he had sent for his wife, and while waiting for her 
he did not quite know what to do. 
'My dear child, what is Monsieur Gouache? A very 
estimable young man, without doubt, but not such a one as 
we could choose for your husband.' 
