effort she sprang up ; but he, rising too, seemed to 
press always nearer she had a sense (it was dis 
agreeable) that he was demonstrative so that she 
retreated a little before him. " They were all 
there roaring and raging, trying to make you 
believe you have outraged them ? " 
"All but young Mr. Probert. Certainly they 
don 't like it." 
"The cowards!" said George Flack. "And 
where was young Mr. Probert ? " 
" He was away I've  told you in America." 
" Ah, yes, your father told me. But now he has 
come back doesn 't he like it either ? " 
" I don 't know, Mr. Flack," Francie replied, 
impatiently. 
" Well, I do, then. He s a coward too he 'll do 
what his papa tells him and the countess and 
the duchess and all the rest : he 'll just back down 
he 'll give you up." 
" I can 't talk to you about that," said Francie. 
"Why not? why is he such a sacred subject, 
when we are together ? You can 't alter that. It 
was too lovely, your standing up for me your 
not denying me ! " 
" You put in things I never said. It seems to 
me it was very different," the girl remarked. 
" Everything is different when it s printed. 
What else would be the good of papers ? Besides, 
it wasn 't I ; it was a lady who helps me here 
you've  heard me speak of her : Miss Topping. She 
wants so much to know you she wants to talk 
with you." 
" And will she publish that ? " Francie asked, 
gravely. 
Mr. Flack stared a moment. " Lord, how they 
have worked on you ! And do you think it s 
bad ? " 
" Do I think what s bad ? " 
" Why, the letter we are talking about." 
" Well I don 't like it." 
" Do you think I was dishonourable ? " 
The girl made no answer to this, but after a 
moment she said, " Why do you come here this 
wa y why do you ask me such questions ? 
He hesitated ; then he broke out : " Because I 
love you don 't you know that ? " 
" Oh, please don 't ! " she almost moaned, turning 
away. 
" Why won 't you understand it why won 't you 
understand the rest? Don 't you see how it has 
worked round the heartless brutes they've  turned 
into, and the way our life yours and mine is 
bound to be the same ? Don 't you see the base 
way they treat you and that I only want to do 
anything in the world for you ? " 
Francie made no immediate response to this 
appeal, but after a moment she began : " Why did 
you ask me so many questions that day ? " 
" Because I always ask questions it s my 
business to ask them. Haven 't you always seen 
