workmanship, and he felt a sudden sense of 
pleasant anticipation. That key opened the 
Byzantine chest opposite, somewhere in whose 
cunningly hidden recesses lay, he was convinced, 
the papers which he had once seen in his grand- 
mother's clenched hands. He did not believe she 
had destroyed them; she had remarked a few 
days before her death — which had been sudden 
and unexpected — that she must soon devote an 
unpleasant hour to the burning of old letters and 
papers. She had spoken lightly, but there had 
been a gleam in her eyes and a tightening of her 
lips which had suggested the night he had seen 
her look as if she wished that the papers between 
her fingers were a human throat. Should he find 
those papers and pass away a dull evening? 
There was certainly nothing but the obstinacy of 
the chest to prevent, and she would forgive him 
 
more than that. He had always had a strong 
curiosity in regard to those papers, but his 
curiosity so far had been an inactive one; he had 
never before been alone at the Hall since his 
grandmother's death. He wheeled about on his 
chair and looked whimsically at the divan. " Have 
I your permission, O most fascinating of grand- 
mothers?" he demanded aloud. "No answer. 
That means I have. So be it.'' 
He wrote to Weir, then went over and kneeled 
on one knee before the chest. It looked 
outwardly like a high, deep box, and was covered 
with heavy Smyrna cloth, and ornamented with 
immense brass handles and lock. Dartmouth 
fitted the key into a small key-hole hidden in the 
carving on the side of the lock, and the front of 
the chest fell outward. He let it down to the 
floor, then gave his attention to the interior. It 
was as complicated as the exterior was plain. On 
one side of the central partition were dozens 
of little drawers, on the other as many slides and 
pigeon-holes and alcoves. On every square inch 
of wood was a delicate tracery, each different, 
each telling a story. The handles of the drawers, 
the arcades of the alcoves, the pillars of the 
pigeon-holes — all were of ivory, and all were 
carved with the fantastic art of the Mussulman. 
It was so beautiful and so intricate that for a time 
Dartmouth forgot the papers. He had seen it 
before, but it was a work of art which required 
 
minute observation and study of its details to 
be appreciated. After a time, however, he 
recurred to his quest and took the drawers out, one 
by one, laying them on the floor. They were 
very small, and not one of them contained so 
much as a roseleaf. At the end of each fourth 
shelf which separated the rows of drawers, was a 
knob. Dartmouth turned one and the shelf fell 
from its place. He saw the object. Behind 
each four rows of drawers was a room. Each of 
