about her mouth and in the carriage of her head was something that
reminded you of the alertness and expectancy of a bird. She was not
innocent, if innocence be taken in the sense of ignorance, but she was
clean of mind, of eye, and of tongue. She had been better instructed
than the majority of society girls, or, if not better instructed, at
least she had read more, and this perhaps, because on emerging from the
nursery her father's first care had been to make her unafraid of books.
Petrus Menemon himself was a tall, spare man, scrupulous as to his
dress, and quiet of manner. In his face was the expression of one who is
not altogether satisfied, and yet wishes everyone else to be content. He
had an acquired ignorance which he called agnosticism. He enjoyed the
formidable reputation of being well-read; but it is only just to explain
that he was well read chiefly in the archaic sense--in the bores and
pedants of antiquity. Yet, if his taste was stilted, he made no effort
to inculcate that taste in his daughter; he gave her the run of the
library and allowed her to drag from the Valhalla of the back
books-helves what friends and relatives she chose. Indeed, his attitude
to her was one of habitual indulgence. By nature she was as capricious
as a day in February, a compound of sunlight, of promise, and of snow;
and when she was wilful--and she was often that--he made no effort to
coerce, he argued with her as one might with a grown person, seriously,
and without anger. And something of that seriousness she caught from
him, and with it confidence in his wisdom and trust in his love. To her
thinking no one in all the world was superior to that gentle-mannered
man.
When she left the nursery she was supplied with a governess, and as she
grew older, with masters of different arts and tongues. But as a child
she was often lonely, and the children whom she saw playing in the
streets were to her objects of indignant envy. On Sunday it was her
father's custom to take her to morning service, and afterward to her
grandmother, a lady who lived alone in a giant house in South Washington
Square, in the upper rooms of which the child was persuaded that coffins
lay stored in heaps. During these visits, which were continued every
Sunday until the old lady died, an invariable programme was observed:
the child repeated the catechism, recited a verse from the hymnal, after
which she was gratified with sponge-cake and a glass of milk, and then
was permitted to look at the pictures in a large Bible, in which, by way
of frontispiece, was an engraving of a man with a white beard, whom her
grandmother said was God. Such, with the exception of tiresome
promenades on Second Avenue, where her father's house was situated, such
were her relaxations.
And so it came about that in the enforced loneliness of her childhood
she ransacked a library in which the "Picara Justina" of Fray Andrs
Perez stood side-by-side with the Kalevala, a library in which works
stupid as the Koran and dead as Coptic touched covers with the "Idyls of
the King" and the fabliaux of mediæval France. Soon she had made friends
with the heroes and heroines that are the caryatides of the
book-shelves. In their triumphs she exulted; by their failures she was
depressed. At the age of thirteen she spoke of King Arthur as though he
were her first cousin. The next year she was in love with Amadis of
Gaul.
A little later she hung on the wall of her bedroom a bit of embroidery
of her own manufacture, a square piece of watered silk, on which in bold
relief stood the characters 60 H, a device understood by no one but
herself, one which her imagination had evolved out of the aridity of a
French copy-book, and which each night and each morning said to her,
Sois sans tache.
Indeed, her brain had been the haunt of many an odd conceit, the home of
fays and goblins. Her imagination was always a garden to her except
when it happened to be a morass. She had not only castles in Spain, she
