
"None at all," answered our Captain, thoughtlessly enough, for we had
only too much of it, and unfortunately the papers referring to it lay
upon the cabin table.

"The devil," cried the robber, "do you take me for a child? All
home-bound vessels have money on board; give up yours quietly, and
depart in the devil's name whither you will."

The captain repeated his silly denial, and enraged the pirate still
further.

"Well," he said with frightful calmness, "if you will not give up the
money, I will throw your cargo overboard, and search for it myself.
If I find it, I'll lock you in your cabin, and burn your vessel with
every man on board."

After this threat he walked up and down the deck, and said more
quietly, turning to me:

"You must remain with us, for there is no one among my men who
thoroughly understands a helmsman's duty, and I must give myself more
rest, I am not well."

One can imagine my sensations. In the meanwhile supper had been
prepared, and the pirate officers, six or seven in number, invited us
politely to partake of it; we accepted, as we did not wish to
displease them. The meal consisted of onion soup with bread, tolerable
fish, and a very good ham, with plenty of excellent Cogniac and
Bordeaux wine. During supper the schooner approached the Dolphin, and
lay alongside. It was now perfectly dark, and they showed us a place
close by the cabin door, where we could sleep.

The following morning we were invited to breakfast, which consisted of
coffee with goat's milk, broiled fish, smoked pork, very good biscuit,
and sweet brandy. After breakfast we were sent back to the Dolphin,
which, as the captain still persisted in his obstinate assertion that
there was no money on board, was being emptied of her contents by the
robber captain's commands. First of all I slipped into the cabin to
look after my chest; it had been broken open and robbed of all
articles of value, among which were two diamond rings. Some suits of
clothes, and some shirts, were all that remained. In unloading the
vessel they began first with the cow; then they threw over the
poultry, and all the other provisions, and then the wine and brandy
casks. They next came to the actual cargo of the brig, out of which
only what was very valuable was preserved, for there was no room to
stow any thing away in the pirate ship. Thus they worked until towards
evening, when we were again invited to supper, and again shown to our
sleeping place. The sailors had already become intoxicated, and were
singing and rioting upon deck, without either officers or captain
daring to check them, for on board such ships discipline is not to be
thought of.

The next day, right after breakfast, the pirate called the captain to
the after deck.

"I speak now," said he, "in kindness to you, for the last time; give
up your money, or tell where it is concealed. Do it, or, God d--n me,
the Dolphin, yourself, and all on board are lost."

