XXXIV.
"Drive to the New York steamer."
"She's off, boss. Past her time."
"Drive, I tell you."
The negro coachman cracked his whip, his two rawboned steeds broke into
a gallop; the loose-jointed landau behind clattered and danced over the
stones.
"Faster," said Paul.
The negro stood up, he shook the reins over the backs of his team with a
galloping motion that corresponded with the sound of their feet; in
addition, he yelled without intermission. They swayed round corners,
they lurched against railings and other carriages; every head turned,
people made way for them as for a fire-engine; at last they reached the
harbor, and went clattering down the descent to the dock. Here there met
them the usual assemblage of loiterers, who were watching the steamer,
which was already half a mile distant, churning the blue water into foam
behind her, her nose pointed straight towards Sumter.
Paul watched the line of her smoke for a moment; then he got out of his
carriage, paid the coachman mechanically, told him to take his luggage
to the Charleston Hotel, and walked away, unconscious alike of the
mingled derision and sympathy which his late arrival had drawn from the
group--boys with market-baskets, girls with baby-wagons, slouching
mulattoes with fishing-tackle, and little negroes of tender age with
spongy lips and bare prehensile toes, to whose minds the departure of
the steamer was a daily drama of intensest interest and excitement.
There was nothing to be done until evening, when he could take the fast
train to New York. Paul went to the Battery; but noticed nothing. A band
from the arsenal began to play; immediately over all the windows of the
tall old houses which looked seaward the white shades descended;
Northern music was not wanted there. He went up Meeting Street; and
noticed nothing. Yet on each side, within sight, were picturesque ruins,
and St. Michael's spire bore the marks of the bomb-shells of the siege.
He opened the gate of the church-yard of the little Huguenot church and
entered; the long inscriptions on the flat stones were quaint, but he
did not read them. He walked into the country by the shaded road across
the neck. Then he came back again. He strolled hither and thither, he
stared at the old Manigault House. Finally, at three o'clock, he went to
the hotel.
Half an hour later an omnibus came up; waiters in white and bell-boys
with wisp-brushes rushed out, dusty travellers descended; Paul, standing
under the white marble columns, looked on. He still stood there after
the omnibus had rolled away, and all was quiet, so quiet that a cat
stole out and crossed the street, walking daintily on its clean white
paving-stones, and disappearing under a wall opposite.
A figure came to the doorway behind, Paul became conscious that he was
undergoing inspection; he turned, and scanned the gazer. It proved to be
a muscular, broad-shouldered man of thirty-five, with a short yellow
beard and clumsy features, which were, however, lighted by keen blue
eyes; his clothes were dusty, he carried a travelling-bag; evidently he
was one of the travellers who had just arrived, coming from the Northern
train. A bell-boy came out and looked up and down the colonnade; then,
with his wisp-brush, he indicated Paul.
"Dat's him, sah.--You was a-asking."
"All right," said the traveller. Putting his travelling-bag on a bench,
he walked up to Paul. "Think I know you. Mr. Tennant, isn't it--Port aux
Pins? Saw your name on the book. I'm Dr. Knox--the one who was with your
brother."
Paul's face changed, its fixed look disappeared. "Will you come to my
room?"
"In twenty minutes. I must have a wash first, and something to eat. Be
