and the moonbeams the light must have been insufficient, for presently
he lit a candle, monologuing to himself the while. And as he monologued
he was aware of that fettering, overmastering force which visits youth
but once--the abnegation of self before that which is.
In that struggle in which we lay our arguments down and rejoice in
defeat he had wrestled with all the weakness of his years. And now, as
he flung himself on the bed, he clasped a pillow in his arms and sighed.
He hoped for nothing, he expected nothing; but it was bliss to be
conquered and enchained. The contest was done. During the coming week
his captor would move before him, a luring melody, a clear accord
sounded for his own delight, and then he would go, leaving the melody
undisturbed, yet bearing a strain of it to feed on, a memory of enduring
joy.
From without the hum of insects still persisted, and the waves were
noisier than before. His eyes closed, and he smiled. For a moment that
may have outlasted an hour he dreamed of the fabulous days in which
goatherds dared to fall in love with goddesses. And such is the
advantage of a classical education, that he mumbled a line from a Greek
pedant, another from a Roman bore. In the dactyls and the spondees he
caught the rhythm of tinkling feet; and as the measures sank him into
deeper sleep a monstrous beetle shot through the casement and put the
candle out.
The whir of wings disturbed him ever so little. For an instant he was
bending over sandals, caressing a peplum's hem. Then all was blank.
"Tuan! Tuan!"
It was a Malay servant, hailing the foreign lord, admonishing him to
rise.
The room was filled with sunlight, and on a palm tree opposite Tancred
caught a glimpse of a red monkey scratching his knee, chattering and
grimacing at a paroquet.
II.
At tiffin, that noon, the general was absent. It was usually so, his
daughter explained; the duties of the consulate at Siak claimed the
clearer hours of the day, and it was only now and then, on high days and
festivals, that he permitted himself the surcease of a siesta at home.
"He is indefatigable," she added, and shook her peerless head.
During the morning Tancred had explored the grounds; he had idled on the
red-road and lost himself among the invitations of a green ravine. A
grove of tamarinds had called to him, a stretch of aroids had entreated
him that way, the sky had imprisoned him beneath a palm, a brook had
murmured to him, a lake had coaxed him to its cool embrace. And then,
Zut sniffing at his heels, he had returned in time for luncheon at the
bungalow.
In pauses of the stroll he had promised himself that during the
afternoon he would endeavor to find an opportunity in which to say
something of that which was on his mind. This, however, an accident
prevented. Miss Van Lier announced that she and her future step-mother
were obliged to attend the funeral of a neighbor, a function at which of
course it were idle for him to assist. He watched their departure
without a protest, and gave a few more hours to the wonders of the
woods. When the sun went down his forbearance was rewarded. The general
was detained at Siak. Tancred and the ladies dined as they had
lunched--alone.
That evening Mrs. Lyeth seemed even more magnificent than the night
before. And beside her the sultry insouciance of the maiden heightened
the matron's charm. They were sheerly dissimilar, daughters of antipodal
climes and race--the one loquacious and at ease, the other taciturn and
absorbed. But it was in eyes they differed most. Those of the general's
bride-elect were moist as some blue flower plucked at dawn; the dew
seemed still upon them. Those of the general's daughter were sidereal,
