As the castle clock struck one hour after another, the baroness 
felt that every minute was carrying the secret further beyond her 
reach, and yet, as the time passed, the effect of that secret's 
existence upon her own mind grew more and more clear to herself. 
She could never give Hilda to Greif. She could never suffer her 
child to mate with a man whose existence was overshadowed by 
such a history, innocent though he assuredly was himself. 
And yet Greif was coming, and she had ridden all those weary 
miles through the freezing night in order to meet him at his own 
gate, in order to comfort him, to give him the help of her presence, 
the consolation of a friend in his utmost need. Would it console 
him to know that he must lose the only surviving thing that was 
dear to him, the hope of Hilda ? Her heart beat at the thought 
of the pain he would suffer, though it had been calm enough in 
the sight of the great horror. 
But she could not yield the point. In spite of her gentle face 
she had all the unbending qualities of her masterful countrymen, 
as well as all the pride of the Greifensteins. She could not yield, 
let the resistance cost what it might. 
The late winter's dawn stole through the crevices of the 
windows, which had been opened more than once during the 
night. The contrast of the still grey rays, seen through the 
flickering light of the candles that filled the place of death, was 
terribly unpleasant. The baroness rose and fastened the shutters 
carefully. As she turned back she shuddered for the first time 
since she had come. The slight exertion had stirred her tired 
blood and had made her momentarily nervous. The room looked 
very naturally. The huge carved bed of state with its enormous 
canopy was where she had always seen it when she had visited 
the house. The massive furniture was arranged as usual, saving 
that there were high pedestals placed about the bed to support 
the heavy candlesticks. Nothing else was changed. But upon 
that bed lay two straight things, side by side, covered all over 
with fine linen. The great secret of death was there, and death 
had taken with him the key -word of a strange mystery, 
CHAPTER XIII 
REX sat in a careless attitude in a corner of Greif's small room, 
watching his friend as he arrayed himself in the official dress of a 
Korps student for the coming festivity. It was to be Greif's last 
appearance in public as a fellow. To-morrow there would be a 
meeting of the Korps and he would resign his functions, and 
some one else would be elected in his stead. Rex watched him 
curiously and hummed the first stanza of the ' Gaudeamus '- 
' Give our hearts to gladness, then, 
While the young life flashes ! 
When our joyous youth is gone, 
When old age's aches are done, 
Earth shall have our ashes !' 
I wish you would not sing that song !' exclaimed Greif, a little 
impatiently. ' There will be time enough to exercise your voice 
upon it when we begin to throw away the torches.' 
' It is the only song I ever heard that has any truth in it/ 
answered Rex. 
'You ought to write one about the vortex, and call it the 
physicist's Lament,' laughed the other. 
'The idea is not new. SchefFel made geological jokes in 
verse and sang them.' 
' Go thou and do likewise ! But do not make the idea of 
turning into a philistine more unpleasant than it naturally is.' 
' We have all been through it,' said Rex, * and most of us have 
