

XL 



At the reception, where two men in livery stood 
aside to let him pass up the outside steps of the 
house, and two more helped him off with his over- 
coat indoors, and a fifth miscalled his name into 
the drawing-room, the Syracuse stone-cutter's son 
met the niece of Mrs. Horn, and began at once to 
tell her about his evening at the Dryfooses'. He 
was in very good spirits, for so far as he could have 
been elated or depressed by his parting with Alma 
Leighton he had been elated ; she had not treated 
his impudence with the contempt that he felt it 
deserved ; she must still be fond of him ; and the 
warm sense of this, by operation of an obscure .but 
well-recognised law of the masculine being, disposed 
him to be rather fond of Miss Vance. She was a 
slender girl, whose semi-sesthetic dress flowed about 
her with an accentuation of her long forms, and 
redeemed them from censure by the very frankness 
with which it confessed them; nobody could have 
said that Margaret Vance was too tall. Her pretty 
little head, which she had an effect of choosing to 
have little in the same spirit of judicious defiance, 
had a good deal of reading in it ; she was proud to 



 

know literary and artistic fashions as well as society 
fashions. She liked being singled out by an exterior 
distinction so obvious as Beaton's, and she listened 
with sympathetic interest to his account of those 
people. He gave their natural history reality by 
drawing upon his own ; he reconstructed their 
plebeian past from the experiences of his childhood 
and his youth of the pre-Parisian period ; and he 
had a pang of suicidal joy in insulting their ignorance 
of the world. 

" "What different kinds of people you meet ! " said 
the girl at last, with an envious sigh. Her reading 
had enlarged the bounds of her imagination, if not 
her knowledge ; the novels nowadays dealt so much 
with very common people, and made them seem so 
' very much more worth while than the people one met. 

She said something like this to Beaton. He 
answered: "You can meet the people I'm talking 
of very easily, if you want to take the trouble. 
It 's what they came to New York for. I fancy it 's 
the great ambition of their lives to be met." 

"Oh yes," said Miss Vance fashionably, and 
looked down; then she looked up and said intel- 
