you get her. But please don't think that I mean to stand in your way."
"I should say not."
"In the first place, I went there on business."
"What business, I would like to know?"
"So you shall. I took some papers for Mr. Dunellen to examine--papers
relative to my father's estate. To-morrow I return to learn his opinion.
Next week I go abroad again. When I leave I promise you shall find your
cousin still heart-whole and fancy-free."
As Roland delivered this little stab he paused a moment to note the
effect. But apparently it had passed unnoticed--Thorold seemingly was
engrossed in the statements that preceded it. The scowl was still on his
face, but it was a scowl into which perplexity had entered, and which in
entering had modified the aggressiveness that had first been there. At
the moment his eyes wandered, and Roland, who was watching him, felt
that he had scored a point.
"You say you are going abroad?" he said, at last.
"Yes; I have to join my wife."
At this announcement Thorold looked up at him and then down at the
umbrella. Presently, with an abrupt gesture, he unfurled it and raised
it above his head. As he did so, Roland smiled. For that night at least
the danger had gone. Of the morrow, however, he was unassured.
"Suppose we walk along," he said, encouragingly; and before Thorold knew
it, he was sharing that umbrella with his foe. "Yes," he continued, "my
poor father left his affairs in a muddle, but Mr. Dunellen says he
thinks he can straighten them out. You can understand that if any
inkling of this thing were to reach him he would return the papers at
once. You can understand that, can't you? After all, you must know that
I have suffered."
"Suffered!" Thorold cried. "What's that to me? It made my mother
insane."
"God knows I nearly lost my reason too. I can understand how you feel
toward me: it is only what I deserve. Yet though you cannot forget, at
least it can do you no good to rake this matter up."
"It is because of--" and for a second the cousin halted in his speech.
"Voilà!" mused Roland. "Je te vois venir."
"However, if you are going abroad--"
"Most certainly I am. I never expect to see Miss Dunellen again."
"In that case I will say nothing."
They had reached Fifth Avenue, and for a moment both loitered on the
curb. Thorold seemed to have something to add, but he must have had
difficulty in expressing it, for he nodded as though to reiterate the
promise.
"I can rely upon you then, can I?" Roland asked.
"Keep out of my way, sir, and I will try, as I have tried, to forget."
A 'bus was passing, he hailed it, and disappeared.
Roland watched the conveyance, and shook the snow-flakes from his coat.
"Try, and be damned," he muttered. "I haven't done with you yet."
The disdain of a revenge at hand is accounted the uniquest possible
vengeance. And it is quite possible that had Roland's monetary affairs
been in a better condition, on a sound and solid basis, let us say, he
would willingly have put that paradox into action. But on leaving Tuxedo
he happened to be extremely hungry--hungry, first and foremost, for the
possession of that wealth which in this admirably conducted country of
ours lifts a man above the law, and, an adroit combination of
scoundrelism and incompetence aiding, sometimes lands him high among the
executives of state. By political ambition, however, it is only just to
say he was uninspired. In certain assemblies he had taken the trouble to
assert that our government is one at which Abyssinia might sneer, but
the rôle of reformer was not one which he had any inclination to
attempt. Several of his progenitors figured, and prominently too, in
