gins with the Protozoa, or the Promammalia, 
and advances  to Aristotle or Darwin, has 
become nothing more nor less than a struggle 
for immortality. 
Suppose that the challenge is thus broadly 
thrown down to you, or me, or Newton, or the 
Jukes family. Live or die ! It is your own 
affair. You have the conditions and the 
chances. Accept or decline. No gods, pagan 
or Christian, shall interfere to compel you. 
Your personality has sacred and awful rights. 
You are caught in the machinery of inextri- 
cable law. Love is a part of that law; but 
both love and law must take the material that 
you give them. Of what stuff are you made ? 
Abide the test. It is ours to ask. Are you 
a man or a molecule? Are you a soul or 
a cell ? It is yours to decide. Give us the 
proof. 
Truth has endless corridors by which to ap- 
proach conviction, and one can see in such a 
 We say advances. We cannot say ends ; for we have 
no evolutionist yet returned from the silence of apparent 
end to classify whatever possible superior form of being 
may exist beyond reach of our microscope or telescope. 
view as this, a marked appeal to certain types 
of nature which seem to be left out of the 
usual religious argument. It is perhaps true 
that many a person objects to troubling him- 
self with immortality, either as an advantage 
or a disadvantage, when his attention is con- 
centrated exclusively upon the fact that eter- 
nal life involves definite moral conditions. 
That it should imply, also, certain conditions 
of a very different sort is quite another mat- 
ter; that it should touch the intellect, the 
force, the good sense, or even the simple 
pluck of a man — this is to be regarded. We 
may be conquered through our pride, when we 
cannot be won through our conscience. He 
who does not find it any longer exciting to be 
told that he is not good enough to live for- 
ever, will scarcely hear without interest that 
he is not strong enough. Many of us would 
rather be called bad than weak. It is an arrest 
to the thoughtf ulness of any man but an 
inferior one to show him reason why he may be 
in the way of losing an obvious gain through 
inferiority. Precisely that, such a view of 
the struggle for immortality as we have sug- 
gested would undertake to show. 
In proportion to the force and vigor of the 
individual is the love of life, present and to 
come. Eternal life should be at least as 
much a test of power as temporal life. Indi- 
viduality means the acquisition of life; one 
rates one's self accordingly. To love life, to 
strike out for it, to overcome it, to insist on it, 
is strength. To fail of it is weakness. We 
do not stay just now to remind you that a 
