red and green and blue, I believe of the oriole family, the papabotte,
a favorite on New Orleans tables in the autumn, snipe, killdee, the
cherooke (snipe?), the meadow-lark, and quantities of teal ducks in the
ponds. These little ponds are called “bull-holes.” The traveller is told
that they are started in this watery soil by the pawing of bulls, and
gradually enlarged as the cattle frequent them. He remembers that he has
seen similar circular ponds in the North not made by bulls.

Mr. Jefferson’s residence—a pretty rose-vine-covered cottage—is situated
on the slope of the hill, overlooking a broad plain and a vast stretch
of bayou country. Along one side of his home enclosure for a mile runs
a superb hedge of Chickasaw roses. On the slope back of the house, and
almost embracing it, is a magnificent grove of live-oaks, great gray
stems, and the branches hung with heavy masses of moss, which swing in
the wind like the pendent boughs of the willow, and with something of
its sentimental and mournful suggestion. The recesses of this forest
are cool and dark, but upon ascending the hill, suddenly bursts upon the
view under the trees a most lovely lake of clear blue water. This lake,
which may be a mile long and half a mile broad, is called Lake Peigneur,
from its fanciful resemblance, I believe, to a wool-comber. The shores
are wooded. On the island side the bank is precipitous; on the opposite
shore amid the trees is a hunting-lodge, and I believe there are
plantations on the north end, but it is in aspect altogether solitary
and peaceful. But the island did not want life. The day was brilliant,
with a deep blue sky and high-sailing fleecy clouds, and it seemed a
sort of animal holiday: squirrels chattered; cardinal-birds flashed
through the green leaves; there flitted about the red-winged blackbird,
blue jays, redheaded woodpeckers, thrushes, and occasionally a rain-crow
crossed the scene; high overhead sailed the heavy buzzards, describing
great aerial circles; and off in the still lake the ugly heads of
alligators were toasting in the sun.

It was very pleasant to sit on the wooded point, enlivened by all this
animal activity, looking off upon the lake and the great expanse of
marsh, over which came a refreshing breeze. There was great variety of
forest-trees. Besides the live-oaks, in one small area I noticed the
water-oak, red-oak, pin-oak, the elm, the cypress, the hackberry, and
the pecan tree.

This point is a favorite rendezvous for the buzzards. Before I reached
it I heard a tremendous whirring in the air, and, lo! there upon the
oaks were hundreds and hundreds of buzzards. Upon one dead tree, vast,
gaunt, and bleached, they had settled in black masses. When I came near
they rose and flew about with clamor and surprise, momentarily
obscuring the sunlight. With these unpleasant birds consorted in unclean
fellowship numerous long-necked water-turkeys.

Doré would have liked to introduce into one of his melodramatic pictures
this helpless dead tree, extending its gray arms loaded with these black
scavengers. It needed the blue sky and blue lake to prevent the scene
from being altogether uncanny. I remember still the harsh, croaking
noise of the buzzards and the water-turkeys when they were disturbed,
and the flapping of their funereal wings, and perhaps the alligators
lying off in the lake noted it, for they grunted and bellowed a
response. But the birds sang merrily, the wind blew softly; there was
the repose as of a far country undisturbed by man, and a silvery tone on
the water and all the landscape that refined the whole.

If the Acadians can anywhere be seen in the prosperity of their
primitive simplicity, I fancy it is in the parish of Vermilion, in the
