tomed routine, and then it seemed as if the Cubans 
suddenly woke to the fact that Eve was a charming 
young woman. They coaxed her out on the porch ; 
were fain to give up cigar-smoking for her sake. 
They taught her Spanish : they sang to her and with 
her. Mr. Cassimera played deliciously on a guitar ; 
and really, one might have fancied them half in love 
with her. 
 
All this was flame to Pryors passion. 
"See here, Thurston," he exclaimed huskily one 
night as he walked down to the station with me, 
" have you no care or thought for your sister ? What 
do you know about those fellows ? They are both 
head over heels in love with her, and they may be 
frauds and humbugs ; and I dare say they don't really 
mean any thing with all their great fuss/' 
" All the better for them if they do not mean any 
thing," I answered. "I do not think my sister's 
heart is lightly won. Society women are used to 
making themselves agreeable, and receiving atten 
tions that in a little place like this would naturally 
be more serious. They are very gentlemanly." 
" Hang it I I don't care what they are ! You have 
had opportunities to know about me, Thurston. You 
must have seen have understood" 
" Don't, Pryor," I interrupted. " I would save 
you any pain that I could. Use your own eyes. 
What has she done to encourage more than a friendly 
regard ? " 
"Well, I love her. It is out now. And you have 
a good deal of influence over her. She feels bound 
to you about the place, I mean, but if she were 
quite free and I like you so well, Thurston, that 
no brother could be dearer. Why can we not all pull 
together ? Come, do not stand in my way. Heaven 
 
knows I would lay down my life for your sister if 
she needed it! Give me a brotherly speeding in 
this matter." 
I had tried hard to shield Eve from an occasion 
like this, but I had never imagined the sweet old 
story might be told to me in such a desperate fashion. 
What would Eve do if she were here ? What if she 
had an underlying strand of tenderness for him? 
Yet it seemed as if I knew her heart. 
" I am afraid it is of no use, Pryor," I said ; and I 
felt heartily, deeply sorry for him. " So far as I am 
concerned, I could give you a brother's welcome 
any day, or a God-speed , but I think it is hopeless. 
Eve doesn't care to marry. She likes a young girl's 
good time. She has not " how should I say it with 
out hurting him ? " she does not mean to encourage 
any one." Then the past came into my mind like a 
flash. Would it help her here ? " There was some 
thing in her life a while ago it is her secret, and I 
have no right even to hint at it ; but I may say it will 
keep her from all such matters at present. They 
would be distasteful to her." 
" But I would wait she is not engaged, tell 
