"But you must have some way to communicate with them, or they might as
well be on shore. As there are six of them, I should say you might get a
chance to speak to one of them whenever you desire."
"I have had nothing to say to them so far, and I have not considered the
matter of communicating with them."
"It is time to know how you can do so."
"I can manage it in some way when the time comes," replied Mulgrum
confidently. "I am sure the captain and the first lieutenant have no
suspicion that I am not what I seem to be. The executive officer put me
through a full examination, especially in regard to Cherryfield, where I
told him I used to live. I came off with flying colors, and I am certain
that I am all right now."
Dave knew nothing about the examination to which Mr. Flint had subjected
the deaf mute. It is evident that Mulgrum took an entirely different
view of the result of the test from that taken by the examiner and the
captain; but both of the latter had taken extreme pains to conceal their
opinion from the subject of the test.
"I think we had better not say anything more to-night, and you have been
on the bridge long enough," said Mr. Lillyworth, walking to the windward
end of the bridge, and peering out into the gloom of the night.
He had hardly looked in the direction of the deaf mute while he was on
the bridge, but had busied himself with the lashing of the screen, and
done everything he could to make it appear that he was not talking to
his companion. Mulgrum, overhauling the screen as he proceeded, made his
way to the steps by the side of the foremast. But he did not go down, as
he had evidently intended to do, and waited till the second lieutenant
came over to the lee side of the vessel.
"Perhaps the man at the wheel has been listening to our conversation,"
said the deaf mute, plainly alarmed at the situation. "I did not think
of him."
"I did," replied Mr. Lillyworth; "but it is all right, and the man at
the wheel is Spoors, one of our number."
"All right," added Mulgrum, and he descended the steps.
Dave kept his place in the folds of the foresail, and hardly breathed
as the scullion passed him. With the greatest caution, and after he had
satisfied himself that no one was near enough to see him, he descended
to the deck. He wandered about for a while, and saw that the
supernumerary went to the galley, where, in the scarcity of
accommodations for the extra persons on board, he was obliged to sleep
on the floor. He was not likely to extend his operations any farther
that night, and Dave went to the companion way, descended the steps,
and knocked at the door of the captain's cabin.
"Come in," called the occupant, who had been writing at his desk in the
state room, though the door was open.
Dave presented himself before the commander, who was very glad to see
him. Christy wiped the perspiration from his forehead, for he had
evidently been working very hard all the evening. Four bells had just
struck, indicating that it was ten o'clock in the evening. Flint's
prediction in regard to the weather seemed to be in the way of
fulfilment, for the Bronx had been leaping mildly on a head sea for the
last hour. But everything was going well, and the motion of the vessel
was as satisfactory to the commander in rough water as it had been in a
smooth sea.
"I am glad to see you, Dave," said Christy, as the steward presented
himself at the door of the state room. "I suppose from your coming
to-night that you have something to tell me."
"Yes, sir; I have; and I will give you the whole Gulf of Mexico if it
isn't a big thing," replied Dave with his most expansive smile. "You
done get into a hornet's nest, Captain Passford."
"Not so bad as that, I hope," replied Christy, laughing.
