time, that two of them had enticed a child of four year;
old to some distance from the tents, and were about to kill 
him with a stone and devour him. I rescued him with 
difficulty, as they were burning with a desire for his blood, 
"We will willingly die for it afterwards," they replied to 
my entreaties and representations that we should all be 
murdered cruelly by the Arabs, if they persisted. God be 
praised, I was at last able to convince them that it was 



 

far more manly to die of thirst and hunger than to becoma 
cannibals. 

VII. 

Our affairs were in this wretched condition when, one 
day, two Arabs with several well-laden camels, approached 
our camp. They made their weary beasts kneel down, 
dismounted, and seated themselves opposite my master's 
tent. As the men were absent on a hunting, or rather a 
marauding expedition, the women came out to receive the 
strangers. As soon as the latter observed them, they rose 
and greeted them with the words, " Peace, peace be with 
you !" to which salutation the women replied in the same 
 words, and then went to work and erected a tent for their 
guests, into which they carried their saddles and all their 
baggage ; among this last were two skins of water which 
they brought. 

The strangers remained in the meantime sitting upon 
the ground beside their weapons, for each had a good 
double-barreled gun that shone like silver in the sunlight. 
After finishing their work, the women seated themselves 
beside the men, and asked them, as I gathered from my 
small knowledge of Arabic, which I had been diligently 
attempting to learn, whence they came, how long they had 
been on the way, and what goods they had with them. 
After their curiosity had been satisfied, an old woman, in 
whom I had never before discovered a trace of sympathy 
for us, came to me, and gave m« to understand that Sidi 
Hamet, one of the two strangers, came from the dominions 
of the Sultan of Modcco, and could, if he would, buy 



 

me and cany me where I might return to my wife and 
children. 

As my master would soon return, I went without further 
reflection to the strangers' tent, with a cup in my hand, 
and begged Sidi Hamet, pointing to my parched lips, for 
a little water. He looked at me, and asked if I were the 
captain. I nodded assent, and he then requested his 
brother to give me some water. But as the latter did not 
appear inclined to obey, he took the cup himself, poured 
