calling, "but cousins with whom one's intercourse was mainly a 
conversational scuffle would accept it as a practical illustration 
of that method. And if Julia wanted him to be nice to 
Biddy (which was exactly, though with a different view, what 
he wanted himself), what could be nicer than to pay his visit 
to Lady Agnes (he would have in decency to go to see her 
some time) at a friendly, fraternizing hour, when they would 
all be likely to be at home ? 
Unfortunately, as it turned out, they were not at home, 
so that Peter had to fall back on neutrality and the butler, 
who was however, more luckily, an old friend. Her ladyship 
and Miss Dormer were absent from town, paying a visit ; and 
Mr. Dormer was also away, or was on the point of going 
away for the day. M,iss Bridget was in London, but was 
out : Peter's informant mentioned with earnest vagueness 
that he thought she had gone somewhere to take a lesson. 
On Peter's asking what sort of a lesson he meant, he replied, 
" Oh, I think the a-sculpture, you know, sir." Peter knew, but 
Biddy's lesson in a-sculpture (it sounded on the butler's lips 
like a fashionable new art) struck him a little as a mockery of 
the benevolent spirit in which he had come to look her up. 
The man had an air of participating respectfully in his dis- 
appointment and, to make up for it, added that he might 
perhaps find Mr. Dormer at his other address. He had gone 
out early and had directed his servant to come to Rosedale 
Road in an hour or two with a portmanteau: he was going 
down to Beauclere in the course of the day, Mr. Carteret 
being ill perhaps Mr. Sherringham didn't know it. Perhaps 
too Mr. Sherringham would catch him in Rosedale Road 
before he took his train he was to have been busy there for 
an hour. This was worth trying, and Peter immediately 
drove to Rosedale Road ; where, in answer to his ring, the 
door was opened to him by Biddy Dormer. 
XXIX. 
WHEN Biddy saw him her cheek exhibited the prettiest 
pleased, surprised red that he had ever observed there, though 
he was not unacquainted with its fluctuations, and she stood 
still, smiling at him with the outer dazzle in her eyes, making 
no motion for him to enter. She only said : " Oh, Peter ! " 
And then: "I'm all alone." 
" So much the better, dear Biddy. Is that any reason I 
shouldn't come in ? " 
" Dear, no do come in. You've just missed Nick ; he has 
gone to the country half an hour ago." She had on a large 
apron, and in her hand she carried a small stick, besmeared, 
as his quick eye saw, with modelling-clay. She dropped 
the door and fled back before him into the studio, where, 
when he followed her, she was in the act of flinging a 
cloth over a rough head, in clay, which, in the middle of the 
room, was supported on a high wooden stand. The effort to 
hide what she had been doing before he caught a glimpse of it 
made her redder still and led to her smiling more, to her 
laughing with a charming confusion of shyness and gladness. 
She rubbed her hands on her apron, she pulled it off, she 
looked delightfully awkward, not meeting Peter's eye, and 
she said : " I'm just scraping here a little you mustn't mind 
me. "What I do is awful, you know. Peter, please don't 
look. I've been coming here lately to make my little mess, 
because mamma doesn't particularly like it at home. I've had 
a lesson from a lady who exhibits ; but you wouldn't suppose 
