provinces, an acquired sneer. Dear old Rome, how vague it was! And as he
jested with his comrades he thought of its delights, and wished himself
either back again in the haunts he loved, or else, if he must be separated
from them, then, instead of vegetating in a tiresome tetrarchy, he felt
that it would be pleasant to be far off somewhere, where the uncouth
Britons were, a land which it took a year of adventures to reach; on the
banks of the Betis, whence the girls came that charmed the lupanars; in
Numidia, where the hunting was good; or in Thrace, where there was blood
in plenty—anywhere, in fact, save on the borders of the beautiful lake
where he happened to be.
It was but the restlessness of youth, perhaps, that disturbed him so, for
in Galilee there were oafs as awkward as any that Britannia could show;
there was game in abundance; blood, too, was not as infrequent as it might
have been; and as for women, there at his side stood one as appetizing as
Rome, Spain even, had produced. He turned to her now, and plucked at his
dark beard and showed his white teeth; he had caught a phrase of the rabbi
in which the latter had mentioned the kingdoms of the earth, and the
phrase amused him.
“I like that,” he said. “What does he know about the kingdoms of the
earth? Mary, I wager what you will that he has never been two leagues from
where he stands. Let’s ask and see.”
But Mary did not seem to hear. She was engrossed in the rabbi, and Pandera
had to tug at her sleeve before she consented to return to a life in which
he seemingly had a part.
“What do you say?” he asked.
Mary shook her head. She had the air of one whose mind is elsewhere. Into
her face a vacancy had come; she seemed incapable of reply; and as the
guardsman scrutinized her it occurred to him that she might be on the
point of having an attack of that catalepsy to which he knew her to be
subject. But immediately she reassured him.
“Come, let us go.”
And, the guardsman at her side, the others in her train, she ascended the
little hill on which her castle was, and where the midday meal awaited.
It was a charming residence. Built quadrangularwise, the court held a
fountain which was serviceable to those that wished to bathe. The roof was
a garden. The interior façade was of teak wood, carved and colored; the
frontal was of stone. Seen from the exterior it looked the fortress of
some umbrageous prince, but in the courtyard reigned the seduction of a
woman in love. From without it menaced, within it soothed.
Her title to it was a matter of doubt. According to Pandera, who at the
mess-table at Tiberias had boasted his possession of her confidence, it
was a heritage from her father. Others declared that it had been given her
by her earliest lover, an old man who since had passed away. Yet, after
all, no one cared. She kept open house; the tetrarch held her in high
esteem; she was attached to the person of the tetrarch’s wife; only a
little before, the emir of Tadmor had made a circuitous journey to visit
her; Vitellius, the governor of the province, had stopped time and again
beneath her roof; and—and here was the point—to see her was to acquire a
new conception of beauty. Of human flowers she was the most fair.
Yet now, during the meal that followed, Mary, the toast of the tetrarchy,
she whose wit and brilliance had been echoed even in Rome, wrapped herself
in a mantle of silence. The guardsman jested in vain. To the others she
paid as much attention as the sun does to a torch; and when at last
Pandera, annoyed, perhaps, at her disregard of a quip of his, attempted to
whisper in her ear, she left the room.
The nausea of the hour may have affected her, for presently, as she threw
herself on her great couch, her thoughts forsook the present and went back
into the past, her childhood returned, and faces that she had loved
reappeared and smiled. Her father, for instance, Theudas, who had been
satrap of Syria, and her mother, Eucharia, a descendant of former kings.
