less liable to the attacks of open or secret jealousy.'
The Sultan then gave him a large sum of money in gold pieces, which
Khaled gladly accepted, since he had not even wherewithal to buy himself
a garment for the wedding feast, still less to distribute gifts to the
courtiers and to the multitude. The Sultan also presented him with a
black slave to attend to his personal wants.
Khaled then sent for merchants from the bazar, and they brought him all
manner of rich stuffs, such as he needed. There came also two tailors,
who sat down upon a matting in his apartment and immediately began to
make him clothes, while the black slave sat beside them and watched
them, lest they should steal any of the gold of the embroideries.
When it was known in the palace that the Sultan's only daughter was to
be married at once, there were great rejoicings, and many camels were
slaughtered and a great number of sheep, to supply food for so great a
feast. A number of cooks were hired also to help those who belonged to
the palace, for although the Sultan fed daily more than three hundred
persons, guests, travellers, and poor, besides all the members of the
household, yet this was as nothing compared with the multitude to be
provided for on the present occasion.
Then it was that Hadji Mohammed, the chief of the cooks, sat down upon
the floor in the midst of the main kitchen and beat his breast and wept.
For the confusion was great so that the voice of one man could not be
heard for the diabolical screaming of the many, and the cooks smote the
young lads who helped them, and these, running to escape from the blows,
fell against the porters who came in from outside bearing sacks of
sugar, and great baskets of fruit and quarters of meat and skins of
water, and bushels of meal and a hundred other things equally necessary
to the cooking; and the porters, staggering under their burdens, fell
between the legs of the mules loaded with firewood, that had been
brought to the gate, and the dumb beasts kicked violently in all
directions, while the slaves who drove them struck them with their
staves, and the mules began to run among the camels, and the camels,
being terrified, rose from the ground and began to plunge and skip like
young foals, while more porters and more mules and more slaves came on
in multitudes to the door of the kitchen. And it was very hot, for it
was noontide, and in summer, and there were flies without number, and
the dogs that had been sleeping in the shade sprang up and barked loudly
and bit whomsoever they could reach, and all the men bellowed together,
so that the confusion was extreme.
'Verily,' cried Hadji Mohammed, 'this is not a kitchen but Yemamah, and
I am not the chief of the cooks, but the chief of sinners and fuel for
hell.' So he wept bitterly and beat his breast.
But at last matters mended, for there were many who were willing to do
well, so that when the time came Hadji Mohammed was able to serve an
honourable feast to all, though the number of the guests was not less
than two thousand.
But Khaled, having visited the bath, arrayed himself magnificently and
rode upon his bay mare to the mosque, surrounded by the courtiers and
the chief officers of the state, and by a great throng of slaves from
the palace. As he rode, he scattered gold pieces among the people from
the bags which he carried, and all praised his liberality and swore by
Allah that Zehowah was taking a very goodly husband. And as none knew
whence he came, all were equally pleased, but most of all the Bedouins
from the desert, of whom there were many at that time in Riad, who had
come to keep the feast Bairam, for Khaled's own words had been repeated,
and they had heard that he came from the desert like themselves. And
when he had finished his prayers, he rode back to the palace.
When the time for the feast came the Sultan led Khaled into the great
hall and made him sit at his right hand. The Sultan himself was
magnificently dressed and covered with priceless jewels, so that he
