asked the second lieutenant.
"What good will that do?" demanded Christy. "My cousin has made out his
case before the captain of the Vernon."
"But you had no witnesses then. You have twenty or thirty of them now.
I know you, and so do all the members of the old crew."
"But it appears that you promptly accepted your commander in the person
of my cousin," said Christy, laughing in spite of the gravity of the
situation.
"If I had seen you and Corny together, I should have known which was
which," pleaded Mr. Flint.
"Do you think if I should present myself on deck at this moment, wearing
the frock and shirt of a common seaman, the men would identify me
alongside Corny, who wears the uniform of an officer?"
"I am not so sure of that."
"I don't see how the commodore could go behind the commission which
Corny carries in his pocket, with the orders of the department, any more
than Captain Battleton could. I have thought of this, and I am afraid to
trust myself to the chance," replied Christy very decidedly. "Besides,
I desire to take the conspirators in the very act of running away with
the Bronx; then I can make out a good case."
"But how is this desirable end to be accomplished?" inquired the second
lieutenant, who seemed to be troubled with some doubts.
"Very easily, I think."
"But you must not be rash, captain."
"Will it be the highest prudence to permit the conspirators to take
the Bronx into a Confederate port, Pensacola, or any other?" demanded
Christy with more earnestness than he had yet manifested.
"We may not be able to help ourselves."
"By taking the bull by the horns in good season, I am confident we can
prevent this mischief."
Without discussing this matter any farther, Christy detailed his plan to
Mr. Flint, which was certainly very simple, and the second lieutenant
could raise no objection to it. He was requested to select the men who
were to take part in the enterprise, and all the particulars were
definitely arranged. There was nothing more to be done, and Christy was
left to himself to consider what he had done. The hungry officer helped
himself hastily from the table which was waiting for him in the ward
room, and then hastened on deck.
The transfer of cargo, so far as the Bronx was concerned, was completed.
It appeared that the flag-officer was hurrying the departure of the
steamer on her mission, whatever it was. He had just had a long talk
with Corny, and doubtless there was danger that the object of the cruise
might be defeated by delay. In a short time the Bronx was under way,
headed to the eastward, in accordance with her verbal orders, for the
sealed envelope was not to be opened till nine o'clock in the evening,
as Christy learned from Mr. Flint.
The deck was in charge of the second lieutenant, who was seeing that
everything was put in order. But it might have been observed that he was
more familiar with the men than was his habit. For the first time since
he came on board, Corny went below to take a look at his quarters, Dave
bearing his valise before him. At the same time Mr. Galvinne presented
himself in the ward room to take possession of the stateroom of the
first lieutenant, which was the farthest forward on the starboard side.
It had been Christy's room during his service in the Gulf, though he had
made himself at home in the captain's cabin when he was acting commander
on the voyage from New York.
"This is my cabin, is it?" said Corny, as he followed the steward into
the apartment.
"I think you ought to know it by this time, Captain Passford," answered
Dave; and the remark was enough to condemn the impostor in the opinion
