us, congratulations ! " and Dale goes through the motion of 
clinking a glass and emjjtying it. 
So it is with a curiously light heart that Hilliard 
Winterburne drives down to the station. This is a very 
little done for Regina's sake, as one might present her 
with a rare nosegay. Bradley is there, dressed with the 
nicest care. Yes, he is a handsome fellow. His grace and 
litheness make other men clumsy. His hair is a soft 
brown, and seems to have golden grains sifted over it. 
Curiously enough, all his tints are golden. His hazel eyes 
have a shining gleam, his fair skin has a glint as if the 
sun were shining on it. The manner holds an indefinable 
quality — it may be birth or breeding. Winterburne won- 
ders what his mother was like. It seems the consumma- 
tion of art. There is a delicate joyousness about him, a 
suggestion of brilliant but wavering summer seas with the 
reality beneath, an unknown quality. 
They drive about Warwick. It is not a pretty town. 
There is no charmed South End or East End. Some streets 
are tolerably decent with better class cottages and pretty 
gardens, but the general air is that of indifference," untidi- 
ness. There is a large sawing and planing mill with great 
piles of logs and lumber; there are factories of various 
kinds, but iron is in the ascendency. Debris lies about in 
every direction. Piles of crushed slate, hillocks of lime- 
stone, and great heaps of iron ore. Out one side is a 
deserted quarry that has failed in its promises. There are 
slag roads and walks, low places that have been filled in ; 
long rows of cottages, some of them mere shanties, with 
cows and pigs grazing, and some puddles of reddish-yellow 
water with ducks serenely sailing about. Some shabby 
cluu'ches and chapels, two schoolhouses rather dilapidated, 
and gin-mills with red curtains at doors and windows. 
"You do not mean to live here?" Bradley cries in 
disgust. 
" JSTot in the midst of this ! I'm a democratic sort of 
fellow, but I like cleanliness and good pure air. It could 
be made better — I shall try and rouse some one to a view 
of wholesomer living. With God's pure air and sunshine 
all about, there is no sense in herding like .cattle. I shall 
be over there," indicating a green and smiling vista with 
his head. " Out there among the farms for a while. But 
even that isn't Beverly." 
Bradley's lip curls a little. This particular expression 
savors of a cruel indifference to so much of his kind as 
are on the strata below. He is not a man to discuss 
philanthropy with. 
They pass some worn-out mines as they go onward 
toward the rocky hills. A little stream winds along in a 
slow, turgid fashion. It is very wild — one might fancy 
it a primitive wilderness but for the mining indications. 
The limestone in its dull, grayish white has here and there 
a vein of crystalline clearness, and long trails of gneiss 
show through at intervals, with bits of iron pyrites among 
the shale, glistening in the morning sun. There are 
glimpses of rock that seem besprinkled with gems ; but the 
general aspect is dreary, with the stunted trees that make 
a brave fight for a foothold, and the scanty, dull green 
herbage. 
They go along quietly. Jasper Bradley is most inter- 
