“I would shoot him down like a dog.”
“That is, if you got the chance,” said the other, with an unpleasant
smile.
“I would see that I had the chance if I ever met him.”
“Threatened men live long.”
“Look here!” broke in the farmer, eying the black-eyed man sharply. “You
appear to take the part of this road agent.”
“Do I? Well, it is natural to me to take the part of one against many.
You all seem to be down on poor Dike.”
“Poor Dike! Isn’t there good reason why we should be down upon him?”
“I don’t know. Probably the man has some good qualities.”
“Not one!” exclaimed the miner who had told his cousin’s story. “Not
one!”
“Well, well; you seem to know him. Considering how free we have been
with his name, it would be a great joke if we should have him stop us on
our way.”
“I don’t think it would be a joke at all,” said Robert.
“Nor I!” added Grant.
“Oh, he wouldn’t meddle with you boys,” said the black-eyed man. “He
would fly at higher game; for instance, our friend there, and there,”
indicating the farmer and the miner.
“I suppose you speak with authority?” observed the farmer.
“What do you mean?”
“You speak as if you were in this fellow’s confidence.”
“Do you mean to insult me?” exclaimed the black-eyed man angrily.
“Oh, calm yourself, my friend! Why should I mean it that way? You can’t
take a a joke.”
“Oh, if it’s a joke, I don’t mind.”
Then the talk about the famous road agent subsided. Gradually they
passed beyond the limits of population, and entered a mountain defile,
dark with frowning hills on each side.
“Let me get out a minute!” said the black-eyed man, signalling to the
driver.
The stage stopped. Once upon the ground the black-eyed passenger drew
out his revolvers, and levelling them at the astonished travellers,
cried: “Hold up your hands, gentlemen; get ready to surrender all your
valuables. I am Stephen Dike!”
                             CHAPTER XXXV.
                               A TRAGEDY.
I have said that the passengers were astonished at discovering that the
notorious road agent was their fellow-traveller. There were two,
however, who were not wholly surprised—the miner who had related his
cousin’s story and the farmer who had had a sharp colloquy with the
black-eyed man.
For a minute no one moved or spoke.
“Come,” said Dike impatiently; “I have no time to waste. Give me your
money.”
“Do you want mine?” asked Grant, who was entirely willing to give up the
small amount of gold coin he had with him, if he could save the dust in
his valise.
“No; I don’t care for the trifle you have, nor the other boy’s money,
but those miners over there must give up their treasure, and my
agricultural friends also.”
“If you want my money, come and get it!” growled the miner already
referred to.
“I say the same,” added the farmer.
“I will stand no nonsense,” said Stephen Dike.
“It’s hard luck,” grumbled the miner, “to give up all my hard earnings.”
“Give up your money, and grumble afterward,” rejoined Dike.
The miner thrust his hand into his pocket, and then, in an excited
