"She whose name you are not more worthy to speak than I, never meant
that I should not defend a good and helpless woman because the liar who
accuses her chances to be called Gianforte Campodonico."
"And the one who defends her, Pietro Ghisleri," retorted Gianforte.
"Where can my friends find yours?"
"At my lodging, if that suits them."
"Perfectly."
Campodonico turned on his heel and slowly went towards the group at the
other end of the room. Ghisleri followed him at a distance, lighting a
fresh cigarette as he walked. He had recovered his composure the moment
he had felt himself freed from the obligation to bear the insults heaped
upon him by Bianca Corleone's brother.
It must not be supposed that no one had watched the two as they stood
talking before the picture. More than one person had noticed the fierce
look in Campodonico's eyes, and the unnatural paleness of Ghisleri's
face. One of these was Donna Maria Boccapaduli.
"I suppose you have been discussing that painting," she said carelessly
to Pietro. "People always do."
"Yes," answered Ghisleri, as indifferently as he could.
"And what was the result of the discussion?"
"We agreed to differ." Pietro laughed a little harshly.
As soon as possible he excused himself and got away, for he had only
just the time necessary to find a couple of friends and explain matters,
before going to the ball to meet the Contessa, as he had promised to do.
He had forgotten an important detail, however, and as he passed
Campodonico who was also going away, and without his wife, on pretence
of an engagement at the club, he stopped him.
"By the by," he said, "I suppose we are ostensibly quarrelling about a
painter, or something of that sort."
"Yes--anything. Zichy, for instance. Everybody saw us looking at the
picture. You like it and I do not."
"Very well."
So they parted, to meet, in all probability, at dawn on the following
morning, in a quiet place outside the city. Ghisleri found two friends
in whose hands he placed himself, telling them that he was quite
indifferent to the weapons, and only desired to meet his adversary's
wishes as far as possible, since the affair was very insignificant. He
remarked in an indifferent tone that, as he had once fought with
Campodonico, using foils, and as the latter had not seemed satisfied on
that occasion, he had no objection to pistols, if the opposite side
preferred them. He wished everything to be arranged as amicably as
possible, he said, and without any undue publicity. He left them at his
lodging and departed to keep his engagement at the embassy. As he drove
through the bitter air in an open cab, he meditated on his position, and
wondered what Maddalena would say when she learned that he had been out
with his old adversary. She should not know anything about the encounter
until it was over, if he could keep it from her. At all events, he
reflected, he had done all that a man could do to keep out of a quarrel,
as he had promised her he would, and he had been driven to break a
promise of a far more sacred nature than the one he had given her. If
she knew the truth, too, it was for her, and for her alone, that he was
to fight. He wondered whether people would say it was for Laura Arden's
sake, on account of the discussion about the evil eye which had taken
place at table. The suggestion annoyed him very much, but he reached his
destination before he had found time to reason out the whole case, or to
decide what to do. In any event it would be better if people thought
that he had taken the foils in defence of an unprotected widow like
Laura, than for the good name of the Contessa dell' Armi.
She was there before him, looking very lovely in a gown of palest green,
half covered with old lace. The shade suited her fair hair and dazzling
