the whole fortune. There would be great joy among the idiots on that
day, thought old Alexander, as the two-cent ‘Virginia cheroot’ dropped
from his hand, and he fell asleep in his well-worn armchair. And then
came dreams of unbounded charity, of unlimited improvement and education
of the poor and deficient. The greatest men of the age should be
employed to devote their lives to the happiness of the poor little blind
boys, and of the little girls born deaf, and of the vacantly staring
blear-eyed youths whom nature had made carelessly, and whom God had sent
into the world, perhaps, as a means of grace to those more richly
endowed. For old Alexander was charitable to every one--even to the
Supreme Being, whose motives he ventured to judge. He was incapable of
an unkind thought, and in the heaven of his old fancy he would have
founded an asylum for reformed devils and would not have hesitated to
beg a subscription of Satan himself, being quite ready to believe that
the Prince of Hell might have his good moments. He would have prayed
cheerfully for ‘the puir deil.’ There is no limit to the charity of such
over-kind hearts. Nothing seems to them so bad but that, by gentleness
and persuasion, it may at last be made good.

He knew, of course, for Robert had told him, that he was not to have the
millions even during the few remaining years of his life, and he bore
his brother no malice for the decision. Robert promised him that he
should have plenty of money for his poor people, but did not hesitate to
say that if he had the whole property he would pauperize half the city
of New York in six months.

“You’d give every newsboy and messenger boy in the city a roast turkey
for dinner every day,” laughed Robert.

“If I thought it might improve the condition of poor boys, I certainly
should,” answered the philanthropist, gravely. “I’m fond of roast turkey
myself--with cranberry sauce and chestnuts inside. Why shouldn’t the
poor little fellows have it, too, if every one had enough money?”

“If there were enough money to go round, creation would be turned into a
kitchen for a week, and into a hospital for six months afterwards,”
observed Robert Lauderdale. “Fortunately, money’s scarcer than
greediness.”

And on the whole, there was much wisdom in this plain view, which to
Robert himself presented a clear picture of the condition of mankind in
general in regard to money and its distribution.

It would not have been natural if even the least money-loving members of
the family had not often speculated, each in his or her own way, about
the chances of receiving something very considerable when old Robert
died. He had been generous to them all, according to his lights, but he
had not considered that any of them were objects of charity. The true
conditions of his brother’s household life had been carefully concealed
from him, until Katharine had, almost accidentally, given him an insight
into her father’s family methods, so to say. Nevertheless, he had long
known that Alexander Junior must have much more money than he was
commonly thought to possess, and his mode of living, as compared with
his fortune, proved conclusively that he hoarded what he had. He must
have known that a large share of the estate must ultimately come to him,
and he could assuredly have had no doubts as to its solidity, since it
consisted entirely in land and houses. What was he hoarding his income
for? That was the question which naturally suggested itself to Robert,
and the only answer he could find, and the one which accorded perfectly
with his own knowledge of his nephew’s character, was that Alexander was
