talked of the Lakes and Canada, and Professor 
Farrand's journey to Spain, until the stars came 
out and tlie dew began to fall. When they walked 
around they found Mr. Olmstead sitting on the 
step of the stoop, talking to Aunt Jane and Pearl. 
Stacy took the little nook by Aunt Jane. Sabrina 
seated herself in the hammock. The parlor lamp 
shone through the window, and threw up, in soft 
relief, the graceful reclining figure. Olmstead 
changed a little, so that he could keep a glimpse 
of her. Stacy remarked that. 
When he had gone and the house was closed, 
they went up-stairs, saying pleasant good-nights 
to each other. Stacy fidgeted for a few moments, 
then said, " I must go and ask Pearl something," 
and scudded noiselessly across the hall. 
Pearl was shaking out her long, soft hair, and 
smiled. Stacy shut the door quietly. 
"Oh,"she cried, "I do believe it was your 
plan ! " and the eager eyes seemed to search into 
Miss Disbrowe's very thoughts. 
" What was my plan ? " Pearl smiled mirth- 
fully. 
" Niagara ! You suggested that she should ask 
us. Confess ! "Stacy held up her forefinger 
warningly. 
" She — who ? Not Sabrina ? Be intelligible, 
Stacy." 
Stacy's story came tumbling out. As she 
went on she grew more certain that Pearl was 
the prime mover, and was at first quite incredu- 
lous of her denial. 
"But you would like to go } It's a delightful 
plan. Oh, you surely will, Stacy } " 
Pearl's eyes were alight with eager persuasion. 
"I don't know. I wish she had not asked it. 
Fve always had a queer feeling about Miss East- 
wood. I don't want her to think she can do any- 
thing for us, and we'll be glad to take it because 
we are poor and cannot indulge in the pleasure of 
wealth,' said Stacy with a sarcastic intonation. 
" Really, if it had not been for a carpet in one of 
the lodging-rooms, I do believe Aunt Jane would 
have sent me to Lake George. And I have 
courage enough not to sigh greatly for the moon, 
or even one of the little stars," and Stacy laughed 
with a light touch of scorn. 
" Don't you suppose it would be a pleasure to 
Sabrina ? " Pearl inquired gravely. 
" She has been half a dozen times, I dare say." 
" The privilege of giving you a pleasure " — 
" Nonsense ! " cried Stacy sharply. . 
" Suppose I asked you ? " 
Stacy sprang up and clasped her arms about 
Pearl's neck, waltzed her softly about the room, 
and kissed her rapturously. 
" Why, I'd walk every step of the way with 
you," she said. "But I do not want Sabrina to 
think" — 
"Stacy, you are not your own kindly, generous 
