For the Lauderdales were evidently poor, though the old philanthropist
who lived upstairs was the only living brother of the arch-millionaire.
But Alexander Senior spent his life in getting as much as he could from
Robert in order to put it into the education of idiots, and would
cheerfully have fed his son and daughter-in-law and Katharine on bread
and water for the sake of educating one idiot more. The same is a part
of philanthropy when it becomes professional. Alexander Junior had a
magnificent reputation for probity, and was concerned in business, being
connected with the administration of a great Trust Company, which
brought him a fixed salary. Beyond that he assured his family that he
had never made a dollar in his life, and that only his health, which
indeed was of iron, stood between them and starvation, an argument which
he used with force to crush any frivolous tendency developed in his wife
and daughter. He had dark hair just turning to a steely grey, steel-grey
eyes, and a long, clean-shaven, steel-grey upper lip, but his eyebrows
were still black. His teeth were magnificent, but he had so little
vanity that he hardly ever smiled, except as a matter of politeness. He
had looked pleased, however, when Benjamin Slayback of Nevada had led
his daughter Charlotte from the altar. Slayback had loved the girl for
her beauty and had taken her penniless; and uncle Robert had given her a
few thousands for her bridal outfit. Alexander Junior had therefore
been at no expense for her marriage, except for the cake and
decorations, but it was long before he ceased to speak of his
expenditure for those items. As for Alexander Senior, he really had no
money except for idiots; he wore his clothes threadbare, had his
overcoats turned, and secretly bought his shoes of a little Italian
shoemaker in South Fifth Avenue. He was said to be over eighty years of
age, but was in reality not much older than his rich brother Robert.

It would be hard to imagine surroundings more uncongenial to Mrs.
Alexander Junior, as Katharine Lauderdale’s mother was generally called.
An ardent Roman Catholic, she was bound to a family of rigid
Presbyterians; a woman of keen artistic sense, she was wedded to a man
whose only measure of things was their money-value; a nature originally
susceptible to the charm of all outward surroundings, and inclining to a
taste for modest luxury rather than to excessive economy, she had
married one whom she in her heart believed to be miserly. She admitted,
indeed, that she would probably have married her husband again, under
like circumstances. The child of a ruined Southern family, loyal during
the Civil War, she had been brought early to New York, and almost as
soon as she was seen in society, Alexander Lauderdale had fallen in love
with her. He had seemed to her, as indeed he was still, a splendid
specimen of manhood; he was not rich, but was industrious and was the
nephew of the great Robert Lauderdale. Even her fastidious people could
not say that he was not, from a social point of view, of the best in New
York. She had loved him in a girlish fashion, and they had been married
at once. It was all very natural, and the union might assuredly have
turned out worse than it did.

Seeing that according to her husband’s continual assurances they were
growing poorer and poorer, Mrs. Alexander had long ago begun to turn her
natural gifts to account, with a view to making a little money wherewith
to provide herself and her daughters with a few harmless luxuries. She
had tried writing and had failed, but she had been more successful with
painting, and had produced some excellent miniatures. Alexander Junior
had at first protested, fearing the artistic tribe as a whole, and
dreading lest his wife should develop a taste for things Bohemian, such
as palms in the drawing-room, and going to the opera in the gallery
rather than not going at all. He did not think of anything else Bohemian
within the range of possibilities, except, perhaps, dirty fingers, which
