knew; and, so far as he cared, they were 
welcome to it. One of the boys reminded 
him that they couldn't go home and leave a 
fellow buried alive. He thought they might 
get as much as forty marks apiece for it. 
While they were disputing and discussing 
the situation in their fashion, one of the 
most nervous fellows in the group suddenly 
gave a piercing yell, and took to his legs as 
fast as he could, without a word or sign of 
explanation. The boys sprang to their feet 
simultaneously, and glared at the receiving- 
vault with dilated eyes. Their teeth chat 
tered in their heads when they distinguished, 
past the doubt or query of the coolest or 
bravest, two tall, vague, threatening figures 
advancing upon them from the tomb. There 
was no Marcy about that. The rest of the 
hazing party made after the nervous fellow 
as fast as possible, and stayed to make no 
further investigations. They got a good 
start, and clattered down the long, deserted, 
frozen road like wild colts. The apparitions 
gave chase. They certainly did that very 
thing. This circumstance added vigor to the 
scene. Presumably, the boys were younger 
and better gymnasts than the tenants of a 
graveyard of that ancient description. At 
any rate, they had their start, and kept the 
advantage of it. The ghosts gave out before 
long, very much out of breath, and 
returned to their receiving-tomb in ghostly 
silence. 
Donald Marcy, sitting on the graveyard 
grass with Calhoun 's head upon his lap, and 
Calhoun 's pulse beneath his terrified fingers, 
looked up in his quick, alert fashion, when 
he heard the steps approaching him across 
the graves. He was uncomfortable, there is 
no denying. It was almost entirely dark. 
The figures advanced in a silence which was 
appalling. 
There was no whisper ; not a breath could 
be heard. They came like shadows, as 
unsubstantial, and as still. Don did not find 
this funny either ; but he did not flinch ; he 
was responsible for a human life, and he sat 
at his post doggedly. 
Suddenly one of the figures melted from 
sight. It had never occurred to Don before 
that a ghost could stumble over its own 
grave ; but this one had, it had gone down 
in a heap upon the brambly mound. The 
other one came to a standstill beside it. 
Then a voice, live, human, and emphatic, 
broke the dismal silence : 
"Be jabers, then, I've thripped over a 
dooced corrups ! The oncivil gossoon ! why 
don't he kape in his own quharthers ? Saint 
Father tache him manners ! " 
