that man is but a petty egotist, always drawing 
pictures of himself on a pedestal. The man 
who emancipates himself from traditions and 
yields to his impulses is debarred from happi- 
ness by the blunders of the blindfolded genera- 
tions preceding him, which arranged that to 
yield was easy and to resist difficult. Had they 
reversed the conditions and conclusions, the 
majority of the human race would have fought 
each other to death, but the selected remnant 
would have had a better time of it. 
' ' Let us suppose a case as conditions now 
exist. Assume, for the sake of argument, 
that you loved me and that you plucked from 
your nature your religion, your fidelity to your 
house, your love for your brother, and gave 
yourself to me. You would stand appalled at 
the sacrifice until you realized that you had 
come to me only because it would have been 
more difficult to stay away. You conquer the 
passionate cry of love, — the strongest the 
human compound has ever voiced, — and you 
are miserably happy for the rest of your life, 
no attitude being so pleasing to the soul as the 
attitude of martyrdom. Many a man and 
woman looks with some impatience for the 
last go6d-bye to be said, so sweet is the pros- 
pect of sadness, of suffering, of resignation. " 
I was aghast at his audacity, but I saw that 
Chonita was fascinated. Her egotism was 
caressed, and her womanhood thrilled. '* Are 
we all such shams as that ? " was what she 
said. '*You make me despise myself." 
" Not yourself, but a great structure — of 
which you are but a grain — with a faulty 
foundation. Don't despise yourself. Curse 
the builders who shoveled those stones to- 
gether." 
He left her then, and she told me to go to 
bed ; she wanted to sit a while and think. 
"He makes you think too much," I said. 
'' Better forget what he says as soon as you < 
can. He is a very disturbing influence." 
But she made me no reply, and sat there 
staring at the floor. She began to feel a sense 
of helplessness, like a creature caught in a net. 
It was more the man's personality than his 
words which made her feel as if he were pour- 
ing himself throughout her, taking possession 
of brain and every sense, as though he were a 
sort of intellectual drug. 
"I believe I was made from his rib," she 
thought, angrily, " else why can he have this 
extraordinary power over me ? I do not love 
him. I have read somewhat of love, and seen 
more. This is different, quite. I only feel 
that there is something in him that I want. 
Sometimes I feel that I must dig my nail$ into 
him and tear him apart until I find what I 
want, — something that belongs to me. Some- 
