Ion. A solemn oath doth forbid me to reveal to living man the secret of
this hour; but if ever angels do leave their homes to minister to
suffering souls, 'twas one most bright and beautiful who hath this night
led me unto thee, and placed in mine hand the power to set thee free.
Cleon. Truth speaketh in thine earnest eye and pleading voice, and yet I
dare not listen to thy tale.
Ion. Oh, Father, heed not thy fears, thy doubts! Take thy liberty,
believing it heaven-sent. No oath binds thee to Mohammed; thou art no
rightful prisoner of war,--neither duty nor honor doth demand thy stay.
Thy country calls, and Heaven doth point the way.
Cleon. 'Tis true; no oath doth bind me to the Turk, and yet to fly--My
soldier's spirit doth ill brook such retreat.
Ion. Then stay not, my father, but whilst thou may, depart.
Cleon. Bright hopes call me hence. Life, love, fame, beckon me away.
                                                    [Hassan looks in.]
Hassan. The promised hour hath well-nigh gone. Prepare, young Greek; we
must away.
Ion. A moment more. [Exit Hassan.] Father, time wanes. Once more I do
entreat thee,--go!
Cleon. Heaven grant I choose aright! Come Ion, we will forth together.
[Ion folds the cloak about Cleon; gives him the ring.] Come, let us
go.
Ion. Nay, but one can pass forth. Thou goest. I await the morning here.
Cleon. Then do I tarry also. Nay, Ion, I will not go hence without thee.
Ion. Then all is lost. Father, thy stay can nought avail me. It cannot
save, and thou wilt but sacrifice thine own priceless life.
Cleon. Then fly with me; let me bear thee to thy mother. Alone, I will
not go.
Ion. I cannot go; a vow doth bid me stay,--a vow that nought shall tempt
me from the camp to-night; and when did a Greek e'er break his plighted
word?
Cleon. If thine honor bid thee stay, thy father will not tempt thee
hence; but he may stay and suffer with thee the fate of the faithful
[throws off the mantle].
Ion. Oh, my father, do not cast from thee the priceless boon of liberty.
Think of thy broken-hearted wife, thy faithful followers, thy
unconquered foes; think, Father, of thy country calling on thee for
deliverance. What were my worthless life weighed 'gainst her freedom.
And what happier fate for a hero's son than for a hero's sake to fall!
Cleon. Thou true son of Greece! Mayst thou yet live to wield a sword for
thine oppressed land, and gird with laurels that brow so worthy them.
                                                       [Hassan enters.
Hassan. No longer may I stay: thine hour is past.
Ion. I come,--yet one moment more, good Hassan; it is my last. [Exit
Hassan.] Once more, my father, do I entreat thee,--go. Thou dost forget
a guardian spirit watcheth over me, and the power that led me hither may
yet accomplish my deliverance. If nought else can move thee, for my sake
go, and win for me that freedom mine honor doth now forbid me to seek.
Break not my heart, nor let me plead in vain.
Cleon. My boy, for thy dear sake do I consent. I will earn thy
deliverance bravely, as a soldier should; and thy dear image shall be
to me the star that leads me on to victory.
Ion [joyfully]. Away! Hassan will guide thee past the guards. Then
fly,--and Heaven guide thee, O my father! [Ion again shrouds Cleon in
the mantle, concealing his chains in the thick folds.] Thus muffle thy
tell-tale fetters, that no sound may whisper to the Turks there walks a
Greek under the free heavens forth to freedom.
Cleon. My Ion, one last embrace! God grant 'tis not our last on earth!
Bless thee, thou true young heart! Heaven guard thee!
                                              [Hassan enters in haste.
