ourselves very poorly provided with money, and just before you came in
we were considering how we could manage to pay for the necessary
outfit."
"Haven't you got five pounds?" asked Fletcher quickly.
"Of course we have, or we should be unable to get to the mines."
"Then I think you might oblige me," he continued, looking very much
displeased.
"I am the best judge of my circumstances," said Harry shortly.
Fletcher looked hard at him, and saw that the boy he had to deal with
had a mind of his own, and was not to be imposed upon easily. Still he
made a farther effort.
"Then I think," he said coldly, "I shall not be able to assist you in
your preparations."
"Just as you please," answered Harry promptly. "As you volunteered, I
accepted your proposal. Now I will act for myself. I have heard of a
party about to start, and I will arrange to join it."
Fletcher felt that he was outgeneralled. He did not mean to let Harry
and Jack slip through his fingers, for he had an idea, notwithstanding
Harry's disclaimer, that he had a large sum of money, and thought he
would be a good party to hang on to. He saw that he had made a false
move, and hastened to repair it.
"Excuse me," he said, assuming a hearty tone; "I was hasty, and I
apologize. You are right, and I like you too well to cut up rough, just
because you can't do me a favor. There, take my hand, and we will make
it all up."
"With pleasure," answered Harry, as he accepted the proffered hand, and
Jack followed his example. Nevertheless Fletcher's demand had produced
an unpleasant effect upon him. The coarse-grained selfishness of the man
had shown through his outward varnish of good-fellowship, and he felt
that henceforth he must be on his guard.
"I may have to ask for some money, however," continued Fletcher, in an
off-hand manner, "for it is necessary to buy supplies for our journey.
You know we shan't be able to put up at hotels on our way, but must
furnish our own meals."
"So I have heard," answered Harry. "What is it customary to take?"
"Well, it will be best to buy a bag of coffee, a sack of flour, some
ship biscuits, potatoes, and sugar. That will do to start on, and we
shall vary our diet by what we are able to kill on the way."
"What can we kill?"
"Well, kangaroo meat isn't bad, and we can bring down a few birds
occasionally."
"Then we shall need guns?"
"Yes, it will be well to have them."
This was another expense upon which Harry had not calculated. He began
to think that he had been very improvident. The professor would readily
have left him a hundred dollars more, and as it would have been repaid
with his own money, he was sorry he had not availed himself of it.
"How much do you think the supplies will cost?" asked Harry.
"Well, you had better let me have ten pounds. I think that will be
sufficient."
"For the whole or for our share?" asked Harry pointedly.
"For your share," answered Fletcher after a pause. "It seems to me you
are very suspicious."
Really he had intended to make the two boys pay for the whole stock of
provisions and save his own purse, for he had in reality as much money
as they.
"I only wanted to understand clearly," said Harry quietly. "As we are in
some sort partners, that is fair, is it not?"
"Oh, yes," returned Fletcher, but he did not respond with any alacrity.
"I'm always fair and above board, I am. No man can say that Dick
