likely."
"It is only half-past eleven. To put you quite at ease, I mean to lend
you five dollars, and help you collect your mother's bill."
"You are very kind, sir," said Dan, surprised and grateful; "but I don't
need so much."
"You may get short again when I am not here to assist you."
"Are you not afraid I shall never pay you, sir?"
"That thought won't keep me awake nights," said the gentleman, laughing.
"You sha'n't lose anything by me, sir; I promise you that," said Dan,
earnestly.
"Then come into the hotel with me, and we will arrange the matter in a
business-like way."
"All right, sir."
Dan followed his new friend into the Astor House, and up stairs into a
pleasant bedroom, which in its comfortable apartments reminded Dan of
the days before his father's failure.
"I wish I could live so again," he thought. "I don't like a
tenement-house."
Mr. Grant--for this was his name--took writing materials from his
valise, and seated himself at a table.
"I am going to draw up a note for you to sign," he said. "I probably
understand better than you the necessary form."
"Thank you, sir."
His pen ran rapidly over the paper, and in a minute or two he handed Dan
the following form of acknowledgment:
     "NEW YORK, Sept. 15, 18--.
     "For value received I promise to pay to Alexander Grant five
     dollars on demand with interest."
"Now," said Mr. Grant, "put your name at the bottom."
Dan did so.
"I added 'with interest,' but only as a form; I shall require none."
"I would rather pay it, sir."
"That may be as you please. How much will six per cent. interest make it
amount to in a year?"
"Five dollars and thirty cents," answered Dan, promptly.
"Good! I see you have not forgotten what you learned in school."
"I have ciphered through cube root," said Dan, with some pride. "I am
not sure whether I remember that now, but I could do any sum in square
root."
"It is a pity you could not have remained in school."
"I should like to; but it's no use crying for spilt milk."
"As long as you didn't spill it yourself," added Mr. Grant.
"No, sir; it was not my fault that I had to leave school."
Mr. Grant folded up the note and carefully deposited it in his wallet.
"The next thing is to hand you the money," he said. "Shall I give you a
five-dollar bill, or small bills?"
"Small bills, sir, if it is just as convenient."
Mr. Grant placed in Dan's hands two two-dollar bills and a one.
"One thing more," he said. "Give me an order on Mr. Gripp for the money
due your mother. It is as well to have it in your own handwriting. I
won't tell you how to write it. See if you can find a way."
Dan wrote an order, which Mr. Grant pronounced satisfactory.
"On the whole," said he, "I believe I will take you with me when I call
upon Mr. Gripp. Can you call here at three o'clock this afternoon?"
"Yes, sir."
"That is settled, then. We will see whether Mr. Gripp will be any more
polite to me than he was to you."
"He will be surprised to see me in your company," said Dan, laughing.
"It is a good thing to surprise the enemy, Dan. A surprise often leads
to victory. When does your landlord call for his rent?"
