shaky, Jack.”
“I’ve no doubt. It wasn’t easy to write at all, just then.”
“Oh, Jack dear! If I’d only known, or guessed--”
“Then you wouldn’t have needed to believe a little,” answered John.
“What did your father do with the letter?”
“He had it in his pocket all day, and brought it home with him in the
evening. You see--I’d been out--at the Crowdies’--and then I came home
and shut myself up. I was so miserable--and then I fell asleep.”
“You were so miserable that you fell asleep,” repeated Ralston, cruelly.
“I see.”
“Jack! Please--please listen to me--”
“Yes. I beg your pardon, Katharine. I’m out of temper. I didn’t mean to
be rude.”
“No, dear. Please don’t. I can’t bear it.” Her lip quivered. “Jack,” she
began again, after a moment, “please don’t say anything till I’ve told
you all I have to say. If you do--no--I can’t help it--I’m crying now.”
Her eyes were full of tears, and she turned her face away quickly to
recover her self-control. John was pained, but just then he could find
nothing to say. He bent his head and looked at his hand, affecting not
to see how much moved she was.
A moment later she turned to him, and the tears seemed to be gone again,
though they were, perhaps, not far away. Strong women can make such
efforts in great need.
“I went into my mother’s room on my way down to the carriage to come
here,” she continued. “Papa came in, bringing your letter. He had not
opened it, of course--he only wanted to show me that he had received it,
and he said he would destroy it after showing it to me. I looked at
it--and oh, the handwriting was so shaky, and there were spots on the
envelope--Jack--I didn’t want to read it. That’s the truth. I let him
burn it. I turned over the ashes to see that there was nothing left.
There--I’ve told you the truth. How could I know--oh, how could I know?”
John glanced at her and then looked down again, not trusting himself to
speak yet. The thought that she had not even wished to read that letter,
and that she had stood calmly by while her father destroyed it,
deliberately turning over the ashes afterwards, was almost too much to
be borne with equanimity. Again he remembered what it had cost him to
write it, and how he had felt that, having written it, Katharine, at
least, would be loyal to him, whatever the world might say. He would
have been a little more than human if he could have then and there
smiled, held out his hand, and freely forgiven and promised to forget.
And yet she, too, had some justice on her side, though she was ready and
willing to forget it all, and to bear far more of blame than she
deserved. Russell Vanbrugh had told her that a man might easily be
convicted on such evidence. Yet in her heart she knew that her disbelief
had waited for no proofs last night, but had established itself supreme
as her disappointment at John’s absence from the ball.
“Jack,” she began again, seeing that he did not speak, “say
something--say that you’ll try to forgive me. It’s breaking my heart.”
“I’ll try,” answered John, in a voice without meaning.
“Ah--not that way, dear!” answered Katharine, with a breaking sigh. “Be
kind--for the sake of all that has been!”
There was a deep and touching quaver in the words. He could say nothing
yet.
“Of all that might have been, Jack--it was only yesterday morning that
we were married--dear--and now--”
He lifted his face and looked long into her eyes--she saw nothing but
regret, coldness, interrogation in his. And still he was silent, and
still she pleaded for forgiveness.
“But it can’t be undone, now. It can never be undone--and I’m your wife,
though I have distrusted you, and been cruel and heartless and unkind.
