and sent a handful of billiard chalk at the singer. 
Mr. Clifford returned a volley of the Cafe 
spoons, and continued: 
 
"Mais c que je trouve de plus bete, 
C est qu i faut financer 
Avec ma belle galette, 
" aimerai mieux m amuser." 
Several othsr voices took up the refrain, 
lamenting the difficulty of reconciling their filial 
duties with balls at Bullier s, and protesting that 
they would rather amuse themselves than consider financial questions. Rhodes sipped his 
curagpa sulkily. 
"The longer I live in the Latin Quarter," he 
said to his neighbor, "the less certain I feel 
about a place of future punishment. It would 
be so tame after this." Then, reverting to his 
grievance, he added, "The slaughter this year 
at the Salon is awful." 
Reginald Gethryn stirred nervously, but did 
not speak. 
"Have a game, Rex?" called Clifford, waving 
a cue. 
Gethryn shook his head, and reaching for a 
soiled copy of the Figaro, glanced listlessly 
over its contents. He sighed and turned his 
paper impatiently. Rhodes echoed the sigh. 
"What's at the theaters?" 
 
"Same as last week, excepting at the Gaiete. 
They've  put on La Belle Helene there." 
"Oh! Belle Helene!" cried Clifford. 
"Tzing! la! la! Tzing! la! la! 
C est avec ces dames que Oreste 
Fait danser l' argent de Papa!" 
Rhodes began to growl again. 
"I shouldn't think you'd feel like gibbering 
that rot to-night." 
Clifford smiled sweetly, and patted him on 
the head. "Tzing! la! la! My shot, Elliott?" 
"Tzing! la! la!" laughed Thaxton, "That's 
Clifford's biography in three words." 
Clifford repeated the refrain, and winked impudendy at the pretty bookkeeper behind her 
railing. She, alas! returned it with a blush. 
Gethryn rose restlessly, and went over to 
another table, where a man, young, but older 
than himself, sat, looking comfortable. 
"Braith," he began, trying to speak indifferently, "any news of my fate?" 
The other man finished his beer and then an 
swered carelessly, "No." But catching sight of 
Gethryn's face he added, with a laugh: 
"Look here, Rex, you've  got to stop this 
moping." 
"I'm not moping," said Rex, coloring up. 
"What do you call it, then?" Braith spoke 
with some sharpness, but continued kindly, "You 
know I've  been through it all. Ten years ago, 
when I sent in my first picture, I confess to 
you I suffered the torments of the damned until" 
"Until?" 
