
Having failed in their attempts to accomplish anything at Alexandria,
the conspirators had followed the party to Cairo. Louis and Felix were
sitting on a bench in the Ezbekiyeh, a park in front of their hotel,
when Mazagan and the Frenchman approached them, and wished to make a
compromise, which the Moor desired the young millionaire to recommend to
the commander. The agent of the Pacha informed the young man that he was
to receive a reward of forty thousand dollars for the capture and
conveyance to Mogadore of either Louis or Miss Blanche, or both of them,
or one-half that sum if he failed; and he proposed to compromise.

The use of the steam-yacht was given to him to accomplish this purpose.
Mazagan was, or pretended to be, discouraged by the several failures he
had made in effecting his object, and he proposed that the commander
should pay him twenty thousand dollars, and then he would collect the
other half of the promised stipend of the Pacha, as the promised reward
in case of failure.

The pirate proved that he was a very mean and treacherous pirate, as
willing to sell out his friend as his foe, and Louis was more disgusted
than ever with him. He spoke his mind freely to the villain, and
absolutely refused to recommend the treachery to the commander. He would
as soon have compromised with the Evil One for the sale of his
principles. The approach of Captain Ringgold terminated the interview,
and the rascals made haste to retreat. After this they made an attempt
to capture Louis, and the detective had been shot in the shoulder.

What the conspirators intended or expected to accomplish since these
failures of course none of those interested could know, and it only
remained for them to watch the movements of the Fatimé, and to be
constantly on their guard against any possible attempt on the part of
the reprobates to carry out their purpose. Only the commander of the
Guardian-Mother and the three members of the "Big Four" could take these
precautions, for no others knew anything at all about the necessity for
them.

Felix used his glass very diligently. The Guardian-Mother did not change
her course, and the Moorish steamer, which was now hardly a mile from
her, was still headed to the eastward. Whether the latter would dodge
into the port of Rosetta or Damietta, or give chase to the Maud, was yet
to be demonstrated; and the lookoutman was watching for a movement of
this kind.

"The ship is stirring up a good deal of salt water under her stern,"
said Felix, walking over to the pilot-house. "You can see by the power
of smoke she is sending out at her funnel that the chief engineer is
driving her."

"I can see that she has increased her distance from us; but according to
the commander's orders I have directed Felipe to run her not more than
eight or nine knots," replied the captain of the Maud. "How far ahead of
the Guardian-Mother is the pirate, Felix?"

"Not more than a mile, as nearly as I can make it out," replied Felix.
"But she is making the fur fly, and if the pirate don't want her to come
alongside of her, or get a position where her people can overlook her
deck, she will change her course within the next ten minutes;" and the
lookoutman returned to his place in the bow.

"It is lucky for that pirate that your humble servant is not in command
