walking slowly and undecidedly. When he came 
near her she looked up, with an appealing recogni- 
tion. In a flash of the quick passing he thought 
he knew her a girl who had attended his mission 
and whom he had not seen for several months 
but he made no sign and passed on. 
" Father Damon !" 
He turned about short at the sound of the weak, 
pleading voice, but with no relaxation of his severe, 
introverted mood. " Well ?" 
It was the girl he remembered. She wore a dress 
of silk that had once been fine, and over it an am- 
ple cloak that had quite lost its freshness, and a 
hat still gay with cheap flowers. Her face, which 
had a sweet and almost innocent expression, was 
drawn and anxious. The eyes were those of a 
troubled and hunted animal. 
" I thought," she said, hesitatingly, " you didn't 
know me." 
" Yes, I know you. Why haven't you been at 
the mission lately ?" 
" I couldn't come. I " 
" I'm afraid you have fallen into bad ways." 
She did not answer immediately. She looked 
away, and, still avoiding his gaze, said, timidly : " I 
thought I would tell you, Father Damon, that I'm 
that I'm in trouble. I don't know what to do." 
"Have you repented of your sin?" asked he, 
with a little softening of his tone. " Did you want 
to come to me for help ?" 
" He's deserted me," said the girl, looking down, 
absorbed in her own misery, and not heeding his 
question. 
" Ah, so that is what you are sorry for ?" The 
severe, reproving tone had come back to his voice. 
"And they don't want me in the shop any 
more." 
The priest hesitated. Was he always to preach 
against sin, to strive to extirpate it, and yet always 
to make it easy for the sinner? This girl must 
realize her guilt before he could do her any good. 
" Are you sorry for what you have done ?" 
" Yes, I'm sorry," she replied. Wasn't to be in 
deep trouble to be sorry ? And then she looked 
up, and continued with the thought in her mind, 
" I didn't know who else to go to." 
" Well, my child, if you are sorry, and want to 
lead a different life, come to me at the mission and 
I will try to help you." 
The priest, with a not unkindly good-by, passed 
on. The girl stood a moment irresolute, and then 
went on her way heavily and despondent. What 
good would it do her to go to the mission now ? 
Three days later Dr. Leigh was waiting at the 
mission chapel to speak with the rector after the 
vesper service. He came out pale and weary, and 
the doctor hesitated to make known her errand 
when she saw how exhausted he was. 
" Did you wish me for anything ?" he asked, 
after the rather forced greeting. 
