mode you. We will sleep together in the same bed. 
We have always been used to this, and prefer it.' 
And then he goes on to say they will be down 
Thursday." 
"And this is Tuesday — I don't know how I'm 
ever going to wait, ma! The time does drag along 
so, and I'm so dying to see them! Which of them 
do you reckon is the tallest, ma?" 
"How do you s'pose I can tell, child? Mostly 
they are the same size — twins are." 
"Well then, which do you reckon is the best 
looking?" 
"Goodness knows — I don't." 
"I think Angelo is; it's the prettiest name, any- 
way. Don't you think it's a sweet name, ma?" 
"Yes, it's well enough. I'd like both of them 
better if I knew the way to pronounce them — the 
Eyetalian way, I mean. The Missouri way and the 
Eyetalian way is different, I judge." 
"Maybe — yes. It's Luigi that writes the letter. 
What do you reckon is the reason Angelo didn't 
write it?" 
"Why, how can I tell? What's the difference 
who writes it, so long as it's done?" 
"Oh, I hope it wasn't because he is sick! You 
don't think he is sick, do you, ma?" 
"Sick your granny; what's to make him sick?" 
"Oh, there's never any telling. These foreigners 
with that kind of names are so delicate, and of course 
that kind of names are not suited to our climate — 
you wouldn't expect it." 
[And so-on and so-on, no end. The time drags along; Thurs- 
day comes: the boat arrives in a pouring storm toward mid- 
night.] 
At last there was a knock at the door and tne 
anxious family jumped to open it. Two negro men 
entered, each carrying a trunk, and proceeded up- 
stairs toward the guest-room. Then followed a 
stupefying apparition — a double-headed human crea- 
ture with four arms, one body, and a single pair 
of legs! It — or they, as you please — bowed with 
elaborate foreign formality, but the Coopers could 
not respond immediately; they were paralyzed. At 
this moment there came from the rear of the group 
a fervent ejaculation — "My Ian'!" — followed by 
a crash of crockery, and the slave-wench Nancy 
stood petrified and staring, with a tray of wrecked 
tea-things at her feet. The incident broke the spell, 
and brought the family to consciousness. The 
beautiful heads of the new-comer bowed again, and 
one of them said with easy grace and dignity : 
"I crave the honor, madam and miss, to introduce 
to you my brother, Count Luigi Capello," (the other 
 
head bowed) "and myself — Count Angelo; and at 
the same time offer sincere apologies for the lateness 
of our coming, which was unavoidable," and both 
heads bowed again. 
The poor old lady was in a whirl of amazement 
and confusion, but she managed to stammer out : 
