recommended by yourself would reconcile her to a still longer delay,
her household, as at present composed, has in itself the elements of
independence. We have a faithful, if eccentric, servitor, who has an
abnormal passion for work in all its varieties. He is gardener, house
servant, cook, groom, mason and builder, as need requires. He mends his
own clothes, cobbles his shoes—and I am not without a suspicion of his
proficiency as a laundryman.”
He rendered the catalogue with relish for the humor of the situation.
The exigencies of parsonage life which had developed the talents of his
trusty retainer seemed to have no pathos for the master.
“Where did you find this treasure? And is he a Unique?” asked May
laughingly.
“I believe the credit of raking the protoplasmic germ out of the slums
of Chicago, where we were then sojourning, belongs to my wife’s sister,
Miss Alling. The atmosphere of our home has warmed into growth latent
possibilities, I fancy. It was a white day for poor Tony when the
gutter-wash landed him at our door. Even now he has physical weaknesses
and mental deficiencies that make him a striking object-lesson as to
the terrible truths of heredity.”
“How many children have you, Mr. Wayt?” questioned March, with
irrelevance verging upon abruptness.
“George W. Cable’s number—five. You may recall the witty puzzle he set
for a Massachusetts Sunday School. ‘I have five children,’ he said,
‘and half of them are girls. What is the half of five?’ ‘Two and a
half,’ came from the perplexed listeners. It transpired, eventually,
that the other half were girls also.”
He was an entertaining man, or would have been had he been colloquial
instead of hortatory. Yet what he said was telling rather from the
degree of importance he evidently attached to it than from the worth
of the matter. In a smaller speaker, his style would have been
airy. Standing, as he did, six feet in his slippers, he was always
nearly—occasionally, quite—imposing. Men of his profession seldom
converse well. The habit of hebdomadal speech-making runs over and
saturates the six working days. Pastoral visitation is undoubtedly
measurably responsible for the trick of talking as for duty’s sake, and
to a roomful. The essential need of the public speaker is audience, and
to this, actual or visionary, he is prone to address himself. Mr. Wayt
could not bid an acquaintance “Good-morning,” in a chance encounter
upon boat or car, without embracing every passenger within the scope
of his orotund tones, in the salutation. A poseur during his waking
hours, he probably continued to cater to the ubiquitous audience in his
dreams.
“Come out for a turn on the piazza, May!” proposed March, after the
guest had taken his leave.
The night was filled with divine calm. The Gilchrist house surmounted
a knoll from which the beautiful town rolled away on all sides. In the
distance a glistening line showed where the bay divided Jersey meadows
from the ramparts of the Highlands. The turf of the lawn was ringed
and crossed by beds of hyacinths and tulips. The buds of the great
horse-chestnut trees were big with promise; the finer tracery of the
elms against the moonlit sky showed tufts of tender foliage. Faint,
delicious breaths of sweetness met brother and sister at the upper end
of their walk, telling that the fruit trees were ablow.
    “East or West, Hame is Best!”
quoted March, taking in a mighty draught of satisfaction. “Not that
I brought you out here to listen to stale Scotch rhymes. Don’t annoy
the precious mother by letting her into the secret, May, but Mr. Wayt
is the man I saw in the restaurant to-day, and I believe that was his
family!”
CHAPTER II.
