    We lift our souls to thee.”
The minister, distant and pale, blurred before her eyes while
she sang. He looked like a figure resting on a cloud in a sacred
picture. He moved about among his people, tall, smiling, and
shining. They looked at him with wistful, wondering tenderness.
He passed in and out of the halls on errands whose nature no one
asked. Occasionally he returned, bringing some huddling figure with
him from the street; a homesick boy, a homeless man, a half-sodden
fellow found hesitating outside of Trawl’s den, midway between
madness and sanity, ready for hell or heaven, and following Bayard
like a cur.
       
Down the dark throat of Angel Alley a man, that night, was doing
a singular thing. He was a fisherman, plainly one of the recent
arrivals of the anchored fleet; he was a sturdily built fellow with
a well-shaped head; he had the naturally open face and attractive
bearing often to be found among drinking men; at his best he must
have been a handsome, graceful fellow, lovable perhaps, and loving.
At his worst, he was a cringing sot. He wore, over his faded
dark-red flannel shirt, the gingham jumper favored by his class;
and it seemed he had lost his hat. This man was monotonously moving
to and fro, covering a given portion of Angel Alley over and again,
retracing his unsteady footsteps from point to point, and repeating
his course with mysterious regularity. His beat covered the space
between the saloon of old Trawl (which stood about midway of the
alley) and the scarlet and white transparency, whose strange and
sacred heraldry blazed, held straight out, an arm of fire, across
the mouth of the street. Angel Alley, as we have explained, had, at
the first, inclined to call the mission Christ’s Rest, for reasons
of its own; but even that half-godless reminder of a history better
forgotten was growing out of date. The people’s name for Emanuel
Bayard’s house of worship and of welcome was fast settling into one
beautiful word--Christlove.
The fisherman in the jumper wavered to and fro between Christlove
and the ancient grogshop. In the dark weather the figure of the
man seemed to swing from this to that like a pendulum; at moments
he seemed to have no more sense or sentience. He was hurled as if
he were forced by invisible machinery; he recoiled as if wound by
unseen springs; now his steps quickened into a run, as he wrenched
himself away from the saloon, and faced the prayer-room; then they
lagged, and he crawled like a crab to the rum-shop door. His hands
were clenched together. Long before it began to rain his hatless
forehead was wet.
His eyes stared straight before him. He seemed to see nothing but
the two open doors between which he was vibrating. No one had
happened to notice him, or, if so, his movements were taken for
the vagaries of intoxication. A nerve of God knows what, in his
diseased will began to throb, and he made a leap away from the
saloon, and ran heavily towards the white and scarlet lights of the
transparency; at the steps, he fell, and lay groveling; he could
hear the singing overhead:--
        “Ora pro nobis,
    We lift our souls to thee.”
He tried to climb up; but something--call it his muscle, call
it his will, call it his soul; it does not signify--something
refused him, and he did not get beyond the second stair. Slowly,
reluctantly, mysteriously, his feet seemed to be dragged back. He
put out his hands, as if to push at an invisible foe; he leaned
over backwards, planting his great oiled boots firmly in the
ground, as if resisting unseen force; but slowly, reluctantly,
