night she talked of thim, an’ smelled thim, an’ it was a bad sign. If
I’d knowed, I might a done somethin’, or had the doctor. An’ she talked
so beautiful—”

Dil was choked with sobs.

“Ye did iverything. Ye were like an angel. She wouldn’t a lived half so
long, but for yous. O Dil, I wisht I could bring her back. There was a
boy tellin’ ’bout some one—he heerd it at the Mission School—that jist
took a man outen his coffin, an’ made him alive. I’ll ask him how it
was, an’ tell yous.”

“Ye’s so good, Patsey,” with a weary sigh.

“An’ I’ll be droppin’ in an’ bring ye news. An’ ye mustn’t git sick, fer
whin spring opens we’ll spring a trap that’ll s’prise ye. O Dil dear!”

He bent over and kissed her, his face all wet with tears. He had often
kissed little Bess, though he was not “soft on gals.” It was a solemn
caress. Dil seemed so far away, as if he might lose her too.

The next morning the Christmas chimes rang out, and there were houses
full of happy children making merry over Christmas gifts. The mission
schools were crowded, the Christmas-trees and the feasts thronged. There
were hundreds of poor children made happy, even if they could not take
in the grand truth that eighteen hundred years ago a Saviour had been
born to redeem the world. “Why is it not redeemed?” cried the cavillers,
looking on. “If the truth is powerful, why has it not prevailed?” But
the children amid their pleasures asked no questions.

Churches were full of melody, homes were full of joy and gladness, the
streets in a tumult of delight; but Bessy Quinn was in her small grave,
and Dil bitterly alone.

John Travis thought of them both this morning. “I hope Miss Nevins has
planned a nice Christmas for them,” he said to himself, since his
Christmas in a foreign land was not as hopeful as he could wish. Perhaps
Miss Nevins had found a way to Mrs. Quinn’s heart. Women could sometimes
do better than men.

Dilsey Quinn could not die; and if she was miserable and forlorn she had
not the morbid brain to consider suicide, though she knew people had
killed themselves. But the utter dreariness of the poor child’s soul was
overwhelming.

Still, she rose on Monday morning, did her work, and cared for the
babies as usual. It seemed so cruelly lonesome with only her and Dan.
Mrs. Murphy was very good to her, and begged her to go to the priest;
but she listened in a weary, indifferent manner. If Bess was in
purgatory, then she would like to go too. But in her heart she knew Bess
wasn’t. She was just dead, and couldn’t be anywhere but in the ground.

She had never known any joyous animal life. Hers had been all work and
loving service. There was nothing to buoy her up now, nothing to which
she could look forward. She was too old, too experienced, to be a child,
to share a child’s trivial joys.

Her mother questioned her closely about Owen. Hadn’t he never sneaked in
for some clothes? Didn’t Patsey know where he was?

