sown with dollar-marks, like the stars in the Milky Way. I--ugh! What in
the world is it? Oh, you dreadful little things!”
Mrs. Makely passed swiftly from terror to hysterical laughter as the
driver pulled up short and a group of barefooted children broke in front
of his horses and scuttled out of the dust into the road-side bushes like
a covey of quails. There seemed to be a dozen of them, nearly all the same
in size, but there turned out to be only five or six; or at least no more
showed their gleaming eyes and teeth through the underbrush in quiet
enjoyment of the lady’s alarm.
“Don’t you know that you might have got killed?” she demanded, with that
severity good women feel for people who have just escaped with their
lives. “How lovely the dirty little dears are!” she added, in the next
wave of emotion. One bold fellow of six showed a half-length above the
bushes, and she asked: “Don’t you know that you oughtn’t to play in the
road when there are so many teams passing? Are all those your brothers and
sisters?”
He ignored the first question. “One’s my cousin.” I pulled out a
half-dozen coppers, and held my hand toward him. “See if there is one
for each.” They had no difficulty in solving the simple mathematical
problem except the smallest girl, who cried for fear and baffled longing.
I tossed the coin to her, and a little fat dog darted out at her feet and
caught it up in his mouth. “Oh, good gracious!” I called out in my light,
humorous way. “Do you suppose he’s going to spend it for candy?” The
little people thought that a famous joke, and they laughed with the
gratitude that even small favors inspire. “Bring your sister here,” I said
to the boldest boy, and, when he came up with the little woman, I put
another copper into her hand. “Look out that the greedy dog doesn’t get
it,” I said, and my gayety met with fresh applause. “Where do you live?” I
asked, with some vague purpose of showing the Altrurian the kindliness
that exists between our upper and lower classes.
“Over there,” said the boy. I followed the twist of his head, and glimpsed
a wooden cottage on the border of the forest, so very new that the
sheathing had not yet been covered with clapboards. I stood up in the
buckboard and saw that it was a story and a half high, and could have had
four or five rooms in it. The bare, curtainless windows were set in the
unpainted frames, but the front door seemed not to be hung yet. The people
meant to winter there, however, for the sod was banked up against the
wooden underpinning; a stovepipe stuck out of the roof of a little wing
behind. While I gazed a young-looking woman came to the door, as if she
had been drawn by our talk with the children, and then she jumped down
from the threshold, which still wanted a doorstep, and came slowly out to
us. The children ran to her with their coppers, and then followed her back
to us.
Mrs. Makely called to her before she reached us: “I hope you weren’t
frightened. We didn’t drive over any of them.”
“Oh, I wasn’t frightened,” said the young woman. “It’s a very safe place
to bring up children, in the country, and I never feel uneasy about them.”
“Yes, if they are not under the horses’ feet,” said Mrs. Makely, mingling
instruction and amusement very judiciously in her reply. “Are they all
yours?”
“Only five,” said the mother, and she pointed to the alien in her flock.
“He’s my sister’s. She lives just below here.” Her children had grouped
themselves about her, and she kept passing her hands caressingly over
their little heads as she talked. “My sister has nine children, but she
has the rest at church with her to-day.”
“You don’t speak like an American,” Mrs. Makely suggested.
“No, we’re English. Our husbands work in the quarry. That’s my little
palace.” The woman nodded her head toward the cottage.
“It’s going to be very nice,” said Mrs. Makely, with an evident perception
of her pride in it.
