straight down from the limb, all limp like a rag, 
and I run and picked him up, and he was dead, and 
his body was warm in my hand, and his head rolled 
about, this way and that, like his neck was broke, 
and there was a white skin over his eyes, and one 
little drop of blood on the side of his head, and 
laws ! I couldn't see nothing more for the tears ; and 
I hain't ever murdered no creature since that 
warn't doing me no harm, and I ain't going to. 
But I was aggravated about that welkin. I 
wanted to know. I got the subject up again, and 
then Tom explained the best he could. He said 
when a person made a big speech the newspapers 
said the shouts of the people made the welkin ring. 
He said they always said that, but none of them 
ever told what it was, so he allowed it just meant 
outdoors and up high. Well, that seemed sensible 
enough, so I was satisfied, and said so. That 
pleased Tom and put Lira in a good humour again, 
and he says : 
' Well, it's all right, then, and we'll let bygones 
be bygones. I don't know for certain what a welkin 
is, but when we land in London we'll make it ring } 
anyway, and don't you forget it.' 
He said an erronort was a person who sailed 
around in balloons ; and said it was a mighty sight 
finer to be Tom Sawyer the Erronort than to be Tom 
Sawyer the Traveller, and would be heard of all around 
the world, if we pulled through all right, and so be 
wouldn't give shucks to be a traveller now. 
Towards the middle of the afternoon we got 
everything ready to land, and we felt pretty good, 
too, and proud ; and we kept watching with the 
glasses, like C'lumbus discovering America. But 
we couldn't see nothing but ocean. The afternoon 
wasted out and the sun shut down, and still there 
warn't no land anywheres. We wondered what was 
the matter, but reckoned it would come out all right, 
so we went on steering east, but went up on a higher 
level so we wouldn't hit any steeples or mountains 
in the dark. 
It was my watch till midnight, and then it was 
Jim's ; but Tom stayed up, because he said ship 
captains done that when they was making the land, 
and didn't stand no regular watch. 
Well, when daylight come, Jim give a shetit; 
and we jumped up and looked over, and there was the 
land, sure enough ; land all around, as far as you 
could see, and perfectly level and yaller. We didn't 
know how long we had been over it. There warn't 
no trees, nor hills, nor rocks, nor towns, and Tom 
and Jim had took it for the sea. They took it for 
the sea in a dead cam ; but we was so high up, any- 
way, that if it had been the sea and rough, it would 
a' looked smooth, all the same, in the night that 
way. 
We was all in a powerful excitement, now, and 
grabbed the glasses and hunted everywheres for 
London, but couldn't find hide nor hair of it, nor 
any other settlement. Nor any sign of a lake or a 
