"I can't never go back to the podere. She's there, and she has taken
up with Matteo. I've had my heart trampled upon, and so I've got a big
hankering either to kill somebody or get killed myself; and I'll either
do it here, or I'll go for a soldier and get knifed in the war."
"Mercy on us! there isn't any war now," said Prudence, dazed by these
sanguinary suggestions.
"There's always a war. What else are there soldiers for? And there's
lots of soldiers. But I could get knifed here easy enough; Matteo and
I--already we've had one tussle; I gave him a pretty big cut, you may
depend."
Seventeen years earlier Prudence Wilkin would have laughed at the idea
of being frightened by such words as these. But Mrs. Tonio Guadagni had
heard of wild deeds in Assisi, and wilder ones still among the peasants
of the hill country roundabout; these singing, indolent Umbrians dealt
sometimes in revenges that were very direct and primitive.
"You let Matteo alone, Gooster," she said, putting her hand on his arm;
"you go straight over to Perugia and stay there. Perhaps you can get
work where Parlo and Squawly are."
"I shall have it out with Matteo here, or else go for a soldier
to-morrow," answered Gooster, in his lethargic tone.
"Well, go for a soldier, then."
"It don't make much difference to me which I do," Gooster went on, as if
only half awake. "If I go for a soldier, I shall have to get to Florence
somehow, I suppose; I shall have to have ten francs for the railroad."
"Is it ten exactly?" said Prudence. Her mind flew to her work-box, which
held just that sum.
"It's ten."
"Haven't you got any money at all, Gooster?" She meant to help him on
his way; but she thought that she should like to keep, if possible, a
nest-egg to begin with again--say twenty cents, or ten.
Gooster felt in his pockets. "Three soldi," he replied, producing some
copper coins and counting them over.
[Illustration: "NOUNCE TOO CAME OUT, AND SAT ON THE WALL NEAR BY,
LISTENING"]
"And there's nothing due you at the per-dairy?"
There was no necessity for answering such a foolish question as this,
and Gooster did not answer it.
"Well, I will give you the money," said Prudence. "But to-morrow'll do,
won't it? Stay here a day or two, and we'll talk it over."
While she was speaking, Gooster had turned and walked towards the garden
wall. The sight of his back going from her--as though she should never
see it again--threw her into a sudden panic; she ran after him and
seized his arm. "I'll give you the money, Gooster; I told you I would;
I've got it all ready, and it won't take a minute; promise me that you
won't leave this garden till I come back."
Gooster had had no thought of leaving the garden; he had espied a last
bunch of grapes still hanging on the vine, and was going to get it; that
was all. "All right," he said.
Prudence disappeared. He gathered the grapes and began to eat them,
turning over the bunch to see which were best. Before he had finished,
Prudence came back, breathless with the haste she had made. "Here," she
said; "and now you'll go straight to Florence, won't you? There's a
train to-night, very soon now; you must hurry down and take that."
He let her put the money in his coat-pocket while he finished the
grapes. Then he threw the stem carefully over the garden wall.
"And no doubt you'll be a brave soldier," Prudence went on, trying to
speak hopefully. "Brave soldiers are thought a heap of everywhere."
"I don't know as I care what's thought," answered Gooster,
indifferently. He took up his cap and put it on. "Well, good-bye,
Denza. Best wishes to you. Every happiness." He shook hands with her.
