I bowed gravely, and we set out.
Arrived at the lodging-house I thought it prudent to go up alone. I
feared that excitement might be bad for my patient.
He was awake and resting more comfortably.
"How do you feel?" I asked.
"Better, doctor. Thanks to you."
"Have you no relatives whom you would wish to see--or friends?"
"I have no relatives in New York," he said.
"Or friends?"
He paused and looked thoughtful.
"I don't know," he answered, slowly. "There is one--I have not seen her
for many years--but it is impossible, yet I would give my life to see
Jane Blagden."
"Why not send for her?"
"She would not come. We were friends once--very dear friends--I hoped
to marry her. Now I am poor and broken in health, I must give up the
thought."
"Could you bear to see her? Would it not make you ill?"
"What do you mean, doctor?" he asked, quickly.
"I mean that Miss Blagden is below. She wishes to see you."
"Can it be? Are you a magician? How could you know of her?"
"Never mind that. Shall I bring her up?"
"Yes."
CHAPTER XXIII.
AT LAST.
Jane Blagden paused a moment at the entrance to the room, as if to
gather strength for the interview. I had never seen her so moved. Then
she opened the door and entered with a firm step.
He lay on the bed with his eyes fixed eagerly on the door. As she
entered he tried to raise his head.
"Jane!" he exclaimed, eagerly.
She placed her hand for a moment on her heart, as if to still its
throbbing. Then she walked quickly to the bed.
"Philip!" she said.
"At last!" he cried, in a low voice.
"Can you forgive me, Philip, dear Philip?"
"If there is anything to forgive."
"There is--much. I am afraid you have suffered."
"I have."
"And so have I. Since we parted I have been lonely--desolate. I let my
pride and my obstinacy come between us--but I have been punished."
She had drawn a chair to the bed-side, and sitting down took his hand in
hers. It was hot, feverish.
"You are very ill, I fear."
"I shall be better now," he murmured. "It is worth much to have you
beside me."
I looked at the face of the Disagreeable Woman. I saw upon it an
expression I had never seen before--an expression that made her look ten
years younger. I could not have believed in the tenderness, the
heart-warmth which it showed.
"Philip," she said, "you must get well for my sake."
"And if I do?" he asked, eagerly.
"It shall be as you wish."
He closed his eyes, and a look of happiness and content lighted up his
features. But soon there was a change. It was evident that the
excitement had been too much for him.
"Miss Blagden," I said, "I think you must go. Our patient is too weak to
stand any more excitement or agitation."
"Can I not stay here as his nurse?" she pleaded.
"It will be better to have a trained nurse--one who will not agitate
