setting a joist true ; to go to the synagogue ; to fast 
and bathe and pray, and feast and fast again ; to 
commit an interminable Law to a wincing memory 
and a troubled belief ; to be a good son, a good car- 
penter, and a good Jew, Yet what was life ? 
Struggling with itself, with his surroundings, with 
his lot, the soul of the child of genius and the child 
of God felt about for its own significance. 
Solitude was natural to such youth as hirt. There 
was deep opportunity for it in the beautiful grovoK 
of oak which gathered about Nazareth, His strong, 
young feet sought them often and of toner; to be 
alone was his luxury, as it is that of all thoughtful 
and superior beings. 
Years of boyish obedience to parents who wore 
wise enough not to insist that they understood him, 
years of precise mechanical labor ut a decent traulo, 
years of good scholarship in the ouclcHiaHtical 
schools, passed dreamily over his mind and heart. 
His character was formed by two controlling and 
conflicting forces, law und independence. 
He was expected to be like other young uion ; 
conscientiously he tried to be HO. Inwardly, liko all 
gifted and growing beingn, lie felt that ho waa not. 
Yet how urge a difference winch no one elo neemcd 
to recognize? His personal modesty shrank from 
this insistence. At times, to accept the estimate 
formed of him by his neighbors seemed the only 
reasonable thing to do. 
THE BOY 61 
He trembled away from over-valuing himself. 
He tried to think he was like Aaron, or like Solo- 
mon, yonder across the village street. He blamed 
himself for a kind of undue self - appreciation. 
Gusts and gales against which no storm-signal gave 
warning swept over him. They came from unex- 
pected directions. The points of compass in his 
soul seemed all awry. Yet the magnetic needle 
pointed true. To turn to that was safe. He may 
have found it natural, through the passionate wea- 
ther of immaturity, to be an irreproachable youth ; 
but he did not iiud it easy. His nature was too fine, 
too complex, for mere commonplace correctness. 
Duty? What was duty? He sought it in his 
own young heart, but conflict answered him. He 
asked it for ho was a wakeful lad of the blaz- 
ing stars of the Eastern night ; he looked down into 
the rod heart of the wild lily for it, and up through 
the green arches of the mountain woods he peered in 
Hoavoh of it. But neither nature nor his own being 
replied distinctly. There were long spaces when 
even hit* mother's line perception could not help him. 
She admitted to herself that she did not always 
know how to treat him. He felt that he was misun- 
derstood. But he accepted the fact \Wth a patience 
not to be expected of his years or of his tempera- 
ment. For he had now come to recognize that he 
did not understand himself. 
CHAPTER II 
A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 
