cut the tree more than half-way through the trunk; and it was evident
that he intended it should fall towards the river, for the second Malay
was clearing away the ground on that side so that they might have a fair
field for the fight that was to ensue. The chopper attacked the other
side of the tree, and seemed to deal his blows with even more vigor than
before.
The old orang kept up a constant growling. She had a nest just above the
limb where she sat, which was quite green, indicating that it had been
recently built. It was composed of the branches of the tree small enough
to be easily broken off by the "jungle man." They were simply placed in
a heap on the limb, with no particular shaping of the resting-place.
"She makes a new nest when the branches of the old one get dry; she like
a soft bed," said Achang. "But the tree will come down now; big fight,
they kill her."
He had hardly spoken these words before the tree suddenly toppled over,
and fell upon the ground with a heavy crash. The orangs seemed to have
no idea of what was going on at the foot of the tree, and they were
pitched out. The chopper seized one of the spears, and rushed after the
old one. The tree prevented the party on board the yacht from seeing the
expected battle; and with their rifles in their hands, the "Big Four"
sprang ashore, and secured a favorable position. The crew followed them,
though the engineer remained at his post.
The first Malay, who had done the chopping, had confronted the orang,
and they stood facing each other. Suddenly the animal made a spring
towards her enemy, and was received on the point of his spear. The orang
was wounded, but this only increased her wrath, and she made a furious
onslaught upon the man; but the spear was too much for her, and she was
wounded again.
The orang opened her mouth, and showed a terrible double row of teeth
flanked by four long tusks. They were enough to intimidate one
unaccustomed to the creature's appearance. She made repeated attempts to
reach her enemy; but the spear, very adroitly handled, foiled her every
time, and gave her a new wound. This sparring, as it were, was kept up
for some time, and the Americans wondered that the Malay did not drive
his weapon to the heart of the infuriated animal. Doubtless he would
have done so if he could; but the orang had hands as well as feet, and
she grasped the spear every time it punctured her skin, and seemed to
prevent it from inflicting a fatal wound.
It was a mystery to the observers how the Malay contrived to detach his
weapon from the grasp of the orang, though he did so every time. But at
last the brute seemed to change her tactics, or she got a better hold of
the spear; for she suddenly snapped the weapon into two pieces as though
it had been a pipe-stem. Deprived of his arm, the Malay ran a few rods.
The orang is very clumsy on its feet, and she could not catch him. The
man only went a few rods to the place where the parong latok had been
placed, and with this weapon he returned to the attack.
The skirmishing with this weapon continued for some time longer, and the
beast was wounded every time she attempted to get hold of her opponent.
In the meantime the other Malay had not been idle. He used no deadly
weapons, but substituted for them a long cord he had brought from the
sampan. He made a slip-noose in one end of it, and was trying to catch
the young one. It might have run away if it had been so disposed, but it
seemed to be determined to stay by its mother.
"He wants you, or needs your skill with the lasso, Captain Scott," said
Morris, recalling the feats with the lasso of the commander.
"He is doing very well, and he handles the line well," replied Scott.
"Now he has him!" he exclaimed, as the Malay passed the cord over the
head of the young orang, and hauled it taut around his neck.
With the line he dragged the orang to a sapling near the fallen tree,
and, with other lines he had left there, tied his hands and feet
