about poor Paul," she declared, smiling. 
She spoke and she looked at him with a sin 
cerity so distilled, as he felt, from something 
deep within her, that to pretend to gainsay her 
would be in the worst taste. He turned about, 
not very brilliantly, as he was aware, to some 
other resource. " You'll immensely disappoint 
your own people." 
" Yes, my mother and my grandmother they 
both would like it. But they've never had any 
promise from me." 
Tony was silent awhile. "And Mrs. Beever 
hasn't she had?" 
" A promise ? Never. I've known how much 
she has wanted it. But that's all." 
" Ah, that's a great deal," said Tony. " If, 
knowing how much she has wanted it, you've 
come back again and again, hasn't that been 
tantamount to giving it?" 
Jean considered. " I shall never come back 
again." 
" Ah, my dear child, what a way to treat us ! " 
her friend broke out. 
She took no notice of this ; she only went on : 
" Months ago the last time I was here an 
assurance, of a kind, was asked of me. But even 
then I held off." 
"And you've gone on with that intention?" 
He had grown so serious now that he cross- 
questioned her, but she met him with a prompti 
tude that was touching in its indulgence. " I've 
gone on without an intention. I've only waited 
to see, to feel, to judge. The great thing seemed 
to me to be sure I wasn't unfair to Paul. I 
haven't been I'm not unfair. He'll never say 
I've been I'm sure he won't. I should have 
liked to be able to become his wife. But I 
can't." 
"You've nevertheless excited hopes," said Tony. 
" Don't you think you ought to consider that a 
little more?" His uneasiness, his sense of the 
unexpected, as sharp as a physical pang, increased 
so that he began to lose sight of the importance 
of concealing it ; and he went on even while 
something came into her eyes that showed he 
had not concealed it. "If you haven't meant 
not to do it, you've, so far as that goes, meant 
the opposite. Therefore something has made you 
change." 
Jean hesitated. " Everything has made me 
change." 
"Well," said Tony, with a smile so strained 
that he felt it to be almost pitiful, " we've spoken 
of the disappointment to others, but I suppose 
there's no use in my attempting to say anything 
of the disappointment to me. That's not the thing 
that, in such a case, can have much effect on you." 
Again Jean hesitated ; he saw how pale she had 
grown. "Do I understand you tell me that you 
really desire my marriage?" 
