The coats were queer, too, and they kept on their hats, which shocked
her a little at first.
Oh, how still it was! Hanny waited and waited for the minister, but she
could not see any pulpit. There was no singing, only that solemn
silence. If she had been a little Quaker girl she would have been
thinking of her sins, and making new resolves. Instead she watched the
faces. Some were very sweet; many old and wrinkled.
Suddenly an old gentleman arose and talked a few moments. When he sat
down a tall woman laid off her hat and, standing up, began to speak in a
more vigorous manner than the brother. She seemed almost scolding,
Hanny thought. After her, another silence, then a lovely old lady with a
soft voice told of the blessings she had found and the peace they ought
all to seek.
Everybody rose and went out quietly.
"It doesn't seem a real church, Aunt Eunice," said Hanny. "And there was
no minister."
"Oh, child, it isn't! It's just a meeting. It did not seem very
spiritual to-day."
"If they only had some singing."
Aunt Eunice smiled, but made no reply. Hanny decided she did not want to
be a Friend.
They went down to visit Aunt Nancy and Aunt Patience, and Margaret took
Aunt Eunice up to see Miss Lois Underhill, who had gone on living alone.
She said she could never take root in any other place, and perhaps it
was true. Her kindly German neighbor looked after her, but she was very
grateful for a visit.
Steve was building his new house and they thought to get in it by the
fall. It was on the plot Dolly's father had given her at Twentieth
Street near Fifth Avenue. The Coventry Waddells, who were really the
leaders of fashionable society, were erecting a very handsome and
picturesque mansion on Murray Hill, between Fifth and Sixth avenues on
Thirty-eighth Street. The grounds took the whole block. There were
towers and gables and oriels, and a large conservatory that was to
contain all manner of rare plants, native as well as foreign. But
everybody thought it quite out in the country.
Steve laughingly said they would have fine neighbors. The Waddells were
noted for their delightful entertaining.
They took Aunt Eunice a walk down Broadway to show her the sights. The
"dollar side" had become the accepted promenade. Already there were some
quite notable people who were pointed out to visitors. You could see Mr.
N. P. Willis, who was then at the zenith of his fame. When a
Sunday-school entertainment wanted to give something particularly fine,
the best speaker recited his poem, "The Leper," which was considered
very striking. There was Lewis Gaylord Clark, of The Knickerbocker,
who wrote charming letters, and these two were admitted to be very
handsome men. There was George P. Morris, whose songs were sung
everywhere, and not a few literary ladies. There was the Broadway swell
in patent-leather boots and trousers strapped tightly down, in the style
the boys irreverently called pegtops. He had a high-standing collar, a
fancy tie, a light silk waistcoat with a heavy watch-chain and seal, a
coat with large, loose sleeves, a high hat, and carried his cane under
his arm, while, as one of the writers of the day said, "he ambled along
daintily."
Then you might meet the Hammersley carriage with its footman and livery
that had made quite a talk. Young and handsome Mrs. Little, whose
marriage to an old man had been the gossip of the season, sat in elegant
state with her coachman in dark blue. Now one hardly notes the handsome
equipages, or the livery either.
But the "Bowery boy" was as great a feature of the time as the Broadway
swell. He, too, wore a silk hat, and it generally had a three-inch
