' Lion-heart ! Who — that baby ? Why, he begged 
like a dog to be let off. Cried, and said he wanted to go 
to his mother. Him a lion-heart ! — that tumble-bug ! ' 
' Dear me, why I supposed he volunteered, of course. 
Didn't he ? ' 
' Oh yes, volunteered the way people do to the heads- 
man. Why, when he found I was coming up from 
Domremy to volunteer, he asked me to let him come along 
in my protection, and see the crowds and the excitement. 
Well, we arrived and saw the torches filing out at the 
Castle, and ran there, and the governor had him seized, 
along with four more, and he begged to be let off, and I 
begged for his place, and at last the governor allowed me 
to join, but wouldn't let Noel off, because he was disgusted 
with him, he was such a cry-baby. Yes, and much good 
heHl do the King's service : he'll eat for six and run for 
sixteen. I hate a pigmy with half a heart and nine 
stomachs ! ' 
' Why, this is very surprising news to me, and I am 
sorry and disappointed to hear it. I thought he was a very 
manly fellow.' 
The Paladin gave me an outraged look, and said : 
' I don't see how you can talk like that, I'm sure I don't. 
I don't see how you could have got such a notion. I don't 
dislike him, and I'm not saying these things out of pre- 
judice, for I don't allow myself to have prejudices against 
people. I like him, and have always comraded with him 
from the cradle, but he must allow me to speak my mind 
about his faults, and I am willing he shall speak his about 
mine, if I have any. And true enough, maybe I have ; 
but I reckon they'll bear inspection — I have that idea, any- 
way. A manly fellow ! You should have heard him 
whine and wail and swear, last night, because the saddle 
hurt him. Why didn't the saddle hurt me ? Pooh — I was 
as much at home in it as if I had been born there. And 
yet it was the first time I was ever on a horse. All those 
old soldiers admired my riding ; they said they had never 
seen anything like it. But him— why, they had to hold 
him on, all the time.' 
An odour as of breakfast came stealing through the 
wood ; the Paladin unconsciously inflated his nostrils in 
lustful response, and got up and limped painfully away, 
saying he must go and look to his horse. 
At bottom he was all right and a good-hearted giant, 
without any harm in him, for it is no harm to bark, if one 
stops there and does not bite, and it is no harm to be an 
ass, if one is content to bray and not kick. If this vast 
structure of brawn and muscle and vanity and foolishness 
seemed to have a libellous tongue, what of it ? There was 
no malice behind it ; and besides, the defect was not of his 
own creation ; it was the work of Noel Rainguesson, who 
had nurtured it, fostered it, built it up and perfected it, for 
the entertainment he got out of it. His careless light heart 
had to have somebody to nag and chaff and make fun of ; 
the Paladin had only needed development in order to meet 
his requirements, consequently the development was taken 
in hand and diligently attended to and looked after, gnat- 
and-bull fashion, for years, to the neglect and damage of 
far more important concerns. The result was an unqualified 
success. Noel prized the society of the Paladin above 
