self in Deborah's gown and bonnet, and 
juggled a pillow into the semblance of 
a baby in long clothes, and how the rec- 
tor came upon him as he paraded him- 
self and his charge before the gaping 
townsfolk ? The rest of the story is too 
sad for any but sunny days; for Peter 
was flogged and ran away to sea, as 
every one knows, while the rector re- 
pented his angry vengeance in the ashes 
of old age, and the gentle house-mother 
died awaiting her boy's return. 
The actual spots connected with Mrs. 
Gaskell's life in Cranford need no broid- 
ery of fancy. Looking over the Heath 
stands the comfortable, dignified house 
where she lived with Mrs. Lumb. Hers 
was not an altogether untroubled child- 
hood, suggests Mrs. Ritchie, and she 
pictures the little girl running "away 
from her aunt's house across the 
Heath," hiding "herself in one of its 
many green hollows, finding comfort in 
 
the silence, and in the company of birds 
and insects and natural things." At 
that time, the Heath was less of a 
trodden village common than to-day, 
more populous with birds, richer in furze 
and leaf. But though the identical 
house has been enlarged and repaired, 
its character of homelike comfort is un- 
changed. There are happy windows, 
with great window -seats, looking out 
over the Heath and into the garden at 
the back. Sun and light are every- 
where, and in the garden beds lie the 
richness and beauty of old-fashioned 
flowers. 
But of all spots made to please the 
memory and stir it with suggestions not 
to be denied is Sandlebridge Farm, 
where lived the Hollands who were 
Mrs. Gaskell's maternal ancestors. An 
agreeable though unexciting walk leads 
to it, between fields green with the won- 
derful grass that goes to the making of 
Cheshire cheese, and golden with but- 
tercups. Such far reaches of field and 
valley are here as to make a not unpleas- 
ing loneliness in the land, even under 
full sunlight; and when, approaching 
the farm, you come to a smithy and 
 
mill dedicated to the uses of life, still 
the illusion is not dispelled. For in the 
smithy two or three leisurely men lean 
and look in the intervals of smiling talk, 
and the mill, sweet and dusty from the 
breath of grain, goes on working quite 
