abandoned enthusiasm. (Had it only been Words 
worth ! ) A lady was present, young, and of 
the Browningesque temperament. Mr. Emer 
son expressed himself finely to the effect that 
there was something outside of ourselves about 
Browning that we might not always grasp 
him that he seemed, at times, to require an 
extra sense. 
"Is it not because he touches our extra 
moods ? " asked the lady. The poet's face 
turned towards her quickly ; he had not noticed 
her before ; a subtle change touched his 
expression, as if he would have liked to say : For the 
first time since this subject was introduced in 
this Calvinistic drawing-room, I find myself 
understood. 
It chanced that we had a Chaucer Club in 
Andover at that time ; a small company, 
severely selected, not to flirt or to chat, but to 
work. We had studied hard for a year, and 
most of us had gone Chaucer mad. This present 
writer was the unfortunate exception to 
that idolatrous enthusiasm, and meeting Mr. 
Emerson at another time took modest occa 
sion in answer to a remark of his to say some 
thing of the sort. 
" Chaucer interests me, certainly, but I can 
not make myself feel as the others do. He  
does not take hold of my nature. He is too 
far back. I am afraid I am too much of a 
modern. It is a pity, I know." 
" It is a pity," observed Mr. Emerson. 
" What would you read ? The Morning 
Advertiser ? " The Chaucer Club glared at me in 
what, I must say, I felt to be unholy triumph. 
Not a glance of sympathy reached me, where 
I sat, demolished before the rebuke of the great 
 
man. I distinctly heard a chuckle from a 
feminine member. Yet, what had the dissenter 
done, or tried to do ? Only to proffer com 
mon honesty in a little matter where affectation 
would have been the flowery way ; and I must 
say that I have never loved the Father of 
English Poetry any better for this episode. 
The point, however, at which I am coming is 
the effect wrought upon Mr. Emerson's mind 
by the history of that club. It seemed to us 
disproportionate to the occasion that he should 
feel and manifest so much surprise at our exist 
ence. This he did, more than once, and with a 
genuineness not to be mistaken. 
That an organization for the study of Chau 
cer could subsist on Andover Hill, he could not 
understand. What he thought us, or thought 
about us, who can say ? He seemed as much 
taken aback as if he had found a tribe of 
Cherokees studying onomatopoeia in English verse. 
"A Chaucer club! In Andover?" he 
repeated. The seer was perplexed. 
