face, and from what he had heard, that Ferdinando had been the best of
the family; and in a semi-barbarous country like the interior of Sicily,
the young Roman did not blame him overmuch for having tried to resist
the new owners of his father's house when they came to take possession.
San Giacinto and the sergeant objected on principle to admitting the
girl, but Orsino insisted, and at last opened the gate himself. She had
covered her head and face again, and followed him swiftly and
noiselessly across the court to the door of the church. As though by
instinct she turned directly to her lover's body, where it lay before
the side altar, and with a low wail like a wounded animal, she fell
beside it, with clasped hands. Orsino left her there alone, closing the
door softly, and came out into the court, where it was almost broad
daylight. The men had drunk their coffee and were grooming their black
chargers tethered to rusty rings in the wall. The old stables were
between the court and the rampart. The two foot-carabineers were
despatched to Santa Vittoria to get a coffin for the dead man and a
priest to come and bury him.
From the church came every now and then the piteous echo of the girl's
lamentations. Then there was a knocking at the gate, and someone called
from without. One of the troopers looked out through the narrow slit in
the stone, made just wide enough to let the barrel of a gun pass. Half a
dozen peasants were outside, and the soldiers could see two more coming
down the drive towards the house. He asked what they wanted.
'We wish to speak with the master,' said one, and two or three repeated
the words.
They were the men who had brought the tools on the previous evening,
with a number of others, the small tenants of the little estate. San
Giacinto went and spoke with them, assuring them that he would be a
better landlord than they had ever had, if they would treat him well,
but that if he met with any treachery, he would send every man of them
to the galleys for life. It was his way of making acquaintance, and they
seemed to understand it.
While he was speaking a number of men and women appeared in the drive,
headed by the two soldiers who had gone to the village. Close behind
them, swaying with the walk of the woman who carried the load upon her
head, a white deal coffin caught the morning light. Then more people,
and always more, came in sight, up the drive. Amongst them walked a
young priest in his short white 'cotta' over his shabby cassock, and
beside him came a big boy bearing a silver basin with holy water, and
the little broom for sprinkling it. The two trudged along in a
business-like way, and all the people were talking loudly. It seemed to
San Giacinto that half the population of the village must have turned
out. He stepped back and called to the troopers to keep the gate, and
prevent the crowd from entering. Then he waited outside. The people
became silent as they came near, and he looked at them, scrutinising
their faces. Some of the men had their guns slung over their shoulders,
but many were only labourers and had none.
Many scowling glances were turned on San Giacinto as the crowd came up
to the gate, and he began to anticipate trouble of some sort. The
troopers had their rifles in their hands as they formed up behind him.
The tenants of Camaldoli mixed with the crowd, evidently not wishing to
identify themselves with their new landlord.
'What do you want?' asked San Giacinto, in a harsh, commanding voice.
The priest came close to him, and bowed and smiled, as though the
occasion of meeting were a pleasant one. Then he stood aside a little,
and a strapping woman who carried the coffin on her head marched in
under the gate between the soldiers, who made way for her. And behind
her came her husband, a crooked little carpenter, carrying a leathern
bag from which protruded the worn and blackened handle of a big hammer.
The third comer was stopped by the sergeant. He was a ghastly pale old
