" Why not? " answered Dolly. " It 's fortunate 
that you brought your best frock ; though we 

 

could have sent for it. Why, yes, if you would 
like to." 

Hanny drew a long breath. Twice of late her 
mother had found excuses when she had asked to 
go down to Beach Street. She, too, had a vague 
feeling there was something in the air; but her 
simple nature was not suspicious. And it wasn't 
like going to the Whitney's. She couldn't do 
such a thing without asking permission. 

Delia finished her call, kissed the babies and 
Hanny, and said they would all be up at eight, 
sharp. 

" I 'll have Hanny in apple-pie order," answered 
Dolly, with her bright smile. 

Stephen was delightful in his family ; and he 
had the same odd little look in his eye as her 
father, suggestive of fun. He was teaching her to 
play checkers ; and, although Dolly helped some- 
times, she found it hard work to beat him. Dolly 
sat by embroidering. 

The next morning they drove down-town and 
did some shopping, and called on Annette, who 
made them stay to luncheon. Mrs. Beekman was 
quite poorly now, and had grown very, very stout. 
She said, " she had lost all her ambition. It was 
a great thing to be young, and have all your life 
before you." 

It was so delightful ; and Dolly was sure they 
wouldn't have many more such Indian summery 
days, so they went over to Washington Parade- 
ground, where the style promenaded on Saturday 
afternoon. Hanny wore her best dress and a 



pretty cloth cape trimmed with a little edge of fur. 
They took Stevie, who was delighted of course, and 
who ran about, very proud of his new jacket and 
trousers. 

Many of the promenaders nodded to young Mrs. 
Stephen Underbill. Belles and beaux went by ; 
prettily dressed children; stylish little boys, who 
carried canes, and had long tassels drooping over 
one side of their caps. Hanny enjoyed it all very 
much. 

Then after supper, Dolly put a fine lace tucker 
over the edging at the neck of her frock, and found 
