of goods. " But I could make room. Say, Thirzy, 
there's the stage." 



 

If there was one thing she hated more than 
another it was being called Thirzy, and though she 
said nothing, she was quite as resentful as Bessie 
Deane had been. Certainly Mr. Kent had not 
altered for the better. He was stouter, redder, 
chipper, and louder. Not a point for romantic 
softening. 

Some one spoke to her then. No, she had not 
been forgotten. And as she stopped to exchange 
a few words Palmer drove away with his load. 

It was a pleasant walk. She went diagonally 
through the old park. She saw the wing recently 
built to the Methodist parsonage ; the addition to 
the court house, some new dwellings ; the Colston 
house on the corner, remodelled and made quite 
grand. There had been a good deal of new paint 
ing. Fences had been discarded in the modern 
fashion. Lawns were better kept. There was a 
wealth of roses everywhere. Oh, it was beautiful ! 

She turned down a street of old-fashioned houses 
with wide spaces of ground between, where at the 
back, the lots ran down to a little stream, the old 
creek, willow bordered. The ground widened out, 
and there were gardens and poultry houses and 
almost farm concomitants. 

She paused before a gate, with her hand on the 
latch. A big boy ran down the path and stared, 
then bolted through. She walked up the path 



 

of course they would all be around in the kitchen. 
But she rang at the front door. 

The instant it was opened there was a shriek. 
Clara, her mother, Aunt Abby more bent and 
wrinkled, and a host of children. It almost dis 
tracted her at the first moment. They pulled her 
hither and thither, they kissed her and exclaimed 
in almost every key ; and at every other breath 
Clara said " Well, I never ! " 

The dining-room was the general sitting-room 
as well. It was commodious, with a sort of square 
bow window built out that added greatly to the 
space. There had only been one baby born in 
the two years, but there were four children in the 
