4,500 aboriginals in it when the whites came along in the 
middle of the ' Thirties. Of these, 1,000 lived in Gippsland, 
a patch of territory the size of fifteen or sixteen Rhode Islands : 
they did not diminish as fast as some of the other communities; 
indeed, at the end of forty years there were still 200 of them 
left. The Geelong tribe diminished more satisfactorily : from 
173 persons it faded to 34 in twenty years ; at the end of 
another twenty the tribe numbered one person altogether. 
The two Melbourne tribes could muster almost 300 when the 
white man came ; they could muster but twenty, thirty-seven 
years later, in 1875. In that year there were still odds and 
ends of tribes scattered about the colony of "Victoria, but I 
was told that natives of full blood are very scarce now. It is 
said that the aboriginals continue in some force in the huge 
territory called Queensland. 

The early whites were not used to savages. They could 
not understand the primary law of savage life : that if a man 
do you a wrong, his whole tribe is responsible — each individual 
of it — and you may take your change out of any individual 
of it, without bothering to seek out the guilty one. When a 
white killed an aboriginal, the tribe applied the ancient law, 
and killed the first white they came across. To the whites 
this was a monstrous thing. Extermination seemed to be the 
proper medicine for such creatures as this. They did not kill 
all the blacks, but they promptly killed enough of them to 
make their own persons safe. From the dawn of civilization 
down to this day the white man has always used that very 
precaution. Mrs. Campbell Praed lived in Queensland, as a 
child, in the early days, and in her " Sketches of Australian 
life," we get informing pictures of the early struggles of the 
white and the black to reform each other. 

Speaking of pioneer days in the mighty wilderness of 
Queensland, Mrs. Praed says : 

"At first the natives retreated before the whites; and, except that they 
every now and then speared a beast in one of the herds, gave little cause for 
uneasiness. But, as the number of squatters increased, each one taking up 
miles of country and bringing two or three men in his train, so that shepherds' 
huts and stockmen's camps lay far apart, and defenseless in the midst of 
hostile tribes, the Blacks' depredations became more frequent and murder 
was no unusual event. 

"Tlie loneliness of the Australian bush can hardly be painted in words. 
Here extends mile after mile of primeval forest where perhaps foot of white 
man has never trod — interminable vistas where the eucalyptus trees rear their 
lofty trunks and spread forth their lanky limbs, from which the red gum 
oozes and hangs in fantastic pendants like crimson stalactites ; ravines along 
the sides of which the long-bladed grass grows rankly ; level untimbered 
plains alternating with undulating tracts of pasture, here and there broken 
by a stony ridge, steep gully, or dried-up creek. All wild, vast and desolate ; 
all the same monotonous gray coloring, except where the wattle, when in 

blossom, shows patches of feathery gold, or a belt of scrub lies green, glossy, 
and impenetrable as Indian jungle. 

"The solitude seems intensified by the strange sounds of reptiles, birds, 
and insects, and by the absence of larger creatures ; of which in the day- 
time, the only audible signs are the stampede of a herd of kangaroo, or the 
