she became almost querulous, and all Patience could do was to anticipate
her in every possible way. But when school reopened she had little time
for anything but study. She was to finish in June, and the last year’s
course was very difficult.

She graduated with flying colours, and Miss Tremont was so proud and
excited that she took a day’s vacation. A week later Patience hinted
that she thought she should be earning her own living; but Miss Tremont
would not even discuss the subject. She fell into a rage every time it
was broached, and Patience, who would have rebelled, had Miss Tremont
been younger and stronger, submitted: she knew it would not be for long.


                                  XII

Patience was languid all summer, and lay about in the woods, when she
could, reading little and thinking much. Her school books put away
forever, she felt for the first time that she was a woman, but did not
take as much interest in herself as she had thought she should. She
speculated a good deal upon her future career as a newspaper woman, and
expended two cents every morning upon the New York “Day.” But she forgot
to study it in the new interest it created: she had just the order of
mind to succumb to the fascination of the newspaper, and she read the
“Day’s” report of current history with a keener pleasure than even the
great records of the past had induced. She longed for a companion with
whom to talk over the significant tendencies of the age, and gazed upon
Beverly Peele’s dome-like brow with a sigh.

Once, in the Sunday issue, she came upon a column and a half devoted to
Rosita, “The Sweetheart of the Public,” “The Princess Royal of Opera
Bouffe.” The description of the young prima donna’s home life, personal
characteristics, and footlight triumphs, was further embellished by a
painfully décolleté portrait, a lace night gown, a pair of wonderfully
embroidered stockings, and a rosary.

Patience read the article twice, wondering why fame realised looked so
different from the abstract quality of her imagination.

“Somehow it seems a sort of tin halo,” she thought. Then her thoughts
drifted back to Monterey, and recalled it with startling vividness.
“Still even if I haven’t forgotten it, it is like the memory of another
life. Its only lasting effect has been to make me hate what is coarse
and sinful; and dear auntie, even if she hasn’t converted me, has
developed all my good.

“I wonder if Rosita has been in love, and if that is the reason she has
forgotten me. But she hasn’t married, so perhaps it’s only adulation
that has driven everything else out of her head.” And then with her eyes
on the river, which under the heavy sky looked like a stream of
wrinkling lead from which a coating of silver had worn off in places,
she fell to dreaming of Beverly Peele and an ideal existence in which
they travelled and read and assured each other of respectful and
rarefied affection.

Early in the winter the influenza descended upon America. Mr. Peele, his
wife wrote, was one of the first victims, and the entire family took him
to Florida. One night, a month later, Miss Tremont returned from Hog
Heights and staggered through her door.

“Oh,” she moaned, as Patience rushed forward and caught her in her arms,
