"What did he tell you?"
"That you and he couldn't agree, and so he left home."
"He was insubordinate. He disobeyed me, and I wouldn't stand it."
"Oh, well, you two can settle your own affairs. I don't care to
interfere, only I thought you would like to hear from him."
"What's he doing?" asked Mrs. Kent.
"He was in St. Louis when I left, looking out for a situation."
"I wash my hands of him. He might live easily enough if he would submit
to me. If not, he will probably have to submit to a great many
privations."
"He is a pretty smart boy; he'll get along."
"I consider my Nicholas smarter," said Mrs. Kent, coldly.
"Perhaps so," answered her brother, dubiously. "I don't know much about
Nicholas."
"Where are you staying?" asked his sister.
"Why," said Dick, rather taken aback, "I calculated you would invite me
to stay here awhile, seeing I've come so far to see you."
Mrs. Kent bit her lips in vexation.
"You can stay a day or two, if you like," she said, "but we live very
quietly, Nicholas and I. I don't think it will suit one so active as you
are."
"I'll take the risk, sister Helen. It seems good to be in my own
sister's house after so many years. Besides, I should like to ride out
with my nephew behind that gay horse of his."
"You can speak to him about it," said
Mrs. Kent. "I believe he prefers to be alone."
"Oh, he'll be willing to treat his uncle to a ride. I'll give him a few
hints about driving."
Mrs. Kent winced. She was proud, and she did not fancy exhibiting Dick
to the village people as her brother. But there seemed no way of
avoiding it. She privately determined to get rid of him as soon as
possible.
"I must leave you now," she said, gathering up her work. "I will ask the
servant to show you your room."
"All right, Helen. Don't trouble yourself about me. I'll make myself at
home."
"I'm afraid you will," thought his sister.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
DICK PUNISHES NICHOLAS.
"Is that man going to stay here?" asked Nicholas, in a tone of
dissatisfaction.
"Yes."
"What made you invite him?"
"I couldn't help it, Nicholas. He is my brother."
"I'm ashamed of the relationship."
"I am not proud of it myself, but I can't help paying him a little
attention."
"How long is he going to stay?"
"A day or two."
"He'll stay a week or two if you let him."
"I can prevent that."
"How?"
"You'll see."
The manner of Nicholas toward his uncle was far from agreeable. In fact,
it was almost insolent. Dick retained his temper out of policy, but he
said to himself:
"Some time or other, my fine nephew, I'll pay off old scores. See if I
don't."
"Are you going to ride this morning?" he asked the next day.
"I may," answered Nicholas.
