disapproved of his life-long devotion to a woman beyond his reach, while
she had involuntarily respected in him the same unchanging faithfulness
which had guarded her own heart against everything else for so many
years, a little stronghold of no great importance to the rest of the
world, but which held all that was most dear and precious to her.  So
here and there, in the chaos of the middle ages, some strong, poor
gentleman, a mere atom in the wide Holy Empire, may have kept his small
castle and his narrow acres of meagre land against all comers.
When Harmon was dead and gone, Miss Wimpole’s disapprobation instantly
disappeared, and she never at any time afterwards seemed to remember how
she had felt about the matter during so many years.  Wimpole approached
her with some diffidence, and she met him with genuine enthusiasm.  She
was one of those rare people who can make others vicars of their
happiness, so to say, whose place has been long darkened by sad clouds,
but who see the sunshine far away on another’s land and are glad for
that other one’s sake.
It is a sign of our times that a man whose fancy leads him now and then
to make a story of characters almost ideal, should feel as if he owed
his reader a sort of apology for so far disregarding the common fashion.
There must always be a conflict between the real and the ideal, between
what we are told is knowledge and what our hearts tell us is truth,
between the evil men do and the good which is beyond their strength, but
not above their aspiration. And therefore the old question stands
unanswered: Do most people wish to be shown what they are, or what they
might be?  In order to avoid the difficulty of replying, fashion comes
forward and says to-day that art is truth, and infers that art must be
accurate and photographic and closely imitative.
What has art to do with truth?  Is not truth the imagination’s deadly
enemy?  If the two meet, they must fight to the death.  It is therefore
better, in principle, to keep them apart, and let each survive
separately with their uses. Two and two make four, says Truth.  Never
mind facts, says Art, let us imagine a world in which two and two make
five, and see whether we can get anything pleasant, or amusing, out of
the supposition.  Let us sometimes talk about men and women who are
unimaginably perfect, and let us find out what they would do with the
troubles that make sinners of most of us, and puzzle us, and turn our
hair grey.
Matter, says the mystic, is the inexhaustible source and active cause of
all harm.  Imagination can be altogether free from matter.  That is what
we mean by the ideal, and men may say what they will, it is worth
having.  A man must know the enemy against whom he is matched, if he
hopes to win; he must know his adversary’s fence, his thrusts and feints
and parries. Truth will give him that knowledge.  But beyond the enemy,
and beyond victory over him, there is the aspiration, the hope, the aim
of all life--and that is the ideal, if it is anything at all worth
hoping; it is transcendent, outside of all facts and perhaps of any
attainment, and only the imagination can ever tell us what it may be.
Yet those who guess at it, dwell on it and love it, and it comes to be
the better part of their lives.  The world holds two great classes of
mankind, artists and truth-seekers.  There are millions of artists,
there always have been, and there always will be.  One in each million,
perhaps, is born with the gift of creation and knows the tools of his
trade by instinct, and works with them, as soon as he is old enough to
think.  The rest are not less artists, because they are not producers.
They have the same aspirations, the same longings, the same tastes,
though they are not makers, as he is; and when he has finished his work,
they look at it with eyes like his, and enjoy even more perfectly than
he, for they see the expression of a thought like their own, while all
that he could not express is hidden from them and does not disturb their
satisfaction.  Art for art’s sake, if such a thing could be, would mean
