with rosemary. After dinner, with a 
glass of ale by his side he improved his 
mind by listening to the reading of a 
choice passage out of the " Book of 
Martyrs." This is a portrait of one 
Henry Hastings, of Dorsetshire, in Gil- 
pin's " Forest Scenery." He lived to be 
a hundred, and never lost his sight 
nor used spectacles. He got on horse- 
back without help, and rode to the 
death of the stag till he was past four- 
score. 
The plain country fellow, ploughman, 
or clown, is several pegs lower, and de- 
scribed by Bishop Earle as one that 
manures his ground well, but lets him- 
self lie fallow and untilled. His hand 
guides the plough, and the plough his 
 
thoughts. His mind is not much dis- 
turbed by objects, but he can fix a half- 
hour's contemplation on a good fat 
cow. His habitation is under a poor 
thatched roof, distinguished from his 
barn only by loop-holes that let out the 
smoke. Dinner is serious work, for he 
sweats at it as much as at his labor, 
and he is a terrible fastener on a piece 
of beef. His religion is a part of his 
copyhold, which he takes from his land- 
lord and refers it wholly to his dis- 
cretion, but he is a good Christian in 
his way, that is, he comes to church in 
his best clothes, where he is capable 
only of two prayers — for rain and fair 
weather. 
The country clergymen, at least those 
of the lower orders, or readers, were dis- 
tinguished in Shakespeare's time by the 
appellation " Sir," as Sir Hugh, in the 
" Merry Wives," Sir Topas, in " Twelfth 
 
Night," Sir Oliver, in " As You Like 
It." The distinction is marked between 
priesthood and knighthood when Vista 
says, " I am one that would rather go 
with Sir Priest than Sir Knight." The 
clergy were not models of conduct in 
the days of Elizabeth, but their position 
excites little wonder when we read that 
they were often paid less than the cook 
and the minstrel. 
There was great fondness in cottage 
and hall for merry tales of errant knights, 
lovers, lords, ladies, dwarfs, friars, thieves, 
witches, goblins, for old stories told by 
the fireside, with a toast of ale on the 
hearth, as in Milton's allusion 
" — to the nut-brown ale, 
With stories told of many a feat." 
