Yet he was not unconscious. 
" Now, by the Sacred Blood — " 
Before he could pronounce the solemn vow of re- 
venge that was on his lips, the abbot's delicate hand 
was almost crushing his mouth with open palm to 
stop the words. 
" Arnold de Curboil, perjured to God, false to his 
king, the murderer of his friend, the seducer of his 
friend's wife, is fit for my prayers," said the abbot, 
" not for your steel. Swear no great oaths that you 
will kill him ; still less swear that you will be avenged 
upon your mother ; but if you must needs swear 
something, vow rather that you will leave them to 
 
their fate and never willingly cross their path again. 
And indeed, whether you promise that or not, you 
must needs keep away from them until you can 
claim your own with the chance of getting it 
back." 
" My own ! " exclaimed Gilbert. " Is Stoke not 
mine? Am I not my father's son?" 
" Curboil has got Stoke Regis by treachery, as he 
got your mother. As soon as he had married her 
he took her with him to London, and they two did 
homage to King Stephen, and the Lady Goda made 
apology before the king's court because her former 
husband had been faithful to the Empress Maud ; and 
she besought the king to bestow the lordship of Stoke 
Regis, with the manor house and all things thereto 
appertaining, upon their present lord, Sir Arnold de 
Curboil, disinheriting you, her son, both because you 
are true to the Empress, and because, as she did 
swear, you tried to slay Sir Arnold by stealth in 
Stortford woods. So you have neither kith nor kin, 
nor lands nor goods, beyond your horse and your 
sword ; wherefore I say, it were as well for you to 
stay with us altogether." 
Gilbert was silent for some time after the abbot 
had ceased speaking. He seemed to be utterly over- 
come by the news that he was disinherited, and his 
hands lay upon his knees, loosely weak and expressive 
of utter hopelessness. Very slowly he raised his face 
at last and turned his eyes upon the only friend that 
seemed left to him in his destitution. 
" So I am an outcast," he said, " an exile, a 
beggar — " 
" Or a monk," suggested tlie churchman, with a 
smile. 
" Or an adventurer," said Gilbert, smiling also, but 
more bitterly. 
"Most of our ancestors were that," retorted the 
abbot, " and they have picked up a fair liviag by 
it," he added. " Let me see : Normandy, Maine, 
Aquitaine, Gascony — and England. Not a bad 
inheritance for a handful of pirates matched against 
the world." 
" Yes, but the handful of pirates were Normans," 
said Gilbert, as if that statement alone should have 
explained the conquest of the universe. "But the 
world is half won," he concluded, with a rather 
