"Yes, sir. I only got here this afternoon."
"Then you have no place to sleep?"
"No."
"Haven't you got money enough to go to a hotel? There is Leggett's
Hotel, just down Park Row," pointing eastward.
"I have a little money, but I can't afford to go to a hotel."
"You can go to the Newsboys' Lodging House for six cents."
"Where is it?"
The officer told him.
"I feel hungry. I suppose there isn't any place where I can get
supper so late as this?"
"Oh, yes! There's one close by. Do you see a light over there?"
The officer pointed to a basement opposite the post-office, at the
corner of Beekman street and Park Row.
"Yes, I see it," answered the boy. "Is it a good place?"
"I should say so. Why, that's Oll Hitchcock's. You can't get a
better cup of coffee or sandwich anywhere in New York. I often get
lunch there myself, when I don't have time to go home."
"Thank you for telling me. I'll go over."
Ben Baker, for that is the name of our young hero, walked across
the street, and descended the steps into the well-known restaurant
or lunch-room of Oliver Hitchcock. Open by night as well as by day,
there is hardly an hour of the twenty-four in which it is not fairly
well patronized, while at times it is thronged. It is a favorite
resort for men of all classes--printers, journalists, newsmen--who
drop in in the early morning on their way to or from the offices of
the great morning papers for their regular supplies--politicians and
business men of all kinds.
More than once in Oliver Hitchcock's old saloon, farther up the
same street, Horace Greeley, the elder Bennett, and Raymond, of the
Times, could be found at the plain tables, unprovided with cloths,
but bearing appetizing dishes.
When Ben entered the restaurant at half-past eleven he was surprised
to find most of the tables occupied.
Coming from the country, where ten o'clock found nearly every one in
bed, he was much surprised to find so many persons up and engaged in
supping.
"People in New York seem to sit up all night," he thought.
He took a vacant seat, and the waiter soon coming up to him, stood
in silent expectation of an order.
"Give me a cup of coffee and a sandwich," said Ben.
"What kind?"
"Ham."
The waiter sped on his errand, and soon set before our hero a cup
of fragrant coffee, steaming hot, and a sandwich made of tender
meat and fresh bread, which tasted delicious to the hungry boy--so
delicious that he resolved to forego the intended piece of pie and
ordered another.
While he was eating the second sandwich, he observed that a young
man, sitting just opposite, was eyeing him attentively.
He was tall, dark-complexioned, slender, and had a kindly face.
"You seem to relish your supper, Johnny," he said.
"Yes, I do, but my name isn't Johnny."
The young man smiled.
"Excuse me," he said, "but in New York we call boys by that name,
if we don't know their real names. I suppose you have not been here
long?"
"No; I only arrived this afternoon."
"Come to make your fortune, eh?"
"Well, I don't know. I should like to, but if I can make a living
