professionally, to carry him far. 
The longer the time since she had seen 
Captain Everard, the more she was booked, 
as she called it, to pass Park Chambers ; and 
this was the sole amusement that, in the 
lingering August days and the long, sad 
twilights, it was left her to cultivate. She 
had long since learned to know it for a 
feeble one, though its feebleness was per 
haps scarce the reason for her saying to 
herself each evening as her time for de 
parture approached: No, no not to-night. 
She never failed of that silent remark, any 
more than she failed of feeling, in some 
deeper place than she had even yet fully 
sounded, that one 's remarks were as weak as 
straws and that, however one might indulge 
in them at eight o clock, one 's fate infallibly 
declared itself in absolute indifference to 
them at about eight-fifteen. Remarks were 
remarks, and very well for that; but fate 
was fate, and this young lady 's was to pass 
Park Chambers every night in the working 
week. Out of the immensity of her knowl 
edge of the life of the world there bloomed 
on these occasions a specific remembrance 
that it was regarded in that region, in 
August and September, as rather pleasant 
just to be caught for something or other in 
passing through town. Somebody was 
always passing and somebody might catch 
somebody else. It was in full cognisance of 
this subtle law that she adhered to the most 
ridiculous circuit she could have made to get 
home. One warm, dull, featureless Friday, 
when an accident had made her start from 
Cocker 's a little later than usual, she became 
aware that something of which the infinite 
possibilities had for so long peopled her 
dreams was at last prodigiously upon her, 
though the perfection in which the condi 
tions happened to present it was almost 
rich enough to be but the positive creation 
of a dream. She saw, straight before her, 
like a vista painted in a picture, the empty 
street and the lamps that burned pale in the 
dusk not yet established. It was into the 
convenience of this quiet twilight that a 
gentleman on the doorstep of the Chambers 
gazed with a vagueness that our young 
lady 's little figure violently trembled, in the 
approach, with the measure of its power to 
dissipate. Everything indeed grew in a 
flash terrific and distinct; her old uncertain 
ties fell away from her, and, since she was 
so familiar with fate, she felt as if the very 
nail that fixed it were driven in by the hard 
look with which, for a moment, Captain 
Everard awaited her. 
The vestibule was open behind him and 
