suspicious appearance, would be about the last man he would think of
engaging.

"Perhaps Mr. Ames would give you a chance to work some of his claims,"
he suggested.

"I will look about me a little before I apply to him," replied the
customer.

"Did you come here alone?" he asked after a pause.

"No. A friend came with me--Luke Robbins."

The stranger started a little when Ernest pronounced this name, so
that young Ray was led to inquire, "Do you know Luke?"

"How should I know him? Is he a young man?"

"No; he is probably about your age."

"I suppose he came with you from Nebraska?"

"Iowa."

"Oh, yes, Iowa. He isn't in the store, is he?"

"He is working for Mr. Ashton on one of his claims."

At this point a new customer came in, and the visitor, after a brief
delay, left the store.

When Ernest had waited upon the new customer he look for the first
visitor, but missed him.

"I wonder who he was," he reflected, puzzled. "I am sure that I have
seen him before."

But think as he might, he could not trace him.

Yet with this man he had had a very exciting experience in Oak Forks,
for it was no other than Tom Burns, the tramp who had entered his
cabin during the night and robbed him, and later had attacked him when
digging for Peter's hidden treasure. It had been only a few months
since they had met, but Tom Burns, during that time, had grown a thick
beard, which had help to disguise him.

It is hardly necessary to explain how Burns had found his way out to
Oreville. It was his business to tramp about the country, and it had
struck him that in the land of gold he would have a chance to line his
pockets with treasure which did not belong to him. So fortune had
directed his steps to Oreville.

When he entered the store in which Ernest was employed, he
immediately, and in some surprise, recognized the boy of Oak Forks. He
was glad to find that Ernest did not recognize him, and he immediately
began to consider in what way he could turn the circumstance to his
own advantage.

"I wonder if the boy sleeps there," he said to himself. "If so, I will
make him a visit to night. Probably the money he has taken in during
