scarcely believe his senses.
For he felt the hands running down his arm. They fumbled at his wrists
for an instant.
And then with a clatter the handcuffs dropped to the ground!
"Merciful heavens!" Clif thought to himself. "Can he be insane?"
For a moment he actually thought so; then it flashed over him that
perhaps the fiend was torturing him with the most horrible of all
tortures--hope.
"He'll wish he hadn't!" Clif gasped, as he braced his muscles.
But that was not the true solution of the mystery; there were stranger
things yet stranger and stranger.
The only things that bound Clif now were the ropes that had held his
wrists at first. He tugged at them, but in vain.
There was a moment's silent pause. And then to Clif's unutterable
consternation he heard another sound, a sound from across the room--a
low, grating sound!
It left him breathless.
Some one else was coming into the cell!
And with one rush the true state of affairs swept over Clif.
"This isn't Ignacio!" he panted.
And a moment later he received proof positive of that fact. For again
the hand stole down his arms and there came a couple of quick slashing
cuts that hurt his wrists more than the ropes.
But seconds were precious then. In one of them Clif's hands were free.
And his pulses leaped as he felt the knife thrust into his palm. He
clutched it, and he heard one word whispered--in English:
"Fight!"
And then the dark figure stole swiftly over to the other side of the
cell. It was at the same instant that the door was opened and the light
of a lantern flashed in.
It was Ignacio returning!
CHAPTER XVII.
OUT OF THE DUNGEON.
The furious Spaniard came in like some wild beast, fairly gnashing his
teeth and snarling to himself in his rage.
Clif had but a moment, but he was quick to think; he sprang back to his
old position, slipping his feet into the iron ring and putting his hands
behind him.
And Ignacio never noticed any difference, in fact he did not look at
Clif until he had set down the lantern and shut the heavy door.
He turned the key again and then faced about; touching low and muttering
to himself, he stole swiftly across the floor.
And his gleaming eyes flashed into Clif's face.
"Yankee!" he hissed, "I am back. Do you hear me? Ha, ha!"
As if to make sure that he heard him he struck him once more across the
face.
"Listen!" he cried. "Ha, ha!--and tremble."
Clif's blood rose at that blow, but he held himself back and watched and
waited.
That was a moment of peril for the treacherous Spaniard; what would have
been his terror may be imagined, had he known the victim into whose eyes
he was glaring was clutching in one hand a sharp knife, ready at any
instant to plunge it into him.
But the fellow had no idea of his peril; he was at the very height of
his triumph and his dark, beady eyes gleamed ferociously out of the
shadows of that damp and silent vault.
But he must have noticed that some of the color had come back into
Clif's face.
"You are still defiant," he cried. "You still do not tremble. But
wait--wait till you begin to feel what I have for you. Did you see those
