ion's, they had been brought, by the hand he repeatedly 
and somewhat distressfully passed over them, closer to 
the question of which of the alien objects presented to 
his choice it would cost him least to profess to handle. 
What he had already paid, a spectator would easily have 
gathered from the long, suppressed wriggle that had 
ended in his falling back, was some sacrifice of his 
habit of not privately depreciating those to whom he 
was publicly civil. It was plain, however, that when 
he presently spoke his thought had taken a stretch. 
"I'm sure I've fully intended to be everything that's 
  
proper. But I don't think Mr. Vanderbank can 
her." 
It kindled in the Duchess an immediate light. " Vous 
avez Men de V esprit. You put one at one's ease. I've 
been vaguely groping, while you're already there. It's 
really only for Nanda he cares." 
 ' Yes— really." 
The Duchess hesitated. ' And yet exactly how 
much ?" 
''I haven't asked him." 
She had another, but a briefer pause. '  Don't you 
think it about time you sliouldf Once more she wait- 
ed, then seemed to feel that her opportunity wouldn't. 
"We've worked a bit together, but you don't take me 
into your confidence. I dare say you don't believe I'm 
quite straight. Don't you really see how I must be ?" 
She had a pleading note which made him at last fix her. 
 '' Don't you see," she went on with the advantage of it, 
"that, having got all I want for myself, I haven't a 
motive in the world for spoiling the fan of another ? I 
don't want in the least, I assure you, to spoil even Mrs. 
Brook's ; for how will she get a bit less out of him — I 
mean than she does now — if what you desire sliould take 
place ? Honestly, my dear man, that's quite what  I  de- 
sire, and I only want, over and above, to help you. What 
I feel for Nanda, believe me, is pure pity. I won't say 
I'm frantically grateful to her, because, in the long-run 
— one way or another — she'll have found her account. It 
nevertheless worries me to see her, and all the more be- 
cause of this very certitude, which you've so kindly just 
settled for me, that our young man hasn't really, with her 
mother — " 
Whatever the certitude Mr. Longdon had kindly set- 
tled, it was in another interest that he at this moment 
broke in. " Is he your young man too ?" 
She was not too much amused to cast about her. 
BOOK EIGHTH: TISHY GRENDON 
Aren't such marked ornaments of life a little the prop- 
( rty of all who admire and enjoy them ?" 
 '' Yon 'enjoy' him ?" Mr. Longdon asked in the same 
straightforward way. 
"Immensely." 
His silence, for a little, seemed the sign of a plan. 
• What is it he hasn't done with Mrs. Brook ?" 
" Well, the thing that would be the complication. He 
Juisn't gone beyond a certain point. You may ask how 
one knows such matters, but I'm afraid I've not quite a 
receipt for it. A woman knows, but she can't tell. They 
