spare any," said the thoughtful younger sister. " You 
see you have been away from home so much, and you 
don't quite understand. Mamma has not the first idea 
of the value of money. And papa was behindhand. 
Mamma wanted a grand wedding, but I said it really 
wasn't suitable for Mr. Rowdon. We just had a little 
party, and quite an elaborate supper when we came home 
here. And now papa is pretty well out of debt. I made 
some of your gowns and your coat over for Lu, and they 
did real well all winter. I gave papa twenty-five dollars 
of your money and he was so delighted. Poor papa," 
and she sighed. 
" Why I would have sent it to him " 
"I know, dear, I asked you to send it to me. You 
see mamma or Lu would have spent it injudiciously. 
And now papa's expenses are smaller, with only three of 
them, and I want Lu to keep at school and graduate. 
Then she could teach." 
"Or marry," said Gertrude, with a laugh. 
"I hope she will be sensible about that. She ought 
to steady down. But we will have some good long talks. 
You must come over here and stay. You can't think 
how papa enjoys coming to Sunday night supper." 
"My room upstairs is all refurnished," Agnes added, 
" but I will save that to show you next time. O, there- 
are so many things to say." 
Mr. Rowdon was actually teasing his young sister-in- 
law, who was sitting on the porch step. 
" And you fell in with all those Maine people again," 
began Agnes. Gertrude was glad to talk about them. 
But Lu bounced up presently and declared they must go 
home. 
It was like being in a different world, Gertrude found 
in a few days. Sometimes she smiled to herself over the 
complacent narrowness. And yet most of these people 
were happy comparing notes about everything in their 
small round, exchanging recipes and sleeve and skirt 
patterns, and having their hats and bonnets trimmed with 
"just such a bow as Mrs. Golden had on hers." Miss 
Frear, the milliner, did not have to rack her brains for 
original ideas. The style was what every one adopted, 
and even last year's gown was not so utterly out of place. 
She settled to the assurance that Agnes was truly 
happy. And she learned one fact to which she had given 
little thought before, that Agnes took a very fervent de- 
light in making others happy. She put Mr. Rowdon at 
his best, and really there were some good points that Miss 
Maria had nipped off in her arbitrary fashion, because 
they neither saved nor made money. Hoarding up had 
been the poor woman's religion. 
The years between them were not so dreadfully in 
evidence. Agnes looked well, she had taken up the 
cares of life too soon to have any real girlhood. She 
had been her father's adviser the last three years, and she 
soon slipped into the same place with Mr. Rowdon. 
The alterations in the house, the garden with its thrifty 
vegetables, its clean paths, the pretty flower-beds, where 
she often weeded or transplanted with him, the neat table 
with its pretty porcelain and snowy cloth instead of the 
checked and chipped dishes soon became his pride. 
