had not seen for twenty years.
Rupert had telegraphed to Mr. Packard when he would reach Denver, and
received a return telegram directing him to go to the St. James Hotel.
Thither he repaired, taking his companion with him.
Mr. Plympton displayed some anxiety as they were approaching Denver.
"Perhaps my nephew will receive me coldly," he said. "If he does, there
will be nothing left me but destitution and the poorhouse."
"Don't be alarmed, Mr. Plympton," rejoined Rupert. "You have not seen
your nephew for twenty years. I have met him more recently, and I
probably know him better than you. Leave all in my hands. I will speak
to him about you."
They reached the St. James, and Rupert engaged rooms for both. On
examining the hotel register he found that Giles Packard had already
arrived. He had been in the hotel hardly half an hour when Mr. Packard
entered.
His face lighted up with pleasure when he saw Rupert.
"I am delighted to see you, Rupert," he said. "Somehow you seem very
near to me. I shall take you, after a day or two in Denver, to my cattle
ranch near Red Gulch, and I think I can promise you a good time and a
comfortable home for as long as you are willing to stay."
"Have you room for another, Mr. Packard? I have brought a companion with
me."
"Why, certainly. Any friend of yours shall have a cordial welcome."
"But he is nearer to you than to me."
Mr. Packard's face expressed surprise.
"I don't understand you."
"I found a relative of yours in Chicago. He was in hard luck, and I
thought you would be willing to help him. Here he is."
He led Giles Packard up to his uncle, who anxiously scanned the face of
his nephew.
"Don't you know me, Giles?" he asked, in a tremulous tone.
"Surely you are not my Uncle John?"
"The same. I hope you will forgive me for seeking you out."
"Don't speak like that, Uncle John. I have not forgotten that I am your
nephew."
"But, Giles, I come to you as a pauper."
"I have enough for us both. Did you save nothing, then, by your long
years of business?"
"I saved three thousand dollars."
Then he explained how he had been defrauded of it by Eben Jackson.
Giles Packard's face became stern.
"The scoundrel!" he exclaimed. "And after he got your money he had no
further use for you?"
"No, he turned me out to starve."
"You were very imprudent in trusting him with the money."
"So I was, but he promised, if I lent it to him, that he would give me a
position in his store."
"And he broke his promise?"
"No; he employed me for about two months, but in the end he would only
give me my board, and refused to let me have money enough to buy a suit
of clothes. Then I became indignant and left the house."
"Did you make an effort to recover the money?"
"Yes, but it was of no use. He refused to give it back."
"He must have given you a note?"
"Yes, I have his note."
"I will give you the money, and you will transfer the note to me. He
will find me a different customer to deal with."
"Keep the money yourself, Giles, and pay me interest on it. I shall not
be afraid to trust you."
"I will. If I treat you as Eben Jackson did, may I lose my property and
