Jed was not long in finding that Chester's aunt looked upon him, if not
with hostility, at least with distrust. This was an unpleasant
discovery. Mr. Holbrook had always appeared to have confidence in him,
and approved his management of his son.
While Chester and Jed were walking on the beach Miss Holbrook took a
seat upon the bluff and watched them through her spectacles, as Jed
could not help seeing.
"I say, Jed," asked the little boy, "how do you like Aunt Maria?"
"I don't feel very well acquainted with her yet," answered Jed
cautiously.
"I don't like her!" said Chester emphatically.
"Why not?"
"Oh, she's always scolding and finding fault. Papa says it's because
she's an old maid."
Jed smiled.
"I wish papa had not sent for her," went on Chester. "We could get along
well enough without her."
"I think we should get along very well together, Chester."
"I am sure we should. Have you got any old maid aunts?"
"Not that I know of," replied Jed soberly, as he had forced upon him the
thought of his solitary condition.
"Then you are lucky. I'll give you Aunt Maria if you want her."
"Perhaps she might not consent to be given away, Chester."
Half an hour later Jed met with a surprise, and one not altogether
agreeable.
"Hello! you here!" exclaimed an amazed voice that sounded familiar to
Jed.
He looked up and saw Percy Dixon approaching.
"Oh, it's you, Percy?" he said. "When did you arrive?"
"This morning. Father and I are staying at the Spray House." This was
the largest hotel, and Percy mentioned the name with evident pride.
"It is a nice hotel," responded Jed.
"I should say so. Why, it's the most expensive one here. But you haven't
told me how you came here."
"I have been here for some weeks."
"Where do you live?"
"I have a room in the village, but I take my meals at the Spray House."
"You take your meals at the Spray House?" ejaculated Percy.
"Yes."
"How can you afford it?"
"This boy's father pays my board. I look after Chester."
"What's your name?" asked Chester, who was by no means bashful.
"Percy Dixon," answered Percy politely, for he judged that Chester
belonged to a rich family.
"So you know Jed?"
"Yes. I have that honor," returned Percy with a curl of the lip. "When
did you leave off acting?" he asked, turning to Jed.
"At the end of the season. Few dramatic companies play during the
summer."
"Are you going to play with them again?"
"I don't know yet. The boy whose place I took may be ready to take his
own part in the fall."
"I saw your old friends Mr. and Mrs. Fogson just before I came away,"
said Percy significantly. "Wouldn't you like to know how they are?"
"No; I feel no particular interest in them."
"They are interested in you. Fogson says he's bound to get you back some
time."
"I don't care to talk of them," said Jed coldly.
"Are you going in bathing?" asked Chester.
"Yes, I think so. Do you go in?"
