"Oscar says he may keep me here a month."
"He's only frightening you. Old Sprague wouldn't dare to do it."
"That isn't all. I am half starved. He only gave me two small slices of
bread for dinner."
"He's a mean old hunks. I just wish you could come round to our house.
We'd give you enough to eat."
"I wish I were there now," sighed Philip.
"I've got an idea," said Arthur, brightening up. "What time do Mr.
Sprague and Oscar go to bed?"
"Very early. About nine o'clock."
"Would you run away if you could?"
"Yes."
"Then I'll tell you what I'll do. At half-past nine Albert Frost and I
will come around with a tall ladder--Mr. Frost has got one--and we'll
put it up against your window. Will you dare to get out of the window,
and come down?"
"Yes, I'll do anything to get away. But can you get the ladder?"
"Yes; Albert will manage it. Do you think the old man will be likely to
see or hear us?"
"No; he sleeps on the other side of the house."
"All right! You can expect us. I guess I had better go now, for fear I
may be seen, and they might suspect something."
"But where can I go when I leave here?"
"Come to our house. You can sleep with Rob, my little brother."
"Thank you, Arthur. I'll expect you."
Philip felt a good deal more cheerful after Arthur had gone. He knew
that in Arthur's house he would be very differently treated from what he
had been by Nahum Sprague. He did not feel it wrong to leave the
Spragues', as they were constantly complaining that he was a burden.
"If Mr. Burks would only let me live with him," he thought, "I should be
happy, and I would be willing to work hard."
At half-past five Oscar came up to the room again, this time accompanied
by his father.
"How do you like being locked up here?" asked Nahum.
"Not very well."
"Get down on your knees and beg my pardon for your bad conduct, and I
will let you out."
"I would rather not, sir."
"Do you hear that, Oscar? He would rather not."
"I heard it, pa."
"It is only right that he should suffer the penalty of his headstrong
conduct. Give him his supper and we will leave him to think of his
sinfulness."
Oscar produced two more thin slices of bread and a cup of very weak
tea.
"You are not entitled to tea," said Nahum. "It is only because we are
kind-hearted that I permitted Mrs. Sprague to send up a cup. I have not
put in milk or sugar because I refuse to pamper you."
Philip made no comment, but disposed of the tea and bread in a very
short space of time. He felt ready to join in with Oliver, in Dickens's
immortal story, when he asked for "more." But he knew it would be of no
use.
"Now, we will go down, Oscar."
"All right, pa. I hope the house won't catch fire in the night," he
added, with the laudable purpose of terrifying Philip, "for we might not
be able to come up and unlock the door."
Philip felt uncomfortable, but he reflected that before many hours, if
Arthur Burks kept his promise, he would no longer be an inmate of Mr.
Sprague's home.
"He'll have a sweet time sleeping on the floor, pa," said Oscar as they
