her mother's neck. " With whom, mamma?" 
"Oh, with that Mr. Burnett." Mrs. Mavick 
felt a nervous start in the arm that caressed her. 
" Here ?" 
"Yes, he came to see your father, I fancj'', 
about some business. I think he is not getting 
on very well." 
" Why, his book—" 
" I know, but that amounts to nothing. There 
is not much chance for a lawyer's clerk who gets 
bitten with the idea that he can write." 
 
" If he was in trouble, mamma," said Evelyn, 
softly, " then you were good to him." 
" I tried to be," Mrs. Mavick half sighed, 
" but you can't do anything with such people " 
(by " such people " Mrs. Mavick meant those 
who have no money) " when they don't get on. 
They are never reasonable. And he was in 
such an awful bad temper. You cannot show 
any kindness to such people without exposing 
yourself. I think he presumes upon his acquaint- 
ance with your father. It was most disagree- 
able, and he was so rude " (a little thrill in the 
arm again) — " well not exactly rude, but he was 
not a bit nice to me, and I am afraid I showed 
by m}^ looks that I was irritated. He was just 
as disagreeable as he could be. He met Lord 
Montague on the steps, and he had something 
spiteful to say about him. I had to tell him he 
was presuming a good deal on his acquaintance, 
and that I considered his manner insulting. He 
flung out of the house very high and mighty." 
" That was not a bit like him, mamma." 
" We didn't know him. That is all. Xow we 
do, and I am thankful we do. He will never 
come here again." 
Evelyn was very still for a moment, and then 
she said : " I'm very sorry for it all. It must be 
some misunderstanding." 
" Of course, it is dreadful to be so disappointed 
 
in people. But we have to learn. I don't know- 
any thing about his misunderstanding, but I did 
not misunderstand what he said. At any rate, 
after such an exposition we can have no further 
intercourse with him. You will not care to see 
any one who treated your mother in this way ? 
If you love me, 3'ou cannot be friendly with him. 
I know you would not like to be." 
Evelyn did not reply for a moment. Her 
silence revealed the fact to the shrewd woman 
that she had not intervened a daj' too soon. 
" You promise me, dear, that you will put the 
whole thing out of your mind?" and she drew 
her daughter closer to her and kissed her. 
And then Evelyn said slowly: ' ! shall not 
have any friends whom j'ou do not approve, but, 
mamma, I cannot be unjust in my mind." 
And Mrs. Mavick had the good sense not to 
