“You refuse then?” he said, sullenly.
“Yes; you insult me by your proposal.”
“I wish I had brought a pistol; then you wouldn’t have dared speak to
me in that way.”
Paul was relieved to hear this. He had concluded that the burglar was
unarmed, but didn’t know it positively. Now he could dismiss all fear.
“Well,” he said, “are you going?”
The burglar eyed our hero during a minute of indecision, and decided
that his plan was a failure. He certainly could not open the safe
within range of a loaded revolver, and should he attack Paul, would not
only risk his life, but rouse the house, and fall into the hands of
the police, a class of men he made it his business to avoid. It was a
bitter pill to swallow, but he must submit.
“Will you promise not to shoot if I agree to leave the house?”
“Yes.”
“Will you promise not to start the burglar alarm, but allow me to
escape without interference?”
“Yes, if you will agree never to enter this house again.”
“All right!”
“You promise?”
“Yes, I do.”
“Then I’ll go. If you break your word, boy, you’ll wish you had never
been born,” he added, fiercely. “I’d hunt you night and day after I got
out of jail, and kill you like a dog.”
“You need not be afraid. I will keep my word.” There was something in
Paul’s tone and manner that inspired confidence.
“You ain’t a bad sort!” said the burglar, paying an involuntary tribute
to the boy’s staunch honesty. “You’re a cool kind of kid, any way. What
an honor you’d make to our profession!”
Paul could not help smiling.
“I suppose that’s a compliment,” he said. “Thank you. Now I must
trouble you to go.”
“I’m going! Remember your promise!”
In an instant the burglar was out of the window, through which he had
made his entrance, and disappeared from sight. Paul did not approach
the window, lest his doing so should excite alarm in the rogue. When a
sufficient time had elapsed he ran to the window, closed it, and once
more breathed freely. The danger was passed, and he began now to feel
the tension to which his nerves had been subjected.
“Has anything happened, Paul?” asked a voice. Turning, Paul saw Mrs.
Cunningham at the door. She had thrown a wrapper over her, and,
attracted by the sound of voices, had entered the library.
“Has any burglar been here?” she asked, nervously, observing Paul with
the revolver in his hand.
“Yes,” answered the telegraph boy; “I have just bidden the gentleman
good night.”
By this time Jennie, too, made her appearance. “What is it, mamma? What
is it, Paul?” she asked. “Why are you standing there with the revolver
in your hand?”
Paul told the story as briefly as the circumstances would admit.
“It was a mercy you were awake!” said Mrs. Cunningham. “Did you hear
the noise of the man’s entrance?”
“I don’t know how I happened to wake up,” said Paul. “I generally sleep
sound. But I opened my eyes, and immediately heard a noise in this
room.”
“But did you have time to dress?” asked Jennie.
“I did not need to do so, for I threw myself on the bed with my clothes
on.”
“And with your cap on?” inquired Jennie with an arch smile.
“No, but when I rose from the bed I put it on without thinking. I
