The wreck lies in shadow, and the prostrate
form of a man is but dimly discerned. After a
few moments of suspense and silence, slowly crawling
to his feet,
Arises DR. THORNE. (He is dressed
for driving, as when he left home; his overcoat
disarranged, muddy, and torn; his hat
gone; his face has a singular pallor, and
his whole appearance is agitated. As he
rises, he throws a carriage robe back over
the spot where he had been lying. He
speaks.)
DR. THORNE. That dastardly brute has
done it, now! I’ll sell Donna for this.--It
will play the mischief with that old
injury. I shall exchange an interesting
limp for crutches, now.--Hil-loa! (Walks
to and fro with perfect ease.) The shock
has acted like a battery on the nerve centres.
Instead of a broken neck I have a cured leg.
I’m a lucky fellow--as usual. (Laughs
lightly; turns to examine the condition of
the ruined buggy; suddenly looks confused,
and puts his hand to his head.) Curious
cerebral symptoms I have! Queer, there isn’t
a crowd round. They must have missed the
trail when Donna bolted. She’ll be at the
stable by this time.--She won’t go home.
Helen won’t know.... I shouldn’t like to
be the man that had to tell Helen!... I
must get to her--I must get home as soon
as I’ve been to the Hospital. I’m afraid I
was a little short with Helen. I wish-- (Presses
both hands to his temples as if to
command himself; looks more and more
bewildered.) I must have been pretty well
stunned--seems to me there was a collision.
I ran down somebody. It was a landau--we
crashed--I saw it overturn--there
were people in it I knew--patients....
Who?... Who? (Stamps the pavement
peremptorily, and impatiently strikes his
own head.) Who was it?--Horrible! The
brain cells do not obey me--me! (Walks
about frenziedly.) ... Ach--ch! It is
worse to remember than to forget. I have
it now--the sweetest woman of them all--Helen’s
friend--the gentlest, the most obedient,
most trustful, the bravest patient I ever
had--Mrs. Fayth. I saw her face as the carriage
went over.... She stretched out her
hands, and said: “Doctor!” It was Mary
Fayth. (His face falls into his hands.
For a moment he sinks down on the wreck of
the buggy; but springs up.) Now that accounts
for it.--The crowd are all there. The
accident was so bad nobody has thought of
me. She is the victim. I have escaped.
Dead or alive, she is done for. She never
could recover from a shock like that. I
