with buckles that almost covered her dainty feet.
About her were arranged the members of the official family, the ladies
on one side, the gentlemen on the other. It was quite a little court.
Most of the senators and the wives who were brave enough to give up
home comforts to spend a winter in Washington had already met Mrs.
Madison; indeed, by this time there were not many among the strangers
who had not been presented.
And so Miss Jaqueline Mason made her bow to the first lady of the land
and glancing up with a quick rift of color caught the cordial smile
that came with a warm clasp of the hand.
"You have a good old Virginian name," she said. "Many of us are proud
to call it home. It is my second home, the first in my affection now,"
and she gave the child another sweet smile.
Jaqueline was more abashed than she had thought possible. She stepped
aside in a little confusion.
"Ah, here is Mr. Carrington. Shall I commend this young lady to your
care? There are some places she might like to see and some curiosities.
You are so much at home here."
Roger Carrington bowed. Mrs. Jettson had found a friend in the wife
of one of the more recent senators, and they were having a little
chat, as it was that lady's first visit to Washington to attend the
inauguration. So Roger slipped the fair hand within his arm, and they
began a tour of the still unfurnished White House, though much nearer
completion and in a better state than Abigail Adams had found it in her
brief sojourn.
Mrs. Madison's tact and grace had brought about a more congenial state
of affairs even while wife of the secretary of state. There was in
the conduct of both men and women a trifle of formality verging to a
certain grandeur, yet gracious and truly courteous. There was no mad
rush then for the first places.
Presently the company broke up into chatty little groups. Jaqueline
found herself quite a center in the midst of other centers. Here were
two or three elderly men who had known her father. She saw a young
neighbor in the throng whose eyes expressed so much amazement that she
could not help smiling. Lieutenant Ralston had come in his soldier
trappings, and there was quite a sprinkling of military men, with
others in the Continental costume that gave such a picturesque aspect.
Jaqueline had a fresh, girlish charm, and to-night she certainly
looked lovely. Women and girls, when they were admitted to society,
were expected to make themselves agreeable. No abstruse learning was
required, and though they might have strong political preferences they
were delicately veiled. Mrs. Madison had gone through four years of
unusual stress, and the few enemies she had made were only those who
envied her popularity. She had been discretion itself outwardly, and
her opinions, her conferences, and her advice had been lodged only in
her husband's bosom.
Jaqueline had no care, no experience to conceal, and she had already
tried her prentice hand on the students at Williamsburg. And that
natural art of making men pleased with themselves, that charming
deference, so great a factor in that day, was hers in an eminent
degree. Roger Carrington watched her as she caught up the merry
badinage and returned it with gay sparkles, and the pretty air that
was half girlish demureness, the other half the indefinable charm of
budding womanhood.
Lieutenant Ralston took her in to the refreshment table set in the
large dining room.
"I wonder when you will see Miss Floyd?" he began in a low tone. "I
hoped to the last moment that Mrs. Jettson could persuade her parents
to let her sister come for a few days. You go to the Pineries quite
often?"
