paid you some compliment or other, I've forgotten 
what. He said he would look out for you in the Senate 
gallery, and go up and speak to you " 
Emory rose with an exclamation of disgust. " I 
hope you told him to do nothing of the kind." 
" On the contrary, I told him not to forget, for as 
Betty would sail her little yacht on the political sea, I 
wanted her to be recognized by the men-of-war, not 
by the trading-ships and pirates." 
Emory threw away his cigar. " I think I will go in 
and see my aunt," he said. "All this is most distasteful to me." 
He left the room, followed by Betty's mocking laugh. 
But Miss Carter said with a sigh, 
" He can't expect us all to live up to his ideals. It is 
better not to have any, like my practical self. But I 'm 
afraid he sits out there in his damp old library and 
dreams of a world in which all the men are Sir Gala- 
hads and all the women Madame Rolands. He is an 
ideal himself, if he only knew it ; I've always been 
half in love with him. Well, Betty, how do you like 
your new toy ? After all, what is even a Senate but a 
toy for a pretty woman? That is really your attitude, 
 
only you don't know it. Life is serious only for women 
with babies and bills. As for charities, they were 
specially invented to give old maids like myself an occupation in life. What what should I have done 
without charities when Society palled?" 
"Why did you never marry, Sally?" asked Betty, 
abruptly. The question never had occurred to her 
before, but as she asked it her eyes involuntarily moved 
to the empty chair before the window. 
"What on earth should I do with a husband?" 
asked Miss Carter, lightly. " I only love men when 
they are in bronze in the public parks. Poor dear old 
General Lathom proposed to me four times, and the 
only time I felt like accepting him was when I saw his 
statue unveiled. I couldn't.put a man on a pedestal 
to save my life, but when my grateful country does it 
I 'm all humble adoration. Could you idealize a live 
thing in striped trousers and a frock coat? " 
" Woolen is hopeless," said Betty, with an attempt at 
playfulness. " We must do the best we can with the 
inner man." 
" How on earth do you know what a man is like on 
the inside? Idealize is the right word, though. 
Women make a god out of what they cannot understand in a man. If he has a bad temper, they think of 
him as a ' dominant personality.' If he is unfaithful to 
his wife, he is romantic in the eyes of a woman who has 
given no man a chance to be unfaithful to her. If he 
comes to your dinner with an attack of dyspepsia, you 
compare him sentimentally with the brutes that eat. 
You haven't.married yet, I notice, and you are on the 
corner of twenty- seven." 
" American men don't give you a chance to 
 
idealize them," said Betty, plaintively. " They tell you 
all about themselves at once. And although English- 
men have more mystery and provoke your curiosity, 
they don't understand women and don't want to ; the 
women can do the adapting. I never could stand 
