laboratory at night."
Giovanni began to understand, though it was the first time he had heard
that the boys, like the common people, suspected Angelo Beroviero of
being an alchemist. It was clear that the boy meant the book that
contained the priceless secrets for glass-making which Giovanni and his
brother had so long coveted. His interest increased.
"After all," he said, "you saw nothing distinctly. My father went in and
shut the door, I suppose."
"Yes," answered the boy. "But after a long time the door opened again."
He stopped, resolved to be questioned, in order that his information
should seem more valuable. The instinct of small boys is often as
diabolically keen as that of a grown woman.
"Go on!" said Giovanni, more and more interested. "The door opened
again, you say? Then my father came out--"
"No, sir. Zorzi came out into the light that fell from the door. The
master was inside."
"Well, what did Zorzi do? Be quick!"
"He brought out a shovel full of earth, sir, and he carefully scattered
it about over the flower-bed, and then he went back, and presently he
came out with the shovel again, and more earth; and so three times. They
had buried the great book somewhere in the laboratory."
"But the laboratory is paved," objected Giovanni, to gain time, for he
was thinking.
"There is earth under the stones, sir. I remember seeing it last year
when the masons put down several new slabs. The great book is somewhere
under the floor of the laboratory. I must have stepped over it in
feeding the fire last night, and that is why the devils that guard it
inspired the porter to beat me this morning. It was the devils that sent
us to sleep, for fear that we should find it."
"I daresay," said Giovanni with much gravity, for he thought it better
that the boy should be kept in awe of an object that possessed such
immense value. "You should be careful in future, or ill may befall you."
"Is it true, sir, that I have told you something you wished to know?"
"I am glad to know that the great book is safe," answered Giovanni
ambiguously.
"Zorzi knows where it is," suggested, the boy in a tone meant to convey
the suspicion that Zorzi might use his knowledge.
"Yes--yes," repeated Giovanni thoughtfully, "and he is ill. He ought to
be brought over to the house until he is better."
"Then the furnace could be allowed to get out, sir, could it not?"
"Yes. The weather is growing warm, as it is. Yes--the furnace may be put
out now." Giovanni hardly knew that he was speaking aloud. "Zorzi will
get well much sooner if he is in a good room in the house. I will see to
it."
The boy stood still beside him, waiting patiently for some reward.
"Are we to come as usual to-night, sir, or will there be no fire?" he
asked.
"Go and ask at the usual time. I have not decided yet. There--you are a
good boy. If you hold your tongue there will be more."
Giovanni offered the lad a piece of money, but he would not take it.
"We are glass-blowers' sons, sir, we are not poor people," he said with
theatrical pride, for he would have taken the coin without remark if he
had not felt that he possessed a secret of great value, which might
place Giovanni in his power before long.
Giovanni was surprised.
"What do you want, then?" he asked.
"I am old enough to be an apprentice, sir."
"Very well," answered Giovanni. "You shall be an apprentice. But hold
your tongue about what you saw. You told me everything, did you?"
"Yes, sir. And I thank you for your kindness, sir. If I can help you,
