by their wits as well as by their rifles.
"A fine horse, captain," quoth he, with good-natured, drunken freedom,
which is not possible for gentlemen to either ignore or resent. "A
fine horse, sir, and, by your leave, worthy of his master!" And he
stood swaying there heel and toe, with such a jolly laugh that I
laughed too, and asked the news from Canada.
"Canada!" he roared, in his voice of a giant. "I've not sniffed priest
or Jesuit these six months! Do you take me for a Frenchy, captain?"
At that moment another man who had been pushing his nose against the
window of a bake-shop crossed the street and joined the giant in
buckskin, saluting me carelessly as he came up.
He was short and meagre and weasel-eyed, sharp-muzzled, and dingy as a
summer fox. He was also drunk, yet his mouth was honest, and I judge
not from such things, nor yet by the eye, but by men's lips and how
they rest one upon the other, and how they laugh.
Waiting there for my horse, I paced up and down the doorway, sometimes
glancing at the motley pair in their fringed buckskins, who were
fondly embracing one another, sometimes watching the towns-people,
passing before the lighted windows. There were soldiers strolling, two
by two, lingering at bake-shops to sniff the ovens; there were
traders, come to town to solicit permits from Sir William for the
Canadas. At times the tall, blanketed form of a Mohawk passed like a
spectre with the red forge light running along his rifle barrel,
followed by his squaw, loaded with bags of flour, or a haunch of
salted beef, or a bale of pelts crackling on her back.
My pair of buckskin birds, loitering before the tavern, had been
observed and mistaken for French trappers by half a dozen soldiers of
the Royal Americans, who were squatting in a row on the tavern porch,
and a volley of chaff was fired at short range.
"Mossoo! Oh, Mossoo! I say, Mossoo! How's Mrs. Parleyvoo and the
little Parleyvoos? What's the price of cat-stew in Canada? Take that
cat-tail off your cap, Mossoo!"
The big ranger gave them a drunken stare, then burst into a laugh.
"Why, it's some of those lobster-backs. Hello! Old red-bellies!
They're going to give another tea-party in Boston, I hear. Didn't they
invite you?"
"Come across the street and we'll give you a tea-party, you damned
Yankee!" cried the soldiers, unbuckling their leather belts and
swinging them.
"Come over here and we'll drum the rogue's march on you!" shouted the
little ranger, planting his legs wide apart and drawing the ramrod
from his long rifle.
A watchman with rattle, pike, and lanthorn came hobbling up,
threatening to sound his call. A group of towns-people gathered behind
him, protesting against the disturbance.
But the two rangers flourished their ramrods and taunted the soldiers
with inquiries which I did not understand at the time, such as: "How's
Bully Tryon and his blood-pudding?" "I learn that Tommy Gage has the
gout; too much Port-Bill; he needs bleeding, does Tommy Gage!"
Then the big ranger, addressing soldiers, watchman, and towns-people
as "bloody-backs," "cow-rumps," and "scratch-wigs," advised them all
to pickle their heads and sell them in Albany, where cabbage was much
esteemed among the Dutchmen.
"Come up to the barracks and we'll show you what pickling is," shouted
the soldiers, wrathfully.
"Come out in the woods and I'll show you something to beat pickled
pig!" replied the little ranger, cheerfully.
Behind me I heard the trample of hoofs; the smith was backing Warlock
out into the street. I paid him; he held my stirrup, and I mounted,
walking my horse out between the soldiers, the people, and the two
