appealed to her for instruction as to what he must do about her, but he
fairly winced to find how little this came to. She had foretold him of
course how little; but it was a truth that looked different when shown
him by Milly. It proved to him that the latter had in fact been dealt
with, but it produced in him the thought that Kate might perhaps again
conveniently be questioned. He would have liked to speak to her before
going further--to make sure she really meant him to succeed quite so
much. With all the difference that, as we say, came up for him, it came
up afresh, naturally, that he might make his visit brief and never
renew it; yet the strangest thing of all was that the argument against
that issue would have sprung precisely from the beautiful little
eloquence involved in Milly's avoidances.
Precipitate these well might be, since they emphasised the fact that
she was proceeding in the sense of the assurances she had taken. Over
the latter she had visibly not hesitated, for hadn't they had the merit
of giving her a chance? Densher quite saw her, felt her take it; the
chance, neither more nor less, of help rendered him according to her
freedom. It was what Kate had left her with: "Listen to him, I?
Never! So do as you like." What Milly "liked" was to do, it thus
appeared, as she was doing: our young man's glimpse of which was just
what would have been for him not less a glimpse of the peculiar
brutality of shaking her off. The choice exhaled its shy fragrance of
heroism, for it was not aided by any question of parting with Kate. She
would be charming to Kate as well as to Kate's adorer; she would incur
whatever pain could dwell for her in the sight--should she continue to
be exposed to the sight--of the adorer thrown with the adored. It
wouldn't really have taken much more to make him wonder if he hadn't
before him one of those rare cases of exaltation--food for fiction,
food for poetry--in which a man's fortune with the woman who doesn't
care for him is positively promoted by the woman who does. It was as if
Milly had said to herself: "Well, he can at least meet her in my
society, if that's anything to him; so that my line can only be to make
my society attractive." She certainly couldn't have made a different
impression if she had so reasoned. All of which, none the less,
didn't prevent his soon enough saying to her, quite as if she were to
be whirled into space: "And now, then, what becomes of you? Do you
begin to rush about on visits to country-houses?"
She disowned the idea with a headshake that, put on what face she
would, couldn't help betraying to him something of her suppressed view
of the possibility--ever, ever perhaps--of any such proceedings. They
weren't at any rate for her now. "Dear no. We go abroad for a few weeks
somewhere of high air. That has been before us for many days; we've
only been kept on by last necessities here. However, everything's done
and the wind's in our sails."
"May you scud then happily before it! But when," he asked, "do you come
back?"
She looked ever so vague; then as if to correct it: "Oh when the wind
turns. And what do you do with your summer?"
"Ah I spend it in sordid toil. I drench it with mercenary ink. My work
in your country counts for play as well. You see what's thought of the
pleasure your country can give. My holiday's over."
"I'm sorry you had to take it," said Milly, "at such a different time
from ours. If you could but have worked while we've been working--"
"I might be playing while you play? Oh the distinction isn't so great
with me. There's a little of each for me, of work and of play, in
either. But you and Mrs. Stringham, with Miss Croy and Mrs. Lowder--you
all," he went on, "have been given up, like navvies or niggers, to real
physical toil. Your rest is something you've earned and you need. My
labour's comparatively light."
"Very true," she smiled; "but all the same I like mine."
