bed, her face buried in the pillows, and she was tearing her heart out
in a tearless storm of shame and self-contempt.
What right had that man whom she had so often seen in her dreams to be
alive in the real world, walking among other men, recognising her, as
she had felt that he did that very afternoon? What right had he to come
to her again in the vision and to change it all, to take her in his
violent arms and kiss her on the mouth, and burn the mark of shame into
her soul, and fill her with a pleasure more horrible than any pain? Was
this the end of all her girlish meditation, of the Vestal's longing for
higher things, of the mystic's perfect way? A man's brutal kiss not even
resisted? Was that all? It could not have been worse if on that same day
she had been alone with him in the garden, instead of with Guido d'Este,
and if he had suddenly put his arms round her, and if she had not even
turned her face from his.
It was only a dream. Yes, to-morrow she would awake, if she slept at
all, and the sunshine would be streaming in where the moonlight had
shone, and it would only be a dream, past and to be forgotten. Perhaps.
But what were dreams, then? She had not been asleep, she was quite sure.
There was not even that poor excuse. The man's phantasm had come to her
awake.
And Lamberto Lamberti was nothing to her. Beyond the startling
recognition of a face long familiar, but never seen among the living, he
was to her a man she had met but once, and did not wish to meet again.
She had been aware of his presence near her at the Princess's, and when
he had gone away she had looked at him once more with a sort of wonder;
but she had felt nothing else, she had not touched his hand, the thought
that he would ever dare to seize her roughly in his arms brought burning
blushes to her cheek and outraged all her maiden senses. She had never
seen any man whom she could suffer to touch her; her whole nature
revolted at the thought. Yet, just now, there had been neither revolt
nor resistance; she felt that she had been herself, awake, alive, and
consenting to an unknown but frightfully real contamination, from which
her soul could never again be wholly clean.
The storm subsided, and sullen waves of self-contempt swelled and sank,
as if to overwhelm her drowning soul. She understood at last the
ascetic's wrath against the mortal body and his irresistible craving for
bodily pain.
                               CHAPTER IV
Very early in the morning Cecilia fell into a dreamless sleep at last,
and awoke, unrefreshed, after nine o'clock. She felt very tired and
listless as she opened the window a little and let in the light and air,
with the sounds of the busy thoroughfare below. The weather was suddenly
much warmer, and her head was heavy.
It had all been a dream, no doubt, and was gone where dreams go; but it
had been like a fight, out of which she had come alive by a miracle,
bruised and wounded, and offended in her whole being. Never again would
she sit alone at night and look for her image in the shadow, since such
things could come of playing with visions; and she trusted that she
might never again set eyes upon Lamberto Lamberti. She was alone, but at
the thought of meeting him she blushed and bit her lip angrily. How was
it possible that he should know what she had dreamt? For years, in that
dream of the Vestal, a being had played a part, a being too like him in
face to be another man, but who had loved her as a goddess, and whom she
had loved for his matchless bravery and his glorious strength over
himself. It was a long story, that had gradually grown clear in every
detail, that had gone far beyond death to a spiritual life in a place of
light, though it had always ended in something vaguely fearful that
brought her back to the world, and to her present living self, to begin
again. She could not go over it now, but she was conscious, and to her
shame, that the spell of perfect happiness had always been broken at
