"Yes, to Montreux. Are you going to spend it 
in Paris?" 
" I 'm going to Paris to see. I have had some 
thoughts of Etretat; I have cousins there." 
" I wish that I could go to the sea-side. But this 
happens to be one of the summers when nothing 
but mountains can save my mother 's life. Shall 
you get down to Rome before you go back?" 
" I don 't know. If I sail from Naples I shall 
probably pass through Rome." 
"You had better stop off. We shall be there in 
November, and they say Rome is worth seeing." 
She laughed demurely. " That is what Boyne un 
derstands. He 's promised to use his influence with 
his family to let him run down to see us there, if 
he can 't get them all to come. You might offer 
to personally conduct them." 
 
 
"Yes," said Breckon, with the effect of clo- 
ture. " Have you made many acquaintances on 
board?" 
"What! Two lone women? You haven 't intro 
duced us to any but the Kentons. But I dare say 
they are the best. The judge is a dear, and Mrs. 
Kenton is everything that is motherly and matronly. 
Boyne says she is very well informed, and knows all 
about the reigning families. If he decides to marry 
into them, she can be of great use in saving him 
from a mesalliance. I can 't say very much for 
Miss Lottie. Miss Lottie seems to me distinctly of 
the minx type. But that poor, pale girl is adorable. 
I wish she liked me." 
" What makes you think she doesn 't like you ?" 
Breckon asked. 
" What ? Women don 't require anything to con 
vince them that other women can 't bear them. They 
simply know it. I wonder what has happened to 
her?" 
"Why do you think anything has happened to 
her?" 
" Why ? Well, girls don 't have that air of melan 
choly absence for nothing. She is brooding upon 
something, you may be sure. But you have had 
so many more opportunities than I! Do you mean 
that you haven 't suspected a tragical past for 
her?" 
"I don 't know," said Breckon, a little restively, 
" that I have allowed myself to speculate about her 
past." 
 
" That is, you oughtn 't to have allowed yourself 
to do so. Well, there I agree with you. But a wom 
an may do so without impertinence, and I am sure 
that Miss Kenton has a story. I have watched 
her, and her face has told me everything but the 
story." 
Breckon would not say that some such revelation 
had been made to him, and in the absence of an 
answer from him Miss Rasmith asked, " Is she 
