the investigation during my absence? How close to the imperial throne
had the conspiracy burrowed?
Pondering, I slowly retraced my steps through the bedroom and
dressing-room, and out into the tiled hallway, where, at the end of
the dim corridor, the door of Colonel Jarras's bureau stood partly
open.
Jarras was sitting at his desk as I entered, and he gave me a
leaden-eyed stare as I closed the door behind me and stood at
attention.
For a moment he said nothing, but presently he partly turned his
ponderous body towards me and motioned me to a chair.
As I sat down I glanced around and saw my old comrade, Speed, sitting
in a dark corner, chewing a cigarette and watching me in alert
silence.
"You are present to report?" suggested Colonel Jarras, heavily.
I bowed, glancing across at Speed, who shrugged his shoulders and
looked at the floor with an ominous smile.
Mystified, I began my report, but was immediately stopped by Jarras
with a peevish gesture: "All right, all right; keep all that for the
Chief of Department. Your report doesn't concern me."
"Doesn't concern you!" I repeated; "are you not chief of this
bureau, Colonel Jarras?"
"No," snapped Jarras; "and there's no bureau now--at least no bureau
for the Foreign Division."
Speed leaned forward and said: "Scarlett, my friend, the Foreign
Division of the Imperial Military Police is not in favor just now. It
appears the Foreign Division is suspected."
"Suspected? Of what?"
"Treason, I suppose," said Speed, serenely.
I felt my face begin to burn, but the astonishing news left me
speechless.
"I said," observed Speed, "that the Foreign Division is suspected;
that is not exactly the case; it is not suspected, simply because it
has been abolished."
"Who the devil did that?" I asked, savagely.
"Mornac."
Mornac! The Emperor's shadow! Then truly enough it was all up with the
Foreign Division. But the shame of it!--the disgrace of as faithful a
body of police, mercenaries though they were, as ever worked for any
cause, good or bad.
"So it's the old whine of treason again, is it?" I said, while the
blood beat in my temples. "Oh, very well, doubtless Monsieur Mornac
knows his business. Are we transferred, Speed, or just kicked out into
the street?"
"Kicked out," replied Speed, rubbing his slim, bony hands together.
"And you, sir?" I asked, turning to Jarras, who sat with his fat,
round head buried in his shoulders, staring at the discolored blotter
on his desk.
The old Corsican straightened as though stung: "Since when, monsieur,
have subordinates assumed the right to question their superiors?"
I asked his pardon in a low voice, although I was no longer his
subordinate. He had been a good and loyal chief to us all; the least I
could do now was to show him respect in his bitter humiliation.
I think he felt our attitude and that it comforted him, but all he
said was: "It is a heavy blow. The Emperor knows best."
As we sat there in silence, a soldier came to summon Colonel Jarras,
and he went away, leaning on his ivory-headed cane, head bowed over
the string of medals on his breast.
When he had gone, Speed came over and shut the door, then shook hands
with me.
