accused him of receiving billets from madame.  There was a duel.  The
duke carried a bad arm to Normandy, and the marquis dined a week with
the governor of the Bastille.  That was the marquis's last affair.  It
happened before the Fronde.  Since then he has remained in seclusion,
fortifying himself against old age.  His hôtel is in the Rue des
Augustines, near the former residence of Henri II.
"The marquis's son you have seen--drunk most of the time.  Happy his
mother, who died at his birth.  'Tis a pity, too, for the boy has a
good heart and wrongs no one but himself.  He has been sent home from
court in disgrace, though what disgrace no one seems to know.  Some
piece of gallantry, no doubt, which ended in a duel.  He and his father
are at odds.  They seldom speak.  The Chevalier, having money, drinks
and gambles.  The Vicomte d'Halluys won a thousand livres from him last
night in the private assembly."
"Wild blood," said Bouchard, draining his tankard.  "France has too
much of it.  Wine and dicing and women: fine snares the devil sets with
these.  How have you recruited?"
"Tolerably well.  Twenty gentlemen will sail with us; mostly
improvident younger sons.  But what's this turmoil between our comrade
Nicot and Maître le Borgne?" sliding his booted legs to the floor and
sitting upright.
Bouchard glanced over his shoulder.  Nicot was waving his arms and
pointing to his vis-à-vis at the table, while the innkeeper was
shrugging and bowing and spreading his hands.
"He leaves the table," cried Nicot, "or I leave the inn."
"But, Monsieur, there is no other place," protested the maître; "and he
has paid in advance."
"I tell you he smells abominably of horse."
"I, Monsieur?" mildly inquired the cause of the argument.  He was a
young man of twenty-three or four, with a countenance more ingenuous
than handsome, expressive of that mobility which is inseparable from a
nature buoyant and humorous.
"Thousand thunders, yes!  Am I a gentleman, and a soldier, to sit with
a reeking stable-boy?"
"If I smell of the horse," said the young man, calmly helping himself
to a quarter of rabbit pie, "Monsieur smells strongly of the ass."
Whereupon a titter ran round the room.  This did not serve to mollify
the anger of the irascible Nicot, whose hand went to his sword.
"Softly, softly!" warned the youth, taking up the carving knife and
jestingly testing the edge with his thumb-nail.
Some one laughed aloud.
"Monsieur Nicot, for pity's sake, remember where you are!"  Maître le
Borgne pressed back the soldier.
"Ah! it is Monsieur Nicot who has such a delicate nose?" said the youth
banteringly.  "Well, Monsieur Nicot, permit me to finish this excellent
pie.  I have tasted nothing half so good since I left Paris."
"Postilion!" cried Nicot, pushing Le Borgne aside.
"Monsieur," continued the youth imperturbably, "I am on the king's
service."
Several at the tables stretched their necks to observe the stranger.  A
courier from the king was not an everyday event in Rochelle.  De Puys
rose.
"Pah!" snorted Nicot; "you look the groom a league off.  Leave the
table."
"All in good time, Monsieur.  If I wear the livery of a stable-boy, it
is because I was compelled by certain industrious gentlemen of the road
to adopt it in exchange for my own.  The devil! one does not ride naked
in March.  They left me only my sword and papers and some pistoles
which I had previously hidden in the band of my hat.  Monsieur, I find
a chair; I take it.  Having ordered a pie, I eat it; in fact, I
