second course of little Bilham and had said to Strether  
the previous afternoon, on his leaving them, that, since her ' 
impression was to be renewed, she would reserve judg- ' 
ment till after the new evidence. 
The new evidence was to come, as it proved, in a day 
or two. He soon had from Maria a message to the effect 
that an excellent box at the " Fran ais " had been lent her   
for the following night ; it seeming on such occasions not 
the least of her merits that she was subject to such approaches. The sense of how she was, in advance, always   
paying for something was equalled, on Strether's part, only 
by the sense of how she was always being paid ; all o! 
which made for his consciousness, in the larger air, of £ 
lively, bustling traffic, the exchange of such values as were 
not for him to handle. She hated, he knew, at the French 
play, anything but a box, just as she hated at the English 
anything but a stall, and a box was what he was already 
in this phase girding himself to press upon her. But sht 
had, for that matter, her resemblance to little Bilham 
she too, always, on the great issues, showed as having 
known in time. It made her constantly beforehand with 
him and gave him mainly the chance to ask himself ho  
on the day of their settlement their account would stand 
He endeavoured even now to keep it a little straight b  
arranging that- if he accepted her invitation she should 
dine with him first ; but the upshot of this scruple wai 
that at eight o'clock on the morrow he awaited her with 
Waymarsh under the pillared portico. She had not dined
with him, and it was characteristic of their relation that
she had made him embrace her refusal without in the 
least understanding it. She ever caused her rearrangements to affect him as her tenderest touches. It was or 
that principle, for instance, that, giving him the opportunity to be amiable again to little Bilham, she had suggested
his offering the young man a seat in their box. Strether
had despatched, to this end, a small blue missive to the 
Boulevard Malesherbes, but up to the moment of their
passing into the theatre he had received no response to
this communication. He held, however, even after they 
had been for some time conveniently seated, that their
friend, who knew his way about, would come in at his own 
right moment. His temporary absence, moreover, seemed, 
as never yet, to make the right moment for Miss Gostrey. 
Strether had been waiting till to-night to get back from 
her in some mirrored form her impressions and conclusions. 
She had elected, as they said, to see little Bilham once, 
but now she had seen him twice and had, nevertheless, not 
said more than a word. 
VVaymarsh meanwhile sat opposite him, with their 
hostess between, and Miss Gostrey described herself as an 
instructor of youth, introducing her little charges to a 
work that was one of the glories of literature. The glory 
was, happily, unobjectionable, and the little charges were 
candid. For herself, she had travelled that road, and she 
merely waited on their innocence. But she referred in due 
time to their absent friend, whom it was clear they should 
have to give up. " He either won't have got your note 
at all, or you won't have got his. He has had some kind 
of hindrance, and, of course, for that matter, you know, 
a man never writes about coming to a box." She spoke 
as if, with her look, it might have been Waymarsh who 
had written to the youth, and the latter's face showed 
a mixture of austerity and anguish. She went on, how- 
