" On June 6th I am going out of town. (Grim 
humor, that!) On June 6th you will have had the 
manuscript three weeks and more. I shall have 
to ask you to have a report by that date, or to 
return it to me now." He said: " You shall have 
the report." 
If they will publish the poem, I shall wait. 
If not, I shall die on June 6th. That is settled. 
Listen to me now. I must soon get to the 
end of this. I mean to tell you about it. I have 
spent yesterday and to-day going over this jour- 
nal, explaining things that I had written too 
briefly, putting in things that ought to be there. 
I mean to tell everything. 
When I began this journal it was with the idea 
that I should be famous, and that then it would 
be published. Of late I have written it from 
habit, mainly, never expecting that any one would 
see it. Now I write again for a reader, to a 
reader. I know that it will be published. 
The night before last I went down by the 
river. As well as I can remember, these were 
the thoughts that came to me. 
It was a calm, still night, and I sat watching 
the lights on the water. Then suddenly I recol- 
lected the night when the yacht had passed, and 
I had heard the woman singing. It came back 
to me like an apparition, that voice and that 
melody. I heard it again more plainly than 
words can tell, dying away over the water; and 
a perfect sea of woe rolled over my soul. 
I thought of that night, what I had been that 
night, what hopes I had had, what fervor, what 
purpose, what faith. That was, you remember, 
just when I was at the height of my work; and 
the memory came back to me, as it has never 
come back to me since the day that I came out 
of the forest with my book. It simply over- 
whelmed me, it shook me to the very depths of 
my being. I buried my face and burst out sob- 
bing. It shook away from me all the hideous 
dulness that had mastered me. I saw myself as I 
was, ruined, lost. I cried out: " Oh, my Father 
in heaven, it is gone! It is gone, and it will 
never come back! I am a lost soul! I am a 
traitor, I am ruined!" 
So I went on, feverishly, twisting my hands 
together. " I have given up the fight ! I have 
been beaten — oh, my God — beaten! Think of 
those raging hours in the woods, those hours of 
defiance, of glory ! I gazed at commonplaceness 
and dulness — I mocked at it; and now it has con- 
quered me! I am trampled down, beaten! It is 
all gone out of me! " And then I cried out in 
despair and terror: " Oh, no, it can't be! It 
cmi't be!" 
But even while I cried that, my thoughts fled 
back to the horror to which I was tied, to the 
samples of soap and to the filthy hole next to 
a drunken laborer. The thing overwhelmed me, 
