was so much to do. I declare, Helen, your coming over was just a special
providence. When I get hold of you again, I'll see that no one coaxes
you away. I was a fool to consent to it. But you'll soon be home now."
"Yes, go out and get cooled off and rested."
Aunt Jane was really glad to. Helen kept the two girls busy until the
things were put away and the kitchen tidied up. The fire was out and
the room getting cooler. The girls clung so to Helen, that she felt as
if she would be torn in two. And sitting on the steps they wanted to
know about the queer old woman, and didn't Mrs. Dayton make a pile of
money? 'Reely thought when she was grown up she would keep boarders and
have a servant. Did Joanna do everything?
"Oh, no. Mrs. Dayton helps, and I do a good many things when Mrs. Van
Dorn does not want me."
"Is she very cross?"
"Oh, no," with a laugh of amusement.
"Not as cross as mother?" with childish frankness.
"You all annoy Aunt Jane so," returned Helen. "If you would go at once
and do as she tells you, and try to remember."
"But I forget so easily," moaned Aurelia. "And I just hate to work."
"What would you like to do?"
"Play, and go out in the woods, and nutting. Oh, when will it be nut
time? And then there's school."
"One can't play forever unless one wants to be a dunce."
"I like dolls," interposed Fanny. "And I'm making clothes for them. Oh,
have you any pretty pieces?"
"It's time you youngsters went to bed," declared their mother.
"Where's Helen going to sleep?"
"Don't you worry about Helen."
The girls came and kissed her. Then she sat in the fragrant dusk and
heard a whippoor-will; and Uncle Jason and Joe Northrup comparing
crops, and telling yields of certain years. Aunt Jane fell asleep in the
quiet. Jenny came down to her step and asked about styles, and what was
in the stores, and if prices had gone down. Joe went home presently, and
Jenny said, "Now come. You're going to sleep with me. This'll be your
room when I'm gone. Oh, dear! I suppose some day you'll be married, too.
Don't you take a fellow unless he has a house to put you in."
Helen felt in a strange whirl, but after awhile she slept. And Sunday
morning was all confusion again. Joe and Jenny and Sam went to church;
the company came, and Helen helped with the dinner, making the table
look so pretty and tidy, that the dining-room was very pleasant. The
four younger children were out in the kitchen, and once Aunt Jane had
to go out and administer slaps all round to quell a riot.
Martha and her lover were very staid and sedate. Jane, the younger
sister, was rather flighty, and plied Helen with innumerable questions
about North Hope. She had heard the young girls went out every day to
see the stores and catch the beaus as they came home from work. And did
the people in her house have dancing parties every Saturday night? She
had read in some magazine that it was the fashion to do so.
The two mothers were much engrossed with the coming marriages. The young
people walked down to see Jenny's house; there was a light supper, and
then they said good-by to each other.
It seemed to Helen she had never been so happy in her life as when she
was once more settled in her round at Mrs. Dayton's. The order and
quietness, the nice adjustment that she was beginning to understand and
appreciate; the bright talk that went to outside subjects and did not
revolve in one small personal round, was so much more interesting. True,
Mrs. Lessing and her daughter discussed clothes, and the other ladies
joined in, but it was on the æsthetic and artistic side. They talked of
so many other things--daily events outside of North Hope. That was not
all their world. It was the larger world that so interested Helen.
