“But I am not crazy.”
“Undoubtedly the man is crazy,” broke in Mr. Snowdon. “I have had an
interview with him in which he claimed to be a former pupil of mine, and
told an absurd story of my being ridden on a rail.”
“I see you are a sensible man,” said James Roque. “I might have known as
much from your intelligent appearance.”
“Moreover he has aided and abetted a pupil of mine to escape from my
rightful authority.”
“The case seems to be pretty clear,” said Roque, with a malicious smile.
“Cousin Penrose, you may as well resign yourself to circumstances. You
must go back with us. I trust you will not compel us to use force. Come,
gentlemen, whatever is to be done must be done quickly.”
“Stop a minute, gentlemen!” said the landlord. “You promised to pay my
bill.”
“I will do it as soon as my cousin is secured. You don’t want me to
leave him here to burn down the house about your ears?”
“No, no!” said the landlord hastily.
“Come along, gentlemen!”
The three closed in about William Penrose, and producing the cord were
about to tie him when he called out in desperation, “Will no one save me
from these villains?”
“I will help you!” said Bernard, kicking Dr. Brown in the shins with
such force that he dropped the cord, and yelled with pain.
“And I, too!” added a new voice.
All eyes were turned upon a long, wiry, loose-jointed man, an
unmistakable Yankee, dressed as a Western miner, who had been sitting on
the piazza, and had been an interested witness of what had been going
on.
CHAPTER VIII.  THE CONSPIRATORS ARE FOILED.
|Roque and the doctors loosened their hold of William Penrose when they
heard the new voice. Then Roque in a supercilious tone said, “You had
better attend to your business if you have any.”
He clutched his cousin once more.
“Let us lose no time,” he whispered to the doctors.
“Look here!” said the miner, striding to the group, “you’re trying to
kidnap an inoffensive man, and are going clear against the law. This is
a free country, and it can’t be done.”
“Sir,” said Roque, “this is an escaped lunatic, and I propose to carry
him back to the asylum. I don’t owe you any explanation, but I don’t
mind telling you that. Now, get out of the way!”
“He’s no more a lunatic that I am.”
“Thank you, sir,” said Penrose, with reviving hope. “It is a cruel
attempt at abduction. Save me from a fate worse than death.”
“I will!” responded the Yankee miner resolutely.
“No man is going to be abducted when Josh Staekpole is around.”
“Clear out!” said James Roque, incensed.
“Clear out, or----”
“Or what?”
“I’ll have you arrested.”
“And I’d have you lynched if you were out in Colorado.”
“You are officious and impertinent.”
“Call me all the hard names you like, squire. It won’t do me any harm.”
“I will do you harm. Landlord, are you going to permit this impertinent
person to interfere with me?”
“Really, gentlemen, I don’t know what to say,” answered the landlord,
who was a weak and vacillating man. “If I knew the law----”
“I’ll tell you what the law is,” said the miner. “Before I went out West
I spent a year in a law office at Burlington, Vermont. These men haven’t
shown any papers--they haven’t proved this gentleman to be out of his
mind. It’s just a high-handed violation of the law they are trying.”
