Unless that were impossible ; unless, after all, he 
had struck the end of a cross wall and was working 
through the length of it instead of through its thick- 
ness. The fear of such a misfortune took possession 
of him, and he laid down his crowbar to examine the 
the wall carefully. There was one way of finding out 
the truth, if he could only get light enough ; no mason 
that ever lived would lay his bricks in any. way except 
lengthwise along each course. If he had struck into a 
cross wall, he must be demolishing the bricks from 
their ends instead of across them, and he could find 
out which way they lay at the end of the cavity, if he 
could make the light of the lantern shine in as far as 
that. The depth was more than five feet now, and his 
experience told him that even in the construction of a 
mediaeval palace the walls above the level of the 
ground were very rarely as thick as that, when built 
of good brick and cement like this one. 
When he took up his lantern, he was amazed at what 
he had done in less than four hours ; if he had been 
told that an ordinary man had accomplished anything 
approaching to it in that time, he would have been 
incredulous. He had hardly realized that he had made 
a hole big enough for him to work in, kneeling on one 
knee, and bracing himself with the other foot. 
But the end was narrow, of course, and when he 
held the light before it, he could not see past the body 
of the lantern. He opened the latter, took out the 
little oil lamp carefully and thrust it into the hole. 
He could see now, as he carefully examined the bricks, 
and he was easily convinced that he had .not entered a 
cross wall. Nevertheless, when he had been working 
with the bar, he had not detected any change in the 
sound, as he thought he must have done, if he had 
been near the further side. Was the wall ten feet 
thick ? He looked again. It was not a vaulting, that 
was clear ; and it could not be anything but a wall. 
There was some comfort in that. He drew back a 
little, put the lamp into the lantern again and got out 
backwards. The passage was bright ; he looked up 
quickly and started. 
Sabina was standing beside him, holding the large 
 
lamp. Her big hat had fallen back and her hair made 
a fair cloud between it and her white face. 
" I thought something had happened to you," she 
said, "so I brought the lamp. You stopped working 
for such a long time," she explained, " I thought you 
must have hurt yourself, or fainted.'' 
"No," answered Malipieri. "There is nothing the 
matter with me. I was looking at the bricks." 
" You must need rest, for it is past ten o'clock. I 
looked at the watch." 
" I will rest when I get through the wall. There is 
no time to be lost. Are you very hungry ? " 
"No. I am a little thirsty." She looked at the 
black water, pouring down the overflow shaft. 
" That water is not good to drink," said Malipieri, 
thinking of what was at the bottom of the well. " We 
had better not drink it unless we are absolutely forced 
