


 

Indian people and doubted if any good could come out 
of Nazareth. It was done by persevering industry, by 
largeness of aim, by sterling integrity, by the great love 
of every citizen for his native city, and the desire to see 
her stand in the front rank. 

We built our new house near the lake front again. 
Little Ruth married when she was barely seventeen, 
and John Gaynor lived to hold his great-grandson in 
his arms. A cheerful, happy man, going down the 
great decline peaceful and content, followed not long 
after by mother, who was sometimes afraid she had 
had too many of the good things in this life, but she 
had always been pitiful to the Lazarus at the gate and 
not left him to be nursed by dogs. 

When Chicago reared the magnificent White City, 
the like of which no one had yet attempted, we were in 
the older generation with our grandchildren about us. 
They never tire of hearing how grandmamma travelled 
from Massachusetts in a big country wagon, with all 
the household goods they could carry, crossing New 
York and Ohio, stopping by the way to catch fish or 
shoot game and cooking by the wayside in a stone 
fireplace, sleeping in the wagon, sometimes roused by 
wild animals, occasionally meeting Indians, and at last 
reaching Chicago and grandpapa. It is better than the 
best of their gilded and engraved fairy books. 

What days we spent in the White City inspecting 
the treasures of our own and other countries ! What 
a wonder electricity and the telephone was, and a hun 
dred other things. And the great city stretching out 
along the lake, southward, westward, northward, its 





railroads running swiftly to and fro, its streets a busy 
hive of the industry that has made her famous. 

The trolleys go everywhere and at times we ramble 
in them or out of them. Here is old Fort Dearborn 
with the tablet to mark its memory. Did we loiter 
about it and sit on the steps and recapitulate the 
massacre? And here was the old Kinzie house, where 
the San Domingo trader had his cabin, and hore the 
first school I went to, here the old Towner log cabin 
where the Little Girl lived, and I used to come in and 
help her get supper, and we read that dear, delightful, 
stirring "Lady of the Lake." Here we went to Sun 
day School and walked home together. But dearest of 
all is the old house where we five boys were born and 
brought up, because here I first saw the Little Girl as 
