called a lou lou. Although Dan had found 
the puppy freezing in an ash barrel, she was 
of high descent. Her hair was tightly curled ; 
her nose was black. Her black eyes blazed 
from her white face with a startling intelli- 
gence that, though other, was never less, and 
often more than human. She was sinuous, 
coquettish, cuddling ; then defiant and dignified.
She was born to be loved ; but she was 
born to be admired. She could never be long 
happy off the stage. Indeed, she would have 
played to empty benches rather than not to 
play at all. Her ears lifted at the applause 
which greeted her. She critically measured 
her audience ; then she curtsied to her master, 
and, still standing on her hind feet, awaited 
his orders. 

Many of Trixy's performances were ele- 
mentary ; but some were worthy of a larger 
stage. Trixy was better educated than her 
master, and experienced the disadvantage of 
the more alert intelligence leashed into a
subject condition. She tripped with enthusiasm 
through her little repertoire. She was a dead 
dog ; she rolled over ; she said her prayers ; 
she played leap-frog ; she teetered on a board 
across the clothes-horse ; she was blindfolded 
and found the squeak-chicken in Mr. Sur- 
bridge's coat pocket. She dove through the 
waste-paper basket like a ballet dancer through 
a paper hoop. She did a dozen clever things 
with the rubber balls ; she turned a back 
somersault on her master's hand ; she took the 
feather duster in her arms, walked jauntily 
down the aisle, and deposited it in Mrs. Percy 
B. Jeffries's horrified lap. Perceiving that 
lady's discomfiture, Trixy proceeded by way 
of consolation to dust her off. 

After this episode, which was received by 
the audience with marked applause, Dan 
dressed Trixy up in a little white tulle-covered 
dress, with a shirt waist and hat. 

" Now, ladies and gentlemen," said Dan, 
" you will be treated to the only performance 
of the kind in the world. This alone is worth 
your money. Miss Trixy is the only trained 
dog in the United States who can sing soprano 
to a gent's tenor." 



 

Trixy stood on the table in her fluffy dress, 
one paw lightly resting on Dan's shoulder. 
Her eyes sought his eagerly for orders, but 
they began to have their elfish expression, 
