"Yes, sir."
In a few minutes our hero had departed, and then Hamilton Dart turned to
Harry Bray.
"Bray, here is an important document to deliver to a party living near
Central Park," said he. "Deliver it, and get a receipt."
"I will, sir," answered Harry Bray, and in a minute more he, too, was
gone.
An hour later there was a knock on the door, and the sick man, who had
called the day before, came in.
"Is that situation still open?" he questioned, anxiously.
"Why do you ask?" demanded Hamilton Dart, abruptly.
"I was going to say that I borrowed that money from my sister."
"Oh! Have you it with you?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then, if you wish the job, you can take it right now. Another man is
coming to see me about it in an hour."
"I'll take the job," said Oliver Ripple, quickly, and brought forth his
money. Hamilton Dart took it, and gave his usual receipt.
"What interest do I get on this?" asked the new clerk, anxiously.
"Six per cent."
"Thank you. I told my sister I thought as much. She had the money in the
bank, but that only paid her three per cent. Six per cent. will be twice
as good."
"You may come to work to-morrow morning at nine," said Hamilton Dart.
"I'll go to work to-day, if you say so, Mr. Dart."
"No, my other clerks can take care of the work to-day. Both of them are
now out on errands."
When Oliver Ripple was gone, Hamilton Dart smiled broadly to himself.
"Three of them," he murmured. "That's not so bad, after all. I wonder if
that chap who was to come at half-past ten will show up?"
When Nat left the post office he found no letters for Samuel Barrows.
"Mr. Dart will be disappointed again," he thought. "But it is not my
fault."
The afternoon passed quietly. Only one man called at the office, and
when he found Hamilton Dart was not in he disappeared immediately.
That evening Nat gave Dick another lesson, for which the newsboy was
very grateful.
"No wonder you got that job," said Dick. "You can figure like lightning,
and write fine, too."
"I don't have to figure much at the office."
"How do you like your boss?"
"I haven't really seen enough of him to make up my mind."
"He must be full of business."
"I suppose that is so."
When Nat went to the office on the following day he again met Harry Bray
at the entrance. They went upstairs together, and found two men standing
in the hallway, near the door of the office. As soon as they entered the
place the men followed them.
"Neither of these young chaps is the man," said one of the newcomers, in
a low voice.
"Where is Mr. Hamilton Dart?" asked the other.
"I can't say, sir," answered Harry Bray. "He may be here shortly."
"Are you a partner in this concern?"
"No, sir. I am a clerk."
"Are you a clerk, too?" asked the man, turning to Nat.
"Yes, sir. Is there anything we can do for you?"
"Don't know as there is, young man," was the short answer. "We'll wait
here for Mr. Dart."
A half-hour passed and Oliver Ripple put in an appearance.
"Where is Mr. Dart?" he asked, gazing around.
