"If that could be, it would be now. You would have taken me in your arms
when he was gone, and you would have kissed my eyes and my hair, and we
should have been happy, just as it was before. But instead, you want to
comfort me, you want to be kind to me, you want to be just to me,
instead of loving me!"
"Regina! I do love you! I do indeed!"
He would have put his arms round her to draw her closer to him, in the
sudden longing to make her think that there was no change in his love,
but she quietly resisted him.
"You have been very good to me, dear," she said, "and I know you will
always be that, whatever comes. And I am always yours, dear, and you are
the master, whenever you choose to come and see me. For I care for
nothing that God has made, except you. But it will never be just as it
used to be."
"It shall!" Marcello tried to put conviction into the words. "It shall!
It shall!"
"It cannot, my heart," she answered. "I used to say that when this came,
I would go away. But I will not do that, unless you bid me to, for I
think you would be sorry, and I should be giving you more pain, and you
have enough. Only leave me a little while alone, dear, for I am very
tired, and it is growing late."
He took her hands and kissed them one after the other, and looked into
her face. His own was very weary.
"Promise me that I shall find you here to-morrow," he said.
"You shall find me," she answered softly.
They parted so, and he left her alone, in the dark, for the glow of the
sunset had faded and the early November evening was closing in.
Old Teresa came and brought a lamp, and drew the curtains, and gave her
a message from Kalmon. If she needed anything she was to send for him,
and he would come at once. She thanked Teresa. It was very kind of the
Professor, but she needed nothing. Not even a fire; no, she hardly ever
felt cold. Teresa brought something to eat, and set the little table for
her. She was not hungry, and she was glad when the good soul was gone.
She could open the windows when she was alone, and look out into the
silent street. There was moonlight now, and it fell across the walls and
trees of the Villa Aurora upon her face. It was a young moon, that would
set before midnight, but it was very clear and bright, and the sky was
infinitely deep and very clear behind it. Regina fancied that if there
were really angels in heaven, she should be able to see them on such a
night.
If she had been in Trastevere she would have gone out to walk up and
down the old paved paths of the little garden, for she could not sleep,
though she was so tired. The lamp disturbed her and she put it out, and
sat down by the window again.
It was very quiet now, for it was past nine o'clock. She heard a step,
and it almost surprised her. A man with a big dog was walking in the
shadow on the other side of the street, and when he was opposite the
house he stood still and looked up at her window. He did not move for
some time, but the dog came out into the moonlight in a leisurely way,
and lay down on the paving stones. All dogs think it is warmer in the
light than in the shadow.
Regina rose, got a long black cloak and a dark veil without lighting a
candle, and put them on. Then she went out.
CHAPTER XXI
Ercole walked on when he saw some one come out of No. 16, for he did not
recognise Regina. She followed him at a distance. Even if he should pass
where there might be many people, she would not lose sight of him easily
because he had his dog with him. She noticed that his canvas bag was
hung over one shoulder and that it seemed to be full, and his gun was
slung over the other. He meant to leave Rome that night on foot. He
