They made their way through, and Victor's face lighted with intense
satisfaction. Laverne flushed "celestial rosy red." He reached over
and took her hand, exclaiming, "What a pleasure! I am so glad to see
you here."

"Hillo!" and Fred gazed from one to the other.

"We have been friends from childhood--isn't it?" smiling out of his
delight. "And Miss Doncaster--I came almost purposely to buy some of
your wares," glancing at that lady.

"Oh, thank you," she returned gayly.

The rest of the introductions were given and the party fell into a
social chat. Mrs. Westbury entered the hall at that juncture with Mrs.
Doncaster. A spasm of something like anger shot over her. Yes, she was
quite sure that must be Victor Savedra. Was Laverne making secret
engagements with him?

"Oh," Mrs. Doncaster began, "there is Fred's friend, a young Spaniard,
who has been over here for his education. We were all charmed with him
when Fred brought him to dinner one night, and wished we had made his
acquaintance earlier, since he leaves us in the summer. The Spaniards,
I believe, were some of the old settlers on the western coast. I don't
quite understand all the distinctions of American people."

Mrs. Westbury recalled the fact that she had met the elder Mr.
Savedra, who had come to say farewell to Laverne and to assure her
that they would do their best to make Miss Holmes happy. Then she was
formally introduced to the young man, who had a notably distinctive
charm, partly due no doubt to his foreign air.

Fred certainly was in high spirits, and helped the girls in their
sales, even if he did call them shopkeepers. Then he insisted that
Miss Westbury should accompany him around to "spy out the nakedness of
the land," he said, which in this case meant an accession of funds for
the Hospital. "My brother would study surgery," he said, with a half
protest. "Minturn is a born philanthropist, so between us both we
shall care for bodies and souls. I'd worlds rather have my
profession."

Amy and Savedra were talking just in front of them, now and then
pausing at a booth, where the girl proudly introduced her companion.
Some stalls were already sold out; indeed, every one seemed jubilant
over the success. In a little rather private corner groups were having
some refreshments, and at one they found Miss Doncaster and an
admirer, who made room for them, and they had a merry time. Victor sat
on one side of Laverne, and they exchanged bits of talk mostly
satisfactory to each.

Savedra had accepted an invitation from the Doncasters. It was true
Londoners were rushing out to country homes, or to holiday house
parties, but there were hosts of them left.

"I had no idea the Doncasters knew you," Victor said. "I am glad we
have a mutual friend. I shall spend all the holidays in town, and we
must see a good deal of each other to make up for the lost time."

Her eyes drooped and a delicious flush overspread her face. How shy
and sweet she was! He would not think of the time when he must go away
