What Randy said about his father was true. Louis Thompson was suffering
very much. He rested on a couch in the sitting room of the cottage, and
his wife did what she could to relieve his pain.
Several days passed and the rheumatism, instead of growing better,
became worse, so that neither Mrs. Thompson nor Randy knew what to do
for the sufferer. Then Mr. Thompson's side began to draw up, and in
haste a specialist from the city was called in. He gave some relief,
but said it would be a long time before the sufferer would be able to
go to work again.
"You must keep off your left leg," said the specialist.
A few days after that Louis Thompson tried to walk. But the pain was so
great he could not stand on the rheumatic limb. He sank on his couch
with a groan.
"I cannot do it," he gasped.
"Then do not try," answered his wife.
"But I must get to work, Lucy. I cannot afford to be idle."
"Never mind, Louis; we will get along somehow."
"How much did that specialist charge?"
"Fifty dollars?"
"And what was Doctor Case's bill?"
"Ten dollars."
"Sixty dollars! And we had only ninety dollars in the bank! That leaves
us only thirty dollars."
To this Mrs. Thompson did not answer. She had used up nearly ten
dollars for medicines, but did not wish to worry her suffering husband
by mentioning it.
"If I don't go to work we'll all starve to death!" continued Louis
Thompson.
"We'll manage somehow," answered the wife, bravely.
Nevertheless, she was much discouraged, and that evening, when her
husband was asleep, she and Randy talked the matter over as they sat on
the porch in the darkness.
"Mother," said Randy, earnestly, "I don't want you to feel troubled.
You have labored so long for me that it is now my turn. I only want
something to do."
"My dear child," said the mother, "I do not need to be assured of your
willingness. But I am sorry that you should be compelled to give up
your vacation and maybe your schooling."
"Giving up schooling will not be necessary. I can study in the
evenings. I am wondering what I can find to do."
"I know so little about such things, Randy, that we must consult
someone who is better qualified to give advice in the matter--your
Uncle Peter, for instance."
At this Randy gave a sigh.
"I don't know Uncle Peter. He never comes here."
"That is true," answered Mrs. Thompson, with some hesitation. "But you
know he is a business man and has a great deal to attend to. Besides,
he has married a lady who is exceedingly fashionable, and I suppose he
does not care to bring her to visit such unfashionable folks as we
are."
"Then," said Randy, indignantly, "I don't want to trouble him with any
of my applications. If he doesn't think us good enough to visit we
won't force ourselves upon him."
"My dear boy, you are too excitable. It may be that it is only his
business engagements that have kept him away from us. Besides, you can
go to him only for advice; it is quite different from asking
assistance."
Mother and son discussed the situation for fully an hour and at last,
in the absence of other plans, it was decided that Randy should go to
his uncle the next day and make known his wants. Mr. Thompson was told,
