Japan, that the priests choked over their wine, 
and Langsdorff, who had not a grain of humor, 
swelled with pride in his chance relationship to 
a man who seemed able to manipulate every 
string in the human network. 
" He will succeed," he thought. " He will 
succeed. I almost hoped he would not, he is so 
indiiferent — I might almost say so hostile to my 
own scientific adventures. But when he is in this 
mood, when those cold eyes brim with laughter 
and ordinary humanity, I am nothing better than 
his slave.'' 
 
Eezanov, in reply to an entreaty from Father 
Uria to tell them more of his mission and of the 
strange picture-book country they had never 
hoped to hear of at first hand, assumed a tone 
of great frankness and intimacy. " We were, 
with astounding cleverness, treated from the first 
like an audience in a new theatre. After we had 
solemnly been towed by a string of boats to 
anchor, under the Papen mountains, all Nagasaki appeared to turn out, men, women, and children. Thousands of little boats, decorated with 
flags by day and colored lanterns by night, and 
filled with people in gala attire, swarmed about 
us, gazed at us through telescopes, were so thick 
on the bay one could have traversed it on foot. 
The imperial sailors were distinguished by their 
uniforms of a large blue and white check, suggesting the pinafores of a brobdignagian baby. The 
barges of the imperial princes were covered with 
blue and white awnings and towed to the sound 
of kettledrums and the loud measured cries of 
the boatmen. At night the thousands of illuminated lanterns, of every color and shade, the 
waving of fans, the incessant chattering, and the 
more harmonious noise that rose unceasingly 
above, made up a scene as brilliant as it was 
 
juvenile and absurd. In the daytime it was more 
interesting, with the background of hills cultivated to their crests in the form of terraces varied 
with rice fields, hamlets, groves, and paper villas- 
encircled with little gardens as glowing and 
various of color as the night lanterns. When, at 
last, I was graciously permitted to have a residence on a point of land called Megasaki, I was 
conveyed thither in the pleasure barge of the 
Prince of Fisi. There was place for sixty oarsmen, but as one of the few tokens of respect I 
was enabled to record for the comfort of the 
mighty sovereign whose representative I was, 
the barge was towed by a long line of boats, 
decorated with flags, the voices of the rowers rising and falling in measured cadence as they an- 
nounced to all Japan the honor about to be conferred upon her. I sat on a chair of state in the 
central compartment of the barge, and quite alone ; 
my suite standing on a raised deck beyond. Before me on a table, marvellously inlaid, were my 
credentials. I was surrounded by curtains of sky- 
blue silk and panels of polished lacquer inwrought 
with the imperial arms in gold. The awning of 
blue and white silk was lined with a delicate and 
beautiful tapestry, and the reverse side of the 
silken partitions were of canvas painted by the 
masters of the country. The polished floor was 
covered by a magnificent carpet woven with 
alarming dragons whose jaws pointed directly at 
