would n’t make any difference to Alice Dean, 
but to give up a whole day’s pleasure for that ! 
Grace Howard had a good many generous 
impulses, but, one way and another, her under- 
takings often failed before reaching comple- 
tion. She had received for her birthday pres- 
ent a handsome set of story-books, in which 
she had been wonderfully interested, and pro- 
posed to read them aloud to blind Alice Dean, 
who was an invalid besides. Mrs. Dean had to 
work hard to support herself and child, and 
'-found but little time to devote to her amuse- 
ment. Grace’s clear, sweet voice gave them a 
keener charm to the sensitive child. At first 
she had done very well, it must be confessed, 
but the last book dragged along, when Grace 
began to think it almost a burthen. 
‘‘Can’t I go?” she asked presently. “I shall 
be so disappointed.” 
“I believe your days with Jennie Carlton 
have always been failures ; still I will not com- 
pel you to give up this one. Think it over 
before you decide.” 
Grace’s face brightened immediately, which 
showed that there was to be very little consid- 
eration. Just now she was intent upon her 
own pleasure. Jennie had urged her strongly, 
and somehow Grace always felt flattered by 
Jennie Carlton’s notice. They lived in a grand 
house, and Jennie held herself above most of 
the school-girls. Mr. Carlton and Mr. Howard 
being very warm personal friends, Mrs. How- 
ard had found it impossible to regulate the 
intercourse of the children without giving 
offence, and Mr. Howard indulged his little 
girl in almost every whim. But it frequently 
happened that Grace was hardly upon speak- 
ing terms with Jennie, for the latter gave her 
an occasional rebuff that was not easy to bear. 
Grace thought of nothing but the pleasure 
now. She was all impatience for the hour to 
come, and set off to Jennie’s in high spirits. 
 
The woods were on Mr. Carlton’s place, about 
half a mile from the house, and there could be 
no possible danger to the party. 
‘T hope you will have a nice day,” Mrs. 
Howard said, kissing her. “And when 
you return from the woods, come home 
immediately.” 
Grace promised. As she walked across the 
lawn to Mr. Carlton’s, she saw two strange 
figures in the little group — a girl, taller than 
Jennie, and a boy older still. And then she 
looked at her printed cambric in dismay. Jen- 
nie wore her braided pique and an elegant 
sash, while she had on an ordinary school- 
dress. The young lady stared at her supercil- 
iously; and when Jennie introduced her as her 
cousin, Grace remembered having seen her at 
