She acquired a habit of doing selfish things coldly, in- 
different to the canons of the art; and true selfishness, 
the nrost dehcate of all the arts, requires an expert. 
That which had most charmed — her unfeigned pleas- 
ure in pleasure, her unfailing consideration for all, her 
gentleness with ignorance, her generous unconsciousness 
of self — all these still remained, it is true, though no 
longer characteristic, no longer to be counted on. 
For the first time a slight sense of fear tinctured the 
general admiration. 
In public her indifference and growing impatience 
with Quarrier had not reached the verge of bad taste, 
but in private she was scarcely at pains to conceal her 
weariness and inattention, showing him less and less of 
the formal consideration which had been their only me- 
dium of coexistence. That he noticed it was evident 
even to her who carelessly ignored the consequences of 
her own attitude. 
Once, speaking of the alterations in progress at The 
Sedges, his place near Oyster Bay, he casually asked 
her opinion, and she as casually observed that if he had 
an opinion about anything he wouldn't know what to do 
with it. 
Once, too, she had remarked in Quarrier's hearing 
to Ferrall, who was complaining about the loss of his 
hair, that a hairless head was a visitation from Heaven, 
but a beard was a man's own fault. 
Once they came very close to a definite rupture, close 
enough to scare her after all the heat had gone out of 
her and the matter was ended. Quarrier had lingered 
late after cards, and something was said about the im- 
pending kennel show and about Marion Page judging 
the English setters. 
" Agatha tells me that you are going with Marion," 
 
continued Quarrier. " As long as Marion has chosen 
to make herself conspicuous there is nothing to be said. 
But do you think it very good taste for you to figure 
publicly on the sawdust with an eccentric girl like 
Marion? " 
" I see nothing conspicuous about a giri's judging 
a few dogs," said Sylvia, merely from an irritable de- 
sire to contradict. 
" It's bad taste and bad form," remarked Quarrier 
coldly ; " and Agatha thought it a mistake for you to 
go there with her." 
" Agatha's opinions do not concern me." 
" Perhaps mine may have some weight." 
" Not the slightest." 
He said patiently : " This is a public show ; do you 
understand.'' Not one of those private bench exhibi- 
tions." 
" I understand. Really, Howard, you are insuffer- 
able at times." 
" Do you feel that way ? " 
" Yes, I do. I am sorry to be rude, but I do feel 
that way ! " Flushed, impatient, she looked him square- 
ly between his narrowing, woman's eyes : " I do not care 
for you very much, Howard, and you know it. I am 
marrying you with a perfectly sordid motive, and you 
