major of the Piedmont Lancers was promoted to be lieutenant-colonel
of another regiment, the senior captain was gazetted major, and
Castiglione himself would come back as the junior captain, probably
during the next month.
Maria’s heart beat fast, and she smiled as she thought of
Giuliana’s expressed determination to ‘save her in spite of
herself.’ It was morning, and she went out alone for a walk. It
was good to live to-day, and to move swiftly through the bright
spring air was to be twice alive. She went by the cross streets
to the Via del Veneto and through the Porta Pinciana to the Villa
Borghese. She skirted the racecourse below the Dairy, and stood
still a moment to watch the riders go by. Not far from her she saw
Angelica Campodonico and her young brother Mario riding on each
side of their teacher. The slim young girl sat straight and square
and was enjoying herself, but the boy grabbed the pommel of his
saddle whenever the riding-master looked away, and seemed to stick
on by his heels. He was the boy whom Leone had ‘hammered,’ as he
expressed it, and Maria smiled as she thought of her own little
son’s sturdy back and small, hard fists.
Presently a young lieutenant of the Piedmont Lancers cantered up
on a beautiful English mare. He rode very well, as many Italian
officers now do, and he was evidently aware of it. The familiar
uniform fascinated Maria, and her eyes lingered on it as the young
man rode past her. He saw that she was a woman of the world, and
that she was still young and pretty; and in spite of the deep black
she wore, it at once occurred to him that this was the best place
in the wide ring for jumping his mare in and out of the meadow over
the rather stiff fence. Still Maria watched him, and he might not
have been so pleased with himself if he could have guessed that
she was thinking of another officer who was an even better rider
than he, but who would certainly not have cared to show off before
a pretty lady whom he did not know. And Maria knew that before
long Baldassare del Castiglione would sometimes come and exercise
his horses in the same place, and that she would very probably
happen to be walking that way and would see him. And he would stop
and salute her, and draw up by the outer fence and shake hands
with her and exchange a few words; and his eyes would be as blue
as sapphires, and she would be the proudest woman in the world,
almost without knowing it. So she unconsciously smiled at the young
lieutenant and turned away.
She walked on, and before long she was sitting under the ilex-trees
above the Piazza di Siena. There was a new bench there; or perhaps
it had only been painted. There was water in the fountain, leaping
up and sparkling under the deep green trees. The basin had been dry
on that winter’s afternoon long ago, and the evergreen oaks had
looked much darker. That had been like death; this was life itself.
The past did not exist; it had never existed at all, because it
had all been a horrible mistake, an untruth, and a loathsome sin;
a sin confessed now, an untruth forgiven, a mistake explained and
condoned. In the future all was love; and yet all was right and
truthful and straightforward, as justice itself. Giuliana’s warning
was but the well-meant preaching of a good friend who could never
understand; the grim old monk’s words were far away. Where was the
deadly risk, or the mortal sin? God was strong and good, and would
make all good deeds seem easy; and she and the man she loved would
rise far beyond this dying body, by that good, to be united for
ever in light and peace. Baldassare would believe, as she did, and
in the end they would find heaven together.
She leaned back, and her eyes looked upwards as she sat there
alone, and in all her being there was not the least thought that
