did it with grace, no doubt, twisting the pin dexterously, so that the
big drop of syrup spread all round the berry just at the right moment,
and it never dripped. Zeno had often seen the wife of the Emperor
Charles eating stewed prunes with her fingers, which was not neat or
pleasant to see, though it might be imperial, since she was a genuine
empress. But it was neither Zoë's grace nor her delicate ways that
pleased him and puzzled him most; the mystery lay rather in the
fearless tone of her voice and the proud carriage of her head when she
was offended, in the flashing answer of her brave eyes and the noble
curve of her tender mouth; for these are things given, not learnt, and
if they could be taught at all, thought Zeno, they would not be taught
to a slave.
He let his head rest against the back of his chair and wished many
things, rather incoherently. For once in his life he felt inclined for
anything rather than action or danger, or any sudden change; and in
the detestable natural contradiction of duty and inclination it
chanced that on that night, of all nights, he could not stay where he
was to idle away two or three hours in careless talk, till it should
be time to go downstairs and sleep. The habit of spending his evenings
in that way had grown upon him during the past month more than he
realised; but to-night he knew that he must break through it, and
perhaps to-morrow, too, and for long afterwards, if not for ever. That
was one reason why it had annoyed him to find Zoë out of temper.
He rose with an effort, and with something like a sigh.
'I must be going,' he said, standing beside the divan. 'Good-night.'
Zoë had looked up in surprise when he left his seat, and now her face
fell.
'Already? Must you go already?' she asked.
'Yes. I have to keep an appointment. Good-night.'
'Good-night, Messer Carlo,' answered Zoë softly and a little sadly.
She had never before addressed him in that way, as an equal and a
Venetian would have done, and the expression, with the tone in which
it was uttered, arrested his attention and stopped him when he was in
the act of turning away. He said nothing, but there was a question in
his look.
'I am sorry that I made you angry,' she said, and she turned her face
up to him with one of those half-pathetic, hesitating little smiles
that ask forgiveness of a man and invariably get it, unless he is a
brute.
'I am sorry that I let you see I was annoyed,' he answered simply.
'If I had not been so foolish, you would not go away so early!'
Her tone was contrite and regretfully thoughtful, as if the
explanation were irrefutable but humiliating. Eve was, on the whole, a
good woman, and is believed to be in Paradise; yet with the slight
previous training of a few minutes' conversation with the serpent she
was an accomplished temptress, and her rustic taste for apples has
sent untold millions down into unquenchable fire. It was a mere
coincidence that Eve should have been always called Zoë in the early
Greek translations of Genesis, and that Zoë Rhangabé should have
inherited a dangerous resemblance to the first beautiful--and
enterprising--mother of men.
'I would stay if I could,' Zeno said. 'But indeed I have an
appointment, and I must go.'
'Is it very important, very--very?'
Zeno smiled at her now, but did not answer at once. Instead, he walked
to the window, opened the shutters again, and looked out. The night
was very dark. Here and there little lights twinkled in the houses of
Pera, and those that were near the water's edge made tiny paths over
the black stream. After his eyes had grown used to the gloom Zeno
could make out that there was a boat near the marble steps, and a very
