Now the tide in the Straits of Messina is as regular and easy to
calculate as the tide in the Ocean, and at full and change of the moon
the current runs six knots an hour, flowing or ebbing; it turns so
suddenly that small freight steamers sometimes get into difficulties,
and no sailing vessel I have ever seen has a chance of getting
through against it unless the wind is both fresh and free.
Furthermore, for the benefit of landsmen, it is well to explain here
that when a steamer has the current ahead, her speed is the difference
between her speed in slack water and that of the current or tide,
whereas, if the latter is with her, its speed increases her own.
Consequently, though the Erinna could run sixteen knots, she would
only be able to make ten against the tide; for it chanced that it was
a spring tide, the moon being new on that very day. Similarly the
Lancashire Lass, running her twenty-three knots like a torpedo boat,
would only do seventeen under the same conditions.
CHAPTER XV
At two o'clock in the morning Captain Brown was called by the officer
of the watch, who told him that he was overhauling a good-sized steam
yacht. The latter was heading up for the Straits from the southward,
and the officer judged her to be not more than three or four miles on
the port bow.
Captain Brown, who meant business, was sleeping in his clothes in the
chart-room, and was on the bridge in ten seconds, peering over the
search-light with his big binocular. At two in the morning even the
largest yachts do not show such a blaze of lights as passenger
steamers generally do all night, and the one Captain Brown was
watching had only two or three, besides the regulation ones. She might
be white, too, though she might be a light grey, but he thought on the
whole that she was painted white. She was rigged as a two-masted
fore-and-aft schooner. So was the Erinna now, though she had once
carried square topsails at the fore. She was also of about the same
size, as far as it was possible to judge under the search-light.
Captain Brown did not feel sure that he recognised her, but
considering what his orders were he knew it was his duty to settle the
question of her identity, which would be an easy matter in a quarter
of an hour or less, as the course of the two vessels converged.
He had been told to find the Erinna, but for what purpose he knew
not, and he naturally supposed it to be a friendly one. As a first
step, he ordered the Coston signal of his owner's yacht club to be
burned, turned off the search-light, and waited for an answer. None
came, however. Foreign yachts do not always burn signals to please
vessels of other nations.
A couple of minutes later, however, the white beam of a search-light
shot out and enveloped Captain Brown and his ship. The other man was
evidently having a good look at him, for the light was kept full on
for some time. But no signal was burned after it went out. Then
Captain Brown turned on his own light again, and looked once more; and
he had almost made up his mind that the other yacht was not quite as
long as the Erinna, when she suddenly starboarded her helm, made a
wide sweep away from him, and headed down the Sicilian coast in the
direction of Catania.
Captain Brown was so much surprised that he lowered his glasses and
looked at his chief mate, whose watch it was, and who was standing
beside him. It really looked very much as if the other vessel had
recognised him and were running away. The chief mate also looked at
him, but as they were more or less dazzled by the search-light that
had been played on them, they could hardly see one another's faces at
all. The captain wished his owner were on deck, instead of being sound
asleep below. Owners who are not at all nautical characters do not
like to be waked up at two o'clock in the morning by inquiries for
