womanlike, how piteous to see, he could not 
refuse to acknowledge to himself. 
" Well ? " he began, in a tone which his wife had 
long since learned to recognize as one with which 
it was impossible for her to deal. 
" Have you anything to say ? " Carolyn uttered 
the words with a quietness which astonished her- 
self more than it did him. 
Dane tossed back his handsome head. " No. 
Not to any question put in that way. No. I don't 
say I might not have ; but under the circumstances 
— no. I am evidently prejudged. What would be 
the use ? " 
" Very well," said Cara. She tottered, and sank 
back into her chair beside the child. "I must — 
think. I do not know — what — to do." She passed 
her hand confusedly over her eyes. 
" If a man's wife can't trust him, — if she must 
come spying upon him, — that 's reason enough. 
 
I decline to offer any excuses — at present. It 
depends upon circumstances when or whether I 
explain the situation upon which you so
unwarrantably intruded. I say, a man's wife should 
trust him — " 
" Against the evidence of her own senses ? " 
asked Carolyn. A slow, contemptuous curve turned 
her delicate lip. She could not help it, and she did 
not know it. 
" Against any evidence ! " thundered Dane. 
" Until she has heard what he has to say." 
" If there were anything to be said — " returned 
Cara, drearily. 
" That is for me to judge," replied Dane. This 
preposterous answer took away her breath, and 
she sat panting and mute before him. 
On his tempestuous face shame and sorrow 
warred with something like compassion for her, 
but he gave no expression to either. He turned 
on his heel, and made as if to leave the room, but 
lingered. 
" Can I have anything to eat ? " he asked, as if 
nothing had happened. 
" Maggie will wait on you," replied Cara. Her 
chin quivered, but her voice was quite firm. 
" Very well," he said in his turn. He went out 
to the dining-room, and rang for his belated meal. 
Cara did not join him. No further words passed 
 
between them, and when he went upstairs her 
door was locked. 
As it had been with that other offense, Cara 
found herself completely disabled in the moral 
conflict by the offender. Dane assumed his
injured air; and his wife, torn between her sweet 
impulse to be more than generous to him and her 
scathing consciousness that there are things which 
a wife must not overlook because that is the 
easiest way to live, fell back upon a tentative and 
terrible silence. No virago's tongue could have 
