preserved from the disgrace which it used to be in with serious people
among us. In the lovely afternoons you see young people dancing in the
meadows, and hear them shouting in time to the music, while the older men
and women watch them from their seats in the shade. Every sort of
pleasure here is improvised, and as you pass through a village the first
thing you know the young girls and young men start up in a sort of
girandole, and linking hands in an endless chain stretch the figure
along through the street and out over the highway to the next village,
and the next and the next. The work has all been done in the forenoon,
and every one who chooses is at liberty to join in the fun.
The villages are a good deal alike to a stranger, and we knew what to
expect there after a while, but the country is perpetually varied, and
the unexpected is always happening in it. The old railroad-beds, on
which we travelled, are planted with fruit and nut trees and flowering
shrubs, and our progress is through a fragrant bower that is practically
endless, except where it takes the shape of a colonnade near the entrance
of a village, with vines trained about white pillars, and clusters of
grapes (which are ripening just now) hanging down. The change in the
climate created by cutting off the southeastern peninsula and letting in
the equatorial current, which was begun under the first Altrurian
president, with an unexpended war-appropriation, and finished for what
one of the old capitalistic wars used to cost, is something perfectly
astonishing. Aristides says he told you something about it in his speech
at the White Mountains, but you would never believe it without the
evidence of your senses. Whole regions to the southward, which were
nearest the pole and were sheeted with ice and snow, with the temperature
and vegetation of Labrador, now have the climate of Italy; and the
mountains, which used to bear nothing but glaciers, are covered with
olive orchards and plantations of the delicious coffee which they drink
here. Aristides says you could have the same results at home--no! in the
United States--by cutting off the western shore of Alaska and letting in
the Japanese current; and it could be done at the cost of any average
war.
VI
But I must not get away from my personal experiences in these
international statistics. Sometimes, when night overtakes us, we stop
and camp beside the road, and set about getting our supper of eggs and
bread and butter and cheese, or the fruits that are ripening all round
us. Since my experience with that pullet I go meekly mushrooming in
the fields and pastures; and when I have set the mushrooms stewing over
an open fire, Aristides makes the coffee, and in a little while we
have a banquet fit for kings--or for the poor things in every grade below
them that serve kings, political or financial or industrial. There is
always water, for it is brought down from the snow-fields of the
mountains--there is not much rainfall--and carried in little concrete
channels along the road--side from village to village, something like
those conduits the Italian peasants use to bring down the water from the
Maritime Alps to their fields and orchards; and you hear the soft gurgle
of it the whole night long, and day long, too, whenever you stop. After
supper we can read awhile by our electric lamp (we tap the current in the
telephone wires anywhere), or Aristides sacrifices himself to me in a
lesson of Altrurian grammar. Then we creep back into our van and fall
asleep with the Southern Cross glittering over our heads. It is perfectly
safe, though it was a long time before I could imagine the perfect safety
of it. In a country where there are no thieves, because a thief here
would not know what to do with his booty, we are secure from human
molestation, and the land has long been cleared of all sorts of wild
beasts, without being unpleasantly tamed. It is like England in that, and
yet it has a touch of the sylvan, which you feel nowhere as you do in our
dear New England hill country. There was one night, however, when we were
