master that has dominated a people since the palmy days of the
Inquisition. And a stronger master than the strongest of bygone times,
because this one will have a financial strength not dreamed of by any
predecessor; as effective a concentration of irresponsible power as any
predecessor has had; in the railway, the telegraph, and the subsidized
newspaper, better facilities for watching and managing his empire
than any predecessor has had; and, after a generation or two, he will
probably divide Christendom with the Catholic Church.
The Roman Church has a perfect organization, and it has an effective
centralization of power--but not of its cash. Its multitude of Bishops
are rich, but their riches remain in large measure in their own hands.
They collect from two hundred millions of people, but they keep the
bulk of the result at home. The Boston Pope of by-and-by will draw his
dollar-a-head capitation-tax from three hundred millions of the human
race, and the Annex and the rest of his book-shop stock will fetch in as
much more; and his Metaphysical Colleges, the annual Pilgrimage to Mrs.
Eddy’s tomb, from all over the world-admission, the Christian-Science
Dollar (payable in advance)--purchases of consecrated glass beads,
candles, memorial spoons, aureoled chrome-portraits and bogus autographs
of Mrs. Eddy; cash offerings at her shrine no crutches of cured cripples
received, and no imitations of miraculously restored broken legs and
necks allowed to be hung up except when made out of the Holy Metal
and proved by fire-assay; cash for miracles worked at the tomb: these
money-sources, with a thousand to be yet invented and ambushed upon the
devotee, will bring the annual increment well up above a billion. And
nobody but the Trust will have the handling of it. In that day, the
Trust will monopolize the manufacture and sale of the Old and New
Testaments as well as the Annex, and raise their price to Annex rates,
and compel the devotee to buy (for even to-day a healer has to have the
Annex and the Scriptures or he is not allowed to work the game), and
that will bring several hundred million dollars more. In those days, the
Trust will have an income approaching five million dollars a day, and
no expenses to be taken out of it; no taxes to pay, and no charities
to support. That last detail should not be lightly passed over by the
reader; it is well entitled to attention.
No charities to support. No, nor even to contribute to. One searches in
vain the Trust’s advertisements and the utterances of its organs for
any suggestion that it spends a penny on orphans, widows, discharged
prisoners, hospitals, ragged schools, night missions, city missions,
libraries, old people’s homes, or any other object that appeals to a
human being’s purse through his heart.
I have hunted, hunted, and hunted, by correspondence and otherwise, and
have not yet got upon the track of a farthing that the Trust has spent
upon any worthy object. Nothing makes a Scientist so uncomfortable as to
ask him if he knows of a case where Christian Science has spent money
on a benevolence, either among its own adherents or elsewhere. He is
obliged to say “No” And then one discovers that the person questioned
has been asked the question many times before, and that it is getting to
be a sore subject with him. Why a sore subject? Because he has written
his chiefs and asked with high confidence for an answer that will
confound these questioners--and the chiefs did not reply. He has written
again, and then again--not with confidence, but humbly, now--and has
begged for defensive ammunition in the voice of supplication. A reply
does at last come to this effect: “We must have faith in Our Mother, and
rest content in the conviction that whatever She does with the money
it is in accordance with orders from Heaven, for She does no act of any
kind without first ‘demonstrating over’ it.”
That settles it--as far as the disciple is concerned. His mind
is satisfied with that answer; he gets down his Annex and does an
incantation or two, and that mesmerizes his spirit and puts that to
