doors, it would be different." 

This relieved the tension in a general laugh, and a 
young man tried to contribute further to the gayety 
by declaring that it would not be surprising to have it 
snow in-doors. He had once seen the thing done in 
a crowded hall, one night, when somebody put up a 
window, and the freezing current of air congealed the 
respiration of the crowd, which came down in a light 
fall of snow-flakes. He owned that it was in Boston. 

" Oh, that excuses it, then," Miss Macroyd said. But 
she lost the laugh which was her due in the rush which 
some of the others made to open a window and see 
whether it could be made to snow in-doors there. 

" Oh, it isn't crowded enough here," the young man 
explained who had alleged the scientific marvel. 

" And it isn't Boston," Miss Macroyd tried again on 
the same string, and this time she got her laugh. 

The girl who had first spoken remained, at the risk 
of pneumonia, with her arm prettily lifted against the 
open sash, for a moment peering out, and then reported, 
in dashing it down with a shiver, " It seems to be a 
very soft snow." 

" Then it will be rain by morning," another pre- 
dicted, and the girl tried hard to think of something 
to say in support of the hit she had made already. But 
she could not, and was silent almost through the whole 
first course at dinner. 



In spite of its being a soft snow, it continued to fall 
as snow and not as rain. It lent the charm of stormy 
cold without to the brightness and warmth within. 
Much later, when between waltzes some of the dancers 
went out on the verandas for a breath of air, they came 
back reporting that the wind was rising and the snow 
was drifting. 

Upon the whole, the snow was a great success, and her 
guests congratulated Mrs. Westangle on having thought 
to have it. The felicitations included recognition of the 
originality of her whole scheme. She had downed the 
hoary superstition that people had too much of a good 
time on Christmas to want any good time at all in the 
week following ; and in acting upon the well-known fact 
that you never wanted a holiday so much as the day 
after you had one, she had made a movement of the 
highest social importance. These were the ideas which 
Verrian and the young man of the in-doors snow-storm 
urged upon her; his name was Bushwick, and he and 
Verrian found that they were very good-fellows after 
they had rather supposed the contrary. 

Mrs. Westangle received their ideas with the twit- 
