yet."
So Malcourt swung aboard the wagon, nodded again to Hamil, waved a
pleasant adieu to Portlaw at the window, and was gone in a shower of wet
gravel and mud.
And all that day Portlaw fussed and fumed and pouted about the house,
tormenting Hamil with questions and speculations concerning the going of
Malcourt, which for a while struck Hamil merely as selfish ebullitions;
but later it came to him by degrees that this rich, selfish, over-fed,
over-pampered, and revoltingly idle landowner, whose sole mental and
physical resources were confined to the dinner and card tables, had been
capable of a genuine friendship for Malcourt. Self-centred, cautious to
the verge of meanness in everything which did not directly concern his
own comfort and well-being, he, nevertheless, was totally dependent upon
his friends for a full enjoyment of his two amusements; for he hated to
dine alone and he loathed solitaire.
Therefore, in spending money to make his house and grounds attractive
to his friends, he was ministering, as always, to himself; and when he
first took Malcourt for his superintendent he did so from purely selfish
motives and at a beggarly stipend.
And now, in the two years of his official tenure, Malcourt already
completely dominated him, often bullied him, criticised him to his face,
betrayed no illusions concerning the absolute self-interest which
dictated Portlaw's policy in all things, coolly fixed and regulated all
salaries, including his own, and, in short, matched Portlaw's
undisguised selfishness with a cynicism so sparkling and so frankly
ruthless that Portlaw gradually formed for him a real attachment.
There was no indiscriminate generosity in that attachment; he never
voluntarily increased Malcourt's salary or decreased his
responsibilities; he got out of his superintendent every bit of labour
and every bit of amusement he could at the lowest price Malcourt would
take; yet, in spite of that he really cared for Malcourt; he secretly
admired his intellectual equipment; feared it, too; and the younger
man's capacity for dissipation made him an invaluable companion when
Portlaw emerged from his camp in November and waddled forth upon his
annual hunt for happiness.
Something of this Hamil learned through the indiscriminate volubility of
his host who, when his feelings had been injured, was amusingly naive
for such a self-centred person.
"That damn Louis," he confided to Hamil over their after-dinner cigars,
"has kept me guessing ever since he took command here. Half the time I
don't understand what he's talking about even when I know he's making
fun of me; but, Hamil, you have no idea how I miss him."
And on another occasion a week later, while laboriously poring over some
rough plans laid out for him by Hamil:
"Louis agrees with you about this improvement business. He's dead
against my building Rhine-castle ruins on the crags, and he had the
impudence to inform me that I had a cheap mind. By God, Hamil, I can't
see anything cheap in trying to spend a quarter of a million in
decorating this infernal monotony of trees; can you?"
And Hamil, for the first time in many a day, lay back in his arm-chair
and laughed with all his heart.
He had hard work in weaning Portlaw from his Rhine castles, for the
other invariably met his objections by quoting in awful German:
    "Hast du das Schloss gesehen--
    Das hohe Schloss am Meer?"
--pronounced precisely as though the words were English. Which laudable
effort toward intellectual and artistic uplift Hamil never laughed at;
and there ensued always the most astonishing causerie concerning art
that two men in a wilderness ever engaged in.
Young Hastings, a Yale academic and forestry graduate, did fairly well
