Behind her streamed her gigantic shadow; behind her lay another shadow,
cast by her soul and floating wide of it now. And it must never touch
her soul again, God helping.
Suddenly her heart almost ceased its beating. Far away within, stirring
in unsuspected depths, something moved furtively.
Her face whitened a little; her eyes closed, the lids fluttered, opened;
she gazed straight in front of her, walked on, small head erect, lips
firm, facing the hell that lay before her--lay surely, surely before
her. For the breath of it glowed already in her veins and the voices of
it were already busy in her ears, and the unseen stirring of it had
begun once more within her body--that tired white, slender body of hers
which had endured so bravely and so long.
If sleep would only aid her, come to her in her need, be her ally in the
peril of her solitude--if it would only come, and help her to endure!
And wondering if it would, not knowing, hoping, she walked onward
through the falling night.
CHAPTER XVII
THE DANGER MARK
Her letters to him still bore the red cross:
    "I understand perfectly why you cannot come," she wrote; "I would do
    exactly as you are doing if I had a father. It must be a very great
    happiness to have one. My need of you is not as great as his; I can
    hold my own alone, I think. You see I am doing it, and you must not
    worry. Only, dear, when you have the opportunity, come up if only
    for a day."
And again, in November:
    "You are the sweetest boy, and it is not difficult to understand why
    your father cannot endure to have you out of his sight. But is this
    not a very heavy strain on you? Of course your mother and Naïda must
    not be left alone with him; you are the only son, and your place is
    there.
    "Dear, I know what you are going through is one of the most dreadful
    things that any man is called upon to bear--your father stricken,
    your mother and sister prostrate; the newspapers--for I have read
    them--cruel beyond belief! But whatever they say, whatever is true
    or untrue, Duane, remember that it cannot affect my regard for you
    and yours.
    "If I had a father, whatever he might have done, or permitted others
    to do, would not, could not alter my affection for him.
    "Men say that women have no sense of honour. I do not know what
    that sense may be if it falters when loyalty and compassion are
    needed, too.
    "I have read the papers; I know only what I read and what you tell
    me. The rules that custom has framed to safeguard and govern
    financial operations, I do not understand; but, as far as I can
    comprehend, it seems to me that custom has hitherto sanctioned what
    disaster has now placed under a bann. It seems to me that the very
    men who now blame your father have all done successfully what he did
    so disastrously.
    "One thing I know: no kinder, dearer man than your father ever
    lived; and I love him, and I love his family, and I will marry his
    son when I am fit to do it."
And again she wrote:
    "I saw in the papers that the Algonquin Trust Company had closed its
    doors; I read the heartbreaking details of the crowds besieging it,
    the lines of frightened people standing there in the rain all night
    long. It is dreadful, terrible!
    "Who are these Wall Street men who would not help the Algonquin when
    they could? Why is the Clearing House so bitter? I don't know what
    it all means; I read columns about poor Jack Dysart--words and
