on Central Park. For a moment, from a 
window, he stood looking at the rain of sun 
shine, the leisurely motors, the gingerly stepping horses, the parade of nurses out with 
their charges for the midday air. Yet, though 
he looked, he did not see, or rather it was not 
the Park that he saw, but Santa Barbara 
and the obligation to return there. 
 
The prospect was not agreeable. He had, 
however, contemplated it before. Now, with 
no thought of shirking, he .contemplated it 
again. Then, the letter written, other details terminated, he went down Madison 
avenue for a word with Maud. 
But the girl was not at home. William 
assured him of that, assured him that this 
time there was no mistake, that she was really out, gone but a little before in her 
brougham. 
Welden took from a pocket the letter 
which he had written. 
"Here is a note for Miss Barhyte. Give 
it to her yourself and say that it is not to be 
opened until she hears from me. I leave 
town to-day and I will wire shortly, but the 
letter is not to be opened until then. Do you 
understand? You do? You are sure you 
do? The letter is not to be opened until I 
wire. Very good. Here is something for 
you." 
"Thank you, Mr. Welden. Thank you." 
The man bowed Welden out, after which 
he put the letter on the hall table where, later 
that afternoon, Maud letting herself in with 
a latch-key as was her custom, found and 
read it. 
Welden then was on his way to Chicago. 
The press there supplied him with fresh 
news from Santa Barbara, at Omaha there 
was more. But thereon, over the plains and 
through the hamlets which in a sort of horrible coquetry vie in hideousness with each 
other, there was a silence that continued 
until Ogden was reached. 
Ogden too has its coquetries. But the 
news of the day may be had there. There 
is also a stop. 
The stop is brief, yet it sufficed for Wel 
den. He wired to Maud, got his trunks from 
the baggage car, his bags from the Pullman 
and boarded a returning train. 
In a Salt Lake sheet he had read that, the 
 
prosecution collapsing, Perkins had been released. It was then that he wired. The wire 
was a request that his letter should not be 
opened. Four days later he was in New 
York. 
On the evening of that fourth day, a bit 
fatigued, the motion of the train actively 
continuing in his head, but in a white tie, a 
white waistcoat between which two small 
black studs served to indicate his recent 
mourning he was again in Madison ave 
