such a fine old way, as my friend said--that is under social conditions
so multifold and to a comparatively starved and democratic sense so
curious--the past seems to have left a sensible deposit, an aroma, an
atmosphere. This ghostly presence tells you no secrets, but it prompts
you to try and guess a few. What has been done and said here through so
many years, what has been ventured or suffered, what has been dreamed or
despaired of? Guess the riddle if you can, or if you think it worth
your ingenuity. The rooms at Palazzo Corsini suggest indeed, and seem
to recall, but a monotony of peace and plenty. One of them imaged such
a noble perfection of a home-scene that I dawdled there until the old
custodian came shuffling back to see whether possibly I was trying
to conceal a Caravaggio about my person: a great crimson-draped
drawing-room of the amplest and yet most charming proportions; walls
hung with large dark pictures, a great concave ceiling frescoed and
moulded with dusky richness, and half-a-dozen south windows looking out
on the Arno, whose swift yellow tide sends up the light in a cheerful
flicker. I fear that in my appreciation of the particular effect so
achieved I uttered a monstrous folly--some momentary willingness to be
maimed or crippled all my days if I might pass them in such a place. In
fact half the pleasure of inhabiting this spacious saloon would be that
of using one’s legs, of strolling up and down past the windows, one by
one, and making desultory journeys from station to station and corner
to corner. Near by is a colossal ball-room, domed and pilastered like
a Renaissance cathedral, and super-abundantly decorated with marble
effigies, all yellow and grey with the years.
VI
In the Carthusian Monastery outside the Roman Gate, mutilated and
profaned though it is, one may still snuff up a strong if stale
redolence of old Catholicism and old Italy. The road to it is ugly,
being encumbered with vulgar waggons and fringed with tenements
suggestive of an Irish-American suburb. Your interest begins as you
come in sight of the convent perched on its little mountain and lifting
against the sky, around the bell-tower of its gorgeous chapel, a coronet
of clustered cells. You make your way into the lower gate, through a
clamouring press of deformed beggars who thrust at you their stumps
of limbs, and you climb the steep hillside through a shabby plantation
which it is proper to fancy was better tended in the monkish time. The
monks are not totally abolished, the government having the grace to
await the natural extinction of the half-dozen old brothers who remain,
and who shuffle doggedly about the cloisters, looking, with their white
robes and their pale blank old faces, quite anticipatory ghosts of their
future selves. A prosaic, profane old man in a coat and trousers serves
you, however, as custodian. The melancholy friars have not even the
privilege of doing you the honours of their dishonour. One must imagine
the pathetic effect of their former silent pointings to this and that
conventual treasure under stress of the feeling that such pointings were
narrowly numbered. The convent is vast and irregular--it bristles with
those picture-making arts and accidents which one notes as one lingers
and passes, but which in Italy the overburdened memory learns to resolve
into broadly general images. I rather deplore its position at the gates
of a bustling city--it ought rather to be lodged in some lonely fold of
the Apennines. And yet to look out from the shady porch of one of the
quiet cells upon the teeming vale of the Arno and the clustered towers
of Florence must have deepened the sense of monastic quietude.
The chapel, or rather the church, which is of great proportions and
designed by Andrea Orcagna, the primitive painter, refines upon the
consecrated type or even quite glorifies it. The massive cincture
of black sculptured stalls, the dusky Gothic roof, the high-hung,
deep-toned pictures and the superb pavement of verd-antique and dark red
marble, polished into glassy lights, must throw the white-robed figures
