The house where the martyrologist John Fox first 
saw the light was replaced long ago by a famous old 
inn, pulled down in its turn; but the many and many 
Americans who visit Boston may still visit the house 
where Jean Ingelow was born. Whether they may see 
more than the outside of it I do not know from experi- 
ment or even inquiry. " E. 1ST." will say nothing of 
her but that she was born, and that her father was a 
banker; perhaps he thinks that she has spoken suf- 
ficiently for herself. 

The air of the market-place, as we crossed to the 
church, was of a pleasant bleakness, and the Witham 

 

was coldly washing under the wall which keeps St. 
Botolph from it. In the dimness we could have only 
a conjecture of the church's outward beauty, and of 
the grandeur of the tower climbing into the evening, 
where it has hailed so many myriads of moving skips!, 
and beckoned them to safety. But within, where it 
was already night, the church was cheerfully luminous 
with Welsbaeh lights, which showed it all wreathed 
and garlanded for a harvest festival, begun the day be- 
fore, and to be concluded now with some fit religious 
observance. The blossoms and leaves were a little wilt- 
ed and withered, but the fruits and vegetables were 
there in sturdy endurance, and together they swathed 
the pulpit from which John Cotton used to preach, and 
all but kid its structure from view, like flowers of 
rhetoric softening some hard doctrine. 

Apparently, however, Cotton's doctrine was not any- 
wise too hard, or even hard enough, for such " a fac- 
tious people, who were imbued with the Puritan spirit," 
as he found in Boston, when he was first elected vicar 
of St. Botolph's ; and it was not till Archbishop Laud's 
ecclesiastical tyrannies began that he came to see " the 
Sin of Conformity " and to preach resistance. His 
conflict with the authorities went so far that exile to 
another Boston in another hemisphere became his only 
hope. Or, as Lord Dorset intimated, " if he had been 
guilty of drunkenness, uncleanness, or any lesser fault, 
he could have obtained his pardon, but as he was guilty 
of Puritanism, and !N"on-conformity, the crime was non- 
pardonable; and therefore he advised him to flee for 
his safety." 

The Cotton Chapel, so called, was restored mainly 
with moneys received from Cotton's posterity, lineal 
or lateral, in his city of refuge overseas, and " the cor- 
bels that support the timbered ceiling are carved with 

 

the arms of certain of the early colonists of New Eng- 
land." Edward Everett, one of Cotton's descendants, 
wrote the dedicatory inscription in Latin, which " R. 
NT." has Englished in verse, and I am the more scrupu- 
