the moral order of the world, and I felt a good deal like the trustful
spectator who has given his gold watch to the conjurer, and doesn’t know
in what shape he’ll get it back when the trick is over ... Still, a
glow of self-righteousness tempered my fears, and I said to myself as I
undressed that when I’d got used to being good it probably wouldn’t make
me as nervous as it did at the start. And by the time I was in bed, and
had blown out my candle, I felt that I really was getting used to it,
and that, as far as I’d got, it was not unlike sinking down into one of
my aunt’s very softest wool mattresses.

“I closed my eyes on this image, and when I opened them it must have
been a good deal later, for my room had grown cold, and the night was
intensely still. I was waked suddenly by the feeling we all know--the
feeling that there was something near me that hadn’t been there when I
fell asleep. I sat up and strained my eyes into the darkness. The room
was pitch black, and at first I saw nothing; but gradually a vague
glimmer at the foot of the bed turned into two eyes staring back at me.
I couldn’t see the face attached to them--on account of the darkness,
I imagined--but as I looked the eyes grew more and more distinct: they
gave out a light of their own.

“The sensation of being thus gazed at was far from pleasant, and you
might suppose that my first impulse would have been to jump out of bed
and hurl myself on the invisible figure attached to the eyes. But it
wasn’t--my impulse was simply to lie still ... I can’t say whether
this was due to an immediate sense of the uncanny nature of the
apparition--to the certainty that if I did jump out of bed I should
hurl myself on nothing--or merely to the benumbing effect of the eyes
themselves. They were the very worst eyes I’ve ever seen: a man’s
eyes--but what a man! My first thought was that he must be frightfully
old. The orbits were sunk, and the thick red-lined lids hung over the
eyeballs like blinds of which the cords are broken. One lid drooped
a little lower than the other, with the effect of a crooked leer; and
between these pulpy folds of flesh, with their scant bristle of lashes,
the eyes themselves, small glassy disks with an agate-like rim about the
pupils, looked like sea-pebbles in the grip of a starfish.

“But the age of the eyes was not the most unpleasant thing about them.
What turned me sick was their expression of vicious security. I don’t
know how else to describe the fact that they seemed to belong to a man
who had done a lot of harm in his life, but had always kept just inside
the danger lines. They were not the eyes of a coward, but of some one
much too clever to take risks; and my gorge rose at their look of base
astuteness. Yet even that wasn’t the worst; for as we continued to scan
each other I saw in them a tinge of faint derision, and felt myself to
be its object.

“At that I was seized by an impulse of rage that jerked me out of bed
and pitched me straight on the unseen figure at its foot. But of course
there wasn’t any figure there, and my fists struck at emptiness. Ashamed
and cold, I groped about for a match and lit the candles. The room
looked just as usual--as I had known it would; and I crawled back to
bed, and blew out the lights.

“As soon as the room was dark again the eyes reappeared; and I now
applied myself to explaining them on scientific principles. At first
I thought the illusion might have been caused by the glow of the last
embers in the chimney; but the fire-place was on the other side of my
bed, and so placed that the fire could not possibly be reflected in my
toilet glass, which was the only mirror in the room. Then it occurred
