written; and it sent a thrill of delight and speculation to his
impressionable heart.  Still carrying the tray before him he hastened
over to the club, where there was something of an ovation.  Instead of
a dinner for three it became one for a dozen, and Fitzgerald passed the
statuettes round as souvenirs of the most unique bet of the year.
There were lively times.  Toward midnight, as Fitzgerald was going out
of the coat room, Cathewe spoke to him.
"What was her name, Jack?"
"Hanged if I know."
"She dropped a card on your tray."
Fitzgerald scrubbed his chin.  "There wasn't any name on it.  There was
an address and something more.  Now, wait a moment, Arthur; this is no
ordinary affair.  I would not show it to any one else.  Here, read it
yourself."
"Come to the house at the top of the hill, in Dalton, to-morrow night
at eight o'clock.  But do not come if you lack courage."
That was all.  Cathewe ran a finger, comb-fashion, through his
mustache.  He almost smiled.
"Where the deuce is Dalton?" Fitzgerald inquired.
"It is a little village on the New Jersey coast; not more than forty
houses, post-office, hotel, and general store; perhaps an hour out of
town."
"What would you do in my place?  It may be a joke, and then again it
may not.  She knew that I was a rank impostor."
"But she knew that a man must have a certain kind of daredevil courage
to play the game you played.  Well, you ask me what I should do in your
place.  I'd go."
"I shall.  It will double discount fishing.  And the more I think of
it, the more certain I become that she and I have met somewhere.
By-by!"
Cathewe lingered in the reading-room, pondering.  Here was a twist to
the wager he was rather unprepared for; and if the truth must be told,
he was far more perplexed than Fitzgerald.  He knew the girl, but he
did not know and could not imagine what purpose she had in aiding
Fitzgerald to win his wager or luring him out to an obscure village in
this detective-story manner.
"Well, I shall hear all about it from her father," he concluded.
And all in good time he did.
CHAPTER IV
PIRATES AND PRIVATE SECRETARIES
It was a little station made gloomy by a single light.  Once in so
often a fast train stopped, if properly flagged.  Fitzgerald, feeling
wholly unromantic, now that he had arrived, dropped his hand-bag on the
damp platform and took his bearings.  It was after sundown.  The sea,
but a few yards away, was a murmuring, heaving blackness, save where
here and there a wave broke.  The wind was chill, and there was the
hint of a storm coming down from the northeast.
"Any hotel in this place?" he asked of the ticket agent, the telegraph
operator, and the baggageman, who was pushing a crate of vegetables off
a truck.
"Swan's Hotel; only one."
"Do people sleep and eat there?"
"If they have good digestions."
"Much obliged."
"Whisky's no good, either."
"Thanks again.  This doesn't look much like a summer resort."
"Nobody ever said it was.  I beg your pardon, but would you mind taking
an end of this darned crate?"
"Not at all."  Fitzgerald was beginning to enjoy himself.  "Where do
you want it?"
