" Because, Bertie, you don't want to make 
a stable boy out of him. He has too many 
possibihties. For one thing, he's good look- 
ing." 
Samuel flushed scarlet and dropped his eyes. 
He felt again that penetrating gaze. 
" All right," said Lockman. " What can you 
suggest? " 
" I don't know, I'm sure. But something de- 
cent." 
" He doesn't know enough to be a house ser- 
vant, Glad " 
" No — but something outside. Couldn't he 
learn gardening? Are you fond of flowers, Sam- 
uel? " 
" Yes, ma'am," said Samuel quickly. 
" Well, then, make a gardener out of him," 
said Miss Wygant; and that settled Samuel's 
destiny. 
The boy took his departure and went home, 
almost running in his excitement. He was trans- 
ported into a distant heaven of bliss; he had been 
seated among the gods — he was to dwell there 
forever after! 
His new patron had given him a five-dollar 
bill; and before he reached the Stedman home he 
stopped in a grocery store and loaded up his 
arms with bundles. And then, seized by a sud- 
den thought, he went into a notion store and set 
down his bundles and purchased a clean, white 
linen collar, and a necktie of royal purple and 
brilliant green — already tied, so that it would al- 
ways be perfect in shape. 
Then he went into the Stedmans, and the 
widow and the youngest children sat round and 
listened open-eyed to his tale. And then came 
Sophie, and he had to tell it all over again. 
The girl's eyes opened wide with excitement 
when he came to the end of his recital. " Miss 
Wygant!" she exclaimed. "Miss Gladys Wy- 
gant? " 
" Yes," said Samuel. " You've heard of her? " 
"I've seen herl" exclaimed Sophie eagerly. 
"Twice!" 
" You don't mean it," he said. 
" Yes. Once she came to our church festival 
at Christmas." 
" Does she belong to your church? " 
" It's the mission. Great folks like her wouldn't 
want us in the church with them. She goes to 
St. Matthew's, you know — up there on the hill. 
But she came to the festival at the mission and 
helped to give out the presents. And she was 
dressed all in red — something filmy and soft, like 
you'd see in a dream. And, oh, Samuel — she was 
so beautiful! She had a rose in her hair — and 
such a sweet perfvmie — you could hardly bear it! 
And she stood there and smiled at all the children 
and gave them the presents. She gave me mine, 
and it was like seeing a princess. I wanted to 
