and fumble with it." 
" But she 's my responsibility." 
He looked into the fire gloweringly and said nothing. 
He had heard a great deal about Catherine's responsibilities. 
They had almost [made him resolve, in a reactionary spite, 
that he would have none. 
" How is the other girl ? " he asked. 
" Lilian? So far — John, she's an enormous disappoint- 
ment." 
" Well, you don't care, do you ? Your aflfections aren't 
involved ? " 
"My affections, no. But Celia's arc." 
"Is she fond of her?" 
" Naturally. Her sister 1 " 
 
She looked at him as if the implication that sisters were not 
fond might be monstrous. Winterbourne thought he had 
heard of such cases, but he said nothing because he remem- 
bered that, with Catherine, the clever thing was to avoid 
argument. She had plenty of time for it, but it kept him from 
the fellowship of books. That striking him less like an in- 
vitation than a picture rescued from old days and thrown 
upon a screen before him for an instant, made him steal a 
glance at the book waiting there for him, patient, inscrutable, 
holding its beauties until the foolish mind got ready to aban- 
don these peddling discussions and come back to calms and 
sanities. His hand crept out toward his pipe, too ; but he 
withdrew it. That was one thing he could not remember 
about Catherine. She might not mind smoking, but it seemed 
reasonable that she did. 
Catherine was settling to a leisurely flow of talk, of the 
sort she chose, not the lazy interchange of trifles born out 
of the common air, sparks struck out as the breath comes, 
but stories interminably prolonged. Winterbourne hated 
them. He liked to embark himself on a monologue, specula- 
tion about the things in heaven and earth ; but an infinite 
number of parentheses opening his mind to the minds of 
tedious people, he abhorred. She continued, — 
" You know how we found Lilian ? " 
" I believe you wrote me." 
It was in one of the long letters constructed according to 
an ill-chosen method of page-numbering, he readily assumed. 
He knew how the letters looked, and how he faithfully 
studied through them from the first page to the finish, and 
then back to the second, which had to be tipped at right 
angles, when the whole could as easily have been written like 
a book. 
" It was on our way to New York, you know, the month 
 
after we came home from abroad. The train was stalled. 
We got out and went to spend the night at an inn in that 
little town. What was the name of that town ? I never can 
remember." 
Winterbourne shifted his feet, the one over the other. 
" Never mind the town," he suggested. " It 's probably 
not material." 
" No. Well, I shall think of it. And there was this girl. 
She had a ring, — it 's exactly like a story, — a little onyx 
ring, hung round her neck by a ribbon, because it was too 
little for her to wear. And that was so queer that it attracted 
