which is as a flash of light in a raindrop, and yet one 
with the eternal process. As the fruit of his life he 
leaves one symphony in manuscript, and some pages 
of writing in which he has summed up his faith. That 
is enough, he says that is victory; for that he fled 
away, and killed his love. 
The two professors come, having learned that Lloyd 
is dying. But even they cannot divert him. He tells 
von Arne that his learning will submit itself, and that 
scientists will be as gardeners, tending the young 
flowers of faith. His mother and father come, and he 
whispers that even for them there is hope that in the 
deepest mire of respectability the spark of the soul still 
glows. His mother bursts into weeping by his bed, and 
he tells her that even from the dungeon of pride there 
may be deliverance. So he sends them all away to 
pray. 
Then Helena sits at the piano and plays a few bars 
of that sonata of Beethoven's which is an utterance of 
most poignant grief, and which some publisher has 
cruelly misnamed the "Moonlight". And after long 
silence, the dying man communes with his muse. A 
light suffuses the room, and he whispers, "Take thine 
own time; for the seeds of thy glories are planted in 
the hearts of men !" 
6. OVER these things Thyrsis would work for six 
hours at a stretch, sitting without moving a muscle ; 
for days and nights he would wander about at random 
in the woods. He ate irregularly, of such things as 
he could put his hands upon ; and sleep fled from him 
like a mistress spurned. When, after a couple of 
months, he had finished the task, there was an incessant 
throbbing in his forehead, and alas for the sudden 
tumble from the heights of Parnassus ! he had lost 
almost entirely the power of digesting food. 
But the play was done. He sent it off to be copied, 
and wrote paeans of thanksgiving to Corydon. Once 
more he had a weapon, newly-forged and sharpened, 
wherewith to pierce that tough hide of the world ! 
There remained the practical question : What did 
one do when he had a play completed? What was the 
first step to be taken? Thyrsis pondered the problem 
for several days ; and then, as chance would have it, 
his eye was caught by a newspaper paragraph to the 
effect that "Ethelynda Lewis, the popular comedienne, 
is to be starred in a serious drama next season, under 
the management of Robertson Jones. Miss Lewis's 
play has not yet been selected." Now, as it happened, 
"Ethelynda Lewis" had been on the play-bill of "The 
Princess of Prague", that tragic "musical comedy" to 
which Thyrsis had been taken ; but he never noticed the 
names of actors and actresses, and had no suspicions. 
He sent his manuscript to this future star ; and a week 
later came a note, written on scented monogram paper 
in a tall and distinguished chirography, acknowledging 
the receipt of his play and promising to read it. 
Then Thyrsis turned to attack the manuscripts which 
had been accumulating while he was writing. They were 
coming more frequently now apparently Mr. Ardsley 
liked his work. To Corydon, who had gone to the 
