
                           *IN LOCO PARENTIS*


Shaved, bathed, and his person adorned with his most fashionable
lounging suit for a summer afternoon, Edgerton sauntered out of his room
and met the maid in the hallway.  She had returned in time to answer the
door; evidently also she had already been enlightened as to his
identity, so he passed her with a nod and a smile, and entered the
studio just as the door bell rang.

Neither Silvette nor Diana had yet appeared, nor had he been instructed
what to say to those who might call in answer to the advertisement.  He
looked up doubtfully as the maid announced a Mr. Rivett and a Colonel
Curmew, and he stepped forward as these two gentlemen were ushered in.

"How d’you do?" he said pleasantly. "My cousins will be in directly.  I
am James Edgerton 3d."

Colonel Curmew, a jaunty gentleman of less than middle height and age,
looked at him out of a pair of eyes slightly inclined to pop.  He
appeared to be rather a good-looking man at first glance, with a
perceptible military cut which, however, seemed to threaten something
akin to a strut.  He didn’t exactly strut when he stepped, but he held
himself very erect—the more so perhaps because he seemed to lack
something else—perhaps height.

He knew Edgerton perfectly well by sight and reputation; and when he sat
down he was still looking at him out of his full, pale eyes.

Mr. Rivett also seated himself—a little man with a walrus mustache who
somehow looked as though, under his loosely cut clothes, his slight
physique was steel framed.

He put on his glasses and looked at Edgerton out of two little unwinking
eyes which reminded the young fellow of holes burned in a blanket.

"I came," he said cautiously, "in answer to a somewhat unusual
advertisement."

"Yes," said Edgerton pleasantly, "we advertised."

"If I recollect," continued Mr. Rivett, "you did not figure in the
advertisement."

"No," replied Edgerton, smiling; "my cousins possess the family talents;
I’m supernumerary—merely thrown in.  My services are not worth very
much; I ride and shoot, of course, and all that, but I don’t talk very
well and my dancing is the limit."

"I see."

Edgerton nodded serenely.

Colonel Curmew passed a carefully gloved hand over his trimly curled
military mustache. Edgerton glanced at him and wondered just what was
the matter with his face, which ought to have been good-looking.
Perhaps the short, closely cropped side whiskers extending to the lobes
of the ears slightly cheapened the mustache, and vulgarized the man a
little.
