kind of thing I seem to have a talent for."
"Fetching and carrying for the fashionable and wealthy," sneered
Westguard.
Quarren's face flushed again: "I suppose that's it."
Westguard glared at him: "I wish I could shake it out of you!"
"I guess the poison's there," said Quarren in a low voice. "The worst of
it is I like it--except when I understand your contempt."
"You like to fetch and carry and go about with your pocket full of
boudoir keys!"
"People give me as much as I give them."
"They don't!" said the other angrily. "They've taken a decent fellow and
put him in livery!"
Quarren bit his lip as the blood leaped to his face.
"Don't talk that way, Karl," he said quietly. "Even you have no business
to take that tone with me."
There was a silence. After a few moments Westguard came over and held
out his hand. Quarren took it, looked at him.
"I tell you," he said, "there's nothing to me. It's your kindness, Karl,
that sees in me possibilities that never were."
"They're there. I'll do my duty almost to the point of breaking our
friendship. But--I'll have to stop short of that point."
A quick smile came over Quarren's face, gay, affectionate:
"You couldn't do that, Karl.... And don't worry. I'll cut out a lot of
frills and try to do things that are worth while. I mean it, really.
Don't worry, old fellow."
"All right," said Westguard, smiling.
CHAPTER II
A masked dance, which for so long has been out of fashion in the world
that pretends to it, was the experiment selected by Molly Wycherly for
the warming up of her new house on Park Avenue.
The snowy avenue for blocks was a mass of motors and carriages; a
platoon of police took charge of the vehicular mess. Outside of the
storm-coated lines the penniless world of shreds and patches craned a
thousand necks as the glittering costumes passed from brougham and
limousine under the awnings into the great house.
Already in the new ball-room, along the edges of the whirl, masqueraders
in tumultuous throngs were crowding forward to watch the dancers or
drifting into the eddies and set-backs where ranks of overloaded gilt
chairs creaked under jewelled dowagers, and where rickety old beaux
impersonated tinselled courtiers on wavering but devoted legs.
Aloft in their rococo sky gallery a popular orchestra fiddled
frenziedly; the great curtains of living green set with thousands of
gardenias swayed in the air currents like Chinese tapestries; a
harmonious tumult swept the big new ball-room from end to end--a
composite uproar in which were mingled the rushing noise of silk,
clatter of sole and heel, laughter and cries of capering maskers
gathered from the four quarters of fashionable Gath to grace the
opening of the House of Wycherly. They were all there, dowager, matron,
débutante, old beaux, young gallant, dancing, laughing, coquetting,
flirting. Young eyes mocked the masked eyes that wooed them; adolescence
tormented maturity; the toothless ogled the toothsome. Unmasking alone
could set right this topsy-turvy world of carnival.
A sinuous Harlequin, his skin-tight lozenge-patterned dress shimmering
like the red and gold skin of a Malay snake, came weaving his way
through the edges of the maelstrom, his eyes under the black half-mask
glittering maliciously at the victims of his lathe-sword. With it he
recklessly slapped whatever tempted him, patting gently the rounded arms
and shoulders of nymph and shepherdess, using more vigour on the plump
contours of fat and elderly courtiers, spinning on the points of his
pump-toes, his limber lathe-sword curved in both hands above his head,
