kindness, and that she had not been stupidly curious, only
sympathetically so.  He interested her and held that interest because
he was a type unlike anything she had met outside the covers of a book.
He was so big and strong, and yet so boyish.  He had given her visions
of the character which had carried his manhood through all these years
of strife and bitterness and temptation.  And because of this she had
shown him that she had taken it for granted that whatever he had done
in the past had not put him beyond the pale of her friendship.  There
had been no degrading entanglements, and women forgive or condone all
other transgressions.
And what had she just said or done to put that look of dumb agony in
his face?  She swung impatiently from the rail.  She hated abstruse
problems, and not the least of these was that which would confront her
when she returned to America.  She began to promenade the deck, still
cluttered with luggage over which the Lascar stewards were moiling.
Many a glance followed the supple pleasing figure of the girl as she
passed round and round the deck.  Other promenaders stepped aside or
permitted her to pass between.  The resolute uplift of the chin, and
the staring dark eyes which saw but inner visions, impressed them with
the fact that it would be wiser to step aside voluntarily.  There were
some, however, who considered that they had as much right to the deck
as she.  Before them she would stop shortly, and as a current breaks
and passes each side of an immovable object, they, too, gave way.
The colonel fussed and fumed, and his three spinster charges drew their
pale lips into thinner paler lines.
"These Americans are impossible!"
"And it is scandalous the way the young women travel alone.  One can
never tell what they are."
"Humph!  Brag and assertiveness.  And there's that ruffian who came
down the river.  What's he doing on the same boat?  What?"
Elsa became aware of their presence at the fifth turn.  She nodded
absently.  Being immersed in the sea of conjecture regarding
Warrington's behavior, the colonel's glare did not rouse in her the
sense of impending disaster.
The first gong for dinner boomed.  Elsa missed the clarion notes of the
bugle, so familiar to her ears on the Atlantic.  The echoing wail of
the gong spoke in the voice of the East, of its dalliance, its content
to drift in a sargassa sea of entangling habits and desires, of its
fatalism and inertia.  It did not hearten one or excite hunger.  Elsa
would rather have lain down in her Canton lounging-chair.  The gong
seemed out of place on the sea.  Vaguely it reminded her of the railway
stations at home, where they beat the gong to entice passengers into
the evil-smelling restaurants, there to lose their patience and often
their trains.
The dining-saloon held two long tables, only one of which was in
commission, the starboard.  The saloon was unattractive, for staterooms
marshaled along each side of it; and one caught glimpses of tumbled
luggage and tousled berths.  A punka stretched from one end of the
table to the other, and swung indolently to and fro, whining
mysteriously as if in protest, sometimes subsiding altogether (as the
wearied coolie above the lights fell asleep) and then flapping
hysterically (after a shout of warning from the captain) and setting
the women's hair awry.
Elsa and Martha were seated somewhere between the head and the foot of
the table.  The personally-conducted surrounded them, and gabbled
incessantly during the meal of what they had seen, of what they were
going to see, and of what they had missed by not going with the other
agency's party.  Elsa's sympathy went out to the tired and faded
conductor.
There was but one vacant chair; and as she saw Warrington nowhere, Elsa
