vegetables and household plunder; the town fairly whistled with flame,
and the smoke rose in a great cloud-shape very high, and hung above us,
tenting us from the sun.
In the midst of this uproar the Grey-Feather came speeding to me with
news that the enemy was a little way upstream and seemed inclined to
make a stand. I immediately informed the General; and soon the
bugle-horns of the light infantry sounded, and away we raced ahead of
them.
I remember seeing an entire company marching with muskmelons pinned on
their bayonets, all laughing and excited; and I heard General Sullivan
bawl at them:
"You damned unmilitary rascals, do you mean to open fire on 'em with
vegetables?"
Everybody was laughing, and the General grinned as Hand's bugle-horns
played us in.
But it was another matter when the Seneca rifles cracked, and a
sergeant and a drummer lad of the 11th Pennsylvania fell. The
smooth-bores cracked again, and four more soldiers tumbled forward
sprawling, the melons on their bayonets rolling off into the bushes.
Carbury, marching forward beside me, dropped across my path; and as I
stooped over him gave me a ghastly look.
"Don't let them scalp me," he said--but his own men came running and
picked him up, and I ran forward with the others toward a wooded hill
where puffs of smoke spotted the bushes.
Then the long, rippling volleys of Hand's men crashed out, one after
another, and after a little of this their bugle-horns sounded the
charge.
But the Senecas did not wait; and it was like chasing weasels in a
stone wall, for even my Indians could not come up with them.
However, about two o'clock, returning to that part of the town across
the river, which Colonel Dearborn's men were now setting afire, we
received a smart volley from some ambushed Senecas, and Adjutant Huston
and a guide fell.
It was here that the Sagamore made his kill--just beyond the first
house, in some alders; and he came back with a Seneca scalp at his
girdle, as did the Grey-Feather also.
"Hiokatoo's warriors," remarked the Oneida briefly, wringing out his
scalp and tying it to his belt.
I looked up at the hills in sickened silence. Doubtless Butler's men
were watching us in our work of destruction, not daring to interfere
until the regulars arrived from Fort Niagara. But when they did arrive,
it meant a battle. We all knew that. And knew, too, that a battle lost
in the heart of that dark wilderness meant the destruction of every
living soul among us.
About two o'clock, having eaten nothing except what green and uncooked
stuff we had picked up in field and garden, our marching signal sounded
and we moved off; driving our captured stock, every soldier laden with
green food and other plunder, and taking with us our dead and wounded.
Chemung had been, but was no longer. And if, like Thendara, it was ever
again to be I do not know, only that such a horrid and pitiful
desolation I had never witnessed in all my life before. For it was not
the enemy, but the innocent earth we had mutilated, stamping an armed
heel into its smiling and upturned face. And what we had done sickened
me.
Yet, this was scarcely the beginning of that terrible punishment which
was to pass through the Long House in flame and smoke, from the Eastern
Door to the Door of the West, scouring it fiercely from one end to the
other, and leaving no living thing within--only a few dead men prone
among its blood-soaked ashes.
*Etho ni-ya-wenonh!
