Leilah had turned to go. A bit unsteadily she moved on, reached the
entrance, leaned there for support.
But Barouffski was at her heels.
“Five,” he repeated. “He said it, you said it, what does it mean?”
“It means that God willing some day I may have peace.”
She had half-turned. She turned again. In a moment she had gone.
Menacingly Barouffski’s eyes followed her. “That’s what five means,
does it?”
Then he too turned. Nearby, on the marble chair, were his coat and
waistcoat. Slowly, thoughtfully, he put them on. As he did so he
noticed the dogs. It may have seemed to him then that they were his
only friends. Longly he looked their way.
Suddenly, as though illumination had come, he touched a bell and looked
up at Leilah’s window.
After a brief delay, Emmanuel appeared.
“Shut the gate,” Barouffski ordered.
“Perfectly, monsieur le comte,” the footman very deferentially replied
and started to do as bidden.
Barouffski checked him. Indicating the lower window, he added:
“At five or thereabouts be in there. I will tell you then what to do.
You hear me?”
“Perfectly, monsieur le comte.”
Again Barouffski glanced at the upper window. As he glanced he smiled.
“Cara mia, five may mean more things than you say, more even than you
think.”
He was still smiling but it was not a pleasant smile to see.
Beneath his breath, Emmanuel, who was looking at him, muttered:
“Quelle gueule de maquereau!”
X
“Gracious!” Violet exclaimed. She had been smoking and now in putting a
cigarette in a cendrier she had succeeded in overturning it. Undismayed
she looked at a clock. “Gracious!” she repeated. “Since that stupid
duel, I have sat here an hour.”
Leisurely the lady arose. She was a glowing object in this room which,
filled with costly futilities and furnished in canary and black,
otherwise was Empire and brilliant. The main entrance, hung with
heavy portières of yellow damask had, opposite it, across the room,
a tapestry panel which masked a spiral stairway that led below. To
one side, at an elaborate table, which now the overturned cendrier
had strewn with ashes, Leilah was seated. Behind her, through an open
window, shone the eager sun. Before her, rising from a sofa was her
friend.
Leilah wished that she would go, wished too that she would stay, wished
rather--as at times we all wish of those who are near us--that she were
different, less mondaine perhaps, more simple. To Violet, the spectacle
in the garden had been tedious. To Leilah it was horrible. Moreover
the atmosphere of blood and hate, the enigma of Verplank’s words, the
menaces of Barouffski’s eyes, these things frightened her, inducing a
dread which seemed to brood not in the mind but in the body. She could
have put a hand to her girdle and have said: “It is here.” In addition
she felt--as in every spiritual crisis we all do--alone. Of this she
could not tell Violet. She felt that she lacked the power to express
it and that Violet lacked the ability to understand. Pain has accents
which only its graduates know. Violet, in all her brilliant life, had
never shed a poignant tear.
“What do you propose to do now?” the lady was asking.
Cheerlessly Leilah replied: “My duty.”
Here was something which Violet did understand. Brightly she nodded.
“Yes, and I may tell you that it is your duty to preserve your looks
and avoid a scandal. I did not at all like your fantasia in the garden.
