were lurking outside of the college gates; 
it was a fact that the boy's classmates 
had teased him and ridiculed him, had 
literally made his Hfe a torment, until he 
had yielded to temptation. 
It was the old, old story of ignorant and 
unguided schoolboys all over the world! 
They thought that to be chaste was to be 
weak and foolish; that a fellow was not a 
man unless he led a life of debauchery hke 
the rest. And what did they know about 
these dreadful diseases? They had the 
most horrible superstitions — 'ideas of cures 
 
so loathsome that they could not be set 
down in print; ideas as ignorant and de- 
structive as those of savages in the heart 
of Africa. And you might hear them 
laughing and jesting about one another's 
condition. They might be afflicted with 
diseases which would have the most terrible 
after-effects upon their whole lives and 
upon their families — diseases which cause 
tens of thousands of surgical operations 
upon women, and a large percentage of 
blindness and idiocy in children — and you 
might hear them confidently express the 
opinion that these diseases were no worse 
than a bad cold! 
And all this mass of misery and ignorance 
covered over and clamped down by a 
taboo of silence, imposed by the horrible 
superstition of sex-prudery! George went 
out from the doctor's office trembluig with 
excitement over this situation. Oh, why 
had not some one warned him in time? 
Why didn't the doctors and the teachers 
lift up their voices and tell young men 
about these frightful dangers? He wanted 
to go out in the highways and preach it 
 
himself — except that he dared not, because 
he could not explain to the world his own 
sudden interest in this forbidden topic. 
There was only one person he dared to 
talk to: that was his mother — to whom he 
ought to have talked many, many years 
before. He was moved to mention to her 
the interview he had overheard in the 
doctor's office. In a sudden burst of grief 
he told her of his struggles and temptations; 
he pleaded with her to go to Henriette once 
more — 'to tell her these things, and try to 
make her realize that he alone was not to 
blame for them, that they were a condition 
which prevailed everywhere, that the only 
difference between her husband and other 
men was that he had had the misfortune 
to be caught. 
There was pressure being applied to 
