
"This is my sister, Miss Crawford--Aunt Kate, to you always; who has
been like a mother to my children--"

Aunt Kate bent over from her tallness and gave her a perfunctory kiss.
Zay clasped both arms around her.

"Oh, isn't it queer," with a musical ripple. "You certainly were a
princess in disguise at school, and some of the girls said you were my
double to tease me; but I don't think we look very much alike; do you,
papa?"

She raised her radiant face with the pearly complexion, bewitching mouth
and shining eyes. Marguerite looked rather pale and cold with the
strangeness.

Then they went up to the mother's room, but Aunt Kate paused at the door
and turned in another direction. Zay and Willard followed her.
Marguerite went to her mother's arms and for many seconds neither spoke.

"What a strange, long waiting without any hope," said the father at
length. "I have often thought what Marguerite would be like if she had
lived, and it always was impressed upon me that she would be like her
mother. If I could have wished it--"

The child raised her head. The dark lashes were beaded with tears.

"I am sorry not to be as beautiful," she said, with great humility. "I
must make up any deficiency by my love and devotion. Oh, it seems as if
I had gone into some divine country when love filled the very
atmosphere."

She held out her hand to her father who crushed it in a tender clasp.

"But you are looking pale and weary, mother." What a sweet word it was
to say when it was true.

"I have had a great deal of excitement these last few days, then the
nurse had to go away to a more serious case, but I have tried to obey
her injunctions," smiling a little. "Probably I shall never be very
robust again, but nothing like this will try nerves. I think I have
stood it exceedingly well," glancing up at her husband. "I was very
quiet all day yesterday, but I could not help dreaming of the years to
come----"

"I hope God will give me strength to make them happy. Oh, I want to give
you the best of love and service and never pain you by any lack. For you
are the mother I have longed for, who could capture and fill my
desires. I would like to work for you----"

"My dear, if you could be so devoted to the mother who was not your
ideal and could not understand your thoughts and feelings, I shall try
to come nearer and fill your whole heart, sympathize with your
aspirations. I shall be glad to listen to them. Oh, my child, if you had
been dull and coarse, but you simply could not have been, and this Mrs.
Boyd must have had a certain refinement. I appreciate her more every day
as I think it over."

"Oh, I thank you for that. It seems to me that I must have been willful
at times; but I wanted to take her out of that narrow round as well as
