but it was written in the book of fate that I 
should be a decisive factor in her life, and so her 
story presupposes mine. I imagine the impatience 
of a reader, who is promised a heroine out of a 
romantic and picturesque "society" world, and 
finds himself beginning with the autobiography 
of a farmer's wife on a solitary homestead in Mani- 
toba. But then I remember that Sylvia foimd me 
interesting. Putting myself in her place, remem- 
bering her eager questions and her exclamations, 
I am able to see myself as a heroine of fiction. 
I was to Sylvia a new and miraculous thing, a 
self-made woman. I must have been the first 
"common" person she had ever known intimately. 
She had seen us afar off, and wondered vaguely 
about us, consoling herself with the reflection that 
we probably did not know enough to be xmhappy 
over our sad lot in life. But here I was, actually 
a soul like herself; and it happened that I knew 
more than she did, and of things she desperately 
needed to know. So all the luxury, power and 
prestige that had been given to Sylvia Castleman 
seemed as nothing beside Mary Abbott, with her 
modem attitude and her common-sense. 
My girlhood was spent upon a farm in Iowa. 
My father had eight children, and he drank. 
Sometimes he struck me ; and so it came about that 
at the age of seventeen I ran away with a boy of 
twenty who worked upon a neighbor's farm. 
I wanted a home of my own, and Tom had some 
money saved up. We journeyed to Manitoba, 
and took out a homestead, where I spent the next 
twenty years of my hf e, in a hand-to-hand struggle 
with Nature which seemed simply incredible to 
Sylvia when I told her of it. 
The man I married tiuTied out to be a petty 
tjrant. In the first five years of owe life he suc- 
ceeded in killing the love I had for him; but 
meantime I had borne him three children, and 
there was nothing to do but make the best 
of my bargain. I became to outward view a 
beaten drudge; yet it was the truth that never for 
an hour did I give up. When I lost what would 
have been my fourth child, and the doctor told 
me that I could never have another, I took this 
for my charter of freedom, and made up my mind 
to my course; I would raise the children I had, 
and grow up with them, and move out into life 
when they did. 
This was when I was working eighteen hours 
a day, more than half of it by lamp-light, in the 
darkness of our Northern winters. When the 
accident came, I had been doing the cooking for 
half a dozen men, who were getting in the wheat 
upon which our future depended. I fell in my 
tracks, and lost my child; yet I sat still and white 
while the men ate supper, and afterwards I washed 
up the dishes. Such was my life in those days; 
and I can see before me the face of horror with 
which Sylvia listened to the story. But these 
