I'm a bit wicked; but I rather like to prove my theory that all men are
weak.  If I had a daughter I'd rather have her be an old man's darling
than a young man's drudge.  I distrust every man I know.  I came to ask
you and Susan to go to the opera with me to-night.  You will come to my
apartments first.  You will come?"
"To be sure we will!"
"Simple little fool!" thought the Russian on the way home.  "She shall
see."
"I believe the countess is engaged to be married," said Florence to
Jones.
"Indeed, miss?"
"Yes.  I couldn't get anything definite out of her, but she had a
beautiful ring on her finger.  She wants Susan and me to go to the
opera with her to-night.  Will that be all right?"
Jones gazed abstractedly at the rug.  Whenever a problem bothered him
he seemed to find the solution in the delicate patterns of the Persian
rugs.  Finally he nodded.  "I see no reason why you should not go.
Only, watch out."
"Jones, there is one thing that will make me brave and happy.  Will you
tell me if you are in direct communication with my father?"
"Yes, Miss Florence," he answered promptly.  "But do not breathe this
to a single soul, neither Susan nor Norton."
"I promise that.  But, ah! hasten the day when he can come to me
without fear."
"That is my wish also."
"You need not call me miss.  Why should you?"
"It might not be wise to have any one hear me call you thus
familiarly," he objected gravely.
"Please yourself about that.  Now I must telephone Jim."
"Jim?" the butler murmured.
He caught the word which was not intended for his ears.  But for once
Jones had been startled out of himself.
"Is it wrong for me to call Mr. Norton Jim?" she asked with a bit of
banter.
"It is not considered quite the proper thing, Miss Florence, to call a
young man by his first name unless you are engaged to marry him, or
grew up with him from childhood."
"Well, supposing I were engaged to him?" haughtily.
"That would be a very grave affair.  What have you to prove that he may
not wish to marry you for your money?"
"Why, Jones, you know that I haven't a penny in the world I can call my
own!  There is nothing to prove, except your word, that I am Stanley
Hargreave's daughter."
"No, there is nothing to prove that you are his daughter.  But hasn't
it ever occurred to you that there might be a purpose back of this?
Might it not be of inestimable value that your father's enemies should
be left in doubt?  Might it not be a means of holding them on the
leash?  There is proof, ample proof, my child; and when the time comes
these will be shown you.  But meantime put all thought of marrying Mr.
Norton out of your mind."
"That I refuse to do," quietly.  "I am at least mistress of my heart;
and no one shall dictate to me whom I shall or shall not marry.  I love
Mr. Norton and he loves me, knowing that I may not be an heiress after
all.  And some day I shall marry him."
Jones bowed.  This seemed to appear final to him, and nothing more was
to be said.
Norton did not return to his rooms till seven.  He found the telephone
call and also a note in a handwriting unfamiliar.  He tore off the
envelope and found!  the contents to be from the Countess Perigoff.
"Call at eight to-night," he read.  "I have an important news story for
