things. It might easily be so. Perhaps it 
is the sadness of the past year the strange 
ness of it, and " 
She sighed unconsciously. 
"It is lonely in the Wood of Aulnes," she 
said. 
"Indeed it must be very lonely here," he 
returned in a low voice. 
"Yes. . . . Aulnes Wood is too remote for 
them to send our wounded here for their convalescence. I offered Aulnes. Then I of 
fered myself, saying that I was ready to go 
anywhere if I might be of use. It seems there 
are already too many volunteers. They take 
only the trained in hospitals. I am untrained, 
and they have no leisure to teach . . . nobody 
wanted me." 
She turned and gazed dreamily at the forest. 
"So there is nothing for me to do," she said, 
"except to remain here and sew for the hospitals." . . . She looked out thoughtfully across 
the fern-grown carrefour: "Therefore I sew 
all day by the latticed window there all day 
long, day after day and when one is young 
and when there is nobody nothing to look 
at except the curlew flying nothing to hear 
except the vanneaux, and the clocks striking 
the hour " 
Her voice had altered subtly, but she lifted 
her proud little head and smiled, and her tone 
grew firm again: 
"You see, Monsieur, I am truly becoming 
a trifle morbid. It is entirely physical; my 
heart is quite undaunted." 
"You heart, Madame, is but a part of the 
great, undaunted heart of France." 
"Yes . . . therefore there could be no fear 
no doubt of God. . . . Affairs go well with 
France, Monsieur! may I ask without military impropriety?" 
"France, as always, faces her destiny, Madame. And her destiny is victory and light." 
"Surely ... I knew ; only I had heard noth 
ing for so long. . . . Thank you, Monsieur." 
He said quietly: "The Light shall break. 
We must not doubt it, we English. Nor can 
you doubt the ultimate end of this vast and 
hellish Darkness which has been let loose upon 
the world to assail it. You shall live to see 
light, Madame and I also shall see it perhaps " 
She looked up at the young man, met his 
eyes, and looked elsewhere, gravely. A slight 
flush lingered on her cheeks. 
On the doorstep of the house they paused. 
"Is it possible," she asked, "that an enemy 
aeroplane could land in the Aulnes Etang? 
L Etang aux Vanneaux?" 
"In the Etang I" he repeated, a little startled. 
"How large is it, this Etang aux Vanneaux?" 
"It is a lake. It is perhaps a mile long and 
three-quarters of a mile across. My old servant, Anne, had seen the werewolf in the 
reeds like a man without a face and only 
two great eyes " She forced a pale smile. 
"Of course, if it were anything she saw, it 
