cellar?"
He made a motion toward his breast pocket; Asticot was quicker, and he
fired full at the flashlight which Warner was holding wide of himself
and Philippa.
The bullet struck the light; startling darkness buried them, instantly
all a-flicker again with pistol flashes.
"The grating again!  Can you find it, Philippa?" he whispered.
She turned her head as she retreated, caught a glimpse of the faint spot
of starlight behind, took his hand and drew him around.
Evidently Wildresse dared not use any light; his friends were shooting
wildly and at hazard for general results; the racket in the vaulted
place was deafening; but the flashes from their own pistols must have
obscured their vision, for if they could have distinguished the far,
pale spot of light under the manhole, they evidently did not see the dim
figures crouching there.
Warner reached up, grasped the iron bars, lifted them, swung them open.
Then he dragged himself up and over, and, flat on the grass, held down
his arms for Philippa.
Beside him, panting on the grass, she lay flat under the dim luster of
the stars, while they searched the dusk for any sign of the two men who
had landed from the rowboat.
And all at once the girl’s eyes fell upon a ladder leaning against the
house, and she silently touched Warner on the arm.
It became plain enough now; the rope was gone; the men had mounted to
the room, found it empty, had unbolted both doors, and started Wildresse
and his crew toward the cellar—the only egress to the street—where lay
their only chance of successful pursuit.
Bending low above the grass, gliding close to the shrubs and bushes,
Warner, with Philippa’s hand clasped in his, stole down the slope and
into the shadow of the shoreward trees.
A boat, with both oars in it, lay there, pulled up into the sedge; the
girl stepped in; Warner pushed off and followed her, shipped the oars,
swung the boat, and bent to his work.
"You are taking the wrong way!" whispered Philippa.
"Halkett is waiting on the quay."
Already they had rounded the bank in sight of the ancient arch of the
bridge; the quay wall rose above them in the starlight.  At the foot of
the narrow flight of steps he checked the boat; Philippa took the oars,
and he sprang out and ran up the stone incline.
"Halkett!" he called sharply.
A figure seated on the wall turned its head, jumped to the pavement, and
came striding swiftly.
"Have you discovered her whereabouts?  Good heavens!  Where are your
clothes, Warner?"
"I’ve found Philippa.  She’s waiting below in a boat——"
They ran down the steps while they were speaking, and Philippa cried:
"Is it you, Halkett?  I am happy again!"  And stretched out her slender
bare arm to him, excited, trembling a little from the nervous reaction
which now suddenly filled her eyes and set her disfigured mouth
quivering.
"Awf’lly glad," said Halkett heartily, clasping her offered hand in his
firm cool grip; and if he was astonished at her negligee he did not
betray it, but took the oars with decision and sent the boat shooting
out into mid-current.
"Philippa," he said, pulling downstream with powerful strokes through
the darkness, "I don’t know what has happened; Warner got you out of the
mess, whatever it was; but what I do know is that you behaved like a
brick and I shall never forget it!  A soldier’s thanks, little comrade,
for what you did!"
"I—I am—happy——" she faltered; and her voice failed her.  She slid from
