"Am I to take them?"
"Are you going to?"
"Do you mean to say that rather than surrender them you would endure
such violence as that?"
"I promised.... Are you going to--to hurt me, Kervyn?" she stammered.
"I'll try not to."
She stood there, breathing fast, white, defiant.
"You'll have to surrender," he said. "You might as well. It's an
honourable capitulation in the presence of superior force."
"No."
"You refuse?"
"Yes, please."
He said: "Very well, then," with an alarming frown.
"Kervyn----"
"What?"
"If you tear my gown I--I shall have to go to bed."
"I'm not going to touch your gown," he said. "I'm going to charm those
papers so they'll leave their hiding place and fly into my pocket. Watch
me very attentively, Karen!" And he tucked up his cuffs and made a few
short passes in the air. Then he smiled at her.
"Kervyn! I thought you meant to take them. Do you know you really did
frighten me?"
"I have got them," he said.
The colour came back into her cheeks; she smiled at him in a breathless
way.
"You did frighten me," she said. She came slowly back and seated herself
on the carpet of fir-needles. He sat down beside her.
"Karen, dear," he said, "you are a brick and I'm a brute. I took your
papers this morning. I had to, dear."
And he drew them from his breast pocket and showed them to her.
The girl sat in wide-eyed amazement for a moment. Suddenly her face
flushed and the tears flashed in her eyes.
"You have ridiculed me!" she said. "You have treated me like a child!"
"Karen----"
"I will not listen! I shall never listen to you again! You have played
with me, hurt me, humiliated me. You have ruled and overruled me! You
gained my friendship and treated it--and me--without ceremony. And I let
you! I must have been mad----"
Her mouth quivered; she clenched her hands, gazing at him through eyes
that glimmered wet:
"How could you do it? I was honest with you; I had had no experience
with a man I cared for. You knew it. You let me care for you until I
didn't understand--until the sincerity and force of what I felt for you
bewildered me!
"And now--and now I am--unhappy--unhappy--miserable, ashamed--" She
caught her breath, scarcely able to see him through her tears--no longer
able to control the quivering lip.
She rose swiftly, encountered something--his arm--felt herself drawn
resistlessly into his embrace.
"Forgive me, Karen," he said. "I did not realize--what was happening
to--us both."
She rested her forehead on his shoulder for a moment.
"Can you forgive me, Karen?"
"Yes."
"You know I truly care for you?"
"Yes."
Scarcely knowing what he was doing, he bent to touch her forehead with
his lips, and she lifted her face at the same moment. His kiss fell on
her mouth, and she responded. At the same instant her girlhood ended
forever--vanished on her lips in a little sigh.
