I surveyed Kemper in cold perplexity. As chief of the expedition, I
couldn't very well offer to remain with Evelyn Grey, but I didn't propose
that Kemper should, either.
"Take Grue," he suggested, "and look about the woods for a while. Perhaps
after dinner Miss Grey may feel sufficiently rested to join us."
"I am sure," she said, "that a few hours' rest in camp will set me on my
feet. All I need is rest. I didn't sleep very soundly last night."
I felt myself growing red, and I looked away from them both.
"Oh," said Kemper, in apparent surprise, "I thought you had slept soundly
all night long."
"Nobody," said I, "could have slept very pleasantly during that musical
performance of yours."
"Were you singing?" she asked innocently of Kemper.
"He was singing when he wasn't firing off his pistol," I remarked. "No
wonder you couldn't sleep with any satisfaction to yourself."
Grue had disappeared into the forest; I stood watching for him to come
out again. After a few minutes I heard a furious but distant noise of
flapping; the others also heard it; and we listened in silence, wondering
what it was.
"It's Grue killing something," faltered Evelyn Grey, turning a trifle
pale.
"Confound it!" I exclaimed. "I'm going to stop that right now."
Kemper rose and followed me as I started for the woods; but as we passed
the beached boats Grue appeared from among the trees.
"Where have you been?" I demanded.
"In the woods."
"Doing what?"
"Nothing."
There was a bit of down here and there clinging to his cotton shirt and
trousers, and one had caught and stuck at the corner of his mouth.
"See here, Grue," I said, "I don't want you to kill any birds except for
camp purposes. Why do you try to catch and kill birds?"
"I don't."
I stared at the man and he stared back at me out of his glassy eyes.
"You mean to say that you don't, somehow or other, manage to catch and
kill birds?"
"No, I don't."
There was nothing further for me to say unless I gave him the lie. I
didn't care to do that, needing his services.
Evelyn Grey had come up to join us; there was a brief silence; we
all stood looking at Grue; and he looked back at us out of his pale,
washed-out, and unblinking eyes.
"Grue," I said, "I haven't yet explained to you the object of this
expedition to Black Bayou. Now, I'll tell you what I want. But first let
me ask you a question or two. You know the Black Bayou forests, don't
you?"
"Yes."
"Did you ever see anything unusual in these forests?"
"No."
"Are you sure?"
The man stared at us, one after another. Then he said:
"What are you looking for in Black Bayou?"
"Something very curious, very strange, very unusual. So strange and
unusual, in fact, that the great Zoölogical Society of the Bronx in New
York has sent me down here at the head of this expedition to search the
forests of Black Bayou."
"For what?" he demanded, in a dull, accentless voice.
"For a totally new species of human being, Grue. I wish to catch one and
take it back to New York in that folding cage."
His green eyes had grown narrow as though sun-dazzled. Kemper had stepped
