it was, the big symbolism beating in its heart and keeping it alive. The
Children of Light could see the symbolism quick as a wink. Still the
Children of Darkness who never saw any symbolism at all and who were the
ones to yawn and go home to bed, helped pay for tickets and keep the
thing running. We must bewitch them also. Jeff inquired humbly if she
would advise taking up Shakespeare with the Mill Enders and found she
still wouldn't venture on it at once. She'd do some fairy plays, quite
easy to write on new lines. Everything was easy if you had "go" enough,
Lydia said. Jeff ventured to inquire about scenic effects, and
discovered, to his enlightenment, that Lydia had the greatest faith in
the imagination of any kind of audience. Do a thing well enough, she
said, and the audience would forget whether it was looking at a painted
scene or not. It could provide its own illusion. Think of the players,
she reminded him, who, when they gave the Trojan Women on the road, and
sought for a little Astyanax, were forbidden by an asinine city
government to bring on a real child. Think how the actors crouched
protectingly over an imaginary Astyanax, and how plainly every eye saw
the child who was not there. Perhaps every woman's heart supplied the
vision of her dream-child, of the child she loved. Think of the other
play where the kettle is said to be hissing hot and everybody shuns it
with such care that onlookers wince too. Lydia thought she could write
the fairy plays and the symbolic plays, all American, if Jeff liked, and
he might correct the grammar.
Just then Mary Nellen, passionately but silently grieved to have lost
such an intellectual feast, came in on the tail of these remarks. She
brought Jeff a letter. It was a publisher's letter, and the publisher
would print his book about prisoners. It said nothing whatever of trying
to advertise him as a prisoner. Jeff concluded the man was a decent
fellow. He swaggered a little over the letter and told the family he had
to, it was such luck.
They were immensely proud and excited at once. The colonel called him
"son" with emphasis, and Lydia got up and danced a little by herself.
She invited Anne to join her, but Anne sat, soft-eyed and still, and was
glad that way. Jeff thought it an excellent moment to tell them he was
going to teach in the evening school, upon which Lydia stopped dancing.
"But I want to," he said to her, with a smile for her alone. "Won't you
let me if I want to?"
"I want you to write," said Lydia obstinately.
"I shall. I shall write. And talk. It's a talking age. Everybody's
chattering, except the ones that are shrieking. I'm going to see if I
can't down some of the rest."
XXXVI
A carnival of motor cars kept on whirling to all parts of the town where
Madame Beattie was likely to speak. She spoke in strange places: at
street corners, in a freight station, at the passenger station when the
incoming train had brought a squad of workmen from the bridge repairing
up the track. It was always to workmen, and always they knew, by some
effective communication, where to assemble. The leisure class, too, old
Addingtonians, followed her, as if it were all the best of jokes, and
protested they sometimes understood what she said. But nobody did,
except the foreigners and not one of them would own to knowing. Weedon
Moore made little clipped bits of speeches, sliced off whenever her car
appeared and his audience turned to her in a perfect obedience and
glowing interest. Jeff, speaking for Alston, now got a lukewarm
attention, the courtesy born out of affectionate regard. None of the
roars and wild handclappings were for him. Madame Beattie was eating up
all the enthusiasm in town. Once Jeff, walking along the street, came on
her standing in her car, haranguing a group of workmen, all intent,
eager, warm to her with a perfect sympathy and even a species of
adoration.
