ways added that, if it hadn't been for his "habit," he 
might have gone to the Legislature, or made money " same 
as his brother " had. The Greenes had once been the 
great family in the township. They had driven good 
horses and drunk fiery liquor. Larry, the younger 
brother of the present squire, was the very image, it was 
said, of another Lawrence in the past, the maddest one 
of all, about whom legends of luxury and madcap pranks 
had clung. The present Larry was still a young man 
when, at the death of his father, he left the mansion 
where his forebears had lived and came down to this lit- 
 
tie house on the back road. He brought with him his 
fiddle and his dog. The dog had died, at a good old 
age, and then Larr j had had another ; and now the third, 
Smilie, a wandering hound, had taken up uninvited resi- 
dence with him. Ardelia Brock came across the woods — 
a little walk — once or twice a day, as he needed her, to 
get his food and keep his house in order; and now Ellen, 
well grown enough to do tasks deftly, would sometimes 
come in her mother's place. Nobody knew where Larry 
got the little money it took him to live on, in his fan- 
tastically neat, plain way; the neighbors judged it could 
not be from the foolish things he wrote. These were 
sketches of country life, grim, biting, and, to his neigh- 
bors, valueless because they were no more than what the 
eye saw and the ear heard every day. They did not know 
that a few clear-seeing minds adored the sketches be- 
cause they were so true, and that his patient, gay refusal 
to color them with a shade of the rose of optimism kept 
down his income to its meager limits. At the same time, 
indeed for the last ten years, he had been working on a 
history of Bromley, and that and his fiddle, when he had 
ten dollars to the good, kept him light-hearted. Larry 
was of those, who, having missed all the prizes, manage 
the genial leisure to look about them and take cognizance 
of the face of earth. But always the common mind, when 
he was mentioned, swung round to his habit. Sometimes, 
for days at a time, often, indeed, at an interval of months, 
he shut himself up in his house for a bout of the drinking 
that is so doubly damned when a man drinks alone.' At 
those times, he would turn his dog out of the house, and 
put out a little fiag, always, significantly, at half-mast, 
from his front window sill. The flag meant that Ardelia 
was not to come in. Nobody could enter, indeed, because 
 
»he locked his doors ; but Ellen especially was forbidden to 
come up the path to the house when she saw the banner 
of his defeat. 
" I heard you," he said to the boys to-night, as they 
opened the door upon him where he sat by his kitchen 
stove. " What a devil of a racket you two make coming 
through the woods. I thought it was an Indian massa- 
cre." 
The boys grinned at him in silent greeting, and took 
their accustomed seats. Larry, set off by the colors 
of his calico-cushioned armchair, was a distinguished 
figure in his blue shirt and trousers. The boys had known 
him from their farthest remembrance, and to them he was 
only Larry, different from the rest of the neighbors in 
