sow above all, don't they, or mayn't they be 
made to ? the seed of Ralph's suspicion of his being 
suspected, putting him on his guard against this 
latter, rendering him uneasy, and whatever else, 
under the painter's study of him. Wouldn't it 
be then to the little H.W. man that the artist 
speaks of his strange impression, in complete 
confidence and secrecy at first, but sowing what 
I have called the seed so in the most favourable 
ground ? I recognise that one doesn't quite see 
how we know he does this, as we don't of course 
  
see or hear him do it; yet that needn't find itself 
so ill provided for by Ralph's himself making it 
out and concluding upon it which is after all 
the only way we really know anything. I don't 
want to repeat what I have done at least a couple 
of times, I seem to remember, and notably in 
The Liar the "discovery," or the tell-tale rep 
resentation of an element in the sitter written 
clear by the artist's projection of it on canvas. 
At the same time I am not afraid; I see its office 
well enough and needn't trouble if once the idea 
appeals, as I think it really does. In this case 
it's worked in early; the notion of my young 
man having his portrait as a matter of course 
done in London coming in with perfect natural 
ness. He has it done for his prospective bride; 
she takes an interest in it of the very greatest 
at first; and it is the little H.W. man who recom 
mends, who selects, the artist. I see all sorts of 
curious things in this it perfectly bristles with 
them, and with one's chance, above all, of making 
the personage in question (and I do want another 
figure, to people the canvas a little more) a real 
vision to Ralph, a character of the time, intensely 
typical for Ralph; through whose sense of all 
which, however, I tread the delicate ground of 
imputations to him, of perceptions, discrimina 
tions, estimates more or less at variance with his 
1820 identity. That delicate ground, I have 
only to remind myself, is absolutely the very 
  
most attaching ground of my process; solvitur 
ambulando I have only to find myself in close 
quarters with it to get from it force and felicity. 
I present then the painter-man, I make him, do 
him, see him and use him; use him to very good 
purpose. Don't I kind of see Ralph's suspicion 
of being suspected come to a head in the sight 
of something produced on the little H.W. man's 
part, on his nerves and in his fancy, in fine, through 
an active correspondence with the malaise the 
artist has caused in him through divinably feel 
ing it himself? The foregoing difficult to state, 
but one is quite possessed of it; there's a great 
lot in it only too much, alas, given my faculty 
for amplifying and going far. However, a rigorous 
tight hand on the excess of that is my very law 
of life here. I do feel how an effective further 
