dulgence in which their meeting would take 
place. The excellent fact for "the boy," who 
was two-and-thirty years of age and who now 
 
quite felt as if during the last few weeks he had 
lived through a dozen more, was thus that he 
was doing his uncle good and that somehow, to 
complete that harmony, he might feel the opera- 
tion of an equal virtue. At his invitation, at his 
decision, the idea of some such wondrous matter 
as this had of course presided — for waiting and 
obliging good, which one was simply to open one's 
heart or one's hand to, had struck him ever as 
so little of the common stuff of life that now, 
at closer range, it could but figure as still more 
prodigious. At the same time there was nothing 
he dreaded, by his very nature, more than a fond 
fatuity, and he had imposed on himself from the 
first to proceed at every step as if without con- 
sideration he might well be made an ass of. It 
was true that even such a danger as this presented 
its interest — the process to which he should yield 
would be without precedent for him, and his 
imagination, thank heaven, had curiosity in a 
large measure for its principle; he wouldn't rush 
into peril, however, and flattered himself that 
after all he should not recognise its symptoms 
too late. 
What he said to himself just now on the spot 
was, at any rate, that he should probably have 
been more excited if he hadn't been so amused. 
To be amused to a high pitch while his nearest 
kinsman, apparently nursing, as he had been told, 
a benevolence, lay dying a few rooms off — let 
 
this impute levity to our young man only till 
we understand that his liability to recreation 
represented in him a function serious indeed. 
Everything played before him, everything his 
senses embraced; and since his landing in New 
York on the morning before this the play had 
been of a delightful violence. No slightest aspect 
or briefest moment of it but had held and, so to 
say, rewarded him: if he had come back at last 
for impressions, for emotions, for the sake of the 
rush upon him of the characteristic, these things 
he was getting in a measure beyond his dream. 
It was still beyond his dream that what every- 
thing merely seen from the window of his room 
meant to him during these first hours should 
move him first to a smile of such ecstasy, and 
then to such an inward consumption of his smile, 
as might have made of happiness a substance 
you could sweetly put under your tongue. He 
recognised — that was the secret, recognised wher- 
ever he looked — and knew that when, from far 
back, during his stretch of unbroken absence, he 
had still felt, and liked to feel, what air had orig- 
inally breathed upon him, these piercing intensi- 
ties of salience had really peopled the vision. 
