you with amusement, Anne."
Carrying his suitcase, the girl walking beside him, he walked across the
great rotunda to the newsstand. There, and at the confectionery counter
opposite, he purchased food for mind and body—light food suitable for a
young and badly bruised mind, and for a soul in embryo, still in the
making.
Then he went over to another window and bought a ticket for himself to
Pittsfield, and sleeping accommodations.
"We travel by different lines, Anne," he said, opening his portfolio and
placing his own tickets in it, where several letters lay addressed to
him at his basement studio.  Then he replaced the portfolio in his
breast pocket.
"I’ll go with you to your train," he said, declining with a shake of his
head the offices of a red-capped porter.  "Your train leaves at 12.10
and we have only a few minutes."
They walked together through the gates, the officials permitting him to
accompany her.
The train stood on the right—a very long train, and they had a long
distance to walk along the concrete platform before they found her car.
A porter showed them to her stateroom.  Grismer tipped him generously:
"Be very attentive to this young lady," he said, "and see that she has
every service required, and that she is notified in plenty of time to
get off at Hudson.  Now you may leave us until we ring."
He turned from the corridor and entered the stateroom, closing the door
behind him.  The girl sat on the sofa, very pale, with a dazed
expression in her eyes.
He seated himself beside her and drew her hands into his own.
"Let me tell you something," he said cheerfully. "Everybody makes
mistakes.  You’ve made some; so have I; so has everybody I ever heard
of.
"Everybody gets in wrong at one time or another. The idea is to get out
again and make a fresh start....  Will you try?"
She nodded, so close to tears that she could not speak.
"Promise me you’ll make a hard fight to travel straight?"
"Y-yes."
"It won’t be easy.  But try to win out, Anne.  Back there—in those
streets and alleys—there’s nothing to hope for except death.  You’ll
find it if you ever go back—in some hospital, in some saloon-brawl, in
some rooming-house—it will surely, surely find you by bullet, by knife,
by disease—sooner or later it will find you unless you start to search
for it yourself."
He patted her hand, patted her pale cheek:
"It’s a losing game, Anne.  There’s nothing in it. I guess you know that
already.  So go back to your people and tell them the last lies you ever
tell.  And stick.  Stay put, little girl.  You really are all right,
you know, but you got in wrong.  Now, you’re out!"
He laughed and stood up.  She lifted her head.  All her colour had fled.
"Don’t forget me," she whispered.
"Not as long as I live, Anne."
"May I—I write to you?"
He thought a minute, then with a smile:
"Why not?"  He found a card and pencil, wrote his name and address, and
laid it on the sofa.  "If it would do any good to think of me when
you’re likely to get in wrong," he said, "then try to remember that I
was square with you.  And be so to me.  Will you?"
"I—will."
That was all.  She was crying and her eyes were too blind with tears to
see the expression of his face as he kissed her.
He went away lightly, swinging his suitcase, and stood on the very end
of the cement platform looking out across a wilderness of tracks
