away your job ? " 
He lowered his voice. "Would you seriously like to 
have a union here ? " 
 
" Seriously ? " said she. " Didn't ye see Mr. Kafferty 
— what a coward he is ? That's the way they are ! No, 
'twas just a burst of my temper. I'm a bit crazy to-night 
— something happened to set me off." 
He thought she was going on, but apparently she changed 
her mind. Finally he asked, " What happened ? " 
" Oh, 'twould do no good to talk," she answered ; and 
they walked a bit farther in silence. 
" Tell me about it, won't you ? " he said ; and the kind- 
ness in'his tone made its impression. 
" 'Tis not much ye know of a coal-camp, Joe Smith," 
she said. " Can't ye imagine what it's like — bein' a 
woman in a place like this? And a woman they think 
good-lookin' ! " 
"Oh, so it's that!" said he, and was silent again. 
" Some one's been troubling you ? " he ventured after a 
while. 
" Sure ! Some one's always troublin' us women ! Al- 
ways ! Never a day but we hear it. Winks and nudges 
— everywhere ye turn." 
"Who is it?" 
" The bosses, the clerks — anybody that has a chance to 
wear a stiff collar, and thinks he can offer money to a 
girl. It begins before she's out of short skirts, and there's 
never any peace afterwards." 
" And you can't make them understand ? " 
"I've made them understand me a bit; now they go 
after, my old man." 
" What ? " 
" Sure ! D'ye suppose they'd not try that ? Him that's 
so crazy for liquor, and can never get enough of it ! " 
" And your father ? — " But Hal stopped. She would 
not want that question asked ! 
She had seen his hesitation, however. " He was a de- 
cent man once," she declared. " 'Tis the life here, that 
turns a man into a coward. 'Tis everything ye need, 
 
everywhere ye turn — ye have to ask favours from some 
boss. The room ye work in, the dead work they pile on 
ye; or maybe 'tis more credit ye need at the store, or 
maybe the doctor to come when ye're sick. Just now 'tis 
our roof that leaks — so bad we can't find a dry place to 
sleep when it rains." 
" I see," said Hal. " Who owns the house ? " 
" Sure, there's none but company houses here." 
" Who's supposed to fix it ? " 
"Mr. Kosegi, the house-agent. But we gave him up 
long ago — if he does anything, he raises the rent. To- 
day my father went to Mr. Cotton. He's supposed to look 
out for the health of the place, and it seems hardly healthy 
to keep people wet in their beds." 
"And what did Cotton say?" asked Hal, when she 
stopped again. 
" Well, don't ye know Jeff Cotton — can't ye guess what 
he'd say ? ' That's a fine girl ye got, Burke ! Why don't 
ye make her listen to reason ? ' And then he laughed, and 
