stalking two well-known suspects."
They both laughed cautiously.
Grogan's was now in sight on the corner, its cherrywood magnificence
and its bilious imitation of stained glass aglow with electricity. And
into its "Family Entrance" swaggered Soane, followed by the lank
figure of Max Freund.
Renoux and Barres had halted fifty yards away. Neither spoke. And
presently came to them a short, dark, powerfully built man, who
strolled up casually, puffing a large, rank cigar.
Renoux named him to Barres:
"Emile Souchez, one of my men." He added: "Anybody gone in yet?"
"Otto Klein, of Gerhardt, Klein & Schwartzmeyer went in an hour ago,"
replied Souchez.
"Oho," nodded Renoux softly. "That signifies something really
interesting. Who else went in?"
"Small fry--Dave Sendelbeck, Louis Hochstein, Terry Madigan, Dolan,
McBride, Clancy--all Clan-na-Gael men."
"Skeel?"
"No. He's still at the Astor. Franz Lehr came out about half an hour
ago and took a taxi west. Jacques Alost is following in another."
Renoux thought a moment:
"Lehr has probably gone to see Skeel at the Hotel Astor," he
concluded. "We're going to have our chance, I think."
Then, turning to Barres:
"We've decided to take a sport-chance to-night. We have most reliable
information that this man Lehr, who now owns Grogan's, will carry here
upon his person papers of importance to my Government--and to yours,
too, Barres.
"The man from whom he shall procure these papers is an Irish gentleman
named Murtagh Skeel, just arrived from Buffalo and stopping overnight
at the Hotel Astor.
"Lehr, we were informed, was to go personally and get those papers....
Do you really wish to help us?"
"Certainly."
"Very well. I expect we shall have what you call a mix-up. You will
please, therefore, walk into Grogan's--not by the family entrance, but
by the swinging doors on Lexington Avenue. Kindly refresh yourself
there with some Munich beer; also eat a sandwich at my expense, if you
care to. Then you will give yourself the pains to inquire the way to
the wash-room. And there you will possess your soul in amiable
patience until you shall hear me speak your name in a very quiet,
polite tone."
Barres, recognising the familiar mock seriousness of student days in
Paris, began to smile. Renoux frowned and continued his instructions:
"When you hear me politely pronounce your name, mon vieux, then you
shall precipitate yourself valiantly to the aid of Monsieur Souchez
and myself--and perhaps Monsieur Alost--and help us to hold, gag and
search the somewhat violent German animal whom we corner inside the
family entrance of Herr Grogan!"
Barres had difficulty in restraining his laughter. Renoux was very
serious, with the delightful mock gravity of a witty and perfectly
fearless Frenchman.
"Lehr?" inquired Barres, still laughing.
"That is the animal under discussion. There will be a taxicab awaiting
us----" He turned to Souchez: "Dis, donc, Emile, faut employer ton
coup du Pêre François pour nous assurer de cet animal là."
"B'en sure," nodded Souchez, fishing furtively in the side pocket of
his coat and displaying the corner of a red silk handkerchief. He
stuffed it into his pocket again; Renoux smiled carelessly at Barres.
"Mon vieux," he said, "I hope it will be like a good fight in the
