smeared with blood, and a white mask over his face, and sev- 
eral nurses with white masks also. Nobody greeted him, or 
stopped for preliminaries they laid him on the operating-table; 
and covered all but his shattered arm with a rubber sheet; 
and slit off his bandages, and then a nurse put something ovei 
his face and said, "Breathe deeply, please." 
It was that ghastly odour again, but overpowering now, 
Jimmie breathed, and everything began to rock and swim, his 
head began to roar, worse than when he had fought the machine- 
gun. He could not stand any more of it ; he cried and struggled 
to get loose, but they had strapped his feet, and some one 
lield his other arm, so his frantic efforts were of no avail. 
He began to fall; head over heels he went tumbling, int< 
vast bottomless abysses down, down, down. He heard a strange 
voice saying: "Their collars are too tight." The words rang 
in his ears, they assumed monstrous and overwhelming signifi- 
cance, they became a whole universe by themselves "Theii 
collars are too tight !" All the rest of creation ceased, the lamj 
of being went out; there remained only a voice, pronouncing 
amid whirling infinities : "Their collars are too tight I" 
Somewhere in the vast spaces of chaos was a snore. Then 
ages afterwards, out of the void there arose a mysterious for- 
gotten effort to get something out of a choking throat. Aftei 
several such unaccountable manifestations, the feeble flame oJ 
consciousness that called itself Jimmie Higgins flickered up 
and he realised that it was he who was trying desperately not tc 
be choked. Also he realised that he was become one horrible 
pain ; somebody had driven a nail through his arm, and f astenec 
him tight to the ground by it; also they had blown up his 
stomach, so that it was threatening to burst, and when he choked 
it was an agony. He gasped for help, but no one paid any atten- 
tion to him; he was all alone in the dungeon-house of pain 
buried and forgotten forever. 
Gradually he emerged from the misty regions of anaesthesia 
and realised that he was on a stretcher, and being carried. H( 
moaned for water, but no one would give it to him. He pleadec 
that there was something dreadful wrong with him, he was 
going to burst inside; but they told him that was only ethei 
gas, and not to worry, he would soon be all right. They laic 
him on a cot in a room, one of a long row, and left him tc 
 
wrestle with the demons all alone. This was war, and a man 
who had only a shattered arm might count himself among the 
lucky. 
So through a night and a day Jimmie lay and made the 
best of a bad situation. There were two nurses in this tent, and 
Jimmie, having nothing to do but watch them, conceived a 
bitter rage at them both. One was lean and angular and sal- 
low ; she went about her duties grimly, with no nonsense, and 
Jimmie did not realise that she was ready to drop with ex- 
haustion. The other was pretty, with fluffy yellow hair, and 
was flirting shamelessly with a young doctor. Perhaps Jimmie 
should have reflected that men were being killed rapidly these 
days, and it was necessary that some should concern themselves 
with supplying the future generations; but Jimmie was in no 
mood to probe the philosophy of flirtation he remembered the 
Honourable Beatrice Clendenning, and wished he was back in 
Merrie England. Also he remembered his pacifist principles, 
and wished he had kept out of this hellish war ! 
But his pain became somewhat less, and they loaded him 
