Presently he began to mutter to himself.  At first I remained sublimely
unconscious of what he was murmuring, then I caught the outrageous
words: "Elle m’aime—un peu—beaucoup—passablement—pas-du-tout——"
"What’s that?" I demanded, glaring at him. "What are you gabbling
about?"
He seemed surprised at my warmth.  I hurled the daisy from me; we turned
and strode back in hostile silence toward the bottling house.
My farmer, Raoul Despres, was inside and the door stood open.  We could
hear the humming of the dynamo.  Evidently, obeying my orders of
yesterday, he had gone in to look over and report upon the condition of
the plant with a view to resuming business where my recent uncle had
left off.
We could see his curly black head, and athletic figure inside the low
building.  As he prowled hither and thither investigating the machinery
he was singing blithely to himself:
    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    You have done a heap of harm—
    You and yours and all your friends!
    Now you’ll have to make amends."
Smith and I looked at each other in blank perplexity.
"That’s a remarkable song," I said at last.
"Very," said Smith.  We halted.  The dynamo droned on like a giant bee.
Raoul continued to sing as he moved around in the bottling house, and
the words he sang came to us quite plainly:
    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    Sacking city, town and farm!
    You, your children and your friends,
    All will come to rotten ends!"
"Smith," said I, "who on earth do you suppose he means by
’Crack-brain-cripple-arm’?"
"Surely," mused Smith, "he could not be referring to the All-highest of
Hunland....  Could he?"
"Impossible," said I.  We went into the bottling house.  And the song of
Raoul ceased.
It struck me, as he turned and came toward us with his frank, quick
smile and his gay and slightly jaunty bearing, that he had about him
something of that nameless allure of a soldier of France.
"But of course you are Swiss," I said to him with a trace of a grin
twitching at my lips.
"Of course, Monsieur," he replied innocently.
"Certainly....  And, how about that machinery, Raoul?"
"It functions, Monsieur.  A little rust—nothing serious.  The torrent
from the Bec de l’Empereur runs the dynamo; the spring flows full.
Listen!"
We listened.  Through the purring of the dynamo the bubbling melody of
the famous mineral spring was perfectly audible.
"How many bottles have we?" I asked.
"In the unopened cases a hundred thousand.  In odd lots, quart size,
twenty thousand more."
"Corks?  Boxes?"
"Plenty."
"Labels?  Straw?"
"Bales, Monsieur."
"And all the machinery works?"
For answer he picked up a quart bottle and placed it in a porcelain
cylinder.  Then he threw a switch; the bottle was filled automatically,
corked, labeled, sheathed in straw and deposited in a straw-lined box.
"Fine!" I said.  "When you have a few moments to spare from the farm you
can fill a few dozen cases.  And you, too, Smith, when time hangs heavy
on your hands, it might amuse you to drop in and start bottling spring
