
"No; only a kike lawyer is required now," he said to himself, as he
crossed the street and entered Central Park. "I've been properly
trimmed by a perfumed wop and a squinting yap," he thought with
intense amusement. "But we're well clear of them for good."

                  *       *       *       *       *

The park was wintry and unattractive. Few pedestrians were abroad, but
motors sparkled along distant drives in the sunshine.

Presently his way ran parallel to one of these drives. And he had been
walking only a little while when a limousine veered in, slowing down
abreast of him, and he saw a white-gloved hand tapping the pane.

He felt himself turning red as he went up, hat in hand, to open the
door and speak to the girl inside.

"What on earth are you doing?" she demanded, laughingly, "--walking
all by your wild lone in the park on a wintry day!"

He explained. She made room for him and he got in.

"We rather hoped you'd be at the opera last night," she said, but
without any reproach in her voice.

"I meant to go, Elorn--but something came up to prevent it," he added,
flushing again. "Were they singing anything new?"

"Yes, but you missed nothing," she reassured him lightly. "Where on
earth have you kept yourself these last weeks? One sees you no more
among the haunts of men."

He said, in the deplorable argot of the hour: "Oh, I'm off all that
social stuff."

"But I'm not social stuff, am I?"

"No. I've meant to call you up. Something always seems to happen--I
don't know, Elorn, but ever since I came back from France I haven't
been up to seeing people."

She glanced at him curiously.

He sat gazing out of the window, where there was nothing to see except
leafless trees and faded grass and starlings and dingy sparrows.

The girl was more worth his attention--one of those New York examples,
built on lean, rangy, thoroughbred lines--long limbed, small of hand
and foot and head, with cinder-blond hair, greyish eyes, a sweet but
too generous mouth, and several noticeable freckles.

Minute grooming and a sure taste gave her that ultra-smart appearance
which does everything for a type that is less attractive in a dinner
gown, and still less in negligée. And which, after marriage, usually
lets a straight strand of hair sprawl across one ear.

But now, coiffeur, milliner, modiste, and her own maiden cleverness
kept her immaculate--the true Gotham model found nowhere else.

