there was no ground for action. Jones could not tell. After the manner
of those who have crammed for a law examination, there had been a moment
when he knew, or thought he knew, it all. But also after the manner of
those who have not taken the post-graduate course which practice is, the
crammed knowledge had gone. Only remnants and misfits remained. It was
on these that he had conjectured the suit which, meanwhile, constituted
a nut to crack. There was time and to spare though. Besides, for the
moment, he had other things to do.
Then, as he went on to attend to them, he wondered why Dunwoodie, who,
he thought, must make a hundred thousand a year, lived like a ragpicker.
Before him, the starshell, which imagination projects, burst suddenly.
He said he had no virtues and probably told the truth, Jones decided. In
which case he cannot be a miser. But he also said he had no vices and
probably lied like a thief. The old scoundrel is a philanthropist. I
would wager an orchard of pippins on that, but there is no one to take
me up--except this policeman.
"Officer," he resumed aloud. "Behold a stranger in a strange land. By
any miracle, is there a taxi-stand nearby?"
Then presently Jones was directing a driver.
"The Tombs!"
XXXII
In a dirty cell Lennox sat on a dirty cot. Through a door, dirty too,
but barred, came a shuffle of feet, the sound of the caged at bay and
that odour, perhaps unique, which prisons share, the smell of dry-rot,
perspiration, disinfectants and poisoned teeth. In addition to the odour
there was light, not much, but some. Nearby was a sink. Altogether it
was a very nice cell, fit for the Kaiser. Lennox took no pleasure in it.
Rage enveloped him. The rage was caused not by the cell but by his
opinion of it. That was only human.
Events in themselves are empty. It is we who fill them. They become
important or negligible, according to the point of view. We give them
the colours, violent, agreeable, or merely neutral, that they obtain. It
is the point of view that fills and affects them. The point of view can
turn three walls and a door into a madhouse. It can convert them into an
ivory tower. To Lennox they were merely revolting.
That morning he had laughed. His arrest amused him. He laughed at it,
laughed at the police. They took no offence. Instead they took the
cigars that he offered and a few accessories which they grabbed. It is a
way the police have. Still Lennox laughed. He knew of course that at
Headquarters he would be at once released, the entire incident properly
regretted. When he found himself not only elaborately wrong but in
court, laughter ceased. Anger replaced it. He had been first amused,
then surprised, afterwards exasperated, emotions that finally addled
into rage, not at others but at himself, which was rather decent. In any
of the defeats of life, the simple blame others; the wise blame
themselves; the evolved blame nobody. Lennox had not reached that high
plane then but in directing his anger at himself he showed the
advantages of civilisation which the war has put in such admirable
relief.
Now, on that cot, in that cell, ragingly he retraced his steps. He saw
himself loving Margaret Austen as though he were to love her forever. A
hero can do no more. He saw her loving him with a love so light that a
breath had blown it away. A nymph in the brake could do no worse. Yet
whether on her part it were perversity or mere shallowness, the result
was the same. It had landed him in jail. For that he acquitted her
completely. What he could not forgive was his own stupidity in
persisting in loving her after she had turned away.
The night before, while, at the opera, the Terra Addio was being sung,
he had been writing her one of the endless letters that only those
vomiting in an attack of indignation morbus ever produce. In the relief
