convulsively whenever his soul seized mine; I cried out the name of
Khidr, begging for wisdom! I called on the Ten Imaums, on Ali the Lion,
on the Blessed Companions. Then I tore my spirit out of the grasp of his
soul--but there was no escape!--no escape," she wailed. "For on every
side I saw the cloud-topped rampart of Gog and Magog, and the woods rang
with Erlik's laughter--the dissonant mirth of hell----"
She began to shudder and sway a little, then with an effort she
controlled herself in a measure.
"There never has been," she began again with lips that quivered in spite
of her--"there never has been one moment in our married lives when my
soul dared forget the Wood of the White Moth--dared seek yours.... God
lives. But so does Erlik. There are angels; but there are as many
demons.... My soul is ashamed.... And very lonely ... very lonely ...
but no fit companion--for yours----"
Her hands dropped listlessly beside her and her chin sank.
"So you believe that Yezidee devil caught your soul when it was
wandering somewhere out of your body, and destroyed it," he said.
She did not answer, did not even lift her eyes until he had stepped
close to her--closer than he had ever come. Then she looked up at him,
but closed her eyes as he swept her into his arms and crushed her face
and body against his own.
Now her red lips were on his; now her face and heart and limbs and
breast melted into his--her breath, her pulse, her strength flowed into
his and became part of their single being and single pulse and breath.
And she felt their two souls flame and fuse together, and burn together
in one heavenly blaze--felt the swift conflagration mount, overwhelm,
and sweep her clean of the last lingering taint; felt her soul,
unafraid, clasp her husband's spirit in its white embrace--clung to him,
uplifted out of hell, rising into the blinding light of Paradise.
Far--far away she heard her own voice in singing whispers--heard her
lips pronounce The Name--"Ata--Ata! Allahou----"
Her blue eyes unclosed; through a mist, in which she saw her husband's
face, grew a vast metallic clamour in her ears.
Her husband kissed her, long, silently; then, retaining her hand, he
turned and lifted the receiver from the clamouring telephone.
"Yes! Yes, this is 53-6-26. Yes, V-69 is with me.... When?... To-day?...
Very well.... Yes, we'll come at once.... Yes, we can get a train in a
few minutes.... All right. Good-bye."
He took his wife into his arms again.
"Dearest of all in the world," he said, "Sanang is cornered in a row of
houses near the East River, and Recklow has flung a cordon around the
entire block. Good God! I can't take you there!"
Then Tressa smiled, drew his head down, looked into his face till the
clear blue splendour of her gaze stilled the tumult in his brain.
"I alone know how to deal with Prince Sanang," she said quietly. "And if
John Recklow, or you, or Mr. Benton or Mr. Selden should kill him with
your pistols, it would be only his body you slay, not the evil thing
that would escape you and return to Erlik."
"Must you do this thing, Tressa?"
"Yes, I must do it."
"But--if our pistols cannot kill this sorcerer, how are you going to
deal with him?"
"I know how."
"Have you the strength?"
"Yes--the bodily and the spiritual. Don't you know that I am already
part of you?"
"We shall be nearer still," he murmured.
She flushed but met his gaze.
"Yes.... We shall be but one being.... Utterly.... For already our
hearts and souls are one. And we shall become of one mind and one body.
