At first I did not understand her, then an odd suspicion seized me; for
I remembered during the last two weeks, when I lay sick, hearing strange
voices in her ante-chamber, and strange people coming and going in the
passageway.
Seeing me perplexed and frowning, she laughed and took the empty bowl
from my hands, and set it aside. Then she smoothed my pillow.
"I am employed by the garrison," said she, "to work for them with needle
and shears. I do their mending; I darn, stitch, sew, and alter. I patch
shirts and under-garments; I also make shirts, and devise officers'
neck-cloths, stocks, and wrist-bands at request.
"Also, I now employ a half-breed Oneida woman as tailoress; and she
first measures and then I cut out patterns of coats, breeches,
rifle-frocks, and watch-coats, which she then takes home and sews, then
tries on her customers, and finally finishes,--I sewing on all galons,
laces, and braids.... And so you see I pay my way, Mr. Drogue, and am in
no stress for the present at any rate."
"Good heavens!" said I amazed, "I never dreamed that you were so
employed!"
"But I am obliged to eat, John Drogue!"
"I have sufficient for both," I muttered. "I thought it was
understood----"
"That I should live on your bounty, my lord?"
"Will you ever have done with lording me?" I said angrily. "I think you
do it to plague me."
"I ask forgiveness," she murmured, still smiling. "Also, I crave pardon
for refusing to live on your kind bounty."
"I do not mean it that way!" said I sharply. "Besides, you kept Summer
House for us, and did all things indoors and most things outdoor; and
had no pay for the labour----"
"I had food and a bed. And your protection.... And most excellent
company," she added, smiling saucily upon me. "You owe me nothing, John
Drogue. Nor do I mean to owe you,--or any man,--more than that proper
debt of kindness which kindness to me begets."
I lay back on my pillows, not knowing whether to laugh or scowl. That
Penelope had become a tailoress and sempstress to the garrison did not
pleasure me at all; and it was as though I had lost some advantage or
influence over this girl, whose present situation and whose future did
now considerably begin to concern me.
Yet, what was I to say against this business, or what offer make her
that her modesty and pride could consider?
It was perfectly clear to me that she never had intended to be obliged
to me for anything, and never would be. And now her saucy smile and
gentle mockery confirmed this conclusion and put me out of countenance.
I cast a troubled glance at her from my pillow, where she sat by my bed
sewing on a pair of wrist-bands for some popinjay of the garrison--God
knew who he might be!--and, as I regarded her, further and further she
seemed to be slipping out of my influence and out of the care which,
mentally at least, I had felt it my duty to give to her.
She troubled me. She troubled me deeply. Her independence, her
sufficiency, her beauty, her sly and pretty mockery of me, all conspired
to give me a new concern for her, and I had not experienced the like
since Steve Watts kissed her by the lilacs.
I had seen her in many phases, but never before in this phase, and I
knew not what face to put on such a disturbing situation.
       
For a while I lay there frowning and sulky, and spoke not. She
tranquilly finished her wrist-bands, went to her chamber, returned with
a dozen stocks, all cut out and basted, and picked up one to fit a plain
military frill to it.
From my window, near where my head rested, I saw a gold sunset between
