"Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I'm afraid I've addled my 
brains trying to cultivate them, and what I'm more 
afraid of is that I've addled my common sense." She 
spoke with such gayety, with such a roguish twinkle, and 
curve of lip, that neither then nor later did he suspect 
that she was the heroine of her own tale. 
"Well, fire away. No, thanks, no more. I only drink 
tea to please you anyway. Tea is so much hot water to 
me." 
"Well, smoke." She pushed the box of cigarettes 
toward him. "I know you smoke a pipe, but I won't let 
my husband smoke one at home. It's bad for my curtains. . . . This is it — One of my friends, poor thing, 
has had a terrible experience: discovered that her husband has stolen the part of her little fortune whose 
income enabled them to do something more than keep 
alive. You see, it's a sad case. She believed in him, 
and he had always been the most honest creature in the 
world; and that's as much of a blow as the loss of the 
money." 
"What'd he do it for?" 
"Oh, I know so little about business ... he wanted 
to get rich too quickly I suppose . . . speculated or 
something . . . perhaps got into a hole. This has been 
a bad year." 
 
"Poor chap!" said Kirkpatrick reflectively. 
"You're not commiserating him?" 
"Ain't I, just? He done it, didn't lie ? He's got to 
pay the piper, hasn't he? Women don't know anything 
ahout the awful struggles and temptations of the rotten 
business world. He didn't do it because he wanted to, 
you can bet your life on that. He's just another poor 
victim of a vicious system. A fly in the same old web; 
same old fat spider in the middle. Not capital enough. 
Hard times and the little man goes under, no matter if 
he 's a darn sight better fellow than the bloated beast on 
top " 
"You mean if we were living in the Socialistic Utopia 
no man could go under ? ' ' 
"I mean just that. It's a sin and a shame. A fine 
young fellow " 
"Eemember, you don't know anything about him. 
He's not a bad sort and has always been quite honest 
before ; but he's not very clever. If he were he wouldn't 
have got himself into a predicament. He had a good 
start, far better than nine-tenths of the millionaires in 
this country had in their youth." 
"Oh, I don't care anything about that. If all men 
were equally clever in chasing the almighty dollar there 'd 
be no excuse for socialism. It's our job to displace the 
present rotten system of government with one in which 
the weak couldn't be crowded out, where all that are 
willing to work will have an equal chance — and those 
that ain't willing -will have to work anyhow or starve. 
. . . One of the thousand things the matter with the 
present system is that the square man is so often in the 
round hole. In the socialized state every man will be 
guided to the place which exactly fits his abilities. No 
weaker to the wall there." 
"You think you can defy Nature to that extent?" 
"You bet." 
