be hundreds of millions of dollars every year.

I have discussed at great length the suppression of the productive power
of society. I should not fail to mention the suppression of the
inventive power of society, a factor less obvious, but probably in the
long run even greater. Every one familiar with the inside of a big
industry knows that hundreds and even thousands of useful processes are
entirely suppressed, because it would not pay one particular concern to
stand the expense of the changes involved. You know how, during the war,
our government brought all the makers of engines together and perfected
in triumph a "Liberty motor." But now we have gone back to private
interest and competition, and each concern is jealously engaged in
guarding its own secrets, and depriving industry as a whole of the
benefit of everything that it learns. Each is spying upon the others,
stealing the secrets of the others, stealing likewise from those who
invent new ideas--and thus discouraging them from inventing any more.

I use this word "discourage," and I might write a chapter upon it. What
human imagination can conceive the amount of social energy that is lost
because of the factor of discouragement, directly caused by the
competitive method? Who can figure what it means to human society that a
great percentage of the people in it should be haunted by fear of one
sort or another--the poor in fear of unemployment, sickness and
starvation, the little business man in fear of bankruptcy and suicide,
the big business man in fear of hard times and treachery of his
competitors, the idle rich in fear of robbery and blackmail, and the
whole community in fear of foreign war and domestic tumult!

Anyone might go on and elaborate these factors that I have named, and
think of scores of others. Anyone familiar with business life or with
industrial processes would be able to put his finger on this or that
enormous saving which he would be able to make if he and all his rivals
could combine and come to an agreement. This has been proven over and
over again in large-scale industry; it is the fact which has made of
large-scale industry an overwhelming power, sucking all the profits to
itself, reaching out and taking in new fields of human activity, and
setting at naught all popular clamor and even legal terrors. How can
anyone, seeing these facts, bring himself to deny that if we did
systematize production and make it one enterprise, precisely adapted to
one end, we should enormously increase the results of human labor, and
the benefit to all who do the world's work?

A good deal of this waste we can stop when we get ready, and other parts
of it our bountiful mother nature will replace. When in a world war we
kill some ten or twenty millions of the flower of our young manhood, we
have only to wait several generations, and our race will be as good as
ever. But, on the other hand, there is some waste that can never be
repaired, and this is the thing truly frightful to contemplate. When we
dig the iron ore out of the bowels of the earth and rust it away in
wars, we are doing something our race can never undo. And the same is
true of many of our precious substances: phosphorus, sulphur, potash.
When we cut down the forests from our mountain slopes, and lay bare the
earth, we not merely cause floods and washouts, and silt up our harbors,
we take away from the surface of our land the precious life-giving soil,
and make a habitable land into a desert, which no irrigating and
reforesting can ever completely restore. The Chinese have done that for
many centuries, and we are following in their footsteps; more than six
hundred million wagon-loads of our best soil are washed down to the sea
every year! If you wish to know about these matters, I send you to a
book, "On Board the Good Ship Earth," by Herbert Quick. It is one of the
