French?" 

" Oh, no. Pennsylvania Dutch. But I have never 
seen America. I was bom on an island in the South 
Seas. I am on my way to an aunt who lives in 
Hartford, Connecticut." 

The spinsters nodded approvingly. Hartford had 
a very respectable sound. 



 

Ruth did not consider it necessary, however, to add 
that she had not notified this aunt of her coming, 
that she did not know whether the aunt still resided 
in Hartford or was underground. These two elderly 
ladies would call her stark mad. Perhaps she was. 
''And you have seen . . . drunken men?" 
Prudence's tones were full of suppressed horror,' 

'' Often. A very small settlement, mostly natives. 
There was a trader —  a man who bought copra and 
pearls. Not a bad map as men go, but he would sell 
whisky and gin. Over here men drink because they 
are lonely; and when they drink too hard and too 
long, they wind up on the beach." 
The spinsters stared at her blankly. 
Ruth went on to explain. "When a man reaches 
the lowest scale through drink, we call him a beach- 
comber. I suppose the phrase —  the word — originally 
meant a man who searched for food on the beach. 
The poor things! Oh, it was quite dreadful. It is 
queer, but men of education and good birth fall 
swiftest and lowest." 

She sent a covert glance toward the young man. 
She alone of them all knew that he was on the first 
leg of the terrible journey to the beach. Somebody 
ought to talk to him, warn him. He was all alone, 
like herself. 

"What are those odd-looking things on the roofs?" 
she asked of Ah Cum. 
"Pigs and fish, to fend oflf the visitations of the 





devil ' Ah Cum smiled. "After all, I believe we 
Chinese have the right idea. The devil is on top, 
not below. We aren't between him and heaven; 
he is between us and heaven." 

The spinsters had no counter-philosophy to offer; 
so they turned to Ruth, who had singularly and un-consciously invested herself with glamour, the 
glamour of adventure, which the old maids did not 
recognize as such because they were only tourists. 
