woman's salon, he concluded it was because, like 
men of any calling but his own (who saw far 
too much of women and their infernal ailments) 
he enjoyed a chat now and then with as charming a woman of the world as Madeleine. 
If anyone had suggested that Langdon Masters enjoyed Madeleine's intellect he would 
have told it about town as the joke of the 
season. 
Madeleine indulged in no introspection. She 
had suffered too much in the past not to quaff 
eagerly of the goblet when it was full and ask 
for nothing more. If she paused to realize how 
dependent she had become on the constant society of Langdon Masters and that literature 
was now no more than the background of life, 
 
she would have shrugged her shoulders gaily 
and admitted that she was having a mental 
flirtation, and that, at least, was as original as 
became them both. They were safe. The code 
protected them. He was her husband's friend 
and they were married. What was was. 
But in truth she never went so far as to admit 
that Masters and the books she loved were not 
one and inseparable. She could not imagine 
herself talking with him for long on any other 
subject, save, perhaps, the politics of the nation 
— ^which, in truth, rather bored her. As for 
small talk she would as readily have thought 
of inflicting the Almighty in her prayers. 
Nor was it often they drifted into personalities or the human problems. One day, however, he did ask her tentatively if she did not 
think that divorce was justifiable in certain circumstances. 
She merely stared at him in horror. 
"Well, there is your erstwhile friend, Sibyl 
Geary. She fell in love with another man, her 
husband was a sot, she got her divorce without 
legal opposition, and married Forbes — finest 
kind of fellow." 
"Divorce is against the canons of Church and 
 
Society. No woman should break her solemn 
vows, no matter what her provocation. Look 
at Maria Groome. Do you think she would 
divorce Alexander? She has provocation 
enough." 
"You are both High Church, but all women 
are not. Mrs. Geary is a mere Presbyterian. And at least she is as happy as she was 
wretched before." 
"No woman can be happy who has lost the 
respect of Society." 
" I thought you were bored with Society."
" Yes, but it is mine to have. Being bored 
is quite different from being cast out like a 
pariah." 
" Oh! And you think love a poor substitute ? " 
"Love, of course, is the most wonderful 
thing in the world. (She might be talking of 
maternal or filial love, thought Masters.) 
But it must have the sanction of one's principles, 
one's creed and one's traditions. Otherwise, 
it weighs nothing in the balance." 
" You are a delectable little Puritan," said 
