There's greatness for you ! " 
" But there were some really great ones, weren't 
there ? Which are they ? " 
"Well, let us see. Come on. Here is Trajan. 
He was not a brute; he was a philosopher and a 
sceptic. He was quite a distinguished man in the 
arts of war and peace. But, he ordered that the 
profession of Christianity should be punished with 
death. He legalized all succeeding persecutions, 
by his calm enactments. Do you think he was a 
great man in the sight of God ? " 
" Were the Christians persecuted in his reign ? " 
"Certainly. In Asia Minor, under the good governor Pliny. Simon the son of Cleophas was crucified at that time." 
" Perhaps Trajan did not know any better." 
, " He might have known better, though. Ignor- 
ance is no plea that will stand, when people have 
the means of knowledge. But come on. Here is 
Marcus Aurelius; here, Eupert, Nos. 37 and 38. He 
was what the world calls a very great man. He 
was cultivated, and wise, and strong, a great governor, and for a heathen a good man ; and how he 
treated the Christians! East and west, and at 
Rome here itself, how they were sought out and 
tortured and killed ! What do you think the Lord 
thinks of such a great man as that? Remember, 
the Bible says of his people, ' He that toucheth 
you, toucheth the apple of his eye.' What do you 
think the Lord thought of Marcus Aurelius' greatness? Look here, Rupert here is Decius, and 
here is Diocletian." 
" Were they persecutors too ? " 
"Great. It is so strange to look at their faces 
here, in this museum, after so many centuries. I 
suppose they will stand here, maybe, till the end 
of the world. Come away we have been so long 
in this gallery we have -not left time enough for the 
other rooms." 
They went to the Hall of the Gladiator; and 
there Dolly studied the figure which gives name 
to the place, with a kind of rapt intensity. She 
described to her companion the meaning of the 
marble; but it was not the same thing to them 
both. Dolly was lost in delighted contemplation. 
Rupert looked on with a kind of incredulous scorn. 
"You don't care for it?" she said suddenly, 
catching a sight of his face. 
" What's it good for ? " said Rupert. "This ain't 
a likeness of anybody,, is it ? " 
" It is a likeness of a great many people. Hundreds and hundreds died in such fashion as that, 
for the pleasure of the Roman people." 
 
"Well, would it have been any satisfaction to 
you to see it ? " 
" Why no ! I hope not." 
" Then why do you like to see it here now ? " 
" I don't ! this is not reality, but an image." 
" I can't see why you should like to look at the 
image, when you couldn't bear the reality." 
"Why Rupert," Dolly began, but her further 
words were cut oft'. 
" Met again ! " said a soft voice. " You here ! 
we did not know you would be in Rome so soon." 
" Dolly ! " exclaimed Christina, who followed 
her mother. "That's delightful. Dolly Copley 
in Rome ! and in the Museo Capitolino. Who is 
with you ? " 
"We are all here," said Dolly smiling. 
"Yes, yes, in Rome, of course; but you are not 
in the museum alone ? " 
Dolly presented Mr. Babbage. 
" And how is your mother ? " Mrs. Thayer went 
on. "Better. I am so glad. I thought she would 
be better in Italy. And what have you done with 
your handsome cavalier o servente Mr. St. Leger ? " 
" I left him at home with a magazine, in which . 
I think there was a story," said Dolly. 
" Impossible ! his gallantry allowed you to come 
alone?" 
" Not his gallantry, but perhaps his sense ' of 
weakness," Dolly answered. 
"Of weakness, my dear? Is he a weak young 
man ? He does not look it." 
, 
"Very good muscular power, I dare say; but 
when we talk of power of will, you know ' weak- 
ness' is relative. I forbade him, and he did not 
dare to come." 
" You forbade him ! and he obeyed ! But Christina, I do not think you have Mr. Shubrick in such 
training as that. Would he obey, if you gave him 
orders ? " 
" Probably the relations are different," said Dolly 
obliging herself to keep a grave face. " I am in a 
happy independence of Mr. St. Leger which allows 
me to command him." 
" Independence ! " said Mrs. Thayer, with an air 
half curious, half confounded, which was a severe 
trial to Dolly's risible muscles. " I know young 
ladies are very independent in these days I don't 
know whether it is a change for the better or not 
but I do not think Christina would boast of her 
independence qf her knight errant." 
" No," said Dolly. " The cases are different as 
