his ears," Luigi interrupted, with temper; and 
added, to himself, "Damnation, I'm going to be 
roasted alive, I just know it!" 
"Why, Looy! Do be quiet; I never saw such 
a fractious thing. A body would think you didn't 
care for your brother." 
"I don't — to that extent, Aunt Patsy. I was 
glad the drowning was postponed a minute ago, but 
I'm not now. No, that is all gone by; I want to 
be drowned." 
"You'll bring a judgment on yourself just as sure 
as you live, if you go on like that. Why, I nevei 
heard the beat of it. Now, there — there! you've 
said enough. Not another word out of you — I 
won't have it!" 
"But, Aunt Patsy—" 
"Luigi! Didn't you hear what I told you?" 
"But, Aunt Patsy, I — why, I'm not going to 
Bet my heart and lungs afloat in that pail of sewage 
which this criminal here has been prescri — " 
"Yes, you are, too. You are going to be good, 
and do everything I tell you, like a dear," and she 
tapped his cheek affectionately with her finger. 
"Rowena, take the prescription and go in the 
kitchen and hunt up the things and lay them out 
for me. I'll sit up with my patient the rest of the 
night, doctor; I can't trust Nancy, she couldn't 
make Luigi take the medicine. Of course, you'll 
drop in again during the day. Have you got any 
more directions?" 
"No, I believe not, Aunt Patsy. If I don't get 
in earlier, I'll be along by early candle-light, anyway. 
Meantime, don't allow him to get out of his bed." 
Angelo said, with calm determination: 
"I shall be baptized at two o'clock. Nothing 
but death shall prevent me." 
The doctor said nothing aloud, but to himself he 
said : 
"Why, this chap's got a manly side, after all! 
Physically he's a coward, but morally he's a lion. 
I'll go and tell the others about this; it will raise 
him a good deal in their estimation — and the public 
will follow their lead, of course." 
Privately, Aunt Patsy applauded too, and was 
proud of Angelo's courage in the moral field as she 
was of Luigi's in the field of honor. 
The boy Henry was troubled, but the boy Joe 
said, inaudibly, and gratefully, "We're all hunky, 
after all; and no postponement on account of the 
weather." 
CHAPTER VIII 
BAPTISM OF THE BETTER HALF 
BY nine o'clock the town was humming" with the 
news of the midnight duel, and there were but 
two opinions about it: one, that Luigi's pluck in 
the field was most praiseworthy and Angelo's flight 
most scandalous; the other, that Angelo's courage 
in flying the field for conscience' sake was as fine 
and creditable as was Luigi's in holding the field in 
the face of the bullets. The one opinion was held 
by half of the town, the other one was maintained 
by the other half. The division was clean and 
exact, and it made two parties, an Angelo party 
and a Luigi party. The twins had suddenly become 
popular idols along with Pudd'nhead Wilson, and 
haloed with a glory as intense as his. The children 
talked the duel all the way to Sunday-school, their 
elders talked it all the way to church, the choir dis- 
cussed it behind their red curtain, it usurped the 
place of pious thought in the "nigger gallery." 
By noon the doctor had added the news, and 
spread it, that Count Angelo, in spite of his wound 
and all warnings and supplications, was resolute in 
his determination to be baptized at the hour ap- 
pointed. This swept the town like wildfire, and 
mightily reinforced the enthusiasm of the Angelo 
faction, who said, "If any doubted that it was 
 
moral courage that took him from the field, what 
have they to say now!" 
Still the excitement grew. All the morning it was 
traveling countryward, toward all points of the 
compass; so, whereas before only the farmers and 
their wives were intending to come and witness the 
remarkable baptism, a general holiday was now 
proclaimed and the children and negroes admitted 
to the privileges of the occasion. All the farms for 
ten miles around were vacated, all the converging 
roads emptied long processions of wagons, horses, 
and yeomanry into the town. The pack and cram 
of people vastly exceeded any that had ever been 
seen in that sleepy region before. The only thing 
that had ever even approached it, was the time 
long gone by, but never forgotten, nor even referred 
to without wonder and pride, when two circuses and 
a Fourth of July fell together. But the glory of that 
occasion was extinguished now for good. It was 
but a freshet to this deluge. 
The great invasion massed itself on the river-bank 
and waited hungrily for the immense event . Waited , 
