response.
"The people must be deaf," thought Jasper.
He knocked again, this time considerably louder, and waited for some one
to answer his summons.
He waited in vain.
"It must be a deserted house," thought our hero. "I have a great mind to
explore it--that is, if I can get in."
He tried the door, and, a little to his surprise, it yielded to his
touch. The door being in the centre of the house, there was a room on
each side. The door to the left; opened into a room which was quite bare
of furniture. On the other side, however, was a room containing a table
and three chairs. On the table was a dirty clay-pipe and a box of
tobacco, and there was a dead odor of tobacco-smoke lingering in the
closely-shut room.
"That looks as if there were somebody living here," thought Jasper.
"Halloo!" he shouted, raising his voice.
He felt that it would be better to make his presence known, as otherwise
he might be suspected of entering the house with burglarious designs,
though it would have puzzled a burglar to find anything worth
purloining.
"There can't be anybody in the house or I should have been heard,"
thought our hero. "However, I'll call again."
This time there was a faint sound that came to his ears. It seemed like
the voice of a child.
"Where did that come from?" Jasper considered.
And he waited to hear if it would be repeated.
It was repeated, and now he could make out that it came from above.
"I'll go up," he decided.
He climbed the rude staircase, and pushed open the door of the room
above the one in which he had been standing a moment before. He gazed in
wonder at the spectacle before him.
A boy, five years of age, who in spite of his frightened expression
possessed great personal beauty, was lying on a bed in one corner of the
room. He looked at Jasper in uncertainty at first, then with confidence,
and said:
"Did you come for me?"
"Do you live here?" asked Jasper, in surprise, for this boy was not at
all like the children usually to be found in such houses as this.
His complexion was of dazzling whiteness, his hair was a bright
chestnut, and his clothing was such as wealthy parents can afford to
give to their children.
"Do you live here?" repeated Jasper.
"No," said the child.
"How came you here, then?"
"Big man--big, ugly man brought me."
"When?"
"I don't know," said the child.
He was evidently too young to measure the lapse of time.
"Was it yesterday?"
"No; long ago."
"I suppose it seems long to him," thought Jasper.
"Is there nobody else in the house?" asked Jasper.
"There's a woman," said the little boy.
"Is she the wife of the man who took you away?"
But this question the little boy did not seem to comprehend.
"Have you got a mother?" asked Jasper.
"Take me to mamma," said the little fellow, stretching out his arms, and
beginning to cry. "I want to see my mamma."
Jasper advanced to the bed.
He began to understand that the boy had been kidnapped, and he felt
great compassion for him.
He tried to raise the boy from the bed and take him in his arms, when he
made an unexpected discovery.
The boy's ankles were firmly tied by a rope, which connected with the
bedpost, so that it was impossible for him to leave the bed.
"Who did this?" asked Jasper, indignantly. "Who tied you?"
"It was the man--the big, ugly man," answered the child.
"I will soon unfasten you," said Jasper, and he set to work untying the
knot.
"Will you take me home?" asked the little boy.
"Yes," said Jasper, soothingly, "I'll take you home."
But just as he had completed his task he heard steps upon the stairs.
What if it were the man of whom the child spoke!
Jasper threw one arm around the child, and with his teeth set hard fixed
his eyes expectantly upon the door.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE KIDNAPPED CHILD.
The woman who entered was of middle size, dressed in a cheap print,
dirty and faded, which corresponded very well with her general aspect.
She looked weary and worn, and moved languidly as if she had little
interest in life. She looked startled at the sight of Jasper, and
pressed her hand to her heart.
"Who are you?" she asked.
"A stranger," answered our hero.
"How came you here?"
"I suppose I ought to apologize for being here, but I knocked twice and
got no answer. That made me think the house was deserted. I entered, and
hearing a low cry, came to this room."
The woman sank into a chair near the door.
"Is this your child?" asked Jasper, in his turn.
The woman answered hesitatingly, after a pause:
"No."
"I knew he could not be. How did he come here?'
"My husband brought him here," answered the woman, with some hesitation.
"Is he any relation to you?"
"N-no."
"Is he boarding here?"
"Yes."
The woman's hesitation increased Jasper's suspicion. He said:
"I found the boy tied to the bedpost. Did you tie him?"
