escape, the rise. She pressed her friend 
she had tact enough for that with no other 
personal question, brought on no need of 
further revelations, only just continued to 
hold and comfort her and to acknowledge 
by stiff little forbearances the common 
element in their fate. She felt indeed mag 
nanimous in such matters; for if it was very 
well, for condolence or reassurance, to 
suppress just then invidious shrinkings, 
she yet by no means saw herself sitting 
down, as she might say, to the same table 
with Mr. Drake. There would luckily, to 
all appearance, be little question of tables; 
and the circumstance that, on their peculiar 
lines, her friend 's interests would still attach 
themselves to Mayfair flung over Chalk 
Farm the first radiance it had shown. Where 
was one 's pride and one 's passion when the 
real way to judge of one 's luck was by 
making not the wrong, but the right, com 
parison? Before she had again gathered 
herself to go she felt very small and cautious 
and thankful. We shall have our own 
house, she said, and you must come very 
soon and let me show it you. 
We shall have our own too, Mrs. Jordan 
replied; for, don't you know, he makes it 
a condition that he sleeps out? 
A condition? the girl felt out of it. 
For any new position. It was on that he 
parted with Lord Rye. His lordship can't 
meet it; so Mr. Drake has given him up. 
And all for you? our young woman put 
it as cheerfully as possible. 
For me and Lady Bradeen. Her Lady 
ship 's too glad to get him at any price. Lord 
Rye, out of interest in us, has in fact quite 
made her take him. So, as I tell you, he 
will have his own establishment. 
Mrs. Jordan, in the elation of it, had 
begun to revive ; but there was nevertheless 
between them rather a conscious pause a 
pause in which neither visitor nor hostess 
brought out a hope or an invitation. It 
expressed in the last resort that, in spite of 
submission and sympathy, they could now, 
after all, only look at each other across the 
social gulf. They remained together as if 
it would be indeed their last chance, still 
sitting, though awkwardly, quite close, and 
feeling also and this most unmistakably 
that there was one thing more to go into. 
By the time it came to the surface, more- 
over, our young friend had recognized the 
whole of the main truth, from which she 
even drew again a slight irritation. It was 
not the main truth perhaps that most signi 
fied; but after her momentary effort, her 
embarrassment and her tears, Mrs. Jordan 
had begun to sound afresh and even 
without speaking the note of a social con 
nection. She hadn't really let go of it that 
she was marrying into society. Well, it was 
a harmless compensation, and it was all that 
the prospective bride of Mr. Mudge had to 
leave with her. 
XXVII 
This young lady at last rose again, but 
she lingered before going. And has Captain 
Everard nothing to say to it? 
To what, dear? 
Why, to such questions the domestic 
arrangements, things in the house. 
How can he, with any authority, when 
nothing in the house is his? 
Not his? The girl wondered, perfectly 
conscious of the appearance she thus con 
ferred on Mrs. Jordan of knowing, in 
comparison with herself, so tremendously 
much about it. Well, there were things she 
wanted so to get at that she was willing at 
last, though it hurt her, to pay for them 
with humiliation. Why are they not his? 
Don't you know, dear, that he has 
nothing? 
Nothing? It was hard to see him in such 
a light, but Mrs. Jordan 's power to answer 
for it had a superiority that began, on the 
spot, to grow. Isn' t he rich? 
Mrs. Jordan looked immensely, looked 
both generally and particularly, informed. 
4 It depends upon what you call ! Not, 
at any rate, in the least as she is. What 
does he bring? Think what she has. And 
then, my love, his debts. 
His debts? His young friend was fairly 
betrayed into helpless innocence. She could 
struggle a little, but she had to let herself 
go ; and if she had spoken frankly she would 
