the duty he owed his daughter. In fact 
he had become somewhat of a "crank'' 
upon the whole subject. He had attended 
several of the doctor's clinics, and had read 
books and pamphlets on the subject of 
syphilis, and was now determined that there 
should be some practical steps towards 
reform. 
At the outset, he had taken the attitude 
of the average legislator, that the thing to 
do was to strengthen the laws against 
prostitution, and to enforce them more 
strictly. He echoed the cry of the old 
man whom George had heard in the doctor's 
office: ''Are there not enough poHce?" 
''We must go to the source," he declared. 
"We must proceed against these miserable 
women — 'veritable poisoners that they are!" 
He really thought this was going to the 
source! But the doctor was quick to 
answer his arguments. "Poisoners?" he 
said. "You forget that they have first 
been poisoned. Every one of these women 
who communicates the disease has first 
received it from some man." 
Monsieur Loches advanced to his second 
 
idea, to punish the men. But the doctor 
had Httle interest in this idea either. He 
had seen it tried so many times — such a 
law could never be enforced. What must 
come first was education, and by this means 
a modification of morals. People must 
cease to treat syphilis as a mysterious evil, 
of which not even the name could be 
pronounced. 
''But,'' objected the other, ''one cannot 
lay it bare to children in our educational 
institutions!'' 
"Why not?" asked the doctor. 
"Because, sir, there are curiosities which 
it would be imprudent to awaken." 
The doctor became much excited when- 
ever he heard this argument. "You beheve 
that you are preventing these curiosities 
from awakening?" he demanded. " I appeal 
to those — 'both men and women — who have 
passed through colleges and boarding- 
schools! Such curiosities cannot be 
smothered, and they satisfy themselves 
as best they can, basely, vilely. I tell you, 
sir, there is nothing immoral about the 
act which perpetuates life by means of love. 
 
But we organize around it, so far as con- 
cerns our children, a gigantic and rigorous 
conspiracy of silence. The worthy citizen 
takes his daughter and his son to popular 
musical comedies, where they listen to 
things which would make a monkey blush; 
but it is forbidden to discuss seriously 
before the young that act of love which 
people seem to think they should only 
know of through blasphemies and profana- 
tions! Either that act is a thing of which 
people can speak without blushing — or else, 
sir, it is a matter for the innuendoes of the 
cabaret and the witticisms of the mess- 
room! Pornography is admitted, but 
science is not! I tell you, sir, that is the 
thing which must be changed ! We must 
elevate the soul of the young man by taking 
these facts out of the realm of mystery and 
of slang. We must awaken in him a pride 
in that creative power with which each one 
of us is endowed. We must make him 
understand that he is a sort of temple in 
which is prepared the future of the race, 
and we must teach him that he must 
transmit, intact, the heritage entrusted to 
 
him — the precious heritage which has been 
built out of the tears and miseries and 
sufferings of an interminable line of ances- 
tors!'' 
So the doctor argued. He brought 
forth case after case to prove that the 
prostitute was what she was, not because 
of innate vileness, but because of economic 
conditions. It happened that the deputy 
came to one of the clinics where he met 
Therese. The doctor brought her into his 
consulting room, after telling her that the 
imposing-looking gentleman was a friend 
of the director of the opera, and might be 
able to recommend her for a position on 
the stage to which she aspired. ''Tell him 
all about yourself,'' he said, ''how you hve, 
and what you do, and what you would like 
to do. You will get him interested in 
