  if the jury were of opinion the slave was of bad character, some
  deduction from the usual price ought to be made, but the plaintiff
  was certainly entitled to his actual damage for killing his slave.
  Where property is in question, the value of the article, as nearly
  as it can be ascertained, furnishes a rule from which they are not
  at liberty to depart.
[Sidenote: Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, 220.]
It seems that the value of this unfortunate piece of property was
somewhat reduced from the circumstance of his “stealing potatoes.”
Doubtless he had his own best reasons for this; so, at least, we should
infer from the following remark, which occurs in one of the reasonings
of Judge Taylor, of N. Carolina.
  “The act of 1786 (Iredell’s Revisal, p. 588) does, in the preamble,
  recognize the fact, that many persons, by cruel treatment to their
  slaves, cause them to commit crimes for which they are executed.
  * * The cruel treatment here alluded to must consist in withholding
  from them the necessaries of life; and the crimes thus resulting
  are such as are calculated to furnish them with food and raiment.”
Perhaps “stealing potatoes” in this case was one of the class of crimes
alluded to.
[Sidenote: Witsell v. Earnest & Parker. Wheeler, p. 202.]
Again we have the following case:
  The defendants went to the plantation of Mrs. Witsell for the
  purpose of hunting for runaway negroes; there being many in the
  neighborhood, and the place in considerable alarm. As they
  approached the house with loaded guns, a negro ran from the house,
  or near the house, towards a swamp, when they fired and killed him.
  The judge charged the jury, that such circumstances might exist, by
  the excitement and alarm of the neighborhood, as to authorize the
  killing of a negro without the sanction of a magistrate.
This decision was reversed in the Superior Court, in the following
language:
  By the statute of 1740, any white man may apprehend and moderately
  correct any slave who may be found out of the plantation at which he
  is employed, and if the slave assaults the white person, he may be
  killed; but a slave who is merely flying away cannot be killed. Nor
  can the defendants be justified by common law, IF we consider the
  negro as a person; for they were not clothed with the authority of
  the law to apprehend him as a felon, and without such authority he
  could not be killed.
[Sidenote: Wheeler, p. 252. June T., 1820. Walker’s Rep. 83.]
IF we consider the negro a person, says the judge; and, from his
decision in the case, he evidently intimates that he has a strong
leaning to this opinion, though it has been contested by so many eminent
legal authorities that he puts forth his sentiment modestly, and in an
hypothetical form. The reader, perhaps, will need to be informed that
the question whether the slave is to be considered a person or a human
being in any respect has been extensively and ably argued on both sides
in legal courts, and it may be a comfort to know that the balance of
legal opinion inclines in favor of the slave. Judge Clarke, of
Mississippi, is quite clear on the point, and argues very ably and
earnestly, though, as he confesses, against very respectable legal
authorities, that the slave is a person,—that he is a reasonable
creature. The reasoning occurs in the case State of Mississippi v.
Jones, and is worthy of attention as a literary curiosity.
It seems that a case of murder of a slave had been clearly made out and
proved in the lower court, and that judgment was arrested and the case
appealed on the ground whether, in that state, murder could be committed
on a slave. Judge Clarke thus ably and earnestly argues:
  The question in this case is, whether murder can be committed on a
  slave. Because individuals may have been deprived of many of their
  rights by society, it does not follow, that they have been deprived
  of all their rights. In some respects, slaves may be considered as
  chattels; but in others, they are regarded as men. The law views
  them as capable of committing crimes. This can only be upon the
  principle, that they are men and rational beings. The Roman law
  has been much relied on by the counsel of the defendant. That law
  was confined to the Roman empire, giving the power of life and death
  over captives in war, as slaves; but it no more extended here, than
  the similar power given to parents over the lives of their children.
  Much stress has also been laid by the defendant’s counsel on the
  case cited from Taylor’s Reports, decided in North Carolina; yet, in
  that case, two judges against one were of opinion, that killing a
  slave was murder. Judge Hall, who delivered the dissenting opinion
  in the above case based his conclusions, as we conceive, upon
  erroneous principles, by considering the laws of Rome applicable
  here. His inference, also, that a person cannot be condemned
  capitally, because he may be liable in a civil action, is not
  sustained by reason or authority, but appears to us to be in direct
  opposition to both. At a very early period in Virginia, the power of
  life over slaves was given by statute; but Tucker observes, that as
  soon as these statutes were repealed, it was at once considered by
  their courts that the killing of a slave might be murder.
  Commonwealth v. Dolly Chapman: indictment for maliciously stabbing
  a slave, under a statute. It has been determined in Virginia that
  slaves are persons. In the constitution of the United States, slaves
  are expressly designated as “persons.” In this state the legislature
  have considered slaves as reasonable and accountable beings; and it
  would be a stigma upon the character of the state, and a reproach to
  the administration of justice, if the life of a slave could be taken
  with impunity, or if he could be murdered in cold blood, without
  subjecting the offender to the highest penalty known to the criminal
  jurisprudence of the country. Has the slave no rights, because he is
  deprived of his freedom? He is still a human being, and possesses
  all those rights of which he is not deprived by the positive
  provisions of the law; but in vain shall we look for any law passed
  by the enlightened and philanthropic legislature of this state,
  giving even to the master, much less to a stranger, power over the
  life of a slave. Such a statute would be worthy the age of Draco or
  Caligula, and would be condemned by the unanimous voice of the
