and the stars were beginning to disappear; all, save the bright and
morning one, which, standing alone in the east, looked tenderly through
the casement, like the eye of our heavenly Father, watching over us when
all earthly friendships are fading.
George awoke with a placid expression of countenance, and fixing his
eyes on the brightening sky, murmured faintly,--
    "The sweet, immortal morning sheds
    Its blushes round the spheres."
A moment after, a shade passed over his face; he pressed his fingers
over his eyes, and the tears dropped silently on his pillow.
"George! dear George!" said James, bending over him.
"It's my friends--it's my father--my mother," said he, faintly.
"Jesus Christ will watch over them," said James, soothingly.
"O, yes, I know he will; for he loved his own which were in the world;
he loved them unto the end. But I am dying--and before I have done any
good."
"O, do not say so," said James; "think, think what you have done, if
only for me. God bless you for it! God will bless you for it; it
will follow you to heaven; it will bring me there. Yes, I will do as you
have taught me. I will give my life, my soul, my whole strength to it;
and then you will not have lived in vain."
George smiled, and looked upward; "his face was as that of an angel;"
and James, in his warmth, continued,--
"It is not I alone who can say this; we all bless you; every one in this
place blesses you; you will be had in everlasting remembrance by some
hearts here, I know."
"Bless God!" said George.
"We do," said James. "I bless him that I ever knew you; we all bless
him, and we love you, and shall forever."
The glow that had kindled over the pale face of the invalid again faded
as he said,--
"But, James, I must, I ought to tell my father and mother; I ought to,
and how can I?"
At that moment the door opened, and Uncle Lot made his appearance. He
seemed struck with the paleness of George's face; and coming to the side
of the bed, he felt his pulse, and laid his hand anxiously on his
forehead, and clearing his voice several times, inquired "if he didn't
feel a little better."
"No, father," said George; then taking his hand, he looked anxiously in
his face, and seemed to hesitate a moment. "Father," he began, "you know
that we ought to submit to God."
There was something in his expression at this moment which flashed the
truth into the old man's mind. He dropped his son's hand with an
exclamation of agony, and turning quickly, left the room.
"Father! father!" said Grace, trying to rouse him, as he stood with his
arms folded by the kitchen window.
"Get away, child!" said he, roughly.
"Father, mother says breakfast is ready."
"I don't want any breakfast," said he, turning short about. "Sally, what
are you fixing in that 'ere porringer?"
"O, it's only a little tea for George; 'twill comfort him up, and make
him feel better, poor fellow."
"You won't make him feel better--he's gone," said Uncle Lot, hoarsely.
"O, dear heart, no!" said Aunt Sally.
"Be still a' contradicting me; I won't be contradicted all the time by
nobody. The short of the case is, that George is goin' to die just as
we've got him ready to be a minister and all; and I wish to pity I was
in my grave myself, and so----" said Uncle Lot, as he plunged out of the
door, and shut it after him.
It is well for man that there is one Being who sees the suffering heart
as it is, and not as it manifests itself through the repellances of
outward infirmity, and who, perhaps, feels more for the stern and
wayward than for those whose gentler feelings win for them human
sympathy. With all his singularities, there was in the heart of Uncle
Lot a depth of religious sincerity; but there are few characters where
religion does any thing more than struggle with natural defect, and
modify what would else be far worse.
In this hour of trial, all the native obstinacy and pertinacity of the
old man's character rose, and while he felt the necessity of submission,
it seemed impossible to submit; and thus, reproaching himself,
struggling in vain to repress the murmurs of nature, repulsing from him
all external sympathy, his mind was "tempest-tossed, and not comforted."
It was on the still afternoon of the following Sabbath that he was sent
for, in haste, to the chamber of his son. He entered, and saw that the
hour was come. The family were all there. Grace and James, side by side,
bent over the dying one, and his mother sat afar off, with her face hid
in her apron, "that she might not see the death of the child." The aged
minister was there, and the Bible lay open before him. The father walked
to the side of the bed. He stood still, and gazed on the face now
brightening with "life and immortality." The son lifted up his eyes; he
saw his father, smiled, and put out his hand. "I am glad you are
come," said he. "O George, to the pity, don't! don't smile on me so! I
know what is coming; I have tried, and tried, and I can't, I can't
have it so;" and his frame shook, and he sobbed audibly. The room was
still as death; there was none that seemed able to comfort him. At last
the son repeated, in a sweet, but interrupted voice, those words of
man's best Friend: "Let not your heart be troubled; in my Father's house
are many mansions."
"Yes; but I can't help being troubled; I suppose the Lord's will must
be done, but it'll kill me."
"O father, don't, don't break my heart," said the son, much agitated. "I
shall see you again in heaven, and you shall see me again; and then
'your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you.'"
"I never shall get to heaven if I feel as I do now," said the old man.
"I cannot have it so."
The mild face of the sufferer was overcast. "I wish he saw all that I
do," said he, in a low voice. Then looking towards the minister, he
articulated, "Pray for us."
They knelt in prayer. It was soothing, as real prayer always must be;
and when they rose, every one seemed more calm. But the sufferer was
