evening. As it is to be a house-warming, we must not put it off too
long. But, dear me, when I came home, and found this awful man here, I
was so alarmed that I was on the point of countermanding the order I
had given.”
“It’s all right now. But you must hurry up your invitations.”
“There is time enough for them. We will prepare the list this evening.
But, Paley, what shall we do for a piano? It will be very awkward to be
without a piano on such an occasion. Besides, people will think we are
nobody if we don’t have one.”
“That’s very true, Lilian,” I replied, somewhat startled by the
proposition. “But I’m afraid we can hardly afford to buy one just yet.
Such a one as I want would cost five hundred dollars.”
“A cheaper one will do.”
“But it is bad economy to buy a cheap one. In the course of six months
or a year I shall be able to buy a good one.”
“We must have one for this party.”
“I will see what can be done before Friday.”
“And, Paley, you furnished the house beautifully, but there is just one
thing for the parlor that you forgot,” continued Lilian, bestowing upon
me her most winning smile.
“What is that?”
“An étagère. It would set off the parlor more than all the rest of
the furniture.”
“But it would cost about a hundred dollars.”
“I would rather do without many other things than not have an
étagère,” replied Lilian, beginning to look very sad.
“Will you go down town and look at some of them?” said I, looking as
amiable as though I had not borrowed fifteen hundred dollars of the
bank.
“Dear me! I can’t go this afternoon. I have everything to do. But your
taste is so good, Paley, that you can buy one just as well without me.”
I left the house for the purpose of obtaining a piano and an étagère.
Buckleton had showed me the latter article, and insisted that my house
would not be furnished without it. I had positively refused to buy it,
for two reasons. First, because I could not afford it; and, second,
because no one could pronounce the name of the thing. I confess that
it seemed to be a greater sin to place such a piece of furniture where
plain Yankees would be tempted to utter its name, than it was to
indulge in criminal extravagance. Lilian’s French had been neglected,
and she made a bad botch of the word, but I decided to instruct her in
the difficult task of pronouncing the word.
I went to a pianoforte house. The book-keeper made his deposits and
drew his checks over our counter. I knew him. He showed me a five
hundred dollar instrument. It suited me—the piano, not the price. A
lower-priced one did not meet my views. I proposed an arrangement with
the concern, that I would hire the instrument with the intention of
purchasing if it suited me. One of the firm was consulted. Perhaps he
knew that persons who once indulged in a luxury would not willingly
give it up. He consented to let it for three months, with the privilege
of purchasing at the end of that time. It was ordered to my house. The
piano was provided for at an expense of twenty-five dollars, if not
bought, for three months.
The étagère was a more difficult matter. I could not hire one, and
I did not like to pay a hundred dollars for such a useless piece of
furniture; but there was no alternative. Lilian had said she must have
one. I had nearly three hundred dollars in my pocket, but with this sum
I intended to pay Smith, and get rid of my “floating debt,” so that I
should owe no one but Aunt Rachel. But Smith’s bill could not be over a
hundred dollars, at the most extravagant figure, and I thought I could
spare enough for the étagère.
I went to a store near Buckleton’s. While I was looking at the
étagère my late creditor came into the store. I was just closing the
bargain at ninety-five dollars. Buckleton had heard from his lawyer,
and was glad to meet me. I was glad to have him see me purchase this
piece of furniture. He spoke to me. I did not answer him. He attempted
to apologize. I did not look at him. I closed my bargain, and asked for
the bill. Buckleton was evidently vexed, and felt as any man does when
he has lost a customer. I enjoyed it.
“I will sell you that same article for seventy-five dollars,” he
whispered in my ear, just before I closed the bargain.
“I would not take it, if you would give it to me,” I replied.
“I think I made a mistake to-day.”
“The mistake of your lifetime,” I retorted. “Don’t speak to me again. I
despise you.”
I stalked out of his reach, paid my bill, and went home. In the evening
Lilian and I made out the list of invitations. Of course I could not
overrule Lilian’s decisions, and not less than fifty were invited—all
our house would hold. It included my rich friend’s family, and I began
to tremble for the result.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE HOUSE-WARMING.
[Illustration]
THE next day the piano and the étagère came, and were duly disposed
of in our pretty parlor. I could not help agreeing with Lilian that
both of them were absolutely necessary to the proper appointment of the
room. After she had covered the étagère with a variety of articles,
most of which had to be purchased for the purpose, the effect was
pleasing.
The piano filled a waiting space; and really there seemed to be nothing
more to wish for in this world. Lilian played a few tunes on the new
instrument, and my home seemed to be invested with a new charm. Beyond
the party, I looked forward to pleasant hours when our friends should
gather in this room on Sunday evening to sing sacred music, for which
Tom Flynn had a decided partiality.
On Friday morning I went to the bank as usual. When I returned, Smith
had taken possession of the house, and was making his arrangements
for the grand occasion in the evening. I am bound to say that he made
but little fuss for so great an affair. When the evening came, a
colored gentleman in white cotton gloves was stationed at the door,
and more waiters were disposed of in other parts of the house. People
