face; the third was very greasy, had a bundle of candles under his arm,
and a ball of wicking half out of his pocket. The six shook hands, and
walked away together, talking about a fair; and left me to take care of
myself.
I walked on through a pleasant meadow, where a pretty little girl was
looking sadly up at a row of sheep's tails hung on a tree. I also saw a
little boy in blue, asleep by a haycock; and another boy taking aim at a
cock-sparrow, who clapped his wings and flew away. Presently I saw two
more little girls: one sat by a fire warming her toes; and, when I asked
what her name was, she said pleasantly:
"Polly Flinders, ma'am."
The other one sat on a tuft of grass, eating something that looked very
nice; but, all of a sudden, she dropped her bowl, and ran away, looking
very much frightened.
"What's the matter with her?" I asked of a gay young frog who came
tripping along with his hat under his arm.
"Miss Muffit is a fashionable lady, and afraid of spiders, madam; also
of frogs." And he puffed himself angrily up, till his eyes quite
goggled in his head.
"And, pray, who are you, sir?" I asked, staring at his white vest, green
coat, and fine cravat.
"Excuse me, if I don't give my name, ma'am. My false friend, the rat,
got me into a sad scrape once; and Rowley insists upon it that a duck
destroyed me, which is all gammon, ma'am,--all gammon."
With that, the frog skipped away; and I turned into a narrow lane, which
seemed to lead toward some music. I had not gone far, when I heard the
rumbling of a wheelbarrow, and saw a little man wheeling a little woman
along. The little man looked very hot and tired; but the little woman
looked very nice, in a smart bonnet and shawl, and kept looking at a new
gold ring on her finger, as she rode along under her little umbrella. I
was wondering who they were, when down went the wheelbarrow; and the
little lady screamed so dismally that I ran away, lest I should get into
trouble,--being a stranger.
Turning a corner, I came upon a very charming scene, and slipped into a
quiet nook to see what was going on. It was evidently a wedding; and I
was just in time to see it, for the procession was passing at that
moment. First came a splendid cock-a-doodle, all in black and gold, like
a herald, blowing his trumpet, and marching with a very dignified step.
Then came a rook, in black, like a minister, with spectacles and white
cravat. A lark and bullfinch followed,--friends, I suppose; and then the
bride and bridegroom. Miss Wren was evidently a Quakeress; for she wore
a sober dress, and a little white veil, through which her bright eyes
shone. The bridegroom was a military man, in his scarlet uniform,--a
plump, bold-looking bird, very happy and proud just then. A goldfinch
gave away the bride, and a linnet was bridesmaid. The ceremony was very
fine; and, as soon as it was over, the blackbird, thrush and nightingale
burst out in a lovely song.
A splendid dinner followed, at which was nearly every bird that flies;
so you may imagine the music there was. They had currant-pie in
abundance; and cherry-wine, which excited a cuckoo so much, that he
became quite rude, and so far forgot himself as to pull the bride about.
This made the groom so angry that he begged his friend, the sparrow, to
bring his bow and arrow, and punish the ruffian. But, alas! Sparrow had
also taken a drop too much: he aimed wrong, and, with a dreadful cry,
Mr. Robin sank dying into the arms of his wife, little Jane.
It was too much for me; and, taking advantage of the confusion that
followed, I left the tragical scene as fast as possible.
A little farther on, I was shocked to see a goose dragging an old man
down some steps that led to a little house.
"Dear me! what's the matter here?" I cried.
"He won't say his prayers," screamed the goose.
"But perhaps he was never taught," said I.
"It's never too late to learn: he's had his chance; he won't be pious
and good, so away with him. Don't interfere, whatever you do: hold your
tongue, and go about your business," scolded the goose, who certainly
had a dreadful temper.
I dared say no more; and, when the poor old man had been driven away by
this foul proceeding, I went up the steps and peeped in; for I heard
some one crying, and thought the cross bird, perhaps, had hurt some one
else. A little old woman stood there, wringing her hands in great
distress; while a small dog was barking at her with all his might.
"Bless me! the fashions have got even here," thought I; for the old
woman was dressed in the latest style,--or, rather, she had overdone it
sadly; for her gown was nearly up to her knees, and she was nearly as
ridiculous an object as some of the young ladies I had seen at home. She
had a respectable bonnet on, however, instead of a straw saucer; and her
hair was neatly put under a cap,--not made into a knob on the top of her
head.
"My dear soul, what's the trouble?" said I, quite touched by her tears.
"Lud a mercy, ma'am! I've been to market with my butter and eggs,--for
the price of both is so high, one can soon get rich nowadays,--and,
being tired, I stopped to rest a bit, but fell asleep by the road.
Somebody--I think it's a rogue of a peddler who sold me wooden nutmegs,
and a clock that wouldn't go, and some pans that came to bits the first
time I used them--somebody cut my new gown and petticoat off all round,
in the shameful way you see. I thought I never should get home; for I
was such a fright, I actually didn't know myself. But, thinks I, my
doggy will know me; and then I shall be sure I'm I, and not some
boldfaced creature in short skirts. But, oh, ma'am! doggy don't know
me; and I ain't myself, and I don't know what to do."
"He's a foolish little beast; so don't mind him, but have a cup of tea,
and go to bed. You can make your gown decent to-morrow; and, if I see
the tricksy peddler, I'll give him a scolding."
This seemed to comfort the old woman; though doggy still barked.
"My next neighbor has a dog who never behaves in this way," she said, as
she put her teapot on the coals. "He's a remarkable beast; and you'd
better stop to see him as you pass, ma'am. He's always up to some funny
prank or other."
I said I would; and, as I went by the next house, I took a look in at
the window. The closet was empty, I observed; but the dog sat smoking a
