and went twisting in and out through lovely little 
green valleys. There were several varieties of gum- 
trees ; among them many giants. Some of them were bodied 
and barked like the sycamore ; some were of fantastic aspect, 
and reminded one of the quaint apple trees in Japanese pict- 
ures. And there was one peculiarly beautiful tree whose name 
and breed I did not know. The foliage seemed to consist of 
big bunches of pine-spines, the lower half of each bunch a rich 
brown or old-gold color, the upper half a most vivid and 
strenuous and shouting green, Tlie effect was altogether be- 
witching. The tree was apparently rare. I should say that 
the first and last samples of it seen by us were not more than 
half an hour apart. There was another tree of striking aspect, 
a kind of pins, we were told. Its foliage was as line as hair, 
apparently, and its mass sphered itself above the naked 
straight stem like an explosion of misty smoke. It was not a 
sociable sort ; it did not gather in groups or couples, but each 
individual stood far away from its nearest neighbor. It scat- 
tered itself in this spacious and exclusive fashion about the 
slopes of swelling grassy great knolls, and stood in the full 
flood of the wonderful sunshine ; and as far as you could see 
the tree itself you could also see the ink-black blot of its 
shadow on the shining green carpet at its feet. 
On some part of this railway journey we saw gorse and 
broom — importations from England — and a gentleman who 
came into our compartment on a visit tried to tell me which 
was which ; but as he didn't know, he had difficulty. He said 
he was ashamed of his ignorance, but that he had never been 
confronted with the question before during the fifty years and 
more that he had spent in Australia, and so he had never hap- 
pened to get interested in the matter. But there was no need 
to -be ashamed. The most of us have his defect. We take a 
natural interest in novelties, but it is against nature to take an 
interest in familiar things. The gorse and the broom were a 
fine accent in the landscape. Here and there they burst out in 
sudden conflagrations of vivid yellow against a background of 
sober or sombre color, with a so startling effect as to make a 
body catch his breath with the happy surprise of it. And 
then there was the wattle, a native bush or tree, an inspiring 
cloud of sumptuous yellow bloom. It is a favorite with the 
Australians, and has a fine fragrJtnce, a quality usually wanting 
in Australian blossoms. 
The gentleman who enriched me with the poverty of his 
information about the gorse and the broom told me that he 
came out from England a youth of twenty and entered the 
Province of South Australia with thirty-six shillings in his 
pocket — an adventurer without trade, profession, or friends, 
but with a clearly-defined purpose in his head : he would stay 
until he was worth £200, th6n go back home. He would allow 
himself five years for the accumulation of this fortune. 
" That was more than fifty years ago," said he. "And here 
I am, yet." 
As he went out at the door he met a friend, and turned and 
introduced him to me, and the friend and I had a talk and a 
smoke. I spoke of the previous conversation and said there 
was something very pathetic about this half century of exile, 
and that I wished the £200 scheme had succeeded. 
" With him ? Oh, it did. It's not so sad a case. He is mod- 
est, and he left out some of the particulars. The lad reached 
South Australia just in time to help discover the Burra-Burra 
copper mines. They turned out £700,000 in the first three 
years. Up to now they have yielded £20,000,000. He has had 
his share. Before that boy had been in the country two years 
he could have gone home and bought a village ; he could go 
now and buy a city, I think. No, 
there is nothing very pathetic about 
his case. He and his copper arrived 
at just a handy time to save South 
Australia. It had got mashed pretty 
flat under the collapse of a 
land boom a while before." 
There it is again; pictur- 
esque history — Australia's 
specialty. In 1829 South 
hadn't a white man in it. 
the British Parliament erected it — still 
a solitude — into a Province, and gave 
it a governor and other governmental 
machinery. Speculators took hold, now, 
and inaugurated a vast land scheme, 
and invited immigration, encouraging 
it with lurid promises of sudden wealth, 
in London; and bishops, statesmen, and all sorts of people made 
a rush for the land company's shares. Immigrants soon began 
to pour into the region of Adelaide and select town lots and 
farms in the sand and the mangrove swamps by the sea. The 
crowds continued to come, prices of land rose high, then higher 
and still higher, everybody was prosperous and happy, the 
boom swelled into gigantic proportions. A village of sheet 
iron huts and clapboard sheds sprang up in the sand, and in 
these wigwams fashion made display; richly-dressed ladies 
played on costly pianos, London swells in evening dress and 
patent-leather boots were abundant, and this fine society drank 
champagne, and in other ways conducted itself in this capital 
of humble sheds as it had been accustomed to do in the aristo- 
cratic quarters of the metropolis of the world. The provincial 
government put up expensive buildings for its own use, and a 
palace with gardens for the use of its governor. The governor 
had a guard, and maintained a court. Roads, wharves, and 
hospitals were built. All this on credit, on paper, on wind, on 
