suddenly as it came.  She succeeded in composing her features by the
time he arrived at her side.
"Madame," he said, quietly, "whither were you bound?"
She looked at him blankly.  For the life of her she could not tell at
that moment what had been her destination!  The situation struck her as
so absurd that she could barely stifle the hysterical laughter which
rushed to her lips.
"I . . . I will return to the château," she finally replied.
"The count was annoying you?" walking beside her.
"Thanks to you, Monsieur, the annoyance is past."
Some ground was gone over in silence.  This silence disturbed her far
more than the sound of his voice.  It gave him a certain mastery.  So
she spoke.
"You said 'Madame'," tentatively.
"Such was the title D'Hérouville applied."  And again he became silent.
"Did he tell you my name?" with a sudden and unexpected fierceness.
"No, Madame; he did not speak your name.  But he knows it; while I, who
love you honorably and more than my life, I must remain in ignorance.
An expedition is to start soon, Madame, and as I shall join it, my
presence here will no longer afford you annoyance."
"Wherefore this rage, Madame, shining in your beautiful eyes, thinning
your lips, widening your nostrils?"
Madame was in a rage; but not even the promise of salvation would have
forced the cause from her lips.  O for Paris, where, lightly and
wittily, she could humble this man!  Here wit was stale on the tongue,
and every one went about with a serious purpose.  She went on, her chin
tilted, her gaze lofty.  The wind tossed her hair, there were phantom
roses on her cheeks which bloomed and withered and bloomed yet again.
Diane, indeed: Diane of the green Aegean sea and the marbles of Athens!
"You need go no farther, Monsieur.  It is quite unnecessary, as I know
the way perfectly."
"I prefer to see you safe inside the château," with quiet determination.
Was this the gallant who had attracted her fancy?  This was not the way
he had made love in former days.  Slyly her eyes revolved in his
direction.  His temples were grey!  She had not noted this change till
now.  Grey; and the face, tanned even in the shaven jaws, was careworn.
There was a gesture which escaped his notice.  Why had she been guilty
of the inexcusable madness, the inexplicable folly, of this voyage?
"Madame, this is your door."
The Chevalier stepped aside and uncovered.
"Monsieur, you have lost a valuable art."  There was a fleeting glance,
and she vanished within, leaving him puzzled and astonished by the
unexpected softening of her voice.  How long he stood there, with his
gaze fixed upon the vacant doorway, he never knew.  What did she mean?
"Well, Paul?"  And Victor, having come up behind, laid his hand on the
Chevalier's arm.  "Do you know her, then?" nodding toward the door.
"Know her?"  The Chevalier faced his comrade.  "Would to God, lad, I
did not, for she has made me the most unhappy of men."
The poet trembled in terror at the light within.  "She is . . . ?"
"Yes, Diane; Diane, whose name I murmur in my dreams, waking or
sleeping."
"She?" in half a whisper.  "Her name?"
"Her name?  No!  I know her as a mystery; as Tantalus thirsting for the
fruit which hangs ever beyond the reach, I know her; as a woman who is
not what she seems, always masked, with or without the cambric.  Know
her?" with a laugh full of despair.
Victor was a man of courage and resource.  "I know where there's a
two-quart bottle of burgundy, Paul.  Bah! life will look cheerful
enough through that mellow red.  Come with me."
The Chevalier followed him to the lower town, where, in a room in one
of the warehouses, they sat down to the wine.
"Let the women go hang, lad, one and all!" cried the Chevalier, after
his sixth and final glass.
"Let them go hang!"  But Victor did not confide; not he, loyal friend!
And when he held his emptied glass on high, sighed, and dropped it on
the earthen floor, the Chevalier did not know that his comrade's heart
lay shattered with the glass.  Gallant poet!
As madame threaded her way through the dim corridor, but one thought
occupied her mind.  It echoed and re-echoed--"Or, rather, what you
pretend to be."  What did D'Hérouville mean by that?  To what did the
Chevalier pretend?  Her foot struck something.  It was a book.
Absently she stooped and picked it up, carrying it to her room.  "Or,
rather, what you pretend to be."  If only she had heard the first part
of the sentence, or what had led to it!  The Chevalier was gradually
becoming as much of a mystery to her as she was to him.  There had been
a sea-change; he was no longer a fop; there was grey in his hair; he
was a man.  In her room there was light from the sun.  Carelessly she
glanced at the book.  It was grey with dust, which she blew away.
Evidently it had lain some time in the corridor.  She flapped the
covers.  The title, dim and worn, smiled drolly up.  She blushed, and
abruptly laid the offending volume on the table.  The merry Vicar of
Meudon was not wholly acceptable to her woman's mind.  To whom did it
belong, this foundling book?  With a grimace which would have caused
Rabelais to smile, she turned back the cover.
"The Chevalier's!"  To what did he pretend?  "I shall send it back to
his room.  Gabrielle, Gabrielle, thou wert a fool, and a fool's folly
has brought you to Quebec!  A nun?  I should die!  Why did I come?  In
mercy's name, why? . . .  A letter?"  An oblong envelope, lying on the
floor, attracted her attention.  She took it up with a deal more
curiosity than she had the book.  "To Monsieur le Marquis de Périgny,"
she read, "to be delivered into his hands at my death."  She studied
the scrawl.  It was not the Chevalier's; and yet, how strangely
familiar to her eyes!  Should she send it directly to the marquis or to
the son?  She debated for several moments.  Then she touched the bell
and summoned the woman whom the governor had kindly placed at her
service.
"Take this book and letter to Monsieur du Cévennes, and if he is not
there, leave it in his room."  Her lack of curiosity saved her.  Some
women would have opened the letter, read, and been destroyed.  But
madame's guiding star was undimmed.
