"No.... God help us both."
He halted. At a nod from her, two troopers standing beside their quietly
browsing horses, cocked carbines. The sharp, steel click of the locks
was perfectly audible through the din of the cannon.
[Illustration: "Then, like a flash his hand fell to his holster, and it
was empty."]
The signal officer looked at her; and her face was whiter than his.
"You are Warren Moray--I think," she said.
His eyes glimmered like a bayonet in sunlight; then the old half-gay,
half-defiant smile flickered over his face.
"Special Messenger," he said, "you come as a dark envoy for me. Now I
understand your beauty--Angel of Death."
"Are you Major Moray?" She could scarcely speak.
He smiled, glanced at the two troopers, and shrugged his shoulders.
Then, like a flash his hand fell to his holster, and it was empty; and
his pistol glimmered in her hand.
"For God's sake don't touch your sabre-hilt!" she said.... "Unclasp your
belt! Let it fall!"
"Can't you give me a chance with those cavalrymen?"
"I can't. You know it."
"Yes; I know."
There was a silence; the loosened belt fell to the grass, the sabre
clashing. He looked coolly at the troopers, at her, and then out across
the smoke.
"This way?" he said, as though to himself. "I never thought it." His
voice was quiet and pleasant, with a slight touch of curiosity in it.
"How did you know?" he asked simply, turning to her again.
She stood leaning back against a tree, trying to keep her eyes fixed on
him through the swimming weakness invading mind and body.
"I suppose this ends it all," he added absently; and touched the sabre
lying in the grass with the tip of his spurred boot.
"Did you look for any other ending, Mr. Moray?"
"Yes--I did."
"How could you, coming into our ranks with a dead man's commission and
forged papers? How long did you think it could last? Were you mad?"
He looked at her wistfully, smiled, and shook his head.
"Not mad, unless you are. Your risks are greater than were mine."
She straightened up, stepped toward him, very pale.
"Will you come?" she asked. "I am sorry."
"I am sorry--for us both," he said gently. "Yes, I will come. Send those
troopers away."
"I cannot."
"Yes, you can. I give my word of honor."
She hesitated; a bright flush stained his face.
"I take your word," she murmured.
A moment later the troopers mounted and cantered off down the hill,
veering wide to skirt the head of a column of infantry marching in; and
when the Special Messenger started to return she found masses of men
threatening to separate her from her prisoner--sunburnt, sweating,
dirty-faced men, clutching their rifle-butts with red hands.
Their officers rode ahead, thrashing through the moist grass; a forest
of bayonets swayed in the sun; flag after flag passed, slanting above
the masses of blue.
She and her prisoner looked on; the flag of the 63d New York swept by;
the flags of the 69th and 88th followed. A moment later the columns
halted.
"Your Excelsiors," said Moray calmly.
"They're under fire already. Shall we move on?"
A soldier in the ranks, standing with ordered arms, fell straight
backward, heavily; a corporal near them doubled up with a grunt.
The Special Messenger heard bullets smacking on rocks; heard their dull
impact as they struck living bodies; saw them knock men flat. Meanwhile
the flags drooped above the halted ranks, their folds stirred lazily,
fell, and scarcely moved; the platoon fire rolled on unbroken somewhere
out in the smoke yonder.
"God send me a bullet," said Moray.... "Why do you stay here?"
"To--give you--that chance."
"You run it, too."
"I hope so. I am very--tired."
"I am sorry," he said, reddening.
She said fiercely: "I wish it were over.... Life is cruel.... I suppose
we must move on. Will you come, please?"
"Yes--my dark messenger," he said under his breath, and smiled.
A priest passed them in the smoke; her prisoner raised his hand to the
visor of his cap.
"Father Corby, their chaplain," she murmured.
"Attention! Attention!" a far voice cried, and the warning ran from rank
to rank, taken up in turn by officer after officer. Father Corby was
climbing to the summit of a mound close by; an order rang out, bugles
repeated it, and the blue ranks faced their chaplain.
Then the priest from his rocky pulpit raised his ringing voice in
explanation. He told the three regiments of the Irish Brigade--now
scarcely more than three battalions of two companies each--that every
soldier there could receive the benefit of absolution by making a
sincere act of contrition and resolving, on first opportunity, to
confess.
He told them that they were going to be sent into battle; he urged them
to do their duty; reminded them of the high and sacred nature of their
trust as soldiers of the Republic, and ended by warning them that the
Catholic Church refuses Christian burial to him who deserts his flag.
In the deep, battle-filled silence the priest raised up his hands; three
regiments sank to their knees as a single man, and the Special Messenger
and her prisoner knelt with them.
"Dominus noster Jesus Christus vos absolvat, et ego, auctoritate
ipius, vos absolvo ab omvir vinculo----"
The thunder of the guns drowned the priest's voice for a moment, then it
sounded again, firm and clear:
"Absolve vos a peccatis----"
The roar of battle blotted out the words; then again they rang out:
"In nomine Patris, et Filii, et Spiritus Sancti!... Amen."
