had ever seen,--a perfect bracket in itself. The rings of coloring were
exquisite. The soft woody browns, the bright sienna, the silvery drab
and pink, like the inside of a sea-shell. The vegetation was so rank
that it resembled the pile of velvet.
Like a flash a consciousness came over her, and although she heard Aunt
Ruth's voice, she could not resist the desire to look at her letter.
A coarse, irregular hand, with several erasures and blotted words, but
the name at the bottom--Sarah Ann Strong--made it all plain. The Sary
Ann of the Soldiers' Fair. Kathie's heart gave a great bound.
"Come!" exclaimed Uncle Robert; "are you ready?"
There was no time for explanations. She laid the letter and parcel in
her drawer in the great bookcase, thrust her ungloved hands into her
muff, and ran out to Aunt Ruth, who stood on the step, waiting to be
assisted into the carriage.
"Was it some more Christmas?" asked Uncle Robert, "or is it a secret?"
"It is no secret, but a very odd circumstance, and has quite a story
connected with it. I think I will wait until we get home," she
continued, slowly, remembering how short the distance was to church, and
that a break in the narrative would spoil it.
But she had very hard work to keep her mind from wandering during the
service, she wondered so what Sarah had to say, and how she came to
remember the simple talk about the brackets. And was Sarah having a
bright Christmas?
Afterward she told her small audience, beginning with the unlucky
remarks about the purple bonnet. Uncle Robert admired the lichen very
much, and Aunt Ruth declared that she had never seen its equal.
Then came Sarah's letter. What pains and trouble and copying it had cost
the poor girl Kathie would never know.
"To Miss Kathie Alston," it began. "I take my pen in hand to let you
know that"--here were two or three words crossed out--"I want to send
you a cristmas present. I haint forgot about the fair, and how good you
was to me, I made some straw frames and they're real hansum, and I put
the picture you give me in one and it hangs up in the parlor, and I've
got some brackets, but Jim found this splendid one, and I want to send
it to you for cristmas, for I don't think you have forgotten all about
me. I've been going to school a little this winter again, for Martha is
big enough to help mother and i only stay home to wash. I always
remember how beautiful you talked and my teacher says its grammar which
I'm studying, but I cant make head nor tail of it, but he told me never
to say this ere, and I don't any more, but I never could be such a lady
as you are. I spose you've got beautiful long curls yet. I do love curls
so and my hair's straight as a stick. Mother says i must tell you if you
ever come to Middleville to stop and see us, we live on the back road,
Jotham Strong, and we'll all be glad to see you. I hope you'll like the
bracket, and I wish you merry cristmas a thousand times. Jim went to
town one day and found out who you was--he seen you the night of the
fair too. Excuse all mistakes. I aint had much chance for schooling, but
I'm going to try now. I spose you are a lady and very rich, and don't
have to do housework, but you're real sweet and not stuck up, and so
you'll forgive the boldness of my writing this poor letter.
                                "Yours respectfully,
                                           "SARAH ANN STRONG."
Kathie had been leaning her arm on Uncle Robert's knee as she read
aloud.
"Not such a bad letter," he said. "I have known some quite stylish
ladies 'who didn't have to do housework' to make worse mistakes than
this girl, who evidently has had very little chance. And then country
people do not always understand the advantages of education."
"I wanted to ask her that evening not to say 'this 'ere,' or 'that 'ere'
so much, but I was afraid of wounding her feelings. I thought there was
something nice about her, and her mother was very generous in buying.
But to think that she should have remembered me all this while--"
"'A cup of cold water,'" repeated Aunt Ruth, softly.
"It was such a very little thing."
"One of the steps."
Yes. It was the little things, the steps, that filled the long, long
path. A warm glow suffused Kathie's face. She was thinking far back,--an
age ago it appeared, yet it was only two years,--that her mother had
said the fairies were not all dead. If Puck and Peas-blossom and Cobweb
and Titania no longer danced in cool, green hollows, to the music of
lily bells, there were Faith and Love and Earnest Endeavor, and many
another, to run to and fro with sweet messages and pleasant deeds.
"I am very glad and thankful that you were polite and entertaining,"
Uncle Robert remarked, presently. "We never know what a kind word or a
little pains, rightly taken, may do. It is the grand secret of a useful
life,--sowing the seed."
"I must answer her letter, and express my thanks. But O, isn't it funny
that she thinks me such a great lady!"
"Suppose we should drive out to see her on some Saturday? Where is
Middleville?"
"North of here," returned Aunt Ruth, "in a little sort of hollow between
the mountains, about seven or eight miles, I should think."
"How delightful it would be!" exclaimed Kathie.
"We will try it some day. I am very fond of plain, social country
people, whose manners may be unpolished, but whose lives are earnest and
honest nevertheless. We cannot all be moss-roses, with a fine enclosing
grace," said Uncle Robert.
Kathie read her letter over again to herself, feeling quite sure that
Sarah had made some improvement since the evening of the Fair.
"Do you want to put the lichen up in your room?" asked Uncle Robert.
"Not particularly,--why?"
"It is such a rare and beautiful specimen that I feel inclined to
confiscate it for the library."
"I will give it up with pleasure," answered Kathie, readily, "since it
remains mine all the same."
The Alstons had a quiet Christmas dinner by themselves. Uncle Robert
gave the last touches to the tree, and just at dusk the small people who
had been invited began to flock thither. Kathie had not asked any of her
new friends or the older girls. She possessed by nature that simple
tact, so essential to fine and true womanhood, of observing the
