after they were on their way to Riverside. 
"But it doesn't seem quite right to have so few of us," 
said Madge. "Who would fancy we should miss quiet 
Jessie so much ? " 
And crossing the threshold of dear old Home Nook 
once more as possessors indeed, they remembered the sad 
procession of more than five years ago. With what varied 
feelings they had walked down the shaded avenue that 
spring morning ! Was their exile really at an end ? 
One of Mrs. Browning's servants had remained in charge 
a quiet, tidy woman, who soon rendered herself useful 
to the new comers. Baby Margaret was full of childish 
prattle and wonderment, running from window to window, 
in the vain hope of seeing grandpa. 
It took them some time to settle matters to their liking. 
The carpets and furniture were pretty well worn ; indeed, 
many things needed replacing. 
"If we could just bundle these old articles out and have 
new ones," said Philip. " Everything ought to be bright 
and fresh." 
" But we cannot. We are still poor, and must make the 
best of our poverty," replied Eleanor. 
" It would be so delightful for Jessie's sake," said 
Madge, with a sigh. " But Mr. Graham is noble enough 
to understand it ; so there is no use of being ashamed. We 
will do our very best." 
Miss Hetty came over the next day, and Madge re- 
counted the perplexities. 
"Let us take a fair and square look," said the little 
woman, in her brisk, energetic fashion ; and they started 
through the house. 
"If this carpet was ripped apart and turned round 
there, you see how bright it would be in the middle I 
And why don't you turn this great parlor into a general 
sitting-room ? You'll like it as well again ; and then no 
one will expect the shine of new satin and velvet. The 
furniture might be oiled and rubbed, and the dust beaten 
out of the covers. And when the pretty articles from the 
other house come to be unpacked, why, you will hardly 
know the place ! " 
When they started, Madge found that matters settled 
themselves, with a little overlooking. They turned, and 
altered, and freshened up, taking heart with each article, 
that seemed to slip into the position best suited for it. 
"Jessie must have the two spare rooms," said Eleanor. 
" We shall hardly need them for guests." 
"And we will take our old ones back again. I am 
glad mine opens into yours, Nelly, for now I shall bo 
alone." 
Philip came home every evening, and commented on 
what they had done through the day. Miss Hetty ran 
over to see them frequently. 
Tidings came from their parents, and from Jessie, who 
was well and happy. 
The news was not long in being circulated about River- 
side. Mrs. Dormer's will had soon become public prop- 
erty, then Jessie's marriage surprised everybody, and now 
the return completed the astonishment. Bygone friends 
dropped in some from curiosity, perhaps, but many 
with words of sincerest welcome. 
It was stormy on Sunday, and Greta not being very 
well, neither of the girls went out. But Philip brought a 
report at noon. 
" You notice the changes most of all in church," he said. 
"Yet Mr. Kenneth's place seems to be well supplied, and 
there is no lack among the audience. But, O, the strange 
faces ! I can hardly imagine myself at Riverside." 
"But you are not sorry?" Madge asked, just under her 
breath. 
"Sorry! What put such an idea into your head, little 
sister? I enjoyed it all so much, kneeling in the old 
place, and remembering our childish wishes and vague 
aspirations, until I could not help thinking of Jacob at 
Bethel. If we ever made any vows, how scrupulously 
they ought to be fulfilled ! for God has brought us back 
in safety." 
Mr. Maurice, the clergyman, called the ensuing week, 
and they found him a Christian gentleman. He had met 
Jessie at Miss Hetty's, and heard part of their story; so he 
hardly appeared like a stranger. 
When they came to regular living, Madge was installed 
as housekeeper, as Eleanor's duties called her away three 
or four days in the week. But they could hardly consider 
themselves really settled until they had all the household 
back again. 
It was a month before Jessie returned, taking them 
quite by surprise one evening. How pretty she had 
grown, and how happy she looked ! It seemed as if Mr. 
Graham's smile was less grave, and the tender inflections 
of his voice touched Madge with a peculiar nearness to 
tears. 
" O," exclaimed Jessie, " how lovely it all it ! It gives 
one such a sense of home to walk np the avenue under the 
familiar trees, and have the doors open to you vistas of 
remembered pleasure ! You and Nelly have made a bower 
of this library." 
" It was Nelly's taste " 
" And Madge's labor," said Eleanor. 
Madge had worked indeed. The two large bronze lawn 
vases had been brought in, still rich with summer bloom 
