begins to thicken. Take off, and pour into a bowl. When cold, put on
ice until Sunday. Then turn the custard into a glass dish, and heap
high with the grated cocoanut. Strew powdered sugar over all.
  First Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Clam Soup.
  Ragoût of Duck and Green Peas.      Onions.
  Potatoes, with Cheese Sauce.      Raw Tomatoes.
  ——
  Blackberries, Huckleberries, and Cream.
  Sliced Cake.
  ——
CLAM SOUP.
50 clams; 1 quart of hot water; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; 1
tablespoonful of flour; 1 teaspoonful chopped onion, and same of mixed
thyme and parsley; 2 cups of hot milk; salt and cayenne; 2 blades of
mace.
Cut the hard parts off from the clams, putting the soft halves on ice.
Strain off all the liquor, and put with the hard bits over the fire,
with a quart of hot water, the onion, herbs, and mace. Simmer forty
minutes. Heat the milk in another vessel—not forgetting the pinch of
soda; stir in the butter, cut up in the flour, and set in hot water
until the soup is ready. At the end of the forty minutes, strain the
clam broth, leaving out the hard parts. Put in the soft, season with
salt and cayenne, and let them just boil. Pour into the tureen, add
the milk and butter, and set the tureen in hot water five minutes
before serving.
RAGOÛT OF DUCK AND GREEN PEAS.
Cut the meat from the carcasses left since yesterday, making the slices
as neat as you can. If you have not a large cupful of gravy left,
make it by stewing down the bones and stuffing in a quart of water,
cooling, skimming, and seasoning it. Put this in a saucepan with the
pieces of duck, and set where it will get very hot, but not boil.
Cook a quart of tender green peas in boiling water twenty minutes;
drain, and season them with pepper, salt, and butter. Take out the
duck and pile in the centre of a dish; put the peas around it like a
green hedge. Boil up the gravy once when you have stirred in a little
browned flour, wet with cold water, and pour upon the meat.
ONIONS.
Boil in two waters, and after draining off the last, cover, barely,
with boiling milk; stir in a good piece of butter rolled in flour;
season with salt and pepper; boil once, and pour into a deep dish.
POTATOES, WITH CHEESE SAUCE.
12 boiled potatoes, mashed soft with milk and butter; 4 tablespoonfuls
of dry, grated cheese; 1 cup of rich drawn butter; 2 beaten eggs;
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; triangles of fried bread; cracker-dust.
Stir into the hot drawn butter the pepper, salt, nutmeg, beaten
eggs, and half the cheese, and heat, stirring constantly, until it
thickens. Put a layer of potato upon a flat stone-china dish—or a
block-tin one—round it to suit the shape of the dish, and cover with
the sauce; this, in turn, with a narrowing round of potatoes, but of
equal thickness, and this with sauce, and so on, until you have a mound
rounded on top. Coat with sauce, then with the rest of the cheese and
some pounded cracker. Lay the sippets of fried bread up against it at
the base, and heat to browning in a quick oven.
BLACKBERRIES, HUCKLEBERRIES, AND CREAM.
CAKE.
Put the blackberries in a dish of their own. Some persons like them
with cream, but more prefer to eat them simply strewed with sugar. Wash
the huckleberries, and pass cream and sugar with them; then a basket of
simple cake.
  First Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  A Summer Soup.
  Veal Collops.      Tomato Sauce.
  Raw Cucumbers.      String Beans.
  ——
  Apple Compote au Gratin.
  ——
A SUMMER SOUP.
3 lbs. coarse, lean beef, cut into strips; 1 lb. ham or salt-pork
bones; 4 quarts of water; 2 carrots; 2 turnips; 12 very small and young
onions, minus the stalks; 1 cup of strained tomato sauce; 1 cup of
green peas; ½ cup of green corn, cut from the cob; pepper and salt.
Cook the beef and bones in the water down to two quarts of liquid.
Strain, cool, and skim. Meanwhile cut carrots and turnips into neat
dice or strips, and parboil with the onions five minutes in boiling
water. Return your skimmed and seasoned stock to the fire, and when
almost on the boil, put in the parboiled and drained vegetables, with
peas and corn. Simmer half an hour, add the tomato sauce, and cook ten
minutes more, then pour out.
VEAL COLLOPS.
3 lbs. of lean veal, cut into square bits, two inches across, and more
than half an inch thick; ¼ lb. fat salt pork, cut into lardoons; 1 cup
of gravy taken from your soup before adding the vegetables; 1 cup of
drawn butter; yolks of 2 eggs; juice of half a lemon; pepper, salt,
nutmeg, and a pinch of mace.
Lard the veal with the pork, and lay in a pan of boiling water three
minutes. Have ready a cup of gravy seasoned with nutmeg, pepper, salt,
and lemon-peel. Put in the meat, and simmer half an hour very gently.
Beat the yolks into the drawn butter; stir in the lemon-juice; add to
the contents of the saucepan, and stir, carefully, not to break the
lardoons, five minutes. Heap the collops into a block upon a dish, and
pour on the gravy.
TOMATO SAUCE.
Peel, slice, and stew twenty minutes; then season with pepper, salt,
butter rolled in flour, and sugar. Simmer five minutes, and pour out.
STRING-BEANS.
Cut off the ends; “string” well, paring both sides with a keen knife;
cut into short pieces, and cook in boiling salt water forty minutes.
