the temples helped the effect ; a high comb would 
have completed it. Alma felt, if she had her bonnet 
off. It was almost a Yankee country -girl type; but 
perhaps it appeared so to Alma because it was, like 
that, pure Anglo-Saxon. Alma herself, with her 
dull dark skin, slender in figure, slow in speech, 
with aristocratic forms in her long hands, and the 
oval of her fine face pointed to a long chin, felt her- 
self much more Southern in style than this bloom- 
ing, bubbling, bustling Virginian. 
" I don't know," she answered slowly. 
"Going to take po'traits," suggested Miss Wood- 
burn, " or just paint the ahdeal ? " A demure bur- 
lesque lurked in her tone. 
"I suppose I don't expect to paint at all," said 
 
Alma. "I'm going to illustrate books — if anybody 
will let me." 
" Ah should tliiidc they 'd just joamp at you," 
said Miss "W'oodburn. "Ah 'll tell you what let 's do, 
Miss Leighton : you make some pictures, and Ah 'll 
wrahte a book fo' them. Ah 've got to do some- 
thing. Ah maght as well -wrahte a book. You know 
wc Southerners have all had to go to weak. But 
Ah don't mand it. I tell papa I shouldn't ca' fo' 
the disgrace of bein' poo' if it wasn't fo' the incon- 
venience." 
"Yes, it's inconvenient," said Alma; "but you 
forget it when you 're at work, don't you think ? " 
"Mah, yes ! Perhaps that's one reason why poo' 
people have to woak so hawd — to keep their mands 
off their poverty." 
The girls both tittered, and turned from talking 
in a low tone with their backs toward their elders, 
and faced them. 
"Well, Madison," said Mr. woodburn, "it is 
time we should go. I bid you good night, madam, ' 
he bowed to Mrs. Leighton. "Good night," ho 
bowed again to Alma. 
His daughter took leave of them in formal phrase, 
but with a jolly cordiality of manner that deforma- 
lised it. "We shall be roand raght soon in the 
mawning, then," she threatened at the door. 
"We shall be all ready for you," Alma called 
after her down the steps. 
"Well, Alma ? " her mother asked, when the door 
clo-sed upon them. 
 
"She doesn't know any more about art,' said 
Alma, "than — nothing at all. But she 's jolly and 
good-hearted. Slie praised everything that "was bad 
in my sketches, and said she was going to take 
lessons herself. When a person talks about taking 
lessons, as if they could learn it, you know where 
they belong artistically." 
Mrs. Leighton shook her head with a sigh. " I 
wish I knew where they belonged financially. "We 
shall have to get in two girls at once. I shall have 
to go out the first thing in the morning, and then 
our troubles will begin." 
" Well, didn't you want them to begin ? I will 
stay home and help you get ready. Our prosperity 
couldn't begin without the troubles, if you mean 
boarders, and boarders mean servants. I shall be 
very glad to be afflicted with a cook for a while 
myself." 
" Yes ; but we don't know anything about these 
people, or whether they will be able to pay us. Did 
she talk as if they were well off ] " 
" She talked as if they were poor ; poo' she called 
it." 
"Yes, how queerly she pronounced," said Mrs. 
Leighton. " Well, I ought to have told them that I 
required the first week in advance." 
"Mamma! If that's the way you're going to 
act- " 
"Oh, of course, I couldn't, after he wouldn't lot 
her bargain for the rooms. I didn't like that." 
" / did. And you can see that they were perfect 
ladies ; or at least one of tlicm." Alma laughed at 
herself, but her mother did not notice. 
" Their being ladies won't help if they 've got no 
money. It'll make it all the worse." 
" Very vrcW, then ; we have no money, either. 
We 're a match for them any day there. "We can 
show them that two can play at that game." 
III. 
Angus Beaton's studio looked at first glance like 
many other painters' studios. A grey wall quad- 
rangularly vaulted to a large north light ; casts of 
feet, hands, faces hung to nails about ; prints, 
sketches in oil and water-colour stuck here and 
there lower down ; a rickety table, with paint and 
palettes and bottles of varnish and siccative tossed 
comfortlessly on it ; an easel, with a strip of some 
faded mediaeval silk trailing from it ; a lay figure 
simpering in incomplete nakedness, with its head on 
one side, and a stocking on one leg, and a Japanese 
dress dropped before it ; dusty rugs and skins kick- 
ing over the varnished floor ; canvases faced to the 
