April.”
“I don’t move in good society any longer. I am not expected to
know anything about its customs. Sit down beside me, a minute--and
I will. No--stay. Perhaps you will take cold? I wish I had some
wraps. My coat”--
“When I take your coat”--began the healthy girl. He had already
flung his overcoat upon the dry, warm sand. She gave it back to
him. Then she saw the color start into his pale face.
“Oh, forgive me!” she said quickly. “I did not mean--Mr. Bayard, I
never was ill in my life.”
“Nor I, either, before now,” pleaded Bayard rather piteously.
“Who called it the ‘insolence of health’? I did not mean to be
impertinent, if you will take the trouble to believe me. I fail to
grasp the situation, that’s all. I am simply obtuse--blunt--blunt
as a clam.”
She waved her sun-umbrella dejectedly towards the beach where a
solitary clam-digger, a bent, picturesque old man, was seeking his
next chowder.
“The amount of it is,” said Miss Carruth more in her usual
manner, “that I was taken a little by surprise. You used to look
so--different. You are greatly changed, Mr. Bayard. Being a heretic
does not agree with you.”
“I have had a little touch of something they call pneumonia down
here,” observed Bayard carelessly. “I’ve been out only a few days.”
She made no answer at first; Bayard was looking at the clam-digger,
but he felt that she was looking at him. She had seated herself
on the sand beside him; she was now quite her usual self; her
momentary embarrassment had disappeared like a sail around the
Point--a graceful, vanishing thing of whose motion one thinks
afterwards. He did not suppose that she was there to sympathize
with him, but he was vaguely aware of a certain unbridged gap in
the subject, when she unexpectedly said,--
“You have not asked me what I came to Windover for.”
“Windover does not belong to me, Miss Carruth; nor”--a ray of
disused mischief sprang to his eyes. Did he start to say, “Nor
you?” He might have been capable of it as far back as Harvard,
or even in junior year at Cesarea. That flash of human nonsense
changed his appearance to an almost startling extent.
“Why now,” she laughed, “I think I could recognize you without an
introduction.”
“But you haven’t told me why you did come to Windover.”
“It doesn’t signify. You exhibit no interest in the subject, sir.”
“You are here,” he answered, looking at her. “That fact preoccupied
me.”
This reply was without precedent in her experience of him; and
she gave no sign, whether of pleasure or displeasure, of its
effect upon her. She looked straight at the clam-digger, who was
shouldering his basket laboriously upon his bent back, making a
sombre, Millet sketch against the cheerful, afternoon sky.
“I came down to engage our rooms,” she said lightly. “We are coming
here, you know, this summer. We board at the Mainsail. I had to
have it out with Mrs. Salt about the mosquito bars. Mother wouldn’t
come last year because the mosquito bars had holes, and let in
hornets and a mouse. You understand,” she added, with something of
unnecessary emphasis, “we always come here summers.”
“I understand nothing at all!” said Bayard breathlessly. “You were
not here last summer, when I was candidating in the First Church.”
“That, I tell you, was on account of the hornets and the mouse; the
mouse clinched it; he waked her walking up her sleeve one morning.
So we went to Campo Bello the year after. But we always come to
Windover.”
“For instance, how many seasons constitute ‘always’?”
“Three. This will be four. Father likes it above everything. So did
mother before the mouse epoch. She got to feeling hornets in her
shoes whenever she put them on. I wonder father never told you we
always come to Windover.”
“The Professor had other things in his mind when he talked to
me,--second probation, and the dangers of modern German exegesis.”
“Yes, I know. Dear papa! Windover isn’t a doctrine.”
“I wonder you never told me you always came to Windover.”
“Oh, I left that to Father,” replied the young lady demurely. “I
did come near it, though, once. Do you remember that evening”--
“Yes,” he interrupted; “I remember that evening.”
“I mean, when you had taken me up the Seminary walk to see the
cross. When you said good-by that night, I thought I’d mention it.
But I changed my mind. You see, you hadn’t had your call, then. I
thought--I might--hurt your feelings. But we always do come to
Windover. We are coming as soon as Anniversary is over. We have the
Flying Jib to ourselves--that little green cottage, you know, on
the rocks. What! Never heard of the Flying Jib? You don’t know the
summer Windover, do you?”
“Only the winter Windover, you see.”
“Nor the summer people, I suppose?”
“Only the winter people.”
“Father’s hired that old fish-house for a study,” continued Helen
with some abruptness. “He says he can’t stand the women on the
Mainsail piazzas; you can hear them over at the Flying Jib when
the wind sets our way; they discuss the desserts, and pick each
other’s characters to pieces, and compare Kensington stitches, and
neuralgia. Father is going to bring down his article on ‘The State
of the Unforgiven after Death’--There!” she said suddenly, “that
Millet sketch is walking into father’s study with his basket on his
back. The State of the Unforgiven will be a little--clammy, don’t
you think?”
Her eyes rippled like the bed of a brown brook in the sun. Bayard
laughed.
“The dear Professor!” he said.
“If father weren’t such an archangel in private life, it
wouldn’t be so funny,” observed Helen, jabbing the point of her
purple-and-gold changeable silk sun-umbrella into the sand; “I
