started about us," said the rich youth.
"What report do you mean, Bob?"
"You know well enough--the one about my father."
"I don't know."
"Ain't the Bartletts telling everybody that my father shoved 'em out of
the iron works and that our money wasn't clean?"
"I haven't heard it."
"Bah! You needn't play the innocent. I know you, and I know Jack
Bartlett, too."
"I don't think your folks treated the Bartletts just right," went on
our hero, resolved to stand up for his friends.
"We treated 'em better than they deserved. If I had been my father I
should have kicked old man Bartlett out."
"Your father wouldn't have dared, Bob Bangs. But I am not going to
quarrel with you. What brings you to this place?"
"That's my business."
"You needn't tell me if you don't wish to."
"I am here to get a new horse. I am going to ride horseback after
this," went on the rich boy, boastfully. "It's a horse that costs four
hundred dollars, too."
"Then you are in luck," was all Randy answered, and walked away,
leaving the rich youth gazing after him doubtfully.
CHAPTER XIV
BOB BANGS AND HIS HORSE
Randy continued to wander around the country town, taking in such
sights as came to view.
In the meantime Bob Bangs went after the horse he had mentioned. The
rich youth had bothered his father for a horse for a long time and at
last Mr. Bangs had consented to give him a steed. The horse was to be
taken in exchange for a debt, and Bob had agreed to go to Leeville
after him and take the animal to the summer resort at which he and his
mother were stopping. It may be mentioned that the horse was worth only
a hundred and fifty dollars, but the falsehood he had told in regard to
the horse's value did not bother Bob Bangs in the least. He loved to
boast upon every possible occasion.
"Is he gentle?" asked the rich boy, as he approached the horse, that
was standing in the yard of the former owner.
"As gentle as a lamb," was the answer.
"He--he won't run away, will he?" went on Bob, timidly. To tell the
truth he knew very little about horses, although he pretended to know a
great deal.
"He never ran away in his life," declared the man who was disposing of
the horse.
"Then I guess it is all right," said the rich boy, and started to mount
into the saddle, for the steed was ready for use.
"Wait a minute."
"What's wanted now."
"I want you to sign a receipt first," said the man.
"Oh, all right."
The receipt was produced, stating that the horse was received in good
condition and that the debt was canceled thereby, and the rich youth
signed his father's name and his own under it. Then the man held the
horse while the boy mounted.
"All safe and sound?" asked the man.
"Yes," answered Bob Bangs. "Good-day," and off he rode.
"Good-day, and good luck to you," answered the man, and he smiled
rather grimly to himself as he entered his house.
"The horse seems to be a nice one," thought Bob Bangs, as he rode away.
"I wish I could meet Randy Thompson, it would make him feel sick to see
me on such a fine animal."
The rich youth's wish was gratified, for turning a corner he caught
sight of our hero just as the latter was crossing the street.
"Out of the way there, Randy Thompson!" he cried, and urged his horse
forward.
Randy had to jump back, or he might have been knocked down.
"Ain't this a fine horse?" Bob Bangs cried. "Don't you wish you had
him?"
And he cut the steed with the whip he carried, to make him increase his
speed.
The horse did not like the treatment received and up came his hind
hoofs viciously.
"Stop! None of that!" roared Bob Bangs, in fright. "Whoa there!"
He began to saw on the reins, and as a consequence the horse turned
first in one direction and then another. Then he started to back and
came up on the sidewalk, scaring several women and children.
"Whoa! Get up!" screamed Bob Bangs, more frightened than ever. "Whoa, I
say! What in the old Harry is in the beast, anyway!"
"Look out there!" shouted a man in the crowd. "You'll go through a
window next."
"Bob, let me lead him into the street," cried Randy, rushing up and
catching the horse by the bridle.
"You let my horse alone!" shouted the rich boy, unreasonably. "I can
manage him well enough."
"Very well," answered Randy, quietly, and dropped his hold. As he did
so the steed made a plunge along the sidewalk for several yards,
knocking over a barber's pole and a newsstand.
"Stop dot! Vot you mean py dot?" yelled the German barber, rushing from
his establishment in alarm.
"Get along there, you brute!" cried Bob Bangs, savagely, and struck the
horse once more. Again the steed swerved, and made a half turn and
began to back.
"Stop him!"
"He is going into the window!"
Crash! And then followed a jingle of glass, and into the window of a
grocery next to the barber shop backed the horse, until his hind hoofs
rested on a row of canned tomatoes and sardines. Bob Bangs gave a yell
of fear and terror and dropped to the sidewalk and then caught the
horse by the head. The groceryman came forth from his store in a hurry,
and a bitter argument ensued, while a big crowd began to collect. In
the end Bob Bangs had to promise to pay for all damage done, and led
