looking up and down amid the motley throng, and now he touched his hat
and nodded to Chilian Leverett, who picked his way over to him.
"We are somewhat late," he began apologetically. "A little due to rough
weather, but one can never fix an exact date."
"All is well, I hope;" in an anxious tone.
"Yes; the child proved a good sailor and was much interested in
everything. I was afraid she would take it hard. But she is counting on
her father's coming. I don't know how you will ever console her when she
learns the truth."
"And he----" Chilian looked intently into the captain's eyes.
"I suppose the end has come before this. They thought he might last a
month when we left. It's sad enough. He should have lived to be ninety.
But matters went well with him, and he has been an honest, kindly,
upright man with a large heart. I've lost my best friend and adviser."
The captain drew his rough coat-sleeve across his face and looked past
Chilian, winking hard.
"There's a sight of business when we come to that, Mr. Leverett, but
now--will you go on board? The maid is a most excellent and sensible
person. They are in the cabin."
"Yes," he answered and followed with a curious throb at his heart--pity
for the orphaned child and a sense of responsibility he was conscious
that he accepted unwillingly, yet he would do his duty to the uttermost.
Already some officials were on hand, for at this period Salem was really
a notable port. Chilian passed them with a bow, followed the captain
down the gangplank, stared a little at the foreign deck-hands in their
odd habiliments, stepped over boxes and bales in canvas and matting full
of Oriental fragrance that from the closeness was almost stifling,
coming from the clear air. Then he was ushered into the cabin, that was
replete with Orientalism as well.
A rather tall woman rose to meet him.
"This is Mistress Rachel Winn, who has mothered the little girl for
several years, Mr. Leverett, her relative and guardian,
and--Cynthia----"
The child threw herself down on the couch.
"I want to go back home. I want to see my father, and Aymeer, and Babo,
and Nalla. I can't stay here."
"But perhaps your father will bring them when he comes. Don't you
remember he told you he lived here when he was a little boy, and what
nice times he had with the cousin he loved? And the cousin is here to
bid you welcome. Come and speak to him. We cannot go back at once, the
ship has to unload her cargo and take in ever so many other things. See,
here is Cousin Leverett."
She sat up, made a forward movement as if she would rise, but simply
stared.
"Yes, I am Cousin Leverett." He began advancing and held out his hand.
"And very glad to see such an excellent traveller as you have been,"
said the captain. "And such a nice little girl. You are an American
girl; you know your father told you that. And this is your native town.
Cousin Leverett remembers you when you were very little."
"But I don't remember you;" taking no notice of the proffered hand.
"Then you must get acquainted with me. And you must tell me about your
life and your father, whom I have not seen in a long, long time. Let us
shake hands."
She held out hers then and raised herself to her feet.
"Oh, how soft your hands are," she cried, "just like Nalla's. But they
are very white. Nalla's were brown."
"And who was Nalla?"
"She used to come and play with me and make chains out of shells, and
make bracelets and anklets, and dance. And she used to go to the Sahibs'
house and dance with snakes. I'm afraid of them. Are you?"
"Indeed I am, of the large ones," he said at a venture.
He fancied that he felt a gentle pressure of sympathetic approval. She
glanced up for an instant and her eyes transfixed him. They were a deep
wonderful blue, almost black at the pupil, then raying off a little
lighter. It made him think of a star in the winter midnight sky with a
halo around it. The lashes were long and nearly black. Otherwise she had
little claim to beauty just then. Her complexion had a tawny hue made by
sun and wind, her hair was light, but it had a peculiar sunburned tint,
though it was fine and abundant and hung in loose curls about her
shoulders. Her nose was the only Leverett feature--it was straight,
rather small, and had the flexibility that betrayed passing emotions.
The Leverett lips were thin, hers were full in the middle, giving a
certain roundness to the mouth.
"Are there any where you live?" hesitatingly.
"Any?" Then he recalled the subject they had touched upon. "Oh, no; you
seldom see them, and they are mostly harmless."
"Have you any little girls in your house?"
"No, I am sorry to say."
"There were two little English girls on shipboard at first. They went on
board another vessel after a while. I liked them very much. They knew a
great many things about countries. I can read, but I don't a great deal.
Sometimes father would tell me about America. There are a great many
countries in it, and once they had a big war. They had wars, too, in
India. Why must people kill each other?"
"There seem to be reasons. A little girl could not understand them all,
I think;" and how could he explain them?
"Oh, there is Captain Corwin!" She flew across the cabin with
outstretched arms, which she clasped about him.
"Well, have you been getting acquainted with--he will be your uncle, I
suppose. What title are you going to take with the child, Mr. Leverett?"
Chilian Leverett colored, without a cause he thought, and it annoyed
him.
"Are you going back to India to-day?" She was not interested in Chilian
Leverett's answer.
Captain Corwin laughed heartily and patted her shoulder.
"Not to-day, nor even next week. The cargo will have to be taken off,
little missy, and a new one stowed away. And I fancy there must be some
repairs. I shall stay in town and run down to Marblehead. So you will
see me quite often."
"And you are coming back again from India?"
