the wrong, the more shame to me ! And while 
I’ve been lying here in pain and humiliation, 
the boys have been winning Mr. Underwood’s 
approbation and getting promoted to the first 
senior class of our high school. It just stings 
me through and through ! They brought in 
their books and read over the lessons and 
translations, and worked out some examples 
for me to see. They were so good. I shall 
never forget it.” 
“ They have been splendid. They have dis- 
tanced the girls.” 
“ Some of the girls are not much in the way 
of students,” he said rather disdainfully. 
“ But I am glad for your sake and Mr. Un- 
derwood’s. He thinks he couldn’t have done 
so much but for you. After all, he is a fine 
teacher. Oh, I do wonder why we can’t ap- 
preciate all that is done for us until long after- 
ward. What fools we are ! ” 
“ Are you not very tired? ” she said softly. 
“ Oh, I was very quiet all the morning. The 
nurse had a holiday. Miss Grant, how did you 
come to find me? Just along there the road is 
rather lonely.” 
“ Why, it was quite odd. I went further in 
the woods than I meant, lured by some wild 
flowers. Then I turned the wrong way, mean- 
ing to get out, tried two different paths, found 
a wagon road where they had been hauling 
logs, and so came out. I passed the auto, then 
looking back, I saw something lying there.” 
“ I suppose there would have been an alarm. 
I told the boys I was going to Glendale, but 
I changed my mind. In fact, it was full of 
changes that afternoon. O, dear! If I could 
go back.” 
Ah! what a frequent cry, always in vain! 
“We can never do that,” in her comforting 
voice that seemed to take the sting out of the 
hard truth. “ But the privilege given us some- 
time is of showing others how to avoid 
dangers.” 
 
“When they are not pig-headed and bound 
to go against common sense.” 
“ I think after a while the burden of these 
old sins and mistakes is buried after the prom- 
ise of the divine love, and that is what the 
Savior meant when He said, ‘ Let the dead 
bury their dead.’ We must begin a new life 
when we see the better way. Oh, Dick, there 
have been writers and statesmen who have 
been disabled in some respects and yet done 
worthy work. Somehow I feel you are going 
through this without too great a cost.” 
Dared she give him hope? 
“ Well,” after a long pause, swallowing 
over the great throbs in his throat, “if it 
should be the worst, won’t you comfort father 
a little and let him talk to you about me? He 
loves me so ! I’m not half as good as he thinks, 
though I have told him about everything. And 
he will be so lonely. There should have been 
some better children to be his stay and com- 
fort and pride. And he thinks, the doctor as 
well, that if I had lain there an hour or two 
longer it would have been all over with me; so 
that I really owe my life to you. If I should 
ever be permitted to make anything worthy of 
it, I think it will be largely owing to you,” 
and his tremulous voice died away. 
“ Oh, Dick, you look clear exhausted and I 
must go ! Every day I shall think of you, pray 
for you. And you must have no more upbraid- 
ing thoughts about those old matters. I know 
it will be a hard thing to live out of, but God 
will give you strength if you ask Him ear- 
nestly.” 
Helen rose then and stood looking at him 
with tenderest sympathy. Suddenly she 
leaned over and pressed a kiss on the blue- 
veined forehead. His arms were up around 
her, his tears were on her cheek. 
“Helen — may I call you that just once? — 
it is such a noble name ! I wish God had given 
me just such a sister.” 
She went slowly out of the room. She could 
not trust her voice to say good-by. Mr. East- 
man came out in the hall. 
“ When are you going? ” she asked tremu- 
lously. 
“ The first of the week. He was not will- 
ing to leave until after the closing exercises. 
 
And he wanted a good long talk with you. Is 
it all right ? ” hesitatingly. 
“ It was never very wrong,” she answered. 
“ I think he would have seen it himself pres- 
ently. Oh, I hope ” 
