paid compliments because, as he put it, he could pay nothing else. He
had been caricatured: the caricatures had ceased. People had turned to
look: they looked no longer. He was forgiven and, what is worse,
forgotten. Yet that tiger, his destiny, was but sharpening its claws.
At an inn where Gautier dined, the epigrams were so demoralising that
a waiter became insane. Similarly in the Regent street restaurant it
was reported, perhaps falsely, that a waiter had also lost his reason.
But Wilde, though a three decanter man, always preserved his own. He
preserved, too, his courtesy which was invariable. The most venomous
thing that he ever said of anyone was that he was a tedious person,
and the only time he ever rebuked anybody was at the conclusion of one
of those after-dinner stories which some host or other interrupted by
rising and saying: "Shall we continue the conversation in the
drawing-room?"
But I am in error. That was not his only rebuke. On one occasion I
drove with him to Tite street. An hour previous he had executed a
variation on the "Si j'étais roi." "If I were king," he had sung, "I
would sit in a great hall and paint on green ivory and when my
ministers came and told me that the people were starving, I would
continue to paint on green ivory and say: 'Let them starve.'"
The aria was rendered in the rooms of Francis Hope, a young man who
later married and divorced May Yohe, but who at the time showed an
absurd interest in stocks. Someone else entered and Hope asked what
was new in the City. "Money is very tight," came the reply. "Ah,
yes," Wilde cut in. "And of a tightness that has been felt even in
Tite street. Believe me, I passed the forenoon at the British Museum
looking at a gold-piece in a case."
Afterward we drove to Chelsea. It was a vile night, bleak and bitter.
On alighting, a man came up to me. He wore a short jacket which he
opened. From neck to waist he was bare. I gave him a shilling. Then
came the rebuke. With entire simplicity Wilde took off his overcoat
and put it about the man.
But the simplicity seemed to me too Hugoesque and I said: "Why didn't
you ask him in to dinner?"
Wilde gestured. "Dinner is not a feast, it is a ceremony."
Subsequently that ceremony must have been contemplated, for Mrs. Wilde
was kind enough to invite me. The invitation reached me sometime in
advance and I took it of course that there would be other guests. But
on the appointed evening, or what I thought was the appointed
evening, when I reached this house--on which Oscar objected to paying
taxes because, as he told the astonished assessors, he was so seldom
at home--when I reached it, it seemed to me that I must be the only
guest. Then, presently, in the dreary drawing-room, Oscar appeared.
"This is delightful of you," he told me. "I have been late for dinner
a half hour, again a whole hour; you are late an entire week. That is
what I call originality."
I put a bold face on it. "Come to my shop," I said, "and have dinner
with me. Though," I added, "I don't know what I can give you."
"Oh, anything," Wilde replied. "Anything, no matter what. I have the
simplest tastes. I am always satisfied with the best."
He was not boasting. One evening he dined on his "Sphinx."
Subsequently I supped with him on "Salome."
That was in the Regent street restaurant where, apropos of nothing, or
rather with what to me at the time was curious irrelevance, Oscar,
while tossing off glass after glass of liquor, spoke of Phémé, a
goddess rare even in mythology, who, after appearing twice in Homer,
flashed through a verse of Hesiod and vanished behind a page of
Herodotos. In telling of her, suddenly his eyes lifted, his mouth
contracted, a spasm of pain--or was it dread?--had gripped him. A
moment only. His face relaxed. It had gone.
I have since wondered, could he have evoked the goddess then? For
Phémé typified what modern occultism terms the impact--the premonition
that surges and warns. It was Wilde's fate to die three times--to die
in the dock, to die in prison, to die all along the boulevards of
Paris. Often since I have wondered could the goddess then have been
lifting, however slightly, some fringe of the crimson curtain, behind
which, in all its horror, his destiny crouched. If so, he braved it.
I had looked away. I looked again. Before me was a fat pauper, florid
and over-dressed, who, in the voice of an immortal, was reading the
fantasies of the damned. In his hand was a manuscript, and we were
supping on "Salome."
As the banquet proceeded, I experienced that sense of sacred terror
which his friends, the Greeks, knew so well. For this thing could have
been conceived only by genius wedded to insanity and, at the end, when
the tetrarch, rising and bundling his robes about him, cries: "Kill
that woman!" the mysterious divinity whom the poet may have evoked,
deigned perhaps to visit me. For, as I applauded, I shuddered, and
told him that I had.
Indifferently he nodded and, assimilating Hugo with superb unconcern,
threw out: "It is only the shudder that counts."
That was long before the crash. After it, Mrs. Wilde said that he was
mad and had been for three years, "quite mad" as the poor woman
expressed it.
It may be that she was right. St. George, I believe, fought a dragon
with a spear. Whether or not he killed the brute I have forgotten.
But Wilde fought poverty, which is perhaps more brutal, with a pen.
The fight, if indolent, was protracted. Then, abruptly, his inkstand
became a Vesuvius of gold. London that had laughed at him, laughed
with him and laughed colossally. A penny-a-liner was famous. The
international hurdle-race of the stage had been won in a canter and
won by a hack. A sub-editor was top of the heap.
The ascent was perhaps too rapid. The spiderous Fates that sit and
spin are jealous of sudden success. It may be that Mrs. Wilde was
right. In any event, for some time before the crash he saw few of his
former friends. After his release few of his former friends saw him.
But personally, if I may refer to myself, I am not near sighted. I saw
him in Paris, saw too, and to my regret, that he looked like a drunken
coachman, and told him how greatly I admired the "Ballad,"--that poem
which tells of his life, or rather of his death, in jail. Half
covering his mouth with his hand, he laughed and said: "It does not
