" I only laughed at him because he fell down." 
" Did he ever throw stones at you before :" 
"No." 
" You were always good friends." 
"Yes, ma'am." 
"Then you were first in the wrong. You pro- 
voked him to throw stones at you." 
"I only laughed at him, and I couldn't help it. 
He fell in the mud, and soiled his clothes all 
over." 
" I don't think that was any thing to laugh at. 
Suppose Marien had been in your place ? What 
do you think she would have done t Would she 
have laughed at him .?" 
"No; I am sure she wouldn"'t." 
" What would she have done ?" 
"I suppose she would have gone to him, and 
brushed all the dirt from his clothes, and told him 
that she was very sorry he had fallen down." 
"You said just now that Marien was a good 
girl." 
" And so she is." 
" And that you loved her because she was good." 
"So I do." 
" Was you good when you laughed at Thomas 
Peters ?" 
" I don't think I was." 
" Would he throw stones at Marien .'" 
" No, indeed. Nobody would throw stones at 
her. Everybody loves her." 
"It is plain then, that it was because you were 
not good that Thomas Peters threw stones at you. 
He did not throw stones at good Clarence, but 
at bad Clarence. Is it not so ? Now don't you 
think you can forgive him, when you remember 
how you provoked him. Suppose you had fallen 
in the mud, and he had laughed at you, would not 
you have been just as likely to have thrown stones 
at him ?" 
" Maybe I would." 
" Suppose the good Lord would not forgive us 
for all the evil we do, what do you think would 
become of us } And he will not forgive us, unless 
we forgive others their trespasses against us. — 
 
Remember that, my dear boy. You will have 
Thomas invited, I am sure." 
"Yes, mother; for I believe I was wrong," the 
boy replied in a softened tone. " And we will in- 
vite Sarah Jones too. I don't believe she would 
have called me what she did, if I had not run 
against her little brother and pushed him down. 
She loves Marien, and I know would be very sorry 
if she couldn't come to her party." 
"That is right, my boy. To forgive is sweet. 
You feel happier now." 
" I don't hate Tom Peters like I did." 
"You didn't hate him of yourself, my son. But 
you allowed wicked spirits to come into your 
heart, and you felt the hatred they bear towards 
every one. I am glad that they are cast out. 
Whenever we permit them to come into our hearts, 
they make us very unhappy. If we suffer not the 
evil spirits to come into us, angels will be our 
companions, and they will make us love every 
one." 
"They must always be with sister Marien then ; 
for she loves every body.'"" 
"They will always be with you, if you will let 
them, my son. Will you not try ." 
" I do try, mother. But I am so bad that the 
angels won't stay with me." 
"What nonsense to talk in that way to chil- 
dren," said Aunt Mary, as Clarence, hearing the 
voice of his sister, glided away to talk to. her about 
her party. 
" I believe all I have said to be true," Mrs. Hart- 
ley returned. 
" True ! How can you talk so ? Wicked spirits 
and angels in them ! A mere fiction !" 
"Not quite so much of a fiction as you may 
think. But we will not hold an argument on that 
subject, for it would be of no use. I think, how- 
ever, that you will admit that, if Marien's party 
effect no more good than you have just seen done, 
it will be well worth giving." 
"We are not to do evil that good may come." 
And Aunt Mary pursed up her lips, and looked as 
grave as a deacon. 
Mrs. Hartley smiled, but made no further ob- 
servation. 
All was merriment and glad anticipation, when 
it became known among the children that Marien 
was to have a birth-day party. Preparations for it 
were set on foot immediately, and invitations in 
due form made out, and sent around to all of her 
little friends. When the evening came, some 
twenty or thirty bright young faces were seen in 
the parlors of Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. Among the 
 
number were Thomas Peters and Sarah Jones, and 
it was a pure gratification to Mrs. Hartley to see 
Clarence take the former by the hand with manly 
frankness, and speak kindly to the latter, when thev 
came in. His eye caught the expression of her face 
at the time. It warmed his heart, — nay, impressed it 
ineffaceably. He remembered it even in manhood, 
with pleasure. 
The evening was a merry one for all. Even 
Aunt Mary forgot, more than half of her time, the 
little objection she had to '' profane music," and 
dancing. Such romping and wild, happy merri- 
ment as was there, is not often seen. Mrs. Hartley 
was among them as if but a child herself, and 
seemed to enjoy it as much as the gayest little 
urchin of the whole company. But, while she ap- 
peared to enter into the sports of the children as 
if one of them, she guided all their movements, and 
maintained a beautiful order throughout all. The 
ardent temperaments of the older children were 
restrained by modes not seen nor felt by them, 
while the younger ones she interested in various 
ways, that kept them together, and protected from 
the thoughtless rudeness of their elders. Not a 
string jarred in harsh discord during the whole 
evening. When the hour came for separation, a 
hundred kind wishes were uttered for Marien, and 
they all parted happier and better than when they 
came. 
' I don't know how they can be better," said 
Aunt Mary, to whom Mrs. Hartley made a remark 
on the next day, simikr to what we have just 
littered. 
"It is because they love one another more," 
Mrs. Hartley replied, in her usual quiet way. 
It is good thus to bring children together often. \ 
It creates and cherishes social feelings, and causes 
them to regard one another less selfishly than all 
are inclined to do. The spirits of children are 
active, and will flow out in spite of all that may 
unwisely be done to restrain them. It is the duty 
of parents to provide good forms into which these 
can flow, and find their delight. Can any thing be 
more suitable than social recreations, in which 
many can join together in innocent mirth } We 
think not. And so thought Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. 
It was for this reason that the birth-day of every 
child was celebrated by some kind of festivities, r 
CHAPTER VII. 
CORRECTING A FAULT. 
Mrs. Hartley noticed with pleasure, that for 
days after the party, the children were happier, 
and more easily interested than before. This she 
had always observed on similar occasions. In a 
little while, however, things were going on pretty 
much ill their usual course, and she was called 
upon to exercise all her tact and judgment in draw- 
ing the lines between them, so as to protect each 
one in his or her rights and privileges. All diffi- 
culties were submitted to her husband, and the 
best means to overcome them discussed between 
them. 
" There are two faults in Clarence and Henry," 
she said to Mr. Hartley about this period, " that I 
am at a loss how to correct. They are bad faults, 
and will affect their characters through life, if not 
judiciously corrected now. Clarence looks with 
an envious eye upon every thing that Henry has, 
and manages, sooner or later, to get possession of 
it by his brother's consent. Henry soon tires of 
vhat he has, and is easily induced to part with it 
to Clarence for some trifling consideration. It is 
not long, however, before he wants it back again, 
and then trouble ensues. Sometimes I think I will 
make a law that neither Clarence nor his brother 
shall part with any thing that has been given to 
him. But I am afraid of the effect of this. It will 
foster a selfish spirit. It will allow of no generous 
self-sacrifice for the good of others." 
" I think with you, that the effect would not be 
good. Still, it is very important that a certain 
feeling of property in what each one has should 
be preserved. As far as this can be accomplished, 
without strengthening the selfish tendency of our 
nature, it should be done. It causes each one not 
only to protect his own rights, but to regard the 
rights of his neighbors.'" 
" I see all that very clearly. The happy me- 
dium is what I desire to attain. As things are 
now, the disposition which Clarence has to appro- 
priate every thing to himself is fostered, and Henry 
is losing that just regard to his own rights that he 
ought to have. Now, what ought I to do ? Can 
you devise a plan ?" 
' ' Not so well as you can. But let me see. 
Suppose you try this mode for a while. Make a 
law, that if Henry give Clarence any of his play- 
 
things, the right to possess them shall be as per- 
fect as if you or I had presented them to Clarence 
as his own. The practical working of this will, 
in a short time, make Henry reflect a little before 
he relinquishes his property to his brother." 
"That will do, I think," said Mrs. Hartley. 
"There will be no harm in trying it, at any 
rate." 
On the next day she gave Clarence a new book, 
and Henry a humming-top. 
"Now let me tell you something," she said. 
"This book belongs to you, Clarence, and this top 
to you, Henry. I hope they will please you very 
much, and that you will take good care of them. 
You can lend them to each other, if you choose ; 
but I would rather you would not give them to 
each other. Should either of you do so, the one 
who gives his book or his top away, cannot re- 
claim it again. Do you understand, Henry .'" 
" O yes, ma'am, I understand. I'm not going to 
give any body my top, I know." 
"Very well, my son. You can do so if you 
wish. But remember, after you have once given 
it away, you cannot get it back again." 
"Why can't I, mother ?" asked the little boy. 
" Because, after you have given any thing away, 
it is no lonoer vours." 
 
" I'm not going to give it away," he said, in a 
positive voice, as he ran off to spin his top in the 
play room. 
For about an hour Clarence was very much inte- 
rested in his book, while Henry continued to spin 
his top with undiminished pleasure. After this 
time the interest of Clarence began to flag, and the 
sound of Henry's humming top came more and 
more distinctly to his ears from the adjoining room. 
At last he closed the book and sought his brother. 
'' Let me spin it once, won't you, Henry ?" he 
said. 
" Yes, I will," returned the generous-minded 
boy, and instantly handed the top and cord to 
Clarence, who wound it up, and sent it humming 
and skipping about the floor at a grand rate. 
Henry reached out iiis hand for the cord, but his 
brother held it back, saying, 
"Just let me spin it once more." 
" Well, you may once more," was replied. 
But it was " once more," and " once more," 
until Henry's tears restored to him his toy. 
"You are a selfish fellow," said Clarence, as he 
flung the top and cord at his brother's feet. 
Clarence did not resume his book, but stood 
looking at Henry's top, as he spun it, with a covet- 
ous expression on his face. 
 
"If you'll let me spin your top, you may read 
my book," he at length said. 
" I will," quickly returned Henry. 
The top and book were exchanged, and, for a 
time, both were well pleased. But the book was 
rather beyond the grasp of Henry's mind. He 
tired of it soon. 
"You may have your book now, Clarence. — 
I'm done reading it. Give me my top, won't you .'" 
" I'm not done with it yet. I let you read my 
book until you were tired, and now you must let 
me spin your top until I am tired." 
Henry rarely contended with his brother. He 
did not like contention. Knowing how resolute 
Clarence was in doing any thing that suited his 
humor, he said no more, but went and sat down 
quietly upon a litde chair, and looked on wishfully 
while Clarence spun his top. 
It was half an hour before Henry again got pos- 
session of his top; but the zest with which he had 
at first played with it was gone. Afier throwing it 
for a few times he said — 
" Here, Clarence, you may have it. I don't 
-want it." 
" May I have it for good .'" eagerly asked Cla- 
rence. 
'' Yes, for good." 
 
"You'll want it back." 
" No, I won't. You may keep it for ever." 
Clarence took possession of the top with right 
good will, and went on spinning it to his heart's 
content. After dinner Henry wanted it back again, 
and when his brother refused to give it up, went 
crying to his mother. Mrs. Hartley called up 
Clarence, and asked him why he did not give 
Henry his top. 
" It isn't his top, mother ; it is mine," said 
Clarence. 
" Yours ! How came it yours ." 
" Henry gave it to me." 
" Did you give it to him, Henry ?" 
"Yes, ma'am, this morning.: But it's my top, 
and I want it." 
"No, it is not your top any longer if you have 
given it to Clarence. It is his, and he must keep 
it. Have you forgotten what I told you when [ 
gave it to you. If you give away your things, 
they are no longer yours, and you cannot expect 
to get them back again. I hope, my son, that, 
hereafter, you will be more careful what you 
do." 
Henry cried bitterly, but his mother would not 
compel Clarence, upon whom Henry's tears had 
no effect, to restore the toy. The poor litde fel- 
 
low's lieart was almost broken at this hard lesson 
in the school of human life. 
In about a week, Mrs. Hartley tried it over again. 
Gifts were made to the children, and soon Clarence 
\vent to work to get possession of what his brother 
had. But Henry had not forgotten the top, and 
vas, therefore, not quite so generous as before. 
He withstood every effort for the first day. On 
the second, however, he yielded. On the follow- 
ing day he reclaimed his toys ; but his mother in- 
terposed again, and maintained Clarence's right to 
what Henry had given him. 
The poor child seemed unable to comprehend 
the justice of this decision, and grieved so much 
about it, that Mrs. Hartley felt unhappy. But ulti- 
mate good, she was sure, would be the result, 
painful as it might be to correct her child's fault. 
On the next occasion, Clarence found it much 
harder to prevail upon Henry to give him his play- 
things than before. The same result following, 
the little fellow's eyes began to be opened. He 
would look ahead and think when Clarence want- 
ed him to give him any thing, and the recollection 
of the permanent losses he had already sustained, 
at length gave him the resolution to persevere in 
refusing to yield up his right to any thing that had 
been given to him. He would lend whatever he 
 
had, cheerfully. But when asked to give, he gene- 
rally said — 
"No. — If I give it to you, I can't get it back 
again." 
The parents did not like to check the generous 
spirit of their child, but they felt that it was neces- 
sary both for his good and the good of his brother, 
that he should be taught to set a higher value upon 
what was his own. If he were not led to do this 
while young, it might prevent his usefulness when 
a man, by leaving him the prey of every one. — 
Besides, the want of a due regard to his own 
property in any thing was not right. 
Another fault in Henry they felt bound to visit 
with a rigid system of correction. He was natu- 
rally an obedient child, while his brother was the 
reverse. He was also very yielding, and could 
easily be persuaded by Clarence to join in acts 
which were forbidden by their parents. When 
called to account, his usual excuse was, that he 
had been asked by Clarence, or had gone with 
him. He did not appear to think that he was to 
blame for any thing, if he acted upon his older 
brother's suggestions. The only way to correct 
this, was to let each be punished for offences mu- 
tually committed, even tiiough Henry was far less 
to blame than Clarence. It was only by doing so, 
 
the parents felt, that Henry could be made to see 
that he must be held responsible for his own acts. 
This course soon effected all they desired. Cla- 
rence was usually alone in all flagrant violations 
of parental authority. 
CHAPTER Vni. 
A STRONG CONTRAST. 
Nearer than Mrs. Hartley had supposed, lived 
for many years an old but now almost forgotten 
friend — Florence Armitage ', or rather, Mrs. Archer. 
We will introduce her on the very night that 
Marien's birth-day party took place, by way of 
contrast. The house in which she lives is a small, 
comfortless one, in an obscure street not far from 
the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. Her father 
has become poor, and her husband, whose habits 
are more irregular than when a single man, receives 
a small salary as clerk, more than half of which he 
spends in self-indulgence ; the other half is eked 
out to his wife, who, on this pittance, is compelled 
to provide for five children. She has had six, but 
one is dead. 
 
It was a clear bright evening without, but there 
"was nothing cheerful in the dwelling of William 
Archer. The supper table was in the floor, and 
on it burned a poor light. The mother sal near 
the table, with an infant on her lap, mending a pair 
of dark stockings with coarse yarn of a lighter 
color. A little girl, three years of age, was swing- 
ing on her chair, and a boy two years older was 
drumming on the floor with two large sticks, ma- 
king a deafening noise. This noise Mrs. Archer 
bore as long as she could, when her patience be- 
