they did not feel it all. 

The light gradually faded away, till only a silver glow in 
the west showed where the sun had set, and the sober gray 
of twilight was gently stealing over all the bright colors of 
sky, and river, and hill ; now and then a twinkling light began 
to appear along the shores. 

" You are very tired," said Ellen's friend to her, — " I see 







you are. A little more patience, my child ; — we shall be at 
our journey's end before a very great while." 

" I am almost sorry," said Ellen, "though I am tired. We 
don't go in the steamboat to-morrow ; do we, sir?" 

" No, — in the stage." 

" Shall you be in the stage, sir ?" 

" No, my child. But I am glad you and I have spent this 
day together." 

" Oh, sir !" said Ellen, " I don't know what I should have 
done if it hadn't been for you !" 

There was silence again, and the gentleman almost thought 
his little charge had fallen asleep, she sat so still. But she 
suddenly spoke again, and in a tone of voice that showed 
sleep was far away. 

* I wish I knew where mamma is now !" 

" I do not doubt, my child, from what you told me, that 
it is well with her wherever she is. Let that thought comfort 
you whenever you remember her." 

" She must want me so much," said poor Ellen, in a 
scarcely audible voice. 

" She has not lost her best friend, my child." 

" I know it, sir," said Ellen, with whom grief was now 
getting the mastery, — " but ! it's just near the time when I 
used to make the tea for her — who'll make it now ? she'll want 
me, — oh what shall I do !" and overcome completely by this 
recollection, she threw herself into her friend's arms and 
sobbed aloud. 

There was no reasoning against this. He did not attempt 
it ; but with the utmost gentleness and tenderness endeavored, 
as soon as he might, to soothe and calm her. He succeeded 
at last ; with a sort of despairing submission, Ellen ceased 
her tears, and arose to her former position. But he did not 
rest from his kind endeavors till her mind was really eased 
and comforted ; which, however, was not long before the lights 
of a city began to appear in the distance. And with them 
appeared a dusky figure ascending the stairs, which, upon 
nearer approach, proved by the voice to be Timmins. 

" Is this Miss Montgomery ?" said she ; — " I can't see, I 
am sure, it's so dark. Is that you, Miss Montgomery ?" 

" Yes," said Ellen, u it is I ; do you want me V 99 



" If you please, Miss, Mrs. Dunscombe wants you to come 
right down ; we're almost in, she says, Miss. 

" I'll come directly, Miss Timmins," said Ellen. " Don't 
wait for me. — I won't be a minute, — I'll come directly." 

Miss Timmins retired, standing still a good deal in awe of 
the grave personage whose protection Ellen seemed to have 
gained. 

" I must go," said Ellen, standing up and extending her 
hand ; — " Good-bye, sir." 

She could hardly say it. He drew her towards him and 
kissed her cheek once or twice ; it was well he did ; for it sent 
a thrill of pleasure to Ellen's heart that she did not get over 
that evening, nor all the next day. 

" God bless you, my child," he said, gravely but cheerfully ; 
" and good night ! — you will feel better I trust when you 
have had some rest and refreshment." 

He took care of her down the stairs, ?nd saw her safe to 
the very door of the saloon, and within it ; and there again 
took her hand and kindly bade her good night ! 

Ellen entered the saloon only to sit down and cry as if her 
heart would break. She saw and heard nothing till Mrs. 
Dunscombe's voice bade her make haste and be ready, for 
they were going ashore in five minutes. 

And in less than five minutes ashore they went. 

" Which hotel, ma'am ? " asked the servant who carried 
her baggage, — " the Eagle, or Foster's ? " 

"The Eagle," said Mrs. Dunscombe. 

" Come this way then, ma'am," said another man, the 
driver of the Eagle carriage, — " Now ma'am, step in, if you 
please." 

Mrs. Dunscombe put her daughter in. 

" But it's full ! " said she to the driver ; " there isn't room 
for another one ! " 

" yes, ma'am, there is," said the driver, holding the door 
open; "there's plenty of room for you, ma'am. — just get in, 
ma'am, if you please, — we'll be there in less that two 
minutes." 

" Timmins, you'll have to walk," said Mrs. Dunscombe. 
"Miss Montgomery, would you rather ride, or walk with 
Timmins ? " 




" How far is it, ma'am ? " said Ellen. 

" O bless me ! how can I tell how far it is ? I don't know, 
I am sure, — not far ; — say quick, — would you rather walk or 
ride ?" 

" I would rather walk, ma'am, if you please," said Ellen. 

" Very well," said Mrs. Dunscombe, getting in ; — " Timmins, you know the way." 

And off went the coach with it's load ; but tired as she 
was, Ellen did not wish herself along. 

Picking a passage-way out of the crowd, she and Timmins 
now began to make their way up one of the comparatively 
quiet streets. 

It was a strange place — that she felt. She had lived long 
enough in the place she had left to feel at home there ; but 
here she came to no street or crossing that she had ever seen 
before ; nothing looked familiar ; all reminded her that she 
was a traveler. Only one pleasant thing Ellen saw on her 
walk, and that was the sky ; and that looked just as it did at 
home ; and very often Ellen's gaze was fixed upon it, much 
to the astonishment of Miss Timmins, who had to be not a 
little watchful for the safety of Ellen's feet while her eyes 
were thus employed. She had taken a great fancy to Ellen, 
however, and let her do as she pleased, keeping all her 
wonderment to herself. 

" Take care, Miss Ellen !" cried Timmins, giving her arm a 
great pull, — "I declare I just saved you out of that gutter! 
poor child ! you are dreadfully tired, aint you?" 

"Yes, I am very tired, Miss Timmins," said Ellen, " have 
we much further to go ?" 

" Not a great deal, dear ; cheer up ! we are almost there. 
I hope Mrs. Dunscombe will want to ride one of these days 
herself, and can't." 

" O don't say so, Miss Timmins," said Ellen, — " I don't 
wish so, indeed." 

" Well I should think you would," said Timmins, — " I 
should think you 'd be fit to poison her ; — I should, I know, 
if I was in your place." 

" no," said Ellen, " that wouldn't be right, — that 
would be very wrong." 

" Wrong !" said Timmins, — " why would it be wrong ? 
she hasn't behaved good to you." 







" Yes," said Ellen, — " but don't you know the Bible says 
if we do not forgive people what they do to us, we shall not 
be forgiven ourselves ?" 

" Well, I declare !" said Miss Timmins, " you beat all ! 
But here's the Eagle hotel at last, — and I am glad for your 
sake, dear." 

Ellen was shown into the ladies' parlor. She was longing 
for a place to rest, but she saw directly it was not to be 
there. The room was large, and barely furnished ; and 
round it were scattered part of the carriage-load of people 
that had arrived a quarter of an hour before her. They 
were waiting till their rooms should be ready. Ellen silently 
found herself a chair and sat down to wait with the rest, as 
patiently as she might. Few of them had as much cause for 
impatience ; but she was the only perfectly mute and uncomplaining one there. Her two companions however, between 
them, fully made up her share of fretting. At length, a 
servant brought the welcome news that their room was ready, 
and the three marched up stairs. It made Ellen's very heart 
glad when they got there, to find a good-sized, cheerful-
looking bed-room, comfortably furnished, with a bright fire 
burning, large curtains let down to the floor, and a nice 
warm carpet upon it. Taking off her bonnet, and only that, 
she sat down on a low cushion by the corner of the fire-place, 
and leaning her head against the jamb fell fast asleep almost 
immediately. Mrs. Dunscombe set about arranging herself 
for the tea-table. 

" Well !" she said, — " one day of this precious journey is 
over !" 

" Does Ellen go with us to-morrow, mamma ?" 
" Oh, yes !— quite to Thirlwall." 

"Well you haven't had much plague with her to-day, 
mamma." 

" No — I am sure I am much obliged to whoever has kept 
her out of my way." 

" Where is she going to sleep to-night ?" asked Miss 
Margaret. 

"I don't know, I am sure. — I suppose I shall have to have 
a cot brought in here for her." 

" What a plague !" said Miss Margaret. " It will lumber 




up the room so ! There's no place to put it. Couldn't she 
sleep with Timmins ?" 

" 0, she could, of course — just as well as not, only people 
would make such a fuss about it ; — it wouldn't do ; we must 
bear it for once. I'll try and not be caught in such a scrape 
again." 

" How provoking !" said Miss Margaret ; — " how came 
father to do so without asking you about it ?'' 

" 0, he was bewitched, I suppose, — men always are. 
Look here, Margaret, — I can't go down to tea with a train of 
children at my heels, — I shall leave you and Ellen up here, 
and I'll send up your tea to you." 

"O no, mamma!" said Margaret eagerly ; "I want to go 
down with you. Look here, mamma ! she's asleep and you 
needn't wake her up — that's excuse enough ; you can leave 
her to have her tea up here, and let me go down with you." 

" Well," said Mrs. Dunscombe, — " I don't care — but make 
haste to get ready, for I expect every minute when the tea
-bell will ring." 

" Timmins ! Timmins !" cried Margaret, — " come here and 
fix me — quick ! — and step softly, will you ? — or you'll wake 
that young one up, and then, you see, I shall have to stay 
up stairs." 

This did not happen however. Ellen's sleep was much too 
deep to be easily disturbed. The tea-bell itself, loud and 
shrill as it was, did not even make her eye-lids tremble. 
After Mrs. and Miss Dunscombe were gone down, Timmins 
employed herself a little while in putting all things about the 
room to rights ; and then sat down to take her rest, dividing 
her attention between the fire and Ellen, towards whom she 
seemed to feel more and more kindness, as she saw that she 
was likely to receive it from no one else. Presently came a 
knock at the door ; — " The tea for the young lady," on a 
waiter. Miss Timmins silently took the tray from the man 
and shut the door. " Well !" said she to herself, — " if that 
aint a pretty supper to send up to a child that has gone two 
hundred miles to-day, and had no breakfast ! — a cup of tea, 
cold enough I'll warrant, — bread and butter enough for a 
bird, — and two little slices of ham as thick as a wafer ! — well, 
I just wish Mrs. Dunscombe had to eat it herself, and nothing 







else ! — I'm not going to wake her up for that, I know, till I 
Bee whether something better aint to be had for love nor 
money. So just you sleep on, darling, till I see what I can 
do for you." 

In great indignation, down stairs went Miss Timmins ; and 
at the foot of the stairs she met a rosy- cheeked, pleasant- 
faced girl coming up. 

" Are you the chambermaid?" said Timmins. 

" I'm one of the chambermaids," said the girl smiling ; 
there's three of us in this house, dear." 

" Well, I am a stranger here," said Timmins, " and I 
want you to help me, and I am sure you will. I've got a 
dear little girl up-stairs that I want some supper for — she's a 
sweet child, and she's under the care of some proud folks 
here in the tea-room that think it's too much trouble to look 
at her ; and they've sent her up about supper enough for a 
mouse, — and she half starving ; she lost her breakfast this 
morning by their ugliness. Now ask one of the waiters to give 
me something nice for her, will you ?- — there's a good girl." 

"James !" — said the girl in a loud whisper to one of the 
waiters who was crossing the hall. He instantly stopped and 
came towards them, tray in hand, and making several extra 
polite bows as he drew near. 

"What's on the supper-table, James?" said the smiling 
damsel. 

" Everything that ought to be there, Miss Johns," said the 
man, with another flourish. 

" Come, stop your nonsense," said the girl, " and tell me 
quick — I'm in a hurry." 

" It's a pleasure to perform your commands, Miss Johns. 
I'll give you the whole bill of fare. There's a very fine beef- 
steak, fricasseed chickens, stewed oysters, sliced ham, cheese, 
preserved quinces, — with the usual compliment of bread and 
toast and muffins, and doughnuts, and new year cake, and 
plenty of butter, — likewise salt and pepper, — likewise tea 
and coffee, and sugar, — likewise, — " 

" Hush ! " said the girl. " Do stop, will you ? " — and 
then laughing and turning to Miss Timmins, she added, 
" What will you have ?" 

"I guess I'll have some of the chickens and oysters," said 




Timmins ; " that will be the nicest for her, — and a muffin 
or two." 

"Now, James, do you hear?" said the chambermaid; 
" I want you to get me now, right away, a nice little supper 
of chickens and oysters and a muffin — it's for a lady up stairs. 
Be as quick as you can." 

" I should be very happy to execute impossibilities for you, 
Miss Johns, but Mrs. Ousters is at the table herself." 

" Very well — that's nothing— she'll think it's for somebody 
up stairs — and so it is." 

" Ay, but the up-stairs people is Tim's business — I should 
be hauled over the coals directly." 

" Then ask Tim, will you ? How slow you are ! Now, 
James, if you don't, I won't speak to you again." 

" Till to-morrow ? — I couldn't stand that. It shall be 
done, Miss Johns, instantum." 

Bowing and smiling, away went James, leaving the girls 
giggling on the stair-case and highly gratified. 

" He always does what I want him to," said the good- 
humored chambermaid, "but he generally makes a fuss 
about it first. He'll be back directly with what you want." 

Till he came, Miss Timmins filled up the time with telling 
her new friend as much as she knew about Ellen and Ellen's 
hardships ; with which Miss Johns was so much interested that 
she declared she must go up and see her ; and when James in 
a few minutes returned with a tray of nice things, the two 
women proceeded together to Mrs. Dunscombe's room. Ellen had moved so far as to put herself on the floor with her 
head on the cushion for a pillow, but she was as sound asleep 
as ever. 

"Just see now!" said Timmins; "there she lies on the 
floor — enough to give her her death of cold ; poor child, 
she's tired to death ; and Mrs. Dunscombe made her walk up 
from the steamboat to-night rather than do it herself; — I declare I wished the coach would break down, only for the 
other folks. I am glad I have got a good supper for her 
though, — thank you, Miss Johns." 

" And I'll tell you what, I'll go and get you some nice hot 
