"If a man knocks me down, I know the weight of his arm much better than
those who have never felt it."

"Still nursing your anger, still harbouring unkind thoughts! Forgive
and forget, my friend--forgive and forget; no longer let the sun go
down upon your wrath."

"I can forgive, Mr. Wellford--I do forgive; for Heaven knows I wish him
no harm; but I cannot forget: that is asking too much."

"You do not forget, because you will not forgive," replied the old
gentleman. "Forgive, and you will soon forget. I am sure you will both
be happier in forgetting than you can be in remembering the past."

But Arnest shook his head, remarking, as he so--"I would rather let
things remain as they are. At least, I cannot stoop to any humiliating
overtures for a reconciliation. When Marston outraged my feelings so
wantonly, I wrote him a pretty warm expression of my sentiments in
regard to his conduct. This gave him mortal offence. I do not now
remember what I wrote, but nothing, certainly, to have prevented his
coming forward and apologizing for his conduct; but he did not choose
to do this, and there the matter rests. I cannot recall the angry
rebuke I gave him, for it was no doubt just."

"A man who writes a letter in a passion, and afterwards forgets what he
has written," said Mr. Wellford, "may be sure that he has said what his
sober reason cannot approve. If you could have the letter you then sent
before you now, I imagine that you would no longer wonder that Marston
was offended."

"That is impossible; without doubt, he burned my note the moment he
received it."

Mr. Wellford tried in vain to induce Arnest to consent to forget what
was past; but he affirmed that this was impossible, and that he had no
wish to renew an acquaintance with his old friend.

About the same time that this interview took place, Marston was alone,
thinking with sad and softened feelings of the past. The letter of
Arnest was before him; he had turned it over by accident.

"He could not have been himself when he wrote this," he thought. It was
the first time he had permitted himself to think so. "My words must
have stung him severely, lightly as I uttered them, and with no
intention to wound. This matter ought not to have gone on so long.
Friends are not so plentiful that we may carelessly cast those we have
tried and proved aside. He has many excellent qualities."

Pride came quickly, with many suggestions about self-respect, and what
every man owed to himself.

"He owes it to himself to be just to others," Marston truly thought.
"Was I just in failing to apologize to my friend, notwithstanding this
offensive letter? No, I was not; for his action did not exonerate me
from the responsibility of mine. Ah, me! How passion blinds us!"

After musing for some time, Marston drew towards him a sheet of paper,
and, taking up a pen, wrote:

"MY DEAR SIR:--What I ought to have done years ago, I do now, and that
is, offer you a sincere apology for light words thoughtlessly spoken,
but which I ought not to have used, as they were calculated to wound,
and, I am grieved to think, did wound. But for your note, which I
enclose, I should have made this apology the moment I had an
opportunity. But its peculiar tenor, I then felt, precluded me from
doing so. I confess that I erred in letting my feelings blind my cooler
judgment.

"Your old friend, MARSTON.

"To Mr. Herbert Arnest."

Enclosing the note alluded to in this letter, Marston sealed, and,
ringing for an attendant, despatched it.

"Better to do right late than never," he murmured, as he leaned
pensively back in his chair.

"Let what will come of it, I shall feel better, for I will gain my own
self-respect, and have an inward assurance that I have done
right,--more than I have for a long time had, in regard to this matter
at least."

Relieved in mind, Marston commenced looking over some papers in
reference to matters of business then on hand, and was soon so much
absorbed in them, that the subject which had lately filled his thoughts
faded entirely therefrom. Some one opened the door, and he turned to
see who was entering. In an instant he was on his feet. It was Arnest.

The face of the latter was pale and agitated, and his lips quivered. He
came forward hurriedly, extending his hand, not to grasp that of his
old friend, but to hold up his own letter that had been just returned
to him.

"Marston," he said, huskily, "did I send you this note?"

"You did," was the firm but mild answer.

"Thus I cancel it!" And he tore it into shreds, and scattered them on
the floor. "Would that its contents could be as easily obliterated from
your memory!" he added, in a most earnest voice.

"They are no longer there, my friend," returned Marston, with visible
emotion, now grasping the hand of Arnest. "You have wiped them out."

Arnest returned the pressure with both hands, his eyes fixed on those
of Marston, until they grew so dim that he could no longer read the old
familiar lines and forgiving look.

"Let us forgive and forget," said Marston, speaking in a broken voice.
"We have wronged each other and ourselves. We have let evil passions
rule instead of good affections."

"From my heart do I say 'Amen,'" replied Arnest. "Yes, let us forgive
and forget. Would that we had been as wise as we now are, years ago!"

Thus were they reconciled. And now the question is, What did either
gain by his indignation against the other? Did Arnest rise higher in
his self-esteem, or Marston gain additional self-respect? We think not.
Alas! how blinding is selfish passion! How it opens in the mind the
door for the influx of multitudes of evil and false suggestions! How it
hides the good in others, and magnifies, weakness into crimes! Let us
beware of it.

"Reconciled at last," said old Mr. Wellford, when he next saw Arnest
and heard the fact from his lips.

"Yes," replied the latter. "I can now forget as well as forgive."

"Rather say you can forget, because you forgive. If you had forgiven
truly, you could have ceased to think of what was wrong in your friend
long ago. People talk of forgiving and not forgetting, but it isn't so:
they do not forget because they do not forgive."

"I believe you are right," said Arnest. "I think, now, as naturally of
my friend's good qualities as I ever did before of what was evil. I
forget the evil in thinking of the good."

"Because you have forgiven him," returned Mr. Wellford. "Before you
forgave him, your thought of evil gave no room for the thought of good."

Mr. Wellford was right. After we have forgiven, we find it no hard
matter to forget.




PAYING THE MINISTER.


"MONEY, money, money! That's the everlasting cry! I'll give up my pew.
I won't go to church. I'll stay at home and read the Bible. Not that I
care for a few dollars more than I do for the dust that blows in the
wind; but this selling of salvation for gold disgusts me. I'm sick to
death of it!"

"But hear, first, Mr. Larkin, what we want money for," said Mr. Elder,
one of the vestrymen of the church to which the former belonged. "You
know that our minister's salary is very small; in fact, entirely
insufficient for the maintenance of his family. He has, as might be
supposed, fallen into debt, and we are making an effort to raise a
sufficient sum to relieve him from his unpleasant embarrassment."

"But what business has he to go in debt, Mr. Elder? He knows the amount
of his income, and, as an honest man, should not let his expenses
exceed it."

"But you know as well as I do that he cannot live on four hundred
dollars a year."

"I don't know any such thing, friend Elder. But I do know, that there
are hundreds and thousands who live on much less, and save a little
into the bargain. That, however, is neither here nor there. Four
hundred dollars a year is all this parish can afford to pay a minister,
and that Mr. Malcolm was distinctly told before he came. If he could
not live on the salary offered, why did he come? Mr. Pelton never
received more."

"Beg your pardon, Mr. Larkin. Mr. Pelton never received less than seven
hundred dollars a year. There were always extra subscriptions made for
him."

"I never gave any thing more than my regular subscription and pew-rent."

"It is more than I can say, then. In presents of one kind and another
and in money it never cost me less than from fifty to seventy-five
dollars a year extra. Having been in the vestry for the last ten years,
I happen to know that there was always something to make up at the end
of the year, and it generally came out of the pockets of a few."

"Well, it isn't right, that is all I have to say," returned Mr. Larkin.
"A minister has no business to saddle himself upon a congregation in
that way for less than his real weight. It's an imposition, and one
that I am not going to stand. I'm opposed to all these forced levies,
from principle."

"I rather think the first error is on the side of the congregation,"
said Mr. Elder. "I think they are not only to blame, but really
dishonest, in fixing upon a sum for the support of a minister that is
plainly inadequate to his maintenance. Here, in our parish, for
instance, a thousand dollars might be paid to a minister with the
greatest ease in the world, and no one be oppressed by his
subscription. And yet, we are very content and self-complacent in our
niggardly tender of four hundred dollars."

"A thousand dollars! I don't believe any minister ought to receive such
a salary. I have no notion of tempting, by inducements like that,
money-lovers into the sacred office."

"Pardon me, Mr. Larkin, but how much does it cost you to live? Not less
than two thousand five hundred dollars a year, I presume."

"But I don't put my expenses alongside of the minister's. I can afford
to spend all that it costs me. I have honestly made what I possess, and
have a right to enjoy it."

"I didn't question that, Mr. Larkin. I only turned your thoughts in
this direction, that you might realize in your own mind how hard it
must be for a man with a family of three children, just the number that
you have, to live on four hundred dollars a year."

But the allusion to matters personal to Mr. Larkin gave that gentleman
a fine opportunity to feel offended; which he did not fail to embrace,
and thus close the interview.

This was Mr. Elder's first effort to obtain a subscription for paying
off the minister's debt. It quite disheartened him. He had intended
making three calls on his way to his store that morning, for the
purpose of trying to raise something for Mr. Malcolm; but he felt so
discouraged by the reception he had met with from Mr. Larkin, that he
passed on without doing so. Near his store was a carriage repository.
The owner of it put his hand upon his shoulder as he was going by, and
said, "Just step in, I want to show you something beautiful."

Mr. Elder went in, and was shown a very handsome and fashionably-made
carriage, with all the modern improvements.

"This is something very elegant, certainly. Who is it for?"

"One of the members of your church."

"Ah?"

"Yes. It is for Larkin."

"Indeed! How much does it cost him?"

"Eight hundred dollars."

"He ought to have a fine pair of horses for so fine a carriage."

"And so he has. He bought a noble span, last week, for a thousand
dollars."

Mr. Elder said what he could in praise of the elegant carriage; but he
couldn't say much, for he had no heart to do so. He felt worse than
ever about the deficiency in Mr. Malcolm's salary. On the next day he
was in better spirits, and called in upon one of the members of the
church, as he passed to his store. He stated his errand, and received
this reply--

"I'll tell you what, Mr. Elder, I am of Larkin's opinion in this
matter. If our minister agreed to come for four hundred dollars, he
should stick to his contract. He's no business to go in debt, and then
call upon us to get him out of his difficulties. It isn't the clean
thing. I don't mind a few dollars any more than you do; but I like
principle. I like to see all men, especially ministers, stick to their
text. Malcolm knew before he came here what we could afford to give
him, and if he couldn't live upon that, he had no business to come.
That's what I think of it, and I always speak out my mind plainly."

Mr. Elder made no more begging calls on that day. But he tried it again
on the next, and found that Larkin had been over the ground before him,
and said so much about "the imposition of the thing," that he could do
little or nothing. There was a speciousness about Larkin's manner of
alluding to the subject, that carried people away with him;
particularly as what he said favoured their inclination to keep a tight
hold on their purse-strings. He was piqued with Elder, and this set him
to talking, and doing more mischief than he thought for.

The Rev. Mr. Malcolm was a man of about thirty years of age. He had
taken orders a couple of years previous to the date of his call to the
parish where he now preached. At the time of doing so, he was engaged
in teaching a school; from which he received a very comfortable income.
The bishop who ordained him recommended the parish at C--, when Mr.
Pelton left there, to apply for Mr. Malcolm; which was done. The latter
was an honest, conscientious man, and sincere in his desire to do good
in the sacred office to which he believed himself called. When the
invitation to settle at C-- came, he left home and visited the parish,
in order that he might determine whether it was his duty to go there or
not. On his return, his wife inquired, with a good deal of interest,
how he liked the place, and if he thought he would go there.

"I think I shall accept the call," said he. This was not spoken with
much warmth.

"Don't you like the people?" inquired Mrs. Malcolm.

"Yes; as far as I saw them, they were very pleasant, good sort of
people. But the salary is entirely too small."

"How much?"

"Four hundred dollars a year, and the parsonage--a little affair, that
would rent for about a hundred dollars."

"We can't live on that," said Mrs. Malcolm, in a disappointed tone; "it
is out of the question."

"No, certainly not. But I am assured that at least seven or eight
hundred will be made up during the year. This has always been done for
Mr. Pelton and will be done for me, if I accept the call."

"That might do, if we practised close economy. But why do they not make
the salary seven or eight hundred dollars at once? It would be just the
same to them, and make the minister feel a great deal more independent."

"True; but we must let people do things in their own way. We can live
on seven hundred dollars, and I therefore think it my duty to give up
my school, and accept the call."

"No one, certainly, can charge you with sordid views in doing so, for
your school yields you now over a thousand dollars, and is increasing."

"I will try and keep my mind free from all thought of what people may
say or think," returned Mr. Malcolm, "and endeavour to do right for the
sake of right."

The wife of the Rev. Mr. Malcolm fully sympathized with her husband in
his wish to enter upon the duties of his sacred calling, and was ready
to make any sacrifice that could be made in order to see him in the
position he so much desired to occupy. She did not, therefore, make any
objection to giving up their pleasant home and sufficient income, but
went with him cheerfully to C--, and there made every effort to reduce
all their expenses to their reduced means of living.

It is a much easier thing to increase our expenses than to reduce them.
We get used to a certain free way of living, and it is one of the most
difficult things in the world to give up this little luxury, and that
pleasant indulgence, and come right down to the meagre necessaries of
life. This fact was soon apparent to Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm; but they
were in earnest in what they were about, and practised the required
self-denial. Their expenses were kept within the limits of seven
hundred dollars, the lowest sum that had been named.

At the end of the first three months, one hundred dollars were paid to
the minister. When he gave up his school, he sold it out to a person
who wished to succeed him, for two hundred dollars. The expense of
removing to C--, and living there for three months, had quite exhausted
this sum. Mr. Malcolm paid away his last dollar before the quarter's
salary was due, and was forced to let his bread-bill and his meat-bill
run on for a couple of weeks; these were paid the moment he received
his salary.

"I don't like these bills at all," said he to his wife, after they were
paid. "A minister should never owe a dollar; it does him no good. Above
all things, his mind should live in a region above the anxieties that a
deficient income and consequent debt always occasion. We must husband
what we have, and make it go as far as possible."

By the end of two months, the hundred dollars were all expended; but
not a word had been said about the additional three or four hundred
that had been promised, or that Mr. Malcolm fully believed had been
promised. Bills had now to be run up with the baker, grocer, and
butcher, which amounted to nearly fifty dollars when the next quarter's
salary was paid.

Mr. Malcolm did not doubt but the additional amount promised when he
consented to accept the call would be made up; still he could not help
feeling troubled. If things went on as they were going, by the end of
the year he would be in debt at least two hundred dollars; and, of all
things in the world, he had a horror of debt.

During this time, he was in familiar intercourse with the principal
members of his church, and especially with the leading vestrymen who
held out inducements to him beyond the fixed salary; but no allusion
was made to the subject, and he had too much delicacy to introduce it.

At last, matters approached a climax. The minister was about two
hundred dollars in debt, and bills were presented almost every week,
and their settlement politely urged. This was a condition of things not
to be endured by a man of Mr. Malcolm's high sense of right and
peculiar delicacy of feeling. At length, after lying awake for half of
the night, thinking over what was to be done, he came to the reluctant
conclusion that it was his imperative duty to those he owed, to mention
the necessities of his case to the vestry, and learn from them, without
further delay, whether he had any thing beyond the four hundred dollars
to expect.

The hardest task Mr. Malcolm had ever performed was now before him, and
he shrunk from it with painful reluctance. But the path of duty was
plain, and he was not a man to hold back when he saw his way clear. If
there had been any hesitation, an imperative dun received before he sat
down to breakfast, and another before nine o'clock, would have
effectually dispelled it.

Mr. Malcolm went to the store of Mr. Elder, one of the vestrymen, and
found him quite busy with customers. He waited for half an hour for him
to be disengaged, and then went out, saying, as he passed him at the
counter, that he would call in again.
