"Indeed, and I shall do no such thing," was promptly answered. "Let
your customers call in the morning--always the best time for business.
Men don't buy in the afternoon."
"My experience says differently."
"A fig for your experience! No, no, my good friend. You're booked for a
ride with me this very afternoon; so let your business and customers
take care of themselves. Health is better than dollars; and length of
days than great possessions. There's wisdom in miniature for you.
Wouldn't I make a capital preacher, ha?"
"But Carlton"--
"But me no buts, my hearty!" and Carlton slapped Wilkinson on the
shoulder as he spoke, in a familiar manner. "You're my prisoner for the
rest of the day. Do you understand that?"
"You've bought a fast trotter, have you?" said Wilkinson, after a brief
but hurried self-communion, the end of which was a determination to
take the afternoon for pleasure, and let his customer call in the
morning.
"I have; and the prettiest animal your eyes ever looked upon."
"Fleet as an arrow?"
"Ay; as the very wind. But you shall have a taste of his quality. So
come along. Time passes."
The two men left the tavern, and went to the stable where Carlton's new
horse was kept. The animal was soon in harness.
Four hours afterwards, the last rays of the setting sun came through
the windows of a room, in which were seated, at a table, Carlton and
Wilkinson. Liquor and glasses were on the table, and cards in the hands
of the men. Wilkinson appeared excited, but Carlton was calm and
self-possessed. The former had been drinking freely; but the latter
exhibited not the smallest sign of inebriation. A single five-dollar
bill lay beside Wilkinson; a dozen bills and two gold coins were beside
the other. They were playing for the last stake. Nervously did
Wilkinson lay card after card upon the table, while, with the most
perfect coolness, his adversary played his hand, a certainty of winning
apparent in every motion. And he did win.
"Curse my luck!" exclaimed Wilkinson, grinding his teeth together, as
the last five-dollar bill he had with him passed into the hands of his
very particular friend.
There was more than "luck" against him, if he had but known it.
"The fortune of war," smilingly replied the winner. "The race is not
always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, you know. You played
well--very well; never better within my knowledge. But, as you say,
luck was against you. And, by the way, what a curious and uncertain
thing this luck is! I've seen men lose at every turn of the card, until
they had parted with thousands; and then, on a borrowed dollar,
perhaps, start again, and not only get every thing back, but break
their antagonists. This is an every-day occurrence, in fact."
Wilkinson had risen from the table, and was pacing the room in a
fretful, impatient manner. Suddenly he stopped. A light flashed over
his face. Then, sitting down, he snatched up a pen, and writing on a
slip of paper--"Due Andrew Carlton $20," signed it with his name.
Carlton saw every letter and word as they left the pen, and ere the
last flourish was made to the signature, had selected four five-dollar
bills from the pile beside him. Simultaneously with the motion of
Wilkinson's hand, in pushing to him this memorandum of debt, was the
motion of his hand in furnishing the sum required.
"Not the man to be frightened at a little adverse fortune, I see,"
remarked the cunning tempter. "Well, I do like a man who never can
acknowledge himself beaten. The timid and easily discouraged are soon
left far behind in the world's race--and they deserve to be."
Wilkinson did not reply. Another deal was made, and again the two men
bent over the table in their unequal contest.
In less than half an hour, the money obtained from Carlton had gone
back to him.
By this time twilight had fallen.
"Nearly eight o'clock, as I live!" muttered Wilkinson. He had drawn
forth his watch. "I had no idea of this. And we are ten miles from the
city!"
A thought of his anxiously waiting wife flitted across his mind. He
remembered her last pleading injunction for him to come home early, and
the promise he had given. Alas! like so many more of his promises to
her, made to be broken.
"Shall we return now; or order supper here?" said Carlton, in his bland
way.
"I must go back immediately," replied Wilkinson. "It is an hour later
than I supposed. I was to have been home early this evening."
"It is too late now to join your family at tea. They have given you out
before this. So, I think we'd better order supper here. The moon is
full, and it will be almost as clear as daylight; and much pleasanter
riding, for the dew will keep down the dust. What say you?"
The end was, Wilkinson yielded.
"Not down in the mouth, because of this little run of ill-luck?" said
Carlton, in a bantering way, as he saw a cloud settling over the face
of his victim.
Lights had been brought in, and the two men still remained seated by
the table at which they had been playing, awaiting the preparation of
supper.
"I'm never down in the mouth," replied Wilkinson, forcing a smile to
his countenance. "Better luck next time, has always been my motto."
"And it will carry you safely through the world. Try another glass of
brandy."
"No--I've taken enough already."
"It isn't every man who knows when he has enough," returned the other.
"I've often wished that I knew exactly the right gauge."
And, as Carlton spoke, he poured some brandy into a glass, and, adding
a little water, affected to take a deep draught thereof; but, though
the glass was held long to his mouth, only a small portion of the
contents passed his lips. In replacing the tumbler on the table, he
managed to give it a position behind the water-pitcher where the eye of
Wilkinson could not rest upon it. He need hardly have taken this
trouble, for his companion was too much absorbed in his own thoughts to
notice a matter like this.
"They're a long time in getting supper," remarked Carlton, in a
well-affected tone of impatience. "What is the time now?"
Wilkinson drew forth his watch, and, after glancing upon the face,
replied--
"Ten minutes after eight."
"We shall have it pretty soon now, I suppose. They don't understand the
double quick time movement out here."
As Carlton said this, his eyes rested, with more than a mere passing
interest, on the gold lever that Wilkinson, instead of returning to his
pocket, retained in one hand, while with the other he toyed with the
key and chain in a half-abstracted manner.
For the space of nearly a minute, neither of the men spoke, but the
thought of each was at the same point.
"That's a beautiful watch," at length Carlton ventured to say. There
was a well disguised indifference in his tones.
"It ought to be," was the reply of Wilkinson.
"What did it cost you?"
"One hundred and forty dollars."
"Is it a good time-keeper?"
"First-rate. It hasn't varied a minute in six months."
"Just such a watch as I would like to own. I've had terrible bad luck
with watches."
This was a kind of feeler.
No reply was made by Wilkinson, although an offer to sell trembled on
his tongue. He still kept the watch in his hand, and toyed with the key
and chain, as before, in an absent manner.
"Could you be tempted to sell?" finally asked Carlton.
"I don't know. Perhaps I might,"--said Wilkinson. He drew his breath
deeply as he spoke.
"Or, perhaps you would trade?" and Carlton now produced his gold lever.
"Mine is a very good watch, though not so valuable as yours. It keeps
fair time, however. I paid a hundred dollars for it three or four years
ago."
A mutual examination of watches took place.
"Well--what do you say to a trade?"
The servant appeared at this juncture, and announced supper. The two
watches were returned to their respective places of deposit, and the
two men proceeded to the dining-room. Here the traffic, just begun, was
renewed and completed. The watches were exchanged, and Wilkinson
received sixty dollars "boot."
"Shall I order the horse brought out?" asked Carlton, as they arose,
about half an hour afterwards, from the supper-table.
"Yes; if you please."
This was not said with much promptness of tone; a fact instantly noted
by the ear of Carlton.
"Well, I'm ready. Come--let's have a drink before we go!"
The two men stepped to the bar and drank. Then they lingered, each with
a lighted cigar, and finally withdrew--to proceed to the city? No. To
return to their room up-stairs, and renew their unequal contest. The
sixty dollars which Wilkinson had received were staked, and soon passed
over to his adversary. Rendered, now, desperate by his losses and the
brandy which inflamed his brain, he borrowed, once more, on his
due-bill--this time to the amount of several hundred dollars. His
ill-success continued.
It was nearly eleven o'clock, when Wilkinson started up from the table,
exclaiming, as he threw the cards upon the floor--
"Fool! fool! fool! One step more, and I am ruined. Carlton!" And he
fixed his eyes almost fiercely upon his companion.
"Carlton! I thought you my friend, but find, when it is almost too late
to profit by the discovery, that you are a tempter. Ay! and worse than
a tempter. Pure air and the bright sunshine! Is this your health for
mind and body? Oh! weak, weak, unstable one that I am! Poor Mary!" This
was said in a low, mournful, and scarcely audible voice. "Thus has my
promise to you vanished into thin air!"
As Wilkinson said this, he turned away and left the room. Carlton was
in no hurry to follow. When, at length, he came down, and made inquiry
for the one he had dealt by so treacherously, the man, who was shutting
the windows of the bar-room, and about locking up for the night,
replied that he had not seen him.
"Not seen him?" he asked, in a tone of surprise.
"No, sir. He didn't come in here."
The hostler was aroused from his sleeping position on a bench in the
corner, and directed by Carlton to bring out his buggy. During the time
he was away, the latter made a hurried search in and around the house.
Not finding the object thereof, he muttered, in an under tone, a few
wicked oaths; then, jumping into his vehicle, he put whip to his horse,
and dashed off towards the city. He had Wilkinson's due-bills in his
pocket for various sums, amounting, in all, to nearly two thousand
dollars!
CHAPTER VIII.
ALMOST motionless, with her sleeping babe upon her lap, sat Mrs.
Wilkinson for nearly half an hour after her husband left the house. She
saw nothing that was around her--heard nothing--felt nothing. Not even
the breathings of her sleeping infant reached her ear; nor was she
conscious of the pressure of its body against her own. Fixed in a
dreamy, inward gaze were her eyes; and her soul withdrew itself from
the portal at which, a little while before, it hearkened into the world
of nature. At last there came a motion of the eyelids--a quivering
motion--then they closed, slowly, over the blue orbs beneath; and soon
after a tear trembled out to the light from behind the barriers that
sought to retain them. A deep, fluttering sigh succeeded to this sign
of feeling. Then her lips parted, and she spoke audibly to herself.
"Oh, that I knew how to win him back from the path of danger! He does
not love his home; and yet how have I striven to make it attractive!
How much have I denied myself! and how much yielded to and thought of
him! He is always kind to me; and he--yes--I know he loves me; but--ah!"
The low voice trembled back sighing into silence. Still, for a long
time, the unhappy wife sat almost as motionless as if in sleep. Then,
as some thought grew active towards a purpose in her mind, she arose,
and laying Ella on the bed, began busying herself in some household
duties.
The afternoon passed slowly away, yet not for a moment was the thought
of her husband absent from the mind of Mrs. Wilkinson.
"What ought I to do? How shall I make his home sufficiently attractive?"
This was her over and over again repeated question; and her thoughts
bent themselves eagerly for some answer upon which her heart might rest
with even a small degree of hope.
The prolonged, intense anxiety and alarm of the previous night, added
to bodily fatigue and loss of rest, were not without their effect upon
Mrs. Wilkinson. Early in the day she suffered from lassitude and a
sense of exhaustion; and, after dinner, a slight headache was added;
this increased hourly, and by four o'clock was almost blinding in its
violence. Still, she tried to forget herself, and what she suffered in
thinking about and devising some means of saving her husband from the
dangers that lay hidden from his own view about his footsteps.
"If I could only add some new attraction to his home!" she murmured to
herself, over and over again.
Sometimes she would hold her temples with both her hands, in the vain
effort to still, by pressure, the throbbing arteries within, while she
continued to think of her husband.
As tea-time drew near, Mrs. Wilkinson left Ella in the care of a
domestic, and went into the kitchen to prepare some delicacy for the
evening meal of which she knew her husband was fond; this engaged her
for half an hour, and the effort increased the pain in her aching head.
The usual time at which Mr. Wilkinson came home arrived, and his wife,
who had returned to her chamber, sat with her babe on her bosom,
listening for the well-known welcome sound of her husband's footsteps
in the passage below. Time glided by, yet she waited and listened in
vain; and to the pleasant thoughts of the influence her love was to
throw around him on that very evening, to keep him at home, began to
succeed a fear, which made her heart faint, that he would not come home
at all; or, at least, not until a late hour.
The sun went down, and stealthily the sober twilight began to fall,
bringing with it shadows and forebodings for the heart of the anxious
wife.
How vainly she waited and watched! The twilight was lost in darkness,
and yet her eagerly listening ear failed to note the well-known sound
of her husband's footfall on the pavement, as she stood, listening at
the open window.
"Oh! what can keep him so long away!"
How often did these words come sighing from her lips, yet there was no
answer. Alas! how to the very winds were flung the pleasant hopes she
had cherished--cherished with a sense of fear and trembling--during the
afternoon.
Night closed in, and the time wore on steadily, minute by minute, and
hour by hour, until the poor wife was almost wild with suspense and
anxiety. The dainties she had so thoughtfully and lovingly prepared for
her husband remained untasted, and had now become cold and
unpalatable--were, in fact, forgotten. Food she had not, herself,
tasted. Once or twice a servant had come to know if she would have tea
served; but she merely answered--"Not until Mr. Wilkinson returns."
Nine--ten--eleven o'clock; still Mrs. Wilkinson was alone. Sometimes
she moved restlessly about her chamber; or wandered, like a perturbed
spirit, from room to room; and, sometimes in mere exhaustion, would
drop into a chair or sink across the bed, and sit or lie as motionless
as if in a profound sleep.
Ah! could her husband have looked in upon her, but for a few moments;
could he have seen the anguish of her pale face; the fixed and dreamy
expression of her tearful eyes; the grieving arch of the lips he
loved--could he have seen and comprehended all she suffered and all she
feared, it must have won him back from his selfish folly. And how many
wives have suffered all this, and more! How many still suffer! Errant
husband, pause, look upon the picture we have presented, and think of
the many, many heart-aches you have given the tender, long-suffering,
loving one who clings to you yet so closely, and who, for your sake,
would even lay down, if needful, her very life.
Happily for Mrs. Wilkinson, her child lay in a sound sleep; for, with
the appearance of the edges of two teeth through her red and swollen
gums, the feverish excitement of her system yielded to a healthy
reaction.
Twelve o'clock was rung out clearly upon the hushed air of midnight;
and yet the poor wife was alone. One o'clock found her in a state of
agonized alarm, standing at the open street-door, and hearkening,
eagerly, first in one direction and then in another; yet all in
vain--for the absent one came not.
It was nearly two o'clock, and Mrs. Wilkinson, in the impotence of her
prolonged and intense anxiety and fear, had thrown herself, with a
groan, across her bed, when a sound in the street caught her ear.
Instantly she started up, while a thrill ran through every nerve. Feet
were on the door-steps; a key was in the lock--a moment more, and the
door opened and shut, and a familiar tread that made her heart leap
echoed along the passage. Her first impulse was to fly to meet the
comer, but a hand seemed to hold her back; and so, half reclining, she
awaited, with her heart beating violently, the appearance of him whose
strange absence had cost her so many hours of bitter anguish. A moment
or two more, and then an exclamation of surprise and almost terror,
fell from her lips. And well might she be startled at the appearance of
her husband.
Pale, haggard, covered with dust, and with large drops of perspiration
on his face, Wilkinson stood before his wife. With a grieving look he
gazed upon her for some moments, but did not speak.
"My husband!" exclaimed Mrs. Wilkinson as soon as she could recover
herself; and, as she uttered the words, she threw her arms around him,
and buried her weeping face on his bosom.
But Wilkinson tried to disengage her arms, saying, as he did so--
"Not this!--not this, Mary! I am unworthy of even your feeblest regard.
Speak to me coldly, harshly, angrily, if you will. That I deserve--but
nothing of kindness, nothing of love. Oh, that I were dead!"
"My husband! my husband! you are dearer to me than life!" was whispered
in reply, as Mary clung to him more closely.
Such evidences of love melted the strong man's heart. He tried to brace
himself up against what, in his pride, he felt to be a weakness, but
failed, and leaning his face downward until it rested upon the head of
his wife, sobbed aloud.
CHAPTER IX.
WILKINSON, on leaving the presence of the man who, under the guise of
friendship, had so basely led him astray, and robbed him--it was
robbery, in fact, for Carlton had not only enticed his victim to drink
until his mind was confused, but had played against him with trick and
false dealing--passed, not by the bar-room of the hotel, but through
one of the passages, into the open air, and with hurried steps, and
mind all in a whirl of excitement, started on foot for home. He was not
in a state to consider exactly what he was doing--he did not reflect
that he was at least ten miles from the city, and that it would take
him hours to walk that distance. His predominant feeling was a desire
to escape from the presence of the man who had so basely betrayed and
almost ruined him.
It was a calm, clear, summer night; and the full moon, which had
reached the zenith, shone with an unusual radiance. Not a leaf moved on
the forest trees, for even the zephyrs were asleep. All was stillness
and tranquil beauty.
Yet nature did not mirror herself on the feelings of Wilkinson, for
their surface was in wild commotion. The unhappy man was conscious only
of the folly he had committed and the wrong he had sustained; and
thought only of his culpable weakness in having been drawn, by a
specious villain, to the very verge of ruin.
Onward he strode, toward the city, with rapid pace, and soon his
thoughts began to go forward towards his home.
"Poor Mary!" he sighed, as the image of his wife, when she said to
him--"I count the hours when you are away," arose before his eyes.
Then, as the image grew more and more distinct, his hands were clenched
tightly, and he murmured through his shut teeth--
"Wretch! cruel wretch, that I am! I shall break her heart! Oh, why did
I not resist this temptation? Why was I so thoughtless of the best, the
truest, the most loving friend I ever knew or ever can know--my Mary!"
Rapid as his steps had been from the first, the thought of his wife
caused Wilkinson to increase his pace, and he moved along, the only
passenger at that hour upon the road, at almost a running speed. Soon
the perspiration was gushing freely from every pore, and this, in a
short time, relieved the still confused pressure on the brain of the
alcohol which had been taken so freely into his system. Thoroughly
sobered was he, ere he had passed over half the distance; and the
clearer his mind became, the more troubled grew his feelings.
"What," he repeated to himself, over and over, "what if our dear Ella
should be in convulsions again?"
So great was the anguish of the unhappy man, that he was all
unconscious of bodily fatigue. He was nearly half way to the city when
overtaken by Carlton. The latter called to him three or four times, and
invited him to get up and ride; but Wilkinson strode on, without so
much as uttering a word in reply, or seeming to hear what was said to
him. So Carlton, finding that his proffer was disregarded, dashed ahead
and was soon out of sight.
At what hour Wilkinson reached his home, and how he was received, has
already been seen.
Too heavy a pressure lay on the mind of the unhappy man, as he met his
wife at the breakfast table on the next morning, for him even to make
an effort at external cheerfulness. There was not only the remembrance
of his broken promise, and the anguish she must have suffered in
consequence of his absence for half the night--how visible, alas! was
the effect written on her pale face, and eyes still red and swollen
from excessive tears--but the remembrance, also, that he had permitted
himself, while under the influence of drink, to lose some two thousand
dollars at the gaming table! What would he not endure to keep that
blasting fact from the knowledge of his single-hearted, upright
companion? He a gambler! How sick at heart the thought made him feel,
when that thought came into the presence of his wife!
Few words passed between Mr. and Mrs. Wilkinson, but the manner of each
was subdued, gentle, and even affectionate. They parted, after the
morning meal, in silence; Wilkinson to repair to his place of business,
his wife to busy herself in household duties, and await with trembling
anxiety the return of her husband at the regular dinner hour.
This time, Wilkinson did not, as usual, drop in at a certain
drinking-house that was in his way, but kept on direct to his store.
The reason of this omission of his habitual glass of brandy was not, we
are compelled to say, from a purpose in his mind to abandon the
dangerous practice, but to avoid encountering the man Carlton, who
might happen to be there. But he was not to keep clear of him in this
way. Oh, no. Carlton held his due-bills for "debts of honour," calling
for various sums, amounting in all, as we have before said, to about
two thousand dollars, and he was not a person at all likely to forget
this fact. Of this Wilkinson was made sensible, about an hour after
appearing at his store. He was at his desk musing over certain results
figured out on a sheet of paper that lay before him, and which had
reference to payments to be made during the next three or four weeks,
when he heard his name mentioned, and, turning, saw a stranger
addressing one of his clerks, who had just pointed to where he was
sitting. The man, with his unpleasant eyes fixed upon Wilkinson, came,
with firm yet deliberate steps, back to his desk.
"Mr. Wilkinson, I believe?" said he.
"That is my name." Wilkinson tried to feel self-possessed and
indifferent. But that was impossible, for he had an instinctive
knowledge of the purport of the visit.
The man thrust his hand into a deep inside pocket, and abstracted
therefrom a huge pocket-book. He did not search long in the
compartments of this for what he wanted, but drew directly therefrom
sundry small, variously shaped pieces of paper, much blotted and
scrawled over in a hurried hand. Each of these bore the signature of
Wilkinson, and words declaring himself indebted in a certain sum to
Andrew Carlton.
