" You may fire on Cass, if you like ; it's time she was 
gone to the devil, where she belongs ; but the gal, not," said 
Legree. " And now, boys, be spry and smart.' Five dollars 
for him that gets 'em ; and a glass of spirits to every one of 
you, anyhow." 
The whole band, with the glare of blazing torches, and 
whoop, and shout, and savage yell, of man and beast, proceeded down to the swamp, followed at some distance by 
every servant in the house. The establishment was, of a consequence, wholly deserted when Gassy and Emmeline glided 
into it the back way. The whooping and shouts of their 
pursuers were still filling the air ; and, looking from the 
sitting-room windows, Gassy and Emmeline could see the 
troop, with their flambeaux, just dispersing themselves along 
the edge of the swamp. 
"See there!" said Emmeline, pointing to Gassy; "the 
hunt is begun ! Look how those lights dance about ! Hark ! 
the dogs ! Don't you hear ? If we were only there, our 
chance wouldn't be worth a picayune. Oh, for pity's sake, 
do let's hide ourselves. Quick ! " 
"There's no occasion for hurry," said Gassy, coolly; 
" they are all out after the hunt that's the amusement of 
the evening ! "We'll go up stairs by and by. Meanwhile," 
said she, deliberately taking a key from the pocket of a coat 
that Legree had thrown down in his hurry, " meanwhile I 
shall take something to pay our passage." 
She unlocked the desk, took from it a roll of bills, which 
she counted over rapidly. 
" Oh, don't let us do that ! " said Emmeline. 
"Don't!" said Gassy, "why not? Would you have us 
starve in the swamps, or have that that will pay our way to 
the free States ? Money will do anything, girl." And as 
she spoke she put the money in her bosom. 
"It would be stealing," said Emmeline, in a distressed 
whisper. 
" Stealing ! " said Gassy, with a scornful laugh. " They 
who steal body and soul needn't talk to us. Every one of 
these bills is stolen stolen from poor, starving, sweating 
creatures, who must go to the devil at last for his profit. Let 
him talk about stealing ! But come, we may as well go up 
garret ; I've got a stock of candles there, and some books 
to pass away the time. You may be pretty sure they won't 
come there to inquire after us. If they do, I'll play ghost 
for them." 
When Emmeline reached the garret, she found an im- 
mense box, in which some heavy pieces of furniture had 
once been brought, turned on its side, so that the opening 
faced the wall, or rather the eaves. Gassy lit a small lamp, 
and, creeping round under the eaves, they established them- 
selves in it. It was spread with a couple of small mattresses 
and some pillows ; a box near by was plentifully stored with 
candles, provisions, and all the clothing necessary to their 
journey, which Gassy had arranged into bundfes of an 
astonishingly small compass. 
"There," said Gassy, as she fixed the lamp into a small 
hook, which she had driven into the side of the box for that 
purpose ; " this is to be our home for the present. How do 
you like it?" 
" Are you sure they won't come and search the garret ? " 
" I'd like to see Simon Legree doing that," said Gassy. 
" No, indeed, he will be too glad to keep away. As to the 
servants, they would any of them stand and be shot sooner 
than show their faces here." 
Somewhat reassured, Emmeline settled herself back on 
her pillow. 
" What did you mean, Gassy, by saying you would kill 
me ? " she said simply. 
" I meant to stop your fainting," said Gassy, " and I did 
do it. And now I tell you, Emmeline, you must make up 
your mind not to faint, let what will come ; there's no sort 
of need of it. If I had not stopped you, that wretch might 
have had his hands on you now." 
Emmeline shuddered. 
The two remained some time in silence. Gassy busied 
herself with a French book ; Emmeline, overcome with the 
exhaustion, fell into a doze, and slept some time. She was 
awakened by loud shouts and outcries, the tramp of horses' 
feet, and the baying of dogs. She started up with a faint 
shriek. 
" Only the hunt coming back," said Gassy, coolly ; 
" never fear. Look out of this knot-hole. Don't you see 'em 
all down there ? Simon has to give it up for this night. 
Look, how muddy his horse is, flouncing about in the swamp ; 
the dogs, too, look rather crest-fallen. Ah, my good, sir ! 
you'll have to try the race again and again the game isnt 
there." 
"Oh, don't speak a word!" said Emmeline; "what if 
they should hear you ? " 
" If they do hear anything, it will make them very par- 
ticular to keep away," said Gassy. " No danger ; we may 
make any noise we please, and it will only add to the 
effect." 
At length the stillness of midnight settled down over 
the house. Legree, cursing his ill luck, and vowing dire 
vengeance on the morrow, went to bed. 
CHAPTER XL. 
THE MAKTYR. 
" Deem not the just by Heaven forgot ! 
Though life its common gifts deny 
Though, with a crush'd and bleeding heart, 
And spurn'd of man, he goes to die ! 
For God hath mark'd each sorrowing day, 
And number'd every bitter tear ; 
And heaven's long years of bliss shall pay 
For all his children suffer here." BRYANT. 
THE longest way must have its close the gloomiest night 
will wear on to a morning. An eternal, inexorable lapse of 
moments is ever hurrying the day of the evil to an eternal 
night, and the night of the just to an eternal day. "We have 
walked with our humble friend thus far in the valley of 
slavery ; first, through flowery fields of ease and indulgence, 
then through heart-breaking separations from all that man 
holds dear. Again, we have waited with him in a sunny 
island, where generous hands concealed his chains with 
flowers ; and, lastly, we have followed him when the last ray 
of earthly hope went out in night, and seen how, in the blackness of earthly darkness, the firmament of the unseen has 
blazed with stars of new and significant lustre. 
The morning-star now stands over the tops of the moun- 
tains, and gales and breezes, not of earth, show that the gates 
of day are unclosing. 
The escape of Gassy and Emmeline irritated the before 
surly temper of Legree to the last degree ; and his fury, as 
was to be expected, fell upon the defenceless head of Tom. 
"When he hurriedly announced the tidings among his hands, 
there was a sudden light in Tom's eye, a sudden upraising of 
his hands, that did not escape him. He saw that he did not 
join the muster of the pursuers. He thought of forcing him 
to do it ; but having had, of old, experience of his inflexibility 
when commanded to take part in any deed of inhumanity, 
he would not, in his hurry, stop to enter into any conflict 
with him. 
Tom, therefore, remained behind, with a few who had 
learned of him to pray, and oflered up prayers for the escape 
of the fugitives. 
When Legree returned, baffled and disappointed, all the 
long- working hatred of his soul towards his slave began to 
gather in a deadly and desperate form. Had not this man 
braved him steadily, powerfully, resistlessly ever since he 
bought him ? Was there not a spirit in him which, silent as 
it was, burned on him like the fires of perdition ? 
" I hate him ! " said Legree, that night, as he sat up in his 
bed ; " I hate him ! And isn't he MINE ? Can't I do what 
I like with him ? Who's to hinder, I wonder ? " And 
Legree clenched his fist and shook it as if he had something 
in his hands that he could rend in pieces. 
But then Tom was a faithful, valuable servant ; and 
although Legree hated him the more for that, yet the con- 
sideration was still somewhat of a restraint to him. 
The next morning he determined to say nothing, as yet ; 
to assemble a party from some neighbouring plantations, with 
dogs ; and guns ; to surround the swamp, and go about the 
hunt systematically. If it succeeded, well and good ; if not, 
he would summon Tom before him, and his teeth clenched 
and his blood boiled then he would break that fellow down, 
or there was a dire inward whisper, to which his soul 
assented. 
Ye say that the interest of the master is a sufficient safe- 
guard for the slave. In the fury of man's mad will, he will 
wittingly, and with open eye, sell his own soul to the devil to 
- his ends ; and will he be more careful of his neighbour's 
" Well," said Gassy, the next day, from the garret, as she 
reconnoitred through the knot-hole, "the hunt's going to 
begin again to-day ! " 
Three or four mounted horsemen were curvetting about, 
on the space front of the house ; and one or two leashes 
of strange dogs were struggling with the negroes who held 
them, baying and barking at each other. 
The men are, two of them, overseers of plantations in the 
vicinity ; and others were some of Legree's associates at the 
tavern-bar of a neighbouring city, who had come for the interest of the sport. A more hard-favoured set, perhaps, could 
not be imagined. Legree was serving brandy profusely 
round among them, as also among the negroes who had been 
detailed from the various plantations for this service ; for it 
was an object to make every service of this kind among 
the negroes as much of a holiday as possible. 
Gassy placed her ear at the knot-hole; and, as the 
morning air blew directly towards the house, she could 
overhear a good deal of the conversation. A grave sneer 
overcast the dark, severe gravity of her face, as she listened, 
and heard them divide out the ground, discuss the rival 
merits of the dogs, give orders about firing, and the treatment 
of each in case of capture. 
Gassy drew back ; and, clasping her hands, looked upward, 
and said, " great Almighty God ! we are all sinners ; but 
what have we done, more than all the rest of the world, that 
we should be treated so ? " 
There was a terrible earnestness in her face and voice as 
she spoke. 
" If it wasn't for you, child," she said, looking at Emme- 
line, " I'd go out to them ; and I'd thank any one of them 
that would shoot me down ; for what use will freedom be to 
me ? Can it give me back my children, or make me what I 
used to be ? " 
Emmeline, in her child-like simplicity, was half afraid of 
the dark moods of Gassy. She looked perplexed, but made 
no answer. She only took her hand, with a gentle, caressing 
movement. 
" Don't ! " said Gassy, trying to draw it away ; " you'll 
get me to loving you ; and I never mean to love anything 
again ! ' ' 
"Poor Gassy!" said Emmeline, "don't feel so! If the 
Lord gives us liberty, perhaps He'll give you back your 
daughter. At any rate, I'll be like a daughter to you. I 
know I'll never see my poor old mother again ! I shall love 
you, Gassy, whether you love me or not ! " 
The gentle, child-like spirit, conquered. Gassy sat down 
by her, put her arm round her neck, stroked her soft brown 
hair ; and Emmeline then wondered at the beauty of her 
magnificent eyes, now soft with tears. 
" Em ! " said Gassy, " I've hungered for my children, 
and thirsted for them, and my eyes fail with longing for 
them. Here ! here ! " she said, striking her breast, "it's all 
desolate, all empty ! If God would give me back my children, 
then I could pray." 
" You must trust Him, Gassy," said Emmeline ; " He is 
our Father!" 
" His wrath is upon us," said Gassy ; " He has turned 
away in anger." 
" No, Gassy ! He will be good to us. Let us hope in 
Him," said Emmeline. " I always have had hope." 
The hunt was long, animated, and thorough, but unsuccessful; and, with grave, ironic exultation, Gassy looked 
down on Legree as, weary and dispirited, he alighted from 
his horse. 
" Now, Quimbo," said Legree, as he stretched himself 
down in the sitting-room, " you just go and walk that Tom 
up here, right away ! The old cuss is at the bottom of this 
yer whole matter ; and I'll have it out of his old black hide, 
or I'll know the reason why ! " 
Sambo and Quimbo both, though hating each other, were 
joined in one mind by a no less cordial hatred of Tom. 
Legree had told them at first that he had bought him for a 
general overseer in his absence; and this had begun an 
ill-will on their part, which had increased in their debased 
and servile natures, as they saw him becoming obnoxious to 
their master's displeasure. Quimbo, therefore, departed 
with a will to execute his orders. 
Tom heard the message with a forewarning heart ; for he 
knew all the plan of the fugitives' escape, and the place of 
their present concealment. He knew the deadly character 
of the man he had to deal with, and his despotic power. But 
he felt strong in God to meet death, rather than betray the 
helpless. 
He set his basket down by the row, and, looking up, said, 
" Into Thy hands I commend my spirit ! Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth ! " and then quietly yielded 
himself to the rough, brutal grasp with which Quimbo seized 
him. 
" Ay, ay ! " said the giant, as he dragged him along, " ye'll 
cotch it, now ! Ill boun' mas'r's back's up high ! No 
sneaking out, now ! Tell ye ye'll get it, and no mistake ! 
See how ye'll look now, helpin' mas'r's niggers to run 
away ! See what ye'll get ! " 
The savage words, none of them reached that ear a 
higher voice there was saying, " Fear not them that kill the 
body, and after that have no more that they can do." Nerve 
and bone of that poor man's body vibrated to those words, as 
if touched by the finger of Grod ; and he felt the strength of 
a thousand souls in one. As he passed along, the trees and 
bushes, the huts of his servitude, the whole scene of his 
degradation, seemed to whirl by him, as the landscape by the 
rushing car. His soul throbbed his home was in sight 
and the hour of release seemed at hand. 
"Well, Tom," said Legree, walking up and seizing him 
grimly by the collar of his coat, and speaking through his 
teeth, in a paroxysm of determined rage, " do you know I've 
made up my mind to KILL you ? " 
" It's very likely, mas'r," said Tom, calmly. 
" I have" said Legree, with grim, terrible calmness, "done 
just that thing, Tom, unless you tell me what you 
know about these yer gals ! " 
Tom stood silent. 
"D'ye hear?" said Legree, stamping, with a roar like 
that of an incensed lion. " Speak ! " 
" I hctnt got nothing to tell, mas'r" said Tom, with a slow, 
firm, deliberate utterance. 
" Do you dare to tell me, ye old black Christian, ye don't 
know ? " said Legree. 
Tom was silent. 
" Speak ! " thundered Legree, striking him furiously. 
" Do you know anything ? " 
" I know, mas'r ; but I can't tell anything. I can die ! " 
Legree drew in a long breath ; and, suppressing his rage, 
took Tom by the arm, and, approaching his face almost to 
his, said, in a terrible voice, " Hark'e, Tom ye think 'cause 
I've let you off before, I don't mean what I say ; but this 
time I've made up my mind, and counted the cost. You've 
always stood it out agin' me now I'll conquer ye or kill 
ye ! one or t'other. I'll count every drop of blood there 
is in you, and take 'em, one by one, till ye give up ! " 
Tom looked up to his master, and answered, " Mas'r, if 
you was sick, or in trouble, or dying, and I could save ye, 
I'd give ye my heart's blood ; and if taking every drop of 
blood in this poor old body would save your precious soul, 
I'd give 'em freely, as the Lord gave His for me. O mas'r, 
don't bring this great sin on your soul ! It will hurt you 
more than 'twill me ! Do the worst you can, my troubles '11 
be over soon; but if ye don't repent, yours won't never 
end!" 
Like a strange snatch of heavenly music, heard in the lull 
of a tempest, this burst of feeling made a moment's blank 
pause. Legree stood aghast, and looked at Tom ; and there 
was such a silence that the tick of the old clock could be 
heard, measuring, with silent touch, the last moments of 
mercy and probation to that hardened heart. 
It was but a moment. There was one hesitating pause, 
one irresolute, relenting thrill, and the spirit of evi] came 
back, with sevenfold vehemence ; and Legree, foaming with 
rage, smote his victim to the ground. 
Scenes of blood and cruelty are shocking to our ear and 
heart. What man has nerve to do, man nas not nerve to 
hear. "What brother-man and brother- Christian must suffer 
cannot be told us, even in our secret chamber, it so harrows 
up the soul. And yet, O my country ! these things are 
done under the shadow of thy laws ! Christ ! thy Church 
sees them, almost in silence ! 
But of old there was One whose suffering changed an 
instrument of torture, degradation, and shame, into a symbol 
of glory, honour, and immortal life ; and where His Spirit is, 
neither degrading stripes, nor blood, nor insults, can make 
the Christian's last struggle less than glorious. 
Was he alone that long night, whose brave, loving spirit 
was bearing up, in that old shed, against buffeting and brutal 
stripes ? 
Nay ! There stood by him ONE, seen by him alone, 
" like unto the Son of God." 
The tempter stood by him, too, blinded by furious, 
despotic will, every moment pressing him to shun that agony 
by the betrayal of the innocent. But the brave, true heart 
was firm on the Eternal Kock. Like his Master, he knew 
that, if he saved others, himself he could not save ; nor could 
utmost extremity wring from him words, save of prayer and 
holy trust. 
" He's most gone, mas'r," said Sambo, touched, in spite of 
himself, by the patience of his victim. 
" Pay away till he gives up ! Give it to him ! give it to 
him ! ""shouted Legree. " I'll take every drop of blood he 
has, unless he confesses." 
Tom opened his eyes, and looked upon his master. " Te 
poor, miserable critter !" he said, "there an't no more ye 
can do ! I forgive ye, with all my soul ! " and he fainted 
entirely away. 
"Ib'lieve my soul he's done for, finally," said Legree, 
stepping forward to look at him. " Yes, he is ! Well, his 
mouth's shut up at last, that's one comfort ! " 
Tes, Legree ; but who shall shut up that voice in thy 
soul that soul, past repentance, past prayer, past hope, 
in whom the fire that never shall be quenched is already 
burning ? , . 
Yet Tom was not quite gone. His wondrous words and 
pious prayers had struck upon the hearts of the imbruted 
blacks who had been the instruments of cruelty upon him ; 
and the instant Legree withdrew they took him down, and, 
in their ignorance, sought to call him back to life as if that 
were any favour to him. 
"Sartin, we's been doin' a drefful wicked thing!" said 
Sambo; "hopes mas'r '11 have to 'count for it, and not 
we." 
They washed his wounds they provided a rude bed of 
some refuse cotton for him to lie down on ; and one of them, 
stealing up to the house, begged a drink of brandy of Legree, 
pretending that he was tired, and wanted it for himself. He 
brought it back, and poured it down Tom's throat. 
" O Tom ! " said Qiiimbo, " we's been awful wicked 
to ye!" 
" I forgive ye, with all my heart ! " said Tom, faintly. 
" O Tom ! do tell us who is Jesus, anyhow ! " said Sambo, 
" Jesus, that's been a standin' by you so, all this night. 
Who is he?" 
The word roused the failing, fainting spirit. He poured 
forth a few energetic sentences of that wondrous One 
His life, His death, His everlasting presence, and power 
to save. 
They wept both the savage men. 
"Why~3idn*t I never heaf this before?" said Sambo; 
" but I do believe ! I can't help it ! Lord Jesus, have 
mercy on us! " 
" Poor critters ! " said Tom, " I'd be willing to bar' all I 
have, if it'll only bring ye to Christ! Lord! give me 
these two more souls, I pray." 
That prayer was answered ! 
CHAPTEE XLI. 
THE YOUNG MASTER. 
Two days after, a young man drove a light waggon up 
through the avenue of China trees, and throwing the reins 
hastily on the horses' necks, sprang out and inquired for the 
owner of the place. 
It was George Shelby ; and to show how he came to be 
there, we must go back in our story. 
The letter of Miss Ophelia to Mrs. Shelby had, by some 
unfortunate accident, been detained for a month or two at 
some remote post-office, before it reached its destination; 
and, of course, before it was received, Tom was already lost 
to view among the distant swamps of the Bed River. 
Mrs. Shelby read the intelligence with the deepest con- 
cern ; but any immediate action upon it was an impossibility. 
She was then in attendance on the sick-bed of her husband, 
who lay delirious in the crisis of a fever. Master G-eorge 
Shelby, who, in the interval, had changed from a boy to a 
tall young man, was her constant and faithful assistant, and 
her only reliance in superintending his father's affairs. Miss 
Ophelia had taken the precaution to send them the name of 
the lawyer who did business for the St. Clares ; and the most 
that in the emergency could be done was, to address a letter 
