"You may set your mind at rest on that subject, Mamma," said
Constance, still using her chopsticks with great complacency;
"it's my opinion that the farmer is not in existence who is
blessed with such a conjugal futurity. I think Fleda's strong
pastoral tastes are likely to develop themselves in a new
direction."
Mrs. Evelyn looked, with a partial smile, at the pretty
features which the business of eating the strawberries
displayed in sundry novel and picturesque points of view, and
asked what she meant?
"I don't know," said Constance, intent upon her basket; "I
feel a friend's distress for Mr. Thorn  it's all your doing,
Mamma  you wont be able to look him in the face when we have
Fleda next fall. I am sure I shall not want to look at his.
He'll be too savage for anything."
"Mr. Thorn!" said Mr. Carleton.
"Yes," said Mrs. Evelyn, in an indulgent tone  "he was very
attentive to her last winter when she was with us, but she
went away before anything was decided. I don't think he has
forgotten her."
"I shouldn't think anybody could forget her," said Edith.
"I am confident he would be here at this moment," said
Constance, "if he wasn't in London."
"But what is 'all mamma's doing,' Constance?" inquired her
sister.
"The destruction of the peace of the whole family of Thorns; I
shouldn't sleep sound in my bed if I were she, with such a
reflection. I look forward to heart-rending scenes, with a
very disturbed state of mind."
"But what have I done, my child?" said Mrs. Evelyn.
"Didn't you introduce your favourite, Mr. Olmney, to Miss
Ringgan, last summer? I don't know"  her native delicacy
shrunk from making any disclosures, and, of course, the tongue
of friendship is silent  "but they were out ages yesterday
while I was waiting for her, and their parting at the gate was
 I feel myself unequal to the task of describing it," said
Constance, ecstatically; "and she was in the most elevated
tone of mind during our whole interview afterwards, and took
all my brilliant remarks with as much coolness as if they had
been drops of rain  more, I presume, considering that it was
hay-time."
"Did you see him?" said Mrs. Evelyn.
"Only at that impracticable distance, Mamma; but I introduced
his name afterwards, in my usual happy manner, and I found
that Miss Ringgan's cheeks were by no means indifferent to it.
I didn't dare go any further."
"I am very glad of it. I hope it is so," said Mrs. Evelyn,
energetically. "It would be a most excellent match. He is a
charming young man, and would make her very happy."
"You are exciting gloomy feelings in Mr. Carleton's mind,
Mamma, by your felicitous suggestions. Mr. Carleton, did your
ears receive a faint announcement of ham and eggs, which went
quite through and through mine just now?"
He bowed, and handed the young lady in; but Constance
declared, that though he sat beside her, and took care of her
at breakfast, he had on one of his intangible fits, which
drove her to the last extreme of impatience and captivation.
The sun was not much more than two hours high the next
morning, when a rider was slowly approaching Mr. Rossitur's
house from the bridge, walking his horse, like a man who
wished to look well at all he was passing. He paused behind a
clump of locusts and rose-acacias, in the corner of the court-
yard, as a figure, bonneted and gloved, came out of the house,
and began to be busy among the rose-bushes. Another figure
presently appeared at the hall door, and called out 
"Fleda!"
"Well, Barby "
This second voice was hardly raised, but it came from so much
nearer that the words could be distinctly heard.
"Mr. Skillcorn wants to know if you're going to fix the
flowers for him to carry?"
"They're not ready, and it wont do for him to wait  Mr. Sweet
must send for them if he wants them. Philetus must make haste
back, for you know Mr. Douglass wants him to help in the barn
meadow. Lucas wont be here, and now the weather is so fine, I
want to make haste with the hay."
"Well, will you have the samp for breakfast?"
"No  we'll keep that for dinner. I'll come in and poach some
eggs, Barby,  if you'll make me some thin pieces of toast 
and call me when it's time. Thin, Barby."
The gentleman turned his horse, and galloped back to
Montepoole.
Some disappointment was created among a portion of Mr. Sweet's
guests that afternoon, by the intelligence that Mr. Carleton
purposed setting off the next morning to join his English
friends at Saratoga, on their way to the Falls and Canada.
Which purpose was duly carried into effect.
CHAPTER IV.
"With your leave, Sir, an' there were no more men living upon
the face of the earth, I should not fancy him, by St. George."
EVERY MAN OUT OF HIS HUMOUR.
October had come, and a fair season and a fine harvest, had
enabled Fleda to ease her mind by sending a good remittance to
Dr. Gregory. The family were still living upon her and Hugh's
energies. Mr. Rossitur talked of coming home, that was all.
It sometimes happened that a pause in the urgency of business
permitted Hugh to take a day's holiday. One of these falling
soon after the frosts had opened the burrs of the chestnut-
trees, and the shells of the hickories, Fleda seized upon it
for a nutting frolic. They took Philetus, and went up to the
fine group of trees on the mountain, the most difficult to
reach, and the best worth reaching of all their nut wood. The
sport was very fine; and after spoiling the trees, Philetus
was left to "shuck" and bring home a load of the fruit, while
Fleda and Hugh took their way slowly down the mountain. She
stopped him, as usual, on the old look-out place. The leaves
were just then in their richest colouring, and the October
sky, in its strong vitality, seemed to fill all inanimate
nature with the breath of life. If ever, then on that day, to
the fancy, "the little hills rejoiced on every side." The
woods stood thick with honours, and earth lay smiling under
the tokens of the summer's harvest, and the promise for the
coming year; and the wind came in gusts over the lower country
and up the hill-side, with a hearty good-will that blew away
all vapours, physical and mental, from its path, bidding
everything follow its example and be up and doing. Fleda drew
a long breath or two that seemed to recognise its freshening
power.
"How long it seems," she said  "how very long  since I was
here with Mr. Carleton;  just nine years ago. How changed
everything is! I was a little child then. It seems such an age
ago!" 
"It is very odd he didn't come to see us," said Hugh.
"He did  don't you know?  the very next day after we heard
he was here  when, most unluckily, I was up at aunt
Miriam's."
"I should think he might have come again, considering what
friends you used to be."
"I dare say he would, if he had not left Montepoole so soon.
But, dear Hugh, I was a mere child  how could he remember me
much?"
"You remember him," said Hugh.
"Ah, but I have good reason. Besides, I never forget anything.
I would have given a great deal to see him  if I had it."
"I wish the Evelyns had staid longer," said Hugh. "I think you
have wanted something to brighten you up. They did you a great
deal of good last year. I am afraid all this taking care of
Philetus and Earl Douglass is too much for you."
Fleda gave him a very bright smile, half affection, half fun.
"Don't you admire my management?" said she. "Because I do.
Philetus is firmly persuaded that he is an invaluable
assistant to me in the mystery of gardening; and the origin of
Earl Douglass's new ideas is so enveloped in mist, that he
does not himself know where they come from. It was rich to
hear him the other day descanting to Lucas upon the evil
effects of earthing up corn, and the advantages of curing hay
in cocks, as to both which matters Lucas is a thorough
unbeliever, and Earl was a year ago."
"But that doesn't hinder your looking pale and thin, and a
great deal soberer than I like to see you," said Hugh. "You
want a change, I know. I don't know how you are to get it. I
wish they would send for you to New York again."
"I don't know that I should want to go, if they did," said
Fleda. "They don't raise my spirits, Hugh. I am amused
sometimes  I can't help that  but such excessive gaiety
rather makes me shrink within myself; I am, too, out of tone
with it. I never feel more absolutely quiet than sometimes
when I am laughing at Constance Evelyn's mad sallies  and
sometimes I cannot laugh at them. I do not know what they must
think of me; it is what they can have no means of
understanding."
"I wish you didn't understand it, either, Fleda."
"But you shouldn't say that. I am happier than they are, now,
Hugh  now that you are better  with all their means of
happiness. They know nothing of our quiet enjoyments; they
must live in a whirl, or they would think they are not living
at all; and I do not believe that all New York can give them
the real pleasure that I have in such a day as this. They
would see almost nothing in all this beauty that my eyes
'drink in,' as Cowper says; and they would be certain to
quarrel with the wind, that to me is like the shake of an old
friend's hand. Delicious!" said Fleda, as the wind rewarded
this eulogium with a very hearty shake indeed.
"I believe you would make friends with everything, Fleda, said
Hugh, laughing.
"The wind is always that to me," said Fleda; "not always in
such a cheerful mood as to-day, though. It talks to me often
of a thousand old-time things, and sighs over them with me, a
most sympathizing friend! but to-day he invites me to a waltz
 Come!"
And pulling Hugh after her, away she went down the rocky path,
with a step too light to care for the stones; the little feet
capering down the mountain with a disdain of the ground that
made Hugh smile to see her; and eyes dancing for company, till
they reached the lower woodland.
"A most spirited waltz!" said Hugh.
"And a most slack partner. Why didn't you keep me company?"
"I never was made for waltzing," said Hugh, shaking his head.
"Not to the tune of the north wind? That has done me good,
Hugh."
"So I should judge, by your cheeks."
"Poverty need not always make people poor," said Fleda,
talking breath and his arm together. "You and I are rich,
Hugh."
"And our riches cannot take to themselves wings and fly away,"
said Hugh.
"No, but besides those riches, there are the pleasures of the
eye and the mind, that one may enjoy everywhere  everywhere
in the country at least  unless poverty bear one down very
hard; and they are some of the purest and most satisfying of
any. Oh, the blessing of a good education! how it makes one
independent of circumstances!"
"And circumstances are education, too," said Hugh, smiling. "I
dare say we should not appreciate our mountains and woods so
well, if we had had our old plenty of everything else."
"I always loved them," said Fleda. "But what good company they
have been to us for years past, Hugh!  to me especially; I
have more reason to love them."
They walked on quietly and soberly to the brow of the table-
land, where they parted; Hugh being obliged to go home, and
Fleda wishing to pay a visit to her aunt Miriam.
She turned off alone to take the way to the high road, and
went softly on, no longer, certainly, in the momentary spirits
with which she had shaken hands with the wind, and skipped
down the mountain; but feeling, and thankful that she felt, a
cheerful patience to tread the dusty highway of life.
The old lady had been rather ailing, and from one or two
expressions she had let fall, Fleda could not help thinking
that she looked upon her ailments with a much more serious eye
than anybody else thought was called for. It did not, however,
appear to-day. She was not worse, and Fleda's slight anxious
feeling could find nothing to justify it, if it were not the
very calm and quietly happy face and manner of the old lady;
and that, if it had something to alarm, did much more to
soothe. Fleda had sat with her a long time, patience and
cheerfulness all the while unconsciously growing in her
company; when, catching up her bonnet with a sudden haste very
unlike her usual collectedness of manner, Fleda kissed her
aunt and was rushing away.
"But stop! where are you going, Fleda?"
"Home, aunt Miriam; I must, don't keep me."
"But what are you going that way for? you can't go home that
way?"
"Yes, I can."
"How?"
"I can cross the blackberry hill behind the barn, and then
over the east hill, and then there's nothing but the water-
cress meadow."
"I sha'n't let you go that way alone; sit down and tell me
what you mean  what is this desperate hurry?"
But, with equal precipitation, Fleda had cast her bonnet out
of sight behind the table, and the next moment turned, with
the utmost possible quietness, to shake hands with Mr. Olmney.
Aunt Miriam had presence of mind enough to make no remark, and
receive the young gentleman with her usual dignity and
kindness.
He stayed some time, but Fleda's hurry seemed to have forsaken
her. She had seized upon an interminable long gray stocking
her aunt was knitting, and sat in the corner working at it
most diligently, without raising her eyes unless spoken to.
"Do you give yourself no rest, at home or abroad, Miss Fleda?"
said the gentleman.
"Put that stocking down, Fleda," said her aunt; "it is in no
hurry."
"I like to do it, aunt Miriam."
But she felt, with warming cheeks, that she did not like to do
it with two people sitting still and looking at her. The
gentleman presently rose.
"Don't go till we have had tea, Mr. Olmney," said Mrs.
Plumfield.
"Thank you, Ma'am; I cannot stay, I believe, unless Miss Fleda
will let me take care of her down the hill by and by."
"Thank you, Mr. Olmney," said Fleda, "but I am not going home
before night, unless they send for me."
"I am afraid," said he, looking at her, "that the agricultural
turn has proved an overmatch for your energies."
"The farm don't complain of me, does it?" said Fleda, looking
up at him with a comic, grave expression of countenance.
"No," said he, laughing, "certainly not; but, if you will
forgive me for saying so, I think you complain of it, tacitly
 and that will raise a good many complaints in other
quarters, if you do not take care of yourself."
He shook hands and left them; and Mrs. Plumfield sat silently
looking at Fleda, who, on her part, looked at nothing but the
gray stocking.
"What is all this, Fleda?"
"What is what, aunt Miriam?" said Fleda, picking up a stitch
with desperate diligence.
"Why did you want to run away from Mr. Olmney?"
"I didn't wish to be delayed,  I wanted to get home."
"Then, why wouldn't you let him go home with you?"
"I liked better to go alone, aunt Miriam."
"Don't you like him, Fleda?"
"Certainly, aunt Miriam; very much."
"I think he likes you Fleda," said her aunt, smiling.
"I am very sorry for it," said Fleda, with great gravity.
Mrs. Plumfield looked at her for a few minutes in silence, and
then said 
"Fleda, love, come over here and sit by me, and tell me what
you mean. Why are you sorry? It has given me a great deal of
pleasure to think of it."
But Fleda did not budge from her seat or her stocking, and
seemed tongue-tied. Mrs. Plumfield pressed for an answer.
"Because, aunt Miriam," said Fleda, with the prettiest red
cheeks in the world, but speaking very clearly and steadily,
"my liking only goes to a point which, I am afraid, will not
satisfy either him or you."
"But why?  it will go further."
"No, Ma'am."
"Why not?  why do you say so?"
"Because I must, if you ask me."
"But what can be more excellent and estimable, Fleda?  who
could be more worth liking? I should have thought he would
just please you. He is one of the most lovely young men I have
ever seen."
"Dear aunt Miriam," said Fleda, looking up beseechingly, "why
should we talk about it?"
"Because I want to understand you, Fleda, and to be sure that
you understand yourself."
"I do," said Fleda, quietly, and with a quivering lip.
"What is there that you dislike about Mr. Olmney?"
"Nothing in the world, aunt Miriam."
"Then, what is the reason you cannot like him enough?"
"Because, aunt Miriam," said Fleda, speaking in desperation,
"there isn't enough of him. He is very good and excellent in
every way, nobody feels that more than I do; I don't want to
say a word against him, but I do not think he has a very
strong mind, and he isn't cultivated enough."
"But you cannot have everything, Fleda."
"No, Ma'am, I don't expect it."
"I am afraid you have set up too high a standard for
yourself," said Mrs. Plumfield, looking rather troubled.
"I don't think that is possible, aunt Miriam."
"But I am afraid it will prevent your ever liking anybody."
"It will not prevent my liking the friends I have already; it
may prevent my leaving them for somebody else," said Fleda,
with a gravity that was touching in its expression.
"But Mr. Olmney is sensible, and well educated."
"Yes, but his tastes are not. He could not at all enter into a
great many things that give me the most pleasure. I do not
think he quite understands above half of what I say to him."
"Are you sure? I know he admires you, Fleda."
"Ah, but that is only half enough, you see, aunt Miriam,
unless I could admire him too."
Mrs. Plumfield looked at her in some difficulty; Mr. Olmney
was not the only one, clearly, whose powers of comprehension
were not equal to the subject.
"Fleda," said her aunt, inquiringly, "is there anybody else
that has put Mr. Olmney out of your head?"
"Nobody in the world!" exclaimed Fleda, with a frank look and
tone of astonishment at the question, and cheeks colouring as
promptly. "How could you ask?  but he never was in my head,
aunt Miriam."
"Mr. Thorn?" said Mrs. Plumfield.
"Mr. Thorn!" said Fleda, indignantly. "Don't you know me
better than that, aunt Miriam? But you do not know him."
"I believe I know you, dear Fleda; but I heard he had paid you
a great deal of attention last year; and you would not have
been the first unsuspecting nature that has been mistaken."
Fleda was silent, flushed, and disturbed; and Mrs. Plumfield
was silent and meditating; when Hugh came in. He came to fetch
Fleda home. Dr. Gregory had arrived. In haste again, Fleda
sought her bonnet, and exchanging a more than usually wistful
and affectionate kiss and embrace with her aunt, set off with
Hugh down the hill.
Hugh had a great deal to say to her all the way home, of which
Fleda's ears alone took the benefit, for her understanding
received none of it; and when she at last came into the
breakfast-room where the doctor was sitting, the fact of his
being there was the only one which had entered her mind.
"Here she is, I declare!" said the doctor, holding her back to
look at her after the first greetings had passed. "I'll be
hanged if you aint handsome. Now, what's the use of pinking
your cheeks any more at that, as if you didn't know it before?
 eh?"
"I will always do my best to deserve your good opinion, Sir,"
said Fleda, laughing.
"Well, sit down now," said he, shaking his head, "and pour me
out a cup of tea  your mother can't make it right."
And sipping his tea for some time, the old doctor sat
listening to Mrs. Rossitur, and eating bread and butter,
saying little, but casting a very frequent glance at the
figure opposite him, behind the tea-board.
"I am afraid," said he, after a while, "that your care for my
good opinion wont outlast an occasion. Is that the way you
look for every day?"
The colour came with the smile; but the old doctor looked at
her in a way that made the tears come too. He turned his eyes
to Mrs. Rossitur for an explanation.
"She is well," said Mrs. Rossitur, fondly  "she has been very
well  except her old headaches now and then; I think she has
grown rather thin, lately."
"Thin!" said the old doctor  "etherealized to a mere abstract
of herself; only that is a very bad figure, for an abstract
should have all the bone and muscle of the subject; and I
should say you had little left but pure spirit. You are the
best proof I ever saw of the principle of the homeopaths  I
see now, that though a little corn may fatten a man, a great
deal may be the death of him."
"But I have tried it both ways, uncle Orrin," said Fleda,
laughing. "I ought to be a happy medium between plethora and
starvation. I am pretty substantial, what there is of me."
"Substantial!" said the doctor; "you look as substantial a
personage as your old friend, the 'faire Una'  just about.
Well, prepare yourself, gentle Saxon, to ride home with me the
day after to-morrow. I'll try a little humanizing regimen with
you."
"I don't think that is possible, uncle Orrin," said Fleda,
gently.
"We'll talk about the possibility afterwards  at present, all
