in the keeping. These never produce satiety, never take to themselves
wings. Good affections and true thoughts continually nourish and
re-create the mind. They are the soul's wealth, the perennial
fountains of all true enjoyment. With these, and sufficient for the
body's health and comfort, all may be happy: without them, the riches
of the world have no power to satisfy."
A pause ensued, during which the minds of both wandered back a little.
"If you feel," said Edith, recalling the words of her husband, "that
there is danger in remaining where you are"--
"That was hastily spoken," Edward Claire interrupted his wife, "and in
a moment of weakness. I must resist the evil that assaults me. I must
strive with and overcome the tempter. I must think less of this world
and its riches; and in my thoughts place a higher value upon the
riches without wings of which you have spoken to me so often."
"Can you remain where you are, and be out of danger?" asked Edith.
"There is danger everywhere."
"Ay; but in some positions more imminent danger. Is it well to court
temptation?"
"Perhaps not. But I cannot afford to give up my place with Jasper."
"Yet, while remaining, you will be strongly tempted."
"Jasper is dishonest at heart. He is ever trying to overreach in
dealing, and expects every one in his employment to be as keen as
himself."
"Oh, Edward, do not remain with him a day longer! There is death to
the spirit in the very atmosphere around such a man. You cannot serve
such a master, and be true to yourself and to God. It is impossible."
"I believe you are right in that, Edith; I know you are right," said
the young man, with a strong emphasis on the last sentence. "But
what am I to do? Five hundred dollars a year is little enough for our
wants; I have, as you know, been dissatisfied with that. I can hardly
get as much in another situation. I know of but one opening, and that
is with Melleville."
"Go back to him, Edward," said his wife.
"And get but four hundred a year? It is all he can pay."
"If but three hundred, it were a situation far to be preferred to the
one you now hold."
"A hundred dollars a year, Edith, taken from our present income, would
deprive us of many comforts."
"Think of how much we would gain in true inward enjoyment, Edward, by
such a change. Have you grown happier since you entered the store of
Mr. Jasper?"
The young man shook his head sadly, and murmured, "Alas! no."
"Can anything compensate for the anguish of mind we have both suffered
in the last few hours, Edward?"
There was a quick flushing of the face, as Edith said this.
"Both suffered!" exclaimed Edward, with a look of surprise.
"Ay, both, love. Can the heart of my husband feel a jar of discord,
and mine not thrill painfully? Can he be in temptation, without an
overshadowing of my spirit? Can he be in darkness, and I at the same
time in light? No, no; that were impossible. You have been in great
peril; I knew that some evil threatened you, even before you confessed
it with your lips. Oh, Edward, we have both tasted, in the last few
hours, a bitterer cup than has yet been placed to our lips. May we not
be called upon to drink it to the very dregs!"
"Amen!" fell solemnly from the lips of Edward Claire, as a cold
shudder crept along his nerves. If there had been any wavering in his
mind before, there was none now. He resolved to make restitution in
the morning, and, as soon as opportunity offered, to leave a place
where he was so strongly tempted to step aside from the path of
integrity. The virtue of his wife had saved him.
CHAPTER V.
"Edward," said Mr. Jasper, on the next morning, soon after he came to
the store, "Was any time fixed for the funeral yesterday?"
"I believe not."
"That was an oversight. It might as well take place to-day as
to-morrow, or a week hence, if there are no intimate friends or
relatives to be thought of or consulted. I wish you would take the
forenoon to see about this troublesome matter. The undertaker will, of
course, do every thing according to your directions. Let there be as
little expense as possible."
While they were yet speaking, the undertaker came in to make inquiry
as to the funeral arrangements to be observed.
"Is the coffin ready?" asked Jasper, in a cold, business manner.
"It is," was the reply.
"What of the ground? Did you see to her husband's funeral?"
"Yes. I have attended to all these matters. Nothing remains but to fix
the time, and notify the clergyman."
"Were you at the house this morning?" asked Jasper.
"I was."
"Who did you find there?"
"One or two of the neighbours were in."
"No near relatives of the deceased?"
"Not to my knowledge."
"Was any thing said about the time for burying Mrs. Elder?"
"No. That matter, I suppose, will rest with you."
"In that case, I see no reason for delay," said Jasper. "What end is
served?"
"The sooner it is over the better."
"So I think. Suppose we say this afternoon?"
"Very well. The time might be fixed at five. The graveyard is not very
distant. How many carriages shall I order?"
"Not many. Two, I should think, would be enough," replied Jasper.
"There will not be much left, I presume; therefore, the lighter the
funeral expenses the better. By the way, did you see the child, when
you were there this morning?"
"No, sir."
"Some neighbour has, in all probability, taken it."
"Very likely. It is a beautiful child."
"Yes--rather pretty," was Jasper's cold response.
"So young to be left alone in the world. Ah, me! But these things will
happen. So, you decide to have the funeral at five this afternoon?"
"Yes; unless something that we do not now know of, interferes to
prevent. The quicker a matter like this is over the better."
"True. Very well."
"You will see to every thing?"
"Certainly; that is my business. Will you be at the house this
afternoon?"
"At the time of the funeral?"
"Yes."
"I think not. I can't do any good."
"No,--only for the looks of the thing."
The undertaker was already beginning to feel the heartless
indifference of Jasper, and his last remark was half in irony, half in
smothered contempt.
"Looks! Oh! I never do any thing for looks. If I can be of any
service, I will be there--but, if not, not. I'm a right up-and-down,
straight-forward man of the world, you see."
The undertaker bowed, saying that all should be as he wished.
"You can step around there, after a while, Edward," said Jasper, as
soon as the undertaker had retired. "When you go, I wish you would
ascertain, particularly, what has been done with the child. If a
neighbour has taken her home, make inquiry as to whether she will be
retained in the family; or, better still, adopted. You can hint, in a
casual way, you know, that her parents have left property, which may,
some time or other, be valuable. This may be a temptation, and turn
the scale in favour of adoption; which may save me a world of trouble
and responsibility."
"There is some property left?" remarked Claire.
"A small house or two, and a bit of worthless land in the mountains.
All, no doubt, mortgaged within a trifle of their value. Still, it's
property you know; and the word 'property' has a very attractive sound
in some people's ears."
A strong feeling of disgust toward Jasper swelled in the young man's
heart, but he guarded against its expression in look or words.
A customer entering at the moment, Claire left his principal and moved
down behind the counter. He was not very agreeably affected, as the
lady approached him, to see in her the person from whom he had taken
ten dollars on the previous day, in excess of a reasonable profit. Her
serious face warned him that she had discovered the cheat.
"Are you the owner of this store?" she asked, as she leaned upon the
counter, and fixed her mild, yet steady eyes, upon the young man's
face.
"I am not, ma'am," replied Claire, forcing a smile as he spoke.
"Didn't I sell you a lot of goods yesterday?"
"You did, sir."
"I thought I recognised you. Well, ma'am, there was an error in your
bill--an overcharge."
"So I should think."
"A overcharge of five dollars."
Claire, while he affected an indifferent manner, leaned over toward
the woman and spoke in a low tone of voice. Inwardly, he was trembling
lest Jasper should became cognizant of what was passing.
"Will you take goods for what is due you; or shall I hand you back the
money?" said he.
"As I have a few more purchases to make, I may as well take goods,"
was replied, greatly to the young man's relief.
"What shall I show you, ma'am?" he asked, in a voice that now reached
the attentive ears of Jasper, who had been wondering to himself as to
what was passing between the clerk and customer.
A few articles were mentioned, and, in a little while, another bill of
seven dollars was made.
"I am to pay you two dollars, I believe?" said the lady, after Claire
had told her how much the articles came to. As she said this, Jasper
was close by and heard the remark.
"Right, ma'am," answered the clerk.
The customer laid a ten-dollar bill on the counter. Claire saw that
the eyes of Jasper were on him. He took it up, placed it in the
money-drawer, and stood some time fingering over the change and small
bills. Then, with his back turned toward Jasper, he slipped a five
dollar gold piece from his pocket. This, with a three dollar bill from
the drawer, he gave to the lady, who received her change and departed.
Other customers coming in at the moment, both Jasper and his clerk
were kept busy for the next hour. When they were alone again, the
former said--
"How large a bill did you sell the old lady from the country, who was
in this morning?"
"The amount was seven dollars, I believe."
"I thought she said two dollars?"
"She gave me a ten-dollar bill, and I only took three from the
drawer," said the young man.
"I thought you gave her a piece of gold?"
"There was no gold in the drawer," was replied, evasively.
Much to the relief of Claire, another customer entered, thus putting
an end to the conference between him and Jasper.
The mind of the latter, ever suspicious, was not altogether satisfied.
He was almost sure that two dollars was the price named for the
goods, and that he had seen a gold coin offered in change. And he
took occasion to refer to it at the next opportunity, when his clerk's
positive manner, backed by the entry of seven dollars on the sales'
book, silenced him.
As for Claire, this act of restitution, so far as it was in his power
to make it, took from his mind a heavy burden. He had, still, three
dollars in his possession that were not rightfully his own. It was by
no means probable that a similar opportunity to the one just embraced
would occur. What then was it best for him to do? This question was
soon after decided, by his throwing the money into the cash-drawer of
Jasper.
On his way home to dinner that day, Claire called into the store of a
Mr. Melleville, referred to in the conversation with his wife on the
previous evening. This gentleman, who was somewhat advanced in years,
was in the same business with Jasper. He was known as a strictly
upright dealer--"Too honest to get along in this world," as some said.
"Old Stick-in-the-mud," others called him. "A man behind the times,"
as the new-comers in the trade were pleased to say. Claire had lived
with him for some years, and left him on the offer of Jasper to give
him a hundred dollars more per annum than he was getting.
"Ah, Edward! How do you do to-day?" said Mr. Melleville, kindly, as
the young man came in.
"Very well in body, but not so well in mind," was the frank reply, as
he took the proffered hand of his old employer.
"Not well in mind, ah! That's about the worst kind of sickness I know
of, Edward. What's the matter?"
"As I have dropped in to talk with you a little about my own affairs,
I will come at once to the point."
"That is right. Speak out plainly, Edward, and you will find in me,
at least, a sincere friend, and an honest adviser. What is the matter
now?"
"I don't like my present situation, Mr. Melleville!"
"Ah! Well? What's the trouble? Have you and Jasper had a
misunderstanding?"
"Oh no! Nothing of that. We get on well enough together. But I don't
think its a good place for a young man to be in, sir!"
"Why not?"
"I can be plain with you. In a word, Mr. Jasper is not an honest
dealer; and he expects his clerks to do pretty much as he does."
Mr. Melleville shook his head and looked grave.
"To tell the truth," continued Edward, "I have suffered myself to
fall, almost insensibly, into his way of doing business, until I have
become an absolute cheat--taking, sometimes, double and treble profit
from a customer who happened to be ignorant about prices."
"Edward!" exclaimed the old man, an expression of painful surprise
settling on his countenance.
"It is all too true, Mr. Melleville--all too true. And I don't think
it good for me to remain with Mr. Jasper."
"What does he give you now?"
"The same as at first. Five hundred dollars."
The old man bent his head and thought for a few moments.
"His system of unfair dealing toward his customers is your principal
objection to Mr. Jasper?"
"That is one objection, and a very serious one, too: particularly as
I am required to be as unjust to customers as himself. But there is
still another reason why I wish to get away from this situation. Mr.
Jasper seems to think and care for nothing but money-getting. In his
mind, gold is the highest good. To a far greater extent than I was,
until very recently, aware, have I fallen, by slow degrees, into his
way of thinking and feeling; until I have grown dissatisfied with
my position. Temptation has come, as a natural result; and, before I
dreamed that my feet were wandering from the path of safety, I have
found myself on the brink of a fearful precipice."
"My dear young friend!" said Mr. Melleville, visibly moved, "this is
dreadful!"
"It is dreadful. I can scarcely realize that it is so," replied
Claire, also exhibiting emotion.
"You ought not to remain in the employment of Leonard Jasper. That,
at least, is plain. Better, far better, to subsist on bread and water,
than to live sumptuously on the ill-gotten gold of such a man."
"Yes, yes, Mr. Melleville, I feel all the truth of what you affirm,
and am resolved to seek for another place. Did you not say, when
we parted two years ago, that if ever I wished to return, you would
endeavour to make an opening for me?"
"I did, Edward; and can readily bring you in now, as one of my young
men is going to leave me for a higher salary than I can afford to pay.
There is one drawback, however."
"What is that, Mr. Melleville?"
"The salary will be only four hundred dollars a year."
"I shall expect no more from you."
"But can you live on that sum now? Remember, that you have been
receiving five hundred dollars, and that your wants have been
graduated by your rate of income. Let me ask--have you saved any thing
since you were married?"
"Nothing."
"So much the worse. You will find it difficult to fall back upon a
reduced salary. How far can you rely on your wife's co-operation?"
"To the fullest extent. I have already suggested to her the change,
and she desires, above all things, that I make it."
"Does she understand the ground of this proposed change?" asked Mr.
Melleville.
"Clearly."
"And is willing to meet privation--to step down into even a humbler
sphere, so that her husband be removed from the tempting influence of
the god of this world?"
"She is, Mr. Melleville. Ah! I only wish that I could look upon life
as she does. That I could see as clearly--that I could gather, as she
is gathering them in her daily walk, the riches that have no wings."
"Thank God for such a treasure, Edward! She is worth more than the
wealth of the Indies. With such an angel to walk by your side, you
need feel no evil."
"You will give me a situation, then, Mr. Melleville?"
"Yes, Edward," replied the old man.
"Then I will notify Mr. Jasper this afternoon, and enter your service
on the first of the coming month. My heart is lighter already. Good
day."
And Edward hurried off home.
During the afternoon he found no opportunity to speak to Mr. Jasper
on the subject first in his thoughts, as that individual wished him
to attend Mrs. Elder's funeral, and gather for him all possible
information about the child. It was late when he came back from
the burial-ground--so late that he concluded not to return, on that
evening, to the store. In the carriage in which he rode, was the
clergyman who officiated, and the orphan child who, though but half
comprehending her loss, was yet overwhelmed with sorrow. On their way
back, the clergyman asked to be left at his own dwelling; and this was
done. Claire was then alone with the child, who shrank close to him in
the carriage. He did not speak to her; nor did she do more than lift,
now and then, her large, soft, tear-suffused eyes to his face.
Arrived, at length, at the dwelling from which they had just borne
forth the dead, Claire gently lifted out the child, and entered the
house with her. Two persons only were within, the domestic and the
woman who, on the day previous, had spoken of taking to her own home
the little orphaned one. The former had on her shawl and bonnet, and
said that she was about going away.
"You will not leave this child here alone," said Edward.
"I will take her for the present," spoke up the other. "Would you like
to go home with me, Fanny?" addressing the child. "Come,"--and she
held out her hands.
But the child shrank closer to the side of Edward, and looked up into
his face with a silent appeal that his heart could not resist.
"Thank you, ma'am," he returned politely. "But we won't trouble you
to do that. I will take her to my own home for the present. Would you
like to go with me, dear?"
Fanny answered with a grateful look, as she lifted her beautiful eyes
again to his face.
And so, after the woman and the domestic had departed, Edward Claire
locked up the house, and taking the willing child by the hand, led her
away to his own humble dwelling.
Having turned himself resolutely away from evil, already were the
better impulses of his nature quickened into active life. A beautiful
humanity was rising up to fill the place so recently about to be
consecrated to the worship of a hideous selfishness.
CHAPTER VI.
Edward Claire was in no doubt as to the reception the motherless child
would receive from his kind-hearted wife. A word or two of explanation
enabled her to comprehend the feeling from which he had acted.
"You were right, Edward," said she in hearty approval. "I am glad
you brought her home. Come, dear," speaking to the wondering, partly
shrinking orphan, "let me take off your bonnet."
She kissed the child's sweet lips and then gazed for some moments into
her face, pleased, yet half surprised, at her remarkable beauty.
Little Fanny felt that she was among friends. The sad expression of
her face soon wore off, light came back to her eyes, and her prattling
tongue released itself from a long silence. An hour afterward, when
she was laid to sleep in a temporary bed, made for her on the floor,
her heavy eyelids fell quickly, with their long lashes upon her
cheeks, and she was soon in the world of dreams.
Then followed a long and serious conference between Edward and his
wife.
"I saw Mr. Melleville to-day," said the former.
"Did you? I am glad of that," was answered.
"He will give me a place."
"Glad again."
"But, Edith, as I supposed, he can only pay me a salary of four
hundred dollars."
"No matter," was the prompt reply; "it is better than five hundred
where you are."
"Can we live on it, Edith?" Edward spoke in a troubled voice.
"Why not? It is but to use a little more economy in our expenses--to
live on two dollars a week less than we now spend; and that will not
be very hard to do. Trust it to me, dear. I will bring the account
out even. And we will be just as happy. As happy? Oh, a thousand times
happier! A hundred dollars! How poorly will that compensate for broken
peace and a disquieted conscience. Edward, is it possible for you to
remain where you are, and be innocent?"
"I fear not, Edith," was the unhesitating reply. "And yet, dear, I
should be man enough, should have integrity enough, to resist the
temptations that might come in my way."
"Do not think of remaining where you are," said the young wife
earnestly. "If Mr. Melleville will pay you four hundred dollars a
year, take his offer and leave Mr. Jasper. It will be a gain rather
than a loss to us."
"A gain, Edith?"
"Yes, a gain in all that is worth having in life--peace of mind
flowing from a consciousness of right action. Will money buy this? No,
Edward. Highly as riches are esteemed--the one great good in life as
they are regarded--they never have given and never will give this
best of all blessings. How little, how very little of the world's
happiness, after all, flows from the possession of money. Did you ever
think of that, Edward?"
"Perhaps not."
"And yet, is it not worth a passing thought? Mr. and Mrs. Casswell are
rich--we are poor. Which do you think the happiest?"
"Oh, we are happiest, a thousand times," said Edward warmly. "I
would not exchange places with him, were he worth a million for every
thousand."
"Nor I with his wife," returned Edith. "So money, in their case, does
not give happiness. Now look at William Everhart and his wife. When
we were married they occupied two rooms, at a low rent, as we now do.
Their income was just what ours has been. Well, they enjoyed life. We
visited them frequently, and they often called to see us. But for a
little ambition on the part of both to make some show, they would have
possessed a large share of that inestimable blessing, contentment.
After a while, William's salary was raised to one thousand dollars.
Then they must have a whole house to themselves, as if their two nice
rooms were not as large and comfortable, and as well suited to their
real wants as before. They must, also, have showy furniture for their
friends to look at. Were they any happier for this change?--for this
marked improvement in their external condition? We have talked this
over before, Edward. No, they were not. In fact, they were not so
comfortable. With added means had come a whole train of clamorous
wants, that even the doubled salary could not supply."
"Everhart gets fifteen hundred a year, now," remarked Claire.
