fain to draw bridle, and try to comfort her.
"My dear Elfie! do not weep so," he said, tenderly. "Is there
anything you would like? Can I do anything for you?"
He had to wait a little. He repeated his first query.
"Oh, it's no matter," said Fleda, striving to conquer her
tears, which found their way again; "if I only could have gone
into the house once more!  but it's no matter  you needn't
wait, Mr. Carleton "
The horse, however, remained motionless.
"Do you think you would feel better, Elfie, if you had seen it
again?"
"Oh, yes!  But never mind, Mr. Carleton, you may go on."
Mr. Carleton ordered his servant to open the gate, and rode up
to the back of the house.
"I am afraid there is nobody here, Elfie," he said; "the house
seems all shut up."
"I know how I can get in," said Fleda; "there's a window down
stairs  I don't believe it is fastened; if you wouldn't mind
waiting, Mr. Carleton; I wont keep you long."
The child had dried her tears, and there was the eagerness of
something like hope in her face. Mr. Carleton dismounted and
took her off.
"I must find a way to get in too, Elfie; I cannot let you go
alone."
"Oh, I can open the door when I get in," said Fleda.
"But you have not the key."
"There's no key, it's only bolted on the inside, that door. I
can open it."
She found the window unfastened as she had expected: Mr.
Carleton held it open while she crawled in, and then she undid
the door for him. He more than half questioned the wisdom of
his proceeding. The house had a dismal look; cold, empty,
deserted; it was a dreary reminder of Fleda's loss, and he
feared the effect of it would be anything but good. He
followed and watched her, as with an eager business step she
went through the hall and up the stairs, putting her head into
every room and giving an earnest wistful look all round it.
Here and there she went in and stood a moment, where
associations were more thick and strong; sometimes taking a
look out of a particular window, and even opening a cupboard
door, to give that same kind and sorrowful glance of
recognition at the old often-resorted-to hiding-place of her
own or her grandfather's treasures and trumpery. Those old
corners seemed to touch Fleda more than all the rest; and she
turned away from one of them with a face of such extreme
sorrow, that Mr. Carleton very much regretted he had brought
her into the house. For her sake, for his own, it was a
curious show of character. Though tears were sometimes
streaming, she made no delay, and gave him no trouble; with
the calm steadiness of a woman she went regularly through the
house, leaving no place unvisited, but never obliging him to
hasten her away. She said not a word during the whole time;
her very crying was still; the light tread of her little feet
was the only sound in the silent empty rooms; and the noise of
their footsteps in the halls, and of the opening and shutting
doors echoed mournfully through the house.
She had left her grandfather's room for the last. Mr. Carleton
did not follow her in there, guessing that she would rather be
alone. But she did not come back, and he was forced to go to
fetch her.
The chill desolateness of that room had been too much for poor
little Fleda. The empty bedstead, the cold stove, the table
bare of books, only one or two lay upon the old Bible; the
forlorn order of the place that bespoke the master far away;
the very sunbeams that stole in at the little windows, and met
now no answering look of gladness or gratitude; it had struck
the child's heart too heavily, and she was standing crying by
the window. A second time in that room Mr. Carleton sat down
and drew his little charge to his breast; and spoke words of
soothing and sympathy.
"I am very sorry I brought you here, dear Elfie," he said
kindly. "It was too hard for you."
"Oh, no!" even through her tears, Fleda said, "she was very
glad!"
"Hadn't we better try to overtake our friends?" he whispered,
after another pause.
She immediately, almost immediately, put away her tears, and
with a quiet obedience that touched him, went with him from
the room, fastened the door, and got out again at the little
window.
"Oh, Mr. Carleton!" she said, with great earnestness, when
they had almost reached the horses, "wont you wait for me one
minute more? I just want a piece of the burning bush."
Drawing her hand from him she rushed round to the front of the
house. A little more slowly Mr. Carleton followed, and found
her under the burning bush, tugging furiously at a branch,
beyond her strength to break off.
"That's too much for you, Elfie," said he, gently taking her
hand from the tree; "let my hand try."
She stood back and watched, tears running down her face, while
he got a knife from his pocket and cut off the piece she had
been trying for, nicely, and gave it to her. The first
movement of Fleda's head was down, bent over the pretty spray
of red berries; but by the time she stood at the horse's side
she looked up at Mr. Carleton and thanked him with a face of
more than thankfulness.
She was crying, however, constantly, till they had gone
several miles on their way again, and Mr. Carleton doubted he
had done wrong. It passed away, and she had been sitting quite
peacefully for some time, when he told her they were near the
place where they were to stop and join their friends. She
looked up most gratefully in his face.
"I am very much obliged to you, Mr. Carleton, for what you
did!"
"I was afraid I had made a mistake, Elfie."
"Oh, no, you didn't."
"Do you think you feel any easier after it, Elfie?"
"Oh, yes!  indeed I do," said she, looking up again,  "thank
you, Mr. Carleton."
A gentle kind pressure of his arm answered her thanks.
"I ought to be a good sprite to you, Mr. Carleton," Fleda
said, after musing a little while,  "you are so very good to
me!"
Perhaps Mr. Carleton felt too much pleasure at this speech to
make any answer, for he made none.
"It is only selfishness, Elfie," said he, presently, looking
down to the quiet sweet little face which seemed to him, and
was, more pure than anything of earth's mould he had ever
seen.  "You know I must take care of you for my own sake."
Fleda laughed a little.
"But what will you do when we get to Paris?"
"I don't know. I should like to have you always, Elfie."
"You'll have to get aunt Lucy to give me to you," said Fleda.
"Mr. Carleton," said she, a few minutes after,  "is that
story in a book?"
"What story ?"
"About the lady and the little sprites that waited on her."
"Yes, it is in a book; you shall see it, Elfie.  Here we
are!"
And here it was proposed to stay till the next day, lest Fleda
might not be able to bear so much travelling at first. But the
country inn was not found inviting; the dinner was bad, and
the rooms were worse; uninhabitable, the ladies said; and
about the middle of the afternoon they began to cast about for
the means of reaching Albany that night. None very comfortable
could be had; however, it was thought better to push on at any
rate than wear out the night in such a place. The weather was
very mild; the moon at the full.
"How is Fleda to go this afternoon," said Mrs. Evelyn.
"She shall decide herself," said Mrs. Carleton. "How will you
go, my sweet Fleda?"
Fleda was lying upon a sort of rude couch which had been
spread for her, where she had been sleeping incessantly ever
since she arrived, the hour of dinner alone excepted. Mrs.
Carleton repeated her question.
"I am afraid Mr. Carleton must be tired," said Fleda, without
opening her eyes.
"That means that you are, don't it?" said Rossitur.
"No," said Fleda, gently.
Mr. Carleton smiled, and went out to press forward the
arrangements. In spite of good words and good money there was
some delay. It was rather late before the cavalcade left the
inn; and a journey of several hours was before them. Mr.
Carleton rode rather slowly, too, for Fleda's sake, so the
evening had fallen while they were yet a mile or two from the
city.
His little charge had borne the fatigue well, thanks partly to
his admirable care, and partly to her quiet pleasure in being
with him. She had been so perfectly still for some distance,
that he thought she had dropped asleep. Looking down closer,
however, to make sure about it, he saw her thoughtful clear
eyes most unsleepily fixed upon the sky.
"What are you gazing at, Elfie?"
The look of thought changed to a look of affection as the eyes
were brought to bear upon him, and she answered with a smile,
"Nothing,  I was looking at the stars."
"What are you dreaming about?"
"I wasn't dreaming," said Fleda,  "I was thinking."
"Thinking of what?"
"Oh, of pleasant things."
"Mayn't I know them?  I like to hear of pleasant things."
"I was thinking, " said Fleda, looking up again at the stars,
which shone with no purer ray than those grave eyes sent back
to them,  "I was thinking  of being ready to die."
The words, and the calm thoughtful manner in which they were
said, thrilled upon Mr. Carleton with a disagreeable shock.
"How came you to think of such a thing?" said he, lightly.
"I don't know,"  said Fleda, still looking at the stars,"  I
suppose  I was thinking "
"What?" said Mr. Carleton, inexpressibly curious to get at the
workings of the child's mind, which was not easy, for Fleda
was never very forward to talk of herself;  "what were you
thinking? I want to know how you could get such a thing into
your head."
"It wasn't very strange," said Fleda. "The stars made me think
of heaven, and grandpa's being there, and then I thought how
he was ready to go there, and that made him ready to die "
"I wouldn't think of such things, Elfie," said Mr. Carleton,
after a few minutes.
"Why not, Sir?" said Fleda, quickly.
"I don't think they are good for you."
"But, Mr. Carleton," said Fleda, gently,  "if I don't think
about it, how shall I ever be ready to die?"
"It is not fit for you," said he, evading the question,  "it
is not necessary now,  there's time enough. You are a little
body, and should have none but gay thoughts."
"But, Mr. Carleton," said Fleda, with timid earnestness, 
"don't you think one could have gay thoughts better if one
knew one was ready to die?"
"What makes a person ready to die, Elfie?" said her friend,
disliking to ask the question, but yet more unable to answer
hers, and curious to hear what she would say.
"Oh, to be a Christian," said Fleda.
"But I have seen Christians," said Mr. Carleton, "who were no
more ready to die than other people."
"Then they were make-believe Christians," said Fleda,
decidedly.
"What makes you think so?" said her friend, carefully guarding
his countenance from anything like a smile.
"Because," said Fleda, "grandpa was ready, and my father was
ready, and my mother, too; and I know it was because they were
Christians."
"Perhaps your kind of Christians are different from my kind,"
said Mr. Carleton, carrying on the conversation half in spite
of himself. "What do you mean by a Christian, Elfie?"
"Why, what the Bible means," said Fleda, looking at him with
innocent earnestness.
Mr. Carleton was ashamed to tell her he did not know what that
was, or he was unwilling to say what he felt would trouble the
happy confidence she had in him. He was silent; but as they
rode on, a bitter wish crossed his mind that he could have the
simple purity of the little child in his arms; and he thought
he would give his broad acres, supposing it possible that
religion could be true,  in exchange for that free happy
spirit that looks up to all its possessions in heaven.
CHAPTER XI.
Starres are poore books, and oftentimes do misse;
This book of starres lights to eternall blisse.
GEORGE HERBERT.
The voyage across the Atlantic was not, in itself, at all
notable. The first half of the passage was extremely unquiet,
and most of the passengers uncomfortable to match. Then the
weather cleared; and the rest of the way, though lengthened
out a good deal by the tricks of the wind, was very fair and
pleasant.
Fifteen days of tossing and sea-sickness had brought little
Fleda to look like the ghost of herself. So soon as the
weather changed, and sky and sea were looking gentle again,
Mr. Carleton had a mattress and cushions laid in a sheltered
corner of the deck for her, and carried her up. She had hardly
any more strength than a baby.
"What are you looking at me so for, Mr. Carleton?" said she, a
little while after he had carried her up, with a sweet serious
smile that seemed to know the answer to her question.
He stooped down and clasped her little thin hand, as
reverentially as if she really had not belonged to the earth.
"You are more like a sprite than I like to see you just now,"
said he, unconsciously fastening the child's heart to himself
with the magnetism of those deep eyes.  "I must get some of
the sailors' salt beef and sea-biscuit for you  they say that
is the best thing to make people well."
"Oh, I feel better already," said Fleda; and settling her
little face upon the cushion and closing her eyes, she added,
"thank you, Mr. Carleton!"
The fresh air began to restore her immediately; she was no
more sick; her appetite came back; and from that time, without
the help of beef and sea-biscuit, she mended rapidly. Mr.
Carleton proved himself as good a nurse on the sea as on land.
She seemed to be never far from his thoughts. He was
constantly finding out something that would do her good or
please her; and Fleda could not discover that he took any
trouble about it; she could not feel that she was a burden to
him; the things seemed to come as a matter of course. Mrs.
Carleton was not wanting in any show of kindness or care, and
yet, when Fleda looked back upon the day, it somehow was Guy
that had done everything for her; she thought little of
thanking anybody but him.
There were other passengers that petted her a great deal, or
would have done so, if Fleda's very timid, retiring nature had
not stood in the way. She was never bashful, nor awkward; but
yet it was only a very peculiar sympathetic style of address
that could get within the wall of reserve which, in general,
hid her from other people. Hid what it could: for through that
reserve a singular modesty, sweetness, and gracefulness of
spirit would show themselves. But there was much more behind.
There were no eyes, however, on board, that did not look
kindly on little Fleda, excepting only two pair. The Captain
showed her a great deal of flattering attention, and said she
was a pattern of a passenger; even the sailors noticed and
spoke of her, and let slip no occasion of showing the respect
and interest she had raised. But there were two pair of eyes,
and one of them Fleda thought most remarkably ugly, that were
an exception to the rest; these belonged to her cousin
Rossitur and Lieutenant Thorn. Rossitur had never forgiven her
remarks upon his character as a gentleman, and declared
preference of Mr. Carleton in that capacity; and Thorn was
mortified at the invincible childish reserve which she opposed
to all his advances; and both, absurd as it seems, were
jealous of the young Englishman's advantage over them. Both
not the less, because their sole reason for making her a
person of consequence was that he had thought fit to do so.
Fleda would permit neither of them to do anything for her that
she could help.
They took their revenge in raillery, which was not always
good-natured. Mr. Carleton never answered it in any other way
than by his look of cold disdain,  not always by that; little
Fleda could not be quite so unmoved. Many a time her nice
sense of delicacy confessed itself hurt, by the deep and
abiding colour her cheeks would wear after one of their ill-
mannered flings at her. She bore them with a grave dignity
peculiar to herself, but the same nice delicacy forbade her to
mention the subject to any one; and the young gentlemen
contrived to give the little child in the course of the voyage
a good deal of pain. She shunned them at last as she would the
plague. As to the rest, Fleda liked her life on board ship
amazingly. In her quiet way she took al the good that offered
and seemed not to recognise the ill.
Mr. Carleton had bought for her a copy of The Rape of the
Lock, and Bryant's poems. With these, sitting or lying among
her cushions, Fleda amused herself a great deal; and it was an
especial pleasure when he would sit down by her and read and
talk about them. Still a greater was to watch the sea, in its
changes of colour and varieties of agitation, and to get from
Mr. Carleton, bit by bit, all the pieces of knowledge
concerning it that he had ever made his own. Even when Fleda
feared it she was fascinated; and while the fear went off the
fascination grew deeper. Daintily nestling among her cushions,
she watched with charmed eyes the long rollers that came up in
detachments of three to attack the good ship, that like a
slandered character rode patiently over them; or the crested
green billows, or sometimes the little rippling waves that
showed old Ocean's placidest face; while with ears as charmed
as if he had been delivering a fairy tale, she listened to all
Mr. Carleton could tell her of the green water where the
whales feed, or the blue water where Neptune sits in his own
solitude, the furthest from land, and the pavement under his
feet outdoes the very canopy overhead in its deep colouring;
of the transparent seas where the curious mysterious marine
plants and animals may be clearly seen many feet down, and in
the North where hundreds of feet of depth do not hide the
bottom; of the icebergs; and whirling great fields of ice,
between which, if a ship get, she had as good be an almond in
a pair of strong nut-crackers. How the water grows colder and
murkier as it is nearer the shore; how the mountain waves are
piled together; and how old Ocean, like a wise man,. however
roughened and tumbled outwardly by the currents of life, is
always calm at heart. Of the signs of the weather; the out-
riders of the winds, and the use the seaman makes of the
tidings they bring, and before Mr. Carleton knew where he was,
he found himself deep in the science of navigation, and making
a star-gazer of little Fleda. Sometimes kneeling beside him as
he sat on her mattress, with her hand leaning on his shoulder,
Fleda asked, listened, and looked; as engaged, as rapt, as
interested, as another child would be in Robinson Crusoe,
gravely drinking in knowledge with a fresh healthy taste for
it that never had enough. Mr. Carleton was about as amused and
as interested as she. There is a second taste of knowledge
that some minds get in imparting it, almost as sweet as the
first relish. At any rate, Fleda never felt that she had any
reason to fear tiring him; and his mother, complaining of his
want of sociableness, said she believed Guy did not like to
talk to any-body but that little pet of his, and one or two of
the old sailors. If left to her own resources, Fleda was never
at a loss; she amused herself with her books, or watching the
sailors, or watching the sea, or with some fanciful
manufacture she had learned from one of the ladies on board,
or with what the company about her were saying and doing.
One evening she had been some time alone, looking out upon the
restless little waves that were tossing and tumbling in every
direction. She had been afraid of them at first, and they were
still rather fearful to her imagination. This evening, as heir
musing eye watched them rise and fall, her childish fancy
likened them to the up-springing chances of life,  uncertain,
unstable, alike too much for her skill and her strength to
manage. She was not more helpless before the attacks of the
one than of the other. But then  that calm blue heaven that
hung over the sea. It was like the heaven of power and love
above her destinies; only this was far higher, and more pure
and abiding. "He knoweth them that trust in him." "There shall
not a hair of your head perish."
Not these words, perhaps, but something like the sense of
them, was in little Fleda's head. Mr. Carleton coming up, saw
her gazing out upon the water, with an eye that seemed to see
nothing.
"Elfie!  Are you looking into futurity!"
"No,  yes  not exactly!" said Fleda, smiling.
"No, yes, and not exactly!" said he, throwing himself down
beside her. "What does all that mean?"
"I wasn't exactly looking into futurity," said Fleda.
"What then?  Don't tell me you were 'thinking;' I know that
already. What?"
Fleda was always rather shy of opening her cabinet of
thoughts. She glanced at him, and hesitated, and then yielded
to a fascination of eye and smile that rarely failed of its
end. Looking off to the sea again as if she had left her
thoughts there, she said,
"I was only thinking of that beautiful hymn of Mr. Newton's."
"What hymn?"
"That long one, 'The Lord will provide.' "
"Do you know it? Tell it to me, Elfie; let us see whether I
shall think it beautiful."
Fleda knew the whole, and repeated it.
"Though troubles assail,
And dangers affright,
Though friends should all fail,
And foes all unite;
Yet one thing secures us
Whatever betide,
The Scripture assures us
'The Lord will provide.'
