these circumstances, the American clergy are probably the most powerful
body of men in the country, is of itself a strong presumptive argument
in their favor. It certainly argues in them, as a class, both
intellectual and moral superiority.
It is a well-known fact that the influence of the clergy is looked upon
by our statesmen as a most serious element in making up their political
combinations; and that that influence is so great, that no statesman
would ever undertake to carry a measure against which all the clergy of
the country should unite. Such a degree of power, though it be only a
power of opinion, argument and example, is not without its dangers to
the purity of any body of men. To be courted by political partisans is
always a dangerous thing for the integrity and spirituality of men who
profess to be governed by principles which are not of this world. The
possession, too, of so great a power as we have described, involves a
most weighty responsibility; since, if the clergy do possess the power
to rectify any great national immorality, the fact of its not being done
seems in some sort to bring the sin of the omission to their door.
We have spoken, thus far, of the clergy alone; but in America, where the
clergyman is, in most denominations, elected by the church, and
supported by its voluntary contributions, the influence of the church
and that of the clergy are, to a very great extent, identical. The
clergyman is the very ideal and expression of the church. They choose
him, and retain him, because he expresses more perfectly than any other
man they can obtain, their ideas of truth and right. The clergyman is
supported, in all cases, by his church, or else he cannot retain his
position in it. The fact of his remaining there is generally proof of
identity of opinion, since if he differed very materially from them,
they have the power to withdraw from him and choose another.
The influence of a clergyman, thus retained by the free consent of the
understanding and heart of his church, is in some respects greater even
than that of a papal priest. The priest can control only by a blind
spiritual authority, to which, very often, the reason demurs, while it
yields an outward assent; but the successful free minister takes captive
the affections of the heart by his affections, overrules the reasoning
powers by superior strength of reason, and thus, availing himself of
affection, reason, conscience, and the entire man, possesses a power,
from the very freedom of the organization, greater than can ever result
from blind spiritual despotism. If a minister cannot succeed in doing
this to some good extent in a church, he is called unsuccessful; and he
who realizes this description most perfectly has the highest and most
perfect kind of power, and expresses the idea of a successful American
minister.
In speaking, therefore, of this subject, we shall speak of the church
and the clergy as identical, using the word church in the American sense
of the word, for that class of men, of all denominations, who are
organized in bodies distinct from nominal Christians, as professing to
be actually controlled by the precepts of Christ.
What, then, is the influence of the church on this great question of
slavery?
Certain things are evident on the very face of the matter.
1. It has not put an end to it.
2. It has not prevented the increase of it.
3. It has not occasioned the repeal of the laws which forbid education
to the slave.
4. It has not attempted to have laws passed forbidding the separation of
families and legalizing the marriage of slaves.
5. It has not stopped the internal slavetrade.
6. It has not prevented the extension of this system, with all its
wrongs, over new territories.
With regard to these assertions it is presumed there can be no
difference of opinion.
What, then, have they done?
In reply to this, it can be stated,
1. That almost every one of the leading denominations have, at some
time, in their collective capacity, expressed a decided disapprobation
of the system, and recommended that something should be done with a view
to its abolition.
2. One denomination of Christians has pursued such a course as entirely,
and in fact, to free every one of its members from any participation in
slave-holding. We refer to the Quakers. The course by which this result
has been effected will be shown by a pamphlet soon to be issued by the
poet J. G. Whittier, one of their own body.
3. Individual members, in all denominations, animated by the spirit of
Christianity, have in various ways entered their protest against it.
It will be well now to consider more definitely and minutely the
sentiments which some leading ecclesiastical bodies in the church have
expressed on this subject.
It is fair that the writer should state the sources from which the
quotations are drawn. Those relating to the action of Southern
judicatories are principally from a pamphlet compiled by the Hon. James
G. Birney, and entitled “The Church the Bulwark of Slavery.” The writer
addressed a letter to Mr. Birney, in which she inquired the sources from
which he compiled. His reply was, in substance, as follows: That the
pamphlet was compiled from original documents, or files of newspapers,
which had recorded these transactions at the time of their occurrence.
It was compiled and published in England, in 1842, with a view of
leading the people there to understand the position of the American
church and clergy. Mr. Birney says that, although the statements have
long been before the world, he has never known one of them to be
disputed; that, knowing the extraordinary nature of the sentiments, he
took the utmost pains to authenticate them.
We will first present those of the Southern States.
1. The Presbyterian Church.
                 HARMONY PRESBYTERY, OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
  Whereas, sundry persons in Scotland and England, and others in the
  north, east and west of our country, have denounced slavery as
  obnoxious to the laws of God, some of whom have presented before the
  General Assembly of our church, and the Congress of the nation,
  memorials and petitions, with the avowed object of bringing into
  disgrace slave-holders, and abolishing the relation of master and
  slave: And whereas, from the said proceedings, and the statements,
  reasonings and circumstances connected therewith, it is most
  manifest that those persons “know not what they say, nor whereof
  they affirm;” and with this ignorance discover a spirit of
  self-righteousness and exclusive sanctity, &c., therefore,
  1. Resolved, That as the kingdom of our Lord is not of this world,
  His church, as such, has no right to abolish, alter, or affect any
  institution or ordinance of men, political or civil, &c.
  2. Resolved, That slavery has existed from the days of those good
  old slave-holders and patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob (who are
  now in the kingdom of heaven), to the time when the apostle Paul
  sent a runaway home to his master Philemon, and wrote a Christian
  and fraternal letter to this slave-holder, which we find still
  stands in the canon of the Scriptures; and that slavery has existed
  ever since the days of the apostle, and does now exist.
  3. Resolved, That as the relative duties of master and slave are
  taught in the Scriptures, in the same manner as those of parent and
  child, and husband and wife, the existence of slavery itself is not
  opposed to the will of God; and whosoever has a conscience too
  tender to recognize this relation as lawful is “righteous over
  much,” is “wise above what is written,” and has submitted his neck
  to the yoke of men, sacrificed his Christian liberty of conscience,
  and leaves the infallible word of God for the fancies and doctrines
  of men.
                  *       *       *       *       *
                    THE CHARLESTON UNION PRESBYTERY.
  It is a principle which meets the views of this body, that slavery,
  as it exists among us, is a political institution, with which
  ecclesiastical judicatories have not the smallest right to
  interfere; and in relation to which, any such interference,
  especially at the present momentous crisis, would be morally
  wrong, and fraught with the most dangerous and pernicious
  consequences. The sentiments which we maintain, in common with
  Christians at the South of every denomination, are sentiments which
  so fully approve themselves to our consciences, are so identified
  with our solemn convictions of duty, that we should maintain them
  under any circumstances.
  Resolved, That in the opinion of this Presbytery, the holding of
  slaves, so far from being a SIN in the sight of God, is nowhere
  condemned in his holy word; that it is in accordance with the
  example, or consistent with the precepts, of patriarchs, apostles
  and prophets, and that it is compatible with the most fraternal
  regard to the best good of those servants whom God may have
  committed to our charge.
The New-school Presbyterian Church in Petersburgh, Virginia, Nov. 16,
1838, passed the following:
  Whereas, the General Assembly did, in the year 1818, pass a law
  which contains provisions for slaves irreconcilable with our civil
  institutions, and solemnly declaring slavery to be sin against God—a
  law at once offensive and insulting to the whole Southern community,
  1. Resolved, That, as slave-holders, we cannot consent longer to
  remain in connection with any church where there exists a statute
  conferring the right upon slaves to arraign their masters before the
  judicatory of the church—and that, too, for the act of selling them
  without their consent first had been obtained.
  2. Resolved, That, as the Great Head of the church has recognized
  the relation of master and slave, we conscientiously believe that
  slavery is not a sin against God, as declared by the General
  Assembly.
This sufficiently indicates the opinion of the Southern Presbyterian
Church. The next extracts will refer to the opinions of Baptist
Churches. In 1835 the Charleston Baptist Association addressed a
memorial to the Legislature of South Carolina, which contains the
following:
  The undersigned would further represent that the said association
  does not consider that the Holy Scriptures have made the fact of
  slavery a question of morals at all. The Divine Author of our holy
  religion, in particular, found slavery a part of the existing
  institutions of society; with which, if not sinful, it was not his
  design to intermeddle, but to leave them entirely to the control
  of men. Adopting this, therefore, as one of the allowed arrangements
  of society, he made it the province of his religion only to
  prescribe the reciprocal duties of the relation. The question, it is
  believed, is purely one of political economy. It amounts, in effect,
  to this,—Whether the operatives of a country shall be bought and
  sold, and themselves become property, as in this state; or whether
  they shall be hirelings, and their labor only become property, as in
  some other states. In other words, whether an employer may buy the
  whole time of laborers at once, of those who have a right to dispose
  of it, with a permanent relation of protection and care over them;
  or whether he shall be restricted to buy it in certain portions
  only, subject to their control, and with no such permanent relation
  of care and protection. The right of masters to dispose of the time
  of their slaves has been distinctly recognized by the Creator of all
  things, who is surely at liberty to vest the right of property over
  any object in whomsoever he pleases. That the lawful possessor
  should retain this right at will, is no more against the laws of
  society and good morals, than that he should retain the personal
  endowments with which his Creator has blessed him, or the money and
  lands inherited from his ancestors, or acquired by his industry. And
  neither society nor individuals have any more authority to demand a
  relinquishment, without an equivalent, in the one case, than in the
  other.
  As it is a question purely of political economy, and one which in
  this country is reserved to the cognizance of the state governments
  severally, it is further believed, that the State of South Carolina
  alone has the right to regulate the existence and condition of
  slavery within her territorial limits; and we should resist to the
  utmost every invasion of this right, come from what quarter and
  under whatever pretence it may.
The Methodist Church is, in some respects, peculiarly situated upon this
subject, because its constitution and book of discipline contain the
most vehement denunciations against slavery of which language is
capable, and the most stringent requisitions that all members shall be
disciplined for the holding of slaves; and these denunciations and
requisitions have been reäffirmed by its General Conference.
It seemed to be necessary, therefore, for the Southern Conference to
take some notice of this fact, which they did, with great coolness and
distinctness, us follows:
                     THE GEORGIA ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
  Resolved, unanimously, That, whereas there is a clause in the
  discipline of our church which states that we are as much as ever
  convinced of the great evil of slavery; and whereas the said
  clause has been perverted by some, and used in such a manner as to
  produce the impression that the Methodist Episcopal Church believed
  slavery to be a moral evil:—
  Therefore Resolved, That it is the sense of the Georgia Annual
  Conference that slavery, as it exists in the United States, is not
  a moral evil.
  Resolved, That we view slavery as a civil and domestic
  institution, and one with which, as ministers of Christ, we have
  nothing to do, further than to ameliorate the condition of the slave
  by endeavoring to impart to him and his master the benign influences
  of the religion of Christ, and aiding both on their way to heaven.
  On motion, it was Resolved, unanimously, That the Georgia Annual
  Conference regard with feelings of profound respect and approbation
  the dignified course pursued by our several superintendents, or
  bishops, in suppressing the attempts that have been made by
  various individuals to get up and protract an excitement in the
  churches and country on the subject of abolitionism.
  Resolved, further, That they shall have our cordial and zealous
  support in sustaining them in the ground they have taken.
                       SOUTH CAROLINA CONFERENCE.
The Rev. W. Martin introduced resolutions similar to those of the
Georgia Conference.
The Rev. W. Capers, D.D., after expressing his conviction that “the
sentiment of the resolutions was universally held, not only by the
ministers of that conference, but of the whole South;” and after stating
that the only true doctrine was, “it belongs to Cæsar, and not to the
church,” offered the following as a substitute:
  Whereas, we hold that the subject of slavery in these United States
  is not one proper for the action of the church, but is exclusively
  appropriate to the civil authorities,
  Therefore Resolved, That this conference will not intermeddle with
  it, further than to express our regret that it has ever been
  introduced, in any form, into any one of the judicatures of the
  church.
  Brother Martin accepted the substitute.
  Brother Betts asked whether the substitute was intended as implying
  that slavery, as it exists among us, was not a moral evil? He
  understood it as equivalent to such a declaration.
  Brother Capers explained that his intention was to convey that
  sentiment fully and unequivocally; and that he had chosen the form
  of the substitute for the purpose, not only of reproving some wrong
  doings at the North, but with reference also to the General
  Conference. If slavery were a moral evil (that is, sinful), the
  church would be bound to take cognizance of it; but our affirmation
  is, that it is not a matter for her jurisdiction, but is
  exclusively appropriate to the civil government, and of course
  not sinful.
The substitute was then unanimously adopted.
In 1836, an Episcopal clergyman in North Carolina, of the name of
Freeman, preached, in the presence of his bishop (Rev. Levi. S. Ives,
D.D., a native of a free state), two sermons on the rights and duties of
slave-holders. In these he essayed to justify from the Bible the slavery
both of white men and negroes, and insisted that “without a new
revelation from heaven, no man was authorized to pronounce slavery
WRONG.” The sermons were printed in a pamphlet, prefaced with a letter
to Mr. Freeman from the Bishop of North Carolina, declaring that he had
“listened with most unfeigned pleasure” to his discourses, and advised
their publication, as being “urgently called for at the present time.”
“The Protestant Episcopal Society for the advancement of Christianity
(!) in South Carolina” thought it expedient to republish Mr. Freeman’s
pamphlet as a religious tract![24]
Afterwards, when the addition of the new State of Texas made it
important to organize the Episcopal Church there, this Mr. Freeman was
made Bishop of Texas.
The question may now arise,—it must arise to every intelligent thinker
in Christendom,—Can it be possible that American slavery, as defined by
its laws, and the decisions of its courts, including all the horrible
abuses that the laws recognize and sanction, is considered to be a right
and proper institution? Do these Christians merely recognize the
relation of slavery, in the abstract, as one that, under proper
legislation, might be made a good one, or do they justify it as it
actually exists in America?
It is a fact that there is a large party at the South who justify not
only slavery in the abstract, but slavery just as it exists in America,
in whole and in part, and even its worst abuses.
There are four legalized parts or results of the system, which are of
especial atrocity.
They are,—
1. The prohibition of the testimony of colored people in cases of
trial.
2. The forbidding of education.
3. The internal slave-trade.
4. The consequent separation of families.
We shall bring evidence to show that every one of these practices has
been either defended on principle, or recognized without condemnation,
by decisions of judicatories of churches, or by writings of influential
clergymen, without any expression of dissent being made to their
opinions by the bodies to which they belong.
In the first place, the exclusion of colored testimony in the church. In
1840, the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church passed
the following resolution: “THAT IT IS INEXPEDIENT AND UNJUSTIFIABLE FOR
ANY PREACHER TO PERMIT COLORED PERSONS TO GIVE TESTIMONY AGAINST WHITE
PERSONS IN ANY STATE WHERE THEY ARE DENIED THAT PRIVILEGE BY LAW.”
This was before the Methodist Church had separated on the question of
slavery, as they subsequently did, into Northern and Southern
Conferences. Both Northern and Southern members voted for this
resolution.
After this was passed, the conscience of many Northern ministers was
aroused, and they called for a reconsideration. The Southern members
imperiously demanded that it should remain as a compromise and test of
union. The spirit of the discussion may be inferred from one extract.
Mr. Peck, of New York, who moved the reconsideration of the resolution,
thus expressed himself:
  That resolution (said he) was introduced under peculiar
  circumstances, during considerable excitement, and he went for it
  as a peace-offering to the South, without sufficiently reflecting
  upon the precise import of its phraseology; but, after a little
  deliberation, he was sorry; and he had been sorry but once, and that
  was all the time; he was convinced that, if that resolution remain
  upon the journal, it would be disastrous to the whole Northern
  church.
Rev. Dr. A. J. Few, of Georgia, the mover of the original resolution,
then rose. The following are extracts from his speech. The Italics are
the writers.
  Look at it! What do you declare to us, in taking this course? Why,
  simply, as much as to say, “We cannot sustain you in the condition
  which you cannot avoid!” We cannot sustain you in the necessary
  conditions of slave-holding; one of its necessary conditions
  being the rejection of negro testimony! If it is not sinful to hold
  slaves, under all circumstances, it is not sinful to hold them in
  the only condition, and under the only circumstances, which they can
  be held. The rejection of negro testimony is one of the necessary
  circumstances under which slave-holding can exist; indeed, it is
  utterly impossible for it to exist without it; therefore it is not
  sinful to hold slaves in the condition and under the circumstances
  which they are held at the South, inasmuch as they can be held under
  no other circumstances. * * * If you believe that slave-holding is
  necessarily sinful, come out with the abolitionists, and honestly
  say so. If you believe that slave-holding is necessarily sinful, you
  believe we are necessarily sinners; and, if so, come out and
  honestly declare it, and let us leave you. * * * We want to know
  distinctly, precisely and honestly, the position which you take. We
  cannot be tampered with by you any longer. We have had enough of it.
  We are tired of your sickly sympathies. * * * If you are not opposed
  to the principles which it involves, unite with us, like honest
  men, and go home, and boldly meet the consequences. We say again,
  you are responsible for this state of things; for it is you who
  have driven us to the alarming point where we find ourselves. * * *
  You have made that resolution absolutely necessary to the quiet of
  the South! But you now revoke that resolution! And you pass the
  Rubicon! Let me not be misunderstood. I say, you pass the Rubicon!
  If you revoke, you revoke the principle which that resolution
  involves, and you array the whole South against you, and we must
  separate! * * * If you accord to the principles which it involves,
  arising from the necessity of the case, stick by it, “though the
  heavens perish!” But, if you persist on reconsideration, I ask in
  what light will your course be regarded in the South? What will be
  the conclusion, there, in reference to it? Why, that you cannot
  sustain us as long as we hold slaves! It will declare, in the face
  of the sun, “We cannot sustain you, gentlemen, while you retain your
  slaves!” Your opposition to the resolution is based upon your
  opposition to slavery; you cannot, therefore, maintain your
  consistency, unless you come out with the abolitionists, and condemn
  us at once and forever; or else refuse to reconsider.
The resolution was therefore left in force, with another resolution
appended to it, expressing the undiminished regard of the General
Conference for the colored population.
It is quite evident that it was undiminished, for the best of reasons.
That the colored population were not properly impressed with this last
act of condescension, appears from the fact that “the official members
of the Sharp-street and Asbury Colored Methodist Church in Baltimore”
protested and petitioned against the motion. The following is a passage
from their address:
  The adoption of such a resolution, by our highest ecclesiastical
  judicatory,—a judicatory composed of the most experienced and wisest
  brethren in the church, the choice selection of twenty-eight Annual
  Conferences,—has inflicted, we fear, an irreparable injury upon
  eighty thousand souls for whom Christ died—souls, who, by this act
  of your body, have been stripped of the dignity of Christians,
  degraded in the scale of humanity, and treated as criminals, for no
  other reason than the color of their skin! Your resolution has, in
  our humble opinion, virtually declared, that a mere physical
  peculiarity, the handiwork of our all-wise and benevolent Creator,
  is prima facie evidence of incompetency to tell the truth, or is
  an unerring indication of unworthiness to bear testimony against a
  fellow-being whose skin is denominated white. * * *
  Brethren, out of the abundance of the heart we have spoken. Our
  grievance is before you! If you have any regard for the salvation
  of the eighty thousand immortal souls committed to your care; if you
  would not thrust beyond the pale of the church twenty-five
  hundred souls in this city, who have felt determined never to leave
  the church that has nourished and brought them up; if you regard us
  as children of one common Father, and can, upon reflection,
  sympathize with us as members of the body of Christ,—if you would
  not incur the fearful, the tremendous responsibility of offending
  not only one, but many thousands of his “little ones,” we conjure
  you to wipe from your journal the odious resolution which is ruining
