than ten miles long. And yet this monster city is stretching in 
all directions yearly, and where will be the end of it nobody 
knows. Southey says, " I began to study the map of London, 
though dismayed at its prodigious extent. The river is no 
assistance to a stranger in finding his way ; there is no street 
along its banks, and no eminence from whence you can look 
around and take your bearings." 
You may take these reflections as passing through my 
mind while we were driving through street after street, 
and going round corner after corner, towards the parson- 
age. 
Surrey Chapel and parsonage were the church and resi- 
dence of the celebrated Rowland Hill. At present the in- 
cumbent is the Rev. Mr. Sherman, well known to many of 
our American clergy by the kind hospitalities and attentions 
with which he has enriched their stay in London. The church 
maintains a medium rank between Congregationalism and 
Episcopacy, retaining part of the ritual, but being independent 
in its government. The kindness of Mr. Sherman had as- 
sembled here a very agreeable company, among whom were 
Farquhar Tupper, the artist Cruikshank, from whom I re- 
ceived a call the oilier morning, and Mr. Filatte, M. P. 
Cruikshank IS an old man with gray hair and eyebrows, 
Ptronly marked features, and keen eyes. He talked to me 
something about the promotion of temperance by a series of 
literary sketches illustrated by his pencil. 
I sat by a lady who was well acquainted with Kingsley, the 
author of Alton Locke, Hypatia, and other works, with whom 
I had some conversation with regard to the influence of his 
writings. 
She said that he had been instrumental in rescuing from 
infidelity many young men whose minds had become unsettled; 
that he was a devoted and laborious clergyman, exerting himself, without any cessation, for the good of his parish. 
After the company were gone I tried to get some rest, as 
my labors were not yet over, we being engaged to dine at 
Sir Edward Buxton's. This was our most dissipated day in 
London. We never tried the experiment again of going to 
three parties in one day, 
By the time I got to my third appointment I was entirely 
exhausted. I met here some, however, whom I was exceed- 
ingly interested to see ; among them Samuel Gurney, brother 
of Elizabeth Fry, with his wife and family. Lady Edward 
Buxton is one of his daughters. All had that air of benev- 
olent friendliness which is characteristic of the sect. 
Dr. Lushington, the companion and venerable associate of 
Wilberforce and Clarkson, was also present. He was a member of Parliament with Wilberforce forty or fifty years ago. 
He is now a judge of the admiralty court, that is to say, of 
the law relating to marine affairs. This is a branch of law 
which the nature of our government in America makes it impossible for us to have. He is exceedingly brilliant and an- 
imated in conversation. 
Dr. Cunningham, the author of World without Souls, was 
present. There was there also a master of Harrow School. 
 
He told me an anecdote, which pleased me for several reasons ; 
that once, when the queen visited the school, she put to him 
the inquiry, " whether the educational system of England did 
not give a disproportionate attention to the study of the ancient 
classics." His reply was, " that her majesty could best satisfy 
her mind on that point by observing what men the public schools 
of England had hitherto produced ; " certainly a very adroit reply, yet one which would be equally good against the suggestion of any improvement whatever. We might as well say, 
see what men we have been able to raise in America without 
any classical education at all ; witness Benjamin Franklin, 
George Washington, and Roger Sherman. 
It is a curious fact that Christian nations, with one general 
consent, in the early education of youth neglect the volume 
which they consider inspired, and bring the mind, at the most 
susceptible period, under the dominion of the literature and 
mythology of the heathen world ; and that, too, when the sacred 
history and poetry are confessedly superior in literary quality. 
Grave doctors of divinity expend their forces in commenting 
on and teaching things which would be utterly scouted, wore 
an author to publish them in English as original compositions. 
A Christian community has its young men educated in Ovid 
and Anacreon, but is shocked when one of them comes out in 
English with Don Juan ; yet, probably, the latter poem is 
purer than cither. 
The English literature and poetry of the time of Pope and 
Dryden betray a state of association so completely heathen- 
ized, that an old Greek or Roman raised from the dead could 
scarce Learn from them thai any change had taken place in the 
religion of the world ; and even Milton often pains one by introducing second-hand pagan mythology into the very shadow 
of the eternal throne. In some parts of the Paradise Lost, 
the evident imitations of Homer are to me the poorest and 
most painful passages. 
The adoration of the ancient classics has lain like a dead 
weight on all modern art and literature ; because men, instead 
of using them simply for excitement and inspiration, have 
congealed them into fixed, imperative rules. As the classics 
have been used, I think, wonderful as have been the minds 
educated under them, there would have been more variety and 
originality without them. 
"With which long sermon on a short text, I will conclude my 
letter. 
LETTER XX. 
Thursday, May 12. 
My dear I. : — 
Yesterday, what with my breakfast, lunch, and dinner, 
I was, as the fashionable saying is, "fairly knocked up." 
This expression, which I find obtains universally here, corresponds to what we mean by being " used up." They talk 
of Americanisms, and I have a little innocent speculation now 
and then concerning Anglicisms. I certainly find several here 
for which I can perceive no more precedent in the well of 
" English undefilecl," than for some of ours ; for instance, 
this being " knocked up," which is variously inflected, as, for 
example, in the form of a participial adjective, as a " knocking 
up" affair ; in the form of a noun, as when they say "such a 
person has got quite a knocking up," and so on. 
The fact is, if we had ever had any experience in London 
life we should not have made three engagements in one day. 
To my simple eye it is quite amusing to see how they manage 
the social machine here. People are under such a pres- 
sure of engagements, that they go about with their lists in their 
pockets. If A wants to invite B to dinner, out come their 
respective lists. A says he has only Tuesday and Thursday 
open for this week. B looks down his list, and says that the 
days are all closed. A looks along, and says that he lias no 
day open till next Wednesday week. B, however, is going to 
leave town Tuesday ; so that settles the matter as to dining ; 
so they turn back again, and try the breakfasting ; for though 
you cannot dine in but one place a day, yet, by means of the 
breakfast and the lunch, you can make three social visits if 
you are strong enough. 
Then there are evening parties, which begin at ten o'clock. 
The first card of the kind that was sent me, which was worded, 
" At home at ten o'clock," I, in my simplicity, took to be ten 
in the morning. 
But here are people staying out night after night till two 
o'clock, sitting up all night in Parliament, and seeming to 
thrive upon it. There certainly is great apology for this in 
London, if it is always as dark, drizzling, and smoky in the 
daytime as it has been since I have been here. If I were 
one of the London people I would live by gaslight as they do, 
for the streets and houses are altogether pleasanter by gas- 
light than by daylight. But to ape these customs under our 
clear, American skies, so contrary to our whole social system, 
is simply ridiculous. 
This morning I was exceedingly tired, and had a perfect 
longing to get out of London into some green fields — to get 
somewhere where there was nobody. So kind Mrs. B. had 
the carriage, and off we drove together. By and by we 
found ourselves out in the country, and then I wanted to get 
out and walk. 
After a while a lady came along, riding a little donkey. 
These donkeys have amused me so much since I have been 
here ! At several places on the outskirts of the city they have 
them standing, all girt up with saddles covered with white 
cloth, for ladies to ride on. One gets out of London by means 
of an omnibus to one of these places, and then, for a few pence, 
can have a ride upon one of them into the country. Mrs. B. 
walked by the side of the lady, and said to her something 
which I did not hear, and she immediately alighted and asked 
me with great kindness if I wanted to try the saddle ; so I got 
upon the little beast, which was about as large as a good-sized 
calf, and rode a few paces to try him. It is a slow, but not 
unpleasant gait, and if the creature were not so insignificantly 
small, as to make you feel much as if you were riding upon a 
cat, it would be quite a pleasant affair. After dismounting I 
crept through a hole in a hedge, and looked for some flowers ; 
and, in short, made the most that I could of my interview with 
nature, till it came time to go home to dinner, for our dinner 
hour at Mr. B.'s is between one and two ; quite like home. 
In the evening we were to dine at Lord Shaftesbury's. 
After napping all the afternoon we went to Grosvenor 
Square. There was only a small, select party, of about six- 
teen. Among the guests were Dr. McAll, Hebrew professor in 
King's College, Lord Wriothesley Russell, brother of Lord John, 
and one of the private chaplains of the queen, and the Arch- 
bishop of Canterbury. Dr. McAll is a millenarian. He sat 
next to C. at table, and they had some conversation oh that 
subject. He said those ideas had made a good deal of prog- 
ress in the English mind. 
While I was walking down to dinner with Lord Shaftesbury, 
he pointed out to me in the hall the portrait of his distinguished 
ancestor, Antony Ashley Cooper, Earl of Shaftesbury, whose 
name he bears. This ancestor, notwithstanding his sceptical 
philosophy, did some good things, as he was the author of the 
habeas corpus act. 
After dinner we went back to the drawing rooms again ; 
and while tea and coffee were being served, names were constantly being announced, till the rooms were quite full. 
Among the earliest who arrived was Mr. , a mulatto 
gentleman, formerly British consul at Liberia. I found him 
a man of considerable cultivation and intelligence, evincing 
much good sense in his observations. 
I overheard some one saying in the crowd, " Shaftesbury 
has been about the chimney sweepers again in Parliament." 
I said to Lord Shaftesbury, "I thought that matter of the 
chimney sweepers had been attended to long ago, and laws 
made about it." 
" So we have made laws," said he, " but people won't keep 
them unless we follow them up." . 
He has a very prompt, cheerful way of speaking, and 
throws himself into every thing he talks about with great 
interest and zeal. He introduced me to one gentleman, I 
forget his name now, as the patron of the shoeblacks. On 
my inquiring what that meant, he said that he had started the 
idea of providing employment for poor street boys, by furnishing them with brushes and blacking, and forming them into 
regular companies of shoeblacks. Each boy has his particular stand, where he blacks the shoes of every passer by who 
chooses to take the trouble of putting up his foot and paying 
his twopence. Lord Shaftesbury also presented me to a lady 
who had been a very successful teacher in the ragged schools ; 
also to a gentleman who, he said, had been very active in the 
London city missions. Some very ingenious work done in 
the ragged schools was set on the table for the company to 
examine, and excited much interest. 
I talked a little while with Lord Wriothesley Russell. From 
him we derived the idea that the queen was particularly careful in the training and religious instruction of her children. 
He said that she claimed that the young prince should be 
left entirely to his parents, in regard to his religious instruction, 
till he was seven years of age ; but that, on examining him at 
that time, they were equally surprised and delighted with his 
knowledge of the Scriptures. I must remark here, that such 
an example as the queen sets in the education of her children 
makes itself felt through all the families of the kingdom. 
Domesticity is now the fashion in high life. I have had 
occasion to see, in many instances, how carefully ladies of 
rank instruct their children. This argues more favorably for 
the continuance of English institutions than any thing I have 
seen. If the next generation of those who are born to rank 
and power are educated, in the words of Fenelon, to consider 
these things " as a ministry," which they hold for the benefit 
of the poor, the problem of life in England will become easier 
of solution. Such are Lord Shaftesbury's views, and as he 
throws them out with unceasing fervor in his conversation and 
conduct, they cannot but powerfully affect not only his own 
circle, but all circles through the kingdom. Lady Shaftesbury 
is a beautiful and interesting woman, and warmly enters into 
the benevolent plans of her husband. A gentleman and lady 
with whom I travelled said that Lord and Lady Shaftesbury 
had visited in person the most forlorn and wretched parts 
of London, that they might get, by their own eyesight, a 
more correct gauge of the misery to be relieved. I did not 
see Lord Shaftesbury's children; but, from the crayon likenesses which hung upon the walls, they must be a family of 
uncommon beauty. 
I talked a little while with the Bishop of Tuam. I was 
the more interested to do so because he was from that part 
of Ireland which Sibyl Jones has spoken of as being in so 
particularly miserable a condition. I said, " How are you 
 
doing now, in that part of the country ? There has been a 
great deal of misery there, I hear." He said, u There has 
been, but we have just turned the corner, and now I hope we 
shall see better days. The condition of the people has been 
improved by emigration and other causes, till the evils have 
been brought within reach, and we feel that there is hope of 
effecting a permanent improvement." 
"While I was sitting talking, Lord Shaftesbury brought a 
gentleman and lady, whom he introduced as Lord Chief 
Justice Campbell and Lady Strathheden. Lord Campbell 
is a man of most dignified and imposing personal presence ; 
tall, with a large frame, a fine, high forehead, and strongly 
marked features. Naturally enough, I did not suppose them 
to be husband and wife, and when I discovered that they 
were so, expressed a good deal of surprise at their difference 
of titles ; to which she replied, that she did not wonder we 
Americans were sometimes puzzled among the number of 
titles. She seemed quite interested to inquire into our manner of living and customs, and how they struck me as compared with theirs. The letter of Mrs. Tyler was much talked 
of, and some asked me if . I supposed Mrs. Tyler really wrote 
it, expressing a little civil surprise at the style. I told them 
that I had heard it said that it must have been written by 
some of the gentlemen in the family, because it was generally 
understood that Mrs. Tyler was a very ladylike person. Some 
said, " It does us no harm to be reminded of our deficiencies ; 
we need all the responsibility that can be put upon us." 
Others said, " It is certain we have many defects ; " but Lord 
John Campbell said, "There is this difference between our 
evils and those of slavery: ours exist contrary to law; those 
are upheld by law." 
I did not get any opportunity of conversing with the Archbishop of Canterbury, though this is the second time I have 
been in company with him. He is a most prepossessing man 
in his appearance — simple, courteous, mild, and affable. He 
was formerly Bishop of Chester, and is now Primate of all 
England. 
It is some indication of the tendency of things in a country 
to notice what kind of men are patronized and promoted to 
the high places of the church. Sumner is a man refined, 
gentle, affable, scholarly, thoroughly evangelical in sentiment ; 
to render him into American phraseology, he is in doctrine 
what we should call a moderate New School man. He has 
been a most industrious writer ; one of his principal works is 
his Commentary on the New Testament, in several volumes ; 
a work most admirably adapted for popular use, combining 
practical devotion with critical accuracy to an uncommon 
degree. He has also published a work on the Evidences of 
Christianity, in which he sets forth some evidences of the 
genuineness of the gospel narrative, which could only have 
been conceived by a mind of peculiar delicacy, and which are 
quite interesting and original. He has also written a work 
on Biblical Geology, which is highly spoken of by Sir Charles 
Lyell and others. If I may believe accounts that I hear, this 
mild and moderate man has shown a most admirable firmness 
and facility in guiding the ship of the establishment in some 
critical and perilous places of late years. I should add that 
he is warmly interested in all the efforts now making for the 
good of the poor. 
Among other persons of distinction, this evening, I noticed 
Lord and Lady Palmerston. 
A lady asked me this evening what I thought of the beauty 
 
of the ladies of the English aristocracy : she was a Scotch 
lady, by the by ; so the question was a fair one. I replied, 
that certainly report had not exaggerated their charms. Then 
came a home question — how the ladies of England compared 
with the ladies of America. " Now for it, patriotism," said I 
to myself; and, invoking to my aid certain fair saints of my 
own country, whose faces I distinctly remembered, I assured 
her that I had never seen more beautiful women than I had 
in America. Grieved was I to be obliged to add, " But your 
ladies keep their beauty much later and longer." This fact 
stares one in the face in every company ; one meets ladies 
past fifty, glowing, radiant, and blooming, with a freshness of 
complexion and fulness of outline refreshing to contemplate. 
What can be the reason ? Tell us, Muses and Graces, what 
can it be ? Is it the conservative power of sea fogs and coal 
smoke — the same cause that keeps the turf green, and makes 
the holly and ivy flourish ? How comes it that our married 
ladies dwindle, fade, and grow thin — that their noses incline 
to sharpness, and their elbows to angularity, just at the time 
of life when their island sisters round out into a comfortable 
and becoming amplitude and fulness ? If it is the fog and 
the sea coal, why, then, I am afraid we never shall come up 
with them. But perhaps there may be other causes why a 
country which starts some of the most beautiful girls in the 
world produces so few beautiful women. Have not our close-heated stove rooms something to do with it ? Have not the 
immense -amount of hot biscuits, hot corn cakes, and other 
compounds got up with the acrid poison of saleratus, something to do with it ? Above all, has not our climate, with its 
alternate extremes of heat and cold, a tendency to induce 
habits of in-door indolence ? Climate, certainly, has a great 
deal to do with it ; ours is evidently more trying and more exhausting ; and because it is so, we should not pile upon its back 
errors of dress and diet which are avoided by our neighbors. 
They keep their beauty, because they keep their health. It 
has been as remarkable as any thing to me, since I have 
been here, that I do not constantly, as at home, hear one 
and another spoken of as in miserable health, as very delicate, 
Sec. Health seems to be the rule, and not the exception. For 
my part, I must say, the most favorable omen that I know of 
for female beauty in America is, the multiplication of water 
cure establishments, where our ladies, if they get nothing else, 
do gain some ideas as to the necessity of fresh air, regular exercise, simple diet, and the laws of hygiene in general. 
There is one thing more which goes a long way towards the 
continued health of these English ladies, and therefore towards their beauty ; and that is, the quietude and perpetuity of 
their domestic institutions. They do not, like us, fade their 
cheeks lying awake nights ruminating the awful question who 
shall do the washing next week, or who shall take the chambermaid's place, who is going to be married, or that of the 
cook, who has signified her intention of parting with the mistress. Their hospitality is never embarrassed by the consideration that their whole kitchen cabinet may desert at the moment that their guests arrive. They are not obliged to choose 
between washing their own dishes, or having their cut glass, 
silver, and china left to the mercy of a foreigner, who has 
never done any thing but field work. And last, not least, they 
are not possessed with that ambition to do the impossible in all 
branches, which, I believe, is the death of a third of the women 
in America. What is there ever read of in books, or described in foreign travel, as attained by people in possession 
of every means and appliance, which our women will not undertake, single-handed, in spite of every providential indication to the contrary ? Who is not cognizant of dinner parties 
invited, in which the lady of the house has figured successively as confectioner, cook, dining-room girl, and, lastly, 
rushed up stairs to bathe her glowing cheeks, smooth her hair, 
draw on satin dress and kid gloves, and appear in the drawing room as if nothing were the matter ? Certainly the undaunted bravery of our American females can never enough 
be admired. Other women can play gracefully the head of 
the establishment ; but who, like them, could be head, hand, 
and foot, all at once ? 
As I have spoken of stoves, I will here remark that I have 
not yet seen one in England ; neither, so far as I can remember, have I seen a house warmed by a furnace. Bright coal 
fires, in grates of polished steel, are as yet the lares and 
penates of old England. If I am inclined to mourn over 
any defection in my own country, it is the closing up of the 
cheerful open fire, with its bright lights and dancing shadows, 
and the planting on our domestic hearth of that sullen, stifling 
gnome, the air-tight. I agree with Hawthorne in thinking the 
movement fatal to patriotism ; for who would fight for an air- 
tight ! 
I have run on a good way beyond our evening company ; so 
good by for the present. 
LETTER XXI 
May 13. 
Dear Father : — 
To-day we are to go out to visit your Quaker friend, Mr. 
Alexander, at Stoke Newington, where you passed so many 
pleasant hours during your sojourn in England. At half past 
nine we went into the Congregational Union, which is now in 
session. I had a seat upon the platform, where I could com- 
mand a view of the house. It was a most interesting assem- 
blage to me, recalling forcibly our New England associations, 
and impressing more than ever on my mind how much of one 
blood the two countries are. These earnest, thoughtful, intelligent-looking men seemed to transport me back to my own 
country. They received us with most gratifying cordiality 
and kindness. Most naturally Congregationalism in England 
must turn with deep interest and sympathy to Congregationalism in America. In several very cordial addresses they testified their pleasure at seeing us among them, speaking most 
affectionately of you and your labors, and your former visit to 
England. The wives and daughters of many of them present 
expressed in their countenances the deepest and most affectionate feeling. It is cheering to feel that an ocean does 
not divide our hearts, and that the Christians of America and 
England are one. 
In the afternoon we drove out to Mr. Alexander's. His 
place is called Paradise, and very justly, being one more of 
those home Edens in which England abounds, where, without 
ostentation or display, every appliance of rational enjoyment 
surrounds one. 
We were ushered into a cheerful room, opening by one 
glass door upon a brilliant conservatory of flowers, and by 
another upon a neatly-kept garden. The air was fresh and 
sweet with the perfume of blossoming trees, and every thing 
seemed doubly refreshing from the contrast with the din and 
smoke of London. Our chamber looked out upon a beautiful 
