him, as upward with long gaze he looks to that heaven never before
closed to his prayer, to that God never before to him invisible. That
mournful, heaven-searching glance, in its lonely anguish, says but one
thing: "Lo, I come to do thy will, O God."
Through a life of sorrow the realized love of his Father has shone like
a precious and beautiful talisman in his bosom; but now, when desolation
and anguish have come upon him as a whirlwind, this last star has gone
out in the darkness, and Jesus, deserted by man and God, stands there
alone.
Alone? No; for undaunted by the cruel mob, fearless in the strength of
mortal anguish, helpless, yet undismayed, stands the one blessed among
women, the royal daughter of a noble line, the priestess to whose care
was intrusted this spotless sacrifice. She and her son, last of a race
of kings, stand there despised, rejected, and disavowed by their nation,
to accomplish dread words of prophecy, which have swept down for far
ages to this hour.
Strange it is, in this dark scene, to see the likeness between mother
and son, deepening in every line of those faces, as they stand thus
thrown out by the dark background of rage and hate, which like a storm
cloud lowers around. The same rapt, absorbed, calm intensity of anguish
in both mother and son, save only that while he gazes upward towards
God, she, with like fervor, gazes on him. What to her is the deriding
mob, the coarse taunt, the brutal abuse? Of it all she hears, she feels
nothing. She sinks not, faints not, weeps not; her whole being
concentrates in the will to suffer by and with him to the last. Other
hearts there are that beat for him; others that press into the doomed
circle, and own him amid the scorn of thousands. There may you see the
clasped hands and upraised eyes of a Magdalen, the pale and steady
resolve of John, the weeping company of women who bewailed and lamented
him; but none dare press so near, or seem so identical with him in his
sufferings, as this mother.
And as we gaze on these two in human form, surrounded by other human
forms, how strange the contrast! How is it possible that human features
and human lineaments essentially alike, can be wrought into such
heaven-wide contrast? MAN is he who stands there, lofty and spotless, in
bleeding patience! Men also are those brutal soldiers, alike stupidly
ready, at the word of command, to drive the nail through quivering flesh
or insensate wood. Men are those scowling priests and infuriate
Pharisees. Men, also, the shifting figures of the careless rabble, who
shout and curse without knowing why. No visible glory shines round that
head; yet how, spite of every defilement cast upon him by the vulgar
rabble, seems that form to be glorified! What light is that in those
eyes! What mournful beauty in that face! What solemn, mysterious
sacredness investing the whole form, constraining from us the
exclamation, "Surely this is the Son of God." Man's voice is breathing
vulgar taunt and jeer: "He saved others; himself he cannot save." "He
trusted in God; let him deliver him if he will have him." And man's,
also, clear, sweet, unearthly, pierces that stormy mob, saying, "Father,
forgive them; they know not what they do."
But we draw the veil in reverence. It is not ours to picture what the
sun refused to shine upon, and earth shook to behold.
Little thought those weeping women, that stricken disciple, that
heart-broken mother, how on some future day that cross--emblem to them
of deepest infamy--should blaze in the eye of all nations, symbol of
triumph and hope, glittering on gorgeous fanes, embroidered on regal
banners, associated with all that is revered and powerful on earth. The
Roman ensign that waved on that mournful day, symbol of highest earthly
power, is a thing mouldered and forgotten; and over all the high places
of old Rome, herself stands that mystical cross, no longer speaking of
earthly anguish and despair, but of heavenly glory, honor, and
immortality.
Theologians have endlessly disputed and philosophized on this great fact
of atonement. The Bible tells only that this tragic event was the
essential point without which our salvation could never have been
secured. But where lay the necessity they do not say. What was that
dread strait that either the divine One must thus suffer, or man be
lost, who knoweth?
To this question answer a thousand voices, with each a different
solution, urged with equal confidence--each solution to its framer as
certain and sacred as the dread fact it explains--yet every one,
perhaps, unsatisfactory to the deep-questioning soul. The Bible, as it
always does, gives on this point not definitions or distinct outlines,
but images--images which lose all their glory and beauty if seized by
the harsh hands of metaphysical analysis, but inexpressibly affecting to
the unlettered human heart, which softens in gazing on their mournful
and mysterious beauty. Christ is called our sacrifice, our passover, our
atoning high priest; and he himself, while holding in his hands the
emblem cup, says, "It is my blood, shed for many, for the remission
of sins." Let us reason on it as we will, this story of the cross,
presented without explanation in the simple metaphor of the Bible, has
produced an effect on human nature wholly unaccountable. In every age
and clime, with every variety of habit, thought, and feeling, from the
cannibals of New Zealand and Madagascar to the most enlightened and
scientific minds in Christendom, one feeling, essentially homogeneous in
its character and results, has arisen in view of this cross. There is
something in it that strikes one of the great nerves of simple,
unsophisticated humanity, and meets its wants as nothing else will. Ages
ago, Paul declared to philosophizing Greek and scornful Roman that he
was not ashamed of this gospel, and alleged for his reason this very
adaptedness to humanity. A priori, many would have said that Paul
should have told of Christ living, Christ preaching, Christ working
miracles, not omitting also the pathetic history of how he sealed all
with his blood; but Paul declared that he determined to know nothing
else but Christ crucified. He said it was a stumbling block to the
Jew, an absurdity to the Greek; yet he was none the less positive in his
course. True, there was many then, as now, who looked on with the most
philosophic and cultivated indifference. The courtly Festus, as he
settled his purple tunic, declared he could make nothing of the matter,
only a dispute about one Jesus, who was dead, and whom Paul affirmed to
be alive; and perchance some Athenian, as he reclined on his ivory couch
at dinner, after the sermon on Mars Hill, may have disposed of the
matter very summarily, and passed on to criticisms on Samian wine and
marble vases. Yet in spite of their disbelief, this story of Christ has
outlived them, their age and nation, and is to this hour as fresh in
human hearts as if it were just published. This "one Jesus which was
dead, and whom Paul affirmed to be alive," is nominally, at least, the
object of religious homage in all the more cultivated portions of the
globe; and to hearts scattered through all regions of the earth this
same Jesus is now a sacred and living name, dearer than all household
sounds, all ties of blood, all sweetest and nearest affections of
humanity. "I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die for the name
of the Lord Jesus," are words that have found an echo in the bosoms of
thousands in every age since then; that would, if need were, find no
less echo in thousands now. Considering Christ as a man, and his death
as a mere pathetic story,--considering him as one of the great martyrs
for truth, who sealed it with his blood,--this result is wholly
unaccountable. Other martyrs have died, bravely and tenderly, in their
last hours "bearing witness of the godlike" that is in man; but who so
remembers them? Who so loves them? To whom is any one of them a living
presence, a life, an all? Yet so thousands look on Jesus at this hour.
Nay, it is because this story strikes home to every human bosom as an
individual concern. A thrilling voice speaks from this scene of anguish
to every human bosom: This is thy Savior. Thy sin hath done this. It
is the appropriative words, thine and mine, which make this history
different from any other history. This was for me, is the thought
which has pierced the apathy of the Greenlander, and kindled the stolid
clay of the Hottentot; and no human bosom has ever been found so low, so
lost, so guilty, so despairing, that this truth, once received, has not
had power to redeem, regenerate, and disenthrall. Christ so presented
becomes to every human being a friend nearer than the mother who bore
him; and the more degraded, the more hopeless and polluted, is the
nature, the stronger comes on the living reaction, if this belief is
really and vividly enkindled with it. But take away this appropriative,
individual element, and this legend of Jesus's death has no more power
than any other. He is to us no more than Washington or Socrates, or
Howard. And where is there not a touchstone to try every theory of
atonement? Whatever makes a man feel that he is only a spectator, an
uninterested judge in this matter, is surely astray from the idea of the
Bible. Whatever makes him feel that his sins have done this deed, that
he is bound, soul and body, to this Deliverer, though it may be in many
points philosophically erroneous, cannot go far astray.
If we could tell the number of the stars, and call them forth by name,
then, perhaps, might we solve all the mystic symbols by which the Bible
has shadowed forth the far-lying necessities and reachings-forth of this
event "among principalities and powers," and in "ages to come." But he
who knows nothing of all this, who shall so present the atonement as to
bind and affiance human souls indissolubly to their Redeemer, does all
that could be done by the highest and most perfect knowledge.
The great object is accomplished, when the soul, rapt, inspired, feels
the deep resolve,--
                "Remember Thee!
    Yea, from the table of my memory
    I'll wipe away all trivial, fond records,
    All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
    That youth and observation copied there,
    And thy commandment all alone shall live
    Within the book and volume of my brain,
    Unmixed with baser matter."
THE OLD MEETING HOUSE.
SKETCH FROM THE NOTE BOOK OF AN OLD GENTLEMAN.
Never shall I forget the dignity and sense of importance which swelled
my mind when I was first pronounced old enough to go to meeting. That
eventful Sunday I was up long before day, and even took my Sabbath suit
to the window to ascertain by the first light that it actually was
there, just as it looked the night before. With what complacency did I
view myself completely dressed! How did I count over the rows of yellow
gilt buttons on my coat! how my good mother, grandmother, and aunts
fussed, and twitched, and pulled, to make every thing set up and set
down, just in the proper place! how my clean, starched white collar was
turned over and smoothed again and again, and my golden curls twisted
and arranged to make the most of me! and, last of all, how I was
cautioned not to be thinking of my clothes! In truth, I was in those
days a very handsome youngster, and it really is no more than justice to
let the fact be known, as there is nothing in my present appearance from
which it could ever be inferred. Every body in the house successively
asked me if I should be a good boy, and sit still, and not talk, nor
laugh; and my mother informed me, in terrorem, that there was a
tithing man, who carried off naughty children, and shut them up in a
dark place behind the pulpit; and that this tithing man, Mr. Zephaniah
Scranton, sat just where he could see me. This fact impressed my mind
with more solemnity than all the exhortations which had preceded it--a
proof of the efficacy of facts above reason. Under shadow and power of
this weighty truth, I demurely took hold of my mother's forefinger to
walk to meeting.
The traveller in New England, as he stands on some eminence, and looks
down on its rich landscape of golden grain and waving cornfield, sees no
feature more beautiful than its simple churches, whose white taper
fingers point upward, amid the greenness and bloom of the distant
prospects, as if to remind one of the overshadowing providence whence
all this luxuriant beauty flows; and year by year, as new ones are added
to the number, or succeed in the place of old ones, there is discernible
an evident improvement in their taste and architecture. Those modest
Doric little buildings, with their white pillars, green blinds, and neat
enclosures, are very different affairs from those great, uncouth
mountains of windows and doors that stood in the same place years
before. To my childish eye, however, our old meeting house was an
awe-inspiring thing. To me it seemed fashioned very nearly on the model
of Noah's ark and Solomon's temple, as set forth in the pictures in my
Scripture Catechism--pictures which I did not doubt were authentic
copies; and what more respectable and venerable architectural precedent
could any one desire? Its double rows of windows, of which I knew the
number by heart, its doors with great wooden quirls over them, its
belfry projecting out at the east end, its steeple and bell, all
inspired as much sense of the sublime in me as Strasbourg Cathedral
itself; and the inside was not a whit less imposing.
How magnificent, to my eye, seemed the turnip-like canopy that hung over
the minister's head, hooked by a long iron rod to the wall above! and
how apprehensively did I consider the question, what would become of him
if it should fall! How did I wonder at the panels on either side of the
pulpit, in each of which was carved and painted a flaming red tulip,
bolt upright, with its leaves projecting out at right angles! and then
at the grape vine, bass relieved on the front, with its exactly
triangular bunches of grapes, alternating at exact intervals with
exactly triangular leaves. To me it was an indisputable representation
of how grape vines ought to look, if they would only be straight and
regular, instead of curling and scrambling, and twisting themselves into
all sorts of slovenly shapes. The area of the house was divided into
large square pews, boxed up with stout boards, and surmounted with a
kind of baluster work, which I supposed to be provided for the special
accommodation of us youngsters, being the "loopholes of retreat" through
which we gazed on the "remarkabilia" of the scene. It was especially
interesting to me to notice the coming in to meeting of the
congregation. The doors were so contrived that on entering you stepped
down instead of up--a construction that has more than once led to
unlucky results in the case of strangers. I remember once when an
unlucky Frenchman, entirely unsuspicious of the danger that awaited him,
made entrance by pitching devoutly upon his nose in the middle of the
broad aisle; that it took three bunches of my grandmother's fennel to
bring my risibles into any thing like composure. Such exhibitions,
fortunately for me, were very rare; but still I found great amusement in
watching the distinctive and marked outlines of the various people that
filled up the seats around me. A Yankee village presents a picture of
the curiosities of every generation: there, from year to year, they live
on, preserved by hard labor and regular habits, exhibiting every
peculiarity of manner and appearance, as distinctly marked as when they
first came from the mint of nature. And as every body goes punctually to
meeting, the meeting house becomes a sort of museum of antiquities--a
general muster ground for past and present.
I remember still with what wondering admiration I used to look around on
the people that surrounded our pew. On one side there was an old Captain
McLean, and Major McDill, a couple whom the mischievous wits of the
village designated as Captain McLean and Captain McFat; and, in truth,
they were a perfect antithesis, a living exemplification of flesh and
spirit. Captain McLean was a mournful, lengthy, considerate-looking old
gentleman, with a long face, digressing into a long, thin, horny nose,
which, when he applied his pocket handkerchief, gave forth a melancholy,
minor-keyed sound, such as a ghost might make, using a pocket
handkerchief in the long gallery of some old castle.
Close at his side was the doughty, puffing Captain McDill, whose
full-orbed, jolly visage was illuminated by a most valiant red nose,
shaped something like an overgrown doughnut, and looking as if it had
been thrown at his face, and happened to hit in the middle. Then there
was old Israel Peters, with a wooden leg, which tramped into meeting,
with undeviating regularity, ten minutes before meeting time; and there
was Jedediah Stebbins, a thin, wistful, moonshiny-looking old gentleman,
whose mouth appeared as if it had been gathered up with a needle and
thread, and whose eyes seemed as if they had been bound with red tape;
and there was old Benaiah Stephens, who used regularly to get up and
stand when the minister was about half through his sermon, exhibiting
his tall figure, long, single-breasted coat, with buttons nearly as
large as a tea plate; his large, black, horn spectacles stretched down
on the extreme end of a very long nose, and vigorously chewing,
meanwhile, on the bunch of caraway which he always carried in one hand.
Then there was Aunt Sally Stimpson, and old Widow Smith, and a whole
bevy of little, dried old ladies, with small, straight, black bonnets,
tight sleeves to the elbow, long silk gloves, and great fans, big enough
for a windmill; and of a hot day it was a great amusement to me to watch
the bobbing of the little black bonnets, which showed that sleep had got
the better of their owners' attention, and the sputter and rustling of
the fans, when a more profound nod than common would suddenly waken
them, and set them to fanning and listening with redoubled devotion.
There was Deacon Dundas, a great wagon load of an old gentleman, whose
ample pockets looked as if they might have held half the congregation,
who used to establish himself just on one side of me, and seemed to feel
such entire confidence in the soundness and capacity of his pastor that
he could sleep very comfortably from one end of the sermon to the other.
Occasionally, to be sure, one of your officious blue flies, who, as
every body knows, are amazingly particular about such matters, would
buzz into his mouth, or flirt into his ears a passing admonition as to
the impropriety of sleeping in meeting, when the good old gentleman
would start, open his eyes very wide, and look about with a resolute
air, as much as to say, "I wasn't asleep, I can tell you;" and then
setting himself in an edifying posture of attention, you might perceive
his head gradually settling back, his mouth slowly opening wider and
wider, till the good man would go off again soundly asleep, as if
nothing had happened.
It was a good orthodox custom of old times to take every part of the
domestic establishment to meeting, even down to the faithful dog, who,
as he had supervised the labors of the week, also came with due
particularity to supervise the worship of Sunday. I think I can see now
the fitting out on a Sunday morning--the one wagon, or two, as the case
might be, tackled up with an "old gray" or an "old bay," with a buffalo
skin over the seat by way of cushion, and all the family, in their
Sunday best, packed in for meeting; while Master Bose, Watch, or Towser
stood prepared to be an outguard and went meekly trotting up hill and
down dale in the rear. Arrived at meeting, the canine part of the
establishment generally conducted themselves with great decorum, lying
down and going to sleep as decently as any body present, except when
some of the business-loving bluebottles aforesaid would make a sortie
upon them, when you might hear the snap of their jaws as they vainly
sought to lay hold of the offender. Now and then, between some of the
sixthlies, seventhlies, and eighthlies, you might hear some old
patriarch giving himself a rousing shake, and pitpatting soberly up the
aisles, as if to see that every thing was going on properly, after which
he would lie down and compose himself to sleep again; and certainly this
was as improving a way of spending Sunday as a good Christian dog could
desire.
But the glory of our meeting house was its singers' seat--that empyrean
of those who rejoiced in the divine, mysterious art of fa-sol-la-ing,
who, by a distinguishing grace and privilege, could "raise and fall" the
cabalistical eight notes, and move serene through the enchanted region
of flats, sharps, thirds, fifths, and octaves.
There they sat in the gallery that lined three sides of the house,
treble, counter, tenor, and bass, each with its appropriate leaders and
supporters; there were generally seated the bloom of our young people;
sparkling, modest, and blushing girls on one side, with their ribbons
and finery, making the place where they sat as blooming and lively as a
flower garden, and fiery, forward, confident young men on the other. In
spite of its being a meeting house, we could not swear that glances were
never given and returned, and that there was not often as much of an
approach to flirtation as the distance and the sobriety of the place
would admit. Certain it was, that there was no place where our village
coquettes attracted half so many eyes or led astray half so many hearts.
But I have been talking of singers all this time, and neglected to
mention the Magnus Apollo of the whole concern, the redoubtable
chorister, who occupied the seat of honor in the midst of the middle
gallery, and exactly opposite to the minister. Certain it is that the
good man, if he were alive, would never believe it; for no person ever
more magnified his office, or had a more thorough belief in his own
greatness and supremacy, than Zedekiah Morse. Methinks I can see him now
as he appeared to my eyes on that first Sunday, when he shot up from
behind the gallery, as if he had been sent up by a spring. He was a
little man, whose fiery-red hair, brushed straight up on the top of his
head, had an appearance as vigorous and lively as real flame; and this,
added to the ardor and determination of all his motions, had obtained
for him the surname of the "Burning Bush." He seemed possessed with the
very soul of song; and from the moment he began to sing, looked alive
all over, till it seemed to me that his whole body would follow his hair
upwards, fairly rapt away by the power of harmony. With what an air did
he sound the important fa-sol-la in the ears of the waiting gallery,
who stood with open mouths ready to seize their pitch, preparatory to
their general set to! How did his ascending and descending arm
astonish the zephyrs when once he laid himself out to the important work
of beating time! How did his little head whisk from side to side, as now
he beat and roared towards the ladies on his right, and now towards the
gentlemen on his left! It used to seem to my astonished vision as if his
form grew taller, his arm longer, his hair redder, and his little green
eyes brighter, with every stave; and particularly when he perceived any
falling off of time or discrepancy in pitch; with what redoubled vigor
would he thump the gallery and roar at the delinquent quarter, till
every mother's son and daughter of them skipped and scrambled into the
right place again!
O, it was a fine thing to see the vigor and discipline with which he
managed the business; so that if, on a hot, drowsy Sunday, any part of
the choir hung back or sung sleepily on the first part of a verse, they
were obliged to bestir themselves in good earnest, and sing three times
as fast, in order to get through with the others. 'Kiah Morse was no
advocate for your dozy, drawling singing, that one may do at leisure,
between sleeping and waking, I assure you; indeed, he got entirely out
of the graces of Deacon Dundas and one or two other portly, leisurely
old gentlemen below, who had been used to throw back their heads, shut
up their eyes, and take the comfort of the psalm, by prolonging
indefinitely all the notes. The first Sunday after 'Kiah took the music
in hand, the old deacon really rubbed his eyes and looked about him; for
the psalm was sung off before he was ready to get his mouth opened, and
he really looked upon it as a most irreverent piece of business.
But the glory of 'Kiah's art consisted in the execution of those good
old billowy compositions called fuguing tunes, where the four parts that
compose the choir take up the song, and go racing around one after
another, each singing a different set of words, till, at length, by some
inexplicable magic, they all come together again, and sail smoothly out
into a rolling sea of song. I remember the wonder with which I used to
look from side to side when treble, tenor, counter, and bass were thus
roaring and foaming,--and it verily seemed to me as if the psalm was
going to pieces among the breakers,--and the delighted astonishment with
which I found that each particular verse did emerge whole and uninjured
from the storm.
But alas for the wonders of that old meeting house, how they are passed
away! Even the venerable building itself has been pulled down, and its
fragments scattered; yet still I retain enough of my childish feelings
to wonder whether any little boy was gratified by the possession of
those painted tulips and grape vines, which my childish eye used to
covet, and about the obtaining of which, in case the house should ever
be pulled down, I devised so many schemes during the long sermons and
services of summer days. I have visited the spot where it stood, but the
modern, fair-looking building that stands in its room bears no trace of
it; and of the various familiar faces that used to be seen inside, not
one remains. Verily, I must be growing old; and as old people are apt to
spin long stories, I check myself, and lay down my pen.
THE NEW-YEAR'S GIFT.
The sparkling ice and snow covered hill and valley--tree and bush were
glittering with diamonds--the broad, coarse rails of the fence shone
like bars of solid silver, while little fringes of icicles glittered
between each bar.
In the yard of yonder dwelling the scarlet berries of the mountain ash
shine through a transparent casing of crystal, and the sable spruces and
white pines, powdered and glittering with the frost, have assumed an icy
brilliancy. The eaves of the house, the door knocker, the pickets of the
fence, the honeysuckles and seringas, once the boast of summer, are all
alike polished, varnished, and resplendent with their winter trappings,
