polkas, and redowas. Their hearts danced with gladness, and their steps
were altogether impromptu.
Then came the ceremony of crowning the Queen of May, in the person of
Mary Weston, which was performed in the most gallant style by Frank
Sedley. Another dance succeeded, and then came the feast. A great many
good things were eaten, a great many fine things said, and a great many
patriotic and complimentary toasts were drank. The band played "Hail
Columbia," "Yankee Doodle," and many other spirited tunes, and Mr.
Walker was very much astonished, as well as amused, to hear some of the
boys make speeches, flowery and fine, which had evidently been prepared
for the occasion, when they were "called up" by the toasts.
After the feast was over, the party divided itself into little knots for
social recreation. Frank and Mary Weston took a walk on the beach, and
the rest of the boys and girls climbed over the rocks, amused
themselves in the swing which Uncle Ben had put up, or wandered in the
grove. Boys and girls always enjoy themselves at such seasons, and my
young readers need not be told that they all had a "first-rate time."
I do not mean all; for two members of the Zephyr Club had wandered away
from the rest of the party to the north side of the island. They were
concealed from view by a large rock; but if any one had observed them,
he could not have failed to see that they were exceptions to the general
rule--that they were not happy. The two boys were Charles Hardy and Tim
Bunker. Frank had been pained to notice that an unnatural intimacy had
been growing up between them for several days; and he had already begun
to fear that it was in the heart of Tim to lead his weak-minded
associate astray.
"Now, let's see how much there is in it," said Tim.
"I am afraid to open it," replied Charles, as he glanced nervously over
the rocks.
"Git out!"
"I am doing wrong, Tim; I feel it here." And Charles placed his hand
upon his heart.
"Humph!" sneered Tim. "Give it to me, and I will open it."
"We ought not to open it," replied Charles, putting his hand into his
pocket, and again glancing over the top of the rocks. "Besides, Tim, you
promised to be a good boy when we let you into the club."
"I mean to have a good time. We might have had if you fellows hadn't
given away all that money."
"I didn't do it."
"I know you didn't, but the rest on 'em did; so it's all the same. They
are a set of canting pups, and for my part I'm tired on 'em. Frank
Sedley don't lord it over me much longer, you better believe! And you
are a fool if you let him snub you as he does every day."
"I don't mean to," answered Charles. "I believe the fellows all hate me,
or they would have made me coxswain before this time."
"Of course they would. They hate you, Charley: I heard Frank Sedley say
as much as that the other day."
"He did?"
"Of course he did."
"I wouldn't have thought that of him," said Charles, his eye kindling
with anger.
"Let's have the purse, Charley."
Charles hesitated; but the struggle was soon over in his bosom, and he
took from his pocket a silken purse and handed it to Tim.
"We are doing wrong, Tim," said he, as a twinge of conscience brought to
his mind a realizing sense of his position. "Give me back the purse, and
I will try to find the owner."
"No, you don't!" replied Tim, as he opened one end of the purse and took
therefrom a roll of bank bills, which he proceeded to count.
"Do give it back to me! I am sure the owner has missed it by this time."
"No matter if he has; he won't get it again in a hurry," answered the
Bunker, coolly. "Sixty dollars in bills! Good!"
"Give it to me, or I will go to Captain Sedley and tell him you have
it."
"Will you?"
"I will."
"If you do, I'll smash your head," said Tim, looking fiercely at him.
"Don't be a fool! With this money we can have a first-rate time, and
nobody will be any the wiser for it."
"I am afraid we shall be found out."
Probably Charles was more afraid of that than of the wicked act which he
had permitted himself to think of doing. He had found the purse on the
beach a little while before. When he had told Tim of it, the reckless
fellow, still the same person as before, notwithstanding his promises
and his altered demeanor, had led him over to this retired spot in order
to get possession of the purse.
"Nonsense! Nobody will suspect you," replied Tim, as he poured out the
silver and gold in the other end of the purse.
"I never did such a thing in my life."
"No matter; there must be a beginning to everything."
"What would my mother say?"
"She will say you are a clever fellow if you don't get found out. Eleven
dollars and a quarter in specie! That makes seventy-one
twenty-five--don't it?"
"Yes."
"All right! We will just dig a little hole here, and put the purse into
it," continued Tim, as he scooped out a hole in the sand, and dropped
the ill-gotten treasure into it.
Filling up the hole, he placed a large flat stone upon the spot, which
further secured the purse, and concealed the fact that the sand had been
disturbed.
"I am sure we shall get found out," said Charles, trembling with
apprehension.
"Nonsense! Keep a stiff upper lip; don't stop to think, and all will go
well. But, my hearty, if you peach on me, I give you my word, I will
take your life before you are one month older--do you hear?" And Tim's
fierce looks gave force to his words. "Now, we will go back to the rest
on 'em before they miss us. Mind you don't say anything, nor look
anything."
Charles followed Tim back to the other side of the island, and both of
them joined the sports of the day. The afternoon passed away, and
nothing was said of the purse. The owner had not missed it, and Tim
congratulated himself on the circumstance. Charles tried to be joyous,
and though he did not feel so, he acted it so well that no one suspected
him of harboring so vile a sin within his bosom.
"All aboard!" said Frank, and the band commenced playing "Home, Sweet
Home."
In due time the party were all transported to the shore, and everybody
went home highly delighted with the day's amusements. The Zephyr was
housed, and the crew dismissed, but not a word was said about the purse.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE LIGHTHOUSE.
During the month of May, the members of the two clubs continued to spend
many of their leisure hours on the lake; but my young friends must not
suppose that life was to them a continuous holiday; and, because these
books are devoted chiefly to their doings on the water, that boating was
the only, or the principal business that occupied them. They had their
school duties to perform, their errands to do, wood to split, yards to
sweep; in short, they had to do just like other boys. A portion of
Wednesday and Saturday afternoon, and of their other holidays, was given
to these aquatic sports; so that they were really on the lake but a
small part of the time. Probably, if they had spent all their leisure in
the boats, the exercise would have lost its attractions, besides
interfering very much with their home and school affairs. Pleasures, to
be enjoyed, should be partaken of in moderation. Boys get sick of most
sports in a short time, because they indulge in them too freely.
Nothing specially worthy of note occurred in either club till near the
end of the month of May. The intimacy between Charles Hardy and Tim
Bunker was observed to increase, though no one had any suspicion of the
secret which had cemented the bond of their union.
The lost purse was the property of Mr. Walker. At a subsequent visit to
Rippleton, he had mentioned his loss, but he had no idea where he had
dropped it. Tim congratulated his still unwilling confederate on the
success of his villainy. Mr. Walker did not even know whether he had
lost his money in the town or not; so, of course, he had no suspicion of
them.
"You are a first-rate fellow, Charley, but you are too chickenish by
half," said Tim Bunker.
"I don't feel right about it, and I wish I had given up the purse when I
found it."
"Pooh!"
"I meant to do so."
"I know you did. You were just fool enough to do such a thing. If it
hadn't been for me, you would have done it."
"O, I wish I had!"
"Don't be a fool, Charley."
"I would give the world to feel as I felt before I did this thing."
"Don't think any more about it."
"I can't help thinking. It worries me nights."
"Go to sleep then."
"I can't. What would Frank say if he knew it?"
"Humph! Frank again!"
"They would turn me out of the club."
"You are no worse than any of the rest of them."
"They wouldn't steal," replied Charles, warmly.
"Don't you believe it. If I should tell all I know about some of them,
they wouldn't be safe where they are, let me tell you."
"What do you know, Tim?"
"I don't choose to tell."
Charles found some satisfaction in this indefinite accusation; but it
was not enough to quiet his troubled conscience. Life seemed different
to him since he had stolen the purse--he had not got far enough in
wickedness yet to believe that it was not stolen. He felt guilty, and
his sense of guilt followed him wherever he went. He could not shake it
off. Everybody seemed to look reproachfully at him. He avoided his
companions in the club when not on duty with them. He began to hate
Frank Sedley, though he could not tell the reason. William Bright, who
was now the coxswain, Frank's term having expired, was a very strict
disciplinarian, and the guilty boy had grown very impatient of
restraint. He was surly and ill-natured when the coxswain rebuked him,
even in the kindest tones. Everything went wrong with him, for the worm
was gnawing at his heart.
"Won't you tell me, Tim?" asked he, in reply to Tim's remark.
"Not now, Charley; one of these days you shall know all about it."
"I am afraid we shall both get turned out of the club."
"No we shan't; if we do---- But no matter.'
"What would you do, Tim?"
"Never mind now, Charley. I have a plan in my head. Captain Sedley told
me the other day if I didn't behave better I should be turned out."
"Then you will be."
"I don't care if I am. If they turn me out, they will make a mistake;
that's all."
There was something mysterious in the words of the Bunker which excited
the curiosity of Charles. He could not help wondering what he would do.
Tim had so much resolution he was sure it was not an idle boast.
"I know what I am about," continued Tim, with a wise look.
"Captain Sedley says you still associate with your old companions,"
added Charles.
"What if I do?"
"That would be ground enough for turning you out."
"Would it? They are better fellows than you long faces, and you will say
so when you know them," replied Tim, speaking as though it were a
settled fact that he would know them by and by.
This conversation occurred one Wednesday afternoon, as the two boys were
on their way to the boat-house. On their arrival, Tim was informed by
Captain Sedley, who was apparently there for that purpose, that he was
expelled from the club. It was sudden and unexpected, and had been done
by the director without any action on the part of the club.
"What for?" asked Tim, in surly tones.
"I find that you still associate with your old companions, which is
sufficient proof that you don't mean to reform," answered the director.
"I don't care," growled Tim, as he turned on his heel and walked out of
the hall.
Charles Hardy was then called aside by Captain Sedley, who kindly
pointed out to him the danger he incurred in associating with such a boy
as Tim.
"I would not have kept company with him if he had not been a member of
the club," replied Charles.
"He was admitted to the club on the supposition that he intended to be a
better boy."
"I was opposed to admitting him," answered Charles, rather sulkily.
"I was very willing the boy should have a fair chance to reform; but
when it became apparent that he did not mean to do better, I could no
longer permit him to endanger the moral welfare of the club. We have
been satisfied for some time; and most of the boys, after giving him a
fair trial, avoided him as much as possible when they saw what he meant.
But you have been growing more and more intimate with him every day.
Why, it was only last night that he was seen with some twenty or thirty
of his old companions. They seemed to be in consultation about
something. Perhaps you were with them."
"No, sir; I was not."
"I am glad you were not. I caution you to avoid them."
"I will, sir," replied Charles, meekly; and he meant what he said.
"I am glad to hear you say so: I was afraid you had known too much of
Tim Bunker," said the director, as he walked towards his house.
Charles entered the hall, and took his seat.
"Those in favor of admitting Samuel Preston to the club will signify
it," said William, as soon as he was in his place.
Eleven hands were raised, and the new member, who stood by the window
waiting the result, was declared to be admitted. The constitution was
then read to him, and he signed it; after which the club embarked for an
excursion up to the strait, where they had agreed to meet the Butterfly.
The particular object of this visit was to erect a lighthouse on Curtis
Island, a small, rocky place, separated from the main shore by "Calrow
Strait," which the readers of "The Boat Club" will remember. The
navigation of this portion of the lake was considered very difficult,
especially through the narrow passage, and it was thought to be
absolutely necessary to have a lighthouse, mauger the fact that the
boats always sailed by day. But as neither craft was insured, it was
necessary to use extraordinary precautions!
A working party of half a dozen was detailed from each boat, consisting
of the stoutest boys, who were landed upon the island. Materials were
immediately gathered and the foundation laid. The structure was to be a
simple round tower, as high as the patience of the workmen would permit
them to build it.
In a short time all the rocks on the island had been used up, and the
lighthouse was only two feet high; but this contingency had been
anticipated, and provisions made for supplying more stone. A large rock
was attached to the long painter of the Butterfly, and she was moored at
a safe distance from the island, while her remaining crew were
transferred to the Zephyr.
A rude raft, which had been provided by Tony, was towed to the shore,
where an abundance of rocks were to be had. It was their intention to
load it with "lighthouse material," and tow it to the island. It
required all their skill to accomplish this object, for the raft was a
most ungainly thing to manage. The Zephyr was so long that they could
not row round so as to bring the raft alongside the bank, and when they
attempted to push it in, the paint, and even the planks of the boat,
were endangered.
"Can't get it in--can we?" said Charles Hardy, after several
unsuccessful attempts.
"There is no such word as fail," replied William. "Bring me the long
painter."
The coxswain unfastened the tow line of the raft, and tied the painter
to it.
"Bowman, stand by with the boat-hook, ready to land."
"Ay, ay!"
"Now, pull steady; be careful she does not grind on the rocks; easy,
there. Four of you jump ashore."
The four forward rowers obeyed the command.
"Now pass this line ashore, and let them pull in on the raft," continued
William.
"Hurrah! there she is!" shouted Frank. "That was done handsomely!"
"We could have done it before, if we had only thought of it," replied
William, laughing. "Now put out the fenders, and haul the boat alongside
the raft."
Four more of the boys were sent on shore to help roll down the rocks,
and two were ordered upon the raft to place them. A great deal of hard
work was done in a very short time; but, as it was play, no one minded
it, as probably some of them would if the labor had been for any useful
purpose. In due time the raft was loaded with all it would carry, and
the boys were ordered into the boat again.
The raft proved to be a very obstinate sailer. After a deal of hard
tugging at the oars, they succeeded in getting it under a tolerable
headway; but the tow line was not properly attached, and it "heeled
over" so as to be in danger of "spilling" its load into the lake.
Prudence and good management, however, on the part of the coxswain,
conveyed it in safety to the island, and its freight soon became "part
and parcel" of the lighthouse.
Two or three loads more were brought, after the lesson of experience
obtained in getting the first, with but comparatively little difficulty;
and at six o'clock the tower received its capstone at a height of six
feet from the ground, and twelve from the water.
The lighthouse was then inaugurated by a volley of cheers. A hollow
pumpkin of last year's growth, containing a lighted candle, was placed
upon the apex; and then the boats departed for home. At eight o'clock,
when the darkness had gathered upon the lake, they saw the light from
their homes, and had the satisfaction of knowing that the light-keeper
was watchful of the safety of vessels in those waters.
As Charles Hardy passed through the grove on his way home, after the
club separated, he met Tim Bunker, who was apparently awaiting his
coming.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE CONSPIRACY.
"Well, Charley, my pipe is out," said Tim Bunker, as he joined his late
associate in the club.
"It was rather sudden," replied Charles, disconcerted by the meeting,
for he had actually made up his mind to keep out of Tim's way. "I didn't
expect any such thing."
"I did; I knew old Sedley meant to get rid of me."
Tim always knew everything after it was done. He was a very profound
prophet, but he had sense enough to keep his predictions to himself.
"You did not say so," added Charles, who gave the Bunker credit for all
the sagacity he claimed.
"It was no use; it would only have frightened you, and you are
chickenish enough without any help. But no matter, Charley; for my part,
I am glad he turned me out. He only saved me the trouble of getting out
myself."
"Did you really mean to leave?"
"To be sure I did."
"What for?"
"Because I didn't like the company, to say nothing of being nosed round
by Frank Sedley, Bill Bright, or whoever happened to be coxswain. If
you had been coxswain, Charley, I wouldn't minded it," replied Tim,
adroitly.
"But I wouldn't nose the fellows round," replied Charles, tickled with
Tim's compliment.
"I know you wouldn't; but they wouldn't make you the coxswain. They hate
you too much for that."
"It is strange they haven't elected me," said Charles, musing.
"That's a fact! You know more about a boat than three quarters of them."
"I ought to."
"And you do."
Charles had by this time forgotten the promise he had made to Captain
Sedley--forgotten the good resolution he had made to himself. Tim's
flattery had produced its desired effect, and all the ground which the
Bunker had lost was now regained.
"I am sorry they turned you out, Tim," said he.
"I am glad of it. They will turn you out next, Charley."
"Me!"
"Yes."
"Why should they?"
"Because they don't like you."
"They wouldn't do that."
"Don't you believe it," replied Tim, shaking his head, and putting on a
very wise look. "I'll bet they'll turn you out in less than a month."
"Do you know anything about it?"
"Not much."
They had now reached the end of the grove, and Tim suggested that they
should take seats and "talk over matters." Charles readily assented,
and they seated themselves by the margin of the lake.
"What do you know, Tim?" asked Charles, his curiosity very much excited.
"I only know that they don't like you, and they mean to turn you out."
"I don't believe it."
"Do you mean to tell me I lie?"
"No, no; only I can't think they would turn me out."
"I heard Frank say as much," replied Tim, indifferently.
"Did you."
"To be sure I did."
Charles stopped to think how mean it was of Frank to try to get him out
of the club; how hypocritical he was, to treat him as a friend when he
meant to injure him. It did not occur to him that Tim had told a
falsehood, though it was generally believed that he had as lief tell a
lie as the truth.
"You are a fool if you let them kick you out, as they did me," continued
Tim.
"What can I do?"
"Leave yourself."
"Next week is vacation; and we have laid out some first-rate fun."
"There will be no fun, let me tell you."
"What do you mean, Tim?"
"If you want to be the coxswain of a boat as good as the Zephyr next
week, only say the word," replied Tim, slapping him on the back.
"How can that be?" asked Charles, looking with surprise at his
companion.
"And you shall have as good a crew as the Zephyr; better fellers than
they are, too."
"I don't understand you."
"You shall in due time."
"Tell me what you mean, Tim."
"Will you join us?"
"Tell me about it, first."
"And let you blow the whole thing?"
"I won't say a word."
"Will you promise not to say anything?"
"Yes."
"Will you swear it?"
Tim had read a great many "yellow-covered" books in his time, in which
tall buccaneers with long beards and bloodshot eyes required their
victims to "swear," and he seemed to attach some importance to the
ceremony. Charles "swore," though with considerable reluctance, not to
reveal the secret, when it should be imparted to him.
"You must join our society, now."
"Society?"
"Yes; we meet to-night at eight o'clock, in the woods back of my house."
"What sort of a society is it, Tim?" asked Charles, with a great many
misgivings.
"That you shall learn when we meet. Will you come?"
"My father won't let me go out in the evening."
"Run out, then."
