"What then?"
"I don't know what they will think."
"They may think what they have a mind," said he with a little
bit of a smile again. "I want to speak to you."
Elizabeth winced a bit. He was gone, and she stood thinking,
among other things, that he might have asked what she would
like. And how did he know but breakfast was ready then? Or did
he know everything? And how quietly and unqualifiedly, to be
sure, he had taken her consignment that morning. She did not
know whether to like it or not like it, -- till she saw him
coming again from the house.
"After all," said he, "I think we had better go in and take
breakfast, and talk afterwards. It seems to be in a good state
of forwardness."
CHAPTER XVIII.
From eastern quarters now
The sun's up-wandering,
His rays on the rock's brow
And hill-side squandering;
Be glad my soul! and sing amidst thy pleasure,
Fly from the house of dust,
Up with thy thanks and trust
To heaven's azure!
THOMAS KINGO.
It was sufficiently proven at that breakfast, to Elizabeth's
satisfaction, that it is possible for one to be at the same
time both very happy and a little uncomfortable. She had a
degree of consciousness upon her that amounted to that, more
especially as she had a vexed knowledge that it was shared by
at least one person in the room. The line of Clam's white
teeth had never glimmered more mischievously. Elizabeth dared
not look at her. And she dared not look at Winthrop, and she
dared not look at Rose. But Rose, to do her justice, seemed to
be troubled with no consciousness beyond what was usual with
her, and which generally concerned only herself; and she and
Winthrop kept up the spirit of talk with great ease all
breakfast time.
"Now how in the world are we going to get away?" thought
Elizabeth when breakfast was finishing; -- "without saying flat
and bald why we do it. Rose will want to go too, for she likes
Winthrop quite well enough for that." --
And with the consciousness that she could not make the
slightest manoeuvre, Elizabeth rose from table.
"How soon must you go, Mr. Landholm?" said Rose winningly.
"Presently, ma'am."
"I am sorry you must go so soon! But we haven't a room to ask
you to sit down in, if you were to stay."
"I am afraid I shouldn't wait to be asked, if I stayed," said
Winthrop. "But as I am not to sit down again -- Miss Haye -- if
you will put on your bonnet and give me your company a little
part of my way, I will keep my promise."
"What promise?" said Rose.
"I will do better than my promise, for I mean to shew Miss
Haye a point of her property which perhaps she has not looked
at lately."
"Oh will you shew it to me too?" said Rose.
"I will if there is time enough after I have brought Miss Haye
back -- I can't take both at once."
Rose looked mystified, and Elizabeth very glad to put on her
bonnet, was the first out of the house; half laughing, and
half trembling with the excitement of getting off.
"There is no need to be in such a hurry," said Winthrop as he
came up, -- "now that breakfast is over."
Elizabeth was silent, troubled with that consciousness still,
though now alone with the subject of it. He turned off from
the road, and led her back into the woods a little way, in the
same path by which she had once gone hunting for a tree to cut
down.
"It isn't as pretty a time of day as when I went out this
morning," she said, forcing herself to say something.
But Winthrop seemed in a state of pre-occupation too; till
they reached a boulder capped with green ferns.
"Now give me your hand," said he. "Can you climb?"
They turned short by the boulder and began to mount the steep
rugged hill-path, down which he had once carried his little
sister. Elizabeth could make better footing than poor
Winifred; and very soon they stood on the old height from
which they could see the fair Shatemuc coming down between the
hills and sweeping round their own little woody Shahweetah and
off to the South Bend. The sun was bright on all the land now,
though the cedars shielded the bit of hill-top well; and Wut-
a-qut-o looked down upon them in all his gay Autumn attire.
The sun was bright, but the air was clear and soft and free
from mist and cloud and obscurity, as no sky is but October's.
"Sit down," said Winthrop, throwing himself on the bank which
was carpeted with very short green grass.
"I would just as lieve stand," said Elizabeth.
"I wouldn't as lieve have you. You've been on your feet long
enough to-day. Come! --"
She yielded to the gentle pulling of her hand, and sat down on
the grass; half amused and half fretted; wondering what he was
going to say next. Winthrop was silent for a little space; and
Elizabeth sat looking straight before her, or rather with her
head a little turned to the right, from her companion, towards
Wut-a-qut-o; the deep sides of her sun-bonnet shutting out all
but a little framed picture of the gay woody foreground, a bit
of the blue river, and the mountain's yellow side.
"How beautiful it was all down there, three or four hours
ago," said Elizabeth.
"I didn't know you had so much romance in your disposition --
to go there this morning to meet me."
"I didn't go there to meet you."
"Yes you did."
"I didn't!" said Elizabeth. "I never thought of such a thing
as meeting you."
"Nevertheless, in the regular chain and sequence of events,
you went there to meet me -- if you hadn't gone you wouldn't
have met me."
"O, if you put it in that way," said Elizabeth, -- "there's no
harm in that."
"There is no harm in it at all. Quite the contrary."
"I think it was the prettiest walk I ever took in my life,"
said Elizabeth, -- "before that, I mean," she added blushing.
"My experience would say, after it," said Winthrop, in an
amused tone.
"It was rather a confused walk after that," said Elizabeth. "I
never was quite so much surprised."
"You see I had not that disadvantage. I was only -- gratified."
"Why," said Elizabeth, her jealous fear instantly starting
again, "you didn't know what my answer would be before you
asked me?"
She waited for Winthrop's answer, but none came. Elizabeth
could not bear it.
"Did you?" she said, looking round in her eagerness.
He hesitated an instant, and then answered,
"Did you?"
Elizabeth had no words. Her face sought the shelter of her
sunbonnet again, and she almost felt as if she would have
liked to seek the shelter of the earth bodily, by diving down
into it. Her brain was swimming. There was a rush of thoughts
and ideas, a train of scattered causes and consequences, which
then she had no power to set in order; but the rush almost
overwhelmed her, and what was wanting, shame added. She was
vexed with herself for her jealousy in divining and her
impatience in asking foolish questions; and in her vexation
was ready to be vexed with Winthrop, -- if she only knew how.
She longed to lay her head down in her hands, but pride kept
it up. She rested her chin on one hand and wondered when
Winthrop would speak again, -- she could not, -- and what he
would say; gazing at the blue bit of water and gay mountain-
side, and thinking that she was not giving him a particularly
favourable specimen of herself that morning, and vexed out of
measure to think it.
Then upon this, a very quietly spoken "Elizabeth!" -- came to
her ear. It was the first time Winthrop had called her so; but
that was not all. Quietly spoken as it was, there was not only
a little inquiry, there was a little amusement and a little
admonition, in the tone. It stirred Elizabeth to her spirit's
depths, but with several feelings; and for the life of her she
could not have spoken.
"What is the reason you should hide your face so carefully
from me?" he went on presently, much in the same tone. "Mine
is open to you -- it isn't fair play."
Elizabeth could have laughed if she had not been afraid of
crying. She kept herself hid in her sunbonnet and made no
reply.
"Suppose you take that thing off, and let me look at you."
"It shades my face from the sun."
"The cedar trees will do that for you."
"No -- they wouldn't."
And she kept her face steadily fixed upon the opposite shore,
only brought straight before her now; thinking to herself that
she would carry this point at any rate. But in another minute
she was somewhat astounded to find Winthrop's left hand, he
was supporting himself carelessly on his right, quietly, very
quietly, untying her sunbonnet strings; and then rousing
himself, with the other hand he lifted the bonnet from her
head. It gave a full view then of hair in very nice order and
a face not quite so; for the colour had now flushed to her
very temples with more feelings than one, and her eye was
downcast, not caring to shew its revelations. She knew that
Winthrop took an observation of all, to his heart's content;
but she could not look at him for an instant. Then without
saying anything, he got up and went off to a little distance
where he made himself busy among some of the bushes and vines
which were gay with the fall colouring Elizabeth sat drooping
her head on her knees, for she could not absolutely hold it
up. She looked at her sunbonnet lying on the bank beside her;
but it is not an improper use of language to say that she
dared not put it on.
"I have met my master now," she thought, and her eyes
sparkled, -- "once for all -- if I never did before. -- What a
fool I am!"
For she knew, she acknowledged to herself at the same moment,
that she did not like him the less for it -- she liked him
exceedingly the more; in spite of a twinge of deep
mortification about it, and though there was bitter shame that
he should know or guess any of her feeling. If her eyes
sparkled, they sparkled through tears.
The tears were got rid of, for Winthrop came back and threw
himself down again. Then with that he began to put wreaths of
the orange and red winterberries and sprays of wych hazel and
bits of exquisite ivy, one after the other, into her hands.
Her hands took them mechanically, one after the other. Her
eyes buried themselves in them. She wished for her sunbonnet
shield again.
"What do you bring these to me for?" she said rather abruptly.
"Don't you like to have them?" said he, putting into her
fingers another magnificent piece of Virginia creeper.
"Yes indeed -- very much -- but --"
"It will be some time before I see you again," said he as he
added the last piece of his bunch. "These will be all gone."
"Some time!" said Elizabeth.
"Yes. There is work on my hands down yonder that admits of no
delay. I could but just snatch time enough to come up here."
"I am very much obliged to you for these!" said Elizabeth,
returning to her bunch of brilliant vine branches.
"You can pay me for them in any way you please."
The colour started again, but it was a very gentle, humble,
and frank look which she turned round upon him. His was bright
enough.
"How soon do you think of coming to Mannahatta?"
"I don't know, --" said Elizabeth, not choosing to say exactly
the words that came to her tongue.
"If I could be here too, I should say this is the best place."
"Can't you come often enough?"
"How often would be often enough?" said he with an amused
look.
"Leave definitions on one side, and please answer me."
"Willingly. I leave the definition on your side. I don't like
to speak in the dark."
"Well, can't you come tolerably often?" said Elizabeth
colouring.
He smiled.
"Not for some time. My hands are very full just now."
"You contrive to have them so always, don't you?"
"I like to have them so. It is not always my contrivance."
"What has become of that suit -- I don't know the names now --
in which you were engaged two or three years ago -- in which
you took so many objections, and the Chancellor allowed them
all, against Mr. Brick?"
"Ryle?"
"Yes! -- I believe that's the name."
"For a man called Jean Lessing?"
"I don't know anything about Lessing -- I think Ryle was the
other name --You were against Ryle."
"Lessing was Mr. Herder's brother-in-law."
"I don't remember Mr. Herder's brother-in-law -- though I
believe Mr. Herder did have something to do with the case, or
some interest in it."
"How did you know anything about it?"
"You haven't answered me," said Elizabeth, laughing and
colouring brightly.
"One question is as good as another," said Winthrop smiling.
"But one answer is much better than another," said Elizabeth
in a little confusion.
"The suit against Ryle was very successful. I recovered for
him some ninety thousand dollars."
"Ninety thousand dollars!" -- Her thoughts took somewhat of a
wide circle and came back.
"The amount recovered is hardly a fair criterion of the skill
employed, in every instance. I must correct your judgment."
"I know more about it than that," said Elizabeth. "How far
your education has gone! -- and mine is only just beginning."
"I should be sorry to think mine was much more than beginning.
Now do you know we must go down? -- for I must be at Mountain
Spring to meet the stage-coach."
"How soon?" said Elizabeth springing up.
"There is time enough, but I want not to hurry you down the
hill."
He had put her sunbonnet on her head again and was retying it.
"Mr. Landholm --"
"You must not call me that," he said.
"Let me, till I can get courage to call you something else."
"How much courage does it want?"
"If you don't stop," said Elizabeth, her eyes filling with
tears, "I shall not be able to say one word of what I want to
say."
He stood still, holding the strings of her sunbonnet in either
hand. Elizabeth gathered breath, or courage, and went on.
"A little while ago I was grieving myself to think that you
did not know me -- now, I am very much ashamed to think that
you do." --
He did not move, nor she.
"I know I am not worthy to have you look at me. My only hope
is, that you will make me better."
The bonnet did not hide her face this time. He looked at it a
little, at the simplicity of ingenuous trouble which was
working in it, -- and then pushing the bonnet a little back,
kissed first one cheek and then the lips, which by that time
were bent down almost out of reach. But he reached them; and
Elizabeth was obliged to take her answer, in which there was
as much of gentle forgiveness and promise as of affection.
"You see what you have to expect, if you talk to me in this
strain," said he lightly. "I think I shall not be troubled
with much more of it. I don't like to leave you in this frame
of mind. I would take you to Mountain Spring in the boat -- if
I could bring you back again."
"I could bring myself back," said Elizabeth. They were going
down the hill; in the course of which, it may be remarked,
Winthrop had no reason to suppose that she once saw anything
but the ground.
"I am afraid you are too tired."
"No indeed I am not. I should like it -- if there is time."
"Go in less time that way than the other."
So they presently reached the lower ground.
"Do you want anything from the house?" said Winthrop as they
came near it.
"Only the oars -- If you will get those, I will untie the
boat."
"Then I'll not get the oars. I'll get them on condition that
you stand still here."
So they went down together to the rocks, and Elizabeth put
herself in the stern of the little boat and they pushed off.
To any people who could think of anything but each other,
October offered enough to fill eyes, ears, and understanding;
that is, if ears can be filled with silence, which perhaps is
predicable. Absolute silence on this occasion was wanting, as
there was a good deal of talking; but for eyes and
understanding, perhaps it may safely be said that those of the
two people in the Merry-go-round took the benefit of
everything they passed on their way; with a reduplication of
pleasure which arose from the throwing and catching of that
ball of conversation, in which, like the herb-stuffed ball of
the Arabian physician of old, -- lay perdu certain hidden
virtues, of sympathy. But Shahweetah's low rocky shore never
offered more beauty to any eyes, than to theirs that day, as
they coasted slowly round it. Colours, colours! If October had
been a dyer, he could not have shewn a greater variety of
samples.
There were some locust trees in the open cedar-grown field by
the river; trees that Mr. Landholm had planted long ago. They
were slow to turn, yet they were changing. One soft feathery
head was in yellowish green, another of more neutral colour;
and blending with them were the tints of a few reddish soft-
tinted alders below. That group was not gay. Further on were a
thicket of dull coloured alders at the edge of some flags, and
above them blazed a giant huckleberry bush in bright flame
colour; close by that were the purple red tufts of some common
sumachs -- the one beautifully rich, the other beautifully
striking. A little way from them stood a tulip tree, its green
changing with yellow. Beyond came cedars, in groups, wreathed
with bright tawny grape vines and splendid Virginia creepers,
now in full glory. Above their tops, on the higher ground, was
a rich green belt of pines -- above them, the changing trees of
the forest again.
Here shewed an elm its straw-coloured head -- there stood an
ash in beautiful grey-purple; very stately. The cornus family
in rich crimson -- others crimson purple; maples shewing yellow
and flame-colour and red all at once; one beauty still in
green was orange-tipped with rich orange. The birches were a
darker hue of the same colour; hickories bright as gold.
Then came the rocks, and rocky precipitous point of
Shahweetah; and the echo of the row-locks from the wall. Then
the point was turned, and the little boat sought the bottom of
the bay, nearing Mountain Spring all the while. The water was
glassy smooth; the boat went -- too fast.
Down in the bay the character of the woodland was a little
different. It was of fuller growth, and with many fewer
evergreens, and some addition to the variety of the changing
deciduous leaves. When they got quite to the bottom of the bay
and were coasting along close under the shore, there was
perhaps a more striking display of Autumn's glories at their
side, than the rocks of Shahweetah could shew them. They
coasted slowly along, looking and talking. The combinations
were beautiful.
There was the dark fine bright red of some pepperidges shewing
behind the green of an unchanged maple; near by stood another
maple the leaves of which were all seemingly withered, a plain
reddish light wood-colour; while below its withered foliage a
thrifty poison sumach wreathing round its trunk and lower
branches, was in a beautiful confusion of fresh green and the
orange and red changes, yet but just begun. Then another
slight maple with the same dead wood-coloured leaves, into
which to the very top a Virginia creeper had twined itself,
and that was now brilliantly scarlet, magnificent in the last
degree. Another like it a few trees off -- both reflected
gorgeously in the still water. Rock oaks were part green and
part sear; at the edge of the shore below them a quantity of
reddish low shrubbery; the cornus, dark crimson and red brown,
with its white berries shewing underneath, and more
pepperidges in very bright red. One maple stood with its
leaves parti-coloured reddish and green -- another with
beautiful orange-coloured foliage. Ashes in superb very dark
purple; they were all changed. Then alders, oaks, and
chestnuts still green. A kaleidoscope view, on water and land,
as the little boat glided along sending rainbow ripples in
towards the shore.
In the bottom of the bay Winthrop brought the boat to land,
under a great red oak which stood in its fair dark green
beauty yet at the very edge of the water. Mountain Spring was
a little way off, hidden by an outsetting point of woods. As
the boat touched the tree-roots, Winthrop laid in the oars and
came and took a seat by the boat's mistress.
"Are you going to walk to Mountain Spring the rest of the
way?" she said.
"No."
"Will the stage-coach take you up here?"
"If it comes, it will. What are you going to do with yourself
now, till I see you again?"
"There's enough to do," said Elizabeth sighing. "I am going to
try to behave myself. How soon will the coach be here now?"
"I think, not until I have seen you about half way over the
bay on your way home."
"O you will not see me," said Elizabeth. "I am not going
before the coach does."
"Yes you are."
"What makes you think so?"
"Because it will not come till I have seen you at least, I
should judge, half across the bay."
