must see you sometimes, must she not?”

“You did right, James. Sit down.”

He came forward, pushing his stick before him, that he might not knock
against a chair. He found one, and seated himself. He was young, small,
vigorous, with black hair, a high and open forehead, a singularly
expansive face for a blind man, and, as Rabelais says, a magnificent
smile of thirty-two teeth. His wife remained standing behind him.

“James,” said Mr. Desgranges to him, “here is one of my good friends,
who is very desirous to see you.”

“He is a good man, then, since he is your friend.”

“Yes. Talk with him; I am going to see my geraniums. But do not be sad,
you know I forbid you that.”

“No, no, my dear friend, no!”

This tender and simple appellation seemed to charm the young man; and
after the departure of his friend, approaching the blind man, he said,

“You are very fond of Mr. Desgranges?”

“Fond of him!” cried the blind man, with impetuosity; “he saved me from
ruin, sir. It was all over with me; the thought of my children consumed
me; I was dying because I could not see. He saved me.”

“With assistance--with money?”

“Money! what is money? Everybody can give that. Yes, he clothed us, he
fed us, he obtained a subscription of five hundred francs (about one
hundred dollars) for me; but all this was as nothing; he did more--he
cured my heart!”

“But how?”

“By his kind words, sir. Yes, he, a person of so much consequence in the
world, he came every day into my poor house, he sat on my poor stool, he
talked with me an hour, two hours, till I became quiet and easy.”

“What did he say to you?”

“I do not know; I am but a foolish fellow, and he must tell you all he
said to me; but they were things I had never heard before. He spoke to
me of the good God better than a minister; and he brought sleep back to
me.”

“How was that?”

“It was two months since I had slept soundly. I would just doze, and
then start up, saying,

“‘James, you are blind,’ and then my head would go round--round, like
a madman; and this was killing me. One morning he came in, this dear
friend, and said to me,

“‘James, do you believe in God?’

“‘Why do you ask that, Mr. Desgranges?’

“‘Well, this night, when you wake, and the thought of your misfortune
comes upon you, say aloud a prayer--then two--then three--and you will
go to sleep.’”

“Yes,” said the wife, with her calm voice, “the good God, He gives
sleep.”

“This is not all, sir. In my despair I would have killed myself. I said
to myself, ‘You are useless to your family, you are the woman of the
house, and others support you.’ But he was displeased--‘Is it not you
who support your family? If you had not been blind, would any one have
given you the five hundred francs?’

“‘That is true, Mr. Desgranges.’

“‘If you were not blind, would any one provide for your children?’

“‘That is true, Mr. Desgranges.’

“‘If you were not blind, would every one love you, as we love you?’

“‘It is true, Mr. Desgranges, it is true.’

“‘You see, James, there are misfortunes in all families. Misfortune is
like rain; it must fall a little on everybody. If you were not blind,
your wife would, perhaps, be sick; one of your children might have
died. Instead of that, you have all the misfortune, my poor man; but
they--they have none.’

“‘True, true.’ And I began to feel less sad. I was even happy to suffer
for them. And then he added,

“‘Dear James, misfortune is either the greatest enemy or the greatest
friend of men. There are people whom it makes wicked; there are others
made better by it. For you, it must make you beloved by everybody; you
must become so grateful, so affectionate, that when they wish to speak
of any one who is good, they will say, good as the blind man of the
Noiesemont. That will serve for a dowry to your daughter.’ This is the
way he talked to me, sir: and it gave me heart to be unfortunate.”

“Yes; but when he was not here?”

“Ah, when he was not here, I had, to be sure, some heavy moments. I
thought of my eyes--the light is so beautiful! Oh, God! cried I, in
anguish, if ever I should see clearly again, I would get up at three
o’clock in the morning, and I would, not go to bed till ten at night,
that I might gather up more light.”

“James, James!” said his wife.

“You are right, Juliana; he has forbidden me to be sad. He would
perceive it, sir. Do you think that when my head had gone wrong in the
night, and he came in the morning, and merely looked at me, he would
say--‘James, you have been thinking that;’ and then he would scold me,
this dear friend. Yes,” added he, with an expression of joy--“he would
scold me, and that would give me pleasure, because he tried to make his
words cross, but he could not do it.”

“And what gave you the idea of becoming a water-carrier?”

“He gave me that, also. Do you suppose I have ideas? I began to lose my
grief, but my time hung heavy on my hands. At thirty-two years old, to
be sitting all day in a chair! He then began to instruct me, as he said,
and he told me beautiful stories. The Bible--the history of an old
man, blind like me, named Tobias; the history of Joseph; the history
of David; the history of Jesus Christ. And then he made me repeat them
after him. But my head, it was hard--it was hard; it was not used to
learning, and I was always getting tired in my arms and my legs.”

“And he tormented us to death,” said his wife, laughing.

“True, true,” replied he, laughing also; “I became cross. He came again,
and said,

“‘James, you must go to work.’

“I showed him my poor, burned hands.

“‘It is no matter; I have bought you a capital in trade.’

“‘Me, Mr. Desgranges?’

“‘Yes, James, a capital into which they never put goods, and where they
always find them.’

“‘It must have cost you a great deal, sir.’

“‘Nothing at all, my lad.’

“‘What is then this fund?’

“‘The river.’

“‘The river? Do you wish me to become a fisherman?’

“‘Not all; a water-carrier.’

“‘Water-carrier! but eyes?’

“‘Eyes; of what use are they? do the dray-horses have eyes? If they do,
they make use of them; if they do not, they do without them. Come, you
must be a water-carrier.’

“‘But a cask?’

“‘I will give you one.’

“‘A cart?’

“‘I have ordered one at the cart-maker’s.’

“‘But customers?’

“I will give you my custom, to begin with, eighteen francs a month; (my
dear friend pays for water as dearly as for wine.) Moreover, you have
nothing to say, either yes or no. I have dismissed my water-carrier,
and you would not let my wife and me die with thirst. This dear Madame
Desgranges, just think of it. And so, my boy, in three days--work. And
you, Madam James, come here;’ and he carried off Juliana.”

“Yes, sir,” continued the wife, “he carried me off, ordered leather
straps, made me buy the wheels, harnessed me; we were all astonishment,
James and I; but stop, if you can, when Mr. Desgranges drives you.
At the end of three days, here we are with the cask, he harnessed and
drawing it, I behind, pushing; we were ashamed at crossing the village,
as if we were doing something wrong; it seemed as if everybody would
laugh at us. But Mr. Desgranges was there in the street.

“‘Come on, James,’ said he, ‘courage.’

“We came along, and in the evening he put into our hands a piece of
money, saying,” continued the blind man, with emotion--

“‘James, here are twenty sous you have earned to-day.’

“Earned, sir, think of that! earned, it was fifteen months that I had
only eaten what had been given to me. It is good to receive from good
people, it is true; but the bread that one earns, it is as we say, half
corn, half barley; it nourishes better, and then it was done, I was
no longer the woman, I was a labourer--a labourer--James earned his
living.”

A sort of pride shone from his face.

“How!” said the young man, “was your cask sufficient to support you?”

“Not alone, sir; but I have still another profession.”

“Another profession!”

“Ha, ha, yes, sir; the river always runs, except when it is frozen, and,
as Mr. Desgranges says, ‘water-carriers do not make their fortune with
ice,’ so he gave me a Winter trade and Summer trade.”

“Winter trade!”

Mr. Desgranges returned at this moment--James heard him--“Is it
not true, Mr. Desgranges, that I have another trade besides that of
water-carrier?”

“Undoubtedly.”

“What is it then?”

“Wood-sawyer.”

“Wood-sawyer? impossible; how could you measure the length of the
sticks? how could you cut wood without cutting yourself?”

“Cut myself, sir,” replied the blind man, with a pleasant shade of
confidence; “I formerly was a woodsawyer, and the saw knows me well; and
then one learns everything--I go to school, indeed. They put a pile of
wood at my left side, my saw and saw horse before me, a stick that is
to be sawed in three; I take a thread, I cut it the size of the third of
the stick--this is the measure. Every place I saw, I try it, and so it
goes on till now there is nothing burned or drunk in the village without
calling upon me.”

“Without mentioning,” added Mr. Desgranges, “that he is a commissioner.”

“A commissioner!” said the young man, still more surprised.

“Yes, sir, when there is an errand to be done at Melun, I put my little
girl on my back, and then off I go. She sees for me, I walk for her;
those who meet me, say, ‘Here is a gentleman who carries his eyes very
high;’ to which I answer, ‘that is so I may see the farther.’ And then
at night I have twenty sous more to bring home.”

“But are you not afraid of stumbling against the stones?”

“I lift my feet pretty high; and then I am used to it; I come from
Noiesemont here all alone.”

“All alone! how do you find your way?”

“I find the course of the wind as I leave home, and this takes the place
of the sun with me.”

“But the holes?”

“I know them all.”

“And the walls?”

“I feel them. When I approach anything thick, sir, the air comes with
less force upon my face; it is but now and then that I get a hard knock,
as by example, if sometimes a little handcart is left on the road, I do
not suspect it--whack! bad for you, poor five-and-thirty, but this
is soon over. It is only when I get bewildered, as I did day before
yesterday. O then---”

“You have not told me of that, James,” said Mr. Desgranges.

“I was, however, somewhat embarrassed, my dear friend. While I was here
the wind changed, I did not perceive it; but at the end of a quarter of
an hour, when I had reached the plain of Noiesemont, I had lost my way,
and I felt so bewildered that I did not dare to stir a step. You know
the plain, not a house, no passersby. I sat down on the ground, I
listened; after a moment I heard at, as I supposed, about two hundred
paces distant, a noise of running water. I said, ‘If this should be the
stream which is at the bottom of the plain?’ I went feeling along on the
side from which the noise came--I reached the stream; then I reasoned in
this way: the water comes down from the side of Noiesemont and crosses
it. I put in my hand to feel the current.”

“Bravo, James.”

“Yes, but the water was so low and the current so small, that my hand
felt nothing. I put in the end of my stick, it was not moved. I rubbed
my head finally, I said, ‘I am a fool, here is my handkerchief;’ I
took it, I fastened it to the end of my cane. Soon I felt that it moved
gently to the right, very gently. Noiesemont is on the right. I started
again and I get home to Juliana, who began to be uneasy.”

“O,” cried the young man, “this is admir----”

But Mr. Desgranges stopped him, and leading him to the other end of the
room,

“Silence!” said he to him in a low voice. “Not admirable--do not corrupt
by pride the simplicity of this man. Look at him, see how tranquil his
face is, how calm after this recital which has moved you so much. He is
ignorant of himself, do not spoil him.”

“It is so touching,” said the young man, in a low tone.

“Undoubtedly, and still his superiority does not lie there. A thousand
blind men have found out these ingenious resources, a thousand will find
them again; but this moral perfection--this heart, which opens itself
so readily to elevated consolations--this heart which so willingly takes
upon it the part of a victim--this heart which has restored him to
life. For do not be deceived, it is not I who have saved him, it is his
affection for me; his ardent gratitude has filled his whole soul, and
has sustained--he has lived because he has loved!”

At that moment, James, who had remained at the other end of the room,
and who perceived that we were speaking low, got up softly, and with a
delicate discretion, said to his wife,

“We will go away without making any noise.”

“Are you going, James?”

“I am in the way, my dear Mr. Desgranges.”

“No, pray stay longer.”

His benefactor retained him, reaching out to him cordially his hand. The
blind man seized the hand in his turn, and pressed it warmly against his
heart.

“My dear friend, my dear good friend, you permit me to stay a little
longer. How glad I am to find myself near you. When I am sad I
say--‘James, the good God will, perhaps, of His mercy, put you in the
same paradise with Mr. Desgranges,’ and that does me good.”

The young man smiled at this simple tenderness, which believed in a
hierarchy in Heaven. James heard him.

“You smile, sir. But this good man has re-created James. I dream of it
every night--I have never seen him, but I shall know him then. Oh my
God, if I recover my sight I will look at him for ever--for ever, like
the light, till he shall say to me, James, go away. But he will not
say so, he is too good. If I had known him four years ago, I would have
served him, and never have left him.”

“James, James!” said Mr. Desgranges; but the poor man could not be
silenced.

“It is enough to know he is in the village; this makes my heart easy. I
do not always wish to come in, but I pass before his house, it is always
there; and when he is gone a journey I make Juliana lead me into the
plain of Noiesemont, and I say--‘turn me towards the place where he is
gone, that I may breathe the same air with him.’”

Mr. Desgranges put his hand before his mouth. James stopped.

“You are right, Mr. Desgranges, my mouth is rude, it is only my heart
which is right. Come, wife,” said he, gayly, and drying his great tears
which rolled from his eyes, “Come, we must give our children their
supper. Good-by, my dear friend, good-by, sir.”

He went away, moving his staff before him. Just as he laid his hand upon
the door, Mr. Desgranges called him back.

“I want to tell you a piece of news which will give you pleasure. I was
going to leave the village this year; but I have just taken a new lease
of five years of my landlady.”

“Do you see, Juliana,” said James to his wife, turning round, “I was
right when I said he was going away.”

“How,” replied Mr. Desgranges, “I had told them not to tell you of it.”

“Yes; but here,” putting his hand on his heart, “everything is plain
here. I heard about a month since, some little words, which had begun to
make my head turn round; when, last Sunday, your landlady called me to
her, and showed me more kindness than usual, promising me that she would
take care of me, and that she would never abandon me. When I came home,
I said to Juliana, ‘Wife, Mr. Desgranges is going to quit the village;
but that lady has consoled me.’”

In a few moments the blind man had returned to his home.




DEPENDENCE.



“WELL, Mary,” said Aunt Frances, “how do you propose to spend the
summer? It is so long since the failure and death of your guardian, that
I suppose you are now familiar with your position, and prepared to mark
out some course for the future.”

“True, aunt; I have had many painful thoughts with regard to the loss
of my fortune, and I was for a time in great uncertainty about my future
