Mr. Nason did know who he was, but at that 
moment, and under those circumstances, he so fai 
forgot himself as to inform the important functionary 
that he didn't care who he was ; Jacob Wire's was 
not a fit place for a heathen, much less a Christian. 
" What do you mean, sir ? " gasped the overseer. 
in his rage. 
" I mean just what I say, Squire Walker. Jacob 
Wire is the meanest man in the county. He half 
starves his wife and children ; and no hired man evei 
staid there more than a week — he always starved 
shem out in that time." 
'* If you please, sir, I would rather not go to Mr 
Wire's," put in Harry, to whom the county jail 
seemed a more preferable place. 
" There, shut up ! I say you shall go there ! " 
replied the squire. 
" Really, squire, this is too bad. You know "Wire 
as well as any man in town, and " 
" Not another word, Mr. Xason ! Have the boy 
ready to go to Jacob Wire's to-morrow ! " and the 
overseer, not very well satisfied with the interview 
hastened away to avoid further argument upon 
delicate topic. 
Harry stood watching the retreating form of the 
great man of Redfield. The mandate he had spoken 
was the knell of hope to him. It made the future 
black and desolate. As he gazed the tears flooded 
his eyes, and his feelings completely overcame him. 
" Don't cry, Harry," said the kind-hearted keeper, 
taking him by the hand. 
" I can't help it," sobbed Harry. " He will 
Die, and starve me to death. Don't let him put raa 
'here." 
"I don't know as I can help it, Harry." 
" I am willing to work, and work hard too ; but 
I don't want to be starved to death." 
" I will do what I can for you ; but the other 
overseers do pretty much as Squire Walker tchs 
them to do." 
" I cant go to Jacob Wire's," burst from Harry's 
ips, as he seated himself on a rock, and gave way to 
the violence of his emotions. 
" I will see the other overseers ; don't cry, Harry. 
Hope for the best." 
" No use of hoping against such a man as Jacob 
Wire. If he don't starve me, he will work me to 
death. I would rather die than go there." 
"Well, well; don't take on so. Perhaps some- 
thing can be done." 
" Something shall be done," added the boy, as he 
rose from his seat, with an. air of determination in 
keeping with the strong words he uttered. 
The keeper's presence was required in the barn, 
and he left Harry .musing and very unhappy about 
his future prospects. The thought of becoming a 
member of Jacob Wire's family was not to he entertained. The boy was a pauper, and had been trough 
 
ftp at the expense of the town ; but he seemed to 
feel that, though fortune and friends had forsaken 
him, he was still a men.oer of the great human 
family. 
Jacob Wire, with whom it was proposed to apprentice 
him, had the reputation of being a hard master, 
He loved money, and did not love any thing else. 
His heart was barren of affection, as his soul was of 
good principles ; and though he did not literally starve 
his family and his help, he fed them upon the poorest 
and meanest fare that would support human life. 
The paupers in the poorhouse lived sumptuously, 
tompared with those who gathered around the board 
of Jacob "Wire. 
The keeper knew this from experience, for years 
ago, before he had been appointed to his present situation, he had worked for Wire ; and age and pros- 
perity had not improved him. The more he got, the 
more he wanted ; the fuller his barn and storehouse, 
the more stingy he became to those who were de- 
Dendent upon him. 
Harry West was a good boy, and a great favorite 
with the keeper of the poorhouse. He was always 
good-natured, willing to work, and never gnmlled 
about his food. He was not only willing to take 
care of the baby washing days, but seemed to de- 
rive pleasure from the occupation. For all these 
reasons Mr. Nason liked Harry, and had a deep 
interest in his welfare ; something more than a merely selfish interest, for he had suggested to "the over- 
seers the propriety of binding him out to learn some 
good tiade. 
Harry was sad and disheartened ; but he had un- 
limited confidence in the keeper, and felt sure that 
he would protect him from such a calamity as being 
sent to Jacob Wire's. After he had carried the wind- 
falls into the shed, he asked Mr. Nason if he might 
;,*o down to the river for a little while. The permisson 
given, he jumped over the cow yard wall, and 
nth his eyes fixed in deep thought upon the ground, 
made his way over the hill to Pine Pleasant, as the 
beautiful grove by the river's side was called. 
The grove extended to the brink of the stream, 
which in this place widened into a pond. Near the 
shire was a large flat rock, which was connected 
with the main land by a log, for the convenience of 
anglers and bathers. This was a favorite spot with 
Harry; and upon the rock he seated himself, tn sigh 
over the hard lot which was in store for him. It was 
not a good way to contend with the trials to which 
all are subjected ; but he had not yet learned that 
sorrow and adversity are as necessary for man as joy 
and prosperity. Besides, it was a turning point in 
his life, and it seemed to him that Jacob Wire's 
&eiise would be the tomb of all his hopes. 
CHAPTER II. 
IN WHICH HARRY FINDS A FRIEND, AND A PBAO 
TICABLE SCHEME FOR RESISTANCE. 
My young readers will probably desire to knew 
something about Harry's " antecedents ; " and while 
the poor fellow is mourning over the hard lot which 
Squire AValker has marked out for him, we will 
briefly review his previous history. 
Unlike the heroes of modern novels and romances, 
Harry did not belong to an ancient, or even a very 
respectable family. We need not trace his genealogy 
for any considerable period, and I am not sure that 
tne old records would throw much light on the sub- 
ject if we should attempt to do so. The accident of 
birth in our republican land is a matter of very little 
consequence ; therefore we shall only go back to 
Harry's father, who was a carpenter by trade, but 
had a greater passion for New England rum than for  
chisels and foreplanes. 
 
The bane of New England was the banc of Frank 
tin West; for he was a kind-hearted man, a good 
husband and a good father, before he was deformed 
by the use of liquor. He made good wages, and 
supported his little family creditably for several years ; 
but the vile habit grew upon him to such a degree 
that the people of Redfield lost all confidence in him. 
As his business decreased, his besetting vice increased 
upon him, till he was nothing but the wieek of the 
man he had once been. Poverty had come, and want 
stared him m the face. 
While every body was wondering what would he- 
come of Franklin West, he suddenly disappeared, 
and no one could form an idea of what had become 
of him. People thought it was no great matter. 
He was only a nuisance to himself and his family. 
Mrs. West was shocked by this sudden and mysterious disappearance. He was her husband, and tne 
father of her children, and it was not strange that 
she wept, and even hoped that he would come back. 
The neighbors comforted her, and put her in the way 
»f supporting herself and the children, so that she 
was very soon reconciled to the event. 
When "West had been "one a month, his wife received a 
letter from him, intorming her that he had 
determined to stop drinking, and be a man again, 
lie could not keep sober in Redfield, among his old 
companions, and he was at work in Providence till 
he could get money enough to pay his expenses to 
Valparaiso, in South America, where a lucrative place 
awaited him. He hoped his wife would manage to 
set along for a few months, when he should be able 
to send her some money. 
Mrs. West was easy again. Her husband was not 
dead, was no.t drowned in the river, or lost in the 
woods ; and her heart was cheered by the prospects 
of future plenty, which the letter pointed out to her. 
A year passed by, and nothing more was heard 
from Franklin West. The poor, forsaken wife had a 
hard time to support her little family. The most 
constant and severe toil enabled her to pinch her way 
along ; but it was a bitter trial. She had no relations 
to help her ; and though the neighbors were as kind 
as neighbors could be, life was a bard struggle. 
Then the baby sickened and died. This bereave- 
ment seemed to unnerve and discourage her, and 
though there was one mouth less to feed he- strength 
failed her, and she was unequal to the task. Care 
and sorrow did their work upon her, and though 
people said she died cf consumption, Heaven knew 
she died of a hroken heart and disappointed hopes. 
Harry was four years old when th.s sad event left 
him alone in the world. There was none willing to 
assume the burden of bringing up the lonely little 
pilgrim, and he was sent to the poorhouse. It was a 
hard fate for the tender child to be removed from the 
endearments of a mother's love, and placed in the 
cneerless asylum which public charity provides for 
the poor and the friendless. 
The child was only four years old ; but he missed 
the fond kiss and the loving caresses of his devoted 
mother. They were kind to him there, but it was
not home, and his heart could not but yearn for those 
treasures of affection which glittered for him only in 
the heart of his mother. There was an aching void, 
and though he could not understand or appreciate hia 
iO?s, it was none the less painful. 
He was a favorite child, not only with the eld 
paupers, but with the keeper and his family; and 
this circumstance undoubtedly softened the asperitiet 
of his lot. As soon as he was old enough, he was 
required to work as much as the keeper thought his 
strength would hear. He was very handy about the 
house and barn, more so than boys usually are ; and 
Mr. Nason declared that, for the three years before 
it was proposed to send him away, he had more thau 
earned his board and clothes. 
He had been at school four winters, and the school- 
masters were unanimous in their praise. He was a 
smart scholar, but a little disposed to be roguish. 
The moral discipline of the poorhouse was not of 
the most salutary character. Mr. Nason, though a 
generous and kind-hearted man, was not as exempla 
ry in his daily life as might have been desired. Be- 
sides, one or two of the old paupers were rather cor- 
rupt in their manners and morals, and were not fit 
companions for a young immortal, whose mind, like 
plastic clay, was impressible to the forming power. 
The pooi ho use was not a good place for the boy, 
and the wonder is that Harry, at twelve years of age, 
was not worse than we find him. He had learned to 
love Mr. Nason, as he had learned to fear and to hate 
Squire "Walker. The latter seemed to have absolute 
power at the p< jrhouse, and to be lord and mantel 
in Redfield. But when the overseer proposed to 
place the boy in the family of a man whom even the 
paupers looked down upon and despised, his soul 
rebelled even against the mandate of the powerful 
magnate of the town. 
Harry turned the matter over and over in his mind 
as he sat upon the rock at Fine Plegsant. At first 
he tried to reconcile the idea of living with Jacob 
Wire ; but it was a fruitless effort. The poorhouse 
seemed like a paradise to such a fate. 
Then he considered the possibility and the practi- 
cability of resisting the commands of Squire Walker. 
He could not obtain much satisfaction from either 
view of the difficult problem, and as a happy resort 
under the trials of the moment, he began to console 
himself with the reflection that Mr. Nason might 
prevail with the overseers, and save him from his 
doom. 
He had not much hope from this direction, and 
while he was turning again to the question of resist- 
ance, he heard footsteps in the grove. He did no 
feel like seeing any persoi and wished he could ge 
out of signt ; but there wt s no retreating without 
oeing observed, so he lay c iwn upon the rock to 
wait till the intruder had passed. 
The person approaching did rot purpose to let hiia 
off so easily ; and when Harry I c ard his step on the 
log he raised himself up. 
" Hallo, Harry ! What are you doing here ? taking a nap ? " 
It was Ben Smart, a boy of foui cen, who lived 
near the poorhouse. Ben's reputation in Rtifiold 
was not A, No. 1 ; in fact, he had been solemaly and 
publicly expelled from the district school only three 
days before by Squire Walker, because the mistress 
could not manage him. His father was the village 
blacksmith, and as he had nothing for hi-n to do' — 
not particularly for the boy's benefit — he kept him 
at school all the year round. 
" O, is that you, Ben ? " replied Harry, more f oi 
the sake of being civil than because he wi 'hed to 
speak to the other, 
"What are you doing here ? " asked Ben, he
evidently did not understand how a boy could 
ftiere alone, unless he was occupied about some- 
thing. 
" Nothing." 
" Been in the water ? " 
" No." 
" Fishing ? " 
" No." 
Ren was nonnlussed. He suspected that Harrj 
had been, engaged in some mysterious occupation, 
which he desired to conceal from him. 
" How long you been here " continued Ben, 
persistently. 
" About half an hour." 
Ben stopped to think. He could make nothing of 
it. It was worse than the double rule of three, which 
he conscientiously believed had been invented oa 
purpose to bother school boys. 
" You are up to some trick, I Know. Tell me what 
you come down here for." 
" Didn't come for any thing." 
" What is the use of tolling that. No feller would 
tome cleai down here for nothing.''' 
" I came down to think, then, if you must know,' 
answered Harry, rather testily 
*^ To think ! Well, that is a good one ! Ain't the 
poor-farm big enough to do your thinking on ? " 
" I chose to come down here." 
" Humph ! You've got the blues, Harry. I should 
think old Walker had been afoul of you, by your 
looks." 
Harry looked up suddenly, and wondered if Ben 
knew what had happened. 
' I should like to have the oid rascal do-' r n here 
for half an hour. I should like to souse him into the 
river, and hold his head under till he begged my 
pardon," continued Rp" 
" So should I," added Harry. 
" Should you ? You are a good feller, then ! I 
mean to pay him off for what he did for me the other 
day. I wouldn't minded being turned out of school. 
I rather liked the idea ; but the old muttonhead got 
cue up before all the school, and read me such a lec- 
ture ! He thinks there isn't any body in the world 
but him." 
" The lecture didn't hurt you," suggested Harry. 
" No ; it didn't. But that warn't the worst of : t." 
" What else ? " 
 
*' My father give me a confounded licking when I 
got home. I haven't done smarting yet. But I will 
pay 'em off for it all." 
" You mean Squire Walker." 
" And the old man, too." 
" If I only had a father, I wouldn't mind letting 
him lick me now and then," replied Harry, to whom 
home seemed a paradise, though he had never under- 
stood it ; and a father and mother, though coarse and 
brutal, his imagination pictured as angels. 
" My father would learn you better than that in a 
few days," said Ben, who did not appreciate his 
parents, especially when they held the rod. 
Harry relapsed into musing again. He thought 
how happy he should have been in Ben's place. A 
home, a father, a mother ! We value most what we 
have not ; and if the pauper boy could have had t v 
blessings which crowned his reckless companion's, s, 
it seemed as though he would have been contented 
and happy. His condescension in regard to the 
flogging now and then, was a sincere expression of 
feeling. 
" Wliat's old Walker been doing to you, Harrv ? r 
asked Ben, suspecting the cause of the other's 
gloom. 
" He is going to send me to Jacob Wire's to live." 
" Whew ! That is a good one ! To die, you 
mean. Harry, I wouldn't stand that." 
" I don't mean to." 
" That's right ; I like your spunk. What do you 
mean to do ? " 
Harry was not prepared to answer this question. 
He possessed a certain degree of prudence, and though 
it was easy to declare war against so powerful an en- 
emy as Squire Walker, it was not so easy to carry on 
the war after it was declared. The overseer was a 
bigger man to him than the ogre in " Puss in Boots." 
Probably his imagination largely magnified the gran- 
deur of the squire's position, and indefinitely multi- 
plied the resources at his command. 
" What do you mean to do ? " repeated Ben, who 
for some reason or other, took a deep interest in Ha? 
ry's affairs. 
" I don't know. I would rather dio than go ; buv 
» don't know how I can help myself" answered tha 
poor boy, gloomily , 
"I do." 
Harry looked up with interest and surprise. Ben 
ijmpathized with him in his trials, and hia hear? 
warmed towards him. 
" What, Ben ? " 
" I daresn't tell you now," replied Ben, after a 
ohort pause. 
" Why not ? " 
" Can you keep a secret ? " 
" Of course I can. Did I ever blow on you ? " 
" No, you never did, Harry. You are a first rata 
feller, and I like you. But you see, if you should 
blow on me now, you would spoil my kettle of fish, 
and your own too." 
" But I won't, Ben." 
" Promise me solemnly." 
" Solemnly," repeated Harry. 
" Well, then, I will get you out of the scrape U 
nice as a cotton nat." 
" How ? " 
" I guess I won't tell you now ; but if you will 
Dome down here to-night at eleven o'clock, I will let 
ou into the whole thing." 
*' Eleven o'clock ! I can't come at that time. We'll
go to bed at eight o'clock." 
" Get up and come." 
" I can do that ; but perhaps Mr Nason will per 
suade the overseers not to send me to Jacob Wire's." 
" I'm glad I didn't tell you, then. But piomise 
me this, Harry : that, whatever happens, you'll hold 
your tongue." 
" I will, Ben." 
*' And if Nason don't get you off, be here at eleven 
o'clock. Put on your best clothes, and take every 
thing you want with you." 
" Going to run away ? " 
" I didn't say so." 
Ben made him promise again to be secret, and they 
separated. Harry had an idea of what his companion 
