"Well, Miss Faith," said the doctor--"Now for a counter example."
"I know so little of what has been done," said Faith. "Don't you
remember some such things yourself, Dr. Harrison?--Mr. Linden?"--The
voice changed and fell a little as it passed from one to the other.
"General Putnam went into the wolf's den, and pulled him out"--said the
doctor humorously,--"that's all I can think of just now, and it is not
very much in point. I don't know that there was anything very bright
about it except the wolf's eyes!--But here we are keeping Portia out of
doors, and Miss Derrick waiting! Linden--fall to." And with comical
life and dramatic zeal on the doctor's part, in a few minutes more, the
play was finished.
"Mrs. Derrick," said the doctor gravely as he rose and stood before
her,--"I hope you approve of plays."
Mrs. Derrick expressed her amusement and satisfaction.
"Miss Faith," he said extending his hand,--"I have to thank you for the
most perfect enjoyment I have ever had of Shakspeare. I only wish
to-morrow evening would roll off on such swift wheels--but it would be
too much. Look where this one has rolled to!" And he shewed his watch
and hurried off; that is, if Dr. Harrison could be said to do such a
thing.
The rest of the party also were stirred from their quiet. Mrs Derrick
went out; and Mr. Linden, coming behind Faith as she stood by the fire,
gently raised her face till he could have a full view of it, and asked
her how she liked being in Venice?
"Very much," she said, smiling and blushing at him,--"very much!"
"You are not the magician's coin!" he said, kissing her. "You are not
even a witch. Do you know how I found that out?"
"No"--she said softly, the colour spreading over her face and her eyes
falling, but raised again immediately to ask the question of him.
"A witch's charms are always dispelled whenever she tries to cross
running water!"--
She laughed; an amused, bright, happy little laugh, that it was
pleasant to hear.
"But what did Dr. Harrison mean,--by what he said when he thanked me?
What did he thank me for?"
"He said--for a new enjoyment of Shakspeare."
"What did he mean?"
"Do you understand how the sweet fragrance of mignonette can give new
enjoyment to a summer's day?"
She blushed exceedingly. "But, Mr. Linden, please don't talk so! And I
don't want to give Dr. Harrison enjoyment in that way."
"Which part of your sentence shall I handle first?" he said with a
laughing flash of the eyes,--"'Dr. Harrison'--or 'Mr. Linden'?"
"The first," said Faith laying her hand deprecatingly on his arm;--"and
let the other alone!"
"How am I to 'please not to talk'?"
"So--as I don't deserve," she said raising her grave eyes to his face.
"I would rather have you tell me my wrong things."
He looked at her, with one of those rare smiles which belonged to her;
holding her hand with a little soft motion of it to and fro upon his
own.
"I am not sure that I dare promise 'to be good,'" he said,--"I am so
apt to speak of things as I find them. And Mignonette you are to
me--both in French and English. Faith, I know there is no glove upon
your hand,--and I know there is none on mine; but I cannot feel, nor
imagine, any friction,--can you?"
She looked up and smiled. So much friction or promise of it, as there
is about the blue sky's reflection in the clear deep waters of a
mountain lake--so much there was in the soft depth--and reflection--of
Faith's eyes at that moment. So deep,--so unruffled;--and as in the
lake, so in the look that he saw, there was a mingling of earth and
heaven.
CHAPTER V.
Wednesday morning was cold and raw, and the sun presently put on a
thick grey cloak. There were suspicions abroad that it was one made in
the regions of perpetual snow, for whatever effect it might have had
upon the sun, it made the earth very cold. Now and then a little
frozen-up snowflake came silently down, and the wind swept fitfully
round the corners of houses, and wandered up and down the chimneys.
People who were out subsided into a little trot to keep themselves
warm, all except the younger part of creation, who made the trot a run;
and those who could, staid at home.
All of Mrs. Derrick's little family were of this latter class, after
the very early morning; for as some of them were to brave the weather
at night, there seemed no reason why they should also brave it by day.
As speedily as might be, Mr. Linden despatched his various matters of
outdoor business, of which there were always more or less on his hands,
and then came back and went into the sitting-room to look for his
scholar. In two minutes she came in from the other door, with the stir
of business and the cold morning fresh in her cheeks. But no one would
guess--no one could ever guess, from Faith's brown dress and white
rufffles, that she had just been flying about in the kitchen--to use
Cindy's elegant illustration--"like shelled peas"; not quite so
aimlessly, however. And her smiling glance at her teacher spoke of
readiness for all sorts of other business.
The first thing she was set about was her French exercise, during the
first few lines of which Mr. Linden stood by her and looked on. But
then he suddenly turned away and went up stairs--returning however,
presently, to take his usual seat by her side. He watched her progress
silently, except for business words and instructions, till the exercise
was finished and Faith had turned to him for further directions; then
taking her hand he put upon its forefinger one of the prettiest things
she had ever seen. It was an old-fashioned diamond ring; the stones all
of a size, and of great clearness and lustre, set close upon each other
all the way round; with just enough goldsmith's work to bind them
together, and to form a dainty frill of filagree work above and
below--looking almost like a gold line of shadow by that flashing line
of light.
"It was my mother's, Faith," he said, "and she gave it to me in trust
for whatever lady I should love as I love you."
Faith looked down at it with very, very grave eyes. Her head bent
lower, and then suddenly laying her hands together on the table she hid
her face in them; and the diamonds glittered against her temple and in
contrast with the neighbouring soft hair.
One or two mute questions came there, before Mr. Linden said softly,
"Faith!" She looked up with flushed face, and all of tears in her eyes
but the tears; and her lip had its very unbent line. She looked first
at him and then at the ring again. Anything more humble or more grave
than her look cannot be imagined. His face was grave too, with a sort
of moved gravity, that touched both the present and the past, but he
did not mean hers should be.
"Now what will you do, dear child?" he said. "For I must forewarn you
that there is a language of rings which is well established in the
world."
"What--do you mean?" she said, looking alternately at the ring and him.
"You know what plain gold on this finger means?" he said, touching the
one he spoke of. She looked at first doubtfully, then coloured and said
"yes."
"Well diamonds on this finger are understood to be the avant-couriers
of that."
Faith had never seen diamonds; but that was not what she was thinking
of, nor what brought such a deep spot of colour on her cheeks. It was
pretty to see, it was so bright and so different from the flush which
had been there a few minutes before. Her eyes considered the diamonds
attentively.
"What shall I do?" she said after a little.
"I don't know--you must try your powers of contrivance."
"I cannot contrive. I could keep ray glove on to-night; but I could not
every day. Shall I give it back to you to keep for me?"--she said
looking at it lovingly. "Perhaps that will be best!--What would you
like me to do?"
"Anything but that," he said smiling,--"I should say that would be
worst. You may wear a glove, or glove-finger--what you will; but there
it must stay, and keep possession for me, till the other one comes to
bear it company. In fact I suppose I could endure to have it seen!"
Her eyes went down to it again. Clearly the ring had a charm for Faith.
And so it had, something beyond the glitter of brilliants. Of
jewellers' value she knew little; the marketable worth of the thing was
an enigma to her. But as a treasure of another kind it was beyond
price. His mother's ring, on her finger--to Faith's fancy it bound
and pledged her to a round of life as perfect, as bright, and as pure,
as its own circlet of light-giving gems. That she might fill to him--as
far as was possible--all the place that the once owner of the diamonds
would have looked for and desired; and be all that he would look for
in the person to whom the ring, so derived, had come. Faith considered
it lovingly, with intent brow, and at last lifted her eyes to Mr.
Linden by way of answer; without saying anything, yet with half her
thoughts in her face. His face was very grave--Faith could see a little
what the flashing of that ring was to him; but her look was met and
answered with a fulness of warmth and tenderness which said that he had
read her thoughts, and that to his mind they were already accomplished.
Then he took up one of her books and opened it at the place where she
was to read.
The morning, and the afternoon, went off all too fast, and the sun went
down sullenly. As if to be in keeping with the expected change of work
and company, the evening brought worse weather,--a keener
wind--beginning to bestir itself in earnest, a thicker sky; though the
ground was too snow-covered already to allow it to be very dark. With
anybody but Mr. Linden, Mrs. Derrick would hardly have let Faith go
out; and even as it was, she several times hoped the weather would
moderate before they came home. Faith was so well wrapped up however,
both in the house and in the sleigh, that the weather gave her no
discomfort; it was rather exhilarating to be so warm in spite of it;
and they flew along at a good rate, having the road pretty much to
themselves.
"Faith," Mr. Linden said as they approached Judge Harrison's, "I cannot
spend all the evening here with you--that is, I ought not. I had a
message sent me this afternoon--too late to attend to then, which I
cannot leave till morning. But if I see you safe by the fire, I hope
Miss Harrison will take good care of you till I get back."
"Well," said Faith,--"I wouldn't meddle with your 'oughts,'--if I
could. I hope you'll take care of Jerry!"--
"What shall I do with him?"
"Don't you know?" said Faith demurely.
"I suppose I ought to drive him so fast that he'll keep warm," said Mr.
Linden. "What else?"
Faith's little laugh made a contrast with the rough night. "You had
better let me get out to the fire," she said joy fully,--"or I
sha'n't keep warm."
"You sha'n't?" he said bending down by her, as they reached the
door,--"your face has no idea of being cold!--I'll take care of Jerry,
child--if I don't forget him in my own pleasant thoughts."
Faith threw off her cloak and furs on the hall table where some others
lay, and pulled off one glove.
"Keep them both on!" Mr. Linden said softly and smiling,--"enact Portia
for once. Then if you are much urged, you can gracefully yield your own
prejudices so far as to take off one."
She looked at him, then amusedly pulled on her glove again; and the
door was opened for them into a region of warmth and brightness; where
there were all sorts of rejoicings over them and against the cold
night. Mr. Linden was by force persuaded to wait till after coffee
before braving it again; and the Judge and his daughter fairly involved
Faith in the meshes of their kindness. A very mouse Faith was to-night,
as ever wore gloves; and with a little of a mouse's watchfulness about
her, fancying cat's ears at every corner. A brown mouse too; she had
worn only her finest and best stuff dress. But upon the breast of that,
a bunch of snowy Laurustinus, nestling among green leaves, put forth a
secret claim in a way that was very beautifying. The Judge and Miss
Sophy put her in a great soft velvet chair and hovered round her, both
of them conscious of her being a little more dainty than usual. Sophy
thought perhaps it was the Laurustinus; her father believed it
intrinsic.
The coffee came, and the doctor.
"I have something better for you than Portia to-night"--he said as he
dealt out sugar,--"though not something better than muffins."
"Faith, my dear child," said Miss Sophy,--"you needn't be so
ceremonious--none of us are wearing gloves."
Faith laughed and blushed and pulled off one glove.
"You are enacting Portia, are you?" said Dr. Harrison. "Even she would
not have handled wigs with them. I see I have done mischief! But the
harm I did you last night I will undo this evening. Ladies and
Gentlemen!--I will give you, presently, the pleasure of hearing some
lines written expressive of my wishes toward the unknown--but
supposed--mistress of my life and affections. Any suggestions toward
the bettering of them--I will hear."
"The bettering of what?" said Mrs. Somers,--"your life and affections?"
"I am aware, my dear aunt Ellen, you think the one impossible--the
other improbable. I speak of bettering the wishes."
"'Unknown but supposed'"--said Mr. Linden. "'Item--She hath many
nameless virtues'."
"That is not my wish," said the doctor gravely looking at him, "I think
nameless virtues--deserve their obscurity!"
"What do you call your ideal?"
"Psyche,--" said the doctor, after a minute's sober consideration
apparently divided between Mr. Linden's face and the subject.
"That is not so uncommon a name as Campaspe," said Mr. Linden, with a
queer little gesture of brow and lips.
"Who is Campaspe?" said the doctor; while Faith looked, and Miss
Essie's black eyes sparkled and danced, and everybody else held his
coffee cup in abeyance.
"Did you never hear of my Campaspe?" said Mr. Linden, glancing up from
under his brows.
"We will exchange civilities," said the doctor. "I should be very happy
to hear of her."
Laughing a little, his own cup sending its persuasive steam unheeded,
his own face on the sparkling order--though the eyes looked demurely
down,--Mr. Linden went on to answer.
   "'Cupid and my Campaspe played
   At cards for kisses; Cupid payed;
   He stakes his quiver, bow and arrows,
   His mother's doves, and teame of sparrows;
   Loses them too; then down he throws
   The coral of his lippe, the rose
   Growing on's cheek, (but none knows how)
   With these, the crystal of his browe,
   And then the dimple of his chinne;
   All these did my Campaspe winne.
   At last he set her both his eyes,--
   She won, and Cupid blind did rise.
   O Love! has she done this to thee?
   What shall, alas! become of me!'"
There was a general little breeze of laughter and applause. The doctor
had glanced at Faith;--her colour was certainly raised; but then the
old Judge had just bent down to ask her "if she had ever heard of
Campaspe before?" The doctor did not hear but he guessed at the
whisper, and saw Faith's laugh and shake of the head.
"Is that a true bill, Linden?"
"Very true,--" said Mr. Linden, trying his coffee. "But it is not yet
known what will become of me."
"What has become of Campaspe?"
"She is using her eyes."
"Are they those eyes, Mr. Linden?" said Miss Essie coming nearer and
using her own.
"What was the colour of Cupid's?"
"Blue, certainly!"
"Miss Derrick!"--said the doctor,--"let us have your opinion."
Faith gave him at least a frank view of her own, all blushing and
laughing as she was, and answered readily,--"As to the colour of
Cupid's eyes?--I have never seen him, sir."
The doctor was obliged to laugh himself, and the chorus became general,
at something in the combination of Faith and her words. But Faith's
confusion thereupon mastered her so completely, that perhaps to shield
her the doctor requested silence and attention and began to read; of a
lady who, he said he was certain, had borrowed of nobody--not even of
Cupid.--
   "'Whoe'er she be,
   That not impossible she,
   That shall command my heart and me.'"
"I believe she is impossible, to begin with," said Miss Essie. "You
will never let any woman command you, Dr. Harrison."
"You don't know me, Miss Essie," said the doctor, with a curiously
grave face, for him.
"He means--
   'Who shall command my heart--not me.'"
said Mr. Linden.
"If she can command my heart--what of me is left to rebel?" said the
doctor.
"Sophy," said Mrs. Somers, "how long has Julius been all heart?"
"Ever since my aunt Ellen has been all eyes and ears. Mr. Somers,
which portion of your mental nature owns the supremacy of your wife?
may I inquire, in the course of this investigation?"
"Ha!" said Mr. Somers blandly, thus called upon--"I own her supremacy,
sir--ha--in all proper things!"
"Ha! Very proper!" said the doctor.
"That is all any good woman wants," said the old Judge benignly. "I
take it, that is all she wants."
"Then you must say which are the proper things, father!" said Miss
Sophy laughing.
"You'll have to ask every man separately, Sophy," said Mrs.
Somers,--"they all have their own ideas about proper things. Mr. Somers
thinks milk porridge is the limit."
"Mr. Stoutenburgh," said the doctor, "haven't you owned yourself
commanded, ever since your heart gave up its lock and key?"
"Yes indeed," said the Squire earnestly,--"I am so bound up in slavery
that I have even forgotten the wish to be free! All my wife's things
are proper!"
"O hush!" his wife said laughing, but with a little quick bright
witness in her eyes, that was pretty to see. Dr. Harrison smiled.
"You see, Miss Derrick!" he said with a little bow to her,--"there is
witness on all sides;--and now I will go on with my not impossible
she."--
He got through several verses, not without several interruptions, till
he came to the exquisite words following;--
   "'I wish her beauty,
   That owes not all his duty
   To gaudy tire or glistring shoetye.
   'Something more than
   Taffeta or tissue can,
   Or rampant feather, or rich fan.
   'More than the spoil
   Of shop, or silk-worm's toil,
   Or a bought blush, or a set smile.'"
While Miss Essie exclaimed, Miss Harrison stole a look at Faith; who
was looking up at the doctor, listening, with a very simple face of
amusement. Her thoughts were indeed better ballasted than to sway to
such a breeze if she had felt it. But the real extreme beauty of the
image and of the delineation was what she felt; she made no application
of them. The doctor came to this verse.
   "'A well-tamed heart,
   For whose more noble smart
   Love may be long choosing a dart.'--
What does that mean, Linden?--isn't that an error in the description?"
"Poetical license," said Mr. Linden smiling. "Psyche will give you
trouble enough, wings and all,--there is no fear you will find her
'tamed'."
"How is Campaspe in that respect?"
"She has never given me much trouble yet," said Mr. Linden.
"What I object to is the 'long choosing'," said the doctor. "Miss de
Staff--do you think a good heart should be very hard to win?"
"Certainly!--the harder the better," replied the lady. "That's the only
way to bring down your pride. The harder she is, the more likely you
are to think she's a diamond."
"Mrs. Stoutenburgh!"--
"What has been the texture of yours all these years, doctor?"
"He thinks that when he has dined the rest of the world should follow
suit--like the Khan of Tartary," said Mrs. Somers.
"Miss Derrick!" said the doctor--"I hope for some gentleness from you.
Do you think such a heart as we have been talking of, should be very
difficult to move?"
Faith's blush was exquisite. Real speech was hard to command. She knew
all eyes were waiting upon her; and she could not reason out and
comfort herself with the truth--that to them her blush might mean
several things as well as one. The answer came in that delicate voice
of hers which timidity had shaken.
"I think--it depends on what there is to move it."
"What do you call sufficient force?" said Mrs. Somers.
"I?"--said Faith.--
"Yes, you," replied the parson's wife with a look not unkindly amused.
"What sort and degree of power should move 'such a heart'?--to quote
Julius."
Faith's blush was painful again, and it was only the sheer necessity of
the case that enabled her to rally. But her answer was clear.
"Something better than itself, Mrs. Somers."
"I should like to know what that is!" said Mrs. Somers.
Mr. Linden's involuntary "And so should I"--was in a different tone,
but rather drew eyes upon himself than Faith.
"It's of no consequence to you!" said the doctor, with a funny, mock
serious tone of admonition.
Mr. Linden bowed, acquiescingly.--"Psychology is an interesting
study"--he added, in qualification. "But let me return your warning,
doctor--you have a formidable rival."
"Qui donc?"
"Cupid carried off Psyche some time ago--do you suppose you can get her
back?" And with a laughing sign of adieu, Mr. Linden went away.
Luckily for Faith, she was not acquainted with the heathen mythology;
and was also guiltless of any thought of connexion between herself and
the doctor's ideal. So her very free, unsuspicious face and laughter
quite reassured him.
"Mr. Linden is an odd sort of person," said Miss Essie philosophically.
"I have studied him a good deal, and I can't quite make him out. He's a
very interesting man! But I think he is deeper than he seems."
"He's deeper than the salt mines of Salzburg then!" said the doctor.
"Why?" said Miss Essie curiously.
The doctor answered gravely that "there were beautiful things
there";--and went on with his reading. And Faith listened now with
unwavering attention, till he came to--
   "'Sydnean showers
   Of soft discourse, whose powers
   Can crown old winter's head with flowers.'"
Faith's mind took a leap. And it hardly came back again. The reading
was followed by a very lively round game of talk; but it was not such
talk; and Faith's thoughts wandered away and watched round that circlet
of brightness that was covered by her glove; scattered rays from which
led them variously,--home, to her Sunday school, to Pequot,--and to
heaven; coming back again and again to the diamonds and to the image
that was in the centre of them. No wonder her grave sweet face was
remarked as being even graver and sweeter than usual; and the doctor at
last devoted himself to breaking up its quiet. He took her into the
library to finish the Rhododendrons--ostensibly--but in reality to get
rid of the stiff circle in the other room. The circle followed; but no
