posed in its proper place, for Paul had already 
learned that food tastes better in the midst of 
order and neatness, than when taken in dirt and 
confusion. It is true, -he made some mistakes for 
the want of experience, and was frequently obliged 
to stop and think what articles were required ; 
but when the table was set, he was satisfied with 
its cheerful and neat appearance. By this time 
the tea-kettle was spouting out long jets of 
steam, and the lid was rattling under the influence 



 

of the commotion beneath it. Paul poured a lit- 
tle of the boiling water into the coffee-pot, and 
then came an appalling difficulty — he did not 
know how much to put in, and was not sure that 
he had taken the proper quantity of coffee. At a 
venture he filled the pot half full, and then pro- 
ceeded to cook the meat. After the coffee had 
boiled ten or fifteen minutes, he tested its strength, 
and added more water. He was delighted with 
his success, and when John returned from the 
beach, he was putting the breakfast upon the 
table. 

" Breakfast is ready," said Paul. 

" Did you cook it, though ? " 

'' I did; I told you I could." 

" I'll give up now. Why don't you hire out 
for a cook ? " 

" Perhaps I shall, one of these days." 

" Wouldn't mother's eyes stick out if she should 
happen in about this time ! " 

" I guess not much." 

But they did, for just as the boys were seating 



 

themselves at the table, Mrs. Duncan entgred the 
room. 

'' Why, boys ! what have you been doing ? " 
exclaimed she, astonished at the regularity with 
which every thing seemed to be proceeding in hei 
absence. 

" Only getting something to eat before we go," 
replied Paul. 

" Why didn't you call me ? " 

'' I thought I wouldn't get you up so  early; 
besides, I could get breakfast just as well my- 
self." 

" I declare you are a good cook, Paul, Your 
potatoes and meat look as nice as can be. How is 
your coffee ? Did you put a piece of fish-skin in 
the pot?" 

" Yes, ma'am." 
' '' Did you put any salt on the meat ? " 

" I did ; come, mother, sit down and eat your 
breakfast." 

Mrs. Duncan accepted this polite invitation, and 
seating herself in her accustomed place, began to 


pour oift the coffee. It was clear, and of the right 
strength, and she liberally praised Paul for his 
culinary skill, and declared that her son was a 
jewel about the house. The breakfast seemed 
even better than usual that morning, and our hero 
was as proud as though he had built a meeting 
house. 

'' Come, John, we must bear a hand ; there isn't 
a breath of wind, and it will take us some time 
to make Rock Island," said Paul, as he rose from 
the table. " Have you filled the jug with water ? " 

"No, but I will." 

" Here is some gingerbread and cheese for 
luncheon," added Mrs. Duncan, as she handed 
Paul a basket she had filled for their use. " Now, 
be very careful, and don't run any risk. Look 
out for squalls, and don't carry sail too long." 

" I'll be very careful, mother. You may trust 
me to go round the world," replied Paul. 

" But I wish you had a better boat." 

" She'll do very well, mother, though I hope to 
have a better one some time or other." 



The jug was filled at the pump, and with their 
provisions and water the boys set off with light 
hearts for the work of the day. 

Paul felt the responsibility of the trust which 
Captain Littleton had imposed upon him. He was 
going to make some money by the operation, and 
upon this day's success depended the hopes which 
he had been cherishing in regard to his new 
scheme. 

There are always some drawbacks to disturb the 
best-laid plans, and when Paul reached the bluff, 
he discovered the boat adrift at some distance 
from the shore. 

" You are a careless fellow, John," he cried. 
" You didn't make fast the boat." 

" That's too bad, Paul ; I didn't mean to do 
that," replied John, vexed at the accident. 

" I don't suppose you did ; but you are care- 
less." 

" I thought I made her fast. What shall we 
do, Paul ? I would rather given any thing than 
had this happen." 




 

" So would I ; but there is no use of crying 
about it. There isn't a skiff within half a mile 
of here." 

"I'll tell you what I'll do, Paul," said John, 
putting down tfte jug and throwing off his jacket. 
" I'll swim out to her and scull her in." 

Paul made no objection to this plan, and in half 
a minute more, John had stripped and was swim- 
ming with all his might after the boat, which was 
perhaps fifty rods from the shore. He was a 
vigorous swimmer, as self-possessed in the water 
as on the land, and his brother had no fears in 
regard to his safety, or his ability to reach the 
boat. 

It did not take the little fellow long to catch the 
boat, and the accident did not make more than 
half an hour's delay. The stores were taken on 
board, and before John had time to dress himself, 
the boat was under sail, and working slowly down 
the bay. A light breeze from the west had sprung 
up, and a gentle ripple at the bow assured- the 
young fishermen that every thing was progressing 
in a satisfactory manner. 



 

" I should' like to be a fisherman, Paul," said 
John, who sat on the bottom of the boat opening 
clams for bait. 

'' Perhaps you may be one of these days," re- 
plied Paul, moodily. " I think I shall do some- 
thing in that line right off," 

" You, Paul ? " 

" Yes, but don't you say a word about it to any 
body, above all, not to mother. I have been think- 
ing about it all night." 

" What do you mean, Paul ? " 

The ambitious youth had a great idea in his 
mind, which was struggling to be actualized. More 
than twenty times since the preceding evening had 
the words of Captain Littleton crossed his imagina- 
tion, and kindled up a great blaze of possibilities 
and probabilities. "I will give you, twenty cents 
a dozen for them," the captain had said. If he 
would buy perch, others would buy them. He 
had a boat, and there would not be many days 
when he could not catch as many as five or six 
dozen. Even at a shilling a dozen he could make 
a dollar a day. 



 

This was his scheme — to supply Bayville with 
fresh fish. He had as good a chance to sell them 
as the men who went through the place blowing 
their tin horns. He should have an advantage over 
them, for his iish were certain to be fresh, and he 
was sure the people would be willing to patronize 
him. The plan promised exceedingly well, and 
he wished to talk it over with some one, though he 
was not quite ready to have it made public. It 
was true, John was only ten years old, and didn't 
know much; but he wanted to talk with some- 
body about it, and so he concluded to take his 
brother into his confidence. 

" What do I mean, John ? " said he. "Why can't 
I catch perch every day, and sell them in town ? " 

" Sure enough, why can't you ? " replied John, 
delighted wifeh the idea, and perliaps bringing some 
selfish motives to bear upon it. 

" We can haul 'em in as fast as we can throw 
over the line of the rocks, and there are rich folks 
enough in Bayville to buy them." 

" It's a first-rate idea," exclaimed John, with en- 



 

thusiasm. " You might go down farther, and catch 
cod and haddock." 

'' I would if I had a good boat." 

" Father used to go out after cod and haddock 
in this boat." 

" I know, but she is getting rather shaky." 

The great idea was discussed in all its bearings 
till they reached Rock Island, when Paul carefully 
selected his position, and let go the anchor. The 
hooks were baited and. the lines thrown over, and 
never before had Paul taken his fishing apparatus 
when so much seemed to depend upon the success 
of his efforts. His heart beat as the sinker touched 
the bottom, and he pulled it up the proper distance. 
All his fortunes for the future appeared to hang 
upon the result. 

" Hurrah ! I've got one ! " shouted John, as with 
childish eagerness he pulled in his line. 

It was a sculpin ! 

Was this a type of his own success ? Was he 
to watch his chance on the great sea of life, and 
finally, after all his anxious watching and toil, was 





he to pull in only a sculpin ? These were painful 
thoughts to Paul, and his heart almost sunk within 
him, as he considered the possible failure of his 
favorite scheme. If he failed in this, he must 
accept the paltry two dollars and a half a week, 
and let his mother drudge like a slave. He could 
not tolerate the thought of failure, and 

A bite ! 

Paul did not whistle till he got out of the woods, 
and announced his success to John by slapping 
a monster perch upon the bottom of the boat. 
If that was a type of his success he was satis- 
fied. Before he had time to follow out the reflec- 
tions suggested by the event, John hauled in the 
mate to the big fish, and another had taken hold 
of his own hook. 

By ten o'clock there were six dozen perch in 
the basket, besides three handsome tautog and 
half a dozen sea flounders. The young fisher- 
man was satisfied, hauled up killock, and made 
sail for home. His heart was as light as the upper 
air, and he was confident of the success of his grand 
scheme. 





PAUL MAKES A GOOD SPECULATION. 

" Now, Jolin, you must steer, while I skin the 
perch," said Paul, as he resigned the helm to 
his brother. 

" That I will," replied he,, with alacrity, for he 
did not often get a chance to handle the boat, 
and was fond of the amusement. 

'' But you must be careful, and keep your eyes 
open, for we have no time to spare," added the 
youthful skipper. 

" Do you think I don't know how to steer a 
boat ? " asked John, hurt by the insinuation. 

" You know how well enough, if you will pay 
attention to it, and not be fooling with her." 

" I'll keep her right." 

Paul took from under the thwart an old shoe- 
knife which had been ground down to one third 



 

of its original width. It had been well sharpened 
for this important occasion, but he had provided 
an old whetstone as a further precaution against a 
dull blade. To skin a perch neatly and expe- 
ditiously is a nice operation ; but Paul had had 
sufficient practice in the art to render him a skil- 
ful hand. Seating himself on the lee rail, he 
commenced work in earnest, occasionally glancing 
up to see that the boat was doing her best in 
the way of sailing. 

" How much will you make, Paul, if you sell 
all your fish ? " asked John. 

" The perch will bring a dollar and twenty 
cents, if I get twenty cents a dozen for them." 
" The tautog are worth something." 
" They are worth a quarter apiece." 
" You have done a good day's work then ? " 
"If I sell the fish, I shall," answered Paul, 
with a smile of satisfaction. " Come, John, the 
sail is shaking, and you have lost the wind," he 
added, as his brother carelessly luffed her up. 
''I was adding up the perch and the tautog." 



 

" You must mind the boat ; you must stop 
talking, if you can't do your duty without.' 

John promised to be more careful, and Paul 
had no further occasion to complain of his inat- 
tention. The younger fisherman was a good boy, 
but he had not yet been trained to that steadi- 
ness of purpose which is necessary to success. 
He was only ten years old, and it was not to 
be expected that he should fully appreciate the 
earnestness of his brother's purpose, though he 
was beginning to realize that close attention was 
necessary in order to accomplish great deeds. He 
was fond of trying experiments, just for the fun 
of the thing ; and when he had been permitted 
to take th-e helm on other occasions, he wanted 
to do something besides keep her in a direct 
course — to see how close she would lie to the 
wind without letting the sail shake, to run down 
a floating mass of seaweed, or chase a stick of 
wood ; but on this . trip, he was guilty of no 
greater indiscretion than carelessness. 

Long before the boat reached Bayville, Paul 



had skinned and strung the fish ; and their ap- 
pearance on the line was creditable to his skill. 
Leaving John to secure the boat, he took the fish 
and hastened up to the house of Captain Little- 
ton. He found that gentleman in his garden 
with his guests. 

" Well, Paul, what luck ? " asked he, as the 
