"Come, Ruey, don't make a fool of yourself at your time of life," said
Miss Roxy. "Things is bad enough in this world without two lone sisters
and church-members turnin' agin each other. You must take me as I am,
Ruey; my bark's worse than my bite, as you know."
Miss Ruey sank back pacified into her usual state of pillowy dependence;
it was so much easier to be good-natured than to contend. As for Miss
Roxy, if you have ever carefully examined a chestnut-burr, you will
remember that, hard as it is to handle, no plush of downiest texture can
exceed the satin smoothness of the fibres which line its heart. There
are a class of people in New England who betray the uprising of the
softer feelings of our nature only by an increase of outward asperity--a
sort of bashfulness and shyness leaves them no power of expression for
these unwonted guests of the heart--they hurry them into inner chambers
and slam the doors upon them, as if they were vexed at their appearance.
Now if poor Miss Roxy had been like you, my dear young lady--if her soul
had been encased in a round, rosy, and comely body, and looked out of
tender blue eyes shaded by golden hair, probably the grief and love she
felt would have shown themselves only in bursts of feeling most graceful
to see, and engaging the sympathy of all; but this same soul, imprisoned
in a dry, angular body, stiff and old, and looking out under beetling
eyebrows, over withered high cheek-bones, could only utter itself by a
passionate tempest--unlovely utterance of a lovely impulse--dear only to
Him who sees with a Father's heart the real beauty of spirits. It is our
firm faith that bright solemn angels in celestial watchings were
frequent guests in the homely room of the two sisters, and that passing
by all accidents of age and poverty, withered skins, bony features, and
grotesque movements and shabby clothing, they saw more real beauty there
than in many a scented boudoir where seeming angels smile in lace and
satin.
"Ruey," said Miss Roxy, in a more composed voice, while her hard, bony
hands still trembled with excitement, "this 'ere's been on my mind a
good while. I hain't said nothin' to nobody, but I've seen it a-comin'.
I always thought that child wa'n't for a long life. Lives is run in
different lengths, and nobody can say what's the matter with some folks,
only that their thread's run out; there's more on one spool and less on
another. I thought, when we laid Hitty in the grave, that I shouldn't
never set my heart on nothin' else--but we can't jest say we will or we
won't. Ef we are to be sorely afflicted at any time, the Lord lets us
set our hearts before we know it. This 'ere's a great affliction to me,
Ruey, but I must jest shoulder my cross and go through with it. I'm
goin' down to-night to tell the old folks, and to make arrangements so
that the poor little lamb may have the care she needs. She's been
a-keepin' up so long, 'cause she dreaded to let 'em know, but this 'ere
has got to be looked right in the face, and I hope there'll be grace
given to do it."
CHAPTER XXXVII
THE VICTORY
Meanwhile Mara had been lying in the passive calm of fatigue and
exhaustion, her eyes fixed on the window, where, as the white curtain
drew inward, she could catch glimpses of the bay. Gradually her eyelids
fell, and she dropped into that kind of half-waking doze, when the outer
senses are at rest, and the mind is all the more calm and clear for
their repose. In such hours a spiritual clairvoyance often seems to lift
for a while the whole stifling cloud that lies like a confusing mist
over the problem of life, and the soul has sudden glimpses of things
unutterable which lie beyond. Then the narrow straits, that look so full
of rocks and quicksands, widen into a broad, clear passage, and one
after another, rosy with a celestial dawn, and ringing silver bells of
gladness, the isles of the blessed lift themselves up on the horizon,
and the soul is flooded with an atmosphere of light and joy. As the
burden of Christian fell off at the cross and was lost in the sepulchre,
so in these hours of celestial vision the whole weight of life's anguish
is lifted, and passes away like a dream; and the soul, seeing the
boundless ocean of Divine love, wherein all human hopes and joys and
sorrows lie so tenderly upholden, comes and casts the one little drop of
its personal will and personal existence with gladness into that
Fatherly depth. Henceforth, with it, God and Saviour is no more word of
mine and thine, for in that hour the child of earth feels himself heir
of all things: "All things are yours, and ye are Christ's, and Christ is
God's."
       *       *       *       *       *
"The child is asleep," said Miss Roxy, as she stole on tiptoe into the
room when their noon meal was prepared. A plate and knife had been laid
for her, and they had placed for her a tumbler of quaint old engraved
glass, reputed to have been brought over from foreign parts, and which
had been given to Miss Roxy as her share in the effects of the
mysterious Mr. Swadkins. Tea also was served in some egg-like India
china cups, which saw the light only on the most high and festive
occasions.
"Hadn't you better wake her?" said Miss Ruey; "a cup of hot tea would do
her so much good."
Miss Ruey could conceive of few sorrows or ailments which would not be
materially better for a cup of hot tea. If not the very elixir of life,
it was indeed the next thing to it.
"Well," said Miss Roxy, after laying her hand for a moment with great
gentleness on that of the sleeping girl, "she don't wake easy, and she's
tired; and she seems to be enjoying it so. The Bible says, 'He giveth
his beloved sleep,' and I won't interfere. I've seen more good come of
sleep than most things in my nursin' experience," said Miss Roxy, and
she shut the door gently, and the two sisters sat down to their noontide
meal.
"How long the child does sleep!" said Miss Ruey as the old clock struck
four.
"It was too much for her, this walk down here," said Aunt Roxy. "She's
been doin' too much for a long time. I'm a-goin' to put an end to that.
Well, nobody needn't say Mara hain't got resolution. I never see a
little thing have more. She always did have, when she was the leastest
little thing. She was always quiet and white and still, but she did
whatever she sot out to."
At this moment, to their surprise, the door opened, and Mara came in,
and both sisters were struck with a change that had passed over her. It
was more than the result of mere physical repose. Not only had every
sign of weariness and bodily languor vanished, but there was about her
an air of solemn serenity and high repose that made her seem, as Miss
Ruey afterwards said, "like an angel jest walked out of the big Bible."
"Why, dear child, how you have slept, and how bright and rested you
look," said Miss Ruey.
"I am rested," said Mara; "oh how much! And happy," she added, laying
her little hand on Miss Roxy's shoulder. "I thank you, dear friend, for
all your kindness to me. I am sorry I made you feel so sadly; but now
you mustn't feel so any more, for all is well--yes, all is well. I see
now that it is so. I have passed beyond sorrow--yes, forever."
Soft-hearted Miss Ruey here broke into audible sobbing, hiding her face
in her hands, and looking like a tumbled heap of old faded calico in a
state of convulsion.
"Dear Aunt Ruey, you mustn't," said Mara, with a voice of gentle
authority. "We mustn't any of us feel so any more. There is no harm
done, no real evil is coming, only a good which we do not understand. I
am perfectly satisfied--perfectly at rest now. I was foolish and weak to
feel as I did this morning, but I shall not feel so any more. I shall
comfort you all. Is it anything so dreadful for me to go to heaven? How
little while it will be before you all come to me! Oh, how
little--little while!"
"I told you, Mara, that you'd be supported in the Lord's time," said
Miss Roxy, who watched her with an air of grave and solemn attention.
"First and last, folks allers is supported; but sometimes there is a
long wrestlin'. The Lord's give you the victory early."
"Victory!" said the girl, speaking as in a deep muse, and with a
mysterious brightness in her eyes; "yes, that is the word--it is a
victory--no other word expresses it. Come, Aunt Roxy, we will go home. I
am not afraid now to tell grandpapa and grandmamma. God will care for
them; He will wipe away all tears."
"Well, though, you mus'n't think of goin' till you've had a cup of tea,"
said Aunt Ruey, wiping her eyes. "I've kep' the tea-pot hot by the fire,
and you must eat a little somethin', for it's long past dinner-time."
"Is it?" said Mara. "I had no idea I had slept so long--how thoughtful
and kind you are!"
"I do wish I could only do more for you," said Miss Ruey. "I don't seem
to get reconciled no ways; it seems dreffle hard--dreffle; but I'm glad
you can feel so;" and the good old soul proceeded to press upon the
child not only the tea, which she drank with feverish relish, but every
hoarded dainty which their limited housekeeping commanded.
It was toward sunset before Miss Roxy and Mara started on their walk
homeward. Their way lay over the high stony ridge which forms the
central part of the island. On one side, through the pines, they looked
out into the boundless blue of the ocean, and on the other caught
glimpses of Harpswell Bay as it lay glorified in the evening light. The
fresh cool breeze blowing landward brought with it an invigorating
influence, which Mara felt through all her feverish frame. She walked
with an energy to which she had long been a stranger. She said little,
but there was a sweetness, a repose, in her manner contrasting
singularly with the passionate melancholy which she had that morning
expressed.
Miss Roxy did not interrupt her meditations. The nature of her
profession had rendered her familiar with all the changing mental and
physical phenomena that attend the development of disease and the
gradual loosening of the silver cords of a present life. Certain
well-understood phrases everywhere current among the mass of the people
in New England, strikingly tell of the deep foundations of religious
earnestness on which its daily life is built. "A triumphant death" was a
matter often casually spoken of among the records of the neighborhood;
and Miss Roxy felt that there was a vague and solemn charm about its
approach. Yet the soul of the gray, dry woman was hot within her, for
the conversation of the morning had probed depths in her own nature of
whose existence she had never before been so conscious. The roughest and
most matter-of-fact minds have a craving for the ideal somewhere; and
often this craving, forbidden by uncomeliness and ungenial surroundings
from having any personal history of its own, attaches itself to the
fortune of some other one in a kind of strange disinterestedness. Some
one young and beautiful is to live the life denied to them--to be the
poem and the romance; it is the young mistress of the poor black
slave--the pretty sister of the homely old spinster--or the clever son
of the consciously ill-educated father. Something of this unconscious
personal investment had there been on the part of Miss Roxy in the
nursling whose singular loveliness she had watched for so many years,
and on whose fair virgin orb she had marked the growing shadow of a
fatal eclipse, and as she saw her glowing and serene, with that peculiar
brightness that she felt came from no earthly presence or influence, she
could scarcely keep the tears from her honest gray eyes.
When they arrived at the door of the house, Zephaniah Pennel was sitting
in it, looking toward the sunset.
"Why, reely," he said, "Miss Roxy, we thought you must a-run away with
Mara; she's been gone a'most all day."
"I expect she's had enough to talk with Aunt Roxy about," said Mrs.
Pennel. "Girls goin' to get married have a deal to talk about, what with
patterns and contrivin' and makin' up. But come in, Miss Roxy; we're
glad to see you."
Mara turned to Miss Roxy, and gave her a look of peculiar meaning. "Aunt
Roxy," she said, "you must tell them what we have been talking about
to-day;" and then she went up to her room and shut the door.
Miss Roxy accomplished her task with a matter-of-fact distinctness to
which her business-like habits of dealing with sickness and death had
accustomed her, yet with a sympathetic tremor in her voice which
softened the hard directness of her words. "You can take her over to
Portland, if you say so, and get Dr. Wilson's opinion," she said, in
conclusion. "It's best to have all done that can be, though in my mind
the case is decided."
The silence that fell between the three was broken at last by the sound
of a light footstep descending the stairs, and Mara entered among them.
She came forward and threw her arms round Mrs. Pennel's neck, and kissed
her; and then turning, she nestled down in the arms of her old
grandfather, as she had often done in the old days of childhood, and
laid her hand upon his shoulder. There was no sound for a few moments
but one of suppressed weeping; but she did not weep--she lay with
bright calm eyes, as if looking upon some celestial vision.
"It is not so very sad," she said at last, in a gentle voice, "that I
should go there; you are going, too, and grandmamma; we are all going;
and we shall be forever with the Lord. Think of it! think of it!"
Many were the words spoken in that strange communing; and before Miss
Roxy went away, a calmness of solemn rest had settled down on all. The
old family Bible was brought forth, and Zephaniah Pennel read from it
those strange words of strong consolation, which take the sting from
death and the victory from the grave:--
"And I heard a great voice out of heaven. Behold the tabernacle of God
is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people;
and God himself shall be with them and be their God. And God shall wipe
away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death,
neither sorrow nor crying, for the former things are passed away."
CHAPTER XXXVIII
OPEN VISION
As Miss Roxy was leaving the dwelling of the Pennels, she met Sally
Kittridge coming toward the house, laughing and singing, as was her
wont. She raised her long, lean forefinger with a gesture of warning.
"What's the matter now, Aunt Roxy? You look as solemn as a hearse."
"None o' your jokin' now, Miss Sally; there is such a thing as serious
things in this 'ere world of our'n, for all you girls never seems to
know it."
"What is the matter, Aunt Roxy?--has anything happened?--is anything the
matter with Mara?"
"Matter enough. I've known it a long time," said Miss Roxy. "She's been
goin' down for three months now; and she's got that on her that will
carry her off before the year's out."
"Pshaw, Aunt Roxy! how lugubriously you old nurses always talk! I hope
now you haven't been filling Mara's head with any such notions--people
can be frightened into anything."
"Sally Kittridge, don't be a-talkin' of what you don't know nothin'
about! It stands to reason that a body that was bearin' the heat and
burden of the day long before you was born or thought on in this world
should know a thing or two more'n you. Why, I've laid you on your
stomach and trotted you to trot up the wind many a day, and I was pretty
experienced then, and it ain't likely that I'm a-goin' to take sa'ce
from you. Mara Pennel is a gal as has every bit and grain as much
resolution and ambition as you have, for all you flap your wings and
crow so much louder, and she's one of the close-mouthed sort, that don't
make no talk, and she's been a-bearin' up and bearin' up, and comin' to
me on the sly for strengthenin' things. She's took camomile and
orange-peel, and snake-root and boneset, and dash-root and
dandelion--and there hain't nothin' done her no good. She told me to-day
she couldn't keep up no longer, and I've been a-tellin' Mis' Pennel and
her grand'ther. I tell you it has been a solemn time; and if you're
goin' in, don't go in with none o' your light triflin' ways, 'cause 'as
vinegar upon nitre is he that singeth songs on a heavy heart,' the
Scriptur' says."
"Oh, Miss Roxy, do tell me truly," said Sally, much moved. "What do you
think is the matter with Mara? I've noticed myself that she got tired
easy, and that she was short-breathed--but she seemed so cheerful. Can
anything really be the matter?"
"It's consumption, Sally Kittridge," said Miss Roxy, "neither more nor
less; that ar is the long and the short. They're going to take her over
to Portland to see Dr. Wilson--it won't do no harm, and it won't do no
good."
"You seem to be determined she shall die," said Sally in a tone of
pique.
"Determined, am I? Is it I that determines that the maple leaves shall
fall next October? Yet I know they will--folks can't help knowin' what
they know, and shuttin' one's eyes won't alter one's road. I s'pose you
think 'cause you're young and middlin' good-lookin' that you have
feelin's and I hasn't; well, you're mistaken, that's all. I don't
believe there's one person in the world that would go farther or do more
to save Mara Pennel than I would,--and yet I've been in the world long
enough to see that livin' ain't no great shakes neither. Ef one is
hopefully prepared in the days of their youth, why they escape a good
deal, ef they get took cross-lots into heaven."
Sally turned away thoughtfully into the house; there was no one in the
kitchen, and the tick of the old clock sounded lonely and sepulchral.
She went upstairs to Mara's room; the door was ajar. Mara was sitting at
the open window that looked forth toward the ocean, busily engaged in
writing. The glow of evening shone on the golden waves of her hair, and
tinged the pearly outline of her cheek. Sally noticed the translucent
clearness of her complexion, and the deep burning color and the
transparency of the little hands, which seemed as if they might transmit
the light like Sèvres porcelain. She was writing with an expression of
tender calm, and sometimes stopping to consult an open letter that Sally
knew came from Moses.
So fair and sweet and serene she looked that a painter might have chosen
her for an embodiment of twilight, and one might not be surprised to see
a clear star shining out over her forehead. Yet in the tender serenity
of the face there dwelt a pathos of expression that spoke of struggles
and sufferings past, like the traces of tears on the face of a restful
infant that has grieved itself to sleep.
Sally came softly in on tiptoe, threw her arms around her, and kissed
her, with a half laugh, then bursting into tears, sobbed upon her
shoulder.
"Dear Sally, what is the matter?" said Mara, looking up.
"Oh, Mara, I just met Miss Roxy, and she told me"--
Sally only sobbed passionately.
"It is very sad to make all one's friends so unhappy," said Mara, in a
soothing voice, stroking Sally's hair. "You don't know how much I have
suffered dreading it. Sally, it is a long time since I began to expect
and dread and fear. My time of anguish was then--then when I first felt
that it could be possible that I should not live after all. There was a
long time I dared not even think of it; I could not even tell such a
fear to myself; and I did far more than I felt able to do to convince
myself that I was not weak and failing. I have been often to Miss Roxy,
and once, when nobody knew it, I went to a doctor in Brunswick, but then
I was afraid to tell him half, lest he should say something about me,
and it should get out; and so I went on getting worse and worse, and
feeling every day as if I could not keep up, and yet afraid to lie down
for fear grandmamma would suspect me. But this morning it was pleasant
and bright, and something came over me that said I must tell somebody,
and so, as it was cool and pleasant, I walked up to Aunt Roxy's and told
her. I thought, you know, that she knew the most, and would feel it the
least; but oh, Sally, she has such a feeling heart, and loves me so; it
is strange she should."
"Is it?" said Sally, tightening her clasp around Mara's neck; and then
with a hysterical shadow of gayety she said, "I suppose you think that
you are such a hobgoblin that nobody could be expected to do that. After
all, though, I should have as soon expected roses to bloom in a juniper
clump as love from Aunt Roxy."
"Well, she does love me," said Mara. "No mother could be kinder. Poor
thing, she really sobbed and cried when I told her. I was very tired,
and she told me she would take care of me, and tell grandpapa and
grandmamma,--that had been lying on my heart as such a dreadful thing
to do,--and she laid me down to rest on her bed, and spoke so lovingly
to me! I wish you could have seen her. And while I lay there, I fell
into a strange, sweet sort of rest. I can't describe it; but since then
everything has been changed. I wish I could tell any one how I saw
things then."
"Do try to tell me, Mara," said Sally, "for I need comfort too, if there
is any to be had."
"Well, then, I lay on the bed, and the wind drew in from the sea and
just lifted the window-curtain, and I could see the sea shining and hear
the waves making a pleasant little dash, and then my head seemed to
swim. I thought I was walking out by the pleasant shore, and everything
seemed so strangely beautiful, and grandpapa and grandmamma were there,
and Moses had come home, and you were there, and we were all so happy.
And then I felt a sort of strange sense that something was coming--some
great trial or affliction--and I groaned and clung to Moses, and asked
him to put his arm around me and hold me.
"Then it seemed to be not by our seashore that this was happening, but
by the Sea of Galilee, just as it tells about it in the Bible, and there
were fishermen mending their nets, and men sitting counting their money,
and I saw Jesus come walking along, and heard him say to this one and
that one, 'Leave all and follow me,' and it seemed that the moment he
spoke they did it, and then he came to me, and I felt his eyes in my
very soul, and he said, 'Wilt thou leave all and follow me?' I
cannot tell now what a pain I felt--what an anguish. I wanted to leave
all, but my heart felt as if it were tied and woven with a thousand
threads, and while I waited he seemed to fade away, and I found myself
then alone and unhappy, wishing that I could, and mourning that I had
not; and then something shone out warm like the sun, and I looked up,
and he stood there looking pitifully, and he said again just as he did
before, 'Wilt thou leave all and follow me?' Every word was so gentle
and full of pity, and I looked into his eyes and could not look away;
they drew me, they warmed me, and I felt a strange, wonderful sense of
his greatness and sweetness. It seemed as if I felt within me cord after
cord breaking, I felt so free, so happy; and I said, 'I will, I will,
with all my heart;' and I woke then, so happy, so sure of God's love.
"I saw so clearly how his love is in everything, and these words came
into my mind as if an angel had spoken them, 'God shall wipe away all
tears from their eyes.' Since then I cannot be unhappy. I was so myself
only this morning, and now I wonder that any one can have a grief when
God is so loving and good, and cares so sweetly for us all. Why, Sally,
if I could see Christ and hear him speak, I could not be more certain
that he will make this sorrow such a blessing to us all that we shall
never be able to thank him enough for it."
"Oh Mara," said Sally, sighing deeply, while her cheek was wet with
tears, "it is beautiful to hear you talk; but there is one that I am
sure will not and cannot feel so."
"God will care for him," said Mara; "oh, I am sure of it; He is love
itself, and He values his love in us, and He never, never would have
brought such a trial, if it had not been the true and only way to our
best good. We shall not shed one needless tear. Yes, if God loved us so
that he spared not his own Son, he will surely give us all the good here
that we possibly can have without risking our eternal happiness."
"You are writing to Moses, now?" said Sally.
"Yes, I am answering his letter; it is so full of spirit and life and
hope--but all hope in this world--all, all earthly, as much as if there
was no God and no world to come. Sally, perhaps our Father saw that I
could not have strength to live with him and keep my faith. I should be
drawn by him earthward instead of drawing him heavenward; and so this is
in mercy to us both."
"And are you telling him the whole truth, Mara?"
"Not all, no," said Mara; "he could not bear it at once. I only tell him
that my health is failing, and that my friends are seriously alarmed,
and then I speak as if it were doubtful, in my mind, what the result
might be."
"I don't think you can make him feel as you do. Moses Pennel has a
tremendous will, and he never yielded to any one. You bend, Mara, like
the little blue harebells, and so the storm goes over you; but he will
stand up against it, and it will wrench and shatter him. I am afraid,
instead of making him better, it will only make him bitter and
rebellious."
"He has a Father in heaven who knows how to care for him," said Mara. "I
am persuaded--I feel certain that he will be blessed in the end; not
perhaps in the time and way I should have chosen, but in the end. I have
always felt that he was mine, ever since he came a little shipwrecked
boy to me--a little girl. And now I have given him up to his Saviour and
my Saviour--to his God and my God--and I am perfectly at peace. All will
be well."
