incident with no start or shiver of the nerves. To her it seemed a
providential token, which would probably bring to her some further
knowledge of this mysterious being who had been so especially confided
to her intercessions.
Agnes had learned of the Superior of the Convent the art of reading
writing, which would never have been the birthright of the peasant-girl
in her times, and the moon had that dazzling clearness which revealed
every letter. She stood by the parapet, one hand lying in the white
blossoming alyssum which filled its marble crevices, while she read and
seriously pondered the contents of the paper.
TO AGNES
        Sweet saint, sweet lady, may a sinful soul
        Approach thee with an offering of love,
        And lay at thy dear feet a weary heart
        That loves thee, as it loveth God above?
        If blessed Mary may without a stain
        Receive the love of sinners most defiled,
        If the fair saints that walk with her in white
        Refuse not love from earth's most guilty child,
        Shouldst thou, sweet lady, then that love deny
        Which all-unworthy at thy feet is laid?
        Ah, gentlest angel, be not more severe
        Than the dear heavens unto a loving prayer!
        Howe'er unworthily that prayer be said,
        Let thine acceptance be like that on high!
There might have been times in Agnes's life when the reception of this
note would have astonished and perplexed her; but the whole strain of
thought and conversation this evening had been in exalted and poetical
regions, and the soft stillness of the hour, the wonderful calmness
and clearness of the moonlight, all seemed in unison with the strange
incident that had occurred, and with the still stranger tenor of the
paper. The soft melancholy, half-religious tone of it was in accordance
with the whole undercurrent of her life, and prevented that start of
alarm which any homage of a more worldly form might have excited.
It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that she read it many times
with pauses and intervals of deep thought, and then with a movement
of natural and girlish curiosity examined the rich jewel which had
enclosed it. At last, seeming to collect her thoughts, she folded the
paper and replaced it in its sparkling casket, and, unlocking the door
of the shrine, laid the gem with its enclosure beneath the lily-spray,
as another offering to the Madonna. "Dear Mother," she said, "if indeed
it be so, may he rise from loving me to loving thee and thy dear Son,
who is Lord of all! Amen!" Thus praying, she locked the door and turned
thoughtfully to her repose, leaving the monk pacing up and down in the
moonlit garden.
Meanwhile the cavalier was standing on the velvet mossy bridge which
spanned the stream at the bottom of the gorge, watching the play of
moonbeams on layer after layer of tremulous silver foliage in the
clefts of the black, rocky walls on either side. The moon rode so
high in the deep violet-colored sky, that her beams came down almost
vertically, making green and translucent the leaves through which they
passed, and throwing strongly marked shadows here and there on the
flower-embroidered moss of the old bridge. There was that solemn,
plaintive stillness in the air which makes the least sound--the hum
of an insect's wing, the cracking of a twig, the patter of falling
water--so distinct and impressive.
It needs not to be explained how the cavalier, following the steps of
Agnes and her grandmother at a distance, had threaded the path by which
they ascended to their little sheltered nook,--how he had lingered
within hearing of Agnes's voice, and, moving among the surrounding
rocks and trees, and drawing nearer and nearer as evening shadows drew
on, had listened to the conversation, hoping that some unexpected
chance might gain him a moment's speech with his enchantress.
The reader will have gathered from the preceding chapter that the
conception which Agnes had formed as to the real position of her
admirer from the reports of Giulietta was false, and that in reality
he was not Lord Adrian, the brother of the King, but an outcast and
landless representative of one branch of an ancient and noble Roman
family, whose estates had been confiscated and whose relations had
been murdered, to satisfy the boundless rapacity of Cæsar Borgia, the
infamous favorite of the notorious Alexander VI.
The natural temperament of Agostino Sarelli had been rather that of the
poet and artist than of the warrior. In the beautiful gardens of his
ancestral home it had been his delight to muse over the pages of Dante;
to sing to the lute, and to write, in the facile flowing rhyme of his
native Italian, the fancies of the dreamland of his youth.
He was the younger brother of the family,--the favorite son and
companion of his mother, who, being of a tender and religious nature,
had brought him up in habits of the most implicit reverence and
devotion for the institutions of his fathers.
The storm which swept over his house, and blasted all his worldly
prospects, blasted, too, and withered all those religious hopes and
beliefs by which alone sensitive and affectionate natures can be healed
of the wounds of adversity without leaving distortion or scar. For his
house had been overthrown, his elder brother cruelly and treacherously
murdered, himself and his retainers robbed and cast out, by a man
who had the entire sanction and support of the Head of the Christian
Church, the Vicar of Christ on Earth. So said the current belief of his
times,--the faith in which his sainted mother died; and the difficulty
with which a man breaks away from such ties is in exact proportion to
the refinement and elevation of his nature.
In the mind of our young nobleman there was a double current. He was a
Roman, and the traditions of his house went back to the time of Mutius
Scævola; and his old nurse had often told him that grand story of how
the young hero stood with his right hand in the fire rather than betray
his honor. If the legends of Rome's ancient heroes cause the pulses of
colder climes and alien races to throb with sympathetic heroism, what
must their power be to one who says, "These were my fathers"? Agostino
read Plutarch, and thought, "I, too, am a Roman!" and then he looked
on the power that held sway over the Tarpeian Rock and the halls of
the old "Sanctus Senatus," and asked himself, "By what right does it
hold these?" He knew full well that in the popular belief all those
hardy and virtuous old Romans whose deeds of heroism so transported him
were burning in hell for the crime of having been born before Christ;
and he asked himself, as he looked on the horrible and unnatural
luxury and vice which defiled the Papal chair and ran riot through
every ecclesiastical order, whether such men, without faith, without
conscience, and without even decency, were indeed the only authorized
successors of Christ and his Apostles?
To us, of course, from our modern standpoint, the question has an
easy solution,--but not so in those days, when the Christianity of the
known world was in the Romish church, and when the choice seemed to be
between that and infidelity. Not yet had Luther flared aloft the bold,
cheery torch which showed the faithful how to disentangle Christianity
from Ecclesiasticism. Luther in those days was a star lying low in the
gray horizon of a yet unawakened dawn.
All through Italy at this time there was the restless throbbing and
pulsating, the aimless outreach of the popular heart, which marks
the decline of one cycle of religious faith and calls for some great
awakening and renewal. Savonarola, the priest and prophet of this dumb
desire, was beginning to heave a great heart of conflict towards that
mighty struggle with the vices and immoralities of his time in which he
was yet to sink a martyr; and even now his course was beginning to be
obstructed by the full energy of the whole aroused serpent brood which
hissed and knotted in the holy places of Rome.
Here, then, was our Agostino, with a nature intensely fervent and
poetic, every fibre of whose soul and nervous system had been from
childhood skillfully woven and intertwined with the ritual and faith
of his fathers, yearning towards the grave of his mother, yearning
towards the legends of saints and angels with which she had lulled his
cradle slumbers and sanctified his childhood's pillow, and yet burning
with the indignation of a whole line of old Roman ancestors against
an injustice and oppression wrought under the full approbation of the
head of that religion. Half his nature was all the while battling
the other half. Would he be Roman, or would he be Christian? All the
Roman in him said "No!" when he thought of submission to the patent
and open injustice and fiendish tyranny which had disinherited him,
slain his kindred, and held its impure reign by torture and by blood.
He looked on the splendid snow-crowned mountains whose old silver
senate engirdles Rome with an eternal and silent majesty of presence,
and he thought how often in ancient times they had been a shelter to
free blood that would not endure oppression; and so gathering to his
banner the crushed and scattered retainers of his father's house, and
offering refuge and protection to multitudes of others whom the crimes
and rapacities of the Borgias had stripped of possessions and means
of support, he fled to a fastness in the mountains between Rome and
Naples, and became an independent chieftain, living by his sword.
The rapacity, cruelty, and misgovernment of the various regular
authorities of Italy at this time made brigandage a respectable and
honored institution in the eyes of the people, though it was ostensibly
banned both by Pope and Prince. Besides, in the multitude of contending
factions which were every day wrangling for supremacy, it soon became
apparent, even to the ruling authorities, that a band of fighting men
under a gallant leader, advantageously posted in the mountains and
understanding all their passes, was a power of no small importance
to be employed on one side or the other; and therefore it happened,
that, though nominally outlawed or excommunicated, they were secretly
protected on both sides, with a view to securing their assistance in
critical turns of affairs.
Among the common people of the towns and villages their relations were
of the most comfortable kind, their depredations being chiefly confined
to the rich and prosperous, who, as they wrung their wealth out of the
people, were not considered particular objects of compassion when the
same kind of high-handed treatment was extended toward themselves.
The most spirited and brave of the young peasantry, if they wished to
secure the smiles of the girls of their neighborhood, and win hearts
past redemption, found no surer avenue to favor than in joining the
brigands. The leaders of these bands sometimes piqued themselves on
elegant tastes and accomplishments; and one of them is said to have
sent to the poet Tasso, in his misfortunes and exile, an offer of
honorable asylum and protection in his mountain fortress.
Agostino Sarelli saw himself, in fact, a powerful chief, and there were
times when the splendid scenery of his mountain fastness, its inspiring
air, its wild eagle-like grandeur, independence, and security, gave
him a proud contentment, and he looked at his sword and loved it as
a bride. But then again there were moods in which he felt all that
yearning and disquiet of soul which the man of wide and tender moral
organization must feel who has had his faith shaken in the religion of
his fathers. To such a man the quarrel with his childhood's faith is a
never-ending anguish; especially is it so with a religion so objective,
so pictorial, and so interwoven with the whole physical and nervous
nature of man, as that which grew up and flowered in modern Italy.
Agostino was like a man who lives in an eternal struggle of
self-justification,--his reason forever going over and over with
its plea before his regretful and never-satisfied heart, which was
drawn every hour of the day by some chain of memory towards the
faith whose visible administrators he detested with the whole force
of his moral being. When the vesper-bell, with its plaintive call,
rose amid the purple shadows of the olive-silvered mountains,--when
the distant voices of chanting priest and choir reached him solemnly
from afar,--when he looked into a church with its cloudy pictures of
angels, and its window-panes flaming with venerable forms of saints
and martyrs,--it roused a yearning anguish, a pain and conflict, which
all the efforts of his reason could not subdue. How to be a Christian
and yet defy the authorized Head of the Christian Church, or how to
be a Christian and recognize foul men of obscene and rapacious deeds
as Christ's representatives, was the inextricable Gordian knot, which
his sword could not divide. He dared not approach the Sacrament, he
dared not pray, and sometimes he felt wild impulses to tread down in
riotous despair every fragment of a religious belief which seemed to
live in his heart only to torture him. He had heard priests scoff over
the wafer they consecrated,--he had known them to mingle poison for
rivals in the sacramental wine,--and yet God had kept silence and not
struck them dead; and like the Psalmist of old he said, "Verily, I have
cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency. Is there a
God that judgeth in the earth?"
The first time he saw Agnes bending like a flower in the slanting
evening sunbeams by the old gate of Sorrento, while he stood looking
down the kneeling street and striving to hold his own soul in the
sarcastic calm of utter indifference, he felt himself struck to the
heart by an influence he could not define. The sight of that young
face, with its clear, beautiful lines, and its tender fervor, recalled
a thousand influences of the happiest and purest hours of his life, and
drew him with an attraction he vainly strove to hide under an air of
mocking gallantry.
When she looked him in the face with such grave, surprised eyes of
innocent confidence, and promised to pray for him, he felt a remorseful
tenderness as if he had profaned a shrine. All that was passionate,
poetic, and romantic in his nature was awakened to blend itself in a
strange mingling of despairing sadness and of tender veneration about
this sweet image of perfect purity and faith. Never does love strike
so deep and immediate a root as in a sorrowful and desolated nature;
there it has nothing to dispute the soil, and soon fills it with its
interlacing fibres.
In this case it was not merely Agnes that he sighed for, but she stood
to him as the fair symbol of that life-peace, that rest of soul which
he had lost, it seemed to him, forever.
"Behold this pure, believing child," he said to himself,--"a true
member of that blessed Church to which thou art a rebel! How peacefully
this lamb walketh the old ways trodden by saints and martyrs, while
thou art an infidel and unbeliever!" And then a stern voice within him
answered, "What then? Is the Holy Ghost indeed alone dispensed through
the medium of Alexander and his scarlet crew of cardinals? Hath the
power to bind and loose in Christ's Church been indeed given to whoever
can buy it with the wages of robbery and oppression? Why does every
prayer and pious word of the faithful reproach me? Why is God silent?
Or is there any God? Oh, Agnes, Agnes! dear lily! fair lamb! lead a
sinner into the green pastures where thou restest!"
So wrestled the strong nature, tempest-tossed in its strength,--so
slept the trustful, blessed in its trust,--then in Italy, as now in all
lands.
CHAPTER X
THE INTERVIEW
The dreams of Agnes, on the night after her conversation with the monk
and her singular momentary interview with the cavalier, were a strange
mixture of images, indicating the peculiarities of her education and
habits of daily thought.
She dreamed that she was sitting alone in the moonlight, and heard some
one rustling in the distant foliage of the orange groves, and from
them came a young man dressed in white of a dazzling clearness like
sunlight; large pearly wings fell from his shoulders and seemed to
shimmer with a phosphoric radiance; his forehead was broad and grave,
and above it floated a thin, tremulous tongue of flame; his eyes had
that deep, mysterious gravity which is so well expressed in all the
Florentine paintings of celestial beings; and yet, singularly enough,
this white-robed, glorified form seemed to have the features and
lineaments of the mysterious cavalier of the evening before,--the same
deep, mournful dark eyes, only that in them the light of earthly pride
had given place to the calm, strong gravity of an assured peace,--the
same broad forehead,--the same delicately chiseled features, but
elevated and etherealized, glowing with a kind of interior ecstasy.
He seemed to move from the shadow of the orange trees with a backward
floating of his lustrous garments, as if borne on a cloud just along
the surface of the ground; and in his hand he held the lily spray, all
radiant with a silvery, living light, just as the monk had suggested
to her a divine flower might be. Agnes seemed to herself to hold her
breath and marvel with a secret awe, and as often happens in dreams,
she wondered to herself, "Was this stranger, then, indeed, not even
mortal, not even a king's brother, but an angel? How strange," she said
to herself, "that I should never have seen it in his eyes!" Nearer
and nearer the vision drew, and touched her forehead with the lily,
which seemed dewy and icy cool; and with the contact it seemed to her
that a delicious tranquillity, a calm ecstasy, possessed her soul, and
the words were impressed in her mind, as if spoken in her ear, "The
Lord hath sealed thee for his own!"--and then, with the wild fantasy
of dreams, she saw the cavalier in his wonted form and garments, just
as he had kneeled to her the night before, and he said, "Oh, Agnes!
Agnes! little lamb of Christ, love me and lead me!"--and in her sleep
it seemed to her that her heart stirred and throbbed with a strange,
new movement in answer to those sad, pleading eyes, and thereafter her
dream became more troubled.
The sea was beginning now to brighten with the reflection of the coming
dawn in the sky, and the flickering fire of Vesuvius was waxing sickly
and pale; and while all the high points of rocks were turning of a rosy
purple, in the weird depths of the gorge were yet the unbroken shadows
and stillness of night. But at the earliest peep of dawn the monk had
risen, and now, as he paced up and down the little garden, his morning
hymn mingled with Agnes's dreams,--words strong with all the nerve of
the old Latin, which, when they were written, had scarcely ceased to be
the spoken tongue of Italy.
        "Splendor paternæ gloriæ,
        De luce lucem proferens,
        Lux lucis et fons luminis,
        Dies diem illuminans!
        "Votis vocemus et Patrem,
        Patrem potentis gratiæ,
        Patrem perennis gloriæ:
        Culpam releget lubricam!
        "Confirmet actus strenuos,
        Dentes retundat invidi,
        Casus secundet asperos,
        Donet gerendi gratiam!
        "Christus nobis sit cibus,
        Potusque noster sit fides:
        Læti bibamus sobriam
        Ebrietatem spiritus!
        "Lætus dies hic transeat,
        Pudor sit ut diluculum,
        Fides velut meridies.
        Crepusculum mens nesciat!"[3]
        [3] Splendor of the Father's glory,
              Bringing light with cheering ray,
            Light of light and fount of brightness,
              Day, illuminating day!
            In our prayers we call thee Father,
              Father of eternal glory,
            Father of a mighty grace:
              Heal our errors, we implore thee!
            Form our struggling, vague desires;
              Power of spiteful spirits break;
            Help us in life's straits, and give us
              Grace to suffer for thy sake!
            Christ for us shall be our food;
              Faith in him our drink shall be;
            Hopeful, joyful, let us drink
              Soberness of ecstasy!
            Joyful shall our day go by,
              Purity its dawning light,
            Faith its fervid noontide glow,
              And for us shall be no night!
The hymn in every word well expressed the character and habitual pose
of mind of the singer, whose views of earthly matters were as different
from the views of ordinary working mortals as those of a bird, as he
flits and perches and sings, must be from those of the four-footed
ox who plods. The "sobriam ebrietatem spiritus" was with him first
constitutional, as a child of sunny skies, and then cultivated by every
employment and duty of the religious and artistic career to which from
childhood he had devoted himself. If perfect, unalloyed happiness has
ever existed in this weary, work-day world of ours, it has been in
the bosoms of some of those old religious artists of the Middle Ages,
whose thoughts grew and flowered in prayerful shadows, bursting into
thousands of quaint and fanciful blossoms on the pages of missal and
breviary. In them the fine life of color, form, and symmetry, which is
the gift of the Italian, formed a rich stock on which to graft the true
vine of religious faith, and rare and fervid were the blossoms.
For it must be remarked in justice of the Christian religion, that the
Italian people never rose to the honors of originality in the beautiful
arts till inspired by Christianity. The Art of ancient Rome was a
second-hand copy of the original and airy Greek,--often clever, but
never vivid and self-originating. It is to the religious Art of the
Middle Ages, to the Umbrian and Florentine schools particularly, that
we look for the peculiar and characteristic flowering of the Italian
mind. When the old Greek Art revived again in modern Europe, though at
first it seemed to add richness and grace to this peculiar development,
it smothered and killed it at last, as some brilliant tropical parasite
exhausts the life of the tree it seems at first to adorn. Raphael
and Michel Angelo mark both the perfected splendor and the commenced
decline of original Italian Art; and just in proportion as their ideas
grew less Christian and more Greek did the peculiar vividness and
intense flavor of Italian nationality pass away from them. They became
again like the ancient Romans, gigantic imitators and clever copyists,
instead of inspired kings and priests of a national development.
The tones of the monk's morning hymn awakened both Agnes and Elsie, and
the latter was on the alert instantly.
"Bless my soul!" she said, "brother Antonio has a marvelous power of
lungs; he is at it the first thing in the morning. It always used to be
so; when he was a boy, he would wake me up before daylight singing."
"He is happy, like the birds," said Agnes, "because he flies near
heaven."
"Like enough: he was always a pious boy; his prayers and his pencil
were ever uppermost: but he was a poor hand at work: he could draw you
an olive-tree on paper; but set him to dress it, and any fool would
have done better."
The morning rites of devotion and the simple repast being over, Elsie
prepared to go to her business. It had occurred to her that the visit
of her brother was an admirable pretext for withdrawing Agnes from the
scene of her daily traffic, and of course, as she fondly supposed,
keeping her from the sight of the suspected admirer.
Neither Agnes nor the monk had disturbed her serenity by recounting
the adventure of the evening before. Agnes had been silent from the
habitual reserve which a difference of nature ever placed between her
and her grandmother,--a difference which made confidence on her side
an utter impossibility. There are natures which ever must be silent to
other natures, because there is no common language between them. In the
same house, at the same board, sharing the same pillow even, are those
forever strangers and foreigners, whose whole stock of intercourse is
limited to a few brief phrases on the commonest material wants of life,
and who, as soon as they try to go farther, have no words that are
mutually understood.
"Agnes," said her grandmother, "I shall not need you at the stand
to-day. There is that new flax to be spun, and you may keep company
with your uncle. I'll warrant me, you'll be glad enough of that!"
"Certainly I shall," said Agnes, cheerfully. "Uncle's comings are my
holidays."
"I will show you somewhat further on my Breviary," said the monk.
"Praised be God, many new ideas sprang up in my mind last night, and
seemed to shoot forth in blossoms. Even my dreams have often been made
fruitful in this divine work."
"Many a good thought comes in dreams," said Elsie; "but, for my part, I
work too hard and sleep too sound to get much that way."
