legends and modern lights, which would keep its memory green when
many a gayer spot was quite forgotten. Anything based upon common
sense found favor with the inhabitants, and Dr. Turner’s theories,
being eminently so, were accepted at once and energetically carried
out. A sort of heathen revival took place, for even the ministers
and deacons turned Musclemen; old ladies tossed bean-bags till their
caps were awry, and winter roses blossomed on their cheeks;
school-children proved the worth of the old proverb, “An ounce of
prevention is worth a pound of cure,” by getting their backs ready
before the burdens came; pale girls grew blithe and strong swinging
their dumb namesakes; and jolly lads marched to and fro embracing
clubs as if longevity were corked up in those wooden bottles, and
they all took “modest quenchers” by the way.
August Bopp, the new leader of the class, was a German possessing
but a small stock of English, though a fine gynmast; and, being also
a bashful man, the appointed moment had no sooner arrived than he
found his carefully prepared sentences slipping away from his memory
as the ice appears to do from under unhappy souls first mounted upon
skates. An awful silence reigned; Mr. Bopp glanced nervously over
his shoulder at the staring rows, more appalling in their stillness
than if they had risen up and hooted at him, then piling up the bags
for the seventh time, he gave himself a mental shake, and, with a
crimson visage, was about to launch his first “Ladees und
gentlemen,” when the door opened, and a small, merry-faced figure
appeared, looking quite at ease in the novel dress, as, with a
comprehensive nod, it marched straight across the hall to its place
among the weaker vessels.
A general glance of approbation followed from the gentlemen’s side,
a welcoming murmur ran along the ladies’, and the fifty pairs of
eyes changed their focus for a moment. Taking advantage of which,
Mr. Bopp righted himself, and burst out with a decided,--
“Ladees und gentlemen: the time have arrived that we shall begin.
Will the gentlemen serve the ladees to a wand, each one, then spread
theirselves about the hall, and follow the motions I will make as I
shall count.”
Five minutes of chaos, then all fell into order, and nothing was
heard but the leader’s voice and the stir of many bodies moving
simultaneously. An uninitiated observer would have thought himself
in Bedlam; for as the evening wore on, the laws of society seemed
given to the winds, and humanity gone mad. Bags flew in all
directions, clubs hurtled through the air, and dumb-bells played a
castinet accompaniment to peals of laughter that made better music
than any band. Old and young gave themselves up to the universal
merriment, and, setting dignity aside, played like happy-hearted
children for an hour. Stout Dr. Quackenboss gasped twice round the
hall on one toe; stately Mrs. Primmins ran like a girl of fifteen to
get her pins home before her competitor; Tommy Inches, four feet
three, trotted away with Deacon Stone on his shoulder, while Mr.
Steepleton and Miss Maypole hopped together like a pair of lively
young ostriches, and Ned Amandine, the village beau, blew arrows
through a pop-gun, like a modern Cupid in pegtops instead of
pinions.
The sprightly young lady whose entrance had been so opportune seemed
a universal favorite, and was overwhelmed with invitations to “bag,”
 “hop,” and “blow” from the gentlemen who hovered about her,
cheerfully distorting themselves to the verge of dislocation in
order to win a glance of approbation from the merry black eyes which
were the tapers where all these muscular moths singed their wings.
Mr. Bopp had never seen such a little piece of earnestness before,
and began to think the young lady must be training for a boat-race
or the ring. Her dumb-bells flew about till a pair of white arms
looked like the sails of a windmill; she hit out from the shoulder
with a vigor that would have done execution had there been anything
but empty air to “punish;” and the “one, two, three!” of the Zouave
movement went off with a snap; while the color deepened from pink to
scarlet in her cheeks, the black braids tumbled down upon her
shoulders, and the clasp of her belt flew asunder; but her eye
seldom left the leader’s face, and she followed every motion with an
agility and precision quite inspiring. Mr. Bopp’s courage rose as he
watched her, and a burning desire to excel took possession of him,
till he felt as if his muscles were made of India-rubber, and his
nerves of iron. He went into his work heart and soul, shaking a
brown mane out of his eyes, issuing commands like general at the
head of his troops, and keeping both interest and fun in full blast
till people laughed who had not laughed heartily for years; lungs
got their fill for once, unsuspected muscles were suddenly
developed, and, when the clock struck ten, all were bubbling over
with that innocent jollity which makes youth worth possessing, and
its memory the sunshine of old age.
The last exercise was drawing to a close, and a large ring of
respectable members of society were violently sitting down and
rising up in a manner which would have scandalized Miss Wilhelmina
Carolina Amelia S. Keggs to the last degree, when Mr. Bopp was seen
to grow very pale, and drop in a manner which it was evident his
pupils were not expected to follow.
At this unexpected performance, the gentlemen took advantage of
their newly-acquired agility to fly over all obstacles and swarm on
to the platform, while the ladies successfully lessened their
unusual bloom by staring wildly at one another and suggesting awful
impossibilities. The bustle subsided, as suddenly as it arose; and
Mr. Bopp, rather damp about the head and dizzy about the eye, but
quite composed, appeared, saying, with the broken English and
appealing manner which caused all the ladies to pronounce him “a
dear” on the spot,--
“I hope you will excoose me for making this lesson to be more short
than it should; but I have exercise nine hours this day, and being
just got well from a illness, I have not recover the strength I have
lost. Next week I shall be able to take time by the hair, so that I
will not have so much engagements in one day. I thank you for your
kindness, and say good-efening.”
After a round of applause, as a last vent for their spirits, the
class dispersed, and Mr. Bopp was wrestling with a vicious pin as he
put on his collar (“a sure sign he has no ma to see to his buttons,
poor lamb!” thought Mrs. Fairbairn, watching him from afar); when
the sprightly young lady, accompanied by a lad the masculine image
of herself, appeared upon the platform, saying, with an aspect as
cordial as her words,--
“Good-evening, Professor. Allow me to introduce my brother and
myself, Dick and Dolly Ward, and ask you in my mother’s name, to
come home with us; for the tavern is not a cosy place, and after all
this exertion you should be made comfortable. Please come, for Dr.
Turner always stayed with us, and we promised to do the honors of
the town to any gentleman he might send to supply his place.”
“Of course we did; and mother is probably freezing her blessed nose
off watching for us; so don’t disappoint her, Bopp. It’s all
settled, the sleigh’s at the door, and here’s your coat; so, come
on!”
Dick was a fine sample of young America in its best aspect, and
would have said “How are you?” to Louis Napoleon if he had been at
hand, and have done it so heartily that the great Frenchman would
have found it hard to resist giving as frank an answer. Therefore no
wonder that Mr. Bopp surrendered at once; for the young gentleman
took possession of him bodily, and shook him into his coat with an
amiable impetuosity which developed a sudden rent in the well-worn
sleeve thereof, and caused an expression of dismay, to dawn upon the
owner’s countenance.
“Beg pardon; never mind; mother’ll sew you up in two seconds, and
your overcoat will hide the damage. Where is it? I’ll get it, and
then we’ll be off.”
Mr. Bopp colored distressfully, looked up, looked down, and then
straight into the lad’s face, saying simply,--
“Thank you; I haf no coat but one.”
Dick opened his eyes, and was about opening his mouth also, for the
exit of some blunderingly good-natured reply, when a warning poke
from his sister restrained him, while Dolly, with the innocent
hypocrisy which is as natural to some women as the art of tying
bows, said, as she led the way out,--
“You see the worth of gymnastics, Dick, in this delightful
indifference to cold. I sincerely hope we may reach a like enviable
state of health, and look upon great-coats as effeminate, and
mufflers a weakness of the flesh. Do you think we shall, Mr. Bopp?”
He shook his head with a perceptible shiver as the keen north wind
smote him in the face, but answered, with a look half merry, half
sad,--
“It is not choice, but what you call necessitee, with me; and I
truly hope you may never haf to exercise to keep life in you when
you haf sold your coat to pay a doctor’s bill, or teach the art of
laughing while your heart is heavy as one stone. You would not like
that, I think, yet it is good, too; for small things make much
happiness for me, and a kind word is often better than a rix
dollar.”
There was something in the young man’s tone and manner which touched
and won his hearers at once. Dolly secretly resolved to put an extra
blanket on his bed, and shower kind words upon him, while Dick
tucked him up in buffalo robes where he sat helplessly beaming down
upon the red hood at his side.
A roaring fire shone out hospitably as they came, and glorified the
pleasant room, dancing on ancient furniture and pictured walls till
the jolly old portraits seemed to wink a visible welcome. A
cheery-faced little woman, like an elder Dolly, in a widow’s cap,
stood on the threshold, with a friendly greeting for the stranger,
which warmed him as no fine could have done.
If August Bopp had been an Englishman, he would have felt much, but
said less on that account; if he had been an American, he would have
tried to conceal his poverty, and impress the family with his past
grandeur, present importance, or future prospects; being a German,
he showed exactly what he was, with the childlike frankness of his
race. Having had no dinner, he ate heartily of what was offered him;
being cold, he basked in the generous warmth; being homesick and
solitary, he enjoyed the genial influences that surrounded him, and
told his story, sure of sympathy; for even in prosaic Yankeedom he
had found it, as travellers find Alpine flowers among the snow.
It was a simple story of a laborious boyhood, being early left an
orphan, with a little sister dependent on him, till an opening in
America tempted him to leave her and come to try and earn a home for
her and for himself. Sickness, misfortune, and disappointment had
been his companions for a year; but he still worked, still hoped,
and waited for the happy hour when little Ulla should come to him
across the sea. This was all; yet as he told it, with the magical
accompaniments of gesture, look, and tone, it seemed full of pathos
and romance to his listeners, whose faces proved their interest more
flatteringly than their words.
Mrs. Ward mended the torn coat with motherly zeal, and gave it many
of those timely stitches which thrifty women love to sew. The twins
devoted themselves to their guest, each in a characteristic manner.
Dick, as host, offered every article of refreshment the house
afforded, goaded the fire to a perpetual roar, and discussed
gymnastics, with bursts of boyish admiration for the grace and skill
of his new leader, whom he christened King of Clubs on the spot.
Dolly made the stranger one of them at once by talking bad German,
as an offset to his bad English, called him Professor in spite of
all denials, and unconsciously symbolized his future bondage by
giving him a tangled skein to hold for the furtherance of her
mother’s somewhat lengthened job.
The Cupid of the present day was undoubtedly “raised” in
Connecticut; for the ingenuity and shrewdness of that small
personage could have sprung from no other soil. In former times his
stratagems were of the romantic order. Colin bleated forth his
passion in rhyme, and cast sheep’s eyes from among his flock, while
Phyllis coquetted with her crook and stuck posies in his hat; royal
Ferdinand and Miranda played at chess; Ivanhoe upset his fellow-men
like ninepins for love of lackadaisical Rowena; and “sweet Moll”
 turned the pages while her lover, Milton, sang. But in our day the
jolly little god, though still a heathen in the severe simplicity of
his attire, has become modernized in his arts, and invented
huskings, apple-bees, sleigh-rides, “drop-ins,” gymnastics, and,
among his finer snares, the putting on of skates, drawing of
patterns, and holding skeins,--the last-named having superior
advantages over the others, as all will testify who have enjoyed one
of those hand-to-hand skirmishes.
August Bopp was three and twenty, imaginative, grateful, and
heart-whole; therefore, when he found himself sitting opposite a
blooming little damsel, with a head, bound by a pretty red snood,
bent down before him, and very close to his own a pair of
distracting hands, every finger of which had a hit to make, and made
it, it is not to be denied that he felt himself entering upon a new
and very agreeable experience. Where could he look but in the face
opposite, sometimes so girlishly merry and sometimes so beautifully
shy? It was a winning face, full of smooth curves, fresh colors, and
sunshiny twinkles,--a face every one liked, for it was as changeful
as an April day, and always pleasant, whether mischievous, mournful,
or demure.
Like one watching a new picture, Mr. Bopp inspected every feature of
the countenance so near his own; and, as his admiration “grew by
what it fed on,” he fell into a chronic state of stammer and blush;
for the frank eyes were very kind, the smooth cheeks reflected a
pretty shade of his own crimson, and the smiling lips seemed
constantly suggesting, with mute eloquence, that they were made for
kissing, while the expressive hands picked at the knots till the
Professor felt like a very resigned fly in the web of a most
enticing young spider.
If the King of Clubs saw a comely face, the Queen of Hearts saw what
observing girls call a “good face;” and with a womanly respect for
strength, the manliest attribute of man, she admired the broad
shoulders and six feet one of her new master. This face was not
handsome, for, true to his fatherland, the Professor had an eminent
nose, a blonde beard, and a crop of “bonny brown hair” long enough
to have been gathered into a ribbon, as in the days of Schiller and
Jean Paul; but Dolly liked it, for its strength was tempered with
gentleness; patience and courage gave it dignity, and the glance
that met her own was both keen and kind.
The silk was wound at last, the coat repaired. Dick with difficulty
concealed the growing stiffness of his shoulders, while Dolly turned
up the lamp, which bluntly hinted bedtime, and Mrs. Ward
successfully devoured six gapes behind her hand, but was detected in
the seventh by Mr. Bopp, who glanced at the clock, stopped in the
middle of a sentence, and, with a hurried “goot-night,” made for the
door without the least idea whither he was going. Piloted by Dick,
he was installed in the “best chamber,” where his waking dreams were
enlivened by a great fire, and his sleeping ones by an endless
succession of skeins, each rapturously concluded in the style of Sam
Weller when folding carpets with the pretty maid.
“I tell you, Dolly, it won’t do, and I’m not going to have it.”
“Oh, indeed; and how will you help it, you absurd boy?”
“Why, if you don’t stop it, I’ll just say to Bopp,--‘Look here, my
dear fellow; this sister of mine is a capital girl, but she will
flirt and’”--
“And it’s a family failing, Dick,” cut in Dolly.
“Not a bit of it. I shall say, ‘Take care of your heart, Bopp, for
she has a bad habit of playing battle-door and shuttle-cock with
these articles; and, though it may be very good fun for a time, it
makes them ache when they get a last knock and are left to lie in a
corner.’”
“What eloquence! But you’d never dare to try it on Mr. Bopp; and I
shouldn’t like to predict what would happen to you if you did.”
“If you say ‘dare,’ I’ll do it the first minute I see him. As for
consequences, I don’t care that for ‘em;” and Dick snapped his
fingers with an aspect of much disdain. But something in his
sister’s face suggested the wisdom of moderation, and moved him to
say, less like a lord of creation, and more like a brother who
privately adored his sister, but of course was not going to
acknowledge such a weakness,--
“Well, but soberly, now, I wish you wouldn’t plague Bopp; for it’s
evident to me that he is hit; and from the way you’ve gone on these
two months, what else was to be expected? Now, as the head of the
family,--you needn’t laugh, for I am,--I think I ought to interfere;
and so I put it to you,--do you like him, and will you have him? or
are you merely amusing yourself, as you have done ever since you
were out of pinafores? If you like him, all serene. I’d rather have
him for a brother than any one I know, for he’s a regular trump
though he is poor; but if you don’t, I won’t have the dear old
fellow floored just because you like to see it done.”
It may here be remarked that Dolly quite glowed to hear her brother
praise Mr. Bopp, and that she indorsed every word with mental
additions of double warmth; but Dick had begun all wrong, and,
manlike, demanded her confidence before she had made up her mind to
own she had any to bestow; therefore nothing came of it but vexation
of spirit; for it is a well-known fact that, on some subjects, if
boys will tease, girls will fib, and both maintain that it is right.
So Dolly whetted her feminine weapon, and assumed a lofty
superiority.
“Dear me! what a sudden spasm of virtue; and why, if it is such a
sin, has not the ‘head of the house’ taken his sister to task
before, instead of indulging in a like degeneracy, and causing
several interesting persons to tear their hair, and bewail his
forgetfulness, when they ought to have blessed their stars he was
out of the way?”
Dick snowballed a dozing crow and looked nettled; for he had
attained that age when “Tom Brown at Oxford” was the book of books,
the twelfth chapter being the favorite, and five young ladies having
already been endowed with the significant heliotrope flower; all of
which facts Dolly had skilfully brought to mind, as a return-shot
for his somewhat personal remarks.
“Bah! they were only girls, and it don’t amount to anything among us
young folks; but Bopp is a grown man, and you ought to respect him
too much to play such pranks with him. Besides, he’s a German, and
more tender-hearted than we rough Yankees, as any one can see by the
way he acts when you snub him. He is proud, too, for all his
meekness, and waits till he’s sure you like him before he says
anything; and he’ll need the patience of a family of Jobs at the
rate you’re going on,--a honey-pot one day and a pickle-jar the
next. Do make up your mind, and say yes or no, right off, Dolly.”
“Would you have me meet him at the door with a meek courtesy, and
say, ‘Oh, if you please, I’m ready to say Yes, thank you, if you’ll
be good enough to say, Will you’?”
“Don’t be a goose, child; you know I mean nothing of the kind; only
you girls never will do anything straight ahead if you can dodge and
fuss and make a mess of it. Just tell me one thing: Do you, or don’t
you, like old Bopp?”
“What an elegant way to put it! Of course I like him well enough as
a leader; he is clever, and sort of cunning, and I enjoy his funny
ways; but what in the world should I do with a great yellow-haired
laddie who could put me in his pocket, and yet is so meek that I
should never find the heart to henpeck him? You are welcome to him;
and since you love him so much, there’s no need of my troubling
myself on his account; for with you for a friend, he can have no
earthly wish ungratified.”
“Don’t try to be cutting, Dolly, because you look homely when you
do, and it’s a woman’s business to be pretty, always. All I’ve got
to say is, you will be in a nice state of mind if you damage Bopp;
for every one likes him, and will be down upon you for a heartless
little wretch; and I shan’t blame them, I promise you.”
“I wish the town wouldn’t put its fingers in other people’s pies,
and you may tell it so, with my compliments; and all I have to say
is, that you men have more liberty than you know what to do with,
and we women haven’t enough; so it’s perfectly fair that we should
show you the worth of the thing by taking it away now and then. I
shall do exactly as I please; dance, walk, ride, and flirt, whenever
and with whomever I see fit; and the whole town, with Mr. Dick Ward
at their head, can’t stop me if I choose to go on. Now, then, what
next?” After which declaration of independence, Dolly folded her
arms, wheeled about and faced her brother, a spirited statuette of
Self Will, in a red hood and mittens.
Dick sternly asked,--
“Is that your firm decision, ma’am?”
“Yes.”
“And you will not give up your nonsense?”
“No.”
“You are quite sure you don’t care for Bopp?”
“I could slap him with all my heart.”
“Very good. I shall see that you don’t get a chance.”
“I wouldn’t try a skirmish, for you’ll get beaten, Dick.”
“We’ll prove that, ma’am.”
“We will, sir.”
And the belligerents loftily paced up the lawn, with their purpose
so well expressed by outward signs, that Mrs. Ward knew, by the cock
of Dick’s hat and the decided tap of Dolly’s heels, that a storm was
brewing, before they entered the door.
This fraternal conversation took place some two months from the
evening of Mr. Bopp’s advent, as the twins were strolling home from
school, which school must be briefly alluded to in order to explain
the foregoing remarks. It was an excellent institution in all
respects; for its presiding genius stood high in the townfolks’
esteem, and might have served as an example to Dr. Watts’ “busy
bee,” in the zeal with which he improved his “shining hours,” and
laid up honey against the winter, which many hoped would be long in
coming. All manner of aids were provided for sprouting souls and
bodies, diversions innumerable, and society, some members of which
might have polished off Alcibiades a la Socrates, or entertained
Plato with “æsthetic tea.” But, sad to relate, in spite of all these
blessings, the students who resorted to this academy possessed an
Adam-and-Eve-like proclivity for exactly what they hadn’t got and
didn’t need; and, not contented with the pleasures provided, must
needs play truant with that young scamp Eros, and turn the ancient
town topsy-turvy with modern innovations, till scandalized spinsters
predicted that the very babies would catch the fever, refuse their
panada in jealous gloom, send billet-doux in their rattles, elope in
wicker-carriages, and set up housekeeping in dolls’ houses, after
the latest fashion.
Certain inflammable Southerners introduced the new game, and left
such romantic legends of their loves behind them that their
successors were fired with an ambition to do the like, and excel in
all things, from cricket to captivation.
This state of things is not to be wondered at; for America, being
renowned as a “fast” nation, has become a sort of hotbed, and seems
to force humanity into early bloom. Therefore, past generations must
not groan over the sprightly present, but sit in the chimney-corner
and see boys and girls play the game which is too apt to end in a
checkmate for one of the players. To many of the lookers-on, the new
order of things was as good as a puppet-show; for, with the
enthusiasm of youth, the actors performed their parts heartily,
forgetting the audience in their own earnestness. Bless us! what
revolutions went on under the round jackets, and what love-tokens
lay in the pockets thereof. What plots and counterplots occupied the
heads that wore the innocent-looking snoods, and what captives were
taken in the many-colored nets that would come off and have to be
taken care of. What romances blossomed like dandelions along the
road to school, and what tales the river might have told if any one
could have learned its musical speech. How certain gates were
glorified by daily lingerings thereat, and what tender memories hung
