the thought of Molly's wearing a crown of gold in heaven. That crown of
gold was before Daisy's eyes; nothing else was worth a thought in
comparison.
"Are you going to see that wretched old being?" said Preston at last.
"Yes."
"Daisy--dear Daisy--I do not know what to do with you. Do you like, is
it possible that you can like, dirt and vulgarity?"
"I don't think I do," Daisy said gently; "but Preston, I like the poor
people."
"You do!" said Preston. "Then it is manifest that you cannot like me."
And he dashed spurs into his horse and sprung away, with a grace and
life that kept Daisy looking after him in admiration, and a plain mood
of displeasure which cast its shadow all over her spirit.
"Here is the trowel, Miss Daisy."
Her messenger had come back, and Daisy recalled to the business in hand
took up her reins again and drove on; but she felt deeply grieved. Now
and then her gauntleted hand even went up to her face to brush away a
tear that had gathered. It was not exactly a new thing, nor was Daisy
entirely surprised at the attempt to divert her from her purpose. She
was wise enough to guess that Preston's object had been more than the
pleasure of her company; and she knew that all at home, unless possibly
her father might be excepted, neither liked nor favoured her kindness to
Molly and would rejoice to interrupt the tokens of it. All were against
her; and Daisy's hand, went up again and again. "It is good I am weak
and not very well," she thought; "as soon as I grow strong mamma will
not let me do this any more. I must do all I can now."
So she came to the cripple's gate; and by that time the tears were all
gone.
Nobody was in the little courtyard; Daisy went in first to see how the
rose looked. It was all safe and doing well. While she stood there
before it, the cottage door opened and the poor inmate came out. She
crawled down the walk on hands and knees till she got near Daisy, and
then sat back to look at her.
"What do you want?" she said, in a most uninviting and ungracious tone
of voice.
"I came to see you," said Daisy, venturing to let her eyes rest for the
first time on those poor, restless, unloving eyes opposite her--"and I
wanted to see the rose, and I have brought you another flower--if you
will let me bring it in."
Her words were sweet as honey. The woman looked at her, and answered
again with the unintelligible grunt, of unbelieving wonder, which Daisy
had heard once before. Daisy thought on the whole the safest way was not
to talk but to fetch her beautiful "Jewess" flowers to speak for
themselves. So she ran off and brought the pot and set it on the ground
before Molly. It was a great attraction; Daisy could see that at once.
The cripple sat back gazing at it. Daisy prudently waited till her eyes
came round again from the flowers and rested on her little visiter's
face.
"Where shall I put it?" said Daisy. "Where would you like to have it
go?"
Molly's eyes presently followed hers, roaming over the little flower
plot in search of room for the geranium, which did not appear; prince's
feather and marigolds so choked up the ground where balsams did not
straggle over it. Molly looked as Daisy did at the possibilities of the
case, looked again at the strange sweet little face which was so busy in
her garden; and then made a sudden movement. With two or three motions
of hands and knees she drew herself a few steps back to one of the
exclusive bunches of balsams, and began with her two hands to root it
up. Actually she was grubbing, might and main, at the ungainly stalks of
the balsams, pulling them up as fast as she could and flinging them
aside, careless where. Daisy came to help with her trowel, and together
they worked, amicably enough but without a word, till the task was done.
A great space was left clear, and Molly threw herself back in her wonted
position for taking observations. Daisy wasted no time. In hopeful
delight she went on to make a hole in the ground in which to sink the
pot of geraniums. It was more of a job than she thought, and she dug
away stoutly with her trowel for a good while before she had an
excavation sufficient to hold the pot. Daisy got it in at last; smoothed
the surface nicely all round it; disposed of the loose soil till the bed
was trim and neat, as far as that was concerned; and then stood up and
spoke. Warm,--how warm she was! her face was all one pink flush, but she
did not feel it, she was so eager.
"There," she said, "that will stand there nicely; and when the cold
weather comes, you can take the pot up and take it into the house, just
as it is; and if you do not let it freeze, it will have flowers for you
in the winter."
"Cold?" said Molly.
"Yes--by and by, when the cold weather comes, this must be taken up. The
cold would kill it, if it was cold enough to freeze. It would have to go
in the house. The rose can stay out all winter if you like; but this
must be kept warm. This is a geranium. And it will give you flowers in
the winter."
"J'anium?" said Molly.
"Yes. This is called the 'Jewess'--there are so many kinds that they
have to be named. This is the 'Jewess' geranium."
"Water?"--said Molly.
"Water? No, this does not need water, because the roots are in a pot,
you know, and have not been disturbed. It will want water if rain don't
come, by and by."
"What's you?" was Molly's next question, given with more directness.
"Me? I am Daisy Randolph. And I love flowers; and you love flowers. May
I come and see you sometimes? Will you let me?"
Molly's grunt this time was not unintelligible. It was queer, but there
was certainly a tone of assent in it. She sat looking now at the
"Jewess" blossoms and now at Daisy.
"And I love Jesus," the child went on. "Do you love him?"
The grunt was of pure question, in answer to this speech. Molly did not
understand. Daisy stooped down to face her on more equal terms.
"There is a great King up in heaven, who loves you, Molly. He loves you
so well that he died for you. And if you love him, he will take you
there when you die and give you a white robe and a crown of gold, and
make you blessed."
It is impossible to describe the simple earnestness of this speech.
Daisy said it, not as a philosopher nor as even a preacher would have
done; she said it as a child. As she had received, she gave. The utter
certainty and sweetness of her faith and love went right from one pair
of eyes to the other. Nevertheless, Molly's answer was only a most
ignorant and blank, "What?"--but it told of interest.
"Yes," said Daisy. "Jesus loved us so well that he came and died for
us--he shed his blood that we might be forgiven our sins. And now he is
a Great King up in heaven; and he knows all we do and all we think; and
if we love him he will make us good and take us to be with him, and give
us white robes and crowns of gold up there. He can do anything, for he
raised up dead people to life, when he was in the world."
That was a master-stroke of Daisy's. Molly's answer was again a grunt of
curiosity; and Daisy, crouching opposite to her, took up her speech and
told her at length and in detail the whole story of Lazarus. And if
Daisy was engaged with her subject, so certainly was Molly. She did not
stir hand or foot; she sat listening movelessly to the story, which came
with such loving truthfulness from the lips of her childish teacher. A
teacher exactly fitted, however, to the scholar; Molly's poor closed-up
mind could best receive any truth in the way a child's mind would offer
it; but in this truth, the undoubting utterance of Daisy's love and
belief won entrance for her words where another utterance might not.
Faith is always catching.
So Daisy told the wonderful story, and displayed the power and love and
tenderness of the Lord with the affection of one who knew him her
Lord, and almost with the zeal of an eye-witness of his work. It was
almost to Daisy so; it seemed to her that she had beheld and heard the
things she was telling over; for faith is the substance of things not
seen; and the grief of the sisters, and their joy, and the love and
tenderness of the Lord Jesus, were all to her not less real than they
were to the actors in that far distant drama. Molly heard her
throughout, with open mouth and marvelling eyes.
Neither of them had changed her position, and indeed Daisy had scarce
finished talking, when she heard herself hailed from the road. She
started. Preston was there on horseback, calling to her. Daisy got up
and took up her trowel.
"Good bye," she said, with a little sigh for the lost vision which
Preston's voice had interrupted--"I'll come again, I hope." And she ran
out at the gate.
"It is time for you to go home, Daisy. I thought you did not know how
late it is."
Daisy mounted into her pony chaise silently.
"Have I interrupted something very agreeable?"
"You would not have thought it so," said Daisy diplomatically.
"What were you doing, down there in the dirt?"
"Preston, if you please, I cannot talk to you nicely while you are so
high and I am so low."
Preston was certainly at some height above Daisy, being mounted up in
his saddle on a pretty high horse, while the pony chaise was hung very
near the ground. He had been beside her; but at her last words he
laughed and set off at a good pace in advance, leaving the chaise to
come along in Loupe's manner. Daisy drove contentedly home through the
afternoon sunlight, which laid bands of brightness across her road all
the way home. They seemed bands of joy to Daisy.
Preston had gallopped ahead and was at the door ready to meet her. "What
kept you so long at that dismal place?" he asked as he handed her out of
the chaise.
"You were back very soon from the Fish place, I think," said Daisy.
"Yes--Alexander was not at home; there was no use in my staying. But
what were you doing all that while, Daisy?"
"It was not so very long," said Daisy. "I did not think it was a long
time. You must have deceived yourself."
"But do you not mean to tell me what you were about? What could you
do, at such a place?"
Daisy stood on the piazza, in all the light of the afternoon sunbeams,
looking and feeling puzzled. How much was it worth while to try to tell
Preston of her thoughts and wishes?
"What was the attraction, Daisy? only tell me that. Dirt and ignorance
and rudeness and disorder--and you contented to be in the midst of it!
Down in the dirt! What was the attraction?"
"She is very unhappy, Preston."
"I don't believe it. Nonsense! All that is not misery to such people,
unless you make it so by shewing them something different. Marble tables
are not the thing for them, Daisy."
"Marble tables!" echoed Daisy.
"Nor fuchsias and geraniums either. That old thing's old flowers do just
as well."
Daisy was silent. She could have answered this. Preston went on.
"She won't be any better with her garden full of roses and myrtles, than
she is with her sunflowers now. What do you expect to do, little Daisy?"
"I know what I would like if I were in her place," said Daisy.
"You,--but she is not you. She has not your tastes. Do you mean to
carry her a silver cup and fork, Daisy? You would certainly like that,
if you were in her place. Dear little Daisy, don't you be a mad
philosopher."
But Daisy had not been thinking of silver cups and forks, and she was
not misled by this argument.
"Daisy, do you see you have been under a mistake?"
"No, Preston,"--she said looking up at him.
"Daisy, do you think it is right for you to go into houses and among
people where my uncle and aunt do not wish you to go? You know they do
not wish it, though they have given consent perhaps because you were so
set upon it."
Daisy glanced behind her, at the windows of the library; for they were
at the back entrance of the house; and then seizing Preston's hand and
saying, "Come with me," she drew him down the steps and over the grass
till she reached one of the garden seats under the trees, out of hearing
of any one. There they sat down; Preston curious, Daisy serious and even
doubtful.
"Preston"--she began with all her seriousness upon her,--"I wish I had
the book here, but I will tell you. When the Lord Jesus comes again in
glory, and all the angels with him, he will have all the people before
him, and he will separate them into two sets. One will be on the right
and one on the left. One set will be the people that belong to him, and
the other set will be the people that do not belong to him. Then he will
welcome the first set, and bless them, because they have done things to
the poor and miserable such as they would have liked to have done to
themselves. And he will say--'Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the
least of these, ye have done it unto me.'" Daisy's eyes were full of
water by this time.
"So you are working to gain heaven, Daisy?" said Preston, who did not
know how to answer her.
"O no!" said the child. "I don't mean that."
"Yes, you do."
"No,--that would be doing it for oneself, not for the Lord Jesus"--said
Daisy gravely looking at Preston.
"Then I don't see what you mean by your story."
"I mean only, that Jesus likes to have us do to other people what we
would want in their place."
"Suppose you were in my aunt and uncle's place--do you not think you
would like to have a little daughter regard their wishes?"
Daisy looked distressed.
"I think it is time to go in and get ready for dinner, Preston," she
said.
If she was distressed, Preston was displeased. They went in without any
more words. But Daisy was not perplexed at all. She had not told
Preston her innermost thought and hope--that Molly Skelton might learn
the truth and be one of that blessed throng on the right hand in the
Great Day; but the thought and hope were glowing at her heart; and she
thought she must carry her Master's message, if not positively
forbidden, to all whom she could carry it to. Preston's meditations were
different.
"I have tried my best," he said that evening when Daisy was gone to
bed,--"and I have failed utterly. I tried my best--and all I got was a
rebuke and a sermon."
"A sermon!" said Mrs. Randolph.
"An excellent one, aunt Felicia. It was orderly, serious, and pointed."
"And she went to that place?"
"Yes, ma'am. The sermon was afterwards."
"What do you mean, Preston! Speak intelligibly."
"Daisy did, ma'am. I am speaking sober truth, aunt Felicia."
"What is her motive in going to that horrid place? can you understand?"
"Its disagreeableness, ma'am--so far as I can make out."
"It is very singular," said Mrs. Gary.
"It is very deplorable." said Mrs. Randolph. "So at least it seems to
me. There will be nothing in common soon between Daisy and her family."
"Only that this kind of thing is apt to wear out, my dear. You have that
comfort."
"No comfort at all. You do not know Daisy. She is a persistent child.
She has taken a dose of fanaticism enough to last her for years."
"I am sure nevertheless that Dr. Sandford is right in his advice," said
Mr. Randolph;--"both as a physician and as a philosopher. By far the
best way is not to oppose Daisy, and take as little notice as possible
of her new notions. They will fade out."
"I do not believe it," said the lady "I do not believe it in the least.
If she had not your support, I would have an end of this folly in a
month."
"Indirect ways"--said Mrs. Gary--"indirect ways, my dear; those are your
best chance. Draw off Daisy's attention with other things. That is what
I would do."
And then the ladies put their heads together and concerted a scheme;
Preston joining eagerly in the discussion, and becoming the
manager-in-chief intrusted with its execution. Mr. Randolph heard, but
he gave no help and made no suggestion. He let the ladies alone.
CHAPTER XII.
Daisy came down to breakfast the next morning, looking so very bright
and innocent and fresh, that perhaps Mr. Randolph thought his wife and
sister were taking unnecessary trouble upon themselves. At least Mrs.
Randolph so interpreted his manner, as she saw him put his arm round
Daisy and bend down his head to hers. The gay visitors were still at
Melbourne, but they had not come down yet to breakfast that morning.
"Did you go to see your old woman yesterday?" Mr. Randolph said.
"Yes, papa."
"Did you enjoy your visit?"
"Very much, papa."
Mrs. Randolph's head made a motion of impatience, which however those
two did not see.
"How was that, Daisy? I do not comprehend in this instance the sources
of pleasure."
"Papa"--said Daisy hesitating--"I think I gave pleasure."
She could not explain to him much more, but Mr. Randolph at least
understood that. He gave Daisy another kiss, which was not disapproving,
the child felt. So her breakfast was extremely happy.
She had a new plan in her head now about Molly. She wanted to get
established on the footing of a friend in that poor little house; and
she thought she had better perhaps not confine her line of advance to
the garden. After breakfast she sought the housekeeper's room, and let
Joanna know that she was in want of a nice little cake of some sort to
carry to a poor creature who could make nor buy none. Daisy was a great
favourite with Miss Underwood, especially ever since the night when she
had been summoned in her night dress to tell the child about the words
of the minister that day. Joanna never said "no" to Daisy if it was
possible to say "yes;" nor considered anything a trouble that Daisy
required. On this occasion, she promised that exactly what Daisy wanted
should be in readiness by the afternoon; and having thus secured her
arrangements Daisy went with a perfectly light heart to see what the
morning was to bring forth.
"Daisy!" shouted Preston as she was going down the piazza
steps,--"Daisy! where are you bound?"
"Out--" said Daisy, who was vaguely seeking the September sunshine.
"Well, 'out' is as good as anywhere. Wait till I get my hat. Come,
Daisy!--we have business on hand."
"What business?" said Daisy, as she was led along through the trees.
"Great business," said Preston,--"only I shall want help, Daisy--I want
a great deal of help. I cannot manage it alone. Wait till we get to a
real good place for a talk.--Here, this will do. Now sit down."
"How pretty it is to-day!" said Daisy.
For indeed the river opposite them looked a bright sheet of glass; and
the hills were blue in the morning light, and the sunshine everywhere
was delightsome. The beautiful trees of Melbourne waved overhead;
American elms hung their branches towards the ground; lindens stood in
masses of luxuriance; oaks and chestnuts spotted the rolling ground with
their round heads; and English elms stood up great towers of green. The
September sun on all this and on the well kept greensward; no wonder
Daisy said it was pretty. But Preston was too full of his business.
"Now, Daisy, we have got a great deal to do!"
"Have we?" said Daisy.
"It is this. Aunt Felicia has determined that she will give a party in
two or three weeks."
"A party! But I never have anything to do with parties--mamma's
parties--Preston."
"No. But with this one I think you have."
"How can I?" said Daisy. She was very pleasantly unconcerned as yet, and
only enjoying the morning and Preston and the trees and the sunshine.
"Why, little Daisy, I have got to furnish part of the entertainment; and
I can't do it without you."
Daisy looked now.
"Aunt Felicia wants me to get up some tableaux."
"Some what?" said Daisy.
"Tableaux. Tableaux vivants. Pictures, Daisy; made with living people."
"What do you mean, Preston?"
"Why we will choose some pictures, some of the prettiest pictures we can
find; and then we will dress up people to represent all the figures, and
place them just as the figures are grouped in the engraving; and then
they look like a most beautiful large painted picture."
"But pictures do not move?"
"No more do the people. They hold still and do not stir, any more than
if they were not real."
"I should think they would look like people though, and not like a
picture," said Daisy. "No matter how still you were to keep, I should
never fancy you were painted."
"No," said Preston laughing; "but you do not understand. The room where
the spectators are is darkened, and the lights for the picture are all
set on one side, just as the light comes in the picture; and then it all
looks just right. And the picture is seen behind a frame too, of the
folding doors or something."
Daisy sat looking at Preston, a little curious but not at all excited.
"So I shall want your help, Daisy."
"About what?"
"First, to choose what pictures we will have. We must look over all the
books of engravings in the house, and see what would do. Shall we go at
it?"
Daisy consented. They repaired to the library and took position by a
large portfolio of engravings.
"'Fortitude'! Capital!" cried Preston as he turned over the first sheet
in the portfolio. "Capital, Daisy! That's for you. You would make an
excellent 'Fortitude.'"
"I!--" said Daisy.
"Capital--couldn't be better. This is Sir Joshua Reynolds'
'Fortitude'--and you will do for it wonderfully well. You have half the
look of it now. Only you must be a little more stern."
"Why must Fortitude look stern?" said Daisy.
"O, because she has hard work to do, I suppose."
"What is Fortitude, Preston?"
"O Daisy, Daisy! are you going through life like that? Why you'll turn
all your play into work."
"Why?--But what is it?"
"Fortitude? Why it is, let me see,--it is the power of endurance."
"The power of bearing pain, Daisy," said Mr. Randolph, who was walking
through the room.
"I do not think Fortitude ought to look stern."
"The old gentleman thought so. I suppose he knew. You must,
anyhow,--like the picture."
"But Preston, how could I look like that? My dresses are not made so."
"I hope not!" said Preston laughing. "But Daisy, we'll get some of aunt
Felicia's riggings and feathers and set you out in style."
"But you can't put feathers on my head like those," said Daisy. "They
wouldn't stay on. And I don't see why Fortitude should be dressed in
feathers."
"Why it is the crest of her helmet, Daisy! Fortitude must have something
strong about her, somewhere, and I suppose her head is as good a place
as any. We'll make a helmet for you. And I will make Dolce lie down at
your feet for the lion."
"You couldn't, Preston."
"I could make him do anything." Dolce was Preston's dog; a great shaggy
St. Bernard.
"Well!--" said Daisy with a half sigh.
"I think you'll make a beautiful Fortitude. Now let us see what next.
That is for one."
"How many pictures do you want?" said Daisy.
"O a good many. Plenty, or it wouldn't be worth taking all the trouble,
and shutting the people up in a dark room. 'Alfred in the neat-herd's
cottage'--getting a scolding for his burnt cakes. How splendid that
would be if we could get Dr. Sandford to be Alfred!"
"Who would be that scolding old woman?"
"No matter, because we can't get Dr. Sandford. We are not to have grown
folks at all. It is a pity Ransom is not here. We shall have to get
Alexander Fish--or Hamilton! Hamilton will do. He's a good looking
