his separation from his unfortunate companions in arms. 
He had probably been taken away from them to prevent 
even the possibility of exercising his talent in getting 
away, as he had done after his capture. 
They walked in silence along the gloomy and deserted 
streets ; and Somers felt just as if he were marching 
to his execution. He knew that the rebel officers had a 
summary way of dealing with cases like his own; and 
he was prepared to be condemned, even before another 
sun rose to gladden him with his cheerful liu'ht. He 
thought of his mother, of his father, of the other mem- 
bers of the family, and of the blow it would be to them 
to learn that he had been hanged as a spy. He thought 
of Pinchbrook, of the happy days he had spent there, 
and of those who had been his true friends. Pie thought 
of Lilian Ashford, the beautiful one, in the remem- 
brance of whose sweet smile he had revelled every 
day since they parted, and which he had hoped to enjoy 
again when war should no more desolate the land, and 
he should be proudly enrolled with the heroes who had 
saved the nation from ruin. 
All these pleasant memories, all these bright hopes, 
all these loving forms, though present in his heart, seemed 
dim and distant to him. He had nothing to hope for 
in the future on this side of the grave, nothing in the 
present but an ignominious death on the scaffold. Yet it 
was sweet to die for one's country ; and, disgraceful as his 
end might be in its form, it was still in the service of the 
nation. He felt happy in the thought ; and, if there was 
nothing more on earth to hope for, there was still a 
bright heaven beyond the deepest and darkest grave into 
which the hate of traitors could plunge him, where the 
ruptured ties of this life are again restored, never again 
to be subject to change and decay. 
There was a tear in his eye as he thought of his fond 
mother ; and he wept for her when he could not weep 
for himself. No one saw that tear, and the officer permitted him to indulge his sad revery in silence. But, 
after they had walked two or three squares, his companion in authority suddenly stopped. 
" I have left a book, which I carried in my hand, at 
the depot," said he, in tones full of chagrin at his carelessness. '" I must have it ; for I can do nothing without it." 
" Where did you leave it?" asked the soldier. 
" In the guard-room. You may go back, and bring it 
to me. Give me your gun : you needn't carry that." 
Where shall I find you ? " 
Here, where you leave me. Go quick, my man." 
" I won't be gone ten minutes," replied the soldier, as 
he started off at a run for the missing volume. 
 
The officer took the gun, and stood by the side of his 
prisoner, at the corner of the street, till the soldier disappeared in the darkness. Somers, still thinking of the 
sad fate which he was confident was in store for him, 
wished to confirm his impressions in regard to his destiny. His companion seemed to be a gentleman of a 
kindly nature, though stern in the discharge of his duty. 
It was possible that he would give him some information 
in regard to the probable disposal of him. 
" Will you tell me, sir, why I am separated from thr 
rest of the prisoners?" said he, as soon as the sentinel 
had departed upon his errand. 
" Because you are an officer." 
"How do you know I am?' : asked Somers, very 
desirous of ascertaining how much Captain de Banyan 
had told in regard to him. 
" We know all about you," answered the officer, 
muffling his cloak more closely around his face, as if 
afraid the night-air migbt injure his lungs as he opened 
his mouth. 
" What do you know about me? '"
" All about you." 
" That isn't very definite." 
" In a word, you are Captaid ThoTsj-f Vmers, of the 
regiment." 
"Who told you that?" 
" That's of no consequence." 
 
" What is to be done with me? ' 
" I don't know." 
" I suppose I am only a prisoner of war ? " 
" You crossed the James River in disguise, and went 
into our lines for the purpose of obtaining information. 
I suppose you can put those two things together." 
Somers's worst fears were confirmed. He was to be 
tried as a spy, and De Banyan had told all he knew 
about him. Before he had time to dwell on the dark 
prospect any longer, the officer said he was cold, and 
could not stand there any longer. Taking his prisoner 
by the arm, he led him down the cross-street. Somers 
was just thinking of an attempt to bid his companion 
good-night, when the latter spoke again : 
" I shall catch my death from this night-air," said he. 
" Just before the battle of Magenta " 
" Captain de Banyan ! " exclaimed Somers. 
CHAPTER XXVII. 
A FRIEND INDEED. 
HUSH, my dear boy ! not a word ! " said Captain 
de Banyan in an impressive whisper, as he led 
the way along the street. 
Seiners made no reply ; for he readily per- 
ceived that the utmost caution was necessary, though 
he did not understand the position of his friend, or what 
complications there were in the situation. He was filled 
with rejoicing at finding himself again in the way of 
getting back to the Union army. Of course, his feelings 
towards Captain de Banyan, in spite of his antecedents 
in the Third Tennessee, underwent a sudden and agree- 
able change ; and in the joy of his heart he was disposed 
to embrace his friend, and beg forgiveness for the sus- 
picions he had entertained of him. 
They had advanced but a short distance from the main 
street, when they heard the clatter of horses' hoofs. 
" That's bad," said Captain de Banyan, as he stopped 
to ascertain in what direction the horsemen were going. 
" What's bad?" demanded Somers. 
 
" My absence has been discovered, I am afraid. The 
provost-marshal has a section of cavalry to run down 
Union prisoners who may escape. I think they are 
after me : at any rate, we must be very careful where
we go." 
A few moments later, a small party of horsemen 
dashed down the street by which the captain was con- 
ducting his retreat. It would prove fatal to their hopes, 
if they were seen ; and Captain de Banyan entered the 
yard of a house, followed by his companion. There was 
a stable on the premises ; and, without a special invitation 
from the owner, they entered, making their way to the 
hay-loft, which seemed to be the most promising place 
of concealment. A horse in the stall below whinnied 
when they reached the second floor, expecting, no doubt, 
his morning rations of hay. 
Unfortunately for the fugitives, still more imfortu- 
nately perhaps for the horse, there was very little hay in 
the loft ; so that a secure hiding-place was not readily 
found. But, as it was no part of the captain's intention 
to remain long in this loft, they seated themselves on a 
grain chest, to wait till the troopers should pass the 
house. 
"What time is it, captain?" asked Somers. 
" About four in the morning. We are rather late. It 
will be daylight in about an hour." 
"Where have you been since we parted?" 
 
'Since we parted, my boy? We didn't part. You 
did all the parting, Somers," replied De Banyan in a 
reproachful tone. 
" I know I did ; but, after what I had heard, you need 
scarcely wonder. You acknowledged that you had been 
a rebel officer, and a member of the Third Tennessee 
regiment. 
" I grant it ; but I thought enough else was said to 
enable you to understand my position." 
" Well, I had some hopes that you were all right ; but 
I could not banish my fears. How could I know that 
you had not been sent over on the other side for the 
same purpose that we crossed the James ? ' 
"You might have known it, my dear fellow. They 
don't usually send men over on such business whose 
loyalty is doubtful. You heard the captain say that I 
had been suspected." 
" I did ; but I could not fully understand your posi- 
tion." 
"And so you gave me the slip? Well, Somers, I 
forgive you." 
" I am sure, if I had not been in doubt in regard to 
what you were, I would not have left you, even if I had 
been certain of hanging with you." 
" I know you wouldn't, my boy. I confess there were 
a great many dark things against me ; but I assure you 
I am a loyal and true man. I have suffered more for 
 
the Union than you have ; for I was born in the sunny 
South, and all my friends and neighbors went with the 
rebels. I had no alternative but to go into the army, 
where my experience in the Crimea, in Italy, and in 
Mexico, made me an officer. I escaped as soon as I 
could, and enrolled myself on the right side." 
Somers grasped the hand of his brave and devoted com- 
panion, which he pressed with a warmth that indicated 
his feelings more eloquently than words could have done. 
He was entirely satisfied with the explanation, because 
it was fully sustained by the conduct of the captain, and 
by the words of the rebel cavalry officer who had claimed 
his acquaintance. He was even disposed to believe that 
De Banyan had been a soldier in the European wars 
and in Mexico ; which was a degree of credulity hardly 
to be expected of a sensible young man. 
" You will forgive me for my unjust suspicions, cap- 
tain ? I assure you it went against my grain to believe 
that you were a rebel." 
"You had good reason for it. I was more afraid of 
you, when I confessed my sins to the rebel officer, than I 
was of him. We are friends again, Somers : that's all 
I want." 
" You have proved yourself my friend by this last act ; 
and I should have needed no further explanation to con- 
vince me that you were a loyal man." 
" I am all that, my dear boy." 
" Where have you been since I parted from you?" 
" I got up to Petersburg in the afternoon. I was put 
in that hole where I found you at first ; but, when the 
provost-marshal learned my story, he sent for me, and I 
was conducted to his office. Just as I came out of tho 
depot, you went in. He wanted to question me, he said. 
Well, I happened to know him, though he did not know 
me. I knew his weak point; and, 'in a word, I bam- 
boozled him. I assured him I was an officer in the 
Third Tennessee, and that, on further inquiry, he would 
find I was all right ; that I had rendered greater service 
to my country by going over to the Yankees than I could 
possibly have done by. remaining with my regiment; 
which, you are willing to believe, was strictly true. 
" I asked the privilege of putting on my uniform 
again, which he granted ; and, with the gold in my pocket, 
I purchased a full fit-out of the quartermaster. The 
provost-marshal told me that I must report at Richmond, 
which I promised to do ; and, my dear boy, I hope I 
shall be able to do so at no distant day, though it doesn't 
look much like it just now. He gave me an apartment 
next to his office, for the night ; where, of course, he 
expected to find me in the morning. In the night, I got 
up, and went into his office to transact a little business 
on my own account. 
" After I saw you at the depot, my dear fellow, I 
couldn't forget your sad look. You seemed /-> be as 
 
hopeless as a stray chicken in the wet grass, and I was 
trying to think what I could do for you. I couldn't have 
gone back to Harrison's Landing without you : it would 
have broken my heart. And what could I have said to 
the general, when he asked for you ? How could I have 
made my peace with the officers of the regiment, if I 
had gone back without you ? ' 
" It was very kind of you, after the shabby manner in 
which I had treated you," added Somers 
" That was the very reason why I was bound to help 
you out of the scrape, if I could. I wanted to set myself 
right with you. I wanted to convince you I wasn't the 
man you took me to be." 
" You have convinced me in the fullest manner ; and 
I owe you a debt of gratitude which I shall never be 
able to pay." 
" Steady, my boy : we are not out of the scrape." 
" No matter whether we get out of the scrape or not, 
my feelings towards you will be just the same." 
Thank you, Somers : I am satisfied." 
But where did you get the pass you gave the cor- 
poral of the guard at the depot?" asked Somers. 
" I found the provost-marshal's signature on certain 
papers, one of which I filled out to suit myself. But 
there was a sentinel at the door of the office, put there, 
I suppose, for my benefit ; though I was sorry to trouble 
the; poor fellow to stand there on my account. My friend, 
 
the provost, had done this little act in the most delicate 
way in the world. He did not tell me that I was under 
guard ; but I happened to find it out before I put my foot 
in the trap. 
"In a word, not wishing to disturb the sentinel, I took 
the liberty of leaving by the way of the window of my 
chamber, instead of the door. Luckily there was a one- 
story shop next to the office ; and, with the aid of a 
blanket from my bed, I dropped down upon it, without 
disturbing the meditations of the sentinel or the slum- 
bers of the provost. I got into the street, and went to 
the depot. There I told the corporal of the guard a 
very interesting story about the prisoner who had been 
brought up in the afternoon, meaning myself; and that 
the man I wanted was needed immediately as a witness. 
You know the rest, my dear fellow ; and here we are." 
"And here we are likely to remain, I'm afraid, " added 
Somers. 
" Not a bit of it. I haven't exhausted half my expe- 
dients yet. On the night before the attack on the Redan, 
at Sebastopol, I went all over that city, and spent the 
evening at the house of one of the most distinguished 
citizens, a gentleman who had a government contract 
) O c 
for rations. Of course, he didn't know me." 
" Hush ! There is some one coming into the stable 
below," said Somers, as he heard a door opened on the 
floor below. 
 
It was impossible to move then without making noise 
enough to excite the attention of the person who had en- 
tered ; tor the stable was old and rickety, and the boards 
creaked at every step they took. The fugitives listened 
with breathless interest to the movements of the unwel- 
come visitor. The horse whinnied again ; and the person 
entered the stall, and spoke to him. The sound of his 
voice filled the occupants of the loft with consternation ; 
for evidently the speaker was not a negro servant, as 
they had hoped and expected to find him, but a white 
man, and one who used the English language well. 
"Come, Jenny, there is a job on hand for us ; and you 
must postpone your breakfast till we catch the Yankee 
prisoners," said the person, who, the fugitives were now 
satisfied, was an officer of the cavalry service. 
While De Banyan was telling his story, they had heard 
some noise at the house ; and they now concluded that 
the party which had ridden up the street had come to 
call this officer for duty. They hoped that nothing 
would require him to pay a visit to the loft, and that, 
like a good officer, he would be as expeditious as possi- 
ble in his preparations. 
" You are my prisoner, if he comes up stairs," whis- 
pered De Banyan. 
Somers pressed the hand of his companion to assure 
him that he understood his plan ; and they hell their 
breath, in the intense anxiety of the moment, for further 
 
developments. The .present seemed to be the turning- 
point in the career of the adventurers ; and, if they could 
once escape from the horns of this dilemma, skill and 
prudence would conduct them in safety to the Union 
lines. 
The officer below, after he had politely informed 
" Jenny ' : of the early movement, seemed to be in no 
hurry to get into the saddle. He went out at the door of 
the stable, and all was silence again, except the voice of 
Jenny, who seemed to be protesting against any move- 
ment before she had received her customary feed of corn. 
"Peters ! " shouted the officer from the door, " hurry 
up ! The Yankees will get to the James River before you 
get the saddle on my horse. Where have you been?" 
" I was looking for my boots." 
" An orderly ought to wear his boots to bed with him, 
if he can't put them where he can find them," replied 
the officer, as the heavy step of another man was heard 
in the stable below. 
" What news did you hear? " asked the officer, as the 
orderly led the horse from the stall. 
" The sergeant said some officer that had been took as 
a deserter done rimned away," replied Peters, as the fugi> 
tives heard the rattle of the saddle-gear. 
" Hurry up, then ! " 
" He done took a Yankee prisoner from the depot with 
him," added Peters, who, if he had not been called an 
orderly, the listeners would have taken for a negro. 
 
" You may take a peck of corn in a bag for Jenny, 
Peters. We may have a long ride of it," added the 
officer, as he left the stable. 
A peck of corn ! De Banyan and Somers were sitting 
on the grain chest ! It was impossible to avoid dis- 
covery ; and De Banyan threw off his cloak, ready for 
the emergency. 
" Somers, my boy, we must change our tactics. 
They have heard the whole story, and we can't blind 
them. We must make the best of it. Have you a 
pistol ? " whispered the captain. 
" No : all I had was taken from me," replied Somers. 
" I have only one. No matter : it would never do to 
fire up here," added De Banyan, as he picked up a short 
pitch-fork which lay near him. 
Are you going to kill him?" asked Somers. 
It's life or death for you and me ! We can't stop 
for trifles," answered the captain in hurried tones, but 
still in a whisper. 
They listened for a moment longer to the quick move- 
ments of Peters in the stable below. It was evident that 
Jenny was duly caparisoned for service ; and then an- 
other horse was led out, which belonged to the orderly. 
He was prepared for service in less time than Jenny had 
required ; aad, a moment later, the step of Peters was 
heard on the stairs. With the bag in his hand, he was 
coming up for the corn, as he had been ordered by tb 
officer. He did not see the fugitives till he had reached 
the last step ; when, as he was on the point of opening 
his mouth to speak, De Banyan levelled a blow at his head 
with the handle of the pitchfork, which felled him to the 
floor. 
He sank down upon the stairs stunned or dead ; and 
the captain, as though he had carefully matured his plan 
beforehand, dragged the body to one corner of the loft, 
where he covered it with hay. 
" Not a word, Somers," said he in an excited whis- 
per, as he crouched down behind the grain chest. 
" Are you going to stay here?" demanded Somers, as- 
tonished at this singular disposition of the forces. 
" Hush ! the officer is close by." 
With beating heart, Somers waited for the further 
action of his resolute companion. It was the most 
critical period of his life, it seemed to him, especially as 
he did not fully comprehend the purpose of De Banyan. 
Only a moment elapsed, but it was long enough to be a 
week, before the owner of Jenny returned to the stable. 
"Peters! what are you about?" shouted he angrily. 
" I shall never get off at this rate. Peter ! ' 
Peters was not in condition to answer the summons at 
that moment. Somers hoped he was not dead ; but he 
might as well have been dead, so far as speaking was 
concerned. 
"Peters ! " shouted the officer again, with a string of 
Southern-confederacy oaths: "where are you? what 
are you about ? ' 
Of course, the orderly could not answer ; and his si- 
lence only added to the rage of his master, who con- 
tinued to swear in a manner which must have disgusted 
the gentle Jenny, and the other respectable horse stand- 
ing on the stable-floor. 
The officer rushed out of the stable, and the heaviness 
