 
 
abont uneasily, as if the stranger's fixed and watcbM 
gaze disturbed him. 
" Humph ! well they say that some people have the 
gift of second sight, and others can see through mill- 
stones, and various other wonderftil things." 
"What has all this to do with me?" asked Peter, 
crossly, for he felt it necessary to make some demonstration. ",It's getting late, and I want to go to bed. Go 
away, and — and come again to-morrow, if you want to." 
"A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, Peter, 
which means that I am sure of you now, and perhaps 
you wouldn't let me in if I should call to-morrow. If 
yon are sleepy I have no objection to your going to bed. 
I can talk to you as well as if you. were sitting up' I 
will stay here and keep the fire going." 
Peter looked at the small pile of wood with a groan, 
and muttered something about "its being awful extravagant to keep such a fire." 
"I believe," said the stranger, " I have not yet told 
you the name of the defaulting clerk." 
Peter said nothing. 
'' It was Thornton, but his first name was Peter, the 
same as yours. Singular, isn't it, Peter?" 
" I suppose there are a good many Peters in the 
world," muttered the old man. 
" Very likely ; though I hope most of them are better 
than this Peter Thornton. He got off without being taken, 
with the twenty thousand dollars in his possession. He 
was fond of money, and many thought this explained the 
defalcation. However, there were not wanting others 
who assigned a different motive. It was said that he had 
 
 
been smitten by the youthful charms of his employer's 
daughter Eleanor, who did not favor his suit." 
Peter shifted unea,sily in his chair. 
" No one could blame her. In fact it was perfectly 
preposterous for him to think of mating with her. Did 
you speak?" 
; "No! "snarled Peter. 
" I thought you said something. I repeat, that she had 
plenty of reasons for rejecting him. She was just sixteen, 
and beautiful as she was young, and had no lack of admirers ready to devote themselves to her. As for Peter 
Thornton, ha ! ha hand- 
some, from all I have heard of him. In the first place, 
he was forty or more." 
" Thkty-eight," muttered Peter, below his breath. 
"And tds features were irregular, besides being marked 
with the small-pox, which he had had in early life. He 
had a long, hooked nose like a bird's beak, an enormous 
mouth, little sharp gray eyes like a ferret's, and his hair 
was already mingled with gray. On the whole, he hadn't 
much beauty to boast of. Did you say anything? " 
"No!" snarled Peter, sourly. He was sitting with 
his elbows on his knees, and his face resting on his 
hands. 
" Beg pardon, I thought you spoke. To add to Peter's 
charms of person, his disposition was not the sweetest 
that ever was. He had a harsh and crabbed manner, 
which would have led to his discharge if he had not had 
one saving trait. I will say, to his credit, that he was a 
capital book-keeper. Of his honesty his employer thought 
he was well assured, and probably if nothing had occurred of a character to wound Peter's pride, he might have 
 
 
continued faithful to his trust. One day, however, Peter 
took an opportunity, when he had been calling at the 
house of his employer on business connected with the 
counting-room, to declare his love to the young lady, 
whom he found alone in the drawing-room. You can 
imagine how much she was amused — why don't you 
laugh, Peter? You look as glum as if it were you that 
had met with this disappointment. The young lady told 
him plainly, as soon as she got over her astonishment, 
that she could give him no encouragement whatever. 
Perhaps there might have been in her tone something of 
the aversion which it was natural for her to feel at such 
a proposition from one so much beneath her. If they 
had married, it would have been a second case of Beauty 
and the Beast. Beg pardon, Peter, I believe you said 
something." 
" No ! " snarled Peter, fiercely. " Have yoii got nearly 
through? Your stor}  is nothing to me - -nothing, I say. 
I want to go to bed. You have kept me up too late 
already." 
"I can't help that, Peter. It took me too long to get 
in for me to resign readily the pleasure of your society. 
I say, Peter, what a jolly good fellow you are, — quite 
a lively companion, — only it strikes me you might be 
a little more civil to your company. It isn't exactly 
polite to keep telling one how anxious you are for' him 
to go. 
'' As I was saying, when you interrupted me, Eleanor 
told Peter \rery decidedly that she could not for an instant entertain his suit. He endeavored to change her 
determination, being an ardent, impulsive lover, and 
probably in her impatience she said something which 
irritated her lover, who went off in a rage. After a 
while, however, he was foolish enough to open the subject again. Of course she was extremely annoyed at his 
persistence, and seeing no other way of escaping the persecution, she felt it necessary to acquaint her father with 
what had transpired. The merchant was naturally indignant at his book-keeper's presumption, and calling him 
aside one morning, threatened to discharge him from his 
employment unless he should forthwith desist. This 
was, of course, a great blow to Peter's pride. He had the 
good sense to say nothing, however, but none the less 
determined within himself to be revenged upon those who 
had scorned his advances, as soon as an opportunity 
offered. I don't know as I blame him. Perhaps I should 
have done the same under similar circumstances." 
There was a trace of agitation upon the pale and 
wrinkled countenance of the miser. 
" This it was," continued the stranger, "taken in con- 
nection with Peter's natural cupidity, that led to the 
defalcation I have mentioned. So far as the merchant 
was concerned his revenge was completely successful, for 
he was the means of his ruin and premature death. And 
now, Peter," he added, suddenly changing his tone, 
" can you tell me what induced you to change your name 
from Thornton to Manson ? " 
"Me ! " exclaimed the miser, starting to his feet in 
consternation, and glaring wildly at the speaker. 
" Yes' said the stranger, composedly ; " I repeat the 
question, why did you change your name to Manson?" 
"What — do— you —  mean?" the old man faltered 
slowly. 
" I mean just what I say, and I see you understand 
me well enough." 
" You can't prove it," said Peter, with an uneasy glance 
at his imperturbable companion. 
" Can't I ? Perhaps not. I should say the mysterious 
knowledge you seem to possess of the main incidents in 
my story would prove something." 
" That isn't evidence in a court of law," said Peter, 
regaining a degree of confidence. 
" Perhaps not ; but I say, Peter, don't you recognize 
me?" 
The old man scanned his features eagerly, and a sudden 
look of remembrance satisfied the latter that he was not 
forgotten. 
"I see you do remember me," he said; "I thought 
you hadn't forgotten John Randall. At any rate he 
hasn't forgotten you, though twenty years have passed, 
and I was then but a young man, I used to see you too 
often about the streets of Havana not to remember that 
hooked nose, those gray eyes, and (excuse my plainness 
of speech) that large mouth. Yes, Peter, your features 
are impressed upon my memory too indelibly to be effaced." 
Peter Manson remembered his companion as one who 
had had the reputation of being a " wild " young man. 
He had been placed at school by his father without any 
profitable result. On his father's death he squandered, 
in dissipation, the property which came to him, and had 
since devoted himself to the sea. 
"Having settled this little matter of your identity," 
continued Eandall, " I am ready to finish my story. I 
told you that Eleanor married the young man whose 
name you remembered so well. He was poor, dependent 
upon his salary as a clerk, and thanks to you his wife 
had nothing to hope from her father. They were obliged 
to live in a very humble way. At length, thinking he 
could do better here, he removed to Boston, where his 
early life had been spent.'' 
" To Boston ! " muttered Peter. 
'' The removal took place some six years since. They 
had three children when they first came here, but two 
died, leaving only the second, a boy, named Charlie. I 
should think he might be fourteen years of age. And 
now, would you like to know if the husband is still living ? " 
" Is he? " asked Peter, looking up. 
" No. He died about a year since, of a fever." 
" And— and Eleanor ? What of her ? " 
" For six months past she has been a tenant of yours." 
" A tenant of mine ! " exclaimed the miser. 
" It is even so. She occupies a second-story room in 
the tenement-house in Street." 
 
 
'' And I have met her face to face ? " 
'' I dare say you have. Your tenants are pretty sure 
to have that pleasure once a month. But doesn't it 
seem strange that Eleanor Gray, the beautiful daughter 
of your Havana employer, should after these twenty years 
turn up in Boston the tenant of her father's book-keeper ? " 
'' Ha ! ha ! " chuckled the miser, hoarsel}", " she isn't so 
much better off than if she had married old Peter." 
"As to being better off," said Randall, "I presume 
she is better off, though she can't call a hundred dollars 
her own, than if she were installed mistress of your establishment. Faugh ! Poorly as she is obliged to live, 
it is luxury, compared with your establishment.'' 
He glanced about him. with a look of disgust. 
'' If you don't like it," said Peter, querulously, " there 
is no use of your staying. It is past my bedtime." 
" I shall leave you in a few minutes, Peter, but I want 
to give you something to think of first. Don't you see 
that your property is in danger of slipping from your 
hands?" 
" My property in danger ! " exclaimed Peter, wildly ; 
" what do you mean ; where is the danger? " Then, his 
voice sinking to its usual whine, — " not that I have any 
of any consequence, I am poor — very poor." 
" Only from what I see I could easily believe it, but I 
happen to know better." 
"Indeed, lam " 
" No more twaddle about poverty," said Randall, decidedly, " it won't go down. I am not so easily deceived as you may imagine. I know perfectly well that 
you are worth at the very least, thirty thousand dollars." 
"Thirty thousand dollars ! " exclaimed the miser, raising both hands in astonishment. 
" Yes, Peter, and I don't know but I may say forty 
thousand. Why, it can't be otherwise, with your habits. 
Twenty years ago you made off with twenty thousand, 
which has been accumulating ever since. Your personal 
expenses haven't made very large inroads upon your income, judging from your scarecrow appearance. So 
much the worse for you. You might have got some good 
from it. Now it must go to others." 
" To others !" exclaimed Peter, turning pale. 
" Certainly. You don't think the law gives you what- 
ever you've a mind to steal, do you ? Of course there is 
no doubt that to your tenants, Eleanor and Charlie Cod- 
man, belongs this property which you wrongfully hold." 
" They sha'n't have it. They never shall have it," said 
Peter Manson, hastily. 
" Well, perhaps the law may have something Jto say 
about that." 
"My gold I" groaned the miser. "If I lose that I 
lose everything. It will be my death. Good Mr. Randall, have pity upon me. I am sure you won't say any- 
thing that " 
" Will bring you to state's prison," said Randall,coolly. 
" They — Eleanor and her son — need never know it." 
"Unless I tell them." 
" But you won't." 
" That depends upon circumstances. How much will 
you give me to keep the thing secret? '' 
" What will I givQ you ? " 
"Precisel3  That is what I have been so long in 
coming at. You see, Peter, that the secret is worth 
 
 
something. Either I reveal it to the parties interested, 
in which case I wouldn't give that," snapping his finger, 
" for your chance of retaining the property, or I keep 
silence if you make it worth my while!'' 
i " Pity me," said the miser, abjectly, sinking on his 
knees before Randall ; '' pity me, and spare my gold." . 
" Pity you ! " said Randall, contemptuously. " Why 
. didn't you pity your employer? You must make up your 
mind to pay me my price." 
" I am very poor," whined Peter, in his customary 
phrase, " and I can't pay much. ' 
" O yes, Peter," said the other, sarcastically, " I am 
well aware that you are poor, — wretchedly poor, — and 
I won't be too hard upon you." 
'' Thank you — thank you," said Peter, catching at this 
promise ; " I will give you something — a little " 
" How much? " asked Randall, with some curiosity. 
" Ten dollars ! " said the miser, with the air of a man ' 
who named a large sum. 
"Ten dollars!" returned Randall, with a laugh of 
derision. " Ten dollars to secure the peaceable posses- 
sion of thirty thousand ! Old man, you must be mad, or 
you must think that I am." 
" I — I did not mean to offend," said the old man, 
humbly. "K I double the sum will it satisfy you? I — I 
will try to raise it, though it will be hard — very hard." 
" This is mere trifling, Peter Manson," said his visitor, 
decidedly. "Twenty dollars! Why I wouldn't have 
come across the street to get it. No, j ou will have to 
elevate your ideas considerably." 
" How much do you demand ? " said the miser, groaning internally, and fixing his eyes anxiously upon Randall. 
 
 
" You must not make a fusg when I name the amount." 
" Name it," said Peter, in a choking voice. 
" One thousand dollars will purchase my silence, and 
not a dollar less." 
Peter sprang from his seat in consternation. 
, "One thousand dollars! Surely you are not in 
earnest." 
"But I am, though. This is not a subject -I care to 
jest upon." 
" One thousand dollars ! It will take all I have, and 
leave me a beggar." 
" If it should, Peter," said his visitor, composedly, 
" I will procure you admission to the poor-house, where, 
if I am not much mistaken, you will be better off than 
in this tumble-down old shanty." 
" Has the man no mercy?" groaned Peter, wringing 
his hands. 
 " None at all." 
" Then," exclaimed the miser, in a sudden fit of desperation, " I won't pay you a cent — not a single cent." 
" That is your final determination, is it?" 
" Ye —  yes," muttered Peter, but less firmly. 
" Very well. I will tell you the result. I shall at 
once go to Eleanor, and inform her of the good fortune 
which awaits her. No fear but sh will pay me a thou- 
sand dollars for the intelligence." 
" She has no money." 
" I will furnish her with money for the lawyers — she 
can repay me out of your hoards." 
Peter groaned. 
" Ay, groan away, Peter. You'll have c|iuse enough 
to groan, by and by. There is one thing you don't seem 
 
to consider, that the law will do something more than 
take away your property. I will come to see you in 
jail." 
He rose to leave the room, but Peter called him back 
hastily. " We may come to terms yet," he said. 
" Then you accede to my terms."" 
" I will give you five hundred." 
" Good-night, Peter. I wish you happy dreams." 
" St-stay ! " exclaimed Peter, terrified. " I will give 
eight hundred." 
" I am in something of a hurry," said Randall. " I 
believe I will call on Eleanor. I don't think we can 
make any arrangement." 
'' Hold ! perhaps I will do as you say." 
" Ah ! now you are beginning to be reasonable," said 
Randall, resuming his seat. 
"What security can you give me for your silence?" 
" I'll tell you what I'll do, Peter. You remember I 
told you Eleanor had a son, a boy of fourteen." 
"Yes." 
" His mother is quite devoted to him. Indeed, he 
contributes to her support by selling papers, and by va- 
rious little jobs. Now, as long 'as Eleanor lives here 
you are in danger.'' 
" Yes." 
" And if a blow is levelled at her it must be through 
her boy." 
" I see." 
'' Then I'll tell you of a scheme I have arranged. You 
must first know that I am mate of a vessel now in port, 
which is bound for San Francisco. We are to sail in a 
few days." 
 
"Well?" 
" We happen to be in want of a boy to fill up our reg- 
ular number. Suppose I kidnap Eleanor's boy. Don't 
you see, that as he is her chief support, she will soon be 
in difficulties ? and this, with her uncertainty about her 
boy's fate, may rid you of your greatest peril, and the 
only one of the two who could identify you." 
" Excellent, excellent 1 " chuckled Peter, rubbing his 
hands ; " she shall yet be sorry that she rejected old 
Peter." 
"Ami to understand that you accede to my proposal, then?" 
Not without many groans Peter agreed to deliver the 
sum mentioned between them, on condition that the boy 
was secured. 
It was striking ten when Randall lefb the house. His 
face beamed with exultation. 
" I have done a good night's work," he said. " By 
working on the fears of the old curmudgeon I have made 
sure of a thousand dollars. He will be lucky if this is 
the last money I get out of him. He little thinks that I, 
too, have a revenge to wreak. He is not the only one 
that has been scomfully rejected by Eleanor Codman. 
Now to bed, and to-morrow shall see my work com- 
menced." 
The tenement-honse owned by Peter Manson was a 
three-story wooden building, very much in need of 
paint. It was scarcely likely to be pointed out by any 
one as one of the architectural ornaments of the city. 
Years before it had fallen into Peter's hands at a small 
price, and he had every year since realized from it in 
the way of rent a sum equal to one half the purchase- 
money. No one who has lived in a city can help knowing how much more proportionally the poor are compelled to pay for their scanty and insufficient accommo- 
dations than the rich, or those in moderate circumstances. No class of property is made to pay a larger percentage than the wretched tenement-houses which seem 
adapted to furnish as little accommodation as possible 
to those who are compelled to occupy them. 
The tenement-house . in which Charlie and his mother 
lived was no better than the average. It was the home 
of a large number of persons of various occupations. 
Seamstresses, mechanics, washer-women, and many oth- 
ers found a home under this one roof. 
Mrs. Codman occupied a room on the third floor. As 
we enter the room it is easy to see what a charm can be 
thrown around even the humblest place by the presence 
 
of refinement and good taste. 'A
the room, indeed, were of the cheapest description. 
Probably the furniture did not exceed in cost that of the 
room opposite. Yet there was a considerable difference 
in the appearance of Mrs. Codman's room and that of 
Sally Price, who, if she had ever possessed an organ of 
neatness, had lost it years ago. 
The old-fashioned windows were- washed as clean as 
water could make them, so as to admit all the sunshine 
which could find its way over the tall roof on the opposite side of the street. They were hung with plain chintz 
curtains, separated in the middle and looped on either 
side. The floor was quite clean as far as it. could be 
seen. In the centre was spread a floor-cloth some eight 
feet square, which relieved its bareness. There was a 
small round table near the window, and a small square 
work-table of no very costly material, in another part 
of the room. On this was placed a rose-bush in a flower-pot. It had been given to Charlie by an old gentle- 
man who had taken a fancy to him. In another quarter 
was a home-made lounge, the work of Charlie's hands. 
It had originally been a wooden box, given him by a 
shopkeeper near by. This box had been covered with 
calico stuffed with cotton, so that it made quite a comfortable seat. It was used besides as a wood-box, its 
legitimate province, but when the cover was closed it 
