such as to disgust even thoughtless Tom. 
One day, when Tom had been back at college 
a little over a week, Gypsy came slowly home 
from Peace Maythorne’s with troubled eyes. 
This sultry spring weather was doing Peace no 
good. She had grown very weak and almost 
sleepless with continued pain. 
“ She looks like a ghost this morning,” said 
Gypsy, coming into her mother’s room, — so 
thin, and pale, and patient, and sweet, it almost 
made me cry to look at her. I don’t see why 
those old doctors can’t do something for her.” 
“ They do all they can,” said Mrs. Breynton. 
“ These diseases in the spine are very hard to 
manage. But it does seem as if Peace had a 
great deal of suffering, poor child ! ” 
“ It has made an angel of her, anyway,” said 
Gypsy, emphatically. “ I told Tom the other 
day, she made me feel like a little mean cater- 
pillar crawling round in the mud beside her. 
I ’m going to write to him again to-day. He 
always wants to know how Peace is. Hilloa, 
Winnie ! — a letter ? ” 
“ From Tom ! ” 
“ Yes, for you.” 
Mrs. Breynton took it, stopping a moment to 
look at the envelope.' 
“ How blurred the post-marks do get! This 
doesn’t look any more like New Haven than it 
does like Joppa, does it, Gypsy?” 
“ No, and just look at the stamp, skewed 
clear over there in the left-hand corner. How 
funny ! ” 
” Tom is always very particular about his 
stamp, and all the getting up of his letters. 
He must have been in a great hurry,” said his 
mother, breaking the seal. Evidently he was 
in a hurry, for the letter was undated. She 
read, with Gypsy looking over her shoulder. 
My dearest Mother, — I don’t know 
what you will think of me, and it is rough work 
telling you, but I ’ve done it, — I ’ve enlisted. 
I left New Haven day before yesterday, and 
enlisted as a private here at Washington this 
morning, in the regiment, and expect to 
be sent to the front to-morrow. 
I couldn’t stand it any longer. So many of 
the fellows were off, and I wasn’t doing any- 
thing at college, and I was ashamed of myself. 
and I knew you were all ashamed of me. I can 
shoulder a musket and obey orders, and perhaps
— who knows? — take some prisoners, and 
get noticed by the General. At any rate, I can 
die at my post, if there is any necessity, and 
that is better than nothing, and I shouldn’t 
bother you any more. 
There ! I had no business to say that, mother. 
I don’t expect to be killed, either. I expect to 
have a jolly time, and I think serving your 
country is a great deal better than flunking in 
Homer. 
The only thing about it is, I am afraid you 
will feel so, and Gypsy. I didn’t much like 
doing it after you had said No, but I must do 
it on the sly or not go at all, and I set my heart 
on going, before the end of last term. 
I won’t drink, mother, nor learn to swear, nor 
any of the rest of it. I promise you I will be 
a better fellow than I was in college, and be 
double the use in the world, and you shall be 
proud of me some day. Tell Gypsy so and tell 
her not to cry, and to think the best she can of 
me. She is a jewel, and I don’t like disappointing 
her, nor you either. I do hope it won’t 
make you worse. I don’t know what father 
will say ; couldn’t make up my mind to write 
to him. I thought he wouldn’t mind it quite 
so much if you told him. Please give him my 
love if he will take it, and tell him you will all 
see the day when you will think that I have 
done the best way. Give Winnie a kiss for me, 
and tell him my gun is taller than he is. Will 
write again as soon as I get to camp, and tell 
you how to direct. 
I do want to hear soon, and find out whether 
you can forgive 
Your Son, 
Tom. 
P. S. I am very well, — never better in my 
life, — and should be very happy if I only knew 
what you were going to say about it. I suppose 
you will think I have done wrong; well, any- 
way, it can’t be helped now. 
T. B. 
girls, with hands clasped and cheeks 
laid softly together ; the one with her 
bloodless lips and pale gold hair and shrunken 
hands ; the other round and rosy and brown, 
with her dark eyes snapping, and that canary 
poise to her head, and the morning sunlight 
over both, — it made a very pretty picture. 
But neither of them was thinking anything 
about that, — which was the charm of it. 
“ Peace, you are so white this morning, — do 
turn your face out of that sunbeam; it makes 
you look worse.” 
Peace smiled, and moved her head. 
“ Why, it doesn’t do the least good ! The 
sun always goes wherever you do. Peace May- 
thorne, I should like — well, I think I should 
like to pound that doctor with a tack-hammer, 
and then put some cayenne pepper on his hand- 
kerchief, and then pinch him, and then choke 
him a little, — just a little, not enough to be 
impolite, exactly, you know.” 
“ He docs all he can for me,” said Peace, 
laughing, “ and he is very kind, I ’m sure.” 
“ If it weren’t for his whiskers,” considered 
Gypsy, “ such solemn-looking things ! They 
look like grave-stones, exactly, — little black 
slate grave-stones, fringed on the edge.” 
“ He ’s good enough to her, I 'm sure,” ob- 
served Aunt Jane, who sat sewing by the 
window, “ and what with the jelly, and tongue, 
and books, and nobody knows what not, your 
ma keeps sendin’ her, I don’t think Peace has 
much to complain of” 
” Perhaps you would if you had to lie from 
morning to night with a pain in your back, and 
your father and mother dead, and nobody to ” — 
began Gypsy, with flashing eyes, and stopped. 
Then there was the old story over again, — 
Peace was grieved, and Aunt Jane was angry, 
and Gypsy was sorry. Presently Aunt Jane went 
out on an errand, and Gypsy said so. Peace 
sighed, but made no answer. Only, after a time, 
she said something, half to herself, about “ a little 
while,” that Gypsy did not exactly understand. 
“ The worse you feel, the more of an angel 
you are,” said Gypsy, in a pause. 
“ Oh, Gypsy ! ” 
“Yes, you are,” nodded Gypsy; “and I’m 
cross and bothered and worried about Tom, 
and, put it all together, I don’t begin to have 
as hard a time as you. When I come here, and 
look right into your eyes, I am so ashamed of 
myself, — why, I ’m so ashamed. Peace ! ” 
Peace raised her quiet eyes, and then she 
turned them away, for they had grown suddenly 
dark and dim. 
“ But I don’t have anything but myself to 
bear, Gypsy. It is a great deal easier to take 
things ourselves than to see them coming on 
somebody we love so very dearly.” 
“Yes,” said Gypsy, thinking for the moment 
how thankful she would be if she could be the 
soldier in Tom’s place; or how it seemed as if 
she would go to bed and lie there like Peace, 
if she could only make Tom the noble, prin- 
cipled, successful man that he might be, — that 
she was afraid at times he would never be. 
‘Ye-cs; but then, you see, I have Tom, to 
begin ivithT 
And Peace said nothing to that. 
Presently, she wanted to know what they 
heard from him. 
“ Well, we had a letter day before yesterday, 
and he said he was pretty well, and was over 
that terrible neuralgia, — he has had it almost 
ever since he has been there. But he thought 
there was going to be another fight, and so, you 
know, I have to go and think about it, and 
mother sits upstairs in the dark, and I know 
she ’s been crying, as well as I want to.” 
Peace did not say, “ Oh, he won’t get hurt. 
He wasn’t last time. The way not to have a 
thing happen is not to expect it. Look on the 
bright side,” &c., &c., &c. That sorry sort 
of sympathy it was not her fashion to give. 
Of course it was as possible for Tom to be 
wounded as any one else, and she could not have 
deluded Gypsy into thinking it was not, if she 
had tried. But she turned and kissed the cheek 
that was touching hers. 
“ It was so dreadful at first,” said Gypsy, 
who, when she once began to talk to Peace 
about Tom, never knew where to stop; “you 
sec, father, — I guess I told you, didn’t I? — 
well, he was so angry ! I never saw him look 
so in all my life. He said Tom was a disgrace 
to the family, and he said he would go right on 
and bring him home, — Tom is under age, you 
know, and he could do it, and I was so terribly 
afraid he would, and that would make Tom just 
as wicked as he could be, I know, he ’d be so 
angry. But mother talked him over. Well, 
then he sat right down and wrote a letter to 
Tom, and I never saw what was in it, but I 
guess it was awful. I don’t believe but what 
mother talked him round not to send that, too, 
for I saw her tearing up some letter-paper that 
night, and she was just as pale ! But by-and- 
by father didn’t seem to be angry, but just 
sorry. He was walking back and forth, back 
and forth, in the entry, and he never knew I 
saw him, and he shut up his hands together 
tight, and once I heard him groan right out 
loud, and say ‘ Poor boy, poor boy ! ’ and you ’d 
better believe I thought I was going to cry. 
Then did I tell you about our having prayers?” 
“No.” 
“Didn’t? Well, that was the worst of it. 
You see they had been shut up together almost 
all the afternoon and evening, talking it over, I 
suppose, — he and mother, I mean, — and no- 
body ate any supper but Winnie (he ate six 
slices of bread and two baked apples, and 
wanted to know if Tom got killed if he couldn’t 
have his gun), and I couldn’t go to bed, and 
Winnie would n’t, — he acted just as if it was a 
holiday, and said he was going to sit up till nine 
o’clock, because Tom had gone to the wars ; — 
so we just sat round and looked at each other, 
and it grew dark, and we could hear them 
talking upstairs, and it was dreadful. Then 
when Winnie saw me feeling for my handkerchief, 
he began to think he must cry too; so he 
stood up against the wall, and opened his mouth, 
and set up such a shout, — it was enough to 
wake the dead ! and I had enough to do hush- 
ing him up, but it made me laugh, and I 
couldn’t help it to save me. Well, then, it 
kept growing darker, and pretty soon they came 
down, and father called in Patty, just as if 
somebody were dead or something, and told her 
that Mr. Tom had enlisted; then he sent her 
out, and we all sat down, and he said : ‘ Children, 
Tom has done wrong, and we are sorry; 
but we have decided to let him stay in the army 
if he wishes, and now we will pray God to bless 
it to him, and to bring him home to us if it be 
His will.’ And then we all knelt down, and he 
began to pray, and I tell you, Peace, he loves 
Tom Breynton ! I did wish Tom could have 
heard him, and then, perhaps, he would forget 
about some of the times he has worried him 
so. I guess we were all choking before we 
got up, — except Winnie; he was sound asleep 
on the floor when we went to pick him 
up. 
“ So after that they wrote to Tom, but I 
don’t know what they said, and we all wrote to 
him, and his next letter sounded dreadfully 
sorry. Now, I believe something, Peace Maythorne.” 
“What is it?” 
“Well, Tom is just sick of it, only he won’t 
say so.” 
“ Why, what makes you think that? ” 
“ Oh, he keeps praising it up so much, for 
one thing. When Tom likes a thing firstrate, 
he doesn’t keep talking about it. Then once in 
a while he lets out a sentence about the rations 
being rather different from mother’s sponge cake 
and mince pies, and he says the marches tire 
him dreadfully. Then there ’s the neuralgia. 
He’s real patriotic, Tom is, and just as brave; 
but mother says he isn’t strong enough for it, 
and father says such young boys always go 
more from love of adventure than anything else, 
and almost always wish they had stayed at home. 
He says they don’t help the Government 
either, getting sick and filling the hospitals, and 
what we want in the army is men. But as long 
as he has gone, I hope he will take a prisoner 
or something. He likes to get funny letters 
from home, and so I drew a picture last week 
of a great, big, lean, lank, long Rebel, with Tom 
coming up about to his knee, and standing up 
on a barrel to arrest him.' 
“ You write to him often, I suppose? ” asked 
Peace. 
“Oh, yes; Tom likes it. And I tell him all 
the news ; he likes that. And I tell him I love 
him pretty much ; and he likes that. We send 
quantities of letters, and some he gets and some 
he doesn’t. But we get almost all his. But 
the thing of it is, Peace Maythorne, Francis 
Rowe says everybody in the army drinks and 
swears before they are out of it, and then the 
papers do tell such dreadful things about the 
battles, and I think, and go to bed thinking, 
and wake up thinking.” 
“ Gypsy,” said Peace, in a tone that had a 
new thought in it 
“ Well? ” 
“You love Tom ever so much.” 
“ Um — a little — yes.” 
“And you are a real good sister to him, I think.” 
Don’t know about that,” said Gypsy, wink- 
ing; “sometimes I’m horrid, and sometimes 
I’m not; it’s just as it happens.” 
“ I ’ve been wondering,” said Peace, and 
hesitated. 
“ Wondering what? ” 
Peace raised her still eyes, and Gypsy looked 
into them. 
“ Wondering if you have helped him every 
way you can.” 
“ I don’t understand exactly.” 
“ There ’s one way I was thinking about. I 
mean, — if you should tell God about him.” 
“ Oh ! ” 
The quiet eyes looked at Gypsy, and Gypsy 
looked at them. Perhaps for an instant Peace 
was almost sorry that she had said what she 
had, — a little uncertain how Gypsy was going 
to take it. But the quiet eyes showed nothing 
of this ; they held Gypsy’s fast by their stillness 
and their pureness, and did for her what they 
always did. 
“ Peace Maythorne,” — after a pause, — “I 
should like to know what made you think of 
saying that to me ! ” 
“ Oh, I don’t know. I was only wondering, 
and thinking; nothing seems of very much use 
without it ! ” 
Gypsy swung her hat round by the strings, 
and tapped the floor with one foot. 
“ Well, I suppose I have n’t, exactly, — no. 
I say Our Father every day — ’most; only 
sometimes I ’m sleepy. I say something about 
Tom once in a while, but I never supposed it 
was going to make any difference. Besides, I ’m 
so vvicked and horrid.” 
Peace made no answer. 
“ Now I suppose you mean, here I ’ve been 
doing and worrying for Tom all this time, and 
it is all of no account, then?” 
“ Oh, no ; it is of a great deal of account. 
Only if you see a man drowning, and throw 
him out planks and branches and straws and 
shavings, and there is a boat there you could 
have just as well as not? ” 
“ Hum,” said Gypsy; “ yes, I see.” 
There was a silence. Peace broke it. 
“ I expect I've bothered you with my sober 
talk. But I thought — I didn’t know as I
should have another chance.” 
“ Another chance ! ” echoed Gypsy, mystified.
Peace turned her head over with a sud- 
den motion, and did not answer. 
“ Peace, what did you mean?” Alarmed at 
the silence, Gypsy climbed up on the bed to see 
what was the matter. 
They had talked too long, and Peace had 
fainted away. 
“ She has these turns pretty nigh ’most 
every day now,” said Aunt Jane, coming in 
and emptying half the water-pitcher upon her 
moveless face, — not roughly, but very much 
as she would gather a skirt or cut button-holes ; 
as if it were part of the business of life, and 
life meant business, and love was a duty, — a 
crippled orphan or a shirt-bosom, it was all the 
same. 
ONE night, not long after that talk with 
Peace, Gypsy had a dream. It was a 
strange dream. 
It seemed to be nearly two thousand years 
ago, and she was living, and Peace, and 
Tom, and Winnie; and their 'home was 
in Judea. Tom was a young rabbi, and 
Winnie, was in the Temple at Jerusalem,
educating, like Samuel, for the Priesthood ; her 
father and mother were buried in the Cave of 
Machpelah, and she and Peace were Jewish 
maidens, and lived in a little vine-covered house 
by the banks of silver Kedron. It was a very 
pleasant house, though very small and simply 
furnished. From the door she could look over 
to Jerusalem, and see the sun light the towers 
of the Temple, and from the windows she could 
watch the hills, and the shadows on them, and 
the paths worn up : there was a certain awe 
about those paths ; she wondered in the dream 
who wore them, but she did not seem to 
know. 
The bed for Peace was drawn up by the win- 
dow, and Peace lay always (as she always had 
since Gypsy had known her) still upon the 
pillows, with folded hands. Tom used to carry 
her out into the air sometimes, and lay her 
down upon the grass beneath the palm-trees, 
and Gypsy would run and shout, and roam 
away over the brook and up the mountains, and 
Peace could never go, but lay under the palm- 
trees, weak and white, with wistful eyes. And 
once it chanced that they were together, she 
and Peace alone, on a long, smooth beach, with 
the blue waves of Galilee singing and sighing 
