one hand goes out upon it, which does, or may, place him in a dangerous
position. During the preceding day, when the barometer indicated a
change of weather, Mr. Lowington had sent the old boatswain aloft to
"mouse the horses," in anticipation of the manoeuvre which the boys were
now compelled to perform at midnight, in a gale of wind. Mousing the
horses was merely fastening the foot-ropes to the eyes of the stirrups,
so that they could not slip through, and thus throw the entire slack of
the horse under one boy, by which he sank down so low that his neck was
even with the spar.
At the foot of each mast there is a contrivance for securing ropes,
called the fife-rail. It is full of belaying pins, to which are secured
the sheets, halyards, buntlines, clewlines, lifts, braces, reef tackle,
and other ropes leading down from aloft. Looking at the mast, it seems
to be surrounded by a perfect wilderness of ropes, without order or
arrangement, whose uses no ordinary mortal could comprehend. There were
other ropes leading down from aloft, which were fastened at the
sheer-poles and under the rail. Now, it is necessary that every sailor
should be able to put his hand on the right rope in the darkest night;
and when the order to haul out the buntlines was given in the gloom and
the gale, those to whom this duty was assigned could have closed their
eyes and found the right lines.
"Aloft, topman!" continued the first lieutenant, when the topsails were
in readiness for reefing.
At this order thirty of the young tars ran up the shrouds, over the
cat-harpings, and up the rigging, till they reached the fore, main, and
mizzen topsail yards. Twelve of them were stationed on the main, ten on
the fore, and eight on the mizzen topsail yard. The first, second, and
third midshipmen were aloft to superintend the work, and when the
studding-sail booms had been triced up, they gave the order to lay out,
and take two reefs.
When the hands were at their stations on the yard, the first lieutenant
ordered the quartermaster to "luff up;" that is, to put the helm down
so as to throw the ship up into the wind and spill the sail, or get the
wind out of it, that the young tars might handle it with the more ease.
The boys had been frequently trained in the manoeuvre which they were
now executing under trying circumstances, and all of them knew their
duty. If any one trembled as the mast swayed over when the ship rolled,
he was afraid to mention the fact, or to exhibit any signs of alarm.
Perhaps most of them would have been willing to acknowledge that it was
rather "ticklish" business to lay out on a topsail yard at midnight in a
gale of wind; and if their anxious mothers could have seen the boys at
that moment, some of them might have fainted, and all wished them in a
safer place.
The boom tricing-lines were manned again, and the studding-sail booms
restored to their places.
"Lay down from aloft!" shouted Haven, when the midshipman in charge
aloft had reported the work done; and he was obliged to roar at the top
of his lungs through the speaking trumpet, in order to be heard above
the piping of the gale and the dashing of the sea. "Man the topsail
halyards! stand by the braces."
"All ready, sir," reported the fourth lieutenant, after the others.
"Hoist away the topsails!"
The hands on deck walked away with the halyards, until the topsails were
hauled up to a taut leech.
The same operation was repeated on the fore and main course; the yards
were trimmed; the bowlines attached and hauled out, and then the ship
was under double-reefed topsails and courses.
"Boatswain, pipe down!" said the executive officer when the work was
done.
But the crew did not care to pipe down, just then. This was the first
time they had ever seen a gale at sea, and there was something grand and
sublime in the heaving ocean, and the wild winds that danced madly over
the white-crested waves. It was now after midnight, eight bells having
struck before the courses were reefed, and the first part of the
starboard watch were to have the deck. Mr. Lowington insisted that all
others should go below and turn in, assuring them that they would see
enough of the gale in the morning, or as soon as their quarter watches
were called.
The principal and Mr. Fluxion were earnest in their commendation of the
behavior of the Young America. She was not only a stiff and weatherly
ship, but she behaved most admirably, keeping well up to the wind, and
minding her helm. The four boys at the wheel handled it with perfect
ease.
The ship did not labor in the gale as she had before the sails were
reefed; and though she jumped, plunged, and rolled, making a terrific
roar as she went along, everything was ship-shape about her, and the
boys soon became accustomed to the exciting scene. She was making but
little headway, but she still kept within three points of her general
course. Mr. Lowington remained on deck the rest of the night, anxiously
watching the ship and her crew in the trying experience of the hour.
Augustus Pelham, the discontented lieutenant, went below when his
quarter watch was relieved. The little incident, before all hands were
called, between himself and the captain, had disturbed him more than he
would have been willing to acknowledge. He thought it was harsh of the
captain to say anything to him, though he had broken one of the rules of
the ship; and he regarded the gentle reproof he had received as a very
great indignity.
He went to his state room. The ship was rolling fearfully, and he could
not stand up without holding on at the front of his berth. Goodwin, the
third lieutenant who was his room-mate, had already turned in; but it
was impossible for him to sleep. Pelham took a match from his pocket and
lighted the lamp, which swung on gimbals in the room.
"What are you doing, Pelham?" demanded Goodwin "It is against the rule
to light a lamp after ten o'clock."
"I know it; but I'm not going to blunder round here, and have my brains
knocked out in the dark," growled Pelham.
"Put the light out; you will get into trouble," remonstrated his
room-mate.
"I won't do it."
"What are you going to do?"
"Go to sleep, Goodwin, and don't bother me."
"What's the matter, Pelham? What ails you? I never knew you to think of
breaking one of the rules before."
"I should like to break them all, as Moses did the ten commandments. I
have been insulted."
"Who insulted you?"
"The captain."
"Gordon?" asked Goodwin, in astonishment
"Yes."
"I never knew him to do such a thing as that. I think you didn't
understand him; or he must have been excited by the gale."
"It was before it came on to blow very hard," replied Pelham, seating
himself on a stool, and bracing his feet against the front of the berth
to prevent being thrown down.
"What did he do?"
"He snubbed me, told me I knew the rule, and was as overbearing as
though I had been his servant, instead of an officer of the ship."
"But what did you do? He wouldn't have done anything of the kind if you
hadn't given him some provocation."
"I told the quartermaster, when the wind was heading off the ship, to
alter the course."
"Didn't you tell the captain beforehand?"
"Not I."
"Then I don't blame him for snubbing you. What's the use of being
captain if the officers don't obey you?"
"If he had anything to say to me, he might have been a little more
gentle about it."
Pelham neglected to say that he was not particularly gentle himself.
"Put that light out, Pelham, for my sake, if not for your own," said
Goodwin, when he found that his companion was too much out of sorts to
be reasonable.
"Neither for yours nor my own will I put it out," replied Pelham, as he
took a cigar from its hiding-place, under the lower berth.
"What are you going to do, Pelham?" demanded Goodwin, filled with
astonishment, as he observed the conduct of his fellow-officer.
"I'm going to have a smoke."
"But you know that smoking is positively prohibited either on ship or
shore."
"I haven't had a smoke since vacation," replied Pelham, as he lighted
the cigar.
"See here, Pelham; I won't stand this!" exclaimed the third lieutenant,
rising up in his bed, in which act he was nearly pitched out of his
berth by a heavy roll of the ship. "The companion-way is closed."
"That's the very reason why I'm going to smoke," replied the malcontent,
coolly.
"But I shall be stifled here."
"Can't help it."
"I can," retorted Goodwin, as he leaped out on the floor.
"What are you going to do?"
"I am going to inform Mr. Lowington what you are doing."
"Are you such a fellow as that?" asked Pelham, indignantly.
"I am, if you are such a fellow as to attempt to stifle me with cigar
smoke in my own room. It would make me as sick as a horse in five
minutes."
"Seasick, you mean," sneered Pelham. "I'm going to have my smoke, if
there is a row about it."
Goodwin put on his pea-jacket, and left the room.
CHAPTER XV.
AFTER THE GALE.
One of the most singular traits observable in the character of some boys
is the willingness, and even the desire, under certain circumstances, to
get into trouble. A young gentleman, feeling that he has been slighted,
or his merit overlooked, permits himself to fall into a mental condition
in which he feels no responsibility for his conduct; in which he
recklessly breaks through all regulations, places himself in an attitude
of opposition to constituted authority, and seems to court the heaviest
penalty which can be inflicted upon him for disobedience, impudence, and
rebellion.
The fourth lieutenant of the Young America had worked himself up to this
disagreeable pitch. He was not only disposed to assume an attitude of
opposition to the principal, who had made the obnoxious regulation which
was the immediate cause of his rebellious condition, but to all who
supported his authority, or willingly submitted to it.
Smoking was a high crime on board the Young America--not in the relation
of the practice to the ship, but to the student. It was condemned, not
simply because it would be offensive in the cabins and steerage, and on
deck, but because it was a bad habit for a boy to acquire. The adult
forward officers, the cooks and the stewards, were allowed to smoke on
the forecastle at certain prescribed hours; but it was a punishable
offence for a student to smoke at any time or in any place, whether on
board or on shore.
Goodwin was indignant at the conduct of his room-mate, for the third
lieutenant was not only opposed to smoking on principle, but the fumes
of tobacco were intensely offensive to him; and there was no doubt that,
in the confined space of the state room, insufficiently ventilated,
while all the openings in the deck were closed during the gale, the
smoke would make him "as sick as a horse." He was a noble-minded, manly
youth, and had all a boy's detestation for tattling and tale-bearing. He
did not like to go on deck and inform the principal of the conduct of
Pelham, but he could not submit to the indignity cast upon him. He went
out into the cabin, and threw himself upon the cushioned divan, under
the stern ports of the ship.
This would have been a very satisfactory place to sleep under ordinary
circumstances; but Goodwin had hardly secured a comfortable position,
before the heavy rolling and pitching of the vessel tumbled him off, and
he measured his length on the cabin floor--a very undignified situation
for a third lieutenant. He picked himself up in the darkness, and tried
it again, but with no better success than before. He had fully intended
to go on deck and inform the principal of the misconduct of Pelham,
which had driven him from his room; but he shrank from the task.
What Goodwin was attempting to do on the divan many of the officers were
striving to do in their berths, though with better success than attended
his efforts. It was not an easy matter to stay in the berths; and this
done, the situation was far from comfortable. Avoiding the rude fall on
the one side, the occupant was rolled over against the partition on the
other side. Sleep, in anything more than "cat naps," was utterly
impracticable, for as soon as the tired officer began to lose himself in
slumber, he was thumped violently against the pine boards, or was roused
by the fear of being tumbled out of his berth.
Mr. Lowington comprehended the situation of the students, and when the
topsails and courses had been reefed, he called up all the stewards, and
sent them through the after cabin and steerage, to ascertain the
condition of the boys, and to give them the benefit of certain
expedients known to old voyagers for such occasions. Jacobs, the steward
of the after cabin, entered to perform his duty. He had no light, not
even a lantern; for fire is so terrible a calamity at sea, that every
lamp was extinguished by the stewards at ten o'clock, and no light was
allowed, except in the binnacle, without the special permission of the
principal Even the captain could not allow a lamp to be lighted after
hours.
Jacobs went to all the state rooms on the port side first, and pulled up
the berth sacks above the front of the bunks, so as to form a kind of
wall, to keep the occupant from rolling out. A bundle of clothing was
placed on the inside of the berth, and the body was thus wedged in, so
as to afford some relief to the unstable form. Pelham's room was the
second one on the starboard side, and Jacobs came to it at last, in his
humane mission. He opened the door, and started back with unfeigned
astonishment to see the lamp lighted, and the fourth lieutenant puffing
his cigar as leisurely as the violent motion of the ship would permit.
"Contrary to regulation, sir," said Jacobs, respectfully as he touched
his cap to the reckless officer.
"Take yourself off, Jacobs," replied Pelham, coarsely and rudely.
"Yes, sir."
Jacobs did take himself off, and hastened on deck to inform Mr.
Lowington of the conduct of the infatuated officer.
The principal immediately presented himself. Pelham had fully believed,
in his self-willed obstinacy, that he could look Mr. Lowington full in
the face, and impudently defy him. He found that he was mistaken. The
experience of Shuffles in the hands of the boatswain and carpenter would
intrude itself upon him, and he quailed when the principal opened the
door and gazed sternly into his face.
"Smoking, Mr. Pelham?"
"Yes, sir," replied the rebel, with an attempt to be cool and impudent,
which, however, was a signal failure.
"You will put out that cigar, and throw it away."
"I will; I've smoked enough," answered Pelham.
"Your light is burning, contrary to regulation."
"The ship rolls so, I should break my neck without one," replied Pelham,
sourly.
"That is a weak plea for a sailor to make. Mr. Pelham, I confess my
surprise to find one who has done so well engaged in acts of
disobedience."
The reckless officer could make no reply; if the reproof had been given
in presence of others, he would probably have retorted, prompted by a
false, foolish pride to "keep even" with the principal.
"For smoking, you will lose ten marks; for lighting your lamp, ten
more," added the principal.
"You might as well send me into the steerage at once," answered Pelham.
"If either offence is repeated, that will be done. You will put out your
light at once."
The fourth lieutenant obeyed the order because he did not dare to
disobey it; the fear of the muscular boatswain, the irons, and the brig,
rather than that of immediate degradation to the steerage, operating
upon his mind. The principal went on deck; Pelham turned in, and was
soon followed, without a word of comment on the events which had just
transpired, by Goodwin.
The night wore away, the gale increasing in fury, and the rain pouring
in torrents. It was a true taste of a seaman's life to those who were on
deck. At daybreak all hands were called again, to put the third reef in
the topsails. At eight bells the courses were furled. The gale continued
to increase in power during the forenoon, and by noon a tremendous sea
had been stirred up. The ship rolled almost down to her beam ends, and
the crests of the waves seemed to be above the level of the main yard.
In the popular exaggerated language, "the waves ran mountain high,"
which means from twenty to forty feet; perhaps, on this occasion,
twenty-five feet from the trough of the sea to the crest of the billow.
Even this is a great height to be tossed up and down on the water; and
to the boys of the Young America the effect was grand, if not terrific.
The deck was constantly flooded with water; additional life-lines had
been stretched across from rail to rail, and every precaution taken to
insure the safety of the crew.
Study and recitation were impossible, and nothing was attempted of this
kind. The storm was now what could justly be called a heavy gale, and it
was no longer practicable to lay a course. Before eight bells in the
forenoon watch, the royal and top-gallant yards had been sent down, and
the ship was laid to under a close-reefed main-topsail, which the
nautical gentlemen on board regarded as the best for the peculiar
conditions which the Young America presented.
When a ship is laying to, no attention is paid to anything but the
safety of the vessel, the only object being to keep her head up to the
sea. In the gale, the Young America lay with her port bow to the wind,
her hull being at an angle of forty-five degrees, with a line indicating
the direction of the wind. Her topsail yard was braced so that it
pointed directly to the north-east--the quarter from which the gale
blew. The helm was put a-lee just enough to keep her in the position
indicated. She made little or no headway, but rather drifted with the
waves.
The young tars had a hard forenoon's work; and what was done was
accomplished with triple the labor required in an ordinary sea. All
hands were on duty during the first part of the day, though there were
intervals of rest, such as they were, while the boys had to hold on with
both hands, and there was no stable abiding-place for the body. The ship
rolled so fiercely that no cooking could be done, and the only
refreshments were coffee and "hard tack."
"This is a regular muzzler, Pelham," said Shuffles, in the afternoon, as
they were holding on at the life-lines in the waist.
"That's a fact; and I've got about enough of this thing."
"There isn't much fun in it," replied Shuffles, who had been watching
for this opportunity to advance the interests of the "Chain."
"No, not a bit."
"It's better for you officers, who don't have to lay out on the yards
when they jump under you like a mad horse, than for us."
"I suppose I shall have a chance to try it next term."
"Why so?"
"I lost twenty marks last night. I got mad, lighted the lamp, and smoked
a cigar in my state room."
"Will the loss of the twenty marks throw you over?"
"Yes? I'm a goner!" added Pelham, with a smile.
"What made you mad?"
"The captain snubbed me; then Lowington came the magnificent over me. A
single slip throws a fellow here."
A single slip in the great world throws a man or woman; and young men
and young women should be taught that "single slips" are not to be
tolerated. More children are spoiled by weak indulgence than by
over-severe discipline. But a boy had a better chance to recover from
the effects of his errors in the Young America, than men and women have
in the community.
By gradual approaches, Shuffles informed the fourth lieutenant of the
object of the "Chain," which Pelham promptly agreed to join, declaring
that it was just the thing to suit his case. He was in a rebellious
frame of mind; and though he could not feel that the enterprise would be
a complete success, it would afford him an opportunity to annoy and
punish the principal for his degrading and tyrannical regulation, as the
recreant officer chose to regard it.
By the exercise of some tact, the conspirators found a convenient place
under the top-gallant forecastle to consider the project. Pelham was
duly "toggled," and offered no objection to the penalty; indeed, he only
laughed at it.
"Suppose we get possession of the ship--what then?" asked Pelham.
"We will go on a cruise. I understand that she has provisions for a six
months' voyage on board. I'm in favor of going round Cape Horn, and
having a good time among the islands of the South Sea."
Pelham laughed outright at this splendid scheme.
"Round Cape Horn!" exclaimed he.
"Yes? why not? We should be up with the cape by the first of June;
rather a bad time, I know, but this ship would make good weather of it,
and I don't believe we should see anything worse than this."
"What will you do with the principal and the professors?" asked Pelham,
lightly.
"We can run up within ten or fifteen miles of Cape Sable, give them one
of the boats, and let them go on shore."
"Perhaps they won't go."
"We have ten fellows already in the Chain, who are seventeen years old.
If we get half the crew, we can handle the other half, and the
professors with them."
"All right! I'm with you, whether you succeed or not. I'm not going to
be ground under Lowington's feet, and be snubbed by such fellows as
Gordon. If I want to smoke a cigar, I'm going to do it."
"Or take a glass of wine," suggested Shuffles.
"If there is any on board."
"There is, plenty of it. I'll make you a present of a bottle, if you
wish it."
"Thank you. Suppose we get the ship, Shuffles, who are to be the
officers?" asked Pelham.
"We shall have good fellows for officers. You will be one, of course."
"I suppose I am higher in rank now than any fellow who has joined the
Chain."
"Yes, that's a fact; but we are not going to mind who are officers now,
or who have been before. We intend to take the best fellows--those who
have done the most work in making the Chain."
"Whether they are competent or not," added Pelham.
"All the fellows know how to work a ship now, except the green hands
that came aboard this year."
"This is rather an important matter. Shuffles, for everything depends
upon the officers. For instance, who will be captain?" asked Pelham,
with assumed indifference.
"I shall, of course," replied Shuffles, with becoming modesty.
"That's a settled matter, I suppose."
"Yes; without a doubt it is."
"I may not agree to that," suggested the new convert.
"You have already agreed to it. You have promised to obey your
superiors."
"But who are my superiors?"
"I am one of them."
"Who appointed you?"
"I appointed myself. I got up the Chain."
"I think I have just as much right to that place as you have. Shuffles."
"I don't see it! Do you expect me to get up this thing, and then take a
subordinate position?" demanded Shuffles, indignantly.
"Let the members choose the captain; that's the proper way."
"Perhaps they will choose neither one of us."
"Very well; I will agree to serve under any fellow who is fairly
elected."
"When shall he be chosen?" asked Shuffles, who was so sure of a majority
that he was disposed to adopt the suggestion.
"When we have thirty links, say."
"I will agree to it."
The conspirators separated, each to obtain recruits as fast as he could.
During the latter part of the day, the gale began to subside, and at
sunset its force was broken, but the sea still ran fearfully high. The
