over the bulwark, he stood on the guard from which 
opened the windows of the saloon. 
Neither of the three conspirators were in a sit- 
uation to see this movement on the part of Lawry. 
Ben was too much occupied in steering — for he was 
not a little fearful of getting aground in some shoal 
water between the ferry and the wharf — to notice 
anything ; but as soon as he had obtained his course, 
he looked for his brother on the pier. He was not 
there ; but Ben did not suspect that he was on 
board the Woodville. Baker, who knew just enough 
about an engine to stop and start it, was working 
the valves with the bar ; and he could think of 
nothing else. Doubtless he was conscious by this 
time that he had " taken a big job," in assuming 
the control of the engine. 
Lawry was bewildered by the situation. When 
his feet struck the deck, his first impulse was to 
rush up to the wheel-house, and confront the diffi- 
culty as the case might require. He started to carry 
out his purpose, when he happened to look through 
one of the saloon windows, and discovered Ethan, 
 
with the handkerchief in his mouth, tied to the 
stanchion. Deeply as he sympathized with his friend 
in his unpleasant position, he was still cheered by 
the sight, for it assured him that the engineer had 
been faithful to his duties, and was not a party to 
the conspiracy. 
The little captain went round and entered the 
saloon by the door, without being seen by either 
of the conspirators. He removed the gag from 
Ethan's mouth, and proceeded to unfasten the cords 
with which he was bound. 
" What does all this mean, Ethan ? " demanded 
Lawry, in excited tones, and almost crying with 
vexation. 
" Hush ! Do they know you are here ? " asked 
the engineer. 
" I think not ; I don't know." 
" Keep still, then. They are after the gold." 
" Who are they ? " 
" Ben and two other fellows. I don't know 
them." 
" We'll stop this thing very quick," said Lawry, 
in hurried tones. 
 
" They are armed with pistols, and threatened to 
shoot all hands. Be careful, Lawry, or you will 
get a bullet through your head." 
" What shall we do ? " demanded the young pilot, 
who had no desire to be shot. 
Ethan was an accomplished strategist ; he had 
fought the Indians both with his wits and his weap- 
ons, and he promptly undertook the management 
of the affair. He led the way to the lower cabin, 
where the terrified women had been driven by 
the ruffians. Mrs. Light declared she was fright- 
ened out of her senses, and she " never did hear 
of such goings on." 
" If any of those men ask for me, tell them I 
got loose, jumped overboard, and swam ashore," 
said Ethan. 
" Law sake ! " exclaimed the cook. 
" Don't tell them I am here, at any rate." 
" I won't. Massy sake ! What on airth are we 
comin' to ? " 
" Don't be alarmed ; we will take care of these 
villains before we have done with them," added 
Ethan. 
 
 
" Hush ! There's some one coming," said one of 
the girls ; and the heavy tread of a man was heard 
on the deck above them. 
Ethan and Lawry had only time to crawl into 
one of the berths, where Mrs. Light covered them 
with bed-clothes, before Flint came down into the 
cabin. 
" See here ; we haven't been to supper, and we 
want some," said the ruffian, as he descended the 
steps. 
" What are you goin' to do with us ? " demanded 
Mrs. Light. 
" Don't be scart ; we won't hurt you," replied 
Flint. 
" But where you goin' ? " 
" Up to Whitehall. When we get there, you can 
go where you please. Now, get us some supper ; 
the best there is on board — beefsteak and coffee." 
" Well, I suppose I can get you some supper ; 
but I don't like such carryin's on," replied Mrs. 
Light. 
Flint left the cabin, after he had given his order. 
On his way forward he looked into the saloon, and 
 
discovered that their prisoner was missing. Search 
was immediately instituted ; but Mrs. Light, as in- 
structed by Ethan, declared that he had got loose, 
and swam ashore ; she had seen him through the 
stern lights. The rascals finally accepted this ex- 
planation, after searching on deck for him. 
Mrs. Light went to the kitchen to get supper for 
the rogues, while the girls set the table. The cook 
presently returned to the cabin, and told Ethan 
where each of the robbers was stationed ; but being 
unarmed, there seemed to be no way of making an 
attack upon them where the ruffians could not rally 
to the support of each other. 
" We must settle this business down here, Lawry," 
said Ethan, when they had come out of their hiding- 
places. 
" They will have to come to supper one at a 
time," added the little captain. 
" Exactly so ; and this will be the safest place 
to do the job. We want a rope," added the en- 
gineer, with a business-like air. 
" I'll fetch you a rope," said Mrs. Light. 
" Do ; bring me the small heave-line, on the 
guard by the saloon doors." 
The cook went on deck, and after a visit to the 
kitchen, returned to the cabin with the line indi- 
cated under her apron. In about half an hour sup- 
per was ready for the villains, and one of the girls 
informed Baker, who was still on duty in the engine- 
room, that it was waiting for them. The engineer 
called Flint, and told him, as the boat was out in 
the middle of the lake, the engine would need noth- 
ing done to it, and directed him to stand at the 
door, so that the fireman below should not attempt 
to defeat their plans. He then went to the cabin 
for his supper. 
Ethan and Lawry had concealed themselves be- 
hind the curtains of a tier of berths, directly in the 
rear of the chair where Baker was to sit at the 
table. In his hand Ethan held the heave-line, at 
one end of which Lawry had made a hangman's 
noose. Mrs. Light and the girls had been instructed 
to rattle the chairs, make as much noise as they 
could, and otherwise engage the attention of the 
robber, as soon as he sat down to the table. 
Baker came down the stairs, and one of the girls 
began to rattle the chairs, Mrs. Light to move a 
 
pile of plates, and the other girl to arrange the 
dishes on the table. 
" Will you have some coffee ? " demanded Mrs. 
Light, without giving him time to notice anything 
in the cabin. 
" Of course I will," growled Baker. 
" Shall I give you some beefsteak ? " asked one- 
of the girls. 
." I'll help myself." 
" If you want some fried eggs I'll get some for 
you," added the cook, rattling the dishes again. 
Baker was not permitted to say whether he would 
have any fried eggs or not, for at that moment 
Ethan crept from his concealment, whatever noise 
lie made being drowned by the clatter of the dishes 
and the rattling of the chairs. Stealing up behind 
Baker, who was intent only on beefsteak and coffee, 
he slipped the hangman's noose over his head, and 
hauled it tight. The robber attempted to spring to 
his feet, but Ethan hauled him over backwards on the 
floor. At the same time Lawry tlirew the end of 
the line over a deck beam, extended across the sky- 
light, and began to " haul in the slack." 
 
The villain attempted to cry out ; but the sound 
only gurgled in his throat. He grasped the rope 
with both hands ; but the choking already received 
had taken away his strength, and he was unable to 
taake any successful resistance. While Lawry kept 
the rope so taut that Baker could not move, Ethan 
tied his hands behind him, though the man's strug- 
gles were fierce, and the engineer was obliged to 
Use a rolling-pin, supplied by Mrs. Light, before 
the conquest was complete. The rufEan was se- 
curely bound and gagged ; but the cook and the 
girls had nearly fainted while the struggle was go- 
ing on. 
Baker, thus gagged and bound, was rolled into 
one of the lower berths. He had been nearly 
choked to death by the rope, and several hard 
knocks he had received on the head had rendered 
him partially insensible, so that he was not in con- 
dition to make any further resistance. Ethan had 
taken possession of his pistol, and, as a matter of 
precaution, threatened to blow out his brains if he 
made any noise. , 
" Massy sake ! " groaned Mrs. Light, when the 
 
work was accomplished. " I never did see ! You've 
taken my breath all away ! " 
" Don't make a noise," said Ethan. 
" I couldn't have struck that man as you did,'! 
added Lawry. 
" If you had been through what I have, out west, 
it would come easier to you," replied the engineer, 
glancing at the berth where the prisoner had been 
concealed by the curtains. " We must go through 
the whole of it once more." 
One of the girls was then sent to call Flint, and 
directed to assure him that such was the order of 
Baker, who had gone to the wheel-house for a mo- 
ment, and would immediately return to the engine- 
room. The deck hand was too much in a hurry for 
his supper to question the order, and went directly 
to the cabin. The noise made by Mrs. Light and 
the girls prevented him from hearing the heavy 
breathings of Baker, and he was an easier victim 
than his companion in crime had been. He was 
choked, gagged, bound, and his pistol taken from 
him. By this time these two ruffians, if they could 
think at all, could not help believing that the way 
of the transgressor is hard. 
 
From regard to the feelings of Lawry, Ethan de- 
cided that Ben should not be subjected to this harsh 
treatment. He was still in the wheel-house, not sus- 
pecting that his nefarious scheme had been wholly 
defeated. 
The work was accomplished, and the pilot and 
engineer went on deck. Ethan repaired to his post 
and stopped the engine. Ben half a dozen times 
demanded, through the speaking-tube, what the mat- 
ter was ; but receiving no answer, he came down 
himself to ascertain the cause of the sudden stoppage 
of the boat. 
 
CHAPTER XX. 
THE LITTLE CAPTAIN AND HIS MOTTO. 
As Ben Wilford, fearful tliat some accident to the 
machinery would defeat his criminal enterprise, en- 
tered the engine-room on one side, Laivry left it at 
the other. As the little captain went forward, he 
heard a noise in the forecastle, and saw that the 
companion-way was closed and fastened. Releasing 
the firemen and deck hands confined there, he di- 
rected them to follow him to the Mheel-house, where 
he explained to them what had happened. 
" What are you stopping for ? " demanded Ben 
Wilford, before he discovered that Baker was not 
present. 
" I think it is about time to go back, now," 
replied Ethan, holding one of the pistols in his 
hand. 
" How came you here, Ethan ? " exclaimed Ben, 
starting back with astonishment when he saw who 
was in charge of the engine. 
" I run this machine, and this is the right place for 
me," replied Ethan, coolly. 
" Where's Baker ? " 
"He's safe; if you mean the man you left in 
charge of the engine." 
Ben was bewildered by the present aspect of af- 
fairs. It was clear that there had been a miscarriage 
somewhere ; but he was unable to tell how or where 
the scheme had failed. Before he could decide what 
step to take next. Captain Lawry rang the bell to go 
ahead. 
" Who rang the bell ? " asked Ben. , 
" Captain Lawry." 
" Is he on board ? " 
" He is," replied Ethan, as he started the engine. 
" Ben Wilford, you have got about to the end of your 
rope." 
"What do you mean?" 
" You have done a job which will send you to Sing 
Sing for the next ten years." 
"No, I haven't," said Ben, backing out of the 
engine-room. 
 
" Stop where you are," interposed Ethan, peremp- 
torily, as he raised his pistol. 
" Two can play at that game," added Ben. 
" Two can ; but two won't. Drop your hands, or 
I'll fire ! " 
Ben obeyed ; he had felt that the game was up 
the moment he saw Ethan at his post, and he had 
not the courage to draw his pistol upon one who had 
shot two Indians in one day. 
" Sit down there," continued Ethan, pointing to 
the bench in the engine-room, and the culprit took 
his seat with fear and trembling. 
" What shall I do ? " groaned the wretched young 
man, as he thought of the consequence of his crime. 
"Jump overboard and drown yourself. That would 
save your friends a great deal of trouble," replied 
Ethan. " Give up your pistol ! " 
Ben gave it up, and began to plead with Ethan to 
let him escape, declaring that it would kill his moth- 
er, and Lawry never would get over it, if he was 
sent to the penitentiary. Though the engineer dread- 
ed the day when his friend would be compelled to 
testify in court against his own brother, he would 
not yield to the culprit's entreaties, and did not 
intend that he should escape the penalty of his 
crime. 
When the Woodville reached her wharf, having 
been absent but little more than an hour, Mr. Sher- 
wood and the ladies were on the wharf. While Ethan 
was working the engine with the bar, Ben slipped 
out of the room. The engineer saw him, and gave 
the alarm ; but he could not leave his post at that 
moment. As soon as the boat was moored, search 
was made; but Ben could not be found. He cer- 
tainly was not on board. 
Mr. Sherwood was astonished when he was told 
what had occurred. He sent his coachman after the 
sheriff at once, and directed that the search for Ben 
Wilford should be renewed. The state-room was 
found locked, as he had left it, and the gold undis- 
turbed. Mrs. Light and the girls, the firemen and 
the deck hands, had their own stories to tell, to all 
of which Mr. Sherwood listened very patiently. 
" You have done well, Lawry," said he. " You 
have saved my gold." 
" It was Ethan, sir, that did the business. I don't 
 
believe I could have done anything alone," replied 
the little captain, 
" Lawiy did his share," added Ethan, with due 
modesty. 
" I'm sure they both fit like wildcats in the cabin," 
said Mrs. Light. " I was e'ena'most scart to death." 
When the sheriff came, he took Baker and Flint 
into custody, and sent the constable who had come 
with him to find Ben Wilford* The two robbers in 
the cabin were in bad condition. The choking they 
had received had been a terrible shock to their nerves, 
which, with the hard knocks given by Ethan with 
the cook's rolling-pin, had entirely used them up, 
and there was neither fight nor bravado in them. 
Flint said they had been induced to engage in the 
enterprise by Ben Wilford ; that they intended to 
proceed to the vicinity of Whitehall in the Woodville, 
where the instigator of the affair had declared his 
purpose to burn the boat. From this point they 
were going to the West, disposing of the gold in 
small sums as they proceeded. 
The two robbers were marched off by the sheriff ; 
but nothing was heard of Ben for two hours, when 
 
 
the boy who ran the ferry-boat, returning from Point- 
ville, informed Mrs. Wilford that he had gone over 
with him. The constable followed, as soon as he 
heard in what direction the fugitive had gone. He 
was not taken that night, and the search was renewed 
the next day, but with no better result. It was after- 
wards ascertained that he had crossed the country 
to the railroad, and taken a night train. Having 
worked his way to New York, he shipped in a vesseJ 
bound to the East Indies. 
It cannot be denied that Lawry and his mother, 
and even Mr. Sherwood, were glad of his escape, 
though he was more guilty than the two men who 
had been captured and were afterwards tried and sent 
to Sing Sing. The little captain and the engineer 
of the Woodville were warmly congratulated upon 
the safety of the steamer, when it was known that 
Ben intended to burn her in revenge for having been 
made a " nobody ;" but Mr. Sherwood declared that, 
if the boat had been destroyed, he would have built 
another, and presented her to Lawry and Ethan, 
for he was too much interested in the steamboat 
experiment to have it abandoned. 
 
Mrs. Wilford trembled when she learned that the 
robbers had been armed with pistols. Many laughed 
as they listened to the account of the choking opera- 
tion in the cabin, and everybody was satisfied with 
the result. 
Lawry and Ethan were too much excited to sleep 
that night, though they turned in at ten o'clock. At 
midnight the fireman on duty called them, and the 
steamer soon started for Whitehall with Mr. Sher- 
wood and his gold, where she arrived in season for the 
morning train. As the party did not start till nine 
o'clock, the exhausted pilot and engineer obtained a 
couple of hours' sleep, while the steamer lay at the 
wharf, which enabled them to get through the day 
without sinking under its fatigues. 
The following day was Sunday ; and though Lawry 
and Ethan went to church in the forenoon, as both 
of them were in the habit of doing, the day was 
literally a day of rest to them, and there was a great 
deal of "tall sleeping" done. On Monday morning, 
at six o'clock, the boat went to Ticonderoga, arriv- 
ing in good season to keep her engagement. 
Our limits do not permit us to follow Captain 
Lawry and the beautiful little steamer any farther. 
The young pilot has redeemed the fairy craft from the 
bottom of the lake, and overcome all obstacles in his 
path to prosperity. He was not again disturbed by 
the envy and jealousy of his brother. He was sad 
when he thought of his father in prison, and Ben an 
exile, banished by his misdeeds ; but their errors 
only made him the stronger in the faith he had 
