unearthly and pure glory. I looked at my grandmother 
sometimes ; but she did not seem to notice me. I could now 
and then see her lips move slightly ; in prayer, I knew it 
was, or in praise ; but we said nothing to each other. 
The boys and my uncle came home, with hands full of 
asters and cardinal flower, and heads full of business. We 
had supper ; after supper my uncle heard the boys' lessons. 
Priscilla and I grew very tired and went to bed. My thoughts 
ran still upon the garden of Eden, going to bed and getting 
up ; the first chance I had I brought up the subject again. 
It was not till the morning was all passed, and under the 
shade of the oaks, on the same ledge of gray rock, we were 
gathered again to take our dinner. It was even pleasanter 
than yesterday. A soft sunny haze of clouds a little obscured 
the heat and the light of the sun, and the fragrance of the 
hemlock seemed sweeter than ever. 
" People were not meant to live in houses ! " said my unde, 
as he was drinking his cup of tea. 
"Then houses are a consequence of sin/' said liph. 
" So it seems," said my uncle. " Old Matthew Hemry says 
that clothes and houses came in together/' 
"I was thinking, uncle," said I, " that one of the pleasant 
things in the garden of Eden was that they lived out of 
doors all the time." 
" Ah, you are at the garden of Eden yet. Tiny," said he. 
" Uncle Sam, I wonder why they ever left it." 
" It is like Columbus's broken egg," said my uncle. " We 
are all wise after the deed is done. Poor Eve wscnted her 
eyes opened; and they were,— to her sorrow, and ours too. 
' Thou shalt be mad for the sight of thine eyes which thou 
shalt see.' That was prophesied to some of her children ; 
and has been true of many a one." 
"Uncle Sam, how could she be deceived ? " 
" I don't know. Tiny. How could you ? " 
" I do not think I would, sir, as she was. I would have 
been afraid. Why she had been told what would happen, if 
she ate of the tree." 
My uncle smiled a sorrowful kind of smile. 
"And yet every one of you," he said, "has been deceived, 
just as Eve was ; only you have not seen the serpent," 
"What have we been deceived in, sir ? " said the boys and 
Friscilla together. 
" What has the Lord ever told you to do, which you have 
put off doing, because something said to you that by and by 
would be just as well ? " 
" Uncle," said Dan, frankly, " I thought it was my own 
wicked heart that said that. I did not think it was the 
devil" 
"Dan, my boy," said my uncle, "your own heart gives 
consent to it, no doubt; but 'that old serpent which 
deceiveth the whole world,' never loses his opportunity, nor 
leaves unattended to a single one of his subjects. He is 
busy with us alL" 
I saw Dan's face flush, and I was about to speak, but 
Eliphalet prevented me. 
" Uncle Sam, I think Eve ought to have suspected mis- 
chief when the serpent began to talk to her." 
 
"Why' 
" It was unnatural, sir ; animals do not speak." 
" How did Eve know that ? " 
" Why, she had seen a good many animals, I should think; 
and she had never heard one of them talk." 
" Eve could not know that she had seen the whole. And 
she was in a garden of wonders; she was learning and 
finding out something new every day; how should she 
know but that this serpent was a new and extraordinary 
kind?" 
"Adam knew, uncle Sam, for he had named all the 
creatures." 
"That is a good remark, Dan ; but please to remember, he 
might not have had time to tell his wife all he knew. Eve 
was like a beautiful grown-up child, in the knowledge of 
many things." 
" But God had told them what would happen, uncle Sam, 
if they ate of the tree." 
"Ay, Prissy; and the serpent said another story ; he was 
a liar from the beginning; and Eve's faith and obedience 
gave way to his cunning temptation, and her own curiosity." 
" But Adam knew better." 
" Very likely that was why the serpent went to the woman. 
Adam was not deceived, the Bible says." 
" Uncle Sam," said Eliphalet, " how do you know that it 
was the devil that tempted Eve, and not just a serpent ? " 
" Because the Bible calls him ' that old serpent, which is 
the devil, and Satan.' " 
"But, uncle Sam," said I, earnestly, "you spoke just now 
as if Dan was one of his subjects." 
"Well, isn't he?" said my uncle. "There are only two 
kingdoms, dear little Tiny, and two Princes. One is the 
Lord Jesus ; and the other is the  Prince of the power of the 
air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience.' Eeverybody is under the one or the other; and till 
we are in the kingdom of Jesus, we are under the rule and 
dominion of the devil" 
" Under his domnion, uncle !" 
 
" He is called the Prince of this world, Tiny. And if you 
read the Bible carefully, you will see that he sets a-going 
every bad thing that is done. It was he tempted David to 
indidge his pride in numbering Israel It was he put it 
into the heart of Judas to betray his Master. He would 
have sifted Peter like wheat, if Peter's Saviour had not been 
too strong for hinu He was at the root of the lie that 
Ananias told. It is he that comes and catches away the good 
seed, when it is sown in careless hearts ; and he ' blinds the 
eyes of them which believe not.' He is the ' ruler of the darkness of this world,' — what a dreadful kingdom to be in ! 
In the field of this world, sown with wheat and tares,  the 
tares are the children of the wicked one.' ' Taken captive 
by him at his will,' they are said to be ; to turn them to God, 
is to take them ' from the power of Satan.' " 
"Then if they are under his power, uncle Sam," said 
liph, "how are they to blame for what they do I " 
" Because they need not be under his power one moment. 
David risked his life to save a sheep of his flock ; and our 
Lord Jesus is a better Shepherd than he. The feeblest little 
lamb never cried to Him out of the very mouth of the lion, 
that he did not hear and deliver it." 
"Did Satan get all this power," Dan asked, "because 
Adam and Eve ate the forbidden fruit ? " 
" Then they lost their protection, Dan. They were rebels ; 
they had forfeited all the privileges of the government they 
were under.. Yes, Satan got his power then." 
"And then one sin followed another," said Dan. 
" Fast. They had been as innocent as little children from 
every thought of evil" 
" Uncle Sam," said I, " I don't believe Paradise seemed 
like Paradise that afternoon." 
" No, Tiny. And when they heard in the cool of the day 
their Lord's voice in the garden— that voice which had been 
the pleasantest sound that could come to them — a voice like 
no other voice, for they knew it directly— Adam and his wife 
hid themselves among the trees. That was the first time. 
Fear never came till sin did." 
 
" But sin is not the reason of all fear, is it ? " I asked. 
" Little Tiny, I think it is. ' Perfect love casteth out fear.' 
What has a child of God to be afraid of ?" 
" It was very foolish of Adam and Eve to think they could 
hide," said Priscilla. 
" And what a blind excuse he gave," said Eliphalet, " 'because he was naked,'— as if that itself did not tell And then 
how meanly he tried to throw the blame on Eve. Anyhow, 
he took the fruit with his eyes open." 
" It seems to me," said Dan, "that Adam grew wicked very 
fast." 
" Once without the favour and care of God, and it would 
only depend upon circumstances and temptation how fast 
any man would grow wicked," said my uncle. " Neither you 
nor I could trust ourselves." 
" Did that one little thing ruin all the people of the world, 
uncle Sam?" 
" So you think sin a little thing, Liph . This ought to 
teach you otherwise. 'By one man sin entered into the 
world, and death by sin ; and so death passed upon all men, 
for that all have sinned.' " 
" But why could not the children of Adam and Eve have 
been good?" 
" Children are of the same nature with their parents. And 
' besides, Adam and Eve and their children had lost the favour 
of God." 
" How the children too, uncle Sam ? What had they 
done?" 
" There is an old English law, Dan, called the law of attainder. Attainder comes from a Latin word which means 
stained. When a man had committed high treason and been 
sentenced, he lost all his lands and dignities ; and not only 
he lost them, but they were lost to his children too, and for 
ever. We do not know why it was so in the case of Adam, 
but we know the fact. Perhaps one reason was, that all the 
universe might see what God thinks of sin, and how awful 
His holiness is ; since He could have nothing to do with 
even the family of the sinner, except through that blessed 
One who undertook to stand between God and us, and do 
what was needful to reconcile us to Him." 
'Do you suppose Adam and Eve understood all that, 
uncle ?" 
" They could not, as we do ; they had only entered upon 
the knowledge of good and evil If they could have seen 
in vision only one of millions of the things that are done 
every day in this world, into which they brought sin, they 
would have begged to die at once." 
" But I do not understand why they did not die at once." 
" There are many things, Liph, which you fail to understand, for want of knowing more than you do. You forget 
that the sentence, ' Dying, thou shalt die,' meant more than 
the mere death of the body ; and took effect immediately, 
besides, in all its meaning. They were lost to the favour of 
God — they had fallen under the dominion of the devil ; happiness was gone ; and an entrance was made for all the pains, 
and aches, and decays of the flesh. And the utter death of 
the body did not happen that day — is it possible you do not 
remember why? — because Jesus had said — ' Deliver him from 
going down to the pit ; I have found a ransom.' " 
" Poor Eve ! " said my grandmother — "how sorrowful her 
answer is — ' The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.' She 
had found out her mistake." 
" And I suppose the devil triumphed," said Dan. 
"He had a short triumph," said my uncle. "And Eve 
had some comfort given her immediately, though she did 
not understand it probably very well The devil understood 
it better. How his miserable nature must have shrunk 
under the sentence—' I will put enmity between thee and 
the woman, and between thy seed and her seed ; it shall 
BRUISE THY HEAD." 
" What does that mean, uncle ? " 
"What does it mean, when you put your foot upon a 
snake's head?" 
" It means that he is killed, when I do it," said Liph. 
"So it means there. Utter confusion and destruction; 
and such death as an immortal spirit can die. And this was 
 
to be done by the seed of the woman— by a cliild of the very 
poor creature that he thought he had just ruined." 
" Not by her child, uncle ! " 
"By one who should be born of a woman, one of her 
descendants. Eve must have taken some comfort of the 
promise ; but only Satan, of the three who heard it, could 
have even a faint idea of how much it meant." 
" Wasn't it glorious ! " said Dan. 
" Wasn't it glorious ! " echoed my uncle. " Even then, 
Jesus, in His everlasting glory, had undertaken to be the 
seed of the woman, and to break the devil's work and his 
kingdom to pieces. But many a long day was to pass be- 
fore He came, and before those words were spoken — ' It is 
finished!'" 
" Why was it so long, uncle ? " 
"God knows, my dear; and I think we can know in 
part. But this we are sure of — it was just as soon as in 
His wisdom it could be — 'when the fulness of time was 
come.' " 
" Uncle," said liph, "do you think that before the fall 
the serpent did not crawl on the ground, as he does now ? " 
" I have no reason whatever to think so." 
"Then why is it part of the curse that he should eat 
dustl" 
" Eating dust is a proverbial expression for utter humiliation and discomfiture. It is said of Christ that His enemies 
'shall lick the dust' — 'they shall lick the dust like a serpent.' We say now, when a man is overthrown on a battle-field, that he bites the dust." 
" So we do," said LipL " I never thought of that. But 
isn't part of the curse pronounced on the serpent itself ? " 
"Yes." 
" Why, sir? The serpent was just a brute beast, and had 
not done anything." 
"My boy, it is very often the case in Scripture that a 
prophecy runs double; it has a direct, literal meaning, presently fulfilled to the eyes of men ; and that fulfilment is a 
sign and image of the further-back and more hidden meaning 
which is also to be fulfilled. Now here, the way you set 
your heel on the head of every serpent you see, is a constant 
sign, though you do not mean it so, of the sure word of God's 
promise as regards the destruction of Satan. So it has been 
all over the world." 
Idph was silenced; but Dan said, " Uncle Sam, I do not 
understand it all yet. What is meant by the seed of the 
serpent?" 
" You know what the Bible says. John the Baptist called 
the hypocritical Pharisees and Sadducees that came to his 
baptism, a 'generation of vipers.' " 
"Yes," said Liph, "but doesn't that mean just that they 
were wicked ? " 
"And what does that mean?" said my uncle. "Jesus 
gave the Pharisees the same name ; another time He said to 
the cavilling Jews, ' Ye are of your father the devil.' Paul, 
when withstood by the bad man Elymas, said to him, ' O 
full of all subtlety and mischief, thou child of the devil.' 
And the apostle John says, ' In this the children of God are 
manifest and the children of the devil : whosoever doeth not 
righteousness is not of God.' " 
I thought liph and Dan both looked sober ; and I am sure 
I felt so. 
" Then, uncle, does it mean that there is enmity between 
bad men and good men ? " 
" Is there not ? " said uncle Sam. " There is enmity be- 
tween them and the Lord Jesus, and for His sake they hate 
His- people.'' 
"I suppose," said Priscilla, "that by 'thou shalt bruise his 
heel,' it means that the devil would be able to do a little 
harm to good people ? " 
"Ah, and to the Lord of good people," said my uncle. 
" You know what Jesus was just about to do, when He said — 
' Now is the judgment of this world ; now shall the prince of 
this world be cast out. And I, if I be lifted up from the 
earth, will draw all men unto me.' " 
"He was just going to be crucified," said Dan, softly. 
" There was no other way of undoing the deed."
 
to give His life for our life. 'Forasmuch as the children 
are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise 
took part of the same ; that through death he might destroy 
him that had the power of death, that is, the devil.' That was 
the way he ' led captivity captive,' and set us free. That was 
the way he ' spoiled principalities and powers, and made a 
show of them openly, triumphing over them.' It was only 
through death that he could destroy him that had the 
power of death." 
" Does that mean the devil, uncle Sam ? " 
"Yes, Prissy." 
" How has he the power of death ? " 
" We were all in the power of the devil, my child, for time 
and eternity, if Jesus had not died. And even now he has 
power over his own children, and still he ' bruises the heel ' 
of the children of God. He moves persecutions against 
them ; he gives power to his servants and agents to make 
war with the saiijts and to overcome them. ' The devil shall 
cast some of you into prison, and ye shall have tribulation 
ten days' — Jesus said to the church at Smyrna; and that 
meant a ten years' persecution. He tempts the people of 
God, and then he accuses them. He is their ' adversary ' indeed." 
" But how has he the power of death, uncle ?' 
" He can do nothing, my child, against God's permission. 
That is our comfort." 
" But what do those words mean, then, uncle ? " I said, 
for they startled me. "I thought that God only had the 
power of death." 
" Nothing can be done against His command. Tiny. But 
the Bible seems to teach us that all the bodily evil in the 
world is the work of Satan and his emissaries." 
" Why, where, uncle ? " said Dan and Liph together. " I 
never thought of such a thing." 
" Do you remember the story of Job ? " 
"Yes, sir." 
" Do you not remember that Job's afflictions, every one of 
them — the loss of his children, the loss of his property, and 
 
his own sickness — were all done by the haiid of Satan ? He 
had to get the Lord's permission first, " 
" But I thought," said Dan, 
"So did I," said liph. 
" What ? " said my uncle. 
"I thought, uncle Sam, that all that story was some- 
thing unnatural, and not like things that are done every 
day." 
" You thought that the Bible was a region apart, my boy, 
where the men and women and what happened to them were 
not just the same as what exists out of the Bible ? A very 
common mistake. But a bad mistake, too, for it hinders 
yon from understanding. No, Dan ; words in the Bible mean 
very much what words mean out of it ; only much more so, 
for they are all true." 
" Then is that true, do you think, uncle ? " 
"The story of Job ? I think so." 
 " No, sir, but I mean what you said." 
"About the deviPs part in it? No matter what I said. 
Let us see what the Bible says. Jesus told the seventy disciples whom He sent to preach — ' Behold I give unto you 
power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the 
power of the enemy and nothing shall by any means hurt 
you.'" 
"Well, sir," said Dan, "don't that mean the possessions ?" 
" What were they ? There was a man brought 'to Jesus 
once, who was ' possessed with a devil, blind and dumb: 
and He healed him, insomuch' — it says — Hhat the blind and 
dumb both spake and saw.' What would you have thought 
was the matter with the man ? " 
"But he was possessed with a devil, sir." 
" So we are told. Do you remember the old rag-picker 
who used to go through our street every morning, bent 
nearly double ? What would you have said was the matter 
with her?" 
"I don't know, sir," said Dan, "I don't know about 
people's ails ;— hard work, and old age, I suppose." 
"Hard work and rheumatism," said my grandmother. 
 
"A woman who had an infirmity like that— she was 
' bowed together, and could in no wise lift np herself ' — was 
healed by our Lord. He said that Satan had bound her." 
" Then there was St Paul's bodily trouble," said my grand- 
mother, — " his ' thorn in the flesh.' He called it the ' messenger of Satan.' " 
" Tiny," said my uncle, " what is the matter ? " 
" Uncle Sam, — it seems dreadful" 
" I think it is horrible," said Dan. 
" Is it ] Well— it is dreadful But remember who said, 
' I have the keys of hell and of death.' He can put them in 
bonds when He will ; they can go no further than He chooses. 
Jesus has the keys ! " 
" Uncle Sam, did Adam and Eve know all this ?" 
"They could not have borne it. Prissy. No, they must 
have understood very little of anything ; even the meaning 
of their punishment they were to learn by degrees. They 
had enough to bear as it was. How infinitely gracious and 
tender it was of the Lord, before they heard their sentence, 
to let them hear the promise of a deliverer and avenger that 
should spring from their own race, and be born of their own 
blood. Instead of instant destruction, here was a Saviour 
to come." 
" But, uncle, Jesus is God." 
"And man too," said my uncle. "'Forasmuch as the 
children are partakers of flesh and blood. He also Himself 
likewise took part of the same.' Praise the Lord ! " 
" Uncle Sam, what is the meaning of those words — ' thy 
desire shall be to thy husband ' — in Eve's curse ?" 
" It means, that if she wanted to do anything she must ask 
his leave for it. Prissy." 
" But is that part of the curse ? " said Dan. 
" How would you like it turned the other way ? " said my 
grandmother. 
" Nay," said my uncle, " Chriaianity takes off that part of 
the curse as it does the others — where it comes in people's 
hearts. But where Christianity does not come, — boys, it is 
heavy I " 
 
" How, uncle Sam ? " said Priscilla. 
"Why, my dear, woman is a slave and a drudge; not 
educated, not cherished, not comforted. All the hard and 
mean work of life is given to her to do, and none of the 
beautiful or the noble. I have seen it in country after 
country — all over the world" 
