too courteous to say outright any thing of this sort. 
He had very fine, shrewd blue eyes, a lean, weather- 
beaten, kindly face, and a cautious way of saying 
things. I hardly expected him to turn out so red-hot 
a Democrat as he did on better acquaintance, but being 
 
a warm friend of man myself, I was not sorry. Gar- 
ibaldi was the beginning and ending of his political 
faith, as he is with every enthusiastic Italian. The 
honest soul's conception of all concrete evil was 
brought forth in two words, of odd enough applica- 
tion. In Europe, and Italy more particularly, true 
men have suffered chiefly from this form of evil, and 
the captain evidently could conceive of no other cause 
of suffering anywhere. We were talking of the 
American war, and when the captain had asked the 
usual question, " Quando finird mai questa guerra ? " 
and I had responded as usual, U A, ci vuol pazienza  " 
the captain gave a heavy sigh, and turning his head 
pensively aside, plucked his grapes from the cluster a 
moment in silence. 
Then he said : " You Americans are in the habit 
of attributing this war to slavery. The cause is not 
sufficient." 
I ventured to demur and explain. " No," said the 
captain, " the cause is not sufficient. We Italians 
know the only cause which could produce a war like 
this." 
I was naturally anxious to be instructed in the Ital- 
ian theory, hoping it might be profounder than the 
English notion that we were fighting about tariffs. 
The captain frowned, looked at me carefully, and 
then said : 
" In this world there is but one cause of mischief 
the Jesuits." 
III. 
THE first night out, from Genoa to Leghorn, was 
bad enough, but that which succeeded our departure 
from the latter port was by far the worst of the three 
we spent in our voyage to Naples. How we envied 
the happy people who went ashore at Leghorn ! I 
think we even envied the bones of the Venetians, 
Pisans, and Genoese who met and slew each other 
in the long-forgotten sea-fights, and sank too deeply 
through the waves to be stirred by their restless tu- 
mult. Every one has heard tell of how cross and 
treacherous a sea the Mediterranean is in winter, and 
my own belief is, that he who has merely been sea- 
sick on the Atlantic should give the Mediterranean a 
trial before professing to have suffered every thing of 
which human nature is capable. Our steamer was 
clean enough and staunch enough, but she was not 
large no bigger, I thought, than a gondola, that 
night as the waves tossed her to and fro, till unwinged 
things took flight all through her cabins and over her 
decks. My berth was placed transversely instead of 
lengthwise with the boat, an ingenious arrange- 
ment to heighten sea-sick horrors, and dash the blood 
of the sufferer from brain to boots with exaggerated 
violence at each roll of the boat ; and I begged the 
steward to let me sleep upon one of the lockers in the 
cabin. I found many of my agonized species already 
laid out there ; and the misery of the three French 
commercial travellers was so great, that, in the excess 
 
of my own dolor, it actually afforded me a kind of 
happiness, and I found myself smiling at times to see 
the giant, with the eyes of a choked ox, rise up and 
faintly bellow. Indeed, there was something eldritch 
and unearthly in the whole business, and I think a 
kind of delirium must have resulted from the sea-sick- 
ness. Otherwise, I shall not know how to account for 
having attributed a kind of consciousness and individ- 
uality to the guide-book of a young American who 
had come aboard at Leghorn. He turned out after- 
ward to be the sweetest soul in the world, and I am 
sorry now that I regarded with amusement his failure 
to smoke off his sickness. He was reading his guide- 
book with great diligence and unconcern, when sud- 
denly I marked him lay it softly, softly down, with 
that excessive deliberation which men use at such 
times, and vanish with great dignity from the scene. 
Thus abandoned to its own devices, this guide-book 
began its night-long riots, setting out upon a tour of 
the cabin with the first lurch of the boat that threw 
it from the table upon the floor. I heard it careen at 
once wildly to the cabin door, and knock to get out ; 
and failing in this, return more deliberately to the 
stern of the boat, interrogating the tables and chairs, 
which had got their sea-legs on, and asking them how 
they found themselves. Arrived again at the point 
of starting, it seemed to pause a moment, and then I 
saw it setting forth on a voyage of pleasure in the 
low company of a French hat, which, being itself a 
French book, I suppose it liked. In these travels 
they both ran under the feet of one of the stewards, 
 
and were replaced by an immense tour de force on 
the table, from which the book eloped again, this 
time in company with an overcoat ; but it seemed 
the coat was too miserable to go far : it stretched it- 
self at full length on the floor, and suffered the book 
to dance over it, back and forth, I know not how 
many times. At last, as the actions of the book were 
becoming unendurable, and the general sea-sickness 
was waxing into a frenzy, a heavy roll, that made the 
whole ship shriek and tremble, threw us all from our 
lockers ; and gathering myself up, bruised and sore 
in every fibre, I lay down again and became sensible 
of a blissful, blissful lull ; the machinery had stopped, 
and with the mute hope that we were all going to the 
bottom, I fell tranquilly asleep. 
IV. 
IT appeared that the storm had really been danger- 
ous. Instead of being only six hours from Naples, 
as we ought to be at this time, we were got no fur- 
ther than Porto Longone, in the Isle of Elba. We 
woke in a quiet, sheltered little bay, whence we could 
only behold, not feel, the storm left far out upon the 
open sea. From this we turned our heavy eyes 
gladly to the shore, where a white little town was 
settled, like a flight of gulls upon the beach, at the 
feet of green and pleasant hills, whose gentle lines 
rhymed softly away against the sky. At the end of 
either arm of the embracing land in which we lay, 
stood gray, placid old forts, with peaceful sentries 
 
pacing their bastions, and weary ships creeping round 
their feet, under guns looking out so kindly and 
harmlessly, that I think General himself would 
not have hesitated (except, perhaps, from a profound 
sentiment of regret for offering the violence) to at- 
tack them. Our port was full of frightened shipping 
steamers, brigs, and schooners of all sizes and 
nations ; and since it was our misfortune that Napo- 
leon spent his exile in Elba at Porto Ferrate instead 
of Porto Longone, we amused ourselves with looking 
at the vessels and the white town and the soft hills, 
instead of hunting up dead lion's tracks. 
Our fellow-passengers began to develop themselves : 
the regiment of soldiers whom we were transporting 
picturesquely breakfasted forward, and the second- 
cabin people came aft to our deck, while the English 
engineer (there are English engineers on all the 
Mediterranean steamers) planted a camp-stool in a 
sunny spot, and sat down to read the " Birmingham 
Express." 
Our friends of the second cabin were chiefly officers 
with their wives and families, and they talked for the 
most part of their sufferings during the night. They 
spoke such exquisite Italian that I thought them 
Tuscans, but they told me they were of Sicily, where 
their beautiful speech first had life. Let us hear what 
they talked of in their divine language, and with that 
ineffable tonic accent which no foreigner perfectly 
acquires ; and let us for once translate the profanities, 
Pagan and Christian, which adorn common parlance 
in Italy : 
" Ah, my God ! how much I suffered ! " says a 
sweet little woman with gentle brown eyes, red, red 
lips, and blameless Greek lines of face. " I broke 
two basins ! " 
" There were ten broken in all, by Diana ! " says 
this lady's sister. 
" Presence of the Devil ! " says her husband ; and 
" Body of Bacchus ! " her young brother, puffing 
his cigar. 
" And you, sir," said the lady, turning to a hand- 
some young fellow in civil dress, near her, " how did 
you pass this horrible night ? " 
" Oh ! " says the young man, twirling his heavy 
blond mustache, " mighty well, mighty well ! " 
" Oh mercy of God ! You were not sick ? " 
" I, signora, am never sea-sick. I am of the navy." 
At which they all cry oh, and ah, and declare they 
are glad of it, though why they should have been I 
don't know to this day. 
" I have often wished," added the young man 
meditatively, and in a serious tone, as if he had 
indeed given the subject much thought, " that it 
might please God to let me be sea-sick once, if only 
that I might know how it feels. But no ! " He 
turned the conversation, as if his disappointment were 
too sore to dwell upon ; and hearing our English, he 
made out to let us know that he had been at New 
York, and could spik our language, which he pro- 
ceeded to do, to the great pride of his countrymen, 
and our own astonishment at the remarkable forms 
of English speech to which he gave utterance. 
 
V. 
WE set out from Porto Longone that night at eight 
o'clock, and next evening, driving through much- 
abated storm southward into calm waters and clear 
skies, reached Naples. At noon, Monte Circeo, 
where Circe led her disreputable life, was a majestic 
rock against blue heaven and broken clouds ; after 
nightfall, and under the risen moon, Vesuvius crept 
softly up from the sea, and stood a graceful steep, 
with wreaths of lightest cloud upon its crest, and the 
city lamps circling far round its bay. 
VII. 
CERTAIN THINGS IN NAPLES. 
I. 
PERHAPS some reader of mine who visited Naples 
under the old disorder of things, when the Bourbon 
and the Camorra reigned, will like to hear that the 
pitched battle which travellers formerly fought, in 
landing from their steamer, is now gone out of fashion. 
Less truculent boatmen I never saw than those who 
rowed us ashore at Naples ; they were so quiet and 
peaceful that they harmonized perfectly with that 
tranquil scene of drowsy-twinkling city lights, slum- 
brous mountains, and calm sea, and, as they dipped 
softly toward us in the glare of the steamer's lamps, 
I could only think of Tennyson's description : 
" And round about the keel with faces pale, 
Dark faces pale against the rosy flame, 
The mild-eyed melancholy lotus-eaters came." 
The mystery of this placidity had been already solved 
by our captain, whom I had asked what price I 
should bargain to pay from the steamer to 'the shore. 
" There is a tariff," said he, " and the boatmen keep 
to it. The Neapolitans are good people, (buona gente,) 
and only needed justice to make them obedient to 
the laws." I must say that I found this to be true. 
The fares of all public conveyances are now fixed, 
and the attempts which drivers occasionally make to 
cheat you, seem to be rather the involuntary impulses 
of old habit than deliberate intentions to do you 
wrong. You pay what is due, and as your man 
merely rumbles internally when you turn away, you 
must be a very timid signorina indeed, if you buy his 
content with any thing more. I fancy that all these 
things are now much better managed in Italy than 
in America, only we grumble at them there and 
stand them in silence at home. Every one can recall 
frightful instances of plunder, in which he was the 
victim, at New York in which the robbery had 
none of the neatness of an operation, as it often has 
in Italy, but was a brutal mutilation. And then as 
regards civility from the same kind of people in the 
two countries, there is no comparison that holds in 
favor of us. All questions are readily and politely 
answered in Italian travel, and the servants of com- 
panies are required to be courteous to the public ; 
whereas, one is only too glad to receive a silent snub 
from such people at home. 
THE first sun that rose after our arrival in Naples 
was mild*and warm as a May sun, though we were 
quite in the heart of November. We early strolled 
out under it into the crowded ways of the city, and 
drew near as we might to that restless, thronging, 
gossiping southern life, in contrast with which all 
northern existence seems only a sort of hibernation. 
The long Toledo, on which the magnificence of mod- 
ern Naples is threaded, is the most brilliant and joy- 
ous street in the world ; but I think there is less of 
the quaintness of Italian civilization to be seen in its 
vivacious crowds than anywhere else in Italy. One 
easily understands how, with its superb length and 
straightness, and its fine, respectable, commonplace- 
looking houses, it should be the pride of a people 
fond of show ; but after Venice and Genoa it has no 
picturesque charm ; nay, even busy Milan seems less 
modern and more picturesque. The lines of the 
lofty palaces on the Toledo are seldom broken by 
the facade of a church or other public edifice ; and 
when this does happen, the building is sure to be 
coldly classic or frantically baroque. 
You weary of the Toledo's perfect repair, of its 
monotonous iron balconies, its monotonous lofty win- 
dows ; and it would be insufferable if you could not 
turn out from it at intervals into one of those won- 
drous little streets which branch up on one hand and 
down on the other, rising and falling with flights of 
steps between the high, many-balconied walls. They 
ring all day with the motley est life of fishermen, 
fruit-venders, chestnut-roasters, and idlers of every 
age and sex; and there is nothing so full of local 
color, unless it be the little up-and-down-hill streets 
in Genoa. Like those, the by-streets of Naples are 
only meant for foot-passengers, and a carriage never 
enters them ; but sometimes, if you are so blest, you 
may -see a mule climbing the long stairways, moving 
 
solemnly under a stack of straw, or tinkling gayly 
down- stairs, bestridden by a swarthy, handsome peas- 
ant all glittering teeth and eyes and flaming 
Phrygian cap. The rider exchanges lively saluta- 
tions and sarcasms with the by-stariders in his way, 
and perhaps brushes against the bagpipers who bray 
constantly in those hilly defiles. They are in Neapol- 
itan costume, these pifferari, and have their legs in- 
comprehensibly tied up in the stockings and garters 
affected by the peasantry of the provinces, and wear 
brave red sashes about their waists. They are sim- 
ple, harmless-looking people, and would no doubt rob 
and kill in the most amiable manner, if brigandage 
came into fashion in their neighborhood. 
Sometimes the student of men may witness a Nea- 
politan quarrel in these streets, and may pick up use- 
ful ideas of invective from the remarks of the fat old 
women who always take part in the contests. But, 
though we were ten days in Naples, I only saw one 
quarrel, and I could have heard much finer violence 
of language among the gondoliers at any ferry in 
Venice than I heard in this altercation. 
The Neapolitans are, of course, furious in traffic. 
They sell a great deal, and very boisterously, the 
fruit of the cactus, which is about as large as an egg, 
and which they peel to a very bloody pulp, and lay 
out, a sanguinary presence, on boards for purchase. 
It is not good to the uncultivated taste ; but the 
stranger may stop and drink, with relish and refresh- 
ment, the orangeade and lemonade mixed with snow, 
and sold at the little booths on the street-corners. 
These stands looks much like the shrines of the Ma- 
donna in other Italian cities, and a friend of ours was 
led, before looking carefully into their office, to argue 
immense Neapolitan piety from the frequency of their 
ecclesiastical architecture. They are, indeed, the 
shrines of a god much worshiped during the long 
Neapolitan summers ; and it was the profound theory 
of the Bourbon kings of Naples, that, if they kept 
their subjects well supplied with snow to cool their 
drink, there was no fear of revolution. It shows 
how liable statesmen are to err, that, after all, the 
Neapolitans rose, drove out the Bourbons, and wel- 
comed Garibaldi. 
The only part of the picturesque life of the side 
streets which seems ever to issue from them into the 
Toledo is the goatherd with his flock of milch-goats, 
which mingle with the passers in the avenues as fa- 
miliarly as with those of the alley, and thrust aside 
silk-hidden hoops, and brush against dandies' legs, in 
their course, but keep on perfect terms with every 
body. The goatherd leads the eldest of the flock, 
and the rest follow in docile order and stop as he 
stops to ask at the doors if milk is wanted. When 
he happens to have an order, one of the goats is 
haled, much against her will, into the entry of a 
house, and there milked, while the others wait out- 
side alone, nibbling and smelling thoughtfully about 
the masonry. It is noticeable that none of the good- 
natured passers seem to think these goats a great 
nuisance in the crowded street ; but all make way 
for them as if they were there by perfect right, and 
were no inconvenience. 
 
On the Toledo people keep upon the narrow side- 
walks, or strike out into the carriage-way, with an 
indifference to hoofs and wheels which one, after long 
residence in tranquil Venice, cannot acquire, in view 
of the furious Neapolitan driving. That old compre- 
hensive gig of Naples, with which many pens and 
pencils have familiarized the reader, is nearly as hard 
to find there now as the lazzaroni, who have gone out 
altogether. You may still see it in the remoter quar- 
ters of the city, with its complement of twelve pas- 
sengers to one horse, distributed, two on each thill, 
four on the top seats, one at each side, and two be- 
hind ; but in the Toledo it has given place to much 
finer vehicles. Slight buggies, which take you any- 
where for half a franc, are the favorite means of 
public conveyance, and the private turn-outs are of 
eveiy description and degree. Indeed, all the Nea- 
politans take to carriages, and the Strand in London 
at six o'clock in the evening is not a greater jam of 
wheels than the Toledo in the afternoon. Shopping 
feels the expansive influence of the out-of-doors life, 
and ladies do most of it as they sit in their open car- 
riages at the shop-doors, ministered to by the neat- 
handed shopmen. They are very languid ladies, as 
they recline upon their carriage cushions ; they are 
all black-eyed, and of an olive pallor, and have 
gloomy rings about their fine eyes, like the dark- 
faced dandies who bow to them. This Neapolitan 
look is very curious, and I have not seen it elsewhere 
in Italy ; it is a look of peculiar pensiveness, and 
comes, no doubt, from the peculiarly heavy growth 
of lashes which fringes the lower eyelid. Then there 
is the weariness in it of all peoples whose summers 
are fierce and long. 
As the Italians usually dress beyond their means, 
the dandies of Naples are very gorgeous. If it is 
now, say, four o'clock in the afternoon, they are all 
coming down the Toledo with the streams of car- 
riages bound for the long drive around the bay. But 
our foot-passers go to walk in the beautiful Villa 
Reale, between this course and the sea. The Villa 
is a slender strip of Paradise, a mile long ; it is rapt- 
ure to walk in it, and it comes, in description, to 
be a garden-grove, with feathery palms, Greekish 
temples, musical fountains, white statues of the gods, 
and groups of fair girls in spring silks. If I remem- 
ber aright, the sun is always setting on the bay, 
and you cannot tell whether this sunset is cooled 
by the water or the water is warmed by the golden 
light upon it, and upon the city, and upon all the 
