knows it." 
 
"He has every -right." Hope sprang up and poised 
her golden-crowned head with lofty pride. "Did he not 
take me to his heart and home when I was an outcast? 
Think of the happy years he has showered upon me ! 
And shall I make him no return? O, Joe, you are 
wild, indeed ! He has done everything for me, and I 
am proud to-night to feel that I love him and he 
deserves it." 
I do not know that I can make you understand 
Josephine Dane. She was not purely vindictive ; she 
took no delight in thwarting Stephen or Hope. Only 
now that the fiery trial had come, the fierce flames 
proved too much for her. Stephen's sin brought him 
nearer her level, and she felt she would rather go on 
always in this fashion than have him so completely 
engrossed by another. She loved him, too. She had 
suffered for him. What did this child know ? Besides, 
the whole world was Hope's to choose from, and she had 
only Stephen. Just as you have sometimes seen a dull, 
smouldering fire blaze out, so the woman's nature burst 
its ordinary bonds. 
"Yes," she said hoarsely, " he did everything because 
he knew whose hand brought you where you were. He 
owed you something, Hope Vennard ! Your loss was 
his gain, and now he seeks to make it up in this fashion. 
God will not let him, I tell you. It is Stephen who is 
wild ! " 
A horrible fear flashed over Hope. The room spun 
 
round, and lightning sparks danced before her eyes. 
The debt Stephen owed, the sin he had committed, the 
mystery concerning her father's death, and the strict 
charge Joe had given her, so long ago, never to mention 
it his secret, that could not be confessed to her 
" Joe," Hope knelt at her feet and clasped her hands 
again, "I must hear it now. If you have any pity, 
tell me the truth. What does Stephen know of my 
father's death?" 
"All," Joe responded, with a fierce, sullen despera- 
tion. 
" O, no, not all; " and Hope's voice was hysterical. 
" Why, think a little, Joe ; it was murder ! Would 
Stephen witness such a deed, and let the miscreant go 
unpunished? No, you are mistaken." 
"Life was sweet to him," Joe said, looking into the 
fire. 
" O, Joe ! " It was the wail of a heart rent asunder. 
And then there was an awful, deathly silence. 
Presently Hope rose. Her face was icily white and 
cold. A blue line for the rosy lips Stephen had kissed 
last night. Her whole figure took on a rigidness as if 
she had been frozen. 
" Joe," her voice was strangely hollow, "I want 
you to tell me the whole truth. I promised to trust 
him, and it is basely wicked to break my word ; but the 
silence, and waiting, will kill me. God knows I forgive 
him. I think he has suffered bitterly, and repented 
 
deeply for any evil moment of passionate anger. 
Begin." 
"I can't." Joe writhed in sickly fear. 
"You shall, Josephine Dane. Either this, or take 
back the charge you have made, and let me have 
Stephen, my own love, once again." 
She transfixed Joe with her resolute eye. As if 
under the influence of some strange spell, she told all 
she knew. Her sincerity impressed Hope powerfully. 
And yet no sound escaped her lips as the story ended. 
She was stunned. 
" You couldn't marry him?" Joe said. 
" No, O, no ! Poor Stephen. Joe, did you ever 
hate him?" 
"No; I told you I loved him. And if he was in a 
prison cell, I would find my way to him. No crime 
could ever taint him in my eyes. And so, I love him 
better than you." 
" O," she moaned, M it is so hard ! so cruel ! Why 
did God let him ! God is so strong, you know, and has 
promised to help us in the hour of temptation. Why 
didn't he cry to Him ! You are sure, Joe ! You didn't 
dream this wild, horrible thing ! " 
Joe Dane had never told a wilful lie in her whole life. 
It angered her to be doubted or disbelieved. In her 
way she felt fully as miserable as Hope. All the ache 
and agony she had borne for years, all the pangs of 
silent endurance, the coldly treated love, the hope 
 
trampled in the dust, a pale corse despoiled of its 
beauty, the wasted youth and the irrepressible longing, 
joining in one mighty throe, burst the bonds of the slow- 
travailing soul asunder. She sprang up, and leaned her 
elbow on the low marble mantel, to steady herself. 
" Do you suppose I liked to believe such a thing of the 
man / loved ? Do you think it was nothing to have 
this terrible secret weighing upon me, and yet bear it 
gladly for his sake? I am not beautiful, like you; I 
can't take on the gfaces that make you so winsome ; I 
haven't your soft voice, nor your sweet eyes. But I am 
a woman, and can love." 
" Poor Joe ! " Hope came up to her, and laid her 
trembling hand on the broad shoulder. "Yes, you have 
suffered the most, and you have the best right to him. 
There'll be one blessed night for me to remember. And 
when I am gone, you and Stephen will settle into your 
old ways, growing tenderer to each other. No one will 
ever come between you again, for his heart is all yours, 
save the little corner I crept into. Don't turn me quite 
out, Joe. For I shall like to think of you both when 
I am away, and cannot see you ; " and Hope's quivering 
voice broke down. 
" Going away ? " Joe exclaimed, in a dazed, wondering 
manner. " Where can you go ? " 
" I must ; I must. Think if it had been your father 
and the man you loved ! You couldn't take his poor 
hand, knowing the stain there was upon it ; and you 
 
would rather go away and break your own heart, than 
stay and wound his by coldness. And I think it would 
pain him terribly to know we had talked this over." 
"O!" and Joe wrung her hands. "What have 
I done? Why did you make me tell the story, 
Hope?" 
" It is all right and best. What if I had learned it 
after I was his wife ; " and she shuddered. " But 
if I could stay, we might betray our secret. I haven't 
your reticence. Some time, when he questioned me 
closely, I should be compelled to tell him. I forgive 
him now. Poor Stephen ! It has been a hard burden 
for him to carry. But" and her voice faltered, 
"I don't know how I could see him again." 
" I ought not to have told you ! " Joe was struck 
with a latent remorse. In this tangled path she had 
lost her way. 
"No; as I said, it is all right. It won't kill me 
now, for I am young and strong ; and I think God 
meant that I should know it just at this time. 
He wasn't quite sure' that it would be wisest for 
us to marry. I can answer him now, without any 
difficulty." 
The sad, patient face and dreary voice smote Joe 
bitterly. Yet jealous love and a certain rugged feel- 
ing of right upheld her. 
They stood there, looking at each other in dumb 
anguish, for the sake of the man they both loved. Fate 
 
ties hard and troublesome knots in her webs now and 
then. 
" You see it will be best for me to go." 
" But where ? There's Mr. Adams " 
"No, not there." Another shiver came over Hope. 
"It must be quite among strangers, and where he will 
not find me. A little while ago, Joe, I could have gone 
away with an Opera Troupe ; a gentleman liked my 
vqjce so very much. So I can sing and teach music. 
Stephen has made me able to take care of myself. I 
can't tell now what I shall do but something. God 
will help me." 
" Hope," Joe said, much moved, " when Stephen 
returns it will be like the brothers going back without 
Benjamin. How shall I meet him ? He will hate and 
despise me for what I have done. Yet I think he was 
wrong. I can't seem to make it fair to my mind. It's 
like seething a kid in its mother's milk." 
Yes." Hope's pale lips quivered. " We'll talk of it 
to-morrow. Good night, Joe. I feel tired sick." 
" Good night ; " and the two women kissed each other. 
Then Hope crept off up stairs. It seemed at first as 
if her feet would refuse to carry her. She did not even 
get a light, but in the darkness and silence found her 
way into bed, and lay there shivering and exhausted. 
It had been such a great blow. To lose confidence in 
Stephen, to think of the fearful crime he had committed 
for that paltry sum of money ! And how he had grown 
 
rich She wanted to believe it an accident, but her 
whole nature seemed to revolt against this, much as she 
loved and pitied Stephen. And that he could have 
taken her to his heart ! 
She did not sleep at all. Nearly all night she lay 
with her eyes wide open. After midnight the moon 
came up and flooded the room with its cold, pale light. 
Sometimes a fiery flash of fever tortured, her, then a 
chill, that nearly froze the blood in her veins. It 
seemed to her she lived ages in that one night. 
Joe sat by the fire. In her confused and wandering 
way she was trying to unravel the tangled web, and see 
who was right. Just now she loved Stephen with a 
sort of tigerish fierceness. To see another woman his, 
to have him lavish caresses upon her, to be put aside 
completely, was what she could not endure. Pity her, 
too. Life is so hard to some of us, and love is cruel. 
Two very strange days passed over them. They 
made talk of common occurrences ; they went through 
with their ordinary duties ; but one subject was not 
touched upon. They avoided each other's eyes, and 
somehow both came to have a guilty feeling, as if they 
were about some crime. 
On the third day Hope did not go to school as usual. 
At ten, after spending an hour in her room, she came 
down in her thick gray dress. There was a stony, 
settled expression in her face, a sinking of the lines 
about the mouth, and a dark shade under the eyes. 
Even her voice had changed. 
 
" Joe," she began, with a hollow, tremulous sound, 
"are you well enough to go out for a walk? It's a 
lovely day." 
It was bright and sunny. 
" I could." Joe glanced up wistfully. Why ? " 
"Don't ask me any questions, please. It is best for 
you not to know anything. Don't tell Stephen of our 
talk. Comfort him all you can, and make him forget 
me. And now put on your bonnet and go out for an 
hour. Just let me kiss you once. You have been so 
kind to me ! I want you to forgive me for all the pain 
and suffering I've cause'd you. I know now what it is." 
But the kiss ended in sobs. Since that fatal night 
Hope had been too deeply stunned for tears. They 
both wept. 
"O, Hope," Joe's voice was broken and repentant, 
" stay. Don't go. I'll give up all claim on Stephen. 
He may love you ; he may devote his whole life to you, 
and I'll look on, never saying a word. Only stay." 
"It isn't that, Joe. It's the insurmountable barrier 
God placed between us. I should make Stephen mis- 
erable if I staid." 
"But what will you do? " 
w It is best you should not know. At present I am 
provided for. I shall never do anything for which you 
or Stephen would be sorry. I cannot tell you more 
than that. Now you must go." 
Joe gave her a wild, beseeching look. Hope was the 
 
stronger. She brought Joe's shawl and bonnet, wrapped 
her with tender care, led her through the hall, and gave 
her one convulsive kiss. When the door closed, Hope 
groped her way back as if she had been blind. For a 
moment the whole sacrifice appeared useless. And then 
the room seemed to run with seas of crimson blood. 
A sick shudder crept over her. 
Presently, a hackman drove up to the door. Katy 
came in wide-eyed wonder. 
"You're not goin' away, Miss Hope?" 
"Yes. I want you to give this to Miss Joe, and this 
to Mr. Dane when he comes home," and she handed 
her a little packet. 
"You'm not goin' to 'lope?" and Katy started in 
affright. 
The man had brought down her trunk. She gave 
Katy's black hand a fond, lingering squeeze, uttered a 
broken good-by, and before Katy could recover herself, 
the hack dashed away. She went back to the kitchen, 
talking out her astonishment with herself. 
On Joe's return, she brought the two notes ; but Joe 
was in no condition to talk. Now that the step had 
been taken, a wild consternation filled every pulse. She 
looked helplessly at Katy ; she stretched out her hands 
in a strange terror ; the whole world seemed drifting 
away. She tried to call on Hope, on Stephen, but her 
tongue was paralyzed. And then came darkness, 
peace. 
 
Stephen's business being ended sooner than he ex- 
pected, he hurried home, eager to see Hope, his brain 
filled with delicious visions. He found Joe in the 
stupor of fever, quite unconscious, and a note from 
Hope that gave him a shock half depriving him of his 
faculties. He had found Joe's also, and read it. Hope 
had worded it so carefully that no one could have 
suspected Joe of being aware of her intentions. 
To Stephen she said she had been studying her own 
heart, and found that becoming his wife was an impossi- 
bility. She was sorry for having misled him, but she 
had not then known her true feelings. She begged him 
to forget her she was not worth his remembrance. 
He had performed a more than friend's duty towards 
her, and she implored him to believe her grateful. It 
would be useless to search for her, she said, as, if he 
found her, a return would be quite out of the question. 
The whole tone of the note was curt and cold. It 
pained Stephen cruelly. That to Joe was so tender ! 
Poor Hope ! Her heart had well nigh broken over 
them both. If she had said to Stephen half of what she 
longed to, she could never have gone away. In her rare 
delicacy she could not humiliate him by even hinting at 
his secret. And so she had guarded every word, been 
cold when her whole seul was overflowing with love, 
precise and formal when every nerve was in a wild rack 
of anguish. More than once she had paused in the 
 
writing, and believed herself unable to proceed, until an 
inexorable fate goaded her on. 
For a fortnight Josephine Dane's senses were closed to 
all outward events. Occasionally she was restless ; but 
then she would only wring her hands and exclaim in 
pathetic tones, " O, dear ! O, dear ! " The rest of the 
time she lay in a stupor, taking what they gave her, but 
never returning the least sign of recognition. Stephen 
watched over her with a strange, yearning love, such as 
one gives to a helpless child. And for some reason he 
was doubly anxious to have her live. 
What the soul passed through in that time poor Joe 
never remembered, and perhaps it was as well. There 
are some awful secrets in nature that it is not wise to 
penetrate. A confused, troublous pain was all the im- 
pression she had, until one day she opened her eyes, 
sadly weak, but with a clear vision. This was her 
room. By degrees the furniture grew familiar. Oppo- 
site there, by the window, sat a placid woman, past 
middle life, her soft brown hair gathered under a plain 
cap, her face sweet and patient. She was sewing slow- 
ly, pausing now and then to glance out on the street. 
Through the window floated a quivering haze of golden 
sunshine. Beyond, the blue sky bounded all. 
Joe drew a long breath. So heavenly peaceful ! If 
she could lie there forever at rest but she had a vague 
idea that there was something else to her life. A pain 
and dreariness, a want that could not be satisfied. 
 
Then she wondered how it would be to die. Was 
God as kind and pitiful as they said? Did He take 
poor, wearied souls in His arms, and whisper over them 
some words of everlasting peace? For life was thorny. 
Rose-lined paths were but for few. None had ever blos- 
somed in her way. And then she asked the vague ques- 
tion we all ask at some time, why she had been born 
at all. 
Presently old memories began to throng about her. 
Had Hope come from school yet? Ah ! what was this 
sharp pang? Was Hope going away? What did they 
say that night? Perhaps Stephen had found her. 
By degrees Joe recalled all, just as if she had fallen, 
asleep yesterday, and wakened this morning. The sun 
was going over westward ; so it could not be morning. 
And why was this strange woman here ? 
She saw the light fading out, but asked no question. 
She did not even stir, until a step in the hall roused her. 
A light tap at the door, which was opened immediately 
afterwards, and some one came to her bedside. The 
woman by the window rose, and put aside her sewing. 
Joe held out her hand, though, for the weak tears in 
her eyes, she could not see. But through her pale lips 
trembled the word, " Stephen ! " 
" Dear Joe ! " He bent over and kissed her tenderly. 
"How long have I been sick?" she asked. 
 
"Nearly three weeks. But you are improving now; 
have been for several days." 
" Have you found her, Stephen ? " 
There was a convulsive pressure of Joe's hand, and 
the strong man swayed almost as if he would have 
fallen. 
" I have not searched." 
w Why ? " A mortal terror seized Joe. 
" Some day you shall know. It was her own wish. 
You are too weak to be excited by it now." 
No. What did you think ? " 
"Katy suggested, it was wild, I know ; but did you 
ever dream she cared for some one, that she went 
away with him ? " 
Should she let him believe it? 
" You had no quarrel ? But I need not ask. I saw 
her note to you. And Katy told me she went in your 
absence. We must learn to do without her, though God 
knows we shall miss her sorely." 
" Are you talking to her ? " interposed the nurse. 
" She has recognized me, Mrs. Beswick. She is really 
better." 
w The doctor, you know, was afraid of excitement." 
" It will not injure me. I shall get well." 
Stephen noticed how inexpressibly dreary the tone 
was, how utterly devoid of hope ; and it pained him to 
the heart. They must be more to each other now, since 
 
the one who could have been so much to both was 
gone. 
Joe recovered slowly. April came up with her bland 
airs and wooing sunshine. A faint suggestion of south- 
ern bloom stealing through the lattice, trees swelling 
with their buds, and a stray bird now and then piping 
his lay in a tender voice. What cared she for them all ? 
What was bird, or bee, or sunshine to her ? 
Never had Stephen been so tender. It might be love, 
but not the kind that dwelt in his sad eyes, dimly shad- 
owed forth, for another. She remembered many springs 
agone, when this fear had first seized her, how she 
had watched that shady light come and go, and learned 
too surely that he was drifting away from her. Why 
had she not ceased to love him? ah, why? When God 
made a woman's heart hungry for love, did he mean it 
should go forever unsatisfied? 
By degrees matters' resumed their olden course. Mrs. 
Beswick went away ; Joe was able to go up arid down 
stairs, to ride out, and indulge in an occasional walk. 
Katy petted and scolded her as if she were a child. She 
seemed so weak and dependent now that she was glad to 
have some one stronger, on whom she could lean. 
The first surprise and grief occasioned by Hope's de- 
