discover and avenge his murder. About a month after his disappearance,
as I sat in my tent one fearfully hot day, suddenly the canvas door
flap was raised and there stood Gordon. I saw him as plainly as I see
you, Jasper, and should have sprung to meet him, but something held me
back. He was deathly pale, dripping with water, and in his bonny blue
eyes was a wild, woeful look that made my blood run cold. I stared
dumbly, for it was awful to see my friend so changed and so unearthly.
Stretching his arm to me he took my hand, saying solemnly, ‘Come!’ The
touch was like ice; an ominous thrill ran through me; I started up to
obey, and he was gone.”
“A horrid dream, of course. Is that all?” asked Rose.
With his eyes on the fire and his left hand half extended, Treherne went
on as if he had not heard her.
“I thought it was a fancy, and soon recovered myself, for no one had
seen or heard anything of Gordon, and my native servant lay just outside
my tent. A strange sensation remained in the hand the phantom touched.
It was cold, damp, and white. I found it vain to try to forget this
apparition; it took strong hold of me; I told Yermid, my man, and he
bade me consider it a sign that I was to seek my friend. That night I
dreamed I was riding up the country in hot haste; what led me I know
not, but I pressed on and on, longing to reach the end. A half-dried
river crossed my path, and, riding down the steep bank to ford it, I saw
Gordon’s body lying in the shallow water looking exactly as the vision
looked. I woke in a strange mood, told the story to my commanding
officer, and, as nothing was doing just then, easily got leave of
absence for a week. Taking Yermid, I set out on my sad quest. I thought
it folly, but I could not resist the impulse that drew me on. For seven
days I searched, and the strangest part of the story is that all that
time I went on exactly as in the dream, seeing what I saw then, and led
by the touch of a cold hand on mine. On the seventh day I reached the
river, and found my friend’s body.”
“How horrible! Is it really true?” cried Mrs. Snowdon.
“As true as I am a living man. Nor is that all: this left hand of mine
never has been warm since that time. See and feel for yourselves.”
He opened both hands, and all satisfied themselves that the left was
smaller, paler, and colder than the right.
“Pray someone tell another story to put this out of my mind; it makes me
nervous,” said Blanche.
“I’ll tell one, and you may laugh to quiet your nerves. I want to have
mine done with, so that I can enjoy the rest with a free mind.” With
these words Rose began her tale in the good old fashion.
“Once upon a time, when we were paying a visit to my blessed grandmamma,
I saw a ghost in this wise: The dear old lady was ill with a cold and
kept her room, leaving us to mope, for it was very dull in the great
lonely house. Blanche and I were both homesick, but didn’t like to leave
till she was better, so we ransacked the library and solaced ourselves
with all manner of queer books. One day I found Grandmamma very low and
nervous, and evidently with something on her mind. She would say
nothing, but the next day was worse, and I insisted on knowing the
cause, for the trouble was evidently mental. Charging me to keep it from
Blanche, who was, and is, a sad coward, she told me that a spirit had
appeared to her two successive nights. ‘If it comes a third time, I
shall prepare to die,’ said the foolish old lady.
“‘No, you won’t, for I’ll come and stay with you and lay your ghost,’ I
said. With some difficulty I made her yield, and after Blanche was
asleep I slipped away to Grandmamma, with a book and candle for a long
watch, as the spirit didn’t appear till after midnight. She usually
slept with her door unlocked, in case of fire or fright, and her maid
was close by. That night I locked the door, telling her that spirits
could come through the oak if they chose, and I preferred to have a fair
trial. Well, I read and chatted and dozed till dawn and nothing
appeared, so I laughed at the whole affair, and the old lady pretended
to be convinced that it was all a fancy.
“Next night I slept in my own room, and in the morning was told that not
only Grandmamma but Janet had seen the spirit. All in white, with
streaming hair, a pale face, and a red streak at the throat. It came and
parted the bed-curtains, looking in a moment, and then vanished. Janet
had slept with Grandmamma and kept a lamp burning on the chimney, so
both saw it.
“I was puzzled, but not frightened; I never am, and I insisted on trying
again. The door was left unlocked, as on the previous night, and I lay
with Grandmamma, a light burning as before. About two she clutched me as
I was dropping off. I looked, and there, peeping in between the dark
curtains, was a pale face with long hair all about it, and a red streak
at the throat. It was very dim, the light being low, but I saw it, and
after one breathless minute sprang up, caught my foot, fell down with a
crash, and by the time I was around the bed, not a vestige of the thing
appeared. I was angry, and vowed I’d succeed at all hazards, though I’ll
confess I was just a bit daunted.
“Next time Janet and I sat up in easy chairs, with bright lights
burning, and both wide awake with the strongest coffee we could make. As
the hour drew near we got nervous, and when the white shape came gliding
in Janet hid her face. I didn’t, and after one look was on the point of
laughing, for the spirit was Blanche walking in her sleep. She wore a
coral necklace in those days, and never took it off, and her long hair
half hid her face, which had the unnatural, uncanny look somnambulists
always wear. I had the sense to keep still and tell Janet what to do, so
the poor child went back unwaked, and Grandmamma’s spirit never walked
again for I took care of that.”
“Why did you haunt the old lady?” asked Annon, as the laughter ceased.
“I don’t know, unless it was that I wanted to ask leave to go home, and
was afraid to do it awake, so tried when asleep. I shall not tell any
story, as I was the heroine of this, but will give my turn to you, Mr.
Annon,” said Blanche, with a soft glance, which was quite thrown away,
for the gentleman’s eyes were fixed on Octavia, who sat on a low ottoman
at Mrs. Snowdon’s feet in the full glow of the firelight.
“I’ve had very small experience in ghosts, and can only recall a little
fright I once had when a boy at college. I’d been out to a party, got
home tired, couldn’t find my matches, and retired in the dark. Toward
morning I woke, and glancing up to see if the dim light was dawn or
moonshine I was horrified to see a coffin standing at the bed’s foot. I
rubbed my eyes to be sure I was awake, and looked with all my might.
There it was, a long black coffin, and I saw the white plate in the
dusk, for the moon was setting and my curtain was not drawn. ‘It’s some
trick of the fellows,’ I thought; ‘I’ll not betray myself, but keep
cool.’ Easy to say but hard to do, for it suddenly flashed into my mind
that I might be in the wrong room. I glanced about, but there were the
familiar objects as usual, as far as the indistinct light allowed me to
see, and I made sure by feeling on the wall at the bed’s head for my
watchcase. It was there, and mine beyond a doubt, being peculiar in
shape and fabric. Had I been to a college wine party I could have
accounted for the vision, but a quiet evening in a grave professor’s
well-conducted family could produce no ill effects. ‘It’s an optical
illusion, or a prank of my mates; I’ll sleep and forget it,’ I said, and
for a time endeavored to do so, but curiosity overcame my resolve, and
soon I peeped again. Judge of my horror when I saw the sharp white
outline of a dead face, which seemed to be peeping up from the coffin.
It gave me a terrible shock for I was but a lad and had been ill. I hid
my face and quaked like a nervous girl, still thinking it some joke and
too proud to betray fear lest I should be laughed at. How long I lay
there I don’t know, but when I looked again the face was farther out and
the whole figure seemed rising slowly. The moon was nearly down, I had
no lamp, and to be left in the dark with that awesome thing was more
than I could bear. Joke or earnest, I must end the panic, and bolting
out of my room I roused my neighbor. He told me I was mad or drunk, but
lit a lamp and returned with me, to find my horror only a heap of
clothes thrown on the table in such a way that, as the moon’s pale light
shot it, it struck upon my black student’s gown, with a white card lying
on it, and produced the effect of a coffin and plate. The face was a
crumpled handkerchief, and what seemed hair a brown muffler. As the moon
sank, these outlines changed and, incredible as it may seem, grew like a
face. My friend not having had the fright enjoyed the joke, and
‘Coffins’ was my sobriquet for a long while.”
“You get worse and worse. Sir Jasper, do vary the horrors by a touch of
fun, or I shall run away,” said Blanche, glancing over her shoulder
nervously.
“I’ll do my best, and tell a story my uncle used to relate of his young
days. I forget the name of the place, but it was some little country
town famous among anglers. My uncle often went to fish, and always
regretted that a deserted house near the trout stream was not occupied,
for the inn was inconveniently distant. Speaking of this one evening as
he lounged in the landlady’s parlor, he asked why no one took it and let
the rooms to strangers in the fishing season. ‘For fear of the
ghostissess, your honor,’ replied the woman, and proceeded to tell, him
that three distinct spirits haunted the house. In the garret was heard
the hum of a wheel and the tap of high-heeled shoes, as the ghostly
spinner went to and fro. In a chamber sounded the sharpening of a knife,
followed by groans and the drip of blood. The cellar was made awful by a
skeleton sitting on a half-buried box and chuckling fiendishly. It seems
a miser lived there once, and was believed to have starved his daughter
in the garret, keeping her at work till she died. The second spirit was
that of the girl’s rejected lover, who cut his throat in the chamber,
and the third of the miser who was found dead on the money chest he was
too feeble to conceal. My uncle laughed at all this, and offered to lay
the ghosts if anyone would take the house.
“This offer got abroad, and a crusty old fellow accepted it, hoping to
turn a penny. He had a pretty girl, whose love had been thwarted by the
old man, and whose lover was going to sea in despair. My uncle knew this
and pitied the young people. He had made acquaintance with a wandering
artist, and the two agreed to conquer the prejudices against the house
by taking rooms there. They did so, and after satisfying themselves
regarding the noises, consulted a wise old woman as to the best means of
laying the ghosts. She told them if any young girl would pass a night in
each haunted room, praying piously the while, that all would be well.
Peggy was asked if she would do it, and being a stouthearted lass she
consented, for a round sum, to try it. The first night was in the
garret, and Peggy, in spite of the prophecies of the village gossips,
came out alive, though listeners at the door heard the weird humming and
tapping all night long. The next night all went well, and from that time
no more sharpening, groaning, or dripping was heard. The third time she
bade her friends good-bye and, wrapped in her red cloak, with a lamp and
prayer book, went down into the cellar. Alas for pretty Peggy! When day
came she was gone, and with her the miser’s empty box, though his bones
remained to prove how well she had done her work.
“The town was in an uproar, and the old man furious. Some said the devil
had flown away with her, others that the bones were hers, and all agreed
that henceforth another ghost would haunt the house. My uncle and the
artist did their best to comfort the father, who sorely reproached
himself for thwarting the girl’s love, and declared that if Jack would
find her he should have her. But Jack had sailed, and the old man ‘was
left lamenting.’ The house was freed from its unearthly visitors,
however, for no ghost appeared; and when my uncle left, old Martin found
money and letter informing him that Peggy had spent her first two nights
preparing for flight, and on the third had gone away to marry and sail
with Jack. The noises had been produced by the artist, who was a
ventriloquist, the skeleton had been smuggled from the surgeons, and the
whole thing was a conspiracy to help Peggy and accommodate the
fishermen.”
“It is evident that roguery is hereditary,” laughed Rose as the
narrator paused.
“I strongly suspect that Sir Jasper the second was the true hero of that
story,” added Mrs. Snowdon.
“Think what you like, I’ve done my part, and leave the stage for
you, madam.”
“I will come last. It is your turn, dear.” As Mrs. Snowdon softly
uttered the last word, and Octavia leaned upon her knee with an
affectionate glance, Treherne leaned forward to catch a glimpse of the
two changed faces, and looked as if bewildered when both smiled at him,
as they sat hand in hand while the girl told her story.
“Long ago a famous actress suddenly dropped dead at the close of a
splendidly played tragedy. She was carried home, and preparations were
made to bury her. The play had been gotten up with great care and
expense, and a fine actor was the hero. The public demanded a
repetition, and an inferior person was engaged to take the dead lady’s
part. A day’s delay had been necessary, but when the night came the
house was crowded. They waited both before and behind the curtain for
the debut of the new actress, with much curiosity. She stood waiting for
her cue, but as it was given, to the amazement of all, the great
tragedienne glided upon the stage. Pale as marble, and with a strange
fire in her eyes, strange pathos in her voice, strange power in her
acting, she went through her part, and at the close vanished as
mysteriously as she came. Great was the excitement that night, and
intense the astonishment and horror next day when it was whispered
abroad that the dead woman never had revived, but had lain in her coffin
before the eyes of watchers all the evening, when hundreds fancied they
were applauding her at the theater. The mystery never was cleared up,
and Paris was divided by two opinions: one that some person marvelously
like Madame Z. had personated her for the sake of a sensation; the other
that the ghost of the dead actress, unable to free itself from the old
duties so full of fascination to an ambitious and successful woman, had
played for the last time the part which had made her famous.”
“Where did you find that, Tavie? It’s very French, and not bad if you
invented it,” said Sir Jasper.
“I read it in an old book, where it was much better told. Now, Edith,
there is just time for your tale.”
As the word “Edith” passed her lips, again Treherne started and eyed
them both, and again they smiled, as Mrs. Snowdon caressed the
smooth cheek leaning on her knee, and looking full at him began the
last recital.
“You have been recounting the pranks of imaginary ghosts; let me show
you the workings of some real spirits, evil and good, that haunt every
heart and home, making its misery or joy. At Christmastime, in a country
house, a party of friends met to keep the holidays, and very happily
they might have done so had not one person marred the peace of several.
Love, jealousy, deceit, and nobleness were the spirits that played their
freaks with these people. The person of whom I speak was more haunted
than the rest, and much tormented, being willful, proud, and jealous.
Heaven help her, she had had no one to exorcise these ghosts for her,
and they goaded her to do much harm. Among these friends there were more
than one pair of lovers, and much tangling of plots and plans, for
hearts are wayward and mysterious things, and cannot love as duty bids
or prudence counsels. This woman held the key to all the secrets of the
house, and, having a purpose to gain, she used her power selfishly, for
a time. To satisfy a doubt, she feigned a fancy for a gentleman who once
did her the honor of admiring her, and, to the great scandal of certain
sage persons, permitted him to show his regard for her, knowing that it
was but a transient amusement on his part as well as upon hers. In the
hands of this woman lay a secret which could make or mar the happiness
of the best and dearest of the party. The evil spirits which haunted her
urged her to mar their peace and gratify a sinful hope. On the other
side, honor, justice, and generosity prompted her to make them happy,
and while she wavered there came to her a sweet enchantress who, with a
word, banished the tormenting ghosts forever, and gave the haunted woman
a talisman to keep her free henceforth.”
There the earnest voice faltered, and with a sudden impulse Mrs. Snowdon
bent her head and kissed the fair forehead which had bent lower and
lower as she went on. Each listener understood the truth, lightly veiled
in that hasty fable, and each found in it a different meaning. Sir
Jasper frowned and bit his lips, Annon glanced anxiously from face to
face, Octavia hid hers, and Treherne’s flashed with sudden intelligence,
while Rose laughed low to herself, enjoying the scene. Blanche, who was
getting sleepy, said, with a stifled gape, “That is a very nice, moral
little story, but I wish there had been some real ghosts in it.”
“There was. Will you come and see them?”
As she put the question, Mrs. Snowdon rose abruptly, wishing to end the
séance, and beckoning them to follow glided up the great stairway. All
obeyed, wondering what whim possessed her, and quite ready for any jest
in store for them.
Chapter VIII
JASPER
She led them to the north gallery and, pausing at the door, said
merrily, “The ghost--or ghosts rather, for there were two--which
frightened Patty were Sir Jasper and myself, meeting to discuss certain
important matters which concerned Mr. Treherne. If you want to see
spirits we will play phantom for you, and convince you of our power.”
“Good, let us go and have a ghostly dance, as a proper finale of our
revel,” answered Rose as they flocked into the long hall.
At that moment the great clock struck twelve, and all paused to bid the
old year adieu. Sir Jasper was the first to speak, for, angry with Mrs.
Snowdon, yet thankful to her for making a jest to others of what had
been earnest to him, he desired to hide his chagrin under a gay manner;
and taking Rose around the waist was about to waltz away as she
proposed, saying cheerily, “‘Come one and all, and dance the new year
in,’” when a cry from Octavia arrested him, and turning he saw her
stand, pale and trembling, pointing to the far end of the hall.
Eight narrow Gothic windows pierced either wall of the north
gallery. A full moon sent her silvery light strongly in upon the
eastern side, making broad bars of brightness across the floor. No
fires burned there now, and wherever the moonlight did not fall deep
shadows lay. As Octavia cried out, all looked, and all distinctly
saw a tall, dark figure moving noiselessly across the second bar of
light far down the hall.
“Is it some jest of yours?” asked Sir Jasper of Mrs. Snowdon, as the
form vanished in the shadow.
“No, upon my honor, I know nothing of it! I only meant to relieve
Octavia’s superstitious fears by showing her our pranks” was the
whispered reply as Mrs. Snowdon’s cheek paled, and she drew nearer
to Jasper.
“Who is there?” called Treherne in a commanding tone.
No answer, but a faint, cold breath of air seemed to sigh along the
arched roof and die away as the dark figure crossed the third streak
of moonlight. A strange awe fell upon them all, and no one spoke, but
stood watching for the appearance of the shape. Nearer and nearer it
came, with soundless steps, and as it reached the sixth window its
outlines were distinctly visible. A tall, wasted figure, all in black,
with a rosary hanging from the girdle, and a dark beard half
concealing the face.
“The Abbot’s ghost, and very well got up,” said Annon, trying to laugh
but failing decidedly, for again the cold breath swept over them,
causing a general shudder.
“Hush!” whispered Treherne, drawing Octavia to his side with a
protecting gesture.
Once more the phantom appeared and disappeared, and as they waited for
it to cross the last bar of light that lay between it and them, Mrs.
Snowdon stepped forward to the edge of the shadow in which they stood,
as if to confront the apparition alone. Out of the darkness it came, and
in the full radiance of the light it paused. Mrs. Snowdon, being
nearest, saw the face first, and uttering a faint cry dropped down upon
the stone floor, covering up her eyes. Nothing human ever wore a look
like that of the ghastly, hollow-eyed, pale-lipped countenance below the
hood. All saw it and held their breath as it slowly raised a shadowy arm
and pointed a shriveled finger at Sir Jasper.
“Speak, whatever you are, or I’ll quickly prove whether you are man or
spirit!” cried Jasper fiercely, stepping forward as if to grasp the
extended arm that seemed to menace him alone.
An icy gust swept through the hall, and the phantom slowly receded into
the shadow. Jasper sprang after it, but nothing crossed the second
stream of light, and nothing remained in the shade. Like one possessed
by a sudden fancy he rushed down the gallery to find all fast and empty,
and to return looking very strangely. Blanche had fainted away and Annon
was bearing her out of the hall. Rose was clinging to Mrs. Snowdon, and
Octavia leaned against her cousin, saying in a fervent whisper, “Thank
God it did not point at you!”
“Am I then dearer than your brother?” he whispered back.
There was no audible reply, but one little hand involuntarily pressed
his, though the other was outstretched toward Jasper, who came up white
and startled but firm and quiet. Affecting to make light of it, he said,
forcing a smile as he raised Mrs. Snowdon, “It is some stupid joke of
the servants. Let us think no more of it. Come, Edith, this is not like
your usual self.”
“It was nothing human, Jasper; you know it as well as I. Oh, why did I
bring you here to meet the warning phantom that haunts your house!”
“Nay, if my time is near the spirit would have found me out wherever
I might be. I have no faith in that absurd superstition--I laugh at
and defy it. Come down and drink my health in wine from the Abbot’s
own cellar.”
But no one had heart for further gaiety, and, finding Lady Treherne
already alarmed by Annon, they were forced to tell her all, and find
their own bewilderment deepened by her unalterable belief in the
evil omen.
At her command the house was searched, the servants cross-questioned,
and every effort made to discover the identity of the apparition. All in
vain; the house was as usual, and not a man or maid but turned pale at
the idea of entering the gallery at midnight. At my lady’s request, all
promised to say no more upon the mystery, and separated at last to such
sleep as they could enjoy.
Very grave were the faces gathered about the breakfast table next
morning, and very anxious the glances cast on Sir Jasper as he came in,
late as usual, looking uncommonly blithe and well. Nothing serious ever
made a deep impression on his mercurial nature. Treherne had more the
air of a doomed man, being very pale and worn, in spite of an occasional
gleam of happiness as he looked at Octavia. He haunted Jasper like a
shadow all the morning, much to that young gentleman’s annoyance, for
both his mother and sister hung about him with faces of ill-dissembled
anxiety. By afternoon his patience gave out, and he openly rebelled
against the tender guard kept over him. Ringing for his horse he said
decidedly, “I’m bored to death with the solemnity which pervades the
house today, so I’m off for a brisk gallop, before I lose my temper and
spirits altogether.”
“Come with me in the pony carriage, Jasper. I’ve not had a drive with
you for a long while, and should enjoy it so much,” said my lady,
detaining him.
“Mrs. Snowdon looks as if she needed air to revive her roses, and the
pony carriage is just the thing for her, so I will cheerfully resign my
seat to her,” he answered laughing, as he forced himself from his
mother’s hand.
“Take the girls in the clarence. We all want a breath of air, and you
are the best whip we know. Be gallant and say yes, dear.”
“No, thank you, Tavie, that won’t do. Rose and Blanche are both asleep,
and you are dying to go and do likewise, after your vigils last night.
As a man and a brother I beg you’ll do so, and let me ride as I like.”
“Suppose you ask Annon to join you--” began Treherne with well-assumed
indifference; but Sir Jasper frowned and turned sharply on him, saying,
half-petulantly, half-jocosely:
“Upon my life I should think I was a boy or a baby, by the manner in
which you mount guard over me today. If you think I’m going to live in
daily fear of some mishap, you are all much mistaken. Ghost or no ghost,
I shall make merry while I can; a short life and a jolly one has always
been my motto, you know, so fare you well till dinnertime.”
They watched him gallop down the avenue, and then went their different
ways, still burdened with a nameless foreboding. Octavia strolled into
the conservatory, thinking to refresh herself with the balmy silence
which pervaded the place, but Annon soon joined her, full of a lover’s
hopes and fears.
“Miss Treherne, I have ventured to come for my answer. Is my New Year to
be a blissful or a sad one?” he asked eagerly.
“Forgive me if I give you an unwelcome reply, but I must be true, and so
regretfully refuse the honor you do me,” she said sorrowfully.
“May I ask why?”
“Because I do not love you.”
