" Smith" said Maude Clare, faintly. 
Jacqueline Delancey had made a point, and, 
as this young lady very seldom did make a 
point, she whittled it to its sharpest, and stuck 
it into Maude Clare then and thenceforward 
whenever occasion offered. 
No one word was oftener on her lips, with 
cough and laugh and sneer, and double enten- 
dre, in season and out of season, than this poor 
little word of five letters, which made Maude 
Clare 's pretty brows blacken like a thunder 
cloud, and Maude Clare 's keen tongue (of 
which Miss Delancey was secretly in fear, hav 
ing felt its edge more than once) keep silence. 
Partly for the joke of the thing, partly from 
unconscious imitation, the rest of the girls fell 
into the way, as long as Maude Clare remained 
at the Golden Crescent, of pronouncing the 
unfortunate name as Maude Clare 's rival did, 
and of writing it as they pronounced it, - 
Maude Clare Smith, with a pause of mock 
respect at the dash that was indescribable. 
Boarding-school was not pure Paradise, after 
all. Gypsy found this out in due time. She 
enjoyed the fun and chatter and novelty, 
" wearing long dresses and drawing her own 
checks," having no errands to do, and Mrs. 
McMunn 's waterfall to laugh at. She soon 
found herself for some unaccountable reason 
which she spent her whole year at the Crescent 
trying to find out everybody 's pet and 
favourite ; and her lessons, to put it moderately, 
could not be said to be so severe a strain upon 
her intellect as to endanger health or reason. 
As for home, why, she missed it, to be sure,, 
but the holidays were coming sometime. Then 
she never felt very far away from her mother ; 
beginning, as she did in the morning, to 
treasure up things for that talk with her at 
night ; very often the talk was put into a letter, 
but, written or spoken, Gypsy felt it a reality. 
But still over her merry days there fell now 
and then a little shade. 
Maude Clare had plenty of money. So had 
Jacqueline ; so had the rest. It was an ex 
pensive school, and attracted the notice of 
wealthy parents. Gypsy and a small minority 
of three or four must economise, sometimes 
closely. The girls were for the most part too 
ladylike to taunt her with this, but they 
reminded her of it, by no means infrequently; 
sometimes unnecessarily, always painfully. 
One day a little knot of them gathered in 
Josephine Courtis room, discussing each other 's 
pretty things. Josephine 's winter cloak had 
just come from home by express. 
" It 's early for it, to be sure," she said, shak 
ing out the heavy folds, " but I can't go the 
buttons on my sacque ; they look as if they 
were handed down from Mrs. Japhet." 
" Why, I 'm sure they were only a summer 
style," said Gypsy. 
"Oh, well; it 's all the same Dutch," an 
swered Josephine in her brusque way, holding 
up the cloak for inspection and admiration. 
Josephine 's " loud " no other word expresses 
it Western taste was always questionable. 
Gypsy did not like the striking cuir-coloured 
cassock, with its heavy, dead-black finish of 
velvet; and while the rest admired, she said 
nothing. 
" What are you going to have for a bonnet?"
Jo?" asked Jacqueline, in a tone which plainly 
said that she should like to be asked what she 
was going to have. As Jo did not ask, how 
ever, Miss Delancey had to volunteer the 
information. 
" Green velvet with quilted white satin let 
in. Quilted white is all the rage." 
" Such showy things are not my taste," ob 
served Maude Clare, who made it a point never 
to agree with Jacqueline under any circum 
stances, whatever the subject. 
" Nor mine," said Gypsy. 
" Of course, Gypsy always agrees with Miss 
Smith," remarked Jacqueline, by way of 
retribution. 
" High crowns, you know," said a New York 
girl, with the air of one quite willing to instruct 
Boston and all other little villages. 
" A?, if we didn't know that ! Of course 
nobody would be seen without a high crown." 
Gypsy thought of those " little pieces," with 
which she was going to " poke it up." She 
felt just the,* that to be obliged to wear a low 
crown would be an affliction greater than sh 
could bear. I hardly think it was cowardly; 
it was only natural. 
After a little chatter about balmorals and 
skating-boots, Alexander 's gloves, thread iace 
barbes, the price of ermine, the exact length of 
dinner-dresses, and the relative merits of water 
falls and coils, somebody said something about 
furs. Jo Courtis had a faint prospect of Hud 
son Bay Sables. 
Everybody looked at Jo respectfully. 
" Mother doesn't like to see sables on 
school-girls," observed Maude Clare, " but she 
means to keep me in very nice mink till I 
graduate." 
As Maude Clare was generally conceded, 
outside of Jacqueline Delancey 's " set," to be 
the most distingue-looking girl in school, every 
body looked at her with an expression of relief. 
" I wouldn't be seen in anything short of 
mink," said Maude Clare, impressively; "every 
thing cheaper than that is so common." 
Gypsy 's face flushed a little, where she sat 
so 
over in the corner behind her friend, flushed 
for the instant, as if she had received some 
sudden degradation. 
For her furs the pretty muff and collar, 
her mother 's Christmas present, which had 
matched and finished off her gray cassock so 
tastefully her furs were only squirrel. 
" I 'm going to have Astrakhan," said Jacque 
line (she had intended to have mink until this 
very minute) ; " that 's the latest, and they say 
another year mink will be all out." 
" That 's fortunate, for I 'm sure I shouldn't 
want yours just like mine," observed Maude 
Clare, with her peculiar smile. 
Gypsy, over in her corner, was thinking. 
If squirrel were "so common," and Maude 
Clare herself had said it, what should she 
do? At least she could go without; her 
mother would say it was a risk, when she had 
been used to them so many winters; but her 
mother would not know. 
Perhaps this, however natural, was a little 
cowardly. Was it not? However that might 
be, Jacqueline hit the unspoken thought with 
an unexpected thrust, 
" I don't see but I shall have to go without 
tny till holidays ; I wouldn't trust anybody 
else to chose Astrakhan for me, and Mrs. M. 
won't let me go to Boston ; she *s been as cross 
as a bear since she caught me in the cars 
with Ben Sizer. I 'm ashamed to go without, 
though ; it looks so poverty-stricken." 
"Which would you rather do, Maude, go 
without or wear squirrel?" asked Gypsy in an 
undertone, fingering Maude Clare 's tassel trim 
ming Maude always had rich trimmings 
in an uneasy, absent way. But Jacqueline 
heard the question. 
" I wouldn't be seen in squirrel a^how, H 
said she, with a little disdainful gesture of her 
pretty hands. 
Jane Bruce had been sitting by the window, 
so quietly that no one had noticed her. Con 
sequently every one started a little in surprise 
when she spoke suddenly and decidedly, 
Well, I would, if I couldn't afford anything 
nicer Of course, I 'd rather have an expensive 
and stylish thing; so would anybody; but I 
should feel degraded, I 'm sure I should, if I 
endangered my health all winter long rather 
than carry a squirrel muff ! " 
The girls had a liking, such as it was, for 
Jane Bruce ; she had a way of doing errands 
without grumbling, and curing their neuralgia, 
and being sorry for their headaches, a very 
quiet sort of way, to be sure, that nobody 
thought much about; but at any rate, they did 
not laugh at what she said. 
"Well, well," said Jo Courtis, "Jane doesn't 
care for the pomp and vanities, anyway, which 
makes a difference; do you, Jane?" 
The question was thoughtless, just like Jo. 
Gypsy glanced from her room-mate 's mourning 
dress to her face, on which a slight sadness had 
settled. Her good sense told her that Jane was 
right. It told her, moreover, that Gypsy 
Breynton was a little ashamed of herself. So 
she spoke up in her honest way, 
"Anybody want my sentiments on squirrel 
furs? Don t? What a pity! For you see, 
you 'll have to see me in them all winter. It 's 
either that, or worrying mother for fear I shall 
catch my death ; so you 'd better make up your 
minds to it. Jane, where 's the algebra lesson?" 
Jane was gone, as she was very apt to be ; 
and nobody thought any more about her. 
Not long after this, another matter came up, 
which troubled Gypsy more than anything of 
the kind had done before. 
One day three or four of the girls appeared 
with three or four little gold stars, all just alike, 
and all affixed by a tiny gold chain to their 
pins. They were inscribed with some mysteri 
ous hieroglyphics, which no one could decipher 
without coming to an impertinent nearness. 
"Why, what is it?" 
"Did you ever? 
" Where did they get them? " 
"What do they mean? " 
"What on earth do they keep it such a 
dreadful secret for?" 
So the whispers and the wonder buzzed 
around for a week, but the wearers kept their 
lips shut, and nobody was any the wiser. At 
last one day it was reported that the gold 
stars were the badges of a Secret Society, the 
Chapter of the Golden Crescent, solemnly 
founded in the trunk closet on the fifteenth 
of November, and solemnly to be handed 
down to posterity as long as time and Mrs. 
McMunn 's should endure. 
"Why, how splendid" said Gypsy. I 
doubt if Gypsy will ever outgrow her penchant 
for boy 's plays. 
Jo Courtis, Jacqueline Delancey, Mary Blunt, 
Lou Armstrong, and the Colchetts were the 
original members. There was a breathless sus 
pense in official circles. Would the illustri 
ous band enlarge itself? Who would be 
chosen next? 
One day Maude Clare walked into Shake 
speare, with the gold star hanging from her 
handsome lapis-lazuli pin. Maude Clare tried 
not to look important, and succeeded in looking 
it to perfection. 
As soon as the recitation was over, Gypsy 
flew after her, and begged leave to examine the 
badge. Upon one side was a cabalistic design, 
which might have been a toasting-fork, or a 
gravestone, or several other things. 
" Or a teaspoon, perhaps?" suggested Gypsy. 
"That 's telling," said Maude Clare. Upon 
the other side were the letters, 
handsomely engraved in German text. 
" E. S.? E. S.? What on earth does E. S 
stand for?" 
" Guess." 
" Well Everlasting Sinners? * 
" Guess again." 
Gypsy couldn't guess. 
" Evergreen Sisters." 
" Oh." 
" That is to say, that 's our public name. 
There is a private meaning, of course; we re 
on our oath not to tell that." 
Gypsy fingered the pretty trinket with wist 
ful eyes, but said nothing. 
In the afternoon Maude Clare came into 
her room with a very mysterious air; Jane 
Bruce, seeing that she was not wanted, went 
out. 
"You are elected, my dear," said Maude 
Clare, solemnly. 
"Elected?" 
" An Evergreen Sister. I am appointed a 
committee of one to notify you." 
Gypsy rose demurely from her chair, and 
jumped up and down three times, as hard as 
she could jump. 
"You had better go down town and order 
your badge this afternoon, I think," said Maude 
Clare. Gypsy stopped jumping. 
"How much does it cost? " she said, turning 
quickly round. 
" Oh, only five dollars." 
Only five dollars ! It might as well have 
been fifty. Gypsy walked over to the window. 
"Well?" said Maude Clare. 
Gypsy made no reply; perhaps she could 
not just then; she was bitterly disappointed, 
and stood with flushed cheeks, and one little 
pearl of a tooth biting sharply at her lip, think 
ing about it. She had five dollars in her purse, 
but it was nearly all owing to her washwoman. 
They would send her checks from home as 
often as she asked for them, but she very well 
knew that her mother had set apart an allow 
ance for the term, all that could be spared, 
which it would require close economy to come 
within. There was no twist or turn which 
Gypsy unpleasantly. For the first time, 
though only for a moment, she felt not quite 
satisfied with her " beautiful, darling, precious 
Maude Clare." 
" Tell them what you please," she said, and 
walked away. 
That night, just as she was growing sleepy, 
Jane Bruce heard somebody whispering. She 
could not understand a word, but if she had, 
this is what she would have heard. 
" I didn't, no, I did n t. I didn't come 
near it. I only thought about it I nearly bit 
my tongue off, too, I was so ashamed to think 
I did think about it. But then you know I 
didn't do it, and you see you don't know a 
thing about it, and you re not going to, either. 
No, ma 'am ! " 
It was Gypsy, talking to her mother. 
She chanced to be writing to Tom that 
night; as she could not well keep a secret 
from Tom, and feeling quite safe, she told him 
the story of the badge. " Just to fill up, you 
know. Of course it is all settled, and there 's 
no use in talking ab iut it now; but I thought 
you would like to hear. 
" I suppose I felt pretty badly standing up 
there at the window and telling Maude Clare I 
couldn't afford it; I was just such a little 
goose. But I might have worse things to feel 
badly about, mightn't I, you blessed old 
boy?" 
A few days after, a stout-looking letter came 
from New Haven. Gypsy opened it, wonder 
ing; and out dropped five dollars. Concern 
ing which, Tom had this to say: 
MY EVERGREEN SISTER, Run right down 
town and buy your badge. You needn't go to 
making up any of your horrible faces, for it 's 
all right A part of it is father 's New Year 's 
present, a little ahead of time. The rest I 
could spare just as well as not, and a little 
better. 
Who gave me all the cash she had, about 
the epoch of those Freshman scrapes? to say 
nothing of several other little things. If you 
don't remember, 
Yours respectfully, 
T. BREYNTON, does. 
Happy Gypsy, after writing just sixteen 
pages of protestations and thanks to Tom, to 
which he made answer only and characteristi 
cally, " You hush up ! " concluded that there 
It was nothing to be done but to order her badge 
and become an Evergreen Sister. Which she 
became, fifteen minutes after study-hours, on 
the very next Tuesday night. 
Now, if you would like to know, I think on 
the whole I will tell you, that this account of 
the Society of the Evergreen Sisters is not " a 
story," but true, every word of it. How I 
happen to know, is another matter; and it 
would be very inquisitive in you to ask; espe 
cially as I certainly should not say. I will 
simply observe that I did not have to apply 
to Gypsy for the info*. nation. 
It was time long ago for another chapter, 
but we really must stop for a glance at that 
eagerly expected Tuesday night. As the 
Evergreen Sisters long ago dissolved partner^ 
ship or, as Gypsy more classically expresses 
it, were " bounced up," nobody breaks any 
oaths in telling the tale. 
Tuesday night came as fast as other Tuesday 
nights, though it seemed leaden-footed to im 
patient Gypsy; and at a quarter of nine 
precisely, the Sisters assembled in Maude Clare 's 
room. They were all there, Maude, and 
Jacqueline, Jo Courtis, Lou, and Mary, and 
the Colchetts. " Poor Miss Holly " was there 
too. 
" Had to let her in," whispered Maude 
Clare. "Her room, you know; wouldn't 
budge an inch ; would insist on going to bed ; 
couldn't get it into her head that anything was 
up. What would you do, girls, if you 'd been 
made an owl? " 
After some whispering among the others, 
the two new members of the Society Susan 
Holly and Gypsy were put into a corner by 
themselves, on Maude 's large trunk. The 
lamps were turned down dimly; the curtains 
were drawn and pinned to the sills; the crack 
under the door, and the key-hole were stuffed 
with cotton wool. 
"When Mrs. M. comes round to put out 
lights, she 'll think that the inhabitants have 
gone to bed," explained Josephine. "Jack and 
I do that little thing whenever there 's a novel, 
or peanuts, or anything going on, and the 
woman never so much as knocks, doesn't 
want to disturb our sleep, bless her kind 
heart ! " 
Finally the register was shut, that the sound 
of their voices might not be carried to other 
rooms, and then Jo Courtis taking the chair 
that is to say, seating herself on Miss 
Holly 's study table, opened the meeting by 
announcing that the new members would now 
be initiated into the mysteries of the Ever 
green Sisters and the Chapter of the Golden 
Crescent. 
