two questions."
"You needn't."
"But I will. Why do you give my mother a letter purporting to come from
your daughter Marguerite, which was written by Miss Maggimore? That's
the first question I want to ask," said Fitz, with the air of a
conqueror.
The banker was a little startled; but he did not lose his
self-possession--he seldom did in merely business transactions.
"The letter I gave you was a true copy, Ellen," said he.
"It makes but little difference to me whether it was a true copy or
not," she added.
"The originals of Marguerite's letters were in my safe, and were stolen
with other papers. If your son knows Pilky Wayne, he may be able to
recover them."
"I scorn the insinuation, Mr. Checkynshaw," replied Fitz, indignantly.
"I speak a little French, Ellen, but I do not read it very readily; and
I had translations made of Marguerite's letters," continued Mr.
Checkynshaw, without noticing the irate young man. "One of these
translations I had rendered back into the French rather to give
employment to the barber's daughter than for any other reason."
Mrs. Wittleworth felt no interest in the translation. Probably the
banker was imposing upon her credulity, but she did not care if he was.
"Are the papers ready, Mr. Checkynshaw?" she asked, timidly, fearful
that he had altered his mind in regard to the money.
"They are."
"I am ready to sign the deed."
The banker produced the document, and the check, and laid them upon the
desk.
"Will you witness your mother's signature, Fitz?" asked Mr.
Checkynshaw.
"No, sir. I will have no part in this transaction," replied he, sourly.
"It will become my duty, at no distant day, to rip up the whole thing."
"Burnet!" called the banker, opening the window.
The taciturn cashier appeared.
"Witness this signature," added Mr. Checkynshaw.
Mrs. Wittleworth signed the quitclaim deed, and took the check. The
cashier saw the act, and wrote his name in the proper place on the
deed.
"Take the acknowledgment," said Mr. Checkynshaw to the cashier, who was
a justice of the peace.
"You acknowledge this to be your free act and deed, Mrs. Wittleworth?"
added Burnet.
"I do," replied the poor woman, or rather the rich one now, in the most
decided manner.
"Have it recorded," continued the banker; and the cashier left the room
with the deed in his hand.
"I am very much obliged to you, Mr. Checkynshaw," said Mrs.
Wittleworth. "You have been very kind and very liberal to me."
"Liberal!" sneered Fitz. "He has given you ten thousand dollars for a
hundred thousand. It's the best trade he ever made."
"Ellen, I am glad you are satisfied with what you have done. I give you
the ten thousand dollars for the reason I stated yesterday--not because
you had any claim upon me."
"I know you did, sir; and I am very grateful to you," replied Mrs.
Wittleworth.
"After what I have done, it is not right that I should be annoyed by
your son," added the banker.
"He shall not annoy you if I can help it."
"That's enough, Ellen. I forbid his coming here again on any pretence
whatever."
"You needn't trouble yourself," replied Fitz. "I shall not come near
you again if I can help it. I am rather particular about my
associates."
Mrs. Wittleworth left the office, followed by Fitz. The fact that his
mother had ten thousand dollars in her pocket did not seem to comfort
him. He offered to draw the check for her, but his mother preferred to
transact her own business. She presented the check at the bank upon
which it was drawn, and deposited the money at another. She went home
with a light heart, feeling that the wolf was slain, and that she was
secured against grim want for the rest of her life.
Mr. Checkynshaw smiled when Mrs. Wittleworth had gone. Perhaps, as Fitz
suggested, he felt that he had made a good trade. Apparently he had
disposed of the only person who had the power to annoy him.
No one did annoy him. Constable Clapp came back from New York; but He
brought no tidings of Pilky Wayne. The banker offered a reward of five
hundred dollars for his valuable papers; but week after week passed
away, and nothing was heard of them. The banker concluded that the
rogue had burned them, so that no clew should be had to him.
CHAPTER XIX.
FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS REWARD.
Leo worked till a late hour in the night, on the day that he received
the orders for the two mouse-houses. At eleven o'clock Maggie went down
to the shop, and entreated him not to wear himself out. Very likely he
would have worked all night if her friendly warning had not sent him to
bed. The next day he stuck to his bench till nine o'clock in the
evening.
On Saturday afternoon the two houses were finished, and put up at the
residences of those who had ordered them. His wildest dream had been
more than realized, and there was more money in the house over Sunday
than there had ever been before. The prospect was still hopeful for the
future. The good physician had kept his promise, and Leo had orders
enough to keep him at work for two weeks. He finished the four small
houses, and disposed of them at two dollars apiece, and two like that
sold to the banker at six dollars apiece, during the coming week; and
this made twenty dollars.
This extraordinary run of good fortune, however, did not continue long;
for, during the third week, he sold but twelve dollars' worth of his
merchandise, and the stock was accumulating on his hands. At the end of
the fourth week he had six houses unsold; but the average proceeds of
his sales had been over fifteen dollars a week.
Leo was enterprising, and with some of his funds he purchased half a
dozen pairs of rabbits, and enlarged the sphere of his business. He
built very tasty houses for each pair of these animals, with wire
netting in front, so that they could be seen. They were provided with
proper nests, with conveniences for keeping them clean. These
establishments found a ready sale, at remunerative prices for the
rabbits and the work.
Then he enlarged the business still further, adding guinea pigs and
doves to his stock, till the basement of the house became a menagerie
of pets. The dove-houses were made to be placed on sheds, or fastened
to the sides of buildings, generally in front of back attic windows,
where they could be readily reached. The good doctor, the banker, and
his other customers had thoroughly advertised his business for him, and
purchasers came every day to see his merchandise. He was continually
inventing new patterns for houses, and could now keep a variety of them
on hand, to enable those who patronized him to select for themselves.
Leo Maggimore worked very hard; but his business was profitable, and he
had every encouragement to persevere. His net proceeds were generally
twenty dollars a week; and, after paying for lumber, hardware, glass,
and wire netting, his average gains were fully up to the standard he
had fixed. Perhaps the young mechanic did not realize the fact, but it
was none the less true, that he was largely indebted to powerful
friends for the extensive sales he made. Probably many persons bought
his wares solely for the purpose of assisting him in his self-imposed
task of maintaining the family. Dr. Fisher, while attending the barber,
stated the case to at least a hundred of his patients and friends.
The spring came, and Leo's business was as good as ever. He was making
his fifteen dollars a week right along, to which Maggie sometimes added
two or three more. All this time André had been steadily improving. He
was now able to go out every day, and had almost recovered the use of
his limbs. He was not yet in condition to use a razor, which requires a
very steady and delicate hand; but he was able to do a great deal of
work about the house. He helped Leo, and became general salesman for
all his merchandise. The affairs of the family had been improving from
the very day that André was stricken down by his malady. The only
misfortune over which they mourned was, that the young mechanic had
been taken out of school.
At the end of three months, when the barber felt quite able to go to
work,--and Cutts & Stropmore were very anxious to have him do so,--the
family were never in a more prosperous condition. There was actually
about a hundred dollars in the exchequer, though Dr. Fisher's bill had
not been paid; but they need not have troubled themselves about that,
for the physician would no more have carried in a bill than he would
have cheated one of his neighbors; and that was quite impossible for
him to do.
Leo went up to see the master of the school as soon as his father was
able to go to work; and it was decided that he should immediately
resume his place. The teacher was confident that, with extra study, it
was still possible for him to obtain the medal. Leo went to work upon
his studies with the same energy and determination he had brought to
bear upon the mouse business.
"Make or break!" said he; "I will catch up with my class."
Of course he succeeded, though between the shop and the books he had
nearly "broken;" for there was still a demand for mice, doves, rabbits,
and guinea pigs, and he added several dollars a week to the income of
his father. He worked too hard; and Maggie, seeing that he was likely
to "break," took upon herself the care of the menagerie and the sales,
in addition to the housework, which was really quite enough for a girl
of fifteen.
Maggie was a good housekeeper. Mindful of the traditions of the elders,
as the spring came on she commenced the semiannual operation of
house-cleaning. She went through the performance in the front room
first, and then devoted herself to the chamber over it, which was Leo's
room. According to her custom she took everything out of the closets,
bureau, chest, and table drawers. In the course of this ceremonial she
came to the chest in which Leo kept his clothes.
At the bottom she found the papers deposited there by "Mr. Hart," or
possibly Pilky Wayne, for it was not certainly known who committed the
robbery. There was quite a large bundle of them; and Maggie, inheriting
the propensity of Mother Eve, was, of course, anxious to know what they
were. She laid them on the table with other articles, and then opened
one of them. She saw the name of Mr. Checkynshaw.
She was terrified when she remembered that the banker's safe had been
robbed, and that Mr. Checkynshaw had come to the house with the
detective to see about it. She was not quite sure of the fact, but it
seemed to her that Leo had been suspected of being concerned in the
robbery. Here were the valuable papers, hidden away very carefully at
the bottom of Leo's chest. They must have been there at least three
months, and of course her brother knew they were there.
The longer she considered the matter, the more terrified she became. It
was awful to think that Leo had been concerned in a robbery. She was
not willing to believe it. If there were any good boys in the world,
Leo was one of them. He would cut his right hand off before he would do
a wicked thing. It was impossible for her to charge the dear fellow
with anything that looked like a crime.
She turned the papers over again. They were strange documents to her,
with great seals on them, and no end of legal phrases. Perhaps, after
all, they were not good for anything. They could not be the papers
which Mr. Checkynshaw had lost. Probably they were some old and useless
documents, which the banker had thrown away when they were of no
further consequence. It was quite likely that Leo, who was always
studying up methods of doing business, had saved them from the dirt
barrels in the streets, so as to learn the forms of making out such
papers.
This explanation was not quite satisfactory, though it was plausible,
to her. It was about nine o'clock in the morning when she found the
papers. Leo had gone to school, and her father would not return till
night. She was so impatient to know whether the documents were of any
value or not, that she was unwilling to wait till noon. At first she
thought she would take them up to Mr. Checkynshaw himself, and ask him
if they were good for anything; but she did not exactly like to do
that.
Then it occurred to her that Fitz Wittleworth, who had been a clerk for
the banker, could tell her just as well as his late employer, and he
lived only a short distance from Phillimore Court. Mrs. Wittleworth,
with a portion of the money received from the banker, had purchased a
small house near her former residence. Fitz had not yet found another
place, and probably both he and his mother would have come to want
before this time, if she had taken his advice. Maggie went to the front
door, and called Tom Casey, whom she had seen in the court from the
window.
Tom was one of the gallantest young Irishmen in the city. He was a fast
friend of Leo, and spent much time in the shop with him. Tom made no
mental reservation when he declared that Maggie was the "purtiest gurl
in the wurruld;" and he was only too happy to oblige her when she asked
him to request Fitz to step in and see her for a moment. In ten minutes
Mr. Wittleworth made his appearance, as grand as ever, for three
months' idleness had not taken any of the starch out of him.
Maggie showed him the papers with fear and trembling. Fitz rubbed his
chin, and pursed his lips, as he examined them, looked wise, and
finally, after much sage deliberation, declared that the papers were of
the utmost importance.
"O, dear!" groaned poor Maggie.
"What is the matter, Miss Maggimore?" demanded Mr. Wittleworth.
"What shall I do! How came those papers in my brother's chest?"
"I haven't the least idea, Miss Maggimore. I can only say that the
papers are very valuable, and that Checkynshaw offered a reward for
them. Now I remember! Your brother was with the man that robbed the
safe."
"That's what troubles me," gasped poor Maggie.
"Don't be alarmed, Miss Maggimore. It is very fortunate that you called
me to attend to this delicate business. If you had not done so, they
might have thrown your brother into jail. Checkynshaw has no more
consideration for a young man than a mule," said Fitz, patronizingly.
"Leave it all to me, Miss Maggimore. I will see that the papers are
restored to the owner, and that no harm comes to Leo."
"You are very kind," replied Maggie, hopefully.
"I am always glad to do what I can for those who are in need of
assistance. It is fortunate you called me in. It will be best for you
not to mention to any one that I have taken them."
Maggie thought so too, and she was very glad to have her visitor take
the papers away from the house. She felt as though a contagious disease
had been removed as soon as the door closed behind Fitz. Was it
possible that Leo had been concerned in the robbery? If so, sooner or
later he would ask what had become of the papers. The man that stole
the papers had come to the house with Leo, she then called to mind for
the first time; but her thoughts were confused, and instead of this
circumstance affording a satisfactory explanation to her of the
presence of the package in Leo's chest, it had just the opposite
effect.
Fitz Wittleworth went home with the papers; went up to his room with
them; examined every document in the bundle. There was a copy of his
grandfather's will among them, but nothing else relating to the block
of stores, and nothing which related to Marguerite--not even the
letters which Mr. Checkynshaw had declared were stolen with the papers.
Mr. Wittleworth went up to the banker's office. He was civil, and Mr.
Checkynshaw asked him, very sternly, what he wanted.
"You offered a reward of five hundred dollars for the recovery of the
papers taken from your safe, Mr. Checkynshaw," Fitz began, pompously.
"I did."
"I claim it."
"The money is ready; where are the papers?" asked the banker, promptly.
"I have them here," replied Fitz, producing the package.
"Where did you get them?"
"That is what I must decline to answer," added Fitz, decidedly.
"Must you? Then I suppose I am to understand that you were a party to
the robbery, as I have suspected from the beginning."
Mr. Wittleworth thought this was a very unreasonable view to take of
the case. He decided to leave, and conduct the negotiation for the
reward in some other manner. He turned to go, but the banker seized him
by the collar and held him.
Mr. Wittleworth was in hot water.
CHAPTER XX.
AN AVALANCHE OF GOOD FORTUNE.
Mr. Wittleworth was more astonished than he had ever before been in his
life. This was the gratitude of great men! Mr. Checkynshaw did not seem
to be at all rejoiced to find his papers, and was so mean as to send
for Constable Clapp.
"Didn't you offer a reward of five hundred dollars for your papers, Mr.
Checkynshaw?" asked Fitz.
"I did; and I am willing to pay the reward the moment you have
explained to me where you got them," replied the banker, as he pitched
his prisoner into a chair to await the arrival of the officer.
"I came here in good faith, and I didn't expect to be treated in this
manner," growled Mr. Wittleworth.
"I am not yet willing to pay you for stealing my papers and money, or
for employing another person to do it for you," added Mr. Checkynshaw,
dryly.
"I did not steal them."
"Then you cannot object to telling me where you obtained them."
Mr. Wittleworth did object. He had undertaken to manage this business,
and he expected to make at least a commission out of it. His plan was
to pay Maggie fifty or a hundred dollars of the reward, and keep the
rest himself. It was not probable that the barber,--who was ill at the
time,--or his family, had read the newspapers, and it was not likely
that they knew anything about the reward. Maggie, or even Leo, would be
entirely satisfied with the fifty dollars, and ought to be exceedingly
obliged to him for managing the matter so well for them.
Constable Clapp arrived in a few moments, and the case was stated to
him.
"How much money was stolen with the papers?" asked the officer.
"About three hundred and fifty dollars," replied the banker.
"Very well; if this young gentleman will restore the papers and the
money, he may take the reward; and then we shall be ready to attend to
the criminal charge. That will make a balance of one hundred and fifty
dollars in his favor," chuckled the officer.
"I am entirely willing to pay the reward I offered," added Mr.
Checkynshaw, magnanimously.
"Where did you get the papers, Mr. Wittleworth?" asked the detective.
"I didn't steal them."
"I don't say you did. Where did you get them, was the question I
asked."
"Of course I don't wish to expose anybody. They came into my possession
in consequence of an accident."
"Exactly so!" said the officer, taking the papers from Fitz, and
producing a pair of handcuffs. "In consequence of an accident, I shall
be obliged to put these irons on your wrists, and take you over to the
jail."
"Me!" gasped Fitz, the iron entering his lofty soul. "I should like to
know what my friend Choate would say to that!"
"In one word, will you wear the bracelets, or will you tell where you
obtained the papers? Of course Mr. Checkynshaw will pay the reward. He
is an honorable man, and does all he agrees. You will want the money to
pay your friend Choate for keeping you out of the State Prison. What
will you do?"
Fitz thought for a moment. The disgrace of being marched through the
streets by a person so well known as Mr. Clapp, and with a pair of
irons on his wrists, was intolerable to think of, and he decided to
inform the officer where he had obtained the papers. He then related
the particulars of his interview with Maggie.
"Then you did not find the papers yourself?" said Mr. Checkynshaw, with
a feeling of relief, for it would have galled him sorely to pay the
five hundred dollars to one he disliked so much.
"I did not," replied Fitz.
"Then the reward does not belong to you."
"It is hardly necessary for me to say that I was doing the business for
Miss Maggimore."
"But it was hardly necessary for you to conceal her name."
The banker was really overjoyed to find his papers, and at once drew a
check for the amount which he had offered as a reward.
"We will go down and see Maggie," said the banker, putting the check
into his pocket.
"I think the case is plain enough," added the constable. "When I
ascertain where the papers were found, I shall be better satisfied."
Mr. Checkynshaw called a carriage, and they went to Phillimore Court.
No further notice was taken of Mr. Wittleworth; in fact he was utterly
ignored from the moment he had told his story. He was permitted to
depart in peace. He did depart, but not in peace; for he was not
entirely satisfied. The reward ought to have been paid to him, and he
should have had the lion's share of it. This was his feeling as he
retired from the office.
Maggie was fearfully frightened when she saw the banker and the
constable. The roses fled from her cheek, and she was pale and
trembling. That awful officer had come to bear Leo away to the jail.
She was almost sorry that she had not burned the papers, instead of
sending them back to the owner.
"You have come for poor Leo!" exclaimed she, in terror, when she opened
the door.
"Don't be alarmed, Maggie," said Mr. Checkynshaw, in a tone which was
gentle for him. "We come to inquire about those papers you found."
"I knew you did!" gasped Maggie in despair, as the two gentlemen
followed her into the rear room.
"Where did you find them?" asked Mr. Clapp, in a gentler tone than the
banker could speak.
"In Leo's room," stammered she. "I must tell the truth; but I hope you
won't harm poor Leo."
"Will you show us just where you found them?"
"I will, if you will come up stairs," she added, leading the way. "You
won't put poor Leo in jail--will you? I'm sure he didn't intend to do
any wrong."
"I don't think he did," replied the officer, moved by the distress of
the poor girl.
"I found them at the bottom of Leo's chest," said Maggie, as she
pointed to the place where she had discovered them. "I was cleaning
house, and I cleared out all the closets and drawers. I took all Leo's
things out of his chest, and I found those papers under his summer
clothes."
"Did Leo know they were there?"
"I'm sure I don't know whether he did or not. I don't believe he did.
He never stays in his room only when he is asleep. All the clothes he
wears in the winter are in the top of the chest."
"I looked into that chest when I searched the room on the day the safe
was robbed," added the officer. "I put my hand down into the clothing;
but I suppose I didn't reach the bottom. Where is Leo now?"
"He is at school."
"Can you send for him?"
"You won't take him up--will you? It would break his heart," pleaded
Maggie.
"I don't think it will be necessary to arrest him," replied the
constable, rather cautiously. "The man that stole the papers came to
this room, and I have no doubt he put them there to get rid of them."
"Send for Leo; I will promise you he shall not be taken up," added Mr.
Checkynshaw, taking the responsibility upon himself.
Maggie wrote a note, and sent Tom Casey to the school with it, the
gentlemen having taken seats in the front parlor. In a short time Leo
appeared, trembling lest his father had had another attack of
paralysis. He was not a little surprised to find the banker and the
constable awaiting his arrival.
"Leo, what do you keep in that chest of yours, up in your room?" asked
the officer.
