was immensely presumptuous in swaggering up Madison Avenue in such a
style, as he mentally called it, and he formed the benevolent design of
"taking down his pride," and making him feel uncomfortable, if possible.
"Have you lost your place?" he inquired.
"No," said Dick, "not yet. It's very kind of you to inquire."
"I suppose they pay you for walking the streets, then," he said, with a
sneer.
"Yes," said Dick, composedly; "that's one of the things they pay me
for."
"I suppose you like it better than blacking boots?" said Roswell, who,
supposing that Dick was ashamed of his former occupation, felt a
malicious pleasure in reminding him of it.
"Yes," said Dick, "I like it better on the whole; but then there's some
advantages about boot-blackin'."
"Indeed!" said Roswell, superciliously. "As I was never in the business,
I can't of course decide."
"Then I was in business for myself, you see, and was my own master. Now
I have to work for another man."
"You don't seem to be working very hard now," said Roswell, enviously.
"Not very," said Dick. "You must be tired carrying that heavy bundle.
I'll carry it for you as far as I go."
Roswell, who was not above accepting a favor from a boy he didn't like,
willingly transferred it to our hero.
"I carried it out just to oblige," he said, as if he were not in the
daily habit of carrying such packages.
"That's very kind of you," said Dick.
Roswell did not know whether Dick spoke sarcastically or not, and
therefore left the remark unnoticed.
"I don't think I shall stay where I am very long," he said.
"Don't you like?" asked Dick.
"Not very well. I'm not obliged to work for a living," added Roswell,
loftily, but not altogether truly.
"I am," said Dick. "I've had to work for a living ever since I was six
years old. I suppose you work because you like it."
"I'm learning business. I'm going to be a merchant, as my father was."
"I'll have to give up the bundle now," said Dick. "This is as far as I
am going."
Roswell took back his bundle, and Dick went up the steps of Mr.
Rockwell's residence and rang the door-bell.
CHAPTER X.
A STORE ON SIXTH AVENUE.
Roswell kept on his way with his heavy bundle, more discontented than
ever. The bundle seemed heavier than ever. Dick had no such bundles to
carry. He had an easier time, his business position was better, and his
wages more than double. And all this in spite of the glaring fact that
Roswell was a gentleman's son, and Dick wasn't. Surely fortune was very
blind, and unfair in the distribution of her favors.
"I suppose he'll be crowing over me," thought Roswell, bitterly, judging
from what would have been his own feeling had the case been reversed. "I
hope he'll have to go back to boot-blacking some day. I wish mother'd
buy me a gold watch and chain. There'd be some sense in my wearing
it."
Roswell evidently thought it very inappropriate that Dick should wear a
handsome gold watch, more especially as he was quite sure beforehand
that his mother would not gratify his own desire to possess one. Still
he resolved to ask.
There was another thing he meant to ask. Feeling that his services were
worth more than the wages he received, and convincing himself that his
employers would be unwilling to lose him, he determined to ask an
advance of two dollars a week, making six dollars in all. Not that he
considered that even this would pay him, but as he could hardly hope
that he would be appreciated according to his deserts, he limited his
request to that sum. He concluded to defer making his application until
Saturday evening, when he would receive his week's wages.
He consulted his mother upon this subject, and she, having nearly as
high an opinion of her promising son as he had himself, consented to the
application. If his cousin, James Gilbert, had heard of his intention,
he was enough of a business man to have dissuaded him from the attempt.
Though he saw fit to espouse the cause of Roswell against Dick, it was
more because he disliked the latter than because he was blind to the
faults of the former. Indeed, he had a very moderate opinion of his
young cousin's capabilities.
The days slipped by, and Saturday night came. It was nine o'clock before
Roswell was released, the Saturday-night trade being the best of the
week. The other clerks had been paid, Roswell's turn coming last,
because he was the youngest.
The designation of the firm was HALL & TURNER. Mr. Hall, the
senior partner, usually went home early in the evening; and Mr. Turner,
the junior partner, a man of about thirty-five, attended to the evening
business, and paid the weekly wages.
"Here, Crawford," he said, counting out four one dollar bills; "it's
your turn now."
"I want to speak to you for a moment, Mr. Turner," said Roswell,
beginning to feel a little nervous; for now that the time had come for
making his request, he felt a little uncertain how it would be received.
"Very well," said his employer, showing a little surprise; "be quick
about it, for I want to get through."
"I want to know if you will not be willing to raise my wages," said
Roswell, rather awkwardly.
"On what ground do you ask for it?" said Mr. Turner, looking up.
"I thought I might be worth more," said Roswell.
"How long have you been in my employment,--do you remember?"
"About four months," said Roswell.
"Do you think you have learned enough in that time to make you worth
more?"
"Yes, sir," said Roswell, with a little hesitation.
"How much more would satisfy you?"
"Two dollars more,--for the present," said Roswell, beginning to feel a
little hopeful.
"That is six dollars a week."
"Yes, sir."
"And how soon would you expect another advance?" asked Mr. Turner,
quietly.
"In about six months."
"You are quite moderate in your demands, certainly."
There was something in Mr. Turner's tone which struck Roswell as
unfavorable, and he hastily said in his own justification:--
"There's a friend of mine, no older than I am, who gets ten dollars a
week."
Certainly Roswell must have spoken inadvertently, or he would hardly
have referred to Dick as his friend; but his main idea at present was to
produce an impression upon the mind of Mr. Turner.
"Is your friend in a dry goods store?" asked Mr. Turner.
"No, sir."
"Then I don't see that his wages have any bearing upon your case. There
may be some special circumstances that affect his compensation. How long
has he been in the service of his present employer?"
"Only a week or two."
"Is this his first place?"
"Yes, sir."
"It may be that he is some relative of his employer."
"That isn't very likely," said Roswell, his lip curling. "He used to be
a boot-black about the streets."
"Indeed!" said Mr. Turner, keenly. "I think you said he was a friend of
yours."
"No, sir," said Roswell, proudly; "I haven't the honor."
"You certainly said 'There's a friend of mine, no older than I am, who
gets ten dollars a week.'"
"I didn't mean to speak of him as my friend," said Roswell; "I'm a
gentleman's son."
"If you are, his friendship might do you no harm. If he receives the
wages you state, he must be a smart fellow. If he didn't earn as much,
probably he would not receive it."
"I don't believe he'll keep his place long," muttered Roswell, his wish
being father to the thought.
"If he doesn't, you may be able to succeed him," said Mr. Turner. "I
shall be compelled to refuse your request. Indeed, so far from
increasing your compensation, I have been considering during the last
week whether it would not be for my interest to get another boy in your
place."
"Sir!" exclaimed Roswell, in dismay.
"I will give you my reasons. You appear to think yourself of too great
consequence to discharge properly the duties of your position."
"I don't understand you, sir," stammered Roswell.
"I believe you claim to be a gentleman's son."
"Yes, sir," said Roswell. "My father used to keep a store on Broadway."
"And I am led to suppose you think it incompatible with your dignity to
carry bundles to different parts of the city."
"I would rather stand behind the counter and sell goods," said Roswell.
"Of course you will be a salesman in time, if you stick to business
faithfully. But it so happens that we didn't hire you as a salesman, but
as a boy, whose chief business it should be to carry bundles. But we
don't want to impose a disagreeable duty upon you. Therefore, if you
think upon reflection that you would prefer not to continue in your
situation, we will hire somebody else."
"That won't be necessary, sir," said Roswell, considerably crest-fallen.
"You are content, then, to remain?"
"Yes, sir."
"And upon four dollars a week?"
"Yes, sir. I suppose I may hope to have my wages increased some time?"
"When we find your services worth more, you shall receive more," said
Mr. Turner. "That is fair,--isn't it?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then here is your money. I didn't mean to talk so long; but it's as
well to come to an understanding."
Roswell left the store considerably crest-fallen. He found that, instead
of regarding him worth an advance of wages, Mr. Turner had had it in his
mind to discharge him; and that hurt his pride. It was certainly very
singular that people shouldn't be more impressed with the fact that he
was a gentleman's son. He could not have received less deference if he
had been an ex-boot-black, like Dick himself. He certainly was no more
contented than before, nor was his self-appreciation materially
diminished. If the world did not recognize his claims, there was one
comfort, his mother appreciated him, and he appreciated himself. As to
his cousin, he did not feel quite so certain.
"Why are you so late, Roswell?" asked his mother, looking up from her
work as he entered. "It seems to me they kept you later than usual at
the store, even for Saturday evening."
"I'm sick of the store," said Roswell, impatiently.
"What's the matter?"
"I asked old Turner to-night if he wouldn't raise my wages," said
Roswell.
"Well, what did he say?"
"He said he wouldn't do it."
"Did he give any reason?"
"He said I didn't earn any more. He's a stingy old hunks, any way, and I
wish I was in another place."
"So do I; but it isn't so easy to get a new position. You had better
stay in this till another offers."
"I hate carrying bundles through the streets. It isn't fit work for a
gentleman's son."
"Ah, if your poor father had lived, things would have been very
different with us all!" said Mrs. Crawford, with a sigh. She chose to
forget that previous to his death her late husband's habits had been
such that he contributed very little to the comfort or support of the
family.
"I wouldn't care if I were a salesman," continued Roswell; "but I don't
like being an errand boy. I'd just as lives go to the post-office for
letters, or to the bank with money, but, as for carrying big bundles of
calico under my arm, I don't like it. I was walking on Madison Avenue
the other day with a ten-pound bundle, when the boot-black came up,
dressed handsomely, with a gold watch and chain, and exulted over me for
carrying such a big bundle."
There was a little exaggeration about this, for Dick was very far from
exulting over Roswell, otherwise he certainly would not have volunteered
to carry the bundle himself. But it often happens that older persons
than Roswell are not above a little misrepresentation now and then.
"He's an impudent fellow, then!" said Mrs. Crawford, indignantly. "Then
Mr. Hall won't raise your wages?"
"It wasn't Mr. Hall I asked. It was Mr. Turner," said Roswell.
"Didn't he hold out any hopes of raising your wages hereafter?"
"He said he would raise them when I deserve it. He don't amount to much.
He's no gentleman," said Roswell, scornfully.
"Who's no gentleman?" inquired James Gilbert, who chanced just then to
enter the room.
"Mr. Turner."
"Who's Mr. Turner?"
"My employer,--Hall & Turner, you know."
"What's amiss with him?"
"I asked him to raise my wages to-night, and he wouldn't."
"Umph! How much did you ask for?"
"Two dollars more a week."
"You're a fool!"
"What!" said Roswell, astonished.
"WHAT!" exclaimed Mrs. Crawford, angrily.
"I say the lad's a fool to ask for so large an advance so soon. Of
course his employers refused it. I would, in their place."
"You're very hard upon the poor boy!" said Mrs. Crawford. "I thought you
were his friend."
"So I am; but he's acted foolishly for all that. He should have known
better."
"I ought to be worth six dollars, if your boot-black is worth ten,"
responded Roswell.
"He isn't worth ten."
"Why do you pay him that, then?"
"It's Mr. Rockwell who pays him, not I. Why he does it, I can't say. It
isn't because he earns it. No boy of his age, or yours either, can earn
ten dollars a week."
"At any rate he gets ten, and I get only four. I certainly earn more
than that," said Roswell.
"I am not so sure about that," said his cousin. "But if it will afford
you any comfort, I'll venture to make the prediction that he won't
remain in Rockwell & Cooper's employment a week longer."
"Has anything happened?" asked Roswell, eagerly.
"Not yet," said James Gilbert, significantly.
"Then something is going to happen?"
"You need not trouble yourself to ask questions. Wait patiently, and
when anything happens I'll let you know."
Here James Gilbert left the room, and went up to his own chamber. His
words had excited hope in both Roswell and his mother. The former felt
that it would be a satisfaction to him to learn that Dick had lost his
situation, even if he failed to get it himself.
CHAPTER XI.
A NEW ALLIANCE.
The name of Micky Maguire is already familiar to the readers of "Ragged
Dick." He had acquired a prominent position among the down-town
boot-blacks by his strength, which he used oftentimes to impose upon
boys weaker than himself. He was a young ruffian, indeed, with few
redeeming qualities. When Dick was in the same business, he tried on two
or three occasions to make him acknowledge his superiority; but it was
not in Dick's nature to be subservient to any one whom he did not
respect. Moreover, Dick had two good stout arms of his own, and knew how
to use them in self-defence. The consequence was that Micky Maguire
signally failed in the attempts which he made on different occasions to
humble our hero, and was obliged to slink off in discomfiture with his
satellite, Limpy Jim.
The last glimpse we had of Micky was in Dick's cast-off clothes, of
which by some means, probably not honest, he had become possessed. He
did not wear them long, however. The famous Washington coat and Napoleon
pants were only mortal, and, being already of venerable antiquity,
became at length too fragmentary even for Micky's not very fastidious
taste. One morning, accordingly, having levied an unwilling contribution
from a weaker but more industrious boot-black, Micky went to Baxter
Street, and invested it in a blue coat with brass buttons, which, by
some strange chain of circumstances, had found its way thither from some
country town, where it may at one time have figured at trainings and on
town-meeting days. A pair of overalls completed Micky's costume. He
dispensed with a vest, his money not having been sufficient to buy that
also.
Certainly Micky presented a noticeable figure as he stood in the City
Hall Park, clad in the above-mentioned garments. He was rather proud of
the brass buttons, and may even have fancied, in his uncultivated taste,
that his new costume became him.
While he was swaggering about he espied part of a cigar, which some one
had thrown aside. Micky, who was fond of smoking, picked it up, and
looked about him for a light, not being provided with a match. A young
man was slowly crossing the park with a cigar in his mouth. But he was
evidently plunged in thought, and hardly conscious of the scene about
him. Micky observed this, and a cunning scheme suggested itself.
He walked up to the young man, and said, cavalierly, "Give us a light,
mister, will yer?"
The young man mechanically took the cigar from his mouth, and passed it
to the questioner without observing who he was. Had he done so, it is
doubtful whether the request would have been complied with.
Rapidly calculating that he would not notice the substitution, Micky,
after lighting the "stub," handed it to the young man, retaining the
good cigar himself, and placing it straightway in his mouth.
This trick would probably have passed off undetected, if it had not been
observed by some of Micky's fellow-professionals.
A jeering laugh from these called the young man's attention to the
substitution, and, with a look of indignation, he said, "You young
rascal, you shall pay for this!"
[Illustration]
But Micky evaded his grasp, and scudded rapidly through the park,
pursued by the victim of misplaced confidence.
"Run, Micky; I'll bet on you!" cried Pat Nevins, encouragingly.
"Go it, long legs!" said another, who backed the opposite party. "Give
him a good lickin' when you catch him."
"Maybe you'd have to wait too long for that," said Pat.
"Leave yer cigar wid us, mister," said another boy.
James Gilbert, for he was the young man in question, began to find that
he was becoming rather ridiculous, and felt that he would rather let
Micky go free than furnish a spectacle to the crowd of boot-blacks who
were surveying the chase with eager interest. He accordingly stopped
short, and, throwing down the "stub," prepared to leave the park.
"Don't give it up, mister! You'll catch him," said his first backer.
"Micky can't run far. Ragged Dick give him a stretcher once."
"Ragged Dick!" said Gilbert, turning abruptly at the sound of this name.
"Maybe you know him?"
"Does he black boots?"
"He used to, but he don't now."
"What does he do?"
"Oh, he's a swell now, and wears good clothes."
"How is that?"
"He's in a store, and gets good pay."
"What's the name of the boy that ran away with my cigar?"
"Micky Maguire."
"Was he a friend of Ragged Dick, as you call him?"
"Not much. They had two or three fights."
"Which beat?"
"Dick. He can fight bully."
Gilbert felt disappointed. He was in hopes our hero had met with a
defeat. Somehow he seemed born for success.
"Then I suppose Maguire hates him?"
"I'll bet he does."
"Humph!" thought Gilbert; "I may turn his enmity to some account. Let me
consider a little."
At length a plan suggested itself, and his countenance cleared up, and
assumed an expression of satisfaction. On reaching home he held the
conversation with Roswell and his mother which has been recorded at the
close of the last chapter.
Meantime Micky went home to a miserable lodging on Worth Street, in the
precincts of the Five Points, and very near where the Five Points House
of Industry now stands. This admirable institution has had a salutary
influence, and contributed greatly to the improvement of the
neighborhood. Then, however, it was about as vile and filthy as could
well be.
Micky exulted not a little at the success of his cunning, and smoked the
cigar--an expensive one, by the way--with not a little satisfaction. He
recounted the story to a group of admiring friends who had not been
fortunate enough to witness it.
"It's you that's got the cheek, Micky," said Teddy Donovan.
"You did it neat," said another. "Maybe I'll try that same, some day."
"You'd better not. The copp might get hold of you."
"Was it a good cigar, Micky?"
"Wasn't it, just! I wish I'd got another. Stand treat, Teddy."
"I would if I had the stamps. I'm savin' up my money to go to the Old
Bowery to-night."
The boys were standing in a little group, and in the interest of their
discussion did not observe the approach of James Gilbert, who was now
visiting the park with a special object in view. With an expression of
satisfaction he recognized the boy who had served him a trick the day
before. Indeed, it was not easy to mistake Micky. The blue coat with
brass buttons and the faded overalls would have betrayed him, even if
his superior height had not distinguished him from his comrades.
Had Micky been aware of Gilbert's approach he would have thought it
prudent to "change his base;" but, his back being turned, he was taken
by surprise. His attention was drawn by a tap on the shoulder, and,
looking round, he recognized his enemy, as he regarded him. He started
to run, but was withheld by a strong grasp.
"Leave me alone, will yer?" he said, ducking his head as if he expected
a blow.
"I believe you are fond of smoking," said Gilbert, continuing to hold
him tight.
Micky maintained silence.
"And sometimes exchange a poor cigar for a good one?" continued his
captor.
"It was a mistake," said Micky.
"What did you run for, then?"
"What you going to do about it, mister?" asked one boy, curiously.
"So it was a mistake,--was it?" said Gilbert.
"Yes, sir," said Micky, glibly.
"Take care you don't make the mistake again, then. Now you may black my
boots."
Not only the boys who were standing by, but Micky himself, were
considerably surprised at this unexpected turn. They confidently
expected that Micky would "get a lickin'," and instead of that, he had
found a customer. Their respect for Gilbert was considerably diminished
for failing to exact punishment, and, their interest in the affair being
over, they withdrew.
Micky laid down his box, and commenced operations.
"How long have you been a boot-black?" asked Gilbert.
"Five years--goin' on six," said Micky.
"Can you earn much?"
"No," said Micky. "Business aint very good now."
"You manage to dress well," said Gilbert, with an amused look at Micky's
habiliments.
"Yes," said Micky, with a glance at the brass buttons; "but I had to
borrer the money to buy my clo'es."
"There used to be a boy around here that was called Dick. Did you know
