finally to pursue his own plan, and without any hesitation he pushed on
towards Jackson.
Cutting loose from his base of supplies, he marched into the interior,
subsisting his army on the country. Sherman, with his corps, had joined
him, but this veteran was fearful of the result of the audacious
movement. Grant did not inform the general-in-chief of his plan, and
the government was appalled at his boldness. Grant was alone, but he
was self-possessed and sanguine.
The governor of Mississippi was howling with rage, and begging the
"glorious patriots" to hurry to the defence of the state. Steadily the
grand army marched in two columns towards the capital. At Raymond a
sharp battle was fought, but the enemy was routed, and the victorious
column pursued them to Jackson, where the rebels were again defeated.
The capital was captured, the railroad destroyed, bridges, factories,
arsenals, everything which could be of service to the foe in the war
was blown up or burned. Grant, with his staff, rode into the town; his
son, then thirteen years old, galloped ahead of the column into the
capital.
CHAPTER XXI.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken follows the illustrious Soldier
    through the Campaign in Mississippi to the Siege and Surrender of
    Vicksburg.
I am continually prompted to pause in my narrative, and dilate upon
the splendid conceptions of Grant, as I see him marching triumphantly
over the strongholds of the Rebellion; but the grand facts themselves
are enough to overwhelm the imagination. Never was so bold a scheme
conceived on a scale so grand; never was one more brilliantly executed.
Behold the conqueror issuing his mandates from the State House of
the rebel capital of Mississippi! Sternly and resolutely he cuts
away the veins and arteries of the Rebellion itself, as he tears up
railroads and demolishes mills and public buildings. He is in the
very midst of the powers of treason, but he is not dismayed. Far away
from his supplies, the rebel stores feed the loyal troops. Dismay and
demoralization radiated from his headquarters; and, astounded as the
leaders of the Rebellion were, they failed to realize the full extent
of the disaster which had befallen them.
Grant had struck the heavy blow in this direction, and, gathering up
his forces, he retraced his steps, leaving ruin and desolation behind
him. He did not carry on the war on peace principles. Months before he
had solved the problem of subjugation. He had gone into the conflict
as others did, with an inadequate idea of the work to be accomplished,
believing that a few national victories would settle all the questions
at issue. But the war was to be a death-struggle. The rebels manifested
their hate and spite to a degree never before exhibited by any people.
They declared that they never would submit, and their deeds did not
belie their words. The question was not to be considered as settled
when the national government had demonstrated that it was the stronger
party of the two. The "last ditch," and a grave in the Gulf of Mexico,
was the howl of the Confederacy. The contest was to be continued not
only while large armies could be held together and subsisted, but by
guerrillas and partisans burrowing in the mountains after all hope and
all other resources had failed.
It was necessary to meet this view with one of corresponding severity.
Grant realized the situation. It was his purpose to destroy the
armies of the Rebellion, and all the material with which armies
could be supplied. He did his work thoroughly, but it was a work of
humanity, a saving of life and of treasure. He took a statesman's
view of the situation; his solution of the great problem was the only
one which could save the country, and which could confine the war
within a reasonable period of time. The rebels were courting a war of
extermination, but Grant's policy broke the spirit of the people, if
not of their leaders.
The victorious general slept in the house in Jackson which Johnston had
occupied the preceding night. While the army was at the capital, an
act of poetic justice was done, though in violation of orders. A number
of Union prisoners had been conveyed by railroad through Jackson some
time before. The cattle cars, in which they were transported, stopped
in front of the Confederate Hotel, and the thirsty captives begged of
its inmates "a cup of cold water only." It was refused, with scurrilous
jeers and revilings. These prisoners had been exchanged, and were now
in Grant's conquering army. They set fire to the hotel, and burned it
to the ground: the tables were turned, and the indignity was avenged.
Johnston retreated towards Canton, and sent despatches to Pemberton, in
which he suggested to him the necessity of cutting off Grant's supplies
from the Mississippi. Grant had already cut himself off from his base,
and was living upon the enemy. He also intimates that it is desirable
to "beat" Grant, if he was compelled to fall back for the want of
supplies. The rebel general was a long way behind the times, and, like
many others, had entirely mistaken his man. He moved over to the north,
intending to effect a junction with Pemberton; but the latter defeated
the plan by disobeying his orders.
Grant, having obtained accurate knowledge of Pemberton's position,
pushed forward to the battle, which was impending. Johnston was in his
rear, and it was necessary to use the utmost haste, in order to fight
them in detail. The enemy was strongly posted on Baker's Creek, the
left of the line resting on Champion's Hill, from which his artillery
commanded the plains below. The national forces, nearly exhausted by
hard marching, but still buoyant and uncomplaining, approached by three
roads, which converged at Edwards's Station.
As our gallant army approached, the rebels on the hill, seventy feet
above the plain, opened fire, with shot and shell, from its bald
summit, while a deadly fire of musketry blazed from the forest, in
which the foe was concealed. The hill was the key of the position, and
Hovey pushed on, forcing the enemy back, till he had captured eleven
guns and three hundred prisoners. But the rebels massed their men in
front of him, and drove him slowly and doggedly back, until the ground
gained was lost again.
This was the crisis of the battle; but Grant himself was on the hill,
in a position where he could see all that transpired. His plan always
was to take advantage of a favorable turn to repair the mischief of
an unfavorable one. He sent a brigade to restore the equilibrium, and
Hovey held his ground. McPherson had stationed a battery where it was
mowing down the rebels in swaths, and they made an attempt to capture
it, but were repulsed with severe loss. Logan was sweeping all before
him.
Again the foe drove Hovey, whose battalions were worn out by an
incessant fight of three hours, and were also out of ammunition. Grant
had been hurrying up McClernand all day; but still he did not appear.
The tide of battle seemed to have set against the national army; but
this was always the hour when its heroic commander was more than
himself. The delay of McClernand galled him, and deranged his plans,
but could not defeat him. He ordered McPherson to move on the enemy's
right flank, and the contest was renewed with redoubled vigor. Logan
marched upon the enemy's left. These dispositions, and a sharp attack,
broke the rebels, and they gave way the third time. Logan's movement
nearly to the rear of the rebel line, had startled Pemberton, and he
made haste to save his line of retreat. The Union troops pressed on,
and the bloody battle of Champion's Hill was won. It had lasted six
hours, and our loss was twenty-five hundred in killed, wounded, and
missing. The enemy lost thirty guns, and six thousand men in killed,
wounded, and prisoners. It was the severest battle of the campaign, and
reflects a brilliant lustre upon the national arms. So fierce was the
struggle, that the soldiers christened the bloody height, where so many
had fallen, the Hill of Death.
The pursuit of the fleeing rebels was continued until long after
dark, Grant and his staff being at the head of the column. In their
enthusiasm they outsped the advance of the army. Finding the situation
unsafe, they retraced their steps, and the victorious general slept
upon the porch of a house which was used as a rebel hospital, disturbed
only by the groans of the wounded and the dying within.
That night came to Grant the order of the general-in-chief, directing
him to return to the Mississippi, and coöperate with Banks against Port
Hudson. Of course it had been written without a knowledge of the facts.
The government had been alarmed at his temerity, and expected to hear
that he was crushed in the embrace of the rebel armies, which beset
him on both sides. But the campaign had been fought and won; and to
obey the letter of the order would have been to disobey its spirit. By
the boldness of his conception and the rapidity of his execution, he
had effectually prevented the junction of the armies of Pemberton and
Johnston.
Sherman left Jackson with his corps on the morning of the battle of
Champion's Hill, hurried forward by an order from Grant. He reached
Bolton the same day, and there heard of the victory. He was ordered to
cross the Big Black at Bridgeport, either to turn the enemy's flank or
to move up on Haines's Bluff, as circumstances might dictate, for by
this time it was desirable to establish a base of supplies.
The main column pushed on towards Vicksburg, and found the
rebels posted on a bridge over the Big Black. They had a line of
intrenchments, defended by a garrison of four thousand men, with
twenty guns. As soon as the pursuing army came up with this formidable
obstacle in its path, the line was formed, and a heavy fire opened upon
the works, which were finally carried by storm. Our men fought bravely,
and the Confederate line broke and fled like sheep. In their terror the
rebels on the opposite side of the river set their end of the bridge
on fire, before half their force had crossed. The demoralized wretches
fled to the river, and attempted to escape by swimming. The fire of the
cannon was turned upon them, and the stream was crimsoned with their
blood. Seventeen hundred and fifty prisoners, eighteen guns, and five
standards were captured in this lively battle.
Bridging the river, Grant pushed on towards Vicksburg, uniting with
Sherman, who came by a more northerly route. The two generals rode
together to the farthest height, which looked down upon the Yazoo. The
high ground they had longed to possess had been reached, and it was to
them the promised land. They were elated at the prospect, and Sherman
acknowledged that, until this moment, he had not deemed the movement a
success.
In just twenty days Grant had marched over two hundred miles, fought
five distinct battles, captured eighty-eight pieces of ordnance, and
deprived the enemy of the services of thirteen thousand soldiers. He
had destroyed the railroad, captured Jackson and Grand Gulf. Never
was so brief a campaign productive of such successes. As Sherman
congratulated him upon the splendid results he had achieved, he quietly
smoked his cigar, but made no vain-glorious reply--no reply at all.
Vicksburg was immediately invested by a line which extended from the
river above to the river below the town. The coveted base of supplies
was obtained. Pemberton had thirty thousand men--a number fully equal
to that of the besiegers--with two hundred cannon. On the 18th of May
Johnston advised him that Vicksburg could not be held without Haines's
Bluff, and recommended him to save his troops by withdrawing; but
Pemberton decided, with the advice of his officers, to remain.
Grant's men were flushed with victory, and desired to storm the works.
They were permitted to do so as soon as the line of investment was
completed. A heavy attack was made all along the intrenchments, but it
was not crowned with success.
The people of Vicksburg were requested to leave the town by the
commander of the post: they declined to abandon their homes; but the
heavy rain of shot and shell from the national gunboats compelled them
to burrow in the sides of the hills for security, and families lived
for weeks in these caves. Pemberton hoped to receive assistance from
Johnston, who was organizing another army at Canton. The knowledge
of this fact prompted Grant to order another assault on the 21st of
May. His men were full of fight, and in this respect he was generally
ready to gratify them. The most elaborate preparations were made for
the great event, and as the prelude to the assault, the guns of the
batteries and of the fleet in the river rained a deluge of shot and
shell upon the city and its works. The thundering of guns shook the
solid earth, and the place was girt with fire. At ten o'clock, after
the bombardment had continued for several hours, the assault was made.
The entire army pushed forward, and, though prodigies of valor were
performed, the result was a failure. The strength of the works was
too great to be carried by storm; but the spirit of the soldiers was
unabated.
Grant was obliged not only to press forward the siege vigorously, but
to keep a lookout upon Johnston in his rear. He was reënforced, so that
by the middle of June he had seventy-five thousand troops, one half of
whom formed the line in the trenches, while the other half constituted
an army of observation, to watch the movements of the enemy in the
rear. Grant was untiring in his labors, and felt that he had the place
already. He had decided to save his men by regular siege operations.
But the glorious day was at hand.
On the morning of the 3d of July, a white flag was displayed on the
rebel works, and two officers came out, announcing that they were the
bearers of a sealed communication from General Pemberton to General
Grant. They were conducted to the most convenient headquarters, and the
commander of the Union army notified of the fact. Pemberton proposed
an armistice for the purpose of making terms for the surrender of
Vicksburg. He stated that he submitted the proposition in order to save
the effusion of blood, which must otherwise be shed to a frightful
extent, for he felt fully able to maintain his position for an
indefinite period.
General Grant replied, by letter, that the effusion of blood could
be ended at any time by the unconditional surrender of the city and
garrison. He complimented the endurance and courage of the defenders of
Vicksburg, and assured the rebel general that they should be treated
with respect as prisoners of war; but he had no other terms than
unconditional surrender.
General Bowen, the bearer of the letter, desired to see General Grant,
who promptly declined to meet him, but consented to see Pemberton
himself at three o'clock in the afternoon. The messengers returned to
the city, and hostilities were immediately resumed, and continued till
noon.
At three o'clock Pemberton, attended by his messengers of the morning,
came to the appointed place, in front of McPherson's line. The two
commanders met under the shade of a huge oak, within two hundred feet
of the rebel line. The works on both sides were crowded with unarmed
men, gazing eagerly at the unwonted scene between these lines. The
two high officers shook hands, and the other officers were formally
introduced to each other.
"General Grant, I meet you to inquire what terms of capitulation will
be allowed to me," said Pemberton.
"Those which have been expressed in my letter of this morning," replied
Grant.
"Unconditional surrender!" exclaimed Pemberton, haughtily.
"Unconditional surrender," added Grant, quietly.
"Never, so long as I have a man left," protested the rebel general.
"I will fight! If this is all, the conference may terminate, and
hostilities will be immediately resumed."
"Very well," answered Grant, quietly, as he turned away.
General Bowen proposed that two of the subordinates present should
confer together, and suggest terms. Grant did not object, but declined
to be bound by any agreement of his officers, reserving it to himself
to decide upon the terms. Smith and Bowen retired to consult together,
while Grant and Pemberton walked up and down under the tree, engaged in
conversation.
The subordinates returned to the tree, and Bowen proposed that the
Vicksburg garrison should march out with the honors of war, carrying
their muskets and field guns, but leaving their heavy artillery,
which it was not convenient for them to carry. Grant smiled at the
proposition, and declined it without any hesitation. It was finally
agreed that Grant should send his terms to Pemberton before ten o'clock
that night, and that hostilities should be suspended till that time.
Grant went to his quarters, and, for the first time, called together
a council of war--not to determine how an attack should be made, but
how a conquered foe should be surrendered. With the countenance of
all his officers but one, Grant submitted the terms, which were, that
the national troops should take possession of Vicksburg; the rebel
army should be paroled, the officers and men to retain their private
property, the troops to march out as soon as the necessary papers had
been signed.
After some slight variations the terms were accepted on the morning of
the 4th of July; and thus one of the most glorious events of the war
occurred on the anniversary of the national independence.
CHAPTER XXII.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken sums up the magnificent Results of the
    Capture of Vicksburg, and starts with the illustrious Soldier for
    Chattanooga, after his Appointment to the Command of the combined
    Armies of the Tennessee, the Cumberland, and the Ohio.
Vicksburg had fallen! The nation was thrilled by the news. Grant's name
rang throughout the land. The loyal people blessed him for the mighty
deed he had done. The news flashed through the country, kindling up a
joyous excitement, such as had not been known since the commencement of
the war. The boasted stronghold of the rebels, the veritable Gibraltar
of the West, had crumbled and fallen. Possibilities became facts. The
decline of the Southern Confederacy had commenced.
Vicksburg had fallen! The news seemed too good to be true, and the
waiting patriots of the nation trembled lest the vision of peace which
it foreshadowed should be dissolved; but the telegraph flashed full
confirmation, and every loyal heart beat firmer and truer than ever
before.
Vicksburg had fallen! While the nation raised a pæan of grateful
thanksgiving for the victory, and hailed Grant as the mightiest man
of the Rebellion, the victorious general seemed hardly to be elated by
his brilliant success, or to be conscious that he had achieved anything
worthy of note. He smoked his cigar, calm and unmoved by the tempest of
applause which began to reach him from the far North. It was hard to
tell which was the more amazing--the magnitude of the victory or the
modesty of the victor.
On the 4th of July--hallowed anew by this crowning victory--the rebel
army marched out of the works it had so bravely defended, stacked
their arms, and laid down their colors, returning prisoners of war.
Thirty-one thousand six hundred men were surrendered to Grant,
including two thousand one hundred and fifty-three officers, fifteen of
whom were generals. One hundred and seventy-two cannons were captured
with the place. It was the largest capture of men and guns ever made,
not only in this war, but in the history of the world. Ulm surrendered
to Napoleon, with thirty thousand men and sixty guns; but this event
transcended the capitulation of Ulm, which Alison declares was a
spectacle unparalleled in modern warfare; more men, and nearly three
times as many guns, were taken at Vicksburg.
Grant and his staff, at the head of Logan's division, rode into the
city, where the rebel soldiers gazed curiously at their conqueror, but
manifested no disrespect; wherein they exhibited a more chivalrous
spirit than did their officers. The general rode to the headquarters
where the principal rebel officers were assembled. No one extended
to him any act of courtesy, or behaved with even common decency. As
no one came out to receive him, he dismounted, and walked up to the
porch where Pemberton and his high-toned generals sat. They saluted
him coldly, but no one proffered him a chair. By the grace of Grant
they wore their swords; but not even this fact spurred them up to the
simplest act of courtesy.
Pemberton himself was as crabbed and sour as a boor whose hen-coop
had been robbed. His manner was morose and ungentlemanly, and his
speech cold and curt. At last one of the party, with higher notions
of chivalry than his companions, brought a chair for Grant. The day
was hot and dusty, and the general asked for a glass of water. He was
rudely informed that he could find water in the house. He entered, and
searched the premises till a negro appeared, who supplied his want.
Returning to the porch, he found his seat had been taken; and, during
the rest of the interview, which lasted half an hour, he remained
standing, in the company of these conquered rebels, who kept their
seats in his presence!
In the light of this remarkable interview, I am inclined to believe
that my friend Pollard, who denounces Pemberton as an imbecile, was
more than half right in his estimate of the man; for no decent person,
under such circumstances, would have been guilty of such flagrant
discourtesy, as ridiculous as it was gross.
Grant was a Christian. He did not even resent this incivility. "If
thine enemy hunger, feed him." Grant did so, literally; for at this
interview Pemberton requested him to supply his garrison with rations.
He did not say, "Let the dead bury their dead," as less magnanimous
men than he might have done, after the contemptuous impoliteness of
the rebels. Grant immediately consented; but probably there was not
"chivalry" enough left in the bantam general to feel the heat of the
"coals of fire upon his head."
  [Illustration: GRANT AND PEMBERTON IN VICKSBURG.--Page 236.]
Grant notified Banks, at Port Hudson, of the capture of Vicksburg,
and offered to send him an army corps of "as good troops as ever trod
American soil; no better are found on any other." Four days after the
surrender, Port Hudson followed the example of Vicksburg. This event
virtually completed the conquest of treason in the West. The Father
of Waters rolled "unvexed to the sea," in the expressive language of
President Lincoln. To sum up the results, in the words of Pollard, who
is not particularly amiable at this point of his struggles through "The
Lost Cause,"--"It was the loss of one of the largest armies which the
Confederates had in the field; the decisive event of the Mississippi
Valley; and the severance of the Southern Confederacy."
Proudly would I linger over this auspicious event; but the illustrious
soldier had done his work, and the deed speaks for itself. His name was
written in the annals of his country, never more to be effaced, even if
he added not another laurel to his wreath of glory. He had practically
ended the war on the Mississippi. On the day before, the great battle
of Gettysburg culminated in victory, and the army of Lee was driven,
shattered and weakened, from Pennsylvania. The tidings of these two
great events spread through the land together, and created universal
joy. Almost for the first time in two years, the loyal cause looked
really hopeful. The Rebellion had been struck heavily in the East and
in the West.
President Lincoln manifested his high appreciation of the conduct of
Grant in the following characteristic letter:--
                         "EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, July 13, 1863.
    "MAJOR GENERAL GRANT.
    "My dear General: I do not remember that you and I ever met
    personally. I write this now as a grateful acknowledgment for the
    almost inestimable service you have done the country. I wish to say
    a word further. When you first reached the vicinity of Vicksburg,
    I thought you should do what you finally did--march the troops
    across the neck, run the batteries with the transports, and thus go
    below; and I never had any faith, except a general hope that you
    knew better than I, that the Yazoo Pass expedition and the like
    could succeed. When you got below, and took Port Gibson, Grand
    Gulf, and vicinity, I thought you should go down the river and
    join General Banks; and when you turned northward, east of the Big
    Black, I feared it was a mistake. I now wish to make the personal
    acknowledgment that you were right and I was wrong.
                                                           A. LINCOLN."
Halleck was almost as magnanimous as the president, and sent Grant a
very handsome letter of congratulation.
For the brilliant campaign of Vicksburg, Grant was made a major-general
in the regular army. He promptly recommended Sherman and McPherson for
promotion to the rank of brigadier-general in the regular army, setting
forth, in solid, compact arguments, the merits of these distinguished
generals. These promotions were promptly made, as well as others which
Grant suggested.
Sherman was sent out with a strong force to drive Johnston from the
state, which he did most effectually, capturing Jackson a second time
in his operations. On his return, the army of the Mississippi was
broken up, and sent to Banks, Schofield, and Burnside. But Grant had no
opportunity to rest upon his laurels; indeed, he wanted none. He gave
his attention to the multiplicity of topics imposed upon him by the
needs of his department. He threw all the weight of his position and
