after the battle of Waterloo it was incorporated into the new kingdom of
the Netherlands. In 1830 the old spirit of the burghers of Liége
revived, and they were among the foremost promoters of the Belgian
Revolution."
The students descended from the heights, whose fortresses command the
city, took an outside view of the Hôtel de Ville, several churches, and
other public buildings, and breakfasted at nine. Though they had by no
means exhausted the city, the time would not permit a further
examination. The train was ready for them; and their next stop was at
Louvain, which, like Ghent and Bruges, had dwindled down from a
population of two hundred thousand to thirty-three thousand. It contains
a magnificent town hall, decorated in the most elaborate style.
From Louvain the party hurried on to Mechlin, or Malines, a picturesque
old city, still famous for its fine lace. It is about the size of
Louvain, and, like that, presents a deserted appearance, being only the
shadow of its former greatness. Its principal object of interest to the
tourist is the Cathedral of St. Romuald, a structure of the fifteenth
century, and, like the great churches at Cologne and Antwerp, still
unfinished. It was built with money obtained by the sale of the pope's
indulgences, which, happily, "gave out" at last. Its spire, which was to
have been six hundred and forty feet high, remains incomplete, at little
more than half this height, which, however, is only eighteen feet less
than the cross on St. Paul's, in London. The church is an immense
structure, said to cover nearly two acres of ground. It is the cathedral
of the Belgian archbishop, or primate.
"There, Paul, we have finished Belgium," said Dr. Winstock, as the train
started for Antwerp.
"I am glad of it; for I am tired of sight-seeing. It seems to me now
that I have no desire to see another Cathedral, Hôtel de Ville, or
Grande Place," replied Paul, languidly, as he settled himself back in
his seat.
"A new country will wake you up," laughed the doctor. "I suppose we
shall be in Rotterdam to-morrow."
"I hope so, though I don't know but I should like blue water better than
being shut up in these rivers and canals."
"You will get blue water enough before the season is ended."
In half an hour from Malines, the train reached Antwerp. Mr. Fluxion had
arrived before; and there were two tugs at the Quai Vandyck, which had
been employed to tow the vessels down the river. They conveyed the
students on board, and the orders for sailing were given immediately.
Mr. Hamblin, who had not yet recovered from his disappointment, hastened
to the cabin. He commenced a diligent search for papers written by the
captain, in order to compare their penmanship with that of the forged
note. As Mr. Stoute had been compelled to acknowledge, there was a
general resemblance between the handwriting of Paul and that of the
unknown scribbler of the note. Though a minute comparison failed to
establish any closer connection between them, the professor wanted to
make out his point; and it was not difficult for him to find a
particular similarity.
Paul was busy on deck, getting the Josephine under weigh, and Mr.
Hamblin had the cabin to himself for his investigation. The stamp on the
paper of the fictitious note had already excited his attention, and he
took the liberty to enter Paul's state-room, in search of some like it.
He opened the upper drawer of the bureau, which formed a writing-table
when the front was dropped. The first object that attracted his
attention was a package of paper of the size, and apparently of the
quality, he sought. He picked up a quire of it, and a smile of
vindictive satisfaction played upon his wrinkled face, as he discovered
upon it the identical stamp of the forged note.
His case was made out, and great was his joy. Paul would certainly be
disgraced and removed for such an outrage as a practical joke upon one
of the most dignified instructors in the squadron. We must do Mr.
Hamblin the justice to say, that he did not wish to prove any more than
he believed to be true; but it is very easy for a prejudiced person to
believe a great deal against one who has offended him. A student who was
not fond of Greek could not be a very noble, or even a very upright one;
and he was confident that, when Paul's true character became known, when
he was no longer stimulated to great deeds by his high office, he would
prove to be a very different person from what he now appeared to be.
Mr. Hamblin confiscated a half quire of the paper, and secured several
French exercises written by Captain Kendall, to be used as evidence
against him. He then searched the vessel for similar paper in the
possession of other students, but found none. He went on deck, to
ascertain what was to be done; for Mr. Lowington had assured him he
would not be any longer obliged to sail in the same vessel with the
obnoxious student. A boat from the ship was alongside, and Mr. Fluxion
had just stepped on board. The boatswain was hoisting his baggage out of
the boat, which indicated that he was to remain.
Paul was reading an order just handed to him by Mr. Fluxion, which
appeared to settle the difficulty between him and the learned professor.
The order was in these words:--
    Mr. James E. Fluxion is hereby appointed vice-principal of the
    academy squadron, and will be obeyed and respected accordingly.
    Mr. Fluxion is also hereby instructed temporarily to discharge the
    duties of Professor of Greek, Latin, and Mathematics, on board of
    the Josephine.
                                         R. LOWINGTON, Principal.
The new vice-principal handed a note to Mr. Hamblin as he came upon
deck, in which he was directed to repair, with his baggage, on board of
the ship. The learned gentleman was not quite satisfied with this
arrangement. It looked a little ominous.
"Have you no order for Captain Kendall, Mr. Fluxion?" he asked, as the
vice-principal waited for him to read his letter.
"I have given him an order from the principal."
"Is he not directed to go on board of the ship?"
"He is not."
"I have preferred charges against him, and I was led to believe that he
would be suspended," added Mr. Hamblin, who was not quite sure that he
was not to be suspended himself.
"No order to that effect was sent by me," replied Mr. Fluxion. "You will
excuse me, but the vessel is about to get under weigh."
"I am not satisfied with these proceedings. I complained to Mr.
Lowington that it was impossible for me to instruct my classes while
they were under the influence of Captain Kendall. No notice appears to
have been taken of my charges."
"I think some notice has been taken of them. You are directed to report
to the principal, with your baggage, on board of the ship."
"Am I to be punished instead of that obstinate and impudent pupil?"
demanded the professor.
"I have nothing to say about it, Mr. Hamblin," added Mr. Fluxion,
sharply. "If you are not going to the ship, we will weigh anchor and
proceed on our voyage."
The professor went down into his state-room, and hastily packed his
trunk, which was brought up and put in the boat by one of the stewards.
The students watched these movements with the deepest interest, and they
could hardly conceal their satisfaction when it was clear that the
obnoxious instructor was going to leave the Josephine, "bag and
baggage." There was a great deal of punching each other in the ribs, a
great deal of half-suppressed chuckling, and a very decided inclination
to give three cheers. A few of the more prudent ones checked any noisy
demonstration; but the moment that Mr. Hamblin went over the side was a
very joyous one.
The Josephine tripped her anchor, and, hugged by the steam-tug, stood
down the river on her way to Rotterdam. Mr. Fluxion went below, and
installed himself in the state-room vacated by Professor Hamblin. Mr.
Stoute gave the vice-principal a hearty welcome; and it was soon evident
that they were men who could cordially agree. Paul was delighted with
the change; for if there was any one in the squadron, besides the
principal and the doctor, for whom he had a high regard and a thorough
respect, it was Mr. Fluxion. He was a sailor from the sole of his foot
to the crown of his head. He had visited all the maritime ports of
Europe, spoke half a dozen modern languages with facility, and was
popular with the boys. He was a sharp disciplinarian, and the students
found it difficult to outwit him. He knew all the tricks of sailors,
and especially of man-of-war's men. He was the right hand man of Mr.
Lowington, and the new arrangement, whereby the professor had been
created vice-principal, and sent on board the consort, was to prevent
the recurrence of such an incident as that which had imperilled her in
the German Ocean during the squall.
Though Paul felt that his own powers were in some degree abridged by the
presence of the new officer, whose authority, unlike that of the
instructors before, extended to the vessel, and was equal to that of Mr.
Lowington, he was now satisfied. A competent person was present, with
whom he could share the responsibility of the navigation of the vessel
in case of an emergency. He was on the best of terms with Mr. Fluxion,
and he was happier than he had been before since the Josephine sailed
from Hull. Leaving him to the enjoyment of the new order of things, we
will follow Mr. Hamblin on board of the ship.
The barge ran up alongside, and the professor's trunk was hoisted on
board. As soon as the students saw the barge and the baggage, which
indicated that the obnoxious old gentleman had been transferred to the
Young America, a murmur of disapprobation went through the ship.
"I say, Wilton, we are to have that old humbug in the ship!" exclaimed
Perth, the chief of the Red Cross Knights, who, however, had changed
their name to the Knights of the Golden Fleece.
"That's so," replied Wilton, who had contrived to keep out of the brig
nearly a week. "He has his plunder with him."
"We must do as the Josephines did," added Perth, in a whisper.
"What's that?"
"Get rid of him. This shall be the first job of the Knights of the
Golden Fleece. McDougal, who is a capital fellow, told me all about how
the fellows in the Josephine managed it."
"I heard they had been hazing him."
"That they did," laughed Perth. "There is fun in the thing. If the old
fossil was a decent fellow, of course we wouldn't disturb him. Just as
soon as he made a row on board, all the fellows took the captain's part.
Morgan dropped him into the river, by drawing out the nail that held the
boat-hook in the wood; Blount dropped a coil of signal halyards on his
head; and McDougal ducked him with the hose-pipe; and the old fellow got
a bogus letter from Antwerp, inviting him to visit some of those kings,
or something of that sort."
"Who sent the letter?" asked Wilton, greatly interested, as he always
was, in anything of this kind.
"Nobody knows; at least McDougal says so. When we were at Brussels, the
old Greek went to see some big fellow there,--the king or some
minister,--and the big bug wouldn't look at him. One of our fellows
heard Stoute telling the doctor about it; and Fatty was so tickled that
he shook just like a freshly-baked cup-custard. There goes the
boatswain's whistle. We are off now," added Perth, as he sprang to his
place at the capstan.
The anchor had before been hove short, and in a few moments the Young
America, also in the warm embrace of a powerful steam-tug, moved down
the river.
"All hands in the rigging!" shouted the first lieutenant, as the ship
approached the Victoria and Albert.
The students ran up the shrouds like monkeys, and stationed themselves
in the rigging.
"Three cheers for the Queen of England," called Goodwin; and they were
given with becoming zeal.
A lady dressed in black, who was walking the promenade deck, near the
dining saloon, bowed and waved her handkerchief. That lady was Queen
Victoria. The Josephine at this moment came up on the other side, and
delivered her round of cheers. Mr. Fluxion carried the intelligence on
board that the queen had returned, and that the yacht would sail that
evening; and all hands were on the lookout for her majesty. She bowed
and waved her handkerchief to the Josephines, as she had to the students
in the ship.
She was not very distinctly seen by the curious students in either
vessel, and appeared like a stout "dumpy" little woman, in no respect
different from any other lady. In spite of this fact, it was voted to be
a big thing to have seen the Queen of England; and the king of the
little realm of Belgium sank into insignificance, compared with her.
"She don't look like a queen," said Captain Haven to Mr. Mapps, who
stood next to him.
"Did you expect to see her with her crown and coronation robes on, and
with the sceptre in her hand?" laughed the professor.
"Not exactly; but I was not prepared to see a lady so much like any
well-dressed woman we meet in the street."
"Let me see," said Mr. Mapps, glancing at the shore, intent upon
renewing his favorite topic, "Fort St. Laurent must have been here; and
this is where Van Speyk went down, or rather went up."
"Who was Van Speyk?"
"He was the commander of a Dutch gunboat, in the revolution of 1830. His
vessel wouldn't come about--what do you call it?"
"Missed stays, sir," replied Captain Haven.
"Missed stays, and got aground right under the guns of the fort. He was
ordered to surrender, but refused to do so, though there was not the
least chance for him to make a successful resistance. He was determined
that the rebels should not have his vessel, and, rushing down into the
powder-magazine, he said his prayers, and coolly laid his lighted cigar
on an open barrel of powder. An explosion followed which shook the whole
city. Twenty-eight, out of thirty-one on board, including the heroic
captain, were killed--blown up into the air. A monument to his memory
was erected by the side of that of De Ruiter, and the government pledged
itself that a vessel in the Dutch navy should always bear the name of
Van Speyk."
"He was a good fellow," replied the captain, warmly.
CHAPTER XV.
THE PROFESSOR'S CHARGE.
"I say, Perth, I've been a good boy for more than a week, and I begin to
be ashamed of myself for my want of activity," said Wilton, who had
seated himself on the bowsprit-cap, while his companion was reclining on
the flying jib. "I shall spoil if there is not something going on soon."
"We'll go on that cruise in the Josephine just as soon as we can bring
things round right," added Perth.
"It's no use to think of that while we are moored fifty or a hundred
miles from the sea," continued Wilton.
"Of course not. Rotterdam is away up the river, with a bar at its mouth
having only seven feet of water on it at low tide. You must go over
that, or by the canal, which runs through an island. Do you know where
we go next?"
"I heard some of the fellows say we were going to the southward soon."
"If that's so I should suppose we shall go into Dieppe or Havre," said
Perth.
"I heard Havre mentioned. How will that suit?"
"First rate!" exclaimed the embryo captain of the proposed prize, for
the Knights depended upon Perth for the navigation of the Josephine,
when their long-cherished plan should be put in execution.
"I suppose we shall not stay in Holland more than a week."
"No, I hope not. Lowington is afraid we shall all get sick if we stay
here long."
"Havre is just the place for us. It has an open harbor, and we can go to
sea from there without any difficulty. Besides, there's another thing
that will favor us."
"What's that?" asked Wilton.
"All the fellows will go to Paris when the ship is there, and we can
have a first-rate chance to operate while they are gone."
"I don't know about that. Our fellows will all want to go to Paris with
the rest. I want to go there myself," suggested Wilton.
"We may as well give it up, then," added Perth.
"We must see Paris, anyhow."
"I'll tell you what we can do. We can run round through the Straits of
Gibraltar, and up the Mediterranean to Marseilles. From there we can all
go to Paris.".
"That will be a long cruise," said Wilton.
"No matter for that. The longer the better."
"How far is it?"
"Not less than two thousand miles. We could go in ten or fifteen days,"
added Perth, warming up as he anticipated the pleasure of the runaway
cruise. "After we get into the Mediterranean, we can run along the coast
of Spain, go into port as often as we like, and have a first-rate time
generally."
"But don't you suppose Lowington will follow us?"
"No matter if he does. We can beat the Young America on a wind from
Monday morning till Saturday night. If we find the ship is overhauling
us, all we have to do is to hug the wind, and we can give her the slip."
"We haven't money enough to pay the expenses of such a trip," said
Wilton.
"There's plenty of money in the Josephine. But we don't need much. The
vessel has a year's provisions in her hold."
"Salt junk and hard tack," suggested Wilton, who was not partial to this
diet.
"That will do very well while we are at sea; and when we get to Spain we
can buy things cheap. Besides, our fellows are going to raise some money
on their own account," said Perth, in a whisper.
"How's that?" asked the other, curiously.
"Every one of the Knights wrote home to have their folks send them some
money at Paris,--or every one but you and Munroe; and the game was
played out with you and him, for you had some sent to you in London."
"Yes; and Lowington got it," replied Wilton in disgust.
"We fixed it all right. We shall find loose change enough on board of
the Josephine to keep us happy till we get to Paris, by the way of
Marseilles, and then we shall be rotten with stamps."
"But don't you expect to be caught some time or other?" inquired Wilton,
whose experience on a former occasion seemed to point in this
direction.
"No matter if we are. We must be ready for that; but we will be jolly
while we have things our own way."
"It's no use to talk about it yet," added Wilton, with a yawn, for the
wild scheme seemed so far off to him that he could not enter into the
spirit of it yet.
"It won't be more than a week or ten days before we shall be ready to
make a strike. You know we must all cut up so as to be left on board."
"Yes, and some one will be left on board with us, just as it happened at
Cowes."
"It won't be Fluxion, anyhow; for he has been transferred to the
Josephine, and we can come it over any other of the professors. However,
we must feel our way, and the first thing we have to do is to get left
on board."
"Humph! That's easy enough," said Wilton, who had never found any
difficulty in being left behind, or in being condemned to the brig.
"We must make a sure thing of it next time; but it won't do to run away
with a boat again. Hush up! There comes that old stick-in-the-mud from
the Josephine," added Perth, lowering his voice to a whisper.
The gentleman thus discourteously alluded to was Mr. Hamblin,who had
climbed upon the topgallant forecastle for the purpose of obtaining a
view of the region through which the vessel was passing. As the two boys
were far out on the bowsprit, over the water, he did not venture to
approach any nearer to them; yet the excessive prudence which the
Knights practised required them to keep silence whenever there was a
possibility that a word might be overheard by the uninitiated.
"I wish he would come up here," whispered Wilton, from the corner of his
mouth.
"Why?"
"I would contrive some way to spill him into the drink," chuckled the
ever-willing conspirator.
Mr. Hamblin was then cool and self-possessed, and he did not venture out
upon the treacherous spar, and the entangling rigging, so that the
wretch on the cap had no opportunity to give him a second bath in the
dirty Scheldt. The learned gentleman was looking for the site of the
Duke of Parma's Bridge, but he couldn't find it, and presently retired.
He was not much interested in the Spanish operations in Flanders, though
he felt it his duty to see a spot so noted in history--it was so
effective, before a class of students, to be able to say he had seen the
place alluded to in the text-book. He was, in fact, more concerned to
know what Mr. Lowington's decision was, and he was waiting impatiently
for an interview with him.
"The old hunks is too mean for the Josephines, and he has been quartered
upon us!" exclaimed Wilton, as the professor descended to the main deck.
"The fellows in the consort say he is as grouty as a mud turtle, and as
crabbed as an owl at noonday. He snubs every one that makes a blunder,
and rips at the class half the time."
"They say Lowington don't like him much better than the fellows do,"
added Perth.
It would be difficult to explain how any of the students had reached
this conclusion; but it is certain that boys understand their guardians
and instructors much better than the latter generally suppose.
"Perth, I think we might as well have our liberty stopped for serving
out Old Crabs, as for anything else," suggested Wilton.
"I'm willing; the Knights will do that job handsomely, you may bet your
life."
"But we musn't get caught too soon."
"We work in the dark, and we can do the thing as well as the Josephines
did."
"Let's study up something at once, and put him through a course of
sprouts. I don't believe in tolerating a professor who was too mean for
the Josephine," replied Wilton, shaking his head, as though a personal
indignity had been put upon him.
"All right; we will be ready as soon as he is. What's the row on deck?"
continued Perth, rising from his seat, as a group of students gathered
in the rigging, and on such elevations as would enable them to see over
the bulwarks.
"Only one of Mapps's long yarns," answered Wilton.
"I'm going down to see what it is."
Perth went down, but Wilton had not the slightest interest in anything
Mr. Mapps had to say; and he stretched himself on the jib, which had
been cast loose ready to hoist, in case it should be required.
"This is the place where the Duke of Parma built his great bridge over
the Scheldt," said the professor of history, as the students gathered
around him.
"What did he build the bridge for?" asked one of them.
"In order to close the navigation of the river, and thus prevent the
people of Antwerp from obtaining provisions, which came to them from
Holland. When the Prince of Orange was assassinated, the Duke of Parma
was making his preparations to subdue the country. By the death of the
prince Holland was left without an effective leader, while in the duke
Spain had one of the most accomplished and energetic generals of his
age. Parma saw that Antwerp was the key to the situation, and he
directed his whole attention to its capture.
"Before this time the Prince of Orange had realized that the loss of
Antwerp would be the loss of the whole of the region which is now called
Belgium; and when it was clear in what direction his skilful antagonist
proposed to operate, he had advised the cutting of the dike on your
right, which would lay the country under water, and open a channel of
communication with Holland and Zealand by water. Unfortunately, his
advice was disregarded till the duke had secured the dikes--a neglect
which caused the loss of Antwerp, and with it the whole of Flanders.
"Though Parma had erected forts all along the banks of the river, the
hardy Dutchmen ran the gantlet of them, and Antwerp was well supplied
with food, the price being four times as much as in Holland. The people
of the city, and even their leaders, ridiculed the idea of constructing
the bridge, and took no steps to prevent it. The death of Orange caused
a panic throughout the Netherlands, of which the shrewd Parma took
advantage, and urged on his preparations. Though crippled in a measure
by the neglect of his sovereign to supply him with men and money, the
bridge was completed in the face of tremendous obstacles. It was
twenty-four hundred feet long, and composed of thirty-two boats, or
vessels, bound together by hawsers, cables, and beams. On each side was
a wall of timbers, and on the structure guns were planted for its
defence. A fort was erected at each end, heavily armed and manned.
