Orleans in a steamboat; but I was so fascinated with the raft that I
could not think of abandoning it. I was going to build a house upon it;
and my fancy pictured its interior, and the pleasure we might enjoy in
it, floating down the river. It was a very brilliant ideal which I had
made up in connection with the new craft.

In due time I reached Riverport, and obtained the mail-bag. At the
post-office, I happened to meet the landlord of the hotel, who wanted to
know how Squire Fishley was. I told him he was quite well.

"They say there was a man drowned in the river last night," he added.
"I'm glad to hear from Squire Fishley."

"It wasn't the squire," I replied. "He went home with me."

"It was somebody else then; but nobody seems to know who it was."

I did not enlighten him. In the Riverport Standard there was an item in
regard to the accident, which stated that "an elderly gentleman, under
the influence of liquor, had fallen from the gang-plank of the steamer
into the river," and that "a young man had attempted to save him; but,
as neither of them had been heard from, it was supposed that both were
drowned. But it was possible they had been saved, and had continued on
their journey in that or some other steamer." I learned that a great
deal had been said about the affair in the town, and I never heard that
any satisfactory solution of the mystery was obtained. The squire was
safe, and that was all I cared for.

At a store where I was not known I purchased ten pounds of nails, and
such other articles of hardware as would be needed in carrying on the
work upon the raft. The method of supplying Sim with provisions was a
more difficult problem; but, at a restaurant near the steamboat landing,
I bought a boiled ham, which I thought would keep my hungry assistant
alive for several days. I also purchased a keg of crackers, half a
cheese, a couple of loaves of soft bread, and a basket to carry them in.
I was rich, and did not mind the expense.

When I arrived home, I took the basket and the hardware to the back side
of the barn; but before I went to bed I saw Sim, and told him where they
were. Before I made my appearance in the morning he had carried them
away to the swamp. Everything had worked successfully thus far. Sim was
in no danger of starving, and I was relieved of the necessity of feeding
him from the buttery of the house.

I gave Squire Fishley a copy of the Standard, and pointed out to him the
paragraph in relation to the "elderly gentleman under the influence of
liquor." He turned pale and trembled as he read it; but I assured him he
was perfectly safe, and that no one but myself was in possession of his
secret.

After breakfast, when I had finished my regular "chores," I hastened to
the swamp to work on the raft. I cannot describe the satisfaction which
this labor, and the thinking of it, afforded me. It was fully equal to a
trip down the river in a steamboat. Day after day, and night after
night, in my trips to Riverport, and in my bed, I anticipated the voyage
down the stream, and the pleasure of keeping house in our mansion on the
raft, with Flora and Sim.

After three days' hard work, we had the body of the raft completed. We
had covered the long logs with short ones, and on the upper tier laid a
flooring of slabs, which were more plentiful than boards, as they were
thrown away by the saw-mills above. The platform was more than a foot
above the surface of the water, and I was confident that it would carry
us high and dry.

It only remained to build the house--the most pleasing because it was
the most difficult part of the job. This structure was to be eighteen
feet long and six feet wide, placed in the middle of the platform. I put
together two frames of the requisite size, forming the sills and plates
of the building, and boarded them up and down, leaving three windows on
each side, and a door at the rear end. I made the rafters of slabs, with
the round side down.

On the fifth day, so enthusiastically had we labored, I expected to
complete the outside of the house, so that Sim could sleep in it. I was
putting on the last of the roof boards, which lapped over so as to shed
the rain, when an unfortunate circumstance occurred to delay the work.
My bow-legged friend and fellow-laborer was the most willing boy in the
world. He was quite skilful in the use of the axe; but he was very
awkward in his movements, and did not always work to the best advantage.

Towards the last of the work, we had come short of boards, and I was
thinking of going to the saw-mills, seven miles up the stream, to buy a
few to complete the work. But there was a heavy rain in the night, which
raised the creek, and brought down quite a number of them. I had swung a
boom out so as to catch them. Sim had just hauled one of these, soaked
with water, out of the river. While he was raising the end to hand it up
to me, on the roof, his feet slipped, and he went into the stream with a
"chug," like a frog.

Sim could not swim, and he began to flop about in the wildest and most
unreasonable manner. I threw him a board, but he did not seem to have
sense enough to grasp it. I saw that he would be drowned in a moment
more, unless he received more efficient help. I was fearfully alarmed
for his safety; and, though I could swim like a fish, I doubted my
ability to handle such a clumsy fellow in the water.

Kicking off my shoes, I dived after him from the roof of the house; for
he had gone down, and I was not sure that he would come up again. I
could not help thinking that this accident had ruined my enterprise.
Though it seemed to be a long time to me, and doubtless a much longer
time to him, he had not been in the water more than three seconds when I
dived after him.



I did not find him under the water; but, when I rose to the surface, I
saw him a rod or more below me, floundering about like a crazy
alligator.




CHAPTER XIII.

NEAR UNTO DEATH.


Although I was abundantly able to take care of myself in the water, and
even to do a little more than that, I was really afraid to approach Sim
Gwynn, he struggled so violently. I was satisfied, if I did so, that he
would swamp me as well as himself. We were both floating down the stream
with the current, and all the chances seemed to be against us.

Sim had struggled till his strength was in a measure wasted. I saw that
he was going down again, and though I feared it would cost me my own
life, I decided to grapple with him. A couple of strokes with my arms
brought me to him, and I seized him by the collar. The moment he was
conscious of the presence of something near him, he began to struggle
more violently than ever. He threw his arms tight around my body, and
hugged me in what I thought would be the death-gripe.

Vainly I tried to shake him off. The more I labored, the closer he clung
to me, as if fearful that I should escape his grasp. I believed that my
last moment had come. I gave myself up in despair, and thought of
Flora--what would become of her. I asked God to forgive all my
sins--which seemed like a mountain to me in that awful moment.

I rested but an instant while these thoughts rushed through my brain. I
felt myself going down. It was useless to do so, I felt; but I could not
help making one more struggle for the boon of life. It would have been
useless if a kind Providence had not come to my aid, for my strength was
nearly exhausted, and I was utterly inadequate to the task of bearing up
the heavy burden of my companion.

My head struck against a log, one end of which had grounded on the
shore, while the other projected out over the deep water of the stream.
I clutched it, threw my arms around it, and hugged it as though it was
the dearest friend on earth. I threw myself across it, so as to bring
Sim's head out of the water, and waited to recover my wasted breath.
Our united weight on the end of the log detached it from the shore, and
we were again floating down the stream. I clung to my support; and such
a sweet rest as that was I had never before known. The life seemed to
come back to me, and every breath of air I drew in was a fountain of
strength to my frame.

Still Sim clung to me, and appeared not to know that there was anything
else to sustain him. As my powers came back to me, I drew myself farther
up on the log, and tried to release my body from the gripe of my
senseless companion.

"Sim!" I shouted.

He did not answer me. Was he dead? I trembled at the thought.

"Sim!" I cried again, louder than before.

"Ugh!" said he, with a shudder that thrilled my frame.

He was not dead, or even wholly unconscious. With one arm hugging the
log, I tried with the other to release myself from his bearish gripe.

"Let go of me, Sim!" I screamed to him.

But he would not, or could not. After a desperate effort, I succeeded in
throwing one of my legs over the log; and, thus supported, I found
myself better able to work efficiently. With a mighty struggle, I shook
him off, and he would have gone to the bottom if I had not seized his
hand as he threw it up. I placed his arm on the log, and he grappled
with it as though it had been a monster threatening his destruction.

After pausing a moment to rest, I pulled him farther up on the log.
Then, for the first time, I felt safe. The battle had been fought, and
won. I believed Sim had lost his senses. He was stupefied, rather than
deprived of any actual power. It was the terror rather than any real
injury which overcame him. I permitted him to remain quiet for a moment,
to recover his breath.

"Sim!" said I, when he began to look around him, and show some signs of
returning reason.

"Ugh! That's what I wanted to see you for, Buck," gasped he.

I could not laugh, though his wild stare and incoherent words were
ludicrous.

"You are safe now, Sim," I added.

"I'm dead--drownded."

"No, you are not. You are safe."

"No! Am I? Hookie!"

I had placed myself astride the log, and was now in a comfortable
position. I moved up to him, when I found it was safe to approach him,
and assisted him into an easier posture. Gradually I restored him to his
former self, and finally assured him that he was still in the land of
the living, where he might remain if he would only be reasonable.

"Where are we going to?" he asked.

"Down the river."

"Down to New Orleans?"

"Not yet, if you will behave like a man. Have a little pluck, Sim."

"I dassent!" replied he, with a shake of his frame.

"Now hold on tight! I'm going to try to get ashore," I called to him, as
I saw that the current would carry us under the overhanging branch of a
tree, which I could reach by making a strong effort.

"Don't leave me, Buck!" pleaded he, in his terror.

"I won't leave you. Cling to the log," I replied, as I jumped up, and
succeeded in grasping the branch of the tree.

I pulled it down till I got hold of a part strong enough to check the
progress of the log; but the current was so swift that I was nearly
dragged from it. By twining my legs around the log, I held on till its
momentum was overcome; and then I had no difficulty in drawing it in
till the end touched the shore. After much persuasion I induced Sim to
work himself along the stick till he reached the dry land; for we had
passed beyond the greatest depression in the swamp, where the stream did
not cover the banks.

Eagerly he passed from the log to the bank, and actually danced with joy
when he found himself once more on the solid earth.

"Hookie! Hookie!" shouted he, opening his mouth from ear to ear, while
his fat face lighted up with an expression of delight, like a baby with
a new rattle.

"Are you going to let me go down stream, Sim?" I called to him,
reproachfully, for he seemed to have more regard for his own safety than
for mine.

"What shall I do?" he asked, blankly; and he appeared to have an idea
that I could not possibly need any assistance from him.

"Catch hold of the end of the log, and haul it up so that I can get
ashore. If I let go the branch, the log will go down stream again."

Sim lifted the log, and hauled it far out of the water. He was as strong
as an ox now, though he had been as weak as an infant a few moments
before. I crawled up the stick, and went ashore. The moment I was fairly
on the land, Sim threw his arms around my neck, and hugged me as though
I had been his baby, blubbering in incoherent terms his gratitude and
love.

"Hold on, Sim! You have hugged me enough for one day," said I, shaking
him off.

"Hurrah! Hurrah!" shouted he.

"Silence, Sim," I added.

I threw myself on my knees, dripping with water as I was.

"O Lord God, I thank thee for saving my life, and for saving Sim's life.
In my heart I thank thee, O Lord. May it be a good lesson to him and me.
May we both try to be better boys, and obey thy holy law as we have
never done before."

I had never prayed before in my life, but I could not help it then. I
felt that God had saved my life, and that I could not be so wicked as
not to pray to him then. My heart was full of gratitude, and I felt the
better for speaking it.

I opened my eyes, and saw Sim kneeling before me, very reverently, and I
realized that he was as sincere as I was. He was not satisfied with
hearing. He uttered a prayer himself, using nearly my own words. He
finished, and both of us were silent for several minutes. However long I
may live, I shall never forget the agony of that fearful moment, when,
with Sim clinging to me, I felt myself going down, never to come up;
never to see the light of the blessed sun again; never more to look into
the eyes of my loving sister. The influence of that thrilling incident
will go with me to the end of my days, and I am sure it has made me a
better man.

We walked through the swamp to the open prairie beyond, where the sun
shone brightly. We took off our clothes, and wrung them out, and then
lay in the sunshine to dry them. We talked of the event of the
afternoon, and Sim, in his bungling speech, poured forth his gratitude
to me for saving his life. I staid there till it was time for me to go
back to the house. My clothes were still wet, and I crept through the
back entry up to my chamber and changed them. Squire Fishley was going
home that day, and was to ride down to Riverport with me.

I was sorry he was going, for during his visit our house seemed to be a
paradise. Mrs. Fishley was all smiles, and never spoke a cross word,
never snarled at Flora or at me. If the squire had been a steady boarder
at his brother's, I should have been content to cut my raft adrift, and
let it go down the river without me. He was going home, and there would
be a storm as soon as he departed.

During the week of the senator's stay, not a word was said about Miss
Larrabee's letter; and Ham appeared about the same as usual. I observed
his movements with interest and curiosity. Sometimes I thought he was
more troubled than was his habit. After the thrashing his father had
given me, he seemed to be satisfied that I had been "paid off," and he
was tolerably civil to me, though I concluded that he did not wish to
have any more difficulty during the visit of the distinguished guest.

After supper, with my passenger, I drove down to Riverport. On the way
he talked very kindly to me, and gave me much good advice. He counselled
me to "seek the Lord," who would give me strength to bear all my
troubles. He told me he had spoken to his brother about me, but he was
afraid he had done more harm than good, for the captain did not seem to
like it that I had said anything to the guest about my ill usage.

I bade him good by at the hotel, where he was to spend the night; and we
parted the best of friends, with a promise on his part to do something
for me in the future. After changing the mail-bags at the post-office, I
went to several stores, and picked up various articles to furnish the
house on the raft, including a small second-hand cook-stove, with eight
feet of pipe, for which I paid four dollars, and a few dishes and some
table ware.

I succeeded in placing these things in the wheelbarrow, back of the
barn, without detection. Early in the morning Sim wheeled them down to
the swamp. When I joined him after breakfast, I found he had waded
through the water to the branch, and brought up the small raft, upon
which he had loaded the stove and other articles. Before noon that day,
the outside of the house was done, and the cook-stove put up. I went
home to dinner as usual, that my absence might not be noticed.

"Where have you been all the forenoon?" demanded Captain Fishley, in the
most uncompromising of tones.

The storm was brewing.




CHAPTER XIV.

WHO ROBBED THE MAIL.


"Where on airth have you been?" said Mrs. Fishley, chiming in with her
husband; and if I had not realized before, I did now, that the squire
had actually gone home.

"I haven't been a great ways," I replied.

As the fact of my absence, rather than where I had been, was the great
grievance with my tyrants, I concluded not to tell them in what precise
locality I had spent the forenoon. The old order of things was fully
restored. It was snap, snarl, and growl. But I soon learned that there
was something more than this. Captain Fishley and Ham both looked glum
and savage; but they ate their dinner in silence.

"Buck, I want you," said the captain, in a very ugly tone, as I was
going to the barn after dinner. "Come into the store."

I followed him into the shop. He sat down behind the post-office
counter, looked at me sternly, and then gazed at the floor.

"Where have you been to-day?" said he, after his gaze had vibrated for
some time between me and the floor.

"I haven't been far."

"Buck, have you got any money?" he added, sharply, and putting the
question as a home thrust at me.

"Yes, sir, I have," I replied, startled by the inquiry; for it was
evident to me now that the storm was coming in the shape of a tempest.

"How much have you got?"

"I haven't got any of your money," I answered.

If Ham could rob the mail, it would not be a very hard step for him to
take to rob his father's pocket-book; and I began to think he had done
so, charging the crime upon me.

"I didn't say you had got any of my money," added Captain Fishley. "I
asked you how much you had."

"What do you want to know for?"

"No matter what I want to know for. Why don't you answer me?"

"Because I don't choose to answer you," I replied, saucily.

I felt innocent, and I could not tell him anything about my money
