were decided.
The Judge never undertook even the form of answering the argument;
never even adverted to it, but decided directly over it, with a
composure worthy of a despotism. It was a decision only equalled by
that of the most corrupt judges of the corrupt age of Charles II.
Honest Van Zandt was ruined, "scot and lot," by a fine so heavy that
all he had in the world would not pay it, and he died broken-hearted;
a solemn warning to all in his day, how they allowed themselves to
practise Christian charity in a way disagreeable to the plantation
despots.
As for Chase, he was undiscouraged by ill success, and shortly
reaffirmed his argument and principles in the case of Driskull vs.
Parish. He was at least educating the community; he was laying
foundations of resistance on which walls and towers should by-and-by
arise. Humanity and religion had already made the abolitionists
numerically a large and active body in Ohio. They needed only a leader
like Chase, of large organizing brain and solid force of combination,
to shape them into a political party of great efficiency. To this end
his efforts were henceforth directed. In 1841, he united in a call
for an Anti-Slavery Convention in Columbus, and in this convention
was organized the Liberty party of Ohio. In 1845 he projected a
Southwestern Anti-Slavery Convention.
The ground taken was substantially that to which a bloody, weary
experience has brought the whole nation now, to wit: "That whatever
is worth preserving in republicanism can be maintained only by
uncompromising war against an usurping slave-power, and that all who
wish to save the nation must unite in using all constitutional measures
for the extinction of slavery in their own States, and the reduction of
it to constitutional limits in the United States.
This convention met in Cincinnati, in 1845, and Chase prepared the
address, giving the history of slavery thus far, and showing the
condition of the Whig and Democratic parties respecting it; and urging
the importance of a political combination unequivocally committed to
the denationalizing of slavery and the slave power. So vigorous were
the tactics of this party, so strongly moving with the great central
currents of God's forward providences, that in 1847 Chase was made
Governor of Ohio, by the triumph of those very principles which in the
outset threatened utter loss to their advocate. In 1847 he attended
a second Liberty Convention; and afterwards took part in the Buffalo
Convention, the celebrated Buffalo Platform being mainly his work.
In 1849, he was chosen United States Senator from Ohio, and his
presence was hailed as a tower of strength to the hard fighting
anti-slavery party at Washington. When, directly after the passage of
the Fugitive Slave Law, the Democratic party in Ohio voted for Pierce,
knowing him directly committed to its enforcement, Chase withdrew from
it, and addressed a letter to B. F. Butler, of New York, recommending
the formation of an Independent Democratic party. He prepared a
platform for this purpose, which was substantially adopted by the
convention of the Independent Democracy of 1852.
And now came on the battle of Kansas and Nebraska. Chase was one of
the first to awaken the people to this new danger. He, in conference
with the anti-slavery men of Congress, drafted an address to the
people to arouse them as to this sudden and appalling conspiracy,
which was intended to seize for slavery all the unoccupied land of
the United States, and turn the balance of power and numbers forever
into the slaveholders' hands. It was a critical moment; there was but
little time to spare; but the whole united clergy of New England, of
all denominations, Catholic and Protestant, found leisure to send in
their solemn protest. When that nefarious bill passed, Chase protested
against it on the night of its passage, as, with threats, and oaths,
and curses, it was driven through. It seems in the retrospect but a
brief passage from that hour of apparent defeat to the hour which
beheld Lincoln in the presidential chair and Chase, Secretary of the
Treasury. His history in that position has verified the sagacity that
placed him there. It has been the success of a large, sound, organizing
brain, apt and skillful in any direction in which it should turn its
powers. It was the well-known thrift and shrewdness of the Yankee
farmer, thrift and shrewdness cultivated in years of stern wrestling
with life, coming out at the head of the United States treasury in a
most critical hour. No men are better to steer through exigencies than
these same Yankee farmers, and it seems the savor of this faculty goes
to the second and third generations.
We have said before, that if Chase made sacrifices of tangible and
material present values for abstract principles, in his early days,
it was not because, as is sometimes the case, he was a man merely of
ideas, and destitute of practical faculties. On the contrary, the
shrewd, cautious, managing, self-preserving faculties were possessed by
him to a degree which caused him to be often spoken of by the familiar
proverb, "a man who can make every edge cut." By nature, by descent, by
hard and severe training, he was a rigid economist, and a man who might
always safely be trusted to make the very most and best of a given
amount of property.
It is praise enough to any financier who could take a nation in the
sudden and unprepared state ours was, and could carry it along for
three or four years through a war of such gigantic expenditure, to
say that the country was neither ruined, beggared, nor hopelessly
embarrassed, but standing even stronger when he resigned the treasury
than when he took it.
His financial management was at first to raise the money needed for
the war by loans, until the expenses became so great as to be beyond
the capacity of the specie in the country. Then, still adhering to the
principle of raising the means for the war within the United States, he
introduced the legal tender paper currency, and by providing that it
should be a necessary basis for banking operations, he shrewdly placed
the whole banking capital of the United States in a position where it
must live or die with the country. This not only provided funds, but
made every dollar of money act as a direct stimulus to the patriotism
of those who supplied it.
On June 30, 1864, Chase resigned his position in the treasury. That
Providence which has ordained so many striking and peculiar instances
of victory and reward for men who espoused the cause of humanity in its
dark hours, had also one for Chase.
Oct. 12, 1864, by the death of Taney, the Chief Justiceship of the
United States Supreme Court became vacant, and Lincoln expressed the
sense of the whole American people in calling Chase to fill that
venerable office.
The young lawyer, who without name or prestige, dared to put in pleas
for the poorest of his brethren, when the slave power was highest and
haughtiest, and whose pleas were overruled with the most chilling
contempt, now by God's providence holds that supreme position on the
national bench from which, let us trust, the oppressor and the tyrant
have faded away forever!
CHAPTER VI.
HENRY WILSON.
  Lincoln, Chase and Wilson as Illustrations of Democracy--Wilson's
    Birth and Boyhood--Reads over One Thousand Books in Ten Years
    --Learns Shoemaking--Earns an Education Twice Over--Forms a
    Debating Society--Makes Sixty Speeches for Harrison--Enters
    into Political Life on the Working-Men's Side--Helps to form
    the Free Soil Party--Chosen United States Senator over Edward
    Everett--Aristocratic Politics in those Days--Wilson and the
    Slaveholding Senators--The Character of his Speaking--Full of
    Facts and Practical Sense--His Usefulness as Chairman of the
    Military Committee--His "History of the Anti-Slavery Measures
    in Congress"--The 37th and 38th Congresses--The Summary of
    Anti-Slavery Legislation from that Book--Other Abolitionist
    Forces--Contrast of Sentiments of Slavery and of Freedom--
    Recognition of Hayti and Liberia; Specimen of the Debate--Slave
    and Free Doctrine on Education--Equality in Washington Street
    Cars--Pro-Slavery Good Taste--Solon's Ideal of Democracy
    Reached in America.
It is interesting to notice how, in the recent struggle that has
convulsed our country and tried our republican institutions, so many
of the men who have held the working oar have been representative men
of the people. To a great extent they have been men who have grown up
with no other early worldly advantages than those which a democratic
republic offers to every citizen born upon her soil. Lincoln from the
slave states, and Chase and Henry Wilson in the free, may be called the
peculiar sons of Democracy. That hard Spartan mother trained them early
on her black broth to her fatigues, and wrestlings, and watchings, and
gave them their shields on entering the battle of life with only the
Spartan mother's brief--"With this, or upon this."
Native force and Democratic institutions raised Lincoln to the highest
seat in the nation, and to no mean seat among the nations of the earth;
and the same forces in Massachusetts caused that State, in an hour of
critical battle for the great principles of democratic liberty, to
choose Henry Wilson, the self-taught, fearless shoemaker's apprentice
of Natick, over the head of the gifted and graceful Everett, the
darling of foreign courts, the representative of all the sentiments and
training which transmitted aristocratic ideas have yet left in Boston
and Cambridge. All this was part and parcel of the magnificent drama
which has been acting on the stage of this country for the hope and
consolation of all who are born to labor and poverty in all nations of
the world.
Henry Wilson, our present United States Senator, was born at
Farmington, N. H., Feb. 12, 1818, of very poor parents. At the age
of ten he was bound to a farmer till he was twenty-one. Here he had
the usual lot of a farm boy--plain, abundant food, coarse clothing,
incessant work, and a few weeks' schooling at the district school in
winter.
In these ten years of toil, the boy, by twilight, firelight, and on
Sundays, had read over one thousand volumes of history, geography,
biography and general literature, borrowed from the school libraries
and from those of generous individuals.
At twenty-one he was his own master, to begin the world; and in looking
over his inventory for starting in life, found only a sound and healthy
body, and a mind trained to reflection by solitary thought. He went to
Natick, Mass., to learn the trade of a shoemaker, and in working at
it two years, he saved enough money to attend the academy at Concord
and Wolfsborough, N. H. But the man with whom he had deposited his
hard earnings became insolvent; the money he had toiled so long for,
vanished; and he was obliged to leave his studies, go back to Natick
and make more. Undiscouraged, he resolved still to pursue his object,
uniting it with his daily toil. He formed a debating society among
the young mechanics of the place; investigated subjects, read, wrote
and spoke on all the themes of the day, as the spirit within him gave
him utterance. Among his fellow-mechanics, some others were enkindled
by his influence, and are now holding high places in the literary and
diplomatic world.
In 1840, young Wilson came forward as a public speaker. He engaged
in the Harrison election campaign, made sixty speeches in about four
months, and was well repaid by his share in the triumph of the party.
He was then elected to the Massachusetts Legislature as representative
from Natick.
Having entered life on the working man's side, and known by his own
experience the working man's trials, temptations and hard struggles, he
felt the sacredness of a poor man's labor, and entered public life with
a heart to take the part of the toiling and the oppressed.
Of course he was quick to feel that the great question of our time
was the question of labor and its rights and rewards. He was quick to
feel the "irrepressible conflict," which Seward so happily designated,
between the two modes of society existing in America, and to know that
they must fight and struggle till one of them throttled and killed the
other; and prompt to understand this, he made his early election to
live or die on the side of the laboring poor, whose most oppressed type
was the African slave.
In the Legislature, he introduced a motion against the extension of
slave territory; and in 1845, went with Whittier to Washington with the
remonstrance of Massachusetts against the admission of Texas as a slave
State.
When the Whig party became inefficient in the cause of liberty through
too much deference to the slave power, Henry Wilson, like Charles
Sumner, left it, and became one of the most energetic and efficient
organizers in forming the Free Soil party of Massachusetts. In its
interests, he bought a daily paper in Boston, which for some time he
edited with great ability.
Meanwhile, he rose to one step of honor after another, in his adopted
State; he became President of the Massachusetts Senate; and at length
after a well contested election, was sent to take the place of the
accomplished Everett in the United States Senate.
His election was a sturdy triumph of principle. His antagonist had
every advantage of birth and breeding, every grace which early
leisure, constant culture, and the most persevering, conscientious
self-education could afford. He was, in graces of person, manners and
mind, the ideal of Massachusetts aristocracy, but he wanted that clear
insight into actual events, which early poverty and labor had given
to his antagonist. His sympathies in the great labor question of the
land were with the graceful and cultivated aristocrats rather than
the clumsy, ungainly laborer; and he but professed the feeling of all
aristocrats in saying at the outset of his political life, while Wilson
was yet a child, that in the event of a servile insurrection, he would
be among the first to shoulder a musket to defend the masters.
But the great day of the Lord was at hand. The events which since have
unrolled in fire and blood, had begun their inevitable course; and the
plain working-man was taken by the hand of Providence towards the high
places where he, with other working men, should shape the destiny of
the labor question for this age and for all ages.
Wilson went to Washington in the very heat and fervor of that conflict
which the gigantic Giddings, with his great body and unflinching
courage, said to a friend, was to him a severer trial of human nerve
than the facing of cannon and bullets. The slave aristocracy had
come down in great wrath, as if knowing that its time was short. The
Senate chamber rang with their oaths and curses as they tore and
raged like wild beasts against those whom neither their blandishments
nor their threats could subdue. Wilson brought there his face of
serene good nature, his vigorous, stocky frame, which had never seen
ill-health, and in which the nerves were yet an undiscovered region.
It was entirely useless to bully, or to threaten, or to cajole that
honest, good-humored, immovable man, who stood like a rock in their
way, and took all their fury as unconsciously as a rock takes the
foam of breaking waves. In every anti-slavery movement he was always
foremost, perfectly awake, perfectly well informed, and with that
hardy, practical business knowledge of men and things which came from
his early education, prepared to work out into actual forms what Sumner
gave out as splendid theories.
Wilson's impression on the Senate was not mainly that of an orator.
His speeches were as free from the artifices of rhetoric as those of
Lincoln, but they were distinguished for the weight and abundance of
the practical information and good sense which they contained. He never
spoke on a subject till he had made himself minutely acquainted with it
in all its parts, and was accurately familiar with all that belonged
to it. Not even John Quincy Adams or Charles Sumner could show a more
perfect knowledge of what they were talking about than Henry Wilson.
Whatever extraneous stores of knowledge and belles lettres may have
been possessed by any of his associates, no man on the floor of the
Senate could know more of the United States of America than he; and
what was wanting in the graces of the orator, or the refinements of the
rhetorician was more than made amends for in the steady, irresistible,
strong tread of the honest man, determined to accomplish a worthy
purpose.
Wilson succeeded Benton as chairman of the Military Committee of the
Senate, and it was fortunate for the country that when the sudden storm
of the war broke upon us, so strong a hand held this helm. Gen. Scott
said that he did more work in the first three months of the war than
had been done in his position before for twenty years; and Secretary
Cameron attributed the salvation of Washington in those early days,
mainly to Henry Wilson's power of doing the apparently impossible in
getting the Northern armies into the field in time to meet the danger.
His recently published account of what Congress has done to destroy
slavery, is a history which no man living was better fitted to write.
No man could be more minutely acquainted with the facts, more capable
of tracing effects to causes, and thus competent to erect this
imperishable monument to the honor of his country.
It is meet that the poor, farm-bound apprentice, the shoemaker of
Natick, should thus chronicle the great history of the deliverance of
labor from disgrace in this democratic nation.
There is something sublime in the history of the movements of the
37th and 38th Congresses of the United States. Perhaps never in any
country did an equal number of wise and just men meet together under
a more religious sense of their responsibility to God and to mankind.
Never had there been a deeper and more religious awe presiding over
popular elections than those which sent those men to Congress to man
our national ship in the terrors of the most critical passage our
stormy world has ever seen. They were the old picked, tried seamen,
stout of heart, giants in conscience and moral sense. They were the
scarred veterans of long years of battling for the great principles of
the Declaration of Independence, men who in old times had come through
great battles with the beasts of the slavery Ephesus, and still wore
the scars of their teeth. They had seen their president stricken down
at their head, and though bleeding inwardly, had closed up their ranks
shoulder to shoulder, to go steadily on with the great work for which
he died.
These men it was who while the din of arms was resounding through the
country, while Washington was one great camp and hospital, and the
confusing rumors of wars were coming to it from the east and from the
west, from the north and from the south--took up and carried to the
end the grandest national moral reform ever accomplished in a given
time. Many men of the common sort would have said, "This is no time to
be driving at moral reforms. We must drive this war through first, and
when we have done this, we will begin to wipe up, and adjust, and put
away." So gigantic a war was apology enough to satisfy the consciences
of men who looked only to precedents and the rules of ordinary
statesmanship, but our Congress was largely made up of men who walked
by a higher light, and judged by a higher standard than ever has been
given to mere statesmanship before. The spirit of the old Puritans,
their unworldly, God-fearing spirit, their steadfast flint-facedness
in principle, came to a final and culminating development in these
Congresses.
Henry Wilson has written a "History of the Anti-Slavery Measures in
Congress," in a brief, clear, compact summary, and made of it a volume
which ought to be in every true American library. It is a volume of
which every American has just and honest reason to be proud, and to
which every Republican the whole world over, should look with hope and
trust, as exhibiting the magnificent morality, the dauntless courage,
the unwearied faith, hope and charity that are the crown jewels of
republics. We should be glad to see this book of Henry Wilson's in
every farm house of New England, lying by the family Bible, under the
old flag of the Union. The men who carried through these magnificent
reforms--THEY ARE OUR JEWELS.
Mr. Wilson gives in his book a condensed summary of the debates in the
House relative to each step of the reform. For the most part it is a
record of noble, Christian, unworldly patriotic sentiment--a sort of
ideal statesmanship becoming real in tangible good deeds.
Every day some new den in the Augean stable was exposed and opened
up to daylight, and the cleansing baptism of liberty applied. There
was some fluttering and screaming of owls and bats, and now and then
the poor old dilapidated dragon of slavery gave a bootless hiss, but
nobody minded it. It was a whole-hearted, clean, pure, noble time
in Congress, when those walls, so long defiled with the brawls, the
mingled profanity and obscenity of slaveholders and slavebreeders, now
rang only to manly sentiments and cleanly, noble, Christian resolves,
such as make the heart strong to hear. We quote from the close of Mr.
Wilson's book the summary of what was done by these Congresses in the
way of reform legislation.
"As the Union armies advanced into the rebel States, slaves, inspired
by the hope of personal freedom, flocked to their encampments, claiming
protection against rebel masters, and offering to work and fight for
the flag whose stars for the first time gleamed upon their vision with
the radiance of liberty. Rebel masters and rebel-sympathizing masters
sought the encampments of the loyal forces, demanding the surrender
of the escaped fugitives; and they were often delivered up by officers
of the armies. To weaken the power of the insurgents, to strengthen
the loyal forces, and assert the claims of humanity, the 37th Congress
enacted an article of war, dismissing from the service officers guilty
of surrendering these fugitives.
Three thousand persons were held as slaves in the District of
Columbia, over which the nation exercised exclusive jurisdiction; the
37th Congress made these three thousand bondmen freemen, and made
slaveholding in the capital of the nation for evermore impossible.
"Laws and ordinances existed in the national capital that pressed with
merciless rigor upon the colored people: the 37th Congress enacted that
colored persons should be tried for the same offences, in the same
manner, and be subject to the same punishments, as white persons; thus
abrogating the 'black code.'
"Colored persons in the capital of this Christian nation were denied
the right to testify in the judicial tribunals; thus placing their
property, their liberties, and their lives, in the power of unjust
and wicked men; the 37th Congress enacted that persons should not be
excluded as witnesses in the courts of the District on account of color.
"In the capital of the nation, colored persons were taxed to support
schools from which their own children were excluded; and no public
schools were provided for the instruction of more than four thousand
youth; the 38th Congress provided by law that public schools should
be established for colored children, and that the same rate of
appropriations for colored schools should be made as are made for
schools for the education of white children.
"The railways chartered by Congress, excluded from their cars colored
persons, without the authority of law; Congress enacted that there
should be no exclusion from any car on account of color.
"Into the territories of the United States,--one-third of the surface
of the country,--the slaveholding class claimed the right to take
and hold their slaves under the protection of law; the 37th Congress
prohibited slavery for ever in all the existing territory, and in all
territory which may hereafter be acquired; thus stamping freedom for
all, for ever, upon the public domain.
"As the war progressed, it became more clearly apparent that the rebels
hoped to win the Border slave States; that rebel sympathizers in
those States hoped to join the rebel States; and that emancipation in
loyal States would bring repose to them, and weaken the power of the
Rebellion; the 37th Congress, on the recommendation of the President,
by the passage of a joint resolution, pledged the faith of the nation
to aid loyal States to emancipate the slaves therein.
"The hoe and spade of the rebel slave were hardly less potent for the
Rebellion than the rifle and bayonet of the rebel soldier. Slaves sowed
and reaped for the rebels, enabling the rebel leaders to fill the
wasting ranks of their armies, and feed them. To weaken the military
forces and the power of the Rebellion, the 37th Congress decreed that
all slaves of persons giving aid and comfort to the Rebellion, escaping
from such persons, and taking refuge within the lines of the army;
all slaves captured from such persons, or deserted by them; all slaves
of such persons, being within any place occupied by rebel forces, and
afterwards occupied by the forces of the United States,--shall be
captives of war, and shall be for ever free of their servitude, and not
again held as slaves.
"The provisions of the Fugitive-slave Act permitted disloyal masters
to claim, and they did claim, the return of their fugitive bondmen;
the 37th Congress enacted that no fugitive should be surrendered until
the claimant made oath that he had not given aid and comfort to the
Rebellion.
"The progress of the Rebellion demonstrated its power, and the needs of
