" Stuart will soon be aware of his folly and unreasona- 
bleness." 
That did not comfort me. I was in a state of dissatis- 
faction and tumult. My anger against Mr. St. John seemed 
to be dying out. What if he should be right? 
O, what was I doing ? Since I had allowed myself to 
drift into this engagement, pride, at least, demanded that 
 
I should be true. I said decisively that I would learn to 
love; my heart should yield its sweet meed to the one 
who deserved the treasure. 
Mr. St. John insisted that there should be no announce- 
ment of the engagement before autumn, and that we should 
both consider ourselves perfectly free. I acquiesced with 
a haughty silence ; Ayliner was very indignant, and Mrs. 
Lawrence annoyed. 
I believe I did enjoy Aylmer's devotion for the next 
few days. He claimed his right of possessorship with a 
certain hesitancy that I did not like as well as a more 
masterful resolution. Is there an instinctive desire in most 
women to have the power taken out of their hands, to 
plejise themselves by chafing against a chain that in their 
inmost hearts they acknowledge to be a precious bond ? 
I had no sense of this : I was free, too free. Generosity 
and principle mtist sway me henceforth. 
Two months ago I had met Aylmer Channing, little 
dreaming then how intimately he was to be concerned in 
my destiny. We parted tenderly fondly; and when he 
was gone I felt lost and solitary in the extreme. 
I had heard from my friend Anne : her short tour ended, 
they had returned and taken possession of their new home, 
and everything was most pleasant. Mr. Otis had decided 
to assume the charge of Walter's education, which was 
exceedingly generous. Mamma would be relieved of much 
care : the old home ties were evidently the strongest. I 
fancied she was making an effort to be happy playing 
with shadows; but I could no longer blame. 
We went back to the old routine, and began to make 
plans for the summer. I was not anxious for Newport, 
and, as there was no husband to win, Mrs. Lawrence pro- 
posed short journeys to several points of interest, which 
appeared very pleasant to me. I began to experience a 
 
strange craving for excitement. Sulphur Springs, Old 
Point Comfort, and Cape May were laid down in our 
route. 
In September Philip was to be married. I cannot con- 
ceive of a lovelier picture than Ellen in her radiant con- 
tentment. I was forced to confess that there was something 
I lacked, and it gave me a pang of anguish. Would I ever 
learn my lesson ? 
Mr. St. John treated me to a sort of satirical patronage. 
I had been wild indeed to fancy his regnrd anything be- 
yond the considerate care he believed he owed me. And 
yet there had been moments of madness when flushing 
cheek and kindling eye stirred every pulse of my being: 
some words that I could never forget; had they any 
meaning? Cold as marble he seemed now, superbly in- 
different to any pain or joy that I could give. 
There was one day on which these remembrances thronged 
about me with a peculiar force. Just one year before I 
had come to Laurelwood. Mr. St. John went away in the 
morning ; Mrs. Lawrence was busy selecting her dresses, 
and pointing out alterations to be made; and I, having 
nothing to do, roamed through the shady walks and lin- 
gered by the sparkling fountains. A soft, droning mur- 
mur filled the air, and steeped one in delicious languor. 
How heavenly beautiful the place was ! I recalled so dis- 
tinctly my first sensations, and the pleasure they had af- 
forded Mr. St. John. We had not harmonized, and he 
would be glad to have me go, doubtless. But how could 
I leave this Paradise? Ah, he would never guess the 
pang. 
I felt ashamed of myself for the weakness. It had been 
my misfortune to meet a man whom, if fate had been 
kinder, I could have loved with my whole soul. I told 
my heart the truth this day. But a gulf divided us. In 
 
the Babel-like confusion that had intervened, our languages 
had changed, and \ve were never to understand one another 
again. The tower that might have gone skyward with 
sweetest hopes and anticipations, lay a mass of ruins at my 
feet. From the fragments I must construct a new temple, 
alas ! of the earth, earthy. The dim aspirations that had 
whispered to my soul of its better portion were to be 
hushed thrust out as phantoms of the past. A long, 
wearisome march lay before me : if I could brighten it 
with love, well; if not, then Heaven help me! 
I clasped my hands in a cry of supplication longing 
to do, yet vexed and hindered by all about me. This was 
the record of a year. 
All along my future life, at intervals, there would rise a 
white stone, a monument for a lost hope. The glad joy 
of the old days stood apart. I was walking lonesomely 
along between doubt and fear, the solemn music of the 
deep sea rolling between, the shores widening. 
 
CHAPTER XIH. 
" The eyes will not see when the heart wishes them to be blind. Desire con- 
ceals truth as darkness does the earth." SENECA. 
WE had a very pleasant summer. The Grahams were 
at the Springs, their usual resort. It was so different from 
Newport. A quaint, old-fashioned courtesy was noticeable 
in most of the gentlemen, the majority of them middle- 
aged and heads of families ; in the younger ones a certain 
chivalrous spirit, not formalized to the rigorous require- 
ments of fashion. 
Then the jaunting around strange places interested me: 
dreamy sails on the beautiful bay, winding around low, 
velvety shores, or sand barrens that sparkled in the sum- 
mer sunlight; foliage, rich and deep, vivid in color, and 
varied by a thousand blooms; and the broad ocean, that 
one never wearies of; the same, and yet ever changing. 
At Cape May we found quite a host of notabilities. I 
was more than ever struck with Mrs. Lawrence's tact and 
power to please. She reminds me of old tales of those 
wonderful French queens of society, who ruled with a 
smile and a nod. And yet it seems singular that a woman 
should care so little for love. I cannot understand it. I 
wonder if I am weak to long for it so intensely! Life 
would become an utter failure to me without some satisfy- 
ing happiness. 
Ayhner was a constant correspondent. His letters were 
glowing with love and expectation, and I felt myself in- 
 
sensibly drawn towards him. The Channings had gone 
north, and made a brief sojourn at Newport : while there 
Aylmer had met Miss Gertrude Hastings, who was turning 
every one's head with her loveliness. Mrs. Varick was still 
abroad. 
Mr. St. John had been kind and companionable, but I 
had shunned him considerably; I cannot tell exactly why, 
only that he seemed always studying me, and I came to 
have a nervous, apprehensive feeling regarding him. His 
eyes go down to the depths of one's nature in those swift, 
lightning glances, and I hardly felt sure enough of myself 
to thus tolerate another's inspection. 
We had barely reached Laurehvood and resumed our 
accustomed state, when Mrs. Westervelt and Philip pre- 
sented themselves. What a rush of old memories flooded 
my heart at the sight of that sweet face ! She was so happy 
in her son's joy, so fond, so thoroughly comfortable, that I 
half envied Ellen the mother she was to find. 
At Mont Argyle they had become quite reconciled to 
Ellen's departure. Some news greeted me on my first visit 
there that gave me a sudden start of astonishment. Hugh 
had comforted himself with a bonnie Scotch lassie, and 
would bring home his wife by Christmas tide. Ellen re- 
joiced in this, and I was unfeignedly glad. Yet a peculiar 
feeling blended with the satisfaction. In this brief while 
he had forgotten his love for me that he thought of the 
unchangeable and his ambition. lie had been found 
worthy, of some other woman's affection, and there his 
quest ended. 
It was right, of course. I had not held out the slightest 
hope, and the old dreams of me could be fraught with 
pain only. Was love anything beyond a present satisfac- 
tion ? Out of story-books did it last, remaining more 
faithful to a dead hope than a living pleasure ? I felt like 
 
asking, with Wallenstein, "What pang is permanent with 
man ? " 
It is well that we can deck the old grave with new roses. 
Are we not all creatures of transient emotions ? So I gave 
Hugh a sister's benediction. 
They were decidedly gay at Mont Argyle. Troops of 
young people, three bridesmaids elect and their attendants, 
for Mrs. Graham desired that everything should be done 
in a manner befitting their position. Ellen was grave, 
but sweet. Mrs. Westervelt thought her charming. I 
compared this with my one experience, and felt that here 
was promise of happiness indeed. 
There was a good deal of going backwards and for- 
wards. Philip was my attendant, generally. We took up 
our old social intimacy, and I found very much to enjoy. 
Even Mr. St. John thawed in this rich and genial atmos- 
phere. 
Philip and I were riding one afternoon his last day 
of grace, I called it, for on the morrow he was to go to 
Mont Argyle, and emerge from thence a Benedict. lie 
had been unusually silent for some time, watching me 
closely. I confess my spirits were rather riotous. 
"What is there so peculiar about me?" I asked, at 
length. 
He suffered his rein to fall loosely over his horse's neck, 
and glanced up, with a sorrowful light in his clear, hazel eyes. 
" There is always something peculiar about you dif- 
ferent from other women." 
"I hate those compliments," I said, shortly. "I have- 
not the vanity to consider myself better, so the comparison 
is equivocal." 
" I fancied once that I held the clew to your nature. 
Some maze has been too tortuous for me. St. John said 
something this morning that astonished me greatly." 
 
I felt my face crimson. What right had Mr. St. John 
to discuss me with his friend ? 
" Don't be vexed," he returned, as if he understood the 
feeling which actuated me. " I half guessed, and made 
him speak against his will. About this fancy " 
" You must have been vastly amused by the description 
of a young woman's love affairs," I interrupted, with a bit- 
ter smile. "Mr. St. John has displayed a fine sense of 
honor ! " 
" I will not have you blame him. The fault was as 
much mine. And we discussed nothing. He spoke of this 
fancy " 
" Since it hurts his tender conscience, I will call it by 
its right name. Early last summer I became engaged to 
lu's cousin, Mr. Channing; but as he did not approve suf- 
ficiently, we are waiting with the utmost patience," 
"Ami you love this Mr. Channing?" 
" I will not submit to be questioned or dictated to," I 
returned, angrily. " Whatever choice I make is for myself 
alone." 
" Sydnie ! " 
" Am I incapable of judging what is proper for myself? 
Do I understand my own feelings at all ? " 
" Do you ? " The grave, tender face was turned to- 
wards me, with an appealing expression that smote me 
bitterly, 
" You may have judged from false premises," he went 
on, in a softer tone. " We all make mistakes sometimes." 
"I believe Mr. Channing is a gentleman. Mrs. Law- 
rence approves rny choice." 
" And you confess that Mr. St. John does not? " 
" He is unreasonable, and blinded by foolish prejudices." 
"I met Mr. Channint' in August. I will concede that 
he is a most elegant and accomplished gentleman, a per- 
 
 
feet man of fashion, and admitted to be fascinating. His 
attention appeared to be equally divided between the two 
belles of the day, Miss Hastings, who, by the way, is 
wonderfully beautiful, and a Miss Ray nor.'
" Well," I said, with a provoking smile, " I am not at all 
jealous. Mr. St. John stipulated that we should consider 
ourselves entirely free. I am afraid if you bring him to 
the strict letter of the law, I must plead guilty also to in- 
dulging in sundry flirtations at Cape May." 
" O, Sydnie, it pains me to see you so hard and cold. 
Have you not enough confidence in your friends to be- 
lieve that they desire your happiness above all other con- 
siderations ? " 
" When I seek it in their fashion, perhaps ; but I dare 
to believe that I can judge the most wisely for myself." 
"My dear friend, you are standing on the threshold of 
that sweetest of all lives a woman's. With- your pecu- 
liar organization, your capability for intense emotions, you 
have great power for joy or sorrow. There is such a 
heavenly influence in a true, earnest life. How will you 
answer to your own soul if you pervert your good gifts 
to inferior uses ? " 
"I fancied you, of all others, thought love a woman's 
highest glory, her purest spiritual development." 
"When it ia love;" and he gave me a sad, furtive 
glance. " Are you satisfied to accept the gay world a* 
your poi'tion ? " 
" I find it pleasant while one is young. When I tire of 
it, I can take up the graver matters of life," I said, care- 
lessly. 
"It .maybe too late for happiness. I cannot bear to 
have you trifle with these most sacred things. I want to 
see the sweetness of your heart expand and ripen in 
choicest fruitage. It is worthy of better sustenance than 
 
these poor mockeries you thrust upon it. When I see 
you yielding your life wholly to pleasure, bearing restraint 
and truth so impatiently, I tremble for you." 
" I do not feel it an imperative duty to fulfil every one's 
extravagant desires concerning me," I said, coldly. 
"How you have changed! Forgive my preaching. I 
know it has annoyed you ; but I feel for you a most pro- 
found and sacred friendship. O, if you could realize what 
true and fervent hearts are interested in your welfare, you 
would pause and hesitate ere you took any irremediable 
step ! for with you a wreck would be terrible." 
My blood seemed to falter slowly through my veins. I 
was more deeply moved than I cared to show. Indeed 
there was but one step to take to convince these two men 
that I was not rushing madly to destruction. There was a 
time when Mr. St. John might have saved me ; but he had 
not cared. Even now his face rose before me in all ita 
mocking pride and masterly strength. Confess to him 
that I had been in the wrong ! Take his censures meekly I 
No ; I could not swallow so bitter a draught. 
"I suspect I am merely a commonplace woman after 
all, since ordinary people and events have the power to 
satisfy me. I am quite content to take life as it comes. 
I began with some Utopian ideas, but I have found them 
of little account, and grown wiser." 
"Quite satisfied you can say that?" 
We had been ambling slowly along, and now he laid his 
hand on the mane of my horse, looking steadily into my 
eyes, his own torturing in the infinite depth of their 
pathos. 
" Satisfied ; " and I gave a gay nod. 
"You have disappointed me bitterly, bitterly ; and not 
only me " 
I could bear no more, and, touching Selim, bounded 
 
away. Why did they nil conspire to drive me wild, to 
make me do all manner of reckless deeds? I longed to 
plunge into the cool, green forest, and shut them out of 
my sight. Why had I ever come here to be tormented 
with visions of bliss, and know they could never be mine, 
to stretch forth my hand for the goMen fruit, and receive 
only an empty husk? Whose fault was it? The tide of 
circumstances had proved too strong for me. 
As if to make amends, Philip was most gracious and 
gentle that evening. Every look, every act, told me that 
bis friendship would remain mine until the latest mo- 
ment. If another had been thus kind in some of my 
desperate needs! 
The marriage was perfect, the party delightful. Philip 
and Ellen started on their life journey amid showers of 
congratulations and good wishes. The rest had a gala 
time, the country element giving it a peculiar zest. 
What dances and merriment ! General Graham was the 
most charming of hosts. It was with no little pride that 
he announced his expectations of doing this over again for 
his son in a few months. I was pleased to be as great a 
favorite as ever, to find that in the general joy no one 
recurred to my unfortunate episode. 
We were in quite a reasonable state of existence when 
Aylmer made his appearance. I had been looking for- 
ward to this with an inexplicable dread, but it vanished 
speedily. Did I really love him more than I knew ? 
"I have counted the days of my banishment," he said, 
with his rapturous fervor. "Each one Drought me nearer 
to you, my darling. How wearisome they have been to 
me, tilled up with trifles, the one great joy always missed, 
you can never know. But I have' you again, my own, my 
own ! " 
Was there anything to doubt here ? The kindling eye, 
 
the glowing check, and tender voice gave no room for dis- 
trust. And then, I never could make myself mistrustful 
of him, no matter what others said. Was it the result of 
overwhelming faith, or lack of that intense love which is 
so easily tortured and depressed ? 
The season was at the height of its glory. I believe 
the sights and sounds of nature touched me more keenly 
than any link connecting me with humanity. Laurel wood 
was like a brilliant picture. Knolls of richest shrubbery, 
burnished by the umber-softened sunshine of autumn; the 
emerald tint of the lawns, broken by clusters of bright, 
nodding blossoms; the drowsy babble of stream and 
fountain, and over all skies of such royal loveliness! I 
just wanted to ride and ramble continually, to live in the 
present, and take no thought of the future. 
"My darling, I have the most delightful tidings for you," 
Aylmer said, one morning, drawing me out on the balcony, 
bis own face suffused with joy and hope. "St. John has 
consented to a marriage at any time we may appoint." 
I hid my face on his shoulder, rejecting the kisses so 
freely proffered. A bolt of destiny seemed to -strike and 
transfix me. The sunshine fell at my feet with a cold 
glitter; the very loveliness of the earth mocked me, 
chilled me. 
"The barrier between us and complete happiness no 
longer exists. We are blest beyond compare. Why do 
you not rejoice with me, dearest ?" And he strove to read 
the secret I was thrusting into a nameless grave. 
"It is so sudden," I murmured. 
"O, my love, forgive my abruptness. One can hardly 
come from such waiting to bliss at a bound." 
"No," I said ; "I cannot make it real." 
"It has been cruel in St. John to subject you to such a 
trial. He is convinced at last of the truth of our regard." 
 
" Yes." It was a knell of hope to me. 
" But you haven't told me how happy it renders you." 
"Do you need words?" I asked, slowly. 
"No, I can believe. I am not one of those miserable, 
suspicious people who have no faith. You will find me 
generous there, my darling." 
Too generous. If he had demanded a fuller confession, 
if he had made me feel the sacredness of the trust I was 
accepting, it would have been much better for me. Was 
it because the love was so tender, or the heart so easily 
satisfied ? 
" Let us take a turn in the grounds," I said, for I felt if 
I stood another instant in his careless embrace, I must 
break away from it, or utter some wild cry motion, 
change, anything! 
" You don't feel this as I do," he went on. " Why, I am 
all in a quiver of joyous excitement. The very trees seem 
to dance before my vision, and the birds never sang such 
marvellous songs." 
" I suppose I take matters more quietly. I wonder if 
we are really suited to each other ? " I said, with an effort. 
"I shall not allow you to think treason;" and he gave 
me a bright, winsome smile. 
"Ife is well to consider " 
"I will not have you growing grave when I have reached 
the summit of earthly hope. St. John has sulked, and 
been morose as a bear, considering; so we really have no 
hard work to do. I am glad he at last consents to be 
decently gracious; and now, my darling, you have only to 
