every shadow of stiffness passed away from his manner before
dinner was over. Mr. Dinwiddie made himself very acceptable;
and there, where we had so much to talk about, talk flowed in
full stream. It was arranged that the new member of our party
should be our guest and our travelling companion during as
much of our journey as his duties allowed; and I went to sleep
that night with a deep and full sense of satisfaction.
Papa declared himself still the next day unable for a very
long and exciting day's work; so it was decided that we should
put off till the morrow our ride to the Jordan and the Dead
Sea, and Mr. Dinwiddie proposed to conduct me to Mount
Quarantania to see the hermits' caves which are remaining
there. Of course they remain; for the walls of caves do not
crumble away; however, the staircases and rock ways which led
to the upper ones have many of them suffered that fate.
We had a delicious walk. First along the foot of the mountain,
skirting a little channel of running water which brings the
outflow of another fountain to enrich a part of the plain. It
was made good for the cultivation of a large tract; although
very wild and disorderly cultivation. As we went, every spot
within sight was full of interest; rich with associations; the
air was warm but pleasant; the warble of the orange-winged
blackbird - I don't know if I ought to call it a warble; it
was a very fine and strong note, or whistle, - sounding from
the rocks as we went by, thrilled me with a wild reminder of
all that had once been busy life there, where now the
blackbird's cry sounded alone. The ruins of what had been, -
the blank, that was once so filled up, - the forlorn repose,
where the stir of the ages had been so restlessly active. I
heard Mr. Dinwiddie's talk as we went, he was telling and
explaining things to me. I heard, but could not make much
answer. Thought was too full.
A good distance from home, that is, from the tents, we reached
the source of all that fertilising water the channel of which
we had followed up. How wild the source was too! No Saracenic
arch over that; the water in a full flow came out from among
the roots of a great tree - one of the curious thorny dôm
trees that grow in thickets over the plain. I believe our
Arabs called them dôm; Mr. Dinwiddie said it was a Zizyphus.
It was a very large tree at any rate, and with its odd thorny
branches and bright green foliage canopied picturesquely the
fine spring beneath it. All was wild and waste. The Arabs do
not even root out the dîm or nubk trees from the spots they
irrigate and cultivate; but the little channels of water flow
in and out among the stems and roots of the trees as they can.
Times are changed on Jericho's plain.
I thought so, as we turned up the slope of rock rubbish which
leads to the foot of the cave cliffs. The mountain here is a
sheer face of rock; and the caves, natural or artificial,
pierce the rock in tiers, higher and lower. The precipice is
spotted with them. The lowest ones are used now by the Arabs
to pen their sheep and quarter their donkeys; Mr. Dinwiddie
and I looked into a good many of them; in one or two we found
a store of corn or straw laid up. Many of the highest caves
could not be got at; the paths and stairs in the rock which
used to lead to them are washed and worn away; but the second
tier are not so utterly cut off from human feet. By a way
chiselled in the rock, with good nerves, one can reach them.
My nerves were good enough, and I followed Mr. Dinwiddie along
the face of the precipice till we reached some sets of caves
communicating with each other. These were partly natural,
partly enlarged by labour. Places were cut for beds and for
cupboards; there was provision of a fine water tank, to which,
Mr. Dinwiddie told me, there were stone channels leading from
a source some hundreds of feet distant; cistern and tubes both
carefully plastered. A few Abyssinian Christians come here
every spring to keep Lent, Mr. Dinwiddie said. How much more
pains they take than we do, I thought.
"Yes," said Mr. Dinwiddie, when I said my thought aloud, -
" 'Skin for skin; all that a man hath will he give for his
life.' But when the conscience knows that heaven is not to be
bought that way, then there is no other motive left that will
use up all a man's energies but the love of Christ
constraining him."
"The trouble is, Mr. Dinwiddie, that there is so little of
that."
"So little!" he said, - "even in those of us who love most. I
do not mean to say that this love had no share in determining
the actions of those who used to live here; perhaps they
thought to get nearer to Christ by getting nearer to the
places of His some time presence and working in human flesh."
"And don't you think it does help, Mr. Dinwiddie?" I said.
He turned on me a very deep and sweet look, that was half a
smile.
"No!" he answered. "The Lord may use it, - He often does, - to
quicken our sense of realities and so strengthen our
apprehension of spiritualities; but just so He can use other
things, even remote distance from such and all material helps.
Out of that very distance He can make a tie to draw the soul
to Himself."
"There must have been a great many of those old Christians
living here once?" I said.
"Yes," said Mr. Dinwiddie. "On this face of the mountain there
are thirty or forty caves - I think there are many more in the
gorge of the Kelt, round on the south face. Do you see that
round hole over your head?"
We were standing in one of the caverns. I looked up.
"I cannot get you up there," he went on, - "but I have climbed
up by means of a rope. There are other rooms there, and one is
a chapel - I mean, it was one, - with arches cut to the
windows and doorways, and frescoed walls, full of figures of
saints. Through another hole in another ceiling, like this, I
got up into still a third set of rooms, like the ones below.
Into those nobody had come for many a year; the dust witnessed
it. Back of one room, the chapel, was a little low doorway;
very low. I crept through - and there in the inner place, lay
piled the skeletons of the old hermits; skulls and bones, just
as they had been laid while the flesh was still upon them; the
dust was inches deep. A hundred feet higher up there are more
caverns. No, I should not like to take you - though the
Abyssinian devotees come to them every spring. Yet higher than
those, far up, near the top of the mountain, I have explored
others, where I found still more burial caves like the one
just here above us. Chapels and frescoes were up there too."
"And difficult climbing, Mr. Dinwiddie."
"Very difficult. Broken stairs and dizzy galleries, and deep
precipices, with the vultures floating in air down below me."
"What a place for men to live!"
"Fitter for the doves and swallows which inhabit the old
hermits' houses now. Yet not a bad place to live either, if
one had nothing to do in the world. Sit down and rest and let
us look at it."
"And I have got some luncheon for you, Mr. Dinwiddie. I should
have missed all this if you had not been with me. Papa would
never have come here."
There were many places in front of the cells where seats had
been cut out in the rock; and in one of these Mr. Dinwiddie
and I sat down, to eat fruit and biscuit and use our eyes; our
attendant Arab no doubt wondering at us all the while. The
landscape in view was exceedingly fine. We had the plains of
Jericho, green and lovely, spread out before us; we could see
the north end of the Dead Sea and the mouth of the Jordan; and
the hills of Moab, always like a superb wall of mountain
rising up over against us.
"Do you know where you are?" said Mr. Dinwiddie.
"Partly."
"The site of old Jericho is marked by the heaps and the ruins
which lie between us and our camp."
"Yes. That is old Jericho."
"Over against us, somewhere among those Moab hills, is the
pass by which the hosts of the 'sons of Israel' came down,
with their flocks and herds, to the rich plains over there, -
the plains of Moab."
"And opposite us, I suppose, somewhere along there in front of
old Jericho, is the place where the waters of the river failed
from below and were cut off from above, and the great space
was laid bare for the armies to pass over."
"Just over there. And there - Elijah and Elisha went over dry
shod, when Elijah smote with his mantle upon the waters; and
there by the same way Elisha came back alone, after he had
seen his master taken from him."
"Those were grand times!" I said, with a half breath.
"They were rough times."
"Still, they were grand times."
"I think, these are grander."
"But, Mr. Dinwiddie, such things are not done now as were done
then."
"Why not?"
"Why, how can you ask?"
"How can you answer?"
"Why, Mr. Dinwiddie, the river is not parted now, this river
nor any other, for the Lord's people to go over without
trouble."
"Are you sure?" said he, with the deep sweet look I had
noticed. "Do they never come now, in the way of their duty, to
an impassable barrier of danger or difficulty, through which
the same hand opens their path? Did you never find that they
do, in your own experience?"
A little, I had; and yet it seemed to me that a very Jordan of
difficulty lay before me now, rolling in full power. Mr.
Dinwiddie waited a moment and went on.
"That old cry, 'Where is the Lord God of Elijah?' - will bring
down His hand, now as then; mighty to hold back worse waves
than those of the 'Descender.' Aaron's rod, and the blast of
the priests' trumpets, were but the appeal and the triumph of
faith. And before that appeal stronger walls than those of
Jericho fall down, now as well as then."
"Then it must be the faith that is wanting," I said.
"Sometimes" - Mr. Dinwiddie answered; "and not sometimes. That
earnest Sunday-school teacher, who prayed that the Lord would
give him at least one soul a week out of his Bible class, and
who reported at the end of the year, fifty-two brought to God,
- what do you think of his faith? - and his Jericho?"
"Is it true?" I said.
"It is true. What are the walls of stone and mortar to that?
We wrestle not with flesh and blood, but against
principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the
darkness of this world. - But our Captain is stronger."
I think we were both silent for some time; yet there was a din
of voices in my ear. So it seemed. Silence was literally
broken only by the note of a bird here and there; but the
plain before me, the green line which marked the course of the
Jordan, the Moab mountains, the ruins at my feet, the caves
behind me, were all talking to me. And there were voices of my
own past and present, still other voices, blending with these.
I sat very still, and Mr. Dinwiddie sat very still; until he
suddenly turned to me and spoke.
"Will nothing but a miracle do, Miss Daisy?"
The tone was so gentle and so quietly blended itself with my
musings, that I started and smiled.
"Oh, yes," I said; - "I do not suppose I want a miracle."
"Can a friend's counsel be of any use?"
"It might - of the greatest," I answered; - "if only I could
tell you all the circumstances."
"Before we go to that, how has it fared with my little friend
of old time, all these years?"
"How has it fared with me?" - I repeated in doubt.
"There is only one sort of welfare I know," he said. "It is
not strength to the body, or gold to the purse. I am 'well'
only when God's favour is shining on me and I am strong to run
the way of His commandments."
"I am not strong," I said.
"You know I do not mean my own strength, or yours," he
answered.
"I have never forgotten what you used to tell me," I said.
"Good. And yet, Miss Daisy, I would rather you could tell me
you had forgotten it; that you had gone on so far from that
beginning as to have lost it out of view."
"Ah, but I have not had so many friends to teach me, and help
me, that I could afford to forget the first one," I said. "I
have one dear old friend who thinks as you do, - and that is
all; and I cannot see her now."
" 'If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to
all men liberally and upbraideth not; and it shall be given
him,' " Mr. Dinwiddie said.
"I lack wisdom, very much; but it does not seem to come, even
though I ask for it. I am sometimes in a great puzzle."
"About what to do?"
"Yes."
"You can always find out the first step to be taken. Jesus
will be followed step by step. He will not show you but one
step at a time, very often. But take that, holding His hand,
and He will show you the next."
"So I came here," I said.
"And what is the work to be done here? on yourself, or on
somebody else?"
"I do not know," I said. "I had not thought it was either.
Perhaps I am learning."
He was silent then, and I sat thinking.
"Mr. Dinwiddie," I said, "maybe you can help me."
"I will gladly, if I can."
"But it is very difficult for me to put you in possession of
the circumstances - or in the atmosphere of the circumstances.
I do not know that I can. You know that papa and mamma do not
think with me on the subject of religion?"
"Yes."
"There are other things in which I think differently from them
- other things in which we feel apart; and they do not know
it. Ought I to let them know it?"
"Your question is as enigmatical as an ancient oracle. I must
have a little more light. Do these differences of feeling or
opinion touch action? - either yours or theirs?"
"Yes, - both."
"Then, unless your minds are known to each other, will there
not be danger of mistaken action, on the one part or on the
other?"
"Telling them would not prevent that danger," I said.
"They would disregard your views, or you would disregard
theirs, - which?"
"I must not disregard theirs," I said low.
Mr. Dinwiddie was silent awhile. I had a sort of cry in my
heart for the old dividing of the waters.
"Miss Daisy," he said, "there is one sure rule. Do right; and
let consequences break us to pieces, if needs be."
"But," said I doubtfully, "I had questioned what was right; at
least I had not been certain that I ought to do anything just
now."
"Of course I am speaking in the dark," he answered. "But you
can judge whether this matter of division is something that in
your father's place you would feel you had a right to know."
I mused so long after this speech, that I am sure Mr.
Dinwiddie must have felt that he had touched my difficulty. He
was perfectly silent. At last I rose up to go home. I do not
know what Mr. Dinwiddie saw in me, but he stopped me and took
my hand.
"Can't you trust the Lord?" he said.
"I see trouble before me, whatever I do," I said with some
difficulty.
"Very well," he said; "even so, trust the Lord. The trouble
will do you no harm."
I sat down for a moment and covered my face. It might do me no
harm; it might at the same time separate me from what I loved
best in the world.
"Cannot you trust?" he repeated. " 'He that putteth his trust
in the Lord shall be made fat.' "
"You know," I said, getting up, "one cannot help being weak."
"Will you excuse me? - That is precisely what we can help. We
cannot help being ignorant sometimes, - foolish sometimes, -
short-sighted. But weak we need not be; for 'in the Lord
Jehovah is everlasting strength;' and 'he giveth power to the
faint.' "
"But there is no perfection, Mr. Dinwiddie."
"Not if by perfection you mean, standing alone. But if the
power that holds us up is perfect, - what should hinder our
having a fulness of that? 'If ye shall ask anything in My
name, I will do it.' Isn't that promise good for all we want
to ask?"
I sat down again to think. Mr. Dinwiddie quietly took his
place by my side; and we were still for a good while. The
plains of Jericho and the Jordan and the Moab mountains and
the Quarantania, all seemed to have new voices for me now;
voices full of balm; messages of soft-healing. I do think the
messages God sends to us by natural things are some of the
sweetest and mightiest and best understood of all. They come
home.
"Do you think," I asked, after a long silence, "that this
mountain was really the scene of the Temptation?"
"Why should we think so? No, I do not think it."
"But the road from Jericho to Jerusalem - there is no doubt of
that?"
"No doubt at all. We are often sure of the roads here, when we
are sure of little else."
There was a pause; and then Mr. Dinwiddie broke it.
"You left things in confusion at home. How do you feel about
that?"
"At home in America?" I said. "I do not feel about it as my
parents do."
"You side with the North!"
"I have lived there so much. I know the view taken there; and
it seems to me the right one. And I have lived at the South
too; and I do not like the view held there, - nor the practice
followed."
"There are some things I can fancy you would not like," he
said musingly. "I have not known what to think. It seems to me
they have made a false move. But it seems to me they must
succeed."
"I don't know," I said. "Perhaps."
He looked at me a little hard, and then we left the hermits'
caves and went down the plain to our encampment.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE FORLORN HOPE
The spot where our tents were pitched commands a view, I think
one of the loveliest in the world. Perhaps with me association
has something to do with the feeling. That broad sweep of the
plains of Jericho, bright with their groves of Zizyphus trees;
the lake waters coming in at the south; the great line of the
Moab horizon, and the heights of the western shore; and then
the constant changes which the light makes in revealing all
these; I found it a study of beauty, from the morning till the
night. From the time when the sun rose over the Moab mountains
and brightened our dôm trees and kissed our spring, to the
evening when the shadow of Quarantania stretched over all our
neighbourhood, as it stretched over Jericho of old, and the
distant hills and waters and thickets glowed in colours and
lights of their own.
The next morning after my walk I was up early, and going a
little way from my tent door, I sat down to enjoy it. The
servants were but just stirring; my father and Mr. Dinwiddie
safe within their canvas curtains. It was very nice to be
alone, for I wanted to think. The air was deliciously balmy
and soft; another fair day had risen upon us in that region of
tropical summer; the breath of the air was peace. Or was it
the speech of the past? It is difficult to disentangle things
sometimes. I had troublesome matters to think about, yet
somehow I was not troubled. I did not lay hold of trouble, all
the while I was in Palestine. Mr. Dinwiddie's words had
revealed to me that it might be my duty to tell my father all
that was in my heart. Suspicions of the fact, only, had
crossed my thought before; but "as iron sharpeneth iron, so a
man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend." I saw more
clearly. And the longer I sat there on my stone looking over
to the line of the Jordan and to the hills through which the
armies of Israel had once come down to cross it, the clearer
it grew to my mind, that the difficulty before me was one to
be faced, not evaded. I saw that papa had a right to know my
affairs, and that he would think it became me as a Christian
not to make a mystery of them. I saw I must tell papa about
myself. And yet, it did not appal me, as the idea had often
appalled me. I was hardly afraid. At any rate, there before me
the hosts of the Israelites had passed over dry shod; though
the river was swift and strong; and the appeal of Elisha, -
"Where is the Lord God of Elijah?" - came home to my ear like
a blast of the priests' silver trumpets. I felt two hands on
my shoulders.
"Studying it all, Daisy?"
"Papa, I am never tired of studying."
"This is a wonderful place."
"Papa, you know little about it yet. Old Jericho was up
there."
"You speak as if I had gone to school in 'old Jericho,' " said
my father, laughing. "I have the vaguest idea, Daisy, that
such a city existed. That is all."
"Sit down, papa, while breakfast is getting ready, and let me
mend your knowledge."
So we read the story there, on the stone by the spring. Mr.
Dinwiddie joined us; and it was presently decided that we
should spend the morning in examining the ground in our
neighbourhood and the old sites of what had passed away. So
after breakfast we sat out upon a walk over the territory of
old Jericho.
"But it is strange," said papa, "if the city was here, that
there are no architectural remains to testify as much."
"We rarely find them, sir, but in connection with Roman or
Saracenic work. Shapeless mounds, and broken pottery, as you
have it here, are all that generally mark our Palestine
ruins."
"But Herod?" said papa. "He was a builder."
"Herod's Jericho was a mile and a half away, to the east. And
moreover, if anything had been remaining here that could be
made of use, the Saracens or Crusaders would have pulled it to
