don't know where to go."

"Then I'll tell you. The church I attend is at the corner of Fifth
Avenue and Twenty-first Street."

"I've seen it," said Dick.

"I have a class in the Sunday School there. If you'll come next
Sunday, I'll take you into my class, and do what I can to help you."

"Thank you," said Dick, "but p'r'aps you'll get tired of teaching
me. I'm awful ignorant."

"No, my lad," said Mr. Greyson, kindly. "You evidently have some
good principles to start with, as you have shown by your scorn of
dishonesty. I shall hope good things of you in the future."

"Well, Dick," said our hero, apostrophizing himself, as he left the
office; "you're gettin' up in the world. You've got money invested,
and are goin' to attend church, by partic'lar invitation, on Fifth
Avenue. I shouldn't wonder much if you should find cards, when you
get home, from the Mayor, requestin' the honor of your company to
dinner, along with other distinguished guests."

Dick felt in very good spirits. He seemed to be emerging from the
world in which he had hitherto lived, into a new atmosphere of
respectability, and the change seemed very pleasant to him.

At six o'clock Dick went into a restaurant on Chatham Street, and
got a comfortable supper. He had been so successful during the day
that, after paying for this, he still had ninety cents left. While
he was despatching his supper, another boy came in, smaller and
slighter than Dick, and sat down beside him. Dick recognized him
as a boy who three months before had entered the ranks of the
boot-blacks, but who, from a natural timidity, had not been able
to earn much. He was ill-fitted for the coarse companionship of
the street boys, and shrank from the rude jokes of his present
associates. Dick had never troubled him; for our hero had a certain
chivalrous feeling which would not allow him to bully or disturb a
younger and weaker boy than himself.

"How are you, Fosdick?" said Dick, as the other seated himself.

"Pretty well," said Fosdick. "I suppose you're all right."

"Oh, yes, I'm right side up with care. I've been havin' a bully
supper. What are you goin' to have?"

"Some bread and butter."

"Why don't you get a cup o' coffee?"

"Why," said Fosdick, reluctantly, "I haven't got money enough
to-night."

"Never mind," said Dick; "I'm in luck to-day, I'll stand treat."

"That's kind in you," said Fosdick, gratefully.

"Oh, never mind that," said Dick.

Accordingly he ordered a cup of coffee, and a plate of beefsteak,
and was gratified to see that his young companion partook of both
with evident relish. When the repast was over, the boys went out
into the street together, Dick pausing at the desk to settle for
both suppers.

"Where are you going to sleep to-night, Fosdick?" asked Dick, as
they stood on the sidewalk.

"I don't know," said Fosdick, a little sadly. "In some doorway, I
expect. But I'm afraid the police will find me out, and make me
move on."

"I'll tell you what," said Dick, "you must go home with me. I guess
my bed will hold two."

"Have you got a room?" asked the other, in surprise.

"Yes," said Dick, rather proudly, and with a little excusable
exultation. "I've got a room over in Mott Street; there I can
receive my friends. That'll be better than sleepin' in a
door-way,--won't it?"

"Yes, indeed it will," said Fosdick. "How lucky I was to come across
you! It comes hard to me living as I do. When my father was alive I
had every comfort."

"That's more'n I ever had," said Dick. "But I'm goin' to try to live
comfortable now. Is your father dead?"

"Yes," said Fosdick, sadly. "He was a printer; but he was drowned
one dark night from a Fulton ferry-boat, and, as I had no relations
in the city, and no money, I was obliged to go to work as quick as
I could. But I don't get on very well."

"Didn't you have no brothers nor sisters?" asked Dick.

"No," said Fosdick; "father and I used to live alone. He was always
so much company to me that I feel very lonesome without him. There's
a man out West somewhere that owes him two thousand dollars. He used
to live in the city, and father lent him all his money to help him
go into business; but he failed, or pretended to, and went off. If
father hadn't lost that money he would have left me well off; but no
money would have made up his loss to me."

"What's the man's name that went off with your father's money?"

"His name is Hiram Bates."

"P'r'aps you'll get the money again, sometime."

"There isn't much chance of it," said Fosdick. "I'd sell out my
chances of that for five dollars."

"Maybe I'll buy you out sometime," said Dick. "Now, come round and
see what sort of a room I've got. I used to go to the theatre
evenings, when I had money; but now I'd rather go to bed early, and
have a good sleep."

"I don't care much about theatres," said Fosdick. "Father didn't use
to let me go very often. He said it wasn't good for boys."

"I like to go to the Old Bowery sometimes. They have tip-top plays
there. Can you read and write well?" he asked, as a sudden thought
came to him.

"Yes," said Fosdick. "Father always kept me at school when he was
alive, and I stood pretty well in my classes. I was expecting to
enter at the Free Academy* next year."

* Now the college of the city of New York.


"Then I'll tell you what," said Dick; "I'll make a bargain with you.
I can't read much more'n a pig; and my writin' looks like hens'
tracks. I don't want to grow up knowin' no more'n a four-year-old
boy. If you'll teach me readin' and writin' evenin's, you shall
sleep in my room every night. That'll be better'n door-steps or old
boxes, where I've slept many a time."

"Are you in earnest?" said Fosdick, his face lighting up hopefully.

"In course I am," said Dick. "It's fashionable for young gentlemen
to have private tootors to introduct 'em into the flower-beds of
literatoor and science, and why shouldn't I foller the fashion? You
shall be my perfessor; only you must promise not to be very hard if
my writin' looks like a rail-fence on a bender."

"I'll try not to be too severe," said Fosdick, laughing. "I shall be
thankful for such a chance to get a place to sleep. Have you got
anything to read out of?"

"No," said Dick. "My extensive and well-selected library was lost
overboard in a storm, when I was sailin' from the Sandwich Islands
to the desert of Sahara. But I'll buy a paper. That'll do me a
long time."

Accordingly Dick stopped at a paper-stand, and bought a copy of
a weekly paper, filled with the usual variety of reading
matter,--stories, sketches, poems, etc.

They soon arrived at Dick's lodging-house. Our hero, procuring a
lamp from the landlady, led the way into his apartment, which he
entered with the proud air of a proprietor.

"Well, how do you like it, Fosdick?" he asked, complacently.

The time was when Fosdick would have thought it untidy and not
particularly attractive. But he had served a severe apprenticeship
in the streets, and it was pleasant to feel himself under shelter,
and he was not disposed to be critical.

"It looks very comfortable, Dick," he said.

"The bed aint very large," said Dick; "but I guess we can
get along."

"Oh, yes," said Fosdick, cheerfully. "I don't take up much room."

"Then that's all right. There's two chairs, you see, one for you
and one for me. In case the mayor comes in to spend the evenin'
socially, he can sit on the bed."

The boys seated themselves, and five minutes later, under the
guidance of his young tutor, Dick had commenced his studies.



CHAPTER XVI

THE FIRST LESSON


Fortunately for Dick, his young tutor was well qualified to instruct
him. Henry Fosdick, though only twelve years old, knew as much as
many boys of fourteen. He had always been studious and ambitious
to excel. His father, being a printer, employed in an office where
books were printed, often brought home new books in sheets, which
Henry was always glad to read. Mr. Fosdick had been, besides, a
subscriber to the Mechanics' Apprentices' Library, which contains
many thousands of well-selected and instructive books. Thus Henry
had acquired an amount of general information, unusual in a boy of
his age. Perhaps he had devoted too much time to study, for he was
not naturally robust. All this, however, fitted him admirably for
the office to which Dick had appointed him,--that of his private
instructor.

The two boys drew up their chairs to the rickety table, and spread
out the paper before them.

"The exercises generally Commence with ringin' the bell," said Dick;
"but as I aint got none, we'll have to do without."

"And the teacher is generally provided with a rod," said Fosdick.
"Isn't there a poker handy, that I can use in case my scholar
doesn't behave well?"

"'Taint lawful to use fire-arms," said Dick.

"Now, Dick," said Fosdick, "before we begin, I must find out how
much you already know. Can you read any?"

"Not enough to hurt me," said Dick. "All I know about readin' you
could put in a nutshell, and there'd be room left for a small
family."

"I suppose you know your letters?"

"Yes," said Dick, "I know 'em all, but not intimately. I guess I can
call 'em all by name."

"Where did you learn them? Did you ever go to school?"

"Yes; I went two days."

"Why did you stop?"

"It didn't agree with my constitution."

"You don't look very delicate," said Fosdick.

"No," said Dick, "I aint troubled much that way; but I found lickins
didn't agree with me."

"Did you get punished?"

"Awful," said Dick.

"What for?"

"For indulgin' in a little harmless amoosement," said Dick. "You see
the boy that was sittin' next to me fell asleep, which I considered
improper in school-time; so I thought I'd help the teacher a little
by wakin' him up. So I took a pin and stuck into him; but I guess it
went a little too far, for he screeched awful. The teacher found out
what it was that made him holler, and whipped me with a ruler till I
was black and blue. I thought 'twas about time to take a vacation;
so that's the last time I went to school."

"You didn't learn to read in that time, of course?"

"No," said Dick; "but I was a newsboy a little while; so I learned a
little, just so's to find out what the news was. Sometimes I didn't
read straight and called the wrong news. One mornin' I asked another
boy what the paper said, and he told me the King of Africa was dead.
I thought it was all right till folks began to laugh."

"Well, Dick, if you'll only study well, you won't be liable to make
such mistakes."

"I hope so," said Dick. "My friend Horace Greeley told me the other
day that he'd get me to take his place now and then when he was off
makin' speeches if my edication hadn't been neglected."

"I must find a good piece for you to begin on," said Fosdick,
looking over the paper.

"Find an easy one," said Dick, "with words of one story."

Fosdick at length found a piece which he thought would answer. He
discovered on trial that Dick had not exaggerated his deficiencies.
Words of two syllables he seldom pronounced right, and was much
surprised when he was told how "through" was sounded.

"Seems to me it's throwin' away letters to use all them," he said.

"How would you spell it?" asked his young teacher.

"T-h-r-u," said Dick.

"Well," said Fosdick, "there's a good many other words that are
spelt with more letters than they need to have. But it's the
fashion, and we must follow it."

But if Dick was ignorant, he was quick, and had an excellent
capacity. Moreover he had perseverance, and was not easily
discouraged. He had made up his mind he must know more, and was
not disposed to complain of the difficulty of his task. Fosdick
had occasion to laugh more than once at his ludicrous mistakes; but
Dick laughed too, and on the whole both were quite interested in
the lesson.

At the end of an hour and a half the boys stopped for the evening.

"You're learning fast, Dick," said Fosdick. "At this rate you will
soon learn to read well."

"Will I?" asked Dick with an expression of satisfaction. "I'm glad
of that. I don't want to be ignorant. I didn't use to care, but I do
now. I want to grow up 'spectable."

"So do I, Dick. We will both help each other, and I am sure we can
accomplish something. But I am beginning to feel sleepy."

"So am I," said Dick. "Them hard words make my head ache. I wonder
who made 'em all?"

"That's more than I can tell. I suppose you've seen a dictionary."

"That's another of 'em. No, I can't say I have, though I may have
seen him in the street without knowin' him."

"A dictionary is a book containing all the words in the language."

"How many are there?"

"I don't rightly know; but I think there are about fifty thousand."

"It's a pretty large family," said Dick. "Have I got to learn 'em
all?"

"That will not be necessary. There are a large number which you
would never find occasion to use."

"I'm glad of that," said Dick; "for I don't expect to live to be
more'n a hundred, and by that time I wouldn't be more'n half
through."

By this time the flickering lamp gave a decided hint to the boys
that unless they made haste they would have to undress in the dark.
They accordingly drew off their clothes, and Dick jumped into bed.
But Fosdick, before doing so, knelt down by the side of the bed, and
said a short prayer.

"What's that for?" asked Dick, curiously.

"I was saying my prayers," said Fosdick, as he rose from his knees.
"Don't you ever do it?"

"No," said Dick. "Nobody ever taught me."

"Then I'll teach you. Shall I?"

"I don't know," said Dick, dubiously. "What's the good?"

Fosdick explained as well as he could, and perhaps his simple
explanation was better adapted to Dick's comprehension than one
from an older person would have been. Dick felt more free to ask
questions, and the example of his new friend, for whom he was
beginning to feel a warm attachment, had considerable effect upon
him. When, therefore, Fosdick asked again if he should teach him a
prayer, Dick consented, and his young bedfellow did so. Dick was not
naturally irreligious. If he had lived without a knowledge of God
and of religious things, it was scarcely to be wondered at in a lad
who, from an early age, had been thrown upon his own exertions for
the means of living, with no one to care for him or give him good
advice. But he was so far good that he could appreciate goodness in
others, and this it was that had drawn him to Frank in the first
place, and now to Henry Fosdick. He did not, therefore, attempt to
ridicule his companion, as some boys better brought up might have
done, but was willing to follow his example in what something told
him was right. Our young hero had taken an important step toward
securing that genuine respectability which he was ambitious to
attain.

Weary with the day's work, and Dick perhaps still more fatigued by
the unusual mental effort he had made, the boys soon sank into a
deep and peaceful slumber, from which they did not awaken till six
o'clock the next morning. Before going out Dick sought Mrs. Mooney,
and spoke to her on the subject of taking Fosdick as a room-mate.
He found that she had no objection, provided he would allow her
twenty-five cents a week extra, in consideration of the extra
trouble which his companion might be expected to make. To this
Dick assented, and the arrangement was definitely concluded.

This over, the two boys went out and took stations near each other.
Dick had more of a business turn than Henry, and less shrinking from
publicity, so that his earnings were greater. But he had undertaken
to pay the entire expenses of the room, and needed to earn more.
Sometimes, when two customers presented themselves at the same time,
he was able to direct one to his friend. So at the end of the week
both boys found themselves with surplus earnings. Dick had the
satisfaction of adding two dollars and a half to his deposits in
the Savings Bank, and Fosdick commenced an account by depositing
seventy-five cents.

On Sunday morning Dick bethought himself of his promise to Mr.
Greyson to come to the church on Fifth Avenue. To tell the truth,
Dick recalled it with some regret. He had never been inside a church
