"No, he does not; but I shall tell him."
"Come, Oakley," said Mr. Huxter, persuasively, "you know this is all
wrong,--your running away, I mean. I don't want you to stay at my house
if you don't like it, of course, but I don't like to have it said that
you ran away. Just come ashore and go home with me, and to-morrow I'll
take the responsibility of sending you home to my sister. I can write
her that I think she hasn't done the right thing by you. That's fair,
isn't it?"
John felt that it would be fair; but unfortunately he had no faith in
Mr. Huxter's sincerity. He had seen too much of him for that. He could
not help thinking of the spider's gracious invitation to the fly, and
he did not mean to incur the fly's fate by imitating his folly.
"I don't think it will be wise for me to go back," said John.
"I wish I could get at you," said Mr. Huxter to himself.
"My sister will be very angry when she hears of your running away," he
said, aloud.
"Yes," said John, "I suppose she will."
"You must take care not to provoke her. You are dependent upon her."
"That I am not!" said John, proudly.
"Didn't your father leave her all the property?"
"So it seems," said John, wincing.
"Then how can you live without her help?"
"I am old enough to earn my own living," answered John.
"Come, Oakley, don't be foolish. What's the use of working for your
living, when, by behaving right, you can have a home without?"
Mr. Huxter seemed to forget that he had intended to set John at work in
his shoe-shop as soon as he could obtain a supply of work.
"I am not afraid to work," said John. "What I dislike is to be
dependent. I am not dependent upon Mrs. Oakley, for the property which
my father left was partly intended for my benefit, even if it was not
willed to me. If Mrs. Oakley intends me to feel dependent, and breaks
up all my plans, I will go to work for myself, and make my own way in
the world."
"Very fine talk; but you'll repent it within a week."
"No," said John; "I have made up my mind, and I shall do as I have
determined."
"Then you won't come ashore?" demanded Mr. Huxter, his tone changing.
"No, I will not," said John.
"If I ever get hold of you, I'll make you smart for this," said Mr.
Huxter, now wholly throwing off the mask which for prudential motives
he had worn.
"I don't mean that you shall get hold of me," said John, coolly. And
with a sweep of the oars, he sent the boat further from the shore.
Mr. Huxter was beside himself with rage, but perfectly powerless to do
any harm. Nothing is more ludicrous than such a spectacle. He screamed
himself hoarse, uttering threats of various kinds to John, who,
instead of being frightened, took it all very coolly, dipping his oars
tranquilly in the water.
"There's one way of getting at you," said Huxter, suddenly picking up a
good-sized stone and flinging it at the boat.
If he had been a good marksman the stone might have hit John, for
the boat was within range; but it veered aside and struck the water.
Admonished of a new danger, John took several rapid strokes, and was
quickly free from this peril. Mr. Huxter shook his fist wrathfully at
the young boatman, and was considering if there was any way of getting
at him, when an unexpected mischance called his attention in another
direction. Looking towards the road, he found that his horse had
managed to break loose, and was now heading for home.
"Whoa!" he shouted, as he ran towards the retreating vehicle,
forgetting that his voice would hardly reach a third of a mile.
Certainly this was not one of Mr. Huxter's lucky days. John was left
master of the situation.
CHAPTER XXVI.
ONE DISAPPOINTMENT FOLLOWS ANOTHER.
At the close of the last chapter we left John floating at his ease in
a row-boat, while his pursuer was compelled, by the sudden departure
of his horse, to give up his immediate purpose, and chase the flying
animal. It was very much against his will that he left John; but the
horse, as he knew, was the best in the stable, and valued at not less
than three hundred dollars,--a sum which he would be unable to make up.
Besides this, the chaise might be injured.
"Curse my luck!" exclaimed Mr. Huxter, as he glanced back at John, with
a baffled look. "Every thing turns against me. But I'll come back after
the young rascal as soon as I catch the horse."
But, unfortunately for Mr. Huxter, it proved that two legs were
no match for four. When he got to the road, the horse was half a
mile ahead. In spite of his haste, he was obliged to pause a moment
and recover his breath, which the unusual exercise of running had
exhausted.
Mr. Huxter was nearly two miles distant from the tavern where he had
stopped. His only hope was that the horse would stop or be stopped
there. As soon as he recovered his breath, he started for the tavern,
therefore. Partly running, partly walking, he at length arrived, tired,
heated, and in ill-humor.
Entering the yard, he saw a group of men and boys surrounding the horse
and chaise, which had already arrived. Among them was Mr. Jones, the
landlord.
"Why, here's the man himself!" exclaimed the landlord, advancing to
meet him. "How came your horse to run away? Were you spilled out?"
"No; I tied him to a tree, and he broke loose and ran away. Has he done
any harm?" asked Mr. Huxter, nervously.
"He's smashed one of the wheels in running against a post," said a
bystander.
"Let me see," said Mr. Huxter, dolefully.
He found that it was as bad as had been told him. The horse made a
short turn into the inn-yard, and managed to bring the chaise into
collision with a post. The wheel was pretty well shattered.
"Looks bad," said the bystander. "It'll cost something to mend it."
"It can't be mended," said Mr. Jones. "You'll have to get a new wheel."
"What'll it cost?" said Mr. Huxter, with something very like a groan.
"I can't say exactly. Maybe twenty-five dollars will do it."
"It might have been worse," said the bystander, in what was meant to be
an encouraging tone.
"It's bad enough," said Mr. Huxter, fiercely. "It's just my cursed
luck."
"Was the carriage yours?" asked the landlord.
"No, I got it from a stable. They'll charge me about double price."
"Oh, by the way, did you catch the boy?" asked the landlord, in a tone
of interest.
"No," said Mr. Huxter, with an oath which I will omit. "I had just
overtaken him when the cursed horse ran away."
"Well, you are unlucky," said Jones. "What are you going to do about
it?"
"I suppose I must get the carriage home somehow."
"You might get a new wheel put on here. There's an excellent
wheelwright in the village. It will cost you less."
Mr. Huxter finally made an arrangement to this effect, the wheelwright
agreeing for twenty-five dollars to put the chaise in repair.
This, with the stable charge, made thirty dollars as the expense
of Mr. Huxter's little excursion, which, as we have seen, ended in
disappointment. He decided not to continue the pursuit of John, having
good reason to doubt whether he would catch him.
There was one question which troubled Mr. Huxter: Would his sister be
willing to pay this thirty dollars? If not, it would indeed be a bad
morning's work for him. He lost no time, on getting home, in writing to
Mrs. Oakley. His letter is subjoined.
 "DEAR SISTER:--I hope these few lines will find you in good health.
 This comes to inform you that the young rascal that I took to board
 to accommodate you has run away, after treating me most shameful. I
 hired a team to go after him this morning; but the horse ran away and
 broke the carriage, which will cost me forty dollars to mend. (Mr.
 Huxter thought if Mrs. Oakley was to pay the bill he might as well add
 something to it.) As I was on your business, you will expect to pay
 this, of course. You can send the money in a letter. I will get back
 John Oakley if I can. He is a young scamp, and I don't wonder you had
 trouble with him. When I get him back, I will make him toe the mark,
 you may be sure of that. Please write to me by return mail, and don't
 forget the money. Your brother,"
  "EPHRAIM HUXTER."
Mr. Huxter did not have to wait long for an answer; but it proved to be
less satisfactory than prompt. It ran as follows:--
 "MY DEAR BROTHER:--Your letter has just reached me. I am surprised
 that you could not manage to control a boy of fifteen. It seems that
 he has got the best of you. You need not trouble yourself to get him
 back. If he chooses to run away and earn his own living, he may, for
 all I care. He is a young rascal, as you say.
 "As to the carriage which you say was damaged to the extent of forty
 dollars, I do not see how it could have happened, with ordinary care.
 How did it happen? You ought to have told me in your letter. Nor do I
 see how you can expect me to pay for the result of your carelessness.
 But even if I were to do it, you seem to forget that I advanced you
 seventy-five dollars on John's board. As he has remained only one
 week, that being deducted will leave a balance of sixty-nine dollars,
 or perhaps sixty, after taking out travelling expenses. I could
 rightfully require this back; but I will not be hard on you. You may
 pay for the damage done to the carriage (I am surprised that it should
 amount to forty dollars), and keep the balance as a gift from me.
 But it will be useless for you to make any further claim on me for a
 year, at least, as I have large expenses, and charity begins at home.
 Remember me to your wife."
  "JANE OAKLEY."
"Well, if that isn't a cold-blooded letter!" said Mr. Huxter, bitterly.
"Jane is rich now, and don't care for the privations of her poor
brother. She blames me because the chaise got broken,--just as if I
could help it."
Still Mr. Huxter had no real reason to complain. His sister had agreed
to pay for the damage done, and there would be something left out of
the money she had paid in advance. But Mr. Huxter, as soon as he had
received it, had at once looked upon it as his own, though not yet
earned, and to use it seemed as if he were paying the bill out of his
own pocket. Then, again, the very decided intimation that he need not
look for any more assistance at present was discouraging. Deducting
expenses, it would leave him but a small amount to pay him for his
journey to Hampton. He resolved not to pay the wheelwright, if he
could possibly avoid it, not being very conscientious about paying his
debts. But, as Mr. Huxter's reputation in that way was well known, the
wheelwright refused to surrender the chaise till his bill was paid; and
the stable-keeper made such a fuss that Mr. Huxter was compelled to pay
the bill, though very much against his inclination.
The result of his disappointment was, that he began to drink worse than
ever, and poor Mrs. Huxter, for some weeks, had a hard time of it. She
was certainly very much to be pitied, as is every poor woman who finds
herself yoked for life to a husband wedded to a habit so fatal to all
domestic comfort and happiness.
CHAPTER XXVII.
JOHN OAKLEY'S AUNT.
When John found that his enemy had abandoned the siege, he rowed
ashore, and watched Mr. Huxter until he became satisfied that it
would require a considerable time to catch the horse. He thought
that he might venture to pursue his journey, without further fear of
molestation. Of the incidents that followed, none are worth recording.
It is sufficient to say that on the evening of the second day John
entered the town of Wilton.
It was years since he had seen his aunt. She had been confined at home
by the cares of a young family, and the distance between Wilton and
Hampton seemed formidable. He knew, however, that his uncle, Thomas
Berry, kept a small country store, and had done so ever since his
marriage. In a country village it is always easy to find the "store,"
and John kept up the main road, feeling that it would not be necessary
to inquire. He came at length to a meeting-house, and judged that the
store would not be far off. In fact, a few rods further he came to a
long, two-story building, painted white, with a piazza in front. On a
large sign-board over it he read:--
  "THOMAS BERRY.
   PROVISION AND DRY-GOODS STORE."
"This must be the place," thought John. "I think I'll go into the store
first and see uncle."
He entered, and found himself in a broad room, low-studded, furnished
with counters on two sides, and crowded with a motley collection of
goods, embracing calicoes and dry goods generally, as well as barrels
of molasses and firkins of butter. There chanced to be no customer in
at the time. Behind the counter he saw, not his uncle, but a young man,
with long, light hair combed behind his ears, not very prepossessing in
his appearance,--at least so John thought.
"Is Mr. Berry in?" he asked, walking up to the counter.
"Mr. Berry is dead," was the unexpected reply.
"Dead!" exclaimed John, in surprise. "How long since he died?"
"A week ago."
"We never heard of it," said John, half to himself.
"Are you a relation?" asked the young man.
"He was my uncle."
"Is your name Oakley?"
"Yes, John Oakley."
"Of Hampton?"
"Yes."
"A letter was sent there, announcing the death."
This was true; but Mrs. Oakley, who received the letter, had not
thought it necessary to send intelligence of its contents to John.
"Didn't you get it?" continued the other.
"I haven't been at home for a week or more," said John. "I suppose that
accounts for it. How is my aunt?"
"She is not very well."
"I think I will go into the house and see her."
John went around to the door of the house and knocked. A young girl
of twelve answered. Though John had not seen her for six years, he
concluded that it must be his Cousin Martha.
"How do you do, Cousin Martha?" he said, extending his hand.
"Are you my Cousin John Oakley?" she said, doubtfully.
"Yes. I did not hear till just now of your loss," said John. "How is
your mother?"
"She is not very well. Come in, Cousin John. She will be glad to see
you."
John was ushered into a small sitting-room, where he found his aunt
seated in a chair by the window, sewing on a black dress for one of the
children.
"Here's Cousin John, mother," said Martha.
An expression of pleasure came to Mrs. Berry's pale face.
"I am very glad to see you, John," she said. "You were very kind to
come. Is your stepmother well?"
"Quite well," said John. "But I do not come directly from home."
"Indeed! How does that happen?" asked his aunt.
"It is rather a long story, aunt. I will tell you by and by. But now
tell me about yourself. Of what did my uncle die?"
"He exposed himself imprudently in a storm one evening three months
since," said Mrs. Berry. "In consequence of this, he took a severe
cold, which finally terminated in a fever. We did not at first suppose
him to be in any danger, but he gradually became worse, and a week
since he died. It is a terrible loss to me and my poor children."
Here his aunt put her handkerchief to her face to wipe away the tears
that started at the thought of her bereavement.
"Dear aunt, I sympathize with you," said John, earnestly, taking her
hand.
"I know you do, John," said his aunt. "I don't know how I can get along
alone, with four poor fatherless children to look after."
"God will help you, aunt. You must look to him," said John, reverently.
"It is that thought alone that sustains me," said Mrs. Berry. "But
sometimes, when the thought of my bereavement comes upon me, I don't
realize it as I should."
"I went into the store first," said John. "I suppose it was my uncle's
assistant that I saw there?"
"Yes," said Mrs. Berry; "it was Mr. Hall."
"I suppose he manages the store now for you?"
"Yes," said Mrs. Berry, slowly. "But I hardly know that it is right to
say that he manages it for me."
"Why not?" asked John, perplexed by his aunt's manner, which seemed to
him strange.
"I will tell you, John," said his aunt. "When Mr. Berry died, I
thought he owned the stock clear, and had no debts; but day before
yesterday Mr. Hall called in, and showed me a note for two thousand
dollars, signed by Mr. Berry. I don't suppose the stock is worth more
than three thousand. Of course that makes a very great difference in my
circumstances. In fact, it will leave me only a thousand dollars, at
the utmost, to support my poor children. I don't know what I shall do."
And the poor woman, whose nerves had been shaken by her grief, burst
into tears.
"Didn't my uncle own this building, then?" asked John.
"No, he never owned it. He hired it at a low rent from Mr. Mansfield,
one of the selectmen, and a rich man."
"Can't you keep up the store, aunt? Will not that give income enough to
support the family?"
"But for this note, I could. But if I have to pay that, it will leave
only a third of the store belonging to me. Then out of the profits I
must pay the rent, the wages of a salesman and a boy, before I can get
anything for myself. You see, John, there isn't much prospect."
"Yes," said John, thoughtfully. "It doesn't look very bright. You say,
aunt, that uncle never mentioned this note to you?"
"He never mentioned a syllable about it."
"Did he generally mention his affairs to you?"
"Yes; he wasn't one of those husbands that keep everything secret from
their wives. He always told me how he was getting along."
"When was the note dated?"
"A year and a half ago."
"Do you know whether my uncle had any particular use for so large a sum
of money at that time?"
"No. That is what puzzles me," said Mrs. Berry. "If he got the money, I
am sure I don't know what he did with it."
"Did he extend his business with it, do you think?"
"No, I am sure he did not. His stock is no larger now than it was six
years ago. He always calculated to keep it at about the same amount."
"That seems strange," said John,--"that we can't find where the money
went to, I mean; especially as it was so large a sum."
"Yes, John, that is what I think. There's some mystery about it. I've
thought and thought, and I can't tell how it happened."
"What sort of a man is Mr. Hall?" asked John, after a pause.
"I don't know anything against him," said Mrs. Berry.
"I don't know why it is," said John, "but I don't like his looks. I
took rather a prejudice against him when I saw him just now."
"I never liked him," said his aunt, "though I can't give any good
reason for my dislike. He never treated me in any way of which I could
complain."
"How long has he been in the store?"
"How long is it, Martha?" asked Mrs. Berry, turning to her oldest
daughter, who, by the way, was a very pretty girl, with blooming cheeks
and dark, sparkling eyes.
"It will be four years in October, mother."
"Yes, I remember now."
"He seems quite a young man."
"I think he is twenty-three."
"Does he get a large salary?"
"No, only forty dollars a month."
"Did you know of his having any property when he came here?"
"No; he seemed quite poor."
"Then I don't understand where he could have got the two thousand
dollars which he says he loaned uncle."
"I declare, John, you are right," said Mrs. Berry, looking as if new
light was thrown over the matter. "It certainly does look very strange.
I wonder I didn't think of it before; but I have had so much to think
of, that I couldn't think properly of anything. How do you account for
it, John?"
"I will tell you, aunt," said John, quietly. "I think the note is a
forgery, and that Mr. Hall means to cheat you out of two-thirds of your
property."
CHAPTER XXVIII.
JOHN MAKES A DISCOVERY.
"Do you really believe this, John?" asked Mrs. Berry, in excitement.
"I really do, aunt. I see no other way to account for the existence of
the note."
"But the signature looked like Mr. Berry's," said his aunt, doubtfully.
"Did you examine it carefully, aunt?"
"No, I didn't," admitted Mrs. Berry.
"I should like to compare it with uncle's handwriting."
"I suppose Mr. Hall would think it strange if I should ask him to let
me take it."
"Yes; but he must do it, if he wants the note acknowledged."
"I have no head for business," said Mrs. Berry. "A child could cheat
me. I wish you could stay with me and look after things."
"Perhaps I can."
"But will your mother be willing?"
"I have no mother," said John.
"Your stepmother, then?"
"I might as well tell you, aunt, that there has been a serious
difficulty between Mrs. Oakley and myself, and I have left home."
"Is it possible, John? Didn't your stepmother treat you right?"
"I will tell you all about it, aunt, and you shall judge."
It was a long story, but, as we already know all about it, it is
unnecessary to give John's account. His aunt listened attentively, and
sympathized fully with John in the matter.
"You have been badly treated, John," she said. "I am sure my poor
brother would feel badly enough if he could know how Mrs. Oakley has
driven you from home. You do not mean to go back?"
"No, aunt," said John, resolutely. "Until Mrs. Oakley restores me to my
former privileges, I shall not go home."
"Then you must stay here, John," said his aunt.
"If I can be of any service to you, aunt, I will."
"You can be of great service to me, John. I do not feel confidence in
Mr. Hall, and you know why I cannot be sure that he is not cheating me
in the store. I want you to keep an eye upon him."
"I will go into the store as an assistant," said John. "That will give
me the best opportunity."
"But you have never been used to work," said his aunt.
"I must work now. Remember, aunt, Mrs. Oakley holds the property, and I
am dependent on my own exertions."
"It is disgraceful that it should be so, John."
"But it is so. Perhaps matters may come right by and by; but for the
present I must work. I will go into the store, and you shall give me my
board."
"You will earn more than that, John."
"If we get clear of Mr. Hall's note, you can do better by me. Until
then, let that be the arrangement."
"You don't know what a load you have lifted from my mind, John. I am
very sorry that you have been driven from home; but I am very glad to
have you here. Martha, get ready the back bedroom for John."
"I begin to feel myself at home already," said John, brightly.
"Our home is a humble one compared with the one you have left, John,"
said his aunt.
"But you are here, aunt, and you seem like my own mother. That will
make more than the difference to me."
"I hope we can make you comfortable, John. Martha, you may set the
table for supper, and get John's room ready afterwards. I think he must
be hungry."
