many kind inquiries for you at the court-house to-day. Dr. Ritchie
wanted to know if you had ever taken nux vomica for these neuralgic
turns. I invited him to come in with me and prescribe for you, but he
said he must push on home, so we parted at the outer gate.”
So affable as almost to put others at their ease in his company,
he chatted until supper was announced; regretted civilly Herbert’s
inability to go to the table, and gave his sister his arm into the
dining-room, Mrs. Aylett following in their wake. If he did not eat
heartily, he praised, in gentlemanly moderation, the viands selected by
his consort for his delectation after his wet ride, and pleaded a late
dinner as the reason of his present abstinence. Then they adjourned to
the apartment where they had left Mr. Dorrance, and the host produced
his cigar-case.
“Mabel says that smoke never offends your olfactories, or affects your
head unpleasantly, when you are suffering from this nervous affection,”
 he said to Herbert.
“On the contrary, it often acts as a sedative,” was the reply.
Winston lighted a cigar with an allumette from a bronze taper-stand--a
Christmas gift from his wife, which she kept supplied with fanciful
spiles twisted and fringed into a variety of shapes; drew several long
breaths to be certain that the fire had taken hold of the heart of the
Havana, tossed the pretty paper into the embers, and resumed his seat in
the chimney corner.
“A sedative is a good thing for people who allow their nerves to get out
of gear,” he remarked, dryly and leisurely, puffing contentedly in the
middle and at the end of the sentence. “But he who does this subverts
the order of the ruler and the ruled. I supposed I had nerves once,
but it is an age since they have dared molest me. I know that I had my
impulses when I was younger.”
He stopped to fillip the ash forming upon the ignited end of his cigar,
performing the operation with nicety, using the extreme tip of his
middle-finger nail over the salver attached for the purpose to the
bronze smoking-set.
“I obeyed one, above a dozen years ago. I learned only to-day that it
was rash and unwise, and to how much evil it may lead.”
“Not a very active evil, if you have just discovered it to be such.”
The speaker was his sister. Herbert was motionless upon his couch. Mrs.
Aylett, in the lounging-chair at the opposite side of the hearth from
her husband, was cutting the leaves of a new magazine he had brought
from the post-office, and did not seem to hear his remark.
“You reason upon the assumption that ignorance is bliss,” said Mr.
Aylett. “Allow me to express the opinion that the adage embodying
that idea is the refuge of cowards and fools. No matter how grievous a
bankrupt a man may be financially in spirit, he is craven or a
blockhead to shrink the investigation of his accounts. Which allusion
to bankruptcy brings me to the recital of a choicely offensive bit of
scandal I heard to-day. It is seldom that I give heed to the like, but
the delicious rottenness revealed by this tale enforced my hearing, and
fixed the details in my mind. I could not but think, as I rode home,
of the accessories which would add effectiveness, to-night, to my
second-hand narrative. I had the whole scene, which is now before me,
in my mind’s eye--the warm firelight and the shaded lamp brightening all
within, while the rain pattered without; the interesting invalid over
there gradually stirring into interest as the story progressed; you,
Mabel, calmly and critically attentive; and my Lady Aylett, too proud to
look the desire she really feels to handle the lovely carrion.”
“Your figures are not provocative of insatiable appetite,” returned his
wife, with inimitable sang-froid, staying her paper knife that she might
examine an engraving.
“Your appetite needs further excitants, then? So did mine until I began
to suspect that the history might be authentic, and not a figment of
the raconteur’s imagination. The hero’s name at first disposed me to set
down the entire relation as a fiction. It is romantic enough to perfume
a three-volume novel--Julius Lennox!”
Mabel’s instinctive thought was for her husband, but, in turning to
him she could not but notice that Mrs. Aylett sat motionless, the
paper-cutter between two leaves, and her left hand pressed hard upon the
upper, but without attempting to sever them.
Herbert twisted his head upon the pillow until he faced the back of the
sofa, and a convulsion went through him, hardly quelled by the clasp of
Mabel’s hand upon his.
“Julius Lennox!” reiterated Mr. Aylett, between the fragrant puffs, “A
lieutenant in the navy--the good-looking, but, as the sequel proved,
not over-steady, spouse of a lady who was the daughter of another naval
officer of similar rank. The latter was compelled to leave the service
on account of incipient idiocy, and retired, upon half-pay, to an
unfashionable quarter of a certain great city, where his wife, a smart
Yankee, opened a boarding-house for law and medical students, and
contrived not only to keep the souls and bodies of her family together,
but to marry off her two still single daughters--the one to a
barrister, the other to a physician. The lovely Louise Lennox--a pretty
alliteration, is it not?--remained meanwhile under the paternal roof,
her husband’s ship being absent most of the time, and the handsome
Julius having unlimited privileges in the line condemned by “Black-eyed
Susan” in her parting interview with her sailor lover--finding a
mistress in every port. It is woman’s nature and wisdom to seek
consolation for such afflictions as the deprivation of the beloved one’s
society, and the almost certainty that he is basking his faithless self
in the sunlight of another’s eyes. Our heroine, being at once ardent and
philosophical, put the lex talionis into force by falling in love
with one of her mother’s lodgers, a sprig of the legal profession.
The favored youth--so says my edition of the romance--remained
preternaturally unconscious of the sentiment he had inspired,
attributing her manifestations of partiality to platonic regard, until
she opened his modest eyes by proposing an elopement. He had completed
his professional studies, taken out a license to practise law, was about
to quit her and the city, and the no-longer-adored Julius was coming
home--a wreck in health and purse--upon a six months’ leave of absence.
It must be owned the Lady Louise had some excuse for a measure that
seemed to have amazed and horrified her cicisbeo. Recoiling from the
proposition and herself with the virtuous indignation that is ever
aroused in the manly bosom by similar advances, he packed up his trunk,
double-locked it and his heart, paid his bill, and decamped from the
dangerous precincts.
“Ignoble conclusion to a tender affair; but not so devoid of tragicality
as would seem. Infuriated at the desertion of this modern Joseph,
Louise, the lorn, avenged the slight offered her charms by declaring
to her youngest brother, the only one who resided in the same city
with herself, that Joseph had made dishonorable proposals to her--a
proceeding which demonstrates that the feminine character has withstood
the proverbially changing effects of time from age to age. My narrative
is but a later and a Gentile version of the Jewish novelette to which
I have referred. The role of Potiphar was cast for the unsophisticated
brother, who, being unable to immure the unimpressible Joseph in the
Tombs, attempted the only means of redress that remained to him, to wit:
Personal chastisement.
“And here,” continued the narrator, yet more slowly, “I find myself
perplexed by the discrepancy between the statement I have had to-day and
one of this section of the story furnished me several years since.
In the latter the indignant fraternal relative flogged the would-be
betrayer within a quarter of an inch of his life. The other account
reverses the position of the parties, and makes Joseph the incorruptible
also the invincible. However this may have been, the adventure seems to
have quenched the loving Louise’s brilliancy for a season. We hear no
more of her until after her father’s decease, when she re-enters the
lists of Cupid in another State, as the blushing and still beautiful
virgin-betrothed of a man of birth and means, who woos and weds her
under her maiden cognomen--the entire family, including the valiant
brother who figured as whippee or whipper, in the castigation
exploit--being accomplices in the righteous fraud. I might, did I not
fear being prolix, tell of sundry side-issues growing out of the main
stalk of this plot, such as the ingenious manoeuvres by which the
promising couple of conspirators averted, upon the eve of the sister’s
bridal, the threatened expose of their machinations to entrap the
wealthy lover. Suffice it to say that the duped husband (by brevet)
lived for a decade and a half in the placid enjoyment of the ignorance
which my sagacious sister here is disposed to confound with rational
bliss--nor is he quite sure, to this day, whether spouse No. 1 of the
partner of his bosom still lives, or by clearance in what court of
infamy or justice she managed to shuffle off her real name, and win a
right to resume the title of spinster.”
He lighted a fresh cigar, and for the space of perhaps a minute, a dead
and ominous silence prevailed. Mabel, pallid and faint at heart, could
not take her eyes from his countenance, with its cruel smile, frozen,
shallow eyes, and the deep white dints coming and going in his nostrils.
He had judged without partiality. He would condemn without mercy. He
would punish without remorse.
Herbert still faced the back of the lounge, but he had slipped his hand
from the relaxing hold of hers, and pressed it over his eyes. She could
not seek to possess herself of it again. Winston was not the only dupe
of the nefarious fraud, the betrayal of which had overtaken the guilty
pair thus late in their career of duplicity. Yet, however severely
she had suffered in heart from their falsehood and her brother’s
intolerance, no stain would rest upon her name, while, terminate as the
affair might, the disgraceful revelation would shipwreck her brother’s
happiness for life, if not bring upon the old homestead a storm of
scandal that would leave no more trace of the honorable reputation
heretofore borne by its owners than remained of the smiling plenty of
the cities of the plain after the fiery wrath of the Lord had overthrown
them.
Mrs. Aylett resumed the suspended operation of cutting the leaves of
her new monthly; fluttered them to be certain that none were overlooked;
laid down the periodical; brushed the scattered bits of paper from
her silken skirt, and retaining the paper-knife--a costly toy of
mother-of-pearl and silver--changed her position so as to look her
husband directly in the eye.
“I believe I can give you the information you lack,” she said, in
curiously constrained accents, the concentration of some feeling to
which she could or would not grant other vent. “Clara Louise Lennox
obtained a divorce from her first husband on the grounds of drunkenness,
failure to maintain her, infidelity, and personal ill-usage. He came
home from sea, as you have said, the battered ruin of a MAN, fallen
beyond hope of redemption. There was no law, written or moral, which
obliged her, when once freed from it, to carry about with her and thrust
upon the notice of others the loathsome body of death typified by his
name and her matronly title. She commenced life anew at her father’s
death, contrary, let me say to the advice of all her friends, if I
except the mother, who could refuse nothing to her favorite daughter.
The scheme was boldly conceived. You have admitted that it was
successfully carried out. In New York the family were not known beyond
the circle with which they disdained to associate when the lodging-house
business was abandoned. There were a thousand chances to one that in her
new abode Miss Dorrance would be identified by some busybody with the
divorced Mrs. Lennox. She risked her fortunes upon the one chance, and
won. I do not expect you to believe that the impostor was moved by any
other consideration in contracting her second marriage than the wish
to seek the more exalted sphere of society and influence which Fate had
hitherto denied her. You would sneer were I to hint, however remotely,
at a regard for her high-born suitor the dashing, but dissipated officer
had never awakened--”
Mr. Aylett lifted his hand, smiling more evilly than before.
“Excuse the interruption! but after your statement of the fact that
such sentimental asseverations would be futile, you waste time in
recapitulating the loves of the lady aforementioned, and we in hearing
them. I think I express the opinion of the audience--fit, but few--when
I say that we require no other evidence than that afforded by the story
I have told of Mrs. Lennox’s susceptibility and capacity for affection.
We are willing to take for granted that the latter was illimitable.”
“As you like!” idly tapping the nails of her left hand with the knife.
“Is there anything else pertaining to this history into which you would
like to inquire?”
It was a sight to curdle the blood about one’s heart, this duel between
husband and wife, with double-edged blades, wreathed with flowers. Mr.
Aylett’s attitude of lazy indifference was not exceeded by Clara’s proud
languor. He laughed a little at the last question.
“I have speculated somewhat--having nothing else in particular to engage
my mind on my way home--upon the point I named just now, and upon one
other akin to it. All that the novel needs to round it off neatly is an
encounter between the real and the quasi consorts. I cannot specify them
by name, in consequence of the uncertainty I have mentioned. One was a
bona-fide husband--the other a bogus article, let New York divorce laws
decide what they will, provided always that the fallen Julius had not
bidden farewell to this lower earth before his loyal Louise plighted her
faith to her Southern gallant. Death is the Alexander of the universe.
There is no retying the knots he has cut.”
From the pertinacity with which he returned to the question one could
discern his actual anxiety to have it settled. Mabel understood that the
only salve of possible application to his outraged pride and love was
the discovery that Clara had been really a widow when he wedded her. The
divorce and subsequent deception were sins of heinous dye against his
ideas of respectability and unspotted honor, but he would never forgive
the woman who had had two living husbands, freed from the former though
she was by a legal fiction.
No one saw this more clearly than did she whose fate trembled upon the
next words she should utter. With all her hardihood, she hesitated to
reply. Luxury, wealth, and station were on one side; degradation
and poverty on the other. The solitary hope of reinstatement in the
affection, if not the esteem, of him she loved truly as it was in her
to love anything beside herself, was arrayed against the certainty of
alienation and the tearful odds of ignominious banishment.
Her answer, under the pressure of the warring emotions, was a semitone
lower, and less distinctly enunciated than those that had gone before
it.
“The denouement you propose for your romance is impracticable. Julius
Lennox died before the date of the second marriage.”
Herbert drew himself to a sitting posture by clutching the back of the
lounge. His red eyes and tumbled hair made him look more like a mad than
a sick man.
“In the name of Heaven,” he demanded hoarsely, “have we not had enough
lies, every one of which has been a blunder, and a fatal one? I told
you, years ago, that the scene of this evening was a mere question of
time; that, without a miracle, an edifice founded upon iniquity and
cemented by falsehood must crush you before you could lay the top-stone.
You would not be warned--you held on your way without hesitation or
compunction, and now you would add to sin fatuity. Do you suppose that
after what your husband has learned of your untruthfulness he will
accept your assertion on any subject without inquiry? And, how many in
your own family and out of it--although these may not know you by the
name you now bear--are cognizant of the fact that Julius Lennox was
alive for almost fifteen months after you became Mrs. Aylett?”
Mabel’s arm was about his neck, her hand upon his mouth.
“No more! no more! if you love me!” she whispered in an agony. “Should
he guess all, he would murder her!”
“You are prepared to certify that he is dead NOW, are you, Mr.
Dorrance?” queried Winston, suspicious of this by-play.
“I am!” sulkily.
“It is a pity!” was the ambiguous rejoinder.
Something clicked upon the hearth. It was the fragments of the toy
stiletto, broken by an uncontrollable twitch of the small fingers that
held it.
Then Mrs. Aylett arose, pale as a ghost, but unquailing in eye or mien.
“May I know your lordship’s pleasure respecting your cast-off minion?”
“In the morning, yes!” glancing up disdainfully. “Meantime, let me wish
you ‘good-night’ and happy dreams.”
CHAPTER XX. -- INDIAN SUMMER.
“NO, no! my dear!” said Mrs. Sutton, earnestly. “I am shocked and
astonished that you should ever have labored under such a delusion.
Frederic told me the story, and a dreadful one it was, the day old Mrs.
Tazewell was buried. Wasn’t it wonderful that he never knew whom Winston
had married until he saw her leaning upon his arm in the graveyard? He
recognized Mr. Dorrance in the house, but supposed him to be a visitor
at Ridgeley and a relative of Mrs. Aylett, having heard that her maiden
name was Dorrance. As to his being your husband, it did not at first
occur to him, so bewildered was he by your meeting and the thoughts
awakened by it. But at sight of HER the truth rushed over him, nearly
depriving him of his wits. He soon got out of me all that I knew, and
by putting this and that together, we made out the mystery. I was so
grieved and indignant and horrified that I was for sending him forthwith
to Winston, that he might clear himself of the shocking charges they had
preferred against him, by exposing the motives of his accusers. But he
was stubborn and independent. ‘It can do no good now,’ he said. ‘Fifteen
years ago this discovery would have been my temporal salvation. And
Dorrance is Mabel’s husband. I cannot touch him without wounding her.’ I
could not reconcile this mode of reasoning with my conscience. If wrong
had been done, it ought to be righted. I did not sleep a wink all night.
I wept over my noble, generous, slandered boy, and over you, my
darling! but my chief thought was anger at the shameless depravity, the
cold-blooded cruelty of the brazen-faced adventuress who sat in your
angel mother’s place. For aught Frederic or I knew, her real husband
was still alive. He had never heard of the divorce, you see, and the
circumstance of her marrying Winston under her maiden name looked black.
“Well! I pondered upon the horrible affair until I could hold my peace
no longer. Frederic and Florence went home with Mary Trent next morning,
and knowing that Winston must pass the upper gate on his way to court,
I put on my bonnet soon after breakfast, and strolled in that direction.
By and by he rode up, stopped his horse, and began to talk so sociably
that before I quite knew what I was doing, I was in the middle of my
story. I wonder now how I did it, but I was excited, and he listened so
patiently, questioned so quietly, that I did not realize, for several
hours afterward, what a blaze I must have kindled in his heart and home,
whether he believed me or not. The next thing I heard was not, as I
expected, that he and his wife had quarrelled, or that he was going to
challenge Frederic for having belied him, but that poor Dorrance was
very ill with some affection of the brain. It was not until a year
later--just after his death--that people began to talk about the strange
carryings-on at Ridgeley; how Mr. and Mrs. Aylett occupied separate
apartments, and never sat, or walked, or rode together, or spoke to one
another, even at table, unless there were visitors present. Nobody could
imagine what caused the estrangement, and for the sake of the family
honor I guarded my tongue. She must be a wretched woman, if all of this
be true. She is breaking fast under it, in spite of her pride and skill
in concealment. I ought not to pity her when I remember how wicked she
has been; but there is a look in her eye when she is not laughing or
talking that gives me the heart-ache.”
“She is very unhappy!” replied Mabel, sighing. “And so, I doubt not, is
Winston, although he will not own it, and affects to ignore the fact of
her failing health and spirits. It is one of these miserably delicate
family complications with which the nearest of kin cannot meddle. They
are very kind to me, and I think my visits have been a comfort to Clara.
The solitude of the great house is a terrible trial to one so fond of
company. For days together sometimes she does not exchange a word with
anybody except the servants. It is a dreary, wretched evening of an
ambitious life. I ventured to tell Winston, last week, that this would
probably be my last visit to Ridgeley, since I was to be married next
month.
“To Mr. Chilton, I suppose?” he said.
I answered, “Yes!”
“You must be almost forty,” he next remarked. “You have worn passably
well, but you are no longer young.”
“I am thirty-seven!” said I. -- “Well!” he answered. “You are certainly old enough to know your own
business best.”
“That was all that passed. But I was glad to remember, as I looked at
his whitening hair and bowed shoulder, that Frederic had not--as I
was foolish enough to suppose for a while--told him the story that had
blighted his life. Not that I could have blamed him had he done this. He
had endured so much obloquy, suffered so keenly and so long, that almost
any retaliatory measure would have been pardonable.”
Herbert Dorrance’s widow was, as had been said, on a farewell visit to
her native State, and after spending a week at Ridgeley was concluding
a pleasanter sojourn of the same length at William Sutton’s. In another
month her home in Philadelphia was to be the refuge of her aunt’s
declining years--a prospect that delighted her as much as it afflicted
those among whom this most benevolent and lovable of match-makers had
dwelt during Mabel’s first marriage.
The marriage it was now her constant purpose to forget--not a difficult
task in the happiness that diffused an Indian summer glow over her
maturity of years and heart. After Herbert’s death she had continued to
reside in Albany, devoting herself--so soon as she recovered from the
fatigue of mind and body consequent upon her severe and protracted
duties as nurse--to the scarcely less painful work of attending his
mother, who had contracted the seeds of consumption in the bleak sea-air
of Boston. Grateful for an abode in the house of one who performed a
daughter’s part to her when her own children were content to commit her
to the care of hirelings, the old lady lingered six months, and died,
blessing her benefactress and engaging, in singleness of belief in the
affection his wife had borne him, “to tell Herbert how good she had been
to his mother.”
None of the Dorrances could wag a tongue against their sister-in-law,
when, at the expiration of her year of widowhood, she wrote to them,
to announce her “re-engagement” to Frederic Chilton. She had been a
faithful wife to their brother in sickness and imbecility; a ministering
angel to their parent, and there was now no tie to bind her to their
interest. They had a way of taking care of themselves, and it was not
surprising if she had learned it.
They behaved charmingly--this pair of elderly lovers--said the young
Suttons when Mr. Chilton arrived to escort his affianced back to Albany
on the day succeeding the conversation from which I have taken the
foregoing extracts, while Aunt Rachel’s deaf old face was one beam of
gratification.
“All my matches turn out well in the long run!” she boasted, with modest
exultation. “I don’t undertake the management of them, unless I am very
sure that they are already projected in Heaven. And when they are, my
loves, a legion of evil spirits or, what is just as bad, of wicked men
and women, cannot hinder everything from coming right at last.”
While she was relating, in the same sanguinely pious spirit, the tales
that most entrance young girls, and at which their seniors smile
in cynicism, or in tender recollection, as their own lives have
contradicted or verified her theory of love’s teachings and love’s
omnipotence, Frederic and Mabel, forgetting time and care, separation
and sorrow, in the calm delight of reunion, were strolling upon the
piazza in the starlight of a perfect June evening.
They stopped talking by tacit consent, by and by, to listen to Amy
Sutton, a girl of eighteen, the vocalist of the flock, who was testing
her voice and proficiency in reading music at sight by trying one after
another of a volume of old songs which belonged to her mother.
This was the verse that enchained the promenaders’ attention:
    “But still thy name, thy blessed name,
       My lonely bosom fills;
     Like an echo that hath lost itself
       Among the distant hills.
     That still, with melancholy note,
       Keeps faintly lingering on,
     When the joyous sound that woke it first
       Is gone--forever gone!”
“It is seventeen years since we heard it together, dearest!” said
Frederic, bending to kiss the tear-laden eyes. “And I can say to you
now, what I did not, while poor Rosa lived, own to myself--that, try to
hush it though I did, in all that time the lost echo was never still.”
Her answer was prompt, and the sweeter for the blent sigh and smile
which were her tribute to the Past, and greeting to the Future:
