certainly sent after them from the gate they 
had quitted ; " Girls, hollo ! Sunday 
school girls, hollo ! " 
Do you hear ? " said Matilda. 
" Sunday school girls ! Come back ! " 
" What can they want ? " said Maria. 
" We must go see," said Matilda. 
So they went towards the gate again. By 
the gate they could soon see the shock head 
of Alexander ; he had got rid of the wash 
tub and his mother and his sister all three ; 
and he was waiting there to speak to them. 
The girls hurried .up again till they con- 
fronted his grinning face on the other side 
of the gate. 
" What do you want ? " said Maria. 
What do you call us back for? " 
" I didn't call you," said the boy. 
" Yes, you did ; you called us back ; and 
we have come back all this way. What do 
you want to say ? " 
Alexander's face was dull, even in his 
triumph. No sparkle or gleam of mischief 
prepared the girls for his next speech. 
" I say ain't you green ! " 
But another shout of rude laughter followed 
it; and another roll and tumble, though these 
last were on the snow. Maria and her sister turned and walked away till out of hearing. 
" I never heard of such horrible people ! " 
said Maria ; " never ! And this is what you 
get, Matilda, by your dreadful going after 
Sunday scholars and such things. I do hope 
you have got enough of it." 
But Matilda only drew deep sighs, one 
 
after another, at intervals, and made no 
reply. 
" Don't you see what a goose you are ? " 
persisted Maria. " Don't you see ? " 
No," said Matilda. I don't see that." 
" Well, you might. Just look at what a 
time we have had, only because you fancied 
there were two children at that house." 
Well, there are two children." 
Such children ! " said Maria, 
" I wish Mr. Richmond would go to see 
them," said Matilda. 
" It would be no use for Mr. Richmond or 
anybody to go and see them," said Maria. 
" They are too wicked." 
" But you cannot tell beforehand," said 
Matilda. 
" And so I say, Tilly, the only way is to 
keep out of such places. I hope you'll be 
content now." 
Matilda was hardly content ; for the sighs 
kept coming every now and then. So they 
went down the hill again, and over the bridge, 
 
past the glen and the burnt mill, and began 
to go up on the other side. Now across the 
way, at the top of the bank that overhung the 
dell, there stood a house of more than common size and elegance, in the midst of grounds 
that seemed to be carefully planted. A fine 
brick wall enclosed these grounds on the road- 
side, and at the top of the hill an iron gate 
gave entrance to them. 
O Tilly," exclaimed Maria, " the Lard- 
ners' gate is open. Look! Suppose we go 
in." 
" I should not like to go in," said the little 
one. 
" Why not ? There's nobody at home ; 
they haven't come yet ; and it's such a good 
chance. You know, Clarissa says that people 
have leave to go into people's great places 
and see them, in England, where she has 
been." 
" But this is not a great place, and we have 
not leave," urged Matilda. 
" O well, I'm going in. Come ! we'll just 
go in for a minute. It's no harm. Come' 
just for a minute." 
Matilda, however, stopped at the gate, and 
stood there waiting for her sister ; while Maria 
stepped in cautiously and made her way as 
far as the front of the house. Here she turned 
and beckoned to Matilda to join her; but 
the little one stood fast. 
" What does she want of you ? " a voice 
asked at her elbow. Matilda started. Two 
ladies were there. 
" She beckoned for me to go in where she 
is," said Matilda. 
" Well, why don't you go in ? " 
The voice was kindly ; the face of the lady 
was bending towards her graciously ; but who 
it was, Matilda did not know. 
" We have no leave to go in," she said. " I 
do not like to be there." 
" I dare say the people would let you come 
in, if they knew you wished it." 
" They do not know," said Matilda. 
" What a charming child ! " said the lady 
apart to her companion. " My dear," she 
went on to Matilda, " will you come in on 
my invitation ? This is my house, and you 
are welcome. I shall be as glad to see you as 
you to see the place. Come ! " 
And she took Matilda's hand and led her in. 
Just at the crown of the bank the house 
stood, and from here the view was very lovely, 
even now in winter. Over the wide river, 
which lay full in view with its ice covering, to 
the opposite shores and the magnificent range 
of mountains, which from Matilda's window 
at home she could just see in a little bit. The 
full range lay here before the eye, white with 
snow, coloured and brightened by the sinking 
sun which threw wonderful lights across them 
and revealed beautiful depths and shadows. 
Still, cold, high, far-off; their calm majesty 
held Matilda's eye. 
" Are you looking at the mountains ? " said 
the lady. " Yes, now come in and you shall 
look at my flowers. Your sister may come 
too," she added, nodding kindly to Maria; but 
she kept Matilda's hand, and so led her first 
upon the piazza, which was a single step above 
the ground, then into the hall. An octagon 
hall, paved with marble, and with large white 
statues holding post around its walls, and a 
vase of flowers on the balustrade at the foot 
of the staircase. But those were not the 
flowers the lady had meant; she passed on 
to one of the inner rooms and from that to 
another, and finally into a pretty greenhouse, 
with glass windows looking out to the moun- 
tains and the river, filled on this side of the 
windows with tropical bloom. While the 
girls gazed in wonder, the lady stepped back 
into the room they had left, and threw off her 
wrappings. When she came again to the 
girls in the greenhouse they hardly knew 
which to look at, her or the flowers ; her dress 
and whole appearance were so unlike anything they had ever seen. 
" Which do you like best ? " she said. " The 
roses you know, of course ; these are camellias, 
and these and these red ones too ; all 
 
camellias ; these are myrtle ; these are heath ; 
these are geraniums. All those are geraniums. 
This is Eupatorium those, yes, those are 
Azaleas, and those, and all those. Yes, all 
Azaleas. You like them ? This is Bigonia. 
What do you like best ? " 
It was a long while before Matilda could 
divide and define her admiration enough to 
tell what she liked best. Carnations and 
heath were found at last to have her best 
favour. The lady cut a bouquet for her with 
plenty of carnations and heath, but a variety 
of other beauty too ; then led the girls into 
the other room and offered them some rich 
cake and a glass of what Matilda supposed to 
be wine. She took the cake and refused the 
cordial. 
" It is very sweet," said the lady. You 
will not dislike it ; and it will warm you, this 
cold afternoon." 
" I may not drink wine, ma'am, thank you," 
Matilda answered. 
" It is not wine. Does it make you sick, 
 
my dear ? Are you afraid to try it ? Your 
sister is not afraid. I think it will do you 
good." 
Being thus reassured, Matilda put the glass 
to her lips, but immediately set it down again. 
" You do not like it?" said the lady. 
" I like it ; but it is strong ? " said Matilda 
inquiringly. 
" Why yes, it would not be good for any- 
thing if it were not strong. Never mind that 
if you like it. The glass does not hold but 
a thimbleful and a thimbleful will not hurt 
you. Why, why not, my dear ? " 
Matilda looked up, and coloured and hesitated. 
" I have promised not," she said. 
"So solemnly?" said the lady laughing. 
"Is it your mother you have promised ? " 
No, ma'am." 
" Not your mother ? You have a mother ? " 
" O yes, ma'am." 
" Would she have any objection ? " 
No, ma'am, I believe not." 
 
" Then whom have you made your promise 
to ? Is it a religious scruple that some one 
has taught you ? " 
" I have promised to do all I could for helping temperance work," Matilda said at last. 
She was answered with a little ringing 
laugh, not unkindly but amused; arid then 
her friend said gravely, 
" Your taking a glass of cordial in this 
house would not affect anything or anybody, 
little one. It would do me, no harm. I drink a 
glass of wine every day with my dinner. I 
shall go on doing it just the same. It will not 
ma^e a bit of difference to me, whether you 
take your cordial or not." 
But Matilda looked at the lady, and did 
not look at her glass. 
"Do you think it will?" said the lady 
laughing. 
" No, ma'am." 
" Then your promise to help temperance 
work does not touch the cordial." 
"No ma'am, but" 
" But ? what  but ' ? " 
It touches me." 
Does it ? " said the lady. " That is odd. 
You think a promise is a promise. Here is 
your sister taking her cordial; she has not 
made the same promise, I suppose ? " 
Maria and Matilda glanced at each other. 
" She has ? " cried the lady. " Yet you see 
she does not think as you do about it." 
The sisters did not look into each other's 
eyes again. Their friend watched them both. 
" I should like to know whom you have 
made such a promise to," she said coaxingly 
to Matilda. " Somebody that you love well 
enough to make you keep it. Won't you tell 
me ? It is not your mother, you said. To 
whom did you make that promise, dear? " 
Matilda hesitated and looked up into the 
lady's face again. 
" I promised the Lord Jesus," she said. 
" Good patience ! she's religious! " the lady 
exclaimed, with a change coming over her 
face ; Matilda could not tell what it was, only 
 
it did not look like displeasure. But she was 
graver than before, and she pressed the cordial no more ; and at parting she told Matilda 
she must certainly come and see her again, 
and she should always have a bunch of flowers 
to pay her. So the girls went home, saying 
nothing at all to each other by the way 
CHAPTER VII. 
IT was tea-time at home by the time they 
got there. All during the meal, Maria 
held forth upon the adventures of the after-noon, especially the last. 
" Mamma, those people are somebody," 
she concluded. 
" I hope I am somebody," said Mrs. Englefield. 
" O but you know what I mean, mamma." 
" I am not clear that I do." 
" And I, Maria, am I not somebody ? " 
her aunt asked. 
* Well, we're all somebody, of course, in 
one sense. Of course we're not nobody" 
" I am not so sure what you think 
about it," said Mrs. Candy. I think that 
in your language, who isn't somebody, is 
nobody." 
" O well, we're somebody" said Maria. 
" But if you could see the splen-did bunch 
of jewels that hung at Mrs. Laval's breast, 
you would know I say the truth." 
" Now we are getting at Maria's meaning," 
observed Clarissa. 
" I have no bunch of jewels hanging at 
my breast," said Mrs. Englefield ; " if that is 
what she means by ' somebody.' " 
" How large a bunch was it Maria ? " her 
aunt asked. 
" And is it certain that Maria's eyes could 
tell the true from the false, in such a matter 
as a bunch of jewellery ? " suggested Clarissa. 
" They have not had a great deal of experience." 
Maria fired up. " I just wish you could 
see them for yourself!" she said. "False 
jewels, indeed ! They sparkle like flashes of 
lightning. All glittering and flashing, red 
and white. I never saw anything so beautiful in all my life. And if you saw the 
rest of the dress, you would know that they 
couldn't be false jewels." 
" What sort of a face had she ? " 
" I don't know, handsome." 
" The bunch of jewels dazzled Maria's 
eyes," said Clarissa sipping her tea. 
" No, not handsome, Maria," Matilda said. 
" Well, not handsome exactly, but pleasant. 
She had curls, and lightish hair; but her 
dress was so handsome, it made her look 
handsome. She took a terrible fancy to 
Matilda." 
" Matilda is the youngest," said her mother. 
" It was thanks to Matilda we got into the 
house at ah  ; and Matilda had the flowers. 
Nobody spoke of giving me any flowers." 
" Well, you know you do not care for 
them," interposed Matilda. 
" Mamma, those people are somebody I 
can tell you ! " 
" You speak as if there were nobody else 
in Shadywalk, Maria, that is anybody." 
 
" Well, aunt Candy, I don't know any peo- 
ple like these." 
" Maria, you talk nonsense," said her 
mother. 
" Mamma, it is just what aunt Erminia 
would say herself, if she knew the people." 
" What makes anybody ' somebody,' I 
should like to know ? and what do you mean 
by it ? Am I nobody, because I cannot wear 
red and white jewels at my throat ? " 
" It wasn't at her throat at all, mamma ; it 
was just here on her waist." 
" A bouquet de corsage," said Clarissa. 
" The waist, as you call it, is at the belt." 
" Well, I am not a mantua-maker," said 
Maria. 
" No more than we are somebody," said 
Mrs. Candy. 
" Well, you know what I mean," said 
Maria ; " and you all think exactly the same. 
There is nobody else in Shadywalk that 
dresses so, or that has such flowers, or that 
has such a house." 
 
" Who are they, these people that she talks 
of?" Mrs. Candy asked. 
" They have lately bought the place. I 
know nothing about them. They were here 
for a little while in the summer ; but only to 
turn everything upside down in the house and 
grounds, and make changes. I cannot imagine what has brought them here, to the 
country, in the depth of winter. They had 
nothing to do with anybody in Shadywalk, 
that I know of. Perhaps they will, now they 
have got in order. I believe they have lived 
out of America a good deal." 
" Is that what you mean by ' somebody,' 
Maria ? " her aunt asked. " Perhaps I am 
' somebody,' according to that." 
Maria's thoughts would not bear to be 
spoken, it seemed, for she did not speak 
them ; and it must be a strong reason that 
kept Maria's opinions to herself. However, the family found something else to 
talk about, and Mrs. Laval was not mentioned asain till Maria and Matilda went 
up to bed. Then Matilda had something 
to say. 
" Maria," she began with judicial gravity, 
" what was that Mrs. Laval gave us to 
drink ? " 
" I don't know," said Maria ; " but it was 
the best thing I ever tasted in all my life. It 
was some sort of wine, I guess ; it was strong 
enough. But it was sweet; O it was nice ! " 
"And you drank it!" 
" I guess I did ! I only wished there was 
more of it." 
"But, Maria! " 
"Well, what, 'Maria'?" 
" You promised, Maria, that you would do 
all you could for temperance work." 
" What then ? I could not do anything for 
temperance there, child. As Mrs. Laval said." 
" You needn't have drunk the wine." 
" Why shouldn't I ? Mrs. Laval gave it to 
me ; I couldn't be rude." 
" But that is not keeping your promise." 
" I made no promise about it. I could do 
 
nothing in the world for temperance there, 
Tilly. What would Mrs. Laval care for anything I should say ? " 
" But, Maria ! " said her little sister looking 
puzzled and troubled at once, " you cannot 
drink wine in one place, and try to hinder 
people from drinking it in another place." 
" Why can't I? It all depends on the place, 
Tilly, and the people." 
" And the wine, I suppose," said Matilda 
severely. 
" Yes ! " said Maria boldly, " I dare say, 
if all wine was like that, Mr. Richmond would 
have no objection to it." 
" I don't see, Maria," said her sister, what 
you made those promises for, the other night. 
I think you ought not to have got up at all ; 
it was the same as speaking ; and if you do 
not mean to keep promises you should not 
make them." 
" And what have you got to do with it ? " 
said Maria in her turn. " You did not stand 
up with the rest of us ; you have no business 
to lecture other people that are better than 
