He called three of his men, who joined us in the wagon, and I drove off
as fast as I could make the horses go.
"Where did you see Lieutenant Pope?" asked Mr. Jackson.
"At his camp on the Big Fish. You must keep those three Indians from
going up the Fish River if you can."
"Why so?"
But the violent jolting of the wagon prevented me from talking, and him
from hearing; so I deferred my explanation till a more convenient
season. In a few minutes, I stopped the horses a short distance from
the landing, when Mr. Gracewood hailed me from a clump of bushes. I
felt relieved when I saw that Ella and he were safe. I helped the
trembling mother out of the wagon, and conducted her to the spot.
"My child! O, Ella!" cried Mrs. Gracewood, as she bent over the form of
her daughter.
"I am safe, mother," she replied, faintly.
They sobbed and wept in each other's arms till Mr. Gracewood
interposed, and then we placed the sufferer on the bed in the wagon.
"Now, lieutenant, if you will let one of your men drive the horses up
to the Castle, I will tell how the land lies here," said I, when the
party was ready to start.
Mr. Jackson ordered one of the soldiers to go with the wagon, and
return with it; but Mr. Gracewood preferred to drive himself while Ella
was a passenger. As the team started, I walked with the officer and two
soldiers down to the landing. I imparted all the information I had
obtained, including the movements of the Indians who had captured Ella.
"You are a plucky little fellow to stand up and shoot down an Indian:
but I think you would have done better if you had called me, instead of
following the Indians yourself," said Lieutenant Jackson.
"I don't think so. We might have gone a dozen miles before we found
them, if I had lost sight of them. The three Indians went down the
river just as we came in sight. I heard your men fire at them. Now you
must not let them go up the Fish, for they will carry information to
the large party up that river, and spoil the plan of Lieutenant Pope."
"You are right, my boy," replied the officer, as he posted his two men
where they could see the dugout as it approached.
"You will have a big fight to-morrow," I added.
"I should think so from what you say; but I haven't read my orders
yet."
"Hark!"
I heard the splashing of paddles in the river below us, and I concluded
that the three Indians who had failed in front of the Castle were
returning to Fish River.
CHAPTER XVII.
IN WHICH PHIL CONDUCTS THE SOLDIERS TO THE LINE OF DEFENCE.
I had a theory of my own in regard to the movements of the four Indians
who had come down the Crooked River in the two dugouts. The savages
were incensed against us because they had failed to obtain our horses,
and because we had shot two or three of their men in the skirmishes
which followed. This party had gone home and stirred up the Indians,
who were now upon the war-path. Mr. Gracewood had identified himself
with the defence of the Castle, and they had visited his island to
wreak their vengeance upon him, and obtain his property.
If he was at home, they would kill him; if not, they would appropriate
or destroy his property. Having disposed of him, if he were there, the
four Indians were to go down the river to the front of the Castle, and
when the main body appeared in the forest, make an attack on the river
side, or steal upon us in the night, and murder us in our sleep. At any
rate, these Indians knew that a large force of their own people were
coming down the Fish, and they were in some manner to assist them.
Lieutenant Jackson and myself went to the bank of the river, and soon
saw the dugout, two of the Indians in it paddling with all their might.
They had discovered their blunder, in part at least, when the soldiers
opened upon them. The fact that any one was awake at the Castle was
enough to turn them from their purpose, for they had not the courage to
stand up before the rifle of Kit Cruncher, whom they doubtless supposed
to be there.
"Give them a shot, Morgan," said the lieutenant to one of his men.
The soldier fired, but without effect, except to alarm the Indians.
"Why didn't you hit them?" added the officer, as the savages turned the
dugout from the shore, and paddled with renewed zeal towards the
opposite side of the great river.
"So I would if they would hold still long enough for me to cover them,"
replied the soldier.
The other man fired, but with no better success, so far as we could
discover. Before they could reload their pieces, the dugout was too far
off to warrant the wasting of any more powder and lead.
"You will not see them again to-night," said I, as the Indians
disappeared in the gloom.
"Can they get to the rear of our position by any other way than up this
river?" asked Lieutenant Jackson.
"Yes, sir, they can. They may go up Bear River to the lake, and cross
the country to the Fish," I replied. "But there are rapids between the
lake and the Missouri, and they would have to carry their boat half a
mile."
"Then I must put a guard at the mouth of the Bear."
"It will be the safest way," I added, as the soldier returned with my
team.
We drove back to the Castle, and I put up the horses. The lieutenant
sent a corporal and two men to the mouth of Bear River, two miles below
the Castle; and I was satisfied that the three Indians could not
possibly join the band which was moving down the Fish. We went into the
house together, where a cheerful fire of pitch wood was blazing on the
hearth. Poor Ella had dropped asleep, and her father and mother sat by
her bedside watching her heaving chest. They were very anxious about
her, though Mr. Gracewood declared that she suffered only from
exhaustion, and that rest would restore her.
The lieutenant read the order I had brought to him, and we left the
Castle, so as not to disturb Ella. By this time I was willing to
believe I was tired myself. I thought it must be nearly daylight, and
was surprised when the officer told me it was only twelve o'clock. It
seemed to me that I had lived a whole year since sundown. I was invited
to sleep in the lieutenant's tent, and I did sleep there in good
earnest till long after sunrise the next morning, when a soldier called
me.
"We are about ready to start, Phil," said Mr. Jackson. "My orders say
you are to be my guide."
"I must take care of my horses and pigs, and eat my breakfast."
"My men have fed your horses, and cleaned them. I thought you would be
very tired, and I had your work done for you," said the lieutenant.
"I was tired--that's a fact; but I am as good as new now."
"Mr. Gracewood says your breakfast is all ready."
"How is Ella?" I asked.
"She is better, but still very weak."
"Is she sick?"
"No, they say not; only worn out."
I went to the Castle, and was at once greeted with an outpouring of
thanks from father, mother, and daughter for what I had done the night
before. Ella, as the officer had said, was suffering only from stiff
limbs and over-fatigue. Mr. Gracewood had cooked our breakfast, and we
all sat down to the table. It was a happy family which gathered around
the board, and the father said a prayer of thanksgiving for the mercy
of God in sparing our lives during the perils of the preceding day and
night; and it was a prayer in which we all joined, in mind and heart.
The scene was a novel one to me. It was the first time in my life that
I had ever sat at table with women--the first family I had ever seen
together. I had read of such things, and my kind teacher had told me
all about the customs of civilized life. I thought that every family,
as father, mother, and children gathered together at table, or in the
evening, ought to be very happy. Still I knew it was not so, for even
the reunited husband and wife before me had quarrelled and separated.
People do not understand and appreciate their greatest blessings,
because they are so common; but I, who had never known a mother's
care,--at least not since my infancy,--could realize what a joy it was
to have a father and mother, and to be with them every day. It seemed
to me that I could never disregard the slightest wish of father or
mother, if I had them.
I ate a hearty breakfast, for even the pretty sentiment which was
flitting through my mind could not impair my appetite. When I went out
I found that the lieutenant had drawn up his force in the field, struck
his tents, and loaded his baggage upon my wagon. Firefly and Cracker
were harnessed, and I had only to take my seat on the load. The
soldiers had repaired the bridge over the brook, and everything was
ready for a start.
"Of course you leave a guard here, lieutenant," I said, as I took my
place on the wagon.
"I have detailed a corporal and three men to take care of the Castle,"
replied Mr. Jackson. "Do you think that is force enough?"
"Plenty, sir, if they keep their eyes wide open," I replied. "They have
only to guard the approach on the water side."
"All right. Attention--company! Shoulder arms! Right shoulder--shift!
Forward--march!"
The soldiers marched ahead, and I followed with the wagon. It was about
two miles to the point between the lake and the Little Fish, where the
detachment was to be posted, and in less than an hour we arrived at our
destination. We halted, and a sergeant and three men were sent forward
to scout the woods, and give the troops early intimation of the
approach of the enemy. The rest of the force was immediately set at
work in the erection of two breastworks--one near the river, and the
other between Kit's Brook and the lake. The first commanded the road on
the Little Fish, and the other the brook path.
"Don't your soldiers have any cannons?" I asked, after the lieutenant
had set the men at work.
"We have some mountain howitzers at the fort; but field-pieces are not
available for this bushwhacking service," replied Mr. Jackson. "I wish
we had a couple of howitzers here."
"Mr. Gracewood has what he calls a twelve-pounder."
"Indeed! Is it mounted?"
"It's on wheels, if that is what you mean."
"Do you know whether he has any ammunition for it?" asked the officer,
evidently much interested in the information I had given him.
"He has plenty of powder, and some tin cans----"
"Canister shot: just the thing for us," interposed the officer. "Is it
possible to have this gun brought down here?"
"I don't see why it isn't."
"It would be as good as twenty men to us in these breastworks. Couldn't
you take a couple of my men, and go after it?"
"Of course I could, and I will."
"You will do us a great service, for I may have to fight four times my
own force."
Two men were selected to go with me to the island, and taking them upon
the wagon, I drove back to the Castle. Mr. Gracewood readily gave me
permission to bring off the gun, but he wanted to know how I expected
to bring it over.
"In the boat," I replied.
"Do you mean my barge?"
"Yes, sir."
"How much do you think it weighs?" he asked, with a smile.
"I don't know--perhaps a hundred weight," I answered, comparing it with
a barrel of flour, which was my standard.
"Not less than six hundred," said he. "The barge will not carry it with
three of you besides; and if it would, you could not load it."
"I can get it over, I know," I replied, confidently, and rather pleased
to have a difficult problem to solve.
"Very well. The ammunition is in the blue box; and that will be a good
load for the barge."
"I will agree to get them both over here," I replied; and, jumping upon
the wagon, I drove down to the landing.
While I was securing the horses, the two soldiers put the barge into
the water. I was thinking all the time of the problem of transporting
the gun and ammunition. I was quite sure that I could do the job, and I
had my plan ready. I took a couple of axes from the shanty at the
landing, and we embarked. One of the soldiers rowed the boat.
"What are you going to do with the axes, Phil?" asked the soldier who
was seated in the bow.
"I thought we might want them, and so I brought them along," I replied,
not caring to discuss my plan with him.
"How big is the gun we are to bring?"
"Mr. Gracewood says it weighs about six hundred."
"Do you expect to bring a gun weighing six hundred in this little
boat?"
"We'll see," I replied.
"We are on a fool's errand."
"You wait and see."
"I think you are smart, Phil, after what you did last night; but you
might as well try to drink up the Missouri as to bring that gun in this
boat," persisted the soldier.
"Let Phil alone," said Morgan, the oarsman, who seemed to have more
confidence in my ability than his companion.
We landed at the south end of Paradise Island, because there were no
bluffs to interfere with our operations. Securing the boat, we walked
up the hill to the house. I was still thinking of the plan by which the
gun was to be transported to the main shore, when I was startled by the
crack of a rifle from the direction of the house.
CHAPTER XVIII.
IN WHICH PHIL FIGHTS THE INDIANS ON THE ISLAND.
"Get behind the trees!" I called to my companions, as I promptly
adopted the tactics of Kit Cruncher; for in fighting Indians discretion
is eminently the better part of valor.
"Was any one hit?" asked Morgan, the man nearest to me, as he dodged
behind a cotton-wood tree.
"I am not," I replied.
"Nor I," added Plunkett, the other soldier; "but that ball came within
a quarter of an inch of my right ear."
"Who fired that shot?" asked Morgan. "I didn't see anybody."
"The Indians are here," I replied.
"Then we had better take ourselves off as quick as possible," suggested
Plunkett.
"Not without the gun," I continued. "The three Indians you fired at on
the river last night have come over here. You don't mean to run away
from three Indians--do you?"
"No; but I don't like the situation," said Plunkett.
The cotton-wood trees were large enough to furnish us ample shelter,
and we waited a reasonable time, with our guns pointed, for the savages
to show themselves; but they were no more disposed to do so than we
were. It looked like a slow and lazy fight, and I was afraid the main
body of the redskins would attack the lieutenant before we could reach
him with the gun.
"What shall we do? We don't want to stay here all day," said Morgan.
"It is just as dangerous to go back as it is to go forward," I replied.
"Forward it is, then," added Morgan. "I don't want to be shot in the
back, if I am to be shot at all."
As my companion did not suggest a plan of operations, unless the
proposition of Plunkett to run away may be regarded as such, I
endeavored to solve the problem myself. The formation of the island,
like many others in the Mississippi and Missouri, was peculiar. Its
surface was a gradual slope from the point where we had landed to the
up-river end, which was a bluff of considerable height. On the most
elevated portion grew the tallest of the trees, which gradually
diminished in size, till at the lower end they were mere bushes. The
current of the river beating against the upper end washed away the
earth, and carried the soil to the lower end, leaving an annual deposit
there.
From the high ground the water had gullied for its passage a channel to
the lower end. As the descent was considerable, it was dry except
during heavy rains. This gully in the part of the island where we had
halted was about four feet deep. Farther up and lower down it was less
than this. In leading the way up to Mr. Gracewood's house, I had
followed this channel, and when we stopped, I had taken shelter behind
a tree on the side of it, whose roots reached into it. The Indians were
some distance from the gully, which led, in a sinuous course, within a
few rods of the house.
"I am going to do something," said I, when I had arranged a plan to
take advantage of the shelter the gully would afford me. "I will follow
this channel up till I can got a good shot at the Indians. When I fire,
you do the same."
"Don't be rash, Phil," said Morgan, who perhaps thought he ought to
perform the perilous work of the expedition; but really one place was
just as safe as the other.
"I will take care of myself," I replied. "Twenty rods farther up the
gully I shall be in position to see behind the trees where the Indians
are. I shall bring down one of them then."
"All right, Phil; but the Indians will see you when you leap into the
gully," added Morgan.
"I shall run the risk of that. If you will do the same, we can make a
sure thing of it."
"I will, for one. I won't have a boy like you get ahead of me; but I
thought you wanted us to stay here."
"One of you stay behind the tree, and the other jump into the ditch."
"All right. I'll jump in," said Morgan.
"I will go up the gully; you go down. I will go without noise; you will
make a noise, so as to make the Indians think we have both gone down
towards the place where we landed. Do you understand me?"
"Like a book."
"And, Plunkett, you must keep both eyes wide open. If an Indian shows
his head, shoot him."
"I'll do that."
"But don't show your own head."
"I won't do that."
I leaped into the gully as soon as I had completed my preparations. One
of the Indians fired instantly. Morgan promptly followed me, and
without drawing the fire of the Indians. I crept carefully up the
gully, while my companion took the opposite direction, making plenty of
noise. He had gone but a short distance before the discharge of
Plunkett's musket assured me the ruse had been successful so far. The
savages, thinking we were escaping to the water, had left their trees,
and shown themselves to our sentinel.
I hastened on my winding way with all practicable speed, careful not to
betray my presence. Every step brought me nearer to the Indians, and,
as I crept along, I occasionally stole a glance over the brink of the
gully; but as yet I could not see the foe. I continued on my way, not
daring to step on a stick or a stone, lest the noise should reveal my
presence, until I had reached my objective point. A cautious glance
then assured me that I was abreast of the savages. I was exactly at
their right hand, and not ten rods from them. I could distinctly see
them, with their rifles elevated in readiness to fire, and glancing
with one eye, from behind the tree, at the position of Plunkett.
The three positions occupied respectively by Plunkett, the savages, and
myself, were at the three angles of an isosceles triangle, the two
equal sides of which were about twenty rods, while the other and
shortest side was ten rods, the latter being between the Indians and
myself. They were straining their eyes to take advantage of any
movement where Plunkett stood.
I placed my ammunition so that I could reload with the greatest
possible haste after I had fired, and then prepared to make the shot
upon which our fate in a great measure depended. Indeed, it was
necessary to do something to end my own suspense and anxiety, for my
nerves were so strained up that I thought they would crack. This
holding of one's breath, and moving in absolute silence on penalty of
death for failure, is a terrible trial to a boy, whatever it may be to
a man inured to peril and hardship.
Having completed my preparations, and considered where and how I should
retreat in case of failure, I took careful aim at the Indian nearest to
me, and fired. The savage uttered a howl, and clapped his hand upon the
back of his head. I had wounded him, but evidently had not disabled
him. I loaded my rifle again, regarding my first shot as an unfortunate
one. I could hear the enemy talking earnestly together, and I realized
that they were not satisfied with the situation. The report of a musket
below assured me the Indians had changed their position. Another shot
from our side told me that Morgan was improving his opportunities.
These bullets from the front, although they appeared not to have done
any harm, compelled the savages to resume their first position, which
again opened them to my fire. I aimed a second time, and fired at the
mark as before. The discharge was followed by a fearful howl, and the
savage raised his hand to his face. He was not killed, but by this time
he was badly demoralized. He turned his head to see where the ball had
come from. His face was covered with blood.
I stooped to load my rifle again. While doing so, I could hear the
savages chattering violently. They had evidently discovered the
insecurity of their position, and felt that, if they staid there long
enough, they would certainly be shot. I did not deem it prudent to
remain where I was any longer, lest the enemy should take it into their
heads to charge upon the gully. I retreated a few rods towards the
house. While I was doing so, the reports of the two muskets of the
soldiers assured me the Indians were making a movement. I raised my
head, and saw that they were running with all speed towards the north
side of the island, where they had landed the preceding day.
Morgan and Plunkett had come out of their hiding-places, and were
already in hot pursuit. I followed their example, and being nearer the
enemy than they, I fired. This time an Indian dropped: but his fall did
not delay the flight of the others. I paused to load, and presently
heard the shots of both the soldiers. They also halted to load again,
and I ran ahead of them; but the savages were more fleet of foot than
we, and gaining rapidly upon us, reached their boat without further
loss or damage.
"We are lucky," said I, as we gave up the chase, and gazed at the
dugout, half way across the river.
"That's so. Was any one hit?" added Morgan.
"No; and of all the shots we have fired, we have brought down but one
Indian."
"If we had been as near as you were, Phil, we should have dropped one
every time," replied Plunkett. "However, I knocked over that one that
fell."
"You did!" I exclaimed.
"Why, yes; didn't you see him fall?"
"I did; but he fell the instant I fired," I replied.
"You are a little fast, Phil. You haven't hit anything to-day," said
Plunkett.
"I hit every time I fired."
"You! Nonsense!"
"I fired the first shot after the Indians started to run, and this one
dropped before you had fired at all," I persisted, indignant that
Plunkett, who had wished to run away in the beginning should claim to
have done all the execution that had been accomplished.
"Keep cool, Phil," laughed Plunkett. "That redskin dropped when I
fired."
"We will settle that matter another time," I answered, leading the way
towards the house.
We passed the Indian who had fallen. He was not dead, and I saw
Plunkett fixing his bayonet, evidently with the intention of finishing
the work I had begun. I protested, and so did Morgan, against his
course. The savage reclined on one side, resting upon his elbow. He had
torn away his blanket, so that we could see where the ball had struck
him in the hip.
"You didn't fire that ball, Plunkett," said Morgan. "You couldn't have
hit him there from the place where you fired."
"What's the reason I couldn't?" demanded the braggart.
"Because the Indian was running ahead of you, and you couldn't have hit
him on the side of the hip. Phil was up by the house, and his shot did
it. Half his nose is gone, and he has a wound on the back of the head."
"He turned round when I fired; but I will finish him," said Plunkett,
