ful son of Kirke Gilliat, have taken his narrow soul, his vapid 
brain, his indolence and vices ? 

No : a thousand times no ! He saw clearly now, how little 
birth and so-called pure blood could do for a man. A large, 
true, earnest soul was needed to lift him out of the slough up 
there, as well as down yonder among the shops and crowded 
streets. A man must work for himself, though all these helps 
were far from being despised. He had toiled night after 
night on the lines of some drawing, where books or a teacher 
would have opened his eyes hours sooner. And there, in his 
little nook among the ledges of the mountain, he had tried to 
cut the secret ambition of his soul into shape. He understood 
now what it was. For the sake of that love and desire he 
could endure poverty, cold, hunger, and loneliness cheerfully, 
so that he might succeed at the last. 

Yet in a dim, far-off way he was beginning to see other 
truths. Was ambition the best thing to life ? Were there not 
duties, sacred trusts, grand truths to be evolved and applied 
to every-day matters ? 

And now, remembering Eustace Gilliat, as he had seen him 
more than once, with his flushed face and watery eyes, the 
effeminate, sensual expression of his weak countenance, he 



 

fancied what John Hurst must have dreaded for him. There 
were temptations on every hand. This young man had his 
father's position to keep him up : he, Victor, would have gone 
swiftly down the rushing current. At this moment he did 
John Hurst full justice. In some strange way he seemed to 
understand what there had been to go against his own hot, 
headstrong temper, his hasty, unreasoning dislikes, and the 
impossibility of one soul reading another so perfectly that all its 
wants and hungering could be fathomed at a glance. Human 
ity was grander and more abstruse than a bit of rock or 
clay. 

In these communings he lost sight of the fate which girded 
him about. There was a Hand in it all, whose workings he 
could not master in his thoughts; a scheme of something 
that he was not wise enough to translate. But he felt the 
Power in this awful night of loneliness, the Mightier spirit 
guiding the work of justice which will surely come hereafter 
if not here. He had been kept from staining his hands with 
a brother's blood, even though the whole world believed him 
guilty. God only could bring out the truth. He seemed to 
realize how impotent all- human strength and foresight were, 
and he cried to God, not in despair, hut with a faith that grew 
strong even while it trembled. 

Janet McRae and Sylvia left early the next morning. Tre- 
wartha went to Taunton and heard some tidings which he took 
to Victor at once. 

"An odd enough circumstance the first end of the 
mystery that I fancy we can unravel. If Smith Carson could 
have known he would have given this testimony at the inquest. 
He sold the pistol to your brawler Jarvis, only the day before 
the murder. He has seen and identified it. Some months ago 
he bought it of a young fellow rather hard up for his next 
meal, and it was lying in the shop-window with a lot of other 
traps. He remembered the letter ' H. ' " 

Victor raised his awe-stricken face. " I see," he said, in a 



 

slow, husky tone, for the words well-nigh strangled him. 
" The shot was meant for me !" 

And then he buried his face in his hands. What strange 
power had intervened ? Who only but God, meting out the 
punishment to some farther back sin could have turned aside 
the fatal messenger. Why should Eustace Gilliat have been 
taken, and he left ? 

For up to this moment he had believed it some unseen 
enemy of Gilliat's. 

Trewartha came and laid his hand upon the yonng man's 
shoulder. 

"After all, you had nothing to do with it; and if report 
speaks truly, his life was not likely to be much of an honor 
to any one." 

"But I can never forget that his life has been given for 
mine. " 

" Not willingly ;" with a short, abrupt laugh. 

The deeper and more solemn significance to him Trewartha 
would never know. But when at length he raised his face, 
there was a new and solemn expression in it that no years 
would ever be able to obliterate. 

" So I placed the matter in the hands of an officer immedi 
ately, and a warrant for Jarvis will be taken out at once. I 
think by noon bail can be arranged, and you will have com 
parative freedom. I shall be glad, for your father is fretting 
sorely. " 

Ah, he should never question that love again. 

" Do what is best," he answered quietly. 

But Trewartha could not take it so calmly. He had already 
stirred up half of Taunton, and now, if possible, there was 
more excitement than before. Jarvis had been hanging round 
the quarry on the .day of the murder, considerably intoxicated, 
and had been heard to utter threats then, as well as several 
times before. When the matter came to be thoroughly sifted, 
there was enough suspicion to justify his arrest. 



 

Janet McRae was all warmth and eagerness when she heard 
the tidings. 

"Use every effort," she said to Trewartha. "Spare no 
money nor pains." 

Then her horses were ordered and she drove over to Taun- 
ton, gaining her point at length, for she brought Victor home 
to his mother. 

"Take him back," she cried. " Heaven knows he is worth 
all this and more. And if the testimony I gave went against 
you, it tore my own soul to utter it. I would have cut off my 
right hand sooner." 

He clasped the hand in his, and bowing reverently, kissed it. 

" I owe you a debt that can never be repaid," he returned 
brokenly. 

' ' No, no ;" turning her head away and speaking loudly. 

Then the mother and son were left alone. He placed his 
arm around her neck and drew the weary head to his broad 
shoulder. 

"It is God's hand. I have been a blind, insensate stone; 
nay worse, a doubter, a mocker. But last night I was alone 
with Him ! And when a man comes face to face with this 
strong arm he calls fate " 

"There is no such thing. It is God working in all and 
through all, resolving the tangles we make of our lives in our 
blind way. Our human wisdom is foolishness." 

He knew it then. He had cried out and kicked against 
the rough stones in his way, but not one had been placed there 
without a purpose, since through it all he had been led to see 
more clearly. Not that the old shame would be lifted, but 
made to serve a wise purpose in some way yet to be revealed. 
For humanity itself was growing to be a so much larger thing 
in his mind. When he saw how every simple act affected 
some other being for weal or woe, he understood how neces 
sary it was to keep the springs of the soul pure and true, to 
save one man from the mire and foulness all around, if he 



 

could do no more. It was not wealth or culture or ease 
and leisure that redeemed souls, although these helped, and 
his eyes were too clear now to rush to the other extreme and 
undervalue them; but they were not all. Back in the shop the 
men's coarseness and vile breath had annoyed him, yet he 
doubted if their sins were worse in God's sight than that of 
the refined and fastidious Kirke Gilliat. 

You will see that the old spirit of self-aggrandizement was 
falling off, like the dry, useless leaves that enclose the fruit- 
bud. They were needed once, for there is no purely useless 
thing in. the economy of nature ; and as a man's soul must 
be brave and earnest and helpful within before it can work 
profitably without, when it comes to blossom the unsightly 
husk may wither and drop it is not needed. He felt now that 
there was a wider work in the world than that for one's 
own self. 

' ' Yes, " glancing out to the barred sky of sapphire where 
the coming night brooded with infinite tenderness. "He" 
nodding to the adjoining room, "held the key to the mystery. 
I don't know whether God called him to give up his life and 
all, but to-night I would rather have his work, even to the 
poor, feeble souls which he has helped redeem, than anything 
Kirke Gilliat has done." 

She came and looked into his eyes, kissed him on the lips 
with speechless love, like a blessing after long waiting. 

"Not that I have come to that height where I can forgive 
him. We make our greatest mistakes in fancying that we can 
change the current of our natures in a few hours, when instead, 
it is a lifelong work." 

"And we find the old evils that we have imagined conquered 
coming back from the graves where we laid them. It is a war 
fare all along the way. The promise is 'to him that over- 
cometh.' " 

To him that overcometh evil. Not to him who wins the 
glories of this world fame, wealth, position, and honor alone. 



 

There was a better, broader sphere, the deep mystery of things 
unseen, that might gain neither reward nor simple justice in' 
this life ; but they were God's immutable laws, nevertheless, and 
on the other side of the sapphire sky He took these things into 
His own hands. 

Trewartha worked indefatigably. In less than a fortnight 
Jarvis had been found, concealed in a low den. When the 
braggadocio of liquor had been strong upon him, he had 
weakly made some damaging boasts. One circumstance after 
another, trivial in itself, came to light, and began to form a 
conclusive chain of evidence. Public opinion swayed at once, 
and Victor became a sort of hero, partly on account of his re 
markable escape from a doom planned for him. 

Another peculiar circumstance occurred, which brought with 
it a keen surprise and pleasure the sudden reappearance of 
Paul Latour, who had been searching vainly for his friend, 
and on the first tidings of his danger had found his way to 
Cragness. From him Trewartha and Milnor heard the episode 
at Bohmerwald, which exonerated Victor completely. 

With this array of evidence before the grand jury, the indict 
ment was changed, and Victor Hurst honorably cleared from 
the slightest suspicion. 

Milnor hastened to Rothermel with the tidings ; his sympa 
thies warmly enlisted in the young man's behalf. 

" I regret nothing so much as that I did not make a stronger 
effort to see him when Miss Lowndes wished me to. With all 
her shallow assumption she was right enough here." 

"You think him talented, then ?" 

The voice had a curiously hollow sound, and the hand on 
which Kirke Giiliat rested his face trembled visibly. 

" They are peculiar people all these Hursts. The mother 
has a quiet strength in her soft, sad eyes, and she worships her 
son passionately. I don't know what the father has been, for 
he is a paralytic now, and his brain has not escaped ; but the 
son's devotion to him, to them both, is remarkable. A strong, 




handsome youth, with a fine, rare soul, hitherto little under 
stood ; but he is in the right place now. My lifelong regret 
will be that I did not give him a helping hand in his hour of 
need." 

' ' He has genius, then ?" 

"That was where I stumbled. I was right in saying that he 
would never make a painter, but he has been exercising his 
talent in marble-cutting, and produced a bust of Sylvia Red 
mond which is really wonderful. I think with ten years of study 
and practice he might immortalize himself." 

Would it be too late to claim him, presently, to lavish upon 
him the gifts of Rothermel ? Rather it would be the proper 
atonement for all this early neglect and wrong. 

" You have not described him, yet you rouse me to a strange 
interest, " 

Milnor v/as softly pacing the antique room, with its painted 
panels and dark wainscoting, its diamonded windows with the 
light flickering quaintly through the small panes, the tall library 
across one end, and the family portraits ranged at even spaces 
down the sides. 

"There is something odd about the face that haunts me, 
as if I must have seen it before. Strong, resolute, handsome, 
with a blending of Greek and Saxon and a peculiar tawny tint 
of hair. Fiery, forceful, yet tempered with an inward grace." 

"Well," impatiently, when the pause had been very long, 
and the measured steps ceased. 

" He looks as if he might have kinship with your mother, 
Gilliat Yes, that must be it. What a strange resemblance !" 
glancing at the portrait. 

Kirke Gilliat said no more. His mother had been a queen 
among women, too early lost for him. If this Victor Hurst 
possessed half her nobleness ! 

He rose and tottered to the door. If, when the choice had 
been his to have a son who would love and honor him in 
his old age, a son of whom he could be proud . The old 



 

curse coming home. The mill grinding slowly but " exceed 
ing small." 

In her stately, elegant room lay Beatrice Gilliat. The shock 
of her son's death had been severe, not cutting her off suddenly, 
as Trewartha feared, but sapping the springs of life. She was 
nearly helpless now. The sharp terror had sent the blood 
in masses to her brain, slowly dulling every faculty, sight, 
hearing, speech, and at intervals thought. 

But in some moments there came pangs of fierce agony. A 
vision of Hugh Gilliat, and her pitiless watching, her aims and 
plans and patience. She had gained her wish, been Kirke 
Gilliat 's wife, and mistress of Rothermel. 

And here at middle age, with her beauty hardly impaired, 
she was dying by inches. Other women lived to a happy old 
age, saw their sons and daughters growing up around them, 
and had grandchildren to prattle at their knee. Other women 
were loved and caressed, but save for a brief year's infatuation 
there had been little of this in her life. And now Kirke 
Gilliat brooded over his dead son continually, she saw the 
far, awesome light in his eyes when he looked at her. Had 
she come between him and some cherished hope ? 

Well for her that she was never to know. He would be 
kind, attentive, solicitous to the very last ; but in the depths of 
his heart there would be a corner where her beauty and im 
perious grace had never penetrated. After all, had she not 
reaped as she had sown ? For to the world's end the old law 
will hold good the purple bloom of thistle will not turn into 
the purple bloom and fragrance of grapes. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

EVENTFUL as the winter was at Cragness, it appeared to 
pass very quietly. A mild, rather open season, leaving but 
a few weeks in which the click of hammers and picks, and the 
rumble of blasting might not be heard at the quarry. Every 
thing worked favorably, and Victor found that he should 
finish his contract in a much shorter time than he antici 
pated-. 

The trial had come and gone. The one positive link was 
supplied by the confession of the now abject Jarvis, who, 
like the coward he was, begged piteously for his life. The 
fatal shot had been meant for Victor Hurst. How it had 
gone so wide of its mark could only be accounted for by the 
fact of the man being grossly intoxicated. 

" I cannot wonder that father's soul was so moved against 
intemperance," Victor said, solemnly. "It has been the cause 
of this misfortune from first to last." 

So the verdict was manslaughter. Mr. Milnor tried to keep 
Eustace Gilliat's story as far in the background as possible. 
Then the excitement died away, and there was no change save 
that Victor had gained warm, appreciative friends. 

There was no need of stolen, secret work. A room in 
the little cottage was arranged for Victor's use his mother 
would have it so. She filled one window with flowers, and 
Trewartha brought some choice pictures. Mr. Milnor dropped 
in and watched the young man at his self-taught labor, guided 
by the finer impulses of soul and brain. Paul had a corner 
where he sat and played on his violin and worshipped his 
young friend. Drifting farther apart in purpose, they were still 



 

brought nearer together by the tie of a peculiar and romantic 
friendship. 

Victor used to carry his father thither and place him on the 
wide lounge with the cushions all about. Day by day he grew 
weaker, gentler. He loved to listen to the weird, impassioned 
melody evoked by Paul, and to watch Victor's strong white 
fingers as some thought slowly budded and blossomed beneath 
