open investigation in court for divorce, what did he do?
[Footnote 9: Lord Byron says, in his observations on an article in
'Blackwood': 'I recollect being much hurt by Romilly's conduct:
he (having a general retainer for me) went over to the adversary,
alleging, on being reminded of his retainer, that he had forgotten it,
as his clerk had so many. I observed that some of those who were now so
eagerly laying the axe to my roof-tree might see their own shaken. His
fell and crushed him.'
In the first edition of Moore's Life of Lord Byron there was printed a
letter on Sir Samuel Romilly, so brutal that it was suppressed in the
subsequent editions. (See Part III.)]
HE SIGNED THE ACT OF SEPARATION AND LEFT ENGLAND.
Now, let any man who knows the legal mind of England,--let any lawyer
who knows the character of Sir Samuel Romilly and Dr. Lushington, ask
whether they were the men to take a case into court for a woman that
had no evidence but her own statements and impressions? Were they
men to go to trial without proofs? Did they not know that there were
artful, hysterical women in the world, and would they, of all people,
be the men to take a woman's story on her own side, and advise her in
the last issue to bring it into open court, without legal proof of
the strongest kind? Now, as long as Sir Samuel Romilly lived, this
statement of Byron's--that he was condemned unheard, and had no chance
of knowing whereof he was accused--never appeared in public.
It, however, was most actively circulated in private. That Byron was
in the habit of intrusting to different confidants articles of various
kinds to be shown to different circles as they could bear them, we have
already shown. We have recently come upon another instance of this
kind. In the late eagerness to exculpate Byron, a new document has
turned up, of which Mr. Murray, it appears, had never heard when, after
Byron's death, he published in the preface to his 'Domestic Pieces'
the sentence: 'He rejected the proposal for an amicable separation,
but consented when threatened with a suit in Doctors' Commons.' It
appears that, up to 1853, neither John Murray senior, nor the son who
now fills his place, had taken any notice of this newly found document,
which we are now informed 'was drawn up by Lord Byron in August 1817,
while Mr. Hobhouse was staying with him at La Mira, near Venice,
given to Mr. Matthew Gregory Lewis, for circulation among friends in
England, found in Mr. Lewis's papers after his death, and now in the
possession of Mr. Murray.' Here it is:--
 'It has been intimated to me that the persons understood to be the
 legal advisers of Lady Byron have declared "their lips to be sealed
 up" on the cause of the separation between her and myself. If their
 lips are sealed up, they are not sealed up by me, and the greatest
 favour they can confer upon me will be to open them. From the first
 hour in which I was apprised of the intentions of the Noel family to
 the last communication between Lady Byron and myself in the character
 of wife and husband (a period of some months), I called repeatedly and
 in vain for a statement of their or her charges, and it was chiefly
 in consequence of Lady Byron's claiming (in a letter still existing)
 a promise on my part to consent to a separation, if such was really
 her wish, that I consented at all; this claim, and the exasperating
 and inexpiable manner in which their object was pursued, which
 rendered it next to an impossibility that two persons so divided could
 ever be reunited, induced me reluctantly then, and repentantly still,
 to sign the deed, which I shall be happy--most happy--to cancel, and
 go before any tribunal which may discuss the business in the most
 public manner.
 'Mr. Hobhouse made this proposition on my part, viz. to abrogate
 all prior intentions--and go into court--the very day before the
 separation was signed, and it was declined by the other party, as
 also the publication of the correspondence during the previous
 discussion. Those propositions I beg here to repeat, and to call
 upon her and hers to say their worst, pledging myself to meet their
 allegations,--whatever they may be,--and only too happy to be informed
 at last of their real nature.
  'BYRON.'
  'August 9, 1817.
 'P.S.--I have been, and am now, utterly ignorant of what description
 her allegations, charges, or whatever name they may have assumed,
 are; and am as little aware for what purpose they have been kept
 back,--unless it was to sanction the most infamous calumnies by
 silence.
  'BYRON.'
  'LA MIRA, near VENICE.'
It appears the circulation of this document must have been very
private, since Moore, not over-delicate towards Lady Byron, did not
think fit to print it; since John Murray neglected it, and since it has
come out at this late hour for the first time.
If Lord Byron really desired Lady Byron and her legal counsel to
understand the facts herein stated, and was willing at all hazards to
bring on an open examination, why was this privately circulated?
Why not issued as a card in the London papers? Is it likely that
Mr. Matthew Gregory Lewis, and a chosen band of friends acting as a
committee, requested an audience with Lady Byron, Sir Samuel Romilly,
and Dr. Lushington, and formally presented this cartel of defiance?
We incline to think not. We incline to think that this small serpent,
in company with many others of like kind, crawled secretly and
privately around, and when it found a good chance, bit an honest
Briton, whose blood was thenceforth poisoned by an undetected falsehood.
The reader now may turn to the letters that Mr. Moore has thought fit
to give us of this stay at La Mira, beginning with Letter 286, dated
July 1, 1817,[10] where he says: 'I have been working up my impressions
into a Fourth Canto of Childe Harold,' and also 'Mr. Lewis is in
Venice. I am going up to stay a week with him there.'
[Footnote 10: Vol. iv. p. 40.]
Next, under date La Mira, Venice, July 10,[11] he says, 'Monk Lewis is
here; how pleasant!'
[Footnote 11: Ibid. p. 46.]
Next, under date July 20, 1817, to Mr. Murray: 'I write to give you
notice that I have completed the fourth and ultimate canto of Childe
Harold.... It is yet to be copied and polished, and the notes are to
come.'
Under date of La Mira, August 7, 1817, he records that the new canto is
one hundred and thirty stanzas in length, and talks about the price for
it. He is now ready to launch it on the world; and, as now appears, on
August 9, 1817, two days after, he wrote the document above cited,
and put it into the hands of Mr. Lewis, as we are informed, 'for
circulation among friends in England.'
The reason of this may now be evident. Having prepared a suitable
number of those whom he calls in his notes to Murray 'the initiated,'
by private documents and statements, he is now prepared to publish his
accusations against his wife, and the story of his wrongs, in a great
immortal poem, which shall have a band of initiated interpreters, shall
be read through the civilised world, and stand to accuse her after his
death.
In the Fourth Canto of 'Childe Harold,' with all his own overwhelming
power of language, he sets forth his cause as against the silent woman
who all this time had been making no party, and telling no story,
and whom the world would therefore conclude to be silent because she
had no answer to make. I remember well the time when this poetry, so
resounding in its music, so mournful, so apparently generous, filled
my heart with a vague anguish of sorrow for the sufferer, and of
indignation at the cold insensibility that had maddened him. Thousands
have felt the power of this great poem, which stands, and must stand to
all time, a monument of what sacred and solemn powers God gave to this
wicked man, and how vilely he abused this power as a weapon to slay the
innocent.
It is among the ruins of ancient Rome that his voice breaks forth in
solemn imprecation:--
  'O Time, thou beautifier of the dead,
  Adorner of the ruin, comforter,
  And only healer when the heart hath bled!--
  Time, the corrector when our judgments err,
  The test of truth, love,--sole philosopher,
  For all besides are sophists,--from thy shrift
  That never loses, though it doth defer!--
  Time, the avenger! unto thee I lift
  My hands and heart and eyes, and claim of thee a gift.
         *       *       *       *       *
  'If thou hast ever seen me too elate,
  Hear me not; but if calmly I have borne
  Good, and reserved my pride against the hate
  Which shall not whelm me, let me not have worn
  This iron in my soul in vain,--shall THEY not mourn?
  And thou who never yet of human wrong
  Left the unbalanced scale, great Nemesis,
  Here where the ancients paid their worship long,
  Thou who didst call the Furies from the abyss,
  And round Orestes bid them howl and hiss
  For that unnatural retribution,--just
  Had it but come from hands less near,--in this
  Thy former realm I call thee from the dust.
  Dost thou not hear, my heart? awake thou shalt and must!
  It is not that I may not have incurred
  For my ancestral faults and mine, the wound
  Wherewith I bleed withal, and had it been conferred
  With a just weapon it had flowed unbound,
  But now my blood shall not sink in the ground.
         *       *       *       *       *
  'But in this page a record will I seek;
  Not in the air shall these my words disperse,
  Though I be ashes,--a far hour shall wreak
  The deep prophetic fulness of this verse,
  And pile on human heads the mountain of my curse.
  That curse shall be forgiveness. Have I not,--
  Hear me, my Mother Earth! behold it, Heaven,--
  Have I not had to wrestle with my lot?
  Have I not suffered things to be forgiven?
  Have I not had my brain seared, my heart riven,
  Hopes sapped, name blighted, life's life lied away,
  And only not to desperation driven,
  Because not altogether of such clay
  As rots into the soul of those whom I survey?
         *       *       *       *       *
  'From mighty wrongs to petty perfidy,
  Have I not seen what human things could do,--
  From the loud roar of foaming calumny,
  To the small whispers of the paltry few,
  And subtler venom of the reptile crew,
  The Janus glance of whose significant eye,
  Learning to lie with silence, would seem true,
  And without utterance, save the shrug or sigh,
  Deal round to happy fools its speechless obloquy?'[12]
[Footnote 12: The italics are mine.]
The reader will please notice that the lines in italics are almost,
word for word, a repetition of the lines in italics in the former poem
on his wife, where he speaks of a significant eye that has learned
to lie in silence, and were evidently meant to apply to Lady Byron and
her small circle of confidential friends.
Before this, in the Third Canto of 'Childe Harold,' he had claimed the
sympathy of the world, as a loving father, deprived by a severe fate of
the solace and society of his only child:--
  'My daughter,--with this name my song began,--
  My daughter,--with this name my song shall end,--
  I see thee not and hear thee not, but none
  Can be so wrapped in thee; thou art the friend
  To whom the shadows of far years extend.
         *       *       *       *       *
  'To aid thy mind's developments, to watch
  The dawn of little joys, to sit and see
  Almost thy very growth, to view thee catch
  Knowledge of objects,--wonders yet to thee,--
  And print on thy soft cheek a parent's kiss,--
  This it should seem was not reserved for me.
  Yet this was in my nature,--as it is,
  I know not what there is, yet something like to this.
         *       *       *       *       *
  'Yet though dull hate as duty should be taught,
  I know that thou wilt love me; though my name
  Should be shut out from thee as spell still fraught
  With desolation and a broken claim,
  Though the grave close between us,--'t were the same,
  I know that thou wilt love me, though to drain
  My blood from out thy being were an aim
  And an attainment,--all will be in vain.'
To all these charges against her, sent all over the world in verses
as eloquent as the English language is capable of, the wife replied
nothing.
  'Assailed by slander and the tongue of strife,
  Her only answer was,--a blameless life.'
She had a few friends, a very few, with whom she sought solace and
sympathy. One letter from her, written at this time, preserved by
accident, is the only authentic record of how the matter stood with her.
We regret to say that the publication of this document was not brought
forth to clear Lady Byron's name from her husband's slanders, but to
shield him from the worst accusation against him, by showing that this
crime was not included in the few private confidential revelations that
friendship wrung from the young wife at this period.
Lady Anne Barnard, authoress of 'Auld Robin Grey', a friend whose
age and experience made her a proper confidante, sent for the
broken-hearted, perplexed wife, and offered her a woman's sympathy.
To her Lady Byron wrote many letters, under seal of confidence, and
Lady Anne says: 'I will give you a few paragraphs transcribed from
one of Lady Byron's own letters to me. It is sorrowful to think that
in a very little time this young and amiable creature, wise, patient,
and feeling, will have her character mistaken by every one who reads
Byron's works. To rescue her from this I preserved her letters, and
when she afterwards expressed a fear that anything of her writing
should ever fall into hands to injure him (I suppose she meant by
publication), I safely assured her that it never should. But here this
letter shall be placed, a sacred record in her favour, unknown to
herself.
 'I am a very incompetent judge of the impression which the last Canto
 of "Childe Harold" may produce on the minds of indifferent readers.
 'It contains the usual trace of a conscience restlessly awake, though
 his object has been too long to aggravate its burden, as if it could
 thus be oppressed into eternal stupor. I will hope, as you do, that it
 survives for his ultimate good.
 'It was the acuteness of his remorse, impenitent in its character,
 which so long seemed to demand from my compassion to spare every
 semblance of reproach, every look of grief, which might have said to
 his conscience, "You have made me wretched."
 'I am decidedly of opinion that he is responsible. He has wished to
 be thought partially deranged, or on the brink of it, to perplex
 observers and prevent them from tracing effects to their real causes
 through all the intricacies of his conduct. I was, as I told you, at
 one time the dupe of his acted insanity, and clung to the former
 delusions in regard to the motives that concerned me personally, till
 the whole system was laid bare.
 'He is the absolute monarch of words, and uses them, as Bonaparte did
 lives, for conquest, without more regard to their intrinsic value,
 considering them only as ciphers, which must derive all their import
 from the situation in which he places them, and the ends to which he
 adapts them, with such consummate skill.
 'Why, then, you will say, does he not employ them to give a better
 colour to his own character? Because he is too good an actor to
 over-act, or to assume a moral garb, which it would be easy to strip
 off.
 'In regard to his poetry, egotism is the vital principle of his
 imagination, which it is difficult for him to kindle on any subject
 with which his own character and interests are not identified; but by
 the introduction of fictitious incidents, by change of scene or time,
 he has enveloped his poetical disclosures in a system impenetrable
 except to a very few; and his constant desire of creating a sensation
 makes him not averse to be the object of wonder and curiosity, even
 though accompanied by some dark and vague suspicions.
 'Nothing has contributed more to the misunderstanding of his real
 character than the lonely grandeur in which he shrouds it, and his
 affectation of being above mankind, when he exists almost in their
 voice. The romance of his sentiments is another feature of this mask
 of state. I know no one more habitually destitute of that enthusiasm
 he so beautifully expresses, and to which he can work up his fancy
 chiefly by contagion.
 'I had heard he was the best of brothers, the most generous of
 friends, and I thought such feelings only required to be warmed and
 cherished into more diffusive benevolence. Though these opinions are
 eradicated, and could never return but with the decay of my memory,
 you will not wonder if there are still moments when the association of
 feelings which arose from them soften and sadden my thoughts.
 'But I have not thanked you, dearest Lady Anne, for your kindness in
 regard to a principal object,--that of rectifying false impressions.
 I trust you understand my wishes, which never were to injure Lord
 Byron in any way; for, though he would not suffer me to remain his
 wife, he cannot prevent me from continuing his friend; and it was from
 considering myself as such that I silenced the accusations by which my
 own conduct might have been more fully justified.
 'It is not necessary to speak ill of his heart in general; it is
 sufficient that to me it was hard and impenetrable,--that my own must
 have been broken before his could have been touched. I would rather
 represent this as my misfortune than as his guilt; but, surely,
 that misfortune is not to be made my crime! Such are my feelings; you
 will judge how to act.
 'His allusions to me in "Childe Harold" are cruel and cold, but
 with such a semblance as to make me appear so, and to attract all
 sympathy to himself. It is said in this poem that hatred of him will
 be taught as a lesson to his child. I might appeal to all who have
 ever heard me speak of him, and still more to my own heart, to witness
 that there has been no moment when I have remembered injury otherwise
 than affectionately and sorrowfully.
 'It is not my duty to give way to hopeless and wholly unrequited
 affection; but, so long as I live, my chief struggle will probably
 be not to remember him too kindly. I do not seek the sympathy of the
 world, but I wish to be known by those whose opinion is valuable and
 whose kindness is dear to me. Among such, my dear Lady Anne, you will
 ever be remembered by your truly affectionate
  'A. BYRON.'
On this letter I observe Lord Lindsay remarks that it shows a noble
but rather severe character, and a recent author has remarked that it
seemed to be written rather in a 'cold spirit of criticism.' It seems
to strike these gentlemen as singular that Lady Byron did not enjoy the
poem! But there are two remarkable sentences in this letter which have
escaped the critics hitherto. Lord Byron, in this, the Third Canto
of 'Childe Harold,' expresses in most affecting words an enthusiasm
of love for his sister. So long as he lived he was her faithful
correspondent; he sent her his journals; and, dying, he left her and
her children everything he had in the world. This certainly seems like
an affectionate brother; but in what words does Lady Byron speak of
this affection?
'I had heard he was the best of brothers, the most generous of
friends. I thought these feelings only required to be warmed and
cherished into more diffusive benevolence. THESE OPINIONS ARE
ERADICATED, AND COULD NEVER RETURN BUT WITH THE DECAY OF MEMORY.'
Let me ask those who give this letter as a proof that at this time no
idea such as I have stated was in Lady Byron's mind, to account for
these words. Let them please answer these questions: Why had Lady Byron
ceased to think him a good brother? Why does she use so strong a word
as that the opinion was eradicated, torn up by the roots, and could
never grow again in her except by decay of memory?
And yet this is a document Lord Lindsay vouches for as authentic, and
which he brings forward in defence of Lord Byron.
Again she says,'Though he would not suffer me to remain his wife, he
cannot prevent me from continuing his friend.' Do these words not say
that in some past time, in some decided manner, Lord Byron had declared
to her his rejection of her as a wife? I shall yet have occasion to
explain these words.
Again she says, 'I silenced accusations by which my conduct might have
been more fully justified.'
The people in England who are so very busy in searching out evidence
against my true story have searched out and given to the world an
important confirmation of this assertion of Lady Byron's.
It seems that the confidential waiting-maid who went with Lady Byron
on her wedding journey has been sought out and interrogated, and, as
appears by description, is a venerable, respectable old person, quite
in possession of all her senses in general, and of that sixth sense of
propriety in particular, which appears not to be a common virtue in our
days.
As her testimony is important, we insert it just here, with a
description of her person in full. The ardent investigators thus
speak:--
 'Having gained admission, we were shown into a small but neatly
 furnished and scrupulously clean apartment, where sat the object
 of our visit. Mrs. Mimms is a venerable-looking old lady, of short
 stature, slight and active appearance, with a singularly bright and
 intelligent countenance. Although midway between eighty and ninety
 years of age, she is in full possession of her faculties, discourses
 freely and cheerfully, hears apparently as well as ever she did,
 and her sight is so good that, aided by a pair of spectacles, she
 reads the Chronicle every day with ease. Some idea of her competency
 to contribute valuable evidence to the subject which now so much
 engages public attention on three continents may be found from her
 own narrative of her personal relations with Lady Byron. Mrs. Mimms
 was born in the neighbourhood of Seaham, and knew Lady Byron from
 childhood. During the long period of ten years she was Miss Milbanke's
 lady's-maid, and in that capacity became the close confidante of her
 mistress. There were circumstances which rendered their relationship
 peculiarly intimate. Miss Milbanke had no sister or female friend
 to whom she was bound by the ties of more than a common affection;
 and her mother, whatever other excellent qualities she may have
 possessed, was too high-spirited and too hasty in temper to attract
 the sympathies of the young. Some months before Miss Milbanke was
 married to Lord Byron, Mrs. Mimms had quitted her service on the
 occasion of her own marriage with Mr. Mimms; but she continued to
 reside in the neighbourhood of Seaham, and remained on the most
 friendly terms with her former mistress. As the courtship proceeded,
 Miss Milbanke concealed nothing from her faithful attendant; and
 when the wedding-day was fixed, she begged Mrs. Mimms to return and
 fulfil the duties of lady's-maid, at least during the honeymoon. Mrs.
 Mimms at the time was nursing her first child, and it was no small
 sacrifice to quit her own home at such a moment, but she could not
 refuse her old mistress's request. Accordingly, she returned to Seaham
 Hall some days before the wedding, was present at the ceremony, and
 then preceded Lord and Lady Byron to Halnaby Hall, near Croft, in the
 North Riding of Yorkshire, one of Sir Ralph Milbanke's seats, where
 the newly married couple were to spend the honeymoon. Mrs. Mimms
 remained with Lord and Lady Byron during the three weeks they spent at
 Halnaby Hall, and then accompanied them to Seaham, where they spent
 the next six weeks. It was during the latter period that she finally
 quitted Lady Byron's service; but she remained in the most friendly
 communication with her ladyship till the death of the latter, and for
 some time was living in the neighbourhood of Lady Byron's residence
