Kathie was rather inclined to be hand and glove with people beneath
her.
"And Kathie Alston does take up everybody," said one of the girls.
"Every few days you see her having some common thing in that
pony-phaeton of hers. She hasn't a bit of pride or good taste, and it
seems to me that is next of kin to refinement."
"Let us go on with the tableaux."
Emma listened to the arrangements in silence. This made such a beautiful
scene,--that was so brilliant, or so pathetic, and must not be left out.
And before they were aware the dusky evening dropped down about them.
"Girls," she said at length, in a soft, low voice, "I have decided that
I will not take part in the tableaux. Kathie Alston and I have been
friends, and I shall do nothing that I am quite sure to be ashamed of
afterward. You have been very kind to ask me, and I am not angry with
any of the opinions I have heard expressed, though they may not please
me. Good night."
"Let her go over to the plebeians!" said some one, with a laugh.
At home Kathie had two pleasant surprises. First, a letter from Miss
Jessie all to herself, in which they hoped, very faintly indeed, that
Mr. Meredith had taken a turn for the better. If the good news should
prove true, they meant, as soon as it would be safe, to remove to a
private house. And then she said, "My darling little Kathie, we often
feel that we would give half the world to see you."
The other was from Sarah,--a decided improvement upon her Christmas
epistle,--not a word misspelled, and the sentences very fairly
constructed. The last part was filled with Cousin Ellen and her little
boy. Sarah told the whole story in her innocence, without the least
intention of boasting. Mr. and Mrs. Strong had offered these poor
wayfarers a home until they could do better.
"It is very good of them,--isn't it?" said Kathie. "If the Strongs are
not polished, they have generous hearts."
"It certainly is most kind; and I am wonderfully pleased with the
improvement in Sarah."
"Uncle Robert, would it be rude to send Sarah a pretty blue hair-ribbon,
and tell her a little about contrasting colors? I wish she would not
wear so much scarlet. Is it wrong for everybody to look as pretty as he
or she can?"
"No, my dear; and sometimes a delicate hint proves very useful. Sarah
has entirely too much color for scarlet; she needs something to tone her
down."
Kathie had been casting about for some time how to manage this matter
nicely, and her present idea appeared both delicate and feasible to her.
Looking over her store, she found a fresh, pretty ribbon, and forgot all
about the school trouble.
The tableaux progressed rapidly. A number of the Academy boys were
invited to join. Mr. Coleman had some tickets printed, which sold
rapidly, and the affair promised to be successful.
But one evening Dick Grayson said, "Emma Lauriston would look prettier
in Consolation, and make the best Evangeline, of any girl in Brookside.
Why haven't you asked her and Kathie Alston?"
"Emma declined," was the almost abrupt answer.
"But Kathie is the sweetest little girl I ever saw. She is always ready
for everything."
There was no response. Belle Hadden had gone quite too far to admit that
her line of distinction had been wrongly drawn. Lottie Thorne felt
both sorry and ashamed; but there was no going back without a rather
humiliating admission. And yet if she only had not spoken that day!
But Emma and Kathie drew nearer together in a quiet way through these
troubled times. There were some petty slights to endure, and many
unkindnesses. Friends and companions can wound each other so often in a
noiseless manner,--pain and sting without the buzzing of a wasp, so
patent to all the world,--and I often think these unseen hurts are the
hardest to bear.
The evening at Mrs. Coleman's was both delightful and profitable. The
Brookside Standard contained quite a glowing account of the
entertainment, and praised the young ladies for their labor in so good a
cause. The sum received, with several donations, amounted to
eighty-seven dollars.
"Why did you not speak of it, Kathie?" asked Uncle Robert. "We would all
have gone."
Now, there had not been even a ticket offered to Kathie. Indeed, the
space being limited, Sue and Belle had made out a list of guests
beforehand.
Kathie colored violently, and Uncle Robert looked quite astonished.
Seeing that she was expected to answer, she summoned her courage.
"It was a--a party affair of the larger girls in school. They did not
ask every one."
"But we might have sent a gift, the object was so very worthy."
Kathie made no reply to that. Uncle Robert studied the grave face, and
decided that something had gone wrong.
Dick Grayson dropped in that evening. "I was so disappointed about your
not being there," he said. "You would just have fitted in two or three
of the tableaux."
But Kathie did not appear to be disposed to converse on the subject, so
they wandered off into a talk about Rob, and then Mr. Meredith claimed
their attention.
The patricians flourished in grand style. It would have been really
laughable to sensible people to see how one after another copied Belle
Hadden's airs and graces, and how the gulf widened in school. Several of
the girls asked to have their seats changed, until the plebeians were
left quite to themselves.
And yet the matter worked out a very odd and rather mortifying
retaliation. One afternoon Dick Grayson overtook Emma Lauriston walking
homeward. He had that day received a letter from her brother Fred, and
repeated some of the contents.
"Are you going to Belle Hadden's party?" he asked, presently.
"I have not had any invitation." Emma's tone was rather curt.
"No?" in the utmost surprise. "What has happened among you girls? You
and Kathie were not at the tableaux. Is there a standing quarrel?"
Dick and Emma were excellent friends in boy-and-girl fashion.
"There is something very mean and foolish. I wish somebody could look at
it with clear eyes and give Belle Hadden a lesson!"
Emma's usually soft voice was indignant, and her face crimsoned with
excitement.
"But how did Kathie Alston come to get mixed up with it. It seems to me
that she is the last one to quarrel."
"There was no quarrel, at least no words. There are some very
aristocratic girls in school, and Belle is forever talking about her
mother's family. So they have divided the girls into patricians and
plebeians."
"But Mr. Conover is a gentleman, and the Alstons are all refined. The
idea of putting Kathie on the plebeian side is absurd! And you too--"
"I went over there," she said, sharply. "I would not take part in the
tableaux on that account. Kathie had done nothing to them. It was
because her mother used to sew, I believe, and then Kathie herself is
not a bit proud. I suppose if they made a great show and parade like the
Haddens--"
"I did not think Belle was that small! And you are a splendid champion,
Emma. But Kathie is worthy of the best friendship in the world. She is
never mean or envious, or looking out for the best places, and Mr.
Conover is just royal. The idea of the Haddens setting themselves up!
Why, Mrs. Alston used to sew for my mother, and mother is one of her
warmest friends. Isn't there something very unjust about girls,--some
girls, I mean?" blushing as he corrected himself. "And why does not Mrs.
Wilder interfere, or is she on the patrician side?"
"Mrs. Wilder really doesn't know anything about it. The little hateful
acts are done on the sly, just looks and tones, or some sentence that no
one can take hold of. It would seem silly to complain of not being
noticed. But it takes away the pleasant feeling that used to exist."
"And how does Kathie bear it?"
"Like a little angel. It hurts her cruelly too. About the time this
first began, some very common-looking people spoke to Kathie in the
street, and the girls have laughed and sneered at that. Indeed, nothing
that she does escapes them. I almost wish that I wasn't a girl!"
"Boys don't badger a fellow that way, if they did there would be some
thrashing! But I know just how to come up with Belle Hadden, and I'll do
it!"
With that Dick laughed.
Emma was so much exasperated that the thought rather delighted her.
"What will you do?"
"I can't tell you until afterward. Don't I wish Rob Alston was home,
though! He would enjoy the fun."
They separated at Emma's gate. She was not altogether sure that she was
right in her desire, but she determined not to worry herself on that
score.
Belle's party was to be quite a grand affair. A number of the Academy
boys were invited, those who were rich and stylish; Belle did not come
to school the next day, and the girls were rather indiscreet without
their leader.
The rooms were beautiful, the supper elegant, the music fine, but--there
were so few young gentlemen! Not Dick Grayson, nor Walter Dorrance,
nor Charlie Darrell, nor--ever so many others that had been counted upon
sure.
Emma guessed as she heard the floating talk.
"I do suppose Belle Hadden was as deeply mortified last night as she
could be," Emma said to Kathie. "If ever I have another cause that I
want righted I will place it in Dick Grayson's hand. He is equal to
Arthur's knights."
"What did he do?"
"He said he had a plan. I know now that it must have been to keep the
nicest boys away from the party. Belle likes Dick so much too. It must
have been worth seeing,--their disappointment. A host of wall-flowers
with no one to lead them out to dance!"
"You didn't ask him to do it?" Kathie's face was full of pain and
regret.
"No, not exactly. Indeed, I did not know what he meant to do, only I was
telling him about Belle Hadden's meanness, and he thought of a way to
pay her back."
"I am so sorry it was--that way."
"Kathie!"
"O Emma dear, don't think me ungrateful! You have stood by me of your
own accord, I know," and Kathie clasped her hand. "I am so much obliged
to you. They had nothing against you at first, and they were very sorry
not to have you at the tableaux. But it always troubles me to know that
other people have suffered--"
"Not when they deserve it, surely!"
"Always--if it can be helped."
"And you would not have done this? You think it was not right for me to
tell?"
What could Kathie say,--blame her brave comrade?
"No, you do not think it right. I can see that in your face! Kathie, how
can you bear everything so patiently?"
"God makes it all right at last. He asks us to wait his time. And though
it is very hard--" Kathie's lip quivered and her voice grew unsteady.
"It seems to me this has been the meanest thing I ever knew. You cannot
guess what gave it the first start."
"Yes. It was while you were sick that the girls--took a dislike to me. I
spoke to some people one day, some friends," correcting herself, "and
Belle laughed at them. Then the girls talked about--mamma."
"It was shameful!"
"We were poor, and we had to work. Mamma could not help all that. And
then Uncle Robert came, and we have been so very happy ever since.
Thinking of it all, I don't mind this little trouble much. All that
Belle says cannot make us coarse and vulgar and ignorant, and I have
been trying all the time to look on the best and brightest side."
Emma put her arm suddenly around Kathie.
"What is it," she asked, in a husky voice,--"what is it that makes you
sweet and patient and tender and forgiving, always ready to minister to
others and to the poor, even if you are laughed at and teased? Maybe
it's the same grace that takes away the fear of death! O, I wish I knew!
I wish I had it! I am sometimes so miserable, Kathie. Do you believe
that your God could love and pity me a little?"
"'Him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.'"
It was all that Kathie could think of to say as Emma stopped short in
her walk, trembling, excited, and tearful.
"But how to come?"
Kathie hesitated. It seemed that she knew so little herself, how then
could she direct another? She remembered the other time when she failed
to bear witness, and though her shy, delicate nature shrank from
anything like a parade of her most sacred feelings, strength was given
her when she asked for it.
"I do not know how it is always--" in her sweet, faltering voice, "but
when I first wanted to try--to be good,--to follow HIM even a little, it
was just as if I reached out my hand and prayed him to take it, and kept
close to him by endeavoring to do what he wishes--"
"And you did not have--any great light--"
"I had only a love and a desire to obey him. And it seemed as if
everybody helped me,--mamma, Aunt Ruth, and Uncle Robert. But there is
always something to overcome, some battle to fight."
"And I am a poor, raw recruit. Do you think He will accept me, Kathie?"
"Every one--to the uttermost."
They walked to the corner, where their paths diverged.
"I wish you would come and see me," Kathie said, with her ready grace.
"Fred was there occasionally last summer, and Uncle Robert liked him so
much!"
"And you will forgive that--revenge? Perhaps I ought to have waited."
Kathie's look was sufficient, though she could not have spoken.
But the child went home in a gravely sweet frame of mind. She was in a
mood to tell Uncle Robert the whole story that evening; but there were
several guests, so there could be no confidences.
The next morning, after school was opened, Mrs. Wilder rose and told
them she had a few words to say upon a subject that had been a source of
much disquiet for several days; and then she very kindly but wisely took
up the matter that had so divided and agitated the girls, and severely
condemned the folly of which some of them had been guilty. "They would
find as they grew older," she said, "that with people of culture and
refinement social distinctions did not depend so much on a little more
or a little less money, but nobleness of soul, thought, and
feeling,--deeds that could brave and endure the scrutiny of clear eyes,
and not those which must always slink away and hide themselves behind
whispered insinuations."
It seemed, after all, as if, in some mysterious way, Mrs. Wilder had
learned all the particulars. She mentioned no names, and did not in the
least seek to exalt Kathie; but the child knew by the kiss and the
lingering glance bestowed upon her that afternoon that all her silence
and pain had been appreciated.
If Belle needed anything further to lower her self-esteem, she had it on
her return home. Mr. Conover, Mrs. Alston, and Mrs. Grayson had met at
the house of a mutual friend when Mrs. Hadden happened to call.
"Belle," she began, sharply, "how could you have committed such a
blunder as to omit that pretty little Miss Alston from your party-list?
Her mother and her uncle are very charming people, and they have a host
of elegant friends in New York. Mrs. Havens was here last summer to
visit them, and those aristocratic Merediths are warm friends of theirs.
I am so sorry it should have happened!"
"Miss Alston is a regular little Methodist,--too good to go to parties,"
returned Belle, rather crossly.
And so ended the reign of the patricians. Belle somehow lost prestige at
school. Even Lottie began to be pleasant again with Kathie, secretly
hoping that Belle would never repeat her unlucky remark.
Dick Grayson and Charlie had to tell Kathie one evening how they spoiled
a good deal of the fun at Belle Hadden's party.
"I felt so sorry," Kathie said, gravely.
"Well, you are the queerest girl I ever saw," was Charlie's comment; yet
something inside told him she was a noble one as well.
But the sweetest of all was the talk with Uncle Robert.
CHAPTER XI.
IN ANOTHER'S STEAD.
CLOSER pressed the ranks of brave men who were to strike a final blow
for the good cause, nearer, nearer, marching on with a steady, crushing
step. The nation rejoiced over victories, but firesides, from palace to
hovel, missed and mourned some dear, familiar face, some cheerful voice
that would never speak again.
Kathie used to watch daily. The campaign was growing more exciting as it
approached the end. Her heart used to beat chokingly as she glanced down
the lists. And this was what she saw one day: "Missing, William
Morrison."
"O mamma!" with a quick cry, "did you read this?"
Mrs. Alston looked. "Oh!" she exclaimed, with sudden pain. "Uncle Robert
and Mr. Morrison have gone to the nursery to select a few more
fruit-trees. They will doubtless hear of it at the village."
"You do not think--he has been--killed!"
Kathie's face was very pale and her sweet voice faltered.
"Hardly," returned Mrs. Alston. "But one can never be quite certain what
becomes of the missing."
Kathie put on her shawl and hood presently, and walked slowly down the
winding drive. She had not sufficient courage to enter the cottage,
though through the window she saw Ethel and Jamie having a game of
romps. The child's cheeks were like roses, and now and then a careless
laugh floated out to Kathie, who shivered with something more than cold.
Presently the wagon approached slowly. When Uncle Robert caught sight of
his little niece he sprang out and greeted her warmly.
"I have some good news for you, Kitty," he said, in his bright, breezy
tone. "Mr. Meredith is really better. They hope to bring him home before
long. Why--isn't it delightful?" seeing that she made no answer.
"Yes, I am very, very thankful."
"But, Kathie--what has happened, little one?"
"Our other soldier--"
"Mr. Morrison--O child, what tidings of him?"
"There has been another battle, and he is--missing."
"The news might be worse then. There is a little hope, so do not despair
at once."
Kathie grasped his arm tighter, and they walked nearly to the house in
silence. Then he said, "Of what are you thinking, my darling?"
There were tears in her soft, violet eyes.
"Uncle Robert, what a strange and solemn thing it is to have any one die
for you,--in your stead."
"Yes. I wonder if we do not sometimes forget the One who died eighteen
hundred years ago? But this brings it home to you and me in a manner
that we shall always remember."
"And, looking at that, all our little trials and burdens seem as
nothing. I thought it quite hard to be treated so unjustly at school,
but what was it compared with giving up one's life?"
"It is something, my darling, when we bear reviling from that highest of
all motives,--His sake. Even the little steps are precious in his sight.
We are not all called upon to walk the sorrowful way he trod."
"But poor little Ethel!"
"We promised, you know, to make all the amends in our power to her."
"But it seems to me that nothing could comfort me if you were gone."
He took the cold little face in his hands, as they were standing on the
broad porch now, at the very door.
"Do you love me so well, my child? But we must not forget that those who
stay at home are sometimes called from the earthly ranks. God asks of us
that his will and pleasure shall be ours as well."
"Yes, I know "; but her voice was quite faint as he kissed her.
It was dusk, and as he opened the door the cheerful light and warmth of
the hall were most grateful. Kathie gave a shiver as if she were shaking
off the wintry cold.
"Do not anticipate the worst," he said, pleasantly. "To-morrow's news
may be different."
She smiled faintly. "I am not a very good soldier, after all," she
returned, with a little faltering in her tones.
"My darling, when our Captain calls us out to fight, he always gives us
grace and strength. But we must never look away from him; that is part
of the promise."
She hung up her hood, smoothed her hair, that had been blown about by
the wind, and went in to supper. They all talked a little about Mr.
Morrison, but it appeared to Kathie that they were wonderfully hopeful.
Indeed, the news from Mr. Meredith was so very encouraging that it
seemed to dim the force of the other.
Afterward Mr. Conover went down to the cottage. Freddy brought his
solitaire-board to Kathie.
"I've forgotten how it is done," he said, "and I want you to show me.
Let me take them out, and you just tell me when I go wrong."
It really seemed that Fred had a marvellous faculty for going wrong.
Kathie felt very much as if she did not care to be bothered. She was
restless and nervous, and wanted to curl herself up on Aunt Ruth's
lounge and think a little.
"Greater love hath no man--" the words kept running through her mind.
But the love began in little things, even the love which suffered at
last upon the cross. So she roused herself to patience and interest.
Uncle Robert looked quite grave when he returned. The Morrisons had
heard the tidings, and were very anxious.
"I must write to Mr. Morrison's captain to-morrow," he said. "We must
make every effort to find him. He may have been wounded and carried off
of the field unnoticed."
Kathie prayed fervently for Mr. Morrison's safety. Uncle Robert made
immediate inquiries, and they waited in half fear, half hope. In the
mean while events in Virginia had the stirring ring of near victories.
All was breathless excitement throughout the land. Sorties, surprises,
battles, Sherman coming up from his march to the sea, Sheridan brave and
dashing as ever, and Grant going slowly with his men, like some
ponderous machine that was to crush at last.
And then the telegraph flashed the news far and wide: "Lee has
surrendered!" "Richmond has been taken!"
It seemed so odd to Kathie to be going on in her quiet, uneventful
fashion. School lessons, music practices, home duties,--nothing grand
or heroic. Mrs. Wilder's lecture to the girls had been productive of a
little good, beside breaking the foolish cabal; for in it she had
touched upon dress and parties, and tried to set before them the urgency
of paying some attention to their studies. So there were fewer bows, a
plainer arrangement of hair, and less talk of fashion.
"I think it was mean to crowd Kathie Alston out," declared Sue Coleman.
"Mamma says the Alstons are people one might be proud of anywhere; and
they are extremely well connected. She met them one evening at Mrs.
Adams's, and that elegant Mr. Langdon thinks Mr. Conover about perfect.
Mamma is so sorry that we did not have her in the tableaux. Every one
noticed it. That was your fault, Belle!"
"Of course you are all quite at liberty to choose your own friends,"
Belle answered, loftily; "I'm sure you agreed to it. You did not want
Mary Carson and all that rabble."
"Mary and Kathie are not friends in our acceptation of the term. She is
polite to Mary, and I am not sure but that a ladylike courtesy is more
effectual in keeping people at a distance than absolute rudeness. I
believe Kathie and Emma Lauriston are the only two girls in the school
who have not indulged in rudeness in some form or other."
"If she is not hand and glove with Mary Carson, she has another friend
who is no better, whom she visits and sends pictures to, and I don't
know what all. It's a second or third cousin of our cook. Of course
these Strongs are rich; so it is not the breeding as much as the money.
But, as I said, you can all do as you like. It seems to me that half of
the town has gone crazy on the subject of Kathie Alston."
Emma was a little troubled with these talks about Sarah Strong. She had
a certain delicacy which held her aloof from any such associations.
"Kathie," she said at length, "I wish you would tell me how you came to
take a fancy to those people who were at--the Fair, I believe."
Kathie colored a little. "I don't know as you would understand it," she
answered, slowly.
"I am beginning to comprehend some things," her eyes drooping a little,
and glancing past Kathie.
