

At a former period the writer of this had the for- 
tune to serve his country in an Itahan city whose 
great claim upon the world's sentimental interest is 
the fact that — 

" The sea is in her broad, her narrow streets 
Ebbing and flowing," 

and that she has no ways whatever for hoofs or 
wheels. In his quality of United States official, he 
was naturally called upon for information concerning 
the estates of Italians believed to have emigrated 
early in the century to Buenos Ayres, and was com- 
missioned to learn why certain persons in Mexico 
and Brazil, and the parts of Peru, had not, if they 
were still living, written home to their fiiends. On 
the other hand, he was intrusted with business 
nearly as pertinent and hopeftd by some of his own 
countrymen, and it was not quite with surprise that 
he one day received a neatly lithographed circular 
with his name and address written in it, signed by a 
famous projector of such enterprises, asking him to 
cooperate for the introduction of horse-railroads in 
Venice. The obstacles to the scheme were of such 
a nature that it seemed hardly worth while even to 
reply to the circular ; but the proposal was one of 



 

those bold flights of imagination which forever hft 
objects out of Tulgar association. It has cast an 
enduring, poetic charm even about the horse-car in 
my mind, and I naturally look for many unprosaic 
aspects of humanity there. I have an acquaintance 
who insists that it is the place above all others suited 
to see life in every striking phase. He pretends to 
have witnessed there the reunion of friends who had 
not met in many years, the embrace, figurative of 
course, of long lost brothers, the reconciliation of 
lovers ; I do not know but also some scenes of 
love-making, and acceptance or rejection. But my 
friend is an imaginative man, and may make himself 
romances. I myself profess to have beheld for the 
most part only mysteries; and I think it not the 
least of these that, riding on the same cars day after 
day, one finds so many strange faces with so httle 
variety. Whether or not that dull, jarring motion 
shakes inward and settles about the centres of men- 
tal life the sprightliness that should inform the vis- 
age, I do not know ; but it is certain that the empti- 
ness of the average passenger's countenance is some- 
thing wonderfiil, considered with reference to Na- 
ture's abhorrence of a vacuum, and the intellectual 
repute which Boston enjoys among envious New- 
Yorkers. It is seldom that a journey out of our cold 
metropolis is enlivened by a mystery so positive in 
character as the young lady in black, who alighted 
at a most ordinary little street in Old Charlesbridge, 
and heightened her effect by going into a French- 
roof house there that had no more right than a dry- 
goods box to receive a mystery. She was tall, and 
her lovely arms showed through the black gauze of 
her dress with an exquisite roundness and morhidezza. 
Upon her beautiful wrists she had heavy bracelets of 
dead gold, fashioned after some Etruscan device ; and 
from her dainty ears hung great hoops of the same 
metal and design, which had the singular privilege 
of touching, now and then, her white columnar neck. 
A massive chain or necklace, also Etruscan, and 
also gold, rose and fell at her throat, and on one lit- 
tle ungloved hand guttered a multitude of rings. 
This hand was very expressive, and took a principal 
part in the talk which the lady held with her com- 
panion, and was as alert and quick as if trained in 
the gesticulation of Southern or Latin hfe some- 
where. Her features, on the contrary, were rather 
insipid, being too small and fine ; but they were re- 
deemed by the liquid splendor of her beautiiul eyes, 
and the mortal pallor of her complexion. She was 
altogether so startling an apparition, that all of us 
jaded, commonplace spectres turned and fastened 
our weary, lack-lustre eyes upon her looks, with an 
utter inability to remove them. There was one fat, 
unctuous person seated opposite, to whom his interest 
was a torture, for he would have gone to sleep except 
for her remarkable presence : as it was, his heavy 
eyelids fell half-way shut, and drooped there at an 
agonizing angle, while his eyes remained immovably 
fixed upon that strange, death-white face. How it 
could have come of that colorlessness, — whether 
through long sickness or long residence in a tropical 



 

climate, — was a question that perplexed another of 
the passengers, who would have expected to hear 
the lady speak any language in the world rather than 
English ; and to whom her companion or attendant 
was hardly less than herself a mystery, — being a 
dragon-like, elderish female, clearly a Yankee by 
birth, but apparently of many years' absence from 
home. The propriety of extracting these people 
from the horse-cars and transferring them bodily to 
the first chapter of a romance was a thing about 
which there could be no manner of doubt, and noth- 
ing prevented the abduction but the unexpected vol- 
untary exit of the pale lady. As she passed out 
everybody else awoke as from a dream, or as if freed 
from a potent fascination. It is part of the mystery 
that this lady should never have reappeared in that 
theatre of life, the horse-car ; but I cannot regret 
having never seen her more ; she was so inestimably 
precious to wonder that it would have been a kind of 
loss to learn anything about her. 

On the other hand, I should be glad if two young 
men who once presented themselves as mysteries 
upon the same stage could be so distinctly and 
sharply identified that all mankind should recognize 
them at the day of judgment. They were not so 
remarkable in the nature as in the degree of their 
offense ; for the mystery that any man should keep 
his seat in a horse-car and let a woman stand is but 
too sadly common. They say that this public un- 
kindness to the sex has come about through the in- 
gratitude of women, who have fa,iled to return thanks 



 

for places oiFered them, and that it is a just and 
noble revenge we take upon them. There might be 
something advanced in favor of the idea that we law- 
making men, who do not oblige the companies 
to provide seats for every one, deserve no thanks 
from voteless, helpless women when we offer them 
places ; nay, that we ought to be glad if they do not 
reproach us for making that a personal favor which 
ought to be a common right. I would prefer, on the 
whole, to believe that this selfishness is not a con- 
certed act on our part, but a flower of advanced civ- 
ilization; it is a ripe fruit in European countries, 
and it is more noticeable in Boston than anywhere 
else in America. It is, in fact, one of the points of 
our high polish which people from the interior say 
first strikes them on coming among us ; for they de- 
clare — no doubt too modestly — that in their Boeo- 
tian wilds our Athenian habit is almost unknown. 
Yet it would not be fair to credit our whole popula- 
tion with it. I have seen a laborer or artisan rise 
from his place and offer it to a lady, while a dozen 
well-dressed men kept theirs ; and I know several 
conservative young gentlemen, who are still so old- 
fashioned, as always to respect the weakness and wea- 
riness of women. One of them, I hear, has settled 
it in his own mind that if the family cook appears in 
a car where he is seated, he must rise and give her 
his place. This, perhaps, is a trifle idealistic ; but it 
is magnificent, it is princely. From his difficult 
height, we decline — through ranks that sacrifice 
themselves for women with bundles or children in 



 

arms, for old ladies, or for very young and pretty 
ones — to the men who give no odds to the most 
helpless creature alive. These are the men who do 
not act upon the promptings of human nature like 
the laborer, and who do not refine upon their duty 
like my young gentlemen, and make it their privilege 
to befriend the idea of womanhood ; they are men who 
have paid for their seats and are going to keep them. 
They have been at work, very probably, all day, and 
no doubt they are tired ; they look so, and try hard 
not to look ashamed of publicly considering them- 
selves before a sex which is bom tired, and from 
which our climate and customs have drained so much 
health that society sometimes seems little better than 
a hospital for invalid woman, where every courtesy 
is likely to be a mercy done to a sufferer. Yet the 
two young men of whom I began to speak were not 
apparently of this class, and let us hope they were 
foreigners, — say Englishmen, since we hate Enghsh- 
men the most. They were the only men seated, in 
a car full of people ; and when four or five ladies 
came in and occupied the aisle before them, they 
might have been puzzled which to offer their places 
to, if one of the ladies had not plainly been infirm. 
They settled the question — if there was any in 
their minds — by remaining seated, while the lady 
in front of them swung uneasily to and fro with the 
car, and appeared ready to sink at their feet. In 
another moment she had actually done so ; and, too 
weary to rise, she continued to crouch upon the 
floor of the car for the course of a mile, the young 



 

men resolutely keeping their places, and not rising 
till they were ready to leave the car. It was a horri- 
ble scene, and incredible, — that well-dressed woman 
sitting on the floor, and those two well-dressed men 
keeping their places ; it was as much out of keeping 
with our smug respectabilities as a hanging, and was 
a spectacle so paralyzing that public opinion took no 
action concerning it. A shabby person, standing 
upon the platform outside, swore about it, between 
expectorations : ev§n the conductor's heart was 
touched ; and he said he had seen a good many hard 
things aboard horse-cars, but that was a little the 
hardest ; he had never expected to come to that.. 
These were simple people enough, and could not in- 
terest me a great deal, but I should have liked to 
have a glimpse of the complex minds of those young 
men, and I should still like to know something of the 
previous life that could have made their behavior pos- 
sible to them. They ought to make public the philo- 
sophic methods by which they reached that pass of 
unshamable selfishness. The information would be 
useful to a race which knows the sweetness of self- 
indulgence, and would fain know the art of so drug- 
ging or besotting the sensibilities that it shall not 
feel disgraced by any sort of meanness. They might 
really have much to say for themselves ; as, that the 
lady, being conscious she could no longer keep her 
feet, had no right to crouch at theirs, and put them 
to so severe a test ; or that, having suffered her to 
sink there, they fell no further in the ignorant public 
opinion by suffering her to continue there. 



 

But I doubt if that other young man could say 
anything for himself, who, when a pale, trembling 
woman was about to drop into the vacant place at 
his side, stretched his arm across it with, "This 
seat's engaged," till a robust young fellow, his friend, 
appeared, and took it and kept it all the way out from 
Boston. The commission of such a tragical wrong, 
involving a violation of common usage as well as the 
infliction of a positive cruelty, would embitter the 
life of an ordinary man, if any ordinary man were 
capable of it; but let us trust that nature has pro- 
vided fortitude of every kind for the offender, and 
that he is not wrung by keener remorse than most 
would feel for a petty larceny. I dare say he would 
be eager at the first opportunity to reblike the in- 
gratitude of women who do not thank their benefac- 
tors for giving them seats. It seems a little odd, by 
the way, and perhaps it is through the peculiar bless- 
ing of Providence, that, since men have determined 
by a savage egotism to teach the offending sex man- 
ners, their own comfort should be in the infliction of 
the penalty, and that it should be as much a pleasure 
as a duty to keep one's place. 

Perhaps when the ladies come to vote, they will 
abate, with other nuisances, the whole business of 
overloaded public conveyances. In the mean time, 
the kindness of women to each other is a notable fea- 
ture of all horse-car journeys. It is touching to see 
the smiling eagerness with which the poor things 
gather close their volumed skirts and make room for 
a weary sister, the tender looks of compassion which 

they bend upon the sufferers obliged to stand, the 
sweetness with which they rise, if they are young 
and strong, to oflFer their place to any infirm or 
heavily burdened person of their sex. 

But a journey to Boston is not entirely an expe- 
rience of bitterness. On the contrary, there are many 
things besides the mutual amiability of these beautifol 
martyrs which relieve its tedium and horrors. A 
whole car-ftJl of people, brought into the closest 
contact with one another, yet in the absence of in- 
troductions never exchanging a word, each being so 
sufficient to himself as to need no social stimulus 
whatever, is certainly an impressive and stately spec- 
tacle. It is a beautiiul day, say ; but far be it from 
me to intimate as much to my neighbor, who plainly 
would rather die than thus commit himself with me, 
and who, in fact, would well-nigh strike me speech- 
less with surprise if he did so. If there is any ne- 
cessity for communication, as with the conductor, we 
essay first to express ourselves by gesture, and then 
utter our desires with a certain hoUoAfv and remote 
effect, which is not otherwise to be described. I have 
sometimes tried to speak above my breath, when, 
being about to leave the car, I have made a virtue 
of offering my place to the prettiest young woman 
standing, but I have found it impossible ; the genius 
loci, whatever it was, suppressed me, and I have 
gasped out my sham politeness as in a courteous 
nightmare. The silencing influence is quite success- 
fully resisted by none but the tipsy people who 
occasionally ride out with us, and call up a smile, 



 

sad as a gleam of winter sunshine, to our faces by their 
artless prattle. I remember one eventful afternoon 
that we were all but moved to laughter by the gayeties 
of such a one, who, even after he had ceased to talk, 
continued to amuse as by falling asleep, and repos- 
ing himself against the shoulder of the lady next him. 
Perhaps it is in acknowledgment of the agreeable 
variety they contribute to horse-car life, that the 
conductor treats his inebriate passengers with such 
unfailing tenderness and forbearance. I have never 
seen them molested, though I have noticed them in 
the indulgence of many eccentricities, and happened 
once even to see one of them sit down in a lady's lap. 
But that was on the night of Saint Patrick's day. 
Generally all avoidable indecorums are rare in the 
horse-cars, though during the late forenoon and early 
afternoon, in the period of lighter travel, I have 
found curious figures there : — among others, two 
old women, in the old-clothes business, one of whom 
was dressed, not very fortunately, in a gown with 
short sleeves, and inferentially a low neck ; a mender 
of umbrellas, with many unwholesome whity-brown 
wrecks of umbrellas about him ; a peddler of soap, 
who offered cakes of it to his fellow-passengers at a 
discount, apparently for friendship's sake ; and a cer- 
tain gentleman with a pock-marked face, and a beard 
dyed an unscrupulous purple, who sang himself a 
hymn all the way to Boston, and who gave me no 
sufficient reason for thinking him a sea-captain. Not 
far from the end of the Long Bridge, there is apt to 
be a number of colored ladies waiting to get into the 




car, or to get out of it, — usually one solemn mother 
in Ethiopia, and two or three mirthful daughters, 
who find it hard to suppress a sense of adventure, 
and to keep in the laughter that struggles out through 
their glittering teeth and eyes, and who place each 
other at a disadvantage by divers accidental and in- 
tentional bumps and blows. If they are to get out, 
the old lady is not certain of the place where, and, 
after making the car stop, and parleying with the 
conductor, returns to her seat, and is mutely held 
up to public scorn by one taciturn wink of the con- 
ductor's, eye. 

Among horse-car types, I am almost ashamed to 
note one so common and observable as that middle- 
aged lady who gets aboard and will not see the one 
vacant seat left, but stands tottering at the door, 
blind and deaf to all the modest beckonings and 
benevolent gasps of her fellow-passengers. An air 
as of better days clings about her ; she seems a per- 
son who has known sickness and sorrow ; but so far 
from pitying her, you view her with inexpressible 
rancor, for it is plain that she ought to sit down, 
and that she will not. But for a point of honor the 
conductor would show her the vacant place ; this 
forbidding, however, how can he ? There she 
stands and sniffs drearily when you glance at her, as 
you must from time to time, and no wild turkey 
caught in a trap was ever more incapable of looking 
down than this middle-aged (shall I say also un- 
married?) lady. 

Of course every one knows the ladies and gentlemen 
who sit cater-comered, and who will not move 
up ; and equally familiar is that large and ponderous 
person, who, feigning to sit down beside you, practi- 
cally sits down upon you, and is not incommoded by 
having your knee under him. He implies by this 
brutal conduct that you are taking up more space 
than belongs to you, and that you are justly made 
an example of. 

I had the pleasure one day to meet on the horse- 
car an advocate of one of the great reforms of the 
day. He held a green bag upon his knees, and with- 
out any notice passed from a question of crops to a 
discussion of suffrage for the negro, and so to woman- 
hood sufiirage. " Let the women vote," said he, — 
" let 'em vote if they want to. I don't care. Fact is, 
I should like to see 'em do it the first time. They're 
