eyes of others, he would suddenly recede for days, and devote himself
exclusively to Rose; driving ostentatiously with her in the park,
where he would meet Lillie face to face, and bow triumphantly to her
in passing. All these proceedings, talked over with Mrs. Follingsbee,
seemed to give promise of the most impassioned French romance possible.
Rose walked through all her part in this little drama, wrapped in a
veil of sacred ignorance. Had she known the whole, the probability
is that she would have refused Harry’s acquaintance; but, like many
another nice girl, she tripped gayly near to pitfalls and chasms of
which she had not the remotest conception.
Lillie’s want of self-control, and imprudent conduct, had laid her open
to reports in certain circles where such reports find easy credence;
but these were circles with which the Van Astrachans never mingled.
The only accidental point of contact was the intimacy of Rose with the
Seymour family; and Rose was the last person to understand an allusion
if she heard it. The reading of Rose had been carefully selected by
her father, and had not embraced any novels of the French romantic
school; neither had she, like some modern young ladies, made her mind a
highway for the tramping of every kind of possible fictitious character
which a novelist might choose to draw, nor taken an interest in the
dissections of morbid anatomy. In fact, she was old-fashioned enough to
like Scott’s novels; and though she was just the kind of girl Thackeray
would have loved, she never could bring her fresh young heart to enjoy
his pictures of world-worn and decaying natures.
The idea of sentimental flirtations and love-making on the part of a
married woman was one so beyond her conception of possibilities that it
would have been very difficult to make her understand or believe it.
On the occasion of the Follingsbee party, therefore, Rose accepted
Harry as an escort in simple good faith. She was by no means so wise
as not to have a deal of curiosity about it, and not a little of dazed
and dazzled sense of enjoyment in prospect of the perfect labyrinth of
fairy-land which the Follingsbee mansion opened before her.
On the eventful evening, Mrs. Follingsbee and Lillie stood together to
receive their guests,—the former in gold color, with magnificent point
lace and diamond tiara; while Lillie in heavenly blue, with wreaths
of misty tulle and pearl ornaments, seemed like a filmy cloud by the
setting sun.
Rose, entering on Harry Endicott’s arm, in the full bravery of a
well-chosen toilet, caused a buzz of admiration which followed them
through the rooms; but Rose was nothing to the illuminated eyes of
Mrs. Follingsbee compared with the portly form of Mrs. Van Astrachan
entering beside her, and spreading over her the wings of motherly
protection. That much-desired matron, serene in her point lace and
diamonds, beamed around her with an innocent kindliness, shedding
respectability wherever she moved, as a certain Russian prince was said
to shed diamonds.
“Why, that is Mrs. Van Astrachan!”
“You don’t tell me so! Is it possible?”
“Which?” “Where is she?” “How in the world did she get here?” were
the whispered remarks that followed her wherever she moved; and Mrs.
Follingsbee, looking after her, could hardly suppress an exulting Te
Deum. It was done, and couldn’t be undone.
Mrs. Van Astrachan might not appear again at a salon of hers for
a year; but that could not do away the patent fact, witnessed by so
many eyes, that she had been there once. Just as a modern newspaper
or magazine wants only one article of a celebrated author to announce
him as among their stated contributors for all time, and to flavor
every subsequent issue of the journal with expectancy, so Mrs.
Follingsbee exulted in the idea that this one evening would flavor all
her receptions for the winter, whether the good lady’s diamonds ever
appeared there again or not. In her secret heart, she always had the
perception, when striving to climb up on this kind of ladder, that the
time might come when she should be found out; and she well knew the
absolute and uncomprehending horror with which that good lady would
regard the French principles and French practice of which Charlie
Ferrola and Co. were the expositors and exemplars.
This was what Charlie Ferrola meant when he said that the Van
Astrachans were obtuse. They never could be brought to the niceties of
moral perspective which show one exactly where to find the vanishing
point for every duty.
Be that as it may, there, at any rate, she was, safe and sound;
surrounded by people whom she had never met before, and receiving
introductions to the right and left with the utmost graciousness. The
arrangements for the evening had been made at the tea-table of the Van
Astrachans with an innocent and trustful simplicity.
“You know, dear,” said Mrs. Van Astrachan to Rose, “that I never like
to stay long away from papa” (so the worthy lady called her husband);
“and so, if it’s just the same to you, you shall let me have the
carriage come for me early, and then you and Harry shall be left free
to see it out. I know young folks must be young,” she said, with a
comfortable laugh. “There was a time, dear, when my waist was not
bigger than yours, that I used to dance all night with the best of
them; but I’ve got bravely over that now.”
“Yes, Rose,” said Mr. Van Astrachan, “you mayn’t believe it, but ma
there was the spryest dancer of any of the girls. You are pretty nice
to look at, but you don’t quite come up to what she was in those days.
I tell you, I wish you could have seen her,” said the good man, warming
to his subject. “Why, I’ve seen the time when every fellow on the floor
was after her.”
“Papa,” says Mrs. Van Astrachan, reprovingly, “I wouldn’t say such
things if I were you.”
“Yes, I would,” said Rose. “Do tell us, Mr. Van Astrachan.”
“Well, I’ll tell you,” said Mr. Van Astrachan: “you ought to have seen
her in a red dress she used to wear.”
“Oh, come, papa! what nonsense! Rose, I never wore a red dress in my
life; it was a pink silk; but you know men never do know the names for
colors.”
“Well, at any rate,” said Mr. Van Astrachan, hardily, “pink or red, no
matter; but I’ll tell you, she took all before her that evening. There
were Stuyvesants and Van Rennselaers and Livingstons, and all sorts of
grand fellows, in her train; but, somehow, I cut ’em out. There is no
such dancing nowadays as there was when wife and I were young. I’ve
been caught once or twice in one of their parties; and I don’t call
it dancing. I call it draggle-tailing. They don’t take any steps, and
there is no spirit in it.”
“Well,” said Rose, “I know we moderns are very much to be pitied. Papa
always tells me the same story about mamma, and the days when he was
young. But, dear Mrs. Van Astrachan, I hope you won’t stay a moment,
on my account, after you get tired. I suppose if you are just seen with
me there in the beginning of the evening, it will matronize me enough;
and then I have engaged to dance the ‘German’ with Mr. Endicott, and I
believe they keep that up till nobody knows when. But I am determined
to see the whole through.”
“Yes, yes! see it all through,” said Mr. Van Astrachan. “Young people
must be young. It’s all right enough, and you won’t miss my Polly after
you get fairly into it near so much as I shall. I’ll sit up for her
till twelve o’clock, and read my paper.”
Rose was at first, to say the truth, bewildered and surprised by the
perfect labyrinth of fairy-land which Charlie Ferrola’s artistic
imagination had created in the Follingsbee mansion.
Initiated people, who had travelled in Europe, said it put them in
mind of the “Jardin Mabille;” and those who had not were reminded of
some of the wonders of “The Black Crook.” There were apartments turned
into bowers and grottoes, where the gas-light shimmered behind veils
of falling water, and through pendant leaves of all sorts of strange
water-plants of tropical regions. There were all those wonderful
leaf-plants of every weird device of color, which have been conjured
up by tricks of modern gardening, as Rappacini is said to have created
his strange garden in Padua. There were beds of hyacinths and crocuses
and tulips, made to appear like living gems by the jets of gas-light
which came up among them in glass flowers of the same form. Far away
in recesses were sofas of soft green velvet turf, overshadowed by
trailing vines, and illuminated with moonlight-softness by hidden
alabaster lamps. The air was heavy with the perfume of flowers, and the
sound of music and dancing from the ballroom came to these recesses
softened by distance.
The Follingsbee mansion occupied a whole square of the city; and
these enchanted bowers were created by temporary enlargements of the
conservatory covering the ground of the garden. With money, and the
Croton Water-works, and all the New-York greenhouses at disposal,
nothing was impossible.
There was in this reception no vulgar rush or crush or jam. The
apartments opened were so extensive, and the attractions in so many
different directions, that there did not appear to be a crowd anywhere.
There was no general table set, with the usual liabilities of rush and
crush; but four or five well-kept rooms, fragrant with flowers and
sparkling with silver and crystal, were ready at any hour to minister
to the guest whatever delicacy or dainty he or she might demand; and
light-footed waiters circulated with noiseless obsequiousness through
all the rooms, proffering dainties on silver trays.
Mrs. Van Astrachan and Rose at first found themselves walking
everywhere, with a fresh and lively interest. It was something quite
out of the line of the good lady’s previous experience, and so
different from any thing she had ever seen before, as to keep her in a
state of placid astonishment. Rose, on the other hand, was delighted
and excited; the more so that she could not help perceiving that she
herself amid all these objects of beauty was followed by the admiring
glances of many eyes.
It is not to be supposed that a girl so handsome as Rose comes to her
twentieth year without having the pretty secret made known to her
in more ways than one, or that thus made known it is any thing but
agreeable; but, on the present occasion, there was a buzz of inquiry
and a crowd of applicants about her; and her dancing-list seemed in
a fair way to be soon filled up for the evening, Harry telling her
laughingly that he would let her off from every thing but the “German;”
but that she might consider her engagement with him as a standing one
whenever troubled with an application which for any reason she did not
wish to accept.
Harry assumed towards Rose that air of brotherly guardianship which a
young man who piques himself on having seen a good deal of the world
likes to take with a pretty girl who knows less of it. Besides, he
rather valued himself on having brought to the reception the most
brilliant girl of the evening.
Our friend Lillie, however, was in her own way as entrancingly
beautiful this evening as the most perfect mortal flesh and blood
could be made; and Harry went back to her when Rose went off with her
partners as a moth flies to a candle, not with any express intention of
burning his wings, but simply because he likes to be dazzled, and likes
the bitter excitement. He felt now that he had power over her,—a bad, a
dangerous power he knew, with what of conscience was left in him; but
he thought, “Let her take her own risk.” And so, many busy gossips saw
the handsome young man, his great dark eyes kindled with an evil light,
whirling in dizzy mazes with this cloud of flossy mist; out of which
looked up to him an impassioned woman’s face, and eyes that said what
those eyes had no right to say.
There are times, in such scenes of bewilderment, when women are as
truly out of their own control by nervous excitement as if they were
intoxicated; and Lillie’s looks and words and actions towards Harry
were as open a declaration of her feelings as if she had spoken them
aloud to every one present.
The scandals about them were confirmed in the eyes of every one that
looked on; for there were plenty of people present in whose view of
things the worst possible interpretation was the most probable one.
Rose was in the way, during the course of the evening, of hearing
remarks of the most disagreeable and startling nature with regard to
the relations of Harry and Lillie to each other. They filled her with a
sort of horror, as if she had come to an unwholesome place; while she
indignantly repelled them from her thoughts, as every uncontaminated
woman will the first suspicion of the purity of a sister woman. In
Rose’s view it was monstrous and impossible. Yet when she stood at
one time in a group to see them waltzing, she started, and felt a
cold shudder, as a certain instinctive conviction of something not
right forced itself on her. She closed her eyes, and wished herself
away; wished that she had not let Mrs. Van Astrachan go home without
her; wished that somebody would speak to Lillie and caution her; felt
an indignant rising of her heart against Harry, and was provoked at
herself that she was engaged to him for the “German.”
She turned away; and, taking the arm of the gentleman with her,
complained of the heat as oppressive, and they sauntered off together
into the bowery region beyond.
“Oh, now! where can I have left my fan?” she said, suddenly stopping.
“Let me go back and get it for you,” said he of the whiskers who
attended her. It was one of the dancing young men of New York, and it
is no particular matter what his name was.
“Thank you,” said Rose: “I believe I left it on the sofa in the yellow
drawing-room.” He was gone in a moment.
Rose wandered on a little way, through the labyrinth of flowers and
shadowy trees and fountains, and sat down on an artificial rock where
she fell into a deep reverie. Rising to go back, she missed her way,
and became quite lost, and went on uneasily, conscious that she had
committed a rudeness in not waiting for her attendant.
At this moment she looked through a distant alcove of shrubbery,
and saw Harry and Lillie standing together,—she with both hands
laid upon his arm, looking up to him and speaking rapidly with an
imploring accent. She saw him, with an angry frown, push Lillie from
him so rudely that she almost fell backward, and sat down with her
handkerchief to her eyes; he came forward hurriedly, and met the eyes
of Rose fixed upon him.
[Illustration: “She saw him, with an angry frown, push Lillie from
him.”]
“Mr. Endicott,” she said, “I have to ask a favor of you. Will you be so
good as to excuse me from the ‘German’ to-night, and order my carriage?”
“Why, Miss Ferguson, what is the matter?” he said: “what has come over
you? I hope I have not had the misfortune to do any thing to displease
you?”
Without replying to this, Rose answered, “I feel very unwell. My head
is aching violently, and I cannot go through the rest of the evening. I
must go home at once.” She spoke it in a decided tone that admitted of
no question.
Without answer, Harry Endicott gave her his arm, accompanied her
through the final leave-takings, went with her to the carriage, put her
in, and sprang in after her.
Rose sank back on her seat, and remained perfectly silent; and Harry,
after a few remarks of his had failed to elicit a reply, rode by her
side equally silent through the streets homeward.
He had Mr. Van Astrachan’s latch-key; and, when the carriage stopped,
he helped Rose to alight, and went up the steps of the house.
“Miss Ferguson,” he said abruptly, “I have something I want to say to
you.”
“Not now, not to-night,” said Rose, hurriedly. “I am too tired; and it
is too late.”
“To-morrow then,” he said: “I shall call when you will have had time to
be rested. Good-night!”
CHAPTER XXII.
THE SPIDER-WEB BROKEN.
HARRY did not go back, to lead the “German,” as he had been engaged to
do. In fact, in his last apologies to Mrs. Follingsbee, he had excused
himself on account of his partner’s sudden indisposition,—a thing which
made no small buzz and commotion; though the missing gap, like all gaps
great and little in human society, soon found somebody to step into it:
and the dance went on just as gayly as if they had been there.
Meanwhile, there were in this good city of New York a couple of
sleepless individuals, revolving many things uneasily during the
night-watches, or at least that portion of the night-watches that
remained after they reached home,—to wit, Mr. Harry Endicott and Miss
Rose Ferguson.
What had taken place in that little scene between Lillie and Harry,
the termination of which was seen by Rose? We are not going to give
a minute description. The public has already been circumstantially
instructed by such edifying books as “Cometh up as a Flower,” and
others of a like turn, in what manner and in what terms married women
can abdicate the dignity of their sex, and degrade themselves so far
as to offer their whole life, and their whole selves, to some reluctant
man, with too much remaining conscience or prudence to accept the
sacrifice.
It was from some such wild, passionate utterances of Lillie that Harry
felt a recoil of mingled conscience, fear, and that disgust which man
feels when she, whom God made to be sought, degrades herself to seek.
There is no edification and no propriety in highly colored and minute
drawing of such scenes of temptation and degradation, though they
are the stock and staple of some French novels, and more disgusting
English ones made on their model. Harry felt in his own conscience
that he had been acting a most unworthy part, that no advances on the
part of Lillie could excuse his conduct; and his thoughts went back
somewhat regretfully to the days long ago, when she was a fair, pretty,
innocent girl, and he had loved her honestly and truly. Unperceived
by himself, the character of Rose was exerting a powerful influence
over him; and, when he met that look of pain and astonishment which he
had seen in her large blue eyes the night before, it seemed to awaken
many things within him. It is astonishing how blindly people sometimes
go on as to the character of their own conduct, till suddenly, like a
torch in a dark place, the light of another person’s opinion is thrown
in upon them, and they begin to judge themselves under the quickening
influence of another person’s moral magnetism. Then, indeed, it often
happens that the graves give up their dead, and that there is a sort
of interior resurrection and judgment.
Harry did not seem to be consciously thinking of Rose, and yet the
undertone of all that night’s uneasiness was a something that had
been roused and quickened in him by his acquaintance with her. How he
loathed himself for the last few weeks of his life! How he loathed
that hot, lurid, murky atmosphere of flirtation and passion and French
sentimentality in which he had been living!—atmosphere as hard to draw
healthy breath in as the odor of wilting tuberoses the day after a
party.
Harry valued Rose’s good opinion as he had never valued it before;
and, as he thought of her in his restless tossings, she seemed to him
something as pure, as wholesome, and strong as the air of his native
New-England hills, as the sweet-brier and sweet-fern he used to love
to gather when he was a boy. She seemed of a piece with all the good
old ways of New England,—its household virtues, its conscientious sense
of right, its exact moral boundaries; and he felt somehow as if she
belonged to that healthy portion of his life which he now looked back
upon with something of regret.
Then, what would she think of him? They had been friends, he said to
himself; they had passed over those boundaries of teasing unreality
where most young gentlemen and young ladies are content to hold
converse with each other, and had talked together reasonably and
seriously, saying in some hours what they really thought and felt.
And Rose had impressed him at times by her silence and reticence in
certain connections, and on certain subjects, with a sense of something
hidden and veiled,—a reserved force that he longed still further to
penetrate. But now, he said to himself, he must have fallen in her
opinion. Why was she so cold, so almost haughty, in her treatment of
him the night before? He felt in the atmosphere around her, and in the
touch of her hand, that she was quivering like a galvanic battery with
the suppressed force of some powerful emotion; and his own conscience
dimly interpreted to him what it might be.
To say the truth, Rose was terribly aroused. And there was a great deal
in her to be aroused, for she had a strong nature; and the whole force
of womanhood in her had never received such a shock.
Whatever may be scoffingly said of the readiness of women to pull one
another down, it is certain that the highest class of them have the
feminine esprit de corps immensely strong. The humiliation of another
woman seems to them their own humiliation; and man’s lordly contempt
for another woman seems like contempt of themselves.
The deepest feeling roused in Rose by the scenes which she saw last
night was concern for the honor of womanhood; and her indignation at
first did not strike where we are told woman’s indignation does, on
the woman, but on the man. Loving John Seymour as a brother from her
childhood, feeling in the intimacy in which they had grown up as if
their families had been one, the thoughts that had been forced upon
her of his wife the night before had struck to her heart with the
weight of a terrible affliction. She judged Lillie as a pure woman
generally judges another,—out of herself,—and could not and would
not believe that the gross and base construction which had been put
upon her conduct was the true one. She looked upon her as led astray
by inordinate vanity, and the hopeless levity of an undeveloped,
unreflecting habit of mind. She was indignant with Harry for the part
that he had taken in the affair, and indignant and vexed with herself
for the degree of freedom and intimacy which she had been suffering
to grow up between him and herself. Her first impulse was to break it
off altogether, and have nothing more to say to or do with him. She
felt as if she would like to take the short course which young girls
sometimes take out of the first serious mortification or trouble in
their life, and run away from it altogether. She would have liked to
have packed her trunk, taken her seat on board the cars, and gone home
to Springdale the next day, and forgotten all about the whole of it;
but then, what should she say to Mrs. Van Astrachan? what account could
she give for the sudden breaking up of her visit?
Then, there was Harry going to call on her the next day! What ought
she to say to him? On the whole, it was a delicate matter for a young
girl of twenty to manage alone. How she longed to have the counsel
of her sister or her mother! She thought of Mrs. Van Astrachan; but
then, again, she did not wish to disturb that good lady’s pleasant,
confidential relations with Harry, and tell tales of him out of school:
so, on the whole, she had a restless and uncomfortable night of it.
Mrs. Van Astrachan expressed her surprise at seeing Rose take her place
at the breakfast-table the next morning. “Dear me!” she said, “I was
just telling Jane to have some breakfast kept for you. I had no idea of
seeing you down at this time.”
“But,” said Rose, “I gave out entirely, and came away only an hour
after you did. The fact is, we country girls can’t stand this sort of
thing. I had such a terrible headache, and felt so tired and exhausted,
that I got Mr. Endicott to bring me away before the ‘German.’”
“Bless me!” said Mr. Van Astrachan; “why, you’re not at all up to
snuff! Why, Polly, you and I used to stick it out till daylight! didn’t
we?”
“Well, you see, Mr. Van Astrachan, I hadn’t anybody like you to stick
it out with,” said Rose. “Perhaps that made the difference.”
“Oh, well, now, I am sure there’s our Harry! I am sure a girl must be
difficult, if he doesn’t suit her for a beau,” said the good gentleman.
“Oh, Mr. Endicott is all well enough!” said Rose; “only, you observe,
not precisely to me what you were to the lady you call Polly,—that’s
all.”
“Ha, ha!” laughed Mr. Van Astrachan. “Well, to be sure, that does make
a difference; but Harry’s a nice fellow, nice fellow, Miss Rose: not
many fellows like him, as I think.”
“Yes, indeed,” chimed in Mrs. Van Astrachan. “I haven’t a son in the
world that I think more of than I do of Harry; he has such a good
heart.”
Now, the fact was, this eulogistic strain that the worthy couple were
very prone to fall into in speaking of Harry to Rose was this morning
most especially annoying to her; and she turned the subject at once, by
chattering so fluently, and with such minute details of description,
about the arrangements of the rooms and the flowers and the lamps and
the fountains and the cascades, and all the fairy-land wonders of the
Follingsbee party, that the good pair found themselves constrained to
be listeners during the rest of the time devoted to the morning meal.
It will be found that good young ladies, while of course they have all
the innocence of the dove, do display upon emergencies a considerable
