and the girls themselves will tell you the tasks 
are not exhaustive. No one gets so tired that 
she cannot enjoy the evening, every thought 
of work dismissed. Her employment is such that 
constant attention is not demanded. She may 
frequently sit thinking of the past or planning 
for the future. She earns nearly four dollars per 
week, beside her board. The pleasantest rela- 
tions subsist between her and her overseer, who 
is frequently the depositary of her funds, who 
perhaps goes with her to buy her wedding or 
household outfit, who is her counsellor and pro- 
tector. Her step is not inelastic, but firm 
The mills are high studded, well ventilated, and 
scrupulously clean. The girls are healthy and well 
looking, and men and women, who have worked 
daily for twenty or thirty years, are still in
undiminished enjoyment of sound lungs and limbs." 
" I never was in Lorenzo," said Sip, drily, as 
Perley folded the slip, " but mills are mills. I 'd 
like to see the fellow that wrote that." 
Fly and her friends had sifted into the library, 
while Miss Kelso's guests were thinning. 
" This, I suppose," Mrs. Silver was sadly saying,
" is but a specimen of our poor dear Perley's 
life." 
" You speak as if she were dead and buried, 
mamma," said Fly, making a dazzling little heap 
of herself upon a cricketful of pansies. 
" So she is," affirmed Mrs. Silver, plaintively, 
— " so she , is, my dear, as far as Society is 
concerned, r have been struck this evening by the 
thought, what a loss to Society ! Why, Miss 
Kenna, I am told that this superb house has 
been more like a hospital or a set of public soup- 
rooms for six months past, than it has like the 
retiring and secluded home of a young lady. 
Those people overrun it. They are made wel- 
come to it at all hours and under all circum- 
stances. She invites them to tea, my dear! 
They sit down at her very table with her. I 
have known her to bring out Mirabeau from town 
to furnish their music for them. Would you 
credit it .'' Mirabeau ! In the spring she bought 
a Bierstadt. I was with her at the time. ' I 
have friends in Five Falls who have never seen 
a Bierstadt,' she said. Now what do you call 
that .' T call it morbid," nodded the lady, making 
soft gestures with her soft hands, — " morbid ! " 
" I don't suppose anybody knows the money 
that she has put into her libraries, and her model 
tenements, and all that, either," mused Fly, from 
her cricket. 
"It does well enough in that Mr. Garrick," 
proceeded Mrs. Silver, in a gentle bubble of de- 
spair ; "I don't object to fanatical benevolence in 
a man like him. It is natural, of course. He is 
self-made entirely ; twenty years ago might have 
come to Miss Kelso's evenings himself, you 
know. It is excusable in him, though awkward 
in the firm, as I had reason to know, when he 
started to build that chapel. Now there is 
another of poor Perley's freaks. What does 
she do but leave Dr. Dremaine's, where she 
had at least the dearest of rectors and the best 
pew-list in Five Falls, on the ground that the 
mill-people do not frequent Dr. Dremaine's, and 
take a pew in the chapel herself! They have a 
young preacher there fresh from a seminary, 
and Perley and the mill-girls will sit in a row 
together and hear him ? Now that may be 
Christianity," adds Mrs. Silver, in a burst of 
heroism, " but I call it morbidness, sheer
morbidness ! " 
" But these people are very fond of Perley, 
mamma," urged Fly, lifting some honest trouble 
in her face out of the pretty shine that she made 
in the dim library. 
" They ought to be ! " said Mrs. Silver, with 
unwonted sharpness. 
Now Fly, in her own mind, had meant to find 
out something about that ; she went after the 
Hugo reader, it just occurring to her, and took 
her into a corner before everybody was gone. 
She made a great glitter of herself here too ; 
she could not help it, in her shirred lace and 
garnets. Sip looked her over, smiling as she 
would at a pretty kitten. Sip was more gentle 
in her judgments of " that kind of folks " than 
she used to be. 
" What do we think of her ?" Sip's fitful face 
flushed. " How can I tell you what we think of 
her ? There 's those of us here, young girls of us," 
Nynee Mell's blue ribbons, just before them, were 
fluttering through the door, " that she has saved 
from being what you wouldn't see in here to-night. 
There 's little children here that would be little 
devils, unless it was for her. There 's men of us 
with rum to fight, and boys in prison, and debts to 
pay, and hearts like hell, and never a friend in 
this world or the other but her. There 's others 
of us, that — that — God bless her ! " broke off 
Sip, bringing her clenched little hands together, 
— " God bless her, and the ground she treads on, 
and the air she breathes, and the sky that is over 
her, and the friends that love her, and the walls 
of her grand house, and every dollar of her 
money, and every wish she wishes, and all the 
prayers she prays — but I cannot tell you, young 
lady, what we think of her I " 
" But Society," sighed Mrs. Silver, — " Society 
has rights which every lady is bound to respect ; 
poor Perley forgets her duties to Society. Where 
we used to meet her in our circle, three times, we 
meet her once now." 
" Once of Perley is equal to three times of 
most people," considered Fly, appearing with 
Maverick (who had slipped in as the "evening" 
slipped out) from some lovers' corner. " And she 
doesn't rust, you must own, mamma ; and seems 
to enjoy herself so, besides." 
" I have understood," observed the elder Miss 
Van Doozle, "that she has been heard to say 
that she could never spend an evening in an 
ordinary drawing-room party happily again." 
This, in fact, was a report very common about 
Miss Kelso at one time. Those well acquainted 
with her and with her movements in Five Falls 
will remember it. 
" Poor Perley " herself came in just in time to 
hear it then. 
" I always forgave the falsity of that, for the 
suggestiveness of it," she said, laughing. 
" A thoughtful set of guests you have here," 
said Fly. " We have been finding fault with you 
all the evening." 
" That is what I expected." 
" So we supposed. Perley ! " 
" Well, my dear ? " 
" Are you happy ? " 
" Quite happy. Fly." 
" I should be so miserable ! " said Fly, with a 
shade of the honest trouble still on her pretty 
face. 
" I have been saying," began Mrs. Silver, " that 
Society is a great loser by your philanthropy, 
Perley." 
Perley lighted there. 
" Society ! " she said, " I feel as if I had but 
just begun to go into society ! " 
" But, on your theories," said Kenna Van 
Doozle, with a clumsy smile of hers, " we shall 
have our cooks up stairs playing whist with us, 
by and by." 
" And if we did ? " quietly. " But Miss Van 
Doozle, I am not a reformer ; I haven't come to 
the cooks yet ; I am only a feeler. The world 
gets into the dark once in a while, you know ; 
throws out a few of. us for groping purposes." 
" Kenna and I, for instance, being spots on the 
wings .' " asked Fly. 
" Naturalists insist that the butterfly will pause 
and study its own wings, wrapt in — " 
" O Maverick ! " 
" Admiration," finished Maverick. 
" But one must feel by something," persisted 
Fly, " guess or measure. It is all very beautiful 
in you, Perley. But it seems to me such a 
venture. I should be frightened out of it a dozen 
times over." 
Perley took a little book out of a rack upon one 
of the tables, where Mr. Mell's ice-cream saucer yet 
lay unremoved, — Isaac Taylor in bevelled board. 
" Here," she said, " is enough to feel by, even 
if I feel my way to your cook, Miss Kenna." 
"' To insure, therefore, its large purpose of good- will 
to man, the law of Christ spreads out its 
claims very far beyond the circle of mere pity or 
natural kindness, and in absolute and peremptory 
terms demands for the use of the poor, the igno- 
rant, the wretched, and demands from every one 
who names the name of Christ, the whole residue 
of talent, wealth, time, that may remain after 
primary claims have been satisfied! " 
CHAPTER XII. 
MAPLE LEAVES. 
AN incident connected with Miss Kelso's 
experiments in Five Falls, valuable chiefly 
as indicative of the experimenter, and rather as a 
hint than as history, occurred in the ripening 
autumn. It has been urged upon me to find 
place for it, although it is fragmentary and 
incomplete. 
A distant sea-swell of a strike was faintly 
audible in Hayle and Kelso. 
Hayle and Kelso were in trouble. Standfast 
Brothers, of Town, solid as rock and old as 
memory, had gone down ; gone as suddenly and 
blackly as Smashem & Co. of yesterday, and 
gone with a clutch on Five Falls cotton, under 
which Five Falls shook dizzily. 
The serene face of the senior partner took, for 
the first time since 1857, an anxious, or, it might 
rather be called, an annoyed groove. All the 
manufacturing panics of the war had fanned it 
placidly, but Standfast Brothers were down, and 
behold, the earth reeled and the foundations 
thereof. 
Two things, therefore, resulted. The progress 
of the new mill was checked, and a notice of 
reduction of wages went to the hands. 
The sea-swell murmured. 
Hayle and Kelso heard nothing. 
The sea-swell growled. 
Hayle and Kelso never so much as turned the 
head. 
The sea-swell splashed out a few delegates and 
a request, respectful enough, for consultation and 
compromise. 
" We will shut down the mills first ! " said 
young Mr. Hayle between his teeth. 
So the swell broke with a roar the next " Lord's 
day." 
The groove grew a little jagged across the 
Senior's face. A strike, it is well known, is by no 
means necessarily an undesirable thing. Stock 
accumulates. The market quickens. You keep 
your finger on its pulse. You repair your ma- 
chinery and bide your time. A thousand people, 
living from hand to mouth, may be under your 
finger, empty-handed. What so easy as a little 
stir of the finger now and then ? You are not 
hungry meanwhile ; your daughter has her win- 
ter clothes. You sit and file handcuffs playfully, 
against that day when your " hands " shall have 
gone hungry long enough. No more striking 
presently ! Meantime, you may amuse yourself. 
There is something noteworthy about this 
term " strike." A head would think and out- 
wit us. A heart shall beat and move us. The 
" hands '' can only struggle and strike us, — 
foolishly too, and madly, here and there, and des- 
perately, being ill-trained hands, never at so much 
as a boxing-school, and gashing each other 
principally in the contest. 
There had been strikes in Hayle and Kelso 
which had not caused a ruffle upon the Senior's 
gentlemanly, smooth brow or pleasant smile ; but 
just now a strike was unfortunate. 
" Very unfortunate," said Mr. Hayle in the 
counting-room on pay-day, in the noise of the 
breaking swell. 
The Company were all upon the ground, silent 
and - disturbed. There was a heavy crowd at the 
gates, and the sound of the overseers' voices in 
altercation with them, made its way in jerks to 
the counting-room. 
By a chance Miss Kelso was in the counting- 
room ; had been over to put Mill's " Liberty " 
into the library, and had been detained by the 
gathering crowd. 
She was uneasy Uke the rest ; was in and out, 
taking her own measure of the danger. 
" There is nothing to be done," said Mr. Gar- 
rick, anxiously, the last time that she came into 
the little gloomy room where they were sitting. It 
was beginning to rain, and the windows, through 
which growing spots of lowering faces could be 
seen darkening the streets, were spattered and 
dirty. " There is nothing to do about it. If 
they will, they will. Had you better stay here .' 
We may have a noisy time of it." 
" There is one thing to do," said the young 
lady, decidedly, " only one. I wish, Mr. Garrick, 
that you had never shut me out of this firm. I 
belonged here ! You do not one of you know 
now what it is for your own interest to do ! " 
Mr. Hayle signified, smiling across his groove 
of anxiety, that she was at liberty, of course, to 
offer any valuable suggestion with which she 
might be prepared for such an emergency. 
" And fold my hands for a romantic woman 
after it. However, that does not alter the fact ; 
there is just one thing to do to prevent the most 
serious strike known in Five Falls yet. I know 
those men better than you do." 
" We know them well enough," said Maverick, 
with a polite sneer. " This is a specimen of 
' intelligent labor,' a fair one ! These fellows 
are like a horse blind in one eye ; they will run 
against a barn to get away from a barrel. Loose 
the rein, and there 's mischief immediately. You 
may invite them to supper to the end of their 
days. Miss Kelso ; but when you are in a genuine 
difficulty, they will turn against you just as they 
are doing now. There 's neither gratitude nor 
common business sense among them. There 's 
neither trust nor honor. They have no confidence 
in their employers, and no foresight for 
themselves. They would ruin us altogether for 
fifty cents a week. A parcel of children with the 
blessed addition of a few American citizens at 
their head!" 
" I was about to propose," said Perley, quietly, 
" that their employers should exhibit some trust 
or confidence in them. I want Mr. Garrick to 
go out and tell them why we must reduce their 
wages." 
" Truly a young lady's suggestion," said the 
Senior. 
" It is none of their business," said Maverick, 
" why we reduce their wages." 
Stephen Garrick said nothing. 
" Such a course was never taken in the company," 
said the Senior. 
" And never ought to be," said the Junior. " It 
is an unsuitable position for an employer to take, 
— unsuitable ! And disastrous as a precedent. 
Next thing we know, we should have them regu- 
lating the salary of our clerks and the size of 
our invoices. Outside of the fancy of a co- 
operative economist, such a principle would be 
im What a noise they 're making ! " 
" Every minute is precious," exclaimed Perley, 
rising nervously. " I tell you I know those men ! 
They will trust Mr. Stephen Garrick, if he treats 
them like reasonable beings before it is too 
late ! " , ' 
The counting-room door slammed there, behind 
a messenger from the clerk. Things looked badly, 
he said ; the Spinners' Union had evidently been 
at work ; there were a few brickbats about, and rum 
enough to float a schooner ; and an ugly kind of 
setness all around ; we were in for it, he thought, 
now. Were there any orders ? 
No, no orders. 
The counting-room door slammed again, and 
the noise outside dashed against the sound with 
a little spurt of defiance. 
" It would be a most uncommon course to 
take," said the Senior, uneasily ; " but the
emergency is great, and perhaps if Mr. Garrick felt 
inclined to undertake such an extraordinary — " 
Miss Kelso overrated his chances of success, 
Mr. Garrick said, but she did not overrate the 
importance of somebody's doing something. He 
was willing to make the attempt. 
The counting-room door slammed once more ; 
the spurt died down ; the swell reared its head, 
writhing a little to see what would happen. 
Mr. Garrick took his hat off. and stood in the 
door. 
It was an ugly crowd, with a disheartening 
" setness " about it. He wished, when he looked 
it over, that he had not come  but stood with 
his hat off, smiling. 
He was smiling still when he came back to 
the counting-room. 
"Well?" asked Parley. 
" For an unpopular master — " 
" O hush ! " said Perley. 
" For an unpopular master," repeated Mr. Gar- 
rick, " I did as well as I expected. In fact, just 
what I expected all the time has happened.. 
Listen ! " 
He held the door open. A cry came in from 
outside, — 
" Ask the young leddy !" 
" You see, you should have gone in the first 
place," said the unpopular master, patiently. 
" The rest of us are good for little, without your 
indorsement." 
" Call the young leddy ! Let 's hear what the 
young leddy says to 't ! The young leddy ! The 
young leddy ! " 
The demand came in at the counting-room 
door just as the " young leddy " went out. 
The people parted for her right and left. 
She stood in the mud, in the rain, among them. 
They made room for her, just as the dark day- 
would have made room for a sunbeam. The 
drunkest fellows, some of them, slunk to the circumference 
of the circle that had closed about 
her. Oaths and brickbats seemed to have been 
sucked out to sea by a sudden tide of respecta- 
bility. It has been said by those who witnessed 
it that it was a scene worth seeing. 
" She just stood in the mud and the rain," said 
Sip Garth, in telling the story. " If we 'd all 
been in her fine parlors, we wouldn't have been 
stiller. There was a kind of a shame and a sense 
came to us, to see her standing so quiet in the 
rain. The fellow that opened his lips for a 
roughness before her would ha' been kicked into 
the gutter, I can tell you. It was just like her. 
There 's never mud nor rain amongst us, but you 
look, and there she is ! That day there seemed 
to be a shining to her. We were all worked up 
and angered ; and she stood so white and still. 
There was a minute that she looked at us, and 
