a gale; and she was just that, only the gale was in her own mind. It
drove her on, and she rushed into the parsonage, excited by her own
quick movements as well as by her thoughts. Miss Redwood was busy in
the kitchen.
"What's the matter?" she exclaimed, for Matilda had gone in that way.
"I want to see Mr. Richmond."
"Well, he's in there. La! child, we keep open doors at the parsonage;
there ain't no need that you should break 'em in by running against
'em. Take it easy, whatever there is to take. The minister's in his
study. But his dinner'll be ready in a quarter of an hour, tell him."
Matilda went more quietly and knocked at the study door. She heard
"Come in."
"Mr. Richmond, are you busy?" she asked, standing still inside of the
study door. "Shall I disturb you?" She was quiet enough now. But the
tears were shining in Matilda's eyes, and the eyes themselves were
eager.
"Come here," said Mr. Richmond holding out his hand; "I am not too
busy, and your disturbing me is very welcome. How do you do?"
Matilda's answer was to clasp Mr. Richmond's hand and cover her face.
"What is the matter?" he asked softly, though a little startled.
"Nothing that we cannot set right, Tilly?"
He drew his arm protectingly round her, and Matilda presently looked
up. "O Mr. Richmond," she said, "I don't know if anything is wrong; but
I want to know."
"Well, we can find out. What is the question?"
"Mr. Richmond, the question is, Ought I to wear black things for mamma?"
The minister was much surprised.
"What put this in your head, Tilly?"
"Mrs. Laval gave me some new dresses yesterday; these, you see, Mr.
Richmond; the frock is dark brown and the coat is grey. Ought they to
be black?"
"Why should they be black?"
"I don't know, sir. People do wear black things when they have lost
friends."
"What for do they so?"
"I don't know, Mr. Richmond; but people say it shews respect--and
that I do not shew"--
"Let us look at it quietly," said her friend. "How does it shew respect
to a lost friend, to put on a peculiar dress?"
"I don't know, sir; because it's the custom, I suppose. But I am not in
black. Ought I to be?"
"Wait; we will come to it. Black dresses are supposed to be a sign of
grief, are they not?"
"I don't know, Mr. Richmond; they said, of respect, and to put one in
mind."
"The grief that wants putting in mind, is not a grief that pays much
real respect, I should think. Do not you think so? that's one thing."
Matilda looked at him, with eyes intent and pitifully full of tears,
just ready to run over, but eagerly watching his lips.
"Then as to respect, black dresses must shew respect, if any way, by
saying to the world that we remember and are sorry. Now the fact is,
Matilda, they do not say that at all. They are worn quite as much by
people who do not remember, and who are not sorry. They tell nothing
about the truth, except that some of those who wear them like to be in
the fashion and some are afraid of what the world will say.
"But there is another question. When our friends have left us and are
happy with the Lord Jesus, as all his children are, is it a mark of
respect to their memory, that we should cover our faces with crape, and
wear gloomy drapery, and shut up our shutters to keep the sunlight out
of our rooms? Have we any right to stop the sunlight anywhere? Wouldn't
it be better honour to our Christian friends who have gone, to be glad
for them, and speak as if we were; and let it be seen that all the
sorrow we have is on our own account, and we do not mean to indulge
that selfishly? We do not sorrow as those that have no hope; for we
believe that them which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. There
will be a glorious meeting again, by and by, when Jesus comes; then we
and our dear ones who have loved him will be together again, and all of
us with the Lord."
"Then people ought not to wear black for mourning?" said Matilda with
a brightened but undecided face.
"I think myself it is a very unchristian fashion. It is not according
to the spirit of the early Christian times; for people then who had had
friends slain by wild beasts, and burned to death, for the truth of
Jesus, gathered the poor remains that were left and laid them to rest,
with the motto cut in the door of their resting place,--'In peace. In
Christ.'"
"Did they!" said Matilda.
"A very great many of them."
"Then wouldn't you wear mourning, Mr. Richmond?"
"I should not. I never have."
"Nor crape on your hat?"
"Nor crape anywhere."
"Then I don't care!" said Matilda.
"I do not think you need care."
"But it is very disagreeable!" continued Matilda.
"What?"
"That people will say such things."
Mr. Richmond smiled. "You must try and learn to bear that, Tilly. But
it is not very difficult, when you are sure that you are in the right?"
"I think it is difficult to bear," said Matilda.
"The only question is, what is right? Do you remember the fairy tale,
about the journey that a great many ladies and gentlemen took to the
top of a hill, to get certain treasures that were there?"
"The golden bird and the singing water!" said Matilda. "Yes, I know. Do
you know it, Mr. Richmond?"
"I heard you telling it to Norton."
"I didn't know that you heard!" said Matilda. "Well, Mr. Richmond?--how
could you remember!"
"Well--if they looked round, when they were going up the hill, they
lost all."
"They were turned into stone. And there were all sorts of noises in
their ears, to make them look round."
"The only way to get to the top, was to stop their ears."
"Yes, Mr. Richmond; I know; I understand. But what golden bird and
singing water are we going up hill after?"
"Something better. We want the 'Well done, good and faithful
servant,'--do we not? And if we would have that, we must stop our ears
against all sorts of voices that would turn aside our eyes from what is
at the top of the hill."
"But Mr. Richmond, it is not wicked to wear mourning, is it?"
"No. I was thinking then of other things. But it is very unlike the
spirit of religion, when a friend has gone home, to make a parade of
gloom about it; very unlike the truth of Christ."
"Mr. Richmond, I am very glad; and now I know what is right, I am very
much obliged to you. And Miss Redwood said your dinner would be ready
in a quarter of an hour. I guess it is ready now."
Which was the fact; and Matilda ran home, in a different sort of gale
now, and at luncheon was quite as light hearted as usual.
CHAPTER IV.
It was needful for Norton and Matilda, or they thought so, to take the
early train which left the station at half past seven o'clock. The next
train would not be till near eleven; and that, it was decided, would
not do at all for their purposes. Taking the early train, they would
have to go without breakfast; but that was no matter; they would get
breakfast at Poughkeepsie, and have so much the more fun. The omnibus
came for them a little after half past six, and they were ready;
Matilda with an important basket on her arm, which Norton gallantly
took charge of.
It was a delightful experience altogether. The omnibus did not
immediately take the road to the station; there were several other
passengers to gather up, and they drove round corners and stopped at
houses in different streets of the village. First they took in old Mr.
Kurtz; he was going to New York for his business, Norton whispered to
Matilda; he had a large basket and an old lady with him. Then the
omnibus went round into the street behind the parsonage and received
Mr. Schonflöcken, the Lutheran minister, and from another house another
old lady with another basket. Two men got in from the corner. Lastly
the omnibus stopped before a house near the baker's; and here they
waited. The people were not ready. There were two children missing from
the travelling party, it seemed. Inquiries and exclamations were
bandied about; the stage driver knocked impatiently and cried out to
hurry; Matilda was very much afraid they might miss the train. "Never
mind; he knows his business," Norton remarked coolly. At last a man who
had been in quest, brought back the stray children from an opposite
lumber yard, calling out that they were found; then there were kisses
and leave takings, and "Good bye, grandma!" and "Come back again!"--and
finally the mother put her children into the omnibus, the first, the
second, the third, and the fourth; then got in herself, and the vehicle
lumbered on. The omnibus was crowded now; and the new comers had been
eating a breakfast of fried cakes and fish, pretty near the stove where
it was cooked; for the smoke of the fry had filled their clothes. Of
course it filled the omnibus also. This could be borne only a few
minutes.
"Dear Norton," Matilda whispered, "can't you open this window for me? I
cannot breathe."
"You'll catch cold," said Norton.
"No I won't. Please do! it is choking me."
Norton laughed, and opened the window, and Matilda putting her face
close to the opening was able to get a breath of fresh air. Then she
enjoyed herself again. The grey dawn was brightening over the fields;
the morning air was brisk and frosty; and as soon as Matilda's lungs
could play freely again, so could her imagination. How pretty the dusky
clumps of trees were against the brightening sky; how lovely that
growing light in the east, which every moment rose stronger and
revealed more. The farm houses they passed looked as if they had not
waked up yet; barns and farmyards were waiting for the day's work to
begin; a waggoner or two, going slowly to the station, were all the
moving things they saw. The omnibus passed them, and lumbered on.
"Norton," said Matilda suddenly, bringing her face round from the
window, "it's delicious to be up so early."
"Unless you are obliged to take other people's breakfast before you get
your own," said Norton. He looked disgusted, and Matilda could not help
laughing in her turn.
"Put your nose to my window,--you can," she said. "The air is as sweet
as can be."
"Outside"--grumbled Norton.
"Well, that is what I am getting," said Matilda. "Can't you get some of
it?--poor Norton!"
"What I don't understand," said Norton, "is how people live."
At this point, the old woman with the basket got out, where a cross
road branched off. Matilda was obliged to move up into the vacated
place, to make more room for the others; and she lost her open window.
However, the river came in sight now; the end of the ride was near; and
soon she and Norton stood on the steps of the station house.
"I don't believe my coat will get over it all day," said the latter.
"There ought to be two omnibuses."
"The poor people cannot help it, Norton; they are not to blame."
"Yes, they are," said Norton. "They might open their windows and air
their houses. They are not fit to be in a carriage with clean people."
"I guess they don't know any better," said Matilda; "and they were
rather poor people, Norton."
"Well?" said Norton. "That is what I say. There ought to be a coach for
them specially."
He went in to buy the tickets, and Matilda remained on the steps,
wondering a little why there should be poor people in the world. Why
could not all have open windows and free air and sweet dresses? Being
poor, she knew, was somehow at the bottom of it; and why should there
be such differences? And then, what was the duty of those better off?
"Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you,"--that opened a wide
field. Too big to be gone over just now. Matilda was sure that she was
in the right way so far, in going to give pleasure to Maria; and by the
way she would take all the pleasure she could herself. How sweet it was
now! The sun was up, and shining with bright yellow light upon the
hills of Rosendale and the opposite shore. The river was all in lively
motion under the breeze; the ferry boat just coming in from Rondout;
the sky overhead clearing itself of some racks of grey vapour and
getting all blue. Could anything be more delicious? Now the passengers
came trooping over from the "Lark," to get their tickets; and presently
came the rumble of the train. She and Norton jumped into one of the
cars, and then they were off.
"I'm hungry," was Norton's first confidence in the cars.
"So am I, very," said Matilda. "It will not take more than an hour,
will it, to go to Poughkeepsie?"
"Not that," said Norton. Then the very first thing will be, to go up to
Smith's and get our breakfast."
"That's that restaurant?"
"Yes. A good one too."
"I never was in a restaurant in my life," said Matilda.
"We'll see how you like it, Pink; it's delightful that you have never
seen anything."
"Why?"
"You have got so much to see. And I want to know what you will think of
it all."
Matilda was almost too happy. So happy, that not a sunbeam, nor a
ripple on the water, nor a cloud in the sky, but seemed to bring her
more to be glad of. It was only that her joy met these things and
glanced back. So Norton said. But Matilda thought it was something
beside.
"Why Norton, I am glad of those things themselves," she insisted.
"Of the waves on the river?" said Norton.
"Yes, to be sure I am."
"Nonsense, Pink! What for?"
"I don't know what for," said Matilda. "They are so pretty. And they
are so lively. And there is another thing, Norton," she said with a
change of voice. "God made them."
"Do you like everything he has made?" said Norton.
"I think I do."
"Then you must like those poor people in the omnibus, and poor people
everywhere. Do they give you pleasure?"
Matilda could not say that they did. She wished with all her heart
there were no such thing as poverty in the world. She could not answer
immediately. And before she could answer the whistle blew.
"Is this Poughkeepsie?"
"Yes, this is Poughkeepsie. Now we'll have breakfast! Look sharp,
Pink"--
In another minute, the two were standing on the platform of the station.
"Is this the place?" Matilda inquired a little ruefully. She saw,
inside the glass door, a large room with what seemed like a shop
counter running down the length of it; and on this counter certainly
eatables were set out; she could see cups of tea or coffee, and
biscuits, and pieces of pie. People were crowding to this counter, and
plates and cups seemed to have a busy time.
"This is Poughkeepsie," said Norton. "You have been here before. This
our restaurant? I should think not! Not precisely. We have got to take
a walk before we get to it. Smith's is at the top of the street."
"I am glad; I am ready to walk," said Matilda joyously; and they set
off at a pace which shewed what sort of time their spirits were
keeping. Nevertheless, all the way, between other things, Matilda was
studying the problem of poverty which Norton had presented to her. The
walk was quite a walk, and the footsteps were a little slower before
the "top of the street" was reached. Why Norton called it so, Matilda
did not see. The street went on, far beyond; but they turned aside
round a corner, and presently were at the place they wanted.
They entered a nice quiet room, somewhat large, to be sure, and with a
number of little tables set out; but nobody at any of them. Matilda and
Norton went towards the back of the room, where it took an angle, and
they could be a little more private. Here they took possession of one
of the tables. Norton set down his basket, and Matilda took off her
hat. Nothing, she thought, could possibly be any pleasanter than this
expedition in which they were engaged. This was a rare experience;
unparalleled.
"Now what shall we have?" said Norton.
"What can we have?" said Matilda.
"Everything. That is, any common thing. You couldn't get dishes of
French make-ups, I suppose; and we don't want them. I am just as hungry
as a bear."
"And I am as hungry as a bearess."
Norton went off into a great laugh. "You look so like it!" he said.
"But you might be as hungry as a bear; that don't say anything against
your ladylike character. Though I always heard that she bears were
fiercer than the others, when once they got their spirits up. Oh, Pink,
Pink!"--
He was interrupted by the waiter.
"Now Pink, we've got to be civilized, and say what we'll have. You may
have a cup of coffee."
"Yes, I would like it, Norton."
"And beefsteak? or cold chicken? We'll have chicken. I know you like it
best."
It was nice of Norton; for he didn't.
"Buckwheats, Pink?"
"Yes. I like them," said Matilda.
"So do I, when they are good. And rolls, in case they shouldn't be. And
good syrup--Silver Drip, mind."
Norton gave his order, and the two sat waiting. Matilda examined the
place and its appointments. It was neat, if it was very plain.
"It's a good place enough," said Norton. "The country people come here
in the middle of the day when they have driven in to Poughkeepsie to
market and do shopping. Then the place is busy and all alive; now, you
see, we have got it to ourselves. But anyhow, they have always good
plain things here."
So the breakfast proved when it came. Matilda was very much amused with
the little coffee pot, holding just enough for two, and the cream
pitcher to match. But there was hot milk in plenty; and the cakes were
feathery light; and the cold fowl very good; and the rolls excellent.
And the two, Norton and Matilda, were very hungry. So much exercise and
so much business and pleasure together made them sharp. Eating stopped
talking a little. But the very goodness of the breakfast made Matilda
think only the more, in the intervals, of that question Norton had
given her; why were there poor people, who could have nothing like this?
"Shall we go to Blodgett's next? or will you see Maria first?" Norton
asked.
"O, Maria first, Norton; and then we need not be hurried about the
plants."
"The roots," said Norton. "Well, I'll see you there, and then I have
some other business to attend to. I'll come for you about dinner time;
then we can go to Blodgett's after dinner. You'll want a good deal of
time with Maria, I suppose."
So after breakfast the two went down the town again and turned into the
cross street where Maria lived. At the door of the humble-looking
house, Norton left Matilda and went off again. Yes, it was a plain,
small brick house, with wooden steps and little windows. Matilda had
the door opened to her by Maria herself. She could not understand,
though she surely saw, the cloud which instantly covered a flash of
pleasure in Maria's face. The two went in, went up the stairs to a
little back room, which was Maria's own. A chill came over Matilda
here. It was so different from her room. A little close stove warmed
it; the bed was covered with a gay patchwork quilt which had seen its
best days; the chairs were but two, and those rush-bottomed. A painted
wooden chest of drawers stood under the tiny bit of looking glass; the
wash stand in the corner had but one towel thrown over it, and that not
clean; one or two of Maria's dresses hung up against the wall. But a
skirt of rich blue silk lay across the bed, for contrast; and yards of
blue satin ribband lay partly quilled on the skirt, partly heaped on
the patchwork quilt, and part had fallen on the floor. So one life
touched another life.
"Well!" said Maria, for Matilda did not immediately begin what she had
to say,--"how came you to be here so early?"
"We came down in the early train. I wanted to have a good long time to
talk to you; and the next train is so late."
"Who came with you?"
"O, Norton. Norton Laval."
"Norton Laval! He came with you before. How came aunt Candy to let you
come?"
"She could not help it."
"No," said Maria scornfully; "anything that Mrs. Laval wanted, she
would say nothing against. She would go down on her knees, if she could
get into Mrs. Laval's house. Did Mrs. Laval ask her to get you those
new things?"
"No. Mrs. Laval"--
"How came she to do it, then?" interrupted Maria. "They are just as
handsome as they can be; and in the fashion too. But she always liked
you. I knew it. She never gave me anything, but a faded silk
neckerchief. She is too mean"--
"O don't, Maria!" Matilda interrupted in her turn. "Aunt Candy had
nothing to do with these things; she never gave me much either; she did
not get these for me."
"Who did, then?" said Maria opening her eyes.
"Mrs. Laval."
"Mrs. Laval! How came she to do it?"
"Yes, Maria, because--Maria, I have gone away from aunt Candy's."
"For a visit. I know. It has been a tremendously long visit, I think."
"Not for a visit now. Maria, I am not to go back there at all any more;
I mean, I am not going back to aunt Candy. Mrs. Laval has taken me to
keep--to be her own child. I am there now, for always."
"What?" Maria exclaimed.
"Mrs. Laval has taken me for her own,--for her own child."
"She hasn't!" said Maria; and if the wish did not point the expression,
it was hard to tell what did. Matilda made no answer.
"Mrs. Laval has taken you? for her own child?" repeated Maria. "Do
you mean that? To be with her, just like her own daughter? always?"
Matilda bowed her head, and her eyes filled. She was so disappointed.
"You aren't ever going to call her mamma? Don't you do it, Matilda! See
you don't. If you do, I'll not be your sister any more. She shall not
have that!"
Matilda was silent still, utterly dismayed.
"Why don't you speak? What made her do that, anyhow?"
"I don't know," said Matilda in a trembling voice. "She had a little
daughter once, and she took me"--Matilda's eyes were glittering. She
nearly broke down, but would not, and in the resistance she made to the
temptation, her head took its peculiar airy turn upon her neck. Maria
ought to have known her well enough to understand it.
"Everything comes to you!" she exclaimed. "I wonder why nothing comes
to me! There are you, set up now, you think, above all your relations;
you will not want to look at us by and by; I dare say you feel so now.
And you are dressed, and have dresses made for you, and you ride in a
carriage, and you have everything you want; and I here make dresses for
other people, and live anyhow I can; sew and sew, from morning till
night, and begin again as soon as morning comes; and never a bit of
pleasure or rest or hope of it; and can't dress myself decently, except
by the hardest! I don't know what I have done to deserve it!" said
Maria furiously. "It has always been so. Mamma loved you best, and aunt
Candy treated you best,--she didn't love anybody;--and now strangers
have taken you up; and nobody cares for me at all."
Here Maria completed her part of the harmony by bursting into tears.
And being tears of extreme mortification and envy, they were hard to
stop. The fountain was large. Matilda sat still, with her eyes
glittering, and her head in the position that with her was apt to mean
disapproval, and meant it now. But what could she say.
"It's very hard!"--Maria sobbed at last. "It's very hard!"
"Maria," said her little sister, "does it make it any harder for you,
