on a picturesque island, with its pretty landing-place, not unlike
some similar establishments near the head of Narragansett Bay. At the
wharf in front of the city, and lying in the bay, was a considerable
number of steamers, some of them quite large. The fleet ran up to the
front of the city and anchored.
"This is the end of my voyage," said Clyde Blacklock, when everything
had been put in order on board of the ship.
"You are not going yet--are you?" laughed Scott.
"Very soon."
"I thought you were going to stop, and whip Peaks and the two
lieutenants."
"Time enough for that. I suppose the ship will stay here two or three
days--won't she?"
"Perhaps a week. I suppose we shall go on shore this afternoon, and
see the sights."
"I say, Scott, if you tell those officers what I've been saying to
you, I'll serve you in the same way," added Clyde, as for the first
time it occurred to him that he had been imprudent in developing his
plans to another.
"No! You won't lick me, too--will you?"
"Not if you behave like a man, and don't peach," answered Clyde, in a
patronizing tone.
"I will try to be a good boy, then," laughed Scott.
"I only want to catch them on shore, where I can have fair play. I'm
not to be fagged by any fellow that ever was born."
Clyde walked uneasily about the deck till the crew were piped to
dinner, evidently thinking how he should carry his big intentions into
execution. To one less moved by fancied insults and indignities the
case would have looked hopeless. He devoured his dinner in a much
shorter period than is usually allotted by well-bred Englishmen to
that pleasing diversion, and hastened on deck again. Peaks was there,
acting as ship-keeper, while the carpenter was painting the second
cutter, the repairs upon which had been completed. The big boatswain
was seated on one of the cat-heads, where he could see the entire deck
of the ship, and observe every craft that approached her. The new
student observed his position, and thought he was seated in a very
careless manner. A very wicked thought took possession of the Briton's
mind, and he ascended to the top-gallant forecastle. The boatswain sat
very composedly on the cat-head, with his feet hanging over the water,
and was just then studying the beauties of the landscape. A very
slight exercise of force would displace him, and drop him into the
water.
"Well, my hearty, you stowed your grub in a hurry," said Peaks, when
he discovered the new pupil.
"I was not very hungry, and thought I would take another look at the
town," replied Clyde. "What's that big building off there, near the
hills?"
"That may be the county jail, the court-house, or the lunatic asylum.
I haven't the least idea what it is," answered Peaks, indifferently.
"The professors can tell you all about those things."
"I wonder where that ship came from?" added Clyde, pointing to a
vessel which was standing in ahead of the Young America.
"That isn't a ship," replied Peaks, as he turned partly round, so that
he could see the craft. "That's a 'mofferdite brig; or, as bookish
people would say, an hermaphrodite brig--half brig and half schooner.
You must call things, especially vessels, by their right names, or you
will fall in the opinion of--"
At that instant the big boatswain dropped into the deep waters of the
fjord.
"And you will fall, in my opinion," said Clyde, as, taking advantage
of his antagonist's attention to the brig, he gave him a smart push,
which displaced him from the cat-head.
But Peaks, who was half man and half fish, was as much at home in the
water as on the deck, and struck out for the cable, by which the ship
was anchored, as the nearest point of support. Clyde walked along the
rail till he came to the swinging-boom, where the boats which had been
lowered for use after dinner were fastened. Climbing out on the boom,
he dropped down by the painter into the third cutter, one of the
four-oar boats. Bitts, the carpenter, who had been the only person on
board except the boatswain, was in the waist busily at work upon the
boat, and did not observe that anything unusual had transpired. Clyde
had practised gymnastics a great deal, and was an active, agile
fellow. Casting off the painter of the third cutter, he worked her
astern, so as to avoid Peaks. Then, shipping a pair of oars, he pulled
for the shore.
In the mean time, the boatswain, disdaining to call for assistance,
and not having observed the movements of Clyde, climbed up the cable
to the hawse-hole, and then, by the bowsprit guys, made his way to the
top-gallant forecastle, where he discovered the Briton in the cutter,
pulling with all his might for the shore. Shaking the water from his
clothes, he hastened to the main cabin, and informed the principal
that the new scholar had left the ship.
"Left the ship!" exclaimed Mr. Lowington. "Were you not on deck while
the students were at dinner?"
"Yes, sir, most of the time; but just at the moment when the young
sculpin left the ship, I happened to be in the water," answered Peaks,
shrugging his shoulders like a Frenchman, and glancing at his wet
garments.
"How came you in the water?"
"The little Britisher pushed me overboard, when I was sitting on the
cat-head."
"I see," added the principal. "We must get him back before his mother
arrives."
By this time most of the students had come up from the steerage, and
the order was given to pipe away the first cutter. Peaks was directed
to change his clothes, and go in her. He was ready by the time the
crew were in their seats, for, as he was not a fashionable man, his
toilet was soon made. The boats from the other vessels of the fleet,
including those of the yachts, were already on their way to the town.
The first cutter pulled to the shore; but Clyde had already landed,
and disappeared in the city.
As at Christiansand, Paul Kendall and lady decided to remain on shore
during the stay of the fleet. They had several pieces of baggage, and
the custom-house officers on the wharf were obliged to examine them,
after which they followed a porter to the Victoria Hotel, which was
said to be the best in the place. Peaks found a man who could speak
English, and immediately applied himself to the business of finding
the runaway. Clyde had been seen going up one of the streets, but no
one knew anything about him.
The fugitive felt that he had achieved a victory. He had "paid off"
the big boatswain, and no fellow on board of the ship could believe
that he had not kept his word. He walked up the street till he came to
Dronningensgaden. People looked at him as though he were a stranger,
and he became aware that his uniform was exciting attention. In the
Kirkegade he found a clothing store, in which the shop-keeper spoke
English. In changing his dress on board of the ship, he had retained
the contents of his pockets, including a well-filled purse. He
selected a suit of clothes which pleased him, and immediately put it
on. At another store he bought a hat, and then he appeared like a new
being. With the bundle containing his uniform, he walked till he found
a carriage, in which he seated himself, and ordered the driver to
leave him at the Victoria Hotel. He thought it would only be necessary
for him to keep out of sight till evening, when his mother would
probably arrive in the Foldin, and he was confident he could induce
her to withdraw him from the Academy. He would stay in his room the
rest of the day, and by that time the search for him, if any was made,
would be ended.
"I want a nice room for myself, another for my mother and sister, who
will arrive this evening, and a place for the man," said Clyde, as the
porter of the hotel touched his cap, and helped him out of the
carriage.
The young man was evidently a person of some importance. The porter,
the clerk, and the head waiter, who came out to receive him, bowed
low. A man took his bundle, and he was ushered to a room on the ground
floor. As he crossed the court, he discovered several of the Orlando's
passengers in the reading-room. He had not entered his chamber before
there was another arrival,--Paul Kendall and lady,--who were assigned
to the next room.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE SIGHTS OF CHRISTIANIA AND OTHER MATTERS.
As there was in Christiania much to be seen that needed explanation,
the students were required to keep together, and several guides from
the hotel were obtained, to conduct the party to the various objects
of interest in the city. A walk through some of the principal streets
brought them to the new Parliament house, which is called the
Storthingsbyggningen. It is a fine building, but with nothing
remarkable about it. In the lower house, the students seated
themselves in the chairs of the members, and Mr. Mapps took the
speaker's desk.
"Christiania was founded in 1624, on the site of the ancient city of
Osloe, which was destroyed by fire. It is the residence of the king
during his sojourn in Norway, and the new palace, which you saw on the
hill, was completed for his use in 1848. The city, as you have seen,
is regularly laid out, and the buildings are either of brick or stone.
Formerly the dwellings were of wood, but the frequent fires caused the
adoption of a law that no more wooden buildings should be erected
within the precincts of the city. The place has considerable commerce,
and now contains nearly sixty thousand inhabitants.
"A street here is called a gade, and you observe that the street and
its name form one word, as Carl-Johansgade, or Charles John Street;
Kongensgade, or King Street; Kirkegaden, or Church Street. The same
word is used in German.
"The money of Norway is different from that of Sweden or Denmark. The
specie dollar, which is generally called a 'specie,' is the unit, and
contains five marks of twenty-four skillings each. A specie, or
specie-daler, as it is written, is worth about one dollar and eight
cents of our money. It is near enough for our purpose to say that a
mark is twenty-two cents, and a skilling one cent. The coins in
circulation are the mark, the two, the four, and the twelve skilling
piece. Species and half species are coined, but paper money is
generally used for large sums, each denomination being printed on a
particular colored paper.
"It is probable that the French system of weights and measures will
soon be introduced in Sweden and Norway; but now a Norwegian pund is
one and one tenth pounds avoirdupois; a fod is twelve and two
hundredths inches; and a kande is three and three tenths pints."
Mr. Mapps descended from the rostrum, and after the party had looked
at the chamber of the upper house, and other apartments, they walked
to the king's palace--the first royal dwelling which most of the
students ever saw. They passed through the throne room, the court
saloon, the dining room, and other rooms, and some of them concluded
that royalty was not half so splendid as they had supposed. But Norway
is a poor country compared with many others in Europe, and it is a
pity that she ever thought it necessary to spend a million and a half
of dollars in a weak attempt to imitate the grandeur of other realms.
There was nothing in the palace to astonish even our young
republicans, though the rooms of the queen, on the first floor, were
pretty and prettily furnished. The building, which is a great,
overgrown structure, without symmetry or elegance, is in a beautiful
situation, and surrounded by pleasant grounds, well laid out, from
which a fine view of the city and fjord is obtained.
Connected with the university are several museums and cabinets, which
are open to the public, and well worth a visit, though they do not
compare with those of the great cities of Europe. The party walked
through all these rooms, one of which contained a small collection of
northern antiquities. From the university the students went to a kind
of garden, which is a weak imitation of "Tivoli," in Copenhagen,
containing promenades, concert room, a small opera house, and a
drinking saloon. The castle of Agershuus, on a hill at the southern
side of the city, was next visited. Its guns command the harbor, and
it is regarded as a place of great strength, for it has successfully
resisted several sieges. Climbing a long flight of steps, the party
reached the ramparts, which are laid out in walks, and are much
resorted to by the citizens, as they command a lovely view of the
fjord and the surrounding country. A portion of the castle is used as
a prison, and the convicts work in gangs about the premises.
"This was Robin Hood's prison--wasn't it, Mr. Mapps?" asked Lincoln,
who had an inquiring mind, after he had enjoyed the prospect from the
ramparts for a while.
"I think not," replied the instructor. "Höyland, sometimes called the
Robin Hood, but, I think, more properly the Baron Trenck, of Norway,
was sentenced to imprisonment for life in this castle."
"What for?" inquired Norwood.
"For robbery and other crimes. Like Robin Hood and Mike Martin, he
robbed the rich and gave to the poor, which none of you should believe
makes the crime any less wicked; especially as he did not scruple to
use violence in accomplishing his purpose. For some small theft he was
shut up in this prison; but while the overseer was at church, Höyland
broke into his room, stole some of his clothes, and quietly walked out
of the castle and out of the town. He was recaptured, but repeatedly
made his escape. Though he was heavily ironed, this precaution was
found to be useless, and he was placed in solitary confinement in the
lowest room of the citadel, where he was kept securely for several
years. One evening his jailer told him that he could never get out of
this room, and that he might as well promise not to attempt such an
impossible feat; but Höyland replied that it was the turnkey's duty to
keep him in prison if he could, and his to get out if it were
possible. The next day the prisoner was missing, and the means of his
escape were not at first apparent; but on further examination it was
found that he had cut through the thick plank flooring of his cell,
under the bed, and tunnelled under the wall into the yard of the
prison. He had replaced the planks when he left, and passing over the
ramparts without difficulty, dropped into the ditch, and departed
without bidding any one good by. All attempts to find him were
unsuccessful, and it was believed that he had left the country.
"A year afterwards the National Bank of Norway was robbed of sixty
thousand specie-dalers, in the most adroit and skilful manner, even
without leaving any marks of violence on the iron box in which the
money was kept. Not long after this occurrence, in the person of a
prisoner who had been committed to the castle for a petty theft, the
officers recognized Höyland. He was considerate enough to inform the
authorities that his late escape had been effected, after three years
of patient labor, with no other tool than a nail, while others slept.
As a portion of his ill-gotten wealth was concealed in the mountains,
he had the means of making friends in Christiania, where he had hidden
himself. Making the acquaintance of the bank watchman, he cunningly
obtained wax impressions of the key-holes of the locks on the
money-chest, by which he made keys, opened the box, took the money,
and locked it after him. But, like all other evil-doers, he came to
grief at last. Though he was a skilful carver in wood and stone, he
was not allowed to have tools, of which he made a bad use, and he was
compelled to amuse himself by knitting socks on wooden pins. Unable to
escape again, and not having the patience to exist without something
to do, in utter despair he committed suicide in his prison."
After the visit to the fortress, the boys were allowed to walk about
the city at their own pleasure; and a few of the officers went with
Mr. Lowington and the doctor to the establishment of Mr. Bennett, an
Englishman, who fitted out travellers intending to journey in the
interior with carioles and all the other requisites. His rooms were
stored with books and Norwegian curiosities and antiquities. In the
court-yard of the house was a large number of second-hand carioles,
which are the sole vehicles used for crossing the country. A
traveller, wishing to go to Trondhjem or Bergen, would purchase the
cariole in Christiania, and when he had done with it, dispose of it at
the other end of his route, horses between being supplied according to
law at the post stations on the road. Travellers coming from Trondhjem
or Bergen sell their vehicles to Mr. Bennett. In his rooms are
miniature models of the cariole for sale, which visitors purchase as
a memento of their tour; as those who climb Pilatus and Rhigi, in
Switzerland, buy an alpenstock on which are printed the names of the
mountains they have ascended with its help.
The principal and his companions walked up to the Victoria Hotel, and
inquired for Captain Kendall. He had just returned from a ride, and
while the waiter was taking Mr. Lowington's card to him, Peaks
presented himself in the court-yard.
"Can't find him, sir," said the boatswain, touching his hat.
"He must be somewhere in the city."
"This man has toted me all over the town, but we can't hear a word of
him. He wore the uniform of the ship, and people can't tell one
student from another."
"I am confident he has not left the city."
"Perhaps he has," replied Peaks, as the servant returned, followed by
Captain Kendall.
"Have you lost anything or anybody?" asked Paul, laughing, after he
had saluted the principal.
"Yes, we have lost a student; an English boy we shipped at
Christiansand. Have you seen him?"
"Yes, sir; his room is No. 32--next to mine," replied Paul, still
laughing, as though he were much amused.
He was much amused; and that others may sympathize with him, let the
reader return to Clyde Blacklock, who had shut himself up in his room
to await the arrival of his mother. He had not been in the house ten
minutes before he began to be impatient and disgusted with his
self-imposed confinement. He examined himself carefully in the
looking-glass, and was satisfied that his new clothes disguised him
from his late shipmates, and also from those whom he had met on board
of the Orlando. Certainly they had wrought a very great change in
his appearance, and with the round-top hat on, which was entirely
different from anything he had worn before, even his mother would not
recognize him, unless they came near enough together to enable her to
scrutinize his features. Of course none of the people from the
squadron would come to the hotel, and he had not yet been called upon
to register his name.
He unlocked his door, and went into the long entry which opened into
the court-yard. It was stupid to stay alone in his chamber. It was
some relief even to promenade the hall, for one so nervous as he was
at this time. If any of the Orlando's passengers came near him, he
could retreat into his room. He walked up and down several times, but
this soon became stale amusement.
"Who's in the next room to mine?" he asked, as one of the waiters
passed him in his promenade.
"Gentleman and lady from America, sir," replied the man; "an uncommon
handsome young woman, sir."
Before the waiter could further express his opinion of the guests in
No. 31, Paul Kendall came out of the room, and, seeing the servant,
ordered a carriage to be ready in half an hour.
"Is there much to see in this place, sir?" asked Clyde, politely.
"Not much, I think," replied Paul.
"I dare say you are going into the interior, sir."
"Not far."
"There is fine fishing there," persisted Clyde.
"So I am told; but I haven't much time to spend in such sport, and I
am afraid my wife would not enjoy it as well as I should. Do you go to
the interior?"
"Yes, sir; I intend to do so when my mother and sister arrive. My
mother goes a-fishing with me."
"Does she, indeed? You are from England, I suppose," added Paul, who
suspected that the young man was one of those lonesome travellers
eager to make a friend, and actually suffering from the want of one.
"Yes; Mockhill Manor, New Forest, Hampshire."
"Are you travelling alone?" asked Paul, who was full of sympathy for
the apparent loneliness of the young man.
"I am alone just now, but I expect my mother and sister from
Christiansand to-night," replied Clyde.
"Can I do anything for you?" inquired Paul, who, after this
explanation, did not regard the young gentleman's situation as so
hopeless.
In his own travels he had himself experienced that sense of loneliness
which is a decided misery, and had met others afflicted with it. From
the manner of Clyde, he concluded he had an attack of it, and he
desired to alleviate his sufferings; but if the young man's friends
were coming that night, his case could not be desperate.
"No, sir; I don't know that you can. I thought, as your room is next
to mine, we might make it jolly for each other. You are an American,
sir, the waiter says."
"Yes, I am," laughed Paul.
"But you don't talk through the nose."
"Don't I? Well, I don't perceive that you do, either."
"I'm not a Jonathan," protested Clyde. "I dare say you are a fine
gentleman, but I can't say that of all the Americans."
"Can't you? Well, I'm sorry for them. Can you say it of all the
Englishmen?"
"Yes, sir; I think I can of all we meet travelling. The Americans are
big bullies. I settled accounts with one of them this very day,"
chuckled Clyde.
"Ah! did you, indeed?"
"I think some of them know what it is to bully and insult an
Englishman by this time," added Clyde, rubbing his hands, as he
thought of poor Peaks, floundering in the waters of the Fjord.
"Perhaps you've heard of that American Academy ship that came into
Christiania to-day."
"Yes, I have heard of her," answered Paul, curiously.
"I saw her first at Christiansand, and went on board of her with my
mother and sister. I liked the looks of her, and fancied the young
chaps on board of her were having a nice time. I wanted to ship in
her, and I did so; but I was never among such a set of tyrants in the
whole course of my life."
"Then you joined the ship," replied Paul, who had heard of the new
addition to the Young America's crew, but had not seen him.
"I'm blamed if I didn't; but before my mother left the ship, a big
bully of a boatswain insulted me, and I changed my mind. Yet the head
master persuaded my mother to let him keep me in the ship, and I'm
blamed if she didn't leave me there."
"Left you there," added Paul, when Clyde paused, apparently to give
his auditor the opportunity to express his sympathy for his
unfortunate situation.
"Yes, sir; she left me there, and she won't hear the last of it for
one year," replied Clyde, shaking his head. "It was a mean trick, and
I'll pay her for it."
"Probably she did it for the best," suggested Paul, disgusted with the
assurance, and especially with the want of respect for his mother
which the youth manifested, though he was anxious to hear the
conclusion of his story.
"I don't care what she did it for; it was a scurvy trick. I told her
I wouldn't stay in the ship, any how, and she permitted the big
boatswain to hold me while she went ashore in a boat. But I knew
myself, if my mother didn't know me, and I determined not to stay in
her three days; and I didn't," chuckled Clyde, as he thought of what
he called his own cleverness.
"What did you do?" asked Paul, deeply interested.
"I was willing to bide my time, and so I hauled sheets, and luffed,
and tacked, and all that sort of thing, till we got to Christiania.
When I was pulling the main boom, or something of that kind,--I don't
just know what it was now,--one of the fellows in gold bands insulted
me."
"What did he say to you?"
"He ordered me to be silent, and another nob did the same thing. I
offered to fight them both, and I would have liked to show them what
an English boy's fist is made of; but the cowards set the boatswain on
me again. I would have licked him if he had fought fair; but he caught
