mischievous little boy who belonged to Mrs. 
Dow. What was he doing here in Butternut 
street? Matilda's steps slackened. The boy 
knew her, for he looked and then grinned, 
and then bringing a finger alongside of his 
nose in a peculiar and mysterious expressiveness, he repeated his old words, 
" Ain't you green ? " 
" I suppose so," said Matilda. " I dare say 
I am." What then ? Green is not the worst 
colour." 
The boy looked at her, a little confounded. 
" If you would come to Sunday school," 
Matilda went on, " you would be a better 
colour than you are, by and by." 
" What colour be I ? " said the boy. 
" You'd be a better colour," said Matilda. 
" Just come and see." 
 
" I ain't green," the boy remonstrated. 
Matilda passed on,. went into Mr. Sample's 
and got her soda. She had a few cents of 
change. A thought came into her head. 
Peeping out, she saw that Mrs. Dow's boy 
was still lingering where she had left him. 
Immediately Matilda requested to have the 
worth of those cents in sugared almonds; 
and with her little packages went into the 
street again. The boy eyed her. 
" What is your name ? " said Matilda. 
" Hain't got none." 
" Yes, you have. What does your mother 
call you at home ? " 
" She calls me the worst of all her 
plagues," said the fellow, grinning. 
" No, no ; but when she calls you from 
somewhere what does she call you?" 
" She calls me out of the garding, and 
down from the attic." 
" Look here," said Matilda, shewing a 
sugarplum ; " I'll give you that, if you will 
tell me." 
 
The boy eyed it, and her, and finally 
said, 
Lem." 
" Your name is Lem ? " 
He nodded. 
" There, Lem, is a sugarplum for you. 
Now if you'll come to Sunday school next 
Sunday, and stay and behave yourself, I'll 
give you three more." 
" Three more?" said the boy. 
" Yes. Now come, and you'll like it." 
And Matilda sped home with her soda. 
" I should think you had been making the 
soda," said Maria ; " you have been long 
enough. What kept you ?" 
" How do they make soda, I wonder ? " 
said Matilda, looking at it. " Do you know, 
Maria?" 
" I have enough to do to know how to get 
breakfast. Tilly, run and grind the coffee and 
make it, quick, will you ? now I am in a 
hurry." 
Matilda thought Maria might have done it 
herself, while she was waiting for the soda. 
But she said nothing of that. In ten minutes 
more the coffee was made, the corn bread was 
ready, and the ladies came down. 
Matilda was in a mood as gentle as the 
morning, and almost as cloudless. Her 
morning's work and walk and the meeting 
with Lem Dow had given her an appetite ; 
and the work of the night before had left a 
harmony in her spirit, as if sweet music were 
sounding there. Her little face was thus like 
the very morning itself, shining with the fair 
shining of inward beauty ; in contrast with 
all the other faces at the table. For Clarissa's 
features were coldly handsome and calm ; 
Mrs. Candy's were set and purposeful ; and 
poor Maria's were sadly clouded and out of 
humour. Matilda took little heed of them all ; 
she was thinking of Lemuel Dow. 
" Matilda," said her aunt suddenly, "I 
wish you to come to me every morning to 
read. A person who has taken the step you 
took last night, is no longer a child, but 
deserves to be treated as a woman. It is 
necessary that you should fit yourself for a 
woman's place. Come to me at ten o'clock. 
I will have you read to me some books that 
will make you better understand the things 
you have taken upon you, and the things you 
have done." 
" Why I am a child yet, aunt Candy," 
Matilda answered in some dismay. 
" You think so, do you ? " 
" Yes, ma'am, I feel so ; and I am" 
" I thought you considered yourself more 
than a child. But you have assumed a 
woman's place, and it is now necessary that 
you should be fitted for it. I think the best 
way is to get the preparation first ; but in 
your church, it seems, they prefer the other 
course. You are under my care in the 
house, at any rate, and I shall do my duty by 
you." 
" I do not understand you, aunt Candy," 
Matilda spoke, quite bewildered. 
" No, my dear, I suppose not. That is 
just what I think so objectionable. But we 
will do what we can to remedy it." 
" What do you want to prepare me for, 
aunt Erminia ? " 
" For your position, my dear, as a member 
of the church. That is not a child's position. 
You have placed yourself in it ; and now the 
question is how to enable you to maintain it 
properly. I cannot treat you as a child any 
longer." 
Matilda wondered very much how she was 
to be treated. However, silence seemed the 
wisest plan at present. 
" I suppose I am a child still," remarked 
Maria. 
" I have never observed anything inconsistent with that supposition, my dear," her aunt 
serenely answered. 
" And if I had been baptized last night, 
you would have more respect for me," went 
on poor Maria. 
" My respect is not wholly dependent on 
forms, my dear. If it had been done in a 
 
proper way, of course, things would be different from what they are. I should have 
more respect for you." 
" Clarissa has done it in a proper way, I 
suppose? " 
" When she was of a proper age, yes ; 
certainly." 
" And then, what did she promise ? All 
that they promised last night ? " 
" The vows are much the same." 
" Well, people ought not to make vows 
till they are ready to keep them ought 
they ? " 
" Certainly they should not." 
Well " 
" My dear, it is a very bad habit to begin 
every sentence with a ' well.' You do it 
constantly." 
" Well, aunt Candy " 
"There!" exclaimed Clarissa. " Aain." 
" Well, I don't care," said Maria. " I can't 
help it. I don't know when I do it. I was 
going to ask, and you put everything out 
 
of my head. Aunt Candy, do you think 
Clarissa has given up, really, the pomps and 
vanities and all that, you know ? She spent 
twenty-four dollars, I heard her say, on the 
trimming of that muslin dress ; and she 
bought a parasol the other day for ten dollars, 
when one for three would have done perfectly 
well ; and she pays always twelve dollars for 
her boots, twelve and ten dollars ; when she 
could get nice ones for four and five. Now 
what's that?" 
" It's impertinence," said Clarissa. " And 
untruth ; for the four and five dollar boots 
hurt my feet." 
" They are exactly the same," said Maria ; 
" except the kid and the trimming and the 
beautiful making." 
" Very well," said Clarissa, " I have a right 
to wear comfortable shoes, if I can get 
them." 
" Then you have a right to pomps and 
vanities," returned Maria; "but I say you 
haven't a right, after you have declared and 
 
sworn you would have nothing to do with 
them." 
" Mamma," said Clarissa, but with heightened colour, " Is this a child ? " 
" After the Shadywalk pattern," Mrs. Can 
dy answered. 
" Girls in Shadywalk have a little sense, 
when they get to be as old as sixteen," Maria 
went on. " Where you have ,been, perhaps 
they do not grow up so fast." 
. " People would put weights on their heads 
if they did," said Clarissa. 
" It doesn't matter," said Maria. " You 
can imagine that I am as old as you are ; and 
I say, that it is more respectable not to make 
promises and vows than to make them and 
not keep them." 
" Do not answer her, my dear," said Mrs. 
Candy. 
" And that is the reason why I have not 
been baptized, or whatever you call it " - 
" I never said so, Maria," said her aunt. 
" The two things are not the same." 
" Imagine it! " said Clarissa. 
" Well, you said just now I don't know 
what you said ! but you said at any rate 
that if it had been done in a proper way, you 
would think more of me; and I say, that it 
is better not to make vows till you are ready 
to keep them. I am not ready to give up 
dancing ; and I would have expensive hats 
and dresses, and feathers, and watches, and 
chains, and everything pretty that money can 
buy, if I had the money ; and I like them ; 
and I want them." 
" I have not given up dancing," said Clarissa. 
" Nor other things either," retorted Maria ; 
" but they are pomps and vanities. That is 
what I say. You promised you would have 
nothing to do with them." 
" Mamma ! " said Clarissa appealingly. 
" Yes, my dear," said her mother. " The 
amount of ignorance in Maria's words dis 
courages me from trying to answer them." 
" Ignorance and superstition, mamma." 
 
" And superstition," said Mrs. Candy. 
" Matilda thinks just the same way," 
Clarissa went on, meeting the broad open, 
astonished eyes of the little girl. 
" Of course," said Mrs. Candy. " Matilda is 
too much a child to exercise her own judgment on these matters. She just takes what 
has been told her." 
" Have you given up dancing too, Tilly ? " 
Clarissa went on. 
" I have never thought about it, cousin 
Clarissa." 
" Matilda all over ! " exclaimed the young 
lady. " She has not thought about it, mamma. When she thinks about it, she will know 
what her part is." 
" Very well," said Mrs. Candy. " She 
might do worse." 
" I suppose you think I can't think," said 
poor Maria. 
" No, my dear ; I only think you have not 
begun yet to use your power in that direction. 
When you do, you will see things differently 
At least I hope so." 
" It would take a good deal of thinking, to 
make me see that giving up the world and 
going into it were the same thing," said 
Maria. " And I don't mean to promise to do 
it till I'm ready." 
" Mamma, this is not very pleasant," said 
Clarissa. 
" No, my dear. We will leave the field to 
Maria. Come to me at ten o'clock, Matilda." 
The two ladies filed off upstairs, and 
Maria sat down to cry. Matilda began to 
clear the table, going softly back and forth 
between the basement and the kitchen as if 
there were trouble in the house. Maria sobbed. 
" Ain't they mean ! " she exclaimed, start 
ing up at length. Matilda was busy going in 
and out, and said nothing. 
" Matilda ! Why don't you speak ? I say, 
ain't they mean ? " 
" There's no use in talking so, Maria," said 
her little sister, looking sorrowful. 
" Yes, there is. People ought to hear the 
truth." 
 
" But if you know what is right, why don't 
you do it, Maria ? " 
I do as well as I can." 
" But Maria ! I mean, about what you 
were saying ; giving up whatever is not right." 
" Things are right for other people, that 
are not right for members of the church. 
That's why I want to wait awhile. I am 
not ready." 
" But Maria what makes them right for 
other people ? " 
" They have not promised anything about 
them. Clarissa has ytromised, and she don't 
do." 
" You have not promised." 
" No, of course I haven't." 
" But if they are right things, Maria, why 
should you, or anybody, promise not to have 
anything to do with them ? " 
" O you are too wise, Matilda ! " her 
sister answered impatiently. " There is no 
need for you to go to read with aunt Candy ; 
you know everything already." 
 
The rest of the morning was very silent 
between the sisters, till it came to the time 
for Matilda to present herself in her aunt's 
room. There meanwhile a consultation had 
been held. 
"Mamma, that girl is getting unendurable." 
" Must wait a little while, my dear." 
" What will you do with her then ? " 
" Something. I can send her to school, at 
any rate." 
" But the expense, mamma ? " 
" It is not much, at the district school. 
That is where she has been going 
Matilda too ?" 
" I suppose that will be the best place. I 
am not sure about sending Matilda. She's 
a fine child." 
" She will be handsome, mamma." 
" She is very graceful now. She has a 
singular manner." 
" But she is spoiled, mamma!" 
" I shall un-spoil her. Tilly is very young 
yet, and she has not had enough to do. I 
 
shall give her something else to think of, and 
get these absurdities out of her head. She 
just wants something to do." 
" Mamma, she is not an easy child to in 
fluence. She says so little and keeps her 
own counsel. I think you don't know her." 
" I never saw the child yet that was a 
match for me," said Mrs. Candy complacently. 
" I like best one that has some stuff in her. 
Maria is a wet sponge ; you can squeeze her 
dry in a minute  no character, no substance. 
Matilda is different. I should like to keep 
Tilly." 
" If you could keep her out of Mr. Rich 
mond's influence, mamma, it would be a help. 
That church ruins her. She will be fit for 
nothing." 
" I will take the nonsense out of her," said 
Mrs. Candy. " I cannot take her out of the 
church, while we remain here, for that would 
raise a hue and cry ; but I will do as well. 
Here she comes." 
A little soft knock at the door was followed 
 
by the little girl herself; looking demure and 
s\veet, after her fashion lately. It used to be 
arch and sweet. But Matilda had been very 
sober since her mother's death. The room 
into which she came had an air now very 
unlike all the rest of the house. Mrs. Englefield's modest preparations for the comfort of 
her guests were quite overlaid and lost sight 
of. It was as if some fairy had shaken her 
hand over the room and let fall pleasant 
things everywhere. On the Marseilles quilt 
a gorgeous silk coverlet lay folded. On the 
dressing table a confusion of vases and 
bottles, in coloured glass and painted china, 
were mixed up with combs and brushes and 
fans and watch pockets and taper stands. 
The table in the middle of the floor was 
heaped with elegant books and trinkets and 
work-boxes and writing implements ; and 
book stands and book shelves were about, 
and soft foot cushions were dropped on the 
carpet, and easy arm chairs stood conveniently, 
and some faint perfume breathed all through 
 
the room. Mrs. Candy was in one arm chair 
and Clarissa in another. 
Matilda was bidden to take a cricket, which 
she privately resented, and then her aunt 
placed in her hands a largish volume and 
pointed her to the page where she was to 
begin. Glancing up and down, at the top of 
the page and the beginning of the book, 
Matilda found it was a treatise, or a collection 
of advices, for the instruction of persons about 
to be received into the church. Not a little 
dismayed by this discovery, no less than by 
the heavy look of the pages, Matilda however 
began her reading. It was dragging work, 
as she expected. Her thoughts wandered. 
What could her aunt think she wanted with 
this, when she had Mr. Richmond's instruc 
tions ? What could these ponderous reason 
ings be expected to add to his words ? The 
immediate effect of them certainly was not 
salutary to Matilda's mind. 
" My dear, you do not read so well as 
usual," her aunt said at length. 
 
Matilda paused, glad to stop even for a 
little. 
" Your sentences come heavily from your 
tongue." 
" Yes. They are heavy, aunt Candy." 
" My dear ! Those are the words of the 
Rev. Benjamin Orderly a very famous 
writer, and loved by all good people. Those 
are excellent words that you have been reading." 
