do Jim, but we must tackle the ledges, too, 'n' so we did. We 
commenced put'n' down a shaft, 'n' Tom Quartz he begin ta 
wonder what in the Dickens it was all about. lie hadn't ever 
seen any mining like that before, 'n' he was all upset, as you 
may say — he couldn't come to a right understanding of it no 
way — it was too many for him. He was down on it, too, you 
bet you — lie was down on it powerful — 'n' always appeared to 
consider it the cussedest foolishness out. But that cat, you 
know, was always agin new fanglcd arrangements — somehow 
he never could abide 'em. You know how it is with old habits. 
But by an' by Tom Quartz begin to git sort of reconciled a 
little, though he never could altogether understand that eternal 
sinkin' of a shaft an' never pannin' out any thing. At last he 
got to comin' down in the shaft, hisself, to try to cipher it out. 
An' when he'd git the blues, 'n' feel kind o' scruffy, 'n' aggra- 
vated 'n' disgusted — knowin' as he did, that the bills was run- 
nin' up all the time an' we warn't makin' a cent — he would 
curl up on a gunny sack in the corner an' go to sleep. Well 
one day when the shaft was down about eight foot, the rock 
got so hard that we had to put in a blast — the first blast'n'' 
we'd ever done since Tom Quartz was born. An' then we lit 
the fuse 'n' dumb out 'n' got off" 'bout fifty yards — 'n' forgot 
'n' left Tom Quartz sound asleep on the gunny sack. In 'bout 
a minute we seen a puff of smoke bust up out of the hole, 'n*" 
then everything let go with an awful crash, 'n' about four 
million ton of rocks 'n' dirt 'n' 
smoke 'n' splinters shot up 'bout a mile an' a half into the 
air, an' by George, right in the dead centre of it was old Tom 
Quartz a goin' end over end, an' a snortin' an' a sneez'n', an' 
a clawin' an' a reachin' for things like all possessed. But it 
warn't no use, you know, it warn't no use. An' that was the 
last we see of Mm for about two minutes 'n' a half, an' then aD 
of a sudden it begin to rain rocks and rubbage, an' directly he 
<;orae down ker-whop about ten foot off f'ni where we stood 
IVell, I reckon he was p'raps the orneriest lookin' beast you 
ever see. One ear was sot back on his neck, 'n' his tail was 
stove up, 'n' his eye-winkers was swinged off", 'n' he was all 
blacked up with powder an' 
smoke, an' all sloppy with mud 
'n' slush fm one end to the 
other. Well sir, it warn't no 
use to try to apologize — we 
couldn't say a word. He took 
a port of a disgusted look at hisself, 'n' then he looked at us — 
an' it was just exactly the same as if he had said — ' Gents, 
may be you think it's smart to take advantage of a cat that 
"'ain't had no experience of quartz minin', but I think different ' 
— an' then he turned on his heel 'n' marched oil' home without 
ever saying another word. 
" That was jest his style. An' may be you won't believe 
it, but after that you never see a cat so prejudiced agin quartz 
mining as what he was. An' by an' bye when he did get to 
oin' down in the shaft agin, you'd 'a been astonished at his 
.sagacity. The minute we'd tetch off a blast 'n' the fuse'd begin 
to sizzle, he'd gi'e a look as much as to say : ' "Well, I'll have 
to git you to excuse tne an' it was surpris'n' the way he'd shin 
out of that hole 'n' go f'r a tree. Sagacity ? It ain't no name 
for it. 'Twas inspiration !" 
I said, " Well, Mr. Baker, his prejudice against quartz-min- 
ing was remarkable, considering how he came by it. Couldn't 
jou ever cure him of it?" 
" Cure him ! No ! When Tom Quartz was sot once, he was 
always sot — and you might a blowed him up as much as three 
million times 'n' you'd never a broken hiin of his cussed prej- 
udice agin quartz mining." 
The affection and the pride that lit up Baker's face when he 
delivered this tribute to the firmness of his humble friend of 
other days, will always be a vivid memory with me. 
At the end of two months we had never " struck " a pocket. 
"We had panned up and down the hillsides till thej looked 
plowed like a tield ; we could have put in a crop of grain, then, 
but there would have been no way to get it to market. We 
got many good " prospects," but when the gold gave out in 
the pan and we dug down, hoping and longing, we found only 
emptiness — the pocket that should have been there was as bar- 
ren as our own. — At last we shouldered our pans and shovels 
and struck out over tht hills to try new localities. "We pros- 
pected around Angel's Camp, in Calaveras county, during three 
weeks, but had no success. Then we wandered on foot amoncr 
the mountains, sleeping under the trees at night, for the weather 
was mild, but still we remained as centless as the last rose of 
summer. That is a poor joke, but it is in pathetic harmony 
with the circumstances, since we were so poor ourselves. In 
accordance with the custom of the country, our door had always 
stood open and oi'r board welcome to tramping miners — they 
drifted along nearly every day, dumped their paust shovels 
by the threshold and took " pot luck " with us — and now on 
our own tramp we never found cold hospitality. 
Our wanderings were wide and in many directions ; and now 
I could give the reader a vivid description of the Big Trees 
and the marvels of the Yo Semite — but what has this reader 
done to me that I should persecute him ? I will deliver him 
into the hands of less conscientious tourists and take his bless- 
ing. Let me be charitable, though I fail in all virtues else. 
Some of the plirases in the above are mining technicahties, purely, and may be 
a little obscure to the general reader. In ' placer diggings " the gold is scattered 
all through the surface dirt; in ''pocket" diggings it is concentrated in one little 
spot ; in " quartz " the gold is in a solid, continuous vein of rock, enclosed between 
distinct walls of some other kind of stone — and this is the most laborious and 
expensive of all the different kinds of mining. " Prospecting " is hunting for a 
' placer; 'indications are signs of its presence;  panning out" refers to the 
washing process by which the grains of gold are separated from the dirt ; a 'pros- 
pect" is what one finds in the first panful of dirt — and its value determines whether 
it is a good or a bad prospect, and whether it is worth while to tarry there or seek 
further. 
CHAPTER LXII. 
AFTER a three months' absence, I found myself in San 
Francisco again, without a cent. When my credit was 
about exhausted, (for I had become too mean and lazy, now, to 
work on a morning paper, and there were no vacancies on the 
evening journals,) I was created San Francisco correspond- 
ent of the Enterprise and at the end of five months I was out 
of debt, but my interest in my work was gone ; for my corres- 
pondence being a daily one, without rest or respite, I got 
unspeakably tired of it. I wanted another change. The vag- 
abond instinct Mas strong npon me. Fortune favored and I 
got a new berth and a delightful one. It was to go down to 
the Sandwich Islands and write some letters for the Sacramento 
Union, an excellent journal and liberal with employes. 
"We sailed in the propeller Ajax, in the middle of winter. 
The almanac called it winter, distinctly enough, but the weather 
was a compromise between spring and summer. Six days out 
of port, it became summer altogether. We had some thirty 
passengers ; among them a cheerful soul by the name of Wil- 
liams, and three sea-worn old whaleship captains going down 
to join their vessels. These latter plaj'ed euchre in the smok- 
ing room day and night, drank astonishing quantities of raw 
whisky without being in the least affected by it, and were the 
happiest people I think I ever saw. And then there was" the 
old Admiral — " a retired whaleman. He was a roaring, ter- 
riiic combination of wind and lightning and thunder, and earn- 
est, whole-soided profanity. But nevertheless he was tender-hearted 
as a girl. He was a raving, deafening, devastating 
typhoon, laying waste the cowering seas but with an unvexed 
refuge in the centre where all comers were safe and at rest. 
Nobody could know the " Admiral " without liking him ; and 
in a sudden and dire emergency I think no friend of his would 
know which to choose — to be Cbirsed by him or 
prayed for by a less efficient person. 
His title of "Admiral " was more 
strictly "official" 
than any ever worn 
by a naval officer 
before or since, perhaps — for it was the 
voluntary offering of a whole nation, 
and came direct 
from the people 
themselves without any intermedi- 
ate red tape — the 
people of the Sandwich Islands. It 
was a title that the ukee captains. 
came to him freighted with affection, and honor, and apprecia- 
tion of his unpretending merit. And in testimony of the gen- 
uineness of the title it was publicly ordained that an exclusive 
flag should be devised for him and used solely to welome his 
coming and wave him God-speed in his going. From that 
time forth, whenever his ship was signaled in the offing, or he 
catted his anchor and stood out to sea, that ensign streamed 
from the royal halliards on the parliament house and the nation 
lifted their hats to it with spontaneous accord. 
Yet he had never fired a gun or fought a battle in his life. 
When I knew him on board the Ajax, he was seventy-two 
years old and had plowed the salt water sixty-one of them. 
For sixteen years he had gone in and out of the harbor of 
Honolulu in command of a w'haleship, and for sixteen more 
had been captain of a San Francisco and Sandwich Island passenger
packet and had never had an accident or lost a vessel. 
The simple natives knew him for a friend who never failed 
them, and regarded him as children regard a father. It was a 
dangerous thing to oppress them when the roaring Admiral 
was around. 
Two years before I knew the Admiral, he had retired from 
the sea on a competence, and had sworn a colossal nine-jointed 
oath that he would " never go within smelling distance of the 
salt water again as long as he lived." And he had conscien- 
tiously kept it. That is to say, he considered he had kept it, 
and it would have been more than dangerous to suggest to 
him, even in the gentlest way, that making eleven long sea voy- 
ages, as a passenger, during the two years that had transpired 
since he " retired," was only keeping the general spirit of it 
and not the strict letter. 
The Admiral knew only one narrow line of conduct to pur- 
sue in any and all cases where there was a fight, and that was 
to shoulder his way straight in without an inquiry as to the 
rights or the merits of it, and take the part of the weaker 
side. — And this was the reason why he was always sure to be 
present at the trial of any universally execrated criminal to 
oppress and intimidate the jury with a vindictive pantomime 
of what he would do to them if he ever caught them out of 
the box. And this was why harried cats and outlawed dogs 
that knew him confidently took sanctuary under his chair in 
time of trouble. In the beginning he was the most frantic 
and bloodthirsty Union man that drew breath in the shadow 
of the Flag ; but the instant the Southerners began to go down 
before the sweep of the Northern armies, he ran up the Con- 
federate colors and from that time till the end was a rampant 
and inexorable secessionist. 
He hated intemperance with a more uncompromising animosity
than any individual I have ever met, of either sex ; and 
he was never tired of storming against it and beseeching friends 
and strangers aUke to be wary and drink with moderation. 
And yet if any creature had been guileless enough to intimate 
that his absorbing nine gallons of " straight " whisky during 
our voyage was any fraction short of rigid or inflexible abste- 
miousness, in that self-same moment the old man would have 
spun him to the uttermost parts of the earth in the whirlwind 
of his wrath. Mind, I am not saying his whisky ever affected 
his head or his legs, for it did not, in even the slightest degree. 
He was a capacious container, but he did not hold enough for 
that. He took a level tumblerful of whisky every morning before 
he put his clothes on — ' to sweeten his bilgewater," he said. — 
He took another after he got the most of his clothes on, " to set- 
tle his mind and give him his bearings." He then shaved, and 
put on a clean shirt ; after which he recited the Lord's Prayer 
in a fervent, thundering bass that shook the ship to her kelson 
and suspended all conversation in the main cabin. Then, at 
this stage, being invariably " by the head," or " by the stern,''" 
or " listed to port or starboard," he took one more to " put hini 
on an even keel so that he would mind his helium and not 
miss stays and go about, every time he came up in the wind."" 
— And now, his state-room door swung open and the sun of 
his benignant face beamed redly out upon men and women and 
children, and he roared his " Shipmets a'hoy !" in a way that 
was calculated to wake the dead and precipitate the final resur- 
rection ; and forth he strode, a picture to look at and a presence to 
enforce attention. Stalwart and portly ; not a gray hair; broad- 
brimmed slouch hat ; semi-sailor toggery of blue navy flannel 
— roomy and ample ; a stately expanse of shirt-front and a lib 
eral amount of black silk neck-cloth tied with a sailor knot ; 
large chain and imposing seals impending from his fob ; awe- 
inspiring feet, and " a hand like the hand of Providence," a& 
his whaling brethren expressed it ; wrist-bands and sleeves 
pushed back half way to the elbow, out of respect for the warm 
weather, and exposing hairy arms, gaudy with red and blue 
anchors, ships, and goddesses of liberty tattooed in India ink. 
But these details were only secondary matters — his face was 
the lodestone that chained the eye. It was a sultry disk, glow- 
ing determinedly out tlirough a weather beaten mask of mahog- 
any, and studded with warts, seamed with scars, " blazed " all 
over with unfailing fresh slips of the razor; and with cheery 
«yes, under shaggy brows, contemplating the world from over 
the back of a gnarled crag of a nose that loomed vast and lonely 
•out of the undulating immensity that spread away from its 
foundations. At his heels frisked the darling of his bachelor 
•estate, his terrier " Fan," a creature no larger than a squirrel. 
The main part of his daily life was occupied in looking after 
*'Fan," in a motherly way, and doctoring her for a hundred 
ailments which existed only in his imagination. 
The Admiral seldom 
read newspapers ; and 
when he did he never be- 
lieved anything they said. 
He read nothing, and believed in nothing,but"The 
Old Guard," a secession 
periodical published in 
New York, He carried a dozen copies of it with 
him, always, and referred to them for all required 
information. If it was not 
there, he supplied it himself, out of a bountiful 
fancy, inventing history, names, dates, and every 
thing else necessary to 
make his point good in an 
argument. Consequently he was a formidable antagonist in 
swung clear of the record and began to create history, the ene- 
my was helpless and had to sm-render. Indeed, the enemy 
could not keep from betraying some little spark of indignation 
at his manufactured history — and when it came to indignation, 
that was the Admiral's yerv " best hold." He was always 
ready for a political argument, and if nobody started one he 
would do it himself. With his third retort his temper wonld 
begin to rise, and within fiye minutes he wonld be blowing 
a gale, and within fifteen his smoking-room audience wonld 
be utterly stormed away and the old man left solitary and alone, 
banging the table with his fist, kicking the chairs, and roaring 
a hurricane of profanity. 
It got so, after a while, that 
whenever the Admiral approached, with politics in 
his eye, the passengers would drop out with quiet 
accord, afraid to meet him ; 
and he wonld camp on a deserted field. 
But he found his match 
at last, and before a full 
company. At one time or another, everybody had 
entered the lists against 
him and been routed, except the quiet passenger Williams. He 
had never been able to get an expression of opinion out of him 
on politics. But now, just as the Admiral drew near the door 
and the company were about to slip out, Williams said : 
" Admiral, are you certain about that circumstance concern- 
ing the clergymen you mentioned the other day ?" — referring 
to a piece of the Admiral's manufactured history. 
Every one was amazed at the man's rashness. The idea of 
deliberately inviting annihilation was a thing incomprehensible. 
The retreat came to a halt ; then everybody sat down again 
wondering, to await the upshot of it. The Admiral himself 
was as surprised as any one. He paused in the door, with his 
red handkerchief half raised to his sweating face, and contem- 
plated the daring reptile in the corner. 
" Certain of it? Am I certain of it ? Do you think I've been 
lying about it ? What do you take me for ? Anybody that 
don't know that circumstance, don't know anything ; a child 
ought to know it. Head up your history ! Read it up  
and don't come asking a man if he's certain 
about a bit of A B C stuff" that the very southern niggers know 
all about." 
Here the Admiral's fires began to wax hot, the atmosphere 
thickened, the coming earthquake rumbled, he began to thunder 
and liohten. Within three minutes his volcano was in full 
irruption and he was discharging flames and ashes of indigna- 
tion, belching black volumes of foul history aloft, and vomiting 
red-hot torrents of profanity from his crater. Meantime Wil- 
liams sat silent, and apparently deeply and earnestly interested 
in what the old man was saying. By and by, when the lull 
came, he said in the most deferential way, and with the grati- 
fied air of a man who has had a mystery cleared up which had 
been puzzling him uncomfortably : 
" Now I understand it. I always thought I knew that piece 
of history well enough, but was still afraid to trust it, because 
there was not that convincing particularity about it that one 
likes to have in history ; but when you mentioned every name, 
the other day, and every date, and every little circumstance, 
in their just order and sequence, I said to myself, this sounds 
something like — this is history — this is putting it in a shape 
that gives a man confidence ; and I said to myself afterward, I 
will just ask the Admiral if he is perfectly certain about the 
details, and if he is I will come out and thank him for clearing 
this matter up for me. And that is what I want to do now — 
for until you set that matter right it was nothing but just a 
confusion in my mind, without head or tail to it." 
Nobody ever saw the Admiral look so mollified before, and 
80 pleased. Nobody had ever received his bogus history as 
gospel before ; its genuineness had always been called in ques- 
tion either by words or looks ; but here was a man that not only 
swallowed it all down, but was grateful for the dose. He was 
taken a back ; he hardly knew what to say ; even his profanity 
failed him. Now,Williams continued, modestly and earnestly : 
" But Admiral, in saying that this was the first stone thrown, 
and that this precipitated the war, you have overlooked a cir- 
cumstance which you are perfectly familiar with, but which has 
escaped your memory. Now I grant you that what you have 
stated is correct in every detail — to wit : that on the lOth of 
October, 1860, two Massachusetts clergymen, named Waite 
and Granger, went in disguise to the house of John Moody, in 
Eockport, at dead of night, and dragged forth two southern 
women and their two little children, and after tarring and 
feathering them conveyed them to Boston and burned them 
alive in the State House square ; and I also grant your projjo- 
sition that this deed is what led to the secession of South Car- 
olina on the 20tli of December following. Yerywell." [Here 
the company were pleasantly surprised to hear Williams proceed 
to come back at the Admiral with his own invincible weapon 
— clean, pure, manufactured history, without a word of trntli 
in it.] " Very well, I say. But Admiral, why overlook the 
Willis and Morgan case in South Carolina? You are too well 
informed a man not to know all about that circumstance. Your 
arguments and your conversations have shown you to be inti- 
mately conversant with every detail of this national quarrel. 
You develop matters of history every day that show plainlj'- 
that you are no smatterer in it, content to nibble about the 
surface, but a man who has searched the depths and possessed 
yourself of everything that has a bearing upon the great ques- 
tion. Therefore, let me just recall to your mind that Willis 
and Morgan case — though I see by your face that the whole 
thing is already passing through your memory at this moment. 
On the 12th of August, 1860, two months before the Waite 
and Granger affair, two South Carolina clergymen, named John 
H. Morgan and Winthrop L. Willis, one a Methodist and the 
other an Old School Baptist, disguised themselves, and went 
at midnight to the house of a planter named Thompson — 
Archibald F. Thompson, Yice President under Thomas Jeffer- 
son, — and took thence, at midnight, his widowed aunt, (a 
Northern woman,) and her adopted child, an orphan named 
Mortimer Highie, afflicted with epilepsy and suffering at the 
time from white swelling on one of his legs, and compelled to 
walk on crutches in consequence ; and the two ministers, in 
spite of the pleadings of the victims, dragged them to the bush, 
tarred and feathered them, and afterward burned them at the 
stake in the city of Charleston. You remember perfectly well 
what a stir it made ; you remember perfectly well that even 
the Charleston Courier stigmatized the act as being unpleasant, 
of questionable propriety, and scarcely justifiable, and likewise 
that it would not be matter of surprise if retaliation ensued. 
And you remember also, that this thing was the cause of the 
Massachusetts outrage. Who, indeed, were the two Massachu- 
setts ministers ? and who were the two Southern women they 
burned? I do not need to remind you Admiral, with your 
intimate knowledge of history, that Waite was the nephew of 
the woman burned in Charleston ; that Granger was her cousin 
in the second degree, and that the woman they burned in Bos- 
ton was the wife of John II. Morgan, and the still loved but 
divorced wife of Winthrop L. Willis. Now, Admiral, it is 
only fair that you should acknowledge that the first provocation 
came from the Southern preachers and that the Northern ones 
were justified in retaliating. In your arguments you never 
yet have shown the least disposition to withhold a just verdict 
or be in anywise unfair, when authoritative history condemned 
your position, and therefore I have no hesitation in asking you 
to take the original blame from the Massachusetts ministers, in 
this matter, and transfer it to the South Carolina clergymen 
where it justly belongs." 
