"I'll take my grub with the hands forward, sir," said he, laughing. "I
shall feel more at home with them."
"But we shall not feel at home without you, my lad," replied Colonel
Montague. "Besides, when everybody gets cooled off, we want to talk over
the affair on the island, for I haven't even heard how Grace happened to
be in the water."
The owner of the Penobscot would not "let him up," as Bobtail expressed
it when he told his mother the story, and he was placed at the table
between Grace and Emily Walker. Chowder was served first. Bobtail kept
his "weather eye" open to see how the rest of the party did, and
adjusted his conduct by theirs. He wondered what "those towels were
stuck into the tumblers for;" but when little Miss Walker unrolled her
napkin, and placed it in her lap, and the gentlemen of the party did the
same, he followed their example.
"Now, Grace, tell me how you got overboard," said Colonel Montague, when
the soup plates were removed.
Mrs. Montague shuddered, for the scene was too terrible to be recalled
with anything but anguish.
"Captain Bobtail had just told Emily and me a story about an Indian girl
who jumped off that same cliff; but I didn't believe a word of it,"
Grace began. "I stood up on a stone near the edge, and swung my arms,
for I was thinking just how the Indian girl looked, if she really did
jump off that cliff. Just then mother screamed, and frightened me. I
started back; but the stone I was standing on rolled over, and threw me
forward, so that I went down into the water head first."
"I thought the child was going to jump overboard," added Mrs. Montague,
with a strong tremor passing through her frame.
The details of the affair were repeated, and then all eyes were directed
at Little Bobtail, who was more concerned about the propriety of his
conduct at the table than about his deeds at Blank Island; but probably,
if he had fed himself with his knife, his admiring friends would
cheerfully have forgiven him. He found it more difficult to transfer
mashed potato from his plate to his mouth with the silver fork than it
was to dive off that cliff into the sea. When the pastry came on, it
was absolutely appalling to think of eating custard pie with a fork, and
he would rather have undertaken the feat of swimming around Blank
Island.
"You know I always shovel in custard pie with my knife," said he,
afterwards, in telling his mother about it; "but everybody else used a
fork, and so I had to."
But Bobtail magnified the trials and tribulations of that grand dinner
in the cabin of the Penobscot, for, by keeping his "weather eye" open,
he hardly sinned against any of the proprieties of polite society, and
some of the ladies even remarked how well he behaved for a poor boy. The
dinner was finished at last, and "it was a tip-top dinner, too," for
besides chowder and fried fish, there were roast beef and roast chicken,
boiled salmon, puddings, pies, and ice-cream. Perhaps Bobtail ate too
much for strict gentility, but he excused himself by declaring that not
only the stewards, but all the party, "kept making him eat more of the
fixins."
"When I got through that dinner, mother," said he, "I was just like a
foot-ball blown up for a game; and if the captain's trousers that I
wore hadn't been a mile too big for me, I couldn't have put myself
outside of half that feed."
After the dinner, which Bobtail will remember as long as he lives, the
party went on deck. Grace was as bright and fresh as ever. She and Emily
walked up and down the deck. The young skipper went forward to talk with
the crew, for he did not wish them to think that he was putting on airs
because he "took his grub in the cabin." The men congratulated him on
his good fortune, and assured him he had made a rich and powerful
friend, and that he would get a pile of money by the operation. Bobtail
thought that a hundred dollars was "a pile of money," and, if any one
claimed the Skylark, this sum would enable him to purchase a better boat
than Prince's old tub. But he did not think much about this matter; in
fact, he was gazing at Miss Grace and Miss Emily, as they walked so
gracefully on the deck. He was not sentimental, romantic, or very
visionary; but these two young ladies were so pretty, and so elegant,
and so finely dressed, that he could not help looking at them; besides,
they were as sociable now as he could wish. Bobtail joined them in
their promenade on the deck, and was admitted to the privilege with
distinguished consideration.
"I should like to have you take a sail with me in the Skylark," said he.
"O, I should like to go ever so much," replied Miss Walker.
"And if you get overboard, I will pull you out."
"I don't mean to get overboard, if I can help it," laughed the little
miss, though, from her conversation with Grace, one would have thought
she considered it rather a nice thing, if she could only be rescued by a
young gentleman.
"You must sail up to Belfast, Captain Bobtail, and come to our house,"
added Grace. "I have lots of things to show you. We have ever so many
boats; and you may ride my pony."
"Thank you, Miss Montague. You are very kind; but you know I'm not one
of the grand folks, and I shouldn't know how to behave myself in your
fine parlors."
"Pooh! You behave just as well as any of the young men that come to our
house," said Grace, pouting her lips. "You are just as good as any of
them, and a great deal better than most of them. I hope you will come,
Captain Bobtail; I shall be so glad to see you!"
The order was given to get up the anchor, and Bobtail sprang to take a
hand in the operation. In a few moments the Penobscot was standing over
towards Camden; and the hero of the day began to regret that he must so
soon lose his pleasant companions. About five o'clock she landed her
passengers at the Portland Wharf, and Monkey came off from the Skylark
for Bobtail.
"Little Bobtail, you have rendered me a service to-day which you can
neither understand nor appreciate, and I shall never forget it," said
Colonel Montague, as he took the boy's hand. "I shall see you again
before long. I am going away in the yacht next week for a long cruise;
but we shall meet again, and I hope in the end that you will not be
sorry for your noble conduct to-day."
"I'm not sorry for it, sir. I've had a tip-top time to-day, and I'm much
obliged to you for taking me with you," replied Bobtail, unable to
comprehend the whole of the grateful father's speech.
"It is fortunate you were with us. We might have been weeping over our
lost child, instead of rejoicing, as we do now."
"O, some other fellow would have gone in for her if I hadn't."
"Perhaps not; for not many have the nerve to dive off a high cliff into
the sea, as you did. Be that as it may, my gratitude to you is none the
less. If you want a friend, if you have any trouble about that boat, or
anything else, send for me, for I would cross the continent to serve
you."
"Thank you, sir. I don't know that I am likely to have any trouble about
the Skylark, for if the owner comes, he can have her."
"And then you will have no boat?"
"No, sir. I shall be out of a boat, sure; and I should like to live in
one all the time."
"If you lose her before I return, write a letter to me at Belfast, and
it will be forwarded if I have gone. Now, good by, my lad."
The rest of the family shook hands with him again, and spoke many kind
words to him. Bobtail leaped lightly into Monkey's boat, and they
returned to the Skylark. The skipper spoke in glowing terms of the
experience of the day; but somehow the Darwinian did not seem to relish
the narrative. He was nervous, and did not laugh as usual; but it was
some time before Bobtail's enthusiasm permitted him to notice the change
which had come over his companion's spirits. They went on board the
Skylark.
"Has any one been after the boat, Monkey?" asked the skipper.
"No one after the boat," replied the Darwinian, gloomily; "but somebody
has been after you."
"After me? Who?"
Monkey was silent, and studied the seams in the deck.
"Who has been after me?"
"Mr. Brooks."
This gentleman was a deputy sheriff; but his name had no terror to
Robert Taylor.
"Say, Bob, don't you think we had better get under way, and run for it?"
added Monkey, his face brightening for a moment.
"What for?"
"Mr. Brooks said he had a warrant to take you up, and I s'pose he's on
the lookout for you now."
"Take me up!" exclaimed Bobtail. "What for?"
"Something about a letter--I don't know what."
"I know," replied Bobtail, musing, for he could not think how, after he
had been fully exonerated from the charge of taking that letter, he
should again be accused.
The jib of the Penobscot was hoisted while he was musing, and she stood
away towards the Spindles off North-east Point.
CHAPTER XI.
THE FIVE HUNDRED DOLLAR BILL.
Little Bobtail watched the beautiful yacht as she piled on her "kites"
and gradually increased her speed in the light breeze. He felt that he
had a powerful friend on board of her, and he was tempted to call in his
aid in meeting the difficulties that seemed to be gathering before him.
"Don't you think we'd better run for it, Bob?" asked Monkey. "We can
keep out of the way of any boat in Camden. We can run over among them
islands, and spend the summer there without being caught."
"I don't run away from anything of this sort," replied Bobtail, proudly.
"I'm going to face the music, whatever comes of it."
"But they'll put you in jail," suggested Monkey, opening his eyes as
wide as they would go.
"I don't care if they do. I haven't done anything wrong, and I'm not
going to run away. If Mr. Brooks wants me, here I am."
"There he comes; and Captain Chinks is with him. We can hoist the
mainsail, and be out of the way before they get here, if you say the
word," added the crew of the Skylark, nervously.
"I don't say the word. I'm all right, and I'm ready to look any of them
square in the face."
"But what's it all about, Bob?"
"Squire Gilfilian says I stole a letter with money in it, which was sent
to him."
"You!" exclaimed the Darwinian. "Well, I know better'n that myself."
"So do I," laughed Bobtail, pleased with the enthusiasm of his friend.
"Here they come. Captain Chinks looks as ugly as sin itself. He is at
the bottom of this business. You stay by, and take care of the boat,
Monkey, whatever happens to me. If any one attempts to get her away from
you, send for Squire Simonton."
"I'll stick to her as long as there's a chip left of her, Bob; but I
don't like to have them take you out of her in this kind of style, and
send you off to jail."
"You needn't be concerned about me. I have some strong friends, and I'm
rather sorry I didn't stop the Penobscot, and tell Colonel Montague
what's up. I would, if I had known exactly what was going to happen."
A boat with Captain Chinks at the oars, and Mr. Brooks in the
stern-sheets, came alongside the Skylark.
"You are here--are you?" said Captain Chinks, with an ugly look.
"Of course I'm here," replied Bobtail, quietly. "I ain't nowhere else."
"I want you to go on shore with me," added the deputy sheriff.
"Monkey says you want to take me up."
"I don't want to do so, but I must discharge my duty. I have a warrant
for your arrest," replied Mr. Brooks.
"What for?"
"For stealing a letter with money in it."
"Captain Chinks here knows that I didn't do it."
"No, I don't."
"You saw the letter in Squire Gilfilian's office after I left."
"That's so; but I can't say that you didn't go back after I went off. I
didn't believe you took the letter till the squire proved it; and then I
couldn't help believing it. I don't see how you can help believing it
yourself."
"I didn't take the letter."
"We will talk this matter over at the squire's office," interposed the
deputy sheriff. "You had better not say much about it here."
"I'm going to speak the truth right straight through, and I don't care
who hears me."
"You are not obliged to say anything to commit yourself, Bobtail. I want
you to understand that," said Mr. Brooks, kindly.
"I shall not say anything to commit myself, you had better believe, for
I didn't take the letter."
"The less you say about it, the better," added the officer.
"Does my mother know anything about this business?" asked Bobtail.
"I reckon she knows more about it than anybody else except yourself,"
answered Captain Chinks.
"I have talked with your mother about it," said Mr. Brooks. "She feels
very bad, of course; and she says she can't explain the matter at all."
"She don't know anything about it," replied Bobtail.
"I will send for her when we get on shore," added the deputy sheriff.
Captain Chinks pulled to one of the wharves up the harbor, where the
party landed, and then proceeded to the office of Squire Gilfilian. The
lawyer was there, and so was the ill-visaged man who took care of the
case of the bank robbers. Mr. Brooks had sent a boy for Mrs. Taylor as
soon as they landed, and she and her husband arrived at the office
almost as soon as Bobtail.
"O, Robert," exclaimed the poor woman, her eyes filling with tears, as
she hugged her boy.
"Don't be scared, mother. I didn't do this thing, and I shall come out
all right," replied Bobtail. "Don't fret about it."
"I can't help it, Robert. I wish--"
Mrs. Taylor suddenly checked herself. "What do you wish, mother?" asked
Bobtail, who thought there was something very strange in her conduct.
"I wish they hadn't arrested you," added she; but this was evidently not
what she had intended to say.
"So do I; but you needn't be frightened. I didn't take the letter, nor
the money."
"I know you didn't, Robert, but the case looks very bad against us."
"I think so, Mrs. Taylor," said Squire Gilfilian, who had been occupied
in looking over some papers when the party entered, and was now ready to
give his attention to the case. "I should like to hear what you have to
say."
"This is not an examination," said the deputy sheriff to Mrs. Taylor and
her son. "If you don't wish to answer any questions here, you needn't do
so. The case will come on to-morrow, before Squire Norwood."
"I am ready to answer any questions that can be asked," said Bobtail,
stoutly, "whether it is an examination or not."
"Do as you please about it. If you want any help--any lawyer--I will
send for one," added Mr. Brooks.
"I don't want any lawyers. I can tell the truth without any help,"
answered Bobtail.
"Did you come back to the office after you put that letter on my desk?"
asked the squire.
"No, sir; I did not," replied Bobtail, squarely.
The lawyer took from his pocket-book a five hundred dollar bill, and
spread it out on the desk at his side.
"Did you ever see that bill before, Robert Taylor?" demanded he,
sternly.
"No, sir."
"Think before you answer."
"Think! I don't want to think. I never saw a five hundred dollar bill
before in my life," answered Bobtail, with no little indignation in his
tones.
"I am sorry to see you persist so stoutly in a lie," said the squire,
shaking his head, as he glanced at Mrs. Taylor.
"It isn't a lie; it's the truth, and I'll stick to it as long as I have
breath in my body," replied Bobtail, warmly.
"You are not under oath now, Robert Taylor."
"I'll say just the same under oath, and before all the lawyers and
judges in the State of Maine."
"Mr. Slipwing, do you know this bill?" added the squire, addressing the
ill-visaged man.
"I do. I will swear in any court that this is the bill I sent you in the
letter from Portland," replied the man.
"You are very sure?"
"Positively so. I remember the bank, and there are three things on the
bill which enable me to identify it. The cashier's pen snapped when he
wrote his name on the left, and blotted the bill. The corner was torn
off, and it was mended in another place with a piece of paper from the
edge of a sheet of six-cent postage stamps."
The ill-visaged man spoke confidently, and whatever his character, his
testimony was very clear.
"What has all this to do with me?" asked Bobtail, who did not yet
understand the situation.
The lawyer smiled, and perhaps he thought that the boy was playing his
part extremely well for a novice.
"My testimony will come in next," added Squire Gilfilian. "This
afternoon, Mrs. Taylor, who is the mother of this boy, paid me five
hundred dollars, for I had foreclosed the mortgage on her husband's
house. Now, Mrs. Taylor, where did you get the bill?"
"Robert didn't give it to me," she replied; and she seemed to be very
much troubled and very much embarrassed; so much so, that her looks and
actions were the worst possible evidence against her.
"So you say, Mrs. Taylor; but you don't answer my question."
"I can't tell you now where I got it," stammered the poor woman.
Ezekiel Taylor and Little Bobtail were more astonished at this answer
than any other person in the room. Both of them wondered where she had
obtained so much money, while the others in the office believed that her
answer was merely a subterfuge to conceal the guilt of her son. Ezekiel
could not help thinking, just then, that his wife always had money;
that, while she had no visible means of obtaining it, she always had
enough to feed and clothe the family. He had considered this subject,
and wondered over it before; and the only solution of the mystery he
could suggest was, that her first husband had left her more money than
she ever acknowledged he did, and she had concealed it to prevent him
from spending it. As to her son, he had never thought of the matter at
all. All that confused and confounded him was, his mother's refusal to
answer what seemed to him a very simple question.
"Mrs. Taylor, you will be a witness, and the most important one in the
case, when it comes up before Squire Norwood to-morrow," added the
lawyer.
"I suppose I shall," replied Mrs. Taylor, with a gasp.
"You will be put under oath, and compelled to testify."
"But you are not under oath now, and you need not say anything, if you
don't wish to," said Mr. Brooks.
"As the matter looks now, you are a party to the theft, and I can cause
your arrest," added the squire, vexed at the officiousness of the deputy
sheriff.
"O, dear me!" groaned Mrs. Taylor.
"Don't be frightened, mother," interposed Bobtail. "You know, and I
know, that you did not obtain the money from me."
"And the Lord knows I did not, and that I came honestly by it, too,"
sobbed the poor woman, who had a mortal terror of courts and the law.
"If you came honestly by the money, why don't you tell where you
obtained it?" added Squire Gilfilian.
"I have my reasons."
"If your son did not give you this bill--"
"He did not! I'm sure he never saw it before," protested Mrs. Taylor.
"Whoever gave you this bill must have stolen it," said the squire,
sternly.
"That don't follow," replied Mr. Brooks. "It may have passed through the
hands of half a dozen persons after it was taken from the letter."
"Are you the counsel for these parties, Mr. Brooks?" demanded the
squire, smartly.
"I am not; but the prisoner is in my keeping, and shall have fair play.
I'll take him away if you are not satisfied, for I brought him here to
oblige you," answered the deputy sheriff, who was certainly very
considerate towards his charge.
"All I want is, to get at the truth," added the squire, in a milder
tone. "If Mrs. Taylor did not receive this bill from her son, and will
tell us where she got it, we can trace out the thief."
"That's the point," said Captain Chinks. "We want to find the guilty
party."
Captain Chinks winked rapidly for an instant, as though his brain was
fearfully exercised to discover the thief. He had one black eye, which
winked faster than the other--it was the result of his interview with
Little Bobtail the day before, for the boy struck hard when he was
assailed.
"I can't tell you where I got the bill," said Mrs. Taylor; "but I came
honestly by it."
"It's no use of saying anything more, then," added the lawyer. "Under
these circumstances, I am compelled to regard you as a party to your
son's guilt, Mrs. Taylor; and I must cause your arrest."
"Don't do that, Squire Gilfilian," pleaded Bobtail.
"I must do it. It becomes my duty to do it."
"Let him do it," whispered Mr. Brooks.
"I can't help it if you do," sobbed the poor woman. "If I have to go to
jail, I can't tell."
"Nothing more can be done, and I shall procure a warrant for the arrest
of Mrs. Taylor," said the lawyer, gathering up the papers on his desk,
and restoring the five hundred dollar bill to his pocket-book.
Mr. Brooks and Bobtail left the office, followed by Mrs. Taylor and her
husband.
"I am responsible for you, Bobtail," said the officer.
"I won't run away, sir. You have been very kind to me, Mr. Brooks, and I
won't go back on you," replied Bobtail.
"But I must not lose sight of you; and I don't want to send you to jail.
I'll take you to my house."
"Just as you say, sir; but I should like to go home and have a talk with
mother. I want to see Squire Simonton, too."
"Very well; I will go home with you. I saw Squire Simonton walking
towards his house just now. There he is, in front of the hotel, talking
with Mr. Hines."
They walked towards the Bay View House. It was nearly tea time, and the
guests of the house were seated on the platform, under the shade of the
trees which surround the hotel. There was an excited group there, for
the particulars of the cruise of the Penobscot that day had just been
related by the Walkers and others.
"I want to see you, Squire Simonton," said Bobtail.
"There he is. Three cheers for Little Bobtail!" shouted Mr. Walker, as
he pointed to the hero of the day.
There were gentlemen enough who had heard the story to give the cheers,
and the ladies clapped their hands.
"That's for you, Bobtail," said Mr. Hines. "We have heard of your brave
deeds, and all the people in the hotel are talking about you."
Little Bobtail blushed like a beet, and while Mr. Hines was telling the
deputy sheriff how the boy had saved Grace Montague from the waves and
the rocks, the hero related his own troubles to Mr. Simonton. Mr. Walker
and Emily came out, and insisted that Bobtail should go into the hotel,
and see the ladies. Ever so many of them shook his brown hand, and he
blushed and stammered, and thought the scene was ten times as trying as
that off Blank Island. Then he must take tea with the Walkers. He could
not be excused.
"I can't, sir," protested Bobtail. "I have been taken up for stealing
since I came a shore. But I didn't do it."
"For stealing!" exclaimed Emily Walker, with horror.
"I didn't do it."
"I know you didn't, Captain Bobtail," replied Emily.
"This is Mr. Brooks, the deputy sheriff, and he is responsible for me,"
added Bobtail. "So you see I can't leave him."
"Then Mr. Brooks must come too," said Mr. Walker.
The officer was very obliging, and went too. Bobtail was a first-class
lion, though under arrest for stealing. The gentlemen patted him on the
head, and the ladies petted him. A party wanted the Skylark for the next
