  'Thine arrows are sharp,
  'Peoples fall under thee--
  'In the heart of the enemies of the king.'"
"Where is that?" Matilda asked, and David told her. She eagerly
consulted her little book, and then cried out,
"Why it is the very same thing! Look here, David; or just listen, and I
will read.
"'And I saw heaven opened'--"
"Stop. Who saw heaven opened? Who said that?"
Matilda paused. "It is in the Revelation," she said.
"Yes, but what is that?"
"I don't know exactly; but I know it is the things that were shown to
John, the apostle, about what is going to be by and by."
"Who was that John?"
"Why, one of the apostles, David; one of the twelve apostles, that were
always with Jesus, and went everywhere with him and saw all that he
did. Then after he was gone, they preached to the people, and told what
they had seen and heard."
"After he was gone where?"
"Back to heaven."
"Well--read," said David, with a troubled sigh.
"'And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat on
him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge
and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were
many crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew but he
himself. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood; and his
name is called The Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven
followed him upon white horses, clothed in white linen, white and
clean. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should
smite the nations; and he shall rule them with a rod of iron; and he
treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And
he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS
AND LORD OF LORDS.'"
"But he was to be a Prophet, like Moses," said David; "and he was to be
born in Bethlehem in the land of Judah."
"Well, he was," said Matilda.
"Then how should he be all that?" And the boy's frame shook, as if a
nervous shudder had taken him.
"Don't you remember the 110th Psalm?" said Matilda after a little more
study. "'The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I
make thine enemies thy footstool.' Look at it."
David did so, in his own Scriptures, and pondered the words a second
time.
"And this is what the Lord Jesus said about those very words, David.
'While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying,
What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? They say unto him, The son of
David. He saith unto them, How then doth David in spirit call him Lord,
saying, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I
make thine enemies thy footstool? If David then call him Lord, how is
he his son?'"
"What did they say?" asked David eagerly.
"Who?"
"Those Pharisees. What did they answer?"
"It says 'no man was able to answer him a word.'"
Poor David was in the same condition. "Well, go on," he said, between
puzzle and despondency.
Matilda consulted her references to see with what she should go on; and
then read the three first verses of the epistle to the Hebrews.
"'God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past
unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto
us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also
he made the worlds; who being the brightness of his glory, and the
express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of
his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the
right hand of the Majesty on high.'"
"But--but,--" said David looking up, "Messiah was to be born in
Bethlehem of Judah, for so said the prophet Micah."
"Jesus was born in Bethlehem," Matilda replied.
"But--he was called the Nazarene," said David with a kind of shiver.
The boy was terribly excited, though he controlled the outward
expression of his excitement as much as possible.
"He lived in Nazareth," said Matilda eagerly; "that was his home."
"Then how could he be born in Bethlehem? it's near a hundred miles off,
I think."
"But don't you know?" said Matilda. "Caesar Augustus ordered everybody
to be--what is it you call it? I forget;--to have their names put down,
in a list of all the families and tribes, so that they might be taxed--"
"Taking the census?"
"I don't know; maybe it's that. And so, Joseph and Mary had to go to
Bethlehem to have their names put down there, because it was David's
city, you know, and they were of the house of David. And while they
were there, Jesus was born. But after a while they went back and lived
in Nazareth."
David looked dark, and eager; he made no answer.
"And it says in the first chapter of Matthew, David, that the prophet
said, 'they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is,
God with us.'"
"It is true," said David. "So spoke the prophet Isaiah. But how then
did he speak also of Messiah's sufferings? how could that be?"
"Where, David? and how?"
The boy turned over gloomily the leaves of the book which he held, and
began to read at the fifty-third chapter.
"'Who hath given credence to that which we heard? and the arm of
Jehovah, on whom hath it been revealed?'"
"What chapter is that?" Matilda asked; and he told her. She turned to
the place.
"'Who hath believed our report?' that is it exactly, David. Don't you
see? You do not believe it, and all the Jews do not believe it, when it
is told to them."
"What?" said David.
"Why, that Jesus is the Messiah; and all about him. 'He is despised and
rejected of men'--see how it goes on."
"What does this mean, I wonder," said David as he looked over the
chapter--"'He is pierced for our transgressions, Bruised for our
iniquities, The chastisement of our peace is on him, And by his bruise
there is healing to us'?"
"This is what it means, David; 'the Son of man came not to be
ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for
many.' That is in Matthew. And here in Romans--'God commendeth his love
toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much
more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from
wrath through him.' And in Corinthians--'He hath made him to be sin for
us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in
him.' Don't you see?"
"O hush! stop!" said David; "you bewilder me. Here Isaiah goes on
  "'Each to his own way we have turned,
  'And Jehovah hath caused to meet on him
  'The punishment of us all.
  'It hath been exacted, and he hath answered.
  'And he openeth not his mouth,
  'As a lamb to the slaughter he is brought--'"
David stopped again, and Matilda searched for words to answer him, and
presently read,
"'So Christ was once offered to bear the sin of many; and unto them
that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto
salvation.'"
"The second time?" said David.
"Yes; when he comes to take the kingdom, you know."
David sighed deeply.
"David," said Matilda hesitatingly, she had been watching for a chance
to say it, "don't you know what Zechariah says about him?"
"Zechariah?"
"Yes; the prophet Zechariah. Mr. Wharncliffe says that is a time coming
to your people;--in the twelfth chapter. You can read it best for
yourself in your own book. It begins at the ninth verse--what I mean."
"This?" said David.
  "'And I have poured on the house of David,
  'And on the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
  'A spirit of grace and supplications,
  'And they have looked unto me whom they pierced,
  'And they have mourned over it,
  'Like a mourning over the only one,
  'And they have been in bitterness for it,
  'Like a bitterness over the first-born.
  'In that day great is the mourning in Jerusalem,
  'As the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon;
  'And mourned hath the land--every family apart;
  'The family of the house of David apart,
  'And their women apart;
  'The family of the house of Nathan apart,
  'And their women apart;
  'The family of the house of Levi apart,
  'And their women apart;
  'The family of Shimei apart,
  'And their women apart,
  'All the families that are left,
  'Every family apart, and their women apart!'"
The boy's face grew darker and darker as he read, and he remained
gloomily looking at the page after he had finished. "It looks like it!"
he said at last.
"Looks like what, David?" Matilda asked timidly. His face was very
cloudy as he lifted it to speak to her, and he spoke with difficulty.
"They are saying, Matilda,--my uncle, I mean, and the wise ones;--they
are saying, I heard them saying it a few weeks ago, softly, to each
other, that the time must be up; and that if Messiah does not come very
soon--"
"What then?" Matilda asked, for he had stopped suddenly.
"Then--they say--it must be, or may be, that he has come!"
She was astonished at the changes in David's face. It flushed and
paled, his lips quivered, his brows were knit; the dark eyes were like
clouds and fire at once. Evidently there was a struggle going on which
she had no means of gauging.
"What if he has?" she asked gently. "Would you care so very much?"
"Care!" exclaimed David, and his expression startled her.
"Care!--whether our Messiah has come, and we have not known him, and
have injured him and rejected him?"
"But that is just what Isaiah said would be."
"Don't!" said David. "I can't bear it! If that is true, there will be
such a cry as Zechariah said, and I will begin it. But I don't believe
it, Matilda; it cannot be. I will not believe it."
He threw down his book and walked up and down the room with folded arms
and a brow black as night. Hardly a boy's action, but neither was it a
boy's feeling which possessed him just then. Matilda looked on, very
sorry, very much awed, and entirely at a loss to know what to say. She
consulted her Bible again and found a passage which she wished to shew
him; but she had to wait for the chance. David walked up and down, up
and down, restlessly.
"I can't make it out!" he exclaimed. "It confuses me. If that were
true, then all our whole nation have been wrong, all these years; and
we have lost everything; the promise made to Abraham and all."
"But Jesus will fulfil all the promises," said Matilda gently.
"To those who disowned him?" David asked almost fiercely.
"I think he will," said Matilda. "Why the first Christians were some of
those very Jews."
"How can that be?" said David standing still and looking at her.
Matilda found the second chapter of Acts and handed it to him. She
thought her own words were best to be few. David looked unwillingly at
her book, but however took it, sat down, and under the light of the gas
burner began to read. Matilda could not help furtively watching him,
and it almost frightened her; the changes in the boy's face were so
quick and strong. He read like one reading for his life; he never knew
that Matilda was watching him; his eyes seemed to pierce the book like
steel lances; and through his parted lips the breath came and went
hurriedly. Matilda thought he never would get through the chapter, he
was so long over it.
"May I keep this a day or two?" he said at last. Matilda joyfully
assented.
"I wish I had some one to talk with about this," he said; "somebody who
could answer me, or who could not answer me."
"Your uncles?" Matilda suggested.
"They would only silence me."
"I wish you could see Mr. Richmond."
"Who's he?"
"He's a friend of mine, and O, the pleasantest and the nicest man! and
he can answer anybody."
"Can he?" said David half smiling. "Where does he live?"
"Up in Shadywalk. I wish you could see him. He could tell you just
everything, and I cannot."
"You have told me so much, though, that I must know more. What is this
Mr. Richmond?"
"He is a minister, David. O you would like him."
"He would be the first, then," said David.
"He is not the least like Dr. Blandford not the least."
"Maybe there's some chance then. Matilda, don't tell anybody of all
this; it is between you and me."
"No, David, of course I shall not. Are you going to bed?"
"I am going up."
"They won't be home yet for an hour."
"I don't want to see them when they do come."
"Nor have any supper?"
"I don't care about supper. Good night."
He went off, and Matilda's heart was very tender for him. What could
she do? He had carried away with him the little reference Bible; she
could not look out passages for his help any more. Had they been for
his help? The whole talk looked very confused to Matilda as she
remembered it; and David evidently was in much more trouble than he
shewed. Matilda prayed for better help than she could give, prayed with
all her heart; then found herself very sleepy and went to bed.
CHAPTER IX.
It was a few nights after this, that the children were amusing
themselves in the same little reception room. Esther Francis was with
them, and the elders were with company in the drawing-room. The young
ones had it all their own way; they had taken tea together in what
Norton declared to be a very jolly style; and now in a circle of
sociable dimensions, that is, very much drawn together, they were
talking over a great variety of things. All except David; he hardly
said anything; he looked dark and jaded; nevertheless he listened to
what was going on.
"I know one thing," said Norton; "I must be off to the country pretty
soon."
"School term of no consequence"--said David.
"None at all. You see, bulbs keep no account with schoolmasters; the
only account they keep is with the sun; and how they do that when the
sun don't shew himself, passes me. It's one of the queer things."
"Find a good many of them, Norton?" asked Esther smiling.
"Queer things? Lots! Don't you?"
"Well, I don't know. There are some queer people."
"Some. Just a few, I should think there were," said Norton. "Enough
to keep one from going to sleep with sameness."
"Well, but I don't find so many," said Esther. "Am I queer?"
"Not a bit of it?"
"You speak as if it was an honour to be queer," said the young lady,
bridling her pretty head.
"An honour? I don't know about that," said Norton. "It certainly may be
said to be a--distinction."
"Who is queer?" said Esther. "You?"
"Not he," said David.
"You know best," said Norton, shaking his curly head.
"He thinks he has so much else to distinguish him," said Judy, "he can
do without that."
"Not your case," said Norton, politely nodding at her.
"Don't depend upon your word," said Judy scornfully.
"Not at all," rejoined Norton; "it is open to the most hasty observer."
"Is Matilda queer?" Esther asked laughing.
"She'd never let the world go to sleep," said Norton contentedly; "at
least, not till all could sleep comfortably."
They laughed at that, and Matilda as much as anybody.
"But what did you mean, Norton," she said, "about the bulbs and the
country?"
"Just what I said. It's the most mysterious thing, the way the roots
down in the earth know when it is time for them to send up their green
shoots. They will do it, too, and when things aren't ready for them by
any means above ground. Spring may be ever so late, and the earth hard
packed with frost, and snow and clouds making you believe it is winter
yet; and there will come the little green shoots pushing up their heads
and telling you they know what time of year it is, better than you
do. How they get up through the frozen earth is more than I know. I
tell you, they are queer."
"Then you mean something good by being queer, Norton," Matilda said.
"Don't know about that; they are ahead of the year, you see, and that
don't always do. They have a hard time of it, sometimes."
"But are you going up to see them?"
"Yes; pretty soon. The coverings must be taken off the beds, you see;
and I must look after it."
"I am so glad spring is come again!" said Esther.
"What for, you?" said Norton. "You don't make garden."
"No; but I can eat strawberries."
"Strawberries! O ho, that's it. That's what you want spring for."
"I am sure strawberries are good, Norton," said Matilda. "Do you
remember how you and I eat strawberries on the bank last summer?--and
made lists?"
Norton gave her a very intelligent glance of acknowledgment.
"Lists of what?" Judy asked.
"Things we were going to have for tea," Norton answered coolly.
"O no, Norton--they were not," said Matilda.
"Well, it was something in the housekeeping department."
"Housekeeping!" cried Esther.
"What is strange in that?" inquired Norton coolly.
"Why you are rather young, you and Matilda, to set up housekeeping."
"Rather," said Norton; "so it was somebody else, you see."
"O it was for somebody else?" said Esther.
"When are you going, Norton?" Matilda asked eagerly.
"Pretty soon; in a week or two more; just as soon as we have a few more
spring days."
"O how nice the spring days are!" said Matilda. "I am so glad they are
come again."
"For the strawberries?" Esther asked archly.
"O no, not the strawberries; but it is so pleasant to see the green
grass again, and the dandelions."
"Dandelions!" exclaimed Judy.
"Yes indeed; and the locust blossoms; and the cows going to pasture;
and yellow butterflies skimming about; and the nice warm days; and
pinks and roses."
"And croquet--" said Norton.
"O croquet is delicious!" said Esther.
"I am glad, because I like the driving," said Norton. "It is better
than all the Central Parks in the world. And the fishing is jolly, too;
when you have good sport. It's jolly altogether, at Shadywalk."
"But Norton, the house is shut up," said Matilda.
"What about it?"
"What will you do? you can't manage all alone."
"Go to Kepple's. That's easy."
"How long will you stay?"
"Two or three days. I guess I'll take the Easter holidays--that's just
the thing."
What was said next for a few minutes, Matilda did not hear; she was
musing so intently; then she broke out,--
"O Norton! I wonder if I might go with you?"
"You? That would be jolly," said Norton.
"I could go to Mr. Richmond's, you know; and then we could see all
about our tulip and hyacinth beds; and it would be so pleasant!"
"Well; suppose you do. I'm agreed."
"Do you think mamma would like it?"
"We'll coax her into thinking it's a splendid plan," said Norton; "and
that's what it is."
Matilda's eye went furtively over to David; he met it, but she could
not tell what he thought. Hope and pleasure made her cheeks flush high.
Judy tossed her head.
"Why don't you ask me?" she said.
"I haven't asked anybody yet," said Norton.
"I should like to go too. Will you take me?"
"Would you like to say what you would do if you got there?"
"I don't know!" laughed Judy.
"I do. All the mischief you could manage. No, thank you. I should have
to sit next you at the hotel table."
"What harm would that do?" said Esther, laughing.
"I should find mustard in my coffee and pepper in my pudding sauce,"
said Norton. "No harm, only rather spoils the coffee and rather hurts
the pudding sauce."
Matilda looked suddenly at Norton, and so did Judy, but they saw he was
only speaking at random and did not know how close he was coming to the
truth. Then the two pairs of eyes met involuntarily. Judy laughed
carelessly.
"I'll go, if you go," she said to Norton. "At least, if Matilda goes,
I'll go."
This time Matilda's and David's eyes met. He smiled, and she took
comfort.
As soon as a good opportunity could be found, the plan was broached to
Mrs. Laval, and urged by both her children. She demurred a little; but
finally consented, on the strength of Norton's plea that it would do
Matilda good. From this time the days were full of delightful hope and
preparation. Only David lay on Matilda's thoughts with a weight of care
and longing. Once she caught an opportunity, when they were alone, to
seize his hand and whisper, "Oh David, can't you come too, and see Mr.
Richmond?" And he had answered very gravely that he did not know; he
would see.
Easter fell this year rather late in April; late, that is, for Easter.
Schools were dismissed on Thursday; and Thursday afternoon Matilda and
Norton were to take the cars for Shadywalk. She could not say another
word to David, or about him; she made her happy preparations with a
secret unsatisfied longing running through them all. Judy had made an
earnest endeavour to be one of the party; and Matilda did not know how,
but the endeavour had failed. And now the early dinner was eaten, her
little travelling bag was packed, the carriage was at the door, good
byes were said, and Matilda got into the carriage. At that exact minute
David came out of the house with his travelling bag in hand, and in a
minute more the house door was shut, so was the carriage door, and they
were all three rolling off towards the Station.
"O David, I'm so glad!" burst from Matilda. "How did you manage it?"
"Like himself," said Norton; "kept his own counsel and had his own way.
It's a good thing to be Davy Bartholomew."
"I don't know about that," said David.
"Don't you? Never heard a doubt on that subject expressed before. But
anyhow, it's jolly to have you along, Davy. Why you've never seen
Shadywalk, nor Briery Bank."
Matilda smiled a very bright and expressive smile at David which said,
"nor Mr. Richmond either." The smile was so genial and glad and winsome
that it cheated David out of some part of his gloom; or perhaps he
thought it unworthy to shew it before his kind little companion. He
brightened up, and talked about the things that were interesting her
