turned over by the hot stream underneath, which, con- 
tinually oozing from the rent of the eruption, bore it 
down and pressed it upward. Even so low as the point 
where we crossed the lava of 1858 were fissures whence 
came hot air. 
An hour brought us to the resting-place called the' 
Hermitage, an osteria and observatory established by 
the Government. Standing upon the end of a spur, it 
seems to be safe from the lava, whose course has always 
been on either side ; but it must be an uncomfortable 
place in a shower of stones and ashes. We rode half 
an hour longer on horseback, on a nearly level path, to 
the foot of the steep ascent, the base of the great crater. 
This ride gave us completely the wide and ghastly deso- 
lation of the mountain, the ruin that the lava has 
wrought upon slopes that were once green with vine 
and olive, and busy with the hum of hfe. This black, 
contorted desert waste is more sterile and hopeless than 
any mountain of stone, because the idea of relentless 
destruction is involved here. This great, hummocked, 
sloping plain, ridged and seamed, was all about us, with- 
out cheer or relaxation of grim solitude. Before us rose, 
as black and bare, what the guides call the mountain, 
and whicli used to be the crater. Up one side is worked 
in the lava a zigzag path, steep, but not very fatiguing, 
if you take it slowly. Two-thirds of the way up, I saw 
specks of people climbing. Beyond it rose the cone of 
ashes, out of which the great cloud of sulphurous smoke 
rises and rolls night and day now. On the very edge of 
that, on the lip of it, where the smoke rose, I also saw 
human shapes ; and it seemed as if they stood on the 
brink of Tartarus and in momently, imminent peril. 
We left our horses in a wild spot, where scorched 
bowlders had fallen upon the lava bed ; and guides and 
boys gathered about us like cormorants : but, declining 
their offers to pull us up, we began the ascent, which 
took about three-quarters of an hour. We were then on 
the summit, which is, after all, not a summit at all, but an 
uneven waste, sloping away from the Cone in the centre. 
This sloping lava waste was full of little cracks, — not fis- 
sures with hot lava in them, or any thing of the sort, — out 
of which white steam issued, not unlike the smoke from 
a great patch of burned timber ; and the wind blew it 
along the ground -towards us. It was cool, for the sun 
was hidden by light clouds, but not cold. The ground 
under foot was slightly warm. I had expected to feel 
some dread, or shrinking, or at least some sense of inse- 
curity, but I did not the slightest, then or afterwards ; 
and I think mine is the usual experience. I had no 
more sense of danger on the edge of the crater than I 
had in the streets of Naples. 
We next addressed ourselves to the Cone, which is a 
loose hill of ashes and sand, — a natural slope, I should 
say, of about one and a half to one, offering no foothold. 
The climb is very fatiguing, because you sink in to the 
ankles, and slide back at every step ; but it is short, — we 
were up in six to eight minutes, — though the ladies, who 
had been helped a little by the guides, were nearly 
exhausted, and sank down on the very edge of the cra- 
ter, with their backs to the smoke. What did we see ? 
What would you see if you looked into a steam boiler ? 
 
We stood on the ashy- edge of the crater, the sharp edge 
sloping one way down the mountain, and the other into 
the bowels, whence the thick, stijfling smoke rose. We 
rolled stones down, and heard them rumbling for half a 
minute. The diameter of the crater on the brink of 
which we stood was said to be an eighth of a mile ; but 
the whole was completely filled with vapor. The edge 
where we stood was quite warm. We ate some rolls we 
had brought in our pockets, and some of the party tried 
a bottle of the wine that one of the cormorants had 
brought up, but found it any thing but the Lachryma 
Christi it was named. We looked with longing eyes 
down into the vapor-boiling caldron ; we looked at the 
wide and lovely view of land and sea ; we tried to realize 
our awful situation, munched our dry bread, and laughed 
at the monstrous demands of the vagabonds about us for 
money, and then turned and went down quicker than we 
came up. 
We had chosen to ascend to the old crater rather than 
to the new one of the recent eruption on the side of the 
mountain, where there is nothing to be seen. When we 
reached the bottom of the Cone, our guide led us to the 
north side, and into a region that did begin to look like 
business. The wind drove all the smoke round there, 
and we were half stifled with sulphur fumes to begin 
with. Then the Vhole ground was discolored red and 
yellow, and with many more gay and sulphur-suggesting 
colors. And it actually had deep fissures in it, over 
which we stepped and among which we went, out of 
which came blasts of hot, horrid vapor, with a roaring as 
if we were in the midst of furnaces. And if we came 
near the cracks the heat was powerful in our faces, and 
if we thrust our sticks down them they were instantly 
burned ; and the guides cooked eggs ; and the crust was 
thin, and very hot to our boots ; and half the time we 
couldn't see any thing ; and we would rush away where 
the vapor was not so thick, and, with handkerchiefs to our 
mouths, rush in again to get the full effect. After we 
came out again into better air, it was as if we had been 
through the burning, fiery furnace, and had the smell 
of it on our garments. And, indeed, the sulphur had 
changed to red certain of our clothes, and noticeably my 
pantaloons and the black velvet cap of one of the ladies ; 
and it was some days before they recovered their color. 
But, as I say, there was no sense of danger in the adven- 
ture. 
We descended by a different route, on the south side 
of the mountain, to our horses, and made a lark of it. 
We went down an ash slope, very steep, where we sank 
in a foot or little less at every step, and there was noth- 
ing to do for it, but to run and jump. We took steps as 
lonoj as if we had worn seven-leao;ue boots. When the 
whole party got in motion, the entire slope seemed to 
slide a little with us, and there appeared some danger of 
an avalanche. But we didn't stop for it. It was exactly 
like plunging down a steep hillside that is covered 
thickly with light, soft snow. There was a gray-haired 
gentleman with us, with a good deal of the boy in him, 
who thought it great fun. 
I have said little about the view ; but I might have 
written about nothing else, both in the ascent and de- 
scent. Naples, and all the villages which rim the bay 
with white, the gracefully-curving arms that go out to 
sea, and do not quite clasp rocky Capri, which lies at 
the entrance, made the outline of a picture of sur- 
passing loveliness. But, as we came down, there was 
a sight that I am sure was unique. As one in a balloon 
sees the earth concave beneath, so, now, from where we 
stood, it seemed to rise, not fall, to the sea, and all the 
white villages were raised to the clouds ; and, by the 
peculiar light, the sea looked exactly like sky, and the 
little boats on it seemed to float, like balloons in the air. 
The illusion was perfect. As the day waned, a heavy 
cloud hid the sun, and so let down the light that the 
waters were a dark purple. Then the sun went behind 
Posilipo in a perfect blaze of scarlet, and all the sea was 
violet. Only it still was not the sea at all ; but the 
little chopping waves looked like flecked clouds ; and it 
was exactly as if one of the violet, cloud-beautified skies 
that we see at home over some sunsets had fallen to the 
ground. And the slant white sails and the black specks 
of boats on it hung in the sky, and were as unsubstantial 
as the whole pageant. Capri alone was dark and solid. 
And as we descended and a high wall hid it, a little 
handsome rascal, who had attended me for an hour, now 
at the head and now at the tail of my pony, recalled me 
to the realities by the request that I should give him a 
franc. For what ? For carrying signor's coat up the 
mountain. I rewarded the little liar with a German 
copper. I had carried my own overcoat all day. 
OUTLINES. 
THE day came when we tired of the brilliancy and din 
of Naples, most noisy of cities. Neapolis, or Par- 
thenope, as is well known, was founded by Parthenope, a 
siren who was cast ashore there. Her descendants still 
live here ; and we have become a little weary of their 
inherited musical ability : they have learned to play upon 
many new instruments, with which they keep us awake 
late at night, and arouse us early in the morning. One 
of them is always there under the window, where the 
moonlight will strike him, or the early dawn will light 
up his love-worn visage, strumming the guitar with his 
horny thumb, and wailing through his nose as if his 
throat was full of sea-weed. He is as inexhaustible as 
Vesuvius. We shall have to flee, or stop our ears with 
wax, like the sailors of Ulysses. 
The day came when we had checked off the Posilipo, 
and the Grotto, Pozzuoli, Baiae, Cape Misenum, the 
Museum, Vesuvius, Pompeii, Herculaneum, the moderns 
buried at the Campo Santo ; and we said. Let us go and 
lie in the sun at Sorrento. But first let us settle our 
geography. 
The Bay of Naples, painted and sung forever, but 
never adequately, must consent to be here described as 
essentially a parallelogram, with an opening towards the 
south-west. The north-east side of this, with Naples in 
the right-hand corner, looking seaward, and Castellamare 
in the left-hand corner, at a distance of some fourteen 
miles, is a vast rich plain, fringed on the shore with 
 
towns, and covered witli white houses and gardens. Out 
of this rises the isolated bulk of Vesuvius. This grow- 
ing mountain is manufactured exactly, like an ant-hill. 
The north-west side of the bay, keeping a general 
westerly direction, is very uneven, with headlands, deep 
bays, and outlying islands. First comes the promontory 
of Posilipo, pierced by two tunnels, partly natural and 
partly Greek and Roman work, above the entrance of 
one of which is the tomb of Virgil, let us believe ; then 
a beautiful bay, the shore of which is incrusted with 
classic ruins. On this bay stands Pozzuoli, the ancient 
Puteoli where St. Paul landed one May day, and doubt- 
less walked up this paved road, which leads direct to 
Rome. At the entrance, near the head of Posilipo, is 
the volcanic island of " shining Nisida," to which Brutus 
retired after the assassination of Caesar, and where he 
bade Portia good-by before he departed for Greece and 
Philippi : the favorite villa of Cicero, where he wrote 
many of his letters to Atticus, looked on it. Baite, 
epitome of the luxury and profligacy, of the splendor and 
crime, of the most sensual years of the Roman empire, 
spread there its temples, palaces, and pleasure-gardens, 
which crowded the low slopes, and extended over the 
water ; and yonder is Cape Misenum, which sheltered 
the great fleets of Rome. 
This region, which is still shaky from fires bubbling 
under the thin crust, through which here and there the 
sulphurous vapor breaks out, is one of the most sacred 
in the ancient world. Here are the Lucrine Lake, the 
Elysian Fields, the cave of the Cumean Sibyl, and the 
Lake Avernus. This entrance to the infernal regions 
was frozen over the day I saw it ; so that the profane 
prophecy of skating on the bottomless pit might have 
been realized. The Islands of Procida and Ischia con- 
tinue and complete this side of the bay, which is about 
twenty miles long as the boat sails. 
At Castellamare the shore makes a sharp bend, and 
runs south-west alonoj the side of the Sorrentine Prom- 
ontory. This promontory is a high, rocky, diversified 
ridge, which extends out between the Bays of Naples and 
Salerno, with its short and precipitous slope towards the 
latter. Below Castellamare, the mountain range of the 
Great St. Angelo (an offshoot of the Apennines) runs 
across the peninsula, and cuts off that portion of it which 
we have to consider. The most conspicuous of the 
three parts of this short range is over four thousand 
seven hundred feet above the Bay of Naples, and the 
highest land on it. From Great St. Angelo to the point, 
the Punta di Campanella, it is, perhaps, twelve miles by 
balloon, but twenty by any other conveyance. Three 
miles off this point lies Capri. 
This promontory has a backbone of rocky ledges and 
hills ; but it has, at intervals, transverse ledges and 
ridges, and deep valleys and chains cutting in from either 
side ; so that it is not very passable in any direction. 
These little valleys and bays are warm nooks for the olive 
and the orange ; and all the precipices and sunny slopes 
are terraced nearly to the top. This promontory of 
rocks is far from being barren. 
From Castellamare, driving along a winding, rock-cut 
road by the bay, — one of the most charming in South- 
ern Italy, — a distance of seven miles, we reach the 
Punta di Scutolo. This point, and the opposite head- 
land, the Capo di Sorrento, enclose the Piano di Sorrento, 
an irregular plain, three miles long, encircled by lime- 
stone hills, which protect it from the east and south 
winds. In this amphitheatre it lies, a mass of green 
foliage and white villages, fronting Naples and Vesuvius. 
If Nature first scooped out this nook level with the sea, 
and then filled it up to a depth of two hundred to three 
hundred feet with volcanic tufa, forming a precipice of 
tbtP-t height along the shore, I can understand how the 
present state of things came about. 
This plain is not all level, however. Decided spurs 
push down into it from the hills ; and great chasms, deep, 
ragged, impassable, split in the tufa, extend up into it 
from the sea. At intervals, at the openings of these 
ravines, are little marinas, where the fishermen have their 
huts, and where their boats land. Little villages, sepa- 
rate from the world, abound on these marinas. The 
warm volcanic soil of the sheltered plain makes it a para- 
dise of fruits and flowers. 
Sorrento, ancient and romantic city, lies at the south- 
west end of this plain, built along the sheer sea preci- 
pice, and running back to the hills, — a city of such 
narrow streets, high walls, and luxuriant groves, that it 
can only be seen from the heights adjacent. The ancient 
boundary of the city proper was the famous ravine on 
the east side, a similar ravine on the south, which met it 
at right angles, and was supplemented by a high Roman 
wall, and the same wall continued on the west to the 
sea. The growing town has pushed away the wall on 
the west side ; but that on the south yet stands as good 
as when the Romans made it. There is a little attempt 
at a mall, with double rows of trees, under that wall, 
where lovers walk, and ragged, handsome urchins play 
the exciting game of fives, or sit in the dirt, gambling 
with cards for the Sorrento currency. I do not know 
what sin it may be to gamble for a bit of printed paper 
which has the value of one sou. 
The great ravine, three-quarters of a mile long, the 
ancient boundary which now cuts the town in two, is 
bridged where the main street, the Corso, crosses, the 
bridge resting on old Roman substructions, as every thing 
else about here does. This ravine, always invested with 
mystery, is the theme of no end of poetry and legend. 
Demons inhabit it. Here and there, in its perpendicu- 
lar sides, steps have been cut for descent. Vines and 
lichens grow on the walls : in one place, at the bottom, 
an orange-grove has taken root. There is even a mill 
down there, where there is breadth enough for a build- 
ing ; and, altogether, the ravine is not so delivered over 
to the power of darkness as it used to be. It is still 
damp and slimy, it is true ; but, from above, it is always 
beautiful, with its luxuriant growth of vines, and at 
twilight mysterious. I like as well, however, to look into 
its entrance from the little marina, where the old fish- 
wives are weaving nets. 
These little settlements under the cliflf, called marinas, 
are worlds in themselves, picturesque at a distance, but 
squalid seen close at hand. They are not very different 
from the little fishing-stations on the Isle of Wight ; 
but they are more sheltered, and their inhabitants sing 
at their work, wear bright colors, and bask in the sun a 
good deal, feeling no sense of responsibility for the 
world they did not create. To weave nets, to fish in the 
bay, to sell their fish at the wharves, to eat unexciting 
vegetables and fish, to drink moderately, to go to the 
chapel of St. Antonino on Sunday, not to work on fast 
and feast days, nor more than compelled to any day, — 
this is life at the marinas. Their world is what they 
can see, and Naples is distant and almost foreign. Gen- 
eration after generation is content with the same simple 
life. They have no more idea of the bad way the world 
is in than bees in their cells. 
 
THE Villa Nardi hangs over the sea. It is built on 
a rock, and I know not what Roman and Greek 
foundations, and the remains of yet earlier peoples, 
traders, and traffickers, whose galleys used to rock there 
at the base of the cliff, where the gentle waves beat even 
in this winter-time with a summer swing and sound of 
peace. 
It was at the close of a day in January that I first 
knew the Villa Nardi, — a warm, lovely day, at the hour 
when the sun was just going behind the Capo di Sor- 
rento, in order to disrobe a little, I fancy, before plun- 
ging into the Mediterranean off the end of Capri, as is 
his wont about this time of year. When we turned out 
of the little piazza, our driver was obliged to take off 
one of our team of three horses driven abreast, so that 
we could pass through the narrow and crooked streets, 
or rather lanes of blank walls. With cracking whip, 
rattling wheels, and shouting to clear the way, we drove 
into the Strada di San Francisca, and to an arched gate- 
way. This led down a straight path, between olives and 
orange and lemon trees, gleaming with shining leaves 
and fruit of gold, with hedges of rose-trees in full bloom, 
to another leafy arch; through which I saw tropical 
trees, and a terrace with a low wall and battered busts 
guarding it, and, beyond, the blue sea, a white sail or 
two slanting across the opening, and the whiteness of 
Naples some twenty miles away on the shore. 
The noble family of the Villa did not descend into 
the garden to welcome us, as we should have liked ; in 
fact, they have been absent now for a long time, so long 
that even their ghosts, if they ever pace the terrace-walk 
towards the convent, would appear strange to one who 
should meet them ; and yet our hostess, the Tramontano, 
did what the ancient occupants scarcely could have done, 
gave us the choice of rooms in the entire house. The 
stranger who finds himself in this secluded paradise, at 
this season, is always at a loss whether to take a room 
on the sea, with all its changeable loveliness, but no sun, 
or one overlooking the garden, where the sun all day 
pours itself into the orange boughs, and where the birds 
are just beginning to get up a spring twitteration. My 
friend, whose capacity for taking in the luxurious repose 
of this region is something extraordinary, has tried, I 
believe, nearly every room in the house, and has at length 
gone up to a solitary room on the top, where, like a bird 
on a tree, he looks all ways, and, so to say, swings in the 
entrancing air. But, wherever you are, you will grow 
into content with your situation. 
At the Villa Nardi, we have no sound of wheels, no 
noise of work or traffic, no suggestion of conflict. I am 
under the impression that every thing that was to have 
been done has been done. I am, it is true, a little afraid 
that the Saracens will come here again, and carry off 
more of the nut-brown girls, who lean over the walls, and 
look down on us from under the boughs. I am not quite 
sure that a French Admiral of the Republic will not 
some morning anchor his three-decker in front, and open 
fire on us ; but nothing else can happen. Naples is a 
thousand miles away. The boom of the saluting guns 
of Castel Nuovo is to us scarcely an echo of modern life. 
Rome does not exist. And, as for London and New 
York, they send their people and their newspapers here, 
but no pulse of unrest from them disturbs our tranquil- 
lity. Hemmed in on the land side by hih walls, groves, 
and gardens, perched upon a rock two hundred feet above 
the water, how much more secure from invasion is this 
 
than any fabled island of the southern sea, or any remote 
stream where the boats of the lotus-eaters float 1 
There is a little terrace and flower-plat, where we 
sometimes sit, and over the wall of which we like to lean, 
and look down the cliff to the sea. This terrace is the 
common ground of many exotics as well as native trees 
and shrubs. Here are the magnolia, the laurel, the Jap- 
anese medlar, the oleander, the pepper, the bay, the 
date-palm, a tree called the plumbago, another from the 
Cape of Good Hope, the pomegranate, the elder in full 
leaf, the olive, salvia, heliotrope ; close by is a banana- 
tree. 
I find a good deal of companionship in the rows of 
plaster busts that stand on the wall, in all attitudes of 
listlessness, and all stages of decay. I thought at first 
