speaking, the letter he had just received. I opened 
it and read : 

"DEAR FATHER: Harry Glenn came down to 
the prison this morning and said if I 'd take the 
pledge and join The Harvey-street League the 
men would pay my fine and Mr. Ashley would give 
me a chance in the bindery, and I 've done it. I 've 
seen Mr. Ashley, and he 's spoken kindly to me, and 
says if I 'll go to work and do right he 'll be my 
friend. I'm to begin to-morrow, and am to have 



 

three dollars a week now, and more when I can earn 
it. I'm sorry I 've done so badly, and mean to be a 
better boy. I'm going right home to see mother. 
" Your affectionate son, TOM." 

I don 't  think I was ever taken more aback by 
anything in my life. I read the letter again, and 
then, without saying a word, handed it to Lloyd and 
went back to the bar. A customer came in at the 
moment, and I was glad of the diversion. 

Lloyd went out, and I did not see him until the 
next day. He came in about ten o clock in company 
with a professional gambler, and seemed more ex 
cited than usual. They went up stairs together, and 
I did not see them again. Late in the afternoon 
Lloyd made his appearance, but so much the worse 
for drink that I had to get him out of the way of 
customers. I began to feel very much troubled 
about him troubled on my own account as well as 
his. Our interests were too closely bound together 
for one to make sudden shipwreck without damage 
to the other. Three years of liquor-selling, profit 
able as the business proved, had not made either of 
us rich. We could not afford to retire. Our " pile " 
was yet a thing of the future. Lloyd was in the 
hands of a set of men who would rob him of every 
dollar he possessed with as little compunction as we 
had felt in our work of getting gain. And if he 
were utterly fleeced, and involved in gambling debts 
besides, where would I be ? 


 

Troubles seem never to come alone. Something 
occurred almost every day to keep my mind in a 
worry. A year before, I felt safe in one thing. The 
main chance, as we called it that is, the money 
chance was all right. We were heaping up our 
" pile." " The Retreat " was a success, and no mis 
take. I would get rich, whatever else might happen. 

But I was beginning to feel less confident, to have 
uncomfortable doubts, to be conscious of a weight 
resting all the while upon my feelings. A shadow 
of coming evil had fallen on my path. With an un 
accountable unanimity, temperance men had aroused 
themselves, and were showing front in all directions. 
No movement yet attempted looked so disastrous as 
that in favor of " local option," or the right of the 
people of each ward or county to decide at the polls 
whether they would have bars and drinking-saloons 
or not. The matter was often discussed in our bar 
room, and I did not fail to observe that the weight 
of argument as well as sentiment of a majority of our 
customers, even the hardest drinkers among them, 
was on the side of the new movement. There was 
one man who always put the argument in this form, 
and I never heard it successfully combated. He 
said : 

" Let us take fifty men. They settle together, 
and go to work to build up a town. Their interests 
being mutual, they meet for consultation, and adopt 
certain laws for protection and government. They say 
the freedom of the individual must be maintained, and 



 

yet the good of the whole secured ; therefore every 
man shall be permitted to follow the occupation he 
chooses, provided it does no harm to his neighbor. 
The carpenter, the baker, the merchant, the manu 
facturer, the tailor, the blacksmith, the gardener, 
and all who produce or help the people in any way, 
shall be free in their callings. But no business that 
hurts, depraves or in any way injures the people 
shall be carried on among us. We will not have 
dram-shops and liquor-saloons, nor gambling-hells, 
nor obscene shows, nor vile publications, in our town. 
No man shall have permission to get gain by hurt 
ing or corrupting his neighbor, and if any violate our 
laws against these evil things, he shall be punished." 

Who will say that this community of fifty men 
has not a natural as well as a civil right to do all 
this? And if a community of fifty men has this 
natural and civil right, is it any less the right of a 
community of a thousand or of five hundred thou 
sand? As just said, I never heard the argument 
answered, and could never answer it to myself. 

" You can t get the Legislature to pass any such 
law," was boldly affirmed by a liquor man one even 
ing when the subject of a " local option " law was 
under discussion. " I 've been to Harrisburg a good 
many times, and know the ropes about as well as 
the next man. Politicians can t get on without 
whisky. The liquor interest rules the State. We 
have too much money. I could tell you a thing or 
two if I chose. It was tried last winter, and the 



 

temperance men thought they had the game. But 
it was no go. It cost us a good many thousands of 
dollars, but we were ready to put down twice as 
much more if need be. Why, gentlemen," he con 
tinued, " pass a local option law, as it is called, and 
four-fifths of us might as well shut up shop. Give 
the people a right- to say whether we shall live or no, 
and it 's all up with us. I don 't  believe there are five 
wards in this city maybe not one that, if fairly 
polled, wouldn 't vote down the saloons." 

" I 'll bet on that," returned a half-tipsy customer. 
" Hurrah for local option ! I'm on that side. Told 
Betsey only yesterday that I was going for that ticket." 

" And what did Betsey say ?" asked one who was 
amused at the man 's drunken enthusiasm. 

"Why, she just put her hand on my shoulder and 
said, Pray God the time come soon, Andy ! And 
I said Amen. I hadn 't been drinking anything 
for two or three days. But, you see, one can t go a 
square without being tempted. Tisn 't possible for 
us poor devils to pass a hundred or more saloons 
every day, and not feel a craving for liquor. If I 
were off in the country, or anywhere out of sight of 
your man-traps, I could keep sober as a judge, but, 
confound it ! it 's no use to try, with your gilt signs 
and red lights and windows full of bottles staring 
me in the face at every turn. Yes, sir ! Give us a 
local option law, and we 'll vote you all out of ex 
istence. Hurrah for local option, say I." 

" It 's bound to come," said another, in a confident 



 

voice. " The great body of the people seem to be 
getting awake on this subject, and if they once 
move against anything, it must go down. Rings 
break into helpless fragments and combinations 
lose their power. Nothing is too strong for the 
people. Whatever exists in our social or political 
organizations, for good or for evil, is by sufferance 
of the people. They set up and throw down at 
will." 

" They 'll never stop the sale of liquor," was an 
swered to this. " They can t do it." 

The response was so weak that everybody 
laughed. 

" What is to hinder them, if they resolve to do 
it?" some one inquired. 

"They won t stop it. They can t stop it," was 
returned in a dogged, half-angry way. " It 's a free 
country. It 's against the constitution. I 'd like to 
see them stop me." 

I didn 't feel much comforted by the line of argu 
ment taken by this man. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

EVERY day the aggressive movement of the 
temperance people, was becoming more and more 
pronounced. Morning after morning I read in the 
papers an account of some ward local option meet 
ing. Petitions were being circulated asking the 
Legislature to give the people a local option law, 
and public opinion seemed steadily setting in that 
direction. In our own ward this movement was 
very active, and had its centre of influence in Harvey 
street. 

And now a new demonstration was begun. There 
was a law forbidding the sale of liquor on Sunday 
our best day but it had been for years a dead letter, 
because the people themselves were indifferent and 
suffered us to violate this law with impunity. Most 
of the constables were in league with us, and so no 
official notice was taken of the matter. Now and 
then, under pressure from some judge who saw and 
deplored the evils that sprung from this Sunday 
traffic, the grand jury would in solemn inquest, 
present the matter. But it ended there, and we 
laughed. It was nobody 's business to see that the 
law was executed. Mayors were appealed to in vain. 
They had no authority to shut our doors or close 



our windows. Somebody must see somebody drink 
on Sunday, and must be able to swear that what he 
saw drawn or poured into a tumbler and drank there 
from was actually malt, spirituous or vinous liquor, 
and he must swear to the paying of money for the 
same, or else there could be no conviction. And 
even if all this were sworn to, if a liquor-seller could 
be got on the jury conviction was impossible. So it 
had been. 

But there came signs of a change. It was the 
people 's business. If they- let it alone, judges, may 
ors and grand juries were powerless. But the peo 
ple were beginning to move the sleeping lion was 
arousing himself. Some of the temperance men, in 
asking for more legislation, had been told that they 
already had laws governing the sale of liquor that 
lay as a dead letter on the statute-books, that it 
was useless to give them more laws while they did 
not see to the execution of what they had, and they 
were referred to the law punishing with fine and im 
prisonment the sale of liquor on Sundays, and to 
minors, and to known drunkards. While there were 
from seven to eight thousand licensed and unlicensed 
taverns open in the city every Sunday in violation of 
law, what encouragement was there to give new laws ? 
See that the laws you have are executed, they were 
told, and then, if further legislation is needed, let us 
hear from you. 

There was no getting away from this. It bluffed 
off the temperance men, as it was meant to do, but 



  

set some of their leaders to thinking in the right 
direction. " Let us take what laws we have," they 
said, " and make them felt as far as they go. It is 
our fault that they lie dead. The Sunday traffic can 
be stopped if we will it." 

And so they went into council to consider the 
ways and means of shutting up the dram-shops on 
Sunday. We heard of it, and laughed, but there 
were some of us who felt, even as we laughed, that 
our enemies were deeply in earnest, and that they 
were combining and organizing their forces in a way 
that looked dangerous. One of the worst auguries 
that showed itself was the change that had come 
over the daily press. Papers that once spoke lightly 
of all prohibitory movements, that picked flaws in 
the sayings and doings of temperance men, that 
talked of sumptuary laws as unconstitutional, that 
favored our side so plainly that all could see it, now 
ranged themselves on the other side, and entertained 
their readers with prison and pauper statistics of the 
worst kind, and charged on us the responsibility of 
filling the prisons and poorhouses of the country. I 
had almost come to feel nervous while looking over 
my morning paper, for hardly a day passed that 
some story of rum 's fearful doings was not told, and 
the comment thereon was sure to be a thrust at us 
as the worst class of men in the whole community. 

So long as the daily press was careful about what 
it said against a business in which a large number of 
wealthy, respectable and influential citizens were en- 



 

gaged, liquor men felt no serious alarm. Public 
opinion was formed or determined by the press. If 
the press did not favor a movement, it had little 
chance of success. If it opposed the movement, it 
would remain feeble or die. 

But the press was steadily ranging itself against 
us. It talked of the fearful weight of taxation im 
posed on the citizens through pauperism and crime, 
nearly all of which it charged upon the liquor-dealers. 
It dwelt on the social and political demoralization 
consequent on the traffic. It gave reports of tem 
perance lectures, and kept its readers advised of what 
was being done to destroy the " monster vice," the 
" deadly cancer that was eating down to the vitals of 
the nation." Any man who wanted to say hard and 
bitter things against us had now the opportunity. In 
a word, temperance had become popular, and the 
papers were not afraid to speak out. 

It didn 't look well. I began to feel as if we were 
going to fall on evil times. Another aspect of the 
case was threatening. Our judges were beginning 
to show their teeth, and the growl of the Bench was 
unmistakable. At every good opportunity word 
went forth that liquor men must be on guard, that 
they would be dealt with summarily and severely if 
they should get tripped. Constables were called up, 
sternly reminded of neglected duty in the matter of 
unlicensed dram-shops, and warned of consequences 
if longer derelict. Grand juries were charged as to 
their duty of presenting violations of law by saloon 


and tavern-keepers, and the law read and expounded 
to them. In any convictions of petty offences against 
the license law, sentences were noticeably severe. 
Juries, too, were beginning to take the popular side, 
and lawyers of character and standing in the com 
munity were coming to be ashamed of law-defying 
liquor men as clients. 

I did not like the new aspect of things. It boded 
no good. 

One Saturday evening a printer whom I knew 
very well, an old customer of " The Retreat," came 
in. He was looking remarkably well, and was bet 
ter dressed than I had ever seen him. His skin had 
a fair, healthy look, his eyes were clear and his step 
firm and manly. I could not but remark to myself 
how much he was improved since I saw him last. 
Then he was slovenly in attire and sick-looking, had 
rheumatism, dyspepsia, and I don 't  know what all 
one of your miserable sort of men, fast going down 
hill. He was one of our old eight-glasses-a-day 
men, and his custom worth having, of course spent 
at one time nearly half he earned in our saloon for 
drink. 

He came up to the bar, handed Lloyd a paper, and 
then bowing gravely, went out. He had returned 
our rather cordial greeting very coldly. 

" What in is this ?" growled Lloyd as he un 
folded the paper. He ran his eyes over it hurriedly, 
and then with an angry imprecation threw it on the 
floor and spit upon it. 



 

After waiting until he had cooled a little, I asked 
what was in the paper. 

" Oh, we 've got to shut up shop to-morrow," 
Lloyd answered with a mocking contempt. 

" Who says so ?" I asked. 

" Our good friends in Harvey street." 

" Indeed !" I was angry at the impertinent inter 
ference, and yet amused at what seemed its comic 
solemnity. Lloyd stooped, and lifting the soiled 
paper from the floor, opened it with the tips of his 
ringers, and read an extract from the law forbidding 
the sale of liquor on Sunday. The extreme penalty 
was fifty dollars fine and sixty days imprisonment for 
each offence. I knew all this had the law at my 
finger ends. Below the extract was a notification by 
the " Harvey-street League " to all tavern-keepers in 

ward that on any further violation of this law 

information would be given and prosecutions in 
stituted. The notice was signed by Andrew Jacobs, 
as president of the league. 

" We 'll shut up, of course," I remarked, trying to 
look amused and affecting to treat the matter as a 
joke. 
