bends beneath the weight of flowers at the end of our veranda. Our
little cottage looks like a rabbit's nest beside the monster oaks that
shade it; but it is cosey to see them all out on the low veranda,--the
Professor with his newspapers, the ladies with their worsteds and
baskets, in fact the whole of our large family,--all reading, writing,
working, in the shady covert of the orange-trees.
From time to time a handkerchief is waved on their part, and the signal
returned on ours; and they follow our receding motions with a spyglass.
Our life is so still and lonely here, that even so small an event as our
crossing the river for a visit is all-absorbing.
But, after a little, our craft melts off into the distance, "The Mary
Draper" looks to our friends no larger than a hazel-nut, and the trees
of the other side loom up strong and tall in our eyes, and grow clearer
and clearer; while our home, with its great live-oaks and its
orange-groves, has all melted into a soft woolly haze of distance. Our
next neighbor's great whitewashed barn is the only sign of habitation
remaining; and that flashes out a mere shining speck in the distance.
Now the boat comes up to Mr. ----'s wharf; and he is there to meet and
welcome us.
One essential to every country-house on the St. John's is this accessory
of a wharf and boathouse. The river is, for a greater or less distance
from the shore, too shallow to admit the approach of steamboats; and
wharves of fifty or a hundred feet in length are needed to enable
passengers to land.
The bottom of the river is of hard, sparkling white sand, into which
spiles are easily driven; and the building and keeping-up of such a
wharf is a trifling trouble and expense in a land where lumber is so
plentiful.
Our friend Mr. ---- is, like many other old Floridian residents,
originally from the North. In early youth he came to Florida a condemned
and doomed consumptive, recovered his health, and has lived a long and
happy life here, and acquired a handsome property.
He owns extensive tracts of rich and beautiful land on the west bank of
the St. John's, between it and Jacksonville, destined, as that city
grows and extends, to become of increasing value. His wife, like himself
originally of Northern origin, has become perfectly acclimated and
naturalized by years' residence at the South; and is to all intents and
purposes, a Southern woman. They live all the year upon their place;
those who formerly were their slaves settled peaceably around them as
free laborers, still looking up to them for advice, depending on them
for aid, and rendering to them the willing, well-paid services of
freemen.
Their house is a simple white cottage, situated so as to command a noble
view of the river. A long avenue of young live-oak-trees leads up from
the river to the house. The ground is covered with a smooth, even turf
of Bermuda grass,--the only kind that will endure the burning glare of
the tropical summer. The walls of the house are covered with roses, now
in full bloom. La Marque, cloth-of-gold, and many another kind, throw
out their splendid clusters, and fill the air with fragrance. We find
Mrs. ---- and her family on the veranda,--the usual reception-room in a
Southern house. The house is the seat of hospitality; every room in it
sure to be full, if not with the members of the family proper, then with
guests from Jacksonville, who find, in this high, breezy situation, a
charming retreat from the heat of the city.
One feature is characteristic of Southern houses, so far as we have
seen. The ladies are enthusiastic plant-lovers; and the veranda is lined
round with an array of boxes in which gardening experiments are carried
on. Rare plants, slips, choice seedlings, are here nurtured and cared
for. In fact, the burning power of the tropical sun, and the scalding,
fine white sand, is such, that to put a tender plant or slip into it
seems, in the words of Scripture, like casting it into the oven; and so
there is everywhere more or less of this box-gardening.
The cottage was all in summer array; the carpets taken up and packed
away, leaving the smooth, yellow pine floors clean and cool as the
French parquets.
The plan of the cottage is the very common one of Southern houses. A
wide, clear hall, furnished as a sitting-room, opening on a veranda on
either end, goes through the house; and all the other rooms open upon
it. We sat chatting, first on the veranda; and, as the sun grew hotter,
retreated inward to the hall, and discussed flowers, farm, and dairy.
On the east bank of the St. John's, where our own residence is,
immediately around Mandarin, the pasturage is poor, and the cattle
diminutive and half starved. Knowing that our neighbor was an old
resident, and enthusiastic stock-raiser and breeder, we came to him for
knowledge on these subjects. Stock-breeding has received a great share
of attention from the larger planters of Florida. The small breed of
wild native Florida cattle has been crossed and improved by foreign
stock imported at great expense. The Brahmin cattle of India, as coming
from a tropical region, were thought specially adapted to the Floridian
climate, and have thriven well here. By crossing these with the Durham
and Ayrshire and the native cattle, fine varieties of animals have been
obtained. Mr. ---- showed me a list of fifty of his finest cows, each
one of which has its distinguishing name, and with whose pedigree and
peculiarities he seemed well acquainted.
In rearing, the Floridian system has always been to make every thing
subservient to the increase of the herd. The calf is allowed to run with
the cow; and the supply of milk for the human being is only what is over
and above the wants of the calf. The usual mode of milking is to leave
the calf sucking on one side, while the milker sits on the other, and
gets his portion. It is an opinion fixed as fate in the mind of every
negro cow-tender, that to kill a calf would be the death of the mother;
and that, if you separate the calf from the mother, her milk will dry
up. Fresh veal is a delicacy unheard of; and once, when we suggested a
veal-pie to a strapping Ethiopian dairy-woman, she appeared as much
shocked as if we had proposed to fricassee a baby. Mr. ----, however,
expressed his conviction that the Northern method of taking off the
calf, and securing the cow's milk, could be practised with success, and
had been in one or two cases. The yield of milk of some of the best
blood cows was quite equal to that of Northern milkers, and might be
kept up by good feeding. As a rule, however, stock-raisers depend for
their supply of milk more on the number of their herd than the quantity
given by each. The expenses of raising are not heavy where there is a
wide expanse of good pasture-land for them to range in, and no necessity
for shelters of any kind through the year.
Mr. ---- spoke of the river-grass as being a real and valuable species
of pasturage. On the west side of the river, the flats and shallows
along by the shore are covered with a broad-leaved water-grass, very
tender and nutritious, of which cattle are very fond. It is a curious
sight to see whole herds of cows browsing in the water, as one may do
every day along the course of this river.
The subject of dairy-keeping came up; and, at our request, Mrs. ---- led
the way to hers. It is built out under a dense shade of trees in an airy
situation, with double walls like an ice-house. The sight of the snowy
shelves set round with pans, on which a rich golden cream was forming,
was a sufficient testimony that there could be beautiful, well-kept
dairies in Florida, notwithstanding its tropical heats.
The butter is made every morning at an early hour; and we had an
opportunity of tasting it at the dinner-table. Like the best butter of
France and England, it is sweet and pure, like solidified cream, and as
different as can be from the hard, salty mass which most generally
passes for butter among us. The buttermilk of a daily churning is also
sweet and rich, a delicious nourishing drink, and an excellent adjuvant
in the making of various cakes and other household delicacies.
Our friend's experience satisfied us that there was no earthly reason in
the climate or surroundings of Florida why milk and butter should be the
scarce and expensive luxuries they are now. What one private gentleman
can do simply for his own comfort and that of his family, we should
think might be repeated on a larger scale by somebody in the
neighborhood of Jacksonville as a money speculation. Along the western
bank of this river are hundreds of tracts of good grazing land, where
cattle might be pastured at small expense; where the products of a dairy
on a large scale would meet a ready and certain sale. At present the
hotels and boarding-houses are supplied with condensed milk, and butter,
imported from the North: and yet land is cheap here; labor is
reasonable; the climate genial, requiring no outlay for shelter, and
comparatively little necessity of storing food for winter. Fine breeds
of animals of improved stock exist already, and can be indefinitely
increased; and we wonder that nobody is to be found to improve the
opportunity to run a stock and dairy farm which shall supply the hotels
and boarding-houses of Jacksonville.
After visiting the dairy, we sauntered about, looking at the
poultry-yards, where different breeds of hens, turkeys, pea-fowl, had
each their allotted station. Four or five big dogs, hounds and pointers,
trotted round with us, or rollicked with a party of grandchildren,
assisted by the never-failing addition of a band of giggling little
negroes. As in the old times, the servants of the family have their
little houses back of the premises; and the laundry-work, &c., is
carried on outside. The propensity at the South is to multiply little
buildings. At the North, where there is a winter to be calculated on,
the tactics of living are different. The effort is to gather all the
needs and wants of life under one roof, to be warmed and kept in order
at small expense. In the South, where building-material is cheap, and
building is a slight matter, there is a separate little building for
every thing; and the back part of an estate looks like an eruption of
little houses. There is a milk-house, a corn-house, a tool-house, a
bake-house, besides a house for each of the leading servants, making
quite a village.
Our dinner was a bountiful display of the luxuries of a Southern
farm,--finely-flavored fowl choicely cooked, fish from the river,
soft-shell turtle-soup, with such a tempting variety of early vegetables
as seemed to make it impossible to do justice to all. Mrs. ---- offered
us a fine sparkling wine made of the juice of the wild-orange. In color
it resembled the finest sherry, and was much like it in flavor.
We could not help thinking, as we refused dainty after dainty, from mere
inability to take more, of the thoughtless way in which it is often said
that there can be nothing fit to eat got in Florida.
Mr. ----'s family is supplied with food almost entirely from the
products of his own farm. He has the nicest of fed beef, nice tender
pork, poultry of all sorts, besides the resources of an ample, well-kept
dairy. He raises and makes his own sirup. He has sweet-potatoes, corn,
and all Northern vegetables, in perfection; peaches, grapes of finest
quality, besides the strictly tropical fruits; and all that he has, any
other farmer might also have with the same care.
After dinner we walked out to look at the grapes, which hung in profuse
clusters, just beginning to ripen on the vines. On our way we stopped
to admire a great bitter-sweet orange-tree, which seemed to make
"Hesperian fables true." It was about thirty feet in height, and with
branches that drooped to the ground, weighed down at the same time with
great golden balls of fruit, and wreaths of pearly buds and blossoms.
Every stage of fruit, from the tiny green ball of a month's growth to
the perfected orange, were here; all the processes of life going on
together in joyous unity. The tree exemplified what an orange-tree could
become when fully fed, when its almost boundless capacity for digesting
nutriment meets a full supply; and it certainly stood one of the most
royal of trees. Its leaves were large, broad, and of that glossy,
varnished green peculiar to the orange; and its young shoots looked like
burnished gold. The bitter-sweet orange is much prized by some. The pulp
is sweet, with a certain spicy flavor; but the rind, and all the inner
membranes that contain the fruit, are bitter as quinine itself. It is
held to be healthy to eat of both, as the acid and the bitter are held
to be alike correctives of the bilious tendencies of the climate.
But the afternoon sun was casting the shadows the other way, and the
little buzzing "Mary Draper" was seen puffing in the distance on her way
back from Jacksonville; and we walked leisurely down the live-oak
avenues to the wharf, our hands full of roses and Oriental jessamine,
and many pleasant memories of our neighbors over the way.
And now in relation to the general subject of farming in Florida. Our
own region east of the St. John's River is properly a little sandy belt
of land, about eighteen miles wide, washed by the Atlantic Ocean on one
side, and the St. John's River on the other. It is not by any means so
well adapted to stock-farming or general farming as the western side of
the river. Its principal value is in fruit-farming; and it will appear,
by a voyage up the river, that all the finest old orange-groves and all
the new orange-plantations are on the eastern side of the river.
The presence, on either side, of two great bodies of water, produces a
more moist and equable climate, and less liability to frosts. In the
great freeze of 1835, the orange-groves of the west bank were killed
beyond recovery; while the fine groves of Mandarin sprang up again from
the root, and have been vigorous bearers for years since.
But opposite Mandarin, along the western shore, lie miles and miles of
splendid land--which in the olden time produced cotton of the finest
quality, sugar, rice, sweet-potatoes--now growing back into forest with
a tropical rapidity. The land lies high, and affords fine sites for
dwellings; and the region is comparatively healthy. Then Hibernia,
Magnolia, and Green Cove, on the one side, and Jacksonville on the
other, show perfect assemblages of boarding-houses and hotels, where
ready market might be found for what good farmers might raise. A colony
of farmers coming out and settling here together, bringing with them
church and schoolhouse, with a minister skilled like St. Bernard both in
husbandry and divinity, might soon create a thrifty farming-village. We
will close this chapter with an extract from a letter of a Northern
emigrant recently settled at Newport, on the north part of Appalachicola
Bay.
       SEPT. 22, 1872.
       I have been haying this month: in fact I had mowed my
       orange-grove, a square of two acres, from time to time,
       all summer. But this month a field of two acres had a
       heavy burden of grass, with cow-pease intermixed. In some
       parts of the field, there certainly would be at the rate
       of three tons to the acre. The whole field would average
       one ton to the acre. So I went at it with a good Northern
       scythe, and mowed every morning an hour or two. The hay
       was perfectly cured by five P.M., same day, and put in
       barn. The land, being in ridges, made mowing difficult.
       Next year I mean to lay that land down to grass, taking
       out stumps, and making smooth, sowing rye and clover. I
       shall plough it now as soon as the hay is all made, and
       sow the rye and clover immediately. I have five cows that
       give milk, and four that should come in soon. These, with
       their calves, I shall feed through the months when the
       grass is poor. I have also a yoke of oxen and four young
       steers, with Trim the mule. I have already in the barn
       three to four tons of hay and corn-fodder, and two acres
       of cow-pease cured, to be used as hay. I hope to have five
       hundred bushels of sweet-potatoes, which, for stock, are
       equal to corn. I made a hundred and ten bushels of corn,
       twenty-five to the acre. My cane is doing moderately well.
       Hope to have all the seed I want to plant fourteen acres
       next year. Bananas thrive beautifully; shall have fifty
       offsets to set out this winter; also three or four
       thousand oranges, all large-sized and fair.
All these facts go to show, that, while Florida cannot compete with the
Northern and Western States as a grass-raising State, yet there are
other advantages in her climate and productions which make stock-farming
feasible and profitable. The disadvantages of her burning climate may,
to a degree, be evaded and overcome by the application of the same
patient industry and ingenuity which rendered fruitful the iron soil and
freezing climate of the New-England States.
  [Illustration]
THE GRAND TOUR UP RIVER.
The St. John's is the grand water-highway through some of the most
beautiful portions of Florida; and tourists, safely seated at ease on
the decks of steamers, can penetrate into the mysteries and wonders of
unbroken tropical forests.
During the "season," boats continually run from Jacksonville to
Enterprise, and back again; the round trip being made for a moderate
sum, and giving, in a very easy and comparatively inexpensive manner,
as much of the peculiar scenery as mere tourists care to see. On
returning, a digression is often made at Tekoi, where passengers cross a
horse-railroad of fifteen miles to St. Augustine; thus rendering their
survey of East Florida more complete. In fact, what may be seen and
known of the State in such a trip is about all that the majority of
tourists see and know.
The great majority also perform this trip, and see this region, in the
dead of winter, when certainly one-half of the glorious forests upon the
shore are bare of leaves.
It is true that the great number of evergreen-trees here make the shores
at all times quite different from those of a Northern climate; yet the
difference between spring and winter is as great here as there.
Our party were resolute in declining all invitations to join parties in
January, February, and March; being determined to wait till the new
spring foliage was in its glory.
When the magnolia-flowers were beginning to blossom, we were ready, and
took passage--a joyous party of eight or ten individuals--on the steamer
"Darlington," commanded by Capt. Broch, and, as is often asserted, by
"Commodore Rose."
This latter, in this day of woman's rights, is no mean example of female
energy and vigor. She is stewardess of the boat, and magnifies her
office. She is a colored woman, once a slave owned by Capt. Broch, but
emancipated, as the story goes, for her courage, and presence of mind,
in saving his life in a steamboat disaster.
Rose is short and thick, weighing some two or three hundred, with a
brown complexion, and a pleasing face and fine eyes. Her voice, like
that of most colored women, is soft, and her manner of speaking
pleasing. All this, however, relates to her demeanor when making the
agreeable to passengers. In other circumstances, doubtless, she can
speak louder, and with considerable more emphasis; and show, in short,
those martial attributes which have won for her the appellation of the
"Commodore." It is asserted that the whole charge of provisioning and
running the boat, and all its internal arrangements, vests in Madam
Rose; and that nobody can get ahead of her in a bargain, or resist her
will in an arrangement.
She knows every inch of the river, every house, every plantation along
shore, its former or present occupants and history; and is always ready
with an answer to a question. The arrangement and keeping of the boat do
honor to her. Nowhere in Florida does the guest sit at a more
bountifully-furnished table. Our desserts and pastry were really, for
the wilderness, something quite astonishing.
The St. John's River below Pilatka has few distinguishing features to
mark it out from other great rivers. It is so wide, that the foliage of
the shores cannot be definitely made out; and the tourist here,
expecting his palm-trees and his magnolias and flowering-vines, is
disappointed by sailing in what seems a never-ending great lake, where
the shores are off in the distance too far to make out any thing in
particular. But, after leaving Pilatka, the river grows narrower, the
overhanging banks approach nearer, and the foliage becomes more
decidedly tropical in its character. Our boat, after touching as usual
at Hibernia, Magnolia, and Green Cove, brought up at Pilatka late in the
afternoon, made but a short stop, and was on her way again.
It was the first part of May; and the forests were in that fulness of
leafy perfection which they attain in the month of June at the North.
But there is a peculiar, vivid brilliancy about the green of the new
spring-leaves here, which we never saw elsewhere. It is a brilliancy
like some of the new French greens, now so much in vogue, and reminding
one of the metallic brightness of birds and insects. In the woods, the
cypress is a singular and beautiful feature. It attains to a great age
and immense size. The trunk and branches of an old cypress are smooth
and white as ivory, while its light, feathery foliage is of the most
dazzling golden-green; and rising, as it often does, amid clumps of dark
varnished evergreens,--bay and magnolia and myrtle,--it has a singular
and beautiful effect. The long swaying draperies of the gray moss
interpose everywhere their wavering outlines and pearl tints amid the
brightness and bloom of the forest, giving to its deep recesses the
mystery of grottoes hung with fanciful vegetable stalactites.
The palmetto-tree appears in all stages,--from its earliest growth,
when it looks like a fountain of great, green fan-leaves bursting from
the earth, to its perfect shape, when, sixty or seventy feet in height,
it rears its fan crown high in air. The oldest trees may be known by a
perfectly smooth trunk; all traces of the scaly formation by which it
has built itself up in ring after ring of leaves being obliterated. But
younger trees, thirty or forty feet in height, often show a trunk which
seems to present a regular criss-cross of basket-work,--the remaining
scales from whence the old leaves have decayed and dropped away. These
scaly trunks are often full of ferns, wild flowers, and vines, which
hang in fantastic draperies down their sides, and form leafy and flowery
pillars. The palmetto-hammocks, as they are called, are often miles in
extent along the banks of the rivers. The tops of the palms rise up
round in the distance as so many hay-cocks, and seeming to rise one
above another far as the eye can reach.
We have never been so fortunate as to be able to explore one of these
palmetto-groves. The boat sails with a provoking quickness by many a
scene that one longs to dwell upon, study, and investigate. We have been
told, however, by hunters, that they afford admirable camping-ground,
being generally high and dry, with a flooring of clean white sand. Their
broad leaves are a perfect protection from rain and dew; and the effect
of the glare of the campfires and torch-lights on the tall pillars, and
waving, fan-like canopy overhead, is said to be perfectly magical. The
most unromantic and least impressible speak of it with enthusiasm.
In going up the river, darkness overtook us shortly after leaving
Pilatka. We sat in a golden twilight, and saw the shores every moment
becoming more beautiful; but when the twilight faded, and there was no
moon, we sought the repose of our cabin. It was sultry as August,
although only the first part of May; and our younger and sprightlier
members, who were on the less breezy side of the boat, after fruitlessly
trying to sleep, arose and dressed themselves, and sat all night on
deck.
By this means they saw a sight worth seeing, and one which we should
have watched all night to see. The boat's course at night is through
narrows of the river, where we could hear the crashing and crackling of
bushes and trees, and sometimes a violent thud, as the boat, in turning
a winding, struck against the bank. On the forward part two great
braziers were kept filled with blazing, resinous light-wood, to guide
the pilot in the path of the boat. The effect of this glare of red light
as the steamer passed through the palmetto hummocks and moss-hung
grottoes of the forest was something that must have been indescribably
weird and beautiful; and our young friends made us suitably regret that
our more airy sleeping-accommodations had lost us this experience.
In the morning we woke at Enterprise, having come through all the most
beautiful and characteristic part of the way by night. Enterprise is
some hundred and thirty miles south of our dwelling-place in Mandarin;
and, of course, that much nearer the tropical regions. We had planned
excursions, explorations, picnics in the woods, and a visit to the
beautiful spring in the neighborhood; but learned with chagrin that the
boat made so short a stay, that none of these things were possible. The
only thing that appears to the naked eye of a steamboat traveller in
Enterprise is a large hotel down upon the landing, said by those who
have tested it to be one of the best kept hotels in Florida. The aspect
of the shore just there is no way picturesque or inviting, but has more
that forlorn, ragged, desolate air that new settlements on the river
are apt to have. The wild, untouched banks are beautiful; but the new
settlements generally succeed in destroying all Nature's beauty, and
give you only leafless, girdled trees, blackened stumps, and naked white
sand, in return.
Turning our boat homeward, we sailed in clear morning light back through
the charming scenery which we had slept through the night before. It is
the most wild, dream-like, enchanting sail conceivable. The river
sometimes narrows so that the boat brushes under overhanging branches,
and then widens into beautiful lakes dotted with wooded islands.
Palmetto-hammocks, live-oak groves, cypress, pine, bay, and magnolia
form an interchanging picture; vines hang festooned from tree to tree;
