But a something flitted through his mind, and his opened lips uttered
nothing. The enthusiasm faded away from his eyes, and the look of a man
who is thinking took its place. Presently, in a hesitating, undecided
way, he said:

“Well, I--it don’t seem quite enough. That--that is a very valuable
property--very valuable. It’s brim full of iron-ore, sir--brim full of
it! And copper, coal,--everything--everything you can think of! Now,
I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll reserve everything except the iron, and
I’ll sell them the iron property for $15,000 cash, I to go in with them
and own an undivided interest of one-half the concern--or the stock,
as you may say. I’m out of business, and I’d just as soon help run the
thing as not. Now how does that strike you?”

“Well, I am only an agent of these people, who are friends of mine, and
I am not even paid for my services. To tell you the truth, I have tried
to persuade them not to go into the thing; and I have come square out
with their offer, without throwing out any feelers--and I did it in the
hope that you would refuse. A man pretty much always refuses another
man’s first offer, no matter what it is. But I have performed my duty,
and will take pleasure in telling them what you say.”

He was about to rise. Hawkins said,

“Wait a bit.”

Hawkins thought again. And the substance of his thought was: “This is
a deep man; this is a very deep man; I don’t like his candor; your
ostentatiously candid business man’s a deep fox--always a deep fox;
this man’s that iron company himself--that’s what he is; he wants that
property, too; I am not so blind but I can see that; he don’t want the
company to go into this thing--O, that’s very good; yes, that’s very
good indeed--stuff! he’ll be back here tomorrow, sure, and take my
offer; take it? I’ll risk anything he is suffering to take it now;
here--I must mind what I’m about. What has started this sudden
excitement about iron? I wonder what is in the wind? just as sure as
I’m alive this moment, there’s something tremendous stirring in iron
speculation” [here Hawkins got up and began to pace the floor with
excited eyes and with gesturing hands]--“something enormous going on in
iron, without the shadow of a doubt, and here I sit mousing in the dark
and never knowing anything about it; great heaven, what an escape I’ve
made! this underhanded mercenary creature might have taken me up--and
ruined me! but I have escaped, and I warrant me I’ll not put my foot
into--”

He stopped and turned toward the stranger; saying:

“I have made you a proposition, you have not accepted it, and I desire
that you will consider that I have made none. At the same time my
conscience will not allow me to--. Please alter the figures I named to
thirty thousand dollars, if you will, and let the proposition go to the
company--I will stick to it if it breaks my heart!” The stranger looked
amused, and there was a pretty well defined touch of surprise in his
expression, too, but Hawkins never noticed it. Indeed he scarcely
noticed anything or knew what he was about. The man left; Hawkins flung
himself into a chair; thought a few moments, then glanced around, looked
frightened, sprang to the door----

“Too late--too late! He’s gone! Fool that I am! always a fool! Thirty
thousand--ass that I am! Oh, why didn’t I say fifty thousand!”

He plunged his hands into his hair and leaned his elbows on his knees,
and fell to rocking himself back and forth in anguish. Mrs. Hawkins
sprang in, beaming:

“Well, Si?”

“Oh, con-found the con-founded--con-found it, Nancy. I’ve gone and done
it, now!”

“Done what Si for mercy’s sake!”

“Done everything! Ruined everything!”

“Tell me, tell me, tell me! Don’t keep a body in such suspense. Didn’t
he buy, after all? Didn’t he make an offer?”

“Offer? He offered $10,000 for our land, and----”

“Thank the good providence from the very bottom of my heart of hearts!
What sort of ruin do you call that, Si!”

“Nancy, do you suppose I listened to such a preposterous proposition?
No! Thank fortune I’m not a simpleton! I saw through the pretty scheme
in a second. It’s a vast iron speculation!--millions upon millions in
it! But fool as I am I told him he could have half the iron property for
thirty thousand--and if I only had him back here he couldn’t touch it
for a cent less than a quarter of a million!”

Mrs. Hawkins looked up white and despairing:

“You threw away this chance, you let this man go, and we in this awful
trouble? You don’t mean it, you can’t mean it!”

“Throw it away? Catch me at it! Why woman, do you suppose that man don’t
know what he is about? Bless you, he’ll be back fast enough to-morrow.”

“Never, never, never. He never will comeback. I don’t know what is to
become of us. I don’t know what in the world is to become of us.”

A shade of uneasiness came into Hawkins’s face. He said:

“Why, Nancy, you--you can’t believe what you are saying.”

“Believe it, indeed? I know it, Si. And I know that we haven’t a cent in
the world, and we’ve sent ten thousand dollars a-begging.”

“Nancy, you frighten me. Now could that man--is it possible that
I--hanged if I don’t believe I have missed a chance! Don’t grieve,
Nancy, don’t grieve. I’ll go right after him. I’ll take--I’ll take--what
a fool I am!--I’ll take anything he’ll give!”

The next instant he left the house on a run. But the man was no longer
in the town. Nobody knew where he belonged or whither he had gone.
Hawkins came slowly back, watching wistfully but hopelessly for the
stranger, and lowering his price steadily with his sinking heart. And
when his foot finally pressed his own threshold, the value he held the
entire Tennessee property at was five hundred dollars--two hundred down
and the rest in three equal annual payments, without interest.

There was a sad gathering at the Hawkins fireside the next night. All
the children were present but Clay. Mr. Hawkins said:

“Washington, we seem to be hopelessly fallen, hopelessly involved. I am
ready to give up. I do not know where to turn--I never have been down so
low before, I never have seen things so dismal. There are many mouths
to feed; Clay is at work; we must lose you, also, for a little while, my
boy. But it will not be long--the Tennessee land----”

He stopped, and was conscious of a blush. There was silence for a
moment, and then Washington--now a lank, dreamy-eyed stripling between
twenty-two and twenty-three years of age--said:

“If Col. Sellers would come for me, I would go and stay with him a
while, till the Tennessee land is sold. He has often wanted me to come,
ever since he moved to Hawkeye.”

“I’m afraid he can’t well come for you, Washington. From what I can
hear--not from him of course, but from others--he is not far from as bad
off as we are--and his family is as large, too. He might find something
for you to do, maybe, but you’d better try to get to him yourself,
Washington--it’s only thirty miles.”

“But how can I, father? There’s no stage or anything.”

“And if there were, stages require money. A stage goes from Swansea,
five miles from here. But it would be cheaper to walk.”

“Father, they must know you there, and no doubt they would credit you in
a moment, for a little stage ride like that. Couldn’t you write and ask
them?”

“Couldn’t you, Washington--seeing it’s you that wants the ride? And what
do you think you’ll do, Washington, when you get to Hawkeye? Finish your
invention for making window-glass opaque?”

“No, sir, I have given that up. I almost knew I could do it, but it was
so tedious and troublesome I quit it.”

“I was afraid of it, my boy. Then I suppose you’ll finish your plan of
coloring hen’s eggs by feeding a peculiar diet to the hen?”

“No, sir. I believe I have found out the stuff that will do it, but it
kills the hen; so I have dropped that for the present, though I can take
it up again some day when I learn how to manage the mixture better.”

“Well, what have you got on hand--anything?”

“Yes, sir, three or four things. I think they are all good and can all
be done, but they are tiresome, and besides they require money. But as
soon as the land is sold----”

“Emily, were you about to say something?” said Hawkins.

“Yes, sir. If you are willing, I will go to St. Louis. That will make
another mouth less to feed. Mrs. Buckner has always wanted me to come.”

“But the money, child?”

“Why I think she would send it, if you would write her--and I know she
would wait for her pay till----”

“Come, Laura, let’s hear from you, my girl.”

Emily and Laura were about the same age--between seventeen and eighteen.
Emily was fair and pretty, girlish and diffident--blue eyes and light
hair. Laura had a proud bearing, and a somewhat mature look; she had
fine, clean-cut features, her complexion was pure white and contrasted
vividly with her black hair and eyes; she was not what one calls
pretty--she was beautiful. She said:

“I will go to St. Louis, too, sir. I will find a way to get there. I
will make a way. And I will find a way to help myself along, and do what
I can to help the rest, too.”

She spoke it like a princess. Mrs. Hawkins smiled proudly and kissed
her, saying in a tone of fond reproof:

“So one of my girls is going to turn out and work for her living! It’s
like your pluck and spirit, child, but we will hope that we haven’t got
quite down to that, yet.”

The girl’s eyes beamed affection under her mother’s caress. Then she
straightened up, folded her white hands in her lap and became a splendid
ice-berg. Clay’s dog put up his brown nose for a little attention, and
got it. He retired under the table with an apologetic yelp, which did
not affect the iceberg.

Judge Hawkins had written and asked Clay to return home and consult with
him upon family affairs. He arrived the evening after this conversation,
and the whole household gave him a rapturous welcome. He brought sadly
needed help with him, consisting of the savings of a year and a half of
work--nearly two hundred dollars in money.

It was a ray of sunshine which (to this easy household) was the earnest
of a clearing sky.

Bright and early in the morning the family were astir, and all were
busy preparing Washington for his journey--at least all but Washington
himself, who sat apart, steeped in a reverie. When the time for his
departure came, it was easy to see how fondly all loved him and how hard
it was to let him go, notwithstanding they had often seen him go before,
in his St. Louis schooling days. In the most matter-of-course way they
had borne the burden of getting him ready for his trip, never seeming
to think of his helping in the matter; in the same matter-of-course way
Clay had hired a horse and cart; and now that the good-byes were ended
he bundled Washington’s baggage in and drove away with the exile.

At Swansea Clay paid his stage fare, stowed him away in the vehicle,
and saw him off. Then he returned home and reported progress, like a
committee of the whole.

Clay remained at home several days. He held many consultations with his
mother upon the financial condition of the family, and talked once with
his father upon the same subject, but only once. He found a change in
that quarter which was distressing; years of fluctuating fortune had
done their work; each reverse had weakened the father’s spirit and
impaired his energies; his last misfortune seemed to have left hope and
ambition dead within him; he had no projects, formed no plans--evidently
he was a vanquished man. He looked worn and tired. He inquired into
Clay’s affairs and prospects, and when he found that Clay was doing
pretty well and was likely to do still better, it was plain that he
resigned himself with easy facility to look to the son for a support;
and he said, “Keep yourself informed of poor Washington’s condition and
movements, and help him along all you can, Clay.”

The younger children, also, seemed relieved of all fears and distresses,
and very ready and willing to look to Clay for a livelihood. Within
three days a general tranquility and satisfaction reigned in the
household. Clay’s hundred and eighty or ninety, dollars had worked a
wonder. The family were as contented, now, and as free from care as they
could have been with a fortune. It was well that Mrs. Hawkins held the
purse otherwise the treasure would have lasted but a very little while.

It took but a trifle to pay Hawkins’s outstanding obligations, for he
had always had a horror of debt.

When Clay bade his home good-bye and set out to return to the field of
his labors, he was conscious that henceforth he was to have his father’s
family on his hands as pensioners; but he did not allow himself to chafe
at the thought, for he reasoned that his father had dealt by him with a
free hand and a loving one all his life, and now that hard fortune had
broken his spirit it ought to be a pleasure, not a pain, to work for
him. The younger children were born and educated dependents. They had
never been taught to do anything for themselves, and it did not seem to
occur to them to make an attempt now.

The girls would not have been permitted to work for a living under any
circumstances whatever. It was a southern family, and of good blood; and
for any person except Laura, either within or without the household to
have suggested such an idea would have brought upon the suggester the
suspicion of being a lunatic.

CHAPTER VII.

     Via, Pecunia! when she’s run and gone
     And fled, and dead, then will I fetch her again
     With aqua vita, out of an old hogshead!
     While there are lees of wine, or dregs of beer,
     I’ll never want her! Coin her out of cobwebs,
     Dust, but I’ll have her! raise wool upon egg-shells,
     Sir, and make grass grow out of marrow-bones,
     To make her come!
     B. Jonson.

Bearing Washington Hawkins and his fortunes, the stage-coach tore out
of Swansea at a fearful gait, with horn tooting gaily and half the town
admiring from doors and windows. But it did not tear any more after it
got to the outskirts; it dragged along stupidly enough, then--till it
came in sight of the next hamlet; and then the bugle tooted gaily again
and again the vehicle went tearing by the horses. This sort of conduct
marked every entry to a station and every exit from it; and so in those
days children grew up with the idea that stage-coaches always tore and
always tooted; but they also grew up with the idea that pirates went
into action in their Sunday clothes, carrying the black flag in one
hand and pistolling people with the other, merely because they were so
represented in the pictures--but these illusions vanished when later
years brought their disenchanting wisdom. They learned then that the
stagecoach is but a poor, plodding, vulgar thing in the solitudes of the
highway; and that the pirate is only a seedy, unfantastic “rough,” when
he is out of the pictures.

Toward evening, the stage-coach came thundering into Hawkeye with a
perfectly triumphant ostentation--which was natural and proper, for
Hawkey a was a pretty large town for interior Missouri. Washington,
very stiff and tired and hungry, climbed out, and wondered how he was
to proceed now. But his difficulty was quickly solved. Col. Sellers came
down the street on a run and arrived panting for breath. He said:

“Lord bless you--I’m glad to see you, Washington--perfectly delighted to
see you, my boy! I got your message. Been on the look-out for you. Heard
the stage horn, but had a party I couldn’t shake off--man that’s got an
enormous thing on hand--wants me to put some capital into it--and I tell
you, my boy, I could do worse, I could do a deal worse. No, now, let
that luggage alone; I’ll fix that. Here, Jerry, got anything to do? All
right-shoulder this plunder and follow me. Come along, Washington. Lord
I’m glad to see you! Wife and the children are just perishing to look at
you. Bless you, they won’t know you, you’ve grown so. Folks all well, I
suppose? That’s good--glad to hear that. We’re always going to run down
and see them, but I’m into so many operations, and they’re not things a
man feels like trusting to other people, and so somehow we keep putting
it off. Fortunes in them! Good gracious, it’s the country to pile up
wealth in! Here we are--here’s where the Sellers dynasty hangs out.
Hump it on the door-step, Jerry--the blackest niggro in the State,
Washington, but got a good heart--mighty likely boy, is Jerry. And now
I suppose you’ve got to have ten cents, Jerry. That’s all right--when
a man works for me--when a man--in the other pocket, I reckon--when
a man--why, where the mischief as that portmonnaie!--when a--well now
that’s odd--Oh, now I remember, must have left it at the bank; and
b’George I’ve left my check-book, too--Polly says I ought to have
a nurse--well, no matter. Let me have a dime, Washington, if you’ve
got--ah, thanks. Now clear out, Jerry, your complexion has brought on
the twilight half an hour ahead of time. Pretty fair joke--pretty fair.
Here he is, Polly! Washington’s come, children! come now, don’t eat him
up--finish him in the house. Welcome, my boy, to a mansion that is proud
to shelter the son of the best man that walks on the ground. Si Hawkins
has been a good friend to me, and I believe I can say that whenever
I’ve had a chance to put him into a good thing I’ve done it, and done
it pretty cheerfully, too. I put him into that sugar speculation--what a
grand thing that was, if we hadn’t held on too long!”

True enough; but holding on too long had utterly ruined both of them;
and the saddest part of it was, that they never had had so much money
to lose before, for Sellers’s sale of their mule crop that year in New
Orleans had been a great financial success. If he had kept out of sugar
and gone back home content to stick to mules it would have been a happy
wisdom. As it was, he managed to kill two birds with one stone--that is
to say, he killed the sugar speculation by holding for high rates till
he had to sell at the bottom figure, and that calamity killed the mule
that laid the golden egg--which is but a figurative expression and will
be so understood. Sellers had returned home cheerful but empty-handed,
and the mule business lapsed into other hands. The sale of the Hawkins
property by the Sheriff had followed, and the Hawkins hearts been torn
to see Uncle Dan’l and his wife pass from the auction-block into the
hands of a negro trader and depart for the remote South to be seen no
more by the family. It had seemed like seeing their own flesh and blood
sold into banishment.

Washington was greatly pleased with the Sellers mansion. It was a
two-story-and-a-half brick, and much more stylish than any of its
neighbors. He was borne to the family sitting room in triumph by the
swarm of little Sellerses, the parents following with their arms about
each other’s waists.

The whole family were poorly and cheaply dressed; and the clothing,
although neat and clean, showed many evidences of having seen long
service. The Colonel’s “stovepipe” hat was napless and shiny with much
polishing, but nevertheless it had an almost convincing expression
about it of having been just purchased new. The rest of his clothing was
napless and shiny, too, but it had the air of being entirely satisfied
with itself and blandly sorry for other people’s clothes. It was growing
rather dark in the house, and the evening air was chilly, too. Sellers
said:

“Lay off your overcoat, Washington, and draw up to the stove and make
yourself at home--just consider yourself under your own shingles my
boy--I’ll have a fire going, in a jiffy. Light the lamp, Polly, dear,
and let’s have things cheerful--just as glad to see you, Washington, as
if you’d been lost a century and we’d found you again!”

By this time the Colonel was conveying a lighted match into a poor
little stove. Then he propped the stove door to its place by leaning the
poker against it, for the hinges had retired from business. This door
framed a small square of isinglass, which now warmed up with a faint
glow. Mrs. Sellers lit a cheap, showy lamp, which dissipated a good deal
of the gloom, and then everybody gathered into the light and took the
stove into close companionship.

The children climbed all over Sellers, fondled him, petted him, and were
lavishly petted in return. Out from this tugging, laughing, chattering
disguise of legs and arms and little faces, the Colonel’s voice worked
its way and his tireless tongue ran blithely on without interruption;
and the purring little wife, diligent with her knitting, sat near at
hand and looked happy and proud and grateful; and she listened as one
who listens to oracles and, gospels and whose grateful soul is being
refreshed with the bread of life. Bye and bye the children quieted down
to listen; clustered about their father, and resting their elbows on his
legs, they hung upon his words as if he were uttering the music of the
spheres.

