ments, let us start for the halls of Euterpe." 
" Where is Bessie ? " said Aunt Faith, as Hugh 
rose. 
" She is not going. She has a headache," 
answered Hugh. 
" Poor child ! I will run up and see her before 
I go." 
" That is not necessary, Aunt. I think she 
would rather not be disturbed," said Hugh. 
" Let us start ; it is late." 
 
The musicale was held at the residence of Mrs. 
Arlington, on the opposite side of the avenue, 
but a short distance from the old stone house, 
and Bessie, after taking off her wet clothes, 
dressed herself in a wrapper, and took her seat 
at the open hall-window in the second story, 
where she could see the lights through the trees, 
and even hear an occasional strain of the music 
on the night breeze. She felt depressed ; her 
head ached, and her conscience likewise. "lam 
always doing something wrong," she thought 
ruefully ; " I let Hugh pay that debt ; then I 
teased him out of his idea of telling Aunt Faith, 
and made him take me riding again, and when 
he was kind enough to give in to my wish, I de- 
liberately went out on that plank when he told 
me not to go, and the result was I came near 
being drowned, and poor Hugh must have had a 
struggle to get me out in that current. I suppose 
he is over there now talking with Edith Chase ! 
she is an affected, silly girl, but I suppose Hugh 
doe's not understand her as well as I do. How- 
 
ever, perhaps she is better than I am ! I am 
dreadful, I know ; and so homely, too ! I look 
just like an, Indian. Edith is considered pretty. 
To be sure I think she looks just like a white 
cat ; but then, some people think white cats are 
pretty. Well, her looks are nothing to me. I 
don't care anything about it ! " And in truth of 
this assertion, Bessie crouched down among the 
cushions of the lounge, and had what girls call 
" a good cry." 
About an hour afterwards she heard a step on 
the gravel walk in front of the house, and the 
sound of a latch-key in the front-door ; in another 
minute Hugh came up the stairs on the way to 
his room. "Hugh! Hugh!" called out a voice 
in the darkness. 
" Is that you, Bessie ? What are you doing 
here?" said her cousin, lighting a burner in the 
chandelier. " Why, you have been crying ! Does 
your head ache ? Do you feel faint ? " 
" My head is better, Hugh ; but I am wicked," 
murmured Bessie from the heap of cushions. 
 
" Wicked ! What do you mean, Brownie ? " 
" Just what I say. I am always in trouble 
myself and drawing you in too. You would be 
a great deal better without me, Hugh. I shall 
be glad when you go to New York." 
" Glad, Bessie ! " 
" I mean it will be better for you," murmured 
Bessie. 
" And how about yourself? " 
" Oh, I shall never be good at all ; I shall stay 
at home and be wicked, I suppose," said Bessie, 
with the sound of tears in her voice. Hugh did 
not reply, but he put out his hand and stroked 
the dark curls gently. After a moment or two 
Bessie suddenly recovered her spirits. " How 
was Miss Chase," she asked gayly. 
"Lovely as a lily," said Hugh, laughing; "I 
told her so, too." 
" Was Graham Marr there ? " 
" Yes ; I left him with Sibyl." 
" Did he quote poetry ? " 
" I presume so, in the intervals of the musio. 
Gid was there, too." 
 
"At the door of the supper-room, T suppose ? " 
"Yes, he was looking at the salad when I came 
away." 
" That reminds me ; why did you leave so 
early, Hugh ? " 
" I believe, after all, I am a little tired ; I 
strained my wrist slightly in the brook." 
" Let me get some arnica for you ; do, Hugh." 
" Oh, no ! the strain is very slight. It will be 
all over in a day or two." 
" Was there really any clanger, Hugh ? " 
" Yes ; I think it right that you should know 
it, because you may be tempted to do the same 
thing again. The water was deep there, and the 
brook swollen by the last rains ; the current was 
very strong, and there is a fall just below. But 
your greatest danger was from the sharp jagged 
rocks ; when I plunged after you I cannot ex- 
press how alarmed I was ! " 
Bessie covered her face with her hands. " It 
was all owing to my obstinate wilfulness," she 
said in a low tone. " Oh, Hugh ! can you forgive 
me?" 
 
" Do not think of it any more." said her cousin, 
" but come clown and give me some music.' , 
" What ! In this old wrapper, Hugh ? " 
" There speaks feminine vanity. As though I 
knew a wrapper from a dress ? " 
So Bessie went down to the sitting-room, and, 
taking the cover off her harp, sat down in her 
old wrapper to play for Hugh. When she was 
in the mood she brought very spirited music out 
of the silver strings, but to-night she played soft 
airs, and minor chords, weaviug in among them 
Hugh's favorite plaintive melodies, with her now 
wild improvisations between. At last she rose 
and replaced the harp-cover. " It is late ; I 
must go," she said. " They will be coming home 
before long. Of course you won't say anything 
about our ride, Hugh. It would only frighten 
Aunt Faith. But I have decided not to go 
again; what happened to-night seems like a 
warning." 
"Superstitious, Bessie ? " 
" No ; I am only trying to stop before I drag 
 
you into any more danger. Think how much 
trouble I have given you, too ! And, oh, Hugh! 
you had to pay that farmer," added Bessie, as the 
idea came to her for the first time. 
" Run upstairs, Brownie ; it is late." 
" I shall not run, Hugh. I know very well 
you had to pay him that ten dollars, and I have 
robbed you of your last cent," said Bessie tragi- 
cally. 
" Oh, what a dismal face ! Run, before Aunt 
Faith comes." 
" And the picture you were going to buy," 
said Bessie, with tearful eyes. 
" Foolish child ! as if I cared for the picture ; 
When I am rich I shall buy a whole gallery. Now 
run; I positively hear their voices at the gate." 
As Bessie went away with a full heart, Aunt 
Faith, Sibyl, and Graham Marr came up the 
garden-walk and entered the house. " You 
came away early, Hugh," said Aunt Faith; 
" do you feel well ? " 
" I am tired, aunt ; that is all. 
 
" It was a pleasant party," continued Aunt 
Faith ; " did you not think so, Sibyl ? " 
" I enjoyed it ! " said Sibyl quietly. 
" It was a rare feast," said Graham ; " one 
seldom meets such a combination of aesthetic 
talent in Westerton." 
" Mr. Leslie was not there, however," said 
Hugh. 
"Ah, — no. But ministers are not generally 
cultivated musicians," said Graham, in his slow 
way. " They have not the time to, — ah, — to 
muse upon the mystery of harmony." 
" Mr. Leslie is a fine musician," said Hugh 
bluntly; "I have seldom heard so fine a bari- 
tone, — so rich and manly." 
Now Graham sang tenor, — a very delicate 
tenor, and naturally he could not sympathize with 
Hugh's fancy for a rich baritone. As he rose to 
take leave, Sibyl said, " I wish you would bring 
over your music, Mr. Marr, and sing for us. 
We were all charmed with that little German 
song you sung this evening ; it was so full of 
pathos." 
 
" Bathos ! " whispered Hugh to Aunt Faith, 
as Sibyl accompanied the poet into the hall. 
"How can Sibyl endure that calf! " 
"As Pete Trone said, 'de gustibus? and so 
forth, Hugh," said Sibyl's voice from the hall as 
she closed the door behind Graham. 
" Well, Sibyl ; I did not intend you to hear 
the epithet, but I cannot with sincerity take it 
back," said Hugh. 
" I like calves," said Sibyl, " they have beau- 
tiful eyes ! Good-night ! " 
" I never can make Sibyl out ! " said Hugh, as 
his sister disappeared. " She never lo.ses her 
temper, and truth always comes out with the 
temper, you know. Well, Aunt Faith, I have 
been a very bad boy all day. Will you pardon 
all my misdeeds ? " 
" If you are penitent," said Aunt Faith, 
smiling. Then, more seriousbv, " You will not 
forget what I said to you this morning, Hugh ? " 
" No, aunt; I shall not forget. Your words 
sank deeper than you knew," said Hugh gravely, 
in the summer heat. Hugh hung up a ham- 
I mock in the second story hall, between 
the north and. south windows, so as to 
catch every wandering zephyr ; and, aimed with 
a book, he betook himself to this airy retreat for 
the purpose of study. At least that was his an- 
nouncement at the breakfast-table " For the 
purpose of sleep ! " suggested Sibyl. u Day- 
dreaming!" said Bessie. "Lazying!" said Tom, 
coining a word for the occasion with true Amer- 
ican versatility. 
 
" Very well, fellow-citizens, laugh on," said 
Hugh ; " these are the last strawberries of the 
season, and I have no inclination to discuss any- 
thing at present but their sweetness. But I will 
venture to assert that at six o'clock this evening: 
I shall have imbibed more knowledge in that very 
hammock then any of you in your prosy chairs." 
" I shall go and see Miss Skede about my 
white dresses," said Sibyl, rising. 
" Not this warm morning," exclaimed Bessie. 
" The very time. I could not have chosen a 
better day. Miss Skede has no imagination ; she 
can never lift herself beyond the present. If I 
,had gone to her in June, she would have made 
my dresses heavy, in spite of all my orders and 
descriptions. Even yesterday, for instance, she 
would have been unable to conceive anything 
more than half-way effects ; but to-day it is so 
warm that the heat may inspire her, and I hope 
to get out of her something as flowing and deli- 
cate as a summer cloud." 
" I see now, Sibyl, where all j^our poetry 
goes," said Hugh, laughing ; " the puffs and 
ruffles get it all ! " 
" Fortunately Graham has enough for two," 
said Bessie, looking up with a malicious smile. 
But Sibyl's temper was never ruffled: "I like 
Graham, as you know, Bessie. You, also, have 
your likes and dislikes, but I do not tease you 
about tnem." 
" That is true, Sibyl," said Bessie, warmly ; 
"you certainly have the best disposition in the 
family. I wish I had half your amiability." 
Soon after breakfast, Tom and Gem went out 
into the garden, and sat down under the shade 
of the great elm-tree. The three dogs were not 
long in discovering their place of retreat, an ] 
invited themselves to join the party with their 
usual assurance, — Turk stretching himself on 
the ground alongside, Grip under a currant-bush, 
and Pete Trone occupying himself in tilling the 
soil. 
" What are you going to do to-day, Tom ? " 
said Gem, as she adorned Turk's shaggy back 
with flowers.
 
" Well, I don't exactly know," replied Tom ; 
" the B. B.'s are coming, and we've thought a 
little of building a house up a tree." 
" What for ? " said Gem rather languidly, — 
for when the thermometer stands in the eighties, 
the idea of building becomes oppressive. 
" What for ! " repeated Tom indignantly ; 
" that's just like a girl ! For fun, of course. 
Wbac else, do you suppose? But you needn't 
have anything to do with it. You can go right 
into the house this very minute, if you like." 
" I don't want to go into the house ; you 
know that very well, Tom Morris. I always 
like to see the B. B.'s, and I think a house in a 
tree will be splendid ! " said Gem quickly. 
" Won't it, though ! We're going to take 
the big cak over there, and hoist up all the 
boards, and nails, and things. There's a place 
in the main branches where we can build a real 
room, big enough for all of us, if we squeeze 
tight. We're going to have a floor, and roof, 
and sides, and a hole in the bottom to climb in, — 
a sort of sally-port, you know. It will be a 
regular fort, and I rather guess those south-end 
fellows will wink out of the wrong sides of their 
eyes when they see it." 
" Won't it be rather warm up there ? " sug- 
gested Gem. 
" I never saw such a baby ! " exclaimed Tom. 
" Warm ? of course it will be, and what then ? 
The monitors were warm, I reckon, but you 
never caught our soldiers whining about it. The 
B. B.'s will stand up to their work like men, and 
they'll stay in that house when it's built, even 
if they melt down to their very backbones ! " 
" I wonder what Pete is doing ? " said Gem, 
after a pause, wisely making a diversion in the 
conversation. 
" Oh ! burying bones, I suppose," said Tom ; 
" he's always at it. I believe he'd dig a hole in 
an iron floor if he was chained up on it. Hallo, 
Pete ! stop that ! You're making too much 
dust. Do you hear me, sir ? Very well ! you'd 
— a — bet " When Tom got as far as 
 
" bet," pronounced in an awful voice, Pete knew 
that a stick was forthcoming. He accordingly 
paused in his digging, his little black nose covered 
with yellow earth, and his eyes fixed mournfully 
on the half-finished hole. " Let us go and dig 
up some of his bones and show them to him," 
said Tom ; " it always makes him feel so ashamed ! 
I know where they are ; he has his favorite 
places, and I've often seen him toiling up and 
down from one to the other, as important as the 
man that goes round with the panorama and 
jaws at the people." 
" What an expression ! " said Gem, with an air 
of superiority ; " you boys are so common ! " 
" And you girls are so soft ! " said Tom. " I'd 
rather be a boy than a girl, any day. Come, 
now ! " 
But Gem was not inclined to argue this point, 
so they carried out their bone-hunting project, 
much to the discomfiture of Pete Trone, Esq., 
who followed behind as if fascinated, watched 
the disinterment of each relic with mortified 
interest, and, when the last was brought into 
view, drooped his head and tail, and sought 
refuse in the corn-field where he relieved his 
feelings by burrowing wildly in twenty different 
places. 
" There come the B. B.'s ! " exclaimed Gem, 
interrupting Tom in a search for artichokes; 
" eight of them, as sure as you live ! " 
" What an expression, " said Tom, imitating 
his sister's voice ; " you girls are so common ! " 
But the approach of the visitors made a truce a 
matter of necessity, and soon the project of the 
tree-house engrossed the entire attention. 
Boards were brought from the little tool-house, 
saws were in demand, and Gem was deputed to 
confiscate all the hammers and nails in the house 
for the use of the builders ; the work went 
bravely on, and b^noon the walls of the fortifi- 
cation were up, and the roof well advanced 
towards completion. A ladder brought from 
the barn, took the workmen half-way up the 
trunk ; but the old tree was lofty, and a long 
 
space intervened between the end of the ladder 
avid the lowest branches, which must of necessity- 
be ascended in that squirming manner peculiar 
to boys, wherein they delight to bark their shins, 
tear their trowsers, and blister their hands in the 
pursuit of glory. Gem, of course, could not 
hope to emulate the B. B.'s in this mode of pro- 
gression towards the fortification, but she brought 
nails and carried boards with great energy. 
When there was no call for her services, she 
watched with intense interest the B. B. who 
happened to be squirming up. If there was no 
B. B. squirming up, there was sure to be one 
squirming down, for a principal part of the time 
seemed to be devoted to journeys below and aloft, 
besides elaborate contrivances for slinging boards 
and tools to the climbers' backs ; indeed, to a 
looker-on, this seemed to be the chief interest of 
the fortification. 
At last it was done, all but the floor ; Tom 
said it did not matter about that, as the boys 
could easily stand on the branches. Word was 
given to ascend, and, one by one, all the B. B.'s 
squirmed up the tree and took their places in- 
side ; nothing was to be seen but their feet, 
huddled together on the branches. It took ten 
minutes for all the band to assemble on hi^h, 
but in less than two, down they squirmed again. 
" What is the matter ? " said Gem in astonish- 
ment ; she had not expected to see the B. B.'s 
for hours, absorbed as they would be in their 
leafy abode. 
" We're going to take up the dogs," said Tom, 
who came first; " we're going to sling 'em up in 
a basket. It will be such fun, and they'll like 
it first-rate." 
" Oh, don't, Tom ! " exclaimed Gem ; " Turk 
is too big, Grip will be sure to fall out, and it 
will make Pete Trone seasick." 
But no attention was paid to her remonstrances, 
and the- B. B.'s inspired to new exertions, made 
numerous journeys up and down, rigging a 
pulley and making various preparations for the 
aerial voyage. W'heu all was ready there was a 
 
discussion as to which dog should go. Turk was 
too big, no basket would hold him ; and Grip, 
Tom said, had "no common sense," and would 
not appreciate the situation. Pete Trone was 
evidently the man for the place, and he jumped 
gayly into the basket at Tom's command, with- 
out any suspicion of danger ; and when he found 
himself hanging in mid-air, he did not flinch, but 
settled down resolutely on his haunches, looking 
over the side with one eye as much as to say, 
