" Is that Jessie Ashburton ? " inquired a querulous voice 
from the adjoining bedroom. "Well, I began to think 
you was too proud to go out any more. But everybody's 
got to learn that they can't be carried to the skies on 
flowery beds of ease ! " 
" O, mother ! " entreated the mild and still deprecating 
v'oice. This mother-in-law had been the bane of weak Mrs. 
Deane's life. 
"Yes why not? Rich folks always have to comedown. 
Don't the Bible say it'll be hard for a rich man to enter 
the kingdom of heaven ? And so I thank the Lord that 
I'm not rich." 
" But Miss Jessie's folks were always so good, mother, I 
don't believe that's the reason," the emphasis meaning 
riches, "for there's many a poor person who doesn't seem 
fit for heaven." 
After her protest Mrs. Deane looked more faded and 
frightened than ever. 
" If you mean me," and Mrs. Deane senior thought that 
her daughter-in-law did mean her by every remark she 
made, "if you mean me, I can tell you that after you've 
gone through with all the trials I've had, .you'll think a 
deal more of heaven than you do now ! " and the old 
woman's voice rose shrill and high. " Few people have 
gone through with as much trouble one way and another. 
Loss of money's nothing to it ! " 
" No, there are worse things," said Jessie, gently, fcr she 
knew by experience that old Mrs. Deane loved to think 
her case harder than that of any other human being. 
"Money is a great snare, a great snare ! Them that 
 
haven't any may be thankful, though it's a hard thing to be 
dependent. If I was young I wouldn't mind poverty ; " and 
a deep sigh finished the sentence. 
" How is the baby ? " asked Jessie, anxious to escape 
these tirades. 
U O, he is well;" and Mrs. Deane took her to the 
opposite side of the room, turning down the corner of the 
crib-quilt. He had been washed until he shone, and 
though his baby-slip was calico, it was clean and pretty 
But his mother had another motive besides pride in her 
baby. 
" O, Miss Jessie !" and the tears rose to her eyes ; "I'm 
so sorry for your misfortune ! It is hard to be poor and 
to give up all your comforts. I've thought of it night and 
day. You have always been so good to me, and it's such a 
pleasure to see your sweet face. Are you really going 
away ? " 
"Yes; the place has been sold." 
Jessie tried very hard to keep her voice steady. 
" It's a shame ! I don't understand why God lets such 
things happen to people who have always been good and 
kind. Your mother, I am sure, is one of the sweetest 
women in the world. I used to enjoy going to sew at her 
house before I was married ; and though Tom isn't a hard 
man to get along with, I sometimes half wish that I'd let 
him alone. But my trouble is nothing to yours ; only what 
shall I ever do without you?" 
" You will find some new friends, I hope ; " and Jessie's 
voice had a quiver in it. " Mamma sent a message to you. 
We are going to sell some of our most expensive furniture, 
but there are several old articles that we shall not want to 
take some partly-worn clothes, and the like. If you 
could send Mr. Deane over for them, you would be quite 
welcome." 
" O, Miss Jessie ! you and yours are always thinking what 
you can do for others. If ever any one made good use of 
money, it is your mamma. And now that you should be 
poor " 
" We try to think that it is all best and right, and that 
God has some wise purpose in it all. We must learn to 
do our duty in any state of life ; " and Jessie gave a sweet 
yet sorrowful smile. 
" When I hear you or your mamma talk, Miss Jessie, I 
believe there is some heart in religion ; but she" nodding 
to the bedroom "takes it all out of me." 
The words had been uttered hardly above a breath, but 
Mrs. Deane started guiltily at the interruption. 
" Betsey, is Jessie Ashburton's call aJl to you ? If it 
isn't, I'd like to see her!" 
Old Mrs. Deane always ignored the polite usages of 
society, as mere forms, pampering pride and vanity. Once, 
when her daughter-in-law had ventured to suggest that 
" Miss Jessie " sounded more respectful, the old lady re- 
plied, angrily, 
"If anybody's Christian name ain't good enough for 'em, 
things have come to a pretty pass ! Why, in Bible times 
they didn't have any other. Just look if you can find a 
place where any one is called Mr. Paul or Miss Dorcas ! 
It's nothing but worldliness and wanting to be honored. 
I shan't call anybody Lord in this world ! " 
So meek Mrs. Deane never made another protest. 
As a young girl she had always been called Bessy 
Lawton a rather pretty and interesting person, who had 
been a great favorite with Mrs. Ashburton ; and when, six 
years before, she had married Tom Deane, every one con- 
sidered it a good match. A year or so afterwards, his sister 
had died; so Tom took his mother to live with him. 
There was an end to the young wife's comfort. Mrs. 
Deane considered herself a martyr. No one had ever 
worked so hard, or made so many sacrifices, or borne trials 
so patiently. Hers had been no harder than the common 
lot, but she had a way of magnifying the slightest events. 
 
She seemed to take particular delight in thwarting her 
daughter-in-law. One of those selfish, complaining, irrita- 
ble, and unreasonable women who make old age unlovely, 
and are a torment to a household. 
She insisted upon calling her Betsey, and nearly worried 
ihe poor wife into a shadow. Tom could get rid of his 
mother's ill-temper by going out to have a smoke, but there 
was no such relief for Bessy. 
Now she gave Jessie's hand a fond squeeze, wiped her 
eyes with her apron, and said in her usual tone, which 
always seemed to beg her listeners not to find fault, 
" We were looking at baby." 
" You'd better look to the others they're both out of 
doors, and it's cold as any winter's day. Dear! if it wasn't 
for me sick and worn out as I am things would come 
to a pretty pass in this house ! It's a hard matter to have 
the care of your grandchildren after you have brought up 
your own family ! " 
Bessy went to find the little truants. Old Mrs. Deane 
deigned to ask after Mr. Ashburton, and predicted that he 
would never get well ; people at his time of life rarely did ; 
and it wasn't likely that he would ever have his mind clear 
again. She was sure some one had told her that Mr. Ash- 
burton was completely childish. And she'd heard that 
Philip had given up college a good thing, in her opinion. 
Half the young men nowadays were ruined by going to 
college. Did Eleanor mean to teach school ? it was time 
she put her education to some use. She'd heard tending 
store was a good business, but it made girls forward and 
of so much consequence. "And you're old enough to go 
to a trade. I should advise dress-making, you're so handy 
at cutting out clothes." 
Jessie was much annoyed, but she was too well-bred to 
resent it from a person so much older than herself. Mrs. 
Deane really enjoyed other people's misfortunes. She 
would gladly have enlarged upon the topic; but Jessie 
asked after her ailments, an equally fruitful theme, and 
tried to get away as soon as she could do so gracefully. 
Bessie followed her to the gate. There was something 
touching and delicate in the woman's sympathy, albeit she 
was a person of no special refinement. 
" O, Miss Jessie ! you have been such a comfort ! The 
Lord bless you wherever you go, and send you back again 
to Home Nook I shall pray daily for that! " 
Jessie could not help contrasting old Mrs Deane and 
Mrs. Rachel, as she had more than once. Both professed to 
be animated and controlled by the same love, but how 
different were its fruits ! In the one, meekness, loving: kind- 
' * O 
ness, and the highest kind of charity, dealing generously 
with fellow-creatures in thought, word, and deed. Was 
not true religion the same everywhere ? 
She made the rest of her calls, and though pain was 
largely mingled with pleasure, now and then a word of 
sympathy, a look or a tone, went to her heart. Soon she 
would cease to be one of this pleasant community. Would 
she be forgotten ? 
As she was nearing home a carriage passed, containing 
two occupants. She knew the elegant gray ponies so well 
that she glanced up with an eager smile. 
The elder lady bowed very coldly, and the fair young 
girl gave a languid nod. The warm blood rushed to 
Jessie's face, and every nerve quivered. 
Mrs. Westlake had always made a great deal of Jessie 
and Madge, and May, her niece, had been on terms of 
intimate friendship with them. To be passed now in this 
indifferent manner gave her a keen pang. 
Mrs. Westlake was secretly consoling herself that her 
son, whom she had half suspected of a penchant for Jessie, 
was away at this period. He was full of boyish impulsive- 
ness, and there was no knowing what he might be tempted 
to do. 
w You look tired," Mrs. Ashburton said, as Jessie entered 
the room the brightness and animation faded from her face. 
 
"It is so good to have you mamm..* '. " and Jessie leaned 
against the fond bosom. "Poverty cannot destroy all our 
love and happiness." 
"Where have you been?" her mother asked gently. 
So Jessie began. Hetty Bright's little nest of a cottagu 
was gone over, and the call at Mrs. Deane's. 
" O, mamma ! I hope I never shall have such an unhappy 
disposition. How one pities poor Bessie Deane ! There's 
nothing in our lives as hard as that. But " 
" Well, Jessie ! " For the soft eyes had roved off into 
the sunshine, and the little brain was in a brown study. 
" Mamma, why do you suppose that religion makes one 
person happy, and seems to fail in the case of another ? " 
" The one person makes it a living, vital truth, and the 
other does not. I should be sorry to judge Mrs. Deane 
harshly, but if she does not render herself miserable, she 
certainly must those around her." 
" She did not seem a bit sorry that we had lost our for- 
tune, though she will miss some of its benefits." 
" We must learn a lesson, my little girl, and not fall into 
the habit of aggravating our troubles, and thinking our lot 
the hardest. There are many rough paths in this world, 
but we will remember who has said, 'My grace shall be 
sufficient for thee.' " 
Jessie did not mention her meeting with Mrs. Westlake. 
It was the first time that she had received any direct re- 
buff, and from this source it came with double keenness. 
And yet she was glad that it had not been Eleanor. 
She understood the changes now as she never had before. 
She began to realize that they must fill an entirely different 
sphere. It was the greater trial because she was conscious 
of no alteration in herself. The virtues, graces, and refine- 
ments of the old life would be carried into the new ; and 
yet who would seek them for their absolute worth ? But 
Were such summer friends worthy of regard and regret? 
In this hour Jessie Ashburton drew still nearer to Gad 
CHAPTER V. 
A "STEW HOUSE. 
THE quiet tide of life was broken with the Ashburtons. 
Eleanor went to the city several times with Philip to look 
at houses, but always returned dispirited and moody. 
At length, in despair, he said one night, 
" Madge, will you and Jessie go down with me to-mor- 
row? I have been offered a house at quite a bargain. El- 
eanor looked at it once and thought it would not do, but 
I find that we cannot have much choice for the rent we 
will be able to pay." 
Madge was quite elated ; Jessie, in her more quiet fash- 
ion, was equally pleased with this mark of Philip's con- 
fidence. 
" I am sorry that Nelly takes matters so hard," Philip 
said, anxiously. "You two will have to assume the lead, 
with mamma's counsel. And I think we can have quite a 
pretty little nest of a home without being very extrava- 
gant ; for now, my small women, we are poor." 
" Jessie spends half her time in the kitchen, learning to 
cook," exclaimed Madge, by way of encouragement. 
"Bravo ! " said Philip, laughingly. " The house is some- 
thing of a journey up town, but you can see the river ficm 
it, and we shall have quite a garden." 
" That will suit mamma admirably." 
"Eleanor inclines to Brooklyn or Williamsburg, but the 
extra expense will more than make the difference in rent. 
This neighborhood is quiet and respectable, though the 
house is old-fashioned." 
" It will be the more cosy, then." 
 
"Madge, I am glad and thankful that you can always 
find a stray gleam of sunshine." 
She smiled brightly at his commendation. 
They started off in good spirits the next morning. The 
house was on the east side of the town a long block, 
with some rather pretentious buildings at one end, a num- 
ber of vacant lots between, and near the river this cluster 
of cottages, old-fashioned indeed. 
"The very last one," said Philip. 
Beyond rose a ledge of rock, but between that and the 
opposite shore of Long Island the river gleamed and 
sparkled in the spring sunshine. The house stood de- 
tached, as did all in this row, and, what was quite unusual 
in the way of adornment, a wisteria had climbed to the 
roof, and a month or two later would be trailing long 
sprays of green and lilac about the windows. 
"Why, it is pretty," declared Madge. "And I like 
the wildness of the place about here. I couldn't get my 
breath in those houses;" and she nodded towards the 
brick row. 
w They are to be let in tenements, a floor to a family. 
We looked at one. They are finished in a very pretty, 
modern fashion." 
" But to be crowded in with other people ! " 
" No, we couldn't take that quite yet," said Philip, with 
rather a proud gesture. 
They had a gay time exploring the interior. On the 
lower floor were two very fair-sized rooms, and back of the 
hall a large kitchen, with a basement wash-room quite con- 
venient. Above there were three sleeping apartments, and 
one small one, with a garret over the whole. 
" Why, I think we could do very well," said Madge, 
"only I'd like to have that horrid blue and buff paper 
taken off the parlor. I suppose that frightened Nelly. 
And if it could be painted up a little O, do look at 
these funny brass knobs ! Why, they are so small that on 
can hardly take hold of them ! And the mantels are so 
very high and quaint! O, it isn't Home Nook!" and th 
brightness died out of her voice. 
" No," Philip returned, gravely. 
" But the garden will be nice ; " and Jessie took a glimpse 
out of the window. " There is a long grape arbor, and trees 
and rose-bushes." 
"Thank you, Jessie, for seeing so much. It is quite the 
best thing for the rent that I have found, and I must give 
an answer to-morrow. I think we will have the paper 
changed, and the knobs. I could paint it myself." 
They went over it again, arranging it for use. They 
would have one parlor, and a library or sitting-room. In 
the summer, they could cook down stairs, and use their 
kitchen exclusively for a dining-room. Mamma could have 
one of the second-floor apartments, Nelly one, which would 
be a sort of guest chamber, also "if they ever had any 
company," appended Madge. 
"And I'll take the small one," said Philip. 
"If we have a servant, we must put her in the garret." 
" I think we had better learn to do without," was Jessie's 
quiet rejoinder. 
They explored nooks, and corners, and closets, and found 
them really capacious. Jessie looked at all with the eye 
of a housekeeper, for somehow she felt that Eleanor was 
not just the one to go into kitchen details. 
"Now we will run around in the next street, and take a 
flying view of a house for four hundred." 
"And this ?" 
" I can have for three hundred dollars, by paying six 
months' rent in advance." 
"Four hundred would be two thirds of your salary, 
Philip." 
" Yes. Clement will help us out a little ; but it seemi 
right to begin with the utmost economy. If we are pros- 
pered, we can make a change." 
 
" Yes," said Jessie, with quiet decision. 
She remarked that Philip never spoke of their father 
being able to do anything again. What if Mrs. Deane's 
unkind surmise should prove correct? 
The house was larger and a trifle more modern, besides 
having two bedrooms in the attic, but they thought they 
could have as many comforts in the small one. 
*' Now, I want you to see a suit of rooms in a tenement 
house that can be had for four hundred." 
" I should not like it," said Jessie, promptly. 
" They are very nice, and quite to one's self." 
A second floor, containing parlor, kitchen, three bed- 
rooms, a large clothes-press, and a bath-room. There were 
corniced ceilings, one marble mantel, doors grained in oak, 
and the whole had a very pretty, stylish air; but the sleep- 
ing-rooms were all small, and the yard was merely a square 
of grass, with clothes-line posts at the corners, and a flagged 
walk around. 
"It's pretty," said Madge, "but I believe I like the 
other best for us." 
" I am sure that I do," was Jessie's rejoinder. 
" Philip, how do real poor people manage to live in a 
city?" 
" In a year's time you will be able to answer the ques- 
tion," he replied, with a half-sad, half-playful smile. 
" But, after all, we have some resources that very poor 
people cannot fall back upon." 
And yet Jessie sighed. She was coming face to face 
with poverty very rapidly. 
So they returned home, and talked the matter over with 
mamma. She approved of their decision, and the house 
was taken at once. 
Eleanor listened in silence, esteeming her acquiescence 
a great sacrifice. Philip travelled to and fro, busy, ener 
getic, and cheerful. Mr. Ashburton began to walk round 
his room, and business matters progressed towards a set- 
tlement. Friends flocked in to comfort and assist, and 
some, perhaps from curiosity, to see how the Ashburtons 
bore their misfortune ; for there seemed to be a strand of 
this underlying much of human nature, and though very 
few actually rejoiced over their downfall, more than one 
felt that it was not an altogether unsatisfactory turn in the 
wheel of fortune, where so much seems like chance. 
Mr. Kenneth, their clergyman, was one of their firmest 
and most comforting friends. His mother, a very estima- 
ble widow lady, who was not likely to change her home, 
offered them room for pictures, or any choice articles they 
did not care to dispose of, as their new abode would be 
rather limited. 
Philip took the girls down again to see how much it had 
improved. The obnoxious paper had been replaced by one 
chaste and neutral-tinted, the mantels, that had been a sort 
of dismal lead-colored imitation of marble, were black, and 
the paint fresh and really pretty. 
"I did that myself!" announced Philip, with a touch of 
triumph. " And now look at our dining-room ! " 
Instead of the smoky wall, it was a soft grayish-pearl 
color. 
" Phil, you are a jewel ! " exclaimed Madge. " Why, we 
shall be a sort of Swiss Family Robinson only we shall 
not live on an island." 
"Now, we will bring the furniture down and arrange it. 
I haven't but about ten days' grace, and then I must take 
my place in the ranks." 
But when they began to dismantle their beloved home, 
a sharp pang of anguish seized them all ; for every corner 
and every article was associated with some tender remem- 
brance. Jessie's tears fell silently, but now and then 
Madge broke down. 
" I can't help it," she would say, with a sob. " It's so 
hard, after all ! and now I begin to feel afraid that we shall 
never come back." 
 
Philip, gaining daily experience, thought it quite prob- 
lematical also. Fortunes were not so easily won. His 
own dreams he thrust into the background, and not even 
his mother guessed the pain he hid beneath the smiling 
face. 
Was it wrong to pray for prosperity and happiness, and 
work faithfully for them ? It did not seem an ignoble aim 
when hallowed by love and self-sacrifice. "For their 
