


 

and had a little chat with Louis, though the 
young man was not disposed to be social. At 
dinner he seemed dreadfully awkward and em- 
barrassed, his sallow cheeks, flushing at the least 
word. Somehow I was glad Stuart was not 
there. Afterwards he went up to his room, and 
spent the whole afternoon alone. 

We had rather a funny time. Stuart came in 
late, and insisted upon having his dinp.er in the 
kitchen, telling Ann two or three puch laughable 
Irish stories, that they were friends straightway. 
Then he would insist upon carrying Fan's basket 
when she was ready to start o j i her visitation, 
as she called it. 

"It was as good as a play," he said after- 
wards. "I thought I should smile audibly at 
that old lady Mrs. Means, I believe you called 
her. She is an ungrateful wretch, Mrs. Endi- 
cott. ' She did not like such light, chaffy bread ; 
it had no heart. You might as well eat /sawdust.' 
And she wanted to know how many eggs were in 
the custard ; and when people sent c/irrants, she 
wished they would send sugar, too. '.Vasty, sour 
tilings ! ' Why, I had half a mind to hustle the 
gifts back in the basket, and bring th/im home." 

"We are not to get weary in well do'^g," said 
mamma. 



 

''I'm not sure but a little wholesome hun- 
ger would be good. And then that old Mrs. 
Bogert ! Doesn't she look funny there in the bed, 
with her little, wrinkled face and that napping 
cap-ruffle. And her talk, and the queer way in 
which she keeps questioning her maid 'Betty, 
how long is it since I was tuck sick ? ' in that 
high, cracked voice, which sounds like a smashed 
hand organ with a monkey grinding it. ' Betty, 
tell the gentleman how I fell down the cellar 
stairs. Betty, bring me my snuff-box ; mebby 
the young gentleman will take a pinch.' 

He imitated Mrs. Bogert's tone so exactly, 
that we could not help laughing. 

"Did you take a pinch?' asked Nelly. 

" Of course I did. And such sneezing ! ' 

"It was dreadful, ' : said Fan, with a reproach- 
ful look. "And not a bit in earnest.'' 

"How did you do it?' Nelly questioned. 

"This way." 

There isn't any method of spelling such terrific 
sneezing. No combination of letters would do 
it justice. I thought I wouldn't laugh ; but I 
did and the children screamed. 

"Good snuff wasn't it?' he said, with a 
droll wink. 



"I don't see how you can do it, all in 
said wide-eyed Daisy. 

"I do not believe I shall take you out with me 
again," commented Fan, severely. 

"But I know the way now. I shall drop in 
to see the old lady often, and get a pinch of 
snuff. O, dear ! I am almost worn, out with my 
arduous duties. Can any one stay me with a 
glass, and comfort me with cold water- -the 
literal for apples and love ? And then can't 
we dissipate on croquet ? If I sit still much 
longer I shall have the rickets. My physician 
prescribed active exercise." 

" You had better take the baby out in her 
carriage, if you want exercise," said Tiny Tim, 
having heard the two connected some way. 

He laughed. 

"For 

' Satan finds some mischief stilJ 
For idle hands to do.' 

Isn't that in the hymn book ? " 



" Not in mine," returned Fan. 

"Well, I am sure it is in the spelling-book. 
I learned it somewhere ; and it is about a busy 
bee. Good instructions, like pins, are never 
lost." 

"But pins an- lost. Your logic is faulty." 




"No they're always gone before that is, be- 
fore you want them." 

"You are too smart for your size," said Fan. 
"I am afraid you'll grow up a dunce." 

"Well, you cannot have all the virtues for a 
little money. As it is, I think of striking for 
higher wages." 

"You are not worth what you get now," said 
Fan, running away. 

Stuart did not venture up stairs until just be- 
fore supper. Louis declined to come down ; so 
mamma sent him some tea, berries, and biscuits. 

"I am afraid you are beginning in a way to 
make trouble for yourself," papa said, thought- 
fully, afterwards. 

"I am going to indulge him for a few days. 
He is nervous, and really bashful ; and I want 
him to learn to like us. But he cannot be 
forced to do anything." 

"I believe I like my girls the best," said 
papa, fondly. 

Saturday evenings, when no one dropped in, 
were our choicest time of all the week. Mam- 
ma played, and we all sang. This time no one 
came to disturb us. And we never knew, until 
long afterwards, that Louis Duncan listened 



 

with his eyes full of tears, and had not the 
courage to join us. But it always appeared to me 
like a little bit of heaven below. Papa's sweet 
tenor voice seemed to belong to some particular 
hymns, and it took me far above the petty work- 
day affairs. How good and lovely he was in 
his every-day walks and ways ! 

Louis began to get somewhat acquainted with 
us on Sunday. He did not go to church, but 
lay on the bed reading nearly all day. No one 
found any fault with him ; and Stuart's teasing 
tongue was hushed. I think he stood a little in 
awe of my mother, gentle as she was. It was 
plain to see that the boys had been brought up 
with mere outward forms of religion ; that they 
had no love and very little respect for it. How 
different they w T ere from Stephen ! 

But the enforced quiet was broken on Mon- 
day morning, there were some high w r ords, and 
then an unmistakable blow, followed by a strug- 
gle and a fall. Papa went up stairs. 

"Boys," he said, with severe but simple 
dignity, " are you brothers, and must you quar- 
rel ? If you have no respect for yourselves, I 
implore you to have a little for my house, that 
In is hitherto been the abode of harmony. I will 
not have it.' 

The combatants paused, and glared, at each 
other with angry eyes. Stuart had come off 
victor, for it was Louis who had fallen. He 
was deadly white now, with a blue line about 
the mouth. 

"I won't be struck as if I was a child," ex- 
claimed Stuart, with fierce determination; "and 
he struck me." 

" I told you to let that brush alone," said the 
other, sullenly. "Your own was there." 

" Stuart, go in the room opposite and finish 
your toilet. I shall expect an apology from you 
both when you come down stairs. Breakfast is 
ready." 

It seemed as if we were to have neither of 
them ; but when the meal was about half over 
Stuart entered the room. His face was flushed, 
and his eyes were still sending out fiery rays ; 
but he went straight to papa. 

"Mr. Endicott," he said, making an effort to 
steady his voice, "I am truly sorry that I should 
have been so rude and ungentlemanly in your 
house. I ask your pardon. And yours, Mrs. 
Endicott." 

"I pardon you on condition that a similar 
event never happens, while you are here, at 



least. You are both too old to fall into such 
rough-and-tumble school-boy fights." 

Mamma held out her hand to him as he 
passed her. He blushed deeply, but seized it 
with a thankful eagerness. After that our meal 
was very silent. 

Ann went up stairs to see if Louis would 
have any breakfast. 

" Sure, he's crosser than two sticks when the 
fire is kindlin'. He doesn't want sup nor bite; 
and if he did, it's little he'd get from me." 

So mamma judged that it was best to pay no 
further attention to him. He did not even come 
down at noon ; and then Stuart found that his 
door was locked. 

Quite late in the afternoon I was hurrying 
through the hall, when he opened his door sud- 
denly. His hair was tumbled, his cheeks scarlet, 
and his eyes wild and staring. 

"For God's sake, get me a drink of water!" 
he cried, hoarsely. 

I took it up to him, and knocked; but there 
was no answer. I made some ado opening the 
door, and walked in rather timidly. He was 
laughing and talking incoherently but clutched 
at the pitcher of water and drank great, desperate 
swallows. Then he sank back on the bed 
exhausted. 

I ran to mamma in affright. 

"Louis Duncan is sick and out of his mind! ' 
I cried. "O, mamma, I am sorry they came. 
We shall have our hands full of trouble." 

She went to the room with me. He did not 
appear to know either of us, and we could not 
rouse him to any . coherency. 

"It is a fever. The doctor must be sent for 
immediately. Tell Nelly to go. And, Rose, we 
must arrange the other room, and take him over 
there, since it may be a long illness. Well, we 
must have patience. God knows what is for the 
best." 

I soon had everything in order. Papa coming 
in, he partly led and partly carried Louis to the 
best room. Mamma bathed his head and put 
some draughts on his wrists and his feet. Now 
he lay quietly, with his eyes half open, breath- 
ing heavily. 

Dr. Hawley called just before supper. 

"A bad case," he said, gravely, "a bad case! 
Why, the fellow is worn to skin and bone al- 
ready, and looks as if he had had the jaundice 
for the last month. But we will do our best. 
He may be stronger than he appears/' 



Stuart felt pretty sober that evening. 

"I suppose I ought not to have stirred him 
up so this morning," he said. "But it is such 
fun ! And it was all about a trifle. I used his 
hair-brush ; and he is as particular as any old 
maid. Then I tormented him a little, and he 
seized the brush and gave me a box on the ear, 
which I won't take from any one without a 
row. I am not a baby. And it was awful 
mean of him ! And so we clinched. But he 
has been in a dreadful temper for the last month. 
He was mad because Stephen wouldn't let him 
go to Lake George with a lot of fellows." 

" It was fortunate that he did not," returned 
mamma. " And, Stuart, I hope, in the weeks 
to come, you will learn vour duty towards him. 


God has not given you this tie for you to disregard
so utterly." 

Stuart looked at her with wondering eyes, 
but made no answer. 

"Our first experience with boys seems to be 
rather trying," said Fanny, as we were going to 
bed that night. "I hope and pray that he may 
not die- -and in our house ! ' 

I thought of what Stephen had asked of me. 




CHAPTER V. 

An awesome quiet settled over the house. 
I did not remember a time when any 

 Mirer one had ever been very sick. The children 

gathered in groups, and spoke in whispers, and 
for a day or two Stuart appeared almost con- 
science-stricken. But his natural flow of spirits 
could not be repressed. Yet his laugh jarred 
on my nerves. We were used to caring so 
much for each other's welfare and comfort, and 
sympathizing with sorrows or trivial illnesses, that 
his carelessness seemed to us as something quite 
dreadful. Yet he was so pleasant and good- 
natured, so ready to do anything that was asked 
of him, though he never appeared to think that 
he might volunteer any little service. 

" We must make some allowance for them," 
mamma said, in her kindly fashion. " Remember 
that they have had no mother. Much of their 



 

lives has been spent at school ; and their uncle 
was a cold and rather arrogant man, papa 
thinks. So they have had no chance to acquire 
the graces of home life." 

When the tidings became noised abroad 
through the village, we were quite besieged. 
Mamma threw up the fortifications at the hall 
door. The old women, who were curious, or 
anxious, or even kindly-hearted in their officious 
way, heard all of the story there, or in the sit- 
. ting-room, that it was necessary for them to 
know. Aunt Letty Perkins was not last nor 
least. 

"Was it true, as she had understood, that 
these two young men came to study with Mr. 
Endicott ? She heard they were going in college, 
or something or other. She hoped he would 
get well paid for his trouble young college 
chaps were always pretty wild. There was no 
great loss without some small gain ; and if this 
young fellow was sick, he couldn't be kitin* 
round the village into all sorts of mischief." 

" No, to be sure not," returned mamma, with 
a smile at this sort of comfort. 

" But what are you to do ? You have your 
hands full already, with such a houseful of 



 

children ! I allers say that Mis' Enclicott's the 
most wonderful woman I know. I should think 
you'd a been worn out long ago ; and here you 
haven't scarcely a wrinkle in your face ! ' 

"I do not know why people should wrinkle 
