courteously to Ferris. 
The stir of his robes roused Don Ippolito. He 
slowly and weakly turned his head, and his eyes 
fell upon the painter. He made a helpless gesture 
of salutation with his thin hand, and began to ex 
cuse himself, for the trouble he had given, with a 
gentle politeness that touched the painter's heart 
through all the complex resentments that divided 
them. It was indeed a strange ground on which 
the two men met. Ferris could not have described 
Don Ippolito as his enemy, for the priest had wit 
tingly done him no wrong ; he could not have logi 
cally hated him as a rival, for till it was too late he 
had not confessed to his own heart the love that 
was in it; he k^ew no evil of Don Ippolito, he 
could not accuse him of any betrayal of trust, or 
violation of confidence. He felt merely that this 
hapless creature, lying so deathlike before him, had 
profaned, however involuntarily, what was sacredest 
in the world to him ; beyond this all was chaos. 
He had heard of the priest's sickness with a fierce 
hardening of the heart ; yet as he beheld him now, 
he began to remember things that moved him to a 
sort of remorse. He recalled again the simple lo}^- 
alty with which Don Ippolito had first spoken to 
him of Miss Vervain and tried to learn his own 
feeling toward her; he thought how trustfully at 
 
their last meeting the priest had declared his love 
and hope, and how, when he had coldly received 
his confession, Don Ippolito had solemnly adjured 
him to be frank with him ; and Ferris could not. 
That pity for himself as the prey of fantastically 
cruel chances, which he had already vaguely felt, 
began now also to include the priest ; ignoring all 
but that compassion, he went up to the bed and 
took the weak, chill, nerveless hand in his own. 
The canonico rose and placed his chair for Ferris 
beside the pillow, on which lay a brass crucifix, and 
then softly left the room, exchanging a glance of 
affectionate intelligence with the sick man. 
"I might have waited a little while," said Don 
Ippolito weakly, speaking in a hollow voice that 
was the shadow of his old deep tones, " but you 
will know how to forgive the impatience of a man 
not yet quite master of himself. I thank you for 
coming. I have been very sick, as you see ; I did 
not think to live ; I did not care. ... I am very 
weak, now ; let me say to you quickly what I want 
to say. Dear friend," continued Don Ippolito, fix 
ing his eyes upon the painter's face, " I spoke to 
her that night after I had parted from yon." 
The priest's voice was now firm ; the painter 
turned his face away. 
" I spoke without hope, - proceeded Don Ippo 
lito, " and because I must. I spoke in vain ; all 
was lost, all was past in a moment." 
The coil of suspicions and misgivings and fears in 
 
which Ferris had lived was suddenly without a 
clew ; he could not look upon the pallid visage of 
the priest lest he should now at last find there that 
subtle expression of deceit ; the whirl of his thoughts 
kept him silent ; Don Ippolito went on. 
" Even if I had never been a priest, I would still 
have been impossible to her. She " . . . . 
He stopped as if for want of strength to go on. 
All at once he cried, " Listen ! " and he rapidly re 
counted the story of his life, ending with the fatal 
tragedy of his love. When it was told, he said 
calmly, " But now everything is over with me on 
earth. I thank the Infinite Compassion for the 
sorrows through which I have passed. I, also, have 
proved the miraculous power of the church, potent 
to save in all ages." He gathered the crucifix in his 
spectral grasp, and pressed it to his lips. " Many 
merciful things have befallen me on this bed of 
sickness. My uncle, whom the long years of my 
darkness divided from me, is once more at peace 
with me. Even that poor old woman whom I sent 
to call yon, and who had served me as I believed 
with hate for me as a false priest in her heart, has 
devoted herself day and night to my helplessness ; 
she has grown decrepit with her cares and vigils. 
Yes, I have had many and signal marks of the di 
vine pity to be grateful for." He paused, breath 
ing quickly, and then added, " They tell me that 
the danger of this sickness is past. But none the 
less I have died in it. When I rise from this bed, 
it shall be to take the vows of a Carmelite friar." 
 
Ferris made no answer, and Don Ippolito re 
sumed : 
" I have told you how when I first owned to her 
the falsehood in which I lived, she besought me to 
try if I might not find consolation in the holy life 
to which I had been devoted. When you see her, 
dear friend, will you not tell her that I came to un 
derstand that this comfort, this refuge, awaited me 
in the cell of the Carmelite? I have brought so 
much trouble into her life that I would fain have 
her know I have found peace where she bade me 
seek it, that I have mastered my affliction by recon 
ciling myself to it. Tell her that but for her pity 
and fear for me, I believe that I must have died in 
my sins." 
It was perhaps inevitable from Ferris's Protestant 
association of monks and convents and penances 
chiefly with the machinery of fiction, that all this 
affected him as unreally as talk in a stage-play. 
His heart was cold, as he answered : " I am glad 
that your mind is at rest concerning the doubts 
which so long troubled you. Not all men are so 
easily pacified ; but, as you say, it is the privilege 
of your church to work miracles. As to Miss Ver 
vain, I am sorry that I cannot promise to give her 
your message. I shall never see her again. Ex 
cuse me," he continued, " but your servant said 
there was something you wished to say that con 
cerned me ? " 
"You will never see her again ! " cried the priest, 
 
struggling to lift himself upon his elbow, and fall 
ing back upon the pillow. * Oh, bereft ! Oh, deaf 
and blind ! It was you that she loved ! She con 
fessed it to me that night." 
" Wait ! " said Ferris, trying to steady his voice, 
and failing; Ci I was with Mrs. Vervain that night ; 
she sent me into the garden to call her daughter, 
and I saw how Miss Vervain parted from the man 
she did not love ! I saw " . . . . 
It was a horrible thing to have said it, he felt 
now that he had spoken ; a sense of the indelicacy, 
the shamefulness, seemed to alienate him from all 
high concern in the matter, and to leave him a mere 
self-convicted eavesdropper. His face flamed ; the 
wavering hopes, the wavering doubts alike died in 
his heart. He had fallen below the dignity of his 
own trouble. 
" You saw, you saw," softly repeated the priest, 
without looking at him, and without any show of 
emotion ; apparently, the convalescence that had 
brought him perfect clearness of reason had left his 
sensibilities still somewhat dulled. He closed his 
lips and lay silent. At last, he asked very gently, 
^ And how shall I make you believe that what 
you saw was not a woman's love, but an angel's 
heavenly pity for me ? Does it seem hard to be 
lieve this of her ? " 
" Yes," answered the painter doggedly, "it is 
hard." 
kv And yet it is the very truth. Oh, you do not 
 
know her, you never knew her ! In the same 
moment that she denied me her love, she divined 
the anguish of my soul, and with that embrace she 
sought to console me for the friendlessness of a 
whole life, past and to come. But I know that I 
waste my words on you," he cried bitterly. " You 
never would see me as I was ; you would find no 
singleness in me, and yet I had a heart as full of 
loyalty to you as love for her. In what have I 
been false to you ? " 
" You never were false to me," answered Ferris, 
"and God knows I have been true to you, and at 
what cost. We might well curse the day we met, 
Don Ippolito, for we have only done each other 
harm. But I never meant you harm. And now I 
ask you to forgive me if I cannot believe you. I 
cannot yet. I am of another race from you, slow 
to suspect, slow to trust. Give me a little time ; 
let me see you again. I want to go away and 
think. I don 't question your truth. I'm afraid 
you don 't know. I'm afraid that the same deceit 
has tricked us both. I must come to you to-mor 
row. Can I ? " 
He rose and stood beside the couch. 
" Surely, surely," answered the priest, looking 
into Ferris's troubled eyes with calm meekness. 
kt You will do me the greatest pleasure. Yes, come 
again to-morrow. You know," he said with a sad 
smile, referring to his purpose of taking vows, 
"that my time in the world is short. Adieu, to 
meet again ! " 
 
He took Ferris's hand, hanging weak and hot by 
his side, and drew him gently down by it, and kissed 
him on either bearded cheek. " It is our custom, 
you know, among friends. Farewell. 
The canonico in the anteroom bowed austerely to 
him as he passed through ; the old woman refused 
with a fierce " Nothing ! " the money lie offered her 
at the door. 
He bitterly upbraided himself for the doubts he 
could not banish, and he still flushed with shame 
that he should have declared his knowledge of a 
scene which ought, at its worst, to have been invio 
lable by his speech. He scarcely cared now for the 
woman about whom these miseries grouped them 
selves ; he realized that a fantastic remorse may be 
stronger than a jealous love. 
He longed for the morrow to come, that he might 
confess his shame and regret ; but a reaction to this 
violent repentance came before the night fell. As 
the sound of the priest's voice and the sight of his 
wasted face faded from the painter's sense, lie began 
to see everything in the old light again. Then 
what Don Ippolito had said took a character of lu 
dicrous, of insolent improbability. 
After dark, Ferris set out upon one of his long, 
rambling walks. He walked hard and fast, to try 
if he might not still, by mere fatigue of body, the 
anguish that filled his soul. But whichever \v;i\ In- 
went he came again and again to the house of Don 
Ippolito, and at last he stopped there, leaning 
against the parapet of the quay, and staring at the 
house, as though he would spell from the senseless 
stones the truth of the secret they sheltered. Far 
up in the chamber, where he knew that the priest 
lay, the windows were dimly lit. 
As he stood thus, with his upturned face haggard 
in the moonlight, the soldier commanding the Aus 
trian patrol which passed that way halted his squad, 
and seemed about to ask him what he wanted 
there. 
Ferris turned and walked swiftly homeward ; but 
he did not even lie down. His misery took the 
shape of an intent that would not suffer him to rest. 
He meant to go to Don Ippolito and tell him that 
his story had failed of its effect, that he was not to 
be fooled so easily, and, without demanding any 
thing further, to leave him in his lie. 
At the earliest hour when he might hope to be 
admitted, he went, and rang the bell furiously. 
The door opened, and he confronted the priest's 
servant. " I want to see Don Ippolito," said Fer 
ris abruptly. 
" It cannot be," she began. 
" I tell you I must," cried Ferris, raising his voice. 
" I tell you." .... 
" Madman ! " fiercely whispered the old woman, 
shaking both her open hands in his face, " he's 
dead ! He died last night ! " 
XVIII. 
THE terrible stroke sobered Ferris ; he woke from 
his long debauch of hate and jealousy and despair ; 
for the first time since that night in the garden, he 
faced his fate with a clear mind. Death had set 
his seal forever to a testimony which he had been 
able neither to refuse nor to accept ; in abject sor 
row and shame he thanked God that he had been 
kept from dealing that last cruel blow ; but if Don 
Ippolito had come back from the dead to repeat 
his witness, Ferris felt that the miracle could not 
change his own passive state. There was now but 
one thing in the world for him to do: to see Florida, 
to confront her with his knowledge of all that had 
been, and to abide by her word, whatever it was. 
At the worst, there was the war, whose drums had 
already called to him, for a refuge. 
He thought at first that lie might perhaps over 
take the Vervains before they sailed for America, 
but he remembered that they had left Venice six 
weeks before. It seemed impossible that he could 
wait, but when he landed in New York, he was tor 
mented in his impatience by a strange reluctance 
and hesitation. A fantastic light fell upon his 
plans; a sense of its wilduess enfeebled his purpose, 
was he going to do ? Had he come four 
 
thousand miles to tell Florida that Don Ippolito 
was dead ? Or was he going to say, " I have 
heard that you love me, but I don 't bslieve it : is it 
true ? " 
He pushed on to Providence, stifling these antic 
misgivings as he might, and without allowing him 
self time to falter from his intent, he set out to find 
Mrs. Vervain's house. He knew the street and the 
number, for she had often given him the address in 
her invitations against the time when he should re 
turn to America. As he drew near the house a 
tender trepidation filled him and silenced all other 
senses in him ; his heart beat thickly ; the universe 
included only the fact that he was to look upon the 
face he loved, and this fact had neither past nor 
future. 
But a terrible foreboding as of death seized him 
when he stood before the house, and glanced up at 
its close-shuttered front, and round upon the dusty 
grass-plots and neglected flower-beds of the door- 
yard. With a cold hand he rang and rang again, 
and no answer came. At last a man lounged up to 
the fence from the next house-door. " Guess you 
won 't make anybody hear," he said, casually. 
" Does n t Mrs. Vervain live in this house ? " 
asked Ferris, finding a husky voice in his throat 
that sounded to him like some other's voice lost 
there. 
" She used to, but she isn 't  at home. Family's 
in Europe." 
 
They had not corne back yet. 
" Thanks," said Ferris mechanically, and he went 
away. He laughed to himself at this keen irony of 
fortune ; he was prepared for the confirmation of his 
doubts ; he was ready for relief from them, Heaven 
knew ; but this blank that the turn of the wheel 
had brought, this Nothing ! 
The Vervains were as lost to him as if Europe 
were in another planet. How should he find them 
there ? Besides, he was poor ; he had no money to 
get back with, if he had wanted to return. 
He took the first train to New York, and hunted 
up a young fellow -of his acquaintance, who in the 
days of peace had been one of the governor's aides. 
He was still holding this place, and was an ardent 
recruiter. He hailed with rapture the expression of 
Ferris's wish to go into the war. " Look here ! " 
he said after a moment's thought, " didn 't you 
have some rank as a consul ? " 
" Yes," replied Ferris with a dreary smile, " I 
have been equivalent to a commander in the navy 
and a colonel in the army I don 't mean both, but 
either." 
" Good ! " cried his friend. " We must strike 
high. The colonelcies are rather inaccessible, just 
at present, and so are the lieutenant- colonelcies ; 
but a majorship, now " . . . . 
" Oh no ; don 't ! " pleaded Ferris. u Make me 
a corporal or a cook. I shall not be so mischiev 
ous to our own side, then, and when the other fel 
lows shoot me. T shall not be so much of a loss." 
 
" Oh, they won 't shoot you," expostulated his 
friend, high-heartedly. He got Ferris a commission 
as second lieutenant, and lent him money to buy a 
uniform. 
Ferris's regiment was sent to a part of the south 
west, where he saw a good deal of fighting and 
fever and ague. At the end of two years, spent al 
ternately in the field and the hospital, he was riding 
out near the camp one morning in unusual spirits, 
when two men in butternut fired at him : one had 
the mortification to miss him; the bullet of the 
other struck him in the arm. There was talk of 
amputation at first, but the case was finally man 
aged without, In Ferris's state of health it was 
O 
quite the same an end of his soldiering. 
He came North sick and maimed and poor. He 
smiled now to think of confronting Florida in any 
imperative or challenging spirit ; but the current of 
his hopeless melancholy turned more and more 
towards her. He had once, at a desperate venture, 
written to her at Providence, but he had got no an 
swer. He asked of a Providence man among the 
artists in New York, if he knew the Vervains ; the 
Providence man said that he did know them a little 
when he was much younger ; they had been abroad 
a great deal ; he believed in a dim way that they 
were still in Europe. The young one, he added, 
used to have a temper of her own. 
" Indeed ! " said Ferris stiffly. 
 
. The one fast friend whom he found in New York 
was the governor's dashing aide. The enthusiasm 
of this recruiter of regiments had not ceased with 
Ferris's departure for the front ; the number of dis 
abled officers forbade him to lionize any one of 
them, but he befriended Ferris ; he made a feint of 
discovering the open secret of his poverty, and 
asked how he could help him. 
" I don 't know," said Ferris, " it looks like a 
hopeless case, to me." 
" Oh no it is n t," retorted his friend, as cheer 
fully and confidently as he had promised him that 
he should not be shot. " didn 't you bring back 
any pictures from Venice with you ? " 
"I brought back a lot of sketches and studies. 
I'm sorry to say that I loafed a good deal there ; 
I used to feel that I had eternity before me ; and I 
was a theorist and a purist and an idiot generally. 
There are none of them fit to be seen." 
" Never mind ; let's look at them." 
They hunted out Ferris's property from a catch- 
all closet in the studio of a sculptor with whom he 
had left them, and who expressed a polite pleasure 
in handing them over to Ferris rather than to his 
heirs and assigns. 
" Well, I'm not sure that I share your satisfac 
tion, old fellow," said the painter ruefully; but he 
unpacked the sketches. 
Their inspection certainly revealed a dishearten 
ing condition of half-work. " And I can 't do any- 
A FOREGONE CONCLUSION. 
thing to help the matter for the present," groaned 
Ferris, stopping midway in the business, and mak 
ing as if to shut the case again. 
"Hold on," said his friend. "What's this? 
Why, this isn 't  so bad." It was the study of Don 
