the decks of his ships white, and thus created a dim 
but valuable light, which enabled his own men to grope 
their way around with considerable facility. At this 
point the war got the floor again — the ten minutes not 
quite up yet. . 
I was not Sony, for war talk by men who have been 
in a war is always interesting ; whereas, moon talk by a 
poet who has not been in the moon is likely to be dull. 
We went to a cockpit in New Orleans on a Saturday 
afternoon, I had never seen a cock-fight before. 
There were men and boys there of all ages and all 
colors, and of many languages and nationalities. But 
I noticed one quite conspicuous and surprising ab- 
sence: the traditional brutal faces. There were no 
brutal faces. With no cock-fighting going on, you 
could have played the gathering on a stranger for a 
prayer-meeting; and after it began, for a revival, — 
provided you blindfolded your stranger, — for the 
shouting was something prodigious. 
A negro and a white man were in the ring; every- 
body else outside. The cocks were brought in in 
sacks; and when time was called, they were taken out 
by the two bottle-holders, stroked, caressed, poked 
toward each other, and finally liberated. The big 
black cock plunged instantly at the little gray one and 
struck him on the head with his spur. The gray re- 
sponded with spirit. Then the Babel of many-tongued 
shoutings broke out, and ceased not thenceforth. 
When the cocks had been fighting some little time, I 
was expecting them momently to drop dead, for both 
were blind, red with blood, and so exhausted that they 
frequently fell down. Yet they would not give up, 
neither would they die. The negro and the white man 
would pick them up every few seconds, wipe them off, 
blow cold water on them in a fine spray, and take 
their heads in their mouths and hold them there a mo- 
ment — to warm back the perishing life perhaps; I do 
not know. Then, bei ig set down again, the dying 
creatures would totter gropingly about, with dragging 
wings, find each other, strike a guess-work blow or 
two, and fall exhausted once more. 
I did not see the end of the battle. I forced myself 
to endure it as long as I could, but it was too pitiful a 
sight; so I made frank confession to that effect, and 
we retired. We heard afterward that the black cock 
died in the ring, and fighting to the last. 
Evidently there is abundant fascination about this 
“ sport* * for such as have had a degree of familiarity 
with it. I never saw people enjoy anything more than 
this gathering enjoyed this fight. The case was the 
same with old gray-heads and with boys of ten. They 
lost themselves in frenzies of delight. The ‘ * cocking- 
main * ’ is an inhuman sort of entertainment, there is 
no question about that; still, it seems a much more 
respectable and far less cruel sport than fox-hunting — 
for the cocks like it; they experience, as well as confer 
enjoyment; which is not the fox's case. 
We assisted — in the French sense — at a mule- 
race, one day. I believe I enjoyed this contest more 
than any other mule there. I enjoyed it more than I 
remember having enjoyed any other animal race I ever 
saw. The grand stand was well filled with the beauty 
and the chivalry of New Orleans. That phrase is not 
original with me. It is the Southern reporter's. He 
has used it for two generations. He uses it twenty times 
,a day, or twenty thousand times a day, or a million times 
.a day — according to the exigencies. He is obliged to 
use it a million times a day, if he have occasion to 
speak of respectable men and women that often ; for 
he has no other phrase for such service except that 
single one. He never tires of it; it always has a fine 
sound to him. There is a kind of swell, mediaeval 
bulliness and tinsel about it that pleases his gaudy, 
barbaric soul. If he had been in Palestine in the 
early times, we should have had no references to 
'‘much people" out of him. No, he would have 
said “the beauty and the chivalry of Galilee" assem- 
bled to hear the Sermon on the Mount. It is likely 
that the men and women of the South are sick 
enough of that phrase by this time, and would like a 
change, but there is no immediate prospect of their 
getting it. 
The New Orleans editor has a strong, compact, 
direct, unflowery style ; wastes no words, and does not 
gush. Not so with his average correspondent. In the 
Appendix I* have quoted a good letter, penned by a 
trained hand; but the average correspondent hurls a 
style which differs from that. For instance: 
The Tirnes-Democrctt sent a relief-steamer up one of 
the bayous, last April. This steamer landed at a 
village, up there somewhere, and the captain invited 
some of the ladies of the village to make a short trip 
with him. They accepted and came aboard, and the- 
steamboat shoved out up the creek. That was alb 
there was “ to it.” And that is all that the editor of 
the Times-Democrat would have got out of it. There 
was nothing in the thing but statistics, and he would 
have got nothing else out of it. He would probably 
have even tabulated them; partly to secure perfect 
clearness of statement, and partly to save space. But 
his special correspondent knows other methods of 
handling statistics. He just throws off all restraint and: 
wallows in them : 
On Saturday, early in the morning, the beauty of the place graced our 
cabin, and proud of her fair freight the gallant little boat glided up the 
bayou. 
Twenty-two words to say the ladies came aboard and' 
the boat shoved out up the creek, is a clean waste of 
ten good words, and is also destructive of compactness 
of statement. 
The trouble with the Southern reporter is — Women., 
They unsettle him; they throw him off his balance. 
He is plain, and sensible, and satisfactory, until woman 
heaves in sight. Then he goes all to pieces ; his mind 
totters, becomes flowery and idiotic. From reading 
the above extract, you would imagine that this student 
of Sir Walter Scott is an apprentice, and knows next 
to nothing about handling a pen. On the contrary, he 
furnishes plenty of proofs, in his long letter, that he 
knows well enough how to handle it when the women 
are not around to give him the artificial flower com- 
plaint. For instance : 
At four o’clock ominous clouds began to gather in the southeast, and 
presently from the Gulf there came a blow which increased in severity every 
moment. It was not safe to leave the landing then, and there was a delay. 
The oaks shook off long tresses of their mossy beards to the tugging of the 
wind, and the bayou in its ambition put on miniature waves in mocking of 
much larger bodies of water. A lull permitted a start, and homeward we 
steamed, an inky sky overhead and a heavy wind blowing. As darkness 
crept on, there were few on board who did not wish themselves nearer 
home. 
There is nothing the matter with that. It is good 
description, compactly put. Yet there was great 
temptation, there, to drop into lurid writing. 
But let us return to the mule. Since I left him, I 
have rummaged around and found a full report of the 
race. In it I find confirmation of the theory which I 
broached just now — namely, that the trouble with the 
Southern reporter is Women: Women, supplemented 
by Walter Scott and his knights and beauty and 
chivalry, and so on. This is an excellent report, as 
long as the women stay out of it. But when they 
intrude, we have this frantic result: 
It will be probably a long time before the ladies’ stand presents such a 
sea of foam-like loveliness as it did yesterday. The New Orleans women 
are always charming, but never so much so as at this time of the year, when in 
their dainty spring costumes they bring with them a breath of balmy fresh- 
ness and an odor of sanctity unspeakable. The stand was so crowded with 
them that, walking at their feet and seeing no possibility of approach, many 
a man appreciated as he never did before the Peri’s feeling at the Gates of 
Paradise, and wondered what was the priceless boon that would admit him 
to their sacred presence. Spaikling on their white-robed breasts or 
shoulders were the colors of their favorite knights, and were it not for the 
fact that the doughty heroes appeared on unromantic mules, it would have 
been easy to imagine one of King Arthur’s gala-days. 
There were thirteen mules in the first heat ; all sorts 
of mules, they were; all sorts of complexions, gaits, 
dispositions, aspects. Some were handsome creatures, 
some were not; some were sleek, some hadn’t had 
their fur brushed lately; some were innocently gay 
and frisky; some were full of malice and all un- 
righteousness; guessing from looks, some of them 
thought the matter on hand was war, some thought 
it was a lark, the rest took it for a religious occa- 
sion. And each mule acted according to his con- 
victions. The result was an absence of harmony well 
compensated by a conspicuous presence of variety — 
variety of a picturesque and entertaining sort. 
All the riders were young gentlemen in fashionable 
society. If the reader has been wondering why it is 
that the ladies of New Orleans attend so humble an 
orgy as a mule-race, the thing is explained now. It is 
a fashion-freak; all connected with it are people of 
fashion. 
It is great fun, and cordially liked. The mule-race 
is one of the marked occasions of the year. It has 
brought some pretty fast mules to the front. One of 
these had to be ruled out, because he was so fast that 
he turned the thing into a one-mule contest, and 
robbed it of one of its best features — variety. But 
every now and then somebody disguises him with a new 
name and a new complexion, and rings him in again. 
The riders dress in full jockey costumes of bright- 
colored silks, satins, and velvets. 
The thirteen mules got away in a body, after a 
couple of false starts, and scampered off with 
prodigious spirit. As each mule and each rider had a 
distinct opinion of bis own as to how the race ought to 
he run, and which side of the track was best in certain 
circumstances, and how often the track ought to be 
crossed, and when a collision ought to be accom- 
plished, and when it ought to be avoided, these 
twenty-six conflicting opinions created a most fantastic 
and picturesque confusion, and the resulting spectacle 
was killingly comical. 
Mile heat; time, 2 :22. Eight of the thirteen mules 
distanced. I had a bet on a mule which would have 
won if the procession had been reversed. The second 
heat was good fun; and so was the “ consolation race 
for beaten mules, ” which followed later; but the first 
heat was the best in that respect. 
I think that much the most enjoyable of all races is 
a steamboat race ; but, next to that, I prefer the gay 
and joyous mule-rush. Two red-hot steamboats raging 
along, neck-and-neck, straining every nerve, — that is 
to say, every rivet in the boilers, — quaking and shaking 
and groaning from stem to stern, spouting white steam 
from the pipes, pouring black smoke from the chim- 
neys, raining down sparks, parting the river into long 
breaks of hissing foam — this is sport that makes a 
body’s very liver curl with enjoyment. A horse-race 
is pretty tame and colorless in comparison. Still, a 
horse-race might be well enough, in its way, perhaps, 
if it were not for the tiresome false starts. But then, 
nobody is ever killed. At least, nobody was ever 
killed when I was at a horse-race. They have been 
crippled, it is true; but this is little to the purpose. 
CHAPTER XLVI. 
ENCHANTMENTS AND ENCHANTERS 
T HE largest annual event in New Orleans is a some- 
thing which we arrived too late to sample — the* 
Mardi-Gras festivities. I saw the procession of the 
Mystic Crew of Comus there, twenty-four years ago — 
with knights and nobles and so on, clothed in silken 
and golden Paris-made gorgeousnesses, planned and 
bought for that single night's use; and in their train 
all manner of giants, drawfs, monstrosities, and other 
diverting grotesquerie — a startling and wonderful sort 
of show, as it filed solemnly and silently down the 
street in the light of its smoking and flickering torches ; 
but it is said that in these latter days the spectacle is 
mightily augmented, as to cost, splendor, and variety. 
There is a chief personage — 4 ‘ Rex ’ ’ ; and if I remem- 
ber rightly, neither this king nor any of his great 
following of subordinates is known to any outsider. 
All these people are gentlemen of position and conse- 
quence; and it is a proud thing to belong to the 
organization ; so the mystery in which they hide their 
personality is merely for romance’s sake, and not on 
account of the police. 
Mardi-Gras is of course a relic of the French and 
Spanish occupation; but I judge that the religious 
feature has been pretty well knocked out of it now. 
Sir Walter has got the advantage of the gentlemen of, 
the cowl and rosary, and he will stay. His mediaeval 
business, supplemented by the monsters and the oddi- 
ties, and the pleasant creatures from fairy-land, is finer 
to look at than the. poor fantastic inventions and per- 
formances of the reveling rabble of the priest's day, 
and serves quite as well, perhaps, to emphasize the 
day and admonish men that the grace-line between the 
worldly season and the holy one is reached. 
This Mardi-Gras pageant was the exclusive posses- 
sion of New Orleans until recently. But now it has 
spread to Memphis and St. Louis and Baltimore. It 
has probably reached its limit. It is a thing which 
could hardly exist in the practical North; would cer- 
tainly last but a very brief time ; as brief a time as it 
would last in London. For the soul of it is the 
romantic, not the funny and the grotesque. Take 
away the romantic mysteries, the kings and knights 
and big-sounding titles, and Mardi-Gras would die, 
down there in the South. The very feature that keeps 
it alive in the South — girly-girly romance — would 
kill it in the North or in London. Puck and Punch , 
and the press universal, would fall upon it and make 
merciless fun of it, and its first exhibition would be 
also its last. 
Against the crimes of the French Revolution and of 
Bonaparte may be set two compensating benefactions : 
the Revolution broke the chains of the ancien regime 
and of the Church, and made a nation of abject slaves 
a nation of freemen; and Bonaparte instituted the 
setting of merit above birth, and also so completely 
stripped the divinity from royalty that, whereas 
crowned beads in Europe were gods before, they are 
only men since, and can never be gods again, but only 
figure-heads, and answerable for their acts like com- 
mon clay. Such benefactions as these compensate the 
temporary harm which Bonaparte and the Revolution 
did, and leave the world in debt to them for these great 
and permanent services to liberty, humanity, and 
progress. 
Then comes Sir Walter Scott with his enchantments, 
and by his single might checks this wave of progress, 
and even turns it back; sets the world in love with 
dreams and phantoms ; with decayed and swinish 
forms of religion ; with decayed and degraded systems 
of government; with the sillinesses and emptinesses, 
sham grandeurs, sham gauds, and sham chivalries of a 
brainless and worthless long-vanished society. He did 
measureless harm; more real and lasting harm, per- 
haps, than any other individual that ever wrote. Most 
of the world has now outlived good part of these 
harms, though by no means all of them ; but in our 
South they flourish pretty forcefully still. Not so 
forcefully as half a generation ago, perhaps, but still 
forcefully. There, the genuine and wholesome civiliza- 
tion of the nineteenth century is curiously confused 
and commingled with the Walter Scott Middle-Age 
sham civilization, and so you have practical common- 
sense, progressive ideas, and progressive works, mixed 
up with the duel, the inflated speech, and the jejune 
romanticism of an absurd past that is dead, and out of 
charity ought to be buried. But for the Sir Walter 
disease, the character of the Southerner — or Southron, 
according to Sir Walter's starchier way of phrasing it — 
would be wholly modern, in place of modern and 
mediaeval mixed, and the South would be fully a 
generation further advanced than it is. It was Sir 
Walter that made every gentleman in the South a 
major or a colonel, or a general or a judge, before the 
war; and it was he, also, that made these gentlemen 
value these bogus decorations. For it was he that 
created rank and caste down there, and also reverence 
for rank and caste, and pride and pleasure in them. 
Enough is laid on slavery, without fathering upon it 
these creations and contributions of Sir Walter. 
Sir Walter had so large a hand in making Southern 
character, as it existed before the war, that he is in 
great measure responsible for the war. It seems a 
little harsh toward a dead man to say that we never 
should have had any war but for Sir Walter; and yet 
something of a plausible argument might, perhaps, be 
made in support of that wild proposition. The 
Southerner of the American Revolution owned slaves ; 
so did the Southerner of the Civil War; but the 
former resembles the latter as an Englishman resem- 
bles a Frenchman. The change of character can be 
traced rather more easily to Sir Walter’s influence than 
to that of any other thing or person. 
One may observe, by one or two signs, how deeply 
that influence penetrated, and how strongly it holds. 
If one take up a Northern or Southern literary periodi- 
cal of forty or fifty years ago, he will find it filled with 
wordy, windy, flowery “eloquence’ romanticism, 
sentimentality — all imitated from Sir Walter, and 
sufficiently badly done, too — innocent travesties of his 
style and methods, in fact. This sort of literature 
being the fashion in both sections of the country, 
there was opportunity for the fairest competition ; and 
as a consequence, the South was able to show as many 
well-known literary names, proportioned to population, 
as the North could. 
But a change has come, and there is no opportunity 
now for a fair competition between North and South. 
For the North has thrown out that old inflated style, 
whereas the Southern writer still clings to it — clings to 
it and has a restricted market for his wares, as a conse- 
quence. There is as much literary talent in the South, 
now, as ever there was, of course; but its work can 
gain but slight currency under present conditions ; the 
authors write for the past, not the present; they use 
obsolete forms and a dead language. But when a 
Southerner of genius writes modern English, his book 
goes upon crutches no longer, but upon wings; and 
they carry it swiftly all about America and England, 
and through the great English reprint publishing 
houses of Germany — as witness the experience of Mr. 
Cable and “Uncle Remus ’ two of the very few 
Southern authors who do not write in the Southern 
style. Instead of three or four widely-known literary 
names, the South ought to have a dozen or two — and 
will have them when Sir Walter’s time is out. 
A curious exemplification of the power of a single 
book for good or harm is shown in the effects wrought 
by “ Don Quixote” and those wrought by “ Ivan- 
hoe.” The first swept the world’s admiration for the 
mediaeval chivalry-silliness out of existence; and the 
other restored it. As far as our South is concerned, 
the good work done by Cervantes is pretty nearly a 
dead letter, so effectually has Scott’s pernicious work 
undermined it. 
CHAPTER XLVII. 
“UNCLE REMUS” AND MR CABLE 
M R. JOEL CHANDLER HARRIS (" Uncle Re- 
mus”) was to arrive from Atlanta at seven 
o’clock Sunday morning ; so we got up and received 
him. We were able to detect him among the crowd of 
arrivals at the hotel-counter by his correspondence 
with a description of him which had been furnished us 
from a trustworthy source. He was said to be under- 
sized, red-haired, and somewhat freckled. Pie was the 
only man in the party whose outside tallied with this 
bill of particulars. He was said to be very shy. He 
is a shy man. Of this there is no doubt. It may not 
show on the surface, but the shyness is there. After 
days of intimacy one wonders to see that it is still in 
about as strong force as ever. There is a fine and 
beautiful nature hidden behind it, as all know who have 
read the “Uncle Remus” book; and a fine genius, 
too, as all know by the same sign. I seem to be talk- 
ing quite freely about this neighbor; but in talking to 
the public I am but talking to his personal friends and 
these things are permissible among friends. 
He deeply disappointed a number of children who 
had flocked eagerly to Mr. Cable’s house to get a 
glimpse of the illustrious sage and oracle of the nation’s 
nurseries. They said : 
“ Why, he’s white !” 
