

STEWED KIDNEYS.

3 kidneys.

3 table-spoonfuls melted butter.

Juice of half a lemon, and a pinch of grated lemon-peel.

A very little mace, and pepper and salt to taste.

1 teaspoonful chopped onion.

1 cup good brown gravy.

Cut each kidney lengthwise into three pieces; wash these well and wipe
dry. Warm the butter in a frying-pan; put in the kidneys before this is
really hot, with the seasoning and gravy. Simmer all together, closely
covered, about ten minutes. Add the lemon-juice; take up the kidneys
and lay upon a hot dish, with fried or toasted bread underneath.
Thicken the gravy with browned flour, boil up once, pour over all, and
serve.


KIDNEYS À LA BROCHETTE.

4 kidneys—those of medium size are preferable to large.

2 great spoonfuls of butter.

1 great spoonful chopped parsley, onion, and very fine bread-crumbs.

Juice of half a lemon.

Pepper and salt to taste.

Split the kidneys lengthwise, but not quite through, leaving enough
meat and skin at one side to act as a sort of hinge. Rub them well
inside with melted butter, and lay them open, as you would small birds,
the back downward, upon a buttered gridiron, over a bright fire. They
should be done in about eight minutes. Turn often while broiling.
Have ready the stuffing of crumbs, parsley, onion, and butter, well
seasoned. Heat in a saucepan, stirring until smoking hot. Add the
lemon-juice; dish the kidneys, put some of this mixture inside of each,
close the two sides upon it, butter and pepper them, and serve.

A few bits of fat salt pork, minced very fine, gives a good flavor to
the stuffing. The pork should have been previously cooked.




HASTE OR WASTE?


“AH! you forget my sedan-chair,” said Madame de Staël, when, at the
height of her social and literary fame some one wondered how she found
time for writing amid her many and engrossing engagements.

The sedan-chair was the fashionable conveyance for ladies, at that day,
in their round of daily calls or evening festivities, and the brilliant
Frenchwoman secured within its closed curtains the solitude and silence
she needed for composition.

An American authoress who wrote much and with great care—never sending
her brain-bantlings into the world en déshabille—replied to a similar
question: “My happiest thoughts come to me while I am mixing cake. My
most serious study-hours are those devoted apparently to darning the
family stockings.”

I entered a street-car, not many days ago, and sat down beside a
gentleman who did not lift his eyes from a book he was reading,
or show, by any token, his consciousness of others’ presence. A
side-glance at the volume told me it was Froude’s “History of England,”
and I cheerfully forgave his inattention to myself. The conductor
notified him when he reached his stopping-place, and, with a readiness
that betrayed admirable mental training, he came out of the world
through which the fascinating historian was leading him, pocketed his
book, recognized me with a pleasant word, and stepped to the pavement
in front of his store, the thorough business man.

“That is an affected prig,” said a fellow-passenger, by the time
the other had left the car. “He and I take this ride in company
every morning and afternoon. It takes him half an hour to go from
his house to his store; and, instead of amusing himself with his
newspaper, as the rest of us do, he always has some heavy-looking book
along—biography, or history, or a scientific treatise. He begins to
read by the time he is seated, and never leaves off until he gets out.
It is in wretched taste, such a show of pedantic industry.”

After this growl of disapprobation, the speaker buried himself anew
in the advertising columns of the Herald, and I lapsed into a
brown study, which had for its germ the query, “Is it, then, more
respectable, even among men, to kill time than to save it?”

I knew the reader of Froude well. He was, as I have intimated, a
successful and a busy merchant; and I had often marvelled at his
familiarity with English belles-lettres, and graver literature, the
study of which is usually given up to so-called professional men.
That hour a day explained it all. The crowded street-car was his
sedan-chair. I also knew his critic; had seen him placed at such a
woful disadvantage in the society of educated men and women, that my
heart ached and my cheeks burned in sympathy with his mortification;
had heard him deplore the deficiencies of his early training, and
that the exigencies of his business-cares now made self-improvement
impracticable. He would have protested it to be an impossibility that
he could find a spare hour a day to devote to the neglected task;
six hours a week—a whole day in a month, two weeks in a year. Yet a
fortnight of newspaper-reading and idle gossip would be a sorry entry
in his year-book. For this lazy murder of time cannot, by any stretch
of conscience, be classed as healthful recreation, any more than can
the one, two, three, ten hours a week during which Mrs. Neverthink sits
with folded hands, discussing fashions and her neighbors’ frailties,
the while her work is steadily doubling itself up, snowball-like,
before the lever of each idle minute. All work and no play would make
Mrs. Neverthink a dull and a diseased woman; but the fact is, she is
not playing any more than she is working, as she sits, or stands to
parley about trifles. She is only wasting time, making inevitable
the haste. Oh! these “few words more,” with which the Neverthink
tribe prolong the agony of their would-be-if-they-could industrious
sisters, and heap up the burden of their own coming cares! The words
which mean nothing, the driblets of a shallow, sluggish stream that
meanders into anybody’s meadow, and spreads itself harmfully over the
nearest pastures, instead of being directed into a straight, beneficent
channel! “I haven’t a bit of system about me!” wails the worried
creature, when the ponderous snow-ball has finally to be heaved out of
the way by her own hands.

It would be a matter of curious interest could I recount how often I
have heard this plaint from those of my own sex who are thus straining
and suffering. From some it comes carelessly—a form of words they
have fallen into the habit of repeating without much thought of what
they mean. With a majority (I wish I were not obliged to say it!) it
is rather a boast than a lament. The notable housekeeper who would
be ashamed to admit that she does not look narrowly after paper and
twine, bits of cold meat and scraps of butter, does not calculate
wisely concerning coal, candle-ends and crusts—confesses, without a
blush, that she takes no thought of the gold-dust, known among us as
minutes and seconds, sifting through her lax fingers. By and by, she
is as truly impoverished as if she had thrown away the treasure in
nuggets, and then comes the lament, not repentance. She is “run to
death with work, but she doesn’t see how it is to be helped. All other
housekeepers are the same. She never could economize time; has no
genius for arranging her labors to advantage.”

The building of such an one is the heaping together of boulders
with crevices between, through which the winds of disappointment
whistle sharply. System,—by which we mean a sagacious and economical
apportionment of the duty to the hour and the minute; an avoidance of
needless waste of time; a courageous putting forth of the hand to the
plough, instead of talking over the work to be done while the cool
morning moments are flying,—“System,” then, is not a talent! I wish
I could write this in terms so strong and striking as to command the
attention, enforce the belief of those whom I would reach. It is not
a talent. Still less is it genius. It is a duty! and she who shirks
it does herself and others wrong. If you cannot order your household
according to this rule, the fault is yours, and the misfortune theirs.

“We are living too fast!” is the useless note of alarm sounded from
press, and pulpit, and lecture-room; echoed in a thousand homes, in
various accents of regret and dismay; most fearfully by the rattling
clods upon the coffin-lid, that hides forever the careworn face of wife
and mother, who has been trampled to death by the press of iron-footed
cares. Is not this haste begotten by waste?

Is there any good reason why, in our homes—yours and mine, my toiling
sister—and in those of our neighbors to the right and left of us,
should not reign such method as prevails in our husbands’ places of
business? Why, instead of meeting the morning with uplifted hands and
the already desponding cry, “I have so much to do I cannot decide what
to lay hold of first!” we should not behold our path already mapped
out by our provident study over-night—its certain duties; its probable
stumbling-blocks; recreation, devotion and rest—each in its proper
place? Why we should not be ready, “heart within and God o’erhead,”
to make the new day an event in our lives, a stepping-stone to higher
usefulness to our kind and toward heaven? Why we should not bring
to hindrance, as to duty, the resolute, hopeful purpose with which
the miner bends over his pickaxe, the gardener over his spade, the
book-keeper over his ledger? Why, in short, we should not magnify
our office—make of housewifery, and child-tending, and sewing a
profession—to be studied as diligently and pursued as steadily as are
the avocations of the other sex?

I should not dare ask these questions, were I not already convinced, by
years of patient examination of the subject, that it is feasible for a
clear-headed, conscientious woman to do all this, and more. Would not
“dare,” because I know by what a storm of indignant protest the queries
will be met, not only from those who pride themselves upon the amiable
foible of “having no system,” but on the part of deep-hearted women who
are really anxious to do their share of this world’s great work.

The pale-faced mother over the way will tell me of the clutch of
baby-fingers upon her garments whenever she essays to move steadily
onward, and how the pressure of the same holds her eyes waking through
the night-watches; how the weight of baby-lips upon the breast saps
strength and vitality together. Dear and precious cares she esteems
these; but they leave little time or energy for anything else. The
matron, whose younglings have outgrown childhood, is ready with her
story of the toils and distractions of a family of merry girls who
are “in society,” and inconsiderate, unpunctual “boys,” who look to
“mother” to supply, for the present, the place of the coming wife
to each of them. Martha, wedded and middle-aged, but childless, is
overpowered by cares, “put upon her by everybody,” she relates, with
an ever-renewed sense of injury wearing into her soul, “because it is
believed that women without children have nothing to do.”

One and all, they are eloquent upon the subject of unforeseen
vexations, the ever-hindering “happenings” that, like the knots tied
in wire-grass across the path by mischievous fairies, are continually
tripping them up.

“Moreover,” says Mrs. Practical, “there is little use in attempting to
be methodical and to save the scraps of time unless other people do.
We are liable to have our precious hoard stolen at any moment. If my
next-door neighbor persists in ‘dropping in’ whenever she feels lonely,
or wants a receipt, or has a morsel of news she cannot keep, and cannot
withdraw her unseasonable foot from my house under an hour at each
visit, of what avail are my watchfulness and diligence?”

With her accustomed shrewdness, Mrs. Practical has put her finger upon
the hardest knot of the tangle. Says that other model of sterling,
every-day sense, Miss Betsy Trotwood, touching Mr. Micawber’s
difficulties: “If he is going to be continually arrested, his friends
have got to be continually bailing him out—that is all!”

The family of Neverthinks (“may their tribe decrease!”) act upon the
reverse principle. If their acquaintances will be continually working
themselves into line with the flying hours, they—the Neverthinks—must
be zealous in pulling them to the rear. They are like an army of
mice scampering through the tidy cupboards of Mesdames Practical
and Notable. They claim, like Death, all seasons for their own.
Against such there is no recognized law, and no redress except in the
determined will and wise co-operation of their victims.

Dropping the fictitious personages, let us talk of this matter plainly,
as face-to-face, dear reader! Why have women, as a class, such an
imperfect conception of the value of time to themselves and to others?
To Mrs. Trollope belongs, I believe, the credit of bringing into
general use a word which, if not elegant, is so expressive that I
cannot do without it in this connection. Why do women dawdle away
seconds and minutes and hours in playing at work, or affecting to play?
A clever young girl was once showing me a set of chairs embroidered by
herself. Knowing that she was her mother’s efficient aid in the cares
entailed by a large family, I asked her how she had made the time for
the achievement.

“O! I did it in the betweenities!” she returned, gayly. “Between
prayers and breakfast; between the children’s lessons; between the
spring and fall sewing; between morning and evening calls, and in a
dozen other gaps. I had a piece of it always within reach, and every
stitch taken was a gain of one.”

We all need play—recreation, wholesome and hearty diversion. I would
guard this point carefully. God-willing, we will talk of it, more at
length, some time, but to make the day’s work even and close, our
life’s work rich and ample, we must look well after the “betweenities.”

Let me probe a little more deeply yet. Have not the prejudices and
gallantries of generations had their effect upon the formation of
feminine opinions on this head? begotten in many minds the impression
that we are unjustly dealt with in being obliged to take up and carry
forward as a life-long duty any business whatsoever? Is not the
unspoken thought of such persons one of impatient disappointment at
finding that earth is not a vast pleasure-ground and existence one
long, bright holiday? If men will speak of and treat women as pretty
playthings, they at least should not complain when the dainty toy
proves to be an unserviceable domestic machine. A man who acknowledges
that he dislikes the business by which he earns his living is looked
upon with instant distrust, as silly, indolent, or, at the best,
unphilosophical. If his auditor has occasion to avail himself of the
services of one of the craft to which the unwilling workman belongs,
he will assuredly seek a man who would be likely to do himself and
his employer more credit than can be given by his half-hearted labor.
But housewives confess freely that they loathe housekeeping and all
pertaining thereto. I speak that which I do know when I say that where
you find one who works con amore in her profession, there are two who
drudge on grumblingly, and consider themselves aggrieved because the
morning brings labor and the evening care. The fault begins very far
back.

“If girls knew when they were well off, they would never marry.”

“A butterfly before marriage—a grub afterward.”

“Let well enough alone.”

“She who weds may do well. She who remains single certainly does
better.”

These are specimens of the choice maxims shouted from the reefs
of matrimony to the pleasure-shallops gliding over the summer sea
beyond the breakers. By the time the boy begins to walk and talk, the
sagacious father studies his tastes and capacity in selecting a trade
for him; puts him fairly in training for the same so soon as he is well
embarked in his teens; sees for himself that his drill is thorough and
his progress satisfactory. Of the lad’s sisters their mother will tell
you, with tears in her eyes, that she “cannot bear to tie the dear
girls down to regular duties. Let them take their pleasure now, for
when they marry, trouble and responsibility must come.”

Not seeing that to the unskilled apprentice the practice of his art
must be cruelly hard; that her own loving hands are making tight the
lashings of the load which the tender shoulders must bear until death
cuts the sharp cords; that in her mistaken indulgence she is putting
darkness for light, and light for darkness; bitter for sweet, and sweet
for bitter.




MEATS, INCLUDING POULTRY AND GAME.


CALF’S LIVER à l’Anglaise. +

2 pounds fresh liver.

¼ pound fat salt pork.

2 table-spoonfuls of butter.

1 small shallot, minced very fine.

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley.

Cut the liver into slices half an inch thick. Lay these smoothly in a
saucepan in which the butter has already been melted, but not allowed
to get hot. Chop the pork into very small bits, and spread upon the
liver. Sprinkle over this the minced parsley and onion, and season
to your fancy with salt and pepper. Cover the saucepan closely, and
set it where it will heat so moderately that the juices will be drawn
out without simmering. Care must be taken to observe this direction
exactly, as both the tenderness and flavor of the liver are impaired by
stewing. At the end of an hour and a half increase the heat gradually
until the contents of the saucepan begin to bubble. Remove from the
fire; arrange the liver neatly upon a hot chafing-dish, and keep this
covered while you boil up and thicken with a little browned flour the
gravy left in the saucepan. Pour over the liver and serve.

This process renders calf’s liver tender and juicy to a degree that
would seem incredible to those who know the much-abused edible only
through the medium of the usual modes of cookery.

Try it, when you are at a loss for something new, yet not expensive.


CALF’S LIVER au Domino.

2 pounds liver.

½ pound fat salt pork.

2 table-spoonfuls of butter.

Seasoning of pepper, parsley and onion.

Cut the liver in pieces less than half an inch thick, and rather more
than an inch square. String these evenly upon a slender skewer (an old
knitting-needle will do) alternately with bits of fat pork of the same
shape and width. When the skewer is full, lay for ten minutes in the
melted butter, season with pepper (the pork salting it sufficiently),
minced onion, and parsley, then lay in a baking-pan, and cover with a
tin plate or shallow pan. Cook slowly in a moderate oven until the pork
begins to crisp. Remove to a hot dish, draw out the skewer carefully,
so as to leave the liver in the form in which it was cooked; add a
little hot water and butter to the gravy, thicken with browned flour,
boil up once, and pour over the dominoes of pork and liver.


OLLAPODRIDA OF LAMB. (Good.)

The sweetbreads, liver, heart, kidneys, and brains of a lamb. (Your
butcher can easily procure all with timely notice.)

Handful of bread-crumbs.

1 raw egg, beaten light.

One small, young onion, minced.

1 table-spoonful currant jelly.

Season with salt, pepper, and parsley.

1 cup good broth.

Parboil the sweetbreads for five minutes, then simmer for ten in the
gravy. Take them up, and set aside to cool, while you boil the brains
in the same broth. When both brains and sweetbreads are cold and firm,
slice, dip in the egg, then the crumbs, and fry in good dripping or
butter. After the brains are taken from the broth, put in the slices of
heart, and stew very gently for at least half an hour. Let them cool,
then fry with the minced liver in dripping seasoned with the onion,
minced fine. Slice the kidneys, and having strained the useful broth
from the liver, return it to the saucepan, and stew the kidneys in it
for five minutes. Next, fry these for two minutes—no more—in butter.

Arrange all in a hot dish; add to the fat left in the frying-pan the
broth, thicken with browned flour and the jelly, season to taste, and
