" She was a very fair height, and wore a gray dress 
and sack, trimmed with something a little darker. I 
remember noticing the stripe around her skirt. She 



had a round hat, with a bit of scarlet in it, and a light 
veil; I did not see her face, but her hair was blight, 
not red, but a curious color, and curled a little." Trc- 
maine groaned inwardly. The hair stamped her as 
Dora, at once. 

" And you do not know where they went?" 

" No. I drove right back." 

"Could you identify the man again?" 

" Oh, yes, easily. He had very black eyes, with a 
curiously look in them, and a full beard, though not very 
thick. Yes. I could tell him again." 

" That will do," said Tremaine, turning very abruptlj'. 

He and Barton went down the length of the platform 
without a word, but he could no longer feel doubtful. 
A horrible thought chilled the blood around his heart. 
The man had been watching for her. Then it was he, 
who sent the note to Dora, and it was madness to sup- 
pose that she would go away with a stranger, so she 
must have known him. Could she have been summon- 
ed to any friend? But no, she would have left a few 
words for him, surely. The whole matter was inexplica- 
ble. " Well," Barton said, presently, to recall the other. 

"I am obliged for the trouble," Tremaine returned. 
"You cannot do anything more ; indeed, there is noth- 
ing to be done, except to call in the aid of. a detective, 
as you suggested. Whether it would be wisest — " and 
his voice died away in a quivering sound. 

"If I cared — " Barton began, hesitatingly. 



"Cared !" Tremaine's face was white with a suddeil 
passion-heat. 

u Not just that, Mr. Tremaine. If I wanted her 
found, in spite of everything. I would have it done, if I 
moved heaven and earth ! " 

Did he want her found? If she could return in a few 
days, and explain her absence satisfactorily to him, lie 
would rather the world at large knew nothing about it. 
For he had a stubborn, abiding faith in her. He knew 
how thoroughly good and noble she was, that she would 
not stoop to a lie, or deception of any kind, at least, in 
his sane moments, he felt certain of this. Yet he under- 
stood the construction the world would put upon her 
sudden flight. Nothing less than an elopement. To 
him the idea was simply preposterous. He was satisfied 
that she did not care enough for any other man to 
do that. He held all the love of her soul. 

But there might be something back of this event, that 
she would rather explain to him alone. He hated, even, 
to have Barton suspect her. 

"I think I will wait a few days," he said, weakly, 
bidding Barton good-morning. "And — Barton — I 
trust jx>u with my honor, as well as hers." 

Tremaine went back to the hackman, for he had 
another question, that he could not have put before a 
third person. The man was jesting with a comrade, 
but he came forward, touching his hat. 

"I want to ask jou if you observed any signs of— 




of friendliness," familiarity, he was about to say, at 
first, but checked himself, " between these two persons, 
you drove away, yesterday? Did she take his arm?" 
"No. And when he offered to help her in, she would 
not touch his hand. Though it is sometimes done for a 
blind." 

Even this wretch dared to impugn Dora's motives. 
He must get away and think it all over,' settling upon 
something, or he should go crazy. He could not face 
Mrs. May bin, just yet, so he chose the store, instead. 
Now and then, of a morning, he was late, so this would 
pass unremarked. 

There was a friend waiting for him, who said, in a 
careless, genial way — 

" Why, Tremaine,what is the matter? You look as 
if you had been sick a month." 

"I had a bad headache last night, and did not sleep 
any," which was true enough. But, after making an 
effort to confine his attention to what the man was say- 
ing, he found his mind growing clearer. 

There followed an hour or two of business, and it 
proved a benefit to Ralph Tremaine. He said to his 
book-keeper, that he should not go out to lunch — so he 
was left alone in the office. Yesterday, there stood a 
single rose-bud in that tiny vase — to-day, a desert 
could not have been more lonely. 

Now he began to take serious counsel with himself. 
Either, Dora had been persuaded away, by some fraud 



or misrepresentation, to further the schemes of some 
designing persons, or, she had gone willingly, knowing 
a reason why it was best so to do. That love was at 
the bottom, he utterly disbelieved, and then, every little 
circumstance rushed over him again, looking almost as 
if there had been some complicity on her part. If so, 
it would be much wiser to let her come back and 
explain. 

How often, ia life, a series of events seem to involve 
one like a web, making guilt, in a greater or less de- 
gree, almost certain, and j'ct, all these incidents might 
have occurred, without the one, crowning deed, and 
passed by quite unnoticed. A lesson for our charity 
and hasty judgment, and the grander love> that has 
learned patience without suspicion. 

And, though he had a great deal of faith in Dora, 
faith of a certain kind, these verj' misgivings made him 
resolve to wait a few days. A woman was not likely 
to be spirited away and detained against her will, when 
there was nothing to be gained ; and, certainly, Dora 
Tremaine was of no paramount importance to any one 
but her husband. Yes, he would wait, two days, at 
least. 



CHAPTER IV. 



AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR. 



SWpgR. TREMAINE announced to Mrs. Maybin 
ntM w that Mrs. Tremaine would not be at home, for 
"**" several days. The house-keeper asked noques- 
lions, but she saw that something had gone wrong, 
lie passed Barton, on the road, with a nod, but neither 
had any desire to exchange words. Of course, Barton 
knew from the grave, pre-occupied face that the matter 
was still in abeyance. 

Thus passed the two days, and now, the fourth had 
begun, since he had said farewell to Dora, at the lawn 
gate. No tidings of any kind. A stern, set resolve 
came into his face. He wished, now, that he had taken 
some decisive step immediately. His first business in 
the city must be that. Poor Dora! 'She might have 
met with a fatal accident, or been murdered. Now he 
began to conjure up a thousand things, and blame him- 
self in a bitter, unreasonable fashion. 

Mrs. Maybin was waiting to receive her orders, as he 
made a rush from the breakfast-room. 

"Never mind," he exclaimed, impatiently. 

"It is a chance whether I am home to dinner, and I 



really do not care what there is. Do not take much 
trouble." 

A ring at the hall-door startled them both. Mrs. 
Maybin opened it, with an air of injured dignity. 

"Was Mr. Tremaine at home ? Could he be seen,on 
some very important business?" 

" Will you give jour name, please ?" she asked, stiffly. 

"That is not necessary," the stranger said, with a 
most provoking air of blandness. 

She ushered him into the library, and went to inform 
her master, who was rather vexed at the interruption. 

"A stranger?" he said, wonderingly. 

"Yes. I should remember, if I had ever seen such 
eyes before." 

"Eyes ! Black and large, and a full, black beard?" 

Mr. Tremaine was strangely agitated. 

"Eyes that could stare you out of countenance. If 
there is much good in that man. I am mistaken," she 
said with a virtuous sniff. 

Mr. Tremaine crossed over to the library, like a man 
in a dream, shutting the door carefully behind him. 

The stranger was standing in front of one of the 
well-filled book cases, and turned at his entrance. 
What was there, in his appearance, to chill Ralph Tre- 
maine so unaccountably ? A man, not far from his own 
age, perhaps, not looking young, when you came to ex- 
amine him, but, with a jaunty air, and a certain andacitj
that was not impertinence, and, so, could not be put 



down* with th£ grave manner of the" othei*. It was not 
a trusty face. You felt, instinctively, that there was 
something furtive and sinister under cvcrj- soft line, 
though an unthinking person would have pronounced 
him handsome, at once. His features were tolerably 
regular, but they had this peculiarity, that, whereas he 
was stout enough for manly contour, and his hands 
so plump, that every joint made a dent, instead of show- 
ing a bone, his features were thin. His nose was 
straight, with thin nostrils; his lips compressed into 
a scarlet line, showing vividty under the fringe of mus- 
tache. His forehead was narrow at the temples, and, 
when his eyelids drooped, you remarked that they were 
thin also. His eyes were quite large, and of a peculiar 
opaque black, with no transparency ; the pupils scarcely 
discernible from the iris. They gave him an unscru- 
pulous look, and were not pleasant to behold. 

Ralph Tremaine felt that here was the man who had 
seen Dora, on the day of her disappearance, and could, 
perhaps, give the latest account of her. Yet he trem- 
bled in every pulse, and could command neither his 
voice nor his thoughts. 

" I did not give my name to your — domestic," as if 
he were hardly, sure so commanding a woman could fill 
a subordinate position ; " and yet, you may have heard 
it — Jasper Cameron." 

He knew, in an instant,that Mr. Tremaine had not, 
for he merely made a negative motion of the head. 



' ' Is Mrs. Tremaine at home ? ° 

" She is not." 

There was a constriction in Mr. Tremaine's throat, 
and a sadden shiver in every pulse. 

' ' She left home, on Tuesday," Mr. Cameron continued. 

" She did. I appeal to you to explain the mystery. 
The last tidings I have of her, are that she left the 
railroad depot in your company." 

A certain exultant shadow, for it could not be called 
a smile, crossed Cameron's face. 

"Then she has not volunteered an explanation?" 

"I can endure this suspense no longer. If she is 
alive, if you have any tidings of her, speak, at once," 
Tremaine said in a tone of passionate pain. 

"You have heard nothing?" The face and tone 
were a trifle incredulous. 

"Nothing. In mercy, speak ! " 

" I do not know as my tidings are of a very agree- 
able nature. How much of Dora Verner's history did 
you know, when you married her? " 

Great drops of perspiration stood on Tremaine's 
forehead, and an ague seemed to seize every limb. 

U I knew nothing of her history, save that her moth- 
er's marriage had been veiy unfortunate. Her uncle, 
Mr. Verner, adopted her." 

u Some months, before her adoption she became my 
wife." 

"Impossible!" Mr. Tremaine believed the fellow 
inventing some specious lie. 



'Not at all, my dear sir. She admitted the fact, on 
Tuesday. It has been a sad mistake, of course, her 
marriage with you, but she supposed me dead, years 
before." 

"But her youth — she is barety past twenty-one, 
now. No, it cannot be ! " 

The story sounded so utterly improbable. Could 
she have been the wife of another man, and kept the 
secret from him? 

' 'She was very young, not yet fifteen. It was a 
girl's ardent, unreasoning love, if you will; and, as a 
long separation stared us in the face, we decided to 
marry, and keep our secret, being thereby sure of one 
another. I was going to China for three years. On 
the passage out, we were wrecked and most of the crew 
reported lost. I drifted to an island, inhabited only 
by savages, and it was months before any chance of 
escape offered." 

" Yet you did not return ? " 

Ralph Tremaine had an eager, frantic hope of prov 
ing the man's story wrong somewhere. 

" No. It was along while before I found an oppoi 
tunity. 

I was young and full of restless curiosity, I must 
confess, loving travel and adventure. The years 
passed rapidly with me. No answer came to my let- 
ters, and I imagined myself quite forgotten." 

' ' Do you suppose — she heard ? " The question came 
with a gasp.



He could not tell Ralph Trcmainc such a deliberate 
lie, knowing that it would not further his cause. 

"There were a good many changes in her life, just 
then. Her uncle adopted her, and so letters missed. 
It has been an unfortunate affair." 

" Oh, why did you come back ? " Tremaine groaned, 
"She thought you dead, and we were happy. And 
now — ?" 

"She is my wife, of course. The law gives her to 
me, I believe, I find the old regard strong upon me." 

There was a little sneering triumph in this. It stung 
Tremaine keenly. 

"I insist that she shall be produced " he said, in a 
deep, decisive tone. "It is as she wills." 

Cameron studied his rival a moment. Men. of this 
stamp were quietly persevering. And, if he could not 
bend Dora Tremaine to his will, it was well that she 
should have no strong ally in this husband, for the 
present, at least. 

"I proposed, on Tuesday*, that we should both seek 
you and have a mutual explanation. I am willing to 
overlook this fatal mistake, and I still love her, as I 
loved the sweet, daring, spirited child. She would not 
agree to this proposal, though since, she has been free 
to write or to come." 

A deathly agony clutched Tremaine's soul. Dora 
stajing away from him to whom she owed the first con- 
fession ! Could she retain any of the old affection for 



this man ? Oh, the story must be some base, hideous 
lie! 

" I have no proof of all this," he said steadily, trying 
to read the unfathomable eyes of tlje other. 

" Except that she still remains away. I told her 
that I felt it my duty to make this explanation to you, 
though she begged me to delay. Of course, she feels 
that my claim is first ; and then, she is not sure that 
you would forgive, pardon the word, the deception she 
unwittingly used. If she had mentioned her marriage 
with me, this event would not have taken jou so by 
surprise. It is possible that the difference in our posi- 
