profit by Clara's compassion.
"Thank you," said Sam, no longer withholding his hand. "You are very
kind."
By this time they had reached Broadway, and Sam delivered up the bag.
Mr. Glenham handed him a quarter.
"That is for your trouble," he said.
"Thank you, sir," said Sam.
A Broadway stage came up, and they both were lost to view.
Sam was in good spirits over his good fortune.
"Seventy-five cents!" he said to himself. "That's what I call luck. I
don't believe Tim's done so well. It aint so hard to make your living
in New York, after all. I guess I'll go and get some breakfast."
CHAPTER XIX.
HOW SAM FARED.
On the strength of his good luck, Sam provided himself with a good
breakfast, which cost him forty cents. He felt pretty sure of earning
something more during the day to add to the remaining thirty-five. But
Fortune is capricious, and our hero found all his offers of service
firmly refused. He tried again to excite compassion by his fictitious
story of a starving family at home; but his appeals were made to the
flinty-hearted or the incredulous. So, about two o'clock, he went to
dinner, and spent the remainder of his money.
Again he spent the night with Tim in the wagon, and again in the
morning he set out to earn his breakfast. But luck was against him.
People insisted on carrying their own carpet-bags, to the great
detriment of the baggage-smashing business. Tim was no luckier than
Sam. About ten o'clock they were walking despondently through a side
street, discussing ways and means.
"I'm awful hungry, Tim," said Sam, mournfully.
"So am I, you bet!"
"I wouldn't mind if I had a couple of apples," said Sam, fixing his
eyes upon an old woman's apple-stand. "Wouldn't she trust?"
"Not much," said Tim. "You try her, if you want to."
"I will," said Sam, desperately.
The two boys approached the apple-stand.
"I say," said Sam to the wrinkled old woman who presided over it, "how
do you sell your apples?"
"A penny a piece," she answered, in a cracked voice. "Is that cheap
enough for ye?"
"I'll take five," said Sam.
The old woman began eagerly to pick out the required number, but
stopped short when he finished the sentence,--"if you'll trust me till
afternoon."
"Is it trust ye?" she ejaculated suspiciously. "No farther than I can
see yer. I'm up to your tricks, you young spalpeen, thryin' to chate a
poor widder out of her money."
"I'll pay you sure," said Sam, "but I haven't earned anything yet
to-day."
"Then it's I that can't be supportin' a big, strong boy like you. Go
away and come back, whin you've got money."
Here Tim broke in.
"My friend always pays his bills," he said. "You needn't be afraid to
trust him."
"And who are you?" asked the old woman. "I don't know you, and I can't
take your word. You're tryin' the two of you to swindle a poor
widder."
"My father's an alderman," said Tim, giving the wink to Sam.
"Is he now? Thin, let him lind your friend money, and don't ask a poor
woman to trust."
"Well, I would, but he's gone to Washington on business."
"Thin, go after him, and lave me alone. I don't want no spalpeens like
you round my apple-stand."
"Look here, old woman, I'll have you arrested for callin' me names.
Come away, Sam; her apples are rotten anyhow."
The old woman began to berate them soundly, indignant at this attack
upon her wares; and in the midst of it the two boys walked off.
"We didn't make much," said Sam. "I'm awful hungry."
"Take that, then," said Tim, pulling an apple out of his pocket,
Sam opened his eyes.
"How did you get it?" he asked in astonishment.
Tim put his tongue in his cheek.
"I took it when you were talkin' to the ould woman," he answered; "and
here's another."
So saying he produced a companion apple, and made a vigorous onslaught
upon it, Sam following suit.
"I don't see how you could do it," said Sam, admiringly, "and she
looking on all the time."
"It's easy enough when you know how," said Tim, complacently.
"She'd catch me, sure."
"Likely she would; you aint used to it."
Sam ought to have felt uneasy at appropriating the result of a theft;
but his conscience was an easy one, and he felt hungry. So he made
short work of the apple, and wished for more.
"I wish you'd taken two apiece," he said.
"I couldn't," said Tim. "She'd have seen 'em stickin' out of my
pocket, and called a copp."
"One's better than none; I feel a little better," said Sam,
philosophically. "I 'spose it's stealing, though."
"Oh, what's the odds? She'll never miss 'em. Come along."
In the course of the forenoon Sam managed to earn ten cents, and was
forced to content himself with a very economical dinner. There was a
place on Ann street, where, for this small sum, a plate of meat and a
potato were furnished, but enough only to whet the appetite of a
hearty boy like Sam. A suspicion did enter his mind as he rose from
the table penniless once more, and his appetite still unsatisfied,
that he had bought his liberty dearly, if his affairs did not improve.
In the country he had enough to eat, a good bed to sleep in, and no
care or anxiety, while he was not overworked. Here there was constant
anxiety, and he never knew, when he rose in the morning, where his
dinner was to come from, or whether he would be able to buy one. Still
there was a fascination in the free, lawless life, and if he could
only be sure of making even fifty cents a day he would probably have
preferred it.
It is not necessary to describe Sam's life in detail for the next
month. He and Tim were constant companions; and under Tim's
instruction he was rapidly acquiring the peculiar education of a
street vagabond. Of his employments in that brief period it would be
difficult to give a complete list. At one time he blacked boots for
another boy, to whom he paid half his receipts, in return for the use
of the box and blacking. But Sam was detected by his employer in
rendering a false account, and was thrown upon his own resources
again. It would have been much more to his interest to have a
blacking-brush and box of his own; but whenever Sam had capital enough
he preferred to spend it for a good dinner, so there did not seem much
chance of his getting ahead. He had, before this time, been introduced
to the Newsboys' Lodging House, where he was interrogated about his
past life by the superintendent. Sam was obliged to have recourse to
his imagination in reply, feeling that if he spoke the truth he would
be liable to be returned to his country home.
"Are your parents living?" inquired Mr. O'Connor.
"No," said Sam, telling the truth this time.
"When did they die?"
"Two years ago."
"Did they die in New York?"
"Yes, sir. They died of small-pox," volunteered Sam.
"And have you been supporting yourself since then?"
"Yes, sir."
"How does it happen that you have not been round here before?"
"I was living with my uncle," answered Sam, hesitating.
"Why have you left him?"
"He didn't treat me well."
"Perhaps you didn't behave well."
"Oh, yes, I did."
"What is your uncle's name?"
"James Cooper."
"Where does he live,--in what street?"
"He's moved away from the city now," said Sam, feeling that he must
put a stop to these inconvenient inquiries.
So Sam was admitted to the privileges of the lodging-house. Now, he
found it much easier to get along. For eighteen cents a day he was
provided with lodging, breakfast and supper, and it was not often that
he could not obtain as much as that. When he could earn enough more to
buy a "square meal" in the middle of the day, and a fifteen-cent
ticket to the pit of the Old Bowery theatre in the evening, he felt
happy. He was fairly adrift in the streets of the great city, and his
future prospects did not look very brilliant. It is hardly necessary
to say that in a moral point of view he had deteriorated rather than
improved. In fact, he was fast developing into a social outlaw, with
no particular scruples against lying or stealing. One thing may be
said in his favor, he never made use of his strength to oppress a
younger boy. On the whole, he was good-natured, and not at all brutal.
He had on one occasion interfered successfully to protect a young boy
from one of greater strength who was beating him. I like to mention
this, because I do not like to have it supposed that Sam was wholly
bad.
We will now advance the story some months, and see what they have done
for Sam.
To begin with, they have not improved his wardrobe. When he first came
to the city he was neatly though coarsely dressed; now his clothes
hang in rags about him, and, moreover, they are begrimed with mud and
grease. His straw hat and he have some time since parted company, and
he now wears a greasy article which he picked up at a second-hand
store in Baxter street for twenty-five cents. If Sam were troubled
with vanity, he might feel disturbed by his disreputable condition;
but as he sees plenty of other boys of his own class no better
dressed, he thinks very little about it. Such as they are, his clothes
are getting too small for him, for Sam has grown a couple of inches
since he came to the city.
Such was our hero's appearance when one day he leaned against a
building on Broadway, and looked lazily at the vehicles passing,
wishing vaguely that he had enough money to buy a square meal. A
Broadway stage was passing at the time. A small man, whose wrinkled
face indicated that he was over sixty, attempted to descend from the
stage while in motion. In some way he lost his footing, and, falling,
managed to sprain his ankle, his hat falling off and rolling along on
the pavement.
Sam, who was always on the lookout for chances, here saw an opening.
He dashed forward, lifted the old gentleman to his feet, and ran after
his hat, and restored it.
"Are you hurt?" he asked.
"I think I have sprained my ankle. Help me upstairs to my office,"
said the old man.
He pointed to a staircase leading up from the sidewalk.
"All right," said Sam. "Lean on me."
CHAPTER XX.
SAM GETS INTO A NEW BUSINESS.
Sam helped the old man up two flights of stairs.
"Shall we go any farther?" he asked.
"No; that's my office," said his companion, pointing to a door, over
which was the number 10. From his pocket he drew a key, and opened the
door. Sam entered with him. The room was small. One corner was
partitioned off for an inner office. Inside was a chair, something
like a barber's chair, and a table covered with instruments. Sam's
curiosity was aroused. He wondered what sort of business was carried
on here. He also wondered whether he would get anything for his
trouble.
"If you don't want me any longer I'll go," he said, by way of a
delicate hint.
"Stop a minute," said the old man, who had limped to a sofa in the
outer office, and sat down.
"I guess I'll get something," thought Sam, cheerfully complying with
the request.
"What do you do for a living?" asked the old man.
"Sometimes I black boots, sometimes I sell papers,--anything that'll
pay."
"What are you doing now?"
"Nothing. Business aint good."
"Would you like something to do?"
Sam gave a glance into the office, and answered dubiously, "Yes." He
was not at all clear about the nature of the employment likely to be
offered.
"Then I may be able to give you a job. Do you know my business?"
"No, sir."
"I'm a corn-doctor--you've heard of Dr. Felix Graham, the celebrated
corn-doctor, haven't you?" said the old man, complacently.
"Yes," said Sam, thinking that this was the answer expected.
"I am Dr. Graham," said the old man, proudly.
"Are you?" said Sam in some curiosity.
"Yes. Now I'll tell you what I want you to do. Go and bring me that
pile of circulars."
He pointed to a pile of papers on the floor in the corner.
Sam brought them as directed.
"Can you read?" asked the doctor.
"Yes, sir, a little."
"Read that circular."
Sam read as follows:
"DR. FELIX GRAHAM,
CHIROPODIST.
Corns and bunions cured without pain.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
BROADWAY, ROOM 10."
Sam bungled over the word chiropodist, but was put right by the
doctor.
"I want a boy to stand at the door, and distribute these circulars,"
said Dr. Graham. "Can you do it?"
"Of course I can," said Sam. "What pay will I get?"
"Ten cents a hundred;" said the doctor, "but you mustn't do as my last
boy did."
"How did he do?" asked Sam.
"He was so anxious to get rid of them that he gave half a dozen away
at a time. I caught him in it. He wanted to earn money too fast."
"He was smart," said Sam, with a grin.
"I don't like that kind of smartness," said the doctor, sharply. "I
want you to serve me faithfully."
"So I will," said Sam.
"You needn't give to everybody. There isn't much use in giving to
children."
"Yes, sir."
"But if you see any one walking as if he had corns, be sure to hand
him one."
"Yes, sir."
"Now count off a hundred of the circulars, and go downstairs."
"All right, sir."
This was the first regular employment Sam had obtained, and he felt
rather important. He resolved to acquit himself to the satisfaction of
the doctor. In his zeal he even determined to improve upon his
instructions.
He had no sooner taken his stand than he saw a gentleman and lady
approaching. They were young, and, being engaged, were indulging in
conversation more interesting to themselves than any one else. The
gentleman had on a pair of tight boots, and from his style of walking
Sam concluded that he was a suitable customer.
"Here, sir," said he, pressing a circular into the young man's gloved
hand.
"What's that?" asked the young man. Then, glancing at it, he showed it
with a laugh to the young lady.
"Look here, boy," he said turning to Sam, "what made you give me
this?"
"You walked as if you'd got corns," said Sam, honestly. "Walk right
up, and Dr. Graham will cure 'em in a jiffy."
"Perhaps you'll tell me what is to become of this young lady while I
go up, Johnny?"
"Maybe she's got corns too," said Sam. "She can go up too."
Both the lady and gentleman laughed convulsively, considerably to
Sam's surprise, for he was not aware that he had said anything unusual
or funny.
"Shall we go up, Eliza?" asked the young man.
The only answer was a laugh, and they passed on.
The next one who attracted Sam's attention was an elderly maiden
lady.
"Have you got corns, ma'am?" asked Sam, eagerly.
Now it so happened that the lady was a little deaf, and did not
understand Sam's question. Unfortunately for herself, she stopped
short, and inquired, "What did you say?"
"I guess she's hard of hearing," Sam concluded, and raising his voice
loud enough to be heard across the street, he repeated his question:
"HAVE YOU GOT CORNS, MA'AM?"
At the same time he thrust a circular into the hand of the astonished
and mortified lady.
Two school-girls, just behind, heard the question, and laughed
heartily. The offended lady dropped the paper as if it were
contamination, and sailed by, her sallow face red with anger.
"That's funny," thought Sam. "I don't know what's got into all the
people. Seems to me they're ashamed of havin' corns."
The next half-dozen took circulars, mechanically glanced at them, and
dropped them indifferently.
"Guess they aint got corns," thought the observing Sam.
By and by a countryman came along, and into his hand Sam put the
circular.
"What's this?" he asked.
"It's corns. Just go upstairs, and the doctor'll cure 'em less'n no
time."
"Wal, I have got two," said the countryman. "They hurt like time too.
What does this doctor charge?"
Sam did not know, but he was not the boy to allow his ignorance to
appear.
"Ten cents apiece," he answered.
"That's cheap enough, anyway," said he. "I've got a good mind to go
up. Where is it?"
"Come along. I'll show you," said Sam, promptly.
"I guess I may as well. Are you sure he can cure 'em?"
"I ought to know," said Sam. "I had one about as big as a marble on my
big toe. The doctor, he cured it in a minute."
"You don't say! He must be pooty good."
"You bet! He's the great Dr. Graham. Everybody's heard of him."
By such convincing assurances the man's faith was increased. He
followed Sam into the doctor's office.
"Here," said Sam, "I've brought you a customer, Dr. Graham. I told him
you could cure his corns in a jiffy."
The doctor smiled approvingly.
"You are right there. My friend, sit down in this chair."
"You won't hurt, will you, doctor?" asked the customer, glancing with
a little alarm at the table with its instruments.
"Oh, no, you'll scarcely feel it."
Sam returned to his post, and began to distribute handbills once
more.
About quarter of an hour later he was assailed by an angry voice.
Looking up, he saw the customer he had sent upstairs.
"Look here, boy," he said, angrily; "you told me a lie."
"How did I?" asked Sam.
"You told me the doctor only charged ten cents for each corn.
Jerusalem! he made me fork out a dollar."
Sam was rather surprised himself at the price.
"I guess they was tough ones, mister," he said. "He cured 'em, didn't
he?"
"Ye--es."
"Then it's worth the money. You don't want 'em back, do you?"
"No," admitted the other; "but it's a thunderin' sight to pay;" and he
went off grumbling.
"Don't the doctor make money, though?" thought Sam. "He'd orter give
me a commission on them two dollars."
CHAPTER XXI.
SAM OBTAINS A PLACE.
Having disposed of his circulars, Sam went up to the office.
"Have you distributed all the circulars?" asked the doctor.
"Yes, sir."
"Well, here's the ten cents I promised you."
Sam took it, but stood his ground.
"I sent you up a customer," he said.
"A patient; yes."
"And you made two dollars out of him."
"Who told you?"
"He did."
"I charged him my regular price. What of that?" asked the doctor, not
comprehending Sam's meaning.
"He wouldn't have come up if it hadn't been for me. I think I'd ought
to have a commission."
"Oh, that's it," said the doctor. "That doesn't follow. He came up
because of the circular."
"No, he didn't," said Sam. "He came up because I told him what a great
doctor you was."
The doctor thought over Sam's proposal, and, being a sharp man, he
decided that it was for his advantage to secure an alliance with him.
"You are right," he said. "You are entitled to something."
Sam brightened up.
"Here is a quarter in addition to the ten cents I just gave you."
"Thank you, sir," said Sam, gratified.
"Shall I go down, and give away some more circulars?" he asked.
"Yes; I'll give you another hundred. Don't give them away too fast.
It's of no use to give to children."
"All right, sir."
So Sam went down into the street. The first passer-by was a boy of
twelve.
"Give me one of them papers," he said.
Rather to his surprise Sam did not immediately comply. He first asked
a question.
"Have you got a dollar?"
"A dollar! You don't want a dollar for that paper, do you?"
"No; but I aint goin to waste it on you unless you've got a dollar."
"What do I want of a dollar?" asked the boy, surprised.
"To pay for havin' your corn cured."
The boy burst into a laugh.
"I aint got no corns," he said.
"Then go along, and don't bother me. You're no good."
A young dandy advanced, dressed in the height of fashion, swinging a
light cane in his lavender-gloved hand. A rose was in his button-hole,
and he was just in the act of saluting a young lady, when Sam thrust a
circular into his hand.
"Go right upstairs," he said, "and get your corns cured. Only a
dollar."
The young lady burst into a ringing laugh, and the mortified dandy
reddened with mortification.
"Keep your dirty paper to yourself, boy," he said. "I am not troubled
with those--ah, excrescences."
"I never heard of them things," said Sam. "I said corns."
"Stand out of my way, boy, or I'll cane you," exclaimed the incensed
fop.
"Your cane wouldn't hurt," said Sam, regarding the slight stick with
disdain. "Never mind; you needn't go up. I don't believe you've got a
dollar."
