was so glad thinking you'd like them and now " 
Her voice broke, and the tears flowed from her pretty 
soft eyes. A great tenderness came over the parson's 
face. 
" Do not weep," he said, quickly. " See, I am eat- 
ing. See, I am enjoying everything. It is all good, 
nay, delicious." And in his haste he partook of each 
dish, and lifted the coffee-cup to his lips. The girl's 
face grew joyous again, and the parson struggled bravely 
against his own enjoyment; in truth, what with the 
"warm fire, the easy-chair, the delicate food, the fra- 
grant coffee, and the eager, beautiful face before him, a 
sense of happiness came over him in long surges, and 
for the moment his soul drifted with the warm tide. 
"You do like it, don't you?" said the girl with 
delight, as he slowly drank the fragrant coffee, his 
starved lips lingering over the delicious brown drops. 
Something in her voice jarred on the trained nerves 
and roused them to action again. 
" Yes, I do like it, only too well," he answered ; 
but the tone of his voice had altered. He pushed 
back his chair, rose, and began pacing to and fro in 
the shadow beyond the glow of the fire. 
" Thou glutton body ! " he murmured. " But thou 
shalt go empty for this." Then, after a pause, he 
said in a quiet, even tone, "You had something to 
tell me, Miss Ray." 
 
The girl's face had altered ; but rallying, she told 
her story earnestly, of Steven Long, his fierce tem- 
per, his utter lawlessness, and his threats. 
" And why should Steven Long threaten me ? " said 
the parson. " But you need not answer," he contin- 
ued in an agitated voice. "Say to Steven Long, 
say to him," he repeated in louder tones, "that I 
shall never marry. I have consecrated my life to 
my holy calling." 
There was a long silence ; the words fell with 
crushing weight on both listener and speaker. We 
do not realize even our own determinations, some- 
times, until we have told them to another. The girl 
rallied first ; for she still hoped. 
"Mr. Peters," she said, taking all her courage in 
her hands and coining towards him, "is it wrong to 
marry ? " 
" For me it is." 
"Why?" 
"Because I am a priest." 
" Are you a Catholic, then ? " 
"I am a Catholic, although not in the sense you 
mean. Mine is the true Catholic faith which the 
Anglican Church has kept pure from the errors of 
Eome, and mine it is to make my life accord with 
the high office I hold." 
" Is it part of your high office to be cold and 
hungry and wretched?" 
"I am not wretched." 
" You are ; now, and at all times. You are killing 
yourself." 
" No ; else I had died long, long ago." 
" Well, then, of what use is your poor life as you 
now live it, either to yourself or any one else ? Do 
you succeed among the miners? How many have 
you brought into the church?" 
" Not one." 
"And yourself? Have you succeeded, so far, in 
making yourself a saint ? " 
" God knows I have not," replied the parson, cover- 
ing his face with his hands as the questions probed 
his sore, sad heart. " I have failed in my work, I 
have failed in myself, I am of all men most miser- 
able ! most miserable ! " 
The girl sprang forward and caught his arm, her 
eyes full of love's pity. "You know you love me," 
she murmured; "why fight against it? For I I 
love you ! " 
What did the parson do? 
He fell upon his knees, but not to her, and uttered 
a Latin prayer, short but fervid. 
" All the kingdoms of the world and the glory of 
them," he murmured, "would not be to me so much 
as this ! " Then he rose. 
" Child," he said, " you know not what you do." 
And, opening the door, he went away into the snowy 
 
forest. But the girl's weeping voice called after him, 
" Herman, Herman." He turned ; she had sunk upon 
the threshold. He came back and lifted her for a 
moment in his arms. 
" Be comforted, Eosamond," he said, tenderly. " It 
is but a fancy ; you will soon forget me. You do 
not really love me, such a one as I," he contin- 
ued, bringing forward, poor heart! his own greatest 
sorrow with unpitying hand. " But thank you, dear, 
for the gentle fancy." He stood a moment, silent; 
then touched her dark hair with his quivering lips 
and disappeared. 
~* Sunday morning the sun rose unclouded, the snow 
lay deep on the ground, the first ice covered the 
bay; winter had come. At ten o'clock the custom- 
ary service began in the Chapel of St. John and 
St. James, and the little congregation shivered, and 
whispered that it must really try to raise money 
enough for a stove. The parson did not feel the cold, 
although he looked almost bloodless in his white sur- 
plice. The Englishwoman was there, repentant, 
the sick child had not rallied under the new minis- 
tration ; Mrs. Malone was there, from sheer good-na- 
ture; and several of the villagers and two or three 
miners had strolled in because they had nothing else 
to do, Brother Saul having returned to the mine. 
Rose Ray was not there. She was no saint, so she 
stayed at home and wept like a sinner. 
 
The congregation, which had sat silent through the 
service, fell entirely asleep during the sermon on the 
"General Councils." Suddenly, in the midst of a 
sentence, there came a noise that stopped the par- 
son and woke the sleepers. Two or three miners 
rushed into the chapel and spoke to the few men 
present. " Come out," they cried, " come out to the 
mine. The thief 's caught at last ! and who do you 
think it is? Saul, Brother Saul himself, the hypo- 
crite ! They tracked him to his den, and there they 
found the barrels and sacks and kegs, but the stuff 
he 's made away with, most of it. He took it all, 
every crumb, and us a starving!" 
"We've run in to tell the town," said another. 
"We Ve got him fast, and we 're going to make a 
sample of him. Come out and see the fun." 
"Yes," echoed a third, who lifted a ruffianly face 
from his short, squat figure, " and we 'll take our own 
time, too. He 's made us suffer, and now he shall 
suffer a bit, if I know myself." 
The women shuddered as, with an ominous growl, 
all the men went out together. 
" I misdoubt they 'll hang him," said Mrs. Malone, 
shaking her head as she looked after them. 
"Or worse," said the miner's wife. 
Then the two departed, and the parson was left 
alone. Did he cut off the service ? No. Deliber- 
ately he finished every word of the sermon, sang a 
 
hymn, and spoke the final prayer; then, after put- 
ting everything in order, he too left the little sanctu- 
ary ; "but he did not go homeward, he took the road 
to the mine. 
" Don't-ee go, sir, don't ! " pleaded the English- 
woman, standing in her doorway as he passed. " You 
won't do no good, sir." 
"Maybe not," answered the parson, gently, "but 
at least I must try." 
He entered the forest; the air was still and cold, 
the snow crackled under his feet, and the pine-trees 
stretched away in long white aisles. He looked like 
a pygmy as he hastened on among the forest giants, 
his step more languid than usual from sternest vigil 
and fasting. 
" Thou proud, evil body, I have conquered thee ! " 
he had said in the cold dawning. And he had; at 
least, the body answered not again. 
The mine was several miles away, and to lighten 
the journey the little man sang a hymn, his voice 
sounding through the forest in singular melody. It 
was an ancient hymn that he sang, written long ago 
by some cowled monk, and it told in quaint lan- 
guage of the joys of "Paradise! O Paradise!" He 
did not feel the cold as he sang of the pearly gates. 
In the late afternoon his halting feet approached 
the mine ; as he drew near the clearing he heard a 
sound of many voices shouting together, followed by 
 
a single cry, and a momentary silence more fearful 
than the clamor. The tormentors were at work. The 
parson ran forward, and, passing the log-huts which 
lay between, came out upon the scene. A circle of 
men stood there around a stake. Fastened by a long 
rope, crouched the wretched prisoner, his face turned 
to the color of dough, his coarse features drawn apart 
like an animal in terror, and his hoarse voice never 
ceasing its piteous cry, " Have mercy, good gentle- 
men! Dear gentlemen, have mercy!" 
At a little distance a fire of logs was burning, 
and from the brands scattered around it was evi- 
dent that the man had served as a target for the 
fiery missiles ; in addition he bore the marks of blows, 
and his clothes were torn and covered with mud as 
though he had been dragged roughly over the ground. 
The lurid light of the fire cast a glow over the faces 
of the miners ; behind rose the Iron Mountain, dark 
in shadow; and on each side stretched out the ranks 
of the white-pine trees, like ghosts assembled as si- 
lent witnesses against the cruelty of man. The par- 
son rushed forward, broke through the circle, and 
threw his arms around the prisoner at the stake, 
protecting him with his slender body. 
" If ye kill him, ye must kill me also," he cried, 
in a ringing voice. 
On the border, the greatest crime is robbery. A 
thief is worse than a murderer ; a life does not count 
so much as life's supplies. It was not for the mur- 
derer that the Lynch law was made, but for the 
thief. For months these Algonquin miners had suf- 
fered loss ; their goods, their provisions, their clothes, 
and their precious whiskey, had been stolen, day 
after day, and all search had proved vain; exasper- 
ated, several times actually suffering from want, they 
had heaped up a great store of fury for the thief, 
fury increased tenfold when, caught at last, he 
proved to be no other than Brother Saul, the one 
man whom they had trusted, the one man whom 
they had clothed and fed before themselves, the one 
man from whom they had expected better things. 
An honest, bloodthirsty 'wolf in his own skin was 
an animal they respected; indeed, they were them- 
selves little better. But a wolf in sheep's clothing 
was utterly abhorrent to their peculiar sense of 
honor. So they gathered around their prey, and es- 
teemed it rightfully theirs; whiskey had sharpened 
their enjoyment. 
To this savage band, enter the little parson. 
" What ! are ye men ? " he cried. " Shame, shame, 
ye murderers ! " 
The miners stared at the small figure that defied 
them, and for the moment their anger gave way be- 
fore a rough sense of the ludicrous. 
"Hear the little man," they cried. "Hurrah, Pe- 
ter! Go ahead!" 
But they soon wearied of his appeal and began to 
answer back. 
" What are clothes or provisions to a life ? " said 
the minister. 
"Life ain't worth much without 'em, Parson," re- 
plied a miner. " He took all we had, and we Ve 
gone cold and hungry long of him, and he knowed 
it. And all the time we was a giving him of the 
best, and a believing his praying and his preaching." 
"If he is guilty, let him be tried by the legal 
authorities." 
" We 're our own legal 'thorities, Parson." 
"The country will call you to account." 
" The country won't do " nothing of the kind. 
Much the country cares for us poor miners, frozen 
up here in the woods ! Stand back, Parson. Why 
should you bother about Saul ? You always hated 
him." 
"Never! never!" answered the parson, earnestly. 
"You did too, and he knowed it. 'Twas because 
he was dirty, and couldn't mince his words as you 
do." 
The parson turned to the crouching figure at his 
side. " Friend," he said, " if this is true, and the 
heart is darkly deceitful and hides from man his 
own worst sins, I humbly ask your forgiveness." 
"O come! None of your gammon," said another 
miner, impatiently. " Saul didn't care whether you 
 
liked him or not, for he knowed you was only a 
coward." 
" Traid of a dog ! Traid of a dog ! " shouted half 
a dozen voices ; and a frozen twig struck the parson's 
cheek, and drew blood. 
" Why, he 's got blood ! " said one. " I never 
thought he had any." 
" Come, Parson," said a friendly miner, advancing 
from the circle, " we don't want to hurt you, but you 
might as well understand that we 're the masters here." 
"And if ye are the masters, then be just. Give 
the criminal to me; I will myself take him to the 
nearest judge, the nearest jail, and deliver him up." 
" He 'll be more likely to deliver you up, I reck- 
on, Parson." 
"Well, then, send a committee of your own men 
with me " 
" We 've got other things to do besides taking 
long journeys over the ice to 'commodate thieves, 
Parson. Leave the man to us." 
" And to torture ? Men, men, ye would not treat 
a beast so ! " 
"A beast don't steal our food and whiskey," sang 
out a miner. 
" Stand back ! stand back ! " shouted several voices. 
" You 're too little to fight, Parson." 
"But not too little to die," answered the minister, 
throwing up his arms towards the sky. 
 
For an instant his words held the men in check ; 
they looked at each other, then at him. 
" Think of yourselves," continued the minister. 
" Are ye without fault ? If ye murder this man, ye 
are worse than he is." 
But here the minister went astray in his appeal, 
and ran against the views of the border. 
" Worse ! Worse than a sneaking thief ! Worse 
than a praying hypocrite who robs the very men 
that feed him ! Look here, we won't stand that ! 
Sheer off, or take the consequences." And a burn- 
ing brand struck the parson's coat, and fell on the 
head of the crouching figure at his side, setting fire 
to its hair. Instantly the parson extinguished the 
light flame, and drew the burly form closer within 
his arms, so that the two stood as one. "Not one, 
but both of us," he cried. 
A new voice spoke next, the voice of the oldest 
miner, the most hardened reprobate there. "Let go 
that rascal, Parson. He 's the fellow that lamed you 
last spring. He set the trap himself; I seen him 
a doing it." 
Involuntarily, for a moment, Herman Peters drew 
back; the trap set at the chapel door, the deliber- 
ate, cruel intention, the painful injury, and its life- 
long result, brought the angry color to his pale face. 
The memory was full of the old bitterness. 
But Saul, feeling himself deserted, dragged his 
 
miserable body forward, and clasped the parson's 
knees. With desperate hands he clung, and he was 
not repulsed. Without a word the parson drew him 
closer, and again faced the crowd. 
" Why, the man 's a downright fool ! " said the old 
miner. "That Saul lamed him for life, and all for 
nothing, and still he stands by him. The man 's 
mad ! " 
"I am not mad," answered the parson, and his 
voice rung out clear and sweet. "But I am a min- 
ister of the great God who has said to men, 'Thou 
shalt do no murder.' O men! O brothers! look 
back into your own lives. Have ye no crimes, no 
sins to be forgiven ? Can ye expect mercy when ye 
give none ? Let this poor creature go, and it shall 
be counted unto you for goodness. Ye, too, must 
some time die ; and when the hour comes, as it often 
comes, in lives like yours, with sudden horror, ye will 
have this good deed to remember. For charity 
which is mercy shall cover a multitude of sins." 
He ceased, and there was a momentary pause. 
Then a stern voice answered, "Facts won't alter, 
Parson. The man is a thief, and must be punished. 
Your talk may do for women-folks, not for us." 
" Women-folks ! ** repeated the ruffian-faced man 
who had made the women shudder at the chapel 
" He 's a sly fox, this parson ! He didn't go out to 
meet Eosie Eay at the Grotter yesterday, O no ? " 
 
"Liar!" shouted a man, who had been standing 
in the shadow on the outskirts of the crowd, taking, 
so far, no part in the scene. He forced himself to 
the front; it was Steven Long, his face dark with 
passion. 
"No liar at all, Steve," answered the first. "I 
seen 'em there with my own eyes; they had things 
to eat and everything. Just ask the parson." 
" Yes, ask the parson," echoed the others ; and with 
the shifting humor of the border, they stopped to 
laugh over the idea. "Ask the parson." 
Steven Long stepped forward and confronted the 
little minister. His strong hands were clinched, his 
blood was on fire with jealousy. The bull-dog fol- 
lowed his master, and smelled around the parson's 
gaiters, the same poor old shoes, his only pair, 
now wet with melted snow. The parson glanced 
down apprehensively. 
" Traid of a dog ! Traid of a dog ! " shouted the 
miners, again laughing uproariously. The fun was 
better than they had anticipated. 
" Is it true ? " demanded Steven Long, in a hoarse 
voice. "Did you meet that girl at the Grotter yes- 
terday ? " 
"I did meet Eosamond Eay at the Grotto yes- 
terday," answered the parson; "but " 
He never finished the sentence. A fragment of 
iron ore struck him on the temple. He fell, and 
 
died, his small body lying across the thief, whom 
he still protected. even in death. 
The murder was not avenged; Steven Long was 
left to go his own way. But as the thief was also 
allowed to depart unmolested, the principles of bor- 
der justice were held to have been amply satisfied. 
The miners attended the funeral in a body, and 
even deputed one of their number to read the Epis- 
copal burial service over the rough pine coffin, since 
there was no one else to do it. They brought out 
the chapel prayer-books, found the places, and fol- 
lowed as well as they could ; for " he thought a deal 
of them books. Don't you remember how he was 
always carrying 'em backward and forward, poor little 
chap ! " 
The Chapel of St. John and St. James was closed 
for the season. In the summer a new missionary 
arrived; he was not ritualistic, and before the year 
was out he married Eosamond Ray. 
JEANNETTE. 
BEFOEE the war for the Union, in the times of 
the old army, there had been peace through- 
out the country for thirteen years. Kegiments ex- 
isted in their officers, but the ranks were thin, 
the more so the better, since the United States 
possessed few forts and seemed in chronic embar- 
rassment over her military children, owing to the 
