disease, openly, rationally and hopefully; and keep yourself in the
daily light and warmth of sympathetic intercourse with friends who
understand you and can help you. There are Eva and Harry--noble, true
friends, indebted to you for many favors, and devoted to you with a
loyal faithfulness. Let their faith and mine in you strengthen your
belief in yourself. And don't, above all things, take any load of
responsibility about my happiness, and talk about being the blight
and shadow on my life. I trust I am learning that we were sent into
this world, not to clamor for happiness, but to do our part in a
life-work. What matter is it whether I am happy or not, if I do my
part? I know all the risks and all the dangers that come from being
identified, heart and soul, with the life of another as I am with
yours. I know the risks, and am ready to face them. I am ready to live
for you and die for you, and count it all joy to the last.
I was much touched by what you said of those who have died defeated
yet fighting. Yes, it is my belief that many a poor soul who has
again and again failed in the conflict has yet put forth more effort,
practiced more self-denial, than hundreds of average Christians; and
He who knows what the trial is, will judge them tenderly--that is to
say, justly.
But for you there must be a future, even in this life. I am assured of
it, and you must believe it: you must believe with my faith, and hope
in my hope. Come what will, I am, heart and soul and forever,
     Yours,
          CAROLINE.
CHAPTER XXIII.
THE SISTERS OF ST. BARNABAS.
Who was St. Barnabas? We are told in the book of the Acts of
the Apostles that he was a man whose name signified a "son of
consolation." It must at once occur that such a saint is very much
needed in this weary world of ours, and most worthy to be the patron
of an "order."
To comfort human sorrow, to heal and help the desolate and afflicted,
irrespective either of their moral worth or of any personal reward, is
certainly a noble and praiseworthy object.
Nor can any reasonable objection be made to the custom of good women
combining for this purpose into a class or order, to be known by the
name of such a primitive saint, and wearing a peculiar livery to
mark their service, and having rites and ceremonials such as to them
seem helpful for this end. Surely the work is hard enough, and weary
enough, to entitle the doers thereof to do it in their own way, as
they feel they best can, and to have any sort of innocent helps in the
way of signs and symbols that may seem to them desirable.
Yet the Sisters of St. Barnabas had been exposed to a sort of modern
form of persecution from certain vigorous-minded Protestants, as
tending to Romanism. A clamor had been raised about them for wearing
large crosses, for bowing before altars, and, in short, for a hundred
little points of Ritualism; and it was held that a proper zeal for
Protestantism required their ejection from a children's refuge,
where, with much patience and Christian mildness, they were taking
care of sick babies and teaching neglected street children. Mrs.
Maria Wouvermans, with a committee of ladies equally zealous for the
order of the church and excited about the dangers of Popery, had
visited the refuge and pursued the inquisition even to the private
sleeping apartments of the Sisters, unearthing every symptom of
principle or practice that savored of approach to the customs of the
Scarlet Woman; and, as the result of relentless inquisition and much
vigorous catechising, she and her associates made such reports as
induced the Committee of Supervision to withdraw the charity from the
Sisters of St. Barnabas, and place it in other hands. The Sisters,
thus ejected, had sought work in other quarters of the great field of
human suffering and sorrow. A portion of them had been enabled by the
charity of friends to rent a house to be devoted to the purposes of
nursing destitute sick children, with dormitories also where homeless
women could find temporary shelter.
The house was not a bit more conventual or mediæval than the most
common-place of New York houses. It is true, one of the parlors had
been converted into a chapel, dressed out and arranged according to
the preferences of these good women. It had an altar, with a gilded
cross flanked by candles, which there is no denying were sometimes
lighted in the day-time. The altar was duly dressed with white, red,
green, violet or black, according as the traditional fasts or feasts
of the Church came round. There is no doubt that this simple chapel,
with its flowers, and candles, and cross, and its little ceremonial,
was an immense comfort and help to these good women in the work that
they were doing. But the most rigid Protestant, who might be stumbled
by this little attempt at a chapel, would have been melted into
accord when he went into the long bright room full of little cribs
and cradles, where child invalids of different ages and in different
stages of convalescence were made happy amid flowers, and toys, and
playthings, by the ministration of the good women who wore the white
caps and the large crosses. It might occur to a thoughtful mind, that
devotion to a work so sweetly unselfish might well entitle them to
wear any kind of dress and pursue any kind of method, unchallenged by
criticism.
In a neat white bed of one of the small dormitories in the upper part
of this house, was lying in a delirious fever the young woman whom
Bolton had carried there on the night of our story. The long black
hair had become loosened by the restless tossing of her head from side
to side; her brow was bent in a heavy frown, made more intense by the
blackness of her eyebrows; her large, dark eyes were wandering wildly
to and fro over every object in the room, and occasionally fixing
themselves with a strange look of inquiry on the Sister who, in white
cap and black robe, sat by her bedside, changing the wet cloths on her
burning head, and moistening her parched lips from time to time with a
spoonful of water.
"I can't think who you are," she muttered, as the Sister with a gentle
movement put a fresh, cool cloth on her forehead.
"Never mind, poor child," said the sweet voice in reply; "try to be
quiet."
"Quiet! me be quiet!--that's pretty well! Me!" and she burst into
weak, hysteric laughter.
"Hush, hush!" said the Sister, making soothing motions with her hands.
The wandering eyes closed a few moments in a feverish drowse. In a
moment more, she started with a wild look.
"Mother! mother! where are you? I can't find you. I've looked and
looked till I'm so tired, and I can't find you. Mother, come to
me,--I'm sick!"--and the girl rose and threw out her arms wildly.
The Sister passed her arm round her tenderly and spoke with a gentle
authority, making her lie down again.
Then, in a sweet low voice, she began singing a hymn:
    "Jesus, lover of my soul,
      Let me to thy bosom fly,
    While the billows near me roll,
      While the tempest still is high."
As she sung, the dark sad eyes fixed themselves upon her with a vague,
troubled questioning. The Sister went on:
    "Hide me, O my Saviour, hide,
      Till the storm of life is past,
    Safe into the haven guide,
      Oh, receive my soul at last."
It was just day-dawn, and the patient had waked from a temporary
stupor produced by a narcotic which had been given a few hours before
to compose her.
The purple-and-rose color of dawn was just touching faintly everything
in the room. Another Sister entered softly, to take the place of the
one who had watched for the last four hours.
"How is she?" she said.
"Quite out of her head, poor thing. Her fever is very high."
"We must have the doctor," said the other. "She looks like a very sick
girl."
"That she certainly is. She slept, under the opiate, but kept
starting, and frowning, and muttering in her sleep; and this morning
she waked quite wild."
"She must have got dreadfully chilled, walking so late in the
street--so poorly clad, too!"
With this brief conversation, the second sister assumed her place by
the bedside, and the first went to get some rest in her own room.
As day grew brighter, the singing of the matins in the chapel came
floating up in snatches; and the sick girl listened to it with the
same dazed and confused air of inquiry with which she looked on all
around.
"Who is singing," she said to herself. "It's pretty, and good. But how
came I here? I was so cold, so cold--out there!--and now it's so hot.
Oh, my head! my head!"
A few hours later, Mr. St. John called at the Refuge to inquire after
the new inmate.
Mr. St. John was one of the patrons of the Sisters. He had contributed
liberally to the expenses of the present establishment, and stood at
all times ready to assist with influence and advice.
The Refuge was, in fact, by the use of its dormitories, a sort of
receiving station for homeless and desolate people, where they might
find temporary shelter, where their wants might be inquired into, and
help found for them according to their need.
After the interview with Bolton had made him acquainted with the
state of the case, Mr. St. John went immediately to the Refuge. He
was received in the parlor by a sweet-faced, motherly woman, with
her white cap and black robe, and with a large black cross depending
from her girdle. There was about her an air of innocent sanctity and
seclusion from the out-door bustle of modern life that was refreshing.
She readily gave him an account of the new inmate, whose sad condition
had excited the sympathy of all the Sisters.
She had come to them, she said, in a state of most woeful agitation
and distress, having walked the streets on a freezing night till
a late hour, in very insufficient clothing. Immediately on being
received, she began to have violent chills, followed by burning fever,
and had been all night tossing restlessly and talking wildly.
This morning, they had sent for the doctor, who pronounced her in a
brain fever, and in a condition of great danger. She was still out of
her mind, and could give no rational account of herself.
"It is piteous to hear her call upon her mother," said the Sister.
"Poor child! perhaps her mother is distressing herself about her."
Mr. St. John promised to secure the assistance and sympathy of some
benevolent women to aid the Sisters in their charge, and took his
leave, promising to call daily.
CHAPTER XXIV.
EVA TO HARRY'S MOTHER
MY DEAR MOTHER: When I wrote you last we were quite
prosperous, having just come through with our first evening as a
great success; and everybody since has been saying most agreeable
things to us about it. Last Thursday, we had our second, and it was
even pleasanter than the last, because people had got acquainted, so
that they really wanted to see each other again. There was a most
charming atmosphere of ease and sociability. Bolton and Mr. St. John
are getting quite intimate. Mr. St. John, too, develops quite a fine
social talent, and has come out wonderfully. The side of a man that
one sees in the church and the pulpit is after all only one side, as
we have discovered. I find that he has quite a gift in conversation,
when you fairly get him at it. Then, his voice for singing comes into
play, and he and Angie and Dr. Campbell and Alice make up a quartette
quite magnificent for non-professionals. Angie has a fine soprano,
and Alice takes the contralto, and the Doctor, with his great broad
shoulders and deep chest, makes a splendid bass. Mr. St. John's tenor
is really very beautiful. It is one of those penetrating, sympathetic
voices that indicate both feeling and refinement, and they are all
of them surprised and delighted to find how well they go together.
Thursday evening they went on from thing to thing, and found that they
could sing this and that and the other, till the evening took a good
deal the form of a musical. But never mind, it brought them acquainted
with each other and made them look forward to the next reunion as
something agreeable. Ever since, the doctor goes round humming tunes,
and says he wants St. John to try the tenor of this and that, and
really has quite lost sight of his being anything else but a musical
brother. So here is the common ground I wanted to find between them.
The doctor has told Mr. St. John to call on him whenever he can make
him useful in his visits among the poor. Our doctor loves to talk as
if he were a hard-hearted, unbelieving pirate, who didn't care a straw
for his fellow-creatures, while he loses no opportunity to do anybody
or anything a kindness.
You know I told you in my last letter about a girl that Harry and
Bolton found in the street, the night of our first reception, and
that they took her to the St. Barnabas Refuge. The poor creature has
been lying there ever since, sick of a brain fever, caught by cold
and exposure, and Dr. Campbell has given his services daily. If she
had been the richest lady in the land, he could not have shown more
anxiety and devotion to her than he has, calling twice and sometimes
three times a day, and one night watching nearly all night. She is
still too low and weak to give any account of herself; all we know
of her is that she is one of those lost sheep, to seek whom the Good
Shepherd would leave the ninety nine who went not astray. I have been
once or twice to sit by her, and relieve the good Sisters who have so
much else to do; and Angelique and Alice have also taken their turns.
It seems very little for us to do, when these good women spend all
their time and all their strength for those who have no more claim on
them than they have on us.
It is a week since I began this letter, and something quite surprising
to me has just developed.
I told you we had been to help nurse the poor girl at the Sisters',
and the last week she has been rapidly mending. Well, yesterday, as
I didn't feel very well, and my Mary is an excellent nurse, I took
her there to sit with the patient in my place, when a most strange
scene ensued. The moment Mary looked on her, she recognized her own
daughter, who had left her some years ago with a bad man. Mary had
never spoken to me of this daughter, and I only knew, in a sort
of general way, that she had left her mother under some painful
circumstances. The recognition was dreadfully agitating to Mary and
to the poor girl; indeed, for some time it was feared that the shock
would produce a relapse. The Sisters say that the poor thing has been
constantly calling for her mother in her distress.
It really seemed, for the time, as if Mary were going to be wholly
unnerved. She has a great deal of that respectable pride of family
character which belongs to the better class of the Irish, and it has
been a bitter humiliation to her to have to acknowledge her daughter's
shame to me; but I felt that it would relieve her to tell the whole
story to some one, and I drew it all out of her. This poor Maggie had
the misfortune to be very handsome. She was so pretty as a little
girl, her mother tells me, as to attract constant attention; and I
rather infer that the father and mother both made a pet and plaything
of her, and were unboundedly indulgent. The girl grew up handsome,
and thoughtless, and self-confident, and so fell an easy prey to a
villain who got her to leave her home, on a promise of marriage which
he never kept. She lived with him a while in one place and another,
and he became tired of her and contrived to place her in a house of
evil, where she was entrapped and enslaved for a long time. Having by
some means found out where her mother was living, she escaped from
her employers, and hung round the house irresolutely for some time,
wishing but fearing to present herself, and when she spoke to Harry
in the street, the night after our party, she was going in a wild,
desperate way to ask something about her mother--knowing that he was
the man with whom she was living.
Such seems to be her story; but I suppose, what with misery and cold,
and the coming on of the fever, the poor thing hardly had her senses,
or knew what she was about--the fever must have been then upon her.
So you see, dear mother, I was wishing in my last that I could go off
with Sibyl Selwyn on her mission to the lost sheep, and now here is
one brought to my very door. Is not this sent to me as my work? as if
the good Lord had said, "No, child, your feet are not strong enough
to go over the stones and briars, looking for the lost sheep; you are
not able to take them out of the jaws of the wolf; but here is a poor
wounded lamb that I leave at your door--that is your part of the great
work." So I understand it, and I have already told Mary that as soon
as Maggie is able to sit up, we will take her home with us, and let
her stay with us till she is strong and well, and then we will try and
put her back into good respectable ways, and keep her from falling
again.
I think persons in our class of life cannot be too considerate of
the disadvantages of poor working women in the matter of bringing up
children.
A very beautiful girl in that walk of life is exposed to solicitation
and temptation that never come near to people in our stations. We are
guarded on all hands by our very position. I can see in this poor
child the wreck of what must have been very striking beauty. Her hair
is lovely, her eyes are wonderfully fine, and her hands, emaciated as
she is, are finely formed and delicate. Well, being beautiful, she
was just like any other young girl--her head was turned by flattery.
She was silly and foolish, and had not the protections and barriers
that are around us, and she fell. Well, then, we that have been more
fortunate must help her up. Is it not so?
So, dear Mother, my mission work is coming to me. I need not go out
for it. I shall write more of this in a day or two.
     Ever yours,
          EVA.
CHAPTER XXV.
AUNT MARIA ENDEAVORS TO SET MATTERS RIGHT.
Mrs. Maria Wouvermans was one of those forces in creation to whom
quiet is impossible. Watchfulness, enterprise and motion were the laws
of her existence, as incessantly operating as any other laws of nature.
When we last saw her, she was in high ill-humor with her sister, Mrs.
Van Arsdel, with Alice and Eva, and the whole family. She revenged
herself upon them, as such good creatures know how to do, by heaping
coals of fire on their heads in the form of ostentatiously untiring
and uncalled-for labors for them all. The places she explored to get
their laces mended and their quillings done up and their dresses
made, the pilgrimages she performed in omnibuses, the staircases she
climbed, the men and women whom she browbeat and circumvented in
bargains--all to the advantage of the Van Arsdel purse--were they
not recounted and told over in a way to appall the conscience of
poor, easy Mrs. Van Arsdel, whom they summarily convicted of being
an inefficient little know-nothing, and of her girls, who thus stood
arraigned for the blackest ingratitude in not appreciating Aunt Maria?
"I'll tell you what it is, Alice," said Eva, when Aunt Maria's labors
had come to the usual climax of such smart people, and laid her up
with a sick-headache, "we girls have just got to make up with Aunt
Maria, or she'll tear down all New York. I always notice that when
she's out with us she goes tearing about in this way, using herself up
for us--doing things no mortal wants her to do, and yet that it seems
black ingratitude not to thank her for. Now, Alice, you are the one,
this time, and you must just go and sit with her and make up, as I
did."
"But, Eva, I know the trouble you fell into, letting her and mother
entangle you with Wat Sydney, and I'm not going to have it happen
again. I will not be compromised in any way or shape with a man whom I
never mean to marry."
"Oh, well, I think by this time Aunt Maria understands this, only she
wants you to come back and be loving to her, and say you're sorry you
can't, etc. After all, Aunt Maria is devoted to us and is miserable
when we are out with her."
"Well, I hate to have friends that one must be always bearing with and
deferring to."
"Well, Alice, you remember Mr. St. John's sermons on the trials of the
first Christians--when he made us all feel that it would have been a
blessed chance to go to the stake for our religion?"
"Yes; it was magnificent. I felt a great exaltation."
"Well, I'll tell you what I thought. It may be as heroic, and more
difficult, to put down our own temper and make the first concession to
an unreasonable old aunt who really loves us than to be martyrs for
Christ. Nobody wants us to be martyrs now-a-days; but I think these
things that make no show and have no glory are a harder cross to take
up."
"Well, Eva, I'll do as you say," said Alice, after a few moments
of silence, "for really you speak the truth. I don't know anything
harder than to go and make concessions to a person who has acted
as ridiculously as Aunt Maria has, and who will take all your
concessions and never own a word on her side."
"Well, dear, what I think in these cases is, that I am not perfect.
There are always enough things where I didn't do quite right for me to
confess; and as to her confessing, that's not my affair. What I
have to do is to cut loose from my own sins; they are mine, and hers
are hers."
"True," said Alice; "and the fact is, I did speak improperly to Aunt
Maria. She is older than I am. I ought not to have said the things I
did. I'm hot tempered, and always say more than I mean."
"Well, Ally, do as I did--confess everything you can think of and then
say, as I did, that you must still be firm upon one point; and, depend
upon it, Aunt Maria will be glad to be friends again."
This conversation had led to an amelioration which caused Aunt Maria
to appear at Eva's second reunion in her best point lace and with
her most affable company manners, whereby she quite won the heart
of simple Mrs. Betsey Benthusen, and was received with patronizing
civility by Miss Dorcas. That good lady surveyed Mrs. Wouvermans with
an amicable scrutiny as a specimen of a really creditable production
of modern New York life. She took occasion to remark to her sister
that the Wouvermans were an old family of unquestioned position, and
that really Mrs. Wouvermans had acquired quite the family air.
Miss Dorcas was one of those people who sit habitually on thrones of
judgment and see the children of this world pass before them, with but
one idea, to determine what she should think of them. What they were
likely to think of her, was no part of her concern. Her scrutinies and
judgments were extremely quiet, tempered with great moderation and
Christian charity, and were so seldom spoken to anybody else that
they did no one any harm.
She was a spectator at the grand theater of life; it interested and
amused her to watch the acting, but she kept her opinions, for the
most part, to herself. The reunions at Eva's were becoming most
interesting to her as widening her sphere of observation. In fact,
her intercourse with her sister could hardly be called society, it
was so habitually that of a nurse with a patient. She said to her, of
the many things which were in her mind, only those which she thought
she could bear. She was always planning to employ Mrs. Betsey's mind
with varied occupations to prevent her sinking into morbid gloom,
and to say only such things of everybody and everything to her as
would tranquilize and strengthen her. To Miss Dorcas, the little
white-haired lady was still the beautiful child of past days--the
indiscreet, flighty, pretty pet, to be watched, nursed, governed,
restrained and cared for. As for conversation, in the sense of an
unrestricted speaking out of thoughts as they arose, it was long since
Miss Dorcas had held it with any human being. The straight, tall old
clock in the corner was not more lonely, more self-contained and
reticent.
The next day after the re-union, Aunt Maria came at the appointed
hour, with all due pomp and circumstance, to make her call upon the
two sisters, and was received in kid gloves in the best parlor,
properly darkened, so that the faces of the parties could scarcely
be seen; and then the three remarked upon the weather, the state
of the atmosphere to-day and its probable state to-morrow. Mrs.
Wouvermans was properly complimented upon her niece's delightful
re-unions; whereat she drew herself up with suitable modesty, as one
who had been the source and originator of it all--claiming property
in charming Mrs. Henderson as the girl of her bringing up, the work
of her hands, the specimen of her powers, marshalled and equipped by
