had plunged into a sea of debt, and was already struggling for life in
the waves.
I did think of calling upon my uncle, but I rejected the suggestion on
the instant, for I could not listen to the storm of invectives he would
heap upon me; and, besides, he would tell my Aunt Rachel, and thus give
her a bad opinion of me. The old lady might disinherit me as a “fast
boy.”
Buckleton had offered to take a mortgage on my furniture for security.
This seemed to be the most practicable solution of the problem which
had yet presented itself. But what was the use of mortgaging the
property when I could pay the debt as soon as I had seen Aunt Rachel?
Besides, if there was a man on the face of the footstool whom I hated
with all my mind, heart and soul, that man was Buckleton. He had
induced me to purchase more extensively than I intended by holding out
to me the most liberal terms of credit. Now, in less than a month, he
was putting the twisters upon me. I regarded him as a treacherous and
unfeeling man; one without a soul; one who would sell his friend for
sixpence. I despised him from the deepest depths of my heart, and the
idea of asking a favor of him, or even of having a word to say to him,
was utterly repulsive to me. I could not see him; I could only treat
him with cold and dignified contempt.
Perhaps it was not becoming in one situated as I was to put on such
airs, or to attempt to save my dignity. I could not help it. I was
proud—I wish I had been too proud to do a wrong deed. There appeared
to be no resource to which I could turn for immediate relief. Of the
fifteen hundred dollars for which I had decided to ask my aunt, I was
perfectly sure. If the old lady hesitated, I could tell her that ruin
stared me in the face, that I should be compelled to run away, and
never show my face about Boston again, if I did not obtain this money.
I was satisfied this threat would bring the money, if nothing else did.
I could assure her it would be all the same with her. I would pay her
the highest rate of interest, and return the principal in a short time.
If she wished it, I could give her security on my furniture for the
amount.
I was sure of the money from her. Why should I be distressed for the
want of it during the few days that must elapse before I could see her?
There was no reason, in my estimation. I need not inform the reader
that by this time I meditated taking another loan from the bank funds
in my keeping. I could borrow eleven hundred more, thus making my total
indebtedness to the bank fifteen hundred. A few days, or even a week
hence, I should receive the loan from Aunt Rachel, and I could slip the
whole amount in the drawer. Then I should be square with the bank. Then
no one would have the power to distress me.
Two o’clock came, and the bank closed. With far less compunction than
I had experienced on the former occasion, I took eleven hundred dollars
from my drawer as I transferred the cash to the safe. I did not go
through with the idle formality of depositing a memorandum in my trunk
with the money. It was a loan for a few days, which Aunt Rachel would
enable me to pay. I will not say that I did not tremble—I did. I did
not persuade myself that the act was right, only that I intended no
wrong. I called the deed simply an “irregularity.” It was not stealing,
embezzlement, or any other ugly thing with a savage name. I had the
money in my pocket, and I think this fact was the basis of all the
arguments I used in persuading myself that I had not done a very wicked
act.
As soon as I had balanced my cash I left the bank and hastened home. I
need not say that Lilian was in a tempest of excitement, in spite of my
consoling note. The horrible keeper sat in the dining-room, reading the
morning paper, and apparently unconscious of the misery he had brought
to my house. He was polite and gentlemanly, and I was magnanimous
enough to treat him with consideration. I inquired into the particulars
of the case, and proposed to settle the claim at once. He had no
authority to settle it, and referred me to Messrs. Shiver & Sharp,
attorneys, in Court Street, who had procured the writ.
Dinner was nearly ready, and I invited the keeper to dine with me. He
was condescending enough to accept, and while we sat at the table I did
some large talking, in which I was particularly severe upon Buckleton,
and particularly complimentary to Glasswood, the latter of whom was
a highly honorable man, who had been grossly wronged by the former.
Buckleton had put on the attachment out of spite. Glasswood had always
paid his debts fairly and squarely, but would not be imposed upon.
After dinner I rushed down to the office of Messrs. Shiver & Sharp.
I was indignant and savage, but I was magnificent. I rolled out the
hundred-dollar bills with a perfect looseness. I did not even dispute
the costs. I paid all, to the utmost penny demanded. Then I talked
about the insult, the stain upon my honor, and dilated upon kindred
topics, but I fear I failed to make any strong impression upon the
astute Mr. Sharp, who conducted the business. He was polite, but he was
cold. He gave me a note to the keeper, which I delivered on my return
to Needham Street, and which caused his immediate departure, after he
had carefully examined the well-known signature of the legal firm.
“Such things are unpleasant, Lilian, but I suppose they have happened
to almost all men at one time or another,” I remarked, as soon as the
door had closed upon our unwelcome guest.
“I never was so frightened before in my life,” she replied with a deep
sigh, indicative of the relief she felt.
“It was a miserable trick! It was too mean for any decent man to be
guilty of.”
“But did you really owe this Buckleton?”
“I did really owe him about eight hundred dollars, but he told me at
the time I bought the furniture to pay him whenever it was convenient.
It was not convenient to pay him to-day, and he sued me. You know,
my dear, that when one has money comfortably invested, drawing large
interest, one does not like to disturb it, at least, just before
dividends are payable.”
“It’s too bad!” exclaimed Lilian, warmly, her pretty face beaming with
sympathy; and she actually believed that the indefinite pronoun I had
used in my description represented myself.
“Well, Lilian, what have you done about the party?” I inquired, rather
anxious to change the topic, lest she should desire to know more of my
financial affairs.
“I have seen Smith, and made all the arrangements for next Friday
evening. As it is to be a house-warming, we must not put it off too
long. But, dear me, when I came home, and found this awful man here, I
was so alarmed that I was on the point of countermanding the order I
had given.”
“It’s all right now. But you must hurry up your invitations.”
“There is time enough for them. We will prepare the list this evening.
But, Paley, what shall we do for a piano? It will be very awkward to be
without a piano on such an occasion. Besides, people will think we are
nobody if we don’t have one.”
“That’s very true, Lilian,” I replied, somewhat startled by the
proposition. “But I’m afraid we can hardly afford to buy one just yet.
Such a one as I want would cost five hundred dollars.”
“A cheaper one will do.”
“But it is bad economy to buy a cheap one. In the course of six months
or a year I shall be able to buy a good one.”
“We must have one for this party.”
“I will see what can be done before Friday.”
“And, Paley, you furnished the house beautifully, but there is just one
thing for the parlor that you forgot,” continued Lilian, bestowing upon
me her most winning smile.
“What is that?”
“An étagère. It would set off the parlor more than all the rest of
the furniture.”
“But it would cost about a hundred dollars.”
“I would rather do without many other things than not have an
étagère,” replied Lilian, beginning to look very sad.
“Will you go down town and look at some of them?” said I, looking as
amiable as though I had not borrowed fifteen hundred dollars of the
bank.
“Dear me! I can’t go this afternoon. I have everything to do. But your
taste is so good, Paley, that you can buy one just as well without me.”
I left the house for the purpose of obtaining a piano and an étagère.
Buckleton had showed me the latter article, and insisted that my house
would not be furnished without it. I had positively refused to buy it,
for two reasons. First, because I could not afford it; and, second,
because no one could pronounce the name of the thing. I confess that
it seemed to be a greater sin to place such a piece of furniture where
plain Yankees would be tempted to utter its name, than it was to
indulge in criminal extravagance. Lilian’s French had been neglected,
and she made a bad botch of the word, but I decided to instruct her in
the difficult task of pronouncing the word.
I went to a pianoforte house. The book-keeper made his deposits and
drew his checks over our counter. I knew him. He showed me a five
hundred dollar instrument. It suited me—the piano, not the price. A
lower-priced one did not meet my views. I proposed an arrangement with
the concern, that I would hire the instrument with the intention of
purchasing if it suited me. One of the firm was consulted. Perhaps he
knew that persons who once indulged in a luxury would not willingly
give it up. He consented to let it for three months, with the privilege
of purchasing at the end of that time. It was ordered to my house. The
piano was provided for at an expense of twenty-five dollars, if not
bought, for three months.
The étagère was a more difficult matter. I could not hire one, and
I did not like to pay a hundred dollars for such a useless piece of
furniture; but there was no alternative. Lilian had said she must have
one. I had nearly three hundred dollars in my pocket, but with this sum
I intended to pay Smith, and get rid of my “floating debt,” so that I
should owe no one but Aunt Rachel. But Smith’s bill could not be over a
hundred dollars, at the most extravagant figure, and I thought I could
spare enough for the étagère.
I went to a store near Buckleton’s. While I was looking at the
étagère my late creditor came into the store. I was just closing the
bargain at ninety-five dollars. Buckleton had heard from his lawyer,
and was glad to meet me. I was glad to have him see me purchase this
piece of furniture. He spoke to me. I did not answer him. He attempted
to apologize. I did not look at him. I closed my bargain, and asked for
the bill. Buckleton was evidently vexed, and felt as any man does when
he has lost a customer. I enjoyed it.
“I will sell you that same article for seventy-five dollars,” he
whispered in my ear, just before I closed the bargain.
“I would not take it, if you would give it to me,” I replied.
“I think I made a mistake to-day.”
“The mistake of your lifetime,” I retorted. “Don’t speak to me again. I
despise you.”
I stalked out of his reach, paid my bill, and went home. In the evening
Lilian and I made out the list of invitations. Of course I could not
overrule Lilian’s decisions, and not less than fifty were invited—all
our house would hold. It included my rich friend’s family, and I began
to tremble for the result.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE HOUSE-WARMING.
[Illustration]
THE next day the piano and the étagère came, and were duly disposed
of in our pretty parlor. I could not help agreeing with Lilian that
both of them were absolutely necessary to the proper appointment of the
room. After she had covered the étagère with a variety of articles,
most of which had to be purchased for the purpose, the effect was
pleasing.
The piano filled a waiting space; and really there seemed to be nothing
more to wish for in this world. Lilian played a few tunes on the new
instrument, and my home seemed to be invested with a new charm. Beyond
the party, I looked forward to pleasant hours when our friends should
gather in this room on Sunday evening to sing sacred music, for which
Tom Flynn had a decided partiality.
On Friday morning I went to the bank as usual. When I returned, Smith
had taken possession of the house, and was making his arrangements
for the grand occasion in the evening. I am bound to say that he made
but little fuss for so great an affair. When the evening came, a
colored gentleman in white cotton gloves was stationed at the door,
and more waiters were disposed of in other parts of the house. People
came—every body Lilian had invited, except those she wanted most, viz:
my wealthy friend from Beacon Street, with his family. They did not
come, and I had not supposed they would.
Mrs. Oliphant came, and certainly this was a triumph. Lilian felt that
she had outgeneralled her mother, and conquered a peace. I am afraid
it required a desperate struggle on the part of “dear ma” to yield the
point, and I could only guess at the consideration which induced her to
come down from the “high horse.” But she was stiff and magnificent at
first. She did not seem to enjoy the affair, and looked upon me as an
ogre who had defeated all her cherished plans.
Miss Bertha came, and so did Tom; and early in the evening I was not
a little surprised to hear the piano giving out the solemn notes of
Peterboro and Hebron, sung by a large portion of the company. The
instrument was pronounced excellent. Bertha sang like a nightingale,
and I am not sure that the piano did not cement a regard which
ultimately transformed the fair pianist into Mrs. Tom Flynn.
Everything went well, and at eleven o’clock Smith’s supper was
uncovered. When I saw the stores with which the table was loaded, I was
afraid that the expense would spoil the face of a hundred dollar bill.
A little later, when champagne, Madeira and sherry were produced, I was
somewhat troubled. Reading the dates on the bottles, I was absolutely
alarmed.
“I did not think you intended to have wine, Lilian,” I remarked, rather
seriously.
“Not have wine!” exclaimed she, after she had imbibed a glass of
champagne. “Why, it would be no party at all without wine. I told Smith
to bring the best, and plenty of it.”
He had evidently done so, and I groaned in spirit.
“Tom Flynn don’t drink wine,” I added.
“Let him drink coffee, then. We can suit his taste.”
“He thinks it is wicked to furnish wine.”
“Well, he can have the full benefit of his opinion,” laughed Lilian,
whose tongue flew merrily under the stimulus of the wine she had drank.
Mrs. Oliphant took champagne, and warmed up under its influence. She
became quite sociable, and even forgiving. I was very glad to see that
Miss Bertha, for some reason best known to herself, did not partake of
the generous beverage. I am not sure that it was not the prospect of
disposing of another of her incumbrances quite as much as the influence
of the champagne which melted Mrs. Oliphant. Certainly Miss Bertha’s
chances were very flattering. Psalmody seemed to have done its perfect
work.
Tom looked very serious when the wine began to flow in rivers of
profusion. He did not like it, and he seemed to be out of his element.
While most of the party were eating and drinking in the hall, dining
and sitting-rooms, I heard the voices of Bertha and Tom mingling with
the notes of the piano in a sacred song. They were alone in the parlor,
preferring to be away from the noisy revel over the wine cup.
Smith’s stores of champagne and Madeira seemed to be inexhaustible,
and when the clock struck one, some of the party, not excluding a few
of the ladies, were in an exceedingly happy frame of mind. Then a
dance was proposed, and Tom and Bertha were driven from the parlor. A
gentleman played and called the changes. My good friend was actually
scandalized by the orgies of the revellers. He never danced; he did not
believe in it. Bertha appeared to sympathize with him, though this was
not in accordance with her antecedents.
Wine was brought up to the parlor, and the dance went on, though some
of my guests were slightly unsteady in their movements. I was shocked
to see how wild Lilian was, and I mentally decided that no wine should
ever be brought into my house again, for the occasion was now nothing
but a revel. Some of the older of the party proposed to go home, and
Tom joined them. Miss Bertha was attended to her house by him. When
everybody was worn out, the party broke up, and all went away. Lilian
dropped into her bed exhausted, and in a measure stupefied. As the
hostess, she had been compelled to imbibe oftener than she desired,
and really I was grieved to see her in this condition. After all was
still, I went through the rooms to see that the windows were secure
and the lights put out. I was shocked when I saw what damage had been
done to the furniture. The carpets were stained with wine, ice cream
and cake; the new piano was scratched and discolored, and the cloth
greased. Besides the cost of this house-warming, whatever it might be,
the damages could not be less than three hundred dollars.
At daylight I went to bed, sick at heart. I doubted whether the
hundred and fifty dollars in my pocket would pay the bills, and I was
miserable. I was in debt at least twenty-five hundred dollars. Lilian
slept heavily after the night’s debauch. But I could not sleep. What
if the bank should discover what I had done? What would the world say
the next day, when the particulars of my party were known? for I was
satisfied they could not be concealed.
At seven o’clock I got up, my head aching fearfully, for I had not
wholly spared the champagne. I was positively miserable. I intended
to visit Springhaven that day, and secure the loan from Aunt Rachel.
It was not safe to let the matter stand any longer. I went to the
bank, and with a throbbing brow attended to my duties. Tom looked very
serious, but he did not say any thing to me. Probably he thought I was
going to ruin rapidly, not because I had appropriated the funds of the
bank, but because I furnished wine to my guests.
The news of my party had not yet been circulated, and I was spared any
allusion to it. When I went home I found Lilian had not risen from
her bed. She was quite sick. Biddy had done what she could to restore
the house to its wonted order, but it was still in confusion. I could
not go to Springhaven that day. By Monday morning Lilian was able to
get up, and was herself again. She was even willing to acknowledge
that such parties “do not pay.” I am sure I enjoyed our little Sunday
evening gatherings, when Tom and Bertha sang sacred music, much better.
When I went to the bank on Monday, I found Smith’s bill enclosed in an
envelope. I was afraid to open it at first, but when I did so my worst
fears were more than confirmed. The total was three hundred and fifty
dollars, of which two-thirds was for champagne, Madeira and sherry. I
was appalled and terrified. It must be promptly paid, or Smith would be
dunning me. I was short two hundred dollars.
I read the bill a second time, and I was absolutely in despair. My
month’s salary, when paid, would not make up the deficiency; and I had
all my house bills to provide for, which would take up the whole sum.
I was running blindly before the wind to destruction. My extravagance
would ruin me in a short time. But it was no use to cry. I was in the
scrape, and I must get out of it.
My hopeful tendencies came to my aid. With careful economy I could
soon pay my debts. A bright idea flashed through my excited brain.
Would it not be just as easy to induce Aunt Rachel to lend me two
thousand dollars as fifteen hundred? It was a brilliant thought, in my
estimation. Five hundred dollars could make no difference to her, if
the interest was punctually paid. It was a plain case. If the old lady
did not promptly meet my views, I could frighten her into acquiescence.
All right! The two thousand was sure enough.
I did not think I should be able to go to Springhaven before Saturday,
and I did not care to receive a dunning visit from Smith. I might
as well “be hung for an old sheep as a lamb.” I could borrow five
hundred more from the bank, with no greater risk than I had already
incurred—and I did so! My cash was then two thousand short; but before
another week had passed, I should get the money from Aunt Rachel, and
make good the deficit.
I called upon Smith, and paid the bill. I did not venture to suggest
that it was more than I had expected it would be. With so much money
in my pocket I felt rich again, and did not bother my head to consider
how I had obtained it. I went home in better spirits than for a week.
I talked pleasantly and magnificently to Lilian. I had even forgotten
my good resolution to practise a rigid economy, for with three hundred
dollars in cash in my pocket, it no longer seemed necessary.
Lilian, too, was in excellent spirits. She was very affectionate,
and when I sat down on the sofa after supper, she seated herself
beside me, and told me how happy she was in her new home, and how
glad she was that I had compelled her to move into it. With my head
upon her shoulder and her arm around my neck she told me how kind
and indulgent, how tender and affectionate I had always been, and
then—added that she had not had a new dress since we were married!
Mrs. Gordon Grahame had just come out in a splendid black silk; Lilian
had never had a black silk, and she wanted one just like it.
“How much will it cost, Lilian?” I asked, rather startled by this
ultra-affectionate turn in the conversation.
“You won’t be angry with me, Paley—will you?”
“Of course I won’t be angry with you, Lilian,” I laughed.
“But I have been very economical with clothes.”
“I know you have, my dear; and I haven’t a word of fault to find. I
only asked how much the black silk would cost.”
“I can’t tell exactly what it will cost,” she answered, biting her
finger nails, as though she feared even to express an opinion.
“Will it cost fifty dollars?” I asked, thinking I was placing it high.
“Fifty dollars! Why, what an ignoramus you are, Paley!” tinkled she, in
the most silvery of tones. “You don’t think I can buy a black silk such
as a lady would wear for fifty dollars, do you?”
“Well, I don’t know any thing about it,” I replied, abashed at my own
ignorance. “Will a hundred do it?”
“Hardly. I can’t tell precisely what it will cost, but I think Mrs.
Gordon Grahame’s did not cost less than a hundred and twenty. Don’t be
angry with me, Paley. Don’t look so cold!”
“I am neither angry nor cold, dearest,” I answered, pulling out my
portmonnaie, and taking therefrom one hundred and fifty dollars, which
I handed to her.
It was the half I had left of what I had stolen that day—for, in the
light of after days, I may as well call the act by its true name. I
could not bear to have her accuse me of being angry, or of being cold,
or of grudging her any thing I had, or any thing I could get.
“O, thank you, Paley! How generous you are!” she exclaimed, giving me a
rapturous kiss.
She was satisfied, and so was I. We talked and read and played
backgammon till ten o’clock.
“Paley, won’t you take a glass of wine?” she asked. “We had some left
the other night.”
“I don’t care, Lilian. Did I tell you how much that party cost?”
“No.”
I told her.
“I think that was quite reasonable, considering what we had. The
champagne was splendid, and the Madeira had been to India three
times—so Smith said.”
She brought a bottle of sherry. It was old and strong. I was rather
startled to see her take two glasses within a few minutes of each
other, and I wished there was no wine in the house. We went to bed
happy, and no thought of the future disturbed me.
The following Saturday was the last day of the month, and I was
detained at the bank so late that I could not go to Springhaven. I did
not like to leave while others remained, for I did not know but Mr.
Bristlebach might take it into his head to overhaul my cash again. The
next Monday I learned that Aunt Rachel was very sick, had been attacked
with paralysis. I went down to see her that night. She was almost
senseless, and I could not talk with her. But she might die in a few
days, and then her money would all be mine—I hoped; for it did not yet
appear that she had made a will.
Two or three days later, my uncle, Captain Halliard, came into the bank
just as we were closing. He looked particularly grim and savage.
“Paley, your aunt is very sick,” said he.
“I know she is, but I hope she will get better,” I replied, perhaps
stretching the truth no more than many people do under such
circumstances.
“I am attending to her affairs, as usual.”
I bowed, and wondered what was coming.
“I found among her papers a note for a thousand dollars, signed by
you,” he added, taking the document from his pocket.
My heart came up into my throat. What was he driving at?
