Then as the lady took a piece of cake, she remarked casually:
'I think I saw an old acquaintance of mine with you--Dane
Rollo, was it not?'
'Mr. Rollo? Yes.'
'He has not been to see me since he came home--I shall quarrel
with him. I wonder if he has been to Mrs. Powder's. Mr.
Falkirk, don't you think Dane had a great penchant for one of
Mrs. Powder's beautiful daughters before he went abroad?'
'I am not in the confidence of either party, madam,' replied
Mr. Falkirk.
'If he had he would have taken her with him,' said another of
the party.
'O that don't follow, you know. Maybe her mother thought she
was too young--or he, perhaps. She is a beautiful girl.'
'Not my style of beauty,' said the languid lady with an air of
repulsion.
'What has he been doing in Europe all this time?' pursued Mme.
Lasalle. 'Been to Norway, hasn't he?'
'I believe he went there.'
'He has relations there, Dr. Maryland told me.'
'Dr. Maryland knows,' said Mr. Falkirk.
'Perhaps he will settle in Norway.'
'Perhaps he will.'
'But how dreadful for his wife! Mrs. Powder would not like
that. He's a great favourite of mine, Dane is; but I am afraid
he has rather a reputation for breaking ladies' hearts. What
do you think, Mr. Falkirk? He is welcome everywhere. Maybe
it's Norwegian fashion; but I think Dr. Maryland is very
imprudent to let him come into his house again--if he does. Do
you know the Marylands, my dear?' turning to Wych Hazel again.
'They knew me, long ago,' she said. 'I have been here but two
days now.'
'The daughter--this daughter--is a singular girl, is she not?'
'I do not know--I like her,' said Wych Hazel.
'Oh she's very queer,' said another young lady.
'I have no doubt she is good,' Mme. Lasalle went on; 'no doubt
at all. But I have heard she lives in a strange way--among
children and poor people--going about preaching and making
clothes. A little of that is all very well; I suppose we might
all do more of it, and not hurt ourselves; but is not Miss
Maryland quite an enthusiast?'
Wych Hazel was getting very much amused.
'She was not enthusiastic over me,' she said, 'and I have not
seen her tried with anything else. Where does she preach?'
'You will find her out. Wait till you know her a little
better. She will preach to you, I have no doubt. Prudentia,
Mrs. Coles, is very different. She is really a charming woman.
But my dear Miss Kennedy, we have been here a length of time
that it will not do to talk about. We have had no mercy upon
Mr. Falkirk, for we were determined to see you. Now you must
come and spend the day with me to-morrow, and I'll tell you
everything. We are going on a fishing expedition up the Arrow;
and we want you. And you must come early; for we must take the
cool of the morning to go and the cool of the afternoon to
come back. I'll see you home safe. Come! say yes.'
'I will if Mr. Falkirk does, ma'am, very gladly.'
'Let her go!' whispered another member of the party, who had
been using her eyes more than her tongue.
'Give her a loose rein now, Mr. Falkirk, and hold her in when
Kitty Fisher comes.'
'Pshaw! she isn't under guardianship at that rate,' said Mme.
Lasalle. 'Mr. Falkirk, isn't this lady free yet?'
'I am afraid she never will be, madam.'
'What do you mean by that? But does she have to ask your leave
for everything she does?'
'No one acquainted with the wisdom of Miss Kennedy's general
proceedings would do me so much honour as to think the wisdom
all came from me!' said Mr. Falkirk dryly.
'Well, you'll let her come to Moscheloo?'
'Certainly.'
The lady looked at Wych Hazel. The laughing eyes had grown
suddenly quiet. It was with a very dignified bend of the head
that she repeated Mr. Falkirk's assent.
'I shall not ask you,' said the lady to Miss Kennedy's
guardian; 'it is a young party entirely, and must mot have too
much wisdom, you understand. I'll bring her home.'
'I am no sportsman, madam,' said Mr. Falkirk with a smile;
'and my wisdom will probably be busy to-morrow in Miss
Kennedy's plantations.'
With that, the train of ladies swept away, with renewed soft
words of pleasure and hope and congratulation. They rustled
softly through the hall, gently spoke ecstasies at the hall
door, mounted upon their horses and got into their carriages,
and departed. Mr. Falkirk came back to his ward in the hall.
'Now that to-morrow is provided for,' he said, 'I should be
glad to hear, Miss Hazel, the history of yesterday. It is
quite impossible to know a story from Dingee's telling of it.
And do you think you could give me some luncheon?'
'Certainly, sir.' She was just disposing of hat and whip upon
a particular pair of chamois horns on the wall. They hung a
little high for her, and she was springing to reach them like
any airiest creature that ever made a spring. 'Perhaps you
will be so kind as to be seated, Mr. Falkirk?--in the dining
room--for a moment. Dingee!'--her voice rang softly out clear as
an oriole. 'Luncheon at once--do you hear, Dingee? Don't keep
Mr. Falkirk waiting.'
Mr. Falkirk stood still looking at all this, and waiting with
an unmoved face.
'Will you excuse my habit, sir? as you are in haste. And am I
to give you the "history" here, all standing?'
'Go! but come,' said Mr. Falkirk. 'We have met only one
division of the enemy yet, my dear.'
She glanced at him, and went off, and was back; all fresh and
dainty and fragrant with the sweet briar at her belt. Then
silently made herself busy with the luncheon; creamed Mr.
Falkirk's chocolate; then suddenly exclaimed:
'Could you make nothing of my version, sir?'
'Not much. Where were you going?'
'I was coming home.'
'From Dr. Maryland's?'
'Not at all, sir. I should have said, I was on my way home,--
and the storm began, and I took a cross road to expedite
matters--and then I grew desperate, and ran into an unknown,
open door, and so found myself at Dr. Maryland's.'
'Very intelligible. My question looked to the beginning of
your expedition.'
'Well, sir--I would rather--but it does not signify. There came
a small Bohemian here in the morning to get help for her sick
mother; and I went. That is all.'
'Who is the mother, Miss Hazel? Where does she live?'
'I don't know her name. And her habitation only when I see it.
All places are alike to me here yet, you know.'
'My dear,' said Mr. Falkirk gravely, 'you must see that, being
so ignorant of people and things in this region, you had
better not make sudden expeditions without taking me into your
confidence. Dingee said you rode the little black mare?'
'True, sir.'
'You did not like her well enough to ride her home?'
'Quite well enough, sir.'
'You did not do it?'
'No,' said Wych Hazel--'that Norwegian pirate took her for his
own use, and I walked.'
'Wouldn't let you ride her, eh?' and a curious gleam came into
Mr. Falkirk's eyes.
' "Wanted to try her first"--and was "bound to be afraid,
though I was not"--and "couldn't answer it to you"--and so forth
and so forth. A man can generally find words enough.'
'Depend upon it, my dear, he generally borrows them of a
woman.' Mr. Falkirk's face relaxed slightly, and he took a
turn across the room; then stood still. 'Why didn't you ride
the cob home?--he is there still, isn't he?'
'I did not choose, sir. I should, if I had been asked
properly.'
'Were you not asked?'
'No, except by having my saddle put on that horse and then not
taking it off.'
'You made the demand?'
'Of course. That is, I told the groom to do it.'
Mr. Falkirk smiled and then laughed, or came as near to
laughing as he often did.
'So you wouldn't ask him into the house? But did you see
anybody else in your yesterday's expedition, my dear?'
She glanced up at him, evidently growing restive under this
cross-questioning.
'I saw Mr. Nightingale.'
'Nightingale!' echoed Mr. Falkirk. 'Where did you see Mr.
Nightingale, Miss Kennedy?'
'In the woods.'
'And what the----. My dear, what were you doing in the woods?'
'Won't you finish your first sentence first, sir? I like to
take things in order.'
Mr. Falkirk's brows drew together; he looked down and then
looked up, awaiting his answer.
'I was doing nothing in the woods, sir, but finding my way
home.'
'How came he to be there? Did he speak to you?'
'Yes, sir, he spoke to me.'
'What did he say?' said Mr. Falkirk, looking very gravely
intent.
'Before we go any further, Mr. Falkirk,' said the girl,
steadily, though she coloured a good deal, 'is it to be your
pleasure in future to know every word that may be said to me?
Because in that case, it will be needful to engage a reporter.
You must see, sir, that I should never be equal to it.'
'My dear,' said Mr. Falkirk slowly, 'we are embarked on a
search after fortune;--which always embraced on my part an
earnest purpose to avoid misfortune.'
'You sit there,' she went on, scarce heeding him, 'and ask me
"where I was" and "where I was going" and "what I said"--as if
I would forget myself among strange people in this strange
place!--And then you take for granted that I would be rude to
one person whom I do know, just because he had vexed me! I did
ask him in, and he wouldn't come. I am unpractised--wild,
maybe--but am I so unwomanly, Mr. Falkirk? Do you think I am?'
It was almost pitiful, the way the young eyes scanned his
face. If Mr. Falkirk had not been a guardian! But he was
steel.
Yet even steel will give forth flashes, and one of those
flashes came from under Mr. Falkirk's brows now. His answer
was very quiet.
'My dear, I think you no more unwomanly than I think a rose
unlovely--but the rose has thorns which sometimes prick the
hands that would train it out of harm's way. And it might
occur even to your inexperience that when a gentleman who does
not know you presumes to address you, he can have nothing to
say which it would not be on several accounts proper for me to
hear.'
Again the colour bloomed up.
'You would know, if you were a woman, Mr. Falkirk, how it
feels to have a man sit and question you with such an air.
Ah,' she said, dashing off the tears which had gathered in her
eyes, 'if you really think I can take no better care of myself
than that, you should not have said I might go with those
people to-morrow!--A rose's thorns are for protection, sir!'--
And away she went, out of the room and up the stairs; and Mr.
Falkirk heard no more till Dingee entered with fruit and
biscuits.
'Missee Hazel hope you'll enjoy yours, sar,--she take her's
upstairs.'
Mr. Falkirk put on his hat and walked down to his house.
It was a slight fiction on the part of Dingee, to say that
Miss Hazel was taking her fruit upstairs; indeed the whole
message was freely translated from her--
'Dingee, attend to Mr. Falkirk's lunch, I don't want any.'
Presently now came Dingee to her with another message.
'Massa Morton--he 'most dyin' to see Miss Hazel--but he wait
till she done had her lunch.'
And she flashed down upon Mr. Morton's eyes, like a prism-
caught-sunbeam. By this time there were two pairs of eyes to
be dazzled. Mr. Dell had made his appearance on the stage.
Mr. Dell was a clergyman, of a different denomination, who
like Mr. Maryland had a church to take care of at Crocus. Mr.
Dell's was a little church at the opposite corner of the
village and society. He himself was a good-hearted, plain man,
with no savour of elegance about him, though with more than
the usual modicum of sense and shrewdness. Appearance
conformable to character. Mr. Morton was not very far from Mr.
Falkirk's range of years, though making more attempts to
conceal the fact. Rich, well educated, well mannered, a little
heavy, he had married very young; and now a widower of twenty
years standing, the sight of Wych Hazel had suggested to him
what a nice thing it would be to be married again. The estates
too suited each other, even touched at one point. With this
gentleman Wych Hazel had some slight acquaintance, and he
introduced Mr. Dell; thinking privately to himself how absurd
it was for such men to come visiting such women.
'I see with pleasure that you have quite recovered from the
fatigues of your journey, Miss Kennedy. A day's rest will
often do wonders.'
'Yes, sir. Especially if you spend a good piece of it on
horseback, as I did.'
'On horseback!' said Mr. Morton, looking doubtful--(he hoped
she was not going to turn out one of those riding damsels, who
went rough shod over all his ideas of propriety.) 'Did you go
out so soon to explore the country?'
'No, sir. I went out on business.'
'Ah!'--(how admirable in so young a person.)
'There is business enough in city or country,' said
straightforward Mr. Dell--'if you are disposed to take hold of
it. Even our little Crocus will give you plenty.'
'All the year round, sir?--or does Crocus go to sleep in the
winter like most other bulbs?'
'It is another species from any that you are acquainted with,
I am afraid,' said the clergyman, looking at her with mingled
curiosity and admiration. 'Bulbs when they go to sleep require
no attention, I believe; but our Crocus wants most of all in
the cold season. We want lady gardeners too,' said Mr. Dell,
following the figure.
'It is a most healthful exercise,' said Mr. Morton, 'and the
slight disadvantages of dress, etc., rather form a pleasant
foil, I think, to the perfection of attire at other times. Are
you fond of gardening, Miss Kennedy?'
'Very fond!' said Miss Kennedy, demurely. 'But that is one of
the times when I like to be particularly perfect in my attire,
Mr. Norton. Why, Mr. Dell, the bulbs must be kept from
freezing, you know, if they are asleep. Isn't Miss Maryland
one of your successful gardeners?'
'Miss Maryland does all she can, madam,' said Mr. Dell,
earnestly. 'She has been the good angel of the village for
five years past.'
'That is just what she looks like,' said Wych, with a glow of
pleasure. 'And I'm going to help her all I can.'
'But do you not think,' said Mr. Morton, with the dubious look
again--'you are talking, I imagine, of Miss Maryland's visits
among the lower classes,--do not you think they make a young
lady too prominent--too public--Mr. Dell? They bring her among
very rough people, Miss Kennedy, I assure you.'
'But, sir, one would not lose the chance of being a good angel
for the fear of being prominent.'
'Or for the fear of anything else,' said Mr. Dell.
'Truly not,' said Mr. Morton. 'But we gentlemen think, Miss
Kennedy, that ladies of a certain stamp can scarcely fail of
so desirable a position.'
'Ah, but I want a pair of bona fide wings!' said Wych Hazel,
and she looked so comically innocent and witch-like that Mr.
Morton forgot all else in admiration; and Mr. Dell looked at
her with all his eyes as he remarked,--
'Not to fly away from the poor and needy--as many of Mr.
Morton's angels do.'
'Do they?' said Wych Hazel,--'where do they fly to? Mr. Morton,
what becomes of your angels?'
'My angels,' said Mr. Morton with some emphasis on the
pronoun, 'would never be in the majority. When I said "ladies
of a certain stamp," I by no means intended to say that the
class was a large one.'
'No, sir, of course not. If the class were large, I should
suppose the stamp would become very uncertain. Mr. Dell, what
does Crocus want most, just now?'
'I should say--angels,' said Mr. Dell. He spoke with a smile,
but with a shrewd and sensible eye withal. He was not a
beauty, but he had mettle in him.
'That's a bad want in the present state of the case, as set
forth by Mr. Morton. Are gold angels good for anything as a
substitute?'
'Good for very little. When I said angels, I spoke of what the
world most wants, as well as Crocus; angels in human form, I
mean, or rather, in their human state of initiation. There is
no substitute. Gold will do something; but nothing of what a
good man or a good woman will do--anywhere.'
'Miss Kennedy,' said Mr. Morton, rising, 'I regret much that a
business appointment calls me away. But if you will indulge
me, I will call again the day after to-morrow, in the
afternoon, and perhaps I may hope for your company on a drive.
You must make acquaintance with this fine region.'
'Thank you'--Wych Hazel hesitated, looking for some retreat,
finally took shelter behind her guardian. 'Thank you, sir, I
will ask Mr. Falkirk.'
'Miss Kennedy,' said Mr. Morton, extending his hand, 'you must
allow me to express my admiration! I wish other young ladies
were so thoughtful and prudent. But if they were, it would not
make your conduct less remarkable.' And Mr. Morton departed,
while Wych Hazel, turning a sharp pirouette on one toe,
dropped into her chair like a thistle down. But all that
appeared to the eyes of Mr. Dell was a somewhat extensive
flutter of muslin. He had no time to remark upon it nor upon
anything else, as there immediately succeeded a flutter of
muslin in another direction, just entering in by the door;
which secondary flutter was furnished by the furbelows of Mrs.
Fellows, the lawyer's wife, and the scarf of Mrs. Dell, the
mother of the clergyman himself. There was no more question
about angels.
CHAPTER XV.
TO MOSCHELOO.
The next morning Mr. Falkirk appeared in the breakfast-room,
as was his very frequent, though not invariable wont.
'I want your orders, Miss Hazel, about horses.'
Hazel--deep in a great wicker tray of flowers--looked up to
consider the question.
'Well, sir,--we want carriage horses of course,--and saddle
horses. And I want a pony carriage.'
'I don't think you need two carriages at present. The pony
carriage would have to have a pony.'
'Yes, sir. Pony carriages, I believe, generally do. I am not
well enough known in the neighbourhood yet to expect other
means of setting my wheels in motion. But if I have nothing
but that, Mr. Falkirk, then you and I can never go together.'
'And if you do not have that, then you could not go alone.'
'Precisely, sir. Mr. Falkirk, don't you want a rose--what shall
I say! --to--do something to your meditations?' And before Mr.
Falkirk had time to breathe, she was down on her knees at his
side, and fastening an exquisite "Duchess of Thuringia" in his
buttonhole.
'Yes, I look like it,' said he grimly, but suffering her
fingers to do their will nevertheless. 'Miss Hazel, if the
princess goes about in a pony carriage, I shall be in daily
expectation of its turning into a pumpkin, and leaving her on
the ground somewhere.'
'No, sir. Not the least fear of your turning into an amiable
godmother,--and you know that was essential.'
'Ponies are ugly things,' said Mr. Falkirk ruefully. 'However,
I'll ask Rollo; and if he can find one, that suits him----'
'Then do let him keep it!' interposed Miss Hazel, facing
round. 'What possible concern of Mr. Rollo's are my horses?'
'Simply that I am going to ask him to choose them. He knows
more about such things than any one else, and I dare say he
will give me his help. I wanted to know your fancy, though
very likely it can't be met, about the other horses; colour
and so forth.'
'Not white--and not black,' said Wych Hazel. 'And not sorrel--
nor cream.'
'That is lucid. You said saddle horses--Ah! what's this?'
It was a little combination of brisk sounds in the hall,
followed by the entrance of Rollo himself in a gray
fisherman's dress. Unless he was very hard to suit he might
have enjoyed the picture now opened before him. The pretty
room, with its garden outlook; the breakfast table, bright and
quaint together, with its old-time furnishings; and flowers
everywhere, arranged and un-arranged. As he came in, Wych
Hazel had just (quite surreptitiously) hung a garland of
pansies on the high carved peak of Mr. Falkirk's chair, and
then dropped into her own place; with a De Rohan rose in the
belt of her gray dress. Not in the least like Roll's gray, but
white with the edge taken off, like a pale cloud.
'So!' she said, looking up at him as he stood beside her,--
'have you come to confess?'
'Not this time. I have come to ask if I may catch some of your
trout--if I can.'
'Not this time! If you wait for another the score will be
heavier.'
'May I have your trout?'
'Really, if they give their consent I will. Good morning, Mr.
Rollo!--will you sit down and let me give you some coffee?'
'As I came for that too, I will, thank you. Will you lend me
Vixen to-day?'
'Why yes--as I am going fishing myself, and so cannot use her,'
said Miss Hazel, giving critical attention to cream and sugar.
'But it is very good of me--after the way you have behaved.'
'It is very good of you. Is that thing all you have got to
ride, except the respectable cob?'
'Half broken, isn't she?' asked Mr. Falkirk.
