'No,' said Hazel, with one of her old witch looks flashing out for a 
moment. 'If your right of way does not cover all the disagreeable 
business, I cannot see what use in the world I can make of it.'
'My right of way?' repeated Dane looking at her.
'Yes. The right to do what you please should be extended to take in 
all that I do not please.'
'Across all which of mine, your right of way, I suppose, takes a 
zigzag track!'
'Underground.'
'It will be dangerous there!' said Dane, his eyes flashing. 'For pity's 
sake, Hazel, keep it aboveground.'
'Collisions are bad things,' said Hazel,'and switching off on a 
side track tries one's patience. But about Mr. Falkirkthere never 
was the least atom of father and daughter between us; he always 
kept me at arm's length. It was one of the trials of my life. And he 
has been just throwing me off more and more,a year ago twenty 
sisters would not have made him leave me alone. And he said 
nothing but unpleasant things before he went,and I should have 
to lay all the blame on you. And in short,' said Hazel summing up, 
'he could not be angry with my letter, and he could with yours,
which would comfort him up.'
Perhaps it was the thought of Hazel's great loneliness that touched 
him, the very remembrance of which he wished to kiss away; 
perhaps something else had its share in the caresses which were as 
tender as they were loving; but then he said softly,
'It would not be the proper thing, Hazel.'
'Well.' A rather long breath gave up the point.
'Don't you see it, Wych?'
'Not quite. But you do not know how he talked before he went 
away.Nor what sort of a letter I shall be sure to write. I shall tell 
him that as it distracted my attention to run counter to two 
people'
'You will write a very gentle and careful one. He loves you very 
much, Hazel. Which was one reason why he was so unwilling that 
you and I should get acquainted.'
Wych Hazel looked up at him with absolute terror in her face. 
'What do you mean?' she said.
'It is not very strange. I have the greatest respect for Mr. Falkirk
and not the less because he had sense enough to love you a little 
too well. Do you remember your making him go to Catskill?'
Wych Hazel's head went down on her hands, without a word; but 
outside the shielding fingers the distressful colour shewed itself in 
every possible place. Remember!what did she not remember?
things she had done, things she had said.
'He was afraid,' Dane went on smiling, 'that if I had a chance to see 
you I might choose to take the conditions of the will; he had good 
reason to fear! You must write him the dutifullest, gentlest, 
lovingest letter, Hazel; and lay off the blame of everything upon 
the shoulders that can bear it. Mr. Falkirk knows me. And if, by 
and by, we could coax him to come and make his home with us, I 
should be happy.'
'And everybody knew it but me!'said Hazel, thinking out. 'It is 
good I can do no more mischief.'
'What is that?' said Dane laughing. 'What mischief have you done?'
'HushI was talking to myself. But oh, I am so sorry!' Looks 
and tones and words and recollections were pouring in upon her 
like a flood.
'What are you sorry for? You need not be sorry, my little Wych,' 
said he, changing his tone with the last words. 'You have done him 
good and given him pleasure for so many years; and I am not 
without hope that both good and pleasure will be renewed and 
continued to the end of his life. So write a nice letter to him. And 
come to dinner in the first place.'
But it was a very remorseful flushed face that came to the table.
'Done him good and given him pleasure!' she repeated;'teased 
his life out, would be nearer the mark.'
'That did him good,' said Dane dryly. 'That is the way you expect 
to give me pleasure, you know.'
From under a queer little lift of her eyebrows, Hazel looked up at 
him. 'Is it?' she said with equal dryness.
'Does the leopard change his spots?'
'The other half of the simile is more like me,' said Hazel,
'however, if you prefer this But given the spots, the pleasure 
may be to seek.'
'I can find it, as fast as you find the spots. Will you have cheese 
with your soup?'
Hazel thought within herself, declining the cheese, that the day 
when she ventured any of her old pranks with that particular 
person, was somewhat remote. Would she ever be "true witch" 
again, she wondered?
'You forget,' she said. 'You told me once yourself that you thought 
very few men could stand it.'
'I meantexcept me,' said Dane with great coolness.
'You'didn't, was on Hazel's tongue, but she let it stay there. A 
quick, bright eye flash went over her, but Dane kept his 
countenance and went on with his dinner. He understood very well 
one or two things that were in Hazel's mind. He knew that she 
thought she had lost liberty in marrying, and he knew that she was 
mistaken in thinking so; but he also knew that the sweet growths 
of the mind cannot be forced; and he could wait. He never said 
"my dear" and "my love" to her, this man; he let Hazel find him 
out for what he was, all hers; but it might take time. He thought he 
would give her a little help.
'Have you been studying the third chapter of Genesis?' he asked 
when the servant was out of the room.
'No. At leastI was thinking of Adam and Eve a little when you 
came home.'
'In German or English?'
'English prose.'
'It is stronger yet in German. "Dein Wille soll deinem Manne 
unterworfen sein, and er soll dein Herr sein." I think you have been 
studying it in German. But Hazel, that is the form of the curse; and 
the curse is done away in Christ.'
'But,' she said gravely, her timid reserve coming back with the 
subject,'But the facts stand.'
'What facts? And take some nuts along with the facts.'
'The factsof the case,' said Hazel, using her nut-cracker and 
laying the meats abstractedly on one side. 'The right of way,and 
strength to enforce it,for two.'
Again Dane's eyes flashed and the corners of his mouth were a 
little hard to keep in order.
'Neatly put' he said.
Hazel glanced at him, but she ventured no questions.
'But you forget, Hazel,' he went on gravely, 'that all that, the 
odious part of it, belongs to a state of things that in Christ is passed 
away. It remains true, no doubt, that "the man is the head of the 
woman;" else the lesson-type would not answer to the lesson, 
which is to set forth the beauty and nearness of the relation 
between Christ and his church. But in a right marriage it is also 
true that "the woman is the glory of the man." Not the 
housekeeper, nor the nurse, or the plaything, still less the bond-
woman; but the GLORY. She is the flower of all humanity; the 
good and beauty and grace of all earth, findsfor himits 
perfectest bloom and expression in her.'
She listened, smiling a little bit, then grave again.
'But that'she said,'is that what it means?'
'Excuse me. What what means, Wych?'
'The words you quoted. The last words.'
'Do they mean what I said? Certainly.'
'And only that?'
'Can you make them mean more?'
'For me, a good deal more.'
'Then it will be for me, probably. Go on, and explain.'
'No, perhaps not for you. You might be perfectly content with the 
flower, as you call it, in your hand; content with your content; 
looking no further.'
'You are mistaken,' said Dane, with a manner both amused and 
pleased.'I should never be content with my content.'
'But I mean' She was not very willing to tell her meaning, the 
words came slowly,'I used to think, that being so much to him, 
she must needs be something in herself. That only one who was a 
glory in herself, could be the glory of another. In my way'Hazel 
added, dropping her voice, ' "She will do him good and not evil all 
the days of her life." And he will be "known in the gates" by more 
than the robe of purple and silk which her hands have woven!'
As far as the face could then, it went down, bending over the nuts. 
Dane looked, and smiled, and took no advantage.
'I do not see the difference of your view from mine,' he remarked 
quietly. 'You credit me surely with so much discrimination as to 
perceive that some women are nobody's glory,even as some men 
are fit to be nobody's head.'
'But people do not think so,' said Hazel. 'People make it out to be 
just something supplemental,a sort of convenient finishing up 
the few trifles of comfort or help wherein a man may be deficient. 
That is what they all say.It is a very queer thing to be a woman!'
'Is it?' said Dane gravely.
'Yes!' said Hazel with one of her outbursts.'Prim tells me not to 
vex you, and Dr. Maryland wants to know ifif I shall be a help 
or a hindrance, in short; and he hopes you will not let me have my 
own way too much. Nobody enquires if you are likely to vex me, 
or to try my temper, or to develope my character, or help on my 
work; nobody supposes that I have any work, of my own. But if I 
have not, that is only the more queer.'
Rollo left his seat, he had got enough of his nuts; and coming 
behind Wych Hazel gently laid hold of both her hands and freed 
them from what they held, then insinuated her chair backwards, 
and lifting her out of it led her away to the fire and wrapped her in 
his arms. What it was no use to say, he did not say, however; as he 
had once told her he never asked for a thing he could not have, so 
even now, he would not supplicate for confidence which must be 
the growth of time. She would find out for herself, by and by, what 
concerned him; and the rest he did not are about. So his answer 
now was a departure. He did not kiss her; he stood pushing back 
the brown curls from her brow, on one side and on the other, 
looking down into her face with eyes which Hazel instinctively 
knew were too mighty to meet just then. So standing he coolly 
asked her,
'Do you love me, duchess?'
'I was talking of loving myself,' said Hazel, touching up her 
flushed cheeks with vivid carnation.
'I can do that better than you can. How about your part?'
'Reasoning from factsprobablyI must!'
'You are afraid to confide that deep secret to me? Now I should 
have no sort of difficulty in proclaiming mine to anybody who had 
any business to ask it. It must be a queer thing to be a woman!'
said Dane, with a dry, humourous, but at the same time wholly 
tender and sweet expression.
'Have I not confided it?' Hazel said under her breath. 'Do you think 
I would be here? What makes you ask such things? Is it because' 
But there she stopped.
'Because is a woman's reason. I never do things "because." What 
did you mean to ask?'
'I think I have been very unlike myself,that is all.'
'I never saw you unlike yourself,' Dane said, in that gentle manner 
and tone of his which was more than epithets and endearments 
from other people. Much more; for those might be mere forms of 
expression, and these could not be. And she enquired no further, 
nor raised her eyes to search. Standing there with a host of other 
questions in her mind; questions she would like to have discussed 
and settled, but which never would be;so she thought. Unless 
indeed in the slow, unsatisfactory way in which time settles all 
things.
CHAPTER XXV.
PRIM'S TRUNK.
We cannot go into the next day's shopping, though it was a very 
enjoyable day for the two people engaged. Some things however 
must be mentioned, on account of words and thoughts to which 
they gave occasion.
The business on hand this day was the getting of New Year's gifts 
for everybody in general. And as, with the exception of the Hollow 
people, it had also to be for everybody in particular, the work was 
slow.
Wych Hazel wanted a secretary for Primrose, in the first place. A 
very beautiful one was found, very perfect also, of some light-
coloured ornamental wood, finely inlaid, price three hundred 
dollars. On the other hand, Rollo got one, a larger one, and equally 
good, for Arthur Maryland, for just half the money. One for Prim 
was to be had for a third of the money; but it was unadorned black 
walnut, and less elegant in form, and Wych Hazel recoiled. She 
would have got the first without hesitation, only she could not 
coax any encouragement out of Rollo.
'Do you think she would like this plain one better? Do you?'
'Suppose the difference, in the charge of a note, lay in one of the 
drawers, for Prim's poor people? Which do you think would give 
her most pleasure?'
'O that,if you put it so. But I wish I could suit myself too.'
'You can suit yourself too,' said Dane smiling.
'I'll think about it as we go along. You see,' she said meditatively, 
'I could put the cheque in, just the same.'
The next place in order was Stewart's.
'I have something to get for Prim, too,' said Rollo as the carriage 
stopped. 'I have provided a new patent upright trunk; and I propose 
to stock all its compartments. Will you help me? Else, I am afraid, 
I shall never know all that ought to go in.'
'Well,' said Wych Hazel,'is it to be filled with Prim's ideas, or 
mine?'
'Let us give her what she can use and enjoy; every comfort we can 
think of; and nothing that would not be a comfort. You wonder at 
my choice of a present, perhaps; but Dr. Maryland's means are 
very limited, and I know Rosy often hesitates about a new pair of 
gloves.'
'I can choose gloves,' said Hazel confidently. 'But thenDane"
'Well?' said he, smiling, as he pushed open the swinging door.
Hazel walked on in a brown study.
'Never mind,let me see you begin, and maybe I shall learn how 
to go on,' she said, as they paused before one of the dress goods 
counters.
It was no doubt new experience to her. For Rollo began with soft 
merino and warm plaid pieces, choosing colours and qualities 
indeed with care, yet refusing the more costly stuffs which were 
offered. Except that he indulged himself and Primrose with a 
delicate gray camel's hair at last. At the silk counter he would not 
be tempted by the exquisite tender hues which the shopman 
suggested to his notice; no, he looked, and called for others, and 
finally bought a good dark green and a black, the mate to Mrs. 
Coles' black silk. At the glove counter he handed the matter over to 
Wych Hazel. She had watched all his proceedings with observant 
eyes, saying hardly a word, unless upon some point of quality 
where she knew best. Now she faced him again.
'How much do you want to invest in gloves, please?'
'That is not the point. I want to stock her glove drawer. Warm 
gloves, cool gloves, dark gloves, light gloves; you have carte 
blanche. I will look on now.'
Hazel laughed a little.
'There are more sorts of gloves than that. What about six buttons?'
'Six buttons!' repeated Rollo.
'Would you like more?'
'I do not understand the question. Excuse me.'
Wych Hazel held out her dainty wrist, turning it slightly that he 
might see.
'I approve of that,' said he, looking gravely down at it.
'But you cannot have that for nothing,' said Hazel.
'What?' said Dane, his eyes coming now with a sparkle in them to 
her face.
'Hush!Don't you understand? The more buttons, the fewer 
glovesif you are limited. That was why I asked how much.'
'The buttons do not look costly.'
'But they arein effect.'
'What's the difference?'
'Every additional button counts for so much,' Hazel told him.
'How many buttons are needed for comfort?'
'Twelve are best for some occasions,and I think I have one box 
with two.'
'But how many are needed for comfort?' said Dane, inquisitorially 
now.
'Why!as I told you,' said Hazel. 'The comfort of a glove depends 
on its fitting your dress and the occasion as well as your hand.'
Dane pulled a card out of his pocket and did a moment's figuring 
on it with his pencil. Then shewed it to Wych Hazel.
'Do you see?' he said low and rapidly in French. 'If you are buying 
so manythe difference between two buttons and four would keep 
a fire all winter for one of Rosy's old women who has no means to 
buy firing.'
Hazel looked at him with open eyes, shook her head, and moved 
away. 'I see I must quit my side of the counter,' she said. 'That 
would not suit Prim's "views" at all. May I get them with two?'
Practically the same thing went on in the lace and embroidery 
departments. In the shawl room Hazel was better satisfied, though 
even there Rollo was content with less than a cashmere. Furs, 
linens, ribbands, what not, claimed also attention; and Prim's trunk 
took a good while to fill.
The next thing was a new carpet for the long library at Dr. 
Maryland's.
So went the day, with many an other purchasing errand, general 
and particular. New Year's gifts for the mill hands and the 
children; the supplies for the stores which Rollo was purposing to 
open in the Hollow, where all sorts of needful things should be 
furnished to the hands at cost prices; an easy chair for Reo, a 
watch for Mrs. Boërresen; books, pictures, baskets. In the course 
of things Hazel was taken to a Bank, where a dignified personage 
was presented to her and she was requested to inscribe her name in 
a big book, and a deposit was made to her account. Also a good 
down town restaurant was visited, where they got lunch. It was a 
regular game of play at last. Rollo bought, as Hazel never before 
saw anybody, things he wanted and things he did not want, if the 
shopman or shopwoman seemed to be of sorry cheer or suffering 
from that sort of slow custom which makes New Year's day a 
depressing time to tradespeople. And Hazel looked on silently. It 
was so new to her, this sort of buying, and (it may be said) the 
buyer was also so new! She did not feel like Wych Hazel, nor 
anybody else she had ever heard of, and could hardly find self-
assertion enough to execute her Chickaree commissions when she 
saw the right thing. She made a suggestion now and then indeed,
"strawberry baskets" and "fishing lines" and "worsted." 'Byo says 
Trüdchen knit every minute she was at Chickaree,' she remarked. 
And every suggestion she made Rollo acted upon as fast. Some 
things were ordered at once to Chickaree; others were sent or taken 
home with them to the hotel; whither at last, with their work but 
half done, the two busy and tired people repaired themselves.
A pile of business letters demanded Mr. Rollo's time after dinner; 
and while he was somewhat absorbed in them, Hazel softly 
brought a foot cushion to his side and placed herself there. It was 
almost a demonstration, the way she did this, but she ventured 
nothing further, and sat there still and absorbed in her own 
musings. Dark blue silky folds lay all around her, and hands and 
arms came out a little from the wide lace sleeves and were crossed 
upon her knees. Rollo's eyes wandered to her from his letters once 
and again, and finally he tossed them aside, and stooped down to 
look at her and pull her curls a little away from her face.
'Business can wait!'he said. 'What are you musing about, 
duchess?'
'O, a host of things!'
'Take me along.'
'So I have.'
'In what capacity, pray?'
'General Superintendent.'
Rollo began to laugh. 'May I know what I am to superintend?'
'Well,' said Hazel, with a bit of a laugh on her side, 'you were 
filling my trunkand I could not tell how!'
'Why not?' said Dane, drawing a long curl through his fingers.
'Would it be like Prim's?'
'I hope I have more discrimination!'
'As how?'
'Than to think the same things would suit two so different people.'
'O I did not suppose you would muffle me in stone-coloured 
merino,' said Hazel,'but I mean You know what I mean!'
'I should not like you as well in stone-coloured merino as in blue. 
Should a bird of paradise wear the plumage of a thrush or a quail?'
Hazel looked soberly down at the dark silky waves that rippled 
along between her and the firelight. She said not a word. Dane 
knew well enough what she was thinking of, but chose to have the 
subject brought forward by herself if at all. He paused a minute.
'Would you like a trunk filled like Prim's?'
Hazel trilled her fingers thoughtfully over the hand that lay near 
her, and then suddenly asked, 'Does that annoy you?'
'Not much,' said Rollo drily. She glanced up at him.
'Mr. Falkirk used to hate it.And I forgot what my hand was 
about,' said Hazel; sedately folding it again with its small comrade. 
From which it as brought back, first to her husband's lips. 
'Have we got to the bottom of that trunk yet?'
'There was another point,' said Hazel. 'Should I ever get to the 
bottom of it?'
'Never!' said Dane. 'If getting to the bottom of it implied using 
what you took out.'
Hazel laughed a little.
'That was just how I felt, 'she said. 'But Olaf'growing sober 
again'after all you do not answer the real intrinsic question.'
'How would you state that, as it presents itself to you?'
'Whether you would fill it so,' she said, looking musingly at the 
fire. 'So,not in precise colour, of course, nor exact pattern,but 
in general qualityand plainnessand' she paused for a word.
Dane said quietly, 'Probably not.'
Hazel went back into an unsatisfied muse.
'One would think,' she said with a half laugh, 'that I was an 
inquisitor, and that you were answering under torture!'
'Come,' said he, 'you shall not say that again. Question, and I will 
answer straight.'
'Perhaps my questions were not very straight,' said Hazel, still 
arguing into the fire. 'But I really did bring two empty trunks from 
home for myselfand in all these days'
It occurred to Rollo that he had heard and seen nothing of any 
purchases for herself.
'What in "all these days"?' The words look bare, but the gentle, 
fine intonation carried all of caressing tenderness that other people 
are wont to express more broadly.
'I have not known what to put in them.'
'How is that? You never found such a difficulty before?'
'No. Nor now. I could fill them both in one hour. But then if I did 
not want to take out what was there, I might as well have Prim's at 
once.'
