“Yes--I wish it was as big as a barrel, for it’s all we’ve got.”
“I saved it from the picnic for us to dream on, Tom, the way grownup
people do with wedding-cake--but it’ll be our--”
She dropped the sentence where it was. Tom divided the cake and Becky
ate with good appetite, while Tom nibbled at his moiety. There was
abundance of cold water to finish the feast with. By-and-by Becky
suggested that they move on again. Tom was silent a moment. Then he
said:
“Becky, can you bear it if I tell you something?”
Becky’s face paled, but she thought she could.
“Well, then, Becky, we must stay here, where there’s water to drink.
That little piece is our last candle!”
Becky gave loose to tears and wailings. Tom did what he could to comfort
her, but with little effect. At length Becky said:
“Tom!”
“Well, Becky?”
“They’ll miss us and hunt for us!”
“Yes, they will! Certainly they will!”
“Maybe they’re hunting for us now, Tom.”
“Why, I reckon maybe they are. I hope they are.”
“When would they miss us, Tom?”
“When they get back to the boat, I reckon.”
“Tom, it might be dark then--would they notice we hadn’t come?”
“I don’t know. But anyway, your mother would miss you as soon as they
got home.”
A frightened look in Becky’s face brought Tom to his senses and he saw
that he had made a blunder. Becky was not to have gone home that night!
The children became silent and thoughtful. In a moment a new burst of
grief from Becky showed Tom that the thing in his mind had struck hers
also--that the Sabbath morning might be half spent before Mrs. Thatcher
discovered that Becky was not at Mrs. Harper’s.
The children fastened their eyes upon their bit of candle and watched it
melt slowly and pitilessly away; saw the half inch of wick stand alone
at last; saw the feeble flame rise and fall, climb the thin column of
smoke, linger at its top a moment, and then--the horror of utter darkness
reigned!
How long afterward it was that Becky came to a slow consciousness that
she was crying in Tom’s arms, neither could tell. All that they knew
was, that after what seemed a mighty stretch of time, both awoke out of
a dead stupor of sleep and resumed their miseries once more. Tom said
it might be Sunday, now--maybe Monday. He tried to get Becky to talk, but
her sorrows were too oppressive, all her hopes were gone. Tom said that
they must have been missed long ago, and no doubt the search was going
on. He would shout and maybe some one would come. He tried it; but in
the darkness the distant echoes sounded so hideously that he tried it no
more.
The hours wasted away, and hunger came to torment the captives again. A
portion of Tom’s half of the cake was left; they divided and ate it. But
they seemed hungrier than before. The poor morsel of food only whetted
desire.
By-and-by Tom said:
“SH! Did you hear that?”
Both held their breath and listened. There was a sound like the
faintest, far-off shout. Instantly Tom answered it, and leading Becky by
the hand, started groping down the corridor in its direction. Presently
he listened again; again the sound was heard, and apparently a little
nearer.
“It’s them!” said Tom; “they’re coming! Come along, Becky--we’re all
right now!”
The joy of the prisoners was almost overwhelming. Their speed was slow,
however, because pitfalls were somewhat common, and had to be guarded
against. They shortly came to one and had to stop. It might be three
feet deep, it might be a hundred--there was no passing it at any rate.
Tom got down on his breast and reached as far down as he could. No
bottom. They must stay there and wait until the searchers came. They
listened; evidently the distant shoutings were growing more distant!
a moment or two more and they had gone altogether. The heart-sinking
misery of it! Tom whooped until he was hoarse, but it was of no use. He
talked hopefully to Becky; but an age of anxious waiting passed and no
sounds came again.
The children groped their way back to the spring. The weary time dragged
on; they slept again, and awoke famished and woe-stricken. Tom believed
it must be Tuesday by this time.
Now an idea struck him. There were some side passages near at hand. It
would be better to explore some of these than bear the weight of the
heavy time in idleness. He took a kite-line from his pocket, tied it to
a projection, and he and Becky started, Tom in the lead, unwinding the
line as he groped along. At the end of twenty steps the corridor ended
in a “jumping-off place.” Tom got down on his knees and felt below,
and then as far around the corner as he could reach with his hands
conveniently; he made an effort to stretch yet a little farther to the
right, and at that moment, not twenty yards away, a human hand, holding
a candle, appeared from behind a rock! Tom lifted up a glorious shout,
and instantly that hand was followed by the body it belonged to--Injun
Joe’s! Tom was paralyzed; he could not move. He was vastly gratified the
next moment, to see the “Spaniard” take to his heels and get himself out
of sight. Tom wondered that Joe had not recognized his voice and come
over and killed him for testifying in court. But the echoes must have
disguised the voice. Without doubt, that was it, he reasoned. Tom’s
fright weakened every muscle in his body. He said to himself that if he
had strength enough to get back to the spring he would stay there, and
nothing should tempt him to run the risk of meeting Injun Joe again. He
was careful to keep from Becky what it was he had seen. He told her he
had only shouted “for luck.”
But hunger and wretchedness rise superior to fears in the long run.
Another tedious wait at the spring and another long sleep brought
changes. The children awoke tortured with a raging hunger. Tom believed
that it must be Wednesday or Thursday or even Friday or Saturday, now,
and that the search had been given over. He proposed to explore another
passage. He felt willing to risk Injun Joe and all other terrors. But
Becky was very weak. She had sunk into a dreary apathy and would not be
roused. She said she would wait, now, where she was, and die--it would
not be long. She told Tom to go with the kite-line and explore if he
chose; but she implored him to come back every little while and speak
to her; and she made him promise that when the awful time came, he would
stay by her and hold her hand until all was over.
Tom kissed her, with a choking sensation in his throat, and made a show
of being confident of finding the searchers or an escape from the cave;
then he took the kite-line in his hand and went groping down one of the
passages on his hands and knees, distressed with hunger and sick with
bodings of coming doom.
CHAPTER XXXII
TUESDAY afternoon came, and waned to the twilight. The village of St.
Petersburg still mourned. The lost children had not been found. Public
prayers had been offered up for them, and many and many a private prayer
that had the petitioner’s whole heart in it; but still no good news came
from the cave. The majority of the searchers had given up the quest
and gone back to their daily avocations, saying that it was plain the
children could never be found. Mrs. Thatcher was very ill, and a great
part of the time delirious. People said it was heartbreaking to hear her
call her child, and raise her head and listen a whole minute at a time,
then lay it wearily down again with a moan. Aunt Polly had drooped into
a settled melancholy, and her gray hair had grown almost white. The
village went to its rest on Tuesday night, sad and forlorn.
Away in the middle of the night a wild peal burst from the village
bells, and in a moment the streets were swarming with frantic half-clad
people, who shouted, “Turn out! turn out! they’re found! they’re found!”
 Tin pans and horns were added to the din, the population massed itself
and moved toward the river, met the children coming in an open carriage
drawn by shouting citizens, thronged around it, joined its homeward
march, and swept magnificently up the main street roaring huzzah after
huzzah!
The village was illuminated; nobody went to bed again; it was the
greatest night the little town had ever seen. During the first half-hour
a procession of villagers filed through Judge Thatcher’s house, seized
the saved ones and kissed them, squeezed Mrs. Thatcher’s hand, tried to
speak but couldn’t--and drifted out raining tears all over the place.
Aunt Polly’s happiness was complete, and Mrs. Thatcher’s nearly so. It
would be complete, however, as soon as the messenger dispatched with the
great news to the cave should get the word to her husband. Tom lay upon
a sofa with an eager auditory about him and told the history of the
wonderful adventure, putting in many striking additions to adorn it
withal; and closed with a description of how he left Becky and went
on an exploring expedition; how he followed two avenues as far as his
kite-line would reach; how he followed a third to the fullest stretch
of the kite-line, and was about to turn back when he glimpsed a far-off
speck that looked like daylight; dropped the line and groped toward it,
pushed his head and shoulders through a small hole, and saw the broad
Mississippi rolling by!
And if it had only happened to be night he would not have seen that
speck of daylight and would not have explored that passage any more! He
told how he went back for Becky and broke the good news and she told
him not to fret her with such stuff, for she was tired, and knew she was
going to die, and wanted to. He described how he labored with her and
convinced her; and how she almost died for joy when she had groped to
where she actually saw the blue speck of daylight; how he pushed his way
out at the hole and then helped her out; how they sat there and cried
for gladness; how some men came along in a skiff and Tom hailed them
and told them their situation and their famished condition; how the men
didn’t believe the wild tale at first, “because,” said they, “you are
five miles down the river below the valley the cave is in”--then took
them aboard, rowed to a house, gave them supper, made them rest till two
or three hours after dark and then brought them home.
Before day-dawn, Judge Thatcher and the handful of searchers with him
were tracked out, in the cave, by the twine clews they had strung behind
them, and informed of the great news.
Three days and nights of toil and hunger in the cave were not to
be shaken off at once, as Tom and Becky soon discovered. They were
bedridden all of Wednesday and Thursday, and seemed to grow more and
more tired and worn, all the time. Tom got about, a little, on Thursday,
was downtown Friday, and nearly as whole as ever Saturday; but Becky
did not leave her room until Sunday, and then she looked as if she had
passed through a wasting illness.
Tom learned of Huck’s sickness and went to see him on Friday, but could
not be admitted to the bedroom; neither could he on Saturday or Sunday.
He was admitted daily after that, but was warned to keep still about his
adventure and introduce no exciting topic. The Widow Douglas stayed by
to see that he obeyed. At home Tom learned of the Cardiff Hill event;
also that the “ragged man’s” body had eventually been found in the river
near the ferry-landing; he had been drowned while trying to escape,
perhaps.
About a fortnight after Tom’s rescue from the cave, he started off to
visit Huck, who had grown plenty strong enough, now, to hear exciting
talk, and Tom had some that would interest him, he thought. Judge
Thatcher’s house was on Tom’s way, and he stopped to see Becky. The
Judge and some friends set Tom to talking, and some one asked him
ironically if he wouldn’t like to go to the cave again. Tom said he
thought he wouldn’t mind it. The Judge said:
“Well, there are others just like you, Tom, I’ve not the least doubt.
But we have taken care of that. Nobody will get lost in that cave any
more.”
“Why?”
“Because I had its big door sheathed with boiler iron two weeks ago, and
triple-locked--and I’ve got the keys.”
Tom turned as white as a sheet.
“What’s the matter, boy! Here, run, somebody! Fetch a glass of water!”
The water was brought and thrown into Tom’s face.
“Ah, now you’re all right. What was the matter with you, Tom?”
“Oh, Judge, Injun Joe’s in the cave!”
CHAPTER XXXIII
WITHIN a few minutes the news had spread, and a dozen skiff-loads of
men were on their way to McDougal’s cave, and the ferryboat, well filled
with passengers, soon followed. Tom Sawyer was in the skiff that bore
Judge Thatcher.
When the cave door was unlocked, a sorrowful sight presented itself in
the dim twilight of the place. Injun Joe lay stretched upon the ground,
dead, with his face close to the crack of the door, as if his longing
eyes had been fixed, to the latest moment, upon the light and the cheer
of the free world outside. Tom was touched, for he knew by his own
experience how this wretch had suffered. His pity was moved, but
nevertheless he felt an abounding sense of relief and security, now,
which revealed to him in a degree which he had not fully appreciated
before how vast a weight of dread had been lying upon him since the day
he lifted his voice against this bloody-minded outcast.
Injun Joe’s bowie-knife lay close by, its blade broken in two. The great
foundation-beam of the door had been chipped and hacked through, with
tedious labor; useless labor, too, it was, for the native rock formed a
sill outside it, and upon that stubborn material the knife had wrought
no effect; the only damage done was to the knife itself. But if there
had been no stony obstruction there the labor would have been useless
still, for if the beam had been wholly cut away Injun Joe could not have
squeezed his body under the door, and he knew it. So he had only hacked
that place in order to be doing something--in order to pass the weary
time--in order to employ his tortured faculties. Ordinarily one could
find half a dozen bits of candle stuck around in the crevices of this
vestibule, left there by tourists; but there were none now. The prisoner
had searched them out and eaten them. He had also contrived to catch a
few bats, and these, also, he had eaten, leaving only their claws. The
poor unfortunate had starved to death. In one place, near at hand, a
stalagmite had been slowly growing up from the ground for ages, builded
by the water-drip from a stalactite overhead. The captive had broken off
the stalagmite, and upon the stump had placed a stone, wherein he had
scooped a shallow hollow to catch the precious drop that fell once
in every three minutes with the dreary regularity of a clock-tick--a
dessertspoonful once in four and twenty hours. That drop was falling
when the Pyramids were new; when Troy fell; when the foundations of Rome
were laid; when Christ was crucified; when the Conqueror created the
British empire; when Columbus sailed; when the massacre at Lexington was
“news.”
It is falling now; it will still be falling when all these things shall
have sunk down the afternoon of history, and the twilight of tradition,
and been swallowed up in the thick night of oblivion. Has everything a
purpose and a mission? Did this drop fall patiently during five thousand
years to be ready for this flitting human insect’s need? and has it
another important object to accomplish ten thousand years to come? No
matter. It is many and many a year since the hapless half-breed scooped
out the stone to catch the priceless drops, but to this day the tourist
stares longest at that pathetic stone and that slow-dropping water when
he comes to see the wonders of McDougal’s cave. Injun Joe’s cup stands
first in the list of the cavern’s marvels; even “Aladdin’s Palace”
 cannot rival it.
Injun Joe was buried near the mouth of the cave; and people flocked
there in boats and wagons from the towns and from all the farms and
hamlets for seven miles around; they brought their children, and
all sorts of provisions, and confessed that they had had almost as
satisfactory a time at the funeral as they could have had at the
hanging.
This funeral stopped the further growth of one thing--the petition to the
governor for Injun Joe’s pardon. The petition had been largely signed;
many tearful and eloquent meetings had been held, and a committee of
sappy women been appointed to go in deep mourning and wail around the
governor, and implore him to be a merciful ass and trample his duty
under foot. Injun Joe was believed to have killed five citizens of the
village, but what of that? If he had been Satan himself there would
have been plenty of weaklings ready to scribble their names to a
pardon-petition, and drip a tear on it from their permanently impaired
and leaky water-works.
The morning after the funeral Tom took Huck to a private place to have
an important talk. Huck had learned all about Tom’s adventure from the
Welshman and the Widow Douglas, by this time, but Tom said he reckoned
there was one thing they had not told him; that thing was what he wanted
to talk about now. Huck’s face saddened. He said:
“I know what it is. You got into No. 2 and never found anything but
whiskey. Nobody told me it was you; but I just knowed it must ‘a’ ben
you, soon as I heard ‘bout that whiskey business; and I knowed you
hadn’t got the money becuz you’d ‘a’ got at me some way or other and
told me even if you was mum to everybody else. Tom, something’s always
told me we’d never get holt of that swag.”
“Why, Huck, I never told on that tavern-keeper.  You  know his tavern
was all right the Saturday I went to the picnic. Don’t you remember you
was to watch there that night?”
“Oh yes! Why, it seems ‘bout a year ago. It was that very night that I
follered Injun Joe to the widder’s.”
“ You  followed him?”
“Yes--but you keep mum. I reckon Injun Joe’s left friends behind him, and
I don’t want ‘em souring on me and doing me mean tricks. If it hadn’t
ben for me he’d be down in Texas now, all right.”
Then Huck told his entire adventure in confidence to Tom, who had only
heard of the Welshman’s part of it before.
“Well,” said Huck, presently, coming back to the main question, “whoever
nipped the whiskey in No. 2, nipped the money, too, I reckon--anyways
it’s a goner for us, Tom.”
“Huck, that money wasn’t ever in No. 2!”
“What!” Huck searched his comrade’s face keenly. “Tom, have you got on
the track of that money again?”
“Huck, it’s in the cave!”
Huck’s eyes blazed.
“Say it again, Tom.”
“The money’s in the cave!”
“Tom--honest injun, now--is it fun, or earnest?”
“Earnest, Huck--just as earnest as ever I was in my life. Will you go in
there with me and help get it out?”
“I bet I will! I will if it’s where we can blaze our way to it and not
get lost.”
“Huck, we can do that without the least little bit of trouble in the
world.”
“Good as wheat! What makes you think the money’s--”
“Huck, you just wait till we get in there. If we don’t find it I’ll
agree to give you my drum and every thing I’ve got in the world. I will,
by jings.”
“All right--it’s a whiz. When do you say?”
“Right now, if you say it. Are you strong enough?”
“Is it far in the cave? I ben on my pins a little, three or four days,
now, but I can’t walk more’n a mile, Tom--least I don’t think I could.”
“It’s about five mile into there the way anybody but me would go, Huck,
but there’s a mighty short cut that they don’t anybody but me know
about. Huck, I’ll take you right to it in a skiff. I’ll float the skiff
down there, and I’ll pull it back again all by myself. You needn’t ever
turn your hand over.”
“Less start right off, Tom.”
“All right. We want some bread and meat, and our pipes, and a little
bag or two, and two or three kite-strings, and some of these new-fangled
things they call lucifer matches. I tell you, many’s the time I wished I
had some when I was in there before.”
A trifle after noon the boys borrowed a small skiff from a citizen who
was absent, and got under way at once. When they were several miles
below “Cave Hollow,” Tom said:
“Now you see this bluff here looks all alike all the way down from the
cave hollow--no houses, no wood-yards, bushes all alike. But do you see
that white place up yonder where there’s been a landslide? Well, that’s
one of my marks. We’ll get ashore, now.”
They landed.
“Now, Huck, where we’re a-standing you could touch that hole I got out
of with a fishing-pole. See if you can find it.”
Huck searched all the place about, and found nothing. Tom proudly
marched into a thick clump of sumach bushes and said:
“Here you are! Look at it, Huck; it’s the snuggest hole in this country.
You just keep mum about it. All along I’ve been wanting to be a robber,
but I knew I’d got to have a thing like this, and where to run across
it was the bother. We’ve got it now, and we’ll keep it quiet, only we’ll
let Joe Harper and Ben Rogers in--because of course there’s got to be a
Gang, or else there wouldn’t be any style about it. Tom Sawyer’s Gang--it
sounds splendid, don’t it, Huck?”
“Well, it just does, Tom. And who’ll we rob?”
“Oh, most anybody. Waylay people--that’s mostly the way.”
“And kill them?”
“No, not always. Hive them in the cave till they raise a ransom.”
“What’s a ransom?”
“Money. You make them raise all they can, off’n their friends; and after
you’ve kept them a year, if it ain’t raised then you kill them. That’s
the general way. Only you don’t kill the women. You shut up the women,
but you don’t kill them. They’re always beautiful and rich, and awfully
scared. You take their watches and things, but you always take your hat
off and talk polite. They ain’t anybody as polite as robbers--you’ll see
that in any book. Well, the women get to loving you, and after they’ve
been in the cave a week or two weeks they stop crying and after that
you couldn’t get them to leave. If you drove them out they’d turn right
around and come back. It’s so in all the books.”
“Why, it’s real bully, Tom. I believe it’s better’n to be a pirate.”
“Yes, it’s better in some ways, because it’s close to home and circuses
and all that.”
By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole, Tom in
the lead. They toiled their way to the farther end of the tunnel, then
made their spliced kite-strings fast and moved on. A few steps brought
them to the spring, and Tom felt a shudder quiver all through him.
He showed Huck the fragment of candle-wick perched on a lump of clay
against the wall, and described how he and Becky had watched the flame
struggle and expire.
The boys began to quiet down to whispers, now, for the stillness and
gloom of the place oppressed their spirits. They went on, and presently
entered and followed Tom’s other corridor until they reached the
“jumping-off place.” The candles revealed the fact that it was not
really a precipice, but only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feet
high. Tom whispered:
“Now I’ll show you something, Huck.”
He held his candle aloft and said:
“Look as far around the corner as you can. Do you see that? There--on the
big rock over yonder--done with candle-smoke.”
“Tom, it’s a  cross !”
“ Now  where’s your Number Two? ‘ under the cross,’ hey? Right yonder’s
where I saw Injun Joe poke up his candle, Huck!”
Huck stared at the mystic sign awhile, and then said with a shaky voice:
“Tom, less git out of here!”
“What! and leave the treasure?”
“Yes--leave it. Injun Joe’s ghost is round about there, certain.”
“No it ain’t, Huck, no it ain’t. It would ha’nt the place where he
died--away out at the mouth of the cave--five mile from here.”
“No, Tom, it wouldn’t. It would hang round the money. I know the ways of
ghosts, and so do you.”
Tom began to fear that Huck was right. Mis-givings gathered in his mind.
But presently an idea occurred to him--
“Lookyhere, Huck, what fools we’re making of ourselves! Injun Joe’s
ghost ain’t a going to come around where there’s a cross!”
The point was well taken. It had its effect.
“Tom, I didn’t think of that. But that’s so. It’s luck for us, that
cross is. I reckon we’ll climb down there and have a hunt for that box.”
Tom went first, cutting rude steps in the clay hill as he descended.
Huck followed. Four avenues opened out of the small cavern which the
great rock stood in. The boys examined three of them with no result.
They found a small recess in the one nearest the base of the rock, with
