even at the rattling gait I think we changed 
watches three times in Fort Adams reach, which is 
five miles long. A '' reach " is a piece of straight 
river, and of course the current drives through 
such a place in a pretty lively way. 
That trip we went to Grand Gulf, from New 
Orleans, in four days (three hundred and fortj 
miles, ; the Eclipse and Shot well did it in one. 
We were nine days out, in the chute of 63 (seven 
hundred miles); the Eclipse and Shotwell went 
there in two days. Just about a generation ago 
a boat called the -T. M. White went from New 
Orleans to Cairo in tliree days, six hours, and forty- 
four minutes. Twenty -two years ago the Eclipse 
made the same trip in three days, three hours, and 
twenty minutes. About five years ago the superb 
E. E. Lee did it in three days and one hour. This 
last is called the fastest trip on record. I will try 
to show that it was not. For this reason : the dis- 
tance between New Orleans and Cairo, when the 
J. M. White ran it, was about eleven hundred and 
six miles ; consequently her average speed was a 
trifle over fourteen miles per hour. In the Eclipse's 
day the distance between the two ports had become 
reduced to one thousand and eighty miles ; conse- 
quently her average speed was a shade under four- 
teen and three-eighths miles per hour. In the E. 
E. Lee's time the distance had diminished to about 
one thousand and thirty miles ; consequently her 
average was about fourteen and one eighth miles 
per hour. Therefore the Eclipse's was conspicu- 
ously the fastest time that has ever been made. 
These dry details are of importance in one par- 
ticular. They give me an opportunity of intro- 
ducing one of the Mississippi's oddest peculiarities 
— that of shortening its length from time to time. 
If you will throw a long, pliant apple-paring over 
your shoulder, it will pretty fairly shape itself 
into an average section of the Mississippi Eiver ; 
that is, the nine or ten hundred iniles stretching 
from Cairo, Ilinois, southward to New Orleans, the 
same being wonderfully crooked, with a brief 
straight bit here and there at wide intervals. The 
two-hundred-mile stretch from Cairo northward to 
St. Louis is by no means so crooked, that being a 
rocky country which the river cannot cut much. 
The water cuts the alluvial banks of the '' lower " 
river into deep horseshoe curves ; so deep, indeed, 
that in some places if you were to get ashore at 
one extremity of the horseshoe and walk across the 
neck, half or three quarters of a mile, you could 
sit down and rest a couple of hours while your 
steamer was coming around the long elbow, at a 
speed of ten miles an hour, to take you aboard 
again. When the river is rising fast, some scoun- 
drel whose plantation is back in the country, and 
therefore of inferior value, has only to watch his 
chance, cut a little gutter across the narrow neck 
of land some dark night and turn the water into it, 
and in a wonderfully short time a miracle has hap- 
pened : to wit, the whole Mississippi has taken pos- 
session of that little ditch, and placed the country- 
man's plantation on its bank (quadruplii its value) 
and that other party's formerly valuable plantation 
finds itself away out yonder on a big island ; 
the old water course around it will soon shoal 
up, boats cannot approach within ten miles of 
it, and down goes its value to a fourth of its 
former worth. Watchers are kept on those 
narrow necks, at needful times, and if a man happens
to be caught catting a ditch across them, the 
chances are all against his ever having another 
opportunity to cut a ditch. 
Pray observe the effects of this ditching business. 
Once there was a neck opposite Port Hudson, 
Louisiana, which was only half a mile across, in its 
nairowest place. You could walk across there in 
fifteen minutes; but if you made the journey 
around the cape on a raft, you travel thirty-five 
miles to accomplish the same thing. In 1722 the 
river darted through that neck, deserted its old bed 
and thus shortened itself thirty-five miles. In the 
same way it shortened itself twenty-five mfles at 
Black Hawk Point in 1699. Below Bed Eiver 
Landing, Raccourci cut-off was made (thirty or 
forty years ago, I think). This shortened the 
river twenty-eight miles. In our day, if you travel 
by river from the southernmost of these three cut- 
offs to the northernmost, you go only seventy miles. 
To do the same thing a hundred and seventy-six 
years ago, one had to go a hundred and fifty-eight 
miles ! — a shortening' of eighty-eight miles in that 
trifling distance. At some forgotten time in 
the past, cut-offs were made above Vidalia, Louisi- 
ana; at island 92; at island 84; and at Hale's 
Point. These shortened the river, in the aggregate, 
seventy-seven miles. 
Since my own day on the Mississippi, I am in- 
formed that cut-offs have been made at Hurricane 
Island ; at island 100 ; at Napoleon, Arkansas ; at 
Walnut Bend ; and at Council Bend. These short- 
ened the river, in the aggregate, sixtj'-Peven miles. 
In my own time a cut-off was made at American 
Bend, which shortened the river ten miles or more. 
Therefor, the Mississippi between Cairo and New- 
Orleans was twelve hundred and fifteen miles long 
one hundred and seventy-six years ago. It was 
eleven hundred and eighty after the cut-off of 1722. 
It was one thousand and forty after the American 
Bend cut-off (some sixteen or seventeen years ago). 
It has lost sixty-seven miles since. Consequently 
its length is only nine hundred and seventy-three 
miles at present. 
Now, if I wanted to be one of those ponderous scien- 
tific people, and '' let on " to prove what had occur- 
red in tLe remote past by what had occurred in a 
given time in the recent past, or what will occm' 
in the far future by what has occurred in late years, 
what an opportunity is here ! Geology never had 
such a chance, nor such exact data to argue from ! 
Nor ''development of species," either! Glacial 
epochs are great things, but they are vague — vague. 
Please observe : — 
In the space of one hundred and seventy-six 
years the Lower Mississippi has shortened itself 
two hundred and forty-two miles. That is an 
average of a trifle over one mile and a third per 
year. Therefore, any calm person, who is not 
blind or idiotic, can see that in the Old Oolitic 
Silurian Period, just a million years ago next November, 
the Lower Mississippi River was upwards of one 
million three hundred thousand miles long, and 
stuck out over the Gulf of Mexico like a fishing- 
rod. And by the same token any person can see 
that seven hundred and forty -two years from now 
the Lower Mississippi will be only a mile and three 
quarters long, and Cairo and New Orleans will have 
joined their streets together, and be plodding com- 
fortably along under a single mayor and a mutual 
board of aldermen. There is something facinating 
about science. One gets such wholesale returns of 
conjecture out of such a trifling investment of fact. 
When the water begins to flow through one of 
those ditches I have been speaking of, it is time for 
the people thereabouts to move. The water cleaves 
the banks away like a knife. By the time the 
ditch has become twelve or fifteen feet wide, the 
calamity is as good as accomplished, for no power 
on earth can stop it now. When the width has 
reached a hundred yards, the banks begin to peel 
off in slices half an acre wide. The current flow- 
ing around the bend traveled formerly only five 
miles an hour ; now it is tremendously increased 
by the shortening of the distance. I was on board 
the first boat that tried to go through the cut-off at 
American Bend, but we did not get through. It 
was toward midnight, and a wild night it was — 
thunder, lightning, and torrents of rain. It was 
estimated that the current in the cut-off was mak- 
ing about fifteen or twenty miles an hour ; twelve 
or thirteen was the best our boat could do, even in 
tolerable slack water, therefore perhaps we were 
foolish to try the cut-otf. However, Mr. X. was 
ambitious, and he kept on trying. The eddy run- 
ning up the bank, under the '' point," was about as 
swift as the current out in the middle ; so we 
would go flying up the shore like a lightnin,';- 
express train, get on a big head ot steam, and 
''strind by for a surge" when we struck the cur- 
rent that was whirling by the point. But all our 
preparations were useless. The instant the current 
hit us it spun us around like a top, the water delu- 
ged the forecastle, and the boat careened so far 
over that one could hardly keep his feet. The 
next instant we vere away down the river, clawing 
with might and main to keep out of the woods. 
We tried the experiment four times. I stood on 
the forecastle companion way to see. It was 
astonishing to observe how suddenly the boat 
would spin around and turn tail the moment she 
emerged from the eddy and the current struck her 
nose. The sounding concussion and the quivering 
would have been about the same if she had come 
full speed against a sand-bank. Under the light- 
ning flashes one could see the plantation cabins 
and the goodly acres tumble into the river ; and 
the crash they made was not a bad effort at thun- 
der. Once when we spun around, we only missed 
a house about twenty feet, that had a light bum- 
ins; in the window ; and in the same instant that 
house went overboard. Nobody could stay on oiir 
forecastle ; the water swept across it in a torrent 
every time we plunged athwart the current. At 
the end of our fourth effort we brought up in the 
woods two miles below the cut-off ; all the country 
there was overflowed, of course. A day or two 
later the cut-off was three quarters of a mile wide, 
and boats passed up it without much difficulty and 
so saved ten miles. 
The old Raccourci cut-off reduced the river's 
length twenty-eight miles. There used to be a 
tradition connected with it. It was said that a 
boat came along there in the night and went around 
the enormous elbow in the usual way, the pilots 
not knowing that the cut-off had been made. It 
was a grisly, hideous night, and all shapes were 
vague and distorted. The old bend had already 
begun to fill up, and the boat got to running away 
from mysterious reefs, and occasionally hitting one. 
The perplexed pilots fell to swearing, and finally 
uttered the entirely unecessary wish that they 
might never get out of that place. As always hap- 
pens in such cases, that particular prayer was 
answered, and the others neglected. So to this 
day that phantom steamer is still butting around 
in that deserted river, trying to find her way out. 
More than one grave watchman has sworn to me 
that on drizzly, dismal nights, he has glanced fear- 
fully down that forgotten river as he passed the 
head of the island, and seen the faint glow of the 
spectre steamer's lights drifting through the dis- 
tant gloom, and heard the muffled cough of her 
scape pipes and the plaintive cry of her leadsmen. 
In the absence of further statistics, I beor to close 
this series of Old Mississippi articles with one more 
reminiscence of wayvard, careless, ingenious " Ste- 
phen," whom I described in a former paper. 
Most of the captains and pilots held Stephen's 
note for borrowed sums ranging from two hundred 
and fifty dollars upward. Stepheo never paid one 
of these notes, but he was very prompt and very 
zealous about renewing them every twelvemonth. 
Of course there came a time, at last, when Ste- 
phen could no louger borrow of his ancient credi- 
tors ; so he was obliged to lie in wait for new men 
who did not know him. Such a victim was stood- 
heai*ted, simple-natured young Yates (I use a ficti- 
tious name, but the real name began as this one 
does with a Y). Young Yates graduated as a pilot, 
got a berth, and when the month was ended and ha 
stepped up to the clerk's office and received his two 
hundred and fifty dollars in crisp new bills, Stephen 
was there ! His silvery tongue began to wag, and 
in a very little while Yates's two hundred and fifty 
dollars had changed hands. The fact was soon 
known at pilot headquarters, and the amusement 
and satisfaction of the old creditors were large and 
generous. But innocent Yates never suspected 
thai Stephen's promise to pay promptly at the end 
of the week was a worthless one. Yates called for 
his money at the stipulated time ; Stephen sweet- 
ened him up and put him off a week. He called 
then, according to agreement, and came away 
sujar-coated again, but suffe; ing under anotherpost- 
ponement. So the thing went on. Yates haunted 
Stephen week after week, to no purpose, and at 
last gave it up. And then straightway Stephen 
began to haunt Yates ! Wherever Yates appeared 
there was the inevitable Stephen. And not only 
there, but beaming with affection and gushing with 
af ologies for not being able to pay. By and by, 
whenever poor Yates saw him coming, he would 
turn and fly, and drag his company with him, if 
he had company ; but it was of no use ; his debtor 
would run him down and corner him. Panting 
and red-faced, Stephen would come, with out- 
stretched hands and eager eyes, invade the conver- 
sation, shake both of Yates's arms loose in their 
sockets, and begin : — 
" My what a race I 've had ! I saw you didn't 
see me, and so I clapped on ail steam for fear I 'd 
miss you entirely. And here you are ! there, just 
stand so, and let me look at you ! Just the same 
old noble countenance." [To Yates's friend :] 
" Just look at him ! Look at him ! Ain't it just 
good to look at him ! Ain't it now ? Ain't he just 
a picture ! Some call him a picture ; I call him a 
panorama! That's what he is — an entire pano- 
rama. And now I'm reminded : How I do wish I 
could have seen you an hour earlier ! For twenty- 
four hours I've been saving up that two hundred 
and fifty dollars for you; been looking for you every- 
where. I waited at the Planter's from six yester- 
day evening till two o'clock this morning, without 
rest or food ; my wife says, ' Where have you been 
all night ? ' I said, ' This debt lies heavy on my 
mind.' She says, ' In all my days I never saw a 
man take a debt to heart the way you do.' I said, 
' It's my nature ; how can  change it ? ' She 
says, ' Well, do go to bed and get some rest.' I 
said, ' Not till that poor, noble young man has 
got his money.' So I set up all night, and this 
morning out I shot, and the first man I struck told 
me you had shipped on the Grand Turk and gone to 
New Orleans. Well, sir, I had to lean up against 
a building and cry. So help me goodness, I couldn't 
help it. The man that owned the place came out 
cleaning up with a rag, and said he didn't like to 
have people crying against his building, and then 
it seemed to me that the whole world had turned 
against me, and it wasn't any use to live any more ; 
and coming along an hour ago, suffering no man 
kuQws what agony, I met Jim Wilson and paid 
him the two hundred and fifty dollars on account ; 
and to think that here you are, now, and I have 
n't got a cent ! But as sure as I am standing here 
on this ground, on this particular brick, — there, 
I've scratched a mark on the brick to remember it 
by, — I'll borrow that money and pay it over to you 
at twelve o'clock sharp, to-morrow ! Now, stand 
let me look at you just once more." 
And 80 on. Yate's life became a burden to him. 
He could not escape his debtor and his debtor's 
awful suffering on account of not being able to pay. 
He dreaded to show himself in the street, lest he 
should find Stephen lying in wait for him at the 
corner. 
Bogart's billiarrl saloon was a great resort for. 
pilots in those days. They met there about as 
much to exchange river news as to play. One 
morning Yates was there , Stephen 7as there, too, 
but kept out of sight. But by and by, when about 
all the pilots had arrived who were iu town, Ste- 
phen suddenly appeared in the midst, and rushed 
for Yates as for a long-lost brother. , 
" Oh, I am so glad to see you ! Oh my soul, tha 
sight of you is such a comfort to my eyes ! Gentle- 
men, I owe all of you money ; among you I owe 
probable forty thousand dollars. I want to pay it ; 
[ intend to pay it — every last cent of it. You all 
know, without my telling you, what sorrow it has 
cost me to remain so long under such deep obliga- 
tions to such patient and generous friends ; but 
the sharpest pang I suffer — by far the sharpest — 
is from the debt I owe to this noble young man here ; 
and I have come to this place this morning especi- 
ally to make the announcement that I have at last 
found a method whereby I can pay off all my debts ! 
And most especially I wanted him to be here when 
I announced it. Yes, my faithful friend, — my 
benefactor, I've found the method to pay off all my 
debt, and you'll get your money !'' Hope dawned 
in Yates's eye ; then Stephen, beaming benignantly, 
and placing his hand upon Yates's head, added, 
"I am going to pay them oft" in alphabetical 
order ! " 
Then he turned and disappeared. The full sig- 
nificance of Stephen's " method " did not dawn 
upon the perplexed and musing crowd for somi; two 
minutes ; and tlion Yates murmured with a sigh : — 
'' Well, the Y's stand a gaudy chance. He won't 
get any farther than the C's in this world, and I 
reckon that after a good deal of eternity has wasted 
away in the next one, I'll still be referred to up 
there as ' that poor, ragged pilot that came her 
from St. Louis in the early days ! ' " 
Would the reader please to cast his eye over the 
following verses, and see if he can discover any- 
thing harmful in them ? 
" Conductor, when you receive a fare, 
Punch in the presence of the passenjare, 
A blue trip slip for an eight-cent fare, 
A buff trip slip for a six-cent fare, 
A pink trip slip for a three-cent fare ; 
Punch in the presence of the passenjare. 
CHORUS. 
Punch, brothers ! punch with care ! 
Punch in the presence of the passenjare. 
I came across these jingling rhymes in a news- 
paper a little while ago, and read them a couple of 
times. They took instant and entire possession ot 
me. All through breakfast they went waltzing 
through my brain ; and when, at last, I rolled up 
my napkin, I could not tell whether I had eaten 
anything or not. I had carefully laid out my day's 
work the day before — a thiilling tragedy in the 
novel which I am writing. I went to my den to 
begin my deed of blood. I took up my pen, but 
all I could get to say was, " Punch in the presence 
of the passenjare." I fought hard for an hour, but 
it was useless. My head kept humming, " A blue 
trip slip for an eight- cent fare, a buff trip slip for a 
six-cent fare," and so on, and so on, without peace 
or respite. The day's work was ruined — I could 
see that plainly enough. I gave up and drifted 
down town, and presently discovered that my feet 
were keeping time to that relentless jingle. When 
I could stand it no longer I altered my step. But 
it did no good ; those rhymes accommodated them- 
selves to the new step, and went on harassing me 
just as before. I returned home and suffered all 
the afternoon ; suffered all through an unconscious 
And unrefreshing dinner; suffered, and cried, and 
jingled all through the evening ; went to bed, and 
rolled, tossed, and jingled right along, the same as 
ever; got up at midnight frantic, and tried to read ; 
but there was nothing visible on the whirling page 
except, " Punch ! punch in the presence of the pas- 
senjare." By sunrise I was out of my mind, and 
everybody marvelled and was distressed at the 
