both humble and strong when one is near you?” asked Olivia, looking down
at Gladys with a hand on either shoulder, and genuine wonder in the eyes
still soft with unwonted tears.
“God made me truthful, and I try to keep so; that is all,” she answered,
simply.
“That is enough. Kiss me, Gladys, and make me better. I am not good
enough to be the mother that I might have been to you; but I am a
friend; believe that, and trust me, if you can?”
“I do;” and Gladys sealed her confidence with both lips and hand.
“Jasper, I have invited those children to spend the summer at the villa,
since you have decided for the sea. Gladys is mortally tired of this
hot-house life, so is Felix: give them a long holiday, or they will run
away together. Mrs. Bland and I will take care of you till they come
back.”
Olivia walked in upon Helwyze with this abrupt announcement, well
knowing that persuasion would be useless, and vigorous measures surest
to win the day. Artful as well as courageous in her assault, she
answered in that one speech several objections against her plan, and
suggested several strong reasons for it, sure that he would yield the
first, and own the latter.
He did, with unexpected readiness; for a motive which she could not
fathom prompted his seemingly careless acquiescence. He had no thought
of relinquishing his hold on Canaris, since through him alone he held
Gladys; but he often longed to escape from both for a time, that he
might study and adjust the new power which had come into his life,
unbidden, undesired. Surprise and disappointment were almost
instantaneously followed by a sense of relief when Olivia spoke; for he
saw at once that this project was a wiser one than she knew.
Before her rapid sentences were ended, the thought had come and gone,
the decision was made, and he could answer, in a tone of indifference
which both pleased and perplexed her,—
“Amiable woman, with what helpful aspirations are you blest. Seeing your
failure with Felix, I have been wondering how I should get rid of him
till he recovers from this comically tardy passion for his wife. They
can have another and a longer honeymoon up at the villa, if they like:
the other was far from romantic, I suspect. Well, why that sphinx-like
expression, if you please?” he added, as Olivia stood regarding him from
behind the fading hawthorn which she forgot to offer.
“I was wondering if I should ever understand you, Jasper.”
“Doubtful, since I shall never understand myself.”
“You ought, if any man; for you spend your life in studying yourself.”
“And the more I study, the less I know. It is very like a child with a
toy ark: I never know what animal may appear first. I put in my hand for
a dove, and I get a serpent; I open the door for the sagacious elephant,
and out rushes a tiger; I think I have found a favorite dog, and it is a
wolf, looking ready to devour me. An unsatisfactory toy, better put it
away and choose another.”
Helwyze spoke in the half-jesting, half-serious way habitual to him; but
though his mouth smiled, his eyes were gloomy, and Olivia hastened to
turn his thoughts from a subject in which he took a morbid interest.
“Fanciful, but true. Now, follow your own excellent advice, and find
wholesome amusement in helping me pack off the young people, and then
ourselves. It is not too early for them to go at once. Canaris can come
in and out as you want him for a month longer, then I will have all
things ready for you in the old cottage by the sea. You used to be happy
there: can you not be so again?”
“If you can give me back my twenty years. May-day is over for both of
us; why try to make the dead hawthorn bloom again? Carry out your plan,
and let the children be happy.”
They were very happy; for the prospect of entire freedom was so
delicious, that Gladys had some difficulty in concealing her delight,
while Canaris openly rejoiced when told of Olivia’s offer. All
dinner-time he was talking of it; and afterward, under pretence of
showing her a new plant, he took his wife into the conservatory, that he
might continue planning how they should spend this unexpected holiday.
Helwyze saw them wandering arm in arm; Canaris talking rapidly, and
Gladys listening, with happy laughter, to his whimsical suggestions and
projects. Their content displeased the looker-on; but there was
something so attractive in the flower-framed picture of beauty, youth,
and joy, that he could not turn his eyes away, although the sight
aroused strangely conflicting thoughts within him.
He wished them gone, yet dreaded to lose the charm of his confined life,
feeling that absence would inevitably become estrangement. Canaris never
would be entirely his again; for he was slowly climbing upward into a
region where false ambition could not blind, mere pleasure satisfy, nor
license take the place of liberty. He had not planned to ruin the youth,
but simply to let “the world, the flesh, and the devil” contend against
such virtues as they found, while he sat by and watched the struggle.
As Olivia predicted, however, power was a dangerous gift to such a man;
and, having come to feel that Canaris belonged to him, body and soul, he
was ill-pleased at losing him just when a new interest was added to
their lives.
Yet losing him he assuredly was; and something like wonder mingled with
his chagrin, for this girl, whom he had expected to mould to his will,
exerted over him, as well as Canaris, a soft control which he could
neither comprehend nor conquer. Its charm was its unconsciousness, its
power was its truth; for it won gently and held firmly the regard it
sought. She certainly did possess the gift of surprises; for, although
brought there as a plaything, “little Gladys,” without apparent effort,
had subjugated haughty Olivia, wayward Felix, ruthless Helwyze; and none
rebelled against her. She ruled them by the irresistible influence of a
lovely womanhood, which made her daily life a sweeter poem than any they
could write.
“Why did I not keep her for myself? If she can do so much for him, what
might she not have done for me, had I been wise enough to wait,” thought
Helwyze, watching the bright-haired figure that stood looking up to the
green roof whence Canaris was gathering passion-flowers.
As if some consciousness of his longing reached her, Gladys turned to
look into the softly lighted room beyond, and, seeing its master sit
there solitary in the midst of its splendor, she obeyed the
compassionate impulse which was continually struggling against doubt and
dislike.
“It must seem very selfish and ungrateful in us to be so glad. Come,
Felix, and amuse him as well as me,” she said, in a tone meant for his
ear alone. But Helwyze heard both question and answer.
“I have been court-fool long enough. ’Tis a thankless office, and I am
tired of it,” replied Canaris, in the tone of a prisoner asked to go
back when the door of his cell stands open.
“I must go, for there is Jean with coffee. Follow, like a good boy,
when you have put your posy into a song, which I will set to music by
and by, as your reward,” said Gladys, turning reluctantly away.
“You make goodness so beautiful, that it is easy to obey. There is my
posy set to music at once, for you are a song without words, cariña;”
and Canaris threw the vine about her neck, with a look and a laugh which
made it hard for her to go.
Jean not only brought coffee, but the card of a friend for Felix, who
went away, promising to return. Gladys carefully prepared the black and
fragrant draught which Helwyze loved, and presented it, with a sweet
friendliness of mien which would have made hemlock palatable, he
thought.
“Shall I sing to you till Felix comes to give you something better?” she
asked, offering her best, as if anxious to atone for the sin of being
happy at the cost of pain to another.
“Talk a little first. There will be time for both before he remembers us
again,” answered Helwyze, motioning her to a seat beside him, with the
half-imperative, half-courteous, look and gesture habitual to him.
“He will not forget: Felix always keeps his promises to me,” said
Gladys, with an air of gentle pride, taking her place, not beside, but
opposite, Helwyze, on the couch where Elaine had laid not long ago.
This involuntary act of hers gave a tone to the conversation which
followed; for Helwyze, being inwardly perturbed, was seized with a
desire to hover about dangerous topics: and, seeing her sit there, so
near and yet so far, so willing to serve, yet so completely mistress of
herself, longed to ruffle that composure, if only to make her share the
disquiet of which she was the cause.
“Always?” he said, lifting his brows with an incredulous expression, as
he replied to her assertion.
“I seldom ask any promise of him, but when I do, he always keeps it. You
doubt that?”
“I do.”
“When you know him as well as I, you will believe it.”
“I flatter myself that I know him better; and, judging from the past,
should call him both fickle and, in some things, false, even to you.”
Up sprung the color to Gladys’s cheek, and her eyes shone with sudden
fire, but her voice was low and quiet, as she answered quickly,—
“One is apt to look for what one wishes to find: I seek fidelity and
truth, and I shall not be disappointed. Felix may wander, but he will
come back to me: I have learned how to hold him now.”
“Then you are wiser than I. Pray impart the secret;” and, putting down
his cup, Helwyze regarded her intently, for he saw that the spirit of
the woman was roused to defend her wifely rights.
“Nay, I owe it to you; and, since it has prevailed against your
enchantress, I should thank you for it.”
The delicate emphasis on the words, “your enchantress,” enlightened him
to the fact that Gladys divined, in part at least, the cause of Olivia’s
return. He did not deny, but simply answered, with a curious contrast
between the carelessness of the first half of his reply, with the vivid
interest of the latter,—
“Olivia has atoned for her sins handsomely. But what do you owe me? I
have taught you nothing. I dare not try.”
“I did not know my own power till you showed it to me; unintentionally,
I believe, and unconsciously, I used it to such purpose that Felix felt
pride in the wife whom he had thought a child before. I mean the night I
sang and acted yonder, and did both well, thanks to you.”
“I comprehend, and hope to be forgiven, since I gave you help or
pleasure,” he answered, with no sign of either confusion or regret,
though the thought shot through his mind, “Can she remember what came
after?”
“Questionable help, and painful pleasure, yet it was a memorable hour
and a useful one; so I pardon you, since after the troubled delusion
comes a happy reality.”
There was a double meaning in her words, and a double reproach in the
glance which went from the spot where she had played her part, to the
garland still about her neck.
“Your yoke is a light one, and you wear it gracefully. Long may it be
so.”
Helwyze thought to slip away thus from the subject; for those accusing
eyes were hard to meet. But Gladys seemed moved to speak with more than
her usual candor, as if anxious to leave no doubts behind her; and,
sitting in the self-same place, uttered words which moved him even more
than those which she had whispered in her tormented sleep.
“No, my yoke is not light;” she said, in that grave, sweet voice of
hers, looking down at the mystic purple blossom on her breast, with the
symbols of a divine passion at its heart. “I put it on too ignorantly,
too confidingly, and at times the duties, the responsibilities, which I
assumed with it weigh heavily. I am just learning how beautiful they
are, how sacred they should be, and trying to prove worthy of them. I
know that Felix did not love as I loved, when he married me,—from pity,
I believe. No one told me this: I felt, I guessed it, and would have
given him back his liberty, if, after patient trial, I had found that I
could not make him happy.”
“Can you?”
“Yes, thank God! not only happy, but good; and henceforth duty is
delight, for I can teach him to love as I love, and he is glad to learn
of me.”
Months before, when the girl Gladys had betrayed her maiden tenderness,
she had glowed like the dawn, and found no language but her blushes; now
the woman sat there steadfast and passion-pale, owning her love with the
eloquence of fervent speech; both pleading and commanding, in the name
of wifehood and motherhood, for the right to claim the man she had won
at such cost.
“And if you fail?”
“I shall not fail, unless you come between us. I have won Olivia’s
promise not to tempt Felix’s errant fancy with her beauty. Can I not win
yours to abstain from troubling his soul with still more harmful trials?
It is to ask this that I speak now, and I believe I shall not speak in
vain.”
“Why?”
Helwyze bent and looked into her face as he uttered that one word below
his breath. He dared do no more; for there was that about her,
perilously frank and lovely though she was, which held in check his
lawless spirit, and made it reverence, even while it rebelled against
her power over him.
She neither shrank nor turned aside, but studied earnestly that unmoved
countenance which hid a world of wild emotion so successfully, that even
her eyes saw no token of it, except the deepening line between the
brows.
“Because I am bold enough to think I know you better even than Olivia
does; that you are not cold and cruel, and, having given me the right to
live for Felix, you will not disturb our peace; that, if I look into
your soul, as I looked into my husband’s, I shall find there what I
seek,—justice as well as generosity.”
“You shall!”
“I knew you would not disappoint me. For this promise I am more grateful
than words can express, since it takes away all fear for Felix, and
shows me that I was right in appealing to the heart which you try to
kill. Ah! be your best self always, and so make life a blessing, not the
curse you often call it,” she added, giving him a smile like sunshine, a
cordial glance which was more than he could bear.
“With you I am. Stay, and show me how to do it,” he began, stretching
both hands towards her with an almost desperate urgency in voice and
gesture.
But Gladys neither saw nor heard; for at that moment Felix came through
the hall singing one of the few perfect love songs in the world,—
                       “Che farò senza Eurydice.”
“See, he does keep his promise to me: I knew he would come back!” she
cried delightedly, and hurried to meet him, leaving Helwyze nothing but
the passion-flowers to fill his empty hands.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  XV.
“Back again, earlier than before. But not to stay long, thank Heaven! By
another month we will be truly at home, my Gladys,” whispered Canaris,
as they went up the steps, in the mellow September sunshine.
“I hope so!” she answered, fervently, and paused an instant before
entering the door; for, coming from the light and warmth without, it
seemed as dark and chilly as the entrance to a tomb.
“You are tired, love? Come and rest before you see a soul.”
With a new sort of tenderness, Canaris led her up to her own little
bower, and lingered there to arrange the basket of fresh recruits she
had brought for her winter garden: while Gladys lay contentedly on the
couch where he placed her, looking about the room as if greeting old
friends; but her eyes always came back to him, full of a reposeful
happiness which proved that all was well with her.
“There! now the little fellows sit right comfortably in the moss, and
will soon feel at home. I’ll go find Mother Bland, and see what his
Serene Highness is about,” said the young man, rising from his work,
warm and gay, but in no haste to go, as he had been before.
Gladys remembered that; and when, at last, he left her, she shut her
eyes to re-live, in thought, the three blissful months she had spent in
teaching him to love her with the love in which self bears no part.
Before the happy reverie was half over, the old lady arrived; and, by
the time the young one was ready, Canaris came to fetch her.
“My dearest, I am afraid we must give up our plan,” he said, softly, as
he led her away: “Helwyze is so changed, I come to tell you, lest it
should shock you when you see him. I think it would be cruel to go at
once. Can you wait a little longer?”
“If we ought. How is he changed?”
“Just worn away, as a rock is by the beating of the sea, till there
seems little left of him except the big eyes and greater sharpness of
both tongue and temper. Say nothing about it, and seem not to notice it;
else he will freeze you with a look, as he did me when I exclaimed.”
“Poor man! we will be very patient, very kind; for it must be awful to
think of dying with no light beyond,” sighed Gladys, touching the cross
at her white throat.
“A Dante without a Beatrice: I am happier than he;” and Canaris laid his
cheek against hers with the gesture of a boy, the look of a man who has
found the solace which is also his salvation.
Helwyze received them quietly, a little coldly, even; and Gladys
reproached herself with too long neglect of what she had assumed as a
duty, when she saw how ill he looked, for his summer had not been a
blissful one. He had spent it in wishing for her, and in persuading
himself that the desire was permissible, since he asked nothing but what
she had already given him,—her presence and her friendship. It was her
intellect he loved and wanted, not her heart; that she might give her
husband wholly, since he understood and cared for affection only: her
mind, with all its lovely possibilities, Helwyze coveted, and reasoned
himself into the belief that he had a right to enjoy it, conscious all
the while that his purpose was a delusion and a snare. Olivia had
mourned over the moody taciturnity which made a lonely cranny of the
cliffs his favorite resort, where he sat, day after day, watching, with
an irresistible fascination, the ever-changing sea,—beautiful and bitter
as the hidden tide of thought and feeling in his own breast, where lay
the image of Gladys, as placid, yet as powerful, as the moon which ruled
the ebb and flow of that vaster ocean. Being a fatalist for want of a
higher faith, he left all to chance, and came home simply resolved to
enjoy what was left him as long and as unobtrusively as possible; since
Felix owed him much, and Gladys need never know what she had prayed
not to know.
Sitting at the table, as they sat almost a year ago, he watched the two
young faces as he had done then, finding each, unlike his own, changed
for the better. Gladys was a girl no longer; and the new womanliness
which had come to her was of the highest type, for inward beauty lent
its imperishable loveliness to features faulty in themselves, and
character gave its indescribable charm to the simplest manners. Helwyze
saw all this; and perceiving also how much heart had already quickened
intellect, began to long for both, and to grudge his pupil to her new
master.
Canaris seemed to have lost something of his boyish comeliness, and had
taken on a manlier air of strength and stability, most becoming, and
evidently a source of pardonable pride to him. At his age even three
months could work a serious alteration in one so easily affected by all
influences; and Helwyze felt a pang of envy as he saw the broad
shoulders and vigorous limbs, the wholesome color in the cheeks, and
best of all, the serene content of a happy heart.
“What have you been doing to yourself, Felix? Have you discovered the
Elixir of Life up there? If so, impart the secret, and let me have a
sip,” he said, as Canaris pushed away his plate after satisfying a
hearty appetite with the relish of a rustic.
“Gladys did,” he answered, with a nod across the table, which said much.
“She would not let me idle about while waiting for ideas: she just set
me to work. I dug acres, it seemed to me, and amazed the gardener with
my exploits. Liked it, too; for she was overseer, and would not let me
off till I had done my task and earned my wages. A wonderfully pleasant
life, and I am the better for it, in spite of my sunburn and blisters;”
and Canaris stretched out a pair of sinewy brown hands with an air of
satisfaction which made Gladys laugh so blithely it was evident that
their summer had been full of the innocent jollity of youth, fine
weather, and congenial pastime.
“Adam and Eve in Eden, with all the modern improvements. Not even a tree
of knowledge or a serpent to disturb you!”
“Oh, yes, we had them both; but we only ate the good fruit, and the
snake did not tempt me!” cried Gladys, anxious to defend her Paradise
even from playful mockery.
“He did me. I longed to kill him, but my Eve owed him no grudge, and
would not permit me to do it; so the old enemy sunned himself in peace,
and went into winter quarters a reformed reptile, I am sure.”
Canaris did not look up as he spoke, but Helwyze asked hastily,—
“I hope you harvested a few fresh ideas for winter work? We ought to
have something to show after so laborious a summer.”
“I have: I am going to write a novel or a play. I cannot decide which;
but rather lean toward the latter, and, being particularly happy, feel
inclined to write a tragedy;” and something beside the daring of an
ambitious author sparkled in the eyes Canaris fixed upon his patron. It
looked too much like the expression of a bondman about to become a
freeman to suit Helwyze; but he replied, as imperturbably as ever,—
“Try the tragedy, by all means: the novel would be beyond you.”
“Why, if you please?” demanded Canaris, loftily.
“Because you have neither patience nor experience enough to do it well.
Goethe says: ‘In the novel it is sentiments and events that are
exhibited; in the drama it is characters and deeds. The novel goes
slowly forward, the drama must hasten. In the novel, some degree of
scope may be allowed to chance; but it must be led and guided by the
sentiments of the personages. Fate, on the other hand, which, by means
of outward, unconnected circumstances, carries forward men, without
their own concurrence, to an unforeseen catastrophe, can only have place
in the drama. Chance may produce pathetic situations, but not tragic
ones.’”
Helwyze paused there abruptly; for the memory which served him so well
outran his tongue, and recalled the closing sentence of the
quotation,—words which he had no mind to utter then and there,—“Fate
ought always to be terrible; and it is in the highest sense tragic, when
it brings into a ruinous concatenation the guilty man and the guiltless
with him.”
“Then you think I could write a play?” asked Canaris, with affected
carelessness.
“I think you could act one, better than imagine or write it.”
“What, I?”
“Yes, you; because you are dramatic by nature, and it is easier for you
to express yourself in gesture and tone, than by written or spoken
language. You were born for an actor, are fitted for it in every way,
and I advise you to try it. It would pay better than poetry; and that
stream may run dry.”
Gladys looked indignant at what she thought bad advice and distasteful
pleasantry; but Canaris seemed struck and charmed with the new idea,
protesting that he would first write, then act, his play, and prove
himself a universal genius.
No more was said just then; but long afterward the conversation came
back to him like an inspiration, and was the seed of a purpose which,
through patient effort, bore fruit in a brilliant and successful career:
for Canaris, like many another man, did not know his own strength or
weakness yet, neither the true gift nor the power of evil which lay
unsuspected within him.
So the old life began again, at least in outward seeming; but it was
impossible for it to last long. The air was too full of the electricity
of suppressed and conflicting emotions to be wholesome; former relations
could not be resumed, because sincerity had gone out of them; and the
quiet, which reigned for a time, was only the lull before the storm.
Gladys soon felt this, but tried to think it was owing to the contrast
between the free, happy days she had enjoyed so much, and uttered no
complaint; for Felix was busy with his play, sanguine as ever, inspired
now by a nobler ambition than before, and happy in his work.
Helwyze had flattered himself that he could be content with the harmless
shadow, since he could not possess the sweet substance of a love whose
seeming purity was its most delusive danger. But he soon discovered “how
bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man’s eyes;”
and, even while he made no effort to rob Canaris of his treasure, he
hated him for possessing it, finding the hatred all the more poignant,
because it was his own hand which had forced Felix to seize and secure
it. He had thought to hold and hide this new secret; but it held him,
and would not be hidden, for it was stronger than even his strong will,
