away by yourself and you will be as a solitary 
hautboy, a trombone, a flute, or whatever the in 
strument may be to which you correspond in the 
living orchestral world." 
"Ingenious and fanciful. But, accepting your 
thought as true, how can an instrument, finely - 
strung, find its true relation and power where all 
is discord ?" 
" Impossible in the nature of things," was my 
reply. "But there is a grand life-chorus, into 
which all human instruments, if in tune, may 
come, each in its turn giving increase to the 
harmony." 
" My senses are not acute enough to perceive 
this harmony," returned my friend. " I listen j 
 
but to my ears come shocks of discord, thai send 
thrills of pain along the strings of my soul. For 
me there is no hope but in escape from this Babel 
of sounds. I'm ust get away, and live cl.eer to 
nature. I'm ust talk with the babbling streams ; 
with the birds; with insects; with sweet airs, per 
fume-laden ; .with forest and sky ; with all things, 
in fact, which are in the order of their creation, 
and so image the Creator. Oh, how I am long 
ing to escape ! And I will escape !" 
My friend was in earnest, and so, seeking for 
opportunity, he made his escape, going from the 
city in which his life had been passed, far away 
into the country, that he might stand face to face 
wtth nature, and so be in harmony with her. 
He found leisure, quiet, repose. The stream 
which had, almost from its source, moved along 
in a free current now hurrying past flowery 
banks, now flashing back the sunlight in silvery 
gleams as it swept over stony places or down 
rocky heights composed itself to sleep in a tnn- 
quil lake. 
"The smooth, tree-encircled lake impresses you with a sense of 
tranquillity." 
lie found it very pleasant and peaceful for a 
time. The rush, the hurry, the change were 
over. No more discords no more strivings no 
more contact with rudeness and coarseness, with 
all-absorbing selfishness. 
" I am at one with nature," he wrote me, soon 
after the change. "All her peace, and order, and 
harmony flow into my life. She speaks to me, 
and I understand her language. She takes me 
by the hand, and leads me into green pastures 
and beside still waters. I never understood life 
before." 
The smooth, tree-encircled lake impresses you 
with a sense of tranquility. You look upon its 
calm surface, and feel its quiet influence per 
vading your soul. But, as you gaze down into 
its bosom, you begin to have an impression of 
something hidden and hurtful ; of a place in 
which evil things may be at work. Though the 
water looks clear, it has nothing of that crystal 
line life so beautiful in the flowing stream. 
Dark masses of something you cannot make out, 
 
lie at the bottom. Around the edges, weeds grow 
in wild luxuriance. You begin to feel a slug 
gishness in the air, and to perceive stifling odors 
from rank vegetation. How deep and exhila 
rating is every breath, as you come into the open 
fields or ascend some mountain paths again ! An 
hour by the still lake has sufficed. It would be 
death in life to dwell there. 
Very pleasant for a time my friend found it in 
his new dwelling-place, far away from the great 
centres of humanity. The agitations that swept, 
sympathetically, from circle to circle of life, did 
not find him out in his calm retreat never stirred 
his heart, reminding him that he was a member 
of the great body of the people. He was the still 
lake, reflecting sky and tree, and holding peace in 
his bosom. The still lake of the soul is arfected 
by moral laws in strict correspondence with natu 
ral laws. As it was with the lake on the lower 
and material plane, so it must be on a higher and 
spiritual plane. There was no escape for him. 
Reason would have taught him this, if he could 
have gone so far above his sensuous self as to 
comprehend her clear inductions. 
I did not meet him again for years after he 
dropped away from our social and business world, 
lost to us as an instrument from an orchestra, or a 
fine voice from a choir. There was gain on nei 
ther side, I think; but loss to both. A few let 
ters had passed between us ; then communication 
ceased. Our minds were not in harmony they 
did not chord in the music of life. 
Two or three months ago, I was in a neighbor 
ing city. The call for a public meeting attracted 
my attention, and I went to note the proceedings. 
The organization was going on as I entered the 
hall, and greatly to my surprise, I saw my friend 
take the chair. I could not be mistaken in him, 
for his physique was peculiar. If I had been in 
doubt, his voice would have assured me. Time, 
and life, had been at work with him, and through 
both, his true manhood was coming out. There 
was an air of strength r.bout him of self-poise 
of will that knoweth no hindrance. I lost half 
 
my interest in the meeting, because of interest in 
my friend. How quietly, yet with a full con 
sciousness of what the assembling involved, did 
he, as chairman, hold all its proceedings in the 
bonds of that rational order out of which so 
much right action comes. He gave rythm to the 
whole. 
When I stood face to face with him, grasping 
his hands, and looking into his clear, thoughtful 
eyes, I saw that he was a new man. That there 
had been deaths and births losses and gains 
the laying aside of lower things, and the putting 
on of what were higher and purer. 
" I thought you were vegetating in your coun 
try hermitage," I said to him, " and lo ! I find 
you in the very heart, as it were, of the world of 
action." 
" Come home with me," he answered. " We 
must talk about that. I have thought of you a 
great many times." 
I went with him and passed the night. He 
was in business again. The fret and fever of life 
were all about him. He was once nore in con 
tact with things that chafe and worry, that hurt 
and agitate if we will let them. 
" Tell me," I said, " of your states and experi 
ences during the time you lived separate from the 
world, and alone with nature. You wrote me 
that you were at one with her; that all her 
peace and harmony and order flowed into your 
life ; that she spoke to you in a language clearly 
understood; that she was leading you in green 
pastures and beside still waters." 
He dropped his eyes, and looked thoughtful. 
"A mere fancy," he replied. "You know in 
what state of mind I broke away from society 
dropped out of the orchestra, to use your own 
figure, and went away with my solitary instru 
ment, to enjoy its music alone. An athlete, ex 
hausted in the arena, finds sweet repose on a soft 
bed in a quiet chamber. It fills, for a time, his 
idea of heaven. But, when the weary limbs have 
rested, and every organ and fibre is flushed with 
blood and animal spirits, the chamber becomes as 
 
a prison. He could not live there. He would 
grow sick for want of freedom and action. A si 
milar state was mine. The peaceful retreat into 
which I withdrew myself, was as the bed and 
chamber to the strained athlete. 
" There was far more of fancy than experience," 
he continued, " in those fine words about my in 
telligent intercourse with nature. I expressed 
what I believed possible, rather than what I had 
experienced. It seemed to me that I was stand 
ing at the door opening into the arena of nature, 
and that a hand was moving it on the inner side. 
My heart bounded in confident anticipations 
which were not realized. The door never turned 
on its hinges the mystery of nature was not revealed. I soon wearied of asking vague ques 
tions of the trees and stones of the birds and 
brooks of the earth and sky. If they answered 
me, I did not comprehend their language. The 
peace, the beauty, the order o^ external life, did 
not long transfuse themselves into my soul nay, 
transfuse is not the word did not long reflect 
themselves from the surface. The old disquiet 
came back upon me ; and I awoke, gradually, to 
the truth, that disturbing causes were within me, 
rather than without ; that my instrument was not 
in tune. It was a painful awakening. After 
thjs, nature, which at first seemed flushing with 
intelligence, grew stupid and dumb. I knew no 
thing of botany, of mineralogy, of entomology ; 
and the science wanting, there was no basis for a 
true interest in things below or above the earth 's 
surface. 
"A few years of dull, weary, soul-corroding 
life, and I came back into the world again, some 
thing wiser than when I went away to live by 
myself. I do not see that we have changed in 
anything since my first experience; and yet I find 
my action accordant with the general action in 
hundreds of cases where it was discordant before. 
The change is in myself; my instrument is in 
better tune, and chords more perfectly with other 
instruments in the grand chorus of life. There 
is, I find, a great deal around us that we speak 
of as discord, when the fault is in ourselves. Of 
one thing I am satisfied, and that is, that in 
the great social body, marred and diseased as it 
is, there is a life as harmonious and reciprocal as 
in the single body of a man a life inflowing 
from the source of life, and order, and by virtue 
of that Source, in the perpetual endeavor to reform, restore, and bring back humanity to its lost 
image and likeness of God. We see this in the 
effort of every community to get just laws, and 
have them executed for the common good ; in the 
devotion of men to useful employment, each in 
his sphere ; in concerted benevolent, sanitary and 
corrective movements, by which diseased and 
hurtful things may be cast out. Now, just in the 
degree that each individual brings himself into 
harmony with this higher circle of life, which is 
common to the whole, will he find discord and 
obstruction ceasing. The world will put on a 
new face for him. She will speak to him in a 
different language. He will not need to go away 
into the still places of jiature to find rest and 
peace, for they will abide with him. But, if he 
narrow his life down to the merest selfish ends, 
seeking, as some disordered member of the body, 
to appropriate only, and not to give to act for 
himself alone, and not in concert with the whole 
for the health and well-being of the whole then 
he will be out of tune. His life will be jarred by 
perpetual discords, and he will vainly imagine 
that he is suffering from defect of harmony in 
society, when the defect is in himself. 
" This," added my friend, " is the lesson I have 
learned. Taking my peculiar mental construction, 
there was no way for me to learn it but by the 
hard one of experience. I had to drop out of the 
orchestra and try my instrument alone. What 
poor music I'm ade, sitting afar off in solitary 
places by myself! I thought it passing sweet at 
first; but its thinness and monotony soon wearied, 
and at last disgusted me. I longed for choral 
harmonies. How they ravished my ears when 
their chorded delights broke into them again !" 
 
VI. 
SUNDAY RELIGION. 
" "IT ERE Sunday religion, and not worth anything," 
said a lady, whose age and appear 
ance gave weight to her words. The remark 
seemed to occasion something like surprise in the 
little group around her. 
"What do you mean by Sunday religion?" 
was asked. 
"Pious observances of any kind singing, 
praying, listening to sermons, reading the Bible, 
receiving the sacraments, and the like." 
"And do you mean to say that these are worth 
nothing as means to the attainment of a heavenly 
life?" 
"No; far from it. They are of inestimable 
value ; I'm ight almost say of essential value." 
"Then," said the other, "I am at a loss to 
comprehend your meaning. Sunday religion not 
worth anything !" 
"Mere Sunday religion, I said, which is about 
all the religion possessed by the large class to 
whom I was referring. An exterior of sanctity, 
without a living principle of charity in the heart ; 
that is the Sunday religion I'm eant to condemn." 
"There is too much of that, I fear," was an 
swered. 
" Too much, alas !" 
" It is a self-deceiving form of hypocrisy," remarked 
one of the company. 
"And as such," said the lady, "without any 
saving principle. Men and women may sing and 
pray devoutly read the w r ord of God in all so 
lemnity of utterance hear preachings receive 
the sacred correspondential elements in the com 
munion give of their substance to churches 
and yet be in the broad way to destruction, in 
stead of in the narrow way to heaven. All these 
things will be as nothing if the week-day life fail. 
If, from Monday morning until Saturday night, 
 
love of self and the world rule the whole mind, 
all Sunday service will go for nothing in our ac 
count with heaven. In every day of every week 
we are writing down that history of our lives by 
which we shall be judged when this mortal puts 
on immortality ; and will not six days of God- 
forgetting selfishness stand in fearful contrast with 
a Sunday record of constrained worship ?" 
"Must religion come down into everything?" 
was asked. " How can you bring piety into 
trade ? It does not follow, because a man is ear 
nest in his employment, that he is sinning against 
God. Nothing can be done rightly, unless the 
mind goes into it with full vigor ; and a man can 
not think of business and religion at the same 
time. He who made us, comprehended this, and 
set apart one day in seven for religious thoughts 
and duties. I'm  afraid you depress the value of 
our Sabbath ceremonials." 
" It is not in my heart to do so, for I find in 
them both help and comfort," replied the lady, 
whose remark had led the conversation in this di- 
 
rection. " Of all good gifts from our heavenly 
Father, I prize, as among the bast, this Chris 
tian Sabbath, when we may lay down our bur 
dens of care and work, and gather up strength, 
hope, encouragement, and lessons of spiritual wis 
dom, by which to lead truer, because more unself 
ish, lives, in the days to come. But, if it is used 
as the only means of advancing heavenward, 
through devotional acts, and neither God nor the 
neighbor be regarded in the weeks that follow, 
then will its services be in vain. There must be 
religion in business, or there can be no religion at 
all." 
" I am at fault as to your entire meaning," said 
the one who had previously spoken. " Religion 
in business ! that is a novel proposition. Would 
you have a man praying and psalm-singing in his 
shop, store, office, or manufactory ?" 
"No." 
" Then, how is he to bring down his religion 
into his business ?" 
" Religion is life," was answered  " that is, a 
 
life in obedience to the precepts of religion. 
Now, men live through the week as well as on 
Sunday in their stores and shops as well as in 
their homes or closets; and they can lead only 
one of two lives religious or irreligious the life 
of heaven or the life of hell. This is true of 
every day, and hour, and moment. Think 
must it not be so?" 
There followed a thoughtful silence. 
" What I'm ean by religion in business," said 
the lady, "is that justice and integrity which ne 
ver loses sight of the neighbor 's well being 
which is based on the divine law, Whatsoever 
ye would that men should do unto you, do ye 
even so to them. It is in business that men 
come in contact with men under the peculiar 
temptations that love of self inspires; and here it 
is that they are more especially called upon to 
live that life of religious trust in God by which 
they can overcome the evil inclinings of their 
hearts. In church, and on the business-free Sabbath, they are not in the soul-trying temptations 
that meet them in their world 's work, and the 
armor of religion is not so needful for defence. 
It is to him who overcometh that the promise is 
given ; and life 's battle is not on the Sabbath, nor 
in church. Our way to heaven is through the 
world. A Sunday religion, therefore, which is 
not the complement of religion in daily life, is of 
no avail whatever, and to them who trust therein 
will come a sad awakening in that time, when all 
hearts will be seen as they are. God is a spirit, 
and they who worship him must worship him in 
spirit and in truth. It is the heart 's quality that 
gives acceptance in the eyes of God not prostrations of the body, nor any mere acts of devotion. 
There can be no true external worship without 
the internal worship of a good life ; and a good 
life consists in a faithful and just discharge of all 
our neighborly duties from a principle of obedience to Divine laws. When such obedience is 
rendered, external Sabbath worship will flow in 
natural sequence, and be a form of that genuine 
worship which brings us near to God, and fills us 
 
with his spirit a spirit not of self-love and nar 
row self-seeking, but of genuine regard for others. 
When that spirit rules in a man 's heart, he will 
be just in dealing, and careful that no one has 
loss through his gain. He will take no advan 
tages in trade, nor profit through another 's ignorance. Charity, or neighborly good-will, will 
make one with his piety. In the ground of love 
for the neighbor, whom he has seen, will the 
seeds of love to God, whom he" hath not seen, be 
planted." 
" You make the way to heaven very narrow. 
Who can walk in it?" said one of the company. 
A sigh came faintly from the lips of the lady 
who had spoken so wisely and well. 
" If we would go to heaven we must come into 
the life of heaven," she said, " and that is a life 
of mutual love and service. God is love not 
self-love, such as we cherish, but a love of doing 
good. And the religion that leads to heaven is 
an everyday religion of good-will to the neighbor, showing itself in justice, integrity, truth, 
 
honor, and genuine humanity. Without this religion, Sunday worship is nothing ; with it, conjunction with heaven, and a joy unspeakable. 
If the way is narrow, it is, nevertheless, the way 
marked out by God himself. It is not my way 
but his. And it is hard only because self-love is 
strong. Deny this self-love, and heavenly love 
will flow in. Then the way will become plain, 
and its rough places smooth. Flowers will spring 
along its margin, as it winds upward and upward 
into clear mountain regions, from which new 
worlds of beauty will open successively to the 
vision. So I read the laws of heavenly life, as 
