I'll go along ahead and keep 'em from comin' where you 
are if I can.' 

Diana heard, with tingling ears ; for she heard at the 





same time the sound of the approaching wagon behind her. 
She did not look ; she caught up her pail and basket and 
plunged into the wood path after her mother and Mr. 
Selden ; but she had not gone three yards when she heard 
her name called. 

' You are not going to desert us ? ' cried young Knowlton coming up with her. ' We don't know a step of the way, 
nor where to find blackberries or anything. I have been 
piloting myself all the way by your wagon. Come back 
and let me make you friends with my sister.' 

Blushing and hesitating, Diana had yet no choice. She 
followed Mr. Knovvlton back to the clearing, and looked 
on, feeling partly pleased and partly uncomfortable, while 
he helped from their wagon the ladies he had driven to 
the picnic. The first one dismounted was a beautiful 
vision to Diana's eyes. A trim little figure, robed in a 
dress almost white, with small crimson clusters sprinkled 
over it ; coral buckle and earrings ; a wide Leghorn hat 
with red ribbons ; and curly, luxuriant, long, floating 
waves of hair. She was so pretty, and her attire was so 
graceful, and had so jaunty a style about it, that Diana 
was struck somehow with a fresh though very undefined 
feeling of uneasiness. She turned to the other lady. Very 
pretty, she was too ; smaller even than the first one ; with 
delicate, piquant features and a ready smile. Daintily she 
also was dressed in some stuff of deep green colour, which 
set her off as its encompassing foliage does a bunch of cherries. Her face looked out almost like one, it was so bloom- 
ing, from the shadow of a green silk sunbonnet ; and her 
hands were cased in green kid gloves. Her eyes sought Diana. 

' My sister, Mrs. Reverdy, ' said young Knowlton eagerly, leading her forward. ' Miss Starling, Genevieve ; you 
know who Miss Starling is.' 



 

The little lady's answer was most gracious ; she smiled 
winningly and grasped Diana's hand, and was delighted to 
know her. ' And we are so glad to meet you ; for we are 
strangers here, you know. I never was at Bear Hill in my 
life, but they told us of wonderful blackberries here and 
such multitudes of them ; and we persuaded Evan to 
drive us ; you know we don't often have him to do anything for us ; so we came ; but I don't know what we 
should have done if we had not met you. Gertrude and I 
thought we would come and see what a picnic on Bear 
Hill meant.' And she laughed again ; smiles came very 
easily to her pretty little face. And then she introduced 
Miss Masters. Knowlton stood by, looking on at them all. 

' These elegant women ! ' thought Diana l what must 
I seem to him ? ' And truly her print gown was of homely 
quality and country wear ; she did not take into the account 
a fine figure, which health and exercise had made free and 
supple in all its movements, and which the quiet poise of 
her character made graceful, whether in motion or rest. 
For grace is no gift of a dancing master or result of the 
schools. It is the growth of the mind more than of the 
body ; the natural and almost necessary symbolization in 
outward lines of what is noble, simple, and free from 
self ; and not almost but quite necessary, if the further con- 
ditions of a well made and well jointed figure and a free and 
unconstrained habit of life, are not wanting. The conditions all met in Diana ; the harmony of development was, as 
it always is, lovely to see. 

But a shadow fell on her heart as she turned to lead the 
way through the wood to the blackberry field. For in the 
artistic elegance of the ladies beside her, she thought she 
recognized somewhat that belonged to Mr. Knowlton's 
sphere and not to her own ; something that removed her 



 

from him and drew them near; she thought he could not 
fail to find i-t so. What then ? She did not ask herself 
what then. Indeed she had no leisure for difficult analysis 
of her thoughts. 

' Dear me, how rough ! ' Mrs. Reverdy exclaimed. 
' Really, Evan, I did not know what you were bringing us 
to. Is it much further we have to go ? ' 

' It is all rough,' said Diana. ' You ought to have 
thick shoes.' 

' O, I have ! I put on horridly thick ones, look ! Isn't 
that thick enough ? But I never felt anything like these 
stones. Is the blackberry field full of them too ? Really, 
Evan,I think I cannotget along if you don't give me your arm.' 

'You have two arms, Mr. Knowlton can't I have the 
other one ? ' cried Miss Masters dolefully. 

' I have got trees on my other arm, Gatty I don't see 
where I should put you. Can't you help Miss Starling 
along, till we get out of the woods ? ' 

' Isn't it very impertinent of him to call me Gatty ? ' said 
the little beauty tossing her long locks and speaking in a 
half aside to Diana. ' Now he would like that I should re- 
turn the compliment and call him Evan ; but I won't. What 
do you do, when men call you by your Christian name ? ' 

She was trying to read Diana as she spoke, eyeing 
her with sidelong glances ; and as they went, laying her 
daintily gloved hand on Diana's arm to help herself along. 
Diana was astounded both at her confidence and at her request for council ; but as to meet the request would be to 
return the confidence, she was silent. She was thinking 
too of the elegant little boot Mrs. Reverdy had displayed, 
and contrasting it with her own coarse shoes. And how 
very familiar these two were, that he should speak to her 
by her first name so ! 




' Miss Starling ? ' cried the other lady behind her, 
' do you know we have been following your lead all the 
way we were coming this morning? ' 

' Mr. Knowlton said so,' Diana replied, half turning. 

' Aren't you very much flattered ? ' 

This time Diana turned quite, and faced the two. 

' My mother was driving, Mrs. Reverdy.' 

' Ah ? ' said the other with a very amused laugh. ' But 
you could have done it just as well, I suppose.' 

What does she mean ? thought Diana. 

' Can you do anything ? ' inquired the gay lady on her 
arm. ' I am a useless creature ; I can only fire a pistol, 
and leap a fence on horseback, and dance a polka. What 
can you do ? I dare say you are worth a great deal more 
than me. Can you make butter and bread and pudding 
and pies and sweetmeats and pickles, and all that sort ot 
thing ? I dare say you can.' 

' I can do that.' 

' And all I am good for is to eat them ! I can do that. 
Do you make cheeses too ? ' 

' I can. My mother generally makes the cheese.' 

' O but I mean you. What do people do on a farm ? 
women I mean. I know what the men do. You know all 
about it. Do you have, to milk the cows and feed everything ? chickens and pigs, you know, and all that? ' 

' The men milk,' said Diana. 

' And you have to do those other things ? Isn't it 
horrid ? ' 

' It is not horrid to feed the chickens. I never had 
anything to do with the pigs.' 

' O but Evan says you know how to harness horses.' 

Does he ? thought Diana. 

' And you can cut wood ? ' 




' Cut wood ! ' Diana repeated. ' Did anybody say I 
could do that ? ' 

' I don't know Yes, I think so. I forget. But you 
can, can't you ? ' 

' I never tried, Miss Masters.' 

' Do you know my cousin, Mr. Masters ? the minister, 
you know ? ' 

' Yes, I know him a little.' 

' Do you like him ? ' 

' I like him, yes, I don't know anything against him,' 
said Diana in great bewilderment. 

' O but I do. Don't you know he says it is wicked to 
do a great many things that we do ? he thinks everybody 
is wicked who don't do just as he does. Now I don't 
think everybody is bound to be a minister. He thinks it 
is wicked to dance ; and I don't care to live if I can't 
dance.' 

' That is being very fond of it,' said Diana. 

' Do you dance, here in the country ? ' 

' Sometimes ; not very often.' 

' Isn't it very dull here in the winter ? when you can't 
go after blackberries ? ' 

Diana smiled. ' I never found it dull,' she said. 
Nevertheless, the contrast smote her more and more, between what Mr. Knowlton was accustomed to in his world, 
and the very plain humdrum, uneventful, unadorned life 
she led in hers. And this elegant creature, whose very 
dress was a sort of revelation to Diana in its perfection 
of beauty, seemed to the poor country girl to put at an 
immense distance from Mr. Knowlton those who could 
not be charming and refined and exquisite in the like 
manner. Her gloves, one hand rested on Diana's arm, 
and pulled a little too ; what gloves they were, for colour 



 

and fit and make ! Her foot was a study. Her hat 
might have been a fairy queen's hat. And the face under 
it, pretty and gay and wilful and sweet, how could any man 
help being fascinated by it ? Diana made up her mind 
that it was impossible. 

The rambling path through the woods brought the party 
out at last upon a wild barren hillside, where stones and a 
rank growth of blackberry bushes were all that was to be 
seen. Only far off might be had the glimpse of other hills 
and of patches of cultivation on them ; the near landscape 
was all barrenness and blackberries. 

' But where are the rest of the people ? ' said Mrs. 
Reverdy with her faint laugh. ' Are we alone ? I don't see 
anybody.' 

'They are gone on they are picking,' Diana explained. 

' Hid in this scrubby forest of bushes,' said her brother. 

' Have we got to go into that forest too ? ' 

' If you want to pick berries.' 

'I think we'll sit here and let the rest do the picking,' 
said Mrs. Reverdy, looking with charming merriment at 
Gertrude. But Gertrude was not so minded. 

'No, I'm going after berries,' she said. ' Only, I don't 
see where they are. I see bushes, and that is all.' 

' Just here they have been picked,' said Diana. ' Further 
on there are plenty.' 

' Well, you lead and we'll follow,' said Mr. Knowlton. 
'You lead, Miss Starling, and we will keep close to you.' 

Diana plunged into the blackberry bushes, and striking 
off from the route she guessed the other pickers had taken, 
sought a part of the wilderness lower clown on the hill. 
There was no lack of blackberries very soon. Every bush 
hung black with them ; great, fat, juicy beauties, just ready 
to fall with ripeness. Blackberry stains spotted the whole 



 

party after they had gone a few yards, merely by the unavoidable crushing up against the bushes. Diana went to 
work upon this rich harvest, and occupied herself entirely 
with it ; bu-t berry picking never was so dreary to her. The 
very sound of the berries falling into her tin pail smote her 
with a sense of pain ; she thought of the day's work before 
her with revulsion. However, it was before her, and her 
ringers flew among the bushes, from berry to berry, gathering them with a deft skilfulness her companions could not 
emulate. Diana knew how they were getting on, without 
using her eyes to find out ; for all their experience was proclaimed aloud. How the ground was rough and the 
bushes thorny, how the berries blacked their lips and the 
prickles lacerated their fingers, and the stains of blackberry 
juice were spoiling gloves and dresses and all they had on. 

' I never imagined,' said Mrs. Reverdy with a gay laugh, 
'that picking blackberries was such a serious business. Oh 
dear ! and it's only just eleven o'clock now. And I am so 
hungry ! ' 

' Eat blackberries,' said Gertrude, who was doing it 
diligently. 

' But I want to carry some home.' 

' You can buy 'em. We came for fun,' was the cool 
answer. 

' Fun ? ' said Mrs. Reverdy with another echoing, softly 
echoing, laugh ; ' it's the fun of being torn and stained and 
scratched, and having one's hat pulled off one's hair, 
and the hair off one's head.' 

Diana heard it all, they were not far from her ; and 
she heard too Mr. Knowlton's little remarks, half gallant, 
half mocking, but very familiar she thought. No doubt; to 
his sister ; but how to Miss Masters too ? Yet they were ; 
and also, she noticed, he kept in close attendance upon 



 

the latter young lady ; picking into her basket, getting her 
out -of her numerous entanglements with the blackberry 
branches, flattering and laughing at her ; Gertrude was 
having what she would call a ' good time ; ' why not ? ' And 
why should I ? ' thought Diana to herself as she filled her 
pail. ' It is not in my line. What a goose I was, to fancy that this young man could take pleasure in being with 
me. He did; but then, he was just amusing himself ; it 
was not I ; it was the country and the fishing, and so on. 
What a goose I have been ! ' 

As fast as the blackberries dropped into the pail, so 
fell these reflections into Diana's heart ; and when the one 
was full so was the other. And as she set down her pail 
and began upon a fresh empty one, so she did with her 
thoughts ; they began all over again too. 

' Miss Starling, it is twelve o'clock,' cried Mrs. Revercly ; ' where are all the rest of the people ? Do you work 
all day without dinner ? I expected to see a great picnic 
out under the trees here.' 

' This is not the picnic place,' said Diana. ' We will go 
to it.' 

She went back first to the wagons ; put her berries in 
safe keeping and got out some of the lunch supplies. Mr. 
Knowlton loaded himself with a basket out of his wagon ; 
and the procession formed again in Indian file, everybody 
carrying something, and the two ladies grumbling and 
laughing in concert. Diana headed the line, feeling very 
much alone, and wishing sadly it were all over and she at 
home. How was she to play her part in the preparations 
at hand, where she had always been so welcome and so 
efficient ? All spring and life seemed to be taken out of 
her, for everything but the dull mechanical picking of berries. However, strength comes with necessity, she found. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE NEW RICHES OF THE OLD WORLD. 

THERE was quite a collection of people on Bear Hill today, as could be seen when they were all gathered together. 
The lunching place was high on the mountain, where there 
was a good outlook over the surrounding country ; and 
here in the edge of the woods the blackberry pickers were 
scattered about, lying and sitting on the ground in groups 
and pairs, chatting and watching the preparations going on 
before their eyes. Pretty and wild the preparations were. 
Under a big tree just at the border of the clearing a fire 
was kindled ; a stout spike driven into the trunk of the tree 
held a tea-kettle just over the blaze. Wreaths of blue 
and grey smoke curling up above the tea-kettle made their 
way through the tree branches into the upper air, taking 
hues and colours and irradiations from the sunlight in their 
way. The forest behind, the wilderness of blackberry 
bushes in front the wide view over the hills and vales 
without one spot of cultivation anywhere, or a trace of 
man's habitation ; the scene was wild enough. The soft curling smoke, grey and embrowned, gave a curious touch of 
homeliness to it. From two fires it went, curling up as 
comfortably as if it had been there always. The second 
fire was lit for the purpose of boiling green corn, which 
two or three people were busy getting ready, stripping the 
green husks off. Other hands were unloading baskets 



 

and distributing bread and butter and cups and unpacking 
ham and chickens. Meanwhile, till the fires should have 
done their work, most of the party were comfortably awaiting the moment of enjoyment and taking some other moments, as it seemed, by the way. Mrs. Carpenter in one 
place was surrounded by her large family of children ; all 
come to pick blackberries, all heated with work and fun and 
eager for the dinner. Miss Barry, quite tired out, was fanning herself with her sunbonnet and having a nice bit of 
chat with Miss Babbage, the schoolmaster's sister. Mrs. 
Mansfield and farmer Carpenter were happily discussing 
systems of agriculture. Mrs. Bodington was making a circle merry with her sharp speeches. Younger folks here 
and there were carrying on their own particular lines of 
skirmishing operations ; but there were not many of these ; 
the company had come for business quite as much as for 
