belief of our heathen ancestors, that Thor, or Donner, the son of their principal deity Woden, was 
the god of thunder; a man with a handsome, serious face and yellow beard, whose blast caused the 
 
thunder, and who in thunder-storms drove through 
the air in a chariot drawn by goats, and then in 
the lightning cast his thunderbolts on the earth, so 
that men might fear and honour him. And he 
was not only the god of thunder, in the belief of 
our forefathers, but the god of justice also. Who 
ever wished to confirm a contract with his neighbour, made it before the altar of Thor; and what 
ever had been promised " by Thor," could not be 
taken back. Also, as people believed, he watched 
over all laws and rights in the land; in the taking 
of oaths he was the witness appealed to. And 
woe to him who perverted law and justice, woe to 
him who swore a false oath; Thor's thunderbolt 
was sure to fall upon the audacious transgressor 
and dashed him to pieces. And so, from this it 
came that every thunderbolt found was laid down 
at Thor's altar, as witnesses for the god who guarded 
laws and rights, and punished covenant-breakers 
and false swearers with his strong hand. He dwelt 
among oaks, elders and alder-trees; for which reason these trees, which were sacred to him, were al 
ways found about the places where sacrifices were 
offered in his honour. Our forefathers were known 
for their inviolable truth. Even the heathen historian Tacitus says of them, that the word of a Sax 
on was worth more than the oath of a Roman, and 
that among them good customs were regarded with 
more reverence than good statues among the Romans. From this you can easily imagine in what 
high honour the god Thor was held by our fore- 
 
fathers, and how sacred was Thor's place of sacrifice. But alas, the full ferocity of heathenism also 
came out in the worship of Thor ; for human victims were slain in his honour, whenever through 
some failure of faith-keeping or breaking of a covenant a curse rested upon the community. And 
how often may not yonder little island as well have 
drunk the blood of slaughtered men ! 
"'Now in Landolf 's time, when he and the Christian doctrine had already been received at old Hermann Billing's, the priest of Thor's sacrificial altar 
on the island I have described, was a silver-haired 
old man, whom the MS. calls Henricus; i.e., Heinrich, who also for long years had been a faithful 
friend of Hermann. However, since Hermann had 
become a Christian, Heinrich had proudly with 
drawn from him; he held him to be a covenant- 
breaker, and threatened him with the judgment of 
Thor, which sooner or later would fall upon him 
because he had forsaken the faith of his fathers. 
Hermann sought an interview with his old friend, 
but the proud priest of Thor refused to give it. 
Now, when in the great assembly of the people at 
the stone-houses, of which I have formerly spoken, 
Landolf received permission to declare the Christian faith openly in the whole country, he did not 
fail to visit among other places also the sanctuary of Thor upon this island, and to preach the 
Gospel to the people who gathered there for the offering of sacrifices. Heinrich had no liberty or 
power to hinder the preaching; but when it was 
 
done he came out as its most decided opponent; 
and declared in unmeasured terms that the Saxons 
who had turned or who should turn to Christianity, 
were covenant-breakers, on whom Thor's vengeance 
would speedily fall. In flaming zeal, with these 
words he lifted one of the thunderbolt stones which 
lay beside Thor's altar, shewed it to the people, and 
threatened that with such weapons Thor would 
punish the apostates. Then arose Landolf 's commanding figure, and looking at old Heinrich with 
a gentle, happy, beaming smile, he spoke : 
" 'Brother, the Christian's God is better than 
your heathen god. See! all this while he, the 
only true God, has borne patiently with your heathen ways, has seen how you slew human sacri 
fices and became murderers of your fellow-men; 
and instead of punishing you for your sins and 
transgressions, he has borne with you in great 
love and patience; and now still, he is not lifting 
his arm of vengeance against you, but is saying; 
'Children, I have overlooked the times of ignorance ; but now the time  of salvation has come, I 
open to you my arms of grace and pray you be ye 
reconciled to your God.' But your god knows no 
love. Hermann has not transgressed in anywise; 
he has only become a Christian ; he simply abhors 
the transgressions which he used to commit. He 
proves his love towards you ; he has kept his friend 
ship for you; he has besought you; 'Brother, come 
let us talk together about our beliefs, and see whose 
faith is the right one.' The God of the Christians 
 
has taught him to love like this. But you, you 
hate the brother whom once you held dear, who 
has done nothing to harm you; you refuse him so 
much as a friendly interview; your heathen god 
has taught you to hate like this. Men," he went 
on, turning to the people who stood around them, 
"which is the right God? the God who loves 
and teaches to love, or the God that hates, and 
teaches to hate?" 
" ' The people maintained an agitated silence ; it 
had become as still as death, so that one could hear 
the very breaths that were drawn. Thereupon Landolf raised his voice again, and told the people of 
the love of our God, who parted his only-begotten 
Son from his fatherly breast and sent him down 
to poor sinners to take pity on them ; and then he 
went on to tell of the love of the Son of God, who 
forsook the throne of his Father, came to men, took 
part with their flesh and blood, in the heroism of 
love went about among men, followed by his faithful apostles; everywhere as the mighty one, God's 
champion, overcoming Satan, setting men free who 
were fast in his toils, opening the eyes of the blind 
and the ears of the deaf, making the lame to go 
and the sick to be well ; even laying hold of mighty 
Death with his divine hand and forcing him to let 
go his prey ; and how at last this true Hero of God, 
in order to save the whole captive world from its 
common oppression under the evil one, and that he 
might with justice and righteousness s'et them free, 
offered himself up for sinners, for them suffered 
 
death, went down into the grave and Hades to 
overcome death, hell, and the grave ; thence to rise 
victorious, and to go back to his Father, and to sit 
down again upon the throne of God, from which 
he had gone forth. And even there his love and 
pity never rest ; from thence he is constantly sending out his apostles and prophets; and has sent me 
to you. Not to punish, not to condemn; no, but 
to pray you, Be ye reconciled to God ; to shew you 
his arms of grace spread to receive you; and to tell 
you, Come, for all things are ready; the courts of 
heaven where Jesus reigns stand open to you. His 
blood has redeemed also you; he will forgive your 
sins, and has prepared mansions for you to dwell 
in. Repent and be baptized, that your sins may 
be forgiven and that you may be the children of 
God. 
" ' After giving such testimony, Landolf kneeled 
down, as it was always his wont to do after preach 
ing to the heathen, and prayed to the Lord Jesus 
that he would enlighten the minds of the heathen 
by his Holy Spirit to receive the word of divine 
teaching, and that he would open their hearts as 
once he opened Lydia's; he even had the boldness 
to ask the Lord to witness for himself, as the living 
God, among the people there assembled.' " 
"What did he mean? a miracle?" Flora asked. 
"I suppose, something like the signs that used 
to be asked for among the Jews in old time. Not 
a miracle exactly; and yet they were miracles too." 
" What, Ditto ? I don't remember," said Maggie. 
 
" Don't you remember how Samuel asked for a 
sign from heaven once, and the Lord sent thunder, 
though it was a time of year when storms never 
come. Then Elijah asked for a sign of fire, and 
the fire fell and burnt up his sacrifice with the wet 
pile of wood on which it lay, and licked up the 
water in the trench. Don't you recollect ? It was 
that sort of sign the Jews used to ask Jesus to give 
them, and he never would." 
" I wonder why," said Flora. 
"We must ask Mr. Murray. I do not know. 
Any more remarks? or shall I go on?" 
" go on, dear Ditto." 
" ' Landolf rose up, quiet and joyous. It seemed 
as if every man were pondering in his heart the 
preaching and the prayer; all were yet hanging 
upon his words; when up rose Hejnrich's three 
sons, priests of Thor like himself, along with his 
only daughter, a priestess of Freija, whose sanctuary was situated about three hours further up 
the Oerze. They cried in an open outburst of 
rage, " Our general assembly at the stone-houses 
has led the people astray, in suffering the Chris 
tian preacher to proclaim his Christian faith. Come 
over to us here, whoever is true to the gods of his 
fathers ! Death to apostates, and the vengeance of 
the gods ! " 
'"The people went over to the side of Heinrich's 
children. Landolf stood alone. 
" ' Landolf folded his hands in prayer, and looked 
up to heaven with sparkling eyes ; his heart accepted joyfully the martyr's crown, with which 
he thought God would adorn him. Once more he 
fell upon his knees to pray, and cried out in a 
clear voice, "0 Lord, my God, I see heaven opened. 
Lord, I come gladly, but bless this people. Bless 
these my countrymen ; do not charge their sins 
upon them ; bring them to the true, saving faith of 
the Christians, make them children of thy church." 
Then he stepped up to the people and said, " Put 
me to death. I go gladly to my Jesus in heaven." 
" ' Upon this, old Heinrich stepped out in front 
of this faithful witness of the Lord, and with emotion he had hard work to keep down, he spoke: 
"Thou hast a brave heart. Thou shalt not die a 
coward's death. I love thee ; thou art a hero, and 
thy Christ is a hero too. He died for sinners, thou 
sayst, and has vanquished death and the grave and 
hell. I will see if I can love him. I cannot yet." 
" ' Scarcely had he finished speaking, when Her 
mann hastily came up. He had followed after his 
beloved Landolf, that he might see what turn things 
would take ; for he knew that he was gone to the 
island. He stretched out his hand to Heinrich, 
and Heinrich did not turn away, but grasped it. 
And then the old man brought them both into his 
house. In the meanwhile the sky became over 
cast with dark clouds; before anybody was aware, 
the heavens had grown black, the thunder rolled 
and the lightnings darted. "Thor is driving in 
the clouds ! " cried the young priests ; " he is angry 
at the Christians ! " " The God of glory thundereth; the Lord is upon many waters; the voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire " cried Laiidolf; and with Heinrich and Hermann he went 
over to the island. The crowd stood there hushed; 
every eye was fixed intently upon the black clouds 
and the flashing lightning. Then there came a 
crash through the air, a blinding blaze darted out 
of the clouds, passed through the crowd, and shattered to pieces the sacrifice stone. Not a man was 
hurt. Then Landolf called out aloud : " ' Lord God, 
gracious and merciful, long-suffering and abundant 
in goodness and truth, that forgiveth iniquity and 
will by no means clear the guilty ! ' Brothers, the 
Lord has spoken from heaven. It is not Thor that 
is God; surely else he would not have destroyed 
his own altar and borne witness against himself. 
The Lord, he is the God; He has shattered the 
altar and left you alive; give the glory to God." 
" The people dispersed. But Heinrich repaired 
to Hermannsburg with Hermann and Landolf, to 
the dwelling of the former, and remained there 
eight days; during which time he was instructed 
by Landolf in the Christian faith. This teaching 
took deep hold of him; yet more did the utter 
revolution in Hermann's domestic life. After the 
eight days, he went back with the two to the little 
island, and was baptized in the Oerze. And on 
the spot where the round stone had been, there 
was a little chapel built, with an altar, and on the 
altar stood the image of the crucified Christ. This 
was the second great victory that Landolf fought 
 
for and gained. From that time forward Heinrich 
was his faithful helper. All the great influence 
which until then he had enjoyed as the much rev 
erenced priest of Thor, he used now only for the 
glory of Christ. It seemed as if the old, grey-haired 
man had become young again. With all the zeal 
of a first love, with all a young convert's ardour, 
he witnessed for the Lord Jesus Christ, the mighty 
Hero, the Conqueror of Satan and of Thor, who had 
offered himself a sacrifice for men and died a hero's 
death ; and in crowds the Saxons came over to him, 
and by crowds they received baptism from Landolf. 
His own sons alone remained hard, and his daugh 
ter was unmoved. This last, Ikia the chronicle 
calls her, never entered her father's house again; 
and the three sons, Tyr, Freyr, and Schwerting, 
who had so tenderly loved their father and so 
deeply revered him, declared to him now that 
they were no longer sons of his, since he was no 
longer priest of Thor. So then the venerable old 
man, sometimes alone, sometimes with Landolf or 
Hermann for a companion, every week set out to 
pay a visit to his sons and his daughter and preach 
the Lord Jesus to them. In the winter he was not 
to be daunted by the snow, nor in summer by the 
burning sands; leaning on his staff he pressed on 
through it all. The love of Christ fired him, and 
love to his children urged him forward; he would 
so fain take them with him to heaven. He had 
brought them up in the idolatrous worship of Thor ; 
if they were lost, it seemed to him it would be by 
 
his own fault. Therefore he made his weekly pil 
grimages to them, since they avoided his house as 
though it were spotted with the plague. And then, 
when he had preached Christ to them, he went back 
to pray for them. Yes, he even made it a persistent petition that the Lord Christ would not let 
him die until he had seen his children walking in 
the Lord's way. 
'"A year and a half went by in this manner, and 
still the hearts of his children seemed unimpressible and hard as stone. But Heinrich walked, 
preached, and prayed indefatigably, until at last 
he gave way before the strain and the burden of 
years. Eight days he lay on his bed, and yet 
wrestled with God that he would not let him die 
before he had seen the conversion of his children. 
He sent messages to them, telling them that he was 
sick ; they never came near him. He sent to en 
treat them to come and receive his fatherly bless 
ing ; they answered, they did not want it. And so 
all hope seemed to melt away. But the Scripture 
says with truth, that Love is stronger than Death. 
And if human love upon earth is so strong, how 
great and strong must not the love of Jesus be I 
" ' One morning, Landolf was sitting beside his 
friend's couch, trying to comfort him, and as he 
thought, to prepare him for death, when in came 
Schwerting, the youngest of Heinrich's sons, and 
spoke : " Father, Ikia wants you. She is sick unto 
death, and wishes to ask you to forgive her; she 
sent me to you. But you cannot come," he went 
 
on; "you are sick unto death yourself, and it may 
be will die now before Ikia, your child ; and she 
is so troubled! for she has never seen you again 
since that day on the island, and that is her fault ! " 
At this, something like the glow of the sunlight 
swept over Heinrich's pale face, and leaning over 
to Landolf's ear, he whispered to him: "Pray to 
Christ with me, that I may go to Ikia, my daughter; and you will go along, that I may see her bap 
tized." And Landolf kneels down by his friend's 
couch and prays, and Heinrich on his bed joins in 
the prayer, and they hold up to the Lord the word 
that he had given "If two of you shall agree on 
earth as touching anything that ye shall ask, it 
shall be done for them of my Father which is in 
heaven;" and they doubt not that he is the Al 
mighty and living God; therefore they ask that 
He will give strength and grace, that Heinrich 
may come to his daughter Ikia and see her baptism. And when they had finished praying, Hein 
rich rose up from his couch; bade them bring his 
horse ; begged his friend and his son to help him 
to mount; and when he was seated on the beast's 
back he went forward, up the Oerze, towards the 
sanctuary of Freija, where Ikia was priestess. Lan 
dolf on one side, Schwerting on the other side, led 
the horse, and supported the tottering old man. 
Whoever met the procession joined it, for Gad's 
hand was plainly there; and after three hours of 
travelling Heinrich reached Ikia. He found her 
dying, but still in full possession of her senses. A 
 
happy smile flowed over her death-white features. 
"Father," said she, "the Christian's God is the true 
God. His hand has been too strong for me. I have 
been a godless child towards you; will you forgive 
me?" "My child," said her father, "I have for 
given you; and I have prayed to my God that he 
would not let me die till I have seen your conversion and that of your brothers, till I have seen you 
turn from false gods to the living God who has 
made heaven and earth, who has died for sinners 
and made intercession for the transgressors. I for 
give thee, my daughter, and Christ also forgives 
thee, if thou wilt be baptized for the remission of 
sins. See here," pointing to Landolf, " here is the 
priest of the Lord. Let Landolf baptize my child, 
before she dies. Ikia, wilt thou be baptized?" She 
said, "Father, will Christ take me?" "My child, I 
have received you and not been angry with you, 
and I am a sinful man. And Christ, my Lord, is 
the Son of God; he died for sinners; and now he 
lives, and has the keys of hell and of death. He 
will receive thee, only believe." She turned her 
eyes inquiringly upon Landolf, and he spoke ; " Ikia, 
it is written in the word of my God, * this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ 
Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom 
I am chief.' So says the holy apostle Paul. And 
Jesus spoke to the thief on the cross, who had just 
been reviling him, but now had bethought himself, 
turned, and said, 'Lord, remember me when thou 
comest into thy kingdom' He said to him, 'Verily, I say unto thee, this day slialt thou be with me 
in paradise ! ' ' : " Then baptize me, father, before I 
die. I believe that Christ is the Son of God." And 
Schwerting went out and fetched water in a bowl, 
and handed the bowl to Landolf. But when Landolf had spoken the prayer over the water and was 
about to baptize Ikia in the name of the Triune 
God, then down kneeled Schwerting at the side of 
his sister's couch; and from the crowd of people 
collected before the open door hurriedly broke forth 
two tall men and kneeled down by Schwerting's 
side; and all three cried out, "Father, baptize us 
with our sister ! " The baptism was performed. 
And when it was done, and over the four newly 
baptized had been spoken the word " The God of 
all grace by whom you have been born again in 
the washing of regeneration and renewing of the 
Holy Ghost, strengthen you and uphold you firm 
in the faith unto the end. Peace be with you," 
then the voice of old Heinrich who had sunk on 
his knees, came out in a shout of joy. " Lord, now 
lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for my 
eyes have seen the salvation which I prayed the 
Lord for ; that he would not suffer me to die before 
I had seen the conversion of my children." And 
when he had said that, he bowed his head and de 
parted; and Landolf caught the dying man in his 
faithful arms. Ikia however did not die ; the Lord, 
who had quickened her spiritually, gave her also her 
bodily life again. She recovered, and her recovery 
was a new salvation. For soon after, Freija's altar 
 
was broken to pieces, and an altar was dedicated to 
Christ on the same spot by the staunch Landolf, 
who founded a cloister there, monasterium, as it 
was called, from which the place took the name of 
Munster. Heinrich's body was laid to rest in the 
churchyard at Hermannsburg. So were the hearts 
of the children turned to the fathers; and it was 
not long before heathenism had disappeared from 
the valley of the Oerze, and the Lord Jesus was 
become the King to whom every knee in the coun 
try was bowed.' " 
 
CHAPTEK XI. 
" Uncle Eden," said Maggie, "do you like Meredith's story ?" 
"Yes." 
"Do you feel like talking now, Uncle Eden?" 
"What about?" 
"But I mean do you feel like talking about 
