“You are a wise, kind old woman, Mrs. Bread,” said Newman. “I hoped I
might see you with my own children in your arms. Perhaps I shall, yet.”
 And he put out his hand. Mrs. Bread looked for a moment at his open
palm, and then, as if fascinated by the novelty of the gesture, extended
her own ladylike fingers. Newman held her hand firmly and deliberately,
fixing his eyes upon her. “You want to know all about Mr. Valentin?” he
said.
“It would be a sad pleasure, sir.”
“I can tell you everything. Can you sometimes leave this place?”
“The château, sir? I really don’t know. I never tried.”
“Try, then; try hard. Try this evening, at dusk. Come to me in the old
ruin there on the hill, in the court before the church. I will wait for
you there; I have something very important to tell you. An old woman
like you can do as she pleases.”
Mrs. Bread stared, wondering, with parted lips. “Is it from the count,
sir?” she asked.
“From the count--from his death-bed,” said Newman.
“I will come, then. I will be bold, for once, for him.”
She led Newman into the great drawing-room with which he had already
made acquaintance, and retired to execute his commands. Newman waited
a long time; at last he was on the point of ringing and repeating his
request. He was looking round him for a bell when the marquis came in
with his mother on his arm. It will be seen that Newman had a logical
mind when I say that he declared to himself, in perfect good faith, as
a result of Valentin’s dark hints, that his adversaries looked grossly
wicked. “There is no mistake about it now,” he said to himself as they
advanced. “They’re a bad lot; they have pulled off the mask.” Madame
de Bellegarde and her son certainly bore in their faces the signs of
extreme perturbation; they looked like people who had passed a sleepless
night. Confronted, moreover, with an annoyance which they hoped they had
disposed of, it was not natural that they should have any very tender
glances to bestow upon Newman. He stood before them, and such eye-beams
as they found available they leveled at him; Newman feeling as if the
door of a sepulchre had suddenly been opened, and the damp darkness were
being exhaled.
“You see I have come back,” he said. “I have come to try again.”
“It would be ridiculous,” said M. de Bellegarde, “to pretend that we are
glad to see you or that we don’t question the taste of your visit.”
“Oh, don’t talk about taste,” said Newman, with a laugh, “or that will
bring us round to yours! If I consulted my taste I certainly shouldn’t
come to see you. Besides, I will make as short work as you please.
Promise me to raise the blockade--to set Madame de Cintré at
liberty--and I will retire instantly.”
“We hesitated as to whether we would see you,” said Madame de
Bellegarde; “and we were on the point of declining the honor. But it
seemed to me that we should act with civility, as we have always done,
and I wished to have the satisfaction of informing you that there are
certain weaknesses that people of our way of feeling can be guilty of
but once.”
“You may be weak but once, but you will be audacious many times, madam,”
 Newman answered. “I didn’t come however, for conversational purposes.
I came to say this, simply: that if you will write immediately to your
daughter that you withdraw your opposition to her marriage, I will take
care of the rest. You don’t want her to turn nun--you know more about
the horrors of it than I do. Marrying a commercial person is better than
that. Give me a letter to her, signed and sealed, saying you retract and
that she may marry me with your blessing, and I will take it to her at
the convent and bring her out. There’s your chance--I call those easy
terms.”
“We look at the matter otherwise, you know. We call them very hard
terms,” said Urbain de Bellegarde. They had all remained standing
rigidly in the middle of the room. “I think my mother will tell you that
she would rather her daughter should become Sœur Catherine than Mrs.
Newman.”
But the old lady, with the serenity of supreme power, let her son make
her epigrams for her. She only smiled, almost sweetly, shaking her head
and repeating, “But once, Mr. Newman; but once!”
Nothing that Newman had ever seen or heard gave him such a sense of
marble hardness as this movement and the tone that accompanied it.
“Could anything compel you?” he asked. “Do you know of anything that
would force you?”
“This language, sir,” said the marquis, “addressed to people in
bereavement and grief is beyond all qualification.”
“In most cases,” Newman answered, “your objection would have some
weight, even admitting that Madame de Cintré’s present intentions make
time precious. But I have thought of what you speak of, and I have come
here to-day without scruple simply because I consider your brother and
you two very different parties. I see no connection between you. Your
brother was ashamed of you. Lying there wounded and dying, the poor
fellow apologized to me for your conduct. He apologized to me for that
of his mother.”
For a moment the effect of these words was as if Newman had struck
a physical blow. A quick flush leaped into the faces of Madame de
Bellegarde and her son, and they exchanged a glance like a twinkle of
steel. Urbain uttered two words which Newman but half heard, but of
which the sense came to him as it were in the reverberation of the
sound, “Le misérable!”
“You show little respect for the living,” said Madame de Bellegarde,
“but at least respect the dead. Don’t profane--don’t insult--the memory
of my innocent son.”
“I speak the simple truth,” Newman declared, “and I speak it for a
purpose. I repeat it--distinctly. Your son was utterly disgusted--your
son apologized.”
Urbain de Bellegarde was frowning portentously, and Newman supposed he
was frowning at poor Valentin’s invidious image. Taken by surprise,
his scant affection for his brother had made a momentary concession to
dishonor. But not for an appreciable instant did his mother lower her
flag. “You are immensely mistaken, sir,” she said. “My son was sometimes
light, but he was never indecent. He died faithful to his name.”
“You simply misunderstood him,” said the marquis, beginning to rally.
“You affirm the impossible!”
“Oh, I don’t care for poor Valentin’s apology,” said Newman. “It was
far more painful than pleasant to me. This atrocious thing was not his
fault; he never hurt me, or anyone else; he was the soul of honor. But
it shows how he took it.”
“If you wish to prove that my poor brother, in his last moments, was
out of his head, we can only say that under the melancholy circumstances
nothing was more possible. But confine yourself to that.”
“He was quite in his right mind,” said Newman, with gentle but dangerous
doggedness; “I have never seen him so bright and clever. It was terrible
to see that witty, capable fellow dying such a death. You know I was
very fond of your brother. And I have further proof of his sanity,”
 Newman concluded.
The marquise gathered herself together majestically. “This is too
gross!” she cried. “We decline to accept your story, sir--we repudiate
it. Urbain, open the door.” She turned away, with an imperious motion
to her son, and passed rapidly down the length of the room. The marquis
went with her and held the door open. Newman was left standing.
He lifted his finger, as a sign to M. de Bellegarde, who closed the
door behind his mother and stood waiting. Newman slowly advanced, more
silent, for the moment, than life. The two men stood face to face. Then
Newman had a singular sensation; he felt his sense of injury almost
brimming over into jocularity. “Come,” he said, “you don’t treat me
well; at least admit that.”
M. de Bellegarde looked at him from head to foot, and then, in the most
delicate, best-bred voice, “I detest you personally,” he said.
“That’s the way I feel to you, but for politeness sake I don’t say
it,” said Newman. “It’s singular I should want so much to be your
brother-in-law, but I can’t give it up. Let me try once more.” And he
paused a moment. “You have a secret--you have a skeleton in the closet.”
 M. de Bellegarde continued to look at him hard, but Newman could not see
whether his eyes betrayed anything; the look of his eyes was always so
strange. Newman paused again, and then went on. “You and your mother
have committed a crime.” At this M. de Bellegarde’s eyes certainly did
change; they seemed to flicker, like blown candles. Newman could see
that he was profoundly startled; but there was something admirable in
his self-control.
“Continue,” said M. de Bellegarde.
Newman lifted a finger and made it waver a little in the air. “Need I
continue? You are trembling.”
“Pray where did you obtain this interesting information?” M. de
Bellegarde asked, very softly.
“I shall be strictly accurate,” said Newman. “I won’t pretend to know
more than I do. At present that is all I know. You have done something
that you must hide, something that would damn you if it were known,
something that would disgrace the name you are so proud of. I don’t know
what it is, but I can find out. Persist in your present course and I
will find out. Change it, let your sister go in peace, and I will
leave you alone. It’s a bargain?”
The marquis almost succeeded in looking untroubled; the breaking up
of the ice in his handsome countenance was an operation that was
necessarily gradual. But Newman’s mildly-syllabled argumentation seemed
to press, and press, and presently he averted his eyes. He stood some
moments, reflecting.
“My brother told you this,” he said, looking up.
Newman hesitated a moment. “Yes, your brother told me.”
The marquis smiled, handsomely. “Didn’t I say that he was out of his
mind?”
“He was out of his mind if I don’t find out. He was very much in it if I
do.”
M. de Bellegarde gave a shrug. “Eh, sir, find out or not, as you
please.”
“I don’t frighten you?” demanded Newman.
“That’s for you to judge.”
“No, it’s for you to judge, at your leisure. Think it over, feel
yourself all round. I will give you an hour or two. I can’t give you
more, for how do we know how fast they may be making Madame de Cintré
a nun? Talk it over with your mother; let her judge whether she is
frightened. I don’t believe she is as easily frightened, in general, as
you; but you will see. I will go and wait in the village, at the inn,
and I beg you to let me know as soon as possible. Say by three o’clock.
A simple yes or no on paper will do. Only, you know, in case of a
yes I shall expect you, this time, to stick to your bargain.” And with
this Newman opened the door and let himself out. The marquis did not
move, and Newman, retiring, gave him another look. “At the inn, in the
village,” he repeated. Then he turned away altogether and passed out of
the house.
He was extremely excited by what he had been doing, for it was
inevitable that there should be a certain emotion in calling up the
spectre of dishonor before a family a thousand years old. But he went
back to the inn and contrived to wait there, deliberately, for the next
two hours. He thought it more than probable that Urbain de Bellegarde
would give no sign; for an answer to his challenge, in either sense,
would be a confession of guilt. What he most expected was silence--in
other words defiance. But he prayed that, as he imagined it, his shot
might bring them down. It did bring, by three o’clock, a note, delivered
by a footman; a note addressed in Urbain de Bellegarde’s handsome
English hand. It ran as follows:--
“I cannot deny myself the satisfaction of letting you know that I return
to Paris, to-morrow, with my mother, in order that we may see my sister
and confirm her in the resolution which is the most effectual reply to
your audacious pertinacity.
“HENRI-URBAIN DE BELLEGARDE.”
Newman put the letter into his pocket, and continued his walk up and
down the inn-parlor. He had spent most of his time, for the past week,
in walking up and down. He continued to measure the length of the little
salle of the Armes de France until the day began to wane, when he went
out to keep his rendezvous with Mrs. Bread. The path which led up
the hill to the ruin was easy to find, and Newman in a short time had
followed it to the top. He passed beneath the rugged arch of the castle
wall, and looked about him in the early dusk for an old woman in black.
The castle yard was empty, but the door of the church was open. Newman
went into the little nave and of course found a deeper dusk than
without. A couple of tapers, however, twinkled on the altar and just
enabled him to perceive a figure seated by one of the pillars. Closer
inspection helped him to recognize Mrs. Bread, in spite of the fact
that she was dressed with unwonted splendor. She wore a large black
silk bonnet, with imposing bows of crape, and an old black satin dress
disposed itself in vaguely lustrous folds about her person. She had
judged it proper to the occasion to appear in her stateliest apparel.
She had been sitting with her eyes fixed upon the ground, but when
Newman passed before her she looked up at him, and then she rose.
“Are you a Catholic, Mrs. Bread?” he asked.
“No, sir; I’m a good Church-of-England woman, very Low,” she answered.
“But I thought I should be safer in here than outside. I was never out
in the evening before, sir.”
“We shall be safer,” said Newman, “where no one can hear us.” And he led
the way back into the castle court and then followed a path beside the
church, which he was sure must lead into another part of the ruin. He
was not deceived. It wandered along the crest of the hill and terminated
before a fragment of wall pierced by a rough aperture which had once
been a door. Through this aperture Newman passed and found himself in
a nook peculiarly favorable to quiet conversation, as probably many
an earnest couple, otherwise assorted than our friends, had assured
themselves. The hill sloped abruptly away, and on the remnant of its
crest were scattered two or three fragments of stone. Beneath, over the
plain, lay the gathered twilight, through which, in the near distance,
gleamed two or three lights from the château. Mrs. Bread rustled slowly
after her guide, and Newman, satisfying himself that one of the fallen
stones was steady, proposed to her to sit upon it. She cautiously
complied, and he placed himself upon another, near her.
CHAPTER XXII
“I am very much obliged to you for coming,” Newman said. “I hope it
won’t get you into trouble.”
“I don’t think I shall be missed. My lady, in these days, is not fond of
having me about her.” This was said with a certain fluttered eagerness
which increased Newman’s sense of having inspired the old woman with
confidence.
“From the first, you know,” he answered, “you took an interest in my
prospects. You were on my side. That gratified me, I assure you. And now
that you know what they have done to me, I am sure you are with me all
the more.”
“They have not done well--I must say it,” said Mrs. Bread. “But you
mustn’t blame the poor countess; they pressed her hard.”
“I would give a million of dollars to know what they did to her!” cried
Newman.
Mrs. Bread sat with a dull, oblique gaze fixed upon the lights of the
château. “They worked on her feelings; they knew that was the way.
She is a delicate creature. They made her feel wicked. She is only too
good.”
“Ah, they made her feel wicked,” said Newman, slowly; and then he
repeated it. “They made her feel wicked,--they made her feel wicked.”
 The words seemed to him for the moment a vivid description of infernal
ingenuity.
“It was because she was so good that she gave up--poor sweet lady!”
 added Mrs. Bread.
“But she was better to them than to me,” said Newman.
“She was afraid,” said Mrs. Bread, very confidently; “she has always
been afraid, or at least for a long time. That was the real trouble,
sir. She was like a fair peach, I may say, with just one little speck.
She had one little sad spot. You pushed her into the sunshine, sir, and
it almost disappeared. Then they pulled her back into the shade and in
a moment it began to spread. Before we knew it she was gone. She was a
delicate creature.”
This singular attestation of Madame de Cintré’s delicacy, for all its
singularity, set Newman’s wound aching afresh. “I see,” he presently
said; “she knew something bad about her mother.”
“No, sir, she knew nothing,” said Mrs. Bread, holding her head very
stiff and keeping her eyes fixed upon the glimmering windows of the
château.
“She guessed something, then, or suspected it.”
“She was afraid to know,” said Mrs. Bread.
“But you know, at any rate,” said Newman.
She slowly turned her vague eyes upon Newman, squeezing her hands
together in her lap. “You are not quite faithful, sir. I thought it was
to tell me about Mr. Valentin you asked me to come here.”
“Oh, the more we talk of Mr. Valentin the better,” said Newman. “That’s
exactly what I want. I was with him, as I told you, in his last hour.
He was in a great deal of pain, but he was quite himself. You know what
that means; he was bright and lively and clever.”
“Oh, he would always be clever, sir,” said Mrs. Bread. “And did he know
of your trouble?”
“Yes, he guessed it of himself.”
“And what did he say to it?”
“He said it was a disgrace to his name--but it was not the first.”
“Lord, Lord!” murmured Mrs. Bread.
“He said that his mother and his brother had once put their heads
together and invented something even worse.”
“You shouldn’t have listened to that, sir.”
“Perhaps not. But I did listen, and I don’t forget it. Now I want to
know what it is they did.”
Mrs. Bread gave a soft moan. “And you have enticed me up into this
strange place to tell you?”
“Don’t be alarmed,” said Newman. “I won’t say a word that shall be
disagreeable to you. Tell me as it suits you, and when it suits you.
Only remember that it was Mr. Valentin’s last wish that you should.”
“Did he say that?”
“He said it with his last breath--‘Tell Mrs. Bread I told you to ask
her.’”
“Why didn’t he tell you himself?”
“It was too long a story for a dying man; he had no breath left in his
body. He could only say that he wanted me to know--that, wronged as I
was, it was my right to know.”
“But how will it help you, sir?” said Mrs. Bread.
“That’s for me to decide. Mr. Valentin believed it would, and that’s why
he told me. Your name was almost the last word he spoke.”
Mrs. Bread was evidently awe-struck by this statement; she shook her
clasped hands slowly up and down. “Excuse me, sir,” she said, “if I take
a great liberty. Is it the solemn truth you are speaking? I must ask
you that; must I not, sir?”
“There’s no offense. It is the solemn truth; I solemnly swear it. Mr.
Valentin himself would certainly have told me more if he had been able.”
“Oh, sir, if he knew more!”
“Don’t you suppose he did?”
“There’s no saying what he knew about anything,” said Mrs. Bread, with
a mild head-shake. “He was so mightily clever. He could make you believe
he knew things that he didn’t, and that he didn’t know others that he
had better not have known.”
“I suspect he knew something about his brother that kept the marquis
civil to him,” Newman propounded; “he made the marquis feel him. What he
wanted now was to put me in his place; he wanted to give me a chance to
make the marquis feel me.”
“Mercy on us!” cried the old waiting-woman, “how wicked we all are!”
“I don’t know,” said Newman; “some of us are wicked, certainly. I am
very angry, I am very sore, and I am very bitter, but I don’t know that
I am wicked. I have been cruelly injured. They have hurt me, and I want
to hurt them. I don’t deny that; on the contrary, I tell you plainly
that it is the use I want to make of your secret.”
Mrs. Bread seemed to hold her breath. “You want to publish them--you
want to shame them?”
“I want to bring them down,--down, down, down! I want to turn the tables
upon them--I want to mortify them as they mortified me. They took me up
into a high place and made me stand there for all the world to see me,
and then they stole behind me and pushed me into this bottomless pit,
where I lie howling and gnashing my teeth! I made a fool of myself
before all their friends; but I shall make something worse of them.”
This passionate sally, which Newman uttered with the greater fervor that
it was the first time he had had a chance to say all this aloud, kindled
two small sparks in Mrs. Bread’s fixed eyes. “I suppose you have a right
to your anger, sir; but think of the dishonor you will draw down on
Madame de Cintré.”
“Madame de Cintré is buried alive,” cried Newman. “What are honor or
dishonor to her? The door of the tomb is at this moment closing behind
her.”
“Yes, it’s most awful,” moaned Mrs. Bread.
“She has moved off, like her brother Valentin, to give me room to work.
It’s as if it were done on purpose.”
“Surely,” said Mrs. Bread, apparently impressed by the ingenuity of this
reflection. She was silent for some moments; then she added, “And would
you bring my lady before the courts?”
“The courts care nothing for my lady,” Newman replied. “If she has
committed a crime, she will be nothing for the courts but a wicked old
woman.”
“And will they hang her, sir?”
“That depends upon what she has done.” And Newman eyed Mrs. Bread
intently.
“It would break up the family most terribly, sir!”
“It’s time such a family should be broken up!” said Newman, with a
laugh.
“And me at my age out of place, sir!” sighed Mrs. Bread.
“Oh, I will take care of you! You shall come and live with me. You shall
be my housekeeper, or anything you like. I will pension you for life.”
“Dear, dear, sir, you think of everything.” And she seemed to fall
a-brooding.
Newman watched her a while, and then he said suddenly. “Ah, Mrs. Bread,
you are too fond of my lady!”
She looked at him as quickly. “I wouldn’t have you say that, sir. I
don’t think it any part of my duty to be fond of my lady. I have served
her faithfully this many a year; but if she were to die to-morrow, I
believe, before Heaven I shouldn’t shed a tear for her.” Then, after a
pause, “I have no reason to love her!” Mrs. Bread added. “The most she
has done for me has been not to turn me out of the house.” Newman felt
that decidedly his companion was more and more confidential--that if
luxury is corrupting, Mrs. Bread’s conservative habits were already
relaxed by the spiritual comfort of this preconcerted interview, in
a remarkable locality, with a free-spoken millionaire. All his native
shrewdness admonished him that his part was simply to let her take her
time--let the charm of the occasion work. So he said nothing; he only
looked at her kindly. Mrs. Bread sat nursing her lean elbows. “My lady
once did me a great wrong,” she went on at last. “She has a terrible
tongue when she is vexed. It was many a year ago, but I have never
forgotten it. I have never mentioned it to a human creature; I have kept
my grudge to myself. I dare say I have been wicked, but my grudge has
grown old with me. It has grown good for nothing, too, I dare say;
but it has lived along, as I have lived. It will die when I die,--not
before!”
“And what is your grudge?” Newman asked.
Mrs. Bread dropped her eyes and hesitated. “If I were a foreigner,
sir, I should make less of telling you; it comes harder to a decent
Englishwoman. But I sometimes think I have picked up too many foreign
ways. What I was telling you belongs to a time when I was much younger
and very different looking to what I am now. I had a very high color,
sir, if you can believe it, indeed I was a very smart lass. My lady was
younger, too, and the late marquis was youngest of all--I mean in the
way he went on, sir; he had a very high spirit; he was a magnificent
man. He was fond of his pleasure, like most foreigners, and it must be
owned that he sometimes went rather below him to take it. My lady was
often jealous, and, if you’ll believe it, sir, she did me the honor to
be jealous of me. One day I had a red ribbon in my cap, and my lady flew
out at me and ordered me to take it off. She accused me of putting it on
