boy. What a hardship the prickles in his fingers would be! But now he
digs them out with his jack-knife, and he enjoys the process, on the
whole. The boy is willing to do any amount of work if it is called play.

In nutting, the squirrel is not more nimble and industrious than the
boy. I like to see a crowd of boys swarm over a chestnut-grove; they
leave a desert behind them like the seventeen-years locusts. To climb
a tree and shake it, to club it, to strip it of its fruit and pass
to the next, is the sport of a brief time. I have seen a legion of
boys scamper over our grassplot under the chestnut-trees, each one
as active as if he were a new patent picking-machine, sweeping the
ground clean of nuts, and disappear over the hill before I could go to
the door and speak to them about it. Indeed, I have noticed that boys
don't care much for conversation with the owners of fruit-trees. They
could speedily make their fortunes if they would work as rapidly in
cotton-fields. I have never seen anything like it except a flock of
turkeys removing the grasshoppers from a piece of pasture.



Perhaps it is not generally known that we get the idea of some of
our best military manoeuvres from the turkey. The deploying of the
skirmish-line in advance of an army is one of them. The drum-major
of our holiday militia companies is copied exactly from the turkey
gobbler; he has the same splendid appearance, the same proud step,
and the same martial aspect. The gobbler does not lead his forces
in the field, but goes behind them, like the colonel of a regiment,
so that he can see every part of the line and direct its movements.
This resemblance is one of the most singular things in natural
history. I like to watch the gobbler manoeuvring his forces in a
grasshopper-field. He throws out his company of two dozen turkeys in a
crescent-shaped skirmish-line, the number disposed at equal distances,
while he walks majestically in the rear. They advance rapidly, picking
right and left, with military precision, killing the foe and disposing
of the dead bodies with the same peck. Nobody has yet discovered how
many grasshoppers a turkey will hold; but he is very much like a boy at
a Thanksgiving dinner,—he keeps on eating as long as the supplies last.

The gobbler, in one of these raids, does not condescend to grab a
single grasshopper,—at least, not while anybody is watching him. But I
suppose he makes up for it when his dignity cannot be injured by having
spectators of his voracity; perhaps he falls upon the grasshoppers when
they are driven into a corner of the field. But he is only fattening
himself for destruction; like all greedy persons, he comes to a bad
end. And if the turkeys had any Sunday-school, they would be taught
this.

The New England boy used to look forward to Thanksgiving as the great
event of the year. He was apt to get stents set him,—so much corn to
husk, for instance, before that day, so that he could have an extra
play-spell; and in order to gain a day or two, he would work at his
task with the rapidity of half a dozen boys. He had the day after
Thanksgiving always as a holiday, and this was the day he counted on.
Thanksgiving itself was rather an awful festival,—very much like
Sunday, except for the enormous dinner, which filled his imagination
for months before as completely as it did his stomach for that day and
a week after. There was an impression in the house that that dinner
was the most important event since the landing from the Mayflower.
Heliogabalus, who did not resemble a Pilgrim Father at all, but who
had prepared for himself in his day some very sumptuous banquets in
Rome, and ate a great deal of the best he could get (and liked peacocks
stuffed with asafoetida, for one thing), never had anything like
a Thanksgiving dinner; for do you suppose that he, or Sardanapalus
either, ever had twenty-four different kinds of pie at one dinner?
Therein many a New England boy is greater than the Roman emperor or the
Assyrian king, and these were among the most luxurious eaters of their
day and generation. But something more is necessary to make good men
than plenty to eat, as Heliogabalus no doubt found when his head was
cut off. Cutting off the head was a mode the people had of expressing
disapproval of their conspicuous men. Nowadays they elect them to a
higher office, or give them a mission to some foreign country, if they
do not do well where they are.

For days and days before Thanksgiving the boy was kept at work
evenings, pounding and paring and cutting up and mixing (not being
allowed to taste much), until the world seemed to him to be made of
fragrant spices, green fruit, raisins, and pastry,—a world that he
was only yet allowed to enjoy through his nose. How filled the house
was with the most delicious smells! The mince-pies that were made!
If John had been shut in solid walls with them piled about him, he
couldn't have eaten his way out in four weeks. There were dainties
enough cooked in those two weeks to have made the entire year luscious
with good living, if they had been scattered along in it. But people
were probably all the better for scrimping themselves a little in order
to make this a great feast. And it was not by any means over in a day.
There were weeks deep of chicken-pie and other pastry. The cold buttery
was a cave of Aladdin, and it took a long time to excavate all its
riches.

Thanksgiving Day itself was a heavy day, the hilarity of it being
so subdued by going to meeting, and the universal wearing of the
Sunday clothes, that the boy couldn't see it. But if he felt
little exhilaration, he ate a great deal. The next day was the
real holiday. Then were the merry-making parties, and perhaps the
skatings and sleighrides, for the freezing weather came before the
governor's proclamation in many parts of New England. The night after
Thanksgiving occurred, perhaps, the first real party that the boy had
ever attended, with live girls in it, dressed so bewitchingly. And
there he heard those philandering songs, and played those sweet games
of forfeits, which put him quite beside himself, and kept him awake
that night till the rooster crowed at the end of his first chicken-nap.
What a new world did that party open to him! I think it likely that
he saw there, and probably did not dare say ten words to, some tall,
graceful girl, much older than himself, who seemed to him like a new
order of being. He could see her face just as plainly in the darkness
of his chamber. He wondered if she noticed how awkward he was, and how
short his trousers-legs were. He blushed as he thought of his rather
ill-fitting shoes; and determined, then and there, that he wouldn't
be put off with a ribbon any longer, but would have a young man's
necktie. It was somewhat painful thinking the party over, but it was
delicious too. He did not think, probably, that he would die for that
tall, handsome girl; he did not put it exactly in that way. But he
rather resolved to live for her,—which might in the end amount to the
same thing. At least, he thought that nobody would live to speak twice
disrespectfully of her in his presence.




IX

THE SEASON OF PUMPKIN-PIE


What John said was, that he didn't care much for pumpkin-pie; but that
was after he had eaten a whole one. It seemed to him then that mince
would be better.

The feeling of a boy towards pumpkin-pie has never been properly
considered. There is an air of festivity about its approach in the
fall. The boy is willing to help pare and cut up the pumpkin, and
he watches with the greatest interest the stirring-up process and
the pouring into the scalloped crust. When the sweet savor of the
baking reaches his nostrils, he is filled with the most delightful
anticipations. Why should he not be? He knows that for months to come
the buttery will contain golden treasures, and that it will require
only a slight ingenuity to get at them.

The fact is, that the boy is as good in the buttery as in any part
of farming. His elders say that the boy is always hungry; but that is
a very coarse way to put it. He has only recently come into a world
that is full of good things to eat, and there is on the whole a very
short time in which to eat them; at least he is told, among the first
information he receives, that life is short. Life being brief, and pie
and the like fleeting, he very soon decides upon an active campaign. It
may be an old story to people who have been eating for forty or fifty
years, but it is different with a beginner. He takes the thick and thin
as it comes, as to pie, for instance. Some people do make them very
thin. I knew a place where they were not thicker than the poor man's
plaster; they were spread so thin upon the crust that they were better
fitted to draw out hunger than to satisfy it. They used to be made up
by the great oven-full and kept in the dry cellar, where they hardened
and dried to a toughness you would hardly believe. This was a long time
ago, and they make the pumpkin-pie in the country better now, or the
race of boys would have been so discouraged that I think they would
have stopped coming into the world.

The truth is, that boys have always been so plenty that they are
not half appreciated. We have shown that a farm could not get along
without them, and yet their rights are seldom recognized. One of the
most amusing things is their effort to acquire personal property. The
boy has the care of the calves; they always need feeding or shutting
up or letting out; when the boy wants to play, there are those calves
to be looked after,—until he gets to hate the name of calf. But in
consideration of his faithfulness, two of them are given to him. There
is no doubt that they are his; he has the entire charge of them. When
they get to be steers, he spends all his holidays in breaking them in
to a yoke. He gets them so broken in that they will run like a pair
of deer all over the farm, turning the yoke, and kicking their heels,
while he follows in full chase, shouting the ox language till he is
red in the face. When the steers grow up to be cattle, a drover one
day comes along and takes them away, and the boy is told that he can
have another pair of calves; and so, with undiminished faith, he goes
back and begins over again to make his fortune. He owns lambs and young
colts in the same way, and makes just as much out of them.

There are ways in which the farmer-boy can earn money, as by gathering
the early chestnuts and taking them to the Corner store, or by finding
turkeys' eggs and selling them to his mother; and another way is to
go without butter at the table,—but the money thus made is for the
heathen. John read in Dr. Livingstone that some of the tribes in
Central Africa (which is represented by a blank spot in the atlas) use
the butter to grease their hair, putting on pounds of it at a time;
and he said he had rather eat his butter than have it put to that use,
especially as it melted away so fast in that hot climate.

Of course it was explained to John that the missionaries do not
actually carry butter to Africa, and that they must usually go without
it themselves there, it being almost impossible to make it good from
the milk in the cocoanuts. And it was further explained to him that,
even if the heathen never received his butter or the money for it, it
was an excellent thing for a boy to cultivate the habit of self-denial
and of benevolence, and if the heathen never heard of him he would be
blessed for his generosity. This was all true.

But John said that he was tired of supporting the heathen out of his
butter, and he wished the rest of the family would also stop eating
butter and save the money for missions; and he wanted to know where the
other members of the family got their money to send to the heathen; and
his mother said that he was about half right, and that self-denial was
just as good for grown people as it was for little boys and girls.

The boy is not always slow to take what he considers his rights.
Speaking of those thin pumpkin-pies kept in the cellar cupboard, I used
to know a boy who afterwards grew to be a selectman, and brushed his
hair straight up like General Jackson, and went to the legislature,
where he always voted against every measure that was proposed, in the
most honest manner, and got the reputation of being the "watch-dog of
the treasury." Rats in the cellar were nothing to be compared to this
boy for destructiveness in pies. He used to go down, whenever he could
make an excuse, to get apples for the family, or draw a mug of cider
for his dear old grandfather (who was a famous story-teller about the
Revolutionary War, and would no doubt have been wounded in battle if
he had not been as prudent as he was patriotic), and come up stairs
with a tallow candle in one hand and the apples or cider in the other,
looking as innocent and as unconscious as if he had never done anything
in his life except deny himself butter for the sake of the heathen.
And yet this boy would have buttoned under his jacket an entire round
pumpkin-pie. And the pie was so well made and so dry that it was not
injured in the least, and it never hurt the boy's clothes a bit more
than if it had been inside of him instead of outside; and this boy
would retire to a secluded place and eat it with another boy, being
never suspected, because he was not in the cellar long enough to eat a
pie, and he never appeared to have one about him. But he did something
worse than this. When his mother saw that pie after pie departed, she
told the family that she suspected the hired man; and the boy never
said a word, which was the meanest kind of lying. That hired man was
probably regarded with suspicion by the family to the end of his days,
and if he had been accused of robbing they would have believed him
guilty.

I shouldn't wonder if that selectman occasionally has remorse now about
that pie; dreams, perhaps, that it is buttoned up under his jacket and
sticking to him like a breastplate; that it lies upon his stomach like
a round and red-hot nightmare, eating into his vitals. Perhaps not. It
is difficult to say exactly what was the sin of stealing that kind of
pie, especially if the one who stole it ate it. It could have been used
for the game of pitching quoits, and a pair of them would have made
very fair wheels for the dog-cart. And yet it is probably as wrong to
steal a thin pie as a thick one; and it made no difference because
it was easy to steal this sort. Easy stealing is no better than easy
lying, where detection of the lie is difficult. The boy who steals his
mother's pies has no right to be surprised when some other boy steals
his watermelons. Stealing is like charity in one respect,—it is apt to
begin at home.




X

FIRST EXPERIENCE OF THE WORLD


If I were forced to be a boy, and a boy in the country,—the best kind
of boy to be in the summer,—I would be about ten years of age. As soon
as I got any older, I would quit it. The trouble with a boy is that
just as he begins to enjoy himself he is too old, and has to be set to
doing something else. If a country boy were wise he would stay at just
that age when he could enjoy himself most, and have the least expected
of him in the way of work.

Of course the perfectly good boy will always prefer to work, and to do
"chores" for his father and errands for his mother and sisters, rather
than enjoy himself in his own way. I never saw but one such boy. He
lived in the town of Goshen,—not the place where the butter is made,
but a much better Goshen than that. And I never saw him, but I heard
of him; and being about the same age, as I supposed, I was taken once
from Zoar, where I lived, to Goshen to see him. But he was dead. He had
been dead almost a year, so that it was impossible to see him. He died
of the most singular disease: it was from not eating green apples in
the season of them. This boy, whose name was Solomon, before he died
would rather split up kindling-wood for his mother than go a-fishing:
the consequence was, that he was kept at splitting kindling-wood
and such work most of the time, and grew a better and more useful
boy day by day. Solomon would not disobey his parents and eat green
apples,—not even when they were ripe enough to knock off with a
stick,—but he had such a longing for them that he pined and passed
away. If he had eaten the green apples he would have died of them,
probably; so that his example is a difficult one to follow. In fact, a
boy is a hard subject to get a moral from. All his little playmates who
ate green apples came to Solomon's funeral, and were very sorry for
what they had done.



John was a very different boy from Solomon, not half so good, nor half
so dead. He was a farmer's boy, as Solomon was, but he did not take
so much interest in the farm. If John could have had his way he would
have discovered a cave full of diamonds, and lots of nail-kegs full of
gold-pieces and Spanish dollars, with a pretty little girl living in
the cave, and two beautifully caparisoned horses, upon which, taking
the jewels and money, they would have ridden off together, he did not
know where. John had got thus far in his studies, which were apparently
arithmetic and geography, but were in reality the Arabian Nights, and
other books of high and mighty adventure. He was a simple country boy,
and did not know much about the world as it is, but he had one of his
own imagination, in which he lived a good deal. I dare say he found out
soon enough what the world is, and he had a lesson or two when he was
quite young, in two incidents, which I may as well relate.

If you had seen John at this time, you might have thought he was only
a shabbily dressed country lad, and you never would have guessed what
beautiful thoughts he sometimes had as he went stubbing his toes along
the dusty road, nor what a chivalrous little fellow he was. You would
have seen a short boy, barefooted, with trousers at once too big and
too short, held up, perhaps, by one suspender only; a checked cotton
shirt; and a hat of braided palm-leaf, frayed at the edges and bulged
up in the crown. It is impossible to keep a hat neat if you use it to
catch bumble-bees and whisk 'em; to bail the water from a leaky boat;
to catch minnows in; to put over honey-bees' nests; and to transport
pebbles, strawberries, and hens' eggs. John usually carried a sling
in his hand, or a bow, or a limber stick sharp at one end, from which
he could sling apples a great distance. If he walked in the road, he
walked in the middle of it, shuffling up the dust; or, if he went
elsewhere, he was likely to be running on the top of the fence or the
stone-wall, and chasing chipmunks.

John knew the best place to dig sweet-flag in all the farm; it was in a
meadow by the river, where the bobolinks sang so gayly. He never liked
to hear the bobolink sing, however, for he said it always reminded
him of the whetting of a scythe, and that reminded him of spreading
hay; and if there was anything he hated it was spreading hay after the
mowers. "I guess you wouldn't like it yourself," said John, "with the
stubs getting into your feet, and the hot sun, and the men getting
ahead of you, all you could do."

Towards evening once, John was coming along the road home with some
stalks of the sweet-flag in his hand; there is a succulent pith in the
end of the stalk which is very good to eat, tender, and not so strong
as the root; and John liked to pull it, and carry home what he did
not eat on the way. As he was walking along he met a carriage, which
stopped opposite to him; he also stopped and bowed, as country boys
used to bow in John's day. A lady leaned from the carriage and said,—

"What have you got, little boy?"

She seemed to be the most beautiful woman John had ever seen; with
light hair, dark, tender eyes, and the sweetest smile. There was that
in her gracious mien and in her dress which reminded John of the
beautiful castle ladies, with whom he was well acquainted in books. He
felt that he knew her at once, and he also seemed to be a sort of young
prince himself. I fancy he didn't look much like one. But of his own
appearance he thought not at all, as he replied to the lady's question,
without the least embarrassment,—

"It's sweet-flag stalk; would you like some?"

"Indeed, I should like to taste it," said the lady, with a most winning
smile. "I used to be very fond of it when I was a little girl."

John was delighted that the lady should like sweet-flag, and that she
was pleased to accept it from him. He thought himself that it was about
the best thing to eat he knew. He handed up a large bunch of it. The
lady took two or three stalks, and was about to return the rest, when
John said,—

"Please keep it all, ma'am. I can get lots more. I know where it's ever
so thick."

"Thank you, thank you," said the lady; and as the carriage started she
reached out her hand to John. He did not understand the motion, until
he saw a cent drop in the road at his feet. Instantly all his illusion
and his pleasure vanished. Something like tears were in his eyes as he
shouted,—

"I don't want your cent. I don't sell flag!"

John was intensely mortified. "I suppose," he said, "she thought I was
a sort of beggar-boy. To think of selling flag!"

At any rate, he walked away and left the cent in the road, a humiliated
boy. The next day he told Jim Gates about it. Jim said he was green not
to take the money; he'd go and look for it now, if he would tell him
about where it dropped. And Jim did spend an hour poking about in the
dirt, but he did not find the cent. Jim, however, had an idea: he said
he was going to dig sweet-flag, and see if another carriage wouldn't
come along.

John's next rebuff and knowledge of the world was of another sort.
He was again walking the road at twilight, when he was overtaken by
a wagon with one seat, upon which were two pretty girls, and a young
gentleman sat between them driving. It was a merry party, and John
could hear them laughing and singing as they approached him. The wagon
stopped when it overtook him, and one of the sweet-faced girls leaned
from the seat and said, quite seriously and pleasantly,—

"Little boy, how's your mar?"

John was surprised and puzzled for a moment. He had never seen the
young lady, but he thought that she perhaps knew his mother; at any
rate his instinct of politeness made him say,—

"She's pretty well, I thank you."

"Does she know you are out?"

And thereupon all three in the wagon burst into a roar of laughter and
dashed on.

