Constance : u Oh, hush ! I can't let you re- 
proach him ! He was pitilessly false to me, but 
I will be true to him forever. How do I know 
I must find some reason for that, or there is no 
reason in anything ! how do I know that he did 
not break his word to me at my father's bidding? 
My father never liked him." 

Bartlett, shaking his head with a melancholy 
smile : " Ah, Constance, do you think I would 
break my word to you at your father's bidding ? " 



 

Constance, in abject despair: "Well, then I 
go back to what I always knew; I was too 
slight, too foolish, too tiresome for his life-long 
love. He saw it in time, I don't blame him. 
You would see it, too." 

Bartlett : " What devil's vantage enabled that 
infernal scoundrel to blight your spirit with his 
treason ? Constance, is this my last answer ? " 

Constance : " Yes, go ! I am so sorry for you, 

sorrier than I ever thought I could be for 
anything again." 

Bartlett: "Then if you pity me, give me a 
little hope that sometime, somehow " 

Constance: " Oh, I have no hope, for you, for me. 
for any one. Good-by, good, kind friend ! Try, 

you won't have to try hard to forget me. 
Unless some miracle should happen to show me 
that it was all his fault and none of mine, we are 
parting now forever. It has been a strange 
dream, and nothing is so strange as that it should 
be ending so. Are you the ghost or I, I wonder ! 
It confuses me as it did at first; but if you are 
he, or only you Ah, don't look at me so, or 



 

I must believe he has never left me, and implore 
you to stay ! " 

Bartlettj quietly : " Thanks. I would not stay 
a moment longer in his disguise, if you begged 
me on your knees. I shall always love you, 
Constance, but if the world is wide enough, please 
Heaven, I will never see you again. There are 
some things dearer to me than your, presence. 
No, I won't take your hand ; it can't heal the 
hurt your words have made, and nothing can 
help me, now I know from your own lips that 
but for my likeness to him I should never have 
been anything to you. Good-by ! " 

Constance : " Oh ! " She sinks with a long 
cry into the arm-chair beside the table, and drops 
her head into her arms upon it. At the door 
toward which he turns Bartlett meets General 
Wyatt, and a moment later Mrs. Wyatt enters by 
the other. Bartlett recoils under the concen- 
trated reproach and inquiry of their gaze. 



V. 



GENERAL WYATT, MRS. WYATT, CONSTANCE, 
and BARTLETT. 

Mrs. Wyatt, hastening to bow herself over 
Constance's fallen head : " Oh, what is it, Con- 
stance ? " As Constance makes no reply, she lifts 
her eyes again to Bartlett's face. 

General Wyatt) peremptorily : " Well, sir ! " 

Bartlett, with bitter desperation : " Oh, you 
shall know ! " 

Constance, interposing : " I will tell ! You 
shall be spared that, at least." She has risen, 
and with her face still hidden in her handkerchief, 
seeks her father with an outstretched hand. He 
tenderly gathers her to his arms, and she droops 
a moment upon his shoulder ; then, with an elec- 
trical revolt against her own weakness, she lifts 
her head and dries her tears with a passion- 



 

ate energy. "He Oh, speak for me!" Her 
head falls again on her father's shoulder. 

Bartlett, with grave irony and self-scorn : " It 's 
a simple matter, sir; I have been telling Miss 
Wyatt that I love her, and offering to share with 
her my obscurity and poverty. I " 

General Wyatt, impatiently : " Curse your 
poverty, sir ! I 'm poor myself. Well ! " 

Bartlett: "Oh, that's merely the beginning; I 
have had the indecency to do this, knowing that 
what alone rendered me sufferable to her it was 
a cruel shame for me to know, and an atrocity 
for me to presume upon. I " 

General Wyatt: "I authorized this knowledge 
on your part when I spoke to your friend, and 
before he went away he told me all he had said 
to you." 

Bartlett, in the first stages of petrifaction : 
" Cummings ? " 

General Wyatt: "Yes." 

Bartlett : " Told you that I knew whom I was 
like ? " 

General Wyatt: "Yes." 



 

Bartlett, very gently : " Then I think that man 
will be lost for keeping his conscience too clean. 
Cummings has invented a new sin." 

Mrs. Wyatt : " James, James ! You told me 
that Mr. Bartlett didn't know." 

General Wyatt, contritely : " I let you think so, 
Margaret ; I didn't know what else to do." 

Mrs. Wyatt : " Oh, James ! " 

Constance : " Oh, papa ! " She turns with 
bowed head from her father's arms, and takes 
refuge in her mother's embrace. General Wyatt, 
released, fetches a compass round about the par- 
lor, with a face of intense dismay. He pauses in 
front of his wife. 

General Wyatt : " Margaret, you must know the 
worst, now." 

Mrs. Wyatt, in gentle reproach, while she softly 
caresses Constance's hair: "Oh, is there anything 
worse, James ? " 

General Wyatt, hopelessly : " Yes : I 'm afraid 
I have been to blame," 

Bartlett : " General Wyatt, let me retire. I " 

General Wyatt: "No, sir. This concerns you, 
 



 

too, now. Your destiny has entangled you with 
our sad fortunes, and now you must know them 
all." 

Constance, from her mother's shoulder: "Yes, 
stay, whatever it is. If you care for me, 
nothing can hurt you any more, now." 

General Wyatt : " Margaret, Constance ! If I 
have been mistaken in what I have done, you must 
try somehow to forgive me ; it was my tenderness 
for you both misled me, if I erred. Sir, let me ad- 
dress my defense to you. You can see the whole 
matter with clearer eyes than we." At an implor- 
ing gesture from Bartlett, he turns again to Mrs. 
Wyatt. " Perhaps you are right, sir. Margaret, 
when I had made up my mind that the wretch 
who had stolen our child's heart was utterly unfit 
and unworthy " 

Constance, starting away from her mother with a 
cry : " Ah, you did drive him from me, then ! I 
knew, I knew it ! And after all these days and 
weeks and months that seem years and centuries of 
agony, you tell me that it was you broke my heart ! 
No, no, I never will forgive you, father ! Where 



 

is he? Tell me that! Where is my husband the 
husband you robbed me of? Did you kill him, 
when you chose to crush my life ? Js he dead ? 
If he 's living I will find him wherever he is. No 
distance and no danger shall keep me from him. 
I 'll find him and fall down before him, and implore 
him to forgive you, for I never can! Was this 
your tenderness for me to drive him away, and 
leave me to the pitiless humiliation of believing 
myself deserted ? Oh, great tenderness ! " 

General Wyatt, confronting her storm with per- 
fect quiet : " No, I will give better proof of my 
tenderness than that." He takes from his pocket- 
book a folded paper which he hands to his wife : 
"Margaret, do you know that writing?" 

Mrs. Wyatt) glancing at the superscription : " Oh, 
too well ! This is to you, James." 

General Wyatt : " It 's for you, now. Read it." 

Mrs. Wyatt, wonderingly unfolding the paper and 
then reading : " fi I confess myself guilty of forging 
Major Cummings's signature, and in consideration 
of his and your own forbearance, I promise never to 
see Miss Wyatt again. I shall always be grateful 



 

for your mercy; and' James, James! It isn't 
possible ! " 

Constance, who has crept nearer and nearer while 
her mother has been reading, as if drawn by a re- 
sistless fascination: "No, it isn't possible! It's 
false ; it 's a fraud ! I will see it." She swiftly 
possesses herself of the paper and scans the hand- 
writing for a moment with a fierce intentness. 
Then she flings it wildly away. " Yes, yes, it 's 
true ! It 's his hand. It 's true, it 's the only true 
thing in this world of lies ! " She totters away to- 
ward the sofa. Bartlett makes a movement to 
support her, but she repulses him, and throws her- 
self upon the cushions. 

General Wyott : " Sir, I am sorry to make you 
the victim of a scene. It has been your fate, and 
no part of my intention. Will you look at this 
paper ? You don't know all that is in it yet." He 
touches it with his foot. 

Bartlett, in dull dejection : " No, I won't look at 
it. If it were a radiant message from heaven, I 
don't see how it could help me now." 

Mrs. Wyatt : " I 'm afraid you ' ve made a terrible 
mistake, James." 



 

General Wyatt: "Margaret! Don't say that!" 

Mrs. Wyatt : u Yes, it would have been better to 
show us this paper at once, better than to keep 
us all these days in this terrible suffering." 

General Wyatt : " I was afraid of greater suffer- 
ing for you both. I chose sorrow for Constance 
rather than the ignominy of knowing that she had 
set her heart on so base a scoundrel. When he 
crawled in the dust there before me, and whined 
for pity, I revolted from telling you or her how 
vile he was; the thought of it seemed to dishonor 
you; and I had hoped something, everything, from 
my girl's self-respect, her obedience, her faith in 
me. I never dreamed that it must come to this." 

Mrs. Wyatt, sadly shaking her head : " I know 
how well you meant; but oh, it was a fatal mis- 
take ! " 

Constance, abandoning her refuge among the 
cushions, and coming forward to her father : " No, 
mother, it was no mistake ! I see now how wise 
and kind and merciful you have been, papa. You 
can never love me again, I 've behaved so badly ; 
but if you 'll let me, I will try to live my grati- 



 

tude for your mercy at a time when the whole 
truth would have killed me. Oh, papa ! What 
shall I say, what shall I do to show how sorry and 
ashamed I am? Let me go down on my knees 
to thank you." Her father catches her to his 
heart, and fondly kisses her again and again. " I 
don't deserve it, papa! You ought to hate me, 
and drive me from you, and never let me see you 
again." She starts away from him as if to exe- 
cute upon herself this terrible doom, when her eye 
falls upon the letter where she had thrown it on 
the floor. " To think how long I have been the 
fool, the slave of that felon ! " She stoops upon 
the paper with a hawk-like fierceness ; she tears 
it into shreds, and strews the fragments about the 
room. " Oh, if I could only tear out of my heart 
all thoughts of him, all memory, all likeness!" 
In her wild scorn she has whirled unheedingly 
away toward Bartlett, whom, suddenly confront- 
ing, she apparently addresses in this aspiration ; 
he opens wide his folded arms. 

Bartlett : " And what would you do, then, with 
this extraordinary resemblance ? " The closing 



 

circle of his arms involves her and clasps her to his 
heart, from which beneficent shelter she presently 
exiles herself a pace or two and stands with either 
hand pressed against his breast while her eyes 
dwell with rapture on his face. 

Constance : " Oh, you're not like him, and you 
never were ! " 

Bartlett, with light irony : " Ah ? " 

Constance : " If I had not been blind, Mind, 
blind, I never could have seen the slightest similar- 
ity. Like him ? Never ! " 

Bartlett : " Ah ! Then perhaps the resemblance, 
which we have noticed from time to time, and 
which has been the cause of some annoyance and 
embarrassment all round, was simply a disguise 
which I had assumed for the time being to accom- 
plish a purpose of my own ? " 

Constance: "Oh, don't jest it away! It's 
your soul that I see now, your true and brave and 
generous heart ; and if you pardoned me for mis- 
taking you a single moment for one who had 
neither soul nor heart, I could never look you in 
the face again ! " 



 

Bartlett : " You seem to be taking a good provis- 
ional glare at me beforehand, then, Miss Wyatt. 
I've never been so nearly looked out of coun- 
tenance in my life. But you needn't be afraid ; I 
shall not pardon your crime." Constance abruptly 
drops her head upon his breast, and again in- 
stantly repels herself. 

Constance : " No, you must not if you could. 
But you can't you can't care for me after hear- 
ing what I could say to my father " 

Bartlett : " That was in a moment of great ex- 
citement." 

Constance: "After hearing me rave about a 
man so unworthy of any one you cared for 
No, your self-respect everything demands 
that you should cast me off." 

Bartlett : " It does. But I am inexorable, 
you must have observed the trait before. In this 
case I will not yield even to my own colossal self- 
respect." Earnestly : " Ah, Constance, do you 
think I could love you the less because your heart 
was too true to swerve even from a traitor till he 
was proved as false to honor as to you ? " Lightly 



 
