official's house, in snow and ice (it was in November), and it was only
with difficulty that they could get a bit of bread to eat. Then they
were thrown into prison; and there for a long time our fathers had to
share the bonds and imprisonment of God's faithful servant; but no
threats, no contumely, no distress could move them to apostasy, from the
faith they had confessed.

"'How long they lay there I do not know. At last, when the Dukes came
back from Augsburg, the hour of their freedom struck; they were let go,
and returned to their homes shedding thankful tears; the church was
again opened to them too, and the heroic Grünhagen preached the gospel
to his people anew with fresh power. Then also struck the warden's hour
of grace; he grew tender, and was overcome by the might of the blessed
gospel; and whereas he had formerly been a zealot for the mistaken
service of God, now he became one of the strongest friends of the pure
Lutheran doctrine in all the community. Out of gratitude the parish gave
to its beloved watcher for souls this Tiefenthal with the wooded hill
here, to be for all time the property of the parsonage, which it still
is to the present day. My beloved, we have come here to-day for
pleasure; are we to come here again perhaps some day in distress? You
answer possibly, "No, that is not to be apprehended; our times are too
humane." Yes! they are humane towards all that is human; i.e.,
towards banqueting and drinking, dissolute living and deceit. But that
our times are not too humane towards what is godly, is testified by
the persecutions directed against the Lutherans in Baden and Nassau,
where various Lutheran preachers have had to pay fine after fine, and
lie in the common prison, because they preach and baptize and observe
the communion in the Lutheran manner, and whereto the preaching must
often be held in mountains and clefts of the rocks to be had in peace.
And besides, the kingdom of Antichrist is advancing with constantly
quicker and more decided steps. Even now it everywhere rains words of
abuse upon the saints, the praying people, the hypocrites, the
enthusiasts, the mad folk, and by whatever other names beside they may
call them. And who knows how soon the time may come when the word will
again be true,--"They will put you out of their synagogues," and
"whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service." I could if
I would read you letters that have come from many cities and villages,
filled with such threatenings and cursings and coarse words against me
that they would fill you with astonishment. Therefore ask yourselves
again seriously the question, would you also be ready to give money and
blood, body and life, for the Lord Jesus and for your faith? would you
also be ready to suffer bonds and imprisonment for the Lord's sake? If
it be so that you could not or would not do that, then you are not
worthy to bear the name of Jesus Christ; for whoever hateth not father
and mother, wife and child, farm and farm stock, and his own life also,
for Jesus's sake, he is not worthy of me, the Lord says. To confess
Christ in peace and in pleasant times, that is easy enough; but to do it
through distress and death, to stand fast in the baptism of fire, that
is another thing. Christians of nowadays are accustomed to easy living;
how would the cup of suffering taste to them? They are drowned in
delicate and luxurious habits; how would they bear privation? They have
corrupted themselves in cowardice and indolence; how should they be
strong and brave under persecution? And listen to me now, you who are
gathered here together in such numbers; what do you think? If the
soldiers all of a sudden came upon you, to run you through, or to carry
you off somewhere where there are no feather beds, would you stand it?
would you cheerfully give yourselves up to be dragged off? Or would you
make long legs, keep a whole skin, and deny your Saviour? O God! grant
that all of us may be able to cry with the Apostle Paul, "I count all
things but loss that I may win Christ." "I am persuaded that neither
death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things
present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, shall be able to
separate me from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord!"
Let us now sing with the sound of the trumpets our Luther's hero song--

    "Ein' feste Burg ist unser Gott."'"

"What does that mean?" said Maggie.

"It means, 'The Lord is my strength and my fortress;' or, more
literally, Maggie, 'Our God is a sure stronghold.'"

"'When this hymn had been sung, it was time for our noonday meal. So
after we had prayed the prayer before eating, the people arranged
themselves everywhere, in larger and smaller groups, on the green grass
or the brown heather, and with giving of thanks enjoyed the food they
had brought along with them. Those who had nothing took gladly the spare
bits of those who had too much. And all were filled; and beer, and
water, and even sugar-water, were on hand too to quench the burning
thirst. I had myself a further particular pleasure. A few of our
festival companions had brought with them some mighty pieces of
honeycake as a gift for me. That suited me exactly, and I had it packed
in with other things in my basket of provisions. Now you should have
seen the glee when I called the children to me and snapped off the sweet
bits for them. There came even a pretty good number of larger people,
who wanted to be children too, and have their bite after the children
had had enough. When we had eaten we had the prayer of thanks, and then
the beautiful song,

    "Now let us thank God and praise Him," &c."

"'A blast of the trumpets proclaimed the renewal of divine service; and
again the people arranged themselves in their former places and order
for a new and last refreshing of their spirits.'"




CHAPTER XV.


"Is that all?" said Maggie.

"All of that story," Meredith answered.

There was a long silence. On hill and rock and river there was a
stillness and peace as if nowhere in the world could blood ever have
flowed, or wrangling been heard, or men been cruel one to another. So
soft and warm the sunlight brooded, and the dry leaves hung still on the
trees and not a breath moved them, and the liquid lap of the water
against the rocks far down below just came to the ear with a murmur of
content. There was nothing else to hear; and the silence was so
exquisite that it laid a sort of spell on everybody's tongue, while the
mild sunlight on the warm, hazy hills seemed to find out everybody's
very heart and spread itself there. A spell of stillness and a spell of
peace. All the party were hushed for a good while; and what broke the
charm at last was a long-drawn breath of little Maggie, which came from
somewhere much deeper then she knew. Mr. Murray looked up at her and
smiled.

"What is it, Maggie?"

"I don't know, Uncle Eden. I think something makes me feel bad."

"Feel bad!" echoed Esther.

"I don't mean feel bad exactly--I can't explain it."

"I suppose she has been thinking, as I have been," said Meredith, "that
it does not seem as if this day and my story could both belong to the
same world."

"Ah!" said Mr. Murray, "this is a little bit of God's part, and the
other is a little bit of man's part in the world; that is all."

"But, Uncle Eden, in those dreadful times it don't seem as if there
could ever have been pleasant days."

"I fancy there were. Don't you think the people of Hermannsburg must
have enjoyed Tiefenthal, sometimes in the early starlight dawn and
sometimes in the fresh sunrise?"

"Uncle Eden, I should always have been afraid the soldiers were coming."

"On the other hand, those people always knew that God was there. And
there is a wonderful sweetness in living in His hands."

"But yet, Uncle Eden, He did let the soldiers come."

"He did not go away, Maggie."

"No; but those must have been dreadful times."

"Well, yes. They were no doubt hard times. And yet, Maggie, it remains
true--'When He giveth quietness, then who can make trouble?' Think of
Paul and Silas, beaten and bleeding, stiff and sore, stretched
uncomfortably in the wooden framework which left them no power to rest
themselves or change their position; in the noisome inner dungeon of a
Roman prison, and yet singing for gladness. People cannot sing when they
are faint-hearted, Maggie. The Lord keeps His promises."

"I wonder how many people would stand Pastor Harms's test?" Meredith
remarked.

"They are not obliged to stand it," Flora rejoined. "There are no
persecutions now; not here, at any rate. People are not called upon to
be martyrs."

"Do you think the terms of service have changed?" said Mr. Murray
looking at her.

"Why, sir, we are not called upon to be martyrs."

"No, but are you not called to have the same spirit the martyrs had?"

"How can we?"

"What is the martyr spirit?"

"I don't know," said Flora. "I suppose it is a wonderful power of
bearing pain, which is given people at such times."

"Given to everybody?" said Meredith.

"Of course, not given to everybody."

"To whom, then?"

"Why, to Christians."

"And what is a Christian?" said Mr. Murray. "Are there two kinds, one
for peace and the other for war?"

"No, I suppose not," said Flora, somewhat mystified.

"'Whosoever shall confess me before men, him will I also confess before
my Father which is in heaven.' So the Lord said. Now in times of
persecution, you know what confessing Christ meant. What does it mean in
these days?"

"I do not think I understand the question, Mr. Murray."

"In the Roman days, for instance, how did people confess Christ?"

"I don't know. They owned that they were Christians."

"How did they own that? They refused to do anything that could be
constructed into paying honour to the gods of the people. They might
have said in word that they were Christians--but nobody would have
meddled with them if they would have hung garlands of flowers upon
Jupiter's altar."

"No," said Flora.

"How is it in these days?"

"What do you mean, sir?"

"I mean, how is Christ to be confessed in these days?"

"I don't know," said Flora; "except by making what is called a
profession of religion,--joining some church, I suppose."

"Does that do it?"

"I do not know how else."

"Why, Uncle Eden," said Maggie, "how can one do it any other way?"

"One cannot do it in that way, my pet."

"Not?" said Flora. "How then, Mr. Murray?"

"What do people join the church for, then, Uncle Eden?" Esther inquired.

"Those who enlist in Christ's army must certainly put on His uniform.
But who shall say that the uniform does not cover a traitor?"

"A traitor, Mr. Murray?" Flora looked puzzled.

"Yes. There are many traitors. There were even in Paul's time."

"Traitors among the Christians?"

"So he wrote. 'Many walk, of whom I have told you often, and tell you
now again even weeping, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ.'
They were professors of His name, nevertheless, Miss Flora; but confess
Him before men, except in word, they did not. So my question stands, you
perceive."

"How to confess Christ nowadays so that there shall be no mistake about
it?" Meredith added. Flora and Esther and Maggie sat looking at Mr.
Murray, as at the propounder of a riddle. Fenton pricked up his ears and
stared at the whole group.

"What did those people do, Mr. Murray?" Flora asked.

"Paul tells. He says of them that their 'glory is in their shame;' they
'mind earthly things.'"

"How can one help minding earthly things, as long as one lives in this
world?"

"One cannot, Miss Flora. But the characteristic of a Christian is, that
he seeks first the kingdom of God."

"How?"

"First, to have the Lord's will done in his own heart; next, to have it
done in other people's hearts."

"But you were talking of doing something to show to the world that you
are certainly a Christian, Mr. Murray?"

"Yes, Miss Flora. Shall I tell you some of the ways in which this may be
accomplished?"

"Yes, if you please. I am completely in a fog."

"I never like to leave anybody in a fog. Now listen, and I will give you
some of the Bible marks of a real Christian.

"'Whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot
be my disciple.'"

"But, Mr. Murray!"----

"Yes, that is just it exactly!" said Meredith, delighted.

"How can one forsake all he has? Be a beggar?"

"Not at all. Give it all to Christ, and be His steward."

"Not to please yourself in anything!" cried Flora.

"I did not say so. And the Bible does not mean so. For another Bible
mark of a Christian is, in the Lord's words--

"'My meat is to do the will of Him that sent me.'"

"But can't one do anything that one wants to do?" cried Flora in dismay.

"Many things. But a Christian has no pleasure in what does not please
God."

"How is one always to know?"

"I am going on to tell you in part. 'Whatsoever ye do, do all to the
glory of God.'"

"That don't tell me," said Flora. "How can I tell what will do that?
And how can one do everything so? Little things--and life is very much
made up of little things. Dressing, and studying, and reading, and
playing, and amusing one's self."

"O Flora?" Maggie cried; and "Why, Flora!" Meredith said, looking at
her; but neither added anything more.

"The Bible says, 'Whether ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do,'" Mr.
Murray answered. "In another place, 'Whatsoever ye do, in word or
deed.'"

"Well, Mr. Murray, I don't understand it; take eating and drinking--how
can that be done to the glory of God?"

"You can easily see how it can be done not to His glory. Any way that
is not becoming His servant is not to His glory. Therefore, in
excess--of things that do not agree with you and therefore unfit you for
duty--of costly dishes, which take the money that might feed starving
people."

"But I can't feed all the starving people!" said Flora.

"It is something to feed one. But I will give you another Bible mark,
Miss Flora, 'He that saith he abideth in Him,' that is, in Christ,
'ought himself also to walk even as He walked.' Now remember how
Christ walked. He was here, 'as one that serveth.' He 'went about
doing good.' He 'pleased not Himself.' He 'did always those things
that please' God."

"But one can't be like Him," said Esther.

"That depends entirely upon whether you choose to be like Him."

"O Uncle Eden! He was"----

"Yes, I know, and I know what you are, and I, and all of us. It remains
true,--'God is faithful, by whom ye were called unto the fellowship of
His Son Jesus Christ our Lord;'--'chosen, that we should be holy and
without blame before Him in love.'"

There was a pause of some length. Flora was silenced, but her eyes had
filled, and her face wore a pained and bitter expression. Meredith had
glanced at her and thought it better not to speak. Maggie was in a depth
of meditation. Fenton had gone scrambling down the rocks. Esther looked
somewhat bored.

"Have you got your book there, Meredith?" Mr. Murray asked.

"Yes, sir."

"Read us something more. And after that you may all bring your
questions. We came here on purpose to talk, as I understood."

"There are different sort of things here, sir. Shall I give you a
change?"

"What you will--

    "'O day most calm, most bright,
      The fruit of this, the next world's bud--
    Th' indorsement of supreme delight,
      Writ by a friend, and with his blood;
    The couch of time; cares balm and bay;
      The week were dark but for thy light;
      Thy torch doth show the way.'"

"That's better than anything I have got, sir," said Meredith.

"No. But it is good. And just here and to-day the Sabbath seems dressed
in royal robes. I could not but think of those lines."

"I confess, Mr. Murray, Sunday is nothing like that to me," said Flora.

"You are honest, Miss Flora. That gives me some hope of you. No,
naturally the Sabbath does not seem like that to you yet.--Well,
Meredith?"

"Is there more of it, sir?" Meredith's sister asked.

"More than you would care for, Miss Flora.--

    "'Sundays the pillars are
      On which heav'n's palace archéd lies;
    The other days fill up the spare
      And hollow room with vanities.--'"

"And yet that need not be true, either. Go on, Meredith. What will you
give us?"

