wonderful beauty and delicacy, so in the secret recesses of Puritan
life, by the fireside of the farm-house, in the contemplative silence
of austere care and labor, grew up religious experiences that brought
a heavenly brightness down into the poverty of commonplace existence.
The philosophic pen of President Edwards has set before us one such
inner record, in the history of the wife whose saintly patience and
unworldly elevation enabled him to bear the reverses which drove him
from a comfortable parish to encounter the privations of missionary
life among the Indians. And such experiences were not uncommon among
lowly natures, who lacked the eloquence to set them forth in words.
They lightened the heart, they brightened the eye, they made the
atmosphere of the home peaceful.
Such was the inner life of her we speak of. At rest in herself, she
asked nothing, yet was willing to give everything to the husband and
children who were at once her world of duty and of love. Year in and
out, she kept step in life with a beautiful exactness, so perfect
and complete in every ministry of the household that those she served
forgot to thank her, as we forget to thank the daily Giver of air and
sunshine. Zeph never had known anything at home but neatness, order,
and symmetry, regular hours and perfect service.
His wife had always been on time, and on duty, and it seemed to him
like one of the immutable laws of nature that she should do so. He
was proud of her housekeeping, proud of her virtues, as something
belonging to himself, and, though she had no direct power over his
harsher moods of combativeness and self-will, she sometimes came to
him as a still small voice after the earthquake and the tempest, and
her words then had weight with him, precisely because they were few,
and seldom spoken.
She had been silent all through the stormy quarrel that had rent him
away from his church. Without an argument where argument would only
strengthen opposition, she let his will have its way. She went with
him on Sundays to the Episcopal Church, and sat there among her sons,
a lowly and conscientious worshiper, carefully following a service
which could not fail to bring voices of comfort and help to a devout
soul like hers. Nevertheless, the service, to any one coming to it
late in life and with no previous training, has its difficulties,
which were to her embarrassing, and to him, in spite of his proud
self-will, annoying. Zeph had the Spartan contempt for everything
æsthetic, the scorn of beauty which characterized certain rough
stages of New England life. He not only did not like symbolic forms,
but he despised them as effeminate impertinences; and every turn
and movement that he was compelled to make in his new ritualistic
surroundings was aggravating to his temper. To bend the knee at the
name of Jesus, to rise up reverently when the words of Jesus were
about to be read in the Gospel of the day, were acts congenial to
his wife as they were irksome to him; and, above all, the idea of
ecclesiastical authority, whether exercised by rector, bishop or
church, woke all the refractory nerves of opposition inherited from
five generations of Puritans. So that Zeph was as little comfortable
in his new position as his worst enemy could have desired. Nothing
but the strength of his obstinate determination not to yield a point
once taken kept him even outwardly steady. But to go back to his
church, to confess himself in the wrong and make up his old quarrel
with the Deacon, would be worse than to stay where he was.
The tenacity and devotion with which some hard natures will cleave
to a quarrel which embitters their very life-blood is one of the
strange problems of our human nature. In the hereditary form of
family prayer that Zeph Higgins used every day, there was the
customary phrase "We are miserable sinners;" and yet Zeph, like many
another man who repeats that form in the general, would rather die
than confess a fault in any particular; and in this respect we must
admit that he was not, after all, a very exceptional character. How
often in our experience do we meet a man brave enough, when once
fully committed, to turn a square corner and say "I was wrong"? If
only such have a stone to cast at Zeph Higgins, the cairn will not be
a very high one.
Zeph never breathed an opposing word when his wife, every Friday
evening, lighted the lantern, and with all her sons about her set off
to the evening prayer-meeting in the little red school-house, though
after his quarrel with the Deacon he never went himself. Those weekly
meetings, when she heard her minister and joined in the prayers and
praises of her church, were the brightest hours of her life, and her
serene radiant face, following his words with rapt attention, was a
help and inspiration to her pastor.
"There is a revival begun over there," he said to his wife as they
were riding home from one of his services. "It is begun in the heart
of that good woman. She has long been praying for a revival, and I
am confident that her prayers will be answered."
They were answered, but in a way little dreamed of by any one.
The prayers we offer for heavenly blessings often come up in our
earthly soil as plants of bitter sorrow.
So it proved in this case.
CHAPTER XXIV.
"IN SUCH AN HOUR AS YE THINK NOT."
One morning in the latter part of spring Zeph Higgins received a
shock which threw his whole soul into confusion.
His wife, on rising to go forth to her wonted morning cares, had
fainted dead away and been found lying, apparently lifeless, on the
bed, when her husband returned for his breakfast.
Instantly everything was in commotion. The nearest neighbor was sent
for, and restoratives applied with such skill as domestic experience
could suggest, and one of the boys dispatched in all haste for the
doctor, with orders to bring Nabby at once to take her mother's place.
The fainting fit proved of short duration, but was followed by a
violent chill and a rise of fever, and when the doctor arrived he
reported a congestion of the lungs threatening the gravest results.
Forthwith the household was to be organized for sickness. A fire was
kindled in the best bed-room and the patient laid there; Mis' Persis
was sent for and installed as nurse; Nabby became housekeeper, and
to superficial view the usual order reigned. Zeph went forth to the
labors of the field, struggling with a sort of new terror; there
was an evil threatening his house, against the very thought and
suggestion of which he fought with all his being. His wife could
not, should not, ought not to be sick,--and as to dying, that
was not to be thought of! What could he do without her? What could
any of them do without her? During the morning's work that was the
problem that he kept turning and turning in his mind--what life would
be without her. Yet, when Abner, who was working beside him, paused
over his hoe and stood apparently lost in thought, he snapped a harsh
question at him with a crack like the sound of a lash.
"What ye doin' there?"
Abner started, looked confused and resumed his work, only saying, "I
was thinking about Mother."
"Nonsense! Don't make a fool of yourself. Mother'll come all right."
"The doctor said"--said Abner.
"Don't tell me nothin' what the doctor said; I don't want to hear
on't," said Zeph, in a high voice; and the two hoes worked on in
silence for a while, till finally Zeph broke out again.
"Wal! what did the doctor say? Out with it; as good say it 's think
it. What did the doctor say? Why don't you speak?"
"He said she was a very sick woman," answered Abner.
"He's a fool. I don't think nothin' o' that doctor's jedgment. I'll
have Dr. Sampson over from East Poganuc. Your mother's got the best
constitution of any woman in this neighborhood."
"Yes; but she hasn't been well lately, and I've seen it," said Abner.
"That's all croakin'. Don't believe a word on't. Mother's been right
along, stiddy as a clock; 'taint nothin' but one o' these 'ere pesky
spring colds she's got. She'll be up and 'round by to-morrow or next
day. I'll have another doctor, and I'll get her wine and bark, and
strengthenin' things, and Nabby shall do the work, and she'll come
all right enough."
"I'm sure I hope so," said Abner.
"Hope! what d'ye say hope for? I ain't a goin' to hope nothin'
'bout it. I know so; she's got to git well--ain't no two ways 'bout
that."
Yet Zeph hurried home an hour before his usual time and met Nabby at
the door.
"Wal, ain't your mother gettin' better?"
There were tears in Nabby's eyes as she answered,
"Oh, dear! she's been a raisin' blood. Doctor says it's from her
lungs. Mis' Persis says it's a bad sign. She's very weak--and she
looks so pale!"
"They must give her strengthenin' things," said Zeph. "Do they?"
"They're givin' what the Doctor left. Her fever's beginnin' to rise
now. Doctor says we mustn't talk to her, nor let her talk."
"Wal, I'm a goin' up to see her, anyhow. I guess I've got a right to
speak to my own wife." And Zeph slipped off his heavy cowhide boots,
and went softly up to the door of the room, and opened it without
stopping to knock.
The blinds were shut; it seemed fearfully dark and quiet. His wife
was lying with her eyes closed, looking white and still; but in the
center of each pale cheek was the round, bright, burning spot of the
rising hectic.
Mis' Persis was sitting by her with the authoritative air of a nurse
who has taken full possession; come to stay and to reign. She was
whisking the flies away from her patient with a feather fan, which
she waved forbiddingly at Zeph as he approached.
"Mother," said he in an awe-struck tone, bending over his wife,
"don't you know me?"
She opened her eyes; saw him; smiled and reached out her hand. It was
thin and white, burning with the rising fever.
"Don't you feel a little better?" he asked. There was an imploring
eagerness in his tone.
"Oh, yes; I'm better."
"You'll get well soon, won't you?"
"Oh, yes; I shall be well soon," she said, looking at him with that
beautiful bright smile.
His heart sank as he looked. The smile was so strangely sweet--and
all this quiet, this stillness, this mystery! She was being separated
from him by impalpable shadowy forces that could not be battled
with or defied. In his heart a warning voice seemed to say that
just so quietly she might fade from his sight--pass away, and be
forever gone. The thought struck cold to his heart, and he uttered an
involuntary groan.
His wife opened her eyes, moved slightly, and seemed as if she would
speak, but Mis' Persis put her hand authoritatively over her mouth.
"Don't you say a word," said she.
Then turning with concentrated energy on Zeph, she backed him out of
the room and shut the door upon him and herself in the entry before
she trusted herself to speak. When she did, it was as one having
authority.
"Zephaniah Higgins," she said, "air you crazy? Do you want to kill
your wife? Ef ye come round her that way and git her a-talkin' she'll
bleed from her lungs agin, and that'll finish her. You've jest got to
shet up and submit to the Lord, Zephaniah Higgins, and that's what
you hain't never done yit; you've got to know that the Lord is goin'
to do his sovereign will and pleasure with your wife, and you've
got to be still. That's all. You can't do nothin'. We shall all do
the best we can; but you've jest got to wait the Lord's time and
pleasure."
So saying, she went back into the sick-room and closed the door,
leaving Zeph standing desolate in the entry.
Zeph, like most church members of his day, had been trained in
theology, and had often expressed his firm belief in what was in
those days spoken of as the "doctrine of divine sovereignty."
A man's idea of his God is often a reflection of his own nature. The
image of an absolute monarch, who could and would always do exactly
as he pleased, giving no account to any one of his doings, suited
Zeph perfectly as an abstract conception; but when this resistless
awful Power was coming right across his path, the doctrine assumed
quite another form.
The curt statement made by Mis' Persis had struck him with a sudden
terror, as if a flash of lightning had revealed an abyss opening
under his feet. That he was utterly helpless in his Sovereign's hands
he saw plainly; but his own will rose in rebellion--a rebellion
useless and miserable.
His voice trembled that night as he went through the familiar words
of the evening prayer; a rush of choking emotions almost stopped his
utterance, and the old words, worn smooth with use, seemed to have no
relation to the turbulent tempest of feeling that was raging in his
heart.
After prayers he threw down the Bible with an impatient bang, bolted
for his room and shut himself in alone.
"Poor Father! he takes it hard," said Nabby, wiping her eyes.
"He takes everything hard," said Abner. "I don't know how we'll get
along with him, now Mother isn't round."
"Well, let's hope Mother's goin' to get well," said Nabby. "I
can't--I ain't goin' to think anything else."
CHAPTER XXV.
DOLLY BECOMES ILLUSTRIOUS.
At the Parsonage the illness in Zeph's household brought social
revolution.
The whole burden of family ministration, which had rested on Nabby's
young and comely shoulders, fell with a sudden weight upon those of
Mrs. Cushing. This was all the more unfortunate because the same
exigency absorbed the services of Mis' Persis, who otherwise might
have been relied on to fill the gap.
But now was Dolly's hour for feeling her own importance and assuming
womanly cares. She rushed to the front with enthusiasm and attacked
every branch of domestic service, with a zeal not always according to
knowledge but making her on the whole quite an efficient assistance.
She washed and wiped dishes, and cleared, and cleaned, and dusted,
and set away, as she had seen Nabby do; she propped herself on a
stool at the ironing-table and plied the irons vigorously; and,
resenting the suggestion that she should confine herself to towels
and napkins, struck out boldly upon the boys' shirts and other
complicated tasks, burning her fingers and heating her face in the
determination to show her prowess and ability.
"Dolly is really quite a little woman," she overheard her mother
saying to her father; and her bosom swelled with conscious pride and
she worked all the faster.
"Now, you boys must be very careful not to make any more trouble than
you can help," she said with an air of dignity as Will and Bob burst
into the kitchen and surprised her at the ironing-table. "Nabby is
gone, and there is nobody to do the work but me."
"Upon my word, Mrs. Puss!" said Will, stopping short and regarding
the little figure with a serio-comic air. "How long since you've been
so grand? How tall we're getting in our own eyes--oh my!" and Will
seized her off the ironing stool and, perching her on his shoulder,
danced round the table with her in spite of her indignant protests.
Dolly resented this invasion of her dignity with all her little
might, and the confusion called her mother down out of the chamber
where she had been at work.
"Boys, I'm astonished at you," said she. Now Mrs. Cushing had been
"astonished" at these same boys for about thirteen or fourteen
years, so that the sensation could not be quite overpowering at this
time.
"Well, Mother," said Will, with brisk assurance, setting Dolly down
on her stool, "I was only giving Dolly a ride," and he looked up in
her face with the confident smile that generally covered all his
sins, and brought out an answering smile on the face of his mother.
"Come now, boys," she said, "Nabby has gone home; you must be good,
considerate children, make as little trouble as possible and be all
the help you can."
"But, Mother, Dolly was taking such grown-up airs, as if she was our
mother. I had just to give her a lesson, to show her who she was."
"Dolly is a good, helpful little girl, and I don't know what I should
do without her," said Mrs. Cushing; "she does act like a grown-up
woman, and I am glad of it."
Dolly's face flushed with delight; she felt that at last she had
reached the summit of her ambition: she was properly appreciated!
"And you boys," continued Mrs. Cushing, "must act like grown-up men,
and be considerate and helpful."
"All right, Mother; only give the orders. Bob and I can make the
fires, and bring in the wood, and fill the tea-kettle, and do lots
of things." And, to do the boys justice, they did do their best to
lighten the domestic labors of this interregnum.
The exigency would have been far less serious were it not that the
minister's house in those days was a sort of authorized hotel, not
only for the ministerial brotherhood but for all even remotely
connected with the same, and all that miscellaneous drift-wood of
hospitality that the eddies of life cast ashore. The minister's
table was always a nicely-kept one; the Parsonage was a place where
it was pleasant to abide; and so the guest-chamber of the Parsonage
was seldom empty. In fact, this very week a certain Brother Waring,
an ex-minister from East Poganuc, who wanted to consult the Poganuc
Doctor, came, unannounced, with his wife and trunk, and they settled
themselves comfortably down.
Such inflictions were in those days received in the literal spirit
of the primitive command to "use hospitality without grudging;" but
when a week had passed and news came that Mrs. Higgins was going down
to the grave in quick consumption, and that Nabby would be wanted at
home for an indefinite period, it became necessary to find some one
to fill her place at the Parsonage, and Hiel Jones's mother accepted
the position temporarily--considering her services in the minister's
family as a sort of watch upon the walls of Zion. Not that she was by
any means insensible to the opportunity of receiving worldly wages;
but she wished it explicitly understood that she was not going out
to service. She was "helpin' Mis' Cushing." The help, however, was
greatly balanced in this case by certain attendant hindrances such as
seem inseparable from the whole class of "lady helps."
Mrs. Jones had indeed a very satisfactory capability in all domestic
processes; her bread was of the whitest and finest, her culinary
skill above mediocrity, and she was an accomplished laundress. But
so much were her spirits affected by the construction that might
possibly be put on her position in the family that she required
soothing attentions and expressions of satisfaction and confidence
every hour of the day to keep her at all comfortable. She had
stipulated expressly to be received at the family table, and, further
than this, to be brought into the room and introduced to all callers;
and, this being done, demeaned herself in a manner so generally
abused and melancholy that poor Mrs. Cushing could not but feel that
the burden which had been taken off from her muscles had been thrown
with double weight upon her nerves.
After a call of any of the "town-hill" aristocracy, Mrs. Jones would
be sure to be found weeping in secret places, because 'Mrs. Colonel
Davenport had looked down on her,' or the Governor's lady 'didn't
speak to her,' and she 'should like to know what such proud folks
was goin' to do when they got to heaven!' Then there was always
an implication that if ministers only did their duty all these
distinctions of rank would cease, and everybody be just as good as
everybody else. The poor body had never even dreamed of a kingdom of
heaven where the Highest was "as him that serveth;" and what with
Mrs. Jones's moans, and her tears, and her frequent sick headaches,
accompanied by abundant use of camphor, Mrs. Cushing, in some
desperate moments, felt as if she would rather die doing her own work
than wear herself out in the task of conciliating a substitute.
Then, though not a serious evil, it certainly was somewhat
disagreeable to observe Mrs. Jones's statistical talents and habits
of minute inspection, and to feel that she was taking notes which
would put all the parish in possession of precise information as
to the condition of Mrs. Cushing's tablecloths, towels, napkins,
and all the minutiæ of her housekeeping arrangements. There is, of
course, no sin or harm in such particularity; but almost every lady
prefers the shades of poetic obscurity to soften the details of her
domestic interior. In those days, when the minister was the central
object of thought in the parish, it was specially undesirable that
all this kind of information should be distributed, since there were
many matrons who had opinions all ready made as to the proper manner
in which a minister's wife should expend his salary and order his
household.
It was therefore with genuine joy that, after a fortnight's care of
this kind, a broad-faced, jolly African woman was welcomed by Mrs.
Cushing to her kitchen in place of Mrs. Jones. Dinah was picked up
in a distant parish, and entered upon her labors with an unctuous
satisfaction and exuberance that was a positive relief after the
recent tearful episode. It is true she was slow, and somewhat
disorderly, but she was unfailingly good-natured, and had no dignity
to be looked after; and so there was rest for a while in the
Parsonage.
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE VICTORY.
Summer with its deep blue skies was bending over the elms of Poganuc.
The daisies were white in the meadows and the tall grass was nodding
its feathery sprays of blossom. The windows of the farm houses stood
open, with now and then a pillow or a bolster lounging out of them,
airing in the sunshine. The hens stepped hither and thither with a
drowsy continuous cackle of contentment as they sunned themselves in
the warm embracing air.
In the great elm that overhung the roof of Zeph Higgins's farm house
was a mixed babble and confusion of sweet bird voices. An oriole
from her swinging nest caroled cheerfully, and bobolinks and robins
replied, and the sounds blended pleasantly with the whisper and
flutter of leaves, as soft summer breezes stirred them.
But over one room in that house rested the shadow of death; there,
behind the closed blinds, in darkened stillness days passed by; and
watchers came at night to tend and minister; and bottles accumulated
on the table; and those who came entered softly and spoke with bated
breath; and the doctor was a daily visitor; and it was known that the
path of the quiet patient who lay there was steadily going down to
the dark river.
Every one in the neighborhood knew it: for, in the first place,
everybody in that vicinity, as a matter of course, knew all about
everybody else: and then, besides that, Mrs. Higgins had been not
only an inoffensive, but a much esteemed and valued neighbor. Her
quiet step, her gentle voice, her skillful ministry had been always
at hand where there had been sickness or pain to be relieved, and
now that her time was come there was a universal sympathy. Nabby's
shelves were crowded with delicacies made up and sent in by one or
another good wife to tempt the failing appetite. In the laborious,
simple life that they were living in those days, there was small
physiological knowledge, and the leading idea in most minds in
relation to the care of sickness was the importance of getting the
patient to eat; for this end, dainties that might endanger the
health of a well person were often sent in as a tribute to the sick.
Then almost every house-mother had her own favorite specific, of
sovereign virtue, which she prepared and sent in to increase the
army of bottles which always gathered in a sick-room. Mis' Persis,
however, while graciously accepting these tributes, had her own
mental reservations, and often slyly made away with the medicine in a
manner that satisfied the giver and did not harm the patient. Quite
often, too, Hiel Jones, returning on his afternoon course, stopped
his horses at the farm-house door and descended to hand in some
offering of sympathy and good will from friends who lived miles away.
Hiel did not confine himself merely to transmitting the messages
of neighbors, but interested himself personally in the work of
consolation, going after Nabby wherever she might be found--at the
spinning wheel, in the garret, or in the dairy below--and Nabby,
in her first real trouble, was so accessible and so confiding that
Hiel found voice to say unreproved what the brisk maiden might have
