" Voyons," said the lady, putting out her hand. 

He added a touch or two, and then gave her his 
sketch. She looked at it, but she went on with 
her idea of a moment before. " If a woman were 
to ask you to marry her you would say, ' Certainly, my dear, with pleasure ! ' And you would 
marry her and be ridiculously happy. Then at 
the end of three months you would say to her, 
"You know that blissful day when I begged you 
to be mine ! ' 

The young man had risen from the table, 
stretching his arms a little; he walked to the 
window. "That is a description of a charming 
nature," he said. 

" Oh, yes, you have a charming nature ; I regard that as our capital. If I had not been convinced of that I should never have taken the risk 
of bringing you to this dreadful country." 

" This comical country, this delightful country ! " exclaimed the young man, and he broke 
into the most animated laughter. 

" Is it those women scrambling into the omnibus ? " asked his companion. " What do you suppose is the attraction ? " 



 

"I suppose there is a very good-looking man 
inside," said the young man. 

" In each of them ? They come along in hundreds, and the men in this country don't seem at 
all handsome. As for the women I have never 
seen so many at once since I left the convent." 

" The women are very pretty," her brother declared, " and the whole affair is very amusing. I 
must make a sketch of it." And he came back to 
the table quickly, and picked up his utensils a 
small sketching-board, a sheet of paper, and three 
or four crayons. He took his place at the window 
with these things, and stood there glancing out, 
plying his pencil with an air of easy skill. While 
he worked he wore a brilliant smile. Brilliant is 
indeed the word at this moment for his strongly- 
lighted face. He was eight and twenty years old ; 
he had a short, slight, well-made figure. Though he 
bore a noticeable resemblance to his sister, he was 
a better favored person : fair-haired, clear-faced, 
witty-looking, with a delicate finish of feature and 
an expression at once urbane and not at all serious, 
a warm blue eye, an eyebrow finely drawn and excessively arched an eyebrow which, if ladies 
wrote sonnets to those of their lovers, might have 
been made the subject of such a piece of verse 
and a light moustache that flourished upwards as 
if blown that way by the breath of a constant 



   

smile. There was something in his physiognomy 
at once benevolent and picturesque. But, as I 
have hinted, it was not at all serious. The young 
man's face was, in this respect, singular ; it was 
not at all serious, and yet it inspired the liveliest 
confidence. 

" Be sure you put in plenty of snow," said his 
sister. " Bont divine, what a climate ! " 

" I shall leave the sketch all white, and I shall 
put in the little figures in black," the young man 
answered, laughing.  And I shall call it what 
is that line in Keats? Mid-May's Eldest Child! " 

" I don't remember," said the lady, " that mamma ever told me it was like this." 

" Mamma never told you anything disagreeable. 
And it 's not like this every day. You will see 
that to-morrow we shall have a splendid day." 

" Qu'en savez-vous ? To-morrow I shall go 
away." 

"Where shall you go?" 

" Anywhere away from here. Back to Silberstadt. I shall write to the Reigning Prince." 

The young man turned a little and looked at 
her, with his crayon poised. " My dear Eugenia," 
he murmured, " were you so happy at sea ? " 

Eugenia got up ; she still held in her hand the 
drawing her brother had given her. It was a 
bold, expressive sketch of a group of miserable 



 

people on the deck of a steamer, clinging together and clutching at each other, while the ves- 
sel lurched downward, at a terrific angle, into the 
hollow of a wave. It was extremely clever, and 
full of a sort of tragi-comical power. Eugenia 
dropped her eyes upon it and made a sad grimace. 
" How can you draw such odious scenes ? " she 
asked. " I should like to throw it into the fire ! " 
And she tossed the paper away. Her brother 
watched, quietly, to see where it went. It flut- 
tered down to the floor, where he let it lie. She 
came toward the window, pinching in her waist. 
" Why don't you reproach me abuse me ? " she 
asked. " I think I should feel better then. Why 
don't you tell me that you hate me for bringing 
you here ? " 

" Because you would not believe it. I adore 
you, dear sister ! I am delighted to be here, and 
I am charmed with the prospect." 

" I don't know what had taken possession of 
me. I had lost my head," Eugenia went on,. 

The young man, on his side, went on plying his 
pencil. " It is evidently a most curious and interesting country. Here we are, and I mean to enjoy it." 

His companion turned away with an impatient 
step, but presently came back. " High spirits are 
doubtless an excellent thing," she said ; " but you 



   

give one too much of them, and I can't see that 
they have done you any good." 

The young man stared, with lifted eyebrows, 
smiling ; he tapped his handsome nose with his 
pencil. " They have made me happy ! " 

" That was the least they could do ; they have 
made you nothing else. You have gone through 
life thanking fortune for such very small favors 
that she has never put herself to any trouble for 
you." 

" She must have put herself to a little, I think, 
to present me with so admirable a sister." 

" Be serious, Felix. You forget that I am your 
elder." 

" With a sister, then, so elderly ! " rejoined Felix, laughing. " I hoped we had left seriousness in 
Europe." 

" I. fancy you will find it here. Remember 
that you are nearly thirty years old, and that you 
are nothing but an obscure Bohemian a penni- 
less correspondent of an illustrated newspaper." 

" Obscure as much as you please, but not so 
much of a Bohemian as you think. And not at 
all penniless ! I have a hundred pounds in my 
pocket. I have an engagement to make fifty 
sketches, and I mean to paint the portraits of all 
our cousins, and of all their cousins, at a hundred 
dollars a head." 



 

" You are not ambitious," said Eugenia. 

" You are, dear Baroness," the young man replied. 

The Baroness was silent a moment, looking out 
at the sleet-darkened grave-yard and the bumping 
horse-cars. " Yes, I am ambitious," she said at 
last. ." And my ambition has brought me to this 
dreadful place ! " She glanced about her the 
room had a certain vulgur nudity ; the bed and the 
window were curtainless and she gave a little 
passionate sigh. " Poor old ambition ! " she exclaimed. Then she flung herself down upon a sofa 
which stood near against the wall, and covered her 
face with her hands. 

Her brother went on with his drawing, rapidly 
and skillfully ; after some moments he sat down 
beside her and showed her his sketch. " Now, 
don't you think that 's pretty good for an obscure 
Bohemian ? " he asked. " I have knocked off another fifty francs." 

Eugenia glanced at the little picture as he laid 
it on her lap. " Yes, it is very clever," she said. 
And in a moment she added, "Do you suppose 
our cousins do that ? " 

" Do what ? " 

" Get into those things, and look like that." 

Felix meditated awhile. " I really can't say. 
It will be interesting to discover." 



   

" Oh, the rich people can't ! " said the Baroness. 

," Are you very sure they are rich ? " asked Felix, lightly. 

His sister slowly turned in her place, looking at 
him. " Heavenly powers ! " she murmured. " You 
have a way of bringing out things ! " 

" It will certainly be much pleasanter if they 
are rich," Felix declared. 

" Do you suppose if I had not known they were 
rich I would ever have come ? " 

The young man met his sister's somewhat peremptory eye with his bright, contented glance. 
"Yes, it certainly will be pleasanter," he repeated. 

" That is all I expect of them," said the Baroness. " I don't count upon their being clever or 
friendly at first or elegant or interesting. 
But I assure you I insist upon their being rich." 

Felix leaned his head upon the back of the sofa 
and looked awhile at the oblong patch of sky to 
which the window served as frame. The snow 
was ceasing ; it seemed to him that the sky had 
begun to brighten. "I count upon their being 
rich," he said at last, " and powerful, and clever, 
and friendly, and elegant, and interesting, and 
generally delightful ! Tu vas voir." And he bent 
forward and kissed his sister. " Look there ! " he 
went on. " As a portent, even while I speak, the
shy is turning the color of gold ; the day is going 
to be splendid." 

And indeed, within five minutes the weather 
had changed. The sun broke out through the 
snow-clouds and jumped into the Baroness's room. 
" Bonte* divine," exclaimed this lady, " what a 
climate ! " 

" We will go out and see the world," said Felix. 

And after a while they went out. The air had 
grown warm as well as brilliant ; the sunshine 
had dried the pavements. They walked about 
the streets at hazard, looking at the people and 
the houses, the shops and the vehicles, the blazing 
blue sky and the muddy crossings, the hurrying 
men and the slow-strolling maidens, the fresh red 
bricks and the bright green trees, the extraordi- 
nary mixture of smartness and shabbiness. From 
one hour to another the day had grown vernal ; 
even in the bustling streets there was an odor of 
earth and blossom. Felix was immensely entertained. He had called it a comical country, and 
he went about laughing at everything he saw. 
You would have said that American civilization 
expressed itself to his sense in a tissue of capital 
jokes. The jokes were certainly excellent, and the 
young man's merriment was joyous and genial. 
He possessed what is called the pictorial sense ; and 
this first glimpse of democratic manners stirred 
the same sort of attention that he would have 
given to the movements of a lively young person 
with a bright complexion. Such attention would 
have been demonstrative and complimentary ; and 
in the present case Felix might have passed for an 
undispirited young exile revisiting the haunts of 
his childhood. He kept looking at the violent 
blue of the sky, at the scintillating air, at the scattered and multiplied patches of color. 

" Comme c'est bariole, eh ? " he said to his sister in that foreign tongue which they both appeared to feel a mysterious prompting occasionally 
to use. 

" Yes, it is bariole* indeed," the Baroness answered. " I don't like the coloring ; it hurts my 
eyes." 

" It shows how extremes meet," the young man 
rejoined. "Instead of coming to the West we 
seem to have gone to the East. The way the sky 
touches the house-tops is just like Cairo ; and the 
red and blue sign-boards patched over the face 
of everything remind one of Mahometan decorations." 

" The young women are not Mahometan," said 
his companion. " They can't be said to hide their 
faces. I never saw anything so bold." 

" Thank Heaven they don't hide their faces ! " 
cried Felix. " Their faces are uncommonly pretty." 

 Yes, their faces are often very pretty," said 
the Baroness, who was a very clever woman. She 
was too clever a woman not to be capable of a 
great deal of just and fine observation. She clung 
more closely than usual to her brother's arm ; she 
was not exhilarated, as he was ; she said very little, 
but she noted a great many things and made her 
reflections. She was a little excited ; she felt that 
she had indeed come to a strange country, to make 
her fortune. Superficially, she was conscious of a 
good deal of irritation and displeasure ; the Baroness was a very delicate and fastidious person. 
Of old, more than once, she had gone, for entertainment's sake and in brilliant company, to a fair 
in a provincial town. It seemed to her now that 
she was at an enormous fair that the entertainment and the desagrgments were very much the 
same. She found herself alternately smiling and 
shrinking ; the show was very curious, but it was 
probable, from moment to moment, that one would 
be jostled. The Baroness had never seen so many 
people walking about before ; she had never been 
so mixed up with people she did not know. But 
little by little she felt that this fair was a more 
serious undertaking. She went with her brother 
into a large public garden, which seemed very 
pretty, but where she was surprised at seeing no 
carriages. The afternoon was drawing to a close ; 
the coarse, vivid grass and the slender tree-boles 
were gilded by the level sunbeams gilded as with 
gold that was fresh from the 'mine. It was the 
hour at which ladies should come but for an airing 
and roll past a hedge of pedestrians, holding their 
parasols askance. Here, however, Eugenia observed no indications of this custom, the absence 
of which was more anomalous as there was a 
charming avenue of remarkably graceful, arching 
elms in the most convenient contiguity to a large, 
cheerful street, in which, evidently, among the 
more prosperous members of the bourgeoisie, a 
great deal of pedestrianism went forward. Our 
friends passed out into this well lighted promenade, and Felix noticed a great many more pretty 
girls and called his sister's attention to them. This 
latter measure, however, was superfluous ; for the 
Baroness had inspected, narrowly, these charming 
young ladies. 

" I feel an intimate conviction that our cousins 
are like that," said Felix. 

The Baroness hoped so, but this is not what she 
said. " They are very pretty," she said, " but 
they are mere little girls. Where are the women 
the women of thirty ? " 

" Of thirty-three, do you mean ? " her brother 
was going to ask; for he understood often both 
only exclaimed upon the beauty of the sunset, 
while the Baroness, who had come to seek her fort- 
une, reflected that it would certainly be well for 
her if the persons against whom she might need 
to measure herself should all be mere little girls. 
The sunset was superb ; they stopped to look at 
it ; Felix declared that he had never seen such a 
gorgeous mixture of colors. The Baroness also 
thought it splendid; and she was perhaps the more 
easily pleased from the fact that while she stood 
there she was conscious of much admiring obser- 
vation on the part of various nice-looking people 
who passed that way, and to whom a distinguished, 
strikingly-dressed woman with a foreign air, exclaiming upon the beauties of nature on a Boston 
street corner in the French tongue, could not be an 
object of indifference. Eugenia's spirits rose. She 
surrendered herself to a certain tranquil gayety. 
If she had come to seek her fortune, it seemed to 
her that her fortune would be easy to find. There 
was a promise of it in the gorgeous purity of the 
western sky ; there was an intimation in the mild, 
unimpertinent gaze of the passers of a certain natural facility in things. 

" You will not go back to Silberstadt, eh ? " 
asked Felix. 

" Not to-morrow," said the Baroness. 

" Nor write to the Reigning Prince ? " 



   

" I shall write to him that they evidently know 
nothing about him over here." 

" He will not believe you," said the young man. 
"I advise you to let him alone." 

Felix himself continued to be in high good humor. Brought up among ancient customs and in 
picturesque cities, he yet found plenty of local 
color in the little Puritan metropolis. That evening, after dinner, he told his sister that he should 
go forth early on the morrow to look up their cous- 
ins. 

" You are very impatient," said Eugenia. 
