Mr. Westgate stared and laughed. " Oh no, 
of course you don 't like the gnats. We shall expect you to like a good many things over here, 
but we sha n't insist upon your liking the gnats ; 
though certainly you'll admit that, as gnats, they 
are fine, eh? But you oughtn't to remain in 
the city." 
" So we think," said Lord Lambeth. " If you 
would kindly suggest something " 
" Suggest something, my dear Sir ?" and Mr. 
Westgate looked at him, narrowing his eyelids. 
" Open your mouth and shut your eyes ! Leave 
it to me, and I'll put you through. It 's a matter 
of national pride with me that all Englishmen 
should have a good time ; and as I have had 
considerable practice, I have learned to minister 
to their wants. I find they generally want the 
right thing. So just please to consider your 
selves my property ; and if any one should try to 
appropriate you, please to say, Hands off; too 
late for the market. But let 's see," continued 
the American, in his slow, humorous voice, with 
a distinctness of utterance which appeared to his 
visitors to be part of a humorous intention a 
strangely leisurely, speculative voice for a man 
evidently so busy and, as they felt, so professional " let 's see ; are you going to make something 
of a stay, Lord Lambeth ?" 
"Oh dear no," said the young Englishman; 
"my cousin was coming over on some business, 
so I just came across, at an hour 's notice, for the 
lark." 
" Is it your first visit to the United States ?" 
" Oh dear yes." 
"I was obliged to come on some business," 
said Percy Beaumont, " and I brought Lambeth 
along." 
" And you have been here before, Sir ?" 
" Never never." - 
" I thought, from your referring to business " 
said Mr. Westgate. 
" Oh, you see I'm by way of being a barrister," 
Percy Beaumont answered. " I know some people that think of bringing a suit against one of 
your railways, and they asked me to come over 
and take measures accordingly." 
Mr. Westgate gave one of his slow, keen looks 
again. " What 's your railroad ?" he asked. 
" The Tennessee Central." 
The American tilted back his chair a little, 
and poised it an instant. " Well, I'm sorry you 
want to attack one of our institutions," he said, 
smiling. " But I guess you had better enjoy yourself first!" 
"I'm certainly rather afraid I can 't work in 
this weather," the young barrister confessed. 
" Leave that to the natives," said Mr. West- 
gate. " Leave the Tennessee Central to me, Mr. 
Beaumont. Some day we'll talk it over, and I 
guess I can make it square. But I didn 't know 
you Englishmen ever did any work, in the upper 
clashes." 
" Oh, we do a lot of work ; don 't we, Lambeth ?" 
asked Percy Beaumont. 
"I must certainly be at home by the 19th of 
September," said the younger Englishman, irrelevantly 
but gently. 
"For the shooting, eh ? or is it the hunting, or 
the fishing ?" inquired his entertainer. 
"Oh, I must be in Scotland," said Lord Lam 
beth, blushing a little. 
" Well, then," rejoined Mr. Westgate, " you had 
better amuse yourself first, also. You must go 
down and see Mrs. Westgate." 
" We should be so happy, if you would kindly tell us the train," said Percy Beaumont. 
"It isn't a train it 's a boat." 
" Oh, I see. And what is the name of a the 
a town ?" 
" It isn't a town," said Mr. Westgate, laughing. 
" It 's a well, what shall I call it ? It 's a water 
ing-place. In short, it 's Newport. You'll see 
what it is. It 's cool ; that 's the principal thing. 
You will greatly oblige me by going down there 
and putting yourself into the hands of Mrs. 
Westgate. It isn't perhaps for me to say it, 
but you couldn 't be in better hands. Also in 
those of her sister, who is staying with her. She 
is very fond of Englishmen. She thinks there is 
nothing like them." 
"Mrs. Westgate or a her sister?" asked 
Percy Beaumont, modestly, yet in the tone of an 
inquiring traveller. 
" Oh, I mean my wife," said Mr. Westgate. 
"I don 't suppose my sister-in-law knows much 
about them. She has always led a very quiet 
life ; she has lived in Boston." 
Percy Beaumont listened with interest. " That, 
I believe," he said, "is the most a intellectual 
town ?" 
"I believe it is very intellectual. I don 't go 
there much," responded his host. 
"I say, we ought to go there," said Lord Lambeth to his companion. 
" Oh, Lord Lambeth, wait till the great heat is 
over," Mr. Westgate interposed. "Boston in 
this weather would be very trying; it 's not the 
temperature for intellectual exertion. At Boston, you know, you have to pass an examination 
at the city limits ; and when you come away they 
give you a kind of degree." 
Lord Lambeth stared, blushing a little ; and 
Percy Beaumont stared a little also but only 
with his fine natural complexion glancing aside 
after a moment to see that his companion was 
not looking too credulous, for he had heard a 
great deal of American humor. " I dare say it 
is very jolly," said the younger gentleman. 
" I dare say it is," said Mr. Westgate. " Only 
I must impress upon you that at present to 
morrow morning, at an early hour you will be 
expected at Newport. We have a house there; 
half the people in New York go there for the 
summer. I am not sure that at this very moment my wife can 'take you in ; she has got a lot 
of people staying with her; I don 't know who 
they all are; only she may have no room. But 
you can begin with the hotel, and meanwhile you 
can live at my house. In that way simply 
sleeping at the hotel you will find it tolerable. 
For the rest, you must make yourself at home at 
my place. You mustn't be shy, you know; if 
you are only here for a month that will be a 
great waste of time. Mrs. Westgate won 't neg 
lect you, and you had better not try to resist her. 
I know something about that. I expect you'll 
find some pretty girls on the premises. I shall 
write to my wife by this afternoon 's mail, and to 
morrow morning she and Miss Alden will look 
out for you. Just walk right in and make your 
self comfortable. Your steamer leaves from this 
part of the city, and I will immediately send out 
and get you a cabin. Then, at half past four 
o clock, just call for me here, and I will go with 
you and put you on board. It 's a big boat ; you 
might get lost. A few days hence, at the end of 
the week, I will come down to Newport, and see 
how you are getting on." 
The two young Englishmen inaugurated the 
policy of not resisting Mrs. Westgate by submit 
ting, with great docility and thankfulness, to her 
husband. He was evidently a very good fellow, 
and he made an impression upon his visitors; 
his hospitality seemed to recommend itself consciously
with a friendly wink, as it were as if 
it hinted, judicially, that you could not possibly 
make a better bargain. Lord Lambeth and his 
cousin left their entertainer to his labors and 
returned to their hotel, where they spent three 
or four hours in their respective shower-baths. 
Percy Beaumont had suggested that they ought 
to see something of the town ; but " Oh, damn 
the town !" his noble kinsman had rejoined. 
They returned to Mr. Westgate 's office in a carnage, with their luggage, very punctually ; but it 
must be reluctantly recorded that, this time, he 
kept them waiting so long that they felt themselves missing the steamer, and were deterred 
only by an amiable modesty from dispensing 
with his attendance, and starting on a hasty 
scramble to the wharf. But when at last he appeared, and the carriage plunged into the purlieus of Broadway, they jolted and jostled to such 
good purpose that they reached the huge white 
vessel while the bell for departure was stiil ringing, and the absorption of passengers still active. 
It was indeed, as Mr. Westgate had said, a big 
  
boat, and his leadership in the innumerable and 
interminable corridors and cabins, with which he 
seemed perfectly acquainted, and of which any 
one and every one appeared to have the entree, 
was very grateful to the slightly bewildered voyagers. He showed them their state-room a 
spacious apartment, embellished with gas lamps, 
mirrors en pied, and sculptured- furniture and 
then, long after they had been intimately convinced that the steamer was in motion and 
launched upon the unknown stream that they 
were about to navigate, he bade them a sociable 
farewell. 
"Well, good-by, Lord Lambeth," he said; 
"good-bye  , Mr. Percy Beaumont. I hope you'll 
have a good time. Just let them do what they 
want with you. I'll come down by-and-by and 
look after you." 
The young Englishmen emerged from their 
cabin and amused themselves with wandering 
about the immense labyrinthine steamer, which 
struck them as an extraordinary mixture of a 
ship and a hotel. It was densely crowded with 
passengers, the larger number of whom appeared 
to be ladies and very young children ; and in the 
big saloons, ornamented in white and gold, which 
followed each other in surprising succession, beneath the swinging gas-light, and among the 
small side passages where the negro domestics 
of both sexes assembled with an air of philo 
sophic leisure, every one was moving to and fro 
and exchanging loud and familiar observations. 
Eventually, at the instance of a discriminating 
black, our young men went and had some " supper" in a wonderful place arranged like a theatre, where, in a gilded gallery, upon which little 
boxes appeared to open, a large orchestra was 
playing operatic selections, and, below, people 
were handing about bills of fare, as if they had 
been programmes. All this was sufficiently curious ; but the agreeable thing, later, was to sit 
out on one of the great white decks of the steamer, in the warm breezy darkness, and, in the 
vague starlight, to make out the line of low, mysterious coast. The young Englishmen tried 
American cigars those of Mr. Westgate and 
talked together as they usually talked, with many 
odd silences, lapses of logic, and incongruities of 
transition ; like people who have grown old to 
gether, and learned to supply each other 's missing phrases ; or, more especially, like people 
thoroughly conscious of a common point of view, 
so that a style of conversation superficially lack 
ing in finish might suffice for reference to a fund 
of associations in the light of which every thing 
was all right. 
  
"We really seem to be going out to sea," 
Percy Beaumont observed. " Upon my word, we 
are going back to England. He has shipped us 
off again. I call that real mean. " 
"I suppose it 's all right," said Lord Lambeth. 
" I want to see those pretty girls at Newport. 
You know he told us the place was an island; 
and aren't all islands in the sea ?" 
" Well," resumed the elder traveller after a 
while, " if his house is as good as his cigars, we 
shall do very well." 
"He seems a very good fellow," said Lord 
Lambeth, as if this idea had just occurred to 
him. 
"I say, we had better remain at the inn," rejoined his companion, presently.  I don 't think 
I like the way he spoke of his house. I don 't 
like stopping in the house with such a tremendous lot of women." 
" Oh, I don 't mind," said Lord Lambeth. And 
then they smoked a while in silence. " Fancy his 
thinking we do no work in England !" the young 
man resumed. 
"I dare say he didn 't really think so," said 
Percy Beaumont. 
" Well, I guess they don 't know much about 
England over here !" declared Lord Lambeth, 
humorously. And then there was another long 
pause. "He was devilish civil," observed the 
young nobleman. 
" Nothing, certainly, could have been more civil," rejoined his companion. 
"Littledale said his wife was great fun," said 
Lord Lambeth. 
" Whose wife Littledale 's ?" 
"This American 's Mrs. Westgate. What 's 
his name ? J. L." 
Beaumont was silent a moment. " What was 
fun to Littledale," he said at last, rather sententious, " may be death to us." 
" What do you mean by that ?" asked his 
kinsman. "I am as good a man as Little- 
dale." 
" My dear boy, I hope you won 't begin to flirt," 
said Percy Beaumont. 
" I don 't care. I dare say I sha n't begin." 
" With a married woman, if she 's bent upon it, 
it 's all very well," Beaumont expounded. " But 
our friend mentioned a young lady a sister, a 
sister-in-law. For God 's sake, don 't get entangled 
with her !" 
" How do you mean entangled ?" 
" Depend upon it she will try to hook you." 
" Oh, bother !" said Lord Lambeth. 
"American girls are very clever," urged his 
companion. 
" So much the better," the young man declared. 
" I fancy they are always up to some game of 
that sort," Beaumont continued. 
" They can 't be worse than they are in England," 
said Lord Lambeth, judicially. 
" Ah, but in England," replied Beaumont, " you 
have got your natural protectors. You have got 
your mother and sisters." 
" My mother and sisters " began the young 
nobleman, with a certain energy. But he stopped 
in time, puffing at his cigar. 
" Your mother spoke to me about it, with tears 
in her eyes," said Percy Beaumont. u She said she 
felt very nervous. I promised to keep you out of 
mischief." 
" You had better take care of yourself," said 
the object of maternal and ducal solicitude. 
" Ah," rejoined the young barrister, " I haven 't 
the expectation of a hundred thousand a year, 
not to mention other attractions." 
" Well," said Lord Lambeth, " don 't cry out be 
fore you 're hurt !" 
It was certainly very much cooler at Newport, 
where our travellers found themselves assigned 
to a couple of diminutive bedrooms in a far-away 
angle of an immense hotel. They had gone ashore 
in the early summer twilight, and had very promptly put themselves to bed ; thanks to which circumstance
and to their having, during the previous 
hours, in their commodious cabin, slept the sleep 
of youth and health, they began to feel, toward 
eleven o clock, very alert and inquisitive. They 
looked out of their windows across a row of small 
green fields, bordered with low stone wails of rude 
construction, and saw a deep blue ocean lying be 
neath a deep blue sky, and flecked now and then 
with scintillating patches of foam. A strong, 
fresh breeze came in through the curtainless case 
ments, and prompted our young men to observe, 
generally, that it didn 't seem half a bad climate. 
They made other observations after they had 
emerged from their rooms in pursuit of break 
fast a meal of which they partook in a huge bare 
hall, where a hundred negroes, in white jackets, 
were shuffling about upon an uncarpeted floor; 
where the flies were superabundant, and the tables 
and dishes covered over with a strange, volumi 
nous integument of coarse blue gauze ; and where 
several little boys and girls, who had risen late, 
were seated in fastidious solitude at the morning 
repast. These young persons had not the morning paper before them, but they were engaged in 
languid perusal of the bill of fare. 
This latter document was a great puzzle to our 
friends, who, on reflecting that its bewildering 
categories had relation to breakfast alone, had an 
uneasy prevision of an encyclopedic dinner list. 
They found a great deal of entertainment at the 
hotel, an enormous wooden structure, for the erection of which it seemed to them that the virgin 
forests of the West must have been terribly deflowered. It was perforated from end to end with 
immense bare corridors, through which a strong 
draught was blowing bearing along wonderful 
figures of ladies in white morning dresses and 
clouds of Valenciennes lace, who seemed to float 
down the long vistas with expanded furbelows, 
like angels spreading their wings. In front was 
a gigantic veranda, upon which an army might 
have encamped a vast wooden terrace, with a 
roof as lofty as the nave of a cathedral. Here our young Englishmen enjoyed, as they supposed, 
a glimpse of American society, which was distributed over the measureless expanse in a variety of 
sedentary attitudes, and appeared to consist large 
ly of pretty young girls, dressed as if for a fete 
champetre, swaying to and fro in rocking-chairs, 
fanning themselves with large straw fans, and en 
joying an enviable exemption from social cares. 
Lord Lambeth had a theory, which it might be 
interesting to trace to its origin, that it would be 
not only agreeable, but easily possible, to enter 
into relations with one of these young ladies : and 
his companion (as he had done a couple of days 
before) found occasion to check the young noble 
man 's colloquial impulses. 
" You had better take care," said Percy Beaumont, " or you will have an offended father or 
brother pulling out a bowie-knife." 
"I assure you it is all right," Lord Lambeth 
replied. " You know the Americans come to these 
big hotels to make acquaintances." 
" I know nothing about it, and neither do you," 
said his kinsman, who, like a clever man, had be 
gun to perceive that the observation of Ameri 
can society demanded a re-adjustment of one 's 
standard. 
" Hang it, then, let 's find out !" cried Lord Lambeth, with some impatience. " You know I don 't 
want to miss any thing." 
" We will find out," said Percy Beaumont, very 
reasonably. " We will go and see Mrs. Westgate, 
and make all the proper inquiries." 
And so the two inquiring Englishmen, who had 
this lady 's address inscribed in her husband 's hand 
upon a card, descended from the veranda of the 
big hotel and took their way, according to direction, along a large straight road, past a series of 
fresh-looking villas embosomed in shrubs and 
flowers, and inclosed in an ingenious variety of 
wooden palings. The morning was brilliant and 
cool, the villas were smart and snug, and the walk 
of the young travellers was very entertaining. 
Every thing looked as if it had received a coat of 
fresh paint the day before the red roofs, the 
green shutters, the clean, bright browns and buffs 
of the house fronts. The flower beds on the little 
lawns seemed to sparkle in the radiant air, and 
the gravel in the short carriage sweeps to flash 
and twinkle. Along the road came a hundred little basket-phaetons, in which, almost always, a 
couple of ladies were sitting ladies in white 
dresses and long white gloves, holding the reins 
and looking at the two Englishmen, whose nation 
ality was not elusive, through thick blue veils tied 
tightly about their faces as if to guard their complexions. At last the young men came within 
sight of the sea again, and then, having interrogated a gardener over the paling of a villa, they 
turned into an open gate. Here they found them 
selves face to face with the ocean and with a very 
picturesque structure, resembling a magnified cha 
let, which was perched upon a green embankment 
just above it. The house had a veranda of extraordinary width all around it, and a great many 
doors and windows standing open to the veranda. 
These various apertures had, in common, such an 
accessible, hospitable air, such a breezy flutter 
within of light curtains, such expansive thresh 
olds and re-assuring interiors, that our friends hardly 
knew which was the regular entrance, and, aft 
er hesitating a moment, presented themselves at 
one of the windows. The room within was dark, 
but in a moment a graceful figure vaguely shaped 
itself in the rich-looking gloom, and a lady came 
to meet them. Then they saw that she had been 
seated at a table writing, and that she had heard 
them and had got up. She stepped out into the 
