for me," still speaking of scenery, " these mountains 
about here, that I see every day, are no more to me, in 
one sense, than a man's farm is to him. What mostly 
interests me now is when I see some new freak or shape 
in the face of Nature." 
In literature it may be said that Old Phelps prefers 
the best in the very limited range that has been open 
to him. Tennyson is his favorite among poets; an 
affinity explained by the fact that they are both lotos- 
eaters. Speaking of a lecture-room talk of Mr. 
Beecher's which he had read, he said, " It filled my 
cup about as full as I callerlate to have it : there was a 
good deal of truth in it, and some poetry ; waal, and 
a little spice too. We 've got to have the spice, you 
know." He admired, for different reasons, a lecture 
by Greeley that he once heard, into which so much 
knowledge of various kinds was crowded, that he said 
he " made a reg'lar gobble of it." He was not with- 
out discrimination, which he exercised upon the local 
preaching when nothing better offered. Of one ser- 
mon he said, " The man began way back at the ere- 
 
ation, and just preached right along down ; and he 
didn't say nothing, after all. It just seemed to me as 
if he was tryin' to git up a kind of a fix-up." 
Old Phelps used words sometimes like algebraic 
signs, and had a habit of making one do duty for a 
season together for all occasions. " Speckerlation " 
and " callerlation " and " fix up " are specimens of 
words that were prolific in expression. An unusual 
expression, or an unusual article, would be character- 
ized as a " kind of a scientific literary git-up." 
" What is the programme for to-morrow ? " I once 
asked him. " Waal, I callerlate, if they rig up the 
callerlation they callerlate on, we 'll go to the Boreas." 
Starting out for a day's tramp in the woods, he would 
ask whether we wanted to take a " reg'lar walk, or a 
random scoot," — the latter being a plunge into the 
pathless forest. When he was on such an expedition, 
and became entangled in dense brush, and maybe a 
network of " slash " and swamp, he was like an old 
wizard, as he looked here and there, seeking a way, 
peering into the tangle, or withdrawing from a thicket, 
and muttering to himself, '' There ain't no speckerla- 
tion there." And when the way became altogether 
inscrutable, " Waal, this is a reg'lar random scoot 
of a rigmarole." As some one remarked, " The dic- 
tionary in his hands is like clay in the hands of the 
potter." A petrifaction was a " kind of a hard-wood 
chemical git-up." 
There is no conceit, we are apt to say, like that born 
of isolation from the world, and there are no such con- 
ceited people as those who have lived all their lives in 
the woods. Phelps was, however, unsophisticated in 
his until the advent of strangers into his life, who 
brought in literature and various other disturbing 
influences, I am sorry to say that the effect has been 
to take off something of the bloom of his simplicity, 
and to elevate him into an oracle. I suppose this 
is inevitable as soon as one goes into print; and 
Phelps has gone into print in the local papers. He 
has been bitten with the literary "git-up." Justly 
regarding most of the Adirondack literature as a 
" perfect fizzle," he has himself projected a work, and 
written much on the natural history of his region. 
Long ago he made a large map of the mountain coun- 
try; and, until recent surveys, it was the only one 
that could lay any claim to accuracy. His history is 
no doubt original in form, and unconventional in 
expression. Like most of the writers of the seven- 
teenth century, and the court ladies and gentlemen of 
the eighteenth century, he is an independent speller. 
Writing of his work on the Adirondacks, he says, " If 
I should ever live to get this wonderful thing written, 
I expect it will show one thing, if no more ; and that 
is, that everything has an opposite. I expect to show 
in this that literature has an opposite, if I do not show 
anything else. We could not enjoy the blessings and 
happiness of riteousness if we did not know innicuty 
was in the world : in fact, there would be no riteous- 
ness without innicuty." Writing also of his great 
enjoyment of being in the woods, especially since he 
has had the society there of some people he names, he 
adds, '' And since I have Literature, Siance, and Art 
all spread about on the green moss of the mountain 
woods or the gravell banks of a cristle stream, it 
seems like finding roses, honeysuckels, and violets on 
a crisp brown cliff in December. You know I don't 
believe much in the religion of seramony ; but any 
riteous thing that has life and spirit in it is food for 
 
me." I must not neglect to mention an essay, con- 
tinued in several numbers of his local paper, on '' The 
Growth of the Tree," in which he demohshes the the- 
ory of ]\Ir. Greeley, whom he calls '* one of the best 
vegetable philosophers,'' about ''growth without seed." 
He treats of the office of sap. ''All trees have some 
kind of sap and some kind of operation of sap flowing 
in their season," — the dissemination of seeds, the pro- 
cesses of growth, the power of healing wounds, the pro- 
portion of roots to branches, cS:c. Speaking of the 
latter, he says, '* I have thought it would be one of the 
greatest curiosities on earth to see a thrifty growing 
maple or elm. that had grown on a deep soil interval 
to be two feet in diameter, to be raised clear into the 
air with every root and fibre down to the minutest 
thread, all entirely cleared of soil, so that every par- 
ticle could be seen in its natural position. I think it 
would astonish even the wise ones." From his instinc- 
tive sympathy with nature, he often credits vegetable 
organism with ''instinctive judgment." "Observa- 
tion teaches us that a tree is given powerful instincts, 
which would almost appear to amount to judgment in 
some cases, to provide for its own wants and necessi- 
ties." 
Here our study must cease, ^hen the primitive 
man comes into literature, he is no longer primitive. 
It seems to be agreed that civilization is kept up 
only by a constant effort. Nature claims its own 
speedily when the effort is relaxed. If you clear a 
patch of fertile ground in the forest, uproot the stumps 
and plant it, year after year, in potatoes and maize, 
you say you have subdued it. But if you leave it 
for a season or two, a kind of barbarism seems to steal 
out upon it from the circling woods ; coarse grass and 
brambles cover it ; bushes spring up in a wild tangle ; 
the raspberry and the blackberry flower and fruit, 
and the humorous bear feeds upon them. The last 
state of the ground is worse than the first. 
Perhaps the cleared spot is called Ephesus. 
There is a splendid city on the plain ; there are tem- 
ples and theatres on the hills ; the commerce of the 
world seeks its port ; the luxury of the Orient flows 
through its marble streets. You are there one day 
when the sea has receded: the plain is a pestilent 
marsh ; the temples, the theatres, the lofty gates, have 
sunken and crumbled, and the wild-brier runs over 
them ; and, as you grow pensive in the most desolate 
place in the world, a bandit lounges out of a tomb, 
and offers to relieve you of all that which creates arti- 
ficial distinctions in society. The higher the civil- 
ization has risen, the more abject is the desolation 
of barbarism that ensues. The most melancholy spot 
in the Adirondacks is not a tamarack-swamp, where 
the traveller wades in moss and mire, and the at- 
mosphere is composed of equal active parts of black- 
flies, mosquitos, and midges. It is the village of the 
Adirondack Iron- Works, where the streets of gaunt 
houses are falling to pieces, tenantless; the factory- 
wheels have stopped ; the furnaces are in ruins ; the 
iron and wooden machinery is strewn about in help- 
less detachment ; and heaps of charcoal, ore, and slag 
proclaim an arrested industry. Beside this deserted 
village, even Calamity Pond, shallow, sedgy, with its 
ragged shores of stunted firs, and its melancholy shaft 
that marks the spot where the proprietor of the iron- 
works accidentally shot himself, is cheerful. 
The instinct of barbarism that leads people periodi- 
cally to throw away the habits of civilization, and 
seek the freedom and discomfort of the woods, is ex- 
plicable enough ; but it is not so easy to understand 
why this passion should be strongest in those who 
are most refined, and most trained in intellectual 
and social fastidiousness. Philistinism and shoddy 
do not like the woods, unless it becomes fashionable 
to do so ; and then, as speedily as possible they in- 
troduce their artificial luxuries, and reduce the life in 
the wilderness to the vulgarity of a well-fed picnic. 
It is they who have strewn the Adirondacks with 
paper collars and tin cans. The real enjoyment of 
camping and tramping in the woods lies in a return 
to primitive conditions of lodging, dress, and food, in 
as total an escape as may be from the requirements of 
civilization. And it remains to be explained why this 
is enjoyed most by those who are most highly civilized. 
It is wonderful to see how easily the restraints of so- 
ciety fall off. Of course it is not true that courtesy 
depends upon clothes with the best people ; but, with 
others, behavior hangs almost entirely upon dress. 
Many good habits are easily got rid of in the woods. 
Doubt sometimes seems to be felt whether Sunday is a 
legal holiday there. It becomes a question of casuistry 
with a clergyman whether he may shoot at a mark on 
Sunday, if none of his congregation are present. He 
intends no harm : he only gratifies a curiosity to see if 
he can hit the mark. Where shall he draw the line ? 
Doubtless he might throw a stone at a chipmunk or 
shout at a loon. Might lie fire at a mark with an 
air-gun that makes no noise ? He will not fish or 
hunt on Sunday (although he is no more likely to 
catch anything that day than on any other) ; but 
may he eat trout that the guide has caught on Sun- 
day, if the guide swears he caught them Saturday 
night ? Is there such a thing as a vacation in reli- 
gion ? How much of our virtue do we owe to inher- 
ited habits ? 
I am not at all sure whether this desire to camp 
outside of civilization is creditable to human nature, 
or otherwise. We hear sometimes that the Turk has 
been merely camping for four centuries in Europe. 
I suspect that many of us are, after all, really camp- 
ing temporarily in civilized conditions ; and that 
going into the wilderness is an escape, longed forp 
into our natural and preferred state. Consider what 
this " camping out " is, that is confessedly so agreeable 
to people most delicately reared. I have no desire 
to exaggerate its delights. 
The Adirondack wilderness is essentially unbroken. 
A few bad roads that penetrate it, a few jolting 
wagons that traverse them, a few barn-like boarding- 
houses on the edge of the forest, where the boarders 
are soothed by patent coffee, and stimulated to unnat- 
ural gayety by Japan tea, and experimented on by 
unique cookery, do little to destroy the savage f ascina* 
tion of the region. In half an hour, at any point, one 
can put himself into solitude and every desirable dis- 
comfort. The party that covets the experience of the 
camp comes down to primitive conditions of dress and 
equipment. There are guides and porters to carry 
the blankets for beds, the raw provisions, and the 
camp equipage ; and the motley party of the tempo- 
rarily decivilized files into the woods, and begins, per- 
haps by a road, perhaps on a trail, its exhilarating and 
weary march. The exhilaration arises partly from 
the casting aside of restraint, partly from the adven- 
ture of exploration ; and the weariness, from the in- 
terminable toil of bad walking, a heavy pack, and the 
grim monotony of trees and bushes, that shut out all 
prospect, except an occasional glimpse of the sky. 
Mountains are painfully climbed, streams forded, 
lonesome lakes paddled over, long and muddy '' car- 
ries " traversed. Fancy this party the victim of polit- 
ical exile, banished by the law, and a more sorrowful 
march could not be imagined ; but the voluntary 
hardship becomes pleasure, and it is undeniable that 
the spirits of the party rise as the difficulties increase. 
For this straggling and stumbling band the world is 
young again ; it has come to the beginning of things ; 
it has cut loose from tradition, and is free to make a 
home anywhere : the movement has all the promise of 
a revolution. All this virginal freshness invites the 
primitive instincts of play and disorder. The free 
range of the forests suggests endless possibilities of 
exploration and possession. Perhaps we are treading 
where man since the creation never trod before ; per- 
haps the waters of this bubbling spring, which we 
deepen by scraping out the decayed leaves and the 
black earth, have never been tasted before, except by 
the wild denizens of these woods. We cross the trails 
of lurking animals, — paths that heighten our sense 
of seclusion from the world. The hammering of the 
infrequent woodpecker, the call of the lonely bird, the 
drumming of the solitary partridge, — all these sounds 
do but emphasize the lonesomeness of nature. The 
roar of the mountain brook, dashing over its bed of 
pebbles, rising out of the ravine, and spreading, as it 
were, a mist of sound through all the forest (contin- 
uous beating waves that have the rhythm of eternity 
in them), and the fitful movement of the air-tides 
through the balsams and firs and the giant pines, — 
how these grand symphonies shut out the little exas- 
perations of our vexed life ! It seems easy to begin 
life over again on the simplest terms. Probably it is 
not so much the desire of the congregation to escape 
from the preacher, or of the preacher to escape from 
himself, that drives sophisticated people into the wil- 
derness, as it is the unconquered craving for primitive 
simplicity, the revolt against the everlasting dress* 
parade of our civilization. From this monstrous pom- 
posity even the artificial rusticity of a Petit Trianon ^ 
is a relief. It was only human nature that the jaded 
Frenchman of the regency should run away to the 
New World, and live in a forest-hut with an Indian 
squaw ; although he found little satisfaction in his act 
of heroism, unless it was talked about at Versailles. 
When our trampers come, late in the afternoon, to 
the bank of a lovely lake where they purpose to enter 
the primitive life, everything is waiting for them in 
^ A little palace near the royal one at Versailles. 
virgin expectation. There is a little promontory jut- 
ting into the lake, and sloping down to a sandy beach, 
on which the waters idly lapse, and shoals of red-fins 
and shiners come to greet the stranger ; the forest is 
untouched by the axe; the tender green sweeps the 
water's edge ; ranks of slender firs are marshalled by 
the shore ; clumps of white-birch stems shine in satin 
purity among the evergreens; the boles of giant 
spruces, maples, and oaks, lifting high their crowns of 
foliage, stretch away in endless galleries and arcades ; 
through the shifting leaves the sunshine falls upon 
the brown earth ; overhead are fragments of blue sky ; 
under the boughs and in chance openings appear the 
bluer lake and the outline of the gracious mountains. 
The discoverers of this paradise, which they have en- 
tered to destroy, note the babbling of the brook that 
flows close at hand ; they hear the splash of the leap- 
ing fish ; they listen to the sweet, metallic song of the 
evening thrush, and the chatter of the red squirrel, 
who angrily challenges their right to be there. But 
the moment of sentiment passes. This party has come 
here to eat and to sleep, and not to encourage Nature 
in her poetic attitudinizing. 
The spot for a shanty is selected. This side shall 
be its opening, towards the lake ; and in front of it 
the fire, so that the smoke shall drift into the hut, and 
discourage the mosquitoes ; yonder shall be the cook's 
fire and the path to the spring. The whole colony 
bestir themselves in the foundation of a new home, — 
an enterprise that has all the fascination, and none of 
the danger, of a veritable new settlement in the wil- 
derness. The axes of the guides resound in the echo- 
ing spaces ; great trunks fall with a crash ; vistas are 
opened towards the lake and the mountains. The 
spot for the shanty is cleared of underbrush; forked 
stakes are driven into the ground, cross-pieces are 
laid on them, and poles sloping back to the ground. 
In an incredible space of time there is the skeleton of 
a house, which is entirely open in front. The roof 
and sides must be covered. For this purpose the 
trunks of great spruces are skinned. The woodman 
rims the bark near the foot of the tree, and again six 
feet above, and slashes it perpendicularly ; then, with 
a blunt stick, he crowds off this thick hide exactly as 
an ox is skinned. It needs but a few of these skins 
to cover the roof ; and they make a perfectly water- 
tight roof, except when it rains. Meantime, busy 
hands have gathered boughs of the spruce and the 
feathery balsam, and shingled the ground underneath 
the shanty for a bed. It is an aromatic bed : in the- 
ory it is elastic and consoling. Upon it are spread 
the blankets. The sleepers, of all sexes and ages, are 
to lie there In a row, their feet to the fire, and their 
heads under the edge of the sloping roof. Nothing 
could be better contrived. The fire is in front : it is 
not a fire, but a conflagration — a vast heap of green 
logs set on fire — of pitch, and split dead-wood, and 
crackling balsams, raging and roaring. By the time 
twilight falls, the cook has prepared supper. Every- 
thing has been cooked in a tin pail and a skillet, — 
potatoes, tea, pork, mutton, slapjacks. You wonder 
how everything could have been prepared in so few 
utensils. When you eat, the wonder ceases : every- 
thing might have been cooked in one pail. It is a 
noble meal ; and nobly is it disposed of by these ama- 
teur savages, sitting about upon logs and roots of 
trees. Never were there such potatoes, never beans 
that seemed to have more of the bean in them, 
never such curly pork, never trout with more In- 
dian-meal on them, never mutton more distinctly 
sheepy ; and the tea, drunk out of a tin cup, with a 
lump of maple-sugar dissolved in it, — it is the sort 
of tea that takes hold, lifts the haii^ and disposes the 
drinker to anecdote and hilariousness. There is no 
deception about it : it tastes of tannin and spruce and 
creosote. Everything, in short, has the flavor of the 
wilderness and a free life. It is idyllic. And yet, 
with all our sentimentality, there is nothing feeble 
about the cooking. The slapjacks are a solid job of 
work, made to last, and not go to pieces in a per- 
son's stomach like a trivial bun : we might record on 
them, in cuneiform characters, our incipient civiliza- 
tion; and future generations would doubtless turn 
them up as Acadian bricks. Good, robust victuals 
are what the primitive man wants. 
Darkness falls suddenly. Outside the ring of light 
from our conflagration the woods are black. There 
is a tremendous impression of isolation and lonesome- 
ness in our situation. We are the prisoners of the 
night. The woods never seemed so vast and mysteri- 
ous. The trees are gigantic. There are noises that 
we do not understand, — mysterious winds passing 
overhead, and rambling in the great galleries, tree- 
trunks grinding against each other, undefinable stirs 
and uneasinesses. The shapes of those who pass into 
tiie dimness are outlined in monstrous proportionSo 
The spectres, seated about in the glare of the fire, 
talk about appearances and presentiments and reli- 
gion. The guides cheer the night with bear-fights, 
and catamount encounters, and frozen-to-death expe- 
riences, and simple tales of great prolixity and no 
point, and jokes of primitive lucidity. We hear cata- 
mounts, and the stealthy tread of things in the leaves, 
and the hooting of owls, and, when the moon rises, 
the laughter of the loon. Everything is strange, 
spectral, fascinating. 
By and by we get our positions in the shanty for 
the night, and arrange the row of sleepers. The 
shanty has become a smoke-house by this time: 
waves of smoke roll into it from the fire. It is only 
by lying down, and getting the head well under the 
eaves, that one can breathe. No one can find her 
" things ; " nobody has a pillow. At length the row 
is laid out, with the solemn protestation of intention 
to sleep. The wind, shifting, drives away the smoke. 
Good-night is said a hundred times ; positions are re- 
adjusted, more last words, new shifting about, final 
remarks ; it is all so comfortable and romantic ; and 
then silence. Silence continues for a minute. The 
fire flashes up ; all the row of heads is lifted up simul- 
taneously to watch it ; showers of sparks sail aloft into 
