grizzly, but, from the indifference with which he turned away and
resumed his watch, it may be inferred that he considered Tom too small
game to merit his attention. This was rather satisfactory to our young
hero, who was not ambitious to come in close quarters with so formidable
an antagonist.
Startled as he was, Tom maintained his ground. He wanted to help
Onthank; but he did not know how to do it.
"What can I do to help you, Mr. Onthank?" shouted Tom.
"Blamed if I know," answered the Yankee, helplessly. "I wish Ferguson
were here. It won't do for you to attack the beast single-handed."
"Shall I go back for Ferguson?" asked Tom.
"I don't know; how far away is the camp?"
"It must be as much as a mile."
"While you are away the brute may take it into his head to climb the
tree, and then I am gone up."
"Haven't you any weapon?"
"No."
"I'll fire at the bear if you say so."
"It would be of no use. If you missed, or only grazed him, he would make
for you."
"I wish you had my rifle," said Tom.
"So do I. I'd let him have it straight in the eye. Have you had
breakfast?"
"Yes."
"I'm as hungry as a bear--as this bear who probably wants me for his
breakfast. O Tom, if I was only back at Green Mountain Mills once more,
I'd be content to live and die there, and all the gold in California
wouldn't bring me out here again."
Tom stood silent and perplexed. While he was considering whether he
could do anything to help his friend, the bear slowly rose, approached
the tree, and, grasping it between his paws, prepared to climb. He was
evidently tired of waiting.
"He's coming, Tom!" shouted Onthank. "O Lord, what shall I do?"
CHAPTER XVII.
AN EXCITING PURSUIT.
Mr Onthank's reflections when the grizzly was slowly but steadily
climbing the tree were by no means pleasant.
"If he once grips me, I am gone," he said, despairingly.
"Shall I shoot?" asked Tom, looking on in excitement.
"You might hit me," said Ebenezer, who knew nothing of Tom's skill as a
marksman.
"No, I won't."
"I think I'll swing off," said the Yankee, "and join you."
Whether this was or was not a wise thing to do Tom did not feel
qualified to decide. It was evident that Onthank must do something
speedily, or he would be in the power of the bear. He waited nervously
till Bruin was uncomfortably near, and then, seizing the branch with
his hands, swung to the ground. The height was considerable, and the
fall jarred him; but, quickly recovering himself, he ran towards Tom.
"Now we must run for our lives, Tom," he said, suiting the action to the
word.
Tom fully understood the necessity, and followed suit, first hazarding a
glance at the discomfited bear.
When the grizzly witnessed the escape of his victim he showed no
excitement, nor did he accelerate his motions. He began deliberately to
back down the tree. This required some little time, which Tom and his
friend made the most of.
"Give me your rifle," said Onthank.
"I'd rather keep it," said Tom.
"I can make better use of it," said the Yankee.
"I don't know about that," said Tom. "At any rate I will keep it."
He felt that it was hardly reasonable to expect him, in the presence of
such a danger, to give up his only instrument of defence.
"You are only a boy," said his companion, discontented.
"I can shoot," answered Tom, briefly.
Onthank was not in general an unreasonable man, but danger makes men
selfish.
"Give it to me," he said, in a tone of authority, and he tried to wrest
it from Tom's hands.
"You shall not have it," exclaimed Tom, indignantly. "Take away your
hand, or I'll shoot you!"
Of course Tom was excited, and would not have carried out his threat,
but he was fully resolved to stand up for his rights.
Whether Ebenezer would have yielded the point, being stronger than Tom,
is uncertain; but our hero shouted "Look out for the bear!" and the
Yankee, in alarm, released his hold, and the two entered upon a race, in
which the Yankee's superior length of limb enabled him to keep the first
place.
Bruin was now on terra firma, and was on his way, wagging his great
head, developing an alarming rate of speed. Tom was somewhat hampered
by the weapon which he carried, and he was getting out of breath.
Onthank was three or four rods ahead of him. The situation had changed,
and it was now Tom that was in the greater peril.
"Don't give out, Tom!" called out Ebenezer, encouragingly.
"I won't," gasped Tom, "if I can help it."
"Is he gaining on us?"
"Yes," returned our hero.
"Then I'll try another tree," said Onthank, and he caught a branch, and
clambered up into a tree quite similar to the other in which he had been
besieged.
Tom would gladly have followed his example, but the branch was too high
for him to reach readily, and the grizzly was too near to give him
adequate time. Poor boy! He began to despair, and was at an utter loss
what to do. To face round and fire at the foe seemed about all that was
left him, but he wanted to reserve his fire to the last. He caught sight
of another tree, of a larger trunk than the one which Onthank had
ascended, and ran towards it, pursued by the grizzly. Then commenced a
dodging game, which seemed to afford but a brief respite from
destruction.
"This can't last long," thought poor Tom. "I suppose I must die."
In that brief time of peril many thoughts passed through his mind. To
die at his age would be sad enough; but the thought that his expedition
would be a failure, only involving his father deeper in difficulty and
debt chiefly troubled him. The mortgage would be foreclosed, and his
father and whole family deprived of their humble home. Onthank watched
the boy's peril, unable to give him assistance. To do him justice he
almost forgot his own danger in the more apparent and immediate peril of
his young companion.
"Be careful!" he shouted, quite needlessly. "Don't let him grip you.
Give it to him right in the eye."
Tom was so absorbed, and his mind so painfully occupied by his efforts
to keep out of his enemy's clutches, that he was not conscious of the
warning.
Active and alert as he was, the result was hardly a matter of doubt. He
would tire sooner than the bear, and if he ran again he was sure to be
overtaken. This, however, was what he did. Of course the grizzly
instantly pursued him. Poor Tom breathed a prayer for help, though there
seemed no chance of his prayer being answered; but sometimes God sends
assistance when there seems no chance of escape.
The galloping of a horse was heard. There was a whirling sound, and
Bruin, already within two yards of Tom, was jerked back, and brought to
a stand-still by a lasso which wound about his neck. A shout caused Tom
suddenly to turn his head, and to his joy he saw a mounted Mexican
vaquero, who had brought him timely relief.
Bruin growled angrily on finding himself balked of his prey. He was not
disposed to yield to his new antagonist. Rising and sitting on his
haunches he began coolly to draw in the lasso, against the combined
strength of man and horse. The muscular force of a big grizzly is
simply enormous. Usually he is attacked from two sides, two lassos being
thrown around him. For a single antagonist he is sometimes more than a
match, as seemed likely in the present case. The rieta being attached
to the pommel of the saddle, of course the bear, in pulling as he did,
hand over hand, steadily brought the vaquero and his steed nearer. The
horse, terrified, trembled in every limb, and tried to rear; but his
strength was as nothing when opposed to the steady power of his massive
antagonist.
Relieved from the immediate attentions of the grizzly, Tom did not
continue to run, but stood still, and, forgetting his own peril,
remained an excited spectator of the struggle between the bear and the
vaquero.
The Mexican in an excited manner shouted to him to shoot. This brought
Tom to a sense of his duty. A third person had been brought into danger
by an effort to give him assistance, and he was too manly to leave him
to his fate. He raised his rifle, and, taking quick aim, fired. Our
young hero was of course inexperienced, and it was only by a piece of
good fortune that his bullet inflicted a serious wound, striking the
bear in the throat. The blood began to flow and the grizzly, growling
fiercely, slackened his hold on the lasso. The vaquero followed up
Tom's shot by another, equally effective, and the powerful animal
dropped to the ground, dangerous still if approached, but unfitted for
pursuit.
The vaquero reined his horse back, and his dark face became illumined
with a smile of satisfaction.
"He will do no more harm," he said in good English, but with a foreign
accent. "The danger is over."
"Is the critter used up?" shouted Onthank, cautiously, from his elevated
perch. "Is he defunct?"
"He soon will be," answered Tom. "I guess it will be safe to come down."
Ebenezer Onthank needed no second invitation. He "shinned" down the tree
in a manner not unlike the grizzly, and approached the spot where the
huge foe was lying, the life-blood flowing from his throat.
"I'd like to kick you, you big brute!" said Mr. Onthank.
The bear slowly turned upon him his glazing eyes, and they expressed so
much ferocity that almost involuntarily the Yankee drew back. The bear
partly raised himself, and tried to drag himself towards his
adversaries; but the effort was vain.
"He is one of the largest I have seen," said the vaquero. "See how
strong he is!"
"It was lucky for me that you came up," said Tom. "He was almost upon
me."
"I had about given you up, Tom," said Onthank, "and I thought my turn
was coming next."
"We are much indebted to you, sir," said Tom, gratefully, to the
Mexican. "You have saved my life."
The vaquero courteously expressed his satisfaction, and, remounting
his horse, resumed his journey.
"I never want to see another grizzly," said Onthank. "This one is enough
for me, darn his ugly pictur'!"
"I quite agree with you, Mr. Onthank," said Tom.
CHAPTER XVIII.
TOM'S OLD HOME.
Leaving Tom for a time, we will cross the continent, and, a little
earlier in point of time, look in upon Mark Nelson and his family at
their humble home in New Hampshire.
For years Mr. Nelson had been struggling to provide a comfortable living
for his wife and children. The struggle was not an easy one. His small
farm was sterile, and yielded grudgingly its annual crops. Then the
mortgage held by Squire Hudson imposed a burden of interest very hard to
meet. Each half year sixty-six dollars must be raised somehow to satisfy
the squire's demand. Though a rich man, with ready money in plenty, he
never failed to call for his money on the very day it was due. Once or
twice he had granted a delay of a day or two; but his manner was so
unpleasant that the farmer, except from dire necessity, was hardly
likely to ask a renewal of the favor.
The six months immediately following Tom's departure from home were not
favorable to his father. There was a drought of considerable duration,
which made the crops smaller than usual, and thus materially decreased
the farmer's income. When the semi-annual interest became due, with the
most energetic effort Mark Nelson had got together but thirty-six
dollars towards it, leaving a deficit of thirty dollars.
"I feel anxious about to-morrow, Mary," he said, as the little family
sat together the night before in the plain sitting-room. "I have never
been so much behindhand before with the interest."
"How much do you lack, Mark?" asked Mrs. Nelson.
"Thirty dollars."
"That is a good deal of money," said his wife, gravely.
"Yes; I don't know where to raise it. If Squire Hudson were only a
little considerate. But he isn't, and, even if he were, I am afraid
there is no prospect of my raising the money at present."
"You may get some money from Tom soon," suggested Sarah.
"I can't rely upon that. Tom will doubtless send when he is able, for he
understands my circumstances, and is a thoughtful boy; but it is going
to take time for him to earn a surplus--enough to send on."
"He may find a big nugget," said Walter, the second boy, who eagerly
read the letters from California which from time to time appeared in the
weekly paper.
"He may, but the chances are against it."
"I was reading in last week's paper about a man finding a nugget worth
over two thousand dollars."
"Such nuggets are as rare as large prizes in a lottery, I suspect," said
Mark Nelson, who had a large share of plain common-sense.
Walter looked rather disappointed, having made up his mind that Tom
would certainly find a big lump of gold, and come home rich.
"Don't you think Tom will find some gold?" he asked.
"Yes, I have no doubt he will gather some gold-dust. I have no doubt,
too, that he will earn more than he or I can do at home; but I haven't
much faith in these extraordinary pieces of good luck."
"Still, Tom may find a nugget," persisted Walter.
"Yes, he may, and I shall be very glad if he does; but we must not
build too many air-castles on that chance."
"I wish I could see the dear boy again," sighed his mother, looking up
from the stocking she was laboriously darning.
"So do I," said Walter. "He would have a lot to tell us."
"California seems so far away," resumed Mrs. Nelson, "and he has no one
there to look after him, and mend his clothes--"
"And darn his stockings," said Walter, smiling.
"If he walked all the way across the continent," said Sarah, "I don't
believe he would have larger holes in his stockings than you have,
Walter."
"Oh, well, I exercise a good deal," said Walter. "Ask father if I
don't."
"Walter will be more successful as a farmer than as a scholar," said Mr.
Nelson. "He helps me a good deal."
"Tom was a good scholar," said Sarah, "and he was always ready to work
too. Walter will never astonish or electrify the world by his learning."
"I don't want to," said her brother. "It isn't in my line."
"That's true enough."
"Don't tease Walter," said Mrs. Nelson. "He helps your father a good
deal, and he is not a dunce."
"Thank you, mother, for taking my part. Sarah is going to be a
strong-minded woman. I should not wonder if she came out as a lecturer
on 'Woman's Rights' some time. I think I see her, with a pair of
iron-bowed spectacles on her nose, and her back hair tied up in a big
knot, flinging her arms about, and--"
"That'll do, Walter," said Sarah. "It is an unusually powerful effort
for you. I have no desire to lecture on 'Woman's Rights,' though I think
they ought to have them all the same."
"I guess you'll get yours. You'll make your husband stand round, if you
ever get one."
Sarah laughed good-naturedly, and retorted, "I shall pity your wife, if
she has to darn your stockings."
The next day about dinner-time Squire Hudson walked up to the front
door, and knocked. His approach was witnessed, not without trepidation,
for he was not an easy creditor.
The squire looked about him searchingly as he entered. He suspected that
the interest was not ready, and the farmer's grave face confirmed his
suspicions. That he was glad of this of course Mark Nelson did not
dream, for he was not aware of his creditor's deep-laid plans.
"A fine day!" said the squire, with suavity. "I hope you are well, Mrs.
Nelson."
"Pretty well, thank you, sir."
"Have you heard from Tom lately?"
"Yes; he had just reached California."
"Then of course he could not say anything of his prospects?"
"It was too soon."
"You must miss him a good deal--all of you."
"I am thinking of him all the time," said Mrs. Nelson.
"To be sure, that is natural in a mother. But if the boy does well, that
will repay you hereafter."
"If I only felt sure he would do well."
"Oh, he is young and industrious. He will be sure to make his way. He'll
like it too. Why, my Sinclair envies him the chance of leaving home. He
wanted to go with him."
"Sinclair would not like to go in the same way as Tom, with the prospect
of having to work hard after he got there," said Mark Nelson.
"To be sure not, neighbor Nelson. My boy has never been brought up to
work. My circumstances--ahem!--have not made it necessary."
"Sinclair is fortunate in having a rich father," said the farmer.
"So I tell him," said the squire, complacently. "His fortune is already
made."
"What are you going to do with him, squire?"
"Oh, I shall make a professional man of him,--a lawyer, most likely,"
said the rich man, complacently. "I can give him a suitable income till
he gets into a paying practice."
"That will be a good many years," thought Sarah, "unless Sinclair works
harder than he has lately at school;" but the shrewd young lady kept
this thought to herself.
One by one wife and children left the room, for it was well understood
that the squire came on business, and would be likely to desire a
private interview with the farmer. They went into the kitchen, closing
the door behind them, and awaited anxiously the result of the
interview.
"I do hope Squire Hudson will be considerate," said Mrs. Nelson,
anxiously.
"I am afraid he won't be, mother," said Sarah. "He is a hard man."
"Sinclair puts on no end of airs," said Walter. "By the way he struts
round you would think he owned the whole town. You had better set your
cap for him, Sarah, for he will be rich some day."
"I would rather be an old maid than marry him," said Sarah, decidedly.
"Very likely your wish will be gratified," said her brother.
Mrs. Nelson did not smile at this sally, for her mind was too full of
anxiety.
CHAPTER XIX.
A MODERN SHYLOCK.
"I believe your interest falls due to-day, Mr. Nelson," said the squire,
when he found himself alone with his debtor.
"Yes," answered the farmer, slowly. It was not very likely to slip his
mind.
"I suppose you have the money ready," continued the squire, who supposed
no such thing.
"I have a part of it ready," said Mark Nelson, with an effort.
"A part," repeated his creditor, with a frown.
"Yes; I can give you thirty-six dollars to-day."
"Only thirty-six dollars! The amount due is sixty-six."
"I know it, Squire Hudson; but this has been a bad year for the farmers,
as you probably know. Owing to the drought, my crops fell off at least
one quarter."
"I can't help that," said the squire, coldly.
"If you will be a little patient," said Mr. Nelson, uneasily.
"Neighbor Nelson," said his creditor, interrupting him, "I wish to ask
you one question. When I lent you money on mortgage was there a
stipulation that if there was a drought I was to wait for my just
interest?"
"No, Squire Hudson."
"To be sure not; I would not of course lend you money on any such terms.
It was understood that my interest was to be paid semi-annually,--was it
not so?"
"Yes, but--"
"Wait a moment. You must certainly agree that I am entitled to prompt
payment. A bargain is a bargain."
"I don't dispute it, Squire Hudson, and I have tried to be ready for
you; but in spite of all my efforts I am thirty dollars short."
"Do you expect me to be content with this explanation?"
"I think you are rather hard on me, squire. It isn't as if I had the
money and objected to pay. I am a poor man, but no one ever lost a
dollar by me; and I don't mean that any one shall, while I have my life
and strength."
"That's all very well, but it won't make up the thirty dollars in which
you are delinquent."
"What would you have me do? I cannot make money."
"I wouldn't give much for an investment when the interest is delayed. It
is no longer worth its face. If any of my railroad bonds defer their
usual interest they at once drop in value."
"I know very little of railroad bonds, never having any money to invest
in them; but I think my farm will be full security for all the money I
owe you."
"Suppose I should foreclose--you would consider it an unkind thing and a
great hardship, wouldn't you?"
"It would take away my means of supporting my family. I don't think you
would go to extremes, for the sake of thirty dollars."
"It isn't the amount of money, neighbor Nelson, that is to be
considered. It is the principle that is involved."
This is a very common pretext with men who have made up their minds to
do a mean thing. Generally speaking it is false, and the money is the
first consideration.
"Will you give me two months to pay the balance of interest?" asked Mark
Nelson.
"What better prospect have you of being able to pay me then?"
"As soon as Tom has any money to send, he will remit to me. I think it
probable that I shall hear from him in the course of two months."
"If that is your reliance," said the squire, shrugging his shoulders, "I
am afraid you are leaning upon a broken reed. I know boys pretty well,
and I fancy Tom will find a use for all the money he earns."
"You don't know him, Squire Hudson. He is a very conscientious boy, and
understands very well the sacrifice I made in raising money to send him
to California. He is not very likely to forget that."
"It seems to me that the sacrifice was mine," said the squire, with a
half sneer. "If I remember rightly, I advanced the money which he took
away with him."
Mark Nelson flushed, and he answered warmly, "You did advance the money,
Squire Hudson, but I gave you security for it."
"And the very first interest that has come due you are not prepared to
meet. You can't blame me for feeling a little doubt as to the wisdom of
my advance."
"Are you very much in need of the thirty dollars?" asked Mr. Nelson,
nettled at the squire's tone.
"What do you mean, sir?"
"Is it subjecting you to any great inconvenience to wait a couple of
months for it? That is what I mean."
"My circumstances are not such," returned the squire, haughtily, "as to
make me feel even the loss of thirty dollars."
"I wish I could say the same, but I cannot. Since, then, it will
occasion you no inconvenience, I ask you as a favor that you will let
the balance rest for two months."
Squire Hudson saw that he was cornered; but none the less was he
disposed to yield the point. He even felt provoked with the farmer for
having forced from him an acknowledgment that he did not need the money
he so persistently demanded.
"I told you before," he said, "that it was not the amount of money, but
the principle, that I care for. You cannot have forgotten this."
