him. With his keen and intelligent faculty of making the best of every
thing, he was disappointed because he had failed to inspire others with
it.
"It's not so bad, after all. We have nothing that can be passed to
capital, but we have held our own. Only, there is no dividend for the
men."
"I'll explain that to them," exclaimed Winston with a confident nod.
He did, and he had a rather stormy venture. All the old arguments and
agreements had to be gone over. Men unaccustomed to business are quick
in prosperity and stupid in adversity. They only had three-quarter
wages: why should they be called upon to lose beside? It was little
enough, and waiting five years,--and no one knew,--the whole thing might
go to smash another year! A few wished, with an oath, that they were
well out of it. They would never be bamboozled into any co-operative
scheme again.
The grumbling, grew louder and louder. It was discussed at Keppler's
over beer and bad whiskey, and quite inflammatory speeches were made.
Then Winston called the mill-hands together.
"My men," said he, "you know we opened the mills in starvation-times.
Every man who could raise fifty dollars was entitled to a half-share of
the capital, and he who could not was to have a little capital made off
of the savings of his labor. Last year you were all pleased and merry
and satisfied, because we made something: this year it has been the
reverse, though I declare to you, I, for one, have worked twice as hard.
Now, we shall never do any thing if we are all going to row different
ways. It must be the long pull, the strong pull, and the pull all
together. You know that if any operative became dissatisfied, and left,
his share was forfeited to the fund for the sick and disabled. Many of
you are dissatisfied; but maybe you won't leave, thinking of last
year's money. Now, I want to say, every such man who would like to
sell his share, may do so. I have had some applications from new men,
that I have been very sorry to refuse. I shall open a book, and any man
who wants to go out may put down his name there, and, just as fast as
the shares are resold, he can go; but he never comes back into Hope
Mills again! Just think it over, and decide in the course of a few
days."
"O Winston!" cried Jack, "I am afraid there will be a stampede!"
"You're nervous and blue, Darcy. Now, you see if this isn't the very
best move. There were two men here the other day from Little Falls. They
had been taking out half their wages in store-pay, and the concern burst
up, owing them the other half. They knew of a dozen men, not beggarly
poor either, who would be glad to come. I'll bet my old hat there don't
six men go out. Come, now!"
"You can't tempt me with your old hat," returned Jack laughingly. "Make
it a treat at Kit Connelly's."
"Agreed. We'll take in the household."
A dozen names were put down on the first day, two on the second, then
there was a lull. Afterward four were erased; and, when it came to the
actual pinch, five men went out, two of them very reluctantly.
"I felt so sorry for Davy," said Jack when they had made the transfers.
"He didn't want to go, and I do not believe he would if it had not been
for his brother-in-law."
"A good lesson for all parties. There will not be any grumbling for some
time to come, I'll warrant. It is rather irregular business; but
sometimes you can't wait for a regular surgeon, or the patient would be
past help."
Events pointed the lesson pretty forcibly. By the middle of October
there was a sudden rush of orders. Prices rallied a little. There were
some tremendous bankruptcies, but it seemed more in speculation than
legitimate industry. The new men brought a fresh infusion of spirit and
energy. One of them, a small, middle-aged man, Gilman by name, who had
once been manager and had a share in a mill that came to grief through a
defaulting cashier who had successfully forged the name of the firm, was
especially enthusiastic about the system. Jack admitted that the
culmination of the discontent was the very best thing that had happened
for the mill.
Davy went almost wild over his mistake, cursed his brother-in-law
roundly, and forbade his wife to visit her brother's household. Nothing
to do, not even three-quarter wages to live upon, with cheap coal and
cheap flour. He even waylaid Darcy, and begged to be taken back without
any share.
"I'm sorry, Davy, but it cannot be done. We resolved, whatever happened,
we would not go back on our word. You had time enough to think it over."
"Just you wait," said Price, when he heard this. "They've three years
more to wade through, and they'll never hold together all that time. It
has a very queer look, too, that, just as soon as they shoved us out,
they began to make money again. Bob Winston's the sort of fellow to look
out for himself, and he had this thing all cut and dried."
"Look here," remarked a listener, "you signed your own selves out.
Nobody made you. I haven't any faith in the scheme, but I like truth for
all that."
The men worked with a will. The monthly club meetings took on a new
interest; and they decided, if the prosperity continued, to open a
co-operative store another year. They were growing more thoughtful and
intelligent, and Gilman's influence upon them was excellent, while his
experiences widened their views. A little fresh blood certainly worked
no harm.
Jack was very cheery again. It seemed to him they had pulled through the
worst. The larger outlook was better: goods were going abroad, and money
or bonds were coming back. Here and there some new enterprise started,
but still there were hundreds of men out of employment. Yerbury showed
various signs of a new thriftiness. The farms about were better managed.
Some idle men had ventured to hire a little ground the past summer, and
raise sufficient to have something over for their trouble. The Webbers
succeeded beautifully. Of course there were slurs about a Dutchman
living on a cabbage a week, but every one knew the Webbers were not that
kind. What Germans were able to do nicely and wisely, Americans might
copy to their profit. When some of the natives were out of work, they
patched up their fences, painted a bit, laid a bad place in the
sidewalk, instead of hanging round a saloon.
As for those who were living through the sad sweet lesson of loving and
losing, time went on with them also. If they could have stayed his hand!
Sylvie recovered from the first shock: she could never suffer quite so
intensely again, for there was one to share her least thought, her most
trivial to her greatest pain. The explanation had come about very
gently, making only a small ripple. Mrs. Lawrence was delighted: she
always had liked Sylvie, and she was certain that Fred was a better
match than Jack Darcy, though she admitted he was remarkable for a
young man with no better opportunities.
Miss Barry was truly satisfied. She would cling to her little dream of
"orders" and "kinds" to the last, but she always did it in an
unobtrusive way. She had felt all her life long, rather all their
lives, that they were made for one another. Less practically clear-eyed
than her young niece,--brought up in the active reasoning and doing of
to-day, rather than the doctrine of passive suffering that had been in
the old creed for women,--she would have assented when Sylvie refused.
To be sure, if Jack Darcy had won her he would have had a delicate and
sincere welcome; but I think her eye would never have lighted with the
true mother-love at his coming, as it did at Fred's. The worth of his
years of refinement and polish came out now. He never seemed at loss or
awkward in the sickroom. If he was reading, he warily noted the first
droop of the eyes; he could tell by the lines in her face when talking
wearied her, or when she preferred being alone. Every thing between them
was harmonious.
She amazed even Dr. Maverick by her improvement, though she held her
life even yet on the same frail tenure. She really hoped to live until
spring, when she should plan for Sylvie's marriage. Fred had made a very
profitable engagement with the widow he had spoken of, and was to
furnish designs for the interior of her house and furniture. There was
to be one purely Grecian room, one on the old Roman model, a sunset room
where every thing was to be in accord, and a "sea" room fit for Naiads
or Undines. Sylvie was intensely interested. This Mrs. Spottiswoode was
young and handsome, the widow of a man nearly three times her age, and
childless.
Fred Lawrence was proud to have something of his very own to offer
Sylvie, and she took it as the highest of all compliments. She did like
the profession, if that it could be called; for it brought them nearer
together, it was something they could both share. She copied designs
and art essays, she drew patterns, she painted now and then, days when
Miss Barry was at her best. She would make of herself something that
should enhance Fred's pride in her,--as if he was not proud enough
already!
The one least contented with all this was Philip Maverick.
"I never was so thunderstruck in all my life! That's just the word to
express it, for it left me dazed as the blackness does after the
lightning. I would have sworn, Jack, that she loved you, and you loved
her. Good heavens! if I had not believed that, if I had not been too
honorable to seek to play a friend a scurvy trick, it would have gone
hard with me if I had not won her for myself."
"Honestly, you would not have succeeded, Maverick. Neither would she
have married me. I think she belonged to Fred from the beginning. He
used to hate girls, judging from his sisters, no doubt, but he always
liked Sylvie. I was afraid of girls,--their sharp eyes and sharper
tongues,--but I liked her too; yet in my own mind he always had the
first claim. And they will be suited in the farthest fibre of each
soul."
"He is not half worthy of her!" growled Maverick.
"Who is?" There was a peculiar tender intonation in the voice. "Sylvie
Barry's womanhood is unique, like some rare gem. She has the sparkle but
not the hardness of a diamond; the warmth and vividness of the ruby, but
not its heats; the serenity of the sapphire, and yet to me that is
always cold. Rather I think she is a changeful opal with all hues and
tints and surprises."
"And yet you have never loved her!" in intense surprise.
"I worship her," said Jack reverentially. "I should as soon think of
wooing an angel."
"And yet this man, who is not as strong, or noble, or high in purpose,
takes her with your consent. You can see her sit down at his feet, wind
her own rich, pure, sustaining life-melody about him, to make his path
seem like going through an enchanted land. She has genius, but it will
ever linger in the shadow of his; it will help, and purify, and shape
his; she will give her whole soul to the work. Is he worth the best
there is in such a woman as Sylvie Barry?"
"No; and we never go by our deserts when a woman loves us," said Jack,
with frank honesty.
"I am quite sure you will marry a woman I shall hate," returned Maverick
testily.
Jack laughed. "Marrying has not been much in my thoughts;" and yet his
fair face flushed. "I have to fight Hope Mills out to the end first."
But just now there did not seem much of a prospect for fighting, though
he firmly believed he should always be on guard after this.
There was one other person in this little circle, who was of much
interest to the others, even if it was for the most part unspoken.
Maverick had tried to rouse Irene Lawrence from her lethargy by appeals
of different kinds. She certainly was not an intellectual woman, though
she had a strong and well-cultivated mind, and was accomplished in many
ways,--society accomplishments, with a view to the admiration they might
win. He could seem to strike no electric spark, though he succeeded in
restoring her to health. Every week of her stay at Depford Beach, she
had improved; but there was the old, dreary, listless life. She used to
think herself, if some shock like that of an earthquake could lift her
completely out of it! but none came.
For it could not be said that Miss Barry's illness was any shock to her.
People were sick, and died, and their perplexity was at an end. A
generous, kindly life like this of Miss Barry's would have its
reward--if any life ever was rewarded. She did not doubt so much: she
had never really believed.
As she said to Sylvie, something stronger than herself had sent her that
night,--one of those powerful, impelling influences that few can resist.
And Sylvie was wise enough not to lose her hold. She drew her in very
gently, she preached no sermon, she asked favors frankly.
"I want you to take my pony-carriage," she said one day, after their
return to Yerbury. "I ought to go out every day, and if you come with it
I shall; but if I am left to my own fancies, there will be so much to
occupy me. Then, too, companionship is always very tempting."
"I should be glad to do any thing for you," was the quiet, unemotional
reply.
So the carriage was brought every morning to the door. It seemed so odd,
the day she first drove around Yerbury! Unconsciously the old
stateliness returned. Her heart swelled with contradictory phases of
thought and feeling. She was too really proud to suffer from the stings
of petty vanity. She knew there were people who stared at Miss Lawrence;
and she allowed them to stare with the serenity of a queen, going her
way unmoved.
She and Sylvie went through lanes and by-ways this gorgeous October day.
Her heart was strangely touched by the glory, by the odorous air, the
softened sounds, and brooding tenderness. Sylvie had a few errands to
some old parishioners of her aunt's; and, while she went in cottages,
Irene sat with the reins idly in her hands. There was much in the world
she had never seen, though she had climbed Alps, and wandered in sunny
vales. The ripeness and perfection of this midday was exhilarating. They
talked in little snatches, and then were silent.
Coming back they drove through the town: it was nearer. Crossing over to
Larch Avenue, a tall figure confronted them. Sylvie bowed, and looked
straight on, remembering such a rencounter years agone. Irene Lawrence
turned her head with its proudest poise, but her face flushed scarlet
under her veil. She would have made the amende honorable then, if it
had taken all the strength of her soul.
She and Jack Darcy had met occasionally through the summer. Mrs.
Lawrence rather liked to talk mill affairs with him, and his name was
quite a familiar one in their household. Now that it had come, she was
rather glad to offer this wordless apology for a crime against
good-breeding, that only a rude young girl could be guilty of, to one
she considered her inferior.
She had wondered more than once, why that long-ago evening at Sylvie's
should haunt her,--the talk of costumes, the bright chat, the dainty
ripples of laughter, and that face with its cool, steady power. If it
had been that of any other man, she would have pitted herself against
it, and conquered, she fancied. Now conquests were things of the past.
She was not one of your soft, maudlin women, who sigh for a little love.
She looked straight into the coming years, and saw herself always alone,
with no feeling of pity or regret.
As for Jack Darcy, when they had passed, he turned and looked after
them,--after her, in her state and dignity. He held one secret of her
life that she would never know. He had questioned Maverick, who learned
that she had no remembrance of going out that night. He had bound Fred
over to a most willing secrecy.
Ah, Jack! any remembrance that you can carry so guardedly in your soul
is a dangerous thing,--a spark that may kindle a great fire "that many
waters cannot quench!"
Sylvie did not relinquish her own outside interests. The school that had
had so small a beginning was now merged into a regular enterprise, and
been re-christened an Industrial School. It had a permanent teacher, and
occupied the whole house, the rent being paid by some benevolent
gentlemen. A committee of ladies assisted in the different classes. The
store was kept open, one side being reserved for articles of clothing
or fancy goods made by the pupils, the other as a bakery on a limited
scale, and a lunch-counter. It certainly was doing a good work. Some
young girls, after being trained, had been provided with service places,
and had given excellent satisfaction. Irene went through it one day with
Sylvie, and was oddly interested.
"I wish I had a genius of some kind," she said abruptly to Sylvie
afterward. "If I could write a book, or paint a picture, or design
exquisite adornments, or if I could hold the world spell-bound by my
voice"--
"You do sing," returned Sylvie. "Auntie was speaking of it yesterday.
She said, 'How I should like to hear Miss Lawrence sing some of her
pathetic old ballads!'"
"You know all the sweet and tender ones."
"I sing mine over daily," and Sylvie laughed with a dainty inflection.
Irene went home, and opened her piano. It might have made jarring
discord, but for Fred's thoughtfulness. She found it was in perfect
tune.
Was it the music that brought a curious intensity to her after all these
long, dreary months? Her fingers seemed a little stiff at first, and
some things had gone out of her mind. Then she dropped her face into her
hands, and thought.
"It is my only gift," she said slowly. "When they are married I will not
be a burthen on them: I can make my way. I shall never try to think of
marriage again;" and she shuddered.
"I declare, you are quite like yourself," said her mother that evening.
The weeks went on. Miss Barry was making plans for her niece. She could
not live here alone, even for a few months. And she longed to see her
married. Though the others had almost forgotten how surely her days were
numbered, she had not.
Fred assented delicately to her proposal.
"It is not as if there were only your income," she said with a touch of
pride. "Sylvie will have enough to keep the old house as it is kept now,
and your mother and sister have some claims on you. Still, for her
sake"--
Sylvie would fain have put it off, but she was gently overruled. The
wedding-garments were ordered, the day appointed. A quiet marriage in
the pretty parlor, with only a few friends. They brought Miss Barry down
stairs, and she listened while her darling reverently repeated her vows.
They kissed the new bride while the tears were shining in her eyes, and
sent her on a brief wedding-journey with heartfelt blessings. Maverick
was to telegraph to them every day.
Fred Lawrence could hardly believe his happiness. They were like two
children out on a pleasure-excursion, not needing to realize the gravity
of life in these golden days. What cared they for pale winter suns and
shivering blasts!
Long ago he had planned a brilliant tour to Europe for her. He had gone
over it all, and would only have been bored; but it was the thing to do,
and he might enjoy her fresh delight in it. But to both of them--to him
especially--had come the higher revelations of life. It is the
aggregation of individual characteristics that makes the sum-total of
national character; and though at first retrenchment and economy seemed
hideous words to the pleasure-loving, easy-going, self-indulgent souls
nursed in the lap of prosperity, there was coming a realization to those
who had fought their way valiantly across the yawning gulf, that the hot
race for show, the desire to exceed one another, was not a lofty aim for
an immortal soul, hardly for a cultured nature.
They both understood that beauty and grandeur were not far-off, hardly
attained ideals, and that the great pleasures were set in the world
rather as incentives and rewards, than highly seasoned daily food which
must inevitably produce satiety. Some time, when they had earned this
glorious vacation, they would take it hungering with the healthy
appetite of a well-trained soul. At present the duty was to deny one's
self firmly and contentedly, to round off the sharp corners, to shape
the daily living to high, pure purposes; so that the greater excellences
of Art should not despise the minor forms, the steps whereby true
perfection was attained, the tangled threads that often required more
real genius to comprehend than the one great moment of inspiration.
They came home again fresh and bright, with the peculiar fragrance of a
new life about them, just as you shall smell spring in the woods on some
mild, sunny February day. Fred fluctuated between office and city, quite
a prophet of household art, welcomed warmly back to the old circles
which had so quietly dropped him for a while. Is there not a great deal
of this unconscious proving of the fine metal of souls in the world? We
cry out as we are thrust aside, or given some hard task to do; we wonder
people do not hold out kindly hands, smile with sympathetic eyes; and
yet their very help might weaken us. When we have beaten our way across
with the roar of the distant waves still in our ears, the shadows of the
black, fierce, jagged cliff hardly faded, the taste of the brackish
spray still lingering on our lips, an exultant thrill speeds through
every nerve as we clasp a hand that has had to buffet through the same
fateful current.
Early in April Miss Barry had another seizure, a fatal stroke this time.
For a few days she lay in sweet content; and then dropped peacefully out
of existence.
It seems always a mystery, why such earnest, useful souls, doing that
highest of all work,--a pure, unselfish charity,--should be taken away,
and the slothful, dependent, ease-loving, selfish ones left. The Darcys
felt that Mrs. Lawrence could have been spared much more easily, and
served a higher economy in point of usefulness. But God, who sees every
end from the beginning, and is all-wise, judges differently. Miss Barry
had done her work, no light life-task either. Only God knew what it had
been, days of toil and nights of watching and prayer, such pain as only
a strong soul could have kept to itself, and smiled over. Yet she had
her exceeding sweet reward in this world,--years of peace and comfort,
the child-love she had missed in one way, supplied in another, the hope
of her days crowned more wisely by the waiting.
They did not think it worth while to keep up the two households; indeed,
Mrs. Lawrence would not have been separated from her son: so she and
Irene brought their worldly possessions over to Larch Avenue. The old
house was large enough. Sylvie was a courteous and charming mistress;
though Fred realized, with the sensitiveness of true tender love, the
burthen he had brought to her.
"It is not without its wise compensation," she said, tears in her sunny
brown eyes. "You see, I shall miss auntie so much less! She would not
desire me to grieve despairingly for her, and here is the new claim to
take her place. Beside," with a sad yet arch smile, "we shall have to
strive against the temptation to selfishness that besets newly married
people, when their pursuits are identical, as ours are. It will give a
greater breadth, a purer tone, to our lives."
CHAPTER XXV.
HOPE MILLS passed through a very prosperous six months. With some new
processes, invented by the combined energy and ingenuity of the men,
they made a new line of goods which was a perfect success. Interest and
discount vanished; and there was a snug balance in the bank, of which
every man was duly proud. They were beginning, too, to take a great
interest in the finances of the country, and to see that a stable
currency and wise economy and honesty were the best friends to
commercial and industrial prosperity. One little incident made them
exceedingly jubilant.
They had been undersold, in the same line of goods, with quite a large
customer. Winston was rather blue about it at first, then laughed it off
as one of the fluctuations of trade. To his great surprise, six months
after, he received the largest order for goods that had yet been sent.
          "We have been much deceived in the quality of
          cloths from Yates, Collins, & Co.," ran the note.
          "They do not stand wear, though they resemble
          yours so closely. Our customers have made numerous
          complaints, and desire the old stock, which we are
          glad to order again.
                                   "MILES, CHAMBERS, & CO."
This was put up on the bulletin-board, and discussed with much pride at
the club. Every man had an interest in it, and an ambition to excel in
his particular branch. It paid in the long-run to be honest; and, though
there might be a higher principle than remuneration, that was not a bad
test, after all.
So the third summer opened brilliantly. Yardley, Gilman, and four others
drew up an agreement for a co-operative store. They hired one man who
had been a very successful buyer for a large grocery-firm, which had
failed, and took with it his small invested capital. He was to keep the
books, take orders, and do the buying, subject to the advisement of the
managers. A certain low per cent of profits was agreed upon, just
enough, they calculated, to pay expenses; and the goods were to be
offered as low as possible for cash. The superior quality and reduced
price, they decided, would be more agreeable to most of the men than a
