These he gave to his friend, Dick Rafferty, to whom they were a welcome
gift, being considerably better than those he usually wore. Dick might,
out of his earnings, have dressed better, but when he had any extra
money it went for some kind of amusement. He was one of the steadiest
patrons of the Old Bowery, and was often to be seen in the gallery of
other places of amusement. He was surprised to hear of Frank's intended
removal from the lodging-house.
"I say, Frank," he said, "you're gettin' on fast. Here you are, goin' to
live in a tip-top house up-town. You'll be a reg'lar swell."
"I hope not, Dick. I don't like swells very much."
"You won't notice your old friends bimeby."
"That shows you don't know me, Dick. I shall be glad to notice you
whenever we meet."
"I don't see why I can't be in luck too," said Dick. "I wish I could
find some rich lady to give me a room in her house."
"You'll have to get some new clothes first, Dick."
"I know I aint got a genteel look," said Dick, surveying his well-worn
clothes, soiled and ragged; "but it wouldn't be no use if I was to dress
in velvet."
"Unless you kept your face clean," suggested Frank.
"A feller can't be washin' his face all the time," said Dick.
"It's the fashion to have a clean face in good society," said Frank,
smiling.
"It must be a good deal of trouble," said Dick. "Is my face very dirty?"
"Not very. There's a black spot on each cheek, and one on the side of
your nose, and your chin looks a little shady."
"A feller can't keep very clean in my business."
"I suppose it is rather hard," Frank admitted; "but you won't be a
boot-black always, I hope."
"I'd just as lieves give it up for bankin', or cashier of a
savings-bank," said Dick. "Them's light, genteel kinds of business, and
don't dirty the hands."
"Well, Dick, if I hear of an opening in either line I'll let you know.
Now I must go and buy a trunk."
"I never expect to get as far as a trunk," said Dick. "I shall feel like
a gentleman when I can set up one. It wouldn't be no use to me now. I'd
have to stuff it with rocks to make a show."
"Poor Dick!" thought Frank as he left his friend. "He takes the world
too easy. He hasn't any ambition, or he wouldn't be content to keep on
blacking boots when there are so many better ways of making a living. If
I ever get a chance to give him a lift I will. He aint much to look at,
but he's a good-hearted boy, and would put himself to a good deal of
trouble to do me a favor."
It was not much trouble to pack his trunk. Indeed, he had scarcely
enough clothing to fill it one-third full.
"I may have to adopt Dick's plan, and fill it with rocks," said Frank to
himself. "Some day I shall be better supplied. I can't expect to get on
too fast."
The room assigned to Frank was a small one; but it was neatly furnished,
and provided with a closet. The bed, with its clean white spread, looked
very tempting, and Frank enjoyed the prospect of the privacy he would
have in a room devoted to his sole use. At the lodging-house, though his
bed was comfortable, there were sixty to eighty boys who slept in the
same room, and of course he had no more rights than any other.
"I hope you like your room, Frank," said Mrs. Vivian.
"It is the best I ever had," he replied.
"How early are you obliged to be on duty?" she asked.
"At eight o'clock."
"I do not breakfast till that hour; but I will direct the cook to have a
cup of coffee and some breakfast ready for you at seven."
"Am I to take my meals here?" asked Frank, in surprise.
"Certainly. Did you think I was going to send you out to a restaurant?"
inquired Mrs. Vivian, smiling.
"I am very much obliged to you; but I am afraid it will inconvenience
the cook to get me an early breakfast."
"I am glad to see you so considerate of others. I can answer for Mary,
however, who is very obliging. You can get lunch outside, as I suppose
it will be inconvenient for you to leave your duties to come so far as
Thirty-eighth street."
"You are very kind to me, Mrs. Vivian," said Frank, gratefully.
"I shall claim an occasional service of you in return," said Mrs.
Vivian.
"I hope you will," said Frank, promptly.
Two days after he had taken up his residence in his new quarters Frank
was called upon to render a very agreeable service.
"I have two tickets for Wallack's theatre for this evening," said Mrs.
Vivian. "Will it be agreeable for you to accompany me?"
"I should like it very much."
"Then you shall be my escort. When Fred is at home he goes with me; but
now I must depend on you. Have you a pair of kid gloves?"
Frank was obliged to confess that he had not. In fact he had never owned
a pair in his life.
"I will give you a pair of mine. Probably there is little difference in
the size of our hands."
This proved to be true.
Somehow Frank in his new life seemed always running across Victor
Dupont. That young gentleman and his sister sat in the row behind Mrs.
Vivian and her youthful escort, but did not immediately become aware of
it.
"Why, Victor," said his sister, who had been looking about her, "there
is Mrs. Vivian in the next row. Who is that nice-looking boy with her?
It can't be Fred, for he is larger."
Victor turned his glance in the direction of Mrs. Vivian. His surprise
and disgust were about equal when he saw the country-boy he had looked
down upon, faultlessly attired, with neat-fitting gloves, and a rose in
his button-hole and looking like a gentleman.
"I never saw such cheek!" he exclaimed, in disgust.
"What do you mean, Victor?" asked his sister, looking puzzled.
"Do you want to know who that boy is with Mrs. Vivian?"
"Yes; he is very nice-looking."
"Then you can marry him if you like. That boy is a telegraph messenger.
I used to know him in the country. A few weeks ago he was selling papers
in front of the Astor House."
"You don't say so!" ejaculated Flora Dupont, "Aren't you mistaken?"
"I guess not. I know him as well as I know you."
"He is a good-looking boy, at any rate," said Flora, who was less
snobbish than her brother.
"I can't see it," said Victor, annoyed. "He looks to me very common and
vulgar. I don't see how Mrs. Vivian can be willing to appear with him at
a fashionable theatre like this."
"It's a pity he is a telegraph boy, he is so nice-looking."
Just then Frank, turning, recognized Victor and bowed. Victor could not
afford not to recognize Mrs. Vivian's escort, and bowed in return.
But Victor was not the only one of Frank's acquaintances who recognized
him that evening. In the upper gallery sat Dick Rafferty and Micky Shea,
late fellow-boarders at the lodging-house. It was not often that these
young gentlemen patronized Wallack's, for even a gallery ticket there
was high-priced; but both wanted to see the popular play of "Ours," and
had managed to scrape together fifty cents each.
"Dick," said Micky, suddenly, "there's Frank Kavanagh down near the
stage, in an orchestra seat."
"So he is," said Dick. "Aint he dressed splendid though, wid kid gloves
on and a flower in his button-hole, and an elegant lady beside him? See,
she's whisperin' to him now. Who'd think he used to kape company wid the
likes of us?"
"Frank's up in the world. He's a reg'lar swell now."
"And it's I that am glad of it. He's a good fellow, Frank is, and he
won't turn his back on us."
This was proved later in the evening, for, as Frank left the theatre
with Mrs. Vivian, he espied his two old friends standing outside, and
bowed with a pleasant smile, much to the gratification of the two street
boys, who were disposed to look upon their old friend as one of the
aristocracy.
CHAPTER XVI.
FRANK AS A DETECTIVE.
Of course Frank's daily duties were far the most part of a commonplace
character. They were more varied, to be sure, than those of an
errand-boy, or shop-boy, but even a telegraph messenger does not have an
adventure every day. Twice in the next three weeks our hero was summoned
by Mrs. Leroy to give her pet dog an airing. It was not hard work, but
Frank did not fancy it, though he never failed to receive a handsome fee
from the mistress of Fido.
One day Frank was summoned to a fashionable boarding-house in a side
street above the Fifth-avenue hotel. On presenting himself, the servant
said, "It's one of the boarders wants you. Stay here, and I'll let him
know you've come."
"All right!" said Frank.
"Come right up," said the girl, directly after, speaking from the upper
landing.
Frank ascended the stairs, and entered a room on the second floor. A
gentleman, partially bald, with a rim of red hair around the bare
central spot, sat in a chair by the window, reading a morning paper.
"So you're the telegraph boy, are you?" he said.
"Yes, sir."
"You are honest, eh?"
"I hope so, sir."
"Because I am going to trust you with a considerable sum of money."
"It will be safe, sir."
"I want you to do some shopping for me. Are you ever employed in that
way?"
"I was once, sir."
"Let me see,--I want some linen handkerchiefs and some collars. Are you
a judge of those articles?"
"Not particularly."
"However, I suppose you know a collar from a pair of cuffs, and a
handkerchief from a towel," said the stranger, petulantly.
"I rather think I can tell them apart," said Frank.
"Now let me see how many I want," said the stranger, reflectively. "I
think half-a-dozen handkerchiefs will do."
"How high shall I go?" asked Frank.
"You ought to get them for fifty cents apiece, I should think."
"Yes, sir, I can get them for that."
"And the collars--well, half-a-dozen will do. Get them of good quality,
size 15, and pay whatever is asked."
"Yes, sir; do you want anything more?"
"I think not, this morning. I have a headache, or I would go out
myself," explained the stranger. "I live up the Hudson, and I must go
home this afternoon by the boat."
"Do you want me to buy the articles at any particular store?" inquired
Frank.
"No; I leave that to your judgment. A large store is likely to have a
better assortment, I suppose."
"Very well, sir."
"Come back as soon as you can, that's all."
"You haven't given me the money yet, sir," said Frank.
"Oh, I beg pardon! That is an important omission."
The stranger drew out a pocket-book, which appeared to be well filled,
and extracted two bills of twenty dollars each, which he passed to
Frank.
"This is too much, sir," said the telegraph boy. "One of these bills
will be much more than sufficient."
"Never mind. I should like to have them both changed. You can buy the
articles at different places, as this will give you a chance to get
change for both."
"I can get them changed at a bank, sir."
"No," said the stranger, hastily, "I would rather you would pay them for
goods. Shopkeepers are bound to change bills for a customer."
"I don't see what difference it makes to you as long as they are
changed," thought Frank. However it was not his business to question his
employer's decision.
Sixth avenue was not far distant, and as Frank was left to his own
choice he betook himself hither on his shopping tour. Entering a large
retail store, he inquired for gentleman's linen handkerchiefs.
"Large or small?" asked the girl in attendance.
"Large, I should think."
He was shown some of good quality, at fifty cents.
"I think they will do," said Frank, after examination. "I will take
half-a-dozen."
So saying he drew out one of the twenty-dollar bills.
"Cash!" called the saleswoman, tapping on the counter with her pencil.
Several small boys were flitting about the store in the service of
customers. One of them made his appearance.
"Have you nothing smaller?" asked the girl, noticing the denomination of
the bill.
"No," answered Frank.
She put the bill between the leaves of a small blank book, and handed
both that and the goods to the boy.
Frank sat down on a stool by the counter to wait.
Presently the cash-boy came back, and the proprietor of the store with
him. He was a portly man, with a loud voice and an air of authority. To
him the cash-boy pointed out Frank.
"Are you the purchaser of these handkerchiefs?" he asked.
"Yes, sir," answered Frank, rather surprised at the question.
"And did you offer this twenty-dollar bill in payment?"
"Yes, sir."
"Where did you get it? Think well," said the trader, sternly.
"What is the matter? Isn't the bill a good one?" asked Frank.
"You have not answered my question. However, I will answer yours. The
bill is a counterfeit."
Frank looked surprised, and he understood at a flash why he had been
trusted with two of these bills when one would answer.
"I have nothing to do with that," said the telegraph boy. "I was sent
out to buy some articles, and this money was given me to pay for them."
"Have you got any other money of this description?" asked the trader,
suspiciously.
"Yes," answered Frank, readily. "I have another twenty."
"Let me see it."
"Certainly. I should like to know whether that is bad too."
The other twenty proved to be a fac-simile of the first.
"I must know where you got this money," said the merchant. "You may be
in the service of counterfeiters."
"You might know, from my uniform, that I am not," said Frank,
indignantly. "I once lost a place because I would not pass counterfeit
money."
"I have a detective here. You must lead him to the man who supplied you
with the money."
"I am quite willing to do it," said our hero. "He wanted to make a tool
of me. If I can put him into the hands of the law, I will."
"That boy is all right," said a gentleman standing by. "The rogue was
quite ingenious in trying to work off his bad money through a telegraph
messenger."
"What is the appearance of this man?" asked the detective as they walked
along.
"Rather a reddish face, and partly bald."
"What is the color of the hair he has?"
"Red."
"Very good. It ought to be easy to know him by that description."
"I should know him at once," said Frank, promptly.
"If he has not changed his appearance. It is easy to do that, and these
fellows understand it well."
Reaching the house, Frank rang the bell, the detective sauntering along
on the opposite side of the street.
"Is Mr. Stanley at home?" asked Frank.
"I will see."
The girl came down directly, with the information that Mr. Stanley had
gone out.
"That is queer," said Frank. "He told me to come right back. He said he
had a headache, too, and did not want to go out."
As he spoke, his glance rested on a man who was lounging at the corner.
This man had black hair, and a full black beard. By chance, Frank's eye
fell upon his right hand, and with a start he recognized a large ring
with a sparkling diamond, real or imitation. This ring he had last seen
on Mr. Stanley's hand. He crossed the street in a quiet, indifferent
manner, and imparted his suspicions to the detective.
"Good!" said the latter; "you are a smart boy."
He approached the man alluded to, who, confident in his disguise, did
not budge, and, placing his hand on his shoulder, said, "Mr. Stanley, I
believe."
"You are mistaken," said the man, shrugging his shoulders in a
nonchalant way, with a foreign accent, "I am M. Lavalette. I do not know
your M. Stanley."
"I am afraid you are forgetful, monsieur. I beg pardon, but do you wear
a wig?" and with a quick movement he removed the stranger's hat, and,
dislodging his black wig, displayed the rim of red hair.
"This is an outrage!" said the rogue, angrily; "I will have you
arrested, monsieur."
"I will give you a chance, for here is an officer," said the detective.
"I give this man in charge for passing counterfeit money," said the
detective. "The next time, Mr. Stanley, don't select so smart a
telegraph boy. He recognized you, in spite of your disguise, by the ring
upon your finger."
The rogue angrily drew the ring from his finger, and threw it on the
sidewalk.
"Curse the ring!" he said. "It has betrayed me."
It only remains to add that Stanley was convicted through Frank's
testimony. He proved to be an old offender, and the chief of a gang of
counterfeiters.
CHAPTER XVII.
FRANK MEETS AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.
Frank was more fortunate than the generality of the telegraph boys in
obtaining fees from those who employed him. He was not allowed to
solicit gifts, but was at liberty to accept them when offered. In one
way or another he found his weekly receipts came to about seven dollars.
Out of this sum he would have been able to save money, even if he had
been obliged to pay all his expenses, that is by the exercise of strict
economy. But, as we know, he was at no expense for room or board, with
the exception of a light lunch in the middle of the day. Making a little
calculation, he found that he could save about four dollars a week. As
it had only been proposed to him to stay at Mrs. Vivian's while Fred was
in the country, it seemed prudent to Frank to "make hay while the sun
shone," and save up a little fund from which he could hereafter draw, in
case it were necessary.
So when he had saved ten dollars he presented himself at the counter of
the Dime Savings-Bank, then located in Canal street, and deposited it,
receiving a bank-book, which he regarded with great pride.
"I begin to feel like a capitalist," he said to himself. "I am rather
better off now than I was when I led round old Mills, the blind man. I
wonder how he is getting along."
As Frank entered Broadway from Canal street, by a strange coincidence he
caught sight of the man of whom he had been thinking. Mills, with the
same querulous, irritable expression he knew well, was making his way up
Broadway, led by a boy younger than Frank.
"Pity a poor blind man!" he muttered from time to time in a whining
voice.
"Look out, you young rascal, or you will have me off the sidewalk,"
Frank heard the blind man say; "I'll have a reckoning with you when I
get home."
The boy, who was pale and slight, looked frightened.
"I couldn't help it, Mr. Mills," he said. "It was the crowd."
"You are getting careless, that's what's the matter," said Mills,
harshly. "You are looking in at the shop windows, and neglect me."
"No, I am not," said the boy, in meek remonstrance.
"Don't you contradict me!" exclaimed the blind man, grasping his stick
significantly. "Pity a poor blind man!"
"What an old brute he is!" thought Frank; "I will speak to him."
"How do you do, Mr. Mills?" he said, halting before the blind man.
"Who are you?" demanded Mills, quickly.
"You ought to know me; I am Frank Kavanagh, who used to go round with
you."
"I have had so many boys--most of them good for nothing--that I don't
remember you."
"I am the boy who wouldn't pass counterfeit money for you."
"Hush!" said the blind man apprehensively, lest some one should hear
Frank. "There was some mistake about that. I remember you now. Do you
want to come back? This boy doesn't attend to his business."
Frank laughed. Situated as he was now, the proposal seemed to him an
excellent joke, and he was disposed to treat it as such.
"Why, the fact is, Mr. Mills, you fed me on such rich food that I
shouldn't dare to go back for fear of dyspepsia."
"Or starvation," he added to himself.
"I live better now," said Mills. "I haven't had any boy since, that
suited me as well as you."
"Thank you; but I am afraid it would be a long time before I got rich on
the wages you would give me."
"I'll give you fifty cents a week," said Mills, "and more if I do well.
You can come to-day, if you like."
"You are very kind, but I am doing better than that," said Frank.
"What are you doing,--selling papers?"
"No; I have given that up. I am a telegraph boy."
"How much do you make?"
"Seven dollars last week."
"Why, you will be rich," said the blind man, enviously. "I don't think I
get as much as that myself, and I have to pay a boy out of it."
His poor guide did not have the appearance of being very liberally paid.
"Then you won't come back?" said Mills, querulously.
"No, I guess not."
"Come along, boy!" said Mills, roughly, to his little guide. "Are you
going to keep me here all day?"
"I thought you wanted to speak to this boy."
"Well, I have got through. He has deserted me. It is the way of the
world. There's nobody to pity the poor, blind man."
"Here's five cents for old acquaintance' sake. Mr. Mills," said Frank,
dropping a nickel into the hand of the boy who was guiding him.
"Thank you! May you never know what it is to be blind!" said Mills, in
his professional tone.
"If I am, I hope I can see as well as you," thought Frank. "What a
precious old humbug he is, and how I pity that poor boy! If I had a
chance I would give him something to save him from starvation."
Frank walked on, quite elated at the change in his circumstances which
allowed him to give money in charity to the person who had once been his
employer. He would have given it more cheerfully if in his estimation
the man had been more worthy.
Frank's errand took him up Broadway. He had two or three stops to make,
which made it inconvenient for him to ride. A little way in front of him
he saw a boy of fourteen, whom he recognized as an errand-boy, and a
former fellow-lodger at the Newsboy's Lodging-House. He was about to
hurry forward and join John Riley,--for this was the boy's name,--when
his attention was attracted, and his suspicions aroused, by a man who
accosted John. He was a man of about thirty, rather showily dressed,
with a gold chain dangling from his vest.
"Johnny," he said, addressing the errand-boy "do you want to earn ten
cents?"
"I should like to," answered the boy, "but I am going on an errand, and
can't spare the time."
"It won't take five minutes," said the young man. "It is only to take
this note up to Mr. Conant's room, on the fourth floor of this
building."
They were standing in front of a high building occupied as offices.
The boy hesitated.
"Is there an answer?" he asked.
