in a good sized kettle, and be done with it." 
 
" But those Easterns are particular. They would 
lot drink coffee that had stood awhile. There is 
a man, in a light cotton dress, who attends to 
that part of the business ; and when you go in and 
sit down at first, up he comes to you with a little brass tray and a fiery coal upon it; by which 
you may light your cigar, if you do not smoke a 
Turkish pipe." 
" What's a Turkish pipe like ? " 
" Like a glass vase, part of it, which sits on the 
ground. From this vase comes the tube of the 
pipe, several feet long, with a mouth-piece of 
metal or amber or something else. It takes a 
good while to smoke one of these pipes ; and Eu 
ropeans are generally too much in a hurry. But 
the European smokes his cigar; and the waiter 
brings him his coffee, fresh made, in a tiny little 
china cup ; fragrant, and black and thick, with all 
the grounds in it." 
" All the grounds in it ! " cried grandma. " Not 
cleared ! " 
"Not cleared at all; and you drink it and you 
like it; and while you drink it, by degrees, you 
get an opportunity to look at the strange figures 
around you. When you first go in you cannot 
look much, except in stolen glances." 
"Why not, pray?" 
" It wouldn't be polite. And they are very po 
lite, the people around you. Although you are 
a stranger, and maybe the only European in the 
room, nobody stares ; indeed nobody seems to take 
 
any sjrt of notice. They are too well-bred. Anu 
of course you do not stare at them." 
"I'll engage I would, if I got a chance. I believe eyes were made to see with." 
" I would like to see what one could see in such a 
place," I repeated, remembering how Mr. Iredell had 
described to me what he saw. " For instance, grand 
ma, you might see an old gentleman in a flowered 
chintz robe, with green trowsers, and a turban on 
his head of some thin stuff striped with yellow." 
"That's a dress for an old gentleman, is it?" said 
grandma. "I would like to know what the young 
ones put on." 
"Well, one young man's dress, I remember, was 
of dark blue cloth. Very wide trowsers, ending 
in tight-fitting gaiters, which were buttoned very 
ornamentally at the side and embroidered all over, 
with cord or lace sewed on. He had a velvet vest 
ornamented in the same way ; and a loose jacket. 
Under the jacket he wore a gay silk scarf wound 
round his body ; and in his scarf one man puts his 
purse and another man sticks his dagger, just as 
it happens." 
"Who told you all that rigmarole?" 
"I told you, grandma; a gentleman I saw in 
Philadelphia." 
"What is his name?" 
" It is not a name of any of the people about here ; 
it is not a name you know." 
" Is it a name you know? that's what I ask you. 
Then I'll tell you whether I know it" 
 
"The name is Ireclell, grandma." 
"Odell," she repeated. "Do you think I never 
heard of Odells before? There's heaps of em to 
Warmington. I don't think much of em neither, 
and never did. Did he come from Warmington?" 
" I think not." 
" Most likely he did. I wouldn't have much to 
do with him, if I was you. Did you believe all 
that stuff he told you ? " 
" He said he had seen it, grandma." 
" Well there's queer things in the world, but I 
guess he put on some o that. I wish t you'd put 
on the kettle, child, and let's have tea." 
"Why, grandma, it's early yet. What do you 
want tea for?" 
"I don't know. I'd like to have it, and have 
it over." 
So I humoured her, and we had a very early 
supper; and then she went to bed early, to have 
that over too, I suppose; and I sat alone. I had 
the company of a good fire ; else all was dark and 
still, within and without; as dark, that is, as the 
snow would let it be, under the stars. But I had 
shut the shutters, and was very glad of the glow 
and sparkle of my fire. I sat and thought. My 
telling the story of the coffee house to grandma 
had brought back everything about Philadelphia 
and my stay there; and there came upon me a 
kind of fire and rage of desire for study, for knowledge, for a rich and wide mental life, like Mr. Ire- 
dell's. I never knew anybody else Avith so much: 
 
it is natural that when I think of it I think of him, 
and when I think of him I think of it. One thing 
I am determined, too; I will do what I can. I 
will not be content with ignorance, nor bury my 
real self under the crowd of common, every-day 
things which fill my life and everybody else's life 
here. Not but people read, and think too, in Chesterfield; for they do both; yet nevertheless the 
interests of every day for them are about petty 
things ; and of course their horizon of actual experience is very limited. I thirst for something high 
er and better. I do seem to be shut out from it ; 
but at least I will do what I can for myself. 
I sat before my fire pondering all this, and somehow feeling the hills of Chesterfield valley close 
round me and bar me in. I found I was longing 
to be in Philadelphia ; and thenv I knew I was out 
of my way. Is not life "to do the will of God " ? 
I remembered. "Well his will has placed me here. 
The hills of Chesterfield can shut me in no longer 
and no closer than he pleases. He knows what sort 
of life he wishes me to lead; and step by step he 
will let me know it also. Am I not willing ? Just 
now here is my place ; and to take care of the house 
and grandma, my work ; and if it is the work my 
Lord wants me to do, it is the very best I can do. 
What he chooses for me must be the best; and 
done for Christ, it cannot be mean or ignoble. I 
thought all this, but I felt the tears coming ; and I 
went down on my knees on the hearth and prayed, 
to be made quite right, quite pure, a good child 
 
and a willing servant, howsoever my Lord may 
choose to use me. 
I was quite rested in heart when I rose up; 
rested and happy; and then I could consider things 
quietly. First, I may do all my work for the Lord; 
and my work at present is the house and grandma. 
Then next, it is perfectly right, and even a duty, 
to cultivate my higher self and make of my mental 
life the very most I can. So I decided I would, 
though without any very clear knowledge where 
or how to begin. All the books in the house I 
have read. Where can I get more ? And I would 
like to study languages. I will begin and read 
Voltaire's "Charles XII." over again; that will help 
my French at least. 
March 10. 
I HAVE been too busy, ever since my last writ 
ing, to have much time for speculation. I have 
read Chas. XII. through, however; and then I found 
one book in the house I had never yet read ; a close 
printed volume ; " Keith on Prophecy." So as my 
studies in other directions were for the present 
hemmed in, I conclude %'d the best thing I could do 
would be to study the Bible. Perhaps I could do 
no better thing, thought I ; and a delightful thing 
I am fiu ding it. 
 
March 20. 
I was deep in Daniel, and turning over the leaves 
of my Bible with great curiosity and delight, 
finding such beautiful things! when grandma 
broke out 
" It's kind o lonesome and tiresome with Olive 
gone out o the house ! I wish t she'd get through 
her visit and come back." 
I roused up. "Why, grandma," said I, "we have 
been getting along very nicely without her. Don't 
I keep things in order ? " 
" The house is in order," said grandma. " But 
gracious ! one wants sunthin besides a house and 
one's victuals. It's as still as if there warn't no 
body within a hundred miles; and my head is 
gettin to spin with bein so empty. Olive'd put 
some life into things." 
Now I knew that my grandmother has no special 
longing for Olive on account of any favouritism ; 
indeed I know she prefers me ; so I felt rebuked. 
I had been a little selfishly seeking my own pleasure, and leaving her out. 
"Shall I read to you, grandma?" I asked, though 
my heart sank at what I was losing. 
" Anythin to keep my head together. What ha 
you got there ? " 
" The Bible, grandmother." 
" The Bible ! that's a pretty old book. I've read 
it all a hundred times." 
"I don't believe it is exhausted, even for you, 
 
in spite of that fact. It isn't for me. Let me read 
you what I am reading." 
" Go on," said grandma. " Maybe it'll put me to 
sleep. Anyhow, it'll be a v ice instead o silence. 
I can't abide silence. Seems as if everybody was 
dead." 
It did not put her to sleep. On the contrary, 
she roused up and became thoroughly interested. 
I read to her about the history of the Jews, and 
the prophecies going before of what that history 
would be if they proved disobedient; and grandma 
called for her Bible and would trace out the words 
of the prophecy for herself, and was interested to 
that point that she quite forgot to be in a hurry 
for tea ; and after tea would have me begin again. 
March 30. 
THE spring is making herself known in our 
valley, and even upon the hillsides. There 
are tresses of the alder hanging out by the brook ; 
and the willows are shewing green ; and other tree 
buds are swelling. Yet the snow lies on the north 
ern slopes; and the country looks more bleak and 
bare than it does in mid-winter. Nevertheless it 
is spring ; and two days more will bring us April ; 
and then things will make a jump. I do not sup 
pose Olive will be in any hurry to come home until 
the jump has been made, and May will be bringing 
us warm airs again. Meanwhile I am too busy to 
 
be lonely. I read now a great deal to grandma; 
perhaps I learn quite as much that way; at any 
rate she takes great pleasure in it. And so do I. 
To-day came one of Olive's rare letters. I read 
it to myself, and then to grandma. 
" I can't make out much of what she's doin ," was 
her comment. 
" She is enjoying herself, I guess," I said with 
a little bit of a sigh, which did not make me proud 
of myself. I do not know what it came from. 
So am I enjoying myself, every day; and I am sure 
I want Olive to have all the pleasure she can get. 
What for should I draw a long breath about it? 
I do believe there are things in oneself, about as 
hidden from oneself as anything in other people 
ever can be. But grandma went on. 
" She's lookin out for number one. Olive allays 
does." 
"Don't we all, grandma?" 
"Olive don't take no particler care what be 
comes o the rest o the numbers." 
"0 grandma!" said I. " Olive is a good house 
keeper. You know that." 
"She's tol rable good at keepin anythin if she 
takes a fancy to it. I don't see as she cares much 
what becomes o you." 
"You forget; she is the eldest always. And she 
cannot help what becomes of me," I said with a 
smile. " Caroline wants her, and she is quite right 
to stay ; and it is doing me no harm. Aren't we 
having a nice time, grandma?" 
 
" Why don't Caroline want you ? " 
"She had me, two whole months." 
"Olive'll stay three." 
It is grandma's way; but I found it was not a 
good way for me to listen to. The more I read and 
the less I think, the better. So I determined, that 
as soon as we have got through " Keith on Proph 
ecy," I will go down to Deacon Binnacle's or some 
where and see what more I can borrow in the same 
line. 
April 20: 
I HAVE come to the end of Keith. So, according 
to my purpose, I set out this afternoon on a 
chase after some new reading. The day was so 
sweet as only some days in spring can be. The 
air mild and still and sunny; so still that one's ear 
seemed invited to hear the rushing of the brook 
and the twitter of the birds ; for birds were busy 
and making themselves both heard and seen. And 
there came a spicy smell from the woods; and the 
light on everything was that soft, gentle, promis 
ing blessing of the sun, which brings with it the 
prophecy of all summer joys and fruitfulness. And 
a nameless promise besides, which goes beyond the 
things of this earth. What is it? To what does 
this breath of spring lift one's thoughts? or rather 
one's spirit, for thoughts are definite. I tried to 
spell it out, as I went down the valley. Still, oh 
 
how still it was; and yet I noticed every little 
sound with a quick intentness that I miss on ordinary days. The brook was music; some crows 
seemed to be- telling the good news, that spring 
has come; far off on the hills somewhere I heard 
the stroke of an axe ; it came clear and distinct to 
my ear; the gratulations of the birds were absolutely ecstatic sometimes, when I passed near a 
flock of them in the trees. They are glad; it is 
the time of life and love and freedom beginning 
for them, where all has been bound under chains 
of frost for so long. And as I went musing, it 
darted into my head, the question, is that what 
spring promises to the spirits of men ? Is that the 
language of this wonderful balm and hush and 
colour of earth and air? Is it the faint image of 
what will be one day in human history, when the 
bondage of sin and evil is broken up, and the Sun 
of righteousness shall rise with healing in his 
wings ? I stood still by the fence to think about 
it. Is this wonderful hush and sweetness the fore 
telling of what will be over all the earth when the 
Lord reigns ? It will mean that to me, I believe, 
henceforward. It is all promise, promise ; promise 
that makes one's heart ache, it is so delicious, and 
so pure, and such a contrast with all that exists 
now in the realm of human affairs. Unearthly 
fair, unearthly sweet, I hardly know why it pressed 
upon my heart with a sense almost of pain. Then 
I thought of those words 
" My beloved spake, and said unto me, Itise up, 
 
my love, my fair one, and come away. For, lo, the 
winter is past, the rain is over and gone; the flow 
ers appear on the earth ; the time of the singing of 
birds is come, and the voice of the turtle is heard 
in our land: the fig tree puttcth forth her green 
figs, and the vines with the tender grapes give a 
good smell. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come 
away." 
That is the voice of Christ to his church; but 
when is the time of it ? It must be in what the 
Bible calls "the morning," I should think; "the 
time of the restitution of all things;" and what 
is that but the spring of the year ? The time 
of those words "Arise, shine; for thy light is 
come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon 
thee." And those other words "The wilderness 
and the solitary place shall^be glad for them; 
and the desert shall rejoice and blossom as the 
rose. It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice 
even with joy and singing ; the glory of Lebanon 
shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel 
and Sharon. . . Then the eyes of the blind shall 
be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be un 
stopped; then shall the lame man leap as an hart, 
and the tongue of the dumb sing ; for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the 
desert. And the parched ground shall become a 
pool, and the thirsty land springs of water; in the 
habitation of dragons, where each lay, shall be 
grass, with reeds and rushes." 
Will not that be spring ? I stood by the fence, 
looking and thinking and tasting all this as if for 
the first time. What a rich walk my walk was be 
coming to me ! But I could not remember accu 
rately all those words I have written above, and I 
did not want to wait till I got home. I thought I 
would accomplish two things at the first house 
where I went in. And then a whimsical idea 
struck me. The first house I came to, of course, 
was Deacon Parsons . Not much chance of find 
ing new reading matter there ; but at least I could 
find a Bible. 
Mrs. Parsons was sitting up, and the deacon 
was keeping her company, and I believe reading 
the Bible himself; for it lay open before him. The 
old lady was very glad to see me, and as usual 
wanted me to tell her all the news. I believe she 
would like to have, me give an account of my 
breakfast and dinner; so it were only anything 
that she had not heard before. 
"What books have you got in the house, Deacon 
Parsons ? " I asked after talking a while. 
"Books? what do ye want o books?" was his 
answer. 
" Just reading; that is what books are good for, 
you know. What have you in the house ? " 
" I don't think much o no readin but one book," 
said he slowly. "And that one, I guess, you've 
got it already." 
" But I like to read other things too." 
"Well," said the deacon, "some folks doos; some 
folks doos. But I should hev thought, you'd hev 
done readin enough all the time you was to Bosting to school." 
" no," said I. " That was only getting ready 
to read." 
"Du tell, ef you was all that time a larnin 
that!" said Mrs. Parsons. "Why, my Manda.'s 
little gal six year old, she kin read a ready, fust- 
rate." 
"Have you no books really, deacon?" I persisted. 
" Ain't many on em," said he, rubbing his very 
grey whiskers, " ain't many on em ; and I hain't 
much idee where they be. Mother, ha you got 
em put away somewheres ? " 
But I found it would be a matter of time to 
reach the books ; so I would not wait for that. 
" It's a beautiful day, deacon," I remarked, in 
pursuance of my whim. 
"Seasonable," said the deacon. "It's season 
able." 
"What does such a day in April make you 
think of, Deacon Parsons ? " 
"Wall," said he slowly, half smiling at me, as 
if wondering what I was at, "it's good fur the 
pastur ; that's what I think. The cows'll get a 
good bite soon, and the milk'll tell of it. The long 
winter's hard on the critters." 
I went off. The next house where I stopped 
was the blacksmith's. It was just his dinner time ; 
and he had come in from his workshop across the 
way and sat reading. It is a wonder he is so nice 
 
as lie usually keeps himself, for his wife lets every 
thing go at sixes and sevens. To-day I found the 
floor not swept, her table set with an untidy cloth, 
and herself very uncared for indeed. It is the 
only house in the place I know, where things are 
not at least tolerably neat. It's a pity ; Chandler 
himself is such a fine fellow. So I always thought 
him, and so I think him still ; and yet, to-day every 
