was her father, though the woman was not her mother. 
Theatrical people have queer antecedents. But I'd give 
anything to find this Titania. I am glad your aunt was so 
careful of your socks, Ned. What if I should make you a 
flying visit ? " 
" Upon my word you are quite a hero of romance. Sup- 
pose you tell the story coherently, so that I can distinguish 
between the lady of high degree, and the wonderful acro- 
bat, tight-rope dancer, &c." 
Roger succeeded in interesting Ned Strathan almost as 
keenly as he had been interested, and they planned for a 
visit. Roger went to his room, in a brown study, with the 
bit of paper in his hand. How odd that this should crop 
out again ! And yet it might be a different person. Ti- 
tania was not an unusual stage cognomen. But he would 
hunt her up without saying a word to Lai or his aunt. If 
he could learn whether Barretti was really her father! 
And yet a child of seven would remember if she had been 
lost in the street. But such romances seldom happened 
out of books, he told himself, by way of moderating his 
ardor. 
Still, he would so like to find Titania again, and the 
vision of the beautiful child floated before his eyes, in all 
her grace and witchery. What gave him this intense, ab- 
surd longing for her? 
They wondered at his aunt's why he should be so crazy 
as to set off on Monday for Ned Strathan's, when he had 
only parted with him on Friday, and, moreover, was not 
acquainted with another member of the family. 
" Why did you not ask him here ? " said Aunt Alice. 
"You boys might have had such a nice visit together." 
" I'll invite him next vacation," returned Roger, laugh- 
ingly. 
A two-hours' journey brought him to L . Ned met 
him at the station. 
" Now here's the Odeon," explained Ned, walking up 
the street. " You see it is no great affair. I called here 
on Saturday, and found the manager. His name is King. 
This child was the one Signer Barretti had ; but King said 
she was a puny little thing, not a bit handsome, and didn't 
do half the feats Thomas claimed that she could. She had 
a bad fall, and was taken to the hospital. King called 
Thomas a drunken swindler. Still I made an engagement," 
and Ned glanced furtively to see if his friend was dis- 
gusted. 
" You were good to learn that much, Ned," was the cor- 
dial response. " Can we see this King soon ? " 
"Yes. I said my friend would be here at two. He 
promised to meet us at the theatre, if you don't mind go- 
ing in such a hole ! It is patronized chiefly by the roughs. 
We have a very pretty opera-house in town," he an- 
nounced, with some pride. 
" At which we will hear nothing of Titania," appended 
Roger, with a smile. 
" Here is the private entrance. It is a horrid little hole," 
and the aristocratic Ned drew up his nose. "Through 
here to the green-room and private office." 
Rose and Lily De Vere were starring it in fresh pas- 
tures, and with new lovers. Still there was no lack of re- 
markable attractions on the show-bills. The two young 
men picked their way through the dirty, ill-smelling pas- 
sages, and reached the desired haven, perfumed with the 
odor of whiskey and tobacco. Mr. King had just stepped 
out, but would be in presently. They sat down amidst the 
disorder, and waited until patience came nearly to an end. 
He made his appearance at length, a short, stout, red- 
faced man, with a brisk, almost rough business-air. Seeing 
the two young men he nodded, and said, " Oh ! " with a 
kind of grunt. 
Ned Strathan explained, and introduced his friend. The 
story was gone over again, interspersed with some oaths 
and forcible adjectives. For Mr. King considered that he 
had been grossly deceived by Thomas, and was not very 
complimentary to him or his little acrobat, to whom, in- 
deed, he allowed very few charms. 
"What has become of Thomas?" asked Roger. 
"I don't know. He was a drunken scoundrel. He was 
paying a high price, too, for the girl ; and had to make a 
profit on her. Poor stock, in my opinion. Might have 
been well enough once, but you see the business wears out 
children, and when they're gone, they're gone. A man 
wrote to me a few days ago about it I dare say she's 
dead. He was the agent, I believe. The public in my 
line demand first-rate talent, no half-way work. Though 
if she hadn't been weakly she might have done ; but they 
seldom get over anything in the back. No doubt she's as 
well off dead as alive, though you might learn more about 
her at the hospital. I don't trouble my head with people 
when I'm through with 'em," and King finished with a 
resolute nod. 
Roger obtained the agent's address, and they bowed 
themselves out. 
" What a vile hole ! That destroys stage glamour effect- 
ually," said Ned. 
" Now, can we go to the hospital ? " 
" There are two or three. Let me see ; we can take a 
car right to St. James'. We'll try that. 
It was the wrong one, of course. Yet a little girl had 
been injured by a fall and died there. 
Then they found another. The child had been there. 
A little acrobat, named Titania Barretti, hurt by a fall, a 
delicate little thing, sick with a fever. There had been a 
good deal of interest about her, at first, but it died out, as 
such things are apt to do. She was finally taken to the 
" Home for the Friendless." 
The short winter day had drawn to a close. 
" We must go home now," announced Ned. " Aunt 
Lucy's tea is exactly at half-past five, and it will never do 
to be late." 
" Where is this Home ? " asked Roger. 
" Out in the suburbs. Don't mind about it to-night. 
I've promised you to some friends of mine, a set of jolly, 
musical girls, where you always have the nicest of times. 
Then we will take a fresh start in the morning." 
Roger found himself overruled. Indeed, the warmth 
and cosiness of Miss Strathan's parlor proved so enticing 
that he had a mind to give up the nice musical girls. Misa 
Strathan was nearing forty, but as little like the traditional 
old maid as possible. Then there was a grandmother, a 
lovely old lady ; and Miss Katy, a second or third cousin, 
an invalid. An air of picturesque refinement pervaded the 
house, and Roger's artistic side was won immediately. 
However, Ned persisted and carried him off. They 
slept late the next morning, although their night's dissipa- 
tion had been a harmless one. Then they started out to 
discover what next had befallen the poor little acrobat. 
Mrs. Post received them politely. She remembered the 
child well, and was quite enthusiastic about her sweetness 
and beauty. But she had been taken away, and the record 
was searched for particulars. 
" A Mrs. Winstead, residence, Arlington, fifty or sixty 
miles from here, a most beautiful place, I have heard," ex- 
plained Mrs. Post. " Through Mrs. Gaylord, one of the 
patronesses of the Institution. She is in Europe, or you 
would be able to learn all the particulars, I might write 
and inquire?" 
" You think the child is surely there ? " 
" Oh, certainly. If she had not suited she would have 
been returned. I thought her a very lovely little being, 
and have often longed to hear how she fared ; but there are 
so many coming and going, that we cannot keep up with 
them all. The child had some friend or connection in 
Paris. She expected to hear from her, and I was to for- 
ward the letter, but it never came. You appear to be 
greatly interested in her ? " and Mrs. Post studied him. 
" I am," replied Roger. " It is important that I should 
find her." 
" Are you a relative ? n she ventured. 
" No, but I may place her in communication with 
relatives," was the brief response. 
" I should be so rejoiced. The child impressed me as 
being well born. If any good fortune happens to her will 
you let me know ? " 
" With pleasure," replied Roger, bowing his adieu. 
" The old case of the needle in a hay-stack," laughed 
Ned. " What will you do next ? " 
" Go to Arlington. Find this Mrs. Winstead." 
" Nonsense ! You don't mean it ! n 
" But I do mean it," said Roger, firmly. " I am deter- 
mined to find the child." 
"And when found many her. Slightly altered from 
Captain Cuttle." 
" Now it is you who talk nonsense," returned Roger, 
laughingly. "I fancy neither of us will be in great haste 
to rush into matrimony. And you forget that this little 
creature is a mere child. At present it will be more to the 
purpose to inquire about trains to Arlington." 
" Old fellow, you are not going to day, that is settled. I 
will not be so out-rivalled by this pretty stage heroine. 
Come, you have only given me a bit of last evening. To- 
morrow, if you must, you can take the train to Arlington, 
and then return direct to New York. The rest of to-day 
is mine." 
Roger yielded to his friend, and, it must be confessed, 
enjoved his visit. Yet he was glad to start the next morn- 
ing, and found himself on the way to Arlington with so 
buoyant a feeling, that he took it as an omen of success. 
He could hardly hope that this fairy, Titania, would prove 
the lost child, yet his heart was set upon finding her. 
With the help of Aunt Alice he would rescue her from a 
hard, dangerous life, and place her in the position that her 
remarkable beauty demanded. 
It was a bright, crisp, winter morning, with floods of 
brilliant sunshine. Beside him sat a plain, middle-aged 
woman, who nodded a drowsy accompaniment to the 
motion of the cars. He read his paper, noted the points of 
the wintry landscape, as they whirled by, counted the 
stations, and, after what appeared an interminable while, 
reached his destination. 
He had never been in the town before, and was struck 
by its beauty, even at mid-winter. The long, straight 
streets, the spacious lawns and gardens, the diversity of 
architecture, the general air of home comfort and cheer- 
fulness, pleased him greatly. He had no difficulty in find- 
ing the Winstead residence, and sent np his card. 
" Mr. Roger Lasselle ! " exclaimed Mrs. Winstead, study- 
ing the card in surprise. " Are you sure it is not for Miss 
Helena? You are so stupid, Hannah!" 
" He asked for you, ma'am, Mrs. Winstead. He said he 
was a stranger, and wanted to see you on some business," 
was the concise reply. 
h Oh, an agent, I dare say ! No doubt you showed him 
in the drawing-room. You have no judgment !" and the 
mistress frowned angrily. 
" He's young and handsome, and looked like a gentle> 
man," pleaded Hannah, in extenuation. 
Mrs. Winstead went down, presently. As Roger rose 
jrom his seat by the window, the lady suddenly smoothed 
her ruffled brow. A gentleman, truly. Hannah was not 
mistaken. 
" I must beg you to pardon the intrusion of a stranger," 
Mr. Lasselle began, in his rich, musical voice. " If I am 
rightly informed, last July you took a little girl from the 
Home of the Friendless at L . Is she still with you ? " 
The brow darkened again. The haughty, piercing eyes 
were fixed on the young man's face. 
"Are you connected with that Institution?" was the 
authoritative query. 
" I am not. My interest is in the child to restore her 
to some friends." 
" I am sorry I cannot give you a better account of her, 
then ; " and the tone was compounded of a certain bitter 
joy and irony. " I am afraid any friend would feel rather 
disappointed in her." 
Roger's heart gave a great, anxious bound. 
"I was over-persuaded into trying her. It is a great 
risk to take a child from these public institutions, as they 
are the very dregs of humanity. I did it once before, and 
by the time I had the girl trained to be of some service 
she had grown so filled with a sense of her own importance 
that she was absolutely insufferable. But one cannot help 
experiencing a feeling of profound pity for these street 
waifs, and you are besieged on the right and left to help 
provide for them. I do consider it a great work of charity. 
Gliving your money is a simple matter, compared with it," 
silid the lady, impressively. 
" And Titania," questioned Roger. 
"They are all alike," and Mrs. Winstead waved her 
hand majestically. " Yet I was deceived in the child's 
looks. I fancied her a quiet, inoffensive little thing, not 
very bright, perhaps, but capable of being trained to do 
trifling errands, and to wait upon my daughter, who would 
have, in time, been a most indulgent mistress, indeed 
friend as well." 
" You did not send her back," said Roger, rather tired 
of all this. 
" I am coming to the sequel. I found her indolent, self- 
willed, sullen, and deceitful. Another person, no doubt, 
would have returned her immediately, but I thought some 
one must work to save these poor, miserable creatures, 
that are fast becoming a dangerous part of all our cities 
I worked faithfully with her, but all in vain." 
Roger questioned with his eager eyes at this point. The 
would be irnpressiveness was tedious. 
" If you are a true friend, and have her welfare at heart, 
you will be grieved to learn that she was utterly incapable 
of appreciating the care and kindness. Finding that it was 
quite impossible to do anything with her I did threaten to 
send her back, when she went away." 
"Oh, she is not gone ? " cried Roger, springing up with 
an acute sense of disappointment. Was his search to fail, 
then, after all ? 
" She disappeared about a month ago. As she had no 
money, I suppose she must have taken some articles of 
value and disposed of them. In a house like this, where 
you generally have trusty servants, you are not apt to be 
so careful, and there are many trinkets lying around. I 
suppose it was my duty to search for her, and to have her 
punished, but I could not make up my mind to such a 
course." 
" Then you have no clew ; you know nothing of her ? " 
the lad asked excitedly. 
" I have no clew," waving her hand majestically. w That 
she left Arlington I am quite certain. She would not care 
to stay where there was a possibility of her detection." 
Roger felt that this was so. He was bitterly disappoint- 
ed. The story of Titania's delinquencies had some effect 
upon him, though he felt that Mrs. Post was as likely to be 
right in her estimation as this exact moralist. 
" You spoke of her friends ? Where are they ? " 
Roger flushed with a touch of embarrassment. How 
much of Titania's history did this woman ah, Roger, 
si; could have annihilated you for the thought of such an 
appellation know ? Would she not have spoken derog- 
atively of the stage episode ? Perhaps she had not heard 
of it. 
"A person adopted her, who is now abroad," began 
Roger, bunglingly. 
" Oh, the woman cast her off, as I understood it. The 
child was most secretive about her past life, and I judged 
that there were some discreditable incidents in it. Does 
this person want her again?" 
" I believe she does," said Roger, boldly. 
" I can give you no help. The child had a great deal of 
vanity, and fancied herself pretty. For such homeless girls 
one can hardly hope for the best. She may have gone back 
to old associations." 
" I am sorry to have given you so much trouble," said 
Roger, rising. u You are quite certain she is not in Ar- 
lington." 
" Oh, quite. You see Arlington is an exceedingly aris- 
tocratic town. Hardly another house would be open to a 
foundling on any terms." 
"I am very sorry to have missed her. Thanks for your 
courtesy;" and Roger took a few steps toward the door. 
He hated to give up the search, but the clew certainly was 
lost here. 
Mrs. Winstead bowed politely. The indescribable air 
of breeding and authority kept her in check until she had 
gone up-stairs. 
"I must say it is singular, Helena," she commented, 
after she had related the rencounter. " A very handsome 
young man making minute inquiries about such a thing as 
that miserable little Jane. It may be all right enough. 
I should hate to misjudge any one, but it has a look I do 
not like. I should not have given her up to him without 
some better security than his own word. I felt really glad 
that she had taken herself off, and that no further compli- 
cations could arise. I could never have made anything of 
the girl. Roger Lasselle ! It is a stylish name, certainly. 
There is Lasselle the great banker, but it seems as if I 
had known some one of the name ; " and the lady knit 
her brows. 
Roger reached New York tired and cross. He was more 
disappointed than he cared to own. He talked of his visit, 
but keen -eyed Aunt Alice fancied it had not been a 
success. 
The next day he hunted up Mr. Roberts and puzzled 
that gentleman greatly, who now admitted that Mrs. Chip- 
penham had sent for the child, and some way they had 
heard she was dead. 
" And can nothing be done ? " asked Roger impatiently. 
It was exasperating to be foiled just here. 
" I don't know of anything but to advertise," was the 
answer. 
"Then let us advertise, by all means." 
CHAPTER XX. 
MISS MADEIBA. 
IT was true that just a narrow chance had again inter- 
vened between Titania and a future fairer than any of her 
dreams. This time she had chosen the part of a waif and 
stray, with almost pathetic deliberation. 
Week after week she had waited to hear from Kate, 
waited in such feverish anxiety that her very life became 
centred in the thought. Sleeping and waking it haunted 
her. Sweet dreams visited her nightly, only to make the 
days a more bitter and miserable reality. Indeed, it 
seemed at times as if the rule of Owen Thomas was prefer- 
able to that of her hard task-mistress. 
Mrs. Winstead acknowledged in her secret soul that the 
child would make a very useful domestic if properly 
trained. It would of course be the salvation of both soul 
and body not only to keep her in ignorance of any charms 
she might possess, but to despoil her of them as far as 
possible. Her few garments were made in the most unbe- 
coming manner, and every point about her that could be 
criticised or ridiculed was treated to a liberal allowance in 
the most unsparing fashion, until Titania became almost an 
object of aversion to herself. 
Three months had gone by without a word. Was she 
to remain here in this slavery for years ? Better go back 
to the stage that she so hated. Indeed, she felt that she had 
recovered from the effects of both fall and illness. Some 
one would take her in surely. She could dance, if nothing 
else. 
The thought roused her to new life. But how was she 
to go ? She had not a penny, and there was no one whom 
she dared ask, not even Hannah, who had come to sym- 
pathize with her in various ways. If she could get to New 
York again, but it was a long way, and, as she soon 
found, would cost a great deal. 
She smiled with a sense of dreary humor as she recalled 
how she had once run away from Dick Bridger. Poor, 
dear Dick ! and a tear fell to the memory of that dead and 
gone love. 
Day after day she thought it over, resolving at last that 
all she could do would be to walk to the next village, some 
four miles distant, and then trust to what? God? She 
knew so little about Him now. These four years of 
heathenism had well-nigh blotted out the baby faith of 
mother-lips. A great intangible something seemed to win 
her to repose in its shadowy arms. 
Simple and ignorant as she was in some matters, in 
others she had garnered much bitter and worldly-wise 
experience. And something was it the blood of her 
race? rebelled continually against this menial existence. 
In the other life there had been hours of triumph, shallow 
and common, perhaps, but still triumph. 
One bright November morning, when days of storm 
had cleared the air, Mrs. Winstead arrayed herself in an 
ample costume of silk and velvet, and stepped into her 
carriage. Titania sat by the window with piles of work 
before her. She had become quite a neat and expeditious 
seamstress already. As the wheels crunched over the 
frozen ground her heart gave a great leap. She sprang 
up and took two or three whirls about the room as if it 
had been a stage. Up-stairs she sped, and choosing the 
best of her attire made herself as respectable as possible. 
Her hat she had trimmed with some bits of blue silk 
thrown in the waste-bag, and fortunately a good thick 
