be so proud to help you." 
" From him least of all." 
" Because of his love for you ? " 
Gardis was silent. 
"Miss Duke, let me ask you one question. If you had 
loved Roger Saxton, would you have married him ? " 
" Never ! " 
" You would have sacrificed your whole life, then, for the 
sake of " 
" My country, sir." 
" We have a common country, Gardis," answered the young 
man gravely. Then, as he rose, " Child," he said, " I shall 
not relinquish the charge of your property, given into my 
hands by Mr. Copeland Gardiston, and, for your own sake, I 
beg you to be more patient, more gentle, as becomes a wo 
man. A few weeks will no doubt see you released from even 
your slight obligation to me : you will have but a short time 
to wait." 
Poor Gardis ! Her proud scorn went for nothing, then ? 
She was overridden as though she had been a child, and even 
rebuked for want of gentleness. The drawing-room was 
cheerless and damp in the rainy twilight ; the girl wore a 
faded lawn dress, and her cheeks were pale ; the old house 
was chilly through and through, and even the soldier, strong 
as he was, felt himself shivering. At this instant enter Cousin 
Copeland. " Of course you will spend the night here," he 
said heartily. " It is raining, and I must insist upon your 
staying over until to-morrow must really insist." 
Gardis looked up quickly ; her dismayed face said plainly, 
"Oh no, .no." Thereupon the young officer immediately ac 
cepted Cousin Copeland's invitation, and took his seat again 
with quiet deliberation. Gardis sank down upon the sofa. 
" Very well," she thought desperately, " this time it is hope 
less. Nothing can be done." 
And hopeless it was. Pompey brought in a candle, and 
placed it upon the table, where its dim light made the large 
apartment more dismal than before ; the rain poured down 
outside, and the rising wind rattled the loose shutters. Din 
ner was announced one small fish, potatoes, and corn-bread. 
Pale Gardis sat like a statue at the head of the table, and 
made no effort to entertain the guest ; but Cousin Copeland 
threw himself bravely into the breach, and, by way of diver 
sion, related the whole story of the unchronicled " wife of one 
of our grandfather's second cousins," who had turned out to 
be a most remarkable personage of Welsh descent, her golden 
harp having once stood in the very room in which they were 
now seated. 
" Do you not think, my child, that a a little fire in your 
aunt Margaretta's boudoir would would be conducive to our 
comfort?" suggested the little bachelor, as they rose from 
the table. 
" As you please," said Gardis. 
So the three repaired thither, and when the old red cur 
tains were drawn, and the fire lighted, the little room had at 
least a semblance of comfort, whatever may have been in the 
hearts of its occupants. Gardis embroidered, Cousin Cope- 
land chatted on in a steady little stream, and the guest lis 
tened. " I will step up stairs to my study, and bring down 
that file of documents," said the bachelor, rising. He was 
gone, and left only silence behind him. Gardis did not raise 
her head, but went steadily on with the embroidered robe of 
the Queen of Sheba. 
" I am thinking," began David Newell, breaking the long 
pause at last, " how comfortable you would be, Miss Duke, as 
the wife of Roger Saxton. He would take you North, away 
from this old house, and he would be so proud and so fond 
of you." 
No answer. 
" The place could be put in order if you did not care to 
sell it, and your cousin Copeland could live on here as usual ; 
indeed, I could scarcely imagine him in any other home." 
" Nor myself." 
" Oh yes, Miss Duke ; I can easily imagine you in New 
York, Paris, or Vienna. I can easily imagine you at the opera, 
in the picture-galleries, or carrying out to the full your exqui 
site taste in dress." 
Down went the embroidery. " Sir, do you mean to insult 
me ? " said the pale, cotton-robed little hostess. 
" By no means." 
" Why do you come here ? Why do you sneer at my poor 
clothes ? Why " Her voice trembled, and she stopped 
abruptly. 
" I was not aware that they were poor or old, Miss Duke. 
I have never seen a more exquisite costume than yours on the 
evening when we dined here by invitation ; it has been like a 
picture in my memory ever since." 
" An old robe that belonged to my grandmother, and I 
burned it, every shred, as soon as you had gone," said Gardis 
hotly. 
Far from being impressed as she had intended he should 
be, David Newell merely bowed ; the girl saw that he set the 
act down as " temper." 
" I suppose your Northern ladies never do such things ? " 
she said bitterly. 
" You are right ; they do not," he answered. 
" Why do you come here ? " pursued Gardis. " Why do 
you speak to me of Mr. Saxton ? Though he had the fortune 
of a prince, he is nothing to me." 
" Roger's fortune is comfortable, but not princely, Miss 
Duke by no means princely. We are not princely at the 
North," added Newell, with a slight smile, " and neither are 
we knightly. We must, I fear, yield all claim to those 
prized words of yours." 
" I am not aware that I have used the words," said Miss 
Duke, with lofty indifference. 
" Oh, I did not mean you alone you personally but all 
Southern women. However, to return to our subject : 
Saxton loves you, and has gone away with a saddened 
heart." 
This was said gravely. " As though," Miss Duke remarked to herself " really as though a heart was of consequence ! " 
" I presume he will soon forget," she said carelessly, as 
she took up her embroidery again. 
" Yes, no doubt," replied Captain Newell. " I remember 
once on Staten Island, and again out in Mississippi, when he 
was even more Yes, as you say, he will soon forget." 
" Then why do you so continually speak of him ? " said 
Miss Duke sharply. Such prompt corroboration was not, 
after all, as agreeable as it should have been to a well-regu 
lated mind. 
" I speak of him, Miss Duke, because I wish to know 
whether it is only your Southern girlish pride that speaks, or 
whether you really, as would be most natural, love him as he 
loves you ; for, in the latter case, you would be able, I think, 
to fix and retain his somewhat fickle fancy. He is a fine 
fellow, and, as I said before, it would be but natural, Miss 
Duke, that you should love him." 
" I do not love him," said Gardis, quickly and angrily, put 
ting in her stitches all wrong. Who was this person, daring 
to assume what would or would not be natural for her to do ? 
" Very well ; I believe you. And now that I know the 
truth, I will tell you why I come here : you have asked me 
several times. I too love you, Miss Duke." 
Gardis had risen. " You ? " she said " you ? " 
" Yes, I ; I too." 
He was standing al^o, and they gazed at each other a 
moment in silence. 
" I will never marry you," said the girl at last " never ! 
never ! You do not, can not, understand the hearts of South 
ern women, sir." 
" I have not asked you to marry me, Miss Duke," said the 
young soldier composedly ; " and the hearts of Southern wo- 
men are much like those of other women, I presume." Then, 
as the girl opened the door to escape, " You may go away 
if you like, Gardis," he said, " but I shall love you all the 
same, dear." 
She disappeared, and in a few moments Cousin Copeland 
reentered, with apologies for his lengthened absence. " I 
found several other documents I thought you might like to 
see," he said eagerly. " They will occupy the remainder of 
our evening delightfully." 
They did. But Gardis did not return ; neither did she ap 
pear at the breakfast-table the next morning. Captain Newell 
rode back to the city without seeing her. 
Not long afterward Cousin Copeland received a formal 
letter from a city lawyer. The warehouse had found a tenant, 
and he, the lawyer, acting for the agent, Captain Newell, had 
the honor to inclose the first installment of rent-money, and 
remained an obedient servant, and so forth. Cousin Cope- 
land was exultant. Gardis said to herself, "He is taking 
advantage of our poverty," and, going to her room, she sat 
down to plan some way of release. " I might be a governess," 
she thought. But no one at the South wanted a governess 
now, and how could she go North ? She was not aware how 
old-fashioned were her little accomplishments her music, her 
embroidery, her ideas of literature, her prim drawings, and 
even her deportment. No one made courtesies at the North 
any more, save perhaps in the Lancers. As to chemistry, 
trigonometry, physiology, and geology, the ordinary studies 
of a Northern girl, she knew hardly more than their names. 
" We might sell the place," she thought at last, " and go away 
somewhere and live in the woods." 
This, indeed, seemed the only way open to her. The 
house was an actual fact ; it was there ; it was also her own. 
A few days later an advertisement appeared in the city news 
paper : " For sale, the residence known as Gardiston House, 
situated six miles from the city, on Green River. Apply by 
letter, or on the premises, to Miss Gardiston Duke." Three 
days passed, and no one came. The fourth day an applicant 
appeared, and was ushered into the dining-room. He sent 
up no name ; but Miss Duke descended hopefully to confer 
with him, and found Captain Newell. 
" You ! " she said, paling and flushing. Her voice fal 
tered ; she was sorely disappointed. 
"It will always be myself, Gardis," said the young man, 
gravely. " So you wish to sell the old house ? I should not 
have supposed it." 
" I wish to sell it in order to be freed from obligations 
forced upon us, sir." 
" Very well. But if / buy it, then what ? " 
" You will not buy it, for the simple reason that I will not 
sell it to you. You do not wish the place ; you would only 
buy it to assist us." 
" Thai is true." 
" Then there is nothing more to be said, I believe," said 
Miss Duke, rising. 
" Is there nothing more, Gardis ? " 
" Nothing, Captain Newell." 
And then, without another word, the soldier bowed, and 
rode back to town. 
The dreary little advertisement remained in a corner of 
the newspaper a month longer, but no purchaser appeared. 
The winter was rainy, with raw east winds from the ocean, 
and the old house leaked in many places. If they had lived 
in one or two of the smaller rooms, which were in better con 
dition and warmer than the large apartments, they might have 
escaped ; but no habit was changed, and three times a day 
the table was spread in the damp dining-room, where the 
atmosphere was like that of a tomb, and where no fire was 
ever made. The long evenings were spent in the somber 
drawing-room by the light of the one candle, and the rain 
beat against the old shutters so loudly that Cousin Copeland 
was obliged to elevate his gentle little voice as he read aloud 
to his silent companion. But one evening he found himself 
forced to pause ; his voice had failed. Four clays afterward 
he died, gentle and placid to the last. He was an old man, 
although no one had ever thought so. 
The funeral notice appeared in the city paper, and a few 
old family friends came out to Gardiston House to follow the 
last Gardiston to his resting-place in St. Mark's forest church 
yard. They were all sad-faced people, clad in mourning 
much the worse for wear. Accustomed to sorrow, they fol 
lowed to the grave quietly, not a heart there that had not its 
own dead. They all returned to Gardiston House, sat a 
while in the drawing-room, spoke a few words each in turn 
to the desolate little mistress, and then took leave. Gardis 
was left alone. 
Captain Newell did not come to the funeral ; he could 
not come into such a company in his uniform, and he would 
not come without it. He had his own ideas of duty, and his 
own pride. But he sent a wreath of beautiful flowers, which 
must have come from some city where there was a hot-house. 
Miss Duke would not place the wreath upon the coffin, neither 
would she leave it in the drawing-room ; she stood a while 
with it in her hand, and then she stole up stairs and laid it on 
Cousin Copeland's open desk, where daily he had worked so 
patiently and steadily through so many long years. Uselessly
? Who among us shall dare to say that ? 
A week later, at twilight, old Dinah brought up the young 
officer's card. 
" Say that I see no one," replied Miss Duke. 
A little note came back, written on a slip of paper : " I 
beg you to see me, if only for a moment ; it is a business mat 
ter that has brought me here to-day." And certainly it was 
a very forlorn day for a pleasure ride: the wind howled 
through the trees, and the roads were almost impassable with 
deep mire. Miss Duke went down to the dining-room. She 
wore no mourning garments ; she had none. She had not 
worn mourning for her aunt, and for the same reason. Pale 
and silent, she stood before the young officer waiting to hear 
his errand. It was this : some one wished to purchase Gar- 
diston House a real purchaser this time, a stranger. Cap 
tain Newell did not say that it was the wife of an army con 
tractor, a Northern woman, who had taken a fancy for an old 
family residence, and intended to be herself an old family in 
future ; he merely stated the price offered for the house and 
its furniture, and in a few words placed the business clearly 
before the listener. 
Her face lighted with pleasure. 
" At last ! " she said. 
" Yes, at last, Miss Duke." There was a shade of sad 
ness in his tone, but he spoke no word of entreaty. " You 
accept ? " 
" I do," said Gardis, 
" I must ride back to the city," said David Newell, taking 
up his cap, " before it is entirely dark, for the roads are very 
heavy. I came out as soon as I heard of the offer, Miss 
Duke, for I knew you would be glad, very glad." 
" Yes," said Gardis, " I am glad ; very glad." Her cheeks 
were flushed now, and she smiled as she returned the young 
officer's bow. " Some time, Captain Newell some time I 
trust I shall feel like thanking you for what was undoubtedly 
intended, on your part, as kindness," she said. 
" It was never intended for kindness at all," said Newell 
bluntly. " It was never but one thing, Gardis, and you know 
it ; and that one thing is, and always will be, love. Not al 
ways will be, though ; I should not say that. A man can 
conquer an unworthy love if he chooses." 
" Unworthy ? " said Gardis involuntarily. 
" Yes, unworthy ; like this of mine for you. A woman 
should be gentle, should be loving; a woman should have a 
womanly nature. But you you you do not seem to have 
anything in you but a foolish pride. I verily believe, Gardis 
Duke, that, if you loved me enough to die for me, you would 
still let me go out of that door without a word, so deep, so 
deadly is that pride of yours. What do I want with such a 
wife ? No. My wife must love me love me ardently, as I 
shall love her. Farewell, Miss Duke; I shall not see you 
again, probably. I will send a lawyer out to complete the 
sale." 
He was gone, and Gardis stood alone in the darkening 
room. Gardiston House, where she had spent her life Gar- 
diston House, full of the memories and associations of two 
centuries Gardiston House, the living reminder and the con 
stant support of that family pride in which she had been nur 
tured, her one possession in the land which she had so loved, 
the beautiful, desolate South would soon be hers no longer. 
She began to sob, and then when the sound came back to 
her, echoing through the still room, she stopped suddenly, as 
though ashamed. " I will go abroad," she said ; " there will 
be a great deal to amuse me over there." But the comfort 
was dreary ; and, as if she must do something, she took a 
candle, and slowly visited every room in the old mansion, 
many of them long unused. From garret to cellar she went, 
touching every piece of the antique furniture, folding back 
the old curtains, standing by the dismantled beds, and softly 
pausing by the empty chairs ; she was saying farewell. On 
Cousin Copeland's desk the wreath still lay ; in that room she 
cried from sheer desolation. Then, going down to the dining- 
room, she found her solitary repast awaiting her, and, not to 
distress old Dinah, sat down in her accustomed place. Pres 
ently she perceived smoke, then a sound, then a hiss and a 
roar. She flew up stairs ; the house was on fire. Somewhere 
her candle must have started the flame ; she remembered the 
loose papers in Cousin Copeland's study, and the wind blow- 
Ing through the broken window-pane ; it was there that she 
had cried so bitterly, forgetting everything save her own lone 
liness. 
Nothing could be done ; there was no house within sev 
eral miles no one to help. The old servants were infirm, 
and the fire had obtained strong headway; then the high 
wind rushed in, and sent the flames up through the roof and 
over the tops of the trees. When the whole upper story was 
one sheet of red and yellow, some one rode furiously up the 
road and into the garden, where Gardis stood alone, her little 
figure illumined by the glare ; nearer the house the two old 
servants were at work, trying to save some of the furniture 
from the lower rooms. 
" I saw the light and hurried back, Miss Duke," began 
Captain Newell. Then, as he saw the wan desolation of the 
girl's face: " O Gardis ! why will you resist me longer ? " he 
cried passionately. " You shall be anything you like, think 
anything you like only love me, dear, as I love you." 
And Gardis burst into tears. " I can not help it," she 
sobbed ; " everything is against me. The very house is burn 
ing before my eyes. O David, David  it is all wrong ; every 
thing is wrong. But what can I do when when you hold 
me so, and when Oh, do not ask me any more." 
" But I shall," said Newell, his face flushing with deep 
happiness. " When what, dear ? " 
" When I" 
" Love me ? " said Newell. He would have it spoken. 
" Yes," whispered Gardis, hanging her head. 
" And I have adored the very shoe-tie of my proud little 
love ever since I first saw her sweet face at the drawing-room 
window," said Newell, holding her close and closer, and gaz 
ing down into her eyes with the deep gaze of the quiet heart 
that loves but once. 
And the old house burned on, burned as though it knew a 
contractor's wife was waiting for it. " I see our Gardis is 
provided for," said the old house. " She never was a real 
Gardiston only a Duke ; so it is just as well. As for that 
contractor's wife, she shall have nothing; not a Chinese 
image, not a spindle-legged chair, not one crocodile cup no, 
not even one stone upon another." 
It kept its word : in the morning there was nothing left. 
Old Gardiston was gone ! 
The trees that lean'd in their love unto trees, 
That lock'd in their loves, and were made so strong, 
Stronger than armies ; ay, stronger than seas 
That rush from their caves in a storm of song. 
The cockatoo swung in the vines below, 
And muttering hung on a golden thread, 
Or moved on the moss'd bough to and fro, 
In plumes of gold and array'd in red. 
The serpent that hung from the sycamore bough, 
And sway'd his head in a crescent above, 
Had folded his head to the white limb now, 
And fondled it close like a great black love. 
JOAQUIN MILLER. 
ON the afternoon of the 23d of December, the thermome 
ter marked eighty-six degrees in the shade on the outside 
wall of Mark Deal's house. Mark Deal's brother, lying on 
the white sand, his head within the line of shadow cast by a 
live-oak, but all the remainder of his body full in the hot sun 
shine, basked liked a chameleon, and enjoyed the heat. Mark 
Deal's brother spent much of his time basking. He always 
took the live-oak for a head-protector ; but gave himself vari 
ety by trying new radiations around the tree, his crossed legs 
and feet stretching from it in a slightly different direction each 
day, as the spokes of a wheel radiate from the hub. The 
live-oak was a symmetrical old tree, standing by itself ; hav 
ing always had sufficient space, its great arms were straight, 
stretching out evenly all around, densely covered with the 
small, dark, leathery leaves, unnotched and uncut, which are 
as unlike the Northern oak-leaf as the leaf of the willow is 
unlike that of the sycamore. Behind the live-oak, two tall, 
ruined chimneys and a heap of white stones marked where 
the mansion-house had been. The old tree had watched its 
foundations laid ; had shaded its blank, white front and little 
hanging balcony above ; had witnessed its destruction, fifty 
years before* by the Indians ; and had mounted guard over 
its remains ever since, alone as far as man was concerned, 
until this year, when a tenant had arrived, Mark Deal, and, 
somewhat later, Mark Deal's brother. 
The ancient tree was Spanish to the core ; it would have 
resented the sacrilege to the tips of its small acorns, if the 
new-comer had laid hands upon the dignified old ruin it 
guarded. The new-comer, however, entertained no such in 
tention ; a small out-building, roofless, but otherwise in good 
condition, on the opposite side of the circular space, attracted 
