travelled over it; they even rested on the ruddy 
windows of Mrs. Penniman's apartment. He thought 
it a devilish comfortable house. 
XYII. 
MRS. PENNIMAN told Catherine that evening the 
two ladies were sitting in the back-parlor that she 
had had an interview with Morris Townsend ; and 
on receiving this news the girl started with a sense 
of pain. She felt angry for the moment; it was 
almost the first time she had ever felt angry. It 
seemed to her that her aunt was meddlesome ; and 
from this came a vague apprehension that she would 
spoil something. 
"I don't see why you should have seen him. I 
don't think it was right," Catherine said. 
" I was so sorry for him it seemed to me some 
one ought to see him." 
" No one but I," said Catherine, who felt as if she 
were making the most presumptuous speech of her 
life, and yet at the same time had an instinct that 
she was right in doing so. 
" But you wouldn't, my dear," Aunt Lavinia re- 
joined ; " and I didn't know what might have be- 
come of him." 
" I have not seen him because my father has for- 
bidden it," Catherine said, very simply. 
There was a simplicity in this, indeed, which 
fairly vexed Mrs. Penniman. " If your father for- 
bade you to go to sleep, I suppose you would keep 
awake !" she commented. 
Catherine looked at her. "I don't understand 
you. You seem to me very strange." 
" Well, my dear, you will understand me some 
day !" And Mrs. Penniman, who was reading the 
evening paper, which she perused daily from the 
first line to the last, resumed her occupation. She 
wrapped herself in silence; she was determined 
Catherine should ask her for an account of her in- 
terview with Morris. But Catherine was silent for 
so long that she almost lost patience; and she was 
on the point of remarking to her that she was very 
heartless, when the girl at last spoke. 
" What did he say ?" she asked. 
" He said he is ready to marry you any day, in 
spite of everything." 
Catherine made no answer to this, and Mrs. Pen- 
niman almost lost patience again ; owing to which 
she at last volunteered the information that Morris 
looked very handsome, but terribly haggard. 
" Did he seem sad ?" asked her niece. 
" He was dark under the eyes," said Mrs. Penni- 
man. " So different from when I first saw him ; 
though I am not sure that if I had seen him in this 
condition the first time, I should not have been even 
more struck with him. There is something brilliant 
in his very misery." 
This was, to Catherine's sense, a vivid picture, 
and though she disapproved, she felt herself gazing 
at it. " Where did you see him ?" she asked, pres- 
ently. 
" In in the Bowery ; at a confectioner's," said 
Mrs. Penniman, who had a general idea that she 
ought to dissemble a little. 
" Whereabouts is the place ?" Catherine inquired, 
after another pause. 
" Do you wish to go 1 there, my . dear ?" said her 
aunt. 
" Oh no." And Catherine got up from her seat 
and went to the fire, where she stood looking awhile 
at the glowing coals. 
" Why are you so dry, Catherine ?" Mrs. Penniman 
said at last. 
"So dry?" 
" So cold so irresponsive." 
The girl turned very quickly. " Did he say that ?" 
Mrs. Penniman hesitated a moment. " I wilj: tell 
you what he said. He said he feared only one thing 
that you would be afraid." 
" Afraid of what ?" 
" Afraid of your father." 
Catherine turned back to the fire again, and 
then, after a pause, she said, "I am afraid of my 
father." 
Mrs. Penniman got quickly up from her chair and 
approached her niece. " Do you mean to give him 
up, then ?" 
Catherine for some time never moved ; she kept 
her eyes on the coals. At last she raised her head 
and looked at her aunt. "Why do you push me 
so ?" she asked. 
" I don't push you. When have I spoken to you 
before ?" 
" It seems to me that you have spoken to me sev- 
eral times." 
" I am afraid it is necessary, then, Catherine," said 
Mrs. Penniman, with a good deal of solemnity. " I 
am afraid you don't feel the importance" she 
paused a little ; Catherine was looking at her " the 
importance of not disappointing that gallant young 
heart !" And Mrs. Penniman went back to her 
chair by the lamp, and, with a little jerk, picked up 
the evening paper again. 
Catherine stood there before the fire, with her 
hands behind her, looking at her aunt, to whom it 
seemed that the girl had never had just this dark 
fixedness in her gaze. " I don't think you under- 
stand or that you know me," she said. 
" If I don't, it is not wonderful ; you trust me so 
little." 
Catherine made no attempt to deny this charge, 
and for some time more nothing was said. But Mrs. 
Penniman's imagination was restless, and the evening 
paper failed on this occasion to enchain it. 
"If you succumb to the dread of your father's 
wrath," she said, " I don't know what will become of 
us." 
" Did he tell you to say these things to me ?" 
" He told me to use my influence." 
" You must be mistaken," said Catherine. " He 
trusts me." 
" I hope he may never repent of it !" And Mrs. 
Penniman gave a little sharp slap to her newspaper. 
She knew not what to make of her niece, who had 
suddenly become stern and contradictious. 
This tendency on Catherine's part was presently 
even more apparent. " You had much better not 
make any more appointments with Mr. Townsend," 
she said. " I don't think it is right." 
Mrs. Penniman rose with considerable majesty. 
" My poor child, are you jealous of me ?" she in- 
quired. 
" Oh, Aunt Lavinia !" murmured Catherine, blush- 
ing. 
" I don't think it is your place to teach me what 
is right." 
On this point Catherine made no concession. " It 
can't be right to deceive." 
"I certainly have not deceived you!" 
" Yes ; but I promised my father 
" I have no doubt you promised your father. But 
I have promised him nothing." 
Catherine had to admit this, and she did so in 
silence. " I don't believe Mr. Townsend himself 
likes it," she said, at last. 
" Doesn't like meeting me ?" 
" Not in secret." 
" It was not in secret ; the place was full of peo- 
ple." 
"But it was a secret place away off in the 
Bowery." 
Mrs. Penniman flinched a little. " Gentlemen 
enjoy such things," she remarked, presently. " I 
know what gentlemen like." 
" My father wouldn't like it, if he knew." 
" Pray, do you propose to inform him ?" Mrs. 
Penniman inquired. 
" No, Aunt Lavinia. But please don't do it 
again." 
"If I do it again you will inform him is that 
what you mean ? I do not share your dread of my 
brother; I have always known how to defend my 
own position. But I shall certainly never again 
take any step on your behalf; you are much too 
thankless. I knew you were not a spontaneous nat- 
ure, but I believed you were firm, and I told your 
father that he would find you so. I am disappoint- 
ed, but your father will not be." And with this 
Mrs. Penniman offered her niece a brief good-night, 
and withdrew to her own apartment. 
XVIII. 
CATHERINE sat alone by the parlor fire sat there 
for more than an hour, lost in her meditations. Her 
aunt seemed to her aggressive and foolish ; and to 
see it so clearly to judge Mrs. Penniman so posi- 
tively made her feel old and grave. She did not 
resent the imputation of weakness; it made no 
impression on her, for she had not the sense of 
weakness, and she was not hurt at not being ap- 
preciated. She had an immense respect for her 
father, and she felt that to displease him would be 
a misdemeanor analogous to an act of profanity in 
a great temple : but her purpose had slowly ripened, 
and she believed that her prayers had purified it of 
its violence. The evening advanced, and the lamp 
burnt dim without her noticing it ; her eyes were 
fixed upon her terrible plan. She knew her father 
was in his study that he had been there all the 
evening; from time to time she expected to hear 
him move. She thought he would perhaps come, 
as he sometimes came, into the parlor. At last the 
clock struck eleven, and the house was wrapped in 
silence; the servants had gone to bed. Catherine 
got up and went slowly to the door of the library, 
where she waited a moment, motionless. Then she 
knocked, and then she waited again. Her father 
had answered her, but she had not the courage to 
turn the latch. What she had said to her aunt was 
true enough she was afraid of him ; and in saying 
that she had no sense of weakness, she meant that 
she was not afraid of herself. She heard him move 
within, and he came and opened the door for her. 
" What is the matter ?" asked the Doctor. " You 
are standing there like a ghost !" 
She went into the room, but it was some time be- 
fore she contrived to say what she had come to say. 
Her father, who was in his dressing-gown and slip- 
pers, had been busy at his writing-table, and after 
looking at her for some moments, and waiting for 
her to speak, he went and seated himself at his 
papers again. His back was turned to her she 
began to hear the scratching of his pen. She re- 
mained near the door, with her heart thumping be- 
neath her bodice; and she was very glad that his 
back was turned, for it seemed to her that she could 
more easily address herself to this portion of his 
person than to his face. At last she began, watch- 
ing it while she spoke : 
"You told me that if I should have anything 
more to say about Mr. Townsend you would be glad 
to listen to it." 
" Exactly, my dear," said the Doctor, not turning 
round, but stopping his pen. 
Catherine wished it would go on, but she herself 
continued : "I thought I would tell you that I 
have not seen him again, but that I should like to 
do so." 
" To bid him good-bye ?" asked the Doctor. 
The girl hesitated a moment. " He is not going 
away." 
The Doctor wheeled slowly round in his chair, 
with a smile that seemed to accuse her of an 
epigram; but extremes meet, and Catherine had 
not intended one. "It is not to bid him good-bye, 
then ?" her father said. 
" No, father, not that ; at least not forever. I 
have not seen him again, but I should like to see 
him," Catherine repeated. 
The Doctor slowly rubbed his underlip with the 
feather of his quill. 
" Have you written to him ?" ' 
" Yes, four times." 
" You have not dismissed him, then. Once would 
have done that." 
" No," said Catherine ; " I have asked him asked 
him to wait." 
Her father sat looking at her, and she was afraid 
he was going to break out into wrath, his eyes were 
so fine and cold. 
" You are a dear, faithful child," he said, at last. 
" Come here to your father." And he got up, hold- 
ing out his hands toward her. 
The words were a surprise, and they gave her an 
exquisite joy. She went to him, and he put his arm 
round her tenderly, soothingly ; and then he kissed 
her. After this he said, 
" Do you wish to make me very happy ?" 
" I should like to but I am afraid I can't," Cathe- 
rine answered. 
" You can if you will. It all depends on your 
will." 
" Is it to give him up ?" said Catherine. 
" Yes, it is to give him up." 
And he held her still, with the same tenderness, 
looking into her face and resting his eyes on her 
averted eyes. There was a long silence ; she wished 
he would release her. 
" You are happier than I, father," she said, at last. 
" I have no doubt you are unhappy just now. 
But it is better to be unhappy for three months and 
get over it, than for many years and never get over 
it." 
" Yes, if that were so," said Catherine. 
" It would be so ; I am sure of that." She an- 
swered nothing, and he went on : " Have you no 
faith in my wisdom, in my tenderness, in my solici- 
tude for your future 3" 
" Oh, father !" murmured the girl. 
" Don't you suppose that I know something of 
men their vices, their follies, their falsities ?" 
She detached herself, and turned upon him. " He 
is not vicious lie is not false !" 
Her father kept looking at her with his sharp, 
pure eye. "You make nothing of my judgment, 
then ?" 
" I can't believe that !" 
" I don't ask you to believe it, but to take it on 
trust." 
Catherine was far from saying to herself that this 
was an ingenious sophism ; but she met the appeal 
none the less squarely. " What has he done what 
do you know ?" 
" He has never done anything he is a selfish 
idler." 
" Oh, father, don't abuse him !" she exclaimed, 
pleadingly. 
" I don't mean to abuse him ; it would be a great 
mistake. You may do as you choose," he added, 
turning away. 
" I may see him again P 
" Just as you choose." 
" Will you forgive me 2" 
" By no means." 
" It will only be for once." 
"I don't know what you mean by once. You 
must either give him up or continue the acquaint- 
ance." 
" I wish to explain to tell him to wait." 
" To wait for what ?" 
" Till you know him better till you consent." 
" Don't tell him any such nonsense as that. I 
know him well enough, and I shall never consent." 
" But we can wait a long time," said poor Cathe- 
rine, in a tone which was meant to express the hum- 
blest conciliation, but which had upon her father's 
nerves the effect of an iteration not characterized 
by tact. 
The Doctor answered, however, quietly enough : 
" Of course ; you can wait till I die, if you like." 
Catherine gave a cry of natural horror. 
" Your engagement will have one delightful effect 
upon you ; it will make you extremely impatient for 
that event." 
Catherine stood staring, and the Doctor enjoyed 
the point he had made. It came to Catherine with 
the force or rather with the vague impressiveness 
of a logical axiom which it was not in her prov- 
ince to controvert ; and yet, though it was a scien- 
tific truth, she felt wholly unable to accept it. 
" I would rather not marry, if that were true," 
she said. 
" Give me a proof of it, then ; for it is beyond a 
question that by engaging yourself to Morris Towns- 
end you simply wait for my death." 
She turned away, feeling sick and faint ; and the 
Doctor went on: "And if you wait for it with im- 
patience, judge, if you please, what his eagerness 
will be." 
Catherine turned it over her father's words had 
such an authority for her that her very thoughts 
were capable of obeying him. There was a dread- 
ful ugliness in it, which seemed to glare at her 
through the interposing medium of her own feebler 
reason. Suddenly, however, she had an inspiration 
she almost knew it to be an inspiration. 
" If I don't marry before your death, I will not 
after," she said. 
To her father, it must be admitted, this seemed 
only another epigram ; and as obstinacy, in unac- 
complished minds, does not usually select such a 
mode of expression, he was the more surprised at 
this wanton play of a fixed idea. 
" Do you mean that for an impertinence ?" he in- 
quired ; an inquiry of which, as he made it, he quite 
perceived the grossness. 
"An impertinence? Oh, father, what terrible 
things you say !" 
" If you don't wait for my death, you might as 
well marry immediately; there is nothing else to 
wait for." 
For some time Catherine made no answer; but 
finally she said, 
" I think Morris little by little might persuade 
you." 
" I shall never let him speak to me again. I dis- 
like him too much." 
Catherine gave a long, low sigh ; she tried to stifle 
it, for she had made up her mind that it was wrong 
to make a parade of her trouble, and to endeavor to 
act upon her father by the meretricious aid of emo- 
tion. Indeed, she even thought it wrong in the 
sense of being inconsiderate to attempt to act upon 
his feelings at all; her part was to effect some gen- 
tle, gradual change in his intellectual perception of 
poor Morris's character. But the means of effecting 
such a change were at present shrouded in mystery, 
and she felt miserably helpless and hopeless. She 
had exhausted all arguments, all replies. Her father 
might have pitied her, and in fact he did so ; but he 
was sure he was right. 
" There is one thing you can tell Mr. Townsend 
when you see him again," he said, "that if you 
marry without my consent, I don't leave you a far- 
thing of money. That will interest him more than 
anything else you can tell him." 
" That would be very right," Catherine answered. 
" I ought not in that case to have a farthing of your 
money." 
" My dear child," the Doctor observed, laughing, 
"your simplicity is touching. Make that remark, 
in that tone, and with that expression of counte- 
nance, to Mr. Townsend, and take a note of his an- 
swer. It won't be polite it will express irritation ; 
and I shall be glad of that, as it will put me in the 
right; unless, indeed which is perfectly possible 
you should like him the better for being rude to you." 
"He will never be rude to me," said Catherine, 
gently. 
" Tell him what I say, all the same." 
She looked at her father, and her quiet eyes filled 
with tears. 
