" I want to marry with my eyes open. I want to 
hnow my wife. You don't know people when you are 
in love with them. Your impressions are colored." 
" They are supposed to be, slightly. And you ob- 
ject to color ? " 
"Well, as I say, I want to know the woman I 
marry, as I should know any one else. I want to see 
her as clearly." 
" Depend upon it, you have too great an appetite 
for knowledge ; you set too high an esteem upon the 
dry light of science." 
" Ah ! " said Gordon promptly ; " of course I want to 
be fond of her." 
Bernard, in spite of his protest, began to laugh 
again. 
" My dear Gordon, you are better than your theo- 
ries. Your passionate heart contradicts your frigid 
intellect. I repeat it — you are in love." 
" Please don't repeat it again," said Wright. 
Bernard took his arm, and they walked along. 
" What shall I call it, then ? You are engaged in 
making studies for matrimony." 
" I don't in the least object to your calling it that. 
My studies are of extreme interest." 
" And one of those young ladies is the fair volume 
that contains the precious lesson," said Longueville. 
" Or perhaps your text-book is in two volumes ? " 
" No ; there is one of them I am not studying at 
all. I never could do two things at once." 
" That proves you are in love. One can't be in 
love with two women at once, but one may perfectly 
have two of them — or as many as you please — up 
for a competitive examination. However, as I asked 
you before, which of these young ladies is it that you 
have selected ? " 
Gordon Wright stopped abruptly, eying his friend. 
" Which should you say ? " 
"Ah, that's not a fair question," Bernard urged. 
"It would he invidious for me to name one rather 
than the other, and if I were to mention the wrong 
one, I should feel as if I had heen guilty of a rude- 
ness towards the other. Don't you see ? " 
Gordon saw, perhaps, but he held to his idea of 
making his companion commit himself 
" Never mind the rudeness. I will do the same by 
you some day, to make it up. Which of them should 
you think me likely to have taken a fancy to ? On 
general grounds, now, from what you know of me ? " 
He proposed this problem with an animated eye. 
" You forget," his friend said, " that though I know, 
thank heaven, a good deal of you, I know very little 
of either of those girls. I have had too little evi- 
dence." 
" Yes, but you are a man who notices. That 's why 
I wanted you to come." 
" I spoke only to Miss Evers." 
"Yes, I know you have never spoken to Miss 
Vivian." Gordon Wright stood looking at Bernard 
and urging his point as he pronounced these words. 
Bernard felt peculiarly conscious of his gaze. The 
words represented an illusion, and Longueville asked 
himself quickly whether it were not his duty to 
dispel it. The answer came more slowly than the 
question, but still it came, in the shape of a negative. 
The illusion was but a trifling one, and it was not for 
him, after all, to let his friend know that he had 
already met Miss Vivian. It was for the young girl 
herself, and since she had not done so — although she 
had the opportunity — Longueville said to himself 
that he was bound in honor not to speak. These 
reflections were very soon made, but in the midst 
of them our young man, thanks to a great agility of 
mind, found time to observe, tacitly, that it was odd, 
just there, to see his " honor " thrusting in its nose. 
Miss Vivian, in her own good time, would doubtless 
mention to Gordon the little incident of Siena. It 
was Bernard's fancy, for a moment, that he already 
knew it, and that the remark he had just uttered had 
an ironical accent; but this impression was com- 
pletely dissipated by the tone in which he added — 
" All the same, you noticed her." 
" Oh, yes ; she is very noticeable." 
" Well, then," said Gordon, " you will see. I should 
like you to make it out. Of course, if I am really 
giving my attention to one to the exclusion of the 
other, it will be easy to discover." 
Longueville was half amused, half irritated by his 
friend's own relish of his little puzzle. " ' The ex- 
clusion of the other' has an awkward sound," he 
answered, as they walked on. "Am I to notice that 
you are very rude to one of the young ladies ? " 
" Oh dear, no. Do you think there is -a danger of 
that ? " 
" Well," said Longueville, " I have already guessed." 
Gordon Wright remonstrated. "Don't guess yet 
— wait a few days. I won't tell you now." 
" Let us see if he doesn 't tell me," said Bernard, 
privately. And he meditated a moment. " When I 
presented myself, you were sitting very close to Miss 
Evers and talking very earnestly. Your head was 
bent toward her — it was very lover-like. Decidedly, 
Miss Evers is the object ! "  
For a single instant Gordon Wright hesitated, and 
then — "I hope I haven't seemed rude to Miss 
Vivian ! " he exclaimed. 
Bernard broke into a light laugh. " My dear Gor- 
don, you are very much in love ! " he remarked, as 
they arrived at their hotel. 
Life at Baden-Baden proved a very sociable affair, 
and Bernard Longueville perceived that he should not 
lack opportiisiity for the exercise of those gifts of 
intelligence to which Gordon "Wright had appealed. 
The two friends took long walks through the woods 
and over the mountains, and they mingled with hu- 
man life in the crowded precincts of the Conversa- 
tion-house. They engaged in a ramble on the 
morning after Bernard's arrival, and wandered far 
away, over hill and dale. The Baden forests are 
superb, and the composition of the landscape is most 
effective. There is always a bosky dell in the fore- 
ground, and a purple crag embellished with a ruined 
tower at a proper angle. A little timber-and-plaster 
village peeps out from a tangle of plum-trees, and a 
way-side tavern, in comfortable recurrence, solicits 
concessions to the national custom of frequent refresh- 
ment. Gordon Wright, who was a dogged pedestrian, 
always enjoyed doing his ten miles, and Longueville, 
who was an incorrigible stroller, felt a keen relish 
for the picturesqueness of the country. But it was 
not, on this occasion, of the charms of the landscape 
or the pleasures of locomotion that they chiefly dis- 
coursed. Their talk took a more closely personal 
turn. It was a year since they had met, and there 
were many questions to ask and answer, many arrears 
of g&ssip to make up. As they stretched themselves 
on the grass on a sun-warmed hill-side, beneath a 
great German oak whose arms were quiet in the blue 
summer air, there was a lively exchange of impres- 
sions, opinions, speculations, anecdotes,..* Gordon 
Wright was surely an excellent friend. He took an 
interest in you. He asked no idle questions and 
made no vague professions ; but he entered into your 
situation, he examined it in detail, and what he 
learned he never forgot. Months afterwards, he asked 
you about things which you yourself had forgotten 
He was not a man of whom it would be generally 
said that he had the gift of sympathy ; but he gave 
his attention to a friend's circumstances with a con- 
scientious fixedness which was at least very far 
removed from indifference. Bernard had the gift of 
sympathy — or at least he was supposed to have it ; 
but even he, familiar as he must therefore have been 
with the practice of this charming virtue, was at 
times so struck with his friend's fine faculty of tak- 
ing other people's affairs seriously that he constantly 
exclaimed to hinlself, "The excellent fellow — the 
admirable nature ! " 
Bernard had two or three questions to ask about 
the three persons who appeared to have formed for 
some time his companion's principal society, but he 
was indisposed to press them. He felt that he should 
see for himself, and at a prospect of entertainment 
of this kind, his fancy always kindled. Gordon was, 
moreover, at iirst rather shy of confidences, though 
after they had lain on the grass ten minutes there 
was a good deal said. 
" Now what do you think of her face ? " Gordon 
asked, after staring a while at the sky through the 
oak-boughs. 
" Of course, in future," said Longueville, " when- 
ever you make use of the personal pronoun feminine, 
I am to understand that Miss Vivian is indicated." 
"Her name i s Angela' said Gordon; "but of 
course I can scarcely call her that." 
" It 's a beautiful name," Longueville rejoined ; " but 
I may say, in answer to your question, that I am not 
struck with the fact that her face corresponds to it." 
" You don't think her face beautiful, then ? " 
" I don't think it angelic. But how can I tell ? I 
have only had a glimpse of her." 
" Wait till she looks at you and speaks — wait till 
she smiles," said Gordon. 
" I don't think T saw her smile — ; .t least, not at 
me, directly. I hope she will ! " Longueville went 
on. But who is she — this beautiful girl with the 
beautiful name ? " 
" She is her mother's daughter," said Gordon 
Wright. "I don't really know a great deal more 
about her than that." 
" And who is her mother ? " 
" A delightful little woman, devoted to Miss Vivian. 
She is a widow, and Angela is her only child. They 
have lived a great deal in Europe ; they have but a 
modest income. Over here, Mrs. Vivian says, they 
can get a lot of things for their money that they 
can't get at home. So they stay, you see. When 
they are at home they live in New York. They 
know some of my people there. When they are in 
Europe they live about in different places. They are 
fond of Italy. They are extremely nice ; it 's impos 
sible to be nicer. They are very fond of books, fond 
of music, and art, and all that. They always read in 
the morning. They only come out rather late in 
the day." 
"I see they are very superior people," said Ber- 
nard. "And little Miss Evers — what does she do 
in the morning? I know what she does in the 
evening ! " 
"I don't know what her regular habits are. I 
haven 't paid much attention to her. She is very 
pretty." 
" Wunderschon ! " said Bernard. " But you were 
certainly talking to her last evening." 
" Of course I talk to her sometimes. She is totally 
different from Angela Vivian — not nearly so culti- 
vated ; but she seems very charming." 
" A little silly, eh ? " Bernard suggested 
" She certainly is not so wise as Miss Vivian." 
" That would be too much to ask, eh ? But the 
Vivians, as kind as they are wise, have taken her 
under their protection." 
" Yes," said Gordon, " they are to keep her another 
month or two. Her mother has gone to Marienbad, 
which I believe is thought a dull place for a young 
girl ; so .that, as they were coming here, they offered 
to bring her with them. Mrs. Evers is an old friend 
of Mrs. Vivian, who, on leaving Italy, had come up 
to Dresden to be with her. They spent a month 
there together ; Mrs. Evers had been there since the 
winter. I think Mrs. Vivian really came to Baden- 
Baden — she would have preferred a less expensive 
place — to bring Blanche Evers. Her mother wanted 
her so much to come." 
"And was it for her sake that Captain Lovelock 
came, too ? " Bernard asked. 
Gordon Wright stared a moment. 
" I 'm sure I don't know ! " 
"Of course you can't be interested in that," said 
Bernard smiling. " Who is Captain Lovelock ! " 
"He is an Englishman. I believe he is what's 
called aristocratically connected — the younger 
brother of a lord, or something of that sort." 
" Is he a clever man ? " 
" I haven 't talked with him much, but I doubt it. 
He is rather rakish ; he plays a great deal." 
" But is that considered here a proof of rakish- 
ness ? " asked Bernard. " Haven 't you played a Kttle 
yourself?" 
Gordon hesitated a moment. 
"Yes, I have played a little. I wanted to try 
some experiments. I had made some arithmetical 
calculations of probabilities, which I wished to test." 
Bernard gave a long laugh. 
"I am delighted with the reasons you give for 
amusing yourself ! Arithmetical calculations ! " 
" I assure you they are the real reasons ! " said 
Gordon, blushing a little. 
" That 's just the beauty of it. You were not 
afraid of being ' drawn in,' as little Miss Evers 
says ? " 
'' I am never drawn in, whatever the thing may be. 
I go in, or I stay out; but I am not drawn," said 
Gordon Wright. 
" You were not drawn into coming with Mrs. Vivian 
and her daughter from Dresden to this place ? " 
" I didn' t come with them ; I came a week later." 
" My "dear fellow," said Bernard, " that distinction 
is unworthy of your habitual candor." 
" Well, I was not fascinated ; I was not overmas- 
tered. I wanted to come to Baden." 
" I have no doubt you did. Had you become very 
intimate with your friends in Dresden ? " 
" I had only seen them three times." 
"After which you followed them to this place ? 
Ah, don't say you were not fascinated ! " cried Ber- 
nard, laughing and springing to his feet. 
VI. 
That evening, in the gardens of the Kursaal, he 
renewed acquaintance with Angela Vivian. Her 
mother came, as usual, to sit and listen to the music, 
accompanied by Blanche Evers, who was in turn at- 
tended by Captain Lovelock. This little party found 
privacy in the crowd; they seated themselves in a 
quiet corner in an angle of one of the barriers of the 
terrace, while the movement of the brilliant Baden 
world went on around them. Gordon "Wright en- 
gaged in conversation with Mrs. Vivian, while Ber- 
nard enjoyed an interview with her daughter. This 
young lady continued to ignore the fact of their 
previous meeting, and our hero said to himself that 
all he wished was to know what she preferred — he 
would rigidly conform to it. He conformed to her 
present programme ; he had ventured to pronounce 
the word Siena the evening before, but he was careful 
not to pronounce it again. She had her reasons for 
her own reserve ; he wondered what they were, and 
it gave him a certain pleasure to wonder. He en- 
joyed the consciousness of their having a secret to- 
gether, and it became a kind of entertaining suspense 
to see how long she would continue to keep it. For 
himself, he was in no hurry to let the daylight in ; 
the little incident at Siena had been, in itself, a charm- 
ing affair ; but Miss Vivian's present attitude gave it 
a sort of mystic consecration. He thought she car- 
ried it off very well — the theory that she had not 
seen him before ; last evening she had been slightly 
confused, but now she was as self-possessed as if the 
line she had taken were a matter of conscience. Why 
should it be a matter of conscience ? Was she in 
love with Gordon Wright, and did she wish, in con- 
sequence, to forget — and wish him not to suspect — 
that she had ever received an expression of admira- 
tion from another man ? This was not likely ; it was 
not likely, at least, that Miss Vivian wished to pass 
for a prodigy of innocence ; for if to be admired is to 
pay a tribute to corruption, it was perfectly obvious 
that so handsome a girl miist have tasted of the tree 
of knowledge. As for her being in love with Gordon 
Wright, that of course was another affair, and Bernard 
did not pretend, as yet, to have an opinion on this 
point, beyond hoping very much that she might be. 
He was not wrong in the impression of her good 
looks that he had carried away from the short inter- 
view at Siena. She had a charmingly chiselled face, 
with a free, pure outline, a clear, fair complexion, and 
the eyes and hair of a dusky beauty. Her features 
had a firmness which suggested tranquillity, and yet 
her expression was light and quick, a combination — 
or a contradiction — which gave an original stamp to 
her beauty. Bernard remembered that he had thought 
it a trifle "bold"; but he now perceived that this 
had been but a vulgar misreading of her dark, direct, 
observant eye. The eye was a charming one ; Ber- 
nard discovered in it, little by little, all sorts of things ; 
and Miss Vivian was, for the present, simply a hand- 
some, intelligent, smiling girl. He gave her an op- 
portunity to make an allusion to Siena ; he said to 
her that his friend told him that she and her mother 
had been spending the winter in Italy. 
" Oh yes," said Angela Vivian ; " we were in the 
far south ; we were five months at Sorrento." 
" And nowhere else ? " 
" We spent a few days in Eome. We usually pre- 
fer the quiet places ; that is my mother's taste." 
" It was not your mother's taste, then," said Ber- 
nard, " that brought you to Baden ? " 
She looked at him a moment. 
" You mean that Baden is not quiet ? " 
Longueville glanced about at the moving, murmur- 
ing crowd, at the lighted windows of the Conversa- 
tion-house, at the great orchestra perched up in its 
pagoda. 
" This is not my idea of absolute tranquillity." 
" Nor mine, either," said Miss Vivian. " I am not 
fond of absolute tranquillity." 
" How do you arrange it, then, with your mother ? " 
Again she looked at him a moment, with her clever, 
slightly mocking smile. 
" As you see. By making her come where I wish." 
" You have a strong will," said Bernard. " I see 
that." 
" No. I have simply a weak mother. But I make 
sacrifices too, sometimes." 
" What do you call sacrifices ? " 
" Well, spending the winter at Sorrento." 
Bernard began to laugh, and then he told her she 
must have had a very happy life — " to call a winter 
at Sorrento a sacrifice." 
" It depends upon what one gives up," said Miss 
Vivian. 
" What did you give up ? " 
She touched him with her mocking smile again. 
" That is not a very civil question, asked in that 
way." 
"You mean that I seem to doubt your abnega- 
tion?" 
" You seem to insinuate that I had nothing to re- 
nounce. I gave up — I gave up — " and she looked 
about her, considering a little — "I gave up society." 
" I am glad you remember what it was," said Ber- 
nard. " If I have seemed uncivil, let me make it up. 
When a woman speaks of giving up society, what she 
means is giving up admiration. You can never have 
given up that — you can nevisr have escaped from it. 
You must have found it even at Sorrento." 
" It may have heen there, but I never found it. It 
 was very respectful — it never expressed itseE" 
" That is the deepest kind," said Bernard. 
" I prefer the shallower varieties," the young girl 
answered. 
"Well,", said Bernard, "you must remember that 
although shallow admiration expresses itself, all the 
admiration that expresses itself is not shallow." 
Miss Vivian hesitated a moment. 
"Some of it is impertinent," she said, looking 
straight at him, rather gravely. 
Bernard hesitated about as long. 
" When it is impertinent it is shallow. That comes 
to the same thing." 
The young girl frowned a little. 
