liked me to marry? " she asked, suddenly. " You talk about 
one's soaring and sailing, but if one marries at all one touches 
the earth. One has human feelings and needs, one has a heart 
in one's bosom, and one must marry a particular individual. 
Your mother has never forgiven me for not having come to a 
better understanding with Lord Warburton, and she is horrified 
at my contenting myself with a person who has none of Lord 
Warburton's great advantages no property, no title, no honours, 
no houses, nor lands, nor position, nor reputation, nor brilliant 
belongings of any sort. It is the total absence of all these 
bhings that pleases me. Mr. Osmond is simply a man he is 
aor. a proprietor ! " 
Ralph had listened with great attention, as if everything she 
said merited deep consideration ; but in reality he was only half 
 
thinking of the things she said, he was for the rest simply- 
accommodating himself to the weight of his total impression 
the impression of her  passionate good faith. She was wrong, 
but she believed; she was deluded, but she was consistent. It 
was wonderfully characteristic of her that she had invented a 
fine theory about Gilbert Osmond, and loved him, not for what 
he really possessed, but for his very poverties dressed out as 
honours. Ralph remembered what he had said to his father 
about wishing to put it into Isabel's power to gratify her imagin- 
ation. He had done so, and the girl had taken full advantage 
of the privilege. Poor Ralph felt sick ; he felt ashamed. Isabel 
had uttered her last words with a low solemnity of conviction 
which virtually terminated the discussion, and she closed it 
formally by turning away and walking back to the house. 
Ralph walked beside her. and they passed into the court to- 
gether and reached the big staircase. Here Ralph stopped, and 
Isabel paused, turning on him a face full of a deep elation at 
his opposition having made her own conception of her conduct 
more clear to her. 
" Shall you not come up to breakfast? " she asked. 
" No ; I want no breakfast, I am not hungry." 
" You ought to eat," said the girl ; "you live on air." 
" I do, very much, and I shall go back into the garden and 
take another mouthful of it. I came thus far simply to say this. 
I said to you last year that if you were to get into trouble I 
should feel terribly sold. That's how I feel to-day." 
" Do you think I am in trouble   " 
" One is in trouble when one is in error." 
"Very well," said Isabel; "I shall never complain of my 
trouble to you ! " And she moved up the staircase. 
Ralph, standing there with his hands in his pockets, followed 
her with his eyes ; then the lurking chill of the high-walled 
court struck him and made him shiver, so that he returned to 
the garden, to breakfast on the Florentine sunshine. 
XXXY. 
ISABEL, when she strolled in the Cascine with her lover, felt 
no impulse to tell him that he was not thought well of at the 
Palazzo Crescentini. The discreet opposition offered to her 
marriage by her aunt and her cousin made on the whole 
little impression upon her ; the moral of it was simply that they 
disliked Gilbert Osmond. This dislike was not alarming to 
Isabel ; she scarcely even regretted it ; for it served mainly to 
throw into higher relief the fact, in every way so honourable, that 
she married to please herself. One did other things to please 
other people ; one did this for a more personal satisfaction ; and 
Isabel's satisfaction was confirmed by her lover's admirable good 
conduct. Gilbert Osmond was in love, and he had .never 
deserved less than during these still, bright days, each of them 
numbered, which preceded the fulfilment of his hopes, the harsh 
criticism passed upon him by Ealph Touchett. The chief 
impression produced upon Isabel's mind by this criticism was 
that the passion of love separated its victim terribly from every 
one but the loved object. She felt herself disjoined from every 
one she had ever known before from her two sisters, who wrote 
to express a dutiful hope that she would be happy, and a sur- 
prise, somewhat more vague, at her not having chosen a consort 
who was the hero of a richer accumulation of anecdote ; from 
Henrietta, who, she was sure, would come out, too late, on pur- 
pose to remonstrate ; from Lord Warburton, who would certainly 
console himself, and from Caspar Goodwood, who perhaps would 
not ; from her aunt, who had cold, shallow ideas about marriage, 
for which she was not sorry to manifest her contempt ; and from 
Ralph, whose talk about having great views for her was surely 
but a whimsical cover for a personal disappointment. Ealph 
apparently wished her not to marry at all that was what it 
really meant because he was amused with the spectacle of her 
adventures as a single woman. His disappointment made him 
say angry things about the man she had preferred even to him : 
Isabel nattered herself that she believed Ealph had been angry. 
It was the more easy for her to believe this, because, as I say, 
she thought on the whole but little about it, and accepted as an 
incident of her lot the idea that to prefer Gilbert Osmond as she 
preferred him was perforce to break all other ties. She tasted of 
the sweets of this preference, and they made her feel that there 
was after all something very invidious in being in love ; much 
as the sentiment was theoretically approved of. It was the 
tragical side of happiness ; one's right was always made of the 
wrong of some one else. Gilbert Osmond was not demonstra- 
tive ; the consciousness of success, which must now have flamed 
high within him, emitted very little smoke for so brilliant a 
blaze. Contentment, on. his part, never took a vulgar form ; 
excitement, in the most self-conscious of men, was a kind of 
ecstasy of self-control. This disposition, however, made him an 
admirable lover ; it gave him a constant view of the amoious 
 
character. He never forgot himself, as I say ; and so he never 
forgot to be graceful and tender, to wear the appearance of 
devoted intention. He was immensely pleased with his young 
lady ; Madame Merle had made him a present of incalculable 
value. What could be a finer thing to live with than a high 
spirit attuned to softness? For would not the softness be all for 
one's self, and the strenuousness for society, which admired the 
air of superiority ? What could be a happier gift in a companion 
than a quick, fanciful mind, which saved one repetitions, and 
reflected one's thought upon a scintillating surface ? Osmond 
disliked to see his thought reproduced literally that made it 
look stale and stupid ; he preferred it to be brightened in the 
reproduction. His egotism, if egotism it was, had never taken 
the crude form of wishing for a dull wife ; this lady's intelligence 
was to be a silver plate, not an earthen one a plate that he 
might heap up with ripe fruits, to which it would give a decora- 
tive value, so that conversation might become a sort of perpetual 
dessert. He found the silvery quality in perfection in Isabel ; 
he could tap her imagination with his knuckle and make it ring. 
He knew perfectly, though he had not been told, that the union 
found little favour among the girl's relations ; but he had always 
treated her so completely as an independent person that it 
hardly seemed necessary to express regret for the attitude of her 
family. Nevertheless, one morning, he made an abrupt allusion 
to it. 
" It's the difference in our fortune they don't like," he said. 
" They think I am in love with your money." 
" Are you speaking of my aunt of my cousin?" Isabel asked. 
" How do you know what they think? " 
"You have not told me that they are pleased, and when I 
wrote to Mrs. Touchett the other day she never answered my 
note. If they had been delighted I should have learnt it, and 
the fact of my being poor and you rich is the most obvious 
explanation of their want of delight. But, of course, when a 
poor man marries a rich girl he must be prepared for imputations. 
I don't mind them ; I only care for one thing your thinking 
it's all right. I don't care what others think. I have never 
cared much, and why should I begin to-day, when I have taken 
to myself a compensation for everything ? I won't pretend that 
I am sorry you are rich ; I am delighted. I delight in every- 
thing that is yours whether it be money or virtue. Money is 
a great advantage. It seems to me, however, that I have suffi 
ciently proved that I can get on without it ; I never in my life 
tried to earn a penny, and 1 ought to be less subject to suspicion 
than most people. I suppose it is their business to suspect 
that of your own family ; it's proper on the whole they should. 
They will like me better some day ; so will you, for that matter. 
Meanwhile my business is not to bother, but simply to be thank- 
ful for life and love. It has made me better, loving you," he 
said on another occasion; "it has made me wiser, and easier, 
and brighter. I used to want a great many things before, and 
to be angry that I didn't have them. Theoretically, I was 
satisfied, as I once told you. I nattered myself that I had 
limited my wants. But I was subject to irritation ; I used to 
have morbid, sterile, hateful fits of hunger, of desire. Now I 
am really satisfied, because I can't think of anything better. It 
is just as when one has been trying to spell out a book in the 
twilight, and suddenly the lamp comes in. I had been putting 
out my eyes over the book of life, and finding nothing to reward 
me for my pains ; but now that I can read it properly I see that 
it's a delightful story. My dear girl, I can't tell you how life 
seems to stretch there before us what a long summer afternoon 
awaits us. It's the latter half of an Italian day with a golden 
haze, and the shadows just lengthening, and that divine delicacy 
in the light, the air, the landscape, which I have loved all my 
life, and which you love to-day. Upon my word, I don't see 
why we shouldn't get on. We have got what we like to say 
nothing of having each other. We have the faculty of admir- 
ation, and several excellent beliefs. We are not stupid, we are 
not heavy, we are not under bonds to any dull limitations. You 
are very fresh, and I am well-seasoned. We have got my poor 
child to amuse us ; we will try and make up some little life for 
her. It is all soft and mellow it has the Italian colouring." 
They made a good many plans, but they left themselves also 
a good deal of latitude ; it was a matter of course, however, that 
they should live for the present in Italy. It w r as in Italy that 
they had met, Italy had been a party to their first impressions 
of each other, and Italy should be a party to their happiness. 
Osmond had the attachment of old acquaintance, and Isabel the 
stimulus of new, which seemed to assure her a future of beautiful 
hours. The desire for unlimited expansion had been succeeded 
in her mind by the sense that life was vacant without some 
private duty which gathered one's energies to a point. She told 
Ralph that she had "seen life " in a year or two, and that she 
was already tired, not of life, but of observation.  What had 
become of all her ardours, her aspirations, her theories, her high 
estimate of her independence, and her incipient conviction that 
she should never marry? These things had been absorbed in a 
 
more primitive sentiment a sentiment which answered all 
questions, satisfied all needs, solved all difficulties. It sim- 
plified the future at. a stroke, it came down from above, like 
the light of the stars, and it needed no explanation. There 
was explanation enough in the fact that he was her lover, her 
own, and that she was able to be of use to him. She could 
marry him with a kind of pride; she was not only taking, 
but giving. 
He brought Pansy with him two or three times to the Cascine 
Pansy who was very little taller than a year before, and not 
much older. That she would always be a child was the convic- 
tion expressed by her father, who held her by the hand when 
she was in her sixteenth year, and told her to go and play while 
he sat down a while with the pretty lady. Pansy wore a short 
dress and a long coat ; her hat always seemed too big for her. 
She amused herself with walking off, with quick, short steps, to 
the end of the alley, and then walking back with a smile that 
seemed an appeal for approbation. Isabel gave her approbation 
in abundance, and it was of that demonstrated personal kind 
which the child's affectionate nature craved. She watched her 
development with a kind of amused suspense ; Pansy had already 
become a little daughter. She was treated so completely as a 
child that Osmond had not yet explained to her the new relation 
in which he stood to the elegant Miss Archer. " She doesn't 
know," he said to Isabel; "she doesn't suspect; she thinks it 
perfectly natural that you and I should come and walk here 
together, simply as good friends. There seems to me something 
enchantingly innocent in that ; it's the way I like her to be. 
No, I am not a failure, as I used to think ; I have succeeded in 
two things. I am to marry the woman I adore, and I have 
brought up my child as I wished, in the old way." 
He was very fond, in all things, of the " old way ; " that 
had struck Isabel as an element in the refinement of his 
character. 
" It seems to me you will not know whether you have suc- 
ceeded until you have told her," she said. " You must see how 
she takes your news. She may be horrified she may be 
jealous." 
" I am not afraid of that ; she is too fond of you on her own 
account. I should like to leave her in the dark a little longer 
to see if it will come into her head that if we are not engaged 
we ought to be." 
Isabel was impressed by Osmond's esthetic relish of Pansy's 
innocence her own appreciation of it being more moral. She 
 
was perhaps not the less pleased when he told her a few days 
later that he had broken the news to his daughter, who made 
such a pretty little speech. " Oh, then I shall have a sister ! " 
She was neither surprised nor alarmed ; she had not cried, as he 
expected. 
" Perhaps she had guessed it," said Isabel. 
" Don't say that ; I should be disgusted if I believed that. I 
thought it would be just a little shock ; but the way she took it 
proves that her good manners are paramount. That is also what 
I wished. You shall see for yourself; to-morrow she shall 
make you her congratulations in person." 
The meeting, on the morrow, took place at the Countess 
Gemini's, whither Pansy had been conducted by her father, who 
knew that Isabel was to come in the afternoon to return a visit 
made her by the Countess on learning that they were to become 
sister-in-law. Calling at Casa Touchett, the visitor had not 
found Isabel at home ; but after our young lady had been 
ushered into the Countess's drawing-room, Pansy came in to say 
that her aunt would presently appear. Pansy was spending the 
day with her aunt, who thought she was of an age when she should 
begin to learn how to carry herself in company. It was Isabel's 
view that the little girl might have given lessons in deportment 
to the elder lady, and nothing could have justified this conviction 
more than the manner in which Pansy acquitted herself while 
they waited together for the Countess. Her father's decision, 
the year before, had finally been to send her back to the convent 
to receive the last graces, and Madame Catherine had evidently 
carried out her theory that Pansy was to be fitted for the great 
world. 
" Papa has told me that you have kindly consented to marry 
him," said the good woman's pupil. "It is very delightful; I 
think you will suit very well." 
" You think I shall suit you ? " 
" You will suit me beautifully; but what I mean is that you 
and papa will suit each other. You are both so quiet and so 
serious. You are not so quiet as he or even as Madame Merle ; 
but you are more quiet than many others. He should not, for 
instance, have a wife like my aunt. She is always moving ; 
to-day especially; you will see when she comes in. They 
told us at the convent it was wrong to judge our elders, but 
I suppose there is no harm if we judge them favourably. You 
will be a delightful companion for papa." 
" For you too, I hope," Isabel said. 
" I speak fiwfc of him on purpose. I have told you already 
what I myself think of you ; I liked you from the first. I admire 
you so much that I think it will be a great good fortune to have 
you always before me. You will be my model ; I shall try 
to imitate you though I am afraid it will be very feeble. I 
am very glad for papa he needed something more than me. 
Without you, I don't see how he could have got it. You will 
be my stepmother ; but we must not use that word. You don't 
look at all like the word; it "is somehow so ugly. They are 
always said to be cruel ; but I think you will never be cruel. 
I am not afraid." 
" My good little Pansy," said Isabel, gently, " I shall be 
very kind to you." 
" Very well then ; I have nothing to fear," the child declared, 
lightly. 
Her description of her aunt had not been incorrect; the 
Countess Gemini was less than ever in a state of repose. She 
entered the room with a great deal of expression, and kissed 
Isabel, first on her lips, and then on each cheek, in the short, 
quick manner of a bird drinking. She made Isabel sit down on 
the sofa beside her, and looking at our heroine with a variety of 
turns of the head, delivered herself of a hundred remarks, from 
which I offer the reader but a brief selection. 
"If you expect me to congratulate you, I must beg you 
to excuse me. I don't suppose you care whether I do or not ; I 
believe you are very proud. But I care myself whether I tell 
fibs or not ; I never tell them unless there is something to be 
gained. I don't see what there is to be gained with you 
especially as you would not believe me. I 'don't make phrases 
I never made a phrase in my life. My fibs are always very 
crude. I am very glad, for my own sake, that you are going to 
marry Osmond ; but I won't pretend I am glad for yours. You 
are very remarkable you know that's what people call you ; you 
are an heiress, and very good-looking and clever, very original ; 
so it's a good thing to have you in the family. Our family is 
very good, you know ; Osmond will have told you that ; and my 
mother was rather distinguished she was called the American 
Corinne. But we are rather fallen, I think, and perhaps you 
will pick us up. I have great confidence in you ; there are ever 
so many things I want to talk to you about. I never congratu- 
late any girl on marrying ; I think it's the worst thing she can 
do. I suppose Pansy oughtn't to hear all this ; but that's what 
she has come to me for to acquire the tone of society. There 
is no harm in her knowing that it isn't such a blessing to get 
married. When first I got an idea that my brother had designs 
312 . 
upon you, I thought of writing to you, to recommend you, in 
the strongest terms, not to listen to him. Then I thought it 
would be disloyal, and I hate anything of that kind. Besides, 
as I say, I was enchanted, for myself; and after all, I am very 
selfish. By the way, you won't respect me, and we shall never 
be intimate. I should like it, but you won't. Some day, all the 
same, we shall be better friends than you will believe at first. 
My husband will come and see you, though, as you probably 
know, he is on no sort of terms with Osmond. He is very fond 
of going to see pretty women, but I am not afraid of you. In 
the first place, I don't care what he does. In the second, you 
won't care a straw for him; you will take his measure at a 
glance. Some day I will tell you all about him. Do you think 
my niece ought to go out of the room ? Pansy, go and practise 
a little in my boudoir." 
" Let her stay, please," said Isabel. " I would rather hear 
nothing that Pansy may not ! " 
XXXVI. 
ONE afternoon, towards dusk, in the autumn of 1876, a young 
man of pleasing appearance rang at the door of a small apartment 
on the third floor of an old Roman house. On its being opened 
he inquired for Madame Merle, whereupon the servant, a neat, 
plain woman, with a French face and a lady's maid's manner, 
ushered him into a diminutive drawing-room and requested the 
favour of his name. 
" Mr. Edward Rosier," paid the young man, who sat down to 
wait till his hostess should appear. 
The reader will perhaps not have forgotten that Mr. Rosier 
was an ornament of the American circle in Paris, but it may 
also be remembered that he sometimes vanished from its horizon. 
He had spent a portion of several winters at Pau, and as he was 
a gentleman of tolerably inveterate habits he might have con- 
tinued for years to pay his annual visit to this charming resort. 
In the summer of 1876, however, an incident befell him which 
changed the current, not only of his thoughts, but of his pro- 
ceedings. He passed -a month in the Tipper Engadine, and 
encountered at St. Moritz a charming young girl. For this 
young lady he conceived a peculiar admiration ; she was exactly 
the household angel he had long been looking for. He was 
never precipitate ; he was nothing if not discreet ; so he forbore 
for the present to declare his passion ; but it seemed to him 
when they parted the young lady to go down into Italy, and 
her admirer to proceed to Geneva, where he was under bonds to 
join some friends that he should be very unhappy if he were 
not to see her again. The simplest way to  o so was to go in 
the. autumn to Rome, where Miss Osmond was domiciled with 
her family. Rosier started on his pilgrimage to the Italian 
capital and reached it on the first of November. It was a pleasant 
thing to do ; but for the young man there was a strain of the 
heroic in the enterprise. He was nervous about the fever, and 
November, after all, was rather early in the season. Fortune, 
however, favours the brave ; and Mr. Rosier, who took three 
grains of quinine every day, had at the end of a month no cause 
to deplore his temerity. He had made to a certain extent good 
use of his time ; that is, he had perceived that Miss Pansy 
Osmond had not a flaw in her composition. She was admirably 
finished : she was in excellent style. He thought of her in 
amorous meditation a good deal as he might have thought of a 
Dresden-china shepherdess. Miss Osmond, indeed, in the bloom 
of her juvenility, had a touch of the rococo, which Rosier, whose 
taste was predominantly for that manner, could not fail to 
appreciate. That he esteemed the productions of comparatively 
frivolous periods would have been apparent from the attention 
he bestowed upon Madame Merle's drawing-room, which, although 
furnished with specimens of every style, was especially rich in 
articles of the last two centuries. He had immediately put a 
glass into one eye and looked round ; and then " By Jove ! 
she has some jolly good things ! " he had murmured to himself. 
The room was small, and densely filled with furniture ; it gave 
an impression of faded silk and little statuettes which might 
totter if one moved. Rosier got up and wandered about with 
his careful tread> bending over the tables charged with knick- 
Knacks and the cushions embossed with princely arms. When 
Madame Merle came in she found him standing before the fire- 
place, with his nose very close to the great lace flounce attached 
to the damask cover of the mantel. He had lifted it delicately, 
as if he were smelling it. 
