beneath, and Rotha was not one of the sort that can lift a corner to see 
what was hidden. There was enough not hidden, and she could wait. But as 
her eye roved from one thing to another, her heart gathered fuel for a 
fire that presently rivalled its more harmless neighbour in the grate; a 
fierce, steady, intense glow of wrath and indignation. This was how her 
mother's sister lived and had been living; and her mother in the poor 
little rooms in Jane Street. Magnificence and luxury here; and there toil 
and the bread of charity. And not a hand held out to help, nor love 
enough to be called upon for it. Rotha's heart fed its fire with dark 
displeasure. There was built up a barrier between her and her aunt, which 
threatened perpetual severance. Kindness might break it down; Rotha was 
open to kindness; but from this quarter she did not expect it. She bent 
her determination however on behaving herself so as Mr. Digby had wished. 
She would not shew what she thought. She would be quiet and polite and 
unexcited, like him. Poor Rotha! The fire should burn in her, and yet she 
would keep cool! 

She was studying the gas reading stand on the centre table, marvelling at 
the beauty of its marble shaft and the mystery of its cut glass shade, 
where bunches of grapes and vine leaves wandered about in somewhat stiff 
order; when the door of the room opened softly and Mrs. Busby came in. 
Rotha divined immediately that it was her aunt; the lady wore still the 
bonnet and the shawl in which she had been abroad, and had the air of the 
mistress, indefinable but well to be recognized. Softly she shut the door 
behind her and came towards the fire. Rotha did not dislike her 
appearance. The features were good, the eyes keen, the manner quiet 

"And this is my niece Rotha," she said with a not unkindly smile. "How do 
you do?" She took her hand and kissed her. Alas! the kiss was smooth ice. 
Rotha remembered the last kiss that had touched her lips; how warm and 
soft and firm too it had been; it meant something. This means nothing but 
civility, thought Rotha to herself. 

"You are all alone?" Mrs. Busby went on. "Antoinette had to go out. Shall 
we go up stairs, to my room? We never sit here in the morning." 

Rotha followed her aunt up stairs, where Mrs. Busby laid off hat and 
shawl and made herself comfortable, calling a maid to take them and to 
brighten up the fire. 

"I'll have luncheon up here, Lesbia," she said by the way. "Now Rotha, 
tell me all about yourself and your mother. I have heard nothing for a 
long while, unless from some third person." 

"Mother was ill a long time," said Rotha, uncertain how to render 
obedience to this command. 

"Yes, I know. When did you come to New York?" 

"It is--two years now." 

"Two years!" Mrs. Busby started up in her chair a little, and a faint 
colour rose in her cheeks; then it faded and her lips took a hard set. 
"Ill all that time?" 

"No. She was not ill for the first year." 

"Say, 'No ma'am,' my dear. That is the proper way. Do you know what 
induced her to move to New York, Rotha?" 

"Yes, ma'am," said Rotha colouring. 

"May I know?" 

"Didn't you know we were very poor?" said Rotha in a lower voice. 

"How was that the reason?" 

"We couldn't--I mean--she couldn't, get work at Medwayville." 

"Get work!" Mrs. Busby was silent. Perhaps that was an unfruitful, and 
would prove an unrefreshing, field of inquiry. She would leave it 
unexplored for the present. She paused a little. 

"So since then you have been living in New York?" 

"Yes." 

A longer pause followed. Mrs. Busby looked at the fire and raised one 
eyebrow. 

"Under whose care have you been living, my dear, since you lost your 
mother's?" 

Rotha hesitated. Great soreness of heart combined now with another 
feeling to make her words difficult. She did not at all want to answer. 
Nevertheless the girl's temper was to be frank, and she saw no way of 
evasion here. 

"I have had nobody but Mr. Digby," she said. 

"Mr. Digby! Mr. Southwode, you mean? That is his name, my dear; don't 
speak of him as 'Mr. Digby.'" 

Rotha's mouth opened, and closed. She was forming herself with all her 
might on Mr. Digby's model; and besides that, she was trying to obey his 
injunctions about pleasant behaviour. 

"Where have you lived all this time?" a little shorter than the former 
questions had been put. 

"Since we came to New York?" 

"No, no; since you have been under this gentleman's care? Where have you 
been?" 

"In a pleasant place near the river. I do not know the name of the 
street." 

"Who took care of you there, Rotha?" 

Rotha lifted her eyes. "Mr. Digby--Mr. Southwode." 

"Mr. Southwode! Did he live there himself?" 

"Yes, at that time; not always." 

"Near the river, and in New York?" said Mrs. Busby, mystified. 

"I did not say in New York. It was out of the city." 

"I was out of town," said Mrs. Busby musingly. "I wish I had come home 
earlier, that I might have received you at once. But I am glad I have got 
you now, my dear. Now you will have the pleasure of going to school with 
Antoinette. You will like that, won't you?" 

"I do not know, ma'am. I think so." 

"Why you want to learn, don't you? You don't want to be ignorant; and the 
only way is to go to school and study hard. Have you ever been to school 
at all?" 

"No, ma'am." 

"You will have a great deal to do. And the very first thing for me to do 
is to see to your wardrobe, that you may begin at once. Your box has 
come; I found it down stairs when I came in, and I had it taken right up 
to your room. Have you the key?" 

"Yes, ma'am." 

"Then go up, my dear, immediately; and bring down all your best dresses. 
Then I can see what is to be done." 

As Rotha went out, enter Antoinette. 

"O mamma, here you are! I'm glad, I'm sure. I don't want that young lady 
on my hands any more." 

"How do you like her, Antoinette?" 

"Mamma, did you ever see such a figure? You won't let her go down stairs 
till she is decently dressed, will you? I should be ashamed for even 
Lesbia to see her." 

"Lesbia has got to see her and make the best of it." 

"O but servants always make the worst of it. And company--she couldn't  
be seen by company, mamma. Why she looks as if she had come out of the  
year one. To have such a creature supposed to belong to us!" 

"Mr. Southwode brought her?" 

"Yes, mamma; and you should have seen the parting. I declare, it was 
rather striking! He kissed her, mamma, fancy! a real smacking kiss; and 
Rotha coloured up as if she was delighted. Did you ever hear anything 
like it?" 

"She has done with him now," said Mrs. Busby drily. 

"How'll you manage, mamma, if he comes and asks for her?" 

"Get your things off, Antoinette, and make yourself ready for dinner. Ah, 
here comes Rotha." 

Rotha's arms were full of muslin and lawn dresses, which she deposited on 
the table. Antoinette forgot or disregarded the order she had received 
and came to take part in the inspection. With a face of curiosity and 
business at once, Mrs. Busby unfolded, examined, refolded, one after 
another. 

"Mamma! how pretty that is!" exclaimed her daughter; "and that ashes of 
roses is lovely!" 

"Fine," said Mrs. Busby; "very fine. No sparing of money. Well made. Your 
mother cannot have felt herself in straits when she made such purchases 
as these, Rotha." 

Rotha's heart gave a bound, but she shut her lips and was silent. Some 
instinct within her was stronger than even the impulse to justify her 
mother. What did it matter, what her aunt thought? 

"These are all summer dresses," Mrs. Busby went on. "They are of no use 
at this season. Where are your warm clothes?" 

"I have none," said Rotha, with sad unwillingness. "This is the best I 
have on." 

"That?" exclaimed Mrs. Busby; and there was a pause. "Nothing better than 
that, my dear?" 

"The others are worse. They are all worn out." 

A heavy step was heard coming up the stair at this moment. It reached the 
landing place. 

"Mr. Busby--" cried the voice of his wife, a little uplifted, "don't come 
in here--I am engaged." 

"Very well, my dear," came answer in a husky, rough voice, and the step 
passed on. 

"The first thing is a school dress," Mrs. Busby proceeded. "Antoinette, 
fetch that purple poplin of yours, that you wore last winter, and let us 
see if that would not do, for a while at least, till something can be 
made." 

Nothing that fits her can fit me, thought Rotha; but with some self-
command she kept her thoughts to herself. Antoinette brought the dress in 
question and held it up, chuckling. 

"It's about six inches too short, I should say, and wouldn't meet round 
the waist by three at least." 

"Try it on, Rotha." 

Very unwillingly Rotha did as she was told. Mrs. Busby pulled and 
twitched and stroked the dress here and there. 

"It is a little too short. Could be let out." 

"Then the marks of the gathers would shew, mamma." 

"That could be hidden by a basque." 

"There isn't much stuff left to make a basque. Miss Hubbell cut it all up 
for the trimming." 

"It could be made to do for a few days. I am anxious that Rotha should 
lose no time in beginning school. See, it is November now." 

All this was extremely distasteful to the subject of it. She knew right 
well that her cousin's dress could never be made to look as if it 
belonged to her, unless it were wholly taken to pieces and put together 
again; neither was the stuff of the dress very clean, and the trimmings 
had the forlorn, jaded look of a thing which has been worn to death. The 
notion of appearing in it revolted her unbearably. 

"Aunt Serena," she said, "I would just as lief wear my old dress, if you 
don't mind. It would do as well as this, and be no trouble." 

"Well--" said Mrs. Busby; "it would take some time, certainly, to fit 
Antoinette's to you; perhaps that is the best way; and it is only for a 
day or two; it wouldn't matter much. Well, then you may take these things 
away, Rotha, and put them by." 

"Where?" said Rotha. "In my trunk?" 

"Yes, for the present    That will do." 

Rotha carried her muslins up stairs again, and had some ado not to sit 
down and cry. But she would not, and fought the weakness successfully 
down, appearing before her aunt again in a few minutes with an 
imperturbable exterior. Which she was able to maintain about ten minutes. 

Antoinette was dressing for dinner; dressing in front of her mother's 
fire; making herself rather striking in a blue silk, over which her long 
curling fair hair tumbled as over a pretty foil. Mrs. Busby also was 
putting herself in order. Rotha looked on. Presently the dinner bell 
rang. 

"I'll send you up your dinner, Rotha," Mrs. Busby said, turning to her 
niece. "Till we get some gowns made for you, you must keep in hiding. 
I'll send it up to you here, hot and nice." 

Rotha said not one word, but two flames shot into her cheeks, and from 
her dark eyes flared two such lightnings, that Mrs. Busby absolutely 
shrank back, and did not meet those eyes again while she remained in the 
room. But in that one moment aunt and niece had taken their position 
towards each other, and what is more, recognized it. 

"I shall have my hands full with that girl," Mrs. Busby muttered as she 
went down stairs. "Did you see how she looked at me?" 

"I didn't know she could look so," replied Antoinette. "Isn't she a 
regular spitfire?" 

"I shall know how to manage her," Mrs. Busby said, with her mouth set. 
"She is not at all like her mother." 

Rotha, left in the dressing room, sat down and laid her head on her arms 
on the table. Wrath and indignation were boiling within her. The girl 
dimly felt more than her reason could as yet grasp; somewhat sinister 
which ran through all her aunt's manner towards her and had undoubtedly 
called forth this last regulation. What did it mean? So she could go to 
school in her old dress and be seen by a hundred strange eyes, but might 
not sit at the table with her aunt's family and take her dinner in their 
company! And this was the very dress in which she had gone to the Park 
with Mr. Digby more than once. He had not minded it. And here there was 
nobody that had not seen it already, except Mr. Busby. 

Poor Rotha's heart, when once a passion of displeasure seized it, was 
like the seething pot in Ezekiel's vision. She was helpless to stay the 
outpour of anger and pride and grief and contempt and mortification, 
every one of which in turn came uppermost and took forms of utterance in 
her imagination. She had a firm determination to follow Mr. Digby's 
teaching and example; but for the present she was alone, and the luxury 
of passion might storm as it would. Upon this state of things came the 
dinner, borne by the hands of Lesbia, who was a very sable serving maid; 
otherwise very sharp. She set the tray on the table. Rotha lifted a white 
face and fiery eyes, and glared at it and at her. Gladly would she have 
sent it all down again; but she was hungry, and the tray steamed a 
pleasant savour towards her. 

"Thank you," said Rotha, with the courtesy she had learned of her friend. 

"Would you like anything else?" the girl asked with an observing look. 

"Nothing else, thank you." 

"Why aint miss down stairs with the rest?" 

"I couldn't go down to-day. That will do, thank you." 

Lesbia withdrew, and Rotha mustered her viands. A glass of water and a 
piece of bread, very nicely arranged; a plate with hot potatoes, turnips 
mashed, beets, and three small shrimps fried. 

Rotha cleared the board, and found the fish very small. By and by came up 
Lesbia with a piece of apple pie. She took the effect of the empty 
dishes. 

"Did miss have enough?" 

"It will do very well, thank you," said Rotha, attacking the piece of 
pie, which was also small. 

"Didn't you want a bit of the mutton?" 

"Mutton!" exclaimed Rotha, and again an angry colour shewed itself in her 
cheeks. 

"Roast mutton and jelly and sweet potatoes. You hadn't only fish, had ye? 
Don't ye like yaller potatoes? Car'lina potatoes?" 

"Yes, I like them," said Rotha indifferently. 

N. B. She had eaten them but a few times in her life, and thought them a 
prime delicacy. 

"I'll bring you some if you like, and some of the meat." 

"No, thank you," said Rotha, finishing her pie and depositing that plate 
with the rest. 

"You'll have time enough," said Lesbia sympathizingly. "They won't come 
up stairs; they stays down to see company." 

"No, thank you," said Rotha again; but a new pang seized her. Company! 
Mr. Digby would be company. What if he should come? 

Lesbia went off with the tray, after casting several curious glances at 
the new comer, whom she had heard talked of enough to give her several 
clues. Rotha was left in the darkening dressing room; for the afternoon 
had come to its short November end. 


CHAPTER XIII. 


NOT DRESSED. 


Mr. Digby did not come that evening. Next evening he did. He came early, 
just as the family had finished dinner. Mrs. Busby welcomed him with 
outstretched hand and a bland smile. 

"I am so glad to see you, Mr. Southwode," she said, before he had time to 
begin anything. "I want to know what you think of this proposition to 
open picture galleries and libraries to the people on Sunday?" 

"The arguments for it are plausible." 

"Certainly plausible. What do you think?" 

"It is of no consequence, is it, what any individual thinks?" 

"Why yes, as it seems to me. By comparing views and the reasons given in 
support of the views, one may hope to attain some sound conclusion." 

"Is it a matter for reason to consider?" 

Mrs. Busby opened her eyes. "Is not everything that, Mr. Southwode?" 

"I should answer 'no,' if I answered." 

"Please answer, because I am very much in earnest; and I like to drive 
every question to the bottom. Give me an instance to the contrary."  

"When you tell Miss Antoinette, for example, to put on india rubbers when 
