a drunkard by thwarting his freak, and then hopes to 
accomplish his end by humoring it, he passed his arm 
through Halleck 's again, and went with him. But 
when they came to the house, Halleck did not stop ; 
he did not even look at it; but Atherton felt the deep 
shudder that passed through him. 
In the week that followed, they met daily, and Hal 
leck 's broken pride no longer stayed him from the 
shame of open self-pity and wavering purpose. Ather 
ton found it easier to persuade the clinging reluctance 
of the father and mother, than to keep Halleck 's reso 
lution for him : Halleck could no longer keep it for 
himself. " Not much like the behavior of people we 
read of in similar circumstances," he said once. 
" They never falter when they see the path of duty : 
they push forward without looking to either hand ; or 
 
else," he added, with a hollow laugh at his own sat 
ire, " they turn their backs on it, like men ! Well ! " 
He grew gaunt and visibly feeble. In this struggler 
the two men changed places. The plan for Halleck 's 
flight was no longer his own, but Atherton 's ; and 
when he did not rebel against it, he only passively 
acquiesced. The decent pretence of ignorance on Ath 
erton 's part necessarily disappeared : in all but words 
the trouble stood openly confessed between them, and 
it came to Atherton 's saying, in one of Halleck 's lapses 
of purpose, from which it had required all the other 's 
strength to lift him : " Don 't come to me any more, 
Halleck, with the hope that I shall somehow justify 
your evil against your good. I pitied you at first; 
but I blame you now." 
" You 're atrocious," said Halleck, with a puzzled, 
baffled look. " What do you mean ? " 
" I mean that you secretly think you have some 
how come by your evil virtuously ; and you want me 
to persuade you that it is different from other evils of 
exactly the same kind, that it is beautiful and sweet 
and pitiable, and not ugly as hell and bitter as death, 
to be torn out of you mercilessly and flung from you 
with abhorrence. W^ell, I tell you that you are suf 
fering guiltily, for no man suffers innocently from 
such a cause. You must go, and you can 't go too soon. 
Don 't suppose that I find anything noble in your po 
sition. I should do you a great wrong if I didn 't do 
all I could to help you realize that you 're in disgrace, 
and that you 're only making a choice of shames in 
running away. Suppose the truth was known, sup- 
pose that those who hold you dear could be persuaded 
of it, could you hold up your head ? " 
" Do I hold up my head as it is ? " asked Halleck. 
" Did you ever see a more abject dog than I am at 
this moment ? Your wounds are faithful, Atherton ; 
but perhaps you might have spared me this last stab. 
 
If you want to know, I can assure you that I don 't 
feel any melodramatic vainglory. I know that I 'm 
running away because I 'm beaten, but no other man 
can know the battle I 've fought. Don 't you suppose 
I know how hideous this thing is ? No one else 
can know it in all its ugliness ! " He covered his face 
with his hands. " You are right," he said, when he 
could find his voice. " I suffer guiltily. I must have 
known it when I seemed to be suffering for pity 's 
sake ; I knew it before, and when you said that love 
without marriage was a worse hell than any marriage 
without love, you left me without refuge : I had been 
trying not to face the truth, but I had to face it then. 
I came away in hell, and I have lived in hell ever 
since. I had tried to think it was a crazy fancy, and 
put it on my failing health ; I used to make believe 
that some morning I should wake and find the illu 
sion gone. I abhorred it from the beginning as I do 
now ; it has been torment to me ; and yet somewhere 
in my lost soul the blackest depth, I dare say! 
this shame has been so sweet, it is so sweet, the 
one sweetness of life Ah !" He dashed the weak 
tears from his eyes, and rose and buttoned his coat 
about him. "Well, I shall go. And I hope I shall 
never come back. Though you needn 't mention tins 
to my father as an argument for my going when you 
talk me over with him," he added, with a glimmer 
of his wonted irony. He waited a moment, and then 
turned upon his friend, in sad upbraiding : " When I 
came to you a year and a half ago, after I had taken 
that ruffian home drunk to her Why didn 't you 
warn me then, Atherton ? Did you see any danger ? " 
Atherton hesitated : " I knew that, with your habit 
of suffering for other people, it would make you mis 
erable ; but I couldn 't have dreamed this would come 
of it. But you 've never been out of your own keep 
ing for a moment. You are responsible, and you are 
 
to blame if you are suffering now, and can find no 
safety for yourself but in running away." 
" That 's true," said Halleck, very humbly, " and I 
won 't trouble you any more. I can 't go on sinning 
against her belief in me here, and live. I shall go 
on sinning against it there, as long as I live ; but it 
seems to me the harm will be a little less. Yes, I 
will go." 
But the night before he went, he came to Ather- 
ton 's lodging to tell him that he should not go ; 
Atherton was not at home, and Halleck was spared 
this last dishonor. He returned to his father 's house 
through the rain that was beginning to fall lightly, 
and as he let himself in with his key Olive 's voice 
said, "It 's Ben !" and at the same time she laid her 
hand upon his arm with a nervous, warning clutch. 
" Hush ! Come in here ! " She drew him from 
the dimly lighted hall into the little reception-room 
near the door. The gas was burning brighter there, 
and in the light lie saw Marcia white and still, where 
she sat holding her baby in her arms. They ex 
changed no greeting : it was apparent that her being 
there transcended all usage, and that they need ob 
serve none. 
Ben will go home with you," said Olive, sooth 
ingly. "Is it raining?" she asked, looking at her 
brother 's coat. " I will get my water-proof." 
She left them a moment. "I have been been 
walking walking about," Marcia panted. " It has 
got so dark I 'm afraid to go home. I hate to 
take you from them the last night." 
Halleck answered nothing ; he sat staring at her 
till Olive came back with the water-proof and an um 
brella. Then, while his sister was putting the water 
proof over Marcia 's shoulders, he said, " Let me take 
the little one," and gathered it, with or without her 
consent, from her arms into his. The baby was sleep- 
 
 
ing ; it nestled warmly against him with a luxurious 
quiver under the shawl that Olive threw round it. 
" You can carry the umbrella," he said to Marcia. 
They walked fast, when they got out into the rainy 
dark, and it was hard to shelter Halleck as he limped 
rapidly on. Marcia ran forward once, to see if her 
baby were safely kept from the wet, and found that 
Halleck had its little face pressed close between his 
neck and cheek. " Don 't be afraid," he said. " I in 
looking out for it." 
His voice sounded broken and strange, and neither 
of them spoke again till they came in sight of 
Marcia 's door. Then she tried to stop him. She 
put her hand on his shoulder. " Oh, I rn afraid 
afraid to go in," she pleaded. 
He halted, and they stood confronted in the light 
of a street lamp ; her face was twisted with weeping. 
" Why are you afraid ? " he demanded, harshly. 
" We had a quarrel, and I I ran away I said 
that I would never come back. I left him " 
" You must go back to him," said Halleck. " He 's 
your husband ! " He pushed on again, saying over 
and over, as if the words were some spell in which 
he found safety, "You must go back, you must go 
back, you must go back ! " 
He dragged her with him now, for she hung help 
less on his arm, which she had seized, and moaned to 
herself. At the threshold, " I can 't go in ! " she broke 
out. " I 'm afraid to go in ! What will he say ? 
What will he do ? Oh, come in with me ! You are 
good, and then I shall not be afraid ! " 
" You must go in alone ! No man can be your 
refuge from your husband ! Here ! " He released 
himself, and, kissing the warm little face of the sleep 
ing child, he pressed it into her arms. His fingers 
touched hers under the shawl ; he tore his hand away 
with a shiver. 
 
She stood a moment looking at the closed door; 
then she Hung it open, and, pausing as if to gather 
her strength, vanished into the brightness within. 
He turned, and ran crookedly down the street, 
wavering from side to side in his lameness, and fling 
ing up his arms to save himself from falling as he 
ran, with a gesture that was like a wild and hopeless 
appeal. 
 
XXXIV. 
MARCIA pushed into the ro&lt;jm where she had left 
Bartley. She had no escape from her fate ; she must 
meet it, whatever it was. The room was empty, and 
she began doggedly to search the house for him, up 
stairs and down, carrying the child with her. She 
would not have been afraid now to call him ; but she 
had no voice, and she could not ask the servant any 
thing when she looked into the kitchen. She saw the 
traces of the meal he had made in the dining-room, 
and when she went a second time to their chamber to 
lay the little girl down in her crib, she saw the draw 
ers pulled open, and the things as he had tossed them 
about in packing his bag. She looked at the clock 
on the mantel an extravagance of Bartley s, for 
which she had scolded him and it was only half 
past eight ; she had thought it must be midnight. 
She sat all night in a chair beside the bed ; in the 
morning she drowsed and dreamed that she was weep 
ing on Bartley 's shoulder, and he was joking her and 
trying to comfort her, as he used to do when they 
were first married ; but it was the little girl, sitting up 
in her crib, and crying loudly for her breakfast. She 
put on the child a pretty frock that Bartley liked, and 
when she had dressed her own tumbled hair she went 
down stairs, feigning to herself that they should find 
him in the parlor. The servant was setting the table 
for breakfast, and the little one ran forward : " Baby 's 
chair ; mamma 's chair ; papa 's chair ! " 
" Yes," answered Marcia, so that the servant might 
hear too. " Papa will soon be home." 
 
She persuaded herself that he had gone as before 
for the night, and in this pretence she talked with 
the child at the table, and she put aside some of the 
breakfast to be kept warm for Bartley. "I don 't 
know just when he may be in," she explained to the 
girl. The utterance of her pretence that she expected 
him encouraged her, and she went about her work 
almost cheerfully. 
At dinner she said, " Mr. Hubbard must have been 
called away, somewhere. We must get his dinner for 
him when he comes : the things dry up so in the oven." 
She put Flavia to bed early, and then trimmed the 
fire, and made the parlor cosey against Hartley 's com 
ing. She did not blame him for staying away the 
night before ; it was a just punishment for her wick 
edness, and she should tell him so, and tell him that 
she knew he never was to blame for anything about 
Hannah Morrison. She enacted over and over in her 
mind the scene of their reconciliation. In every step 
on the pavement he approached the door ; at last all 
the steps died away, and the second night passed. 
Her head was light, and her brain confused with 
loss of sleep. When the child called her from above, 
and woke her out of her morning drowse, she went to 
the kitchen and begged the servant to give the little 
one its breakfast, saying that she was sick and wanted 
nothing herself. She did not say anything about 
Hartley 's breakfast, and she would not think anything; 
the girl took the child into the kitchen with her, and 
kept it there all day. 
Olive Halleck came during the forenoon, and Marcia 
told her that Bartley had been unexpectedly called 
away. " To New York," she added, without knowing 
why. 
" Ben sailed from there to-day," said Olive sadly. 
"Yes," assented Marcia. 
" We want you to come and take tea with us this 
evening," Olive began. 
 
" Oh, I can t," Marcia broke in. " I mustn 't be 
away when Bartley gets back." The thought was 
something definite in the sea of uncertainty on which 
she was cast away ; she never afterwards lost her hold 
of it ; she confirmed herself in it by other inventions ; 
she pretended that he had told her where he was go 
ing, and then that he had written to her. She almost 
believed these childish fictions as she uttered them. 
At the same time, in all her longing for his return, 
she had a sickening fear that when he came back 
he would keep his parting threat and drive her away : 
she did not know how he could do it, but this was 
what she feared. 
She seldom left the house, which at first she kept 
neat and pretty, and then let fall into slatternly ne 
glect. She ceased to care for her dress or the child s; 
the time came when it seemed as if she could scarcely 
move in the mystery that beset her life, and she 
yielded to a deadly lethargy which paralyzed all her 
faculties but the instinct of concealment. 
She repelled the kindly approaches of the Hallecks, 
sometimes sending word to the door when they came, 
that she was sick and could not see them ; or when 
she saw any of them, repeating those hopeless lies 
concerning Bartley 's whereabouts, and her expecta 
tions of his return. 
For the time she was safe against all kindly mis 
givings ; but there were some of Bartley 's creditors 
who grew impatient of his long absence, and refused 
to be satisfied with her fables. She had a few dollars 
left from some money that her father had given her 
at home, and she paid these all out upon the demand 
of the first-comer. Afterwards, as other bills were 
pressed, she could only answer with incoherent prom 
ises and evasions that scarcely served for the mo 
ment. The pursuit of these people dismayed her. 
It was nothing that certain of them refused further 
 
credit ; she would have known, both for herself and 
her child, how to go hungry and cold ; but there was 
one of them who threatened her with the law if she 
did not pay. She did not know what he could do ; 
she had read somewhere that people who did not pay 
their debts were imprisoned, and if that disgrace 
were all she would not care. But if the law were 
enforced against her, the truth would come out ; she 
would be put to shame before the world as a deserted 
wife ; and this when Bartley had not deserted her. 
The pride that had bidden her heart break in secret 
rather than suffer this shame even before itself, was 
baffled : her one blind device had been concealment, 
and this poor refuge was possible no longer. If all 
were not to know, some one must know. 
The law with which she had been threatened 
might be instant in its operation ; she could not tell. 
Her mind wavered from fear to fear. Even while 
the man stood before her, she perceived the necessity 
that was upon her, and when he left her she would 
not allow herself a moment 's delay. 
She reached the Events building, in which Mr. 
Atherton had his office, just as a lady drove away in 
her coupe. It was Miss Kingsbury, who made a 
point of transacting all business matters with her 
lawyer at his office, and of keeping her social rela 
tions with him entirely distinct, as she fancied, by 
this means. She was only partially successful, but 
at least she never talked business with him at her 
house, and doubtless she would not have talked any 
thing else with him at his office, but for that increas 
ing dependence upon him in everything which she 
certainly would not have permitted herself if she 
had realized it. As it was, she had now come to 
him in a state of nervous exaltation, which was not 
business-like. She had been greatly shocked by 
Ben Halleck 's sudden freak ; she had sympathized 
 
with his family till she herself felt the need of some 
sort of condolence, and she had promised herself this 
consolation from Atherton 's habitual serenity. She 
did not know what to do when he received her with 
what she considered an impatient manner, and did 
not seem at all glad to see her. There was no reason 
why he should be glad to see a lady calling on business, 
and no doubt he often found her troublesome, but he 
had never shown it before. She felt like crying at 
first ; then she passed through an epoch of resent 
ment, and then through a period of compassion for 
him. She ended by telling him with dignified sever 
ity that she wanted some money : they usually made 
some jokes about her destitution when she came upon 
that errand. He looked surprised and vexed, and " I 
have spent what you gave me last mouth," she 
explained. 
" Then you wish to anticipate the interest on your 
bonds?" 
" Certainly not," said Clara, rather sharply. " I 
wish to have the interest up to the present time." 
" But I told you," said Atherton, and he could not, 
in spite of himself, help treating her somewhat as a 
child, I told you then that I was paying you the 
interest. up to the first of November. There is none 
due now. Didn 't you understand that ? " 
" No, I didn 't understand," answered Clara. She 
allowed herself to add, " It is very strange ! " Ather 
ton struggled with his irritation, and made no reply. 
" I can 't be left without money," she continued. 
" What am I to do without it ?" she demanded with 
an air of unanswerable argument. "Why, I must 
have it ! " 
" I felt that I ought to understand you fully," said 
Atherton, with cold politeness. " It 's only necessary 
to know what sum you require." 
Clara flung up her veil and confronted him with an 
 
excited face. " Mr. Atherton, I don 't wish a loan ; 
I can 't permit it ; and you know that my principles 
are entirely against anticipating interest." 
Atherton, from stooping over his table, pencil in 
hand, leaned back in his chair, and looked at her with 
a smile that provoked her : " Then may I ask what 
you wish me to do ? " 
" No ! I can 't instruct you. My affairs are in 
your hands. But I must say She bit her lip, 
however, and did not say it. On the contrary she 
asked, rather feebly, " Is there nothing due on 
anything ? " 
" I went over it with you, last month," said Ather 
ton patiently, " and explained all the investments. I 
could sell some stocks, but this election trouble has 
disordered everything, and I should have to sell at a 
heavy loss. There are your mortgages, and there are 
your bonds. You can have any amount of money 
you want, but you will have to borrow it." 
" And that you know I won 't do. There should 
always be a sum of money in the bank," said Clara 
decidedly. 
" I do my very best to keep a sum there, knowing 
your theory ; but your practice is against me. You 
draw too many checks," said Atherton, laughing. 
" Very well ! " cried the lady, pulling down her 
veil. " Then I 'm to have nothing ? " 
"You won 't allow yourself to have anything," 
Atherton began. But she interrupted him haughtily. 
" It is certainly very odd that my affairs should be 
in such a state that I can 't have all the money of my 
own that I want, whenever I want it." 
Atherton 's thin face paled a little more than usual. 
" I shall be glad to resign the charge of your affairs, 
Miss Kingsbury." 
" And I shall accept your resignation," cried Clara, 
