breezes, the mingling tints of bloom, golden sunsets — 
sunrise is rather too troublesome a pleasure. He is fond 
of fine broadcloth and exquisite linen, his dainty hands 
are trained to the nicest nervous touch, his eyes to soft, 
seductive, harmonious sights, his ears to the culture of 
sound that would do credit to a musician. He is desirous 
of pleasing, and he revels in being delicately ministered xo. 
The homage of rare, well-bred women delights him, while 
the coarse adulation simply disgusts. He could not marry 
and live with an uncongenial woman if she had the wealtJi 
of Indies ; in truth, marriage has a side that he does not 
wholly admire. 
He has made for himself a comfortable easy creed for 
this world. After going through many philosophies, for 
Carew has a strongly intellectual side, he has come to the 
conclusion that any other existence is extremely problenofc- 
atical. He judges a good deal from the people who do 
seem to believe in another life, for he finds them eager to 
lay up treasures here, anxious to taste the sweetness of 
 
 
every cnp, and deal out the dregs to others. He is no 
blatant infidel, for he does not consider it good form. He 
cannot quite agree with Hegel, for his whole existence is 
a matter of sensations, and he wants them delicious ; if 
he quietly ignores the Almighty with Comte, he has no 
desires for penance, and cares not to pray to any idea of 
beneficent humanity. He lives in the present, and for 
pleasurable sensations. 
That he has made mistakes and blunders before getting 
himself adjusted to this creed, he is well aware. That 
the creed alone, without money, cannot sustain him, he 
knows well enough. He has had some wonderful bits of 
luck or good fortune, but it would be quite as well to take 
advantage of any provident opening. He finds him- 
self well suited with Glen Ormiston. The years have 
brought it a beauty bom of careful good taste. As he 
walks up the ravine, the rich luxuriance mingles with a 
wild, picturesque strength. It is a fair domain, and 
would be extremely attractive to the kind of men and 
women in whom he delights. Coming to an open space 
on arising point, he looks down at the mellow, wide-spread- 
ing, comfortable house, that wears the air of benignant 
repose, the settled, steady enjoyment. Christmas, he is 
thankful to see, understands the spirit of the place, and 
has not made it the sort of meretricious casino-like open 
house for all shades and kinds. Yes, he likes Miss Ormis- 
ton's good sense and severe simplicity. The business is 
well managed now and profitable, and no woman in a 
solitary life needs such a fortune. Thus far he has never 
met with anything so near his ideal. What method will 
be likeliest to win her? Does she really care for St. 
Greorge? In that event, all possibility of ever winning 
him must be put out of her power. 
Christmas walks rapidly down to the house and goes 
straight to her room. Her soul is in a chaos of contending 
emotion. She would like to drop Dolly Allaire out of her life
and she sets herself to consider how it can be done. Helen 
her natural protector, and why should she not marry? 
The soul of the woman rises up in desperate protest. 
Can she endure the thought of the blurred and trivial 
existence that must be his? If Dolly were worthy, she 
would say no word, but it is the horrible sacrifice that 
appalls her. She looks at herself clear-eyed ; no, she has 
not been coveting him. There is no real humiliation in 
the thought, but she feels that his nature does not need 
hers in any of the fine, far-reaching ways that make mar- 
riage a sacrament, the intense and personal desire that 
corresponds with a man's loftiest ideals, and makes his 
love run in the channel with all that is best and purest in 
bothsookk 
 
 
CHAPTER XXll, 
CAN SHE BESOLYB THE TANOLE? 
It would seem that Dolly Allaire had in some way beem 
put on her guard, for she gives Miss Ormiston no moment 
for a confidence. Indeed, more guests are added the next 
day, and then Sunday intervenes. Jeffries walks over in 
the late afternoon with St. Creorge by his own invitation. 
Miss Allaire meets the old lover and the new one serenely. 
They ramble off to the ravine, and Miss Miller is enchanted 
with Mr. Jeffries, who makes himself a delightful centre 
in the conversation. He has willed to be fascinating, and 
attract these people without any appeal to his hostess. 
Mrs. Byrne asks him to remain to dinner, and some of the 
younger members of the group insist. He is amused at 
the juxtaposition, and accepts with the cordial grace of a 
gentleman. Christmas feels as if she were walking in her 
sleep. Everything about her is curiously unreal. She is 
in an atmosphere of mystery and duplicity, yet she «eems 
the only one affected by it. 
Later, Mr. Jeffries tries the organ at the earnest solici- 
tation of several of the guests. His repertoire is not very 
large, but extremely fine and well chosen, and not likely to 
be exhausted in an hour or two. Christmas is out on the 
veranda, and St. George joins her. 
"I am afraid I have been remiss," he says, in a half- 
apologizing tone. " But Mr. Stannard is really ill, and 
Mrs. Stannard is nervous about being alone." 
" I should think she would like Dolly to stay with her," 
Miss Ormiston remarks. 
"Dolly!" He smiles a little. 
"I think you are all acting wrongly with her," Miss Ormis- 
 
ton exclaims, in a voice she strives to render judicially clear. 
" It is time she began to entertain some serious views of 
life, and — of her duty to you. I wonder Mrs. Stannard 
does not feel that this is not quite the preparation for her 
future. And you are not altogether irresponsible." 
A sharp line defines the aoe between his eyes, which 
look resolutely out to vacancy. His lips close rather 
more firmly. If she does not see, some hidden ihflnence 
makes her feel these slight changes. 
" I am Miss Allaire's hostess," she resumes, when no 
comment is forthcoming, " but I cannot be her keeper, 
since you two have a nearer right. If she oversteps the 
strict limits of her engagement — " 
" I am afraid her engagement was not very strict " ; and 
he half smiles an instant, then is grave again. " Miss 
Ormiston," he begins with a sudden start, "how many 
engagements meet us on every side, entered into by 
many mixed motives, and so little real knowledge of the 
step into which we are plunging ! I have no right to 
justify myself, but I will say that when I spoke I was 
under the impression that Miss Allaire's deepest feelings 
were enlisted. When a man believes, even for a brief 
while, that he is loved, there seems an imperious duty, as 
if, having given opportunity for the affection, he has no 
right to pass by it, but every reason to gather it up and 
cherish it. Later, I fancied I might have been over-ocm- 
fident, over-hasty. Miss Allaire ought to have the privilege 
of learning whether she has made a mistake." 
There is no enthusiasm and no pain in his tone. He 
will do his dnty strictly, but is not the bond irksome 
already? She tries to keep the sympathetic pity out of 
her soul, she shuts her eyes to the irreparable misery he 
is infiicting upon himself, and steels her nerves, or fancies 
she does, to look calmly upon the end, which wUl be 
marriage. But can she utter no warning against Mr. 
Jeffries? 
 
 
A fine sense of hospitality prevents. The man has 
been a guest at her table ; he, St. Greorge, is perhaps an- 
swerable for his being here now. Besides, will the wwld 
blame him for wanting to be known as Carew Jeffries, 
rather Ihan Jeffries Carew? Mr. Treverton's guilt surdy 
does not cover him. The fine broad candor that is insep- 
arable from her nature will not punish the innocent for the 
guilty. 
" I have been frank with you," St. George continues. 
" I leave all in Miss Allaire's hands." 
She is thrown back then upon Dolly. When the guests 
are gone and the house quiet, she will compel her confi- 
dence, and there is resolution in the straight line of her 
brows. 
The hall clock tolls off ten with its measured stroke. 
Jeffries rises from the organ and bends gracefully over to 
Dolly, whispering,— 
"You are more generous with your lovers than in 
times past." 
She tosses her head, and he smiles inwardly. Hat 
Dolly Allaire's fire heat burned out to ashes? 
Presently he and St. George make their adieus together. 
The moon hangs out a faint sal in the line 
of luminous light down in the valley, changing to yellow 
in one small centre where her pale glory will soon emerge. 
The stars are soft gleams of opalescent tints, the air 
is rich in fragrant dews, but not damp, for a west wind 
wanders quiveringly, and makes suggestions of muito 
among the pines. 
If some super-conscientiousness has withheld Miss 
Ormiston from betrayal, no such delicate motive has a 
feather's weight with Mr. Jeffries when he resolves to 
move. Indeed, conscience with him is an unknown fac- 
tor. He has made up his mind that every art and device 
shall be bent to the purpose of winning Miss Ormiston. 
Putting together trifles light as air, he fancies there ave 
 
 
 
indications in the friendly indifference of these two people 
that might flame out into a sadden blaze. The time and 
the place favor a confidence. 
"Mr. St. George," he begins in the indescribable tone 
that at once indicates a confession, "my very soul 
reproaches me for a deception practised more particularly 
upon you, as it is really nothing to the rest of the world. 
Haying made amends to Miss Ormiston, I wish to explain 
to you — " 
St. George holds a long indrawn breath, in strange 
expectancy, but does not break the pause. 
"It is an awkward matter"; and he laughs with the 
utmost nicety of embarrassment. ''For reasons of a 
painful nature of more importance to me than to any one 
else, I some years ago transposed my name. It stood in 
my early boyhood as Wilfred Jeffries Carew." 
'' I believe it is quite unknown to me," is the somewhat 
grave answer. 
"My mother had the misfortune to marry Mr. Trever- 
ton." St. George starts in amaze at this. ''She was 
very much in love with Mr. Ormiston, and matters had 
gone so far that she would have married him but for his 
painful accident ; indeed, she was ready to marry him in
spite of it, but he was a curiously cold and self-centred 
man, and grew very morose afterwards ; sUll, I think she 
always cared for him. Mr. Treverton importuned until 
she consented to marry him. He was a kind of man no 
one could influence, — ill-balanced, extravagant, and strong- 
willed. I spent most of my time in schools, and was at 
college when the frightful event of the failure occurred. 
We were summoned to New York, my brother and I, where 
our passage abroad was engaged, and we started with no 
other explanation than my mother's tears and persuasions. 
Indeed, I did not know the truth until long afterwards. 
There had been a kind of childish tenderness between 
Miss Ormiston and myself, a pity on my part for her 
 
 
lonely girlhood and the mistaken education of her father 
that rendered her anything but agreeable. I was, I may 
say, her only real friend in the household. We corre- 
sponded while she was at school; I suppose it would 
have ripened into an engagement but for the untoward 
misfortune. I came back to America with the Ranceford 
party, and you can imagine that a sense of bitter mortifi- 
cation kept me from searching her out. I supposed she hated 
and despised us. Both of us boys had taken my mother's 
maiden name, which was mine by right. I returned to 
Europe after that summer, but having a longing to hear 
something concerning Miss Ormiston, I crossed again with 
Mr. Valliant, to whom I had been of some service. Was 
it fate that sent me directly here?" 
"A rather romantic story," Mr. St. George says, with 
distant disdain. 
"Of course I soon made myself known to Miss Ormis- 
ton, who had one of those mysterious presentiments con- 
cerning me," Jeffries goes on confidentially, without 
noticing the other's changed demeanor. 
"Then she knows?" St. George asks abruptly. 
"Yes. She is conversant with my whole history. I 
do not want to be premature, but I hope — I think — and 
as a man of honor I felt you ought to know of my regard 
for her." 
St. George stops abruptly, utterly astounded. Yet in 
a moment he seems to gather up stray and confused ends 
and understand curious peradventures. Is she troubled 
about Dolly's fondness for her old admirer? 
"I hope," JeflEries begins with admirable modesty, 
"that you may be induced to look favorably upon my 
suit. My wooing can scarcely be said to have begun, but 
there is the old friendship, the days when she was called 
my little wife." And his tone drops to a touch of exquisite 
tenderness. 
"I have no voice in Miss Ormiston's marriage. Her 
 
 
 
fftther left her quite free, and she has oome into lier inher- 
itance. My trusteeship will end when she makes her 
election,' 
"Bat we shall both try to retain you as a friend. I of 
all men shonld be donbly grateful to you,' 
" I have done my duty merely." 
Jeffries smiles in the soft dusk ; for though the moon is 
bp, they are walking under the trees. The man has been 
hit unknowingly. This adroit confession is a wedge 
entered none too soon. Jeffries has studied men and 
women quite extensively ; he might be at a loss among 
noble natures, but the average he could predict upon wil
oertainty, and disbelieving in the others, he fancies he has 
only to wait until some incident brings them down to the 
level. No doubt St. George would keep faith with Dolly 
if she desired it, but she had tired of Mm and she might 
tire of another. He would not now turn his eyes long- 
ingly to Miss Ormiston. 
" My dear Mr. St. Greorge, I hope I have not bored you 
with my confidence. It was due you, and is between us 
as gentlemen. I shall not hurry Miss Ormiston," Jeffries 
remarks, in a tone of assured ease. " Indeed, I doubt if 
she understands her own heart yet." 
" You have been frank and honorable," says St. Gteorge 
quietly. "The story has come so unexpectedly, and I
must confess to being greatly surprised. Since you pro- 
pose patience, the matter will no doubt be settled to your 
liking." 
That is the nearest he can go towards consent. An 
active, inexplicable antipathy has arisen on the ashes of 
passive indifference. He takes himself to task for it, but 
vainly. They are nearing the cottage, and the window 
lights are blessed beacons ; he is so worn and weary, so old, 
so suddenly hopeless, that he must seek some solitude and 
commune with himself. The solid earth quivers beneath 
Yob feet, and the very air seems full <A distant kndls* 
 
 
He turns gladly from his companion, with whom he hat 
passed some charming hours. " Good night," he ex- 
dahns with a wave of the hand. Then, with the conyen- 
tional courtesy of a gentleman, he adds, " We shall see 
each other soon again." 
Before he is half-way up the walk, a fignre in filmy 
floating white, with pallid faoeand strained eyes, seizes his 
arm. 
" I am so glad you have came," Helen Stannard cries, 
in that palpitant tone betokening strong excitement. "I 
have watched from the window this last half-hour. They 
think him dying I" 
" And he seemed better — " 
" Yes, the doctor thought so. But soon after you left, 
a great change came. I could not endure it alone* I 
have never seen any one die," she whispers awesomely. 
He draws her hand through his arm, and they return to 
the apartment. The thin aristocratic face with the high, 
narrow forehead, the transparent sharpened nose, the lips 
drawn to a mere thread, and the half -closed eyes look like 
death already. His man stands beside the bed fanning 
him gently. The professional nurse looks on with an air 
of authority, and the two others linger near, St. George 
reverently, the wife with a strange tumult of emotion. She 
knows in her inmost soul it is not the deep passion of 
grief that love endures at such a parting, but rather a 
terror she hardly dares face. 
The colorless negative life flows out slowly. There is 
no struggle ; it is as if the man carried all his little punc- 
tilios to the edge of the grave. Now and then a long 
shudder runs over his wife. He seems something apart 
from her, not any close strand of her life. When she 
dared a conventional marriage that placed her in the fore- 
front of the most exclusive circles, she knew there was no 
sentiment in it, but she cared for no one else. All these 
yeara she has kept herself high and pure, allowed no 
 
 
 
alien dreams. Even her hands are clean from caresses ; 
and if her husband's kisses were cold npon her lips, no 
passion fires from others ever warmed them. She has 
been decorously faithful. When she wearied of his nar- 
row inane soul, she turned to fashionable or intellectual 
pleasures. Yet, in spite of her rigid sway over herself, 
she has come to know what a woman's blossom-time 
would be like. If she shivers with present terror, she also 
lights the future with a subtle, dimly revealed radiance. 
It is past midnight. A new day is beginning. The 
dying man opens his eyes wide. Has he lost and missed 
something that can never be made up to him ? There is a 
flicker, a dulness, a sudden relinquishing of the forces, 
and Brower Stannard has gone to try the unknown with 
empty hands. 
The nurse motions Mrs. Stannard away. St. George 
leads her to the sitting-room, and brings her a glass of 
water to moisten her parched lips. She buries her face 
in her hands. 
"You had better lie down," he says kindly. "You 
may get some rest between this and morning." 
She turns her face to him. Have his senses been pre- 
fcematurally sharpened by some remote knowledge? The 
clinging, longing, pathetic expression is one that stirs his 
whole manhood into revolt She has kept her secret well, 
she has never even allowed it to herself, but a moment's 
{ncaution has written it on her eyes, hitherto so passionless. 
" Good night — good morning rather," she says, with a 
faint smile.  You have been so kind. What should I 
have done without you?" 
" Heaven would have raised up some other friend," he 
replies gravely. 
St. George returns to the room where the dead man is 
slowly growing into marble. fineness and calm. A great 
wave of profound pity surges up in his soul. Did these 
two people outrage the great law of love, that cannot be 
 
 
defied with impunity? Is he purposing to follow in their 
steps and meet with their reward ? For he realizes that he 
is capable of manhood's ardent passion which Dolly Allaire 
can never inspire, that Helen Allaire might have once 
stirred within him; no, there he is wrong, no pure 
worldliness and life for self would have roused it. He 
has come to know of a far-reaching, higher existence that 
has not been modelled on the code of fashion, that has 
grown and unfolded with tender human interest, with 
spiritual insight and joy in nature's wide field of develop- 
ment. He feels suddenly that he has been making great 
strides in some higher knowledge than any he has hereto- 
fore received; he has gone past his father's delicate, 
honorable creed, wherein he can see now that self was 
largely consulted and as largely considered. There is a 
curious sympathetic reaching out to others, a desire to live 
in the fuU measure of sweet sympathetic wisdom, instead 
of polished coldness and indifference. Where has he 
learned it? How has he been swept out to the broad 
plains of compassionate human desire rather than pains- 
taking intellectual selection ? 
With it comes a kind of clear, incisive judgment of 
himself and others. He can change nothing in regard to 
Dolly; if he has been weak enough to make such a 
blunder, he must abide by it. He knows he did it in a 
moment of generous impulse, when Dolly was weeping 
