that,” said the waterman, barring the way resolutely. 
“Give me the cup, then, and make speed, make 
speed.” 
Other revelers were interested by this time. They 
cried out : 
“The loving-cup, the loving-cup! make the sour 
knave drink the loving-cup, else wiE we feed him to 
the fishes.” 
j So a huge loving-cup was brought; the water- 
man, grasping it by one of its handles, and with his 
other hand bearing up the end of an imaginary nap- 
kin, presented it in due and ancient form to Canty, 
who had to grasp the opposite handle with one of 
his hands and take off the Ed with the other, accord- 
ing to ancient custom. This left the prince hand- 
free for a second, of course. He wasted no tkne, but 
dived among the forest of legs about him and dis- 
appeared. In another moment he could not have 
been harder to find, tmder that tossing sea of life, 
if its elbows had been the Atlantic’s and he a lost 
sixpence. 
He very soon realized this fact, and straightway 
busied himself about his own affairs without further 
thought of John Canty. He quickly realized another 
thing, too. To wit, that a spurious Prince of Wales 
was being feasted by the dty in his stead. He 
easily concluded that the pauper lad, Tom Canty, 
had deliberately taken advantage of his stupendous 
'opportunity and become a usurper. 
Therefore there was but one course to pursue —  
find Ms way to the Guildhall, make himself known, 
and denounce the impostor. He also made up Ms 
mind that Tom should be allowed a reasonable time 
for spiritual preparation, and then be hanged, drawn, 
and quartered, according to the law and usage of 
the day, in cases of high treason. 
CHAPTER XI 
AT GUILDHALL 
The royal barge, attended by its gorgeous fleet, 
took its stately way down the Thames through 
the wildemess of illuminated boats. The air was 
laden with music; the river -banks were beruffled 
with joy-flames; the distant city lay in a soft lumi- 
nous glow from its countless invisible bonfires; above 
it rose many a slender spire into the sky, incrusted 
with sparkling lights, wherefore in their remoteness 
they seemed like jeweled lances thrust aloft; as the 
fleet swept along, it was greeted from the banks with 
a continuous hoarse roar of cheers and the ceaseless 
flash and boom of artillery. 
To Tom Canty, half buried in his silken cushions, 
these sounds and this spectacle were a wonder un- 
speakably sublime and astonishing. To his little 
friends at his side, the Princess Elizabeth and the 
Lady Jane Grey, they were nothing. 
Arrived at the Dowgate, the fleet was towed up 
the limpid Walbrook (whose channel has now been 
for two centuries buried out of sight under acres of 
buildings) to BucMersbury, past houses and under 
bridges populous with merry-makers and brilliantly 
lighted, and at last came to a halt in a basin where 
now is Barge Yard, in the center of the ancient dty 
of London. Tom disembarked, and he and bis 
gallant procession crossed Cheapside and made a 
short march, through the Old Jewry and Basinghall 
Street to the Guildhall. 
Tom and his little ladies were received with due 
ceremony by the Lord Mayor and the Fathers of 
the City, in their gold chains and scarlet robes of 
state, and conducted to a rich canopy of state at the 
head of the great hall, preceded by heralds making 
proclamation, and by the Mace and the City Sword. 
The lords and ladies who were to attend upon Tom 
and his two small friends took their places behind 
their chairs. 
At a lower table the court grandees and other 
guests of noble degree were seated, with the mag- 
nates of the city; the commoners took places at a 
multitude of tables on the main floor of the hall. 
From their lofty vantage-ground, the giants Gog and 
Magog, the ancient guardians of the city, contem- 
plated the spectacle below them with eyes grown 
familiar to it in forgotten generations. There was a 
bugle-blast and a proclamation, and a fat butler 
appeared in a high perch in the leftward wall, fol- 
lowed by his servitors bearing with impressive 
solemnity a royal Baron of Beef, smoking hot and 
ready for the knife. 
After grace, Tom (being instructed) rose — and 
the whole house with him — and drank from a portly 
golden loving-cup with the Princess Elizabeth; from 
her it passed to the Lady Jane, and then traversed 
the general assemblage. So the banquet began. 
By midnight the revehy was at its height. Now 
came one of those picttiresque spectacles so admired 
in that old day. A description of it is still extant 
in the quaint wording of a chronicler who wit- 
nessed it; 
“Space being made, presently entered a baron 
and an earl appareled after the Turkish fashion in 
long robes of bawdkin powdered with gold; hats on 
their heads of crimson velvet, with great rolls of 
gold, girded with two swords, called simitars, hang- 
ing by great bawdricks of gold. Next came yet 
another baron and another earl, in two long gowns 
of yellow satin, traversed with white satin, and in 
every bend of white was a bend of crimson satin, 
after the fashion of Russia, wdth furred hats of gray 
on their heads; either of them having an hatchet in 
their hands, and boots with pykes” (points a foot 
long), “turned up. And after them came a knight, 
then the Lord High Admiral, and with him five 
nobles, in doublets of crimson velvet, voyded low 
on the back and before to the cannel-bone, laced 
on the breasts with chains of silver; and, over that, 
short cloaks of crimson satin, and on their heads 
hats after the dancers' fashion, with pheasants’ 
feather in them. These were appareled after the 
fashion of Prussia. The torch-bearers, which were 
about an hundred, were appareled in crimson satin 
and green, like Moors, their faces black. Next 
came in a mommarye. Then the minstrels, which 
were disguised, danced; and the lords and ladies 
did wildly dance also, that it was a pleasure to 
behold.” 
And while Tom, in his high seat, was gazing up 
this “wild” dancing, lost in adnairation of the 
commingling of kaleidoscopic colors which 
the whirling turmoil of gaudy figures below him pre- 
sented, the ragged but real little Prince of Wales was 
proclaiming his rights and his wrongs, denotmcing 
the impostor, and clamoring for admission at the 
gates of Guildhall! The crowd enjoyed this episode 
prodigiously, and pressed forward and craned their 
necks to see the small rioter. Presently they began 
to taunt him and mock at him, purposely to goad 
tiim into a higher and still more entertaining fury. 
Tears of mortification sprung to his eyes, but he 
stood his ground and defied the mob right royally. 
Other taunts followed, added mockings stung him, 
and he exclaimed: 
“I tell ye again, you pack of unmannerly curs, 'I 
am the Prince of Wales! And all forlorn and friendless 
as I be, with none to give me word of grace or 
help me in my need, yet will not I be driven from 
my ground, but will maintain it!” 
“Though thou be prince or no prince, ’tis all one, 
thou be’st a gallant lad, and not friendless neither! 
Here stand I by thy side to prove it; and mind I 
tell thee thou might’s! have a worser friend than 
Miles Hendon and yet not tire thy legs with seeking. 
Rest thy small jaw, my child, I talk the language of 
these base kennel-rats like to a very native.” 
The speaker was a sort of Don Caesar de Bazan in 
dress, aspect, and bearing. He was tall, trim-built, 
muscular. His doublet and trunks were of rich 
material, but faded and threadbare, and their goldlace 
adornments were sadly tarnished; his ruff was 
rumpled and damaged; the plume in his slouched 
hat was broken and had a bedraggled and disrepu- 
table look; at his side he wore a long rapier in a 
rusty iron sheath; his swaggering carriage marked 
him at once as a ruffler of the camp. The speech 
of this fantastic figure was received with an explosion
of jeers and laughter. Some cried, “’Tis 
another prince in disguise!” “’Ware thy tongue, 
friend, belike he is dangerous!” “Marry, he looketh 
it — mark his eye!” “Pluck the lad from him — to 
the horse-pond wi’ the cub!” 
Instantly a hand was laid upon the prince, under 
the impulse of this happy thought; as instantly the 
stranger’s long sword was out and the meddler went 
to the earth under a sounding thump with the flat of 
it. The next moment a score of voices shouted 
“Eill the dog! kill him! km him!” and the mob 
closed in on the warrior, who backed himself against 
a wall and began to lay about him with his long 
weapon like a madman. His victims sprawled this 
way and that, but the mob-tide poured over their 
prostrate forms and dashed itself against the champion 
with undiminished fury. His moments seemed 
numbered, his destruction certain, when suddenly a 
trumpet-blast sounded, a voice shouted, “Way for 
the king’s messenger!” and a troop of horsemen 
came charging down upon the mob, who fled out of 
harm’s reach as fast as their legs could carry them. 
The bold stranger caught up the prince in his arms, 
and was soon far away from danger and the multitude. 
Retiun we within the Guildhall. Suddenly, high 
above the jubilant roar and thunder of the revel, 
broke the clear peal of a bugle-note. There was 
instant silence — a deep hush; then a single voice 
rose — that of the messenger from the palace — and 
began to pipe forth a proclamation, the whole 
multitude standing, listening. The closing words, 
solemnly pronounced, were; 
“The king is dead!” 
The great assemblage bent their heads upon their 
breasts with one accord; remained so, in profound 
silence, a few moments; then all sunk upon their 
knees in a body, stretched out their hands toward 
Tom, and a mighty shout burst forth that seemed to 
shake the building: 
“Long live the king!” 
Poor Tom’s dazed eyes wandered abroad over this 
stupefying spectacle, and finally rested dreamily 
upon the kneeling princesses beside him a moment, 
then upon the Earl of Hertford. A sudden ptirpose 
dawned in his face. He said, in a low tone, at Lord 
Hertford’s ear: 
“Answer me truly, on thy faith and honor! 
Uttered I here a command, the which none but a 
king might hold privilege and prerogative to utter, 
would such commandment be obeyed, and none rise 
up to say me nay?” 
“None, my liege, in all these realms. In thy 
person bides the majesty of England. Thou art the 
king — thy word is law.” 
Tom responded, in a strong, earnest voice, and 
with great animation; 
“Then shall the king’s law be law of mercy, from 
this day, and never more be law of blood! Up 
from thy knees and away! To the Tower and say 
the king decrees the Duke of Norfolk shall not die!”  
The words were caught up and carried eagerly 
from lip to Hp far and wide over the hall, and as 
Hertford hurried from the presence, another pro- 
digious shout burst forth; 
“The reign of blood is ended! Long live Edward 
king of England!” 
CHAPTER XII 
AS soon as Miles Hendon and the little prince 
were clear of the mob, they struck down 
through back lanes and alleys toward the river. 
Their way was unobstructed until they approached 
London Bridge; then they plowed into the multitude 
again, Hendon keeping a fast grip upon the prince’s 
—no, the king’s— wrist. The tremendous news 
was already abroad, and the boy learned it from a 
thousand voices at once — “The king is dead!” 
The tidings struck a ctdll to the heart of the poor 
little waif, and sent a shudder through his frame. 
He realized the greatness of his loss, and was filled 
with a bitter grief; for the grim tyrant who had 
been such a terror to others had always been gentle 
with him. The tears sprung to his eyes and blurred 
all objects. For an instant he felt himself the most 
forlorn, outcast, and forsaken of God’s creatures — 
then another cry shook the night with its far-reaching 
thunders; “Long live King Edward the Sixth!” 
and this made his eyes kindle, and thrilled him with 
pride to his fingers’ ends. “Ah,” he thought, 
“how grand and strange it seems — am king!” 
Our friends threaded theh way slowly through the 
throngs upon the Bridge. This structure, which had 
stood for six hundred years, and had been a noisy 
and populous thoroughfare all that time, was a curious 
affair, for a closely packed rank of stores and 
shops, with family quarters overhead, stretched along 
both sides of it, from one bank of the river to the 
other. The Bridge was a sort of town to itself; it 
had its inn, its beerhouses, its bakeries, its haberdasheries, 
its food markets, its manufacturing industries, and 
even its church. It looked upon the two 
neighbors which it linked together — London and 
Southwark — as being well enough, as suburbs, but 
not otherwise particularly important. It was a close 
corporation, so to speak; it was a narrow town, 
of a single street a fifth of a mile long, its population 
was but a village population, and everybody in 
it knew all his fellow-townsmen intimately, and had 
known their fathers and mothers before them — and 
all their little family affairs into the bargain. It had 
its aristocracy, of coiurse — its fine old families of 
butchers, and bakers, and what not, who had occu- 
pied the same old premises for five or six hundred 
years, and knew the great history of the Bridge from 
beginning to end, and all its strange legends; and 
who always talked bridgy talk, and thought bridgy 
thoughts, and lied in a long, level, direct, substantial 
bridgy way. It was just the sort of population to 
be narrow and ignorant and self -conceited. Children 
were bom on the Bridge, were reared there, grew to 
old age and finally died without ever having set a 
foot upon any part of the world but London Bridge 
alone. Such people would naturally imagine that 
the mighty and interminable procession which 
moved througii its street night and day, with its 
confused roar of shouts and cries, its neighings and 
bellowings and bleatings and its muffled thundertramp, 
was the one great thing in this world, and 
themselves somehow the proprietors of it. And so 
they were in effect — at least they could exhibit it 
from their windows, and did — for a consideration 
whenever a returning king or hero gave it a fleeting 
splendor, for there was no place like it for affording 
a long, straight, uninterrupted view of marching 
columns. 
Men bom and reared upon the Bridge found life 
unendurably dull and inane elsewhere. History tells 
of one of these who left the Bridge at the age of 
seventy-one and retired to the country. But he 
could only fret and toss in his bed; he could not go 
to sleep, the deep stillness was so paiaful, so awful, 
so oppressive. When he was worn out with it, at 
last, he fled back to his old home, a lean and haggard 
specter, and fell peacefully to rest and pleasant 
dreams under the lulling music of the lashing waters 
and the boom and crash and thunder of London 
Bridge. 
In the times of which we are writing, the Bridge 
furnished “object lessons” in English history, for 
its children — namely, the livid and decaying heads 
of renowned men impaled upon iron spikes atop of 
its gateways. But we digress. 
Hendon’s lodgings were in the little inn on the 
Bridge. As he neared the door with his small friend, 
a rough voice said: 
“So, thou’rt come at last! Thou’lt not escape 
again, I warrant thee; and if pounding thy bones to 
a pudding can teach thee somewhat, thoult not 
keep us waiting another time, mayhap” — and John 
Canty put out his hand to seize the boy. 
Miles Hendon stepped in the way, and said: 
“Not too fast, friend. Thou art needlessly rough, 
methinks. What is the lad to thee?” 
“If it be any business of thine to make and 
meddle in others’ affairs, he is my son.” 
“’Tis a lie!” cried the little king, hotly. 
“Boldly said, and I believe thee, whether thy 
small head-piece be sound or cracked, my boy. 
But whether this scurvy ruffian be thy father or no, 
’tis all one, he shall not have thee to beat thee and 
abuse, according to his threat, so thou prefer to 
abide with me.” 
“I do, I do — know him not, I loathe him, and 
win die before I will go with him.” 
“Then ’tis settled, and there is naught more to 
say.” 
“We win see, as to that!” exclaimed John Canty, 
striding past Hendon to get at the boy; “by force 
shall he — ” 
“If thou do but touch him, thou animated offal, 
I will spit thee like a goose!” said Hendon, barring 
the way and laying his hand upon his sword-hilt. 
Canty drew back. “Now mark ye,” continued 
Hendon, “I took this lad under my protection 
when a mob of such as thou would have mishandled 
him, mayhap killed him; dost imagine I will desert 
him now to a worser fate? — for whether thou art his 
father or no — and sooth to say, I think it is a lie —  
a decent swift death were better for such a lad than 
life in such brute hands as thine. So go thy ways, 
and set quick about it, for I like not much bandying 
of words, being not overpatient in my nature.” 
John Canty moved off, muttering threats and 
curses, and was swallowed from sight in the crowd. 
Hendon ascended three flights of stairs to his room, 
with his charge, after ordering a meal to be sent 
thither. It was a poor apartment, with a shabby 
bed and some odds and ends of old furniture in 
it, and was vaguely lighted by a couple of sickly 
candles. The little king dragged himself to the bed 
and lay down upon it, almost exhausted with hunger 
and fatigue. He had been on his feet a good part 
of a day and a night, for it was now two or three 
o’clock in the morning, and had eaten nothing 
meantime. He murmured drowsily: 
“Prithee, call me when the table is spread,” and 
sunk into a deep sleep immediately. 
A snule twinkled in Hendon’s eye, and he said 
to himself: 
“By the mass, the little beggar takes to one’s 
quarters and usurps one’s bed with as natural and 
easy a grace as if he owned them — with never a 
by-your-leave or so-please-it-you, or anything of 
the sort. In his diseased ravings he called himself 
the Prince of Wales, and bravely doth he keep up 
the character. Poor little friendless rat, doubtless 
his mind has been disordered with ill usage. Well, 
t will be his friend; I have saved him, and it draweth 
me strongly to him; already I love the bold-tongued 
little rascal. How soldierlike he faced the smutty 
rabble and flung back his high defiance! And what 
a comely, sweet and gentle face he hath, now that 
sleep hath conjured away its troubles and its griefs. 
I will teach him, I will cure his malady; yea, I will 
be his elder brother, and care for him and watch over 
him; and whoso would shame him or do him hurt, 
may order his shroud, for though I be burnt for it 
he shall need it!” 
He bent over the boy and contemplated him with 
kind and pitying interest, tapping the young cheek 
tenderly and smoothing back the tangled curls with 
his great brown hand. A slight shiver passed over 
the boy’s form. Hendon muttered : 
“See, now, how like a man it was to let him lie 
here uncovered and fill his body with deadly rheums. 
Now what shall I do? ’Twill wake him to take him 
up and put him within the bed, and he sorely 
