sedateness and kept on carving. "His gravity was explained to us by my
friend Buckthorne. He informed me that the concerns of the house were
admirably distributed among the partners. Thus, for instance, said he,
the grave gentleman is the carving partner, who attends to the joints;
and the other is the laughing partner, who attends to the jokes." If any
of the jokes from the lower end of the table reached the upper end, they
seldom produced much effect. "Even the laughing partner did not think it
necessary to honor them with a smile; which my neighbor Buckthorne
accounted for by informing me that there was a certain degree of
popularity to be obtained before a bookseller could afford to laugh at
an author's jokes."
In August, 1820, we find Irving in Paris, where his reputation secured
him a hearty welcome: he was often at the Cannings' and at Lord
Holland's; Talma, then the king of the stage, became his friend, and
there he made the acquaintance of Thomas Moore, which ripened into a
familiar and lasting friendship. The two men were drawn to each other;
Irving greatly admired the "noble-hearted, manly, spirited little
fellow, with a mind as generous as his fancy is brilliant." Talma was
playing Hamlet to overflowing houses, which hung on his actions with
breathless attention, or broke into ungovernable applause; ladies were
carried fainting from the boxes. The actor is described as short in
stature, rather inclined to fat, with a large face and a thick neck; his
eyes are bluish, and have a peculiar cast in them at times. He said to
Irving that he thought the French character much changed--graver; the
day of the classic drama, mere declamation and fine language, had gone
by; the Revolution had taught them to demand real life, incident,
passion, character. Irving's life in Paris was gay enough, and seriously
interfered with his literary projects. He had the fortunes of his
brother Peter on his mind also, and invested his earnings, then and for
some years after, in enterprises for his benefit that ended in
disappointment.
The "Sketch-Book" was making a great fame for him in England. Jeffrey,
in the "Edinburgh Review," paid it a most flattering tribute, and even
the savage "Quarterly" praised it. A rumor attributed it to Scott, who
was always masquerading; at least, it was said, he might have revised
it, and should have the credit of its exquisite style. This led to a
sprightly correspondence between Lady Littleton, the daughter of Earl
Spencer, one of the most accomplished and lovely women of England, and
Benjamin Rush, Minister to the Court of St. James, in the course of
which Mr. Rush suggested the propriety of giving out under his official
seal that Irving was the author of "Waverley." "Geoffrey Crayon is the
most fashionable fellow of the day," wrote the painter Leslie. Lord
Byron, in a letter to Murray, underscored his admiration of the author,
and subsequently said to an American: "His Crayon,--I know it by heart;
at least, there is not a passage that I cannot refer to immediately."
And afterwards he wrote to Moore, "His writings are my delight." There
seemed to be, as some one wrote, "a kind of conspiracy to hoist him over
the heads of his contemporaries." Perhaps the most satisfactory evidence
of his popularity was his publisher's enthusiasm. The publisher is an
infallible contemporary barometer.
It is worthy of note that an American should have captivated public
attention at the moment when Scott and Byron were the idols of the
English-reading world.
In the following year Irving was again in England, visiting his sister
in Birmingham, and tasting moderately the delights of London. He was,
indeed, something of an invalid. An eruptive malady,--the revenge of
nature, perhaps, for defeat in her earlier attack on his
lungs,--appearing in his ankles, incapacitated him for walking,
tormented him at intervals, so that literary composition was impossible,
sent him on pilgrimages to curative springs, and on journeys undertaken
for distraction and amusement, in which all work except that of seeing
and absorbing material had to be postponed. He was subject to this
recurring invalidism all his life, and we must regard a good part of the
work he did as a pure triumph of determination over physical
discouragement. This year the fruits of his interrupted labor appeared
in "Bracebridge Hall," a volume that was well received, but did not add
much to his reputation, though it contained "Dolph Heyliger," one of his
most characteristic Dutch stories, and the "Stout Gentleman," one of
his daintiest and most artistic bits of restrained humor.[1]
     [Footnote 1: I was once [says his biographer] reading aloud in
     his presence a very flattering review of his works, which had
     been sent him by the critic in 1848, and smiled as I came to
     this sentence: "His most comical pieces have always a serious
     end in view." "You laugh," said he, with that air of whimsical
     significance so natural to him, "but it is true. I have kept
     that to myself hitherto, but that man has found me out. He has
     detected the moral of the Stout Gentleman."]
Irving sought relief from his malady by an extended tour in Germany. He
sojourned some time in Dresden, whither his reputation had preceded him,
and where he was cordially and familiarly received, not only by the
foreign residents, but at the prim and antiquated little court of King
Frederick Augustus and Queen Amalia. Of Irving at this time Mrs. Emily
Fuller (née Foster), whose relations with him have been referred to,
wrote in 1860:--
     "He was thoroughly a gentleman, not merely in external manners and
     look, but to the inner-most fibres and core of his heart:
     sweet-tempered, gentle, fastidious, sensitive, and gifted with the
     warmest affections; the most delightful and invariably interesting
     companion; gay and full of humor, even in spite of occasional fits
     of melancholy, which he was, however, seldom subject to when with
     those he liked; a gift of conversation that flowed like a full
     river in sunshine,--bright, easy, and abundant."
Those were pleasant days at Dresden, filled up with the society of
bright and warm-hearted people, varied by royal boar hunts, stiff
ceremonies at the little court, tableaux, and private theatricals, yet
tinged with a certain melancholy, partly constitutional, that appears in
most of his letters. His mind was too unsettled for much composition. He
had little self-confidence, and was easily put out by a breath of
adverse criticism. At intervals he would come to the Fosters to read a
manuscript of his own.
     "On these occasions strict orders were given that no visitor should
     be admitted till the last word had been read, and the whole praised
     or criticised, as the case may be. Of criticism, however, we were
     very spare, as a slight word would put him out of conceit of a
     whole work. One of the best things he has published was thrown
     aside, unfinished, for years, because the friend to whom he read
     it, happening, unfortunately, not to be well, and sleepy, did not
     seem to take the interest in it he expected. Too easily
     discouraged, it was not till the latter part of his career that he
     ever appreciated himself as an author. One condemning whisper
     sounded louder in his ear than the plaudits of thousands."
This from Miss Emily Foster, who elsewhere notes his kindliness in
observing life:--
     "Some persons, in looking upon life, view it as they would view a
     picture, with a stern and criticising eye. He also looks upon life
     as a picture, but to catch its beauties, its lights,--not its
     defects and shadows. On the former he loves to dwell. He has a
     wonderful knack at shutting his eyes to the sinister side of
     anything. Never beat a more kindly heart than his; alive to the
     sorrows, but not to the faults, of his friends, but doubly alive to
     their virtues and goodness. Indeed, people seemed to grow more good
     with one so unselfish and so gentle."
In London, some years later:--
     "He was still the same; time changed him very little. His
     conversation was as interesting as ever [he was always an excellent
     relater]; his dark gray eyes still full of varying feeling; his
     smile half playful, half melancholy, but ever kind. All that was
     mean, or envious, or harsh, he seemed to turn from so completely
     that, when with him, it seemed that such things were not. All
     gentle and tender affections, Nature in her sweetest or grandest
     moods, pervaded his whole imagination, and left no place for low or
     evil thoughts; and when in good spirits, his humor, his droll
     descriptions, and his fun would make the gravest or the saddest
     laugh."
As to Irving's "state of mind" in Dresden, it is pertinent to quote a
passage from what we gather to be a journal kept by Miss Flora Foster:--
     "He has written. He has confessed to my mother, as to a true and
     dear friend, his love for E----, and his conviction of its utter
     hopelessness. He feels himself unable to combat it. He thinks he
     must try, by absence, to bring more peace to his mind. Yet he
     cannot bear to give up our friendship,--an intercourse become so
     dear to him, and so necessary to his daily happiness. Poor Irving!"
It is well for our peace of mind that we do not know what is going down
concerning us in "journals." On his way to the Herrnhuthers, Mr. Irving
wrote to Mrs. Foster:--
     "When I consider how I have trifled with my time, suffered painful
     vicissitudes of feeling, which for a time damaged both mind and
     body,--when I consider all this, I reproach myself that I did not
     listen to the first impulse of my mind, and abandon Dresden long
     since. And yet I think of returning! Why should I come back to
     Dresden? The very inclination that dooms me thither should furnish
     reasons for my staying away."
In this mood, the Herrnhuthers, in their right-angled, whitewashed
world, were little attractive.
     "If the Herrnhuthers were right in their notions, the world would
     have been laid out in squares and angles and right lines, and
     everything would have been white and black and snuff-color, as they
     have been clipped by these merciless retrenchers of beauty and
     enjoyment. And then their dormitories! Think of between one and two
     hundred of these simple gentlemen cooped up at night in one great
     chamber! What a concert of barrel-organs in this great resounding
     saloon! And then their plan of marriage! The very birds of the air
     choose their mates from preference and inclination; but this
     detestable system of lot! The sentiment of love may be, and is,
     in a great measure, a fostered growth of poetry and romance, and
     balderdashed with false sentiment; but with all its vitiations, it
     is the beauty and the charm, the flavor and the fragrance, of all
     intercourse between man and woman; it is the rosy cloud in the
     morning of life; and if it does too often resolve itself into the
     shower, yet, to my mind, it only makes our nature more fruitful in
     what is excellent and amiable."
Better suited him Prague, which is certainly a part of the "naughty
world" that Irving preferred:--
     "Old Prague still keeps up its warrior look, and swaggers about
     with its rusty corselet and helm, though both sadly battered. There
     seems to me to be an air of style and fashion about the first
     people of Prague, and a good deal of beauty in the fashionable
     circle. This, perhaps, is owing to my contemplating it from a
     distance, and my imagination lending it tints occasionally. Both
     actors and audience, contemplated from the pit of a theatre, look
     better than when seen in the boxes and behind the scenes. I like to
     contemplate society in this way occasionally, and to dress it up by
     the help of fancy, to my own taste. When I get in the midst of it,
     it is too apt to lose its charm, and then there is the trouble and
     ennui of being obliged to take an active part in the farce; but
     to be a mere spectator is amusing. I am glad, therefore, that I
     brought no letters to Prague. I shall leave it with a favorable
     idea of its society and manners, from knowing nothing accurate of
     either; and with a firm belief that every pretty woman I have seen
     is an angel, as I am apt to think every pretty woman, until I have
     found her out."
In July, 1823, Irving returned to Paris, to the society of the Moores
and the fascinations of the gay town, and to fitful literary work. Our
author wrote with great facility and rapidity when the inspiration was
on him, and produced an astonishing amount of manuscript in a short
period; but he often waited and fretted through barren weeks and months
for the movement of his fitful genius. His mind was teeming constantly
with new projects, and nothing could exceed his industry when once he
had taken a work in hand; but he never acquired the exact methodical
habits which enable some literary men to calculate their power and
quantity of production as accurately as that of a cotton mill.
The political changes in France during the period of Irving's long
sojourn in Paris do not seem to have taken much of his attention. In a
letter dated October 5, 1824, he says: "We have had much bustle in Paris
of late, between the death of one king and the succession of another. I
have become a little callous to public sights, but have,
notwithstanding, been to see the funeral of the late king, and the
entrance into Paris of the present one. Charles X. begins his reign in a
very conciliating manner, and is really popular. The Bourbons have
gained great accession of power within a few years."
The succession of Charles X. was also observed by another foreigner, who
was making agreeable personal notes at that time in Paris, but who is
not referred to by Irving, who for some unexplained reason failed to
meet the genial Scotsman at breakfast. Perhaps it is to his failure to
do so that he owes the semi-respectful reference to himself in Carlyle's
"Reminiscences." Lacking the stimulus to his vocabulary of personal
acquaintance, Carlyle simply wrote: "Washington Irving was said to be in
Paris, a kind of lion at that time, whose books I somewhat esteemed.
One day the Emerson-Tennant people bragged that they had engaged him to
breakfast with us at a certain café next morning. We all attended
duly, Strackey among the rest, but no Washington came. 'Couldn't rightly
come,' said Malcolm to me in a judicious aside, as we cheerfully
breakfasted without him. I never saw Washington at all, but still have a
mild esteem of the good man." This ought to be accepted as evidence of
Carlyle's disinclination to say ill-natured things of those he did not
know.
The "Tales of a Traveller" appeared in 1824. In the author's opinion,
with which the best critics agreed, it contained some of his best
writing. He himself said in a letter to Brevoort, "There was more of an
artistic touch about it, though this is not a thing to be appreciated by
the many." It was rapidly written. The movement has a delightful
spontaneity, and it is wanting in none of the charms of his style,
unless, perhaps, the style is over-refined; but it was not a novelty,
and the public began to criticise and demand a new note. This may have
been one reason why he turned to a fresh field and to graver themes.
For a time he busied himself on some American essays of a semi-political
nature, which were never finished, and he seriously contemplated a Life
of Washington; but all these projects were thrown aside for one that
kindled his imagination,--the Life of Columbus; and in February, 1826,
he was domiciled at Madrid, and settled down to a long period of
unremitting and intense labor.
                              CHAPTER VII.
                                IN SPAIN.
Irving's residence in Spain, which was prolonged till September, 1829,
was the most fruitful period in his life, and of considerable
consequence to literature. It is not easy to overestimate the debt of
Americans to the man who first opened to them the fascinating domain of
early Spanish history and romance. We can conceive of it by reflecting
upon the blank that would exist without "The Alhambra," "The Conquest of
Granada," "The Legends of the Conquest of Spain," and I may add the
popular loss if we had not "The Lives of Columbus and his Companions."
Irving had the creative touch, or at least the magic of the pen, to give
a definite, universal, and romantic interest to whatever he described.
We cannot deny him that. A few lines about the inn of the Red Horse at
Stratford-on-Avon created a new object of pilgrimage right in the
presence of the house and tomb of the poet. And how much of the romantic
interest of all the English-reading world in the Alhambra is due to him;
the name invariably recalls his own, and every visitor there is
conscious of his presence. He has again and again been criticised almost
out of court, and written down to the rank of the mere idle humorist;
but as often as I take up "The Conquest of Granada" or "The Alhambra" I
am aware of something that has eluded the critical analysis, and I
conclude that if one cannot write for the few it may be worth while to
write for the many.
It was Irving's intention, when he went to Madrid, merely to make a
translation of some historical documents which were then appearing,
edited by M. Navarrete, from the papers of Bishop Las Casas and the
journals of Columbus, entitled "The Voyages of Columbus." But when he
found that this publication, although it contained many documents,
hitherto unknown, that threw much light on the discovery of the New
World, was rather a rich mass of materials for a history than a history
itself, and that he had access in Madrid libraries to great collections
of Spanish colonial history, he changed his plan, and determined to
write a Life of Columbus. His studies for this led him deep into the old
chronicles and legends of Spain, and out of these, with his own travel
and observation, came those books of mingled fables, sentiment, fact,
and humor which are after all the most enduring fruits of his residence
in Spain.
Notwithstanding his absorption in literary pursuits, Irving was not
denied the charm of domestic society, which was all his life his chief
delight. The house he most frequented in Madrid was that of Mr.
D'Oubril, the Russian Minister. In his charming household were Madame
D'Oubril and her niece, Mademoiselle Antoinette Bollviller, and Prince
Dolgorouki, a young attaché of the legation. His letters to Prince
Dolgorouki and to Mademoiselle Antoinette give a most lively and
entertaining picture of his residence and travels in Spain. In one of
them to the prince, who was temporarily absent from the city, we have
glimpses of the happy hours, the happiest of all hours, passed in this
refined family circle. Here is one that exhibits the still fresh
romance in the heart of forty-four years:--
     "Last evening, at your house, we had one of the most lovely
     tableaux I ever beheld. It was the conception of Murillo,
     represented by Madame A----. Mademoiselle Antoinette arranged the
     tableau with her usual good taste, and the effect was enchanting.
     It was more like a vision of something spiritual and celestial than
     a representation of anything merely mortal; or rather it was woman
     as in my romantic days I have been apt to imagine her, approaching
     to the angelic nature. I have frequently admired Madame A----as a
     mere beautiful woman, when I have seen her dressed up in the
     fantastic attire of the mode; but here I beheld her elevated into
     a representative of the divine purity and grace, exceeding even the
     beau idéal of the painter, for she even surpassed in beauty the
     picture of Murillo. I felt as if I could have knelt down and
     worshiped her. Heavens! what power women would have over us, if
     they knew how to sustain the attractions which nature has bestowed
     upon them, and which we are so ready to assist by our imaginations!
     For my part, I am superstitious in my admiration of them, and like
     to walk in a perpetual delusion, decking them out as divinities. I
     thank no one to undeceive me, and to prove that they are mere
     mortals."
And he continues in another strain:--
     How full of interest everything is connected with the old times in
     Spain! I am more and more delighted with the old literature of the
     country, its chronicles, plays, and romances. It has the wild vigor
     and luxuriance of the forests of my native country, which, however
     savage and entangled, are more captivating to my imagination than
     the finest parks and cultivated woodlands.
     "As I live in the neighborhood of the library of the Jesuits'
     College of St. Isidoro, I pass most of my mornings there. You
     cannot think what a delight I feel in passing through its
     galleries, filled with old parchment-bound books. It is a perfect
     wilderness of curiosity to me. What a deep-felt, quiet luxury there
     is in delving into the rich ore of these old, neglected volumes!
     How these hours of uninterrupted intellectual enjoyment, so
     tranquil and independent, repay one for the ennui and
     disappointment too often experienced in the intercourse of society!
     How they serve to bring back the feelings into a harmonious tone,
     after being jarred and put out of tune by the collisions with the
     world!"
With the romantic period of Spanish history Irving was in ardent
sympathy. The story of the Saracens entranced his mind; his imagination
disclosed its Oriental quality while he pored over the romance and the
ruin of that land of fierce contrasts, of arid wastes beaten by the
burning sun, valleys blooming with intoxicating beauty, cities of
architectural splendor and picturesque squalor. It is matter of regret
that he, who seemed to need the southern sun to ripen his genius, never
made a pilgrimage into the East, and gave to the world pictures of the
lands that he would have touched with the charm of their own color and
the witchery of their own romance.
I will quote again from the letters, for they reveal the man quite as
well as the more formal and better known writings. His first sight of
the Alhambra is given in a letter to Mademoiselle Bollviller:--
     "Our journey through La Mancha was cold and uninteresting,
     excepting when we passed through the scenes of some of the exploits
     of Don Quixote. We were repaid, however, by a night amidst the
     scenery of the Sierra Morena, seen by the light of the full moon. I
     do not know how this scenery would appear in the daytime, but by
     moonlight it is wonderfully wild and romantic, especially after
     passing the summit of the Sierra. As the day dawned we entered the
     stern and savage defiles of the Despeña Perros, which equals the
     wild landscapes of Salvator Rosa. For some time we continued
     winding along the brinks of precipices, overhung with cragged and
     fantastic rocks; and after a succession of such rude and sterile
     scenes we swept down to Carolina, and found ourselves in another
     climate. The orange-trees, the aloes, and myrtle began to make
     their appearance; we felt the warm temperature of the sweet South,
     and began to breathe the balmy air of Andalusia. At Andujar we were
     delighted with the neatness and cleanliness of the houses, the
     patios planted with orange and citron trees, and refreshed by
     fountains. We passed a charming evening on the banks of the famous
     Guadalquivir, enjoying the mild, balmy air of a southern evening,
     and rejoicing in the certainty that we were at length in this land
     of promise....
     "But Granada, bellissima Granada! Think what must have been our
     delight when, after passing the famous bridge of Pinos, the scene
     of many a bloody encounter between Moor and Christian, and
     remarkable for having been the place where Columbus was overtaken
     by the messenger of Isabella, when about to abandon Spain in
     despair, we turned a promontory of the arid mountains of Elvira,
     and Granada, with its towers, its Alhambra, and its snowy
     mountains, burst upon our sight! The evening sun shone gloriously
     upon its red towers as we approached it, and gave a mellow tone to
     the rich scenery of the vega. It was like the magic glow which
     poetry and romance have shed over this enchanting place....
     "The more I contemplate these places, the more my admiration is
     awakened for the elegant habits and delicate taste of the Moorish
     monarchs. The delicately ornamented walls; the aromatic groves,
     mingling with the freshness and the enlivening sounds of fountains
     and rivers of water; the retired baths, bespeaking purity and
     refinement; the balconies and galleries, open to the fresh mountain
     breeze, and overlooking the loveliest scenery of the valley of the
     Darro and the magnificent expanse of the vega,--it is impossible to
     contemplate this delicious abode and not feel an admiration of the
     genius and the poetical spirit of those who first devised this
     earthly paradise. There is an intoxication of heart and soul in
     looking over such scenery at this genial season. All nature is just
     teeming with new life, and putting on the first delicate verdure
     and bloom of spring. The almond-trees are in blossom; the fig-trees
     are beginning to sprout; everything is in the tender bud, the
     young leaf, or the half-open flower. The beauty of the season is
     but half developed, so that while there is enough to yield present
     delight there is the flattering promise of still further enjoyment.
     Good heavens! after passing two years amidst the sunburnt wastes of
     Castile, to be let loose to rove at large over this fragrant and
     lovely land!"
It was not easy, however, even in the Alhambra, perfectly to call up the
past:--
     "The verity of the present checks and chills the imagination in its
     picturings of the past. I have been trying to conjure up images of
     Boabdil passing in regal splendor through these courts; of his
