
"I am glad Captain Blastblow has come to his senses, and is standing
out from the shore," I added. "About five miles to the eastward of the
line of Keys, which form part of a circle, from Cape Florida to Pickle
Reef, more than forty miles, is a series of reefs and rocks. There is a
passage between the reefs and the Keys, through which vessels of light
draught may pass. But I believe in having plenty of sea room when the
weather looks as it does now."

When we were abreast of Cape Florida the Islander suddenly put up her
helm, and stood off to the south-west. This movement indicated that she
had no intention of coming any nearer to the Sylvania. I was perplexed
at this change of course, because I could hardly conceive of such a
thing as Captain Blastblow taking the inside route in that threatening
weather. There was nothing to protect his vessel from the heavy seas,
and in some places he would have hardly water enough to float the
Islander.

In about another hour Fowey Rocks were between the two vessels. There
was no way of getting out of the inside passage except that by which he
went in, or at the southerly end of the series of reefs.

"It looks to me just as though the Islander wanted to keep out of our
way," said Washburn, when we had settled the question as to what the
Islander intended to do.

"That had not occurred to me before," I replied. "Why should she try to
avoid us?"

"That's what bothers me. I can't see the least reason for such conduct
on the part of her captain," added the mate.

"It looks to me like very risky business to go into such a place as
that with a south-east gale threatening," I continued, as I went to the
shelf to find a chart of the Florida reefs, which I had carefully
studied. "There is one place where the Islander will have only six feet
of water at low tide, perhaps seven and a half or eight at this time of
tide. I think she will have to get in behind one of the Keys, and
anchor to wait for the tide to rise."

"I hope nothing will happen to the Islander. I suppose Captain
Blastblow knows what he is about, and probably has a pilot for the
inside of the reefs," said Washburn.

"If it was good weather, it would be another thing, and I should not
have hesitated to follow him, for we have the Coast Pilot, and the best
charts of the Coast Survey."

"It is getting to be very rough out here," added Washburn, as the
Sylvania began to roll heavily in the billows that swept in from the
open sea. Our passengers were taking their afternoon naps, but they
soon found out that we were in an angry sea. I went into the cabin to
comfort them. Mrs. Shepard wanted to know if we could not put in at
some port, as we had done on Thursday.

"There is no port we can enter before we reach Key West, madam. With
the wind as it is now, and blowing hard, I am afraid to go any nearer
the reefs than we are now."

"I hear that a great many vessels are wrecked on the Florida Reefs,"
added the lady.

"That is quite true, Mrs. Shepard; and for that reason I shall not
approach them any nearer than we are now. As long as we have plenty of
sea room, I do not apprehend any particular danger."

The rain began to fall about six, and the weather was so thick we could
no longer see the Islander. The last time we had seen her she must have
been some miles farther to the northward than the Sylvania, and I was
satisfied that Captain Blastblow had not gained anything by going
inside of the reefs. As I made it out from the chart, he had twice been
obliged to go to the eastward over two miles, in order to keep in the
deepest water. I suspected that he had been aground, and had to wait
for the tide; for at dark, when we saw the steamer for the last time,
we were at least five miles farther south.

"We will keep her going as briskly as the heavy sea will permit, until
about midnight; and then we will ease off till daylight. Then I think
we shall get another sight of the Islander," I said to the mate, as he
was about to turn in at eight.

"I don't think there is any danger of her getting ahead faster than we
do," replied the mate, with a yawn. "I believe I shall sleep well, if I
don't get pitched out of my berth."

He was leaving the pilot-house, when the distant report of a gun came
to our ears. I concluded at once that the Islander was in trouble.




CHAPTER XII.

THE CALAMITY ON FRENCH REEF.


I jumped to the conclusion that the Islander had struck on one of the
shoals I had noticed on the chart, and the heavy sea was pounding her
on the bottom. It could be only a question of time when she would knock
a hole in her bottom and go to pieces. Washburn was wide awake as soon
as he heard the gun, and giving him the wheel, I proceeded to examine
the chart.

According to the dead-reckoning we ought to be a little to the
southward of French Shoal. While I was satisfying myself in regard to
our position, another gun sounded over the troubled sea.

"That can't be the Islander's gun," said Washburn. "She has nothing on
board but a little yacht gun, and the piece we heard is a six, if not a
twelve pounder."

"I think you are right, Bob. The sound came from the leeward. I have no
doubt it is some vessel in distress; and we must do something for her.
Call all hands," I continued, as I took the wheel, and headed the
Sylvania due west by the compass.

Though it was not foggy, the air was thick, and I could see nothing
ahead. We had a very strong wind on our port quarter, and it was
extremely dangerous to approach the reefs from the windward. In a
moment all hands were on deck, except Moses Brickland, who was required
to take the engine whenever all hands were called on an emergency. I
directed Hop Tossford to take the wheel, and keep her due west. I asked
the mate to fire our little yacht gun, in answer to the signals we had
heard. The moment the report sounded through the vessel I heard Mrs.
Shepard scream.

I told the chief engineer to give the steamer about half speed, and
hastened into the cabin to satisfy the passengers that nothing had
happened to us, and explain what we were doing. Mrs. Shepard assured us
that we should all be lost; but I told her we would be extremely
careful.

I asked my father, Colonel Shepard, and Owen to come on deck, leaving
Mr. Tiffany and Gus Shepard to take charge of the ladies. I explained
the situation to them, and while we were talking about it another gun
was heard to leeward. It sounded heavier and nearer than before, and I
was sure the signal was not given by the Islander.

"It is plain enough that a vessel has gone ashore on one of these
reefs," I said. "I can see nothing ahead, but the gun sounds in this
direction."

Before the words were fairly out of my mouth, a sky rocket flashed up
directly over our bow. We had rockets on board, and I directed Ben to
discharge one of them. It was followed by another from the vessel in
distress. Then some Bengola lights were fired, and they illuminated the
sea for a mile at least around her. Buck Lingley was sounding, and
reporting no bottom. I told the engineer to give her more steam, for I
feared the people on the unfortunate vessel might be drowning, and a
minute might save a life, if not more. As long as the bright Bengola
light burned, I kept the steamer going at full speed. Most of the
dangerous reefs were marked by beacons, or at least the outer range of
the reef was so marked.

The sea was very heavy, and Buck Lingley still reported no bottom. He
used a hand lead, which measures twenty fathoms of depth. The Bengola
light soon burned out, and I rang the speed-bell. This reduced our rate
one half. But it seemed to me that we were going altogether too fast,
as the strong south-east gale was driving us towards the reefs. I rang
the gong, and the vessel stopped.

"And a half seventeen!" shouted Buck.

"The water is shoaling," said the mate.

"By the mark ten!" called the leadsman.

"Get out some rockets and Bengola lights, Washburn," I continued,
nervously. "The people on the wreck don't even give us a light to steer
by."

"And a half seven!" shouted the leadsman.

I rang to back her, for she shoaled too rapidly for my nerves. I told
the mate to light a Bengola on the heel of the bowsprit. When he did so
the brilliant light enabled me to see the wreck very distinctly, and
less than a hundred yards from the Sylvania. She was a large bark, with
all her sails furled. Her captain had probably taken in all sail as
soon as the vessel struck the reef.

The chart informed me there were rocks only a few feet below the
surface of the water. The wreck was headed to the south-west, but this
could not have been the direction in which she was sailing when she
struck the reef. On that course she would have got into trouble before.

"By the deep seven!" said the leadsman, in loud and shrill tones.

I rang to go ahead again, and at the same time told the mate to keep
the Bengola lights burning. Ben Bowman was stationed at the end of the
bowsprit that the light might not blind his eyes. I had purchased a
plentiful supply of fireworks in New York for festive occasions, and we
were in no danger of exhausting them, as they had evidently done on the
wreck.

"Give her about ten turns a minute, Moses!" I called to the engineer
through the speaking-tube.

"Ten turns a minute!" he replied, to make sure that I had been
understood.

"Steady, as she is, Hop!" I said to the wheel-man. "If you see anything
like a buoy, stop and back her as quick as you can."

"Ay, ay, sir," replied the wheelman.

I went on the hurricane-deck to get a better view of the wreck. It was
hard to stand up in that part of the vessel, for she pitched and rolled
very badly, while she was making so little headway. By holding on at
the railing, I got to a point where I could hug the foremast. The wreck
was very low down, and I concluded that she was full of water.

"And a half six!" said Buck.

This was thirty-nine feet of water, and we were in no danger yet. The
waves were beating over the deck of the bark. It was clear enough that
she must go to pieces before morning. Her bulwarks were stove on the
weather side of her; and while I was looking at her the foremast went
by the board. I saw that the step of the mast must have been torn away
by grinding upon the rocks.

We were within a hundred feet of her stern, and the billows were too
savage to permit of going any nearer. I hastened down to the
pilothouse, rang to stop her, and then to back her. I intended to be
sure that we had full control of the steamer before we went any nearer.
I found that the Sylvania backed well against the head sea, and then I
stopped her screw.

In an instant I found that the steamer was driving towards the wreck. I
rang to back her again, and readily checked her.

I saw that the only way I could approach the unfortunate vessel was to
get under her lee. The sea was altogether too rough for our little
quarter boats, though both of them were life-boats. By occasionally
backing the screw, we ran within fifty feet of the wreck, and I could
hear the roar of the gale through the standing rigging of the bark, and
the heavy pounding of the billows against her side.

"Steamer ahoy!" shouted a man on the taffrail of the vessel.

"On board the bark!" replied Washburn, on the topgallant forecastle.
"What is the condition of the vessel?"

"Our forefoot is gone, and we are stove through forward. She is full of
water," replied the man. "She is grinding on the reef, and will go to
pieces in a few hours."

"How much water have you under your lee?" I shouted.

"From one to three fathoms," replied the captain of the bark, as we
judged that he was.

With the utmost care I ran the Sylvania under the lee of the bark; and
I think it must have taken all the tact of Moses Brickland to handle
the engine in accordance with the bells I rang. But as soon as the bow
of the steamer was under the lee of the bark it was in comparatively
smooth water. From the statement of the captain, and the depth of water
he reported, I concluded that one of the sharp spurs of rock was
sticking through her bottom near where her forefoot had been, and that
she was held in this position by the reef. Buck kept on sounding, and
reported four fathoms at the stern of the wreck. Cobbington was now in
charge of the Bengolas, and Washburn was getting the hawsers ready to
make fast to the bark. We put out our fenders, and the mate heaved a
line into the waist of the wreck. Ben Bowman did the same, throwing his
line over the stern. The lines were caught by the seamen on board, and
made fast.

Though the water was fairly still at the leeward of the bark, I found
that the vessel was rolling badly, and greatly endangering the safety
of the Sylvania. The gale was driving the wreck farther on the reef,
and I feared that the mainmast would go by the board and fall on the
steamer.

"All aboard that are going!" I shouted at the top of my lungs, as I
stood at the wheel, ready to do whatever an emergency might require.
The two vessels were grinding their sides together, and nothing but our
fenders saved our planks from being torn off.

The men on board the bark were very slow in seeking safety, and I was
about to repeat my former call, when I saw two women appear on the rail
by the mizzen rigging. Our hands hastened to their assistance, and as
the bark was so low in the water they had no difficulty in getting them
on our hurricane-deck. As soon as they were safely on board, the men
poured in upon us without further delay. There was not one among them
that would leave the wreck until the women were safe. The officers and
seamen brought with them whatever they could carry of their personal
property. One of them returned and cast off the hawsers.

As soon as the fasts were cast off, I rang to back her; and, bringing
the Sylvania's head up to the wind, I wore her gradually around till
she was headed to the eastward. The sea was white with foam from the
raging billows, and the little steamer leaped like an antelope as she
went ahead on her course. It was impossible to stand up in any part of
her. I ran out about four miles to the eastward, where the steamer was
when we heard the signal-gun from the wreck. We had been absent on our
run to the reef about two hours. We laid our course as before, and I
gave the wheel to Hop Tossford, that I might attend to the wants of the
shipwrecked guests on board.

The Sylvania was rolling on her new course at a frightful rate, and our
deck was deluged with water every moment. The gale seemed to be
increasing rather than diminishing, and I was not sure how long we
could stand such a tumbling about as we were getting. With no little
difficulty and exertion we got a reefed foresail up, which steadied her
very much. I went down into the cabin, where I had sent the ladies from
the wreck. I found our passengers propped up in such ways as they could
devise to keep from being hurled across the cabin floor at each roll of
the vessel. The strangers seemed to be quite at home, and were relating
their adventures to the other ladies, who were listening with so much
interest that they appeared to have forgotten the Sylvania was laboring
in a very heavy sea. I saw that I was not wanted there. I went on deck,
and found that the sailors from the wreck were stowed away in the
dryest places they could find.

I invited them all down into the forward cabin, and assigned the mate
to the spare berth there. The others must sleep on the floor, for we
could do nothing better for them.

"Mr. Mate, where is your captain?" I asked.

"I don't think he came below, sir. He is feeling very badly about the
loss of his vessel," replied the mate. "I will try to find him."

He went on deck with me, and we found him coiled away under the
topgallant forecastle. I invited him to come into the pilot-house, and
he followed me thither.

"I am sorry for your misfortune, Captain," I said, when he had seated
himself abaft the wheel.

"It is a sorry night for me. My vessel is lost, and I have not the
least idea how it happened," he replied, very sadly.

I did my best to comfort him. I saw that he was quite as much exhausted
by his mental sufferings as by his physical exertions. I conducted him
to my state-room, and gave him my berth. In a short time he was asleep.




CHAPTER XIII.

A NIGHT LOST IN THE STORM.


At eleven o'clock we changed the course of the Sylvania to south-west
half-west, which brought the gale nearly on the beam. The wind was
blowing but little, if anything, short of a hurricane. The great
billows struck against the side of the vessel and the house on deck
with tremendous force. It seemed just as though immense boulders were
hurled against the planking that enclosed my state-room, the galley,
and the engine-room. The sea swept over the hurricane-deck, and struck
heavily upon the planks overhead.

Suddenly I heard a noise over my head, as I stood at the wheel, which
sounded like the report of a heavy cannon. I thought the sea had broken
a hole through. In another instant the steamer was rolling with double
the violence of a few minutes before.

"What was that noise, Hop?" I asked, when I saw that no water was
pouring down upon us.

"It was the foresail, sir; it has been blown out of the bolt-ropes,"
replied Hop, coolly; and he seemed to be incapable of anything like
fear. "We have lost the reefed foresail, and that is what makes her
roll so much worse than she did five minutes ago."

Undoubtedly he was right. The sail had steadied her more than we could
have imagined; and now she rolled like a log in a mill-race. The sea
struck the side of my state-room as though a rock weighing a ton had
been cast against it by some giant of the sea or the storm. I was
afraid our house on deck would be carried away by the tempest.

On board of a large vessel, the loss of a house on deck was a matter of
no serious consequences. It was entirely different with the Sylvania,
for the loss of it would open the hold to the entrance of the sea. The
deluge of water would put out the fire in the furnaces, disabling the
engine. The result must be the loss of the vessel and all on board of
her. I trembled when I thought of it. Another mountain billow struck
the house a little farther aft. I was not willing to wait for another
sea to strike her in what I regarded as her weakest point, and we put
the helm down. We must give up our course for the safety of the vessel.

The steamer made a terrible plunge as we shifted the helm, but we soon
got her across the sea. Now she pitched instead of rolling. I called to
the engineer, through the speaking-tube, to give her but about half
speed, for it made her labor more heavily to drive her into the seas. I
calculated that this rate of speed would keep her about stationary on
the water. I soon found that she was falling astern. I directed the
engineer to give her more steam. I soon gauged it so that she had
headway enough to keep her up to the seas without forcing her through
them. A sort of equilibrium was established, which gave her an easier
position, though it was by no means an easy one. Her bow rose so that
the deck must have been at an angle of forty-five degrees, and then she
dived down from the top of a big wave at about the same angle.

Our port and starboard, as well as the masthead light were burning, and
we had closed in the pilot-house, so that we could see nothing ahead.
But I found the steamer was manageable when I had got her head to the
sea, and I sent Hop Tossford to call the mate and Buck Lingley. I could
not tell what might happen, and I felt that all hands should be on
