young man; "and she isn't like other girls; she don't give a fellow a
bit of help."
Mrs. Marx laughed out.
"I mean," said Tom, "she is so quiet and steady, and she don't talk,
and she don't let one see what she thinks. I think she must know I like
her--but I have not the least idea whether she likes me."
"The shortest way would be to ask her."
"Yes, but you see I can't get a chance. Miss Lothrop is always
up-stairs in that sick-room; and if she comes down, my sister or my
mother or somebody is sure to be running after her."
"Besides you," said Mrs. Marx.
"Yes, besides me."
"Perhaps they don't want to let you have her all to yourself."
"That's the disagreeable truth!" said Tom in a burst of vexed candour.
"Perhaps they are afraid you will do something imprudent if they do not
take care."
"That's what they call it, with their ridiculous ways of looking at
things. Mrs. Marx, I wish people had sense."
"Perhaps they are right. Perhaps they have sense, and it would be
imprudent."
"Why? Mrs. Marx, I am sure you have sense. I have plenty to live
upon, and live as I like. There is no difficulty in my case about ways
and means."
"What is the difficulty, then?"
"You see, I don't want to go against my mother and sister, unless I had
some encouragement to think that Miss Lothrop would listen to me; and I
thought--I hoped--you would be able to help me."
"How can I help you?"
"Tell me what I shall do."
"Well, when it comes to marryin'," said Mrs. Marx, "I always say to
folks, If you can live and get along without gettin' married--don't!"
"Don't get married?"
"Just so," said Mrs. Marx. "Don't get married; not if you can live
without."
"You to speak so!" said Tom. "I never should have thought, Mrs. Marx,
you were one of that sort."
"What sort?"
"The sort that talk against marriage."
"I don't!--only against marryin' the wrong one; and unless it's
somebody that you can't live without, you may be sure it ain't the
right one."
"How many people in the world do you suppose are married on that
principle?"
"Everybody that has any business to be married at all," responded the
lady with great decision.
"Well, honestly, I don't feel as if I could live without Miss Lothrop.
I've been thinking about it for months."
"I wouldn't stay much longer in that state," said Mrs. Marx, "if I was
you. When people don' know whether they're goin' to live or die, their
existence ain't much good to 'em."
"Then you think I may ask her?"
"Tell me first, what would happen if you did--that is, supposin' she
said yes to you, about which I don't know anything, no more'n the
people that lived in these old cellars. What would happen if you did?
and if she did?"
"I would make her happy, Mrs. Marx!"
"Yes," said the lady slowly--"I guess you would; for Lois won't say yes
to anybody she can live without; and I've a good opinion of your
disposition; but what would happen to other people?"
"My mother and sister, you mean?"
"Them, or anybody else that's concerned."
"There is nobody else concerned," said Tom, idly defacing the rocks in
his neighbourhood by tearing the lichen from them. And Mrs. Marx
watched him, and patiently waited.
"There is no sense in it!" he broke out at last. "It is all folly. Mrs.
Marx, what is life good for, but to be happy?"
"Just so," assented Mrs. Marx.
"And haven't I a right to be happy in my own way?"
"If you can."
"So I think! I will ask Miss Lothrop if she will have me, this very
day. I'm determined."
"But I said, if you can. Happiness is somethin' besides sugar and
water. What else'll go in?"
"What do you mean?" asked Tom, looking at her.
"Suppose you're satisfied, and suppose she's satisfied. Will
everybody else be?"
Tom went at the rocks again.
"It's my affair--and hers," he said then.
"And what will your mother and sister say?"
"Julia has chosen for herself."
"I should say, she has chosen very well. Does she like your choice."
"Mrs. Marx," said the poor young man, leaving the lichens, "they bother
me to death!"
"Ah? How is that?"
"Always watching, and hanging around, and giving a fellow no chance for
his life, and putting in their word. They call themselves very wise,
but I think it is the other thing."
"They don't approve, then?"
"I don't want to marry money!" cried Tom; "and I don't care for
fashionable girls. I'm tired of 'em. Lois is worth the whole lot. Such
absurd stuff! And she is handsomer than any girl that was in town last
winter."
"They want a fashionable girl," said Mrs. Marx calmly.
"Well, you see," said Tom, "they live for that. If an angel was to come
down from heaven, they would say her dress wasn't cut right, and they
wouldn't ask her to dinner!"
"I don't suppose they'd know how to talk to her either, if they did,"
said Mrs. Marx. "It would be uncomfortable--for them; I don't suppose
an angel can be uncomfortable. But Lois ain't an angel. I guess you'd
better give it up, Mr. Caruthers."
Tom turned towards her a dismayed kind of look, but did not speak.
"You see," Mrs. Marx went on, "things haven't gone very far. Lois is
all right; and you'll come back to life again. A fish that swims in
fresh water couldn't go along very well with one that lives in the
salt. That's how I look at it. Lois is one sort, and you're another. I
don't know but both sorts are good; but they are different, and you
can't make 'em alike."
"I would never want her to be different!" burst out Tom.
"Well, you see, she ain't your sort exactly," Mrs. Marx added, but not
as if she were depressed by the consideration. "And then, Lois is
religious."
"You don't think that is a difficulty? Mrs. Marx, I am not a religious
man myself; at least I have never made any profession; but I assure you
I have a great respect for religion."
"That is what folks say of something a great way off, and that they
don't want to come nearer."
"My mother and sister are members of the church; and I should like my
wife to be, too."
"Why?"
"I told you, I have a great respect for religion; and I believe in it
especially for women."
"I don't see why what's good for them shouldn't be good for you."
"That need be no hindrance," Tom urged.
"Well, I don' know. I guess Lois would think it was. And maybe you
would think it was, too,--come to find out. I guess you'd better let
things be, Mr. Caruthers."
Tom looked very gloomy. "You think she would not have me?" he repeated.
"I think you will get over it," said Mrs. Marx, rising. "And I think
you had better find somebody that will suit your mother and sister."
And after that time, it may be said, Mrs. Marx was as careful of Lois
on the one side as Mrs. and Miss Caruthers were of Tom on the other.
Two or three more days passed away.
"How is Mrs. Wishart?" Miss Julia asked one afternoon.
"First-rate," answered Mrs. Marx. "She's sittin' up. She'll be off and
away before you know it."
"Will you stay, Mrs. Marx, to help in the care of her, till she is able
to move?"
"Came for nothin' else."
"Then I do not see, mother, what good we can do by remaining longer.
Could we, Mrs. Marx?"
"Nothin', but lose your chance o' somethin' better, I should say."
"Tom, do you want to do any more fishing? Aren't you ready to go?"
"Whenever you like," said Tom gloomily.
CHAPTER XVII.
TOM'S DECISION.
The Caruthers family took their departure from Appledore.
"Well, we have had to fight for it, but we have saved Tom," Julia
remarked to Mr. Lenox, standing by the guards and looking back at the
Islands as the steamer bore them away.
"Saved!--"
"Yes!" she said decidedly,--"we have saved him."
"It's a responsibility," said the gentleman, shrugging his shoulders.
"I am not clear that you have not 'saved' Tom from a better thing than
he'll ever find again."
"Perhaps you'd like her!" said Miss Julia sharply. "How ridiculous
all you men are about a pretty face!"
The remaining days of her stay in Appledore Lois roved about to her
heart's content. And yet I will not say that her enjoyment of rocks and
waves was just what it had been at her first arrival. The island seemed
empty, somehow. Appledore is lovely in September and October; and Lois
sat on the rocks and watched the play of the waves, and delighted
herself in the changing colours of sea, and sky, and clouds, and
gathered wild-flowers, and picked up shells; but there was somehow very
present to her the vision of a fair, kindly, handsome face, and eyes
that sought hers eagerly, and hands that were ready gladly with any
little service that there was room to render. She was no longer
troubled by a group of people dogging her footsteps; and she found now
that there had been, however inopportune, a little excitement in that.
It was very well they were gone, she acknowledged; for Mr. Caruthers
might have come to like her too well, and that would have been
inconvenient; and yet it is so pleasant to be liked! Upon the sober
humdrum of Lois's every day home life, Tom Caruthers was like a bit of
brilliant embroidery; and we know how involuntarily the eyes seek out
such a spot of colour, and how they return to it. Yes, life at home was
exceedingly pleasant, but it was a picture in grey; this was a dash of
blue and gold. It had better be grey, Lois said to herself; life is not
glitter. And yet, a little bit of glitter on the greys and browns is so
delightful. Well, it was gone. There was small hope now that anything
so brilliant would ever illuminate her quiet course again. Lois sat on
the rocks and looked at the sea, and thought about it. If they, Tom and
his friends, had not come to Appledore at all, her visit would have
been most delightful; nay, it had been most delightful, whether or no;
but--this and her New York experience had given Lois a new standard by
which to measure life and men. From one point of view, it is true, the
new lost in comparison with the old. Tom and his people were not
"religious." They knew nothing of what made her own life so sweet; they
had not her prospects or joys in looking on towards the far future, nor
her strength and security in view of the trials and vicissitudes of
earth and time. She had the best of it; as she joyfully confessed to
herself, seeing the glorious breaking waves and watching the play of
light on them, and recalling Cowper's words--
   "My Father made them all!"
But there remained another aspect of the matter which raised other
feelings in the girl's mind. The difference in education. Those people
could speak French, and Mr. Caruthers could speak Spanish, and Mr.
Lenox spoke German. Whether well or ill, Lois did not know; but in any
case, how many doors, in literature and in life, stood open to them;
which were closed and locked doors to her! And we all know, that ever
since Bluebeard's time--I might go back further, and say, ever since
Eve's time--Eve's daughters have been unable to stand before a closed
door without the wish to open it. The impulse, partly for good, partly
for evil, is incontestable. Lois fairly longed to know what Tom and his
sister knew in the fields of learning. And there were other fields.
There was a certain light, graceful, inimitable habit of the world and
of society; familiarity with all the pretty and refined ways and uses
of the more refined portions of society; knowledge and practice of
proprieties, as the above-mentioned classes of the world recognize
them; which all seemed to Lois greatly desirable and becoming. Nay, the
said "proprieties" and so forth were not always of the most important
kind; Miss Caruthers could be what Lois considered coolly rude, upon
occasion; and her mother could be carelessly impolite; and Mr. Lenox
could be wanting in the delicate regard which a gentleman should show
to a lady; "I suppose," thought Lois, "he did not think I would know
any better." In these things, these essential things, some of the
farmers of Shampuashuh and their wives were the peers at least, if not
the superiors, of these fine ladies and gentlemen. But in lesser
things! These people knew how to walk gracefully, sit gracefully, eat
gracefully. Their manner and address in all the little details of life,
had the ease, and polish, and charm which comes of use, and habit, and
confidence. The way Mr. Lenox and Tom would give help to a lady in
getting over the rough rocks of Appledore; the deference with which
they would attend to her comfort and provide for her pleasure; the
grace of a bow, the good breeding of a smile; the ease of action which
comes from trained physical and practised mental nature; these and a
great deal more, even the details of dress and equipment which are only
possible to those who know how, and which are instantly seen to be
excellent and becoming, even by those who do not know how; all this had
appealed mightily to Lois's nature, and raised in her longings and
regrets more or less vague, but very real. All that, she would like to
have. She wanted the familiarity with books, and also the familiarity
with the world, which some people had; the secure à plomb and the
easy facility of manner which are so imposing and so attractive to a
girl like Lois. She felt that to these people life was richer, larger,
wider than to her; its riches more at command; the standpoint higher
from which to take a view of the world; the facility greater which
could get from the world what it had to give. And it was a closed door
before which Lois stood. Truly on her side of the door there was very
much that she had and they had not; she knew that, and did not fail to
recognize it and appreciate it. What was the Lord's beautiful creation
to them? a place to kill time in, and get rid of it as fast as
possible. The ocean, to them, was little but a great bath-tub; or a
very inconvenient separating medium, which prevented them from going
constantly to Paris and Rome. To judge by all that appeared, the sky
had no colours for them, and the wind no voices, and the flowers no
speech. And as for the Bible, and the hopes and joys which take their
source there, they knew no more of it so than if they had been
Mahometans. They took no additional pleasure in the things of the
natural world, because those things were made by a Hand that they
loved. Poor people! and Lois knew they were poor; and yet--she said to
herself, and also truly, that the possession of her knowledge would not
be lessened by the possession of theirs. And a little pensiveness
mingled for a few days with her enjoyment of Appledore. Meanwhile Mrs.
Wishart was getting well.
"So they have all gone!" she said, a day or two after the Caruthers
party had taken themselves away.
"Yes, and Appledore seems, you can't think how lonely," said Lois. She
had just come in from a ramble.
"You saw a great deal of them, dear?"
"Quite a good deal. Did you ever see such bright pimpernel? Isn't it
lovely?"
"I don't understand how Tom could get away."
"I believe he did not want to go."
"Why didn't you keep him?"
"I!" said Lois with an astonished start. "Why should I keep him, Mrs.
Wishart?"
"Because he likes you so much."
"Does he?" said Lois a little bitterly.
"Yes! Don't you like him? How do you like him, Lois?"
"He is nice, Mrs. Wishart. But if you ask me, I do not think he has
enough strength of character."
"If Tom has let them carry him off against his will, he is rather
weak."
Lois made no answer. Had he? and had they done it? A vague notion of
what might be the truth of the whole transaction floated in and out of
her mind, and made her indignant. Whatever one's private views of the
danger may be, I think no one likes to be taken care of in this
fashion. Of course Tom Caruthers was and could be nothing to her, Lois
said to herself; and of course she could be nothing to him; but that
his friends should fear the contrary and take measures to prevent it,
stirred her most disagreeably. Yes; if things had gone so, then Tom
certainly was weak; and it vexed her that he should be weak. Very
inconsistent, when it would have occasioned her so much trouble if he
had been strong! But when is human nature consistent? Altogether this
visit to Appledore, the pleasure of which began so spicily, left rather
a flat taste upon her tongue; and she was vexed at that.
There was another person who probably thought Tom weak, and who was
curious to know how he had come out of this trial of strength with his
relations; but Mr. Dillwyn had wandered off to a distance, and it was
not till a month later that he saw any of the Caruthers. By that time
they were settled in their town quarters for the winter, and there one
evening he called upon them. He found only Julia and her mother.
"By the way," said he, when the talk had rambled on for a while, "how
did you get on at the Isles of Shoals?"
"We had an awful time," said Julia. "You cannot conceive of anything so
slow."
"How long did you stay?"
"O, ages! We were there four or five weeks. Imagine, if you can.
Nothing but sea and rocks, and no company!"
"No company! What kept you there?"
"O, Tom!"
"What kept Tom?"
"Mrs. Wishart got sick, you see, and couldn't get away, poor soul! and
that made her stay so long."
"And you had to stay too, to nurse her?"
"No, nothing of that. Miss Lothrop was there, and she did the nursing;
and then a ridiculous aunt of hers came to help her."
"You staid for sympathy?"
"Don't be absurd, Philip! You know we were kept by Tom. We could not
get him away."
"What made Tom want to stay?"
"O, that girl."
"How did you get him away at last?"
"Just because we stuck to him. No other way. He would undoubtedly have
made a fool of himself with that girl--he was just ready to do it--but
we never left him a chance. George and I, and mother, we surrounded
him," said Julia, laughing; "we kept close by him; we never left them
alone. Tom got enough of it at last, and agreed, very melancholy, to
come away. He is dreadfully in the blues yet."
"You have a good deal to answer for, Julia."
"Now, don't, Philip! That's what George says. It is too absurd. Just
because she has a pretty face. All you men are bewitched by pretty
faces."
"She has a good manner, too."
"Manner? She has no manner at all; and she don't know anything, out of
her garden. We have saved Tom from a great danger. It would be a
terrible thing, perfectly terrible, to have him marry a girl who is
not a lady, nor even an educated woman."
"You think you could not have made a lady of her?"
"Mamma, do hear Philip! isn't he too bad? Just because that girl has a
little beauty. I wonder what there is in beauty, it turns all your
heads! Mamma, do you hear Mr. Dillwyn? he wishes we had let Tom have
his head and marry that little gardening girl."
"Indeed I do not," said Philip seriously. "I am very glad you succeeded
in preventing it But allow me to ask if you are sure you have
succeeded? Is it quite certain Tom will not have his head after all? He
may cheat you yet."
"O no! He's very melancholy, but he has given it up. If he don't, we'll
take him abroad in the spring. I think he has given it up. His being
melancholy looks like it."
"True. I'll sound him when I get a chance."
The chance offered itself very soon; for Tom came in, and when Dillwyn
left the house, Tom went to walk with him. They sauntered along Fifth
Avenue, which was pretty full of people still, enjoying the mild air
and beautiful starlight.
"Tom, what did you do at the Isles of Shoals?" Mr. Dillwyn asked
suddenly.
"Did a lot of fishing. Capital trolling."
"All your fishing done on the high seas, eh?"
"All my successful fishing."
"What was the matter? Not a faint heart?"
"No. It's disgusting, the whole thing!" Tom broke out with hearty
emphasis.
"You don't like to talk about it? I'll spare you, if you say so."
"I don't care what you do to me," said Tom; "and I have no objection to
talk about it--to you."
Nevertheless he stopped.
"Have you changed your mind?"
"I shouldn't change my mind, if I lived to be as old as Methuselah!"
"That's right. Well, then,--the thing is going on?"
"It isn't going on! and I suppose it never will!"
"Had the lady any objection? I cannot believe that."
"I don't know," said Tom, with a big sigh. "I almost think she hadn't;
but I never could find that out."
"What hindered you, old fellow?"
"My blessed relations. Julia and mother made such a row. I wouldn't
have minded the row neither; for a man must marry to please himself and
not his mother; and I believe no man ever yet married to please his
sister; but, Philip, they didn't give me a minute. I could never join
her anywhere, but Julia would be round the next corner; or else George
would be there before me. George must put his oar in; and between them
they kept it up."
"And you think she liked you?"
Tom was silent a while.
"Well," said he at last, "I won't swear; for you never know where a
woman is till you've got her; but if she didn't, all I have to say is,
signs aren't good for anything."
It was Philip now who was silent, for several minutes.
"What's going to be the upshot of it?"
"O, I suppose I shall go abroad with Julia and George in the spring,
and end by taking an orthodox wife some day; somebody with blue blood,
and pretension, and nothing else. My people will be happy, and the
family name will be safe."
"And what will become of her?"
"O, she's all right. She won't break her heart about me. She isn't that
sort of girl," Tom Caruthers said gloomily. "Do you know, I admire her
immensely, Philip! I believe she's good enough for anything. Maybe
she's too good. That's what her aunt hinted."
"Her aunt! Who's she?"
"She's a sort of a snapping turtle. A good sort of woman, too. I took
counsel with her, do you know, when I found it was no use for me to try
to see Lois. I asked her if she would stand my friend. She was as sharp
as a fish-hook, and about as ugly a customer; and she as good as told
me to go about my business."
"Did she give reasons for such advice?"
"O yes! She saw through Julia and mother as well as I did; and she
spoke as any friend of Lois would, who had a little pride about her. I
can't blame her."
Silence fell again, and lasted while the two young men walked the
length of several blocks. Then Mr. Dillwyn began again.
"Tom, there ought to be no more shilly-shallying about this matter."
