"I am not sure about that. Her guardian might find out where she is, and
follow her even to San Francisco. If I were on the spot he could do no
harm."
"I tell you, Dick, that gal--excuse me, I mean that young lady--is a
smart one, and I reckon she can get ahead of her guardian if she wants
to. Ben here told me how she circumvented him at the Astor House over in
York. She'll hold her own ag'in him, even if he does track her to
'Frisco."
Some of my readers may desire to know more about Dewey and his two
friends, and I will sketch for their benefit the events to which Bradley
referred.
Florence Douglas was the ward of the Albany merchant, John Campbell, who
by the terms of her father's will was entrusted with the care of her
large property till she had attained the age of twenty-five, a period
nearly a year distant. Mr. Campbell, anxious to secure his ward's large
property for his son, sought to induce Florence to marry the said son,
but this she distinctly declined to do. Irritated and disappointed, Mr.
Campbell darkly intimated that should her opposition continue he would
procure from two pliant physicians a certificate of her insanity and
have her confined in that most terrible of prisons, a mad-house. The
fear that he would carry his threat into execution nerved Florence to a
bold movement. Being mistress of a fortune of thirty thousand dollars,
left by her mother, she had funds enough for her purpose. She fled to
New York, where chance made her acquainted with our hero, Ben Stanton,
under whose escort she safely reached San Francisco, paying Ben's
expenses in return for his protection.
Arrived in San Francisco, she furnished Ben with the necessary funds to
seek out Richard Dewey (to whom, without her guardian's knowledge, she
was privately betrothed) and inform him of her presence in California.
After a series of adventures Ben and his companion had found Dewey, laid
up with a sprained ankle in a rude hut high up among the mountains. He
had met with an accident while successfully working a rich claim near
by.
Of course Richard Dewey was overjoyed to meet friends of his own race
who could provide for him better than his faithful attendant, Ki Sing.
As he could not yet leave the spot, he offered to Ben and Bradley the
privilege of working his claim.
In the next chapter I will briefly explain Ben's position, and the
object which brought him to California, and then we shall be able to
proceed with our story.
CHAPTER II.
THE MISSING CHINAMAN.
If Florence Douglas was an heiress, our young hero, Ben Stanton, was
likewise possessed of property, though his inheritance was not a very
large one. When his father's estate was settled it was found that it
amounted to three hundred and sixty-five dollars. Though rather a large
sum in Ben's eyes, he was quite aware that the interest of this amount
would not support him. Accordingly, being ambitious, he drew from his
uncle, Job Stanton, a worthy shoemaker, the sum of seventy-five dollars,
and went to New York, hoping to obtain employment.
In this he was disappointed, but he had the good fortune to meet Miss
Florence Douglas, by whom he was invited to accompany her to California
as her escort, his expenses of course being paid by his patroness. It is
needless to say that Ben accepted this proposal with alacrity, and,
embarking on a steamer, landed in less than a month at San Francisco. He
did not remain here long, but started for the mining-districts, still
employed by Miss Douglas, in search of Richard Dewey, her affianced
husband, whom her guardian had forbidden her to marry. As we have
already said, Ben and his chosen companion, Jake Bradley, succeeded in
their mission, but as yet had been unable to communicate tidings of
their success to Miss Douglas, there being no chance to send a letter to
San Francisco from the lonely hut where they were at present living.
Besides carrying out the wishes of his patroness, Ben intended to try
his hand at mining, and had employed the interval of three weeks since
he discovered Mr. Dewey in working the latter's claim, with the success
already referred to.
The time when the two friends are introduced to the reader is at the
close of the day, when, fatigued by their work on the claim, they are
glad to rest and chat. Mr. Bradley has a pipe in his mouth, and
evidently takes considerable comfort in his evening smoke.
"I wish I had a pipe for you, Ben," he said. "You don't know how it
rests me to smoke."
"I'll take your word for it, Jake," returned Ben, smiling.
"Won't you take a whiff? You don't know how soothin' it is."
"I don't need to be soothed, Jake. I'm glad you enjoy it, but I don't
envy you a particle."
"Well, p'r'aps you're right, Ben. Our old doctor used to say smokin'
wasn't good for boys, but I've smoked more or less since I was twelve
years old."
"There's something I'd like better than smoking just now," said Ben.
"What's that?"
"Eating supper."
"Just so. I wonder where that heathen Ki Sing is?"
Ki Sing was cook and general servant to the little party, and performed
his duties in a very satisfactory manner--better than either Ben or
Bradley could have done--and left his white employers freer to work at
the more congenial occupation of searching for gold.
"Ki Sing is unusually late," said Richard Dewey. "I wonder what can have
detained him? I am beginning to feel hungry myself."
"The heathen is usually on time," said Bradley, "though he hasn't got a
watch, any more than I have.--Dick, what time is it?"
"Half-past six," answered Richard Dewey, who, though a miner, had not
been willing to dispense with all the appliances of civilization.
"Maybe Ki Sing has found another place," suggested Ben, jocosely.
"He is faithful; I will vouch for that," said Dewey. "I am more afraid
that he has met with some accident--like mine, for instance."
"You won't catch a Chinaman spraining his ankle," said Bradley; "they're
too spry for that. They'll squeeze through where a white man can't, and
I wouldn't wonder if they could turn themselves inside out if they tried
hard."
"It is possible," suggested Dewey, "that Ki Sing may have met with some
of our own race who have treated him roughly. You know the strong
prejudice that is felt against the poor fellows by some who are far
less deserving than they. They think it good sport to torment a
Chinaman."
"I can't say I like 'em much myself," said Bradley; "but I don't mind
saying that Ki Sing is a gentleman. He is the best heathen I know of,
and if I should come across any fellow harmin' him I reckon I'd be ready
to take a hand myself."
"We couldn't get along very well without him, Jake," said Ben.
"That's where you're right, Ben. He's made himself useful to us, and no
mistake."
"I have reason to feel indebted to him," said Dewey. "Injured as I was,
I should have fared badly but for his faithful services. I am not at all
sure that I should have been living at this moment had not the grateful
fellow cared for me and supplied my wants."
It may be explained here that Richard Dewey had at one time rescued Ki
Sing from some rough companions who had made up their minds to cut off
the Chinaman's queue, thereby, in accordance with Chinese custom,
preventing him ever returning to his native country. It was the thought
of this service that had prompted Ki Sing to faithful service when he
found his benefactor in need of it.
Half an hour passed, and still the Chinaman did not appear.
All three became anxious, especially Dewey. "Bradley," said he, "would
you mind going out to look for Ki Sing? I'm sure something has happened
to him."
"Just what I was thinkin' of myself," said Bradley. "I'll go, and I'll
bring him back if he's above ground."
"I'll go with you, Jake," said Ben, rising from the ground on which he
was seated.
"You'd better stay with Dick Dewey," said Bradley; "maybe he'll want
you."
"I forgot that. Yes, I will stay."
"No; I would rather you would go with Bradley," said the invalid. "Two
will stand a better chance of success than one. I sha'n't need anything
while you are away."
"Just as you say, Dick.--Well, Ben, let's start along. I reckon we'll
find Ki Sing before long, and then we'll have some supper."
As the two started on their errand Richard Dewey breathed a sigh of
relief. "I really believe I'm getting attached to Ki Sing," he said to
himself. "He's a good fellow, if he is a Chinaman, and if ever I am
prosperous I will take him into my service and see that he is
comfortably provided for."
The poor Chinaman, though Dewey did not suspect it, was at that moment
in a very uncomfortable position indeed, and he himself was menaced by a
peril already near at hand against which his helpless condition allowed
of no defence. His lonely and monotonous life was destined to be varied
that evening in an unpleasant manner.
CHAPTER III.
TWO GENTLEMEN OF THE ROAD.
Perhaps two hours earlier two horsemen might have been seen riding
slowly over a lower slope of the mountain. The horses they bestrode were
of the Mexican breed, or, in common parlance, mustangs. They were
themselves dressed in Mexican style, and bore a strong resemblance to
bandits as we are apt to picture them.
These gentlemen were Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley, hailing originally from
Missouri, but not reflecting any particular credit on their native
State. They were in fact adventurers, having a strong objection to
honest work and a decided preference for gaining a living by unlawful
means. The very horses they bestrode were stolen, having once belonged
to Jake Bradley and Ben Stanton. The circumstances under which they were
stolen will be remembered by readers of The Young Explorer.
"Beastly place, this, Tom!" said Bill Mosely, with a strong expression
of disgust.
"I should say so," answered Hadley, who was wont by this phrase to echo
the sentiments expressed by his companion and leader.
"I wouldn't have come up here if it had proved safe to stay lower down,"
continued Bill Mosely. "That last man we relieved of his gold-dust might
prove troublesome if we should fall in with him again--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," remarked Mr. Hadley in a tone of sincere conviction.
"I should like to see him when he wakes up and finds his bag of dust
missing," said Mosely, with a laugh.
As he spoke he drew from his pocket a good-sized bag which appeared to
be nearly full of dust. "There must be several hundred dollars' worth
there," he said, complacently.
He expected to hear Hadley answer in his usual style, but was
disappointed.
"When are we going to divide?" asked Hadley, with an expression of
interest not unmingled with anxiety.
"You'd better let me carry it, Tom; it's all the same."
"I should say so. No, I would prefer to take charge of my part," said
Hadley, "or at least to carry the bag part of the time."
Bill Mosely frowned darkly, and he brought his hand near the pocket in
which he carried his pistol. "Hadley," he said, sternly, "do you doubt
my honor?"
"I should say--not," answered Tom Hadley in a dissatisfied tone,
bringing out the last word after a slight pause; "but I don't see why I
shouldn't carry the bag part of the time."
"Had you doubted my honor," continued Mosely with a grand air, "though
you are my friend, I should have been compelled to take your life. I
never take any back talk. I chaw up any one who insults me. I'm a
regular out-and-out desperado, I am, when I'm riled."
"I've heard all that before," said Tom Hadley, rather impatiently.
It was quite true, for this was the style in which Bill Mosely was
accustomed to address new acquaintances. It had not succeeded with Jake
Bradley, who had enough knowledge of human nature to detect the falsity
of Mosely's pretensions and the sham character of his valor.
"You've heard it before," said Mosely, severely, "but ain't it true?
That's what I ask you, Tom Hadley."
"I should say so," slipped out almost unconsciously from the lips of the
habitual echo.
"'Tis well," said Mosely, waving his hand. "You know it and you believe
it. I'm a bad man to insult, I am. I generally chaw up them that stand
in my way."
Tom Hadley was really a braver man than Mosely, and he answered
obstinately, "Give me half that gold-dust, or I'll take it."
Bill Mosely saw his determined face and felt that it was necessary to
back down. "I don't know why I don't shoot you," he said, trying to keep
up his air of domination.
"Because two can play at that game," said Hadley, doggedly.
He produced a pouch, and Bill Mosely, much against his will, was
compelled to divide the contents of the stolen bag, managing, however,
to retain the larger share himself.
"I don't want to quarrel with a friend," said Bill, more mildly, "but
you don't act friendly to-day."
"It's all right now," said Hadley, satisfied.
"Maybe you think I don't want to act fair," continued Mosely in an
injured tone. "Why, the very horse you are riding is a proof to the
contrary. I didn't ask for both horses, did I?"
"You couldn't ride both," answered Tom Hadley, with practical good
sense.
"I wonder where the fellows are we took them from?" said Mosely, with a
change of subject. "The man was a regular fire-eater: I wouldn't like to
meet him again."
"I should say so," chimed in Hadley, emphatically.
Bradley had paid Mosely in his own coin, and boasted of his prowess even
more extravagantly than that braggadocio, claiming to have killed from
seventy to eighty men in the course of his experience. Mosely had been
taken in by his confident tone, and knowing that he was himself a sham
desperado, though a genuine thief and highwayman, had been made to feel
uneasy while in Bradley's company.
"I wonder what became of them?" continued Mosely, thoughtfully.
As Tom Hadley's special phrase could not come in here appropriately, he
forbore to make any remark.
"He thought he would scare me by his fierce talk," said Mosely, who
would hardly have spoken so confidently had he known that Bradley was
only two miles distant from him at that identical moment. "It takes a
good deal to scare a man like me--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," returned Hadley, but it was noticeable that he spoke
rather dubiously, and not with his usual positiveness.
"I'm a hard man to handle," continued Mosely, complacently, relapsing
into the style of talk which he most enjoyed. "I'm as bad as they make
'em."
"I should say so," chimed in Tom Hadley; and there was nothing doubtful
in his tone now.
Bill Mosely looked at him as if he suspected there was something
suspicious under this speech, but Tom Hadley wore his usual look, and
his companion dismissed his momentary doubt. "You never saw me afraid of
any living man--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," answered Hadley.
There was something equivocal in this speech, and Bill Mosely looked
vexed.
"Can't you say anything but that?" he grumbled. "It looks as if you
doubted my statement. No man doubt my word--and lives."
Tom Hadley merely shrugged his shoulders. He was not a man of brilliant
intellectual ability or of rare penetration, but there were times when
even he was led to suspect that his companion was a humbug. Yet Mosely
had greater force of character, and took uncommon pains to retain his
ascendency over his more simple-minded companion, and had in the main
been successful, though in the matter of the gold-dust he had been
obliged to score a defeat.
As Hadley did not see fit to express any doubt of this last statement,
Bill Mosely was content to let the matter drop, assuming that he had
gained a victory and recovered his ascendency over his echo.
They had met no one for some hours, and did not look for an encounter
with anything wearing the semblance of humanity, when all at once Tom
Hadley uttered an exclamation.
"What is it, Tom?" asked Mosely.
"Look there!" was the only answer, as Hadley, with outstretched finger,
pointed to a Chinaman walking slowly up the hill.
"It's a heathen Chinee!" exclaimed Mosely with animation.
"I should say so," echoed Hadley.
Mosely urged his mustang to greater speed, and soon overtook Ki Sing,
for it was Richard Dewey's attendant whom the two adventurers had fallen
in with.
CHAPTER IV.
KI SING IN THE HANDS OF THE ENEMY.
Ki Sing turned when he heard the sound of horses' feet, for in that
mountain-solitude such a sound was unusual. He was not reassured by the
appearance of the two men, whose intention seemed to be to overtake him,
and he turned aside from the path with the intention of getting out of
the way.
"Stop there, you heathen!" called Bill Mosely in his fiercest tone.
Ki Sing halted, and an expression of uneasiness came over his broad,
flat face.
"What are you doing here, you Chinese loafer?"
Ki Sing did not exactly comprehend this speech, but answered mildly,
"How do, Melican man?"
"How do?" echoed Bill Mosely, laughing rather boisterously.--"Tom, the
heathen wants to know how I do.--Well, heathen, I'm so's to be around,
and wouldn't mind chawing up a dozen Chinamen. Where do you live?"
"Up mountain," answered Ki Sing.
"Which way?"
The Chinaman pointed in the right direction.
"What do you do for a living?"
"Wait on Melican man--cookee, washee."
"So you are a servant to a white man, John?"
"Yes, John."
"Don't you call me John, you yellow mummy! I'm not one of your
countrymen, I reckon.--What do you say to that, Tom? The fellow's
gettin' familiar."
"I should say so," remarked Tom Hadley, with his usual originality.
"What's the name of the Melican man you work for?" continued Mosely,
after a slight pause.
"Dickee Dewee," answered Ki Sing, repeating the familiar name applied by
Bradley to the invalid. The name seemed still more odd as the Chinaman
pronounced it.
"Well, he's got a queer name, that's all I can say," continued Mosely.
"What's your name?"
"Ki Sing."
"Ki Sing? How's Mrs. Ki Sing?" asked Mosely, who was disposed, like the
cat, to play with his victim before turning and rending him.
"Me got no wifee," said the Chinaman, stolidly.
"Then you're in the market. Do you want to marry?"
"Me no want to mally?"
"So much the worse for the ladies. Well, as to this Dickee, as you call
him? What does he do?"
"He sick--lie down on bedee."
"He's sick, is he? What's the matter with him?"
"Fall down and hurt leggee."
"Oh, that was it? What did he do before he hurt himself?"
"Dig gold."
Bill Mosely became more interested. "Did he find much gold?" he asked
eagerly.
"Yes, muchee," answered Ki Sing, unsuspiciously.
"Does he keep it with him?"
Bill Mosely betrayed a little too much interest when he asked this
question, and the Chinaman, hitherto unsuspicious, became on his guard.
"Why you wantee know?" he asked shrewdly.
"Do you dare give me any of your back talk, you yellow heathen?"
exclaimed Mosely, angrily. "Answer my question, or I'll chaw you up in
less'n a minute."
"What you ask?" said Ki Sing, innocently.
"You know well enough. Where does this Dickee keep the gold he found
before he met with an accident?"
"He no tellee me," answered Ki Sing.
This might be true, so that Mosely did not feel sure that the Chinaman's
ignorance was feigned. Still, he resolved to push the inquiry, in the
hope of eliciting some information that might be of value, for already a
plan had come into his mind which was in accordance with his general
character and reputation--that of relieving the invalid of his hoard of
gold-dust.
"Where do you think he keeps the gold, John?" he asked mildly.
Ki Sing looked particularly vacant as he expressed his ignorance on this
subject.
"Has he got a cabin up there?" asked Mosely.
"Yes."
"And how far might it be?"
"Long way," answered Ki Sing, who wished to divert Mosely from the plan
which the faithful servant could see he had in view.
Bill Mosely was keen enough to understand the Chinaman's meaning, and
answered, "Long or not, I will go and see your master. I am a doctor,"
he added, winking to Hadley, "and perhaps I can help him.--Ain't I a
doctor, Tom?"
"I should say so," answered Hadley, whose respect for truth did not
interfere with his corroborating in his usual style anything which his
companion saw fit to assert.
Ki Sing did not express any opinion on the subject of Bill Mosely's
medical pretensions, though he was quite incredulous.
"Lead the way, John," said Mosely.
"Where me go?" asked the Chinaman innocently.
"Go? Go to the cabin where your master lives, and that by the shortest
path. Do you hear?"
"Yes."
Ki Sing, however, still faithful to the man who had befriended him in
the hour of danger, did not direct his course toward Richard Dewey's
cabin, but guided the two adventurers in a different direction. The
course he took was a circuitous one, taking him no farther away from the
cabin, but encircling the summit and drawing no nearer to it. He hoped
that the two men, whose purpose he suspected was not honest nor
friendly, would become tired and would give up the quest.
He did not, however, understand the perseverance of Mosely when he felt
that he was on the scent of gold.
Finally, Mosely spoke. "John," he said, "is the cabin near by?"
Ki Sing shook his head. "Long way," he answered.
"How did you happen to get so far away from it, then, I should like to
know?" and he examined the face of his guide sharply.
But Ki Sing's broad face seemed utterly void of expression as,
neglecting to answer the question, he reiterated his statement, "Housee
long way."
"The man's a fool, Tom," said Mosely, turning to his companion.
"I should say so," was all the help he got from Hadley.
"Do you know what I mean to do, Hadley?--Here, you yellow mummy, go a
little ahead." (The Chinaman did so.)--"There's a bonanza up there in
that cabin, wherever it is. The Chinaman says that this man with the
queer name had got out a good deal of gold before he met with an
accident--broke his leg, likely. Well, it stands to reason he's got the
gold now. There ain't no chance here of sendin' off the dust, and of
course he's got it hid somewhere in his cabin. Do you see the point,
Tom?"
"I should say so."
"And I should say so too. It strikes me as a particularly good chance.
This man is disabled and helpless. He can't prevent us walking off with
his gold, can he?"
"Suppose he won't tell us where it is?" suggested Tom Hadley with
extraordinary mental acuteness.
"Why, we'll knock him on the head or put a bullet in him, Hadley. It's
a pity if two fire-eaters like us can't tackle a man with a broken leg.
What do you say?"
"I should say so."
