"Why, that's only the schoolhouse."
"Education is a long word, dear; but you know what it means, and, as you
grow older, you will see what wonders it can work. It is a noble giant;
for in this country rich and poor are helped by it, and no one need
suffer for it unless they choose. It works more wonders than any other:
it changes little children into wise, good men and women, who rule the
world, and make happy homes everywhere; it helps write books, sing
songs, paint pictures, do good deeds, and beautify the world. Love and
respect it, my little Daisy, and be glad that you live now when such
giants lend a hand to dwarfs like us."
Daisy sat still a long time, looking all about her on the mountain-top;
and, when she rode away, she carried a new thought in her mind, which
she never forgot.
"This is the last day of the seven, and no fairies have been found. Do
you think I ever shall see one?" said Daisy, on the Sunday morning
that ended her week's hunt.
"Not the kind you think of, for there are none such, Daisy; but you have
found two better and more beautiful ones than any fanciful sprites,"
said Wee.
"Have I? Where are they? What are their names?"
Aunt Wee drew her to the glass, and said, as she pointed to Daisy's
face:
"Here they are, and their names are Health and Happiness. There are many
ways of losing them, and they are hard to catch when once lost. I wanted
you to keep both, and tried to show you how. A happy, healthful hour in
the morning sweetens and brightens the whole day; and there is no
fairy-book half so wonderful as the lovely world all about us, if we
only know how to read it."
"Then all these mornings we were hunting after health and happiness,
instead of fairies, were we?"
"Yes: haven't you enjoyed it, and don't you think you have caught my
fairies?"
Daisy looked from a little picture of herself, which Wee had drawn some
time ago, to her image in the glass. One was dull and sad, pale and
cross; the other, rosy, gay, and smiling,--the likeness of a happy,
hearty little girl, wide-awake and in good tune. She understood the kind
joke; and, turning, kissed Aunt Wee, as she said, gratefully:
"I think I have caught your elves, and I'll try to keep them all my
life. But tell me one thing: was the music that woke me all a joke too?"
"No, dear: here it is, and now it is your own; for you have learned to
wake and listen to it."
Daisy looked, and saw Aunt Wee lean from the window, and take out of a
hollow nook, in the old tree close by, a little box. She set it on the
table, touched a spring, and the airy music sounded more beautiful than
ever.
"Is it mine, all mine?" cried Daisy.
"Yes: I hid it while I tried my little plan, and now you shall have it
for your own. See, here is the best elf I can give you, and she will
dance whenever you call her."
Wee pushed a golden pin, and up sprang a tiny figure, all crimson and
gold, with shining wings, and a garland on its dainty head. Softly
played the hidden music, and airily danced the little sylph till the
silvery chime died away; then, folding her delicate arms, she sank from
sight, leaving Daisy breathless with delight.
V.
SHADOW-CHILDREN.
Ned, Polly, and Will sat on the steps one sun-shiny morning, doing
nothing, except wish they had something pleasant to do.
"Something new, something never heard of before,--wouldn't that be
jolly?" said Ned, with a great yawn.
"It must be an amusing play, and one that we don't get tired of very
soon," added Polly gravely.
"And something that didn't be wrong, else mamma wouldn't like it," said
little Will, who was very good for a small boy.
As no one could suggest any thing to suit, they all sat silent a few
minutes. Suddenly Ned said, rather crossly, "I wish my shadow wouldn't
mock me. Every time I stretch or gape it does the same, and I don't like
it."
"Poor thing, it can't help that: it has to do just what you do, and be
your slave all day. I'm glad I ain't a shadow," said Polly.
"I try to run away from mine sometimes, but I can't ever. It will come
after me; and in the night it scares me, if it gets big and black," said
Will, looking behind him.
"Wouldn't it be fun to see shadows going about alone, and doing things
like people?" asked Polly.
"I just wish they would. I'd like to see ours cut capers; that would be
a jolly new game, wouldn't it?" said Ned.
No one had time to speak; for suddenly the three little shadows on the
sunny wall behind them stood up straight, and began to bow.
"Mercy, me!" cried Polly, staring at them.
"By Jove, that's odd!" said Ned, looking queer.
"Are they alive?" asked Will, a little frightened.
"Don't be alarmed: they won't hurt you," said a soft voice. "To-day is
midsummer-day, and whoever wishes a wish can have it till midnight. You
want to see your shadows by themselves; and you can, if you promise to
follow them as they have followed you so long. They will not get you
into harm; so you may safely try it, if you like. Do you agree for the
day to do as they do, and so have your wish?"
"Yes, we promise," answered the children.
"Tell no one till night, and be faithful shadows to the shadows."
The voice was silent, but with more funny little bows the shadows began
to move off in different directions. The children knew their own: for
Ned's was the tallest, and had its hands in its pockets; Polly's had a
frock on, and two bows where its hair was tied up; while Will's was a
plump little shadow in a blouse, with a curly head and a pug nose. Each
child went after its shadow, laughing, and enjoying the fun.
Ned's master went straight to the shed, took down a basket, and marched
away to the garden, where it began to move its hands as if busily
picking peas. Ned stopped laughing when he saw that, and looked rather
ashamed; for he remembered that his mother had asked him to do that
little job for her, and he had answered,--
"Oh, bother the old peas! I'm busy, and I can't."
"Who told you about this?" he asked, beginning to work.
The shadow shook its head, and pointed first to Ned's new jacket, then
to a set of nice garden tools near by, and then seemed to blow a kiss
from its shadowy fingers towards mamma, who was just passing the open
gate.
"Oh! you mean that she does lots for me; so I ought to do what I can for
her, and love her dearly," said Ned, getting a pleasanter face every
minute.
The shadow nodded, and worked away as busily as the bees, tumbling heels
over head in the great yellow squash blossoms, and getting as dusty as
little millers. Somehow Ned rather liked the work, with such an odd
comrade near by; for, though the shadow didn't really help a bit, it
seemed to try, and set an excellent example. When the basket was full,
the shadow took one handle, and Ned the other; and they carried it in.
"Thank you, dear. I was afraid we should have to give up our peas
to-day: I'm so busy, I can't stop," said mamma, looking surprised and
pleased.
Ned couldn't stop to talk; for the shadow ran away to the woodpile, and
began to chop with all its might.
"Well, I suppose I must; but I never saw such a fellow for work as this
shadow is. He isn't a bit like me, though he's been with me so long,"
said Ned, swinging the real hatchet in time with the shadowy one.
Polly's new mistress went to the dining-room, and fell to washing up the
breakfast cups. Polly hated that work, and sulkily began to rattle the
spoons and knock the things about. But the shadow wouldn't allow that;
and Polly had to do just what it did, though she grumbled all the while.
"She doesn't splash a bit, or make any clatter; so I guess she's a tidy
creature," said Polly. "How long she does rub each spoon and glass. We
never shall get done. What a fuss she makes with the napkins, laying
them all even in the drawer. And now she's at the salt-cellars, doing
them just as mamma likes. I wish she'd live here, and do my work for
me. Why, what's that?" And Polly stopped fretting to listen; for she
seemed to hear the sound of singing,--so sweet, and yet so very faint
she could catch no words, and only make out a cheerful little tune.
"Do you hear any one singing, mamma?" she asked.
"No: I wish I did." And mamma sighed; for baby was poorly, piles of
sewing lay waiting for her, Biddy was turning things topsy-turvy in the
kitchen for want of a word from the mistress, and Polly was looking
sullen.
The little girl didn't say any more, but worked quietly and watched the
shadow, feeling sure the faint song came from it. Presently she began to
hum the tune she caught by snatches; and, before she knew it, she was
singing away like a blackbird. Baby stopped crying, and mamma said,
smiling:
"Now I hear somebody singing, and it's the music I like best in the
world."
That pleased Polly; but, a minute after, she stopped smiling, for the
shadow went and took baby, or seemed to, and Polly really did. Now, baby
was heavy, and cross with its teeth; and Polly didn't feel like tending
it one bit. Mamma hurried away to the kitchen; and Polly walked up and
down the room with poor baby hanging over her arm, crying dismally, with
a pin in its back, a wet bib under its chin, and nothing cold and hard
to bite with its hot, aching gums, where the little teeth were trying to
come through.
"Do stop, you naughty, fretty baby. I'm tired of your screaming, and
it's high time you went to sleep. Bless me! what's Miss Shadow doing
with her baby?" said Polly.
Miss Shadow took out the big pin and laid it away, put on a dry bib, and
gave her baby a nice ivory ring to bite; then began to dance up and
down the room, till the shadowy baby clapped its hands and kicked
delightedly. Polly laughed, and did the same, feeling sorry she had been
so pettish. Presently both babies grew quiet, went to sleep, and were
laid in the cradle.
"Now, I hope we shall rest a little," said Polly, stretching her arms.
But, no: down sat the shadow, and began to sew, making her needle fly
like a real little seamstress.
"Oh, dear!" groaned Polly. "I promised to hem those handkerchiefs for
Ned, and so I must; but I do think handkerchiefs are the most pokey
things in the world to sew. I dare say you think you can sew faster than
I can. Just wait a bit, and see what I can do, miss," she said to the
shadow.
It took some time to find her thimble and needles and spools, for Polly
wasn't a very neat little girl; but she got settled at last, and
stitched away as if bent on beating her dumb friend.
Little Will's shadow went up to the nursery, and stopped before a basin
of water. "Oh! ah! ain't this drefful?" cried Will, with a shiver; for
he knew he'd got to have his face washed, because he wouldn't have it
done properly when he got up, but ran away. Now, Will was a good child;
but this one thing was his great trouble, and sometimes he couldn't bear
it. Jane was so rough. She let soap get in his eyes, and water run down
his neck, and she pinched his nose when she wiped him, and brushed his
hair so hard that really it was dreadful; and even a bigger boy would
have found it hard to bear. He shivered and sighed: but Jane came in;
and, when he saw that the shadow stood still and took the scrubbing like
a little hero, he tried to do the same, and succeeded so well that Jane
actually patted his head and called him "a deary;" which was something
new, for old Nurse Jane was always very busy and rather cross.
Feeling that nothing worse could possibly happen to him, Will ran after
his shadow, as it flitted away into the barn, and began to feed the
chickens.
"There, now! I forgetted all about my chickeys, and the shadow 'membered
'em; and I'm glad of it," said Will, scattering dabs of meal and water
to the chirping, downy little creatures who pecked and fluttered at his
feet. Little shadow hunted for eggs, drove the turkeys out of the
garden, and picked a basket of chips: then it went to play with Sammy,
a neighbor's child; for, being a small shadow, it hadn't many jobs to
do, and plenty of active play was good for it.
Sammy was a rough little boy and rather selfish: so, when they played
ball, he wanted to throw all the time; and, when Will objected, he grew
angry and struck him. The blow didn't hurt Will's cheek much, but it did
his little feelings; and he lifted his hand to strike back, when he saw
his shadow go and kiss Sammy's shadow. All his anger was gone in a
minute, and he just put his arm round Sammy's neck and kissed him. This
kiss for a blow made him so ashamed that he began to cry, and couldn't
be comforted till he had given Will his best marble and a ride on his
pony.
About an hour before dinner, the three shadows and the children met in
the garden, and had a grand game of play, after they had told each other
what they had been doing since they parted. Now, the shadows didn't
forget baby even then, but got out the wagon, and Miss Baby, all fresh
from her nap, sat among her pillows like a queen, while Ned was horse,
Polly footman, and Will driver; and in this way she travelled all round
the garden and barn, up the lane and down to the brook, where she was
much delighted with the water sparkling along and the fine splash of the
stones they threw in.
When the dinner-bell rang, mamma saw four clean, rosy faces and four
smooth heads at the table; for the shadow-children made themselves neat,
without being told. Every one was merry and hungry and good-natured.
Even poor baby forgot her teeth, and played a regular rub-a-dub with her
spoon on her mug, and tried to tell about the fine things she saw on her
drive. The children said nothing about the new play, and no one observed
the queer actions of their shadows but themselves. They saw that there
was no gobbling, or stretching over, or spilling of things, among the
shadows; but that they waited to be helped, served others first, and ate
tidily, which was a great improvement upon the usual state of things.
It was Saturday afternoon: the day was fine, and mamma told them they
could go for a holiday frolic in the woods. "Don't go to the pond, and
be home early," she said.
"Yes, mamma; we'll remember," they answered, as they scampered away to
get ready.
"We shall go through the village, and Mary King will be looking out; so
I shall wear my best hat. Mamma won't see me, if I slip down the back
way; and I do so want Mary to know that my hat is prettier than hers,"
said Polly, up in her little room.
Now Polly was rather vain, and liked to prink; so she got out the new
hat, and spent some time in smoothing her braids and putting on her
blue ribbons. But when all was ready, and the boys getting impatient,
she found her shadow, with a sun-bonnet on, standing by the door, as if
to prevent her going out.
"You tiresome thing! do you mean that I mustn't wear my hat, but that
old bonnet?" asked Polly.
The shadow nodded and beckoned, and patted its head, as if it was all
right.
"I wish I hadn't promised to do as you do; then I could do as I like,
and not make a fright of myself," said Polly, rather sulkily, as she put
away the hat, and tied on the old bonnet with a jerk.
Once out in the lovely sunshine, she soon forgot the little
disappointment; and, as they didn't go through the village, but by a
green lane, where she found some big blackberries, she was quite
contented. Polly had a basket to hold fruit or flowers, Ned his
jackknife, and Will a long stick on which he rode, fancying that this
sort of horse would help his short legs along; so they picked, whittled,
and trotted their way to the wood, finding all manner of interesting
things on the road.
The wood was full of pleasant sights and sounds; for wild roses bloomed
all along the path, ferns and scarlet berries filled the little dells,
squirrels chattered, birds sang, and pines whispered musically
overhead.
"I'm going to stop here and rest, and make a wreath of these pretty wild
roses for baby: it's her birthday, and it will please mamma," said
Polly, sitting down on a mound of moss, with a lapful of flowers.
"I'm going to cut a fishing-pole, and will be back in a minute." And Ned
went crashing into the thickest part of the wood.
"I shall see where that rabbit went to, and maybe I'll find some
berries," said Will, trotting down the path the wild rabbit had gone.
The sound of the boys' steps died away, and Polly was wondering how it
would seem to live all alone in the wood, when a little girl came
trudging by, with a great pail of berries on her arm. She was a poor
child: her feet were bare, her gown was ragged, she wore an old shawl
over her head, and walked as if lame. Polly sat behind the ferns, and
the child did not see her till Polly called out. The sudden sound
startled her; and she dropped her pail, spilling the berries all over
the path. The little girl began to cry, and Polly to laugh, saying, in a
scornful tone:
"How silly to cry for a few berries!"
"I've been all day picking 'em," said the girl; "and I'm so tired and
hungry; 'cause I didn't dare to go home till my pail was full,--mother
scolds if I do,--and now they're all spoilt. Oh, dear! dear me!" And
she cried so hard that great tears fell on the moss.
Polly was sorry now, and sat looking at her till she saw her shadow down
on its knees, picking up the berries; then it seemed to fold its little
handkerchief round the girl's bruised foot, and give her something from
its pocket. Polly jumped up and imitated the kind shadow, even to giving
the great piece of gingerbread she had brought for fear she should be
hungry.
"Take this," she said gently. "I'm sorry I frightened you. Here are the
berries all picked up, and none the worse for falling in the grass. If
you'll take them to the white house on the hill, my mamma will buy them,
and then your mother won't scold you."
"Oh, thank you, miss! It's ever so good. I'll take the berries to your
mother, and bring her more whenever she likes," said the child
gratefully, as she walked away munching the gingerbread, and smiling
till there were little rainbows in her tears.
Meanwhile Ned had poked about in the bushes, looking for a good pole.
Presently he saw a willow down by the pond, and thought that would give
him a nice, smooth pole. He forgot his promise, and down he went to the
pond; where he cut his stick, and was whittling the end, when he saw a
boat by the shore. It was untied, and oars lay in it, as if waiting for
some one to come and row out.
"I'll just take a little pull across, and get those cardinal-flowers for
Polly," he said; and went to the boat.
He got in, and was about to push off, when he saw his shadow standing on
the shore.
"Don't be a fool; get in, and come along," he said to it, remembering
his promise now, but deciding to break it, and ask pardon afterwards.
But the shadow shook its head; pointed to the swift stream that ran
between the banks, the rocks and mud on the opposite side, and the leaky
boat itself.
"I ain't afraid: mamma won't mind, if I tell her I'm sorry; and it will
be such fun to row alone. Be a good fellow, and let me go," said Ned,
beckoning.
But the shadow would not stir, and Ned was obliged to mind. He did so
very reluctantly, and scolded the shadow well as he went back to Polly;
though all the time he felt he was doing right, and knew he should be
glad afterwards.
Will trotted after the rabbit, but didn't find it; he found a
bird's-nest instead with four little birds in it. He had an empty cage
at home, and longed for something to put in it; for kittens didn't like
it, and caterpillars and beetlebugs got away. He chose the biggest bird,
and, holding him carefully, walked away to find Polly. The poor
mother-bird chirped and fluttered in great distress; but Will kept on
till his little shadow came before him, and tried to make him turn
back.
"No, no, I want him," said Will. "I won't hurt him, and his mother has
three left: she won't mind if I take one."
Here the mother-bird chirped so loud it was impossible to help seeing
that she did care very much; and the shadow stamped its foot and waved
its hand, as if ordering the young robber to carry back the baby-bird.
Will stood still, and thought a minute; but his little heart was a very
kind one, and he soon turned about, saying pleasantly:
"Yes, it is naughty, and I won't do it. I'll ask mamma to get me a
canary, and will let this birdie stay with his brothers."
The shadow patted him on the shoulder, and seemed to be delighted as
Will put the bird in the nest and walked on, feeling much happier than
if he had kept it. A bush of purple berries grew by the path, and Will
stopped to pick some. He didn't know what they were, and mamma had often
told him never to eat strange things. But they smelt so good, and looked
so nice, he couldn't resist, and lifted one to his mouth, when little
shadow motioned for him to stop.
"Oh, dear! you don't let me do any thing I want to," sighed Will. "I
shall ask Polly if I tarn't eat these; and, if she says I may, I shall,
so now."
He ran off to ask Polly; but she said they were poisonous, and begged
him to throw them away.
"Good little shadow, to keep me safe!" cried Will. "I like you; and I'll
mind better next time, 'cause you are always right."
The shadow seemed to like this, and bobbed about so comically it made
Will laugh till his eyes were full of tears. Ned came back, and they
went on, having grand times in the wood. They found plenty of berries to
fill the basket; they swung down on slender birches, and got rolls of
white bark for canoes; they saw all sorts of wild-wood insects and
birds; and frolicked till they were tired. As they crossed a field, a
cow suddenly put down her head and ran at them, as if she was afraid
they meant to hurt her calf. All turned, and ran as fast as they could
toward the wall; but poor Will in his fright tumbled down, and lay
screaming. Ned and Polly had reached the wall, and, looking back, saw
that their shadows had not followed. Ned's stood before Will,
brandishing his pole; and Polly's was flapping a shadowy sun-bonnet with
all its might. As soon as they saw that, back they went,--Ned to
threaten till he broke his pole, and Polly to flap till the strings came
off. As if anxious to do its part, the bonnet flew up in the air, and
coming down lit on the cross cow's head; which so astonished her that
she ran away as hard as she could pelt.
"Wasn't that funny?" said Will, when they had tumbled over the wall, and
lay laughing in the grass on the safe side.
"I'm glad I wore the old bonnet; for I suppose my best hat would have
gone just the same," said Polly thankfully.
"The calf doesn't know its own mother with that thing on," laughed Ned.
"How brave and kind you were to come back and save me! I'd have been
deaded if you hadn't," said Will, looking at his brother and sister with
his little face full of grateful admiration.
They turned towards home after this flurry, feeling quite like heroes.
When they came to the corner where two roads met, Ned proposed they
should take the river-road; for, though the longest, it was much the
pleasantest.
"We shan't be home at supper-time," said Polly. "You won't be able to do
your jobs, Ned, nor I mine, and Will's chickens will have to go to bed
hungry."
"Never mind: it's a holiday, so let's enjoy it, and not bother,"
answered Ned.
"We promised mamma we'd come home early," said Will.
They stood looking at the two roads,--one sandy, hot, and hilly; the
other green and cool and level, along the river-side. They all chose the
pleasant path, and walked on till Ned cried out, "Why, where are our
shadows?"
They looked behind, before, and on either side; but nowhere could they
see them.
"They were with us at the corner," said Will.
"Let's run back, and try to find them," said Polly.
"No, let 'em go: I'm tired of minding mine, and don't care if I never
see it again," said Ned.
"Don't say so; for I remember hearing about a man who sold his shadow,
and then got into lots of trouble because he had none. We promised to
follow them, and we must," said Polly.
"I wish," began Ned in a pet; but Polly clapped her hand over his mouth,
saying:
"Pray, don't wish now; for it may come to pass as the man's wish in the
fairy tale did, and the black pudding flew up and stuck tight to his
