He did not try to use it, and followed her into 
the parlor, cursing his inadequacy. 
" Won't you take the lounge ? " she asked, 
wheeling it lightly towards him. 
"No. I must learn to sit up, if I am going 
Monday." 
" Monday ? " She could not, or did not control 
a slight movement of surprise. He tried in vain 
to interpret it as one of regret. 
" If I can. The sooner the better. You agree 
with me, I am sure." 
" As a person, yes. As a physician, no. It 
 
would be safer for you to wait till the next boat. 
You are hardly ready for the journey. You are 
living on nerve." 
" And shall till I get away from you," said 
Yorke bluntly. 
" Perhaps so," returned the doctor, sighing; " I 
am of course a little at sea in such a case as this. 
I wish to facilitate your departure as much and as 
fast as I can." She stiffened into her professional 
manner. He felt as if he had struck a glacier in a 
clover-field. 
" I want to talk this out before I go," proceeded 
Yorke doggedly. 
" It only wastes nerve-fibre," said the doctor in 
an undertone. 
" The physiological basis is not the only one on 
which life is to be taken, Doctor Zay. I have 
told you before, that I am a man as well as a 
patient. Try to remember it, if you can." 
" What is the use in remembering it ? " she said 
unexpectedly. He held his breath for a moment, 
scrutinizing her averted face. 
" Do you mind," he asked suddenly, " my ask 
ing whether I am so far too late in the declaration 
of my feeling for you, that some other man would 
have a right, or think he had, to " 
. " I am not going to marry Dr. Penhallow, if that 
is what you mean," she interrupted calmly. 
 
" Thank you," said Yorke, after what seemed to 
her a long silence. He could not keep the rebel 
lious hope out of his pale face. It dashed at her 
like a sunlit shower. 
She looked up, saw it, and shook her head at it, 
as if it had been a word or outcry. 
"It is not impossible, then," persisted he, 
" that you might some time begin to love me " 
" It is like the miracles," replied the doctor. 
" It is not logic to assume their impossibility. 
Their improbability is so great that it amounts 
to about the same thing. Put aside the thought 
of my loving you, Mr. Yorke, in justice and in 
mercy to yourself. I cannot demonstrate to you 
the futility of your hope. I can only state it. The 
sooner you accept it, the better for us both. Let 
us consider this a case of aphonia and aphasia, and 
be done with it." 
" Explain yourself to the ignorant, my learned 
physician." 
" Aphonia is inability to speak " 
" Oh yes ; my Greek might have stood me for 
that. And aphasia is " 
" Inability to say certain things. Or at least 
that will pass for a popular definition." 
" That is a scientific reply," said Yorke, 
regarding her keenly. " I am not sure that it is" He 
 
checked himself. She did not ask him to finish 
his sentence, but sat with downcast, troubled lids 
before him. 
" Suppose yon could love me," he urged, " in 
the course of time, after a good while ; suppose 
you did not thwart or deny the feeling of 
kindliness which I hope I may say you have for me ; 
suppose you reconsidered the reasonableness of the 
miracle." 
" It would make no difference ; none at all ! " 
She lifted her head, and her eyes, like sleepless 
sentinels, forced him off. All his manhood roused 
itself to defy them. He felt himself swept along 
by a power as mysterious to him as if he only out 
of the world had ever come into helpless and beau 
tiful contact with it. All his lot, like a Pagan 
fate, moved on in its destined way to its appointed 
end. He experienced the terrible acceleration of a 
passion, and found that neither nature nor obser 
vation had given him any more prevision of the 
force of the torrent than they had power where 
with to stay it. 
" I love you," he repeated, "I love you ! " 
as if the fact itself must be an appeal inexorable 
to her as the laws of light, or gravitation, or any 
natural code which she could not infringe without 
penalty. 
 
She made a slight gesture, which seemed one 
of entreaty rather than of impatience, rose, and 
walked over to the window, which she flung open. 
A dash of rain swept through. She stood in the 
gust for a moment. The light from the globed 
lamps struggled out against the darkness, and 
Yorke could see a wet honeysuckle staring in ; the 
yellow flower dripped and nodded at him. 
He got up and followed her, half unconsciously. 
" You would not want to give up your profes 
sion," he began. " You should not give it up ! I 
would not ask it " 
A slow, slight smile curled the delicate corners 
of her lips. 
" You will take cold," she said. She shut the 
window, and, turning, faced him. Her hair was 
wet with the rain, and glittered. 
" Have you nothing for me ? " he cried. 
" Nothing that you would care for. Men do 
not value a woman 's friendship. They do not 
understand it. They do not know what to do 
with it." 
" No ! I will not have your friendship ! " He 
turned his back to her, and stood, trembling. 
" It would be perfectly useless to you, if you 
would," said Doctor Zay, a little drearily. " You 
are not well enough to try difficult experiments. 
14 
 
Make up your mind to let them all alone, and 
me, too." 
" I will never let you alone ! " said the lover, 
under his breath. 
" Oh yes, you will," said the woman of science 
quietly. " In a few months you will find it easier 
to let me alone than to shatter your nervous sys 
tem over me in this way. Nothing could be 
worse," she added, " for those spinal symptoms." 
" I believe they are right," answered Yorke, 
with dull bitterness ; his imagination at that 
moment was denuded of hope. " A woman cannot 
follow a career without ruin to all that is noblest 
and sweetest and truest in her nature. Your heart 
is as hard as your lancet. Your instinct has be 
come as cruel. If I had a fair chance, it should 
not be so. I would compel you to feel my pres 
ence, to recognize my claim. You should be 
wounded by a bullet that you could not find, 
that slipped, and defied your probe, and rankled 
till you respected it." 
He had made his way back, weakly, as he spoke, 
to the sofa, upon which he sank, pale and pant 
ing. 
" The sick are at such horrible odds ! " he cried. 
" It must be bad enough for a woman, but for a 
man " 
 
He stopped, startled. She had floated to him 
with an impetuous motion. He saw her out 
stretched hands ; she leaned above him ; her 
resolute features broke. 
" Stop ! " she said. " Please stop ! " 
"What should I stop for?" He held up his 
arms. She retreated like a dream, and stood 
towering above him, like a statue. The agitation of 
her face contrasted singularly with the massive- 
ness of her attitude. He was sure that he saw 
tears before she dashed them away as if they had 
been ignoble impulses. 
" Mr. Yorke," she said, in a tone of infinite gen 
tleness, " the time will come when you will bless 
me for what I am doing now, for my heart- 
lessness, my cruelty, my unwomanliness. They 
are three words easy to remember. I shall not 
forget them at once. You will retract them 
some time. You will tell me that perhaps I de 
served a milder phrase. But never mind that ! 
It is not a question of what I deserve. It is a 
question of what you require. Beyond doubt, that 
is absolute separation from all this pathological 
sentiment, and the exciting cause of it. I insist 
upon this separation. I will not receive any move 
expressions of your supposed feeling for myself. 
Go home to your mother and your own people, 
 
to the kind of women you are used to, and under 
stand. As you grow physically stronger, you will 
rebound to your own environment as naturally as 
you will walk without crutches. I have been noth 
ing but a crutch to you, Mr. Yorke ! " 
He raised himself upon the pillows, leaning his 
head upon his hand and shading his eyes, watch 
ing her intently ; he did not interrupt her. She 
went on, in a low, controlled voice : 
" Take it away, and go alone, and you will learn 
what you would never learn as long as you de 
pended on it. I think you will always remember 
me gratefully and affectionately. I hope you will. 
Nothing is more valuable in life to a physician 
than the fidelity of a patient ; it is surprising how 
little there is of it, after all. They go their ways 
when they need us no longer, and drop us out of 
their thoughts. After all, it is a solemn tie to 
fight with death together, as you and I have done. 
We will not break it flippantly. Believe me, that 
I shall remember you. And some time, when 
you have righted all this little delusion about me, 
somewhere, perhaps, we may meet on fairer 
ground, when our views of one another would not, 
could not, be subject to this law of refraction 
which acts upon them now. You do not love me. 
You have needed me. I have been useful to you ; 
 
I have occupied your thoughts. You may miss 
me. But that is not love. Go home, and find it 
out. Get well, and find it out." 
While Doctor Zay was speaking, an increasing 
calmness had settled upon Yorke 's face. It seemed 
to her that she could see the tide, for whose ebb 
she had watched, turning in his soul. She felt 
that it was her duty to welcome it, as it had been 
her fate to foresee it. He still sat with his hand 
above his eyes, which he had not once removed 
from her. He roused himself, and confusedly 
said, 
" You may be right, for aught I know. I will 
go, as you bid me ; and thank you, as you sug 
gest, whenever I can. I am able even now to ap 
preciate your position. You are the only woman 
I ever saw who was able to save a man from him 
self ! " 
He took her hand with more self-control than 
he had shown for many days ; and they parted, 
heavily and silently. 
He went by the Monday 's boat. Mr. Butter- 
well drove him to Jonesboro on Sunday. Doctor 
Zay had been out all night, and most of the day. 
She was lying on the parlor sofa when he went to 
say good-by. She had flung herself down, 
exhausted, craving five minutes rest. She had on 
 
that white linen dress, and the vari-colored afghan 
over her feet. It was a sultry August day, but 
her hand was cold ; he had often noticed that it 
was so after she had been up all night. She rose 
when she saw him, and asked if he found the 
package of medicine, with the directions, and if 
he understood them all. He thanked her, and 
said they were quite clear. Her face had its 
stolid look. He searched in vain for its beautiful 
sensitiveness. 
" I shall write to you," he said, hesitating, " if 
I may." 
" Oh yes. Do, by all means. I shall wish, to 
hear all about the journey, and its effect on you. 
Tell your mother if I had had two weeks more I 
would have sent you back in better condition." 
" Or worse," he said, impetuously. She put her 
finger on her lips, and smiled. They shook hands. 
He pulled his hat over his eyes, and got away. 
He looked back through the little oval buggy 
window, as Mr. Butterwell drove him off. Mrs. 
Butterwell was wiping the tears off her black silk 
dress. Handy, by the wood-pile, very large as to 
his hat and bare as to his feet, eloquently confided 
his emotions to the sawdust heap. 
The phaeton and the gray pony stood at the 
doctor 's gate. She did not come out. The big 
 
sorrel turned the post-office corner, and Mr. But- 
terwell observed that there was a fine lobster 
factory on the road. They canned em. Which had 
the worst of it, the consumer or the lobster, Mr. 
Butterwell would not undertake to say. 
Half a mile down the Jonesboro road, Mr. But 
terwell reined up. 
" There ain't but one horse in these parts that 
can overtake the sorrel," he said, leisurely. " I 
hear the pony after us." 
Yorke looked back through the little buggy win 
dow. The gray mare, with a stiff head and clean 
step, was close behind them. Before he could turn 
his head, the doctor 's phaeton overtook the buggy. 
"Mr. Yorke has forgotten his brandy-flask," 
she called, cheerily. * Mrs. Butterwell found it 
out in the nick of time. You might have missed 
it on the boat." She stretched her hand over 
the wheel with the wicker traveling-flask, which 
Yorke took stupidly. He forgot to thank her. 
Their eyes met for a moment. She flung him a 
bright, light smile, turned dexterously in the nar 
row road, and whirled away. He leaned out of the 
buggy to look after her. All he saw distinctly 
was the Scotch plaid shawl folded on the empty 
seat beside her. 
XII. 
IT was an ill-tempered December day, gray 
from Passamaquoddy to Point Judith ; grimmer in 
the State of Maine than in any other privileged 
portion of the proud New England coast. 
" We allers do hev everything wuss than other 
folks," said a passenger in the Bangor mail-coach. 
" Freeze and Prohibition, mud and Fusion. We 've 
got one of the constitooshuns that take things. 
Like my boy. He 's had the measles n the 
chicken-porx and the mumps and the nettle-rash, 
and fell in love with his school-marm  got 
religion and lost the prize for elocootin all in one 
darned year." 
A passenger from Boston laughed at this. He 
had not laughed before since they left Bangor, at 
seven o clock in the morning, with the thermometer 
eight below, and the storm-signals flying from Kit- 
tery to Kitty Hawk. Of all places where it might 
be supposed that a man with a free will and fore 
knowledge absolute of his especial fate would not 
be on a December day, the Bangor and Sherman 
mail-stage was the most notable. The mud of for- 
 
gotten seasons and un mentioned regions, splashed, 
tormented, and congealed, adorned the rotund yel 
low body and black, loose-jointed top of the vehi 
cle. The high windows were opaque with the 
thick brown spatter. The laborious wheels, en 
crusted with frozen clay, had given place to gaunt 
runners, that "brought up" on the abundant in 
equalities of the road with a kind of moral ferocity, 
like unpleasant second thoughts or good resolutions 
after moral lapses. The driver swore at his horses, 
and insulted the passengers by looking perfectly 
comfortable in a new buffalo coat. Inside the 
stage, lunatic gloom and the chill of the Glacial 
Period descended upon the unfortunate travelers. 
The straw was cold and thin. The blankets- were 
icy and emaciated. The leather seats seemed to 
have absorbed and preserved the storms of winters, 
the rheumatism of the past, the sciatica of the fut 
ure. The Boston passenger, though protected by 
his individual traveling blanket and highly-becom 
ing seal-bound coat, expressed an opinion that he 
was freezing to the cushions, which the jocose pas 
senger honored by a stare and the comforting ob 
servation, 
" Why, we expect to." 
This pleasant person got out, about four o clock, 
at what he called his " store," a centre of trade 
 
at some uncertain remove from the metropolis of 
East Sherman, and the traveler from Boston 
had the impressive experience of finding himself . 
alone in the stage during its passage through that 
segment of the Black Forest which the Bangor and 
Sherman route embraced. 
He looked through the muddy windows upon 
the ghastly scenery with a sense of repulsion so 
active that it fairly kept him warm. The forest, 
through which the Machias stage-route ran nine 
awful miles unmet by a human habitation, turned 
its December expression upon him like a Medusa, 
before which the bravest pulse must petrify. Twi 
light and the storm were coming on. The runners 
made a fine, grating sound, like a badly-tuned 
stringed instrument, in the solidly-packed snow. 
Darkness already had its lair in the woods. Ice 
encrusted the trunks of the trees and the fallen 
logs. The stripped and tossing boughs moaned in 
the rising wind with an incredibly human cry. 
The leathery leaves that clung to the low oaks 
rustled as the stage crept by, as if they had been 
watching for it. It was too late to hear in the 
distant gloom the thud of the wood-chopper 's axe. 
One leisurely and lonely rabbit, white against the 
whiteness, crossed the way and disappeared in 
the thicket. All the shadows on the snowy road 
 
were blue. The light that struggled from the sky 
was gray. The drifts were freshly blown over 
and deep, and the horses plunged and struggled in 
them, and panted up the little hills. In the for 
est the snow lay on a level of five feet. The 
silence was profound; the desolation pathetic; the 
cold deadly. It was like the corpse of a world. 
The vivid face of the young man in the fur-trimmed 
coat disappeared, at the end of the first 
mile, from the mud-bespattered stage window. 
He rolled himself up to the throat in his travel 
ing-rug, pulled his hat over his eyes, and let the 
Black Forest severely alone. His whole soul sank 
before it. He thought of the lives barred in be 
hind it, bound to their frozen places like its icicles. 
He thought of the delicate nerve, the expectant 
possibility, the bourgeoning nature 
" Poor girl ! " he said aloud. " Poor girl ! " 
It seemed that he felt the necessity of com 
manding himself, or of defending himself from his 
own thoughts ; for after a few moments surrender 
to them he fumbled in his pockets for letters, and, 
selecting one, perused it with a studionsness devoid 
of curiosity, which implied that this was not the 
first or second reading. This done, he put the let 
ter out of sight, and, leaning forward with folded 
arms upon the slippery ledge of the stage window- 
