" You mean that she might run away with your sculp 
tor, eh?" 
" I am prepared for anything ! " 
"Do you mean that he 's ready?" 
" Do you think that she is ?" 
" They re a precious pair ! This is what I think. 
You by no means exhaust the subject when you say that 
Christina is dramatic. It 's my belief that in the course 
of her life she will do a certain number of things from 
disinterested passion. She 's immeasurably proud, and if 
 
that is often a fault in a good woman, it may be a merit 
in a naughty one. She needs to think well of herself ; 
she knows a fine character easily when she meets one ; 
she hates to suffer by comparison, even though the com 
parison be made by herself alone ; and when the estimate 
she may have made of herself grows vague she needs to 
do something to give it a definite impressive form. What 
she will do in such a case will be better or worse, accord 
ing to her opportunity ; but I imagine it will generally 
be something that will drive her mother to despair ; 
something of the sort usually termed unworldly. " 
Rowland, as he was taking his leave, after some further 
exchange of opinions, rendered Christina the tribute of a 
deeply meditative sigh. " She has bothered me half to 
death," he said, "but somehow I can't manage as I 
ought to hate her. I admire her half the time, and a 
good part of the rest I pity her." 
" I think, as a general thing, I pity her ! " said Madame 
Grandoni. 
This enlightened woman came the next day to call 
upon the two ladies from Northampton. She carried 
their shy affections by storm, and made them promise to 
drink tea with her on the evening of the morrow. Her 
visit was an epoch in the life of poor Mrs. Hudson, who 
did nothing but make sudden desultory allusions to her 
for the next thirty-six hours. " To think of her being a 
foreigner !" she would exclaim, after much intent reflec 
tion over her knitting; "she speaks so beautifully!" 
Then in a little while, " She wasn 't so much dressed as 
you might have expected. Did you notice how easy it 
was in the waist? I wonder if that 's the fashion?" Or, 
" She 's very old to wear a hat ; I should never dare to 
wear a hat !" Or, "Did you notice her hands? very 
pretty hands for such a stout person. A great many 
rings, but nothing very handsome. I suppose they are 
hereditary." Or, "She 's certainly not handsome, but 
she looks wonderfully clever. I wonder why she doesn 't 
 
have something done to her teeth." Rowland also received 
a summons to Madame Grandoni 's tea-drinking, 
and went betimes, as he had been requested. He was 
eagerly desirous to lend his mute applause to Mary Gar 
land 's debut in the Roman social world. The two ladies 
had arrived with Roderick, silent and careless, in attend 
ance. Miss Blanchard was also present, escorted by Mr. 
Leavenworth, and the party was completed by a couple 
of dozen artists of both sexes and various nationalities. 
It was a friendly and easy assembly, like all Madame 
Grandoni 's parties, and in the course of the evening there 
was some excellent music. People played and sang for 
Madame Grandoni on easy terms who elsewhere were not 
to be heard for the asking. She was herself a superior 
musician, and singers found it a privilege to perform to 
her accompaniment. Rowland talked to various persons, 
but for the first time in his life his attention visibly wan 
dered ; he could not keep his eyes off Mary Garland. 
Madame Grandoni had said that he sometimes spoke of 
her as pretty and sometimes as plain ; to-night if he had 
had occasion to describe her appearance he would have 
called her beautiful. She was dressed more than he had 
ever seen her ; it was becoming, and gave her a deeper 
colour and a brighter presence. Two or three persons 
were apparently witty people, for she sat listening to 
them with her brilliant natural smile. Rowland, from 
an opposite corner, reflected that he had never varied in 
his appreciation of Miss Blanchard 's classic contour, but 
that somehow to-night it impressed him hardly more than 
an effigy stamped upon a coin of low value. Roderick 
could not be accused of rancour, for he had approached 
Mr. Leavenworth with unstudied familiarity, and loung 
ing against the wall with hands in pockets, was discours 
ing to him with candid serenity. Now that he had done 
him an impertinence he evidently found him less intoler 
able. Mr. Leavenworth stood stirring his tea and silently 
opening and shutting his mouth, without looking at the 
 
young sculptor, like a large drowsy dog snapping at flies, 
Rowland had found it disagreeable to be told Miss Blan- 
chard would have married him for the asking, and he 
would have felt some embarrassment in going to speak 
to her if his modesty had not found incredulity so easy. 
The facile side of a union with Miss Blanchard had never 
been present to his mind ; it had struck him as a thing, 
in all ways, to be compassed with a great effort. He 
had half an hour 's talk with her ; a farewell talk, as it 
seemed to him a farewell not to a real illusion, but to 
the idea that for him in that matter there could ever be 
an acceptable pis-aller. He congratulated Miss Blan 
chard upon her engagement, and she received his good 
wishes with a touch of primness. But she was always a 
trifle prim, even when she was quoting Mrs. Browning 
and George Sand, and this harmless defect did not pre 
vent her responding on this occasion that Mr. Leaven- 
worth had a "glorious heart." Rowland wished to 
manifest an extreme regard, but towards the end of the 
talk his zeal relaxed, and he fell a-thinking that a certain 
natural ease in a woman was the most delightful thing 
in the world. There was Christina Light, who had too 
much, and here was Miss Blanchard, who had too little, 
and there was Mary Garland, who had just the right 
amount. 
He went to Madame Grandoni in an adjoining room, 
where she was pouring out tea. 
" I will make you an excellent cup," she said, "because 
I have forgiven you." 
He looked at her, answering nothing ; but he swal 
lowed his tea with great gusto and a slight deepening of 
his colour ; by all of which one would have known that 
he was gratified. In a moment he intimated that, in so 
far as he had sinned, he had forgiven himself. 
" She is a delightful creature," said Madame Grandoni. 
" She has all sorts of qualities. I have taken a great 
fancy to her ; she must let me make a friend of her." 
 
"She is very plain," said Rowland, slowly, "very 
simple, very ignorant." 
"Which, being interpreted, means, She is very 
handsome, very subtle, and has read hundreds of volumes 
on winter evenings in the country. " 
" You are a veritable sorceress," cried Rowland ; 
"you frighten me away !" As he was turning to leave 
her, there rose above the hum of voices in the drawing- 
room the sharp grotesque note of a barking dog. Their 
eyes met in a glance of intelligence. 
"There is the sorceress!" said Madame Grandoni. 
"The sorceress and her necromantic poodle!" And 
she hastened back to the post of hospitality. 
Rowland followed her, and found Christina Light 
standing in the middle of the drawing-room and looking 
about in perplexity. Her poodle, sitting on his haunches 
and gazing at the company, had apparently been ex 
pressing a sympathetic displeasure at the absence of a 
welcome. But in a moment Madame Grandoni had 
come to the young girl 's relief, and Christina had tenderly 
kissed her hostess. 
"I had no idea, "said Christina, surveying the assembly, 
" that you had such a lot of grand people, or I would not 
have come in. The servant said nothing ; he took me 
for an invitee. I came to spend a neighbourly half-hour ; 
you know I haven't many left ! It was too dismally 
dreary at home. I hoped I should find you alone, and 
I brought Stenterello to play with the cat. I don 't know 
that if I had known about all this I should have dared 
to come in ; but since I have stumbled into the midst of 
it I beg you to let me stay. I am not dressed, but am 
I very hideous ? I will sit in a corner and no one will 
notice me. My dear sweet lady, do let me stay ! Pray, 
why didn 't you ask me ? I never have been to a little 
party like this. They must be very charming. No 
dancing tea and conversation? No tea, thank you; 
but if you could spare a biscuit for Stenterello ; a sweet 
 
biscuit, please. Really, why didn 't you ask me ? Do 
you have these things often ? Madame Grandoni, it 's 
very unkind ! " And the young girl, who had delivered 
herself of the foregoing succession of sentences in her 
usual low, cool, penetrating voice, uttered these last 
words with a certain tremor of feeling. " I see," she 
went on, " I do very well for balk  and great banquets, 
but when people wish to have a crey, friendly, comfort 
able evening, they leave me out with the big flower-pots 
and the gilt candlesticks." 
"I am sure you are welcome to stay, my dear," said 
Madame Grandoni, "and at the risk of displeasing you 
I must confess that if I didn 't invite you it was because 
you are too grand. Your dress will do very well, with 
its fifty flounces, and there is no need of your going into 
a corner. Indeed, since you are here, I propose to have 
the glory of it. You must remain where my people can 
see you." 
"They are evidently determined to do that by the 
way they stare. Do they think I intend to dance a 
tarantella* Who are they all ; do I know them?" And 
lingering in the middle of the room, with her arm passed 
into Madame Grandoni s, she let her eyes wander slowly 
from group to group. They were, of course, observing 
her. Standing in the little circle of lamplight, with the 
hood of an Eastern burnous shot with silver threads falling 
back from her beautiful head, one hand gathering together 
its voluminous shimmering folds, and the other playing 
with the silken top-knot on the uplifted head of her 
poodle, she was a figure of radiant picturesqueness. She 
seemed to be a sort of extemporised tableau vivant. 
Rowland 's position made it becoming for him to speak 
to her without delay. As she looked at him he saw 
that, judging by the light of her beautiful eyes, she was 
in a humour of which she had not yet treated him to a 
specimen. In a simpler person he would have called it 
exquisite kindness ; but in this young lady 's deportment 
 
the flower was one thing and the perfume another. 
"Tell me about these people," she said to him. "I 
had no idea there were so many people in Rome I have 
not seen. What are they all talking about ? It 's all 
very clever, I suppose, and quite beyond me. There is 
Miss Blanchard sitting as usual in profile against a dark 
object. She is like a head on a postage stamp. And 
there is that nice little old lady in black, Mrs. Hudson. 
What a dear little woman for a mother ! Comme elle est 
proprette ! And the other, the fiancte, of course, she 's 
here. Ah, I see ! " She paused ; she was looking 
intently at Mary Garland. Rowland measured the in- 
tentness of her glance, and suddenly acquired a conviction. 
" I should like so much to know her !" she said, turning 
to Madame Grandoni. " She has a charming face ; I am 
sure she is a kind of saint. I wish very much you would 
introduce me. No, on second thoughts, I would rather 
you didn 't. I will speak to her bravely myself, as a 
friend of her what do you call it in English? her 
promesso" Madame Grandoni and Rowland exchanged 
glances of baffled conjecture, and Christina flung off her 
burnous, crumpled it together, and with uplifted finger, 
tossing it into a corner, gave it in charge to her poodle. 
He stationed himself upon it on his haunches with 
upright vigilance. Christina crossed the room with the 
step and smile of a ministering angel, and introduced 
herself to the young lady from Northampton. She had 
once told Rowland that she would show him some day 
how gracious her manners could be ; she was now re 
deeming her promise. Rowland, watching her, saw 
Mary Garland rise slowly in response to her greeting, 
and look at her with serious deep -gazing eyes. The 
almost dramatic opposition of these two keenly interest 
ing girls touched Rowland with a nameless apprehension, 
and after a moment he preferred to turn away. In doing 
so he noticed Roderick. The young sculptor was stand 
ing planted on the train of a lady 's dress, gazing across 
 
at Christina 's movements with undisguised earnestness. 
There were several more pieces of music ; Rowland sat 
in a corner and listened to them. When they were over 
several people began to take their leave, Mrs. Hudson 
among the number. Rowland saw her come up to 
Madame Grandoni, clinging shyly to Mary Garland 's 
arm. Mary had a brilliant eye and a deep colour in her 
cheek. The two ladies looked about for Roderick, but 
Roderick had his back turned. He had approached 
Christina, who, with an absent air, was sitting alone, 
where she had taken her place near her innocent rival, 
looking at the guests pass out of the room. Christina 's 
eye, like Mary s, was bright, but her cheek was pale. 
Hearing Roderick 's voice, she looked up at him sharply ; 
then silently, with a single quick gesture, she motioned 
him away. He obeyed her, and came and joined his 
mother in bidding good -night to Madame Grandoni. 
Christina in a moment met Rowland 's glance and 
immediately beckoned him to come to her. He was 
familiar with her spontaneity of movement, and was not 
particularly surprised. She made a place for him on 
the sofa beside her ; he wondered what was coming now. 
He was not sure it was not a mere fancy, but it seemed 
to him that he had never seen her look just as she was 
looking then. It was a humble, touching, appealing 
glance, which threw into wonderful relief the nobleness 
of her beauty. " How many more metamorphoses," he 
asked himself, "am I to be treated to before we have 
done?" 
"I want to tell you," said Christina, "I have taken 
an immense fancy to Miss Garland. Aren't you glad ?" 
"Delighted !" exclaimed poor Rowland. 
" Ah, you don 't believe it," she said, with soft dignity. 
"Is it so hard to believe?" 
" Not that people in general should admire her, but 
that I should. But I want to tell you ; I want to tell 
some one, and I can't tell Miss Garland herself. She 
thinks me already a horrid false creature, and if I were 
to express to her frankly what I think of her I should 
simply disgust her. She would be quite right ; she has 
repose, and from that point of view I and my doings 
must seem monstrous. Unfortunately I haven't repose. 
I am trembling now ; if I could ask you to feel my arm, 
you would see ! But I want to tell you that I admire 
Miss Garland more than any of the people who call 
themselves her friends except, of course, you. Oh, I 
know that ! To begin with, she is extremely handsome, 
and she doesn 't know it." 
"She is not generally thought handsome," said Row 
land. 
" Evidently ! That 's the vulgarity of the human mind. 
Her head has great character, great natural style. If a 
woman is not to be a brilliant beauty in the regular way, 
she will choose, if she 's wise, to look like that. She will 
not be thought pretty by people in general, and desecrated, 
as she passes, by the stare of every vile wretch who chooses 
to thrust his nose under her bonnet ; but a certain number 
of intelligent people will find it one of the delightful things 
of life to look at her. That lot is as good as another ! 
Then she has a beautiful character !" 
"You found that out soon !" said Rowland, smiling. 
" How long did it take you ? I found it out before I 
ever spoke to her. I met her the other day in Saint 
Peter 's ; I knew it then. I knew it do you want to 
know how long I have known it ?" 
"Really," said Rowland, "I didn 't mean to cross- 
examine you." 
" Do you remember mamma 's ball in December ? We 
had some talk, and you then mentioned her not by name. 
You said but three words, but I saw you admired her, 
and I knew that if you admired her she must have a 
beautiful character. That 's what you require !" 
" Upon my word," cried Rowland, "you make three 
words go very far !" 
 
" Oh, Mr. Hudson has also spoken of her." 
" Ah, that 's better !" said Rowland. 
" I don 't know ; he doesn 't like her." 
"Did he tell you so?" The question left Rowland 's 
lips before he could stay it, which he would have done 
on a moment 's reflection. 
Christina looked at him intently. "No!" she said 
at last. " That would have been dishonourable, wouldn 't 
it ? But I know it from my knowledge of him. He 
doesn 't like perfection ; he is not bent upon being safe 
in his likings ; he is willing to risk something ! Poor 
fellow, he risks too much !" 
Rowland was silent ; he did not care for the thrust ; 
but he was profoundly mystified. Christina beckoned 
to her poodle, and the dog marched stiifly across to her. 
She gave a loving twist to his rose-coloured top-knot and 
bade him go and fetch her burnous. He obeyed, gathered 
it up in his teeth, and returned with great solemnity, 
dragging it along the floor. 
"I do her justice. I do her full justice," she went 
on, with soft earnestness. I like to say that, I like to 
be able to say it. She is full of intelligence and courage 
and devotion. She doesn 't do me a grain of justice ; but 
that is no harm. There is something so fine in the aver 
sions of a good woman ! " 
If you would give Miss Garland a chance, " said 
Rowland, " I am sure she would be glad to be your 
friend. " 
"What do you mean by a chance? She has only to 
take it. I told her I liked her immensely, and she 
frowned as if I had said something disgusting. She 
looks very handsome when she frowns." Christina rose 
with these words and began to gather her mantle about 
her. "I don 't often like women," she went on. "In 
fact I generally detest them. But I should like to know 
that one well. I should like to have a friendship with 
her ; I have never had one ; they must be very delightful. 
But I slia n't have one now not if she can help it ! Ask 
her what she thinks of me ; see what she will say. I 
don 't want to know ; keep it to yourself. It 's too sad. 
So we go through life. It 's fatality that 's what they 
call it, isn 't it ? We please the people we don 't care for, 
we displease those we do ! But I appreciate her, I do 
her justice ; that 's the most important thing. It 's be 
cause I have imagination. She has none. Never mind ; 
it 's her only fault. I do her justice ; I understand very 
well." She kept softly murmuring and looking about 
for Madame Grandoni. She saw the good lady near the 
door, and put out her hand to Rowland for good-night. 
She held his hand an instant, fixing him with her eyes, 
the living splendour of which at this moment was some 
thing transcendent. "Yes, I do her justice," she re 
peated. " And you do her more ; you would lay down 
your life for her." With this she turned away, and be 
fore he could answer she left him. She went to Madame 
Grandoni, grasped her two hands, and held out her fore 
head to be kissed. The next moment she was gone. 
"That was a happy accident !" said Madame Grandoni. 
" She never looked so beautiful, and she made my little 
party brilliant." 
"Beautiful verily!" Rowland answered. "But it 
was no accident." 
"What was it, then?" 
" It was a plan. She wished to see Mary Garland. 
She knew she was to be here." 
"How so?" 
" By Roderick evidently." 
"And why did she wish to see Mary Garland?" 
" Heaven knows ! I give it up ! " 
" Ah, the wicked girl !" murmured Madame Grandoni. 
"No, "said Rowland; " don 't say that now. She 's 
too beautiful." 
" Oh, you men the best of you !" 
"Well, then," cried Rowland, "she 's too good !" 
XX. 
THE opportunity presenting itself the next day, he failed 
not, as you may imagine, to ask Mary Garland what she 
thought of Christina. It was a Saturday afternoon, the 
time at which the beautiful marbles of the Villa Borghese 
are thrown open to the public. Mary had told him that 
Roderick had promised to take her to see them with his 
mother, and he joined the party in the splendid Casino. 
The warm weather had left so few strangers in Rome 
that they had the place almost to themselves. Mrs. 
Hudson had confessed to an invincible fear of treading, 
even with the help of her son 's arm, the polished marble 
