You have been so unswerving in your determination to make secure, first
of all, his happiness and tranquillity, so unmindful of your own pain,
that it seems to me, his daughter, as if you had never been so faithful
a wife to him as now."
"Oh, say it again!" said Madam Carroll, burying her face in her hands.
"I did my best, or at least I tried; but I have been
so--tortured--harassed--"
The Major stirred in the next room; they hurried softly in. He was
awake; he turned his head and looked at his wife as she stood beside the
bed. "You and Sara both here?" he said. "Did I go to bed, then, very
early this evening?" He did not wait for reply, but went on. "I have had
such a beautiful dream, Marion; it was about that drive we took when we
were first married--do you remember? Through the woods near Mayberry.
There was that same little stream that we had to cross so many times,
and the same bank where you got out and gathered wild violets, and the
same spring where we drank, and that broken bridge where you were so
frightened--do you remember?"
"Yes," answered his wife, brightly; "and I remember, too, that you lost
your way, and pretended that you had not, and wouldn't ask, for fear I
should suspect it."
The Major laughed, feebly, but with enjoyment. "I didn't want you to
know that I didn't know everything--even the country roads," he
answered. "For I was old enough to be your father, and you were such a
little thing; I had my dignity to keep up, you see." He laughed again.
"That spring was very cold, wasn't it?" he said, and he lay thinking of
it for a minute or two. Then slowly his eyes closed; he had fallen
asleep. They waited, but he did not waken. His sleep was peaceful, and
they went back again to their watch in the outer room.
"It is two o'clock, mamma. Won't you lie down for a while? I am strong,
and not at all tired; if he should waken, I will at once call you."
"I could not sleep," answered Madam Carroll, taking her former seat. "We
could neither of us sleep, I fancy, while there was the least danger of
the fever's returning--as the doctor said it might."
"I thought perhaps you might rest, even if you did not sleep."
"I shall never be any more rested than I am now," answered the Major's
wife. After a silence of some length she spoke again; "In all this we
should not forget Mr. Owen," she said, as though taking up a task which
must be performed. "I feel sure that he is suffering deeply. You know
what he must be thinking?"
"So long as he does not speak, what he thinks is of small consequence,"
said Miss Carroll.
"It may be so to you. It is not to him." She paused. "I can remember
that I once liked him," she went on, in a monotonous tone. "And I can
even believe that I shall like him again. But not now, not now. Now it
is too near--those cruel words he spoke about my boy."
"He did not know--"
"Of course he did not; and I try to be just. He was angry, hurt,
alarmed; he was hurt that I should treat him as I did--I treated him
horribly--and he was alarmed about you. I have never thanked you for
what you did that day, Sara--the day he came to warn us; I could not.
For I knew how you loathed it--the expedient you took. You only took it
because there was no other."
"You are very hard to me, mamma."
"About your feeling I am; how can I help it? But not about the deed:
that was noble. In order to help me you let Mr. Owen suppose that you
were engaged to a man he--he utterly despised. Well, you helped me. But
you hurt him; you hurt Frederick Owen that morning about as deeply as
you could." She moved to Sara's side in the darkness, took her hand with
a quick grasp and held it in both her own. "And you are so proud," she
whispered softly, "that you will never acknowledge that you hurt
yourself too; that the sacrifice you then made in lowering yourself by
your own act in his eyes was as great a one as a woman can make; for he
loves you devotedly, jealously, and you--you know how much you care
for him."
Without leaving time for reply, she moved back to her former place, and
went on with what she had been saying, as though that sudden soft
interpolated whisper had not existed. "Yes--this strange double feeling
that I have about Frederick Owen makes me even feel sorry for him at
times, sorry to have him suffer as I know he must be suffering, sorry to
have him think what I know he must be thinking of you; and also of me.
For he thinks that you had a liking for a man whom he considered
unworthy to speak your name (oh, detestable arrogance!); he thinks that
it was clandestine, that you dared not tell your father; and that I was
protecting you in it as well as I could; all this, of course, he must
believe. Death has put an end to it, and now it will never be known;
this also he is thinking. But, meanwhile, he knows it. And he cannot
forget it. He thinks you have in your heart the same feeling still. But
I remembered--I did what I could for you by telling him that it was but
a fancy of the moment, that it would pass."
"Oh!" murmured Sara, with a quick, involuntary gesture of repulsion;
then she stopped.
"I was trying to pave a way out of it for you. You do not like the way,
because it includes--includes the supposition that you--But one can
never please you, Sara Carroll!"
She rose and began to walk swiftly to and fro across the room, her
footsteps making no sound on the thick, faded, old-fashioned carpet--a
relic from the days of the Sea Island Carrolls.
"What do you want me to do?" she said, abruptly, as she passed Sara for
the fourth time.
"If you are alluding to Mr. Owen, I don't want you to do anything,"
answered Miss Carroll.
"Oh, you are proud! For the present nothing can be done. But let me tell
you one thing--do not be too repellent. 'Tis good in me to warn you,
to take his part, when I hate him so--hate him for what he said. Do you
suppose I would have had him reading prayers over my poor dead boy after
what had passed? Never in the world. No one who despised him should come
near him. So I had the Baptist minister. I was a Baptist myself when I
was a girl--if I ever was a girl! All this hurts you, of course; but I
cannot help it. Be patient. Some day I shall forgive him. Perhaps soon."
She had paused in front of Sara as she said this, for they had both been
guardedly careful to speak in the lowest tones.
The girl left her place on the sofa; she rose and walked beside her
stepmother as she resumed her quick, restless journey to and fro across
the floor. They came and went in silence for many minutes. Then Sara
put her arm round Madam Carroll, and drew her towards the sofa again.
"Rest awhile, mamma," she said, placing the cushions so that she could
lie easily; "you do not know how very tired you are." And Madam Carroll
for a half-hour yielded.
"We must bear with each other, Sara," she said, as she lay with her eyes
closed. "For amid all our other feelings, there is one which we have in
common, our love for your father. That is and always must be a tie
between you and me."
"Always," answered Sara.
A little after daylight the Major woke. There had been no return of the
fever; he had slept in peace while they kept the vigil near him; his
illness was over. As he opened his eyes, his wife came to the bedside;
she had just risen--or so it seemed, for she wore a rose-colored
wrapper, and on her head a little lace cap adorned with rose-colored
ribbon. The Major had not seen the cap before; he thought it very
pretty.
"Trying to be old, are you, Madam Carroll?" he said; "old and matronly?"
Sara came in not long afterwards; she, too, was freshly dressed in a
white wrapper.
"I have brought you your breakfast, papa," she said.
"Isn't it earlier than usual?" asked the Major, turning his dim eyes
towards the window. But he could not see the light of the sunrise on the
peaks.
"I am afraid, Major, that you are growing indolent," said Madam Carroll,
with pretended severity, as she poured out his tea.
"Indolent?" said the Major--"indolent? Indolence is nothing to vanity.
And you and Sara, in your pink and white gowns, are living images of
vanity this morning, Madam Carroll."
CHAPTER VIII.
Autumn at last came over the mountains; she decked them in her most
sumptuous colors, and passed slowly on towards the south. The winds
followed the goddess, eight of them; they came sounding their long
trumpets through the defiles; they held carnival in the high green
valleys; they attacked the forests and routed the lighter foliage, but
could not do much against the stiff, dark ranks of the firs. They
careered over all the peaks; sometimes they joined hands on
Chillawassee's head, and whirled round in a great circle, laughing
loudly, for half a day; and then the little people who lived on the
ground said to each other that it "blew from all round the sky."
They came to Far Edgerley more than once; they blew through Edgerley
Street; at night the villagers in their beds heard the long trumpets
through the near gorges, and felt their houses shake. But they were
accustomed to these autumn visitors; they had a theory, too, that this
great sweeping of their peaks and sky was excellent for their mountain
air. And upon the subject of their air there was much conceit in Far
Edgerley.
When at length the winds had betaken themselves to the lowlands, with
the intention of blowing across the levels of Georgia and Florida, and
coming round to surprise the northerners at Indian River and St.
Augustine, the quiet winter opened in the mountains they had left behind
them. The Major had had no return of his October illness; he came to
church on Sundays as usual, and appeared at his wife's receptions. It
was noticed, although no one spoke of it, that he did not hold himself
quite so erect as formerly, and that perhaps his eyesight was not quite
so good; but he still remained to his village the exemplar of all that
was noble and distinguished, and they admired him and talked about him
as much as ever. He was their legend, their escutcheon; so long as they
had him they felt distinguished themselves.
The winter amusements began about Christmastime. They consisted
principally of the Sewing Society and the Musical Afternoons. To these
entertainments "the gentlemen" came in the evening--F. Kenneway, Mr.
Phipps, the junior warden, and the rector, when they could get him. A
Whist Club had, indeed, been proposed. There was a double motive in
this proposal. There were persons in the congregation who considered
whist-playing a test of the best churchmanship; these were secretly
desirous to see the test applied to the new rector, or rather the new
rector applied to it. But the thoughtful Mrs. Greer, having foreseen
this very possibility at an early date in the summer, had herself
sounded the rector upon the subject, and brought back a negative upon
the end of her delicate conversational line. She had asked him if he
thought that the sociability engendered by card-tables at small parties
could, in his opinion, counterbalance the danger which familiarity with
the pasteboard squares might bring to their young men (Phipps and
Kenneway); and whether he himself, at moments of leisure, and when he
wished to rest from intellectual fatigue, of which, of course, he must
have so much, ever whiled away the time with these same gilded
symbols, not with others, but by himself.
Owen, who had not for the moment paid that attention to the eloquence of
Mrs. Greer which he should have done, did not understand her. He had
received an impression of cymbals. This was no surprise to him; he had
found Mrs. Greer capable of the widest range of subjects.
"I mean the painted emblems, you know--cards," explained Mrs. Greer;
"clubs, diamonds, and spades, Mr. Owen. Nor should we leave out hearts.
I was referring, when I spoke, to solitaire. But there is also whist.
Whist is, in its way, a climate by itself--a climate of geniality."
This was a phrase of Madam Carroll's. Mrs. Greer had collected a large
assortment of phrases from the overflow of the Farms. These she
treasured, and dealt out one by one; her conversation was richly adorned
with them. She had excellent opportunities for collecting, as Madam
Carroll had long been in the habit of telling her any little item which
she wished to have put in circulation through the village in a certain
guise. She always knew that her exact phrase would be repeated, but not
as hers; it would be repeated as if it were original with the lady who
spoke it. This was precisely what Madam Carroll intended. To have said
herself, for instance, that the new chintz curtains of her drawing-room
combined delicacy and durability, and a bower-like brightness, was too
apparent; but for Mrs. Greer to say it (in every house on Edgerley
Street) was perfectly proper, and accomplished the same result. The
whole town remarked upon the delicacy and the durability and the
bower-like brightness; and the curtains, which she had made and put up
herself at small expense, took their place among the many other
peculiarly admirable things possessed by the Farms. Upon the present
occasion, however, Mrs. Greer gave Madam Carroll's name to the phrase
she had repeated; she thought it would have more influence. "Yes, that
is what our dear Madam Carroll used to call it--a climate of geniality,"
she said, looking at the rector with an inquiring smile.
But, ignoring the phrase of the Farms, none the less did Owen bring out
his negative; with the gilded symbols he did not amuse himself, either
alone or in company.
Armed, therefore, with this knowledge, Mrs. Greer was ready; she met the
project of the Whist Club in its bud, and vanquished it with a Literary
Society, whose first four meetings she gave herself, with a delicate
little hot supper thrown in. The Whist Club could not stand against
this, Miss Honoria Ashley, who was its chief supporter, offering only
apples and conversation. But a large cold apple on a winter night is not
calculated to rouse enthusiasm; while, as to conversation, everybody
knew that hot coffee promoted it. So the Literary Society conquered, and
the whist test was not, for that season at least, applied to the
churchmanship of the rector.
During these winter months Owen kept himself constantly busy. It was
thought that he worked too hard. He looked tired; sometimes, young and
strong as he was, he looked worn. There was a good deal of motherly
anxiety about this; some sisterly, too. Ferdinand Kenneway said that he
felt towards him like a brother. But Owen pursued his own course,
unmindful of these sympathetic feelings. He came to Madam Carroll's
receptions as usual, but did not stay long: he was the last to come and
the first to go. He called at the Farms, though not often; and when he
went there, he did not go alone.
So the winter passed on and departed, and spring came. Then a sorrow
fell upon the little mountain town. Early one soft morning in March,
when the cinnamon-colored tassels were out on the trees, and the air was
warm and gray, with the smell of rain in it, word came down Edgerley
Street, passing from house to house, that Carroll Farms had been visited
in the night: the Major, their Major, had wakened quiet and content, but
like a little child; the powers of his mind had been taken from him.
Every one had loved him, and now there was real mourning. They all said
to each other and to themselves that they should never look upon his
like again. The poor nation had greatly retrograded since his day; even
their state was not what it had been; under these circumstances it could
not be expected that the world should soon produce another Scarborough
Carroll. They went over all the history of his life: his generous
sharing of his fortune with his half-brother; his silence under the
forgetfulness of that half-brother's children; his high position and
many friends in the old army; his brilliant record in the later army,
their own army, vanquished, but still dear to them, the army of the
South; they told again the story of his gallant ride round the enemy's
forces in the Valley, of his charge up the hill at Fredericksburg, his
last brave defence of the bridge on the way to Appomattox. His wounds
were recalled, his shattered arm, the loss of his money, so
uncomplainingly borne; they spoke of his beautiful courtesy to every
one, and of his unfailing kindness to all the poor. And then, how
handsome he was, how noble in bearing and expression, how polished in
manner! such a devoted husband and father, so pure a patriot! Their dear
old Major: they could not say enough.
The junior warden kept his room all day; he could not bear to hear it
talked about. Then the next morning out he went at an early hour to see
everybody he knew, and he told them all how very imprudent Carroll had
always been, recklessly so, recklessly. He was up and down Edgerley
Street all day, swinging his cane more than usual as he walked, thus
giving a light and juvenile air to his arms and shoulders, which was
perhaps somewhat contradicted by the uncertain tread of his little old
feet. In the afternoon Frederick Owen went to the Farms; for the first
time since the preceding October he went alone. Miss Carroll was in the
drawing-room when he came in; she was receiving a visit of general
inquiry and condolence from the three Miss Rendleshams. They went away
after a while, and then, before he had had time to speak--as he stood
there realizing that he had not been alone with her since that day, now
six months in the past, when she had told him of her engagement to
Dupont--he saw through the open door of the drawing-room the small
figure of Madam Carroll. She had not come down to see the three Miss
Rendleshams. But she did come down to see the rector. She came straight
to him, with her quick, light step. "I heard that you were here, and
came down. I am anxious to see you, Mr. Owen. Not to-day, but soon. I
thought I would come down myself and ask you; I did not want to write a
note."
"At any time you will name," answered Owen. He had risen as she entered.
Miss Carroll had seemed to him unchanged, save that her eyes showed that
she had been crying; but the Major's wife, he said to himself, with
almost awe-struck astonishment--the Major's wife, had he met her
elsewhere, he should hardly have known. Her veil of golden hair, no
longer curled, was put plainly back, and fastened in a close knot
behind; her eyes, the blue eyes he had always thought so pretty, looked
tired and sunken and dim, with crows'-feet at their corners; all her
lovely bloom was gone, and the whole of her little faded face was a
net-work of minute wrinkles. She was still small and slender, and she
still had her pretty features; but this was an old woman who was talking
to him, and Madam Carroll had been so young.
"It will not be for some days yet, I think," she was saying. "I shall
wait until the doctor has made up his mind. He wants more time, though I
want none; when he does make it up, it will be as mine is now. But I
prefer to wait until he sees clearly; will you ask him from day to day
what he thinks, and, when he has decided, then will you come?"
"Yes," replied Owen. "But do you mean that the Major--"
"I mean that the Major is in no immediate danger; that he will continue
about the same. He will not grow better, but neither will he grow much
worse. He may be brighter at times, but he will not regain his memory;
that is gone. But we shall not lose him, Mr. Owen, that is our great
happiness. We shall not lose him, Sara and I, as we had at first
feared."
Two tears rolled down her cheeks as she spoke. "It is because I am so
thankful," she said, wiping them away. Her long lace-bordered sleeves
had been turned back, and Owen was struck with the old, withered look of
her small wrists and hands.
"I could not have borne it to lose him now," she went on, as if
explaining. "You may think that existence such as his will be is no
blessing, nothing to be desired for him or for me. But he is not
suffering, he is even happy as a child is happy, and he knows me. He
would be content himself to wait a little, if he could know how much it
was to me, how much to have him with me, so that I can devote myself to
him, devote myself entirely."
"You have always done that, Madam Carroll," said Owen, touched by her
emotion.
"You will come, then--on whatever day the doctor makes up his mind," she
said, controlling herself, and returning to her subject.
Here Miss Carroll spoke. "Isn't it better not to make engagements for
the present, mamma?" she said, warningly. "You will overtax your
strength."
"It is overtaxed at this moment far less than it has been for many a
long month," answered Madam Carroll, as it seemed to Owen, strangely.
She passed her hand over her forehead, and then, as if putting herself
aside in order to consider her companions for a moment, she looked first
at Sara, then turned and looked at Owen. "Do not stay any longer now,"
she said to him, gently, in an advising tone. He obeyed her, and went
away.
On the tenth day after this the doctor, whose conclusions, if slowly
made, were sure, announced his decision: it tallied exactly with that of
Madam Carroll. The Major was in no present danger; his physical health
was fairly good; his condition would not change much, and he might
linger on in this state for several years. And then the Far Edgerley
people, knowing that no more pain would come to him, and that he was
tranquil and even happy, that he recognized his wife, and that she gave
to him the most beautiful and tender devotion--then these Far Edgerley
people were glad and thankful to have him with them still; not wholly
gone, though lying unseen in his peaceful room, which faced the west, so
that the sunset could shine every day upon the quiet sunset of his life.
And they thought, some of them, that thanksgiving prayers should be
offered for this in the church. And they all prayed for him at home,
each family in its own way.
On the afternoon of the day when the doctor had made up his mind,
Frederick Owen went to the Farms. Madam Carroll came down to see him;
she took him to the library, now unused, and when they had entered, she
closed the door. "Will you sit here beside me?" she said, indicating a
sofa opposite the window. Again he was struck by the great--as it seemed
to him, the marvellous--change in her. She looked even older than
before; her hair was put back in the same plain way; there was the same
absence of color, the same tired look in her eyes, the same fine
net-work of wrinkles over all her small face; but added to these there
was now a settled sadness of expression which he felt would never pass
away. He missed, too, all the changing inflections and gestures, the
pretty little manner and attitudes, and even the pronunciation, which he
had supposed to belong inseparably to her, which he had thought entirely
her own. He missed likewise, though unconsciously, the prettiness of the
bright little gowns she had always worn; she was dressed now in black,
without color or ornament.
She seemed to divine his thoughts. "The Major can no longer see me," she
said, quietly; "that is, with any distinctness. It is no longer anything
to him--what I wear."
He had taken the seat she had offered; she sat beside him, with her
hands folded, her eyes on the opposite wall. "I have a story to tell
you," she said. "But I can make no prefaces; I cannot speak of feelings.
I hope for your interest, Mr. Owen, even for your sympathy; but if I get
them it will be accomplished by a narrative of facts alone, and not by
any pathos in the words themselves. I got beyond pathos long ago. My
name was Marion More. My father was a missionary in the Southwest--the
exact localities I need not give. At sixteen I married. My father died
within the year; my mother had died long before. My first child was a
son, born when I was seventeen; I called him Julian. Later there came to
me a daughter, my little Cecilia. When she was still a baby, and Julian
was seven, my husband, in a brawl at a town some miles from our house,
killed a man who was well known and liked in the neighborhood; they had
both fired, and the other man was the better shot, but upon this
occasion his ball happened to miss, and my husband's did not. I was
sitting at home, sewing; the baby was in the cradle at my feet, and
Julian was playing with his little top on the floor. My husband rode
rapidly into the yard on his fast black horse, Tom, sprang down, came
into the house, and went into the inner room. He soon came back and went
out. He called Julian. The child ran into the yard; then hurried back to
get the little overcoat I had made for him. 'Where are you going?' I
said. 'To ride with papa,' he answered, and, eager as he was to go, he
did not forget to come and kiss me good-by. Then he ran out, and I heard
them start; I heard Tom's hoofs on the hard road farther and farther
away; then all was still. But less than half an hour afterwards there
was noise enough; the garden was full of armed men. The whole
country-side were out after him. They hunted him for three days. But he
knew the woods and swamps better than they did, and they could not find
him. They knew that he would in time make for the river, and they kept a
watch along shore. He reached it on the fourth day, at a lonely point;
he turned Tom loose, took a skiff which he knew was there, and started
out with my little boy upon the swollen tide--for the river was high.
They were soon discovered by the watch on shore. Shots were fired at
them. But the skiff was out in the centre of the stream, which was very
wide just there, and the shots missed. They followed the skiff along
shore. They knew what he did not--that the river narrowed below the
bend, and that there were rapids there. He reached the bend, and saw
that he was lost; the current carried the boat down towards the narrows;
and they began to shoot again; one shot struck Julian. Then his father
