strolling through streets and churches and gardens. 
Rowland had found a convenient corner in a stately 
old palace close to the Fountain of Trevi, and made 
 
himself a home to which books and pictures and prints 
and odds and ends of curious furniture gave an air of 
leisurely permanence. He had the tastes of a collector ; 
he spent half his afternoons ransacking the dusky maga 
zines of the curiosity - mongers, and he often made his 
way in quest of a prize into the heart of impecunious 
Roman households which had been prevailed upon to 
listen with closed doors and an impenetrably wary 
smile to proposals for an hereditary "antique." In 
the evening often, under the lamp, amid dropped curtains 
and the scattered gleam of firelight upon polished carv 
ings and mellow paintings, the two friends sat with their 
heads together, criticising intaglios and etchings, water- 
colour drawings and illuminated missals. Roderick 's 
quick appreciation of every form of artistic beauty re 
minded his companion of the flexible temperament of 
those Italian artists of the sixteenth century who were 
indifferently painters and sculptors, sonneteers and en 
gravers. At times when he saw how the young sculp 
tor 's day passed in a single sustained pulsation, while 
his own was broken into a dozen conscious devices for 
disposing of the hours, and intermingled with sighs, half 
suppressed, some of them, for conscience sake, over 
what he failed of in action and missed in possession he 
felt a pang of something akin to envy. But Rowland 
had two substantial aids for giving patience the air of 
contentment ; he was an inquisitive reader and a passion 
ate rider. He plunged into bulky German octavos on 
Italian history, and he spent long afternoons in the 
saddle, ranging over the grassy desolation of the Cam- 
pagna. As the season went on and the social groups 
began to constitute themselves, he found that he knew a 
great many people, and that he had easy opportunity for 
knowing others. He enjoyed a quiet corner of a draw 
ing-room beside an agreeable woman, and although the 
machinery of what calls itself society seemed to him to 
have many superfluous wheels, he accepted invitations 
 
and made visits punctiliously, from the conviction that 
the only way not to be overcome by the ridiculous side 
of most of such observances is to take them with exag 
gerated gravity. He introduced Roderick right and left, 
and suffered him to make his way himself an enterprise 
for which Roderick very soon displayed an all-sufficient 
capacity. Wherever he went he made, not exactly what 
is called a favourable impression, but what, from a practi 
cal point of view, is better a puzzling one. He took to 
evening parties as a duck to water, and before the winter 
was half over was the most freely and frequently dis 
cussed young man in the heterogeneous foreign colony. 
Rowland 's theory of his own duty was to let him run his 
course and play his cards, only holding himself ready to 
point out shoals and pitfalls and administer a friendly 
propulsion through tight places. Roderick 's manners on 
the precincts of the Pincian were quite the same as his 
manners on Cecilia 's verandah ; that is, they were no 
manners at all. But it remained as true as before that 
it would have been impossible, on the whole, to violate 
ceremony with less of lasting offence. He interrupted, 
he contradicted, he spoke to people he had never seen, 
and left his social creditors without the smallest conver 
sational interest on their loans ; he lounged and yawned, 
he talked loud when he should have talked low, and low 
when he should have talked loud. Many people in con 
sequence thought him insufferably conceited, and declared 
that he ought to wait till he had something to show for 
his powers before he assumed the airs of a spoiled cele 
brity. But to Rowland and to most friendly observers 
this judgment was quite beside the mark, and the young 
man 's undiluted naturalness was its own justification. 
He was impulsive, spontaneous, sincere ; there were so 
many people at dinner-tables and in studios who were 
not that it seemed worth while to allow this rare speci 
men all possible freedom of action. If Roderick took 
the words out of your mouth when you were just pre- 
 
pared to deliver them with the most effective accent, he 
did it with a perfect good conscience, and with no pre 
tension of a better right to being heard, but simply 
because he was full to overflowing of his own momentary 
thought, and it sprang from his lips without asking leave. 
There were persons who waited on your periods much 
more deferentially, that were a hundred times more 
capable than Roderick of a reflective impertinence. 
Roderick received from various sources, chiefly femi 
nine, enough finely-adjusted advice to have established 
him in life as an embodiment of the proprieties, and he 
received it, as he afterwards listened to criticisms on 
his statues, with unfaltering candour and good-humour. 
Here and there doubtless as he went he took in a reef 
in his sail ; but he was too adventurous a spirit to be 
successfully tamed, and he remained at most points the 
florid, rather strident young Virginian whose brilliant 
aridity had been the despair of Mr. Striker. All this 
was what friendly commentators (still chiefly feminine) 
alluded to when they spoke of his delightful freshness, 
and critics of harsher sensibilities (of the other sex) when 
they denounced his damned impertinence. His appear 
ance enforced these impressions his handsome face, his 
radiant unaverted eyes, his childish unmodulated voice. 
Afterwards, when those who loved him were in tears, 
there was something in all this unspotted comeliness that 
seemed to lend a mockery to the causes of their sorrow. 
Certainly, among the young men of genius who for so 
many ages have gone up to Rome to test their powers, 
none ever made a fairer beginning than Roderick. He 
rode his two horses at once with extraordinary good for 
tune ; he established the happiest modus vivendi betwixt 
work and play. He wrestled all day with a mountain 
of clay in his studio, and chattered half the night away 
in Roman drawing-rooms. It all seemed part of a kind 
of divine facility. He was passionately interested, he 
was feeling his powers ; now that they had thoroughly 
 
kindled in the glowing aesthetic atmosphere of Rome the 
ardent young fellow should be pardoned for believing 
that he never was to see the end of them. He enjoyed 
immeasurably, after the chronic obstruction of home, the 
downright act of production. He kept models in his 
studio till they dropped with fatigue ; he drew on other 
days at the Capitol and the Vatican till his own head 
swam with his eagerness and his limbs stiffened with the 
cold. He had promptly set up a life-sized figure which 
he called an "Adam," and was pushing it rapidly to 
wards completion. There were naturally a great many 
wiseheads who smiled at his precipitancy and cited him 
as one more example of Yankee crudity a capital recruit 
to the great army of those who wish to dance before they 
can walk. They were right, but Roderick was right 
too, for the success of his statue was not to have been 
foreseen ; it partook really of the miraculous. He never 
surpassed it afterwards, and a good judge here and 
there has been known to pronounce it the finest piece of 
sculpture of our modern time. To Rowland it seemed 
to justify superbly the highest hopes of his friend, and 
he said to himself that if he had staked his reputation on 
bringing out a young lion he ought now to pass for a 
famous connoisseur. In his elation he travelled up to 
Carrara, and selected at the quarries the most magnificent 
block of marble he could find, and when it came down 
to Rome the two young men had a " celebration." They 
drove out to Albano, breakfasted boisterously (in their 
respective measure) at the inn, and lounged away the 
day in the sun on the top of Monte Cavo. Roderick 's 
head was full of ideas for other works, which he described 
with infinite spirit and eloquence, as vividly as if they 
were ranged on their pedestals before him. He had an 
indefatigable fancy ; things he saw in the streets, in the 
country, things he heard and read, effects he saw just 
missed or half expressed in the works of others, acted 
upon his mind as a kind of challenge, and he was terribly 
 
uneasy until in some form or other he had taken up the 
glove and set his lance in rest. 
The Adam was put into marble, and all the world 
came to see it. Of the criticisms passed upon it this 
history undertakes to offer no record ; over many of 
them the two young men had a daily laugh for a month, 
and certain of the formulas of the connoisseurs, restric 
tive or indulgent, furnished Roderick with a permanent 
supply of humorous catchwords. But people enough 
spoke flattering good sense to make Roderick feel as if 
he were already half famous. The statue passed formally 
into Rowland 's possession ; it was paid for as if an 
illustrious name had been chiselled on the pedestal. 
Poor Roderick owed every franc of the money. It was 
not for this, however, but because he was so gloriously in 
the mood, that, denying himself all breathing time, on 
the same day he had given the last touch to the Adam, 
he began to shape the rough contour of an Eve. This 
experiment went forward with equal rapidity and success. 
Roderick lost his temper time and again with his models, 
who offered but a gross degenerate image of his splendid 
ideal ; but his ideal, as he assured Rowland, became 
gradually such a fixed vivid presence that he had only to 
shut his eyes to behold a creature far more to his purpose 
than the poor girl who stood posturing at forty sous an 
hour. The Eve was finished in three months, and the 
feat was extraordinary, as well as the statue, which re 
presented an admirably beautiful woman. When the 
spring began to muffle the rugged old city with its tremu 
lous festoons it seemed to him that he had done a hand 
some winter 's work and had fairly earned a holiday. He 
took a liberal one, and lounged away the lovely Roman 
May, doing nothing. He looked very contented ; with 
himself perhaps at times a trifle too obviously. But who 
could have said without good reason? He was "flushed 
with triumph ; " this classic phrase portrayed him to 
Rowland 's sense. He would lose himself in long re- 
 
varies, and emerge from them with a quickened smile and 
heightened colour. Rowland grudged him none of his 
smiles, and took an extreme satisfaction in his two statues. 
He had these productions transported to his own apart 
ment, and one warm evening in May he gave a little 
dinner in honour of the artist. It was small, but Row 
land had meant it should TDC very agreeably composed. 
He thought over his friends, and chose four. They were 
all persons with whom he lived in a certain intimacy. 
VI. 
ONE of them was an American sculptor of French ex 
traction, or remotely perhaps of Italian, for he rejoiced 
in the somewhat fervid name of Gloriani. He was a 
man of forty, he had been living for years in Paris and 
in Rome, and he now drove a very pretty trade in sculp 
ture of the ornamental and fantastic sort. In his youth 
he had had money ; but he had spent it recklessly, much 
of it scandalously, and at twenty-six had found himself 
obliged to make capital of his talent. This was quite 
inimitable, and fifteen years of indefatigable exercise had 
brought it to perfection. Rowland admitted its power, 
though it gave him very little pleasure ; what he relished 
in the man was the extraordinary vivacity and frankness, 
not to call it the impudence, of his opinions. He had a 
definite, practical scheme of art, and he knew at least 
what he meant. In this sense he was solid and com 
plete. There were so many of the aesthetic fraternity 
who were floundering in unknown seas, without a notion 
of which way their noses were turned, that Gloriani, 
conscious and compact, unlimitedly intelligent and con 
summately clever, dogmatic only as to his own duties, 
and at once gracefully deferential and profoundly indif- 
 
ferent to those of others, had for Rowland a certain in 
tellectual refreshment quite independent of the character 
of his works. These were considered by most people to 
belong to a very corrupt, and by many to a positively 
indecent, school. Others thought them tremendously 
knowing, and paid enormous prices for them ; and indeed 
to be able to point to one of Gloriani 's figures in a shady 
corner of your library was tolerable proof that you were 
not a fool. Corrupt things they certainly were ; in the 
line of sculpture they were quite the latest fruit of time. 
It was the artist 's opinion that there is no essential dif 
ference between beauty and ugliness ; that they overlap 
and intermingle in a quite inextricable manner ; that 
there is no saying where one begins and the other ends ; 
that hideousness grimaces at you suddenly from out of 
the very bosom of loveliness, and beauty blooms before 
your eyes in the lap of vileness j that it is a waste of wit 
to nurse metaphysical distinctions, and a sadly meagre 
entertainment to caress imaginary lines ; that the thing 
to aim at is the expressive, and the way to reach it is by 
ingenuity ; that for this purpose everything may serve, 
and that a consummate work is a sort of hotch-potch of 
the pure and the impure, the graceful and the grotesque. 
Its prime duty is to amuse, to puzzle, to fascinate, to 
savour of a complex imagination. Gloriani 's statues 
were florid and meretricious ; they looked like magnified 
goldsmith 's work. They were extremely elegant, but 
they had no charm for Rowland. He never bought one, 
but Gloriani was such an independent fellow, and was 
withal so deluged with orders, that this made no differ 
ence in their friendship. The artist might have passed 
for a Frenchman. He was a great talker, and a very 
picturesque one ; he was almost bald ; he had a small 
bright eye, a broken nose, and a moustache with waxed 
ends. When sometimes he received you at his lodging, 
he introduced you to a lady with a plain face whom he 
called Madame Gloriani which she was not. 
Rowland 's second guest was also an artist, but of a very 
different type. His friends called him Sam Singleton ; 
he was an American, and he had been in Rome a couple 
of years. He painted small landscapes, chiefly in water- 
colours ; Rowland had seen one of them in a shop window, 
had liked it extremely, and ascertaining his address, had 
gone to see him and found him established in a very 
humble studio near the Piazza Barberini, where appa 
rently fame and fortune had not yet found him out. 
Rowland took a fancy to him and bought several of his 
pictures ; Singleton made few speeches, but he was grate 
ful. Rowland heard afterwards that when he first came 
to Rome he painted worthless daubs and gave no promise 
of talent. Improvement had come, however, hand in 
hand with patient industry, and his talent, though of a 
slender and delicate order, was now incontestable. It 
was as yet but scantily recognised, and he had hard 
work to live. Rowland hung his little water-colours on 
the library wall, and found that as he lived with them he 
grew very fond of them. Singleton was a diminutive 
attenuated personage ; he looked like a precocious child. 
He had a high protuberant forehead, a transparent brown 
eye, a perpetual smile, an extraordinary expression of 
modesty and patience. He listened much more willingly 
than he talked, with a little fixed grateful grin ; he blushed 
when he spoke, and always offered his ideas in a sidelong 
fashion, as if the presumption were against them. His 
modesty set them off, and they were eminently to the 
point. He was so perfect an example of the little noise 
less laborious artist whom chance, in the person of a 
moneyed patron, has never taken by the hand, that 
Rowland would have liked to befriend him by stealth. 
Singleton had expressed a fervent admiration for Rode 
rick 's productions, but he had not yet met the young 
master. Roderick was lounging against the chimney- 
piece when he came in, and Rowland presently intro 
duced him. The little water-colourist stood with folded 
 
hands, blushing, smiling and looking up at him as if 
Roderick had been himself a statue on a pedestal. 
Singleton began to murmur something about his pleasure, 
his admiration ; the desire to say something very appre 
ciative gave him almost a look of distress. Roderick 
looked down at him, surprised, and suddenly burst into 
a laugh. Singleton paused a moment, and then, with an 
intenser smile, went on "Well, sir, your statues are 
beautiful, all the same ! " 
Rowland 's two other guests were ladies, and one of 
them, Miss Blanchard, belonged also to the artistic 
fraternity. She was an American, she was young, she 
was pretty, and she had made her way to Rome alone 
and unaided. She lived alone, or with no other duenna 
than a bushy-browed old serving- woman, though indeed 
she had a friendly neighbour in the person of a certain 
Madame Grandoni, who in various social emergencies 
lent her a protecting wing, and had come with her to 
Rowland 's dinner. Miss Blanchard had a small fortune, 
but she was not above selling her pictures. These 
represented generally a bunch of dew-sprinkled roses, 
with the dew-drops very highly finished, or else a way 
side shrine and a peasant woman with her back turned 
kneeling before it. Sne did backs very well, but she 
was a little weak in faces. Flowers, however, were her 
speciality, and though her touch was a little old-fashioned 
and finical, she painted them with remarkable skill. 
Her pictures were chiefly bought by the English. Row 
land had made her acquaintance early in the winter, and 
as she kept a saddle horse and rode a great deal he had 
asked permission to be her cavalier. In this way they 
had become almost intimate. Miss Blanchard 's name was 
Augusta ; she was slender, pale, and elegant ; she had 
a very pretty head and brilliant auburn hair, which she 
braided with classic simplicity. She talked in a sweet 
soft voice, used language at times a trifle superfine, and 
made literary allusions. These had often a patriotic 
 
strain, and Rowland had more than once been treated 
to quotations from Mrs. Sigourney in the cork-woods 
of Monte Mario, and from Mr. "VVillis among the ruins 
of Veii. Rowland was of a dozen different minds about 
her, and was half surprised at times to find himself 
treating it as a matter of serious moment that he should 
like her or not. He admired her, and indeed there was 
something admirable in her combination of beauty and 
talent, of isolation and self-support. He used sometimes 
to go into the little high-niched ordinary room which 
served her as a studio, and find her working at a panel 
six inches square, at an open casement, profiled against 
the deep blue Roman sky. She received him with a 
meek-eyed dignity that made her seem like a painted 
saint on a church window receiving the daylight in all 
her being. The breath of vulgar rumour passed her by 
with folded wings. And yet Rowland wondered why 
he did not like her better. If he failed, the reason was 
not far to seek. There was another woman whom he 
liked better, an image in his heart which gave itself little 
airs of exclusiveness. 
On that evening to which allusion has been made, 
when Rowland was left alone between the starlight and 
the waves with the sudden knowledge that Mary Garland 
was to become another man 's wife, he had made after a 
while the simple resolution to forget her. And every 
day since, like a famous philosopher who wished to 
abbreviate his mourning for a faithful servant, he had said 
to himself in substance "Remember to forget Mary 
Garland. " Sometimes it seemed as if he were succeeding ; 
then, suddenly, when he was least expecting it, he would 
find her name inaudibly on his lips, and seem to see her 
eyes meeting his eyes. All this made him uncomfortable, 
and seemed to portend a possible discord. Discord was 
not to his taste ; he shrank from imperious passions, and 
the idea of finding himself jealous of an unsuspecting 
friend was simply disgusting. More than ever, then, 
 
the path of good manners was to forget Mary Garland, 
and he cultivated oblivion, as we may say, in the person 
of Miss Blanchard. Her fine temper, he said to himself, 
was a trifle cold and conscious, her purity prudish per 
haps, her culture pedantic. But since he was obliged 
to give up hopes of Mary Garland, Providence owed him 
a compensation, and he had fits of angry sadness in which 
it seemed to him that to attest his right to sentimental 
satisfaction he should indulge in some defiantly incon 
gruous passion, And what was the use, after all, of 
bothering about a possible which was only perhaps a 
dream ? Even if Maiy Garland had been free, what right 
had he to assume that he should have pleased her ? The 
actual was good enough. Miss Blanchard had beautiful 
hair, and if she were a trifle old-maidish, there was 
nothing like matrimony for curing old-maidishness. 
Madame Grandoni, who had formed with the com 
panion of Rowland 's rides an alliance which might have 
been called defensive on the part of the former and 
attractive on that of Miss Blanchard, was an excessively 
ugly old lady, highly esteemed in Roman society for her 
homely benevolence and her shrewd and humorous good 
