economy of the Garden of Eden." 
"But you are yourself a noble a baron," I objected. 
" Oh, I am anything you please," said Benoni. 
" Some idiot made a baron of me, the other day, be 
 
cause I lent him money and he could not pay it. 
But I have some right to it, after all, for I am a Jew. 
The only real nobles are Welshmen and Jews. You 
cannot call anything so ridiculously recent as the 
European upper classes a nobility. Now I go straight 
back to the creation of the world, like all my country 
men. The Hibernians get a factitious reputation 
for antiquity by saying that Eve married an Irish 
man after Adam died, and that is about as much 
claim as your European nobles have to respectability. 
Bah ! I know their beginnings, very small indeed." 
" You, also, seem to have strong prejudices on the 
subject," said I, not wishing to contradict a guest in 
my house. 
"So strong that it amounts to having no prejudices at all. Your boy wants to marry a noble 
damosel. In Heaven's name, let him do it. Let us 
manage it amongst us. Love is a grand thing. I 
have loved several women all their lives. Do not 
look surprised. I am a very old man; they have 
all died, and at present I am not in love with any 
body. I suppose it cannot last long, however. I 
loved a woman, once on a time " 
Benoni paused. He seemed to be on the verge 
of a soliloquy, and his strange, bright face, which 
seemed illuminated always with a deathless vitality, 
became dreamy and looked older. But he recollected 
himself, and rose to go. His eye caught sight of the 
guitar that hung on the wall. 
"Ah," he cried suddenly, "music is better than 
love, for it lasts ; let us make music." 
He dropped his hat and stick and seized the instrument. In an instant it was tuned, and he began 
to perform the most extraordinary feats of agility 
with his fingers which I ever beheld. Some of it 
was very beautiful, and some of it very sad and wild, 
but I understood Nino's enthusiasm. I could have 
listened to the old guitar in his hands for hours 
together, I, who care little for music; and I 
watched his face. He stalked about the room with 
the thing in his hands, in a sort of wild frenzy of 
execution. His features grew ashy pale, and his 
smooth white hair stood out wildly from his head. 
He looked, then, more than a hundred years old, and 
there was a sadness and a horror about him that 
would have made the stones cry aloud for pity. I 
could not believe he was the same man. At last he 
was tired, and stopped. 
" You are a great artist, baron," . I said. " Your 
music seems to affect you much." 
"Ah, yes, it makes me feel like other men, for 
the time," said he, in a low voice. " Did you know 
that Paganini always practised on the guitar? It 
is true. Well, I will find out about the Liras for 
you in a day or two, before I leave Rome again." 
I thanked him, and he took his leave. 
 
CHAPTER XII. 
BENONI had made an impression on me which 
nothing could efface. His tall, thin figure and bright 
eyes got into my dreams and haunted me, so that I 
thought my nerves were affected. For several days I 
could think of nothing else, and at last had myself 
bled, and took some cooling barley water, and gave 
up eating salad at night, but without any perceptible 
effect. 
Nino wrote often, and seemed very much excited 
about the disappearance of the contessina, but what 
could I do ? I asked every one I knew, and nobody 
had heard of them, so that at last I quite gave it 
over, and wrote to tell him so. A week passed, then 
a fortnight, and I had heard nothing from Benoni. 
Nino wrote again, inclosing a letter addressed to the 
Contessina di Lira, which he implored me to convey 
to her, if I loved him. He said he was certain that 
she had never left Italy. Some instinct seemed to 
tell him so, and she was evidently in neither London 
nor Paris, for he had made every inquiry, and had 
even been to the police about it. Two days after this, 
Benoni came. He looked exactly as he did the first 
time I saw him. 
" I have news," he said briefly, and sat down in the 
arm-chair, striking the dust from his boot with his 
light stick. 
 
"News of the Graf ? " I inquired. 
" Yes. I have found out something. They never 
left Italy at all, it seems. I am rather mystified, and 
I hate mystification. The old man is a fool ; all old 
men are fools, excepting myself. Will you smoke? 
No ? Allow me, then. It is a modern invention, but 
a very good one." He lit a cigarette. " I wish your 
Liras were in Tophet," he continued, presently. 
" How can people have the bad taste to hide ? It 
only makes ingenious persons the more determined 
to find them." He seemed talkative, and as I was 
so sad and lonely I encouraged him by a little stimulus of doubt. I wish I had doubted him sooner, and 
differently. 
"What is the use?" I asked. "We shall never 
find them." 
" Never is a great word," said Benoni. " You 
do not know what it means. I do. But as for finding them, you shall see. In the first place, I have 
talked with their banker. He says the count gave 
the strictest orders to have his address kept a secret. 
But, being one of my people, he allowed himself to 
make an accidental allusion which gave me a clue to 
what I wanted. They are hidden somewhere in the 
mountains." 
"Diavolo! among the brigands, they will not be 
very well treated," said I. 
" The old man will be careful. He will keep clear 
of danger. The only thing is to find them." 
"And what then?" I asked. 
" That depends on the most illustrious Signor 
Cardegna," said Benoni, smiling. " He only asked 
 
you to find them. He probably did not anticipate 
that I would help you." 
It did not appear to me that Benoni had helped 
me much, after all. You might as well look for a 
needle in a. hay stack as try to find any one who goes 
to the Italian mountains. The baron offered no 
further advice, and sat calmly smoking and looking at me. I felt uneasy, opposite him. He was a 
mysterious person, and I thought him disguised. It 
was really not possible that with his youthful manner his hair should be naturally so white, or that 
he should be so old as he seemed. I asked him the 
question we always find it interesting to ask foreigners, hoping to lead him into conversation. 
" How do you like our Rome, Baron Benoni ? " 
"Rome? I loathe and detest it," he said, with 
a smile. "There is only one place in the whole 
world that I hate more." 
" What place is that ? " I asked, remembering that 
he had made the same remark to Nino before. 
"Jerusalem," he answered, and the smile faded 
on his face. I thought I guessed the reason of his 
dislike in his religious views. But I am very liberal 
about those things. 
"I think I understand you," I said; "you are a 
Hebrew, and the prevailing form of religion is dis 
agreeable to you." 
"No, it is not exactly that, and yet, perhaps it 
is." He seemed to be pondering on the reason of 
his dislike. 
" But why do you visit these places, if they do not 
please you?" 
 
"I come here because I have so many agreeable 
acquaintances. I never go to Jerusalem. I also 
come here from time to time to take a bath. The 
water of the Trevi has a peculiarly rejuvenating 
effect upon me, and something impels me to bathe 
in it." 
"Do you mean in the fountain? All foreigners 
say that if you drink the water by moonlight you 
will return to Rome." 
"Foreigners are all weak-minded fools. I like 
that word. The human race ought to be called 
fools generically, as distinguished from the more 
intelligent animals. If you went to England, you 
would be as great a fool as any Englishman that 
comes here and drinks Trevi water by moonlight. 
But I assure you I do nothing so vulgar as to patronise the fountain, any more than I would patronise 
Mazzarino's church, hard by. I go to the source, 
the spring, the well where it rises." 
" Ah, I know the place well," I said. " It is near 
to Serveti." 
" Serveti? Is not that in the vicinity of Horace's 
villa?" 
" You know the country well, I see," said I, sadly. 
"I know most things," answered the Jew, with 
complacency. " You would find it hard to hit upon 
anything I do not know. Yes, I am a vain man, it 
is true, but I am very frank and open about it. 
Look at my complexion. Did you ever see any 
thing like it? It is Trevi water that does it." I 
thought such excessive vanity very unbecoming in 
a man of his years, but I could not help looking 
 
amused. It was so odd to hear the old fellow descanting on his attractions. He actually took a 
small mirror from his pocket, and looked at himself 
in most evident admiration. 
" I really believe," he said at length, pocketing the 
little looking-glass, " that a woman might love me 
still. What do you say ? " 
" Doubtless," I answered politely, although I was 
beginning to be annoyed, " a woman might love you 
at first sight. But it would be more dignified for 
you not to love her." 
" Dignity ! " He laughed long and loud, a cutting 
laugh, like the breaking of glass. " There is another 
of your phrases. Excuse my amusement, Signor 
Grandi, but the idea of dignity always makes me 
smile." He called that thing a smile ! " It is in 
everybody's mouth, the dignity of the state, the 
dignity of the king, the dignity of woman, the dignity of father, mother, schoolmaster, soldier. Psh! 
an apoplexy, as you say, on all the dignities you can 
enumerate. There is more dignity in a poor, patient 
ass toiling along a rough road under a brutal burden 
than in the entire human race put together, from 
Adam to myself. I never see a poor wretch of a 
general, or king, or any such animal, adorned in his 
toggery of dignity, without laughing at him, and his 
dignity again leads him to suppose that my smile is 
the result of the pleasurable sensations his appearance 
excites in me. Nature has dignity at times ; some 
animals have it; but man, never. What man mis 
takes for it in himself is his vanity, a vanity much 
more pernicious than mine, because it deceives its 
 
possessor, who is also wholly possessed by it, and 
is its slave. I have had many illusions in my life, 
" 
" One would say, baron, that you had parted with 
them." 
" Yes, and that is my chief vanity, the vanity of 
vanities which I prefer to all the others. It is only 
a man of no imagination who has no vanity. He 
cannot imagine himself any better than he is. A 
creative genius makes for his own person a self 
which he thinks he is, or desires other people to be 
lieve him to be. It makes little difference whether 
he succeeds or not, so long as he flatters himself he 
does. He complacently takes all his images from the 
other animals, or from natural objects and phenomena, 
depicting himself bold as an eagle, brave as a lion, 
strong as an ox, patient as an ass, vain as a popinjay, 
talkative as a parrot, wily as a serpent, gentle as a 
dove, cunning as a fox, surly as a bear ; his glance is 
lightning, his voice thunder, his heart stone, his hands 
are iron, his conscience a hell, his sinews of steel, and 
his love like fire. In short, he is like anything alive 
or dead, except a man, saving when he is mad. Then 
he is a fool. Only man can be a fool. It distin 
guishes him from the higher animals." 
I cannot describe the unutterable scorn that blazed 
in his eyes as Benoni poured out the vials of his 
wrath on the unlucky human race. With my views, 
we were not likely to agree in this matter. 
" Who are you ? " I asked. " What right can you 
possibly have to abuse us all in such particularly 
strong terms ? Do you ever make proselytes to your 
philosophy ? " 
 
" No," said he, answering my last question, and recovering his serenity with that strange quickness of 
transition I had remarked when he had made music 
during his previous visit. " No, they all die before I 
have taught them anything." 
" That does not surprise me, baron," said I. He 
laughed a little. 
" Well, perhaps it would surprise you even less if 
you knew me better," he replied. "But really, I 
came here to talk about Cardegna, and not to chatter 
about that contemptible creature, man, who is not 
worth a moment's notice, I assure you. I believe I 
can find these people, and I confess it would amuse 
me to see the old man's face when we walk in upon 
him. I must be absent for a few days on business in 
Austria, and shall return immediately, for I have not 
taken my bath yet, of which I spoke. Now, if it is 
agreeable to you, I would propose that we go to the 
hills, on my return, and prosecute our search together, 
writing to Nino in the mean time to come here as soon 
as he has finished his engagement in Paris. If he 
comes quickly, he may go with us ; if not, he can join 
us. At all events, we can have a very enjoyable tour 
among the natives, who are charming people, quite 
like animals, as you ought to know." 
I think I must be a very suspicious person. Circumstances have made me so, and perhaps my sus 
picions are very generally wrong. It may be. At 
all events, I did suspect the rich and dandified old 
baron of desiring to have a laugh by putting Nino 
into some absurd situation. He had such strange 
views, or, at least, he talked so oddly, that I did not 
 
believe half he said. It is not possible that anybody 
should seriously hold the opinions he professed. 
When he was gone I sat alone, pondering on the 
situation, which was like a very difficult problem in 
a nightmare, which could not or would not look sensible, do what I would. It chanced that I got a letter 
from Nino that evening, and I confess I was reluctant 
to open it, fearing that he would reproach me with 
not having taken more pains to help him. Before 
opening the envelope, I felt as though I should like 
to go back a fortnight and put forth all my strength 
to find the contessina, and gain a comforting sense of 
duty performed. If I had only done my best, how 
easy it would have been to face a whole sheet of complaints ! Meanwhile the letter was come, and I had 
done nothing worth mentioning. I looked at the 
back of it, and my conscience smote me ; but it had 
to be accomplished, and at last I tore the cover off 
and read. 
Poor Nino ! He said he was ill with anxiety, and 
feared it would injure his voice. He said that to 
break his engagement and come back to Rome would 
be ruin to him. He must face it out, or take the legal 
consequences of a breach of contract, which are over 
whelming to a young artist. He detailed all the 
efforts he had made to find Hedwig, pursuing every 
little sign and clue that seemed to present itself; all 
to no purpose. The longer he thought of it, the more 
certain he was that Hedwig was not in Paris or London. She might be anywhere else in the whole world, 
but she was certainly not in either of those cities. 
Of that he was convinced. He felt like a man who 
 
had pursued a beautiful image to the foot of a precipitous cliff ; the rock had opened and swallowed up his 
dream, leaving him standing alone in hopeless despair; 
and a great deal more poetic nonsense of that kind. 
I do not believe I had ever realised what he so 
truly felt for Hedwig, until I sat at my table with 
his letter before me, overcome with the sense of my 
own weakness in not having effectually checked 
this mad passion at its rise ; or, since it had grown 
so masterfully, of my wretched procrastination in not 
having taken my staff in my hand and gone out into 
the world to find the woman my boy loved and bring 
her to him. By this time, I thought, I should have found 
her. I could not bear to think of his being ill, suffering, heart-broken, ruined, if he lost his voice by an 
illness, merely because I had not had the strength 
to do the best thing for him. Poor Nino, I thought, 
you shall never say again that Cornelio Grandi has 
not done what was in his power to make you happy. 
" That baron ! an apoplexy on him ! has deluded me 
with his promises of help," I said to myself. "He 
has no more intention of helping me or Nino than he 
has of carrying off the basilica of St. Peter. Courage, 
Cornelio ! thou must gird up thy loins, and take a 
little money in thy scrip, and find Hedwig von 
Lira." 
All that night I lay awake, trying to think how 
I might accomplish this end; wondering to which 
point of the compass I should turn, and above all 
reflecting that I must make great sacrifices. But my 
boy must have what he wanted, since he was consuming himself, as we say, in longing for it. It seemed 
 
to me no time for counting the cost, when every day 
might bring upon him a serious illness. If he could 
only know that I was acting, he would allow his 
spirits to revive and take courage. 
In the watches of the night I thought over my 
resources, which, indeed, were meagre enough; for 
I am a very poor man. It was necessary to take a 
great deal of money, for once away from Rome no 
one could tell when I might return. My salary as 
professor is paid to me quarterly, and it was yet some 
weeks to the time when it was due. I had only a 
few francs remaining, not more than enough to pay 
my rent and to feed Mariuccia and me. I had paid 
at Christmas the last installment due on my vineyard 
out of Porta Salara, and though I owed no man anything I had no money, and no prospect of any for 
some time. And yet I could not leave home on a 
long journey without at least two hundred scudi in my 
pocket. A scudo is a dollar, and a dollar has five 
francs, so that I wanted a thousand francs. You see, 
in spite of the baron's hint about the mountains, I 
thought I might have to travel all over Italy before I 
satisfied Nino. 
A thousand francs is a great deal of money, it is 
a Peru, as we say. I had not the first sou toward it. 
I thought a long time. I wondered if the old piano 
were worth anything ; whether anybody would give 
me money for my manuscripts, the results of patient 
years of labour and study ; my old gold scarf-pin, my 
seal ring, and even my silver watch, which really 
keeps very good time, what were they worth ? But 
it would not be much, not the tenth part of what I 
 
wanted. I was in despair, and I tried to sleep. Then 
a thought came to me. 
"I am a donkey," I said. "There is the vine 
yard itself, my little vineyard beyond Porta Sa- 
lara. It is mine, and is worth half as much again 
as I need." And I slept quietly till morning. 
It is true, and I am sure it is natural, that in the 
daylight my resolution looked a little more heroic to 
me than it did in the quiet night. I had toiled and 
scraped a great deal more than you know to buy that 
small piece of land, and it seemed much more my 
own than all Serveti had ever been in my better days. 
Then I shut myself up in my room and read Nino's 
letter over again, though it pained me very much ; 
for I needed courage. And when I had read it, I 
took some papers in my pocket, and put on my hat 
and my old cloak, which Nino will never want any 
more now for his midnight serenades, and I went out 
to sell my little vineyard. 
"It is for my boy," I said, to give myself some 
comfort. 
But it is one thing to want to buy, and it is quite 
another thing to want to sell. All day I went from 
one man to another with my papers, all the agents 
who deal in those things; but they only said they 
thought it might be sold in time ; it would take many 
days, and perhaps weeks. 
" But I want to sell it to-day," I explained. 
" We are very sorry," said they, with a shrug of 
the shoulders ; and they showed me the door. 
I was extremely down-hearted, and though I could 
