it, and we will fix up the matter,” said Lingerwell in a wheedling
tone, as though he would have given something handsome to have sealed
the lips of the engineer.
“I won’t shut up! I have been insulted and abused; and I will have
satisfaction if it costs me my life. I didn’t take your money. I
didn’t know you had any,” growled Greeze, moving aft.
This explanation on the part of the engineer enabled Dory to
understand the nature of the quarrel between the two men. When the
Juniper had anchored, Lingerwell had evidently taken the pocket-book
from its hiding-place, and found that worthless paper had been put in
the place of the four hundred and fifty dollars. As he was not aware
that Dory, or any other person, had been on board, he naturally
concluded that the engineer must have robbed him of his ill-gotten
money.
Dory had come up into the wind under the lee of the Juniper. The
lantern hung on a stanchion in the after part of the steamer, so that
the skipper of the Goldwing and his passenger could see what took
place on board of her. The engineer had no sooner reached the place
where Lingerwell stood, than he leaped upon him with the fury of a
tiger.
CHAPTER VI.
THE IMPULSIVE ASSAULT OF THE ENGINEER.
The engineer was evidently suffering under the humiliation of his
former defeat; and now he was seeking to satisfy his revengeful
feelings rather than gain any point, for Lingerwell had offered to
“fix up the matter.” His onslaught was so sudden and unexpected that
Lingerwell was borne down beneath him.
Dory was wise enough to see, on the instant, that the impulsive attack
of the engineer was a great mistake; but it was too late to correct
it. In this case his sympathies were not “with the bottom dog;” for
the engineer had the right on his side, in spite of his blunder.
The skipper of the Goldwing felt called upon to take a hand in the
conflict; and, when Lingerwell was about to shake off his opponent, he
went to the assistance of the latter. The engineer had thrown his man
upon his face, and he was in the act of turning over when Dory put his
knees on the back of the fallen one.
“Put your foot on his back, and grab one of his hands!” exclaimed
Dory, as he grasped an arm.
“I can hold him! He tried to kill me, and I will get even with him!”
gasped Greeze.
“Don’t hurt him,” added Dory.
“I will pay him off for what he did to me!” cried the engineer.
“If you strike him, or kick him, I will leave at once!” added Dory
decidedly. “We can hold him, and keep him from harming you again.”
“He abused me, and I will get even with him,” replied Greeze, a little
mollified by the threat of Dory; for he saw that he could not manage
the steamer alone.
“Don’t harm him: the law will punish him,” continued Dory. “Bolly.”
The passenger in the Goldwing had been looking on with no little
surprise and terror, and had not ventured upon the deck of the
Juniper. Possibly he was too much alarmed to realize that the tables
had been turned.
“What is it, Dory?” he responded to the call.
“Bring me the rope that lies under the tiller.”
Bolingbroke found the line, and carried it to the skipper; but he was
careful not to go too near the fallen tiger, for such he had proved to
be to him. Dory took the line, and succeeded in making it fast to the
arm of Lingerwell.
“What are you about, you young villain? Do you mean to tie my hands?”
demanded the fallen man.
“That’s the idea exactly,” replied Dory, as he attempted to pass the
line around the arm held by the engineer.
Lingerwell had been quiet for a minute after Dory took hold of him,
but the idea of being captured and tied up like a felon was too much
for him. With a series of heavy oaths, he made a desperate effort to
shake off his assailants. The engineer meant business, though the
direction of the assault had been taken out of his hands by the
new-comer. He lay down upon his victim, and jammed his knees into the
small of his back, so that escape was impossible. Dory passed the line
around the other wrist of the conspirator, and the two were securely
bound together behind him.
“He is all right now, and cannot harm anybody,” said Dory. “Get
another line, and we will secure his feet.” Bolingbroke brought the
rope, for by this time he could see that his great enemy was
powerless.
Dory fastened the feet of Lingerwell together, and then turned him on
his side, so that he could be more comfortable. Again the victim
struggled to loose himself; but Dory had done his work well, and he
could produce no impression upon the rope.
“This is an outrage!” yelled he, furious with passion.
“I suppose it isn’t an outrage to try to kill a man,” replied Dory, as
he took the lantern and examined the fastenings he had put on the
prisoner.
“I didn’t try to kill him! That is all nonsense!” replied Lingerwell,
suspending his struggles.
“We won’t argue the matter now,” replied Dory, walking to the forward
part of the boat.
He was followed by the engineer, who seemed to be desirous to explain
the affair. Doubtless he was grateful for the service the boy had
rendered to him, and looked upon the skipper of the Goldwing as his
friend.
“You are a plucky boy, Dory,” said Greeze, when they reached the
wheel, near the bow of the boat. “But I think I could have handled
that fellow alone.”
“It is very strange that you should get into a quarrel out here in the
middle of the night,” added Dory.
“It wasn’t a quarrel of my making; and, if he hadn’t taken me when I
was not thinking of such a thing, the boot would have been on the
other leg. He’s bigger than I am, but I can handle him if I have fair
play.”
“How did you happen to get into such a row?”
“I stopped the boat when we reached this place, and then let go the
anchor, at Lingerwell’s order. When I went forward, I found him on the
floor, feeling about under the ceiling. I didn’t know what he was
doing; and he didn’t care to have me know, for he told me to go aft
and bank the fire in the furnace. I did so, and when I got through I
went forward again. Lingerwell was at the lantern, looking over what
was in a big pocket-book he had in his hands.”
“Had he said any thing about a pocket-book before?” asked Dory.
“Not a word. When I got to him, he looked as though he was very
nervous and excited. He poked the pocket-book over, and then fished
his pockets all through. I asked him what the matter was. He said he
had dropped his pocket-book on the floor, some time during the day; he
didn’t know when. He had just found it; but the money had all been
taken out, and a piece of newspaper put in its place to swell it out.”
“Did he say how much money was in it?” inquired Dory.
“He said there was a good deal in it, but he didn’t tell me how much.”
“Did he say there was a hundred dollars or more?”
“He didn’t say a word about it. He kept getting more excited, and at
last he said I must have taken the money from the pocket-book. I
answered, that I didn’t do it: I hadn’t seen his pocket-book, and
didn’t know he had any money with him. On that he got mad, and I was
as mad as he was.
“We had a long jaw about it, and then he pitched into me. He got me by
the throat before I knew what he was about. He put me down, and then
tried to fish my pockets. I yelled for help, for I thought he would
kill me. I hardly knew what I did; but I shook him off, and we had
another savage jaw about it. Then he pitched into me again. He had a
club in his hand; and I think he would have used it on me, if he
hadn’t heard you yell just at this time.”
“I hoped my hail would let him know there was some one at hand, though
it was only a boy,” added Dory.
“That was what made him let up on me. Then he tried to smooth it over;
but I never was treated like that before, and I meant to have it out
with him.”
“Well, here we are; and what is to be done next?” asked Dory.
“We were waiting down here to catch that Millweed fellow that stole
the money from the safe,” replied Greeze.
“He says he didn’t take the money from the safe, and he is going back
to Burlington to face the music.”
“We might as well go along then: we haven’t any more business up here.
You can steer the Juniper, and we will tow the Goldwing,” suggested
the engineer. “I don’t know how this thing is coming out, but I am
ready to go to Burlington. I suppose Lingerwell will have me
discharged after this, but I don’t care for that. You have tied him
hand and foot, and I don’t know what you mean by that. I meant to take
what I owed him out of his hide.”
“I tied him to keep him from pitching into you again. I want to see
Mr. Longbrook as soon as we get to Burlington; and he can do what he
likes with him,” replied Dory. “We will start for Burlington as soon
as you are ready.”
When the excitement was over, Bolingbroke Millweed had returned to the
Goldwing, and to his berth in the cabin, where he was now fast asleep.
The engineer replenished his fire, and in half an hour the Juniper was
under way. At four o’clock in the morning she was at her wharf in
Burlington. The Goldwing was made fast alongside of her. It was nearly
daylight, and it would be quite by the time Dory could reach the
residence of Mr. Longbrook.
Bolingbroke was roused from his slumbers in the cabin, but he objected
to calling upon the storekeeper at so early an hour in the morning.
Dory did not care for his opinion, and insisted upon going without any
delay. Greeze was to keep watch over Lingerwell until he heard from
Dory, and Mr. Longbrook was to decide what was to be done with the
prisoner.
The house of the storekeeper was easily found. It was about five by
this time, and the early visitors saw that the people were up. To
Dory’s inquiry for the head of the family, the servant said he had
gone to the store. He had staid there till midnight the night before,
and had left the house as soon as it was light.
Dory was not a little astonished at this severe devotion to business;
but he hastened to the store, and found Mr. Longbrook was busy over
his books. He had locked himself in, but he opened the door in answer
to the skipper’s vigorous knocks.
“I am too busy to see any one now,” said the storekeeper impatiently.
“Come at nine o’clock, and I will see you.”
“This young man wants to see you at once,” added Dory, pulling
Bolingbroke into the doorway.
“What, Millweed! So you have come back, young man,” added Mr. Longbrook,
as he recognized his late assistant.
“I have come back to tell you, sir, that I did not take the money from
your safe,” stammered Bolingbroke.
“What did you run away for, then?” demanded the merchant severely.
“Because I was a fool and was frightened. I found that Mr. Lingerwell
was determined to convict me, guilty or innocent; and I had not the
courage to stay and see it out,” replied Bolingbroke honestly.
“You lost four hundred and fifty dollars from your safe, Mr.
Longbrook,” interposed Dory.
“That was just the amount taken, and this young fellow took it. It
looks as though he came to work here at this time for the purpose of
getting it, and he left as soon as he had the money,” said the
merchant angrily. “What have you done with the money, you young
rascal?”
“I have not had it, I have not seen it,” protested Bolingbroke.
“Don’t tell me that! No one else could have taken it. You and
Lingerwell were the only two persons who went to the safe.”
“Possibly Mr. Lingerwell took it himself,” suggested Dory.
Mr. Longbrook knit his brows into a frown, and turned away as though
he was thinking of something. Doubtless he was considering whether or
not it was possible that his trusted head man could have done such a
deed.
“At any rate here is the money,” added Dory, pulling the roll of bills
from his pocket.
The merchant opened his eyes very wide, and so did Mr. Bolingbroke
Millweed.
CHAPTER VII.
BOLINGBROKE MILLWEED OUT OF A PLACE.
Mr. Longbrook took the bills, and a smile of satisfaction overspread
his troubled face. He looked at Dory with astonishment, and then
glanced from him to Bolingbroke. The latter was quite as much
surprised as the owner of the four hundred and fifty dollars.
Dory had not given a hint to his companion or to the engineer that he
had the money. He had concealed the fact from prudential motives. He
had told his mother all about it, but he was not inclined to lead
either of his associates in the boat into temptation.
“I see,” said Mr. Longbrook, nodding his head at Dory. “Your friend
has concluded to give up the money, and expects me to say nothing more
about it.”
“I never saw the money before; and I didn’t know till this minute that
Dory had it,” protested Bolingbroke earnestly.
“He tells the exact truth,” added Dory. “Neither he nor any one but my
mother, who is at Genverres, knew that I had the money. I think you
had better hear the whole story, and then you can judge for yourself.”
Mr. Longbrook was quite willing to hear the story, for he was deeply
interested by this time. He asked Dory and his companion into the
store, and locked the door again. Bolingbroke gave his part of the
narrative first, and Dory finished it out.
“I believed Bolingbroke told me the truth; and I accepted Mr.
Lingerwell’s statement that one of the two must have stolen the
money,” said Dory. “When the skipper and engineer left the Juniper to
catch my passenger, I looked the steamer over, and found the
pocket-book. I put the piece of newspaper into the place where I took
out the bills, hoping that Mr. Lingerwell would suppose he had the
bills until he got to Burlington.”
Then followed the skipper’s account of the quarrel on board of the
Juniper, which confirmed Dory’s statement. It was as clear to the
merchant as it was to Dory, that the head man had stolen the money.
“Where is Lingerwell now?” asked Mr. Longbrook.
“He is on board of the Juniper, tied hand and foot; and the engineer
is keeping guard over him. He did not know I had been on board of the
Juniper in his absence; and he was sure that Greeze must have taken
the money from the pocket-book, and put the newspaper in its place.
You can do what you like with him.”
“I knew that man was a villain!” exclaimed Bolingbroke when Dory had
finished his explanation. “I saw why I was sent to the safe for the
cash-book, when it was almost within reach of his hands; and that was
one of my reasons for running away. I was a fool, but I was
frightened.”
“I wish I had known that Lingerwell was a rascal a little sooner.
Since he went after this young man yesterday, I have been examining my
books. I am satisfied that he has robbed me of hundreds, if not
thousands, of dollars. I can see just how he has done it. Now we will
go down and see him, and we will have a warrant for his arrest.”
By this time it was seven o’clock, and the merchant departed for the
warrant and the officer to serve it. Dory and Bolingbroke went with
him. As they passed the Van Ness House, Dory was not a little surprised
to see his uncle standing at the entrance of the hotel with quite a
little crowd of boys. The skipper counted ten of them, and he wondered
if they were to be pupils in the Beech-Hill Industrial School.
“You are here in good time, Theodore,” demanded Captain Gildrock, as
he recognized his nephew.
“I came up on a little business, uncle,” replied Dory.
“Very important business it was to me, Captain Gildrock,” added Mr.
Longbrook. “I am under very great obligations to him.”
The breakfast-bell rang, and the boys were sent in to obtain the
morning meal. The merchant gave an outline of the loss and recovery of
his money. The captain asked a great many questions, which were all
answered to his satisfaction. Then he insisted that the party should
breakfast with him.
Mr. Longbrook accepted the invitation, and they entered the hotel. In
the vestibule the merchant met the justice to whom he intended to
apply for the warrant. He stated his case to him, and the gentleman
promised to have the warrant ready by the time he had finished his
breakfast. The party seated themselves at the table.
“A telegram for you, Captain Gildrock,” said one of the clerks,
bringing the message to him.
“‘Dory away; no pilot; cannot go up the lake.--JEPSON,’” read the
captain from the despatch in his hand. “Then you did not come down in
the Sylph, Theodore. Of course you did not. I have heard the story of
your movements during the night. I telegraphed to you last night from
here to come down in the steamer, and take the new scholars to Beech
Hill.”
“I have the Goldwing here, and I can take them home in her,” replied
Dory.
“But I have ten boys with me: there they are at the other table. They
are about as wild and harum-scarum a set of youngsters as I ever saw
in my life. But we will take all that out of them in a few days, when
I get them to Beech Hill,” replied the captain confidently.
“I can take the crowd up in the Goldwing.”
“We will see about that when we have done breakfast, and you have
disposed of your prisoner.”
“The Juniper is at your service, Captain Gildrock.”
“Thank you: perhaps we may want to use her.”
Mr. Longbrook inquired in regard to the sloop that had been sunk. It
was not likely that Lingerwell would be able to pay for the mischief
he had done; and the merchant said he had a sloop, not a very fine
one, which he was willing to give as a substitute for the one lost.
Bolingbroke was delighted with this offer, and promptly accepted it.
After breakfast the party proceeded to the wharf where the Juniper
lay, the recruits for the Industrial School being required to report
at the hotel at ten o’clock. Mr. Longbrook found things on board of
his steam-launch precisely as represented to him by Dory. Lingerwell
still lay on the floor in the after part of the steamer. Greeze sat
near him, and apparently had not taken his eye off him since the
departure of Dory early in the morning.
The officer with the warrant had not yet put in an appearance. The
merchant, before he showed himself to his delinquent head man, called
the engineer up the wharf, and questioned him in regard to the events
of the night. His statement did not vary from that of Dory and
Bolingbroke, though Greeze as yet had no suspicion that the money he
had been charged with stealing had been taken from the safe of his
employer.
“I think there are enough of us to handle this man,” said Mr.
Longbrook, as he returned to the steam-launch. “You may untie his
hands, Greeze.”
“With fair play I can handle him alone,” replied the engineer, as he
proceeded to release the wrists of the culprit on the floor. Greeze
helped him to get upon his feet, and then gave him a seat opposite the
merchant.
“Well, Lingerwell, I find you did not capture the thief,” said the
storekeeper.
“I did not: he found an accomplice in Dory Dornwood, who helped him to
escape,” replied the prisoner doggedly; and, as he had no knowledge of
what had transpired at the store, he was not prepared to admit any
thing.
“But how does it happen that I find you a prisoner, bound hand and
foot?” asked the merchant.
“I am the victim of an outrage. I had some difficulty with the
engineer in the night, and he joined forces with Dory against me. By
taking me unawares, they succeeded in making me a prisoner. I had some
money with me, and dropped my pocket-book on the floor near the wheel.
When I found it, the money was taken out, and its place filled with a
piece of newspaper.” This statement also confirmed that of Dory.
“How much money did you happen to have with you?” inquired his
employer.
“About a hundred dollars. Of course I knew that the engineer had done
this, for no one but Greeze and myself had been on board of the
steamer.”
“Are you sure of that?”
“As sure as I can be of any thing in this world,” persisted
Lingerwell.
“Are you correct about the amount of money in your pocket-book?”
“I would not say there was just a hundred dollars in it, but about
that amount.”
“Wasn’t there four hundred and fifty dollars in the pocket-book?”
demanded the merchant sharply.
“I am sure there was not,” the culprit persisted.
“The pocket-book was not taken by the thief: do you happen to have it
about you, Lingerwell?”
“After I found it was empty, I laid it on the rail for a minute, and
it fell overboard. It was so dark I could not recover it,” replied the
prisoner.
While Lingerwell was inventing and uttering this falsehood, Mr.
Longbrook picked up a piece of newspaper, folded in the shape of a
bank-bill, which he found lying on the floor of the steamer.
“I suppose this is the piece of paper you found in the pocket-book in
place of the money?”
“That is the piece of paper.”
“Here is the rest of the paper,” added Dory, taking a newspaper from
his pocket.
The merchant put the two pieces of paper together, and found they were
part of the same sheet.
“Then it was this Dory that robbed me of my money!” exclaimed the
prisoner savagely.
“Robbed you of my money, you mean, Lingerwell. Dory has returned to me
the money he took from the pocket-book you hid under the ceiling of
the launch. Lingerwell, to the crime of robbery you add the meanness
and the baseness of charging it upon an innocent person,” said the
merchant sternly. “Yesterday I would have trusted you with all I had
in the world. To-day I find you are a thief and a villain. Here comes
the officer with a warrant for you.”
Lingerwell subsided at once; in fact, he broke down like a child, and
cried like a baby. He had not supposed he could be discovered so
readily, but rogues are very apt to make blunders. The officer marched
him to the lockup; and we may as well add here, that he was sentenced,
in due time, to the State prison for three years.
“I suppose I shall be wanted in the store, Mr. Longbrook?” asked
Bolingbroke, when the culprit had been marched off.
“If you had not run away, you would have been all right, young man,”
replied the merchant. “Yesterday I engaged two experienced men at very
low wages, and they were to come this morning. I shall not need you.”
“If it is a fair question, Mr. Longbrook, how much do you pay the two
men?” asked Captain Gildrock.
“One five, and the other six, dollars a week.”
The captain nodded his head, but made no reply.
“The fact is, there are three times as many clerks as there are
places,” added the storekeeper.
Bolingbroke was terribly disappointed to lose even a temporary place.
CHAPTER VIII.
PUPILS FOR THE BEECH-HILL INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL.
Mr. Longbrook conducted Bolingbroke to another part of the wharf, and
pointed out to him an old sloop, about the size of the one sunk in the
deep water.
“I am sorry you are out of a place, young man; but you are welcome to
that boat in place of the one you lost, though I don’t feel under any
obligations to replace it. It was your misfortune that you were
accused of a crime. If you had not run away, I should have had a
chance to investigate the matter. I went out for a moment, and when I
returned you had gone. When I want another clerk, I will try to think
of you,” said the merchant, as he walked away towards the store.
Bolingbroke could hardly keep from crying at his disappointment in
