larded grouse. No, I don't like to touch that cold, fat stuff. How
mortified Ella was, when she had birds on toast and forgot to draw them.
I shouldn't make such a blunder as that, I do hope. Potted pigeons--the
very thing! Had that in our last lesson, but the girls are all crazy
about puff-paste, so they won't try pigeons. Why didn't I think of it at
once?--for we've got them in the house, and don't want them to-day,
mamma being called away. All ready too; so nice! I do detest to pick and
clean birds. 'Simmer from one to three hours.' Plenty of time. I'll do
it! I'll do it! La, la, la!"

And away skipped Edith in high spirits, for she did not love to cook,
yet wished to stand well with the class, some members of which were very
ambitious, and now and then succeeded with an elaborate dish, more by
good luck than skill.

Six plump birds were laid out on a platter, with their legs folded in
the most pathetic manner; these Edith bore away in triumph to the
kitchen, and opening the book before her went to work energetically,
resigning herself to frying the pork and cutting up the onion, which she
had overlooked when hastily reading the receipt. In time they were
stuffed, the legs tied down to the tails, the birds browned in the
stew-pan, and put to simmer with a pinch of herbs.

"Now I can clear up, and rest a bit. If I ever have to work for a living
I won't be a cook," said Edith, with a sigh of weariness as she
washed her dishes, wondering how there could be so many; for no careless
Irish girl would have made a greater clutter over this small job than
the young lady who had not yet learned one of the most important things
that a cook should know.

The bell rang just as she got done, and was planning to lie and rest on
the dining-room sofa till it was time to take up her pigeons.

"Tell whoever it is that I'm engaged," she whispered, as the maid
passed, on her way to the door.

"It's your cousin, miss, from the country, and she has a trunk with her.
Of course she's to come in?" asked Maria, coming back in a moment.

"Oh, dear me! I forgot all about Patty. Mamma said any day this week,
and this is the most inconvenient one of the seven. Of course, she must
come in. Go and tell her I'll be there in a minute," answered Edith, too
well bred not to give even an unwelcome guest a kindly greeting.

Whisking off cap and apron, and taking a last look at the birds, just
beginning to send forth a savory steam, she went to meet her cousin.

Patty was a rosy, country lass of sixteen, plainly dressed and rather
shy, but a sweet, sensible little body, with a fresh, rustic air which
marked her for a field-flower at once.

"How do you do, dear? so sorry mamma is away; called to a sick friend in
a hurry. But I'm here and glad to see you. I've an engagement at two,
and you shall go with me. It's only a lunch close by, just a party of
girls; I'll tell you about it upstairs."

Chatting away, Edith led Patty up to the pretty room ready for her, and
soon both were laughing over a lively account of the exploits of the
cooking-class. Suddenly, in the midst of the cream-pie which had been
her great success, and nearly the death of all who partook thereof,
Edith paused, sniffed the air like a hound, and crying tragically, "They
are burning! They are burning!" rushed down stairs as if the house was
on fire.

Much alarmed, Patty hurried after her, guided to the kitchen by the
sound of lamentation. There she found Edith hanging over a stew-pan,
with anguish in her face and despair in her voice, as she breathlessly
explained the cause of her flight.

"My pigeons! Are they burnt? Do smell and tell me? After all my trouble
I shall be heart-broken if they are spoilt."

Both pretty noses sniffed and sniffed again as the girls bent over the
pan, regardless of the steam which was ruining their crimps and
reddening their noses. Reluctantly, Patty owned that a slight flavor of
scorch did pervade the air, but suggested that a touch more seasoning
would conceal the sad fact.

"I'll try it. Did you ever do any? Do you love to cook? Don't you want
to make something to carry? It would please the girls, and make up for
my burnt mess," said Edith, as she skimmed the broth and added pepper
and salt with a lavish hand:--

"I don't know anything about pigeons, except to feed and pet them. We
don't eat ours. I can cook plain dishes, and make all kinds of bread.
Would biscuit or tea-cake do?"

Patty looked so pleased at the idea of contributing to the feast, that
Edith could not bear to tell her that hot biscuit and tea-cake were not
just the thing for a city lunch. She accepted the offer, and Patty fell
to work so neatly and skilfully that, by the time the pigeons were done,
two pans full of delicious little biscuit were baked, and, folded in a
nice napkin, lay ready to carry off in the porcelain plate with a wreath
of roses painted on it.

In spite of all her flavoring, the burnt odor and taste still lingered
round Edith's dish; but fondly hoping no one would perceive it, she
dressed hastily, gave Patty a touch here and there, and set forth at the
appointed time to Augusta's lunch.

Six girls belonged to this class, and the rule was for each to bring her
contribution and set it on the table prepared to receive them all; then,
when the number was complete, the covers were raised, the dishes
examined, eaten (if possible), and pronounced upon, the prize being
awarded to the best. The girl at whose house the lunch was given
provided the prize, and they were often both pretty and valuable.

On this occasion a splendid bouquet of Jaqueminot roses in a lovely vase
ornamented the middle of the table, and the eyes of all rested
admiringly upon it, as the seven girls gathered round, after depositing
their dishes.

Patty had been kindly welcomed, and soon forgot her shyness in wonder at
the handsome dresses, graceful manners, and lively gossip of the girls.
A pleasant, merry set, all wearing the uniform of the class, dainty
white aprons and coquettish caps with many-colored ribbons, like stage
maid-servants. At the sound of a silver bell, each took her place before
the covered dish which bore her name, and when Augusta said, "Ladies, we
will begin," off went napkins, silver covers, white paper, or whatever
hid the contribution from longing eyes. A moment of deep silence, while
quick glances took in the prospect, and then a unanimous explosion of
laughter followed; for six platters of potted pigeons stood upon the
board, with nothing but the flowers to break the ludicrous monotony of
the scene.

How they laughed! for a time they could do nothing else, because if one
tried to explain she broke down and joined in the gale of merriment
again quite helplessly. One or two got hysterical and cried as well as
laughed, and all made such a noise that Augusta's mamma peeped in to see
what was the matter. Six agitated hands pointed to the comical sight on
the table, which looked as if a flight of potted pigeons had alighted
there, and six breathless voices cried in a chorus: "Isn't it funny?
Don't tell!"

Much amused, the good lady retired to enjoy the joke alone, while the
exhausted girls wiped their eyes and began to talk, all at once. Such a
clatter! but out of it all Patty evolved the fact that each meant to
surprise the rest,--and they certainly had.

"I tried puff-paste," said Augusta, fanning her hot face.

"So did I," cried the others.

"And it was a dead failure."

"So was mine," echoed the voices.

"Then I thought I'd do the other dish we had that day--"

"Just what I did."

"Feeling sure you would all try the pastry, and perhaps get on better
than I."

"Exactly our case," and a fresh laugh ended this general confession.

"Now we must eat our pigeons, as we have nothing else, and it is against
the rule to add from outside stores. I propose that we each pass our
dish round; then we can all criticise it, and so get some good out of
this very funny lunch."

Augusta's plan was carried out; and all being hungry after their unusual
exertions, the girls fell upon the unfortunate birds like so many
famished creatures. The first one went very well, but when the dishes
were passed again, each taster looked at it anxiously; for none were
very good, there was nothing to fall back upon, and variety is the spice
of life, as every one knows.

"Oh, for a slice of bread," sighed one damsel.

"Why didn't we think of it?" asked another.

"I did, but we always have so much cake I thought it was foolish to lay
in rolls," exclaimed Augusta, rather mortified at the neglect.

"I expected to have to taste six pies, and one doesn't want bread with
pastry, you know."

As Edith spoke she suddenly remembered Patty's biscuit, which had been
left on the side-table by their modest maker, as there seemed to be no
room for them.

Rejoicing now over the rather despised dish, Edith ran to get it, saying
as she set it in the middle, with a flourish:--

"My cousin's contribution. She came so late we only had time for that.
So glad I took the liberty of bringing her and them."

A murmur of welcome greeted the much-desired addition to the feast,
which would have been a decided failure without it, and the pretty plate
went briskly round, till nothing was left but the painted roses in it.
With this help the best of the potted pigeons were eaten, while a lively
discussion went on about what they would have next time.

"Let us each tell our dish, and not change. We shall never learn if we
don't keep to one thing till we do it well. I will choose mince-pie, and
bring a good one, if it takes me all the week to do it," said Edith,
heroically taking the hardest thing she could think of, to encourage the
others.

Fired by this noble example, each girl pledged herself to do or die, and
a fine list of rich dishes was made out by these ambitious young cooks.
Then a vote of thanks to Patty was passed, her biscuit unanimously
pronounced the most successful contribution, and the vase presented to
the delighted girl, whose blushes were nearly as deep as the color of
the flowers behind which she tried to hide them.

Soon after this ceremony the party broke up, and Edith went home to tell
the merry story, proudly adding that the country cousin had won the
prize.

"You rash child, to undertake mince-pie. It is one of the hardest things
to make, and about the most unwholesome when eaten. Read the receipt and
see what you have pledged yourself to do, my dear," said her mother,
much amused at the haps and mishaps of the cooking-class.

Edith opened her book and started bravely off at "Puff-paste;" but by
the time she had come to the end of the three pages devoted to
directions for the making of that indigestible delicacy, her face was
very sober, and when she read aloud the following receipt for the
mince-meat, despair slowly settled upon her like a cloud.

     One cup chopped meat; 1-1/2 cups raisins; 1-1/2 cups currants;
     1-1/2 cups brown sugar; 1-1/3 cups molasses; 3 cups chopped apples;
     1 cup meat liquor; 2 teaspoonfuls salt; 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon;
     1/2 teaspoonful mace; 1/2 teaspoonful powdered cloves; 1 lemon,
     grated; 1/4 piece citron, sliced; 1/2 cup brandy; 1/4 cup wine; 3
     teaspoonfuls rosewater.

"Oh me, what a job! I shall have to work at it every day till next
Saturday, for the paste alone will take all the wits I've got. I was
rash, but I spoke without thinking, and wanted to do something really
fine. We can't be shown about things, so I must blunder along as well as
I can," groaned Edith.

"I can help about the measuring and weighing, and chopping. I always
help mother at Thanksgiving time, and she makes splendid pies. We only
have mince then, as she thinks it's bad for us," said Patty, full of
sympathy and good will.

"What are you to take to the lunch?" asked Edith's mother, smiling at
her daughter's mournful face, bent over the fatal book full of dainty
messes, that tempted the unwary learner to her doom.

"Only coffee. I can't make fancy things, but my coffee is always good.
They said they wanted it, so I offered."

"I will have my pills and powders ready, for if you all go on at this
rate you will need a dose of some sort after your lunch. Give your
orders, Edith, and devote your mind to the task. I wish you good luck
and good digestion, my dears."

With that the mamma left the girls to cheer one another, and lay plans
for a daily lesson till the perfect pie was made.

They certainly did their best, for they began on Monday, and each
morning through the week went to the mighty task with daily increasing
courage and skill. They certainly needed the former, for even
good-natured Nancy got tired of having "the young ladies messing round
so much," and looked cross as the girls appeared in the kitchen.

Edith's brothers laughed at the various failures which appeared at
table, and dear mamma was tired of tasting pastry and mince-meat in all
stages of progression. But the undaunted damsels kept on till Saturday
came, and a very superior pie stood ready to be offered for the
inspection of the class.

"I never want to see another," said Edith, as the girls dressed
together, weary, but well satisfied with their labor; for the pie had
been praised by all beholders, and the fragrance of Patty's coffee
filled the house, as it stood ready to be poured, hot and clear, into
the best silver pot, at the last moment.

"Well, I feel as if I'd lived in a spice mill this week, or a
pastry-cook's kitchen; and I am glad we are done. Your brothers won't
get any pie for a long while I guess, if it depends on you," laughed
Patty, putting on the new ribbons her cousin had given her.

"When Florence's brothers were here last night, I heard those rascals
making all sorts of fun of us, and Alf said we ought to let them come to
lunch. I scorned the idea, and made their mouths water telling about the
good things we were going to have," said Edith, exulting over the severe
remarks she had made to these gluttonous young men, who adored pie, yet
jeered at unfortunate cooks.

Florence, the lunch-giver of the week, had made her table pretty with a
posy at each place, put the necessary roll in each artistically folded
napkin, and hung the prize from the gas burner,--a large blue satin bag
full of the most delicious bonbons money could buy. There was some delay
about beginning, as one distracted cook sent word that her potato-puffs
wouldn't brown, and begged them to wait for her. So they adjourned to
the parlor, and talked till the flushed, but triumphant Ella arrived
with the puffs in fine order.

When all was ready, and the covers raised, another surprise awaited
them; not a merry one, like the last, but a very serious affair, which
produced domestic warfare in two houses at least. On each dish lay a
card bearing a new name for these carefully prepared delicacies. The
mince-pie was re-christened "Nightmare," veal cutlets "Dyspepsia,"
escalloped lobster "Fits," lemon sherbet "Colic," coffee "Palpitation,"
and so on, even to the pretty sack of confectionery which was labelled
"Toothache."

Great was the indignation of the insulted cooks, and a general cry of
"Who did it?" arose. The poor maid who waited on them declared with
tears that not a soul had been in, and she herself only absent five
minutes getting the ice-water. Florence felt that her guests had been
outraged, and promised to find out the wretch, and punish him or her in
the most terrible manner. So the irate young ladies ate their lunch
before it cooled, but forgot to criticise the dishes, so full were they
of wonder at this daring deed. They were just beginning to calm down,
when a loud sneeze caused a general rush toward the sofa that stood in a
recess of the dining room. A small boy, nearly suffocated with
suppressed laughter, and dust, was dragged forth and put on trial
without a moment's delay. Florence was judge, the others jury, and the
unhappy youth being penned in a corner, was ordered to tell the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, on penalty of a sound
whipping with the big Japanese war-fan that hung on the wall over his
head.

Vainly trying to suppress his giggles, Phil faced the seven ladies like
a man, and told as little as possible, delighting to torment them, like
a true boy.

"Do you know who put those cards there?"

"Don't you wish you did?"

"Phil Gordon, answer at once."

"Yes, I do."

"Was it Alf? He's at home Saturdays, and it's just like a horrid Harvard
Soph to plague us so."

"It was--not."

"Did you see it done?"

"I did."

"Man, or woman? Mary fibs, and may have been bribed."

"Man," with a chuckle of great glee.

"Do I know him?"

"Oh, don't you!"

"Edith's brother Rex?"

"No, ma'am."

"Do be a good boy, and tell us. We won't scold, though it was a very,
very rude thing to do."

"What will you give me?"

"Do you need to be bribed to do your duty?"

"Well, I guess it's no fun to hide in that stuffy place, and smell nice
grub, and see you tuck away without offering a fellow a taste. Give me a
good go at the lunch, and I'll see what I can do for you."

"Boys are such pigs! Shall we, girls?"

"Yes, we must know."

"Then go and stuff, you bad boy, but we shall stand guard over you till
you tell us who wrote and put those insulting cards here."

Florence let out the prisoner, and stood by him while he ate, in a
surprisingly short time, the best of everything on the table, well
knowing that such a rare chance would not soon be his again.

"Now give me some of that candy, and I'll tell," demanded the young
Shylock, bound to make the best of his power while it lasted.

"Did you ever see such a little torment? I can't give the nice bonbons,
because we haven't decided who is to have them."

"Never mind. Pick out a few and get rid of him," cried the girls,
hovering round their prey, and longing to shake the truth out of him.

A handful of sweeties were reluctantly bestowed, and then all waited for
the name of the evil-doer with breathless interest.

"Well," began Phil, with exasperating slowness, "Alf wrote the cards,
and gave me half a dollar to put 'em round. Made a nice thing of it,
haven't I?" and before one of the girls could catch him he had bolted
from the room, with one hand full of candy, the other of mince-pie, and
his face shining with the triumphant glee of a small boy who has teased
seven big girls, and got the better of them.

What went on just after that is not recorded, though Phil peeped in at
the windows, hooted through the slide, and beat a tattoo on the various
doors. The opportune arrival of his mother sent him whooping down the
street, and the distressed damsels finished their lunch with what
appetite they could.

