" The blue looks down on nothing so fine as our 
old Tower. And it isn't so blue, either, if you could 
know all." 
" Where are you going to take us next, Pitt ? " 
Mrs. Dallas asked, to give things a pleasanter turn. 
" How did you like St. Paul's, Miss Betty?" her 
husband went on, before Pitt could speak. 
" It is very black ! " 
" That is one of its beauties," remarked Pitt. 
" Is it ? But I am accustomed to purer air. I 
do not like so much smoke." 
" You were interested in the monuments ? " said 
Mrs. Dallas. 
" Honestly, I am not fond of monuments. Be 
sides, there is really a reminiscence of the Tower 
and the axe there very often. I had no conception London was such a place." 
"Let us take her to Hyde Park and shew her 
something cheerful, Pitt." 
"I should like above all things to go to the 
 
House of Commons and hear a debate if it could 
be managed." 
Pitt said it could be managed; and it was man 
aged; and they went to the Park; and they drove 
out to see some of the beauties near London; Kichmond, Hampton, and Windsor; and several days 
passed away in great enjoyment for the whole 
party. Betty forgot the Tower and grew gay. 
The strangeness of her position was forgotten ; the 
house came to be familiar; the alternation of sight 
seeing with the quiet household life was delightful. 
Nothing could be better, might it last. Could it 
not last? Nay, Betty would have relinquished the 
sightseeing and bargained for only the household 
life, if she could have retained that. 
CHAPTER XLIII. 
MARTIN S COURT. 
"TT7HAT is for to-day, Pitt?" 
V V There had been a succession of rather gay 
days, visiting of galleries and palaces. Mrs. Dallas 
put the question at breakfast. 
" I am going to shew Miss Frere something, if 
she will allow me." 
" She will allow you, of course. You have done 
it pretty often lately. Where is it now ? " 
" Nowhere for you, mamma. My show to-day is 
for Miss Frere alone." 
" Alone ? Why may I not go ? " 
"You would not enjoy it." 
" Then perhaps she will not enjoy it." 
" Perhaps not." 
" But Pitt, what do you mean ? and what is this 
you want to shew her which she does not want to 
see?" 
" She can tell you all about it afterwards, if she 
chooses." 
" Perhaps she will not choose to go with you on 
such a doubtful invitation." 
 
Betty however declared herself ready for any 
thing. So she was, under such guidance. 
They took a cab for a certain distance; then Pitt 
dismissed it and they went forward on foot. It 
was a dull, hot day; clouds hanging low and threat 
ening rain, but no rain falling as yet. Rain, if de 
cided, to a" good degree keeps down exhalations in 
the streets of a city, and so far is a help to the way 
farer who is at all particular about the air he 
breathes. No such beneficent influence was abroad 
to-day; and Betty's impressions were not altogether 
agreeable. 
" What part of the city is this ? " she asked. 
" Not a bad part at all. In fact we are near a 
very fashionable quarter. This particular street is 
a business thoroughfare, as you see." 
Betty was silent, and they went on a while; then 
turned sharp out of this thoroughfare into a narrow- 
alley. It was hot and close and dank enough here 
to make Miss Frere shrink, though she would not 
betray it. But dead cats and decaying cabbage 
leaves, in a not very clean alley where the sun 
rarely shines, and briefly then, with the thermom 
eter well up on a summer day, altogether make 
an atmosphere not suited to delicate senses. Pitt 
picked the way along the narrow passage, which 
at the end opened into a little court. This was 
somewhat cleaner than the alley; also it lay so that 
the sun sometimes visited it, though here too his 
visits could be but brief. For on the opposite side 
the court was shut in and overshadowed by the tall 
backs of great houses. They seemed, to Betty's 
fancy, to cast as much moral as physical shadow 
over the place. The houses in this court were 
small and dingy. If one looked straight up, there 
was a space of grey cloud visible; some days it 
would no doubt be a space of blue sky. No other 
thing even dimly suggesting refreshment or purity 
was within the range of vision. Pitt slowly paced 
along the row of houses. 
" Who lives here ? " Betty asked, partly to relieve the oppression that was creeping upon her. 
" No householders, that I know of. People who 
live in one room, or perhaps in two rooms ; there 
fore in every house there are a number of families. 
This is Martin's court. And here" he stopped 
before one of the doors, " in this house, in a room 
on the third floor let me suppose a case," 
" Third floor ? why there are only two-stories." 
" In the garret, then, there lives an old woman, 
over seventy years old, all alone. She has been 
ill for a long time, and suffers a great deal of 
pain." 
" Who takes care of her ? " Betty asked, wondering at the same time why Pitt told her all this. 
" She has no means to pay anybody to take care 
of her." 
" But how does she live ? if she cannot do any 
thing for herself." 
" She can do nothing at all for herself. She has 
been dependent on the kindness of her neighbours. 
They are poor too, and have their hands full; still, 
 
from time to time one and another would look in 
upon her, light a fire for her, and give her some 
thing to eat; that is, when they did not forget it." 
" And what if they did forget it? " 
" Then she must wait till somebody remembered ; 
wait, perhaps days, to get her bed made; lie alone 
in her pain all day, except for those rare visits ; and 
even have to hire a boy with a penny to bring her 
a pitcher of water; lie alone all night and wait in 
the morning till somebody could give her her 
breakfast." 
" Why do you tell me all this, Mr. Pitt ? " said 
Betty, facing round on him. 
" Ask me that by and by. Come a little further. 
Here, in this next house but one, there is a man 
sick with rheumatism in a fever; when I first saw 
him he was lying there shivering and in great 
pain, with no fire; and his daughter, a girl of perhaps a dozen years old, was trying to light a fire 
with a few splinters of sticks that she had picked 
up. That was last winter, in cold weather. They 
were poverty-stricken, since the man had been 
some time out of work." 
" Well ? " said Betty. " I must not repeat my 
question ; but what is all this to me ? I have no 
power to help them. Do you know these people 
yourself?" 
"Yes, I know them. In the last house of the 
row there is another old woman I want to tell you 
of; and then we will go. She is not ill, nor disabled ; 
she is only very old and quite alone. She is not 
unhappy either, for she is a true old Christian. 
Bat think of this; in the room which she occupies, 
which is half underground, there is just one hour 
in the day when a sunbeam can find entrance. 
For that hour she watches; and when the sky is 
not clouded, and it comes, she takes her Bible and 
holds it in the sunshine to read for that blessed 
hour. It is all she has in the twenty four. The 
rest of the time she must only think of what she 
has read ; the place is too dark for any more." 
" Do let us go ! " said Betty ; and she turned, 
and almost fled back to the alley and through the 
alley back to the street. There they walked more 
moderately a space of some rods before she found 
breath and words. She faced round on her conductor again. 
" Why do you take me to such a place, and tell 
me such things ? " 
" Will you let that question still rest a little 
while?" Almost as he spoke Pitt called another 
cab; and Betty and he were presently speeding on 
again, whither she knew not. It was a good time 
to talk, and she repeated her question. 
" Instead of answering you, I would like to put 
a question on my side," he returned. " What do 
you think is duty, on the part of a servant of 
Christ, towards such cases?" 
" Pray tell me, is there not some system of poor 
relief in this place ? " 
" Yes, there is the parish help. And sorrowful 
help it is ! The parishes are often very large, the 
sufferers very many, the cases of fraud and trickery 
almost perhaps quite as numerous as those at 
least which come to the notice of the parish authorities. The parish authorities are but average 
men ; is it wonderful if they are hard administrators? I can tell you, justice is bitterly hard, as 
she walks the streets here ; and mercy's hand has 
grown rough with friction ! " 
Betty looked at the speaker, whose brow was 
knit and his eye darkened and flashing; she half 
laughed. 
" You are eloquent ! " she said. " You ought to 
be representing the case on the floor of the House 
of Commons." 
" Well," he said, coming down to an easier tone, 
" the parish authorities are but men, as I said, and 
they grow suspicious, naturally; and in any case 
the relief they give is utterly insufficient. A shill 
ing a week, or two shillings a week, what would 
they do for the people I have been telling you of? 
And it is hard dealing with the parish authorities. 
I know it, for here and there at least I have followed Job's example; the cause I knew not, I 
searched out. One must do that, or one runs the 
risk of being taken in, and throwing money away 
upon rogues which ought to go to help honest 
people." 
" But that takes time?" 
" Yes." 
"A great deal of time, if it is to be done often." 
"Yes." 
" Mr. Pitt, if you follow out that sort of business, 
it would leave you time for nothing else." 
" What better can I do with my time ? " 
" Just suppose everybody did the like ! " 
" Suppose they did." 
" What would be the state of things ? " 
" I should say the world would be in a better 
state of health; and that elephant we once spoke 
of would not shake his head quite so often." 
" But you are not the elephant, as I pointed out, if 
I remember; the world does not rest on your head." 
" Part of it does. Go on and answer my ques 
tion. What ought I to do for these people of whom 
I have told you ? " 
"But you cannot reach everybody. You can 
reach only a few." 
" Yes. For those few, what ought I to do ? " 
" I dare say you know of other cases, that you 
have not said anything about, equally miserable?" 
" More miserable, I assure you," said Pitt looking at her. " What then ? Answer my question, 
like a good woman." 
" I anj not a good woman." 
" Answer it like a good woman, anyhow," said 
Pitt smiling. " What should I do, properly, for 
such people as those I have brought to your notice? 
Apply the golden rule the only one that can give 
the measure of things. In their place, what would 
you wish, and have a right to wish, that some 
one should do for you? what may those who have 
nothing demand from those who have everything?" 
 
" Why they could demand all you have got ! " 
" Not justly. Cannot you set your imagination 
to work and answer me? I am not talking for 
nothing. Take my old Christian, near eighty, who 
sees a sunbeam for one hour in the twenty four, 
when the sun shines, and uses it to read her Bible. 
The rest of the twenty four hours, without even the 
company of a sunbeam. Imagine, what would 
you, in her place, wish for ? " 
" I should wish to die, I think." 
" It would be welcome to Mrs. Gregory, I do 
not doubt, though perhaps for a different reason. Still, you would not counsel suicide, or man 
slaughter. While you continued in life, what would 
you like ? " 
" 0," said Betty with an emphatic utterance, " I 
would like a place where I could breathe ! " 
" Better lodgings." 
"Fresh air. I would beg for air. Of all the 
horrors of such places, the worst seems to me the 
want of air fit to breathe." 
"Then you think she ought to have a better 
lodging, in a better quarter. She cannot pay for 
it. I can. Ought I to give it to her ? " 
Betty fidgetted, inwardly. The conditions of 
the cab did not allow of much external fidgetting. 
" I do not know why you ask me this," she said. 
" No, but indulge me ! I do not ask you with 
out a purpose." 
" I am afraid of your purpose ! Yes, if I must 
tell you, I should say, take me out of this! 
Let me see the sun whenever he can be seen in 
this rainy London; and let me have sweet air out 
side of my windows. Then I would like somebody 
to look after me; to open my window in summer 
and make my fire in winter, and prepare nice meals 
for me. I would like good bread, and a cup of 
drinkable tea, and a little bit of butter on my bread. 
And clothes enough to keep clean; and then I 
would like to live to thank you I " 
Betty had worked herself up to a point where 
she was very near a great burst of tears. She 
stopped with a choked sob in her throat, and looked 
out of the cab window. Pitt's voice was changed 
when he spoke. 
" That is just what I thought." 
" And you have done it ! " 
"No, I am doing it. I could not at once find 
what I wanted. Now I have got it, I believe. Go 
on now, please, and tell me what ought to be done 
for the man in rheumatic fever." 
"The doctor would know, better than I." 
" He cannot pay for a doctor." 
" But he ought to have one ! " 
" Yes, I thought so." 
" I see what you are coming to," said Betty; 
" but Mr. Pitt, I can not see that it is your duty to 
pay physician's bills for everybody that cannot af 
ford it." 
" I am not talking of everybody. I am speak 
ing of this Mr. Hutchins." 
 
" But there are plenty more, as badly off." 
" As badly, and worse." 
"You cannot take care of them all." 
"Therefore ? What is your deduction from 
that fact ? " 
" Where are you going to stop ? " 
" Where ought I to stop ? Put yourself, in imagination, in that condition I have described; the 
chill of a rheumatic fever, and a room without fire, 
in the depth of winter. What would your sense 
of justice demand from the well and strong and 
comfortable and able ? Honestly." 
"Why," said Betty, again surveying Pitt from 
one side, " with my notions, I should want a docter, and an attendant, and a comfortable room." 
" I do not doubt his notions would agree with 
yours, if his fancy could get so far." 
" But who ought to furnish those things for him 
is another question." 
" Another, but not more hard to answer. The 
Bible rule is, Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, 
do it ." 
" Will you, ought you, to do all that you find to 
do?" 
But Pitt went on, in a quiet business tone " In 
that same court I found, some time ago, a man who 
had been injured by an accident. A heavy piece 
of iron had fallen on his foot ; he worked in a machine shop. For months he was obliged to stay at 
home under the doctor's care ; he used up all his 
earnings; and strength and health were alike gone. 
The man of fifty looked like seventy. The doctor 
said he could hardly grow strong again, without 
change of air." 
"Mr. Pitt!" said Betty, and stopped. 
" He has a wife and nine children." 
" What did you do ? " 
" What would you have done ? " 
" I don't know ! I never thought it was my bus 
iness to supplement all the world's failures." 
" Suppose for a moment it were Christ the Lord 
himself in either of these situations we have been 
looking at ? " 
" I cannot suppose it ! " 
"How would you feel about ministry then?" 
Betty was silent ; choked with discomfort now. 
" Would you think you could do enough ? But 
Miss Frere, he says it is himself, in every case of 
his servants; and what is done to them he counts 
as done to himself. And so it is ! " 
Looking again keenly at the speaker, Betty was 
sure that the eyes, which did not meet hers, were 
soft with moisture. 
" What did you do for that man ? " 
" I sent him to the seaside for three weeks. He 
came back perfectly well. But then his employers 
would not take him on again ; they said they wanted 
younger men; so I had to find new work for him." 
" There was another old woman you told me of 
in that dreadful court ; what did you do for her ? " 
" Put her in clover," said Pitt smiling. " I moved 
Hutchins and his family into a better lodging, where 
 
they could have a room to spare; and then I paid 
Mrs. Hutchins to take care of her." 
"You might go on, for ought I see, and spend 
your whole life, and all you have, in this sort of 
work." 
" Do you think it would be a disagreeable dis 
position to make of both ? " 
"Why, yes!" said Betty. "Would you give 
up all your tastes and pursuits, literary, and artistic, and antiquarian, and I don't know what all, 
and be a mere walking Benevolent Society ? " 
" No need to give them up, any further than as 
they would interfere with something more important, and more enjoyable." 
" More enjoyable! " 
" Yes. I think, Miss Betty, the pleasure of doing 
something for Christ, is the greatest pleasure I 
know." 
Betty could have cried with vexation ; in which 
however there was a distracting mingling of other 
feelings, admiration of Pitt, envy of his evident 
happiness, regret that she herself was so different ; 
but above all, dismay that she was so far off. She 
was silent the rest of the drive. 
CHAPTER XLIV. 
THE DUKE OF TEEFOIL. 
THEY drove a long distance, much of the way 
through uninteresting regions. Pitt stopped 
the cab at last, took Betty out, and led her through 
one and another street and round corner after 
corner, till at last he turned into an alley again. 
" Where are you taking me now, Mr. Pitt ? " she 
asked, in some trepidation. "Not another Martin's 
Court ! " 
"I want you to look well at this place." 
" I see it. What for ? " asked Betty, casting her 
eyes about her. It was a very narrow alley, lead 
ing again, as might be seen by the gleam of light 
at the further end, into a somewhat more open 
space ; another court. Here the word open had no 
application. The sides of the alley were very near 
together and very high, leaving a strange gap between walls of brick, at least strange when considered with reference to human habitation; all of 
freedom or expanse there was indicated anywhere 
