Oswald's manner showed a quiet gravity when he 
came in at the open door, and, without knocking, enter- 
ed the sitting-room. 
' I hoped to find you alone, Madam Nye," he began, 
with not too great an effusion of cordiality. " My call 
was intended for you, in fact." 
Grandmother, who was apparently quite unconscious 
of his entrance, anwound some yarn from her ball, and 
put her needle in, before looking up. 
Well, what is it ? " she asked monotonously. 
' You remember me, perhaps ? " said Oswald, ventur- 
ing to take a chair, and drawing it near her. " I had 
the pleasure of seeing you last winter." 
Madam Nye would waste no time in vague plati- 
tudes ; they were always frivolous, and, from Oswald 
especially, not to be borne. 
' Did you say you wanted to see me ? " she asked, 
the click of her needles growing more steady, "If it's 
about your clothes, I believe they're where you left 
'em. Philip 'll help you fetch the trunk down stairs." 
Oswald realized that a circuitous mode of attack 
would not do. ' No, it is not my trunk. I came to ask 
your consent to my marrying your granddaughter." 
Then, indeed, Grandmother laid down her work. 
'' I've no time to talk nonsense," she said. '' Eliza- 
beth never will marry a man like you. What have you 
got to support her on ? Where did the money come 
from ? " 
Oswald went on, with unmoved fluency. " I can't 
give you the precise figure of my income, at such short 
notice, but I assure you it is a comfortable one. As 
for the cleanness of the money, my father gave it to me 
unconditionally and without explanation. Can I say 
more than that ? ' 
"Yes," said Grandmother, a faint flush appearing 
high on her cheeks. ' You can tell me whether you've 
got the name of an honest man to offer. Like father, 
like son. I wouldn't have trusted your father, and I 
won't see you Elizabeth's husband." 
The most successful diplomacy sometimes demands 
a bold push. 
' Elizabeth has promised to marry me," said Oswald, 
in his quietest voice. '' I know she wont break her 
word. If you think there's any thing questionable 
about my right to the house opposite, I shall be very 
glad to give my wife the deed of it." 
With such great issues at stake, the offer seemed 
lightening the load of her aversion by a straw's weight 
only, and yet, she felt that it was not a bad thing to 
say. But she loved Elizabeth with all the hidden 
strength of her heart ; better, now, than any thing 
except the memory of her dead son. She could not 
see her sacrificed in a marriage founded on wrong. 
' Elizabeth, come here," she called, hearing a step 
in the kitchen, and as the girl appeared, she cried with 
real feeling, " Elizabeth, you'll do what I tell you, wont 
you ? I know what will be best. You can't marry him." 
But she noted with a sinking heart how, when Elizabeth 
turned to her lover, a flush rose in her face, and the 
tenderest of slight smiles came. The two did not 
speak, but Oswald rose and kept her hand while she 
answered: 'I told you I cared for him, Grandmother. 
I do care very much. It is best for me to do what he 
says." Oswald flashed such a glad smile at her that 
 
Elizabeth could not remember to be troubled at having 
disappointed some one else. Madam Nye took up her 
knitting. 
That's all, then," in her ordinary, even voice, which 
held, moreover, a trace of bitterness. " You've taken 
your own road. Do as you please." 
' But do say something pleasant, Grandmother," 
going forward and standing close by her chair, made 
bold by the childish longing to see every body happy 
because she was. 
' I haven't got any thing to say that would be heeded. 
Take care, you'll snarl my yarn." 
And Elizabeth, disappointed in her turn, left the 
room with Oswald. 
But, in spite of such a beginning, the days of court- 
ship were not unhappy. Elizabeth went about in 
such a dream of contentment that she hardly knew 
whether Grandmother was angry or not. She was 
particularly gentle both to her and to Mrs. Nye ; her 
own happiness made it seem impossible to be any thing 
but kind. Grandmother had neither eyes nor ears for 
conciliatory measures. She never spoke to Oswald, 
beyond returning his good-morning or good-by. He 
spent a part of every day there, but never came to the 
table, though Mrs. Nye courageously invited him. At 
first, it seemed rather an entertaining campaign to win 
the regard of such a belligerent old lady, but, after 
some days, the monotony of the warfare became 
tedious, and he preferred giving his whole time to 
watching the woman develop from Elizabeth's crude 
girlhood. It was such an absolutely new thing for her 
to be sure some one cared whether she wore daisies or 
blue ribbon at her throat, cared because her hands 
were white and supple and her hair full of bewitching 
golden lights at the temple, that she began to take 
a curious and delighted sort of interest in herself. 
First love is a mirror such as the first clear pool might 
have been for the newly born Eve. " Am I really 
all this ? ' asks the maiden of her glass. " But if I 
am this to him, it is quite enough." Elizabeth was 
conscious that she had begun to live. 
Philip took it all with an exultation not to be con- 
cealed. ' And now you will let me go to Boston and 
visit you, wont you, Mr. Oswald ? ' he said. " Eliza- 
beth can't say a word, can she ? because she'll have to 
do what you tell her, and you'll take me to the theater 
and concerts oh, I thirlk it was beautiful of you to 
fall in love with Betty ! ' at which the others could 
not help laughing, though Elizabeth, in her heart, was 
conscious of echoing the boy's unwise frankness. 
' But perhaps I sha'n't be there, this winter," said 
Oswald, letting a stream of sand run through his 
fingers on Elizabeth's lap. " I shall have to be down 
here a great deal if Elsie doesn't make up her mind 
to go back with me." 
' Why, of course she will, wont you, Betty ? She'll 
be glad enough to do it, and I'll coax her. There's 
Si coming in with the lobsters. I'm going down to 
see him." 
' Well, sweetheart," said Oswald, covering her 
hand with his, and looking at her with the smile that 
had not lost its power of bringing a blush. " Shall it 
be ? Am I to have my wife this fall ? " 
" Oh no," said Elizabeth hurriedly. " That is, if you 
 
please not ; we're so happy, and there's no need of 
changing." 
' No need of being happier ? Dearest, come." 
' I haven't had time to think of it ; a woman ought 
to make up her mind before such a great step." 
'You can have all your life to reflect on it after- 
wards and as to making up your mind, aren't you quite 
sure you want to be my wife ? " But Elizabeth shook 
her head with a sweet willfulness that was quite unusual 
and made her all the more charming, so that Oswald 
vowed even the denial to have been worth the pleading. 
Circumstances did what he could not. 
' I've been thinking what we're going to do with 
Philip," said Grandmother, when she and Mrs. Nye 
sat alone one morning, paring apples. ' He seems to 
have his mind all made up not to go to school." 
' It's only his thinking he hadn't ought to be a 
minister," said the mother, hoping to make some 
impression. ' He does want to go to school ; no boy 
ever wanted learning more." 
'' That means he's willing to be supported all his 
life, and read foolish novels. That never'll be done 
with my money, so you needn't mention it again. I've 
always meant to do something for him, nobody else 
will, if I don't and I've made up my mind he'd better 
go into a store, at Stowe." Mrs. Nye's heart sank. 
She knew how Philip would receive the news. 
' Do you mean for a clerk ? " 
: Yes, to tend behind the counter. If he's got any 
smartness, it'll come out there, and if he hasn't, I 
don't know what will become of him. You know he's 
got no strength to work on the farm, if he wanted to. 
He's always been pindling." Mrs. Nye said no more, 
but took occasion to break the news carefully to 
Philip, that, it not being entirely unexpected, he might 
bear it the more coolly from Grandmother. His pas- 
sion of grief astonished her. 
' O Elizabeth, you are to blame ! " he cried. " Mr. 
Oswald says you are, for if you'd go to Boston with him 
this winter, he'd surely invite me to stay with you. 
And if I've got to be sent to Stowe, I might as well 
give up." 
'But, Philip, think, there's mother," said Elizabeth, 
distressed. 'You wouldn't have me leave her, this 
winter, if she isn't to have me again, would you ? 
Think how lonesome she'll be." 
' You mustn't think about me," said Mrs. Nye. " If 
I knew you and Philip were comfortable, I should be 
twice as well off. And this can't last forever." It was 
the first time a relief from the burden had been men- 
tioned, and Elizabeth realized how grievous the trial 
must have been, to bring her mother to such a pass. 
'You see something ought to be done for Philip," said 
Mrs. Nye, " and if .Mr. Craig will do it, I think you 
ought to let him." 
Such an outside pressure had its effect on Elizabeth, 
and, when Oswald came, she told him the state of things. 
' I wish you would tell me what to do. You know I 
didn't say I wanted to stay away from you this winter 
because I wasn't willing to come. But now when other 
people are concerned, it almost seems as if I cared for 
their sakes and not yours." 
" Is that true ? " asked Oswald, holding her at arm's 
length and looking at her till the inevitable blush 
 
came. " Dear little Puritan, always trying to do 
things with a moral end in view, be a little more sel- 
fish and a little less anxious. Shall I settle things for 
you ? " 
" Yes, I'm tired of deciding." 
" Then we shall be married the last day of August, 
go immediately to the mountains for a breath of 
wonderful air, stay for a glimpse of gorgeous color, 
go to our own home in November, and invite Philip 
up for the winter." 
And so it was. The marriage was a quiet one with 
no guests indeed, there were none to have and 
though Grandmother's face showed a swift shadow of 
feeling when she said good-by, Elizabeth felt sure she 
had not forgiven them. 
CHAPTER XVII. 
PROFESSOR GRIMWALD began to tell me about 
hearing the Seventh Symphony, in New York," 
said Elizabeth, turning from the glass to Oswald, who 
lay luxuriously, with pillows crushed beneath him. 
' How did you receive the dissertation ? ' 
' I said I never had heard a symphony. I didn't 
know what it was." 
' Was he petrified, or voluble ? ' said Oswald, with 
a low laugh of enjoyment. 
'' He looked at me. I think he was very much 
shocked. What shall I do ? People will find out 
how ignorant I am. Do you want me to keep quiet 
and learn things to say, to patch up with?' The. 
tone was a laughing one, but it held an anxious mean- 
ing. Elizabeth seated herself on the arm of the sofa 
and passed her fingers through her husband's hair, a 
stroking he liked well. 
' Never that, Priscilla. Your charm lies in your 
wild-flower nature. Really, Elizabeth, if you should 
take on the air of know-nothing comment, if you 
dabbled in colors and .practiced scales weakly, I'm 
afraid you'd be insupportable." .Elizabeth laughed, 
and looked critically at the effect of laying her finger 
in a brown wave of hair. " But I should like to know 
something, Oswald. It makes me feel so insignificant, 
 
like a country school-girl and that's just what I am, 
you know ! to hear those people talk. It's a comfort 
to think you are willing to be ashamed of me ; or do 
you only say so to make me happy ? ' 
" No, child ; when you've been here longer you'll see 
what I mean. Though I pray you wont get to analyz- 
ing people enough to find out the difference between 
you and them ! See, Elsie, you are precisely what these 
cultivated people try to seem. They talk about char- 
acter, and sincerity, and what not, but they're not even 
sincere in the talking. You have the flavor they adore 
but can't assume, pine, resinous, with a touch of 
sweetness. I'm very much in love with you, sweet- 
heart ! " 
Elizabeth sank quickly on her knees, and kissed him 
with an impetuosity she was just learning. After the 
kiss, she blushed ; the girl had not been quite trans- 
formed into the wife, yet. 
" There is a difference in life, isn't there ?" said Os- 
wald, taking her hands and holding her when she 
would have risen. " You thought you loved me before. 
You thought we were going to have pleasant, friendly 
living together, but you didn't even guess how much 
happiness there could be in life. Isn't it so ? ' 
"Yes," said Elizabeth, her eyes dwelling on 
him fondly. " I certainly didn't have a happy life, 
and I begin to believe I never dreamt of one." 
It was true, her fancy had never suggested this. 
How could it, from an outlook on the same sky and 
sea, an interest in no wilder emotions than the storms 
and ocean-upheavals ? ' 
Set down at once in the midst of luxury and beauty, 
 
absolutely unacquainted with music and other art ex- 
cept by hearsay, she was bewildered, awed, but not 
overwhelmed, because her mind had not yet expanded 
enough to take in the wonder of it all. So far, Eliza- 
beth was rubbing her eyes awake. Pictures were little 
more than canvas and color, and the winter's music 
had not begun. 
Oswald could not love by halves. He kept her rooms 
smothered in flowers ; he made her feel her every mo- 
tion to be a charm. Elizabeth sometimes paused in 
her toilet, to wonder at herself. Was this the staid and 
quiet girl who had cared only to have her gowns whole 
and her collars fresh, who had pinned arbutus at her 
throat because it was sweet, and not for approval, 
and who had now become the center of interest to 
one who might be poet, painter or musician, if he 
chose ? 
'Your clothes are an inspiration," said Oswald, as 
she came to him, ready for dinner, one night. " Now 
that soft fabric, I'll warrant it doesn't cost much a 
yard, but it hangs in miraculous folds. I dare say 
you'll set a fashion, and all the pillow and bolster 
women will be trying to look like you." 
'It is cashmere," said Elizabeth, demurely, stroking 
the gathers with one hand, as if rather grateful to them 
for being praiseworthy, but not quite understanding 
how they had managed it. " Grandmother gave it to 
me, and said I must have the skirt made full and gath- 
ered, to keep from cutting up the cloth. I felt dread- 
fully about it, but when you came in as we were sewing 
on it, and told me to put puffs on the sleeves, I was so 
relieved ; it seemed as if it couldn't be wholly bad, or 
I So STRA TFORD-B Y- THE-SEA. 
you'd have told me to throw it away and get another. 
Are you sure it's all right ? " 
" Sure. You are all I could wish you," kissing 
her hand. Oswald liked to worship, perhaps from an 
instinct that no one phase of passion would last long. 
But his eyes were not deceived in Elizabeth. In her 
plain black dress, with the white ruffle and amber at 
her throat, and her heavy hair, she was a woman to 
be looked at twice. Perhaps she really would set a 
fashion. No one could tell. Her reception by Os- 
wald's friends had in it something of the ridiculous. 
He had coolly surveyed beauty and passed her by, 
and mockingly given coquetry the attention for which 
she angled. But now he had married. \Vho was she ? 
A fisherman's daughter, a lighthouse keeper's, a girl 
who had lived on the coast all her life and written most 
wonderful poetry; which, would shortly be published ; 
indeed, it was now in press. The rumors were vari- 
ous, and in the midst of them, Elizabeth came. It was 
easy to see that she was not of their manner of life, 
though her simple unconsciousness kept ^her from be- 
ing too much abashed by their frequent discussion of 
the world's affairs. And whatever was plainly unusual 
in her they pieced out with the remarkable qualities 
Oswald must surely have demanded in a wife, giving 
even her commonplace little speeches a hidden and 
mysterious meaning which would have surprised her. 
Elizabeth saw nothing, but Oswald did, and enjoyed it 
all. Her great charm for him lay in her sincerity and 
youthfulness of heart, and he could but smile 
it would have been with bitterness had he been 
earnest enough for that to see his little world pass 
the real attraction, supplying attributes which could 
be worshiped by the book. 
In the meantime, Philip came for his promised visit. 
Oswald had proposed it again, after they had been 
home a few weeks, telling Elizabeth, with the good- 
nature which always characterized him when his sun 
shone brightly, to have the boy down at once. There- 
upon she was smitten by remorse at rinding in her 
heart a slight jealousy at the thought of any third per- 
son's entering her selfish Paradise, and wrote Philip at 
once, on receiving a particularly discouraged letter 
from him. The. roads were freezing, and the first 
sprinkle of snow "had come, for a threat. He had one 
of his colds and was sitting over the stove in flannels. 
Would Elizabeth write him every thing ? And had 
Booth come yet ? 
Her answer brought the boy, the next day. He was 
pale from confinement to the house, and worn by a 
distressing cough, but his eyes grew large and eager 
over the wonders of the city. 
Sometimes Elizabeth remembered, with a start, that 
Philip might be lonesome. When she was alone with 
her husband, and found him ready to talk or read 
to her, she could only think when he rose to leave her, 
that there was a world of people beyond him. 
But Philip was usually in the library, taking down 
one book after another, reading here and there, never 
finishing a chapter even, but, in the first delight of riches, 
roaming about to count his treasures, sometimes accu- 
mulating a pile of volumes on the floor and sitting in 
their midst, dreaming dreams. 
Felix was still at Cambridge, and wrote to say he 
 
should be very glad if Philip would go out to see him 
first, being a boy of leisure while he was a man at work. 
' I must go right away," said the boy, when the let- 
ter was brought him at breakfast. " Betty, can I go 
to-day ? " 
'Yes, if you know how to find him. You and I 
are not city people yet, you know." 
Take the carriage and go for a drive while he makes 
his call. It's like spring, to-day," said Oswald, putting 
down his napkin. ' I've promised to see Hudson's 
Venus, and you cap use up the time while I'm gone. 
Is this your reformer, your anti-revivalist, Philip ? " 
" He's the one I told you about, the one that was 
sent away from Stratford," said Philip, his old hero- 
worship reviving, at the prospect of seeing Felix. He 
grew eager enough before they reached Cambridge. 
f Elizabeth, do you suppose I shall ever do any thing 
great ? " with all his old enthusiasm. " I don't believe 
Oswald thinks any thing about it, now, but he likes 
me, I know he does." 
' I can't tell, Philip ; I hope so. It makes me sun- 
blind to hear great things talked about as if people ex- 
pected them to be perfect. Yes, Oswald likes you, but 
he has seen so many people, that perhaps he wouldn't 
think it would do to encourage you till you had shown 
him whether you could do anything or not." 
' But I know I can," insisted the boy, "and I shall 
die if I don't. Is this the house, and when will you 
come back for me ? ' 
' In half an hour, perhaps ; but find out whether 
Mr. Kewe is at home, first, and don't ^stay if he doesn't 
want you." 
