friends.
The rebels could not help feeling that their enterprise had already
"come to grief." Lew Shoreham's argument had been prepared, but it was
unspoken, and was likely to remain so while its author pined in the
solitude of his chamber. The malcontents could not confer together, for
Bates would not allow any two of them to meet in the halls. Bart
Cornwall tried to talk with Lick Milton in the next room, but the
remorseless jailer threatened to put him in the black hole if he said
another word; and he did not.
Each rebel, therefore, was compelled to think and act for himself. He
could not lean on his leader or his companions. Life Windham was one of
the most restless under his confinement. He liked to know what was going
on, and he found himself shut out from the world and all that was in it.
The principal had begun his announcement of the prizes for the best
plans when the conspiracy broke out. Life concluded that he must have
deferred the business till the rebellion was disposed of, and he
wondered what he had said to the rest of the students about the refusal
to wear the uniform.
Life fretted and worried over his situation until after dinner of the
second day. Then he went over the whole subject of the uniform in his
own mind. He thought he was abused and persecuted, but he could stand it
no longer. Impulsively he put on the uniform which hung at the head of
his bed. It was a good fit and he thought he looked well in it. He tried
on the cap with the monogram in front. It was neat and plain, and the
only objection he had to it was that it was part of the uniform.
He was so anxious to learn what was going on at the school, and what the
principal had said about the rebels when they left, that he went out
into the hall. Bates was on his feet the instant the door was opened.
The old man smiled when he saw that Windham wore the uniform, and as the
ex-rebel passed him, he saluted him as politely as though he had never
been his prisoner.
The dormitory was located near the rocks, at a little distance from the
lake, which could not be seen from its windows. Life Windham knew
nothing at all about the stealing of the boats by the Topovers, and the
lively scenes on the lake in the forenoon. It was after one o'clock, and
the students ought to be in the shops. He went there, but they were
deserted.
Life concluded that the principal had given the rest of the students a
vacation as a reward of merit for not joining the rebellion. He walked
to the lake. Seated in one of the four-oar boats, busily engaged in
drawing on a large sheet of brown paper, he found Dory. As
stroke-oarsman the ex-rebel sat next to the coxswain in the Winooski,
and he was more intimate with him than with any other student. When Dory
saw him getting into the boat, he rolled up his drawings, and put a
rubber band around them.
"Hallo, Dory!" said Life, as he walked aft in the boat.
"Glad to see you, Life," replied the coxswain. "You look well in the new
uniform."
"I couldn't stay in my room any longer, but I have not changed my
opinion in regard to making us wear a uniform," added Life, who could
not even now back wholly down. "But what are you doing? Why are the
fellows not in the shops?"
"One question at a time. I am trying to make a plan for a boat-house.
The principal gave the students three days to get up their plans, and
they are to be handed in day after to-morrow morning."
"Did the principal offer the prizes?" asked Life, astonished that it had
been done in the absence of the rebels.
"Of course he did; he had opened the subject before you left the
schoolroom."
"But I thought he would put it off after one third of the whole school
had left."
"He don't do things in that way," added Dory.
"But what are the conditions? Perhaps I am not too late, for I had some
ideas about a plan."
"We are not allowed to speak to anyone about the plans," answered Dory.
"Every fellow is put on his honor to say nothing to anyone about them."
"Then the eight fellows that object to being dressed like monkeys are to
be shut out from the competition!" exclaimed Life indignantly. "That is
about as unfair as anything can be."
"You had the same chance that the rest of us had, and you chose to stay
in your room rather than hear the terms on which the prizes were to be
given."
"We were standing up for a principle."
"Whew!" whistled Dory laughing. "The principle that you won't wear the
colors of the Beech Hill Industrial School."
"The principle that we won't be punished for the sins of others,"
retorted Life smartly.
"You are wrong on the fact, as I have shown you before."
"It's no use to argue the point with you: if the principal had only
been fair enough to hear what Lew Shoreham had to say, we should have
been fully justified."
"He never argues the point with those who refuse to obey."
"No matter. Have you heard anything more from the Chesterfields?"
"We had a smart brush with them this forenoon," answered the coxswain;
and he proceeded to tell the whole story of the encounter with the
Topovers and their allies.
Life Windham listened with breathless interest. It was the liveliest
affair of the whole season, and he had been shut up in his room. He was
vexed and indignant that he had not been permitted to take a hand in the
stirring enterprise. When he had finished the narrative Dory wanted to
work on his plan, and Life left him. He found all the other students at
liberty were engaged in the same way.
Life had to spend the afternoon by himself. Late in the day he saw Bob
Swanton come out of the dormitory with the uniform on. He was just
beginning to ask himself if he had not been a traitor to the "cause,"
and to the rebels engaged in it. He was glad to see one of them. Life
was pleased to have a companion, and they talked over the situation.
"Not the least notice seems to have been taken of us," said Swanton.
"Not the slightest," added Life. "Why, the principal did not even say a
single word about us after we left the schoolroom, and has not mentioned
us in any way."
"He is the oddest principal I ever heard of. I suppose he will let the
fellows stay in their rooms all winter," continued Bob Swanton, who had
pluck enough to fight, but not enough to be ignored.
"I have come to the conclusion that Lew Shoreham ought to have made his
argument when the order to put on the uniform was given," said Life,
rather sheepishly; "for the principal was certainly ready to hear all
the fellows had to say at that time. Lew didn't say a word about
punishing us for the sins of others then."
"I asked him why he did not, and he said he had not thought of it at
that time."
But the supper-bell ended the discussion, and the two ex-rebels went to
the house with the other students. Captain Gildrock saw them, but he
made no remark of any kind about their return to duty, or the fact that
they wore the uniform. The rest of the students seemed to be glad to see
them, but they would not allude to the rebellion.
The next morning. Harry Franklin and Phil Gawner appeared in uniform;
and at night only Lew Shoreham remained a prisoner. The next morning the
plans for the prizes were to be handed in, and when the school had
assembled, quite a number of the students had rolls of drawings in their
hands; but many of them had nothing to show for their three days' study
of architecture and engineering.
At the appointed hour the principal came in and took his place on the
platform. A moment later Lew Shoreham entered in full uniform, with the
cap in his hand.
"May I be permitted to make an explanation?" said the last of the
rebels, rising in his seat.
"In my private office at the close of the school," replied Captain
Gildrock.
That was not what the chief rebel wanted.
CHAPTER XX.
THE VISITING COMMITTEE AT BEECH HILL.
"I wish to protest----"
"Take your seat, Shoreham!" interposed the principal very sternly.
The last of the rebels obeyed, and did not appear to be at all angry or
indignant. Possibly he was about to protest in order to save
appearances. Most of the students smiled as they saw the young orator
deprived of his only chance to plead the cause to which he had been a
martyr for the last three days.
Captain Gildrock repeated the terms on which the prizes were to be
given, so that there should be no mistake in regard to them. The
ex-rebels listened, though the subject had little interest in the
competition, for they had ruled themselves out of it. Not the remotest
allusion was made to their misconduct.
"I have invited three gentlemen to spend a few days with me," continued
the principal. "One of them is an architect, another is a civil
engineer, and the third is a salesman in a hardware store in Boston.
They will form the committee to award the prizes for the best plans.
They will arrive this forenoon, and as soon as they come to a decision,
I shall inform you of the result."
The captain then instructed Mr. Darlingby to receive the plans and make
sure that there was no distinguishing mark on any of them except the
character on the envelope containing the name of the competitor. He was
to retain the envelopes and lock them up in the safe. As a further
precaution he was required to paste a piece of paper over the character
on the plans so that even this could not be seen by the committee.
The principal then left the schoolroom, declining even to see the rolls
of drawings. As soon as he had gone, sixteen plans were presented. This
was a greater number than the principal had expected. Mr. Darlingby
carried out the instructions given him, and sent the drawings to the
mansion house. The studies of the classes proceeded as usual during the
forenoon.
The three gentlemen who were expected appeared at dinner, and the
students regarded them with interest. In the afternoon they visited the
shops and inspected the tools and machinery. The first class were now at
work as carpenters, and the second as machinists.
"As soon as we have decided on the plans, all the students will be
carpenters for a time," said Captain Gildrock, who explained his plans
with considerable enthusiasm to the visitors. "I intend that the
students shall do almost all the work of building the new boat-house,
though I shall have laborers enough to do the lifting and digging."
"You have excellent tools and machinery in every department," suggested
Mr. Plint, the architect.
"Good tools do a great deal towards making good workmen," replied the
principal. "Every student has been instructed how to keep his tools in
good order. Of course there is a difference in them so far as skill is
concerned, but everyone can grind a chisel or plane-iron."
"One of the boys invented a piece of apparatus by which any desired
bevel can be given to a tool at the grindstone," interposed Mr. Jepson,
as he exhibited the machine to the visitors.
It was simply an iron plate, taken from a useless invention, and set at
the edge of the stone. It could be adjusted at any angle for a long or
a short bevel. Some of the work done with it was shown, and the guests
said it was as true as could be done by the manufacturers. On a bench
near the grindstone, which was turned by steam, were oil-stones of two
kinds, one rather coarse and the other fine. Lew Shoreham was putting a
chisel in order at one of them.
"That is the inventor of the grinding apparatus," said Mr. Jepson.
Shoreham was a lion for the time, and the visitors were introduced to
him. He was highly commended for his inventive power. When he had
finished whetting the chisel, Mr. Plint examined it, and declared that
it was sharp enough to shave with.
Thus far about all the work done by the students had been in fitting up
the shops, though each one had made a dressing-case for his room. In the
middle and at each end of the carpenters' shop was a case containing
forty-nine small drawers, which had been made by Corny Minkfield, Steve
Baxter and Ned Bellows, who were reckoned the best workmen in the second
class. They were natural mechanics, though they were rather low in
scholarship.
"But do they like to work?" asked Mr. Bridges, the civil engineer.
"They would work here from the time they get out of bed in the morning
till dark if we would let them," replied Mr. Brookbine. "I don't know
that they are particularly fond of the hard work of sawing and planing,
though we do most of it by machinery. But in every job there is a great
deal of variety; and this makes even the hard work easy. The boys are
all the time studying out how to do it, and this affords them a sort of
excitement which amounts to fascination."
"What are those trap-doors at the end of each bench?" asked Mr. Ritchie,
the salesman.
"Those are a device of one of the boys," replied the master carpenter.
"Captain Gildrock rightly insists that the shops shall be kept as neat
as the parlor in the house. Formerly the shavings had to be taken up and
put into barrels, which were conveyed to the engine-room, under the
machine shop."
Mr. Brookbine pulled a small cord under the bench, which opened one of
the trap-doors. Slipping the cord into a slot, a knot held the cover in
place. Each student was provided with a long and a short handled dust
brush, which were hung up at each end of the bench. He was required
frequently to sweep his chips and shavings down the trap.
"Phil Gawner is the author of this device. He has also projected a
wooden railroad, by which the shavings can be received into cars under
the traps, and conveyed to the furnace-room. The boys are not mechanics
enough yet to build the cars; but probably it will be done one of these
days."
"What sort of a machine is that?" asked Mr. Flint, pointing to a piece
of apparatus that hung upon the wall.
It was a square piece of plank eighteen inches across, in which a
quarter of a circle had been cut out at one corner. In the middle of it
another square piece of plank had been fastened, and on each side of the
quarter circle were two wooden screws.
"That is an invention of Jim Alburgh. I call it an invention, though
others may have used the same thing, for it is original with this
student," replied Mr. Brookbine. "You see the frames containing the
printed regulations of the school. The boys made these frames. They had
a great deal of difficulty in holding the parts securely while they
nailed the corners. Jim devised this apparatus. The two parts, when
mitred, are screwed up in this thing, and held together as firmly as
though they had grown into the position."
Some pieces of plain turning were shown to the visitors, but not much
time had been devoted to the lathes. In this part of the shop were
observed the same tendency to "improve things," and the same skill in
remedying defects, inventing apparatus to secure facility or correctness
in the work. One fellow had devised a plan to prevent a band from
running off the speed-wheels; another had arranged a shelf to hold his
tools while he was at work; and a third had adjusted a marker on his
rest with which he could lay out the distances on his wood.
"The boys seem to be as much interested as though they were engaged in a
game of base ball," said Mr. Bridges.
"They would leave a game of base ball any time to work in the shops,"
replied Captain Gildrock. "Of course Mr. Brookbine and Mr. Jepson have
to adapt the work to the students, and see that there is variety enough
in it to keep their minds active. If they set them to sawing, planing,
filing or boring iron, simply to learn how to do these things, they
would soon get disgusted. They want to 'make something;' and while they
are doing so, they don't mind the strain on the bones and muscles. I
don't know how they will take to framing the new building, for that is
hard labor, and spruce timber is hard to work."
"With good tools in good order they will do very well; and building the
house is a big thing for boys to do," added the master carpenter. "By
the way, we have no framing tools."
"You are not a drummer, Mr. Ritchie, but I dare say you will take an
order when you return," added the principal, laughing.
"Always ready to sell goods," replied the salesman. "I have no samples
of the goods you want," added Mr. Ritchie.
"All our tools and machinery came from Wilkinson's, and I am willing to
buy without seeing a sample," continued Captain Gildrock.
The shipmaster had made the acquaintance of John Ritchie while
purchasing the tools and machinery for the school. He was a model
salesman, and the captain had taken a great fancy to him. He had invited
him to spend his vacation at Beech Hill, and as an excuse for paying his
travelling expenses, he had invited him to serve on the committee to
award the prizes.
"What tools do we need, Mr. Brookbine?" asked the principal. "I thought
you gave me lists of all that would be wanted."
"When I did so I had no idea that the boys would ever have occasion to
frame a building. The first things we want are a steel square and
compasses for each student, for I intend to have the boys lay out the
work as well as do it; that is, after the general plan for framing the
house is arranged. Everyone must learn to use the square and compass."
"Square and compasses," added the captain, laughing. "We use a compass
on board of a vessel."
"You are right, captain; the dividers are properly compasses, and they
ought always to be called so to distinguish them from the marine
instrument, but many carpenters use the word in the singular form. The
square and compasses, with a set of framing chisels and a few more heavy
mallets than we have, will be all the different articles we shall need."
Captain Gildrock gave the order at once, and Mr. Ritchie wrote it down.
After a survey of the schoolroom and the dormitory, the visitors were
taken to the lake. Bates pulled them over to the grove and they
carefully looked over the shores on both sides in preparation for the
examination of the plans. The next morning they engaged in their work
upon the plans submitted. The master carpenter and the master machinist
were added to the committee at the request of the visitors. The
following day was Saturday, and a grand excursion around Lake Champlain
was arranged for the guests.
After breakfast the students put on their steamer uniform, and took
their stations on board of the Sylph. The visitors were greatly amused
as well as delighted when they saw the students in their places on
board. The attentive scholar of the schoolroom, the inventor in the
workshops had become a cook, a waiter, a pilot, or a deck hand. Mr.
Plint insisted that it was all decidedly funny.
They looked with wonder at Oscar Chester at the wheel in the
pilot-house, where he had the helm alone. But he knew what he was about,
though Dory Dornwood, the first pilot, kept a close watch upon the
movements of the steam yacht. The dinner was not only elaborate but
excellent; and the visitors returned to Beech Hill deeply impressed by
what they had seen.
On Monday morning they were ready to report on the plans.
CHAPTER XXI.
THE ORATOR OF THE REBELS OBTAINS A HEARING.
The students gathered in the schoolroom as usual on Monday morning.
There was no little excitement, even among those who had no interest in
the prizes, for it had been announced that the awards would be made at
this time. So closely had every student who had any ideas in regard to
the plan or location kept them to himself, that no one could even make a
guess as to who would get the prizes.
"We have found some merit in all the plans," said Mr. Plint, who was the
chairman of the committee. "We agreed that it was a tremendous
undertaking for young gentlemen under twenty to plan a wharf and a
building, and it was hardly to be expected that a single one of their
efforts would be acceptable. But all have had the benefit of the thought
and study the subject has given them, and the unsuccessful ones may reap
a harvest in the future from it of a thousandfold more value than the
prizes.
"We are unanimous in our conclusion, and we come to the award without
any doubt or hesitation. It is no discredit to the students to say that
the plans to which the prizes were awarded were the only ones which were
practicable. In some the building was twice as large as necessary, with
a large portion of the space within it wasted. In others it would cost a
million dollars to carry out the ideas of the competitor.
"In one it would be impossible for the steamer to come up to the wharf
without backing on a stern-line. One did not put a single window in his
building, even for the hall; and another supplied no stairs by which the
second story could be reached. In one instance, the dressing-rooms could
only be reached by going up stairs, and passing through the hall.
"But some of the plans which contain the greatest defects also include
some of the most meritorious features. The successful plan for the
boat-house and the one for the wharf and location are admirably fitted
to each other. The committee visited the locality, and carefully
examined the natural structure of the land and the depth of water. The
fortunate competitor has taken advantage of the formation of the shore
for the wharf and the docks for the row-boats; but it would be
impossible to erect the buildings according to most of the plans."
"Was the plan for the building that fitted this location best selected
for that reason, sir?" asked Ben Ludlow.
"A pertinent question, young gentleman," replied Mr. Plint, with a
smile. "The committee awarded the prize for the building before they
considered or even looked at the plans for the wharf and location. We
decided upon the merits of the plan for the boat-house so that its
fitness for the locality might not influence us. I need not say anything
more, except to repeat that all the plans, in spite of the defects that
may be found in them, contain much that is creditable to amateur
architects and engineers."
As he finished his remarks, he handed two rolls of drawings to the
principal. The students gazed at them eagerly, but there was nothing
about them which enabled any student to determine to whom they belonged.
A kind of buff wrapping-paper was provided for rough drawings, and, as
all the scholars had used this article, the rolls were just alike.
"I am satisfied that the committee have acted with the utmost fairness,
though I have not been present at any of their sessions," said Captain
Gildrock.
"I wish to say for myself and Mr. Jepson, that we have not the remotest
suspicion to whom the prizes have been awarded," interposed Mr.
Brookbine. "The handwriting of the boys is so nearly the same thing that
it gave us no clew to the winner."
"If any student has any objections to make to the fairness of this
transaction, now is the time, and the only time there will be, to make
them," added the principal.
At this remark Lew Shoreham rose from his seat, and the boys wondered if
he intended to deliver the oration he had prepared as a protest against
a uniform.
"I am sorry to feel obliged to object--not, I beg to say, in the most
emphatic manner,--to the fairness of the committee," the last of the
rebels began, pluming himself for a speech which promised, as usual, to
be of considerable length. "Our honored principal was kind enough to say
the 'fairness of this transaction,' from which I infer that the whole
subject of the plans and prizes is included."
"Certainly," added the principal rather brusquely, as though he
understood what was coming. "But you must confine yourself to the
subject now before the school."
"That is my intention," replied Shoreham, with a polite bow to the head
of the school. "The objection I feel compelled to make is, that nearly
one third of the school--eight out of twenty-six, to speak with
mathematical accuracy--have been shut out from the competition."
Mr. Bridges had to stuff half his pocket handkerchief into his mouth to
ward off an outburst of laughter at the high-flown speech of the
speaker, and the other members of the committee were equally amused,
though their risibles were more controllable.
"Eight of the students of this useful institution, some of whom had
ideas in the sublime science of architecture, and in the equally
important subject of civil engineering, were prevented from embodying
those ideas in the form of plans, and presenting them for consideration
in this competition," Shoreham proceeded, evidently believing that he
had produced a sensation in the committee.
"What prevented them from competing for the prizes, Shoreham?" asked the
matter-of-fact principal, who had not a great stock of patience under
the infliction of a high-flown speech.
"The eight students alluded to unfortunately differed from the authority
of the school, and from a majority of their fellow-students, in a matter
relating to the discipline of the institution. They were sentenced to
