we wrench off the board."
Tom says:
"It's as simple as tit-tat-toe, three-in-a-row, and as easy as playing
hooky. I should  hope  we can find a way that's a little more
complicated than  that, Huck Finn."
"Well, then," I says, "how'll it do to saw him out, the way I done
before I was murdered that time?"
"That's more  like," he says. "It's real mysterious, and troublesome,
and good," he says; "but I bet we can find a way that's twice as long.
There ain't no hurry; le's keep on looking around."
Betwixt the hut and the fence, on the back side, was a lean-to that
joined the hut at the eaves, and was made out of plank. It was as long
as the hut, but narrow--only about six foot wide. The door to it was
at the south end, and was padlocked. Tom he went to the soap-kettle
and searched around, and fetched back the iron thing they lift the lid
with; so he took it and prized out one of the staples. The chain fell
down, and we opened the door and went in, and shut it, and struck a
match, and see the shed was only built against a cabin and hadn't no
connection with it; and there warn't no floor to the shed, nor nothing
in it but some old rusty played-out hoes and spades and picks and a
crippled plow. The match went out, and so did we, and shoved in the
staple again, and the door was locked as good as ever. Tom was joyful.
He says:
"Now we're all right. We'll  dig  him out. It 'll take about a week!"
Then we started for the house, and I went in the back door--you only
have to pull a buckskin latch-string, they don't fasten the doors--but
that warn't romantical enough for Tom Sawyer; no way would do him but
he must climb up the lightning-rod. But after he got up half-way about
three times, and missed fire and fell every time, and the last time
most busted his brains out, he thought he'd got to give it up; but
after he was rested he allowed he would give her one more turn for
luck, and this time he made the trip.
In the morning we was up at break of day, and down to the nigger
cabins to pet the dogs and make friends with the nigger that fed
Jim--if it  was  Jim that was being fed. The niggers was just getting
through breakfast and starting for the fields; and Jim's nigger was
piling up a tin pan with bread and meat and things; and whilst the
others was leaving, the key come from the house.
This nigger had a good-natured, chuckle-headed face, and his wool was
all tied up in little bunches with thread. That was to keep witches
off. He said the witches was pestering him awful these nights, and
making him see all kinds of strange things, and hear all kinds of
strange words and noises, and he didn't believe he was ever witched so
long before in his life. He got so worked up, and got to running on so
about his troubles, he forgot all about what he'd been a-going to do.
So Tom says:
"What's the vittles for?  Going to feed the dogs?"
The nigger kind of smiled around graduly over his face, like when you
heave a brickbat in a mud-puddle, and he says:
"Yes, Mars Sid,  a  dog. Cur'us dog, too. Does you want to go en look
at 'im?"
"Yes."
I hunched Tom, and whispers:
"You going, right here in the daybreak?  That  warn't the plan."
"No, it warn't; but it's the plan  now. "
So, drat him, we went along, but I didn't like it much. When we got in
we couldn't hardly see anything, it was so dark; but Jim was there,
sure enough, and could see us; and he sings out:
"Why,  Huck!  En good  lan'!  ain' dat Misto Tom?"
I just knowed how it would be; I just expected it. I didn't know
nothing to do; and if I had I couldn't 'a' done it, because that
nigger busted in and says:
"Why, de gracious sakes! do he know you genlmen?"
We could see pretty well now. Tom he looked at the nigger, steady and
kind of wondering, and says:
"Does  who  know us?"
"Why, dis-yer runaway nigger."
"I don't reckon he does; but what put that into your head?"
"What  put  it dar? Didn' he jis' dis minute sing out like he knowed
you?"
Tom says, in a puzzled-up kind of way:
"Well, that's mighty curious.  Who  sung out?  When  did he sing out?
 What  did he sing out?" And turns to me, perfectly ca'm, and says,
"Did  you  hear anybody sing out?"
Of course there warn't nothing to be said but the one thing; so I
says:
"No;  I  ain't heard nobody say nothing."
Then he turns to Jim, and looks him over like he never see him before,
and says:
"Did you sing out?"
"No, sah," says Jim; "I hain't said nothing, sah."
"Not a word?"
"No, sah, I hain't said a word."
"Did you ever see us before?"
"No, sah; not as I knows on."
So Tom turns to the nigger, which was looking wild and distressed, and
says, kind of severe:
"What do you reckon's the matter with you, anyway? What made you think
somebody sung out?"
"Oh, it's de dad-blame' witches, sah, en I wisht I was dead, I do.
Dey's awluz at it, sah, en dey do mos' kill me, dey sk'yers me so.
Please to don't tell nobody 'bout it sah, er ole Mars Silas he'll
scole me; 'kase he say dey  ain't  no witches. I jis' wish to goodness
he was heah now-- den  what would he say! I jis' bet he couldn' fine
no way to git aroun' it  dis  time. But it's awluz jis' so; people
dat's  sot, stays sot; dey won't look into noth'n' en fine it out f'r
deyselves, en when  you  fine it out en tell um 'bout it, dey doan'
b'lieve you."
Tom give him a dime, and said we wouldn't tell nobody; and told him to
buy some more thread to tie up his wool with; and then looks at Jim,
and says:
"I wonder if Uncle Silas is going to hang this nigger. If I was to
catch a nigger that was ungrateful enough to run away, I wouldn't give
him up, I'd hang him." And whilst the nigger stepped to the door to
look at the dime and bite it to see if it was good, he whispers to Jim
and says:
"Don't ever let on to know us. And if you hear any digging going on
nights, it's us; we're going to set you free."
Jim only had time to grab us by the hand and squeeze it; then the
nigger come back, and we said we'd come again some time if the nigger
wanted us to; and he said he would, more particular if it was dark,
because the witches went for him mostly in the dark, and it was good
to have folks around then.
CHAPTER XXXV
It would be most an hour yet till breakfast, so we left and struck
down into the woods; because Tom said we got to have  some  light to
see how to dig by, and a lantern makes too much, and might get us into
trouble; what we must have was a lot of them rotten chunks that's
called fox-fire, and just makes a soft kind of a glow when you lay
them in a dark place. We fetched an armful and hid it in the weeds,
and set down to rest, and Tom says, kind of dissatisfied:
"Blame it, this whole thing is just as easy and awkward as it can be.
And so it makes it so rotten difficult to get up a difficult plan.
There ain't no watchman to be drugged--now there  ought  to be a
watchman. There ain't even a dog to give a sleeping-mixture to. And
there's Jim chained by one leg, with a ten-foot chain, to the leg of
his bed: why, all you got to do is to lift up the bedstead and slip
off the chain. And Uncle Silas he trusts everybody; sends the key to
the punkin-headed nigger, and don't send nobody to watch the nigger.
Jim could 'a' got out of that window-hole before this, only there
wouldn't be no use trying to travel with a ten-foot chain on his leg.
Why, drat it, Huck, it's the stupidest arrangement I ever see. You got
to invent  all  the difficulties. Well, we can't help it; we got to do
the best we can with the materials we've got. Anyhow, there's one
thing--there's more honor in getting him out through a lot of
difficulties and dangers, where there warn't one of them furnished to
you by the people who it was their duty to furnish them, and you had
to contrive them all out of your own head. Now look at just that one
thing of the lantern. When you come down to the cold facts, we simply
got to  let on  that a lantern's resky. Why, we could work with a
torchlight procession if we wanted to,  I  believe. Now, whilst I
think of it, we got to hunt up something to make a saw out of the
first chance we get."
"What do we want of a saw?"
"What do we  want  of a saw? Hain't we got to saw the leg of Jim's bed
off, so as to get the chain loose?"
"Why, you just said a body could lift up the bedstead and slip the
chain off."
"Well, if that ain't just like you, Huck Finn. You  can  get up the
infant-schooliest ways of going at a thing. Why, hain't you ever read
any books at all?--Baron Trenck, nor Casanova, nor Benvenuto
Chelleeny, nor Henri IV., nor none of them heroes? Who ever heard of
getting a prisoner loose in such an old-maidy way as that?  No; the
way all the best authorities does is to saw the bed-leg in two, and
leave it just so, and swallow the sawdust, so it can't be found, and
put some dirt and grease around the sawed place so the very keenest
seneskal can't see no sign of its being sawed, and thinks the bed-leg
is perfectly sound. Then, the night you're ready, fetch the leg a
kick, down she goes; slip off your chain, and there you are. Nothing
to do but hitch your rope ladder to the battlements, shin down it,
break your leg in the moat--because a rope ladder is nineteen foot too
short, you know--and there's your horses and your trusty vassles, and
they scoop you up and fling you across a saddle, and away you go to
your native Langudoc, or Navarre, or wherever it is. It's gaudy, Huck.
I wish there was a moat to this cabin. If we get time, the night of
the escape, we'll dig one."
I says:
"What do we want of a moat when we're going to snake him out from
under the cabin?"
But he never heard me. He had forgot me and everything else. He had
his chin in his hand, thinking. Pretty soon he sighs and shakes his
head; then sighs again, and says:
"No, it wouldn't do--there ain't necessity enough for it."
"For what?" I says.
"Why, to saw Jim's leg off," he says.
"Good land!" I says; "why, there ain't  no  necessity for it. And what
would you want to saw his leg off for, anyway?"
"Well, some of the best authorities has done it. They couldn't get the
chain off, so they just cut their hand off and shoved. And a leg would
be better still. But we got to let that go. There ain't necessity
enough in this case; and, besides, Jim's a nigger, and wouldn't
understand the reasons for it, and how it's the custom in Europe; so
we'll let it go. But there's one thing--he can have a rope ladder; we
can tear up our sheets and make him a rope ladder easy enough. And we
can send it to him in a pie; it's mostly done that way. And I've et
worse pies."
"Why, Tom Sawyer, how you talk," I says; "Jim ain't got no use for a
rope ladder."
"He  has  got use for it. How  you  talk, you better say; you don't
know nothing about it. He's  got  to have a rope ladder; they all do."
"What in the nation can he  do  with it?"
" Do  with it? He can hide it in his bed, can't he? That's what they
all do; and  he's  got to, too. Huck, you don't ever seem to want to
do anything that's regular; you want to be starting something fresh
all the time. S'pose he  don't  do nothing with it? ain't it there in
his bed, for a clue, after he's gone? and don't you reckon they'll
want clues? Of course they will. And you wouldn't leave them any? That
would be a  pretty  howdy-do,  wouldn't  it! I never heard of such a
thing."
"Well," I says, "if it's in the regulations, and he's got to have it,
all right, let him have it; because I don't wish to go back on no
regulations; but there's one thing, Tom Sawyer--if we go to tearing up
our sheets to make Jim a rope ladder, we're going to get into trouble
with Aunt Sally, just as sure as you're born. Now, the way I look at
it, a hickry-bark ladder don't cost nothing, and don't waste nothing,
and is just as good to load up a pie with, and hide in a straw tick,
as any rag ladder you can start; and as for Jim, he ain't had no
experience, and so he don't care what kind of a--"
"Oh, shucks, Huck Finn, if I was as ignorant as you I'd keep
still--that's what I'd do. Who ever heard of a state prisoner escaping
by a hickry-bark ladder? Why, it's perfectly ridiculous."
"Well, all right, Tom, fix it your own way; but if you'll take my
advice, you'll let me borrow a sheet off of the clothes-line."
He said that would do. And that gave him another idea, and he says:
"Borrow a shirt, too."
"What do we want of a shirt, Tom?"
"Want it for Jim to keep a journal on."
"Journal your granny-- Jim  can't write."
"S'pose he  can't  write--he can make marks on the shirt, can't he, if
we make him a pen out of an old pewter spoon or a piece of an old iron
barrel-hoop?"
"Why, Tom, we can pull a feather out of a goose and make him a better
one; and quicker, too."
" Prisoners  don't have geese running around the donjon-keep to pull
pens out of, you muggins. They  always  make their pens out of the
hardest, toughest, troublesomest piece of old brass candlestick or
something like that they can get their hands on; and it takes them
weeks and weeks and months and months to file it out, too, because
they've got to do it by rubbing it on the wall.  They  wouldn't use a
goose-quill if they had it. It ain't regular."
"Well, then, what 'll we make him the ink out of?"
"Many makes it out of iron-rust and tears; but that's the common sort
and women; the best authorities uses their own blood. Jim can do that;
and when he wants to send any little common ordinary mysterious
message to let the world know where he's captivated, he can write it
on the bottom of a tin plate with a fork and throw it out of the
window. The Iron Mask always done that, and it's a blame' good way,
too."
"Jim ain't got no tin plates. They feed him in a pan."
"That ain't nothing; we can get him some."
"Can't nobody  read  his plates."
"That ain't got anything to  do  with it, Huck Finn. All  he's  got to
do is to write on the plate and throw it out. You don't  have  to be
able to read it. Why, half the time you can't read anything a prisoner
writes on a tin plate, or anywhere else."
"Well, then, what's the sense in wasting the plates?"
"Why, blame it all, it ain't the  prisoner's  plates."
"But it's  somebody's  plates, ain't it?"
"Well, spos'n it is? What does the  prisoner  care whose--"
He broke off there, because we heard the breakfast-horn blowing. So we
cleared out for the house.
Along during the morning I borrowed a sheet and a white shirt off of
the clothes-line; and I found an old sack and put them in it, and we
went down and got the fox-fire, and put that in too. I called it
borrowing, because that was what pap always called it; but Tom said it
warn't borrowing, it was stealing. He said we was representing
prisoners; and prisoners don't care how they get a thing so they get
it, and nobody don't blame them for it, either. It ain't no crime in a
prisoner to steal the thing he needs to get away with, Tom said; it's
his right; and so, as long as we was representing a prisoner, we had a
perfect right to steal anything on this place we had the least use for
to get ourselves out of prison with. He said if we warn't prisoners it
would be a very different thing, and nobody but a mean, ornery person
would steal when he warn't a prisoner. So we allowed we would steal
everything there was that come handy. And yet he made a mighty fuss,
one day, after that, when I stole a watermelon out of the nigger patch
and eat it; and he made me go and give the niggers a dime without
telling them what it was for. Tom said that what he meant was, we
could steal anything we  needed.  Well, I says, I needed the
watermelon. But he said I didn't need it to get out of prison with;
there's where the difference was. He said if I'd 'a' wanted it to hide
a knife in, and smuggle it to Jim to kill the seneskal with, it would
'a' been all right. So I let it go at that, though I couldn't see no
advantage in my representing a prisoner if I got to set down and chaw
over a lot of gold-leaf distinctions like that every time I see a
chance to hog a watermelon.
Well, as I was saying, we waited that morning till everybody was
settled down to business, and nobody in sight around the yard; then
Tom he carried the sack into the lean-to whilst I stood off a piece to
keep watch. By and by he come out, and we went and set down on the
woodpile to talk. He says:
"Everything's all right now except tools; and that's easy fixed."
"Tools?" I says.
"Yes."
"Tools for what?"
"Why, to dig with. We ain't a-going to  gnaw  him out, are we?"
"Ain't them old crippled picks and things in there good enough to dig
a nigger out with?" I says.
He turns on me, looking pitying enough to make a body cry, and says:
"Huck Finn, did you  ever  hear of a prisoner having picks and
shovels, and all the modern conveniences in his wardrobe to dig
himself out with?  Now I want to ask you--if you got any
reasonableness in you at all--what kind of a show would  that  give
him to be a hero? Why, they might as well lend him the key and done
with it. Picks and shovels--why, they wouldn't furnish 'em to a king."
"Well, then," I says, "if we don't want the picks and shovels, what do
we want?"
"A couple of case-knives."
"To dig the foundations out from under that cabin with?"
"Yes."
"Confound it, it's foolish, Tom."
"It don't make no difference how foolish it is, it's the  right 
way--and it's the regular way. And there ain't no  other  way, that
ever I heard of, and I've read all the books that gives any
information about these things. They always dig out with a
case-knife--and not through dirt, mind you; generly it's through solid
rock. And it takes them weeks and weeks and weeks, and for ever and
ever. Why, look at one of them prisoners in the bottom dungeon of the
Castle Deef, in the harbor of Marseilles, that dug himself out that
way; how long was  he  at it, you reckon?"
"I don't know."
"Well, guess."
"I don't know. A month and a half."
" Thirty-seven year --and he come out in China.  That's  the kind. I
wish the bottom of  this  fortress was solid rock."
" Jim  don't know nobody in China."
"What's  that  got to do with it? Neither did that other fellow. But
you're always a-wandering off on a side issue. Why can't you stick to
the main point?"
"All right--I don't care where he comes out, so he  comes  out; and
Jim don't, either, I reckon. But there's one thing, anyway--Jim's too
old to be dug out with a case-knife. He won't last."
"Yes he will  last,  too. You don't reckon it's going to take
thirty-seven years to dig out through a  dirt  foundation, do you?"
"How long will it take, Tom?"
"Well, we can't resk being as long as we ought to, because it mayn't
take very long for Uncle Silas to hear from down there by New Orleans.
He'll hear Jim ain't from there. Then his next move will be to
advertise Jim, or something like that. So we can't resk being as long
digging him out as we ought to. By rights I reckon we ought to be a
couple of years; but we can't. Things being so uncertain, what I
recommend is this: that we really dig right in, as quick as we can;
and after that, we can  let on, to ourselves, that we was at it
thirty-seven years. Then we can snatch him out and rush him away the
first time there's an alarm. Yes, I reckon that 'll be the best way."
"Now, there's  sense  in that," I says. "Letting on don't cost
nothing; letting on ain't no trouble; and if it's any object, I don't
mind letting on we was at it a hundred and fifty year. It wouldn't
strain me none, after I got my hand in. So I'll mosey along now, and
smouch a couple of case-knives."
"Smouch three," he says; "we want one to make a saw out of."
"Tom, if it ain't unregular and irreligious to sejest it," I says,
"there's an old rusty saw-blade around yonder sticking under the
weather-boarding behind the smokehouse."
He looked kind of weary and discouraged-like, and says:
"It ain't no use to try to learn you nothing, Huck. Run along and
smouch the knives--three of them." So I done it.
CHAPTER XXXVI
As soon as we reckoned everybody was asleep that night we went down
the lightning-rod, and shut ourselves up in the lean-to, and got out
our pile of fox-fire, and went to work. We cleared everything out of
the way, about four or five foot along the middle of the bottom log.
Tom said we was right behind Jim's bed now, and we'd dig in under it,
and when we got through there couldn't nobody in the cabin ever know
there was any hole there, because Jim's counterpin hung down most to
the ground, and you'd have to raise it up and look under to see the
hole. So we dug and dug with the case-knives till most midnight; and
then we was dog-tired, and our hands was blistered, and yet you
couldn't see we'd done anything hardly. At last I says:
"This ain't no thirty-seven-year job; this is a thirty-eight-year job,
Tom Sawyer."
He never said nothing. But he sighed, and pretty soon he stopped
digging, and then for a good little while I knowed that he was
thinking. Then he says:
"It ain't no use, Huck, it ain't a-going to work. If we was prisoners
it would, because then we'd have as many years as we wanted, and no
hurry; and we wouldn't get but a few minutes to dig, every day, while
they was changing watches, and so our hands wouldn't get blistered,
and we could keep it up right along, year in and year out, and do it
right, and the way it ought to be done. But  we  can't fool along; we
got to rush; we ain't got no time to spare. If we was to put in
another night this way we'd have to knock off for a week to let our
hands get well--couldn't touch a case-knife with them sooner."
"Well, then, what we going to do, Tom?"
"I'll tell you. It ain't right, and it ain't moral, and I wouldn't
like it to get out; but there ain't only just the one way: we got to
dig him out with the picks, and  let on  it's case-knives."
" Now  you're  talking! " I says; "your head gets leveler and leveler
all the time, Tom Sawyer," I says. "Picks is the thing, moral or no
moral; and as for me, I don't care shucks for the morality of it,
nohow. When I start in to steal a nigger, or a watermelon, or a
Sunday-school book, I ain't no ways particular how it's done so it's
done. What I want is my nigger; or what I want is my watermelon; or
what I want is my Sunday-school book; and if a pick's the handiest
thing, that's the thing I'm a-going to dig that nigger or that
watermelon or that Sunday-school book out with; and I don't give a
dead rat what the authorities thinks about it nuther."
"Well," he says, "there's excuse for picks and letting on in a case
like this; if it warn't so, I wouldn't approve of it, nor I wouldn't
stand by and see the rules broke--because right is right, and wrong is
wrong, and a body ain't got no business doing wrong when he ain't
ignorant and knows better. It might answer for  you  to dig Jim out
with a pick,  without  any letting on, because you don't know no
better; but it wouldn't for me, because I do know better. Gimme a
case-knife."
He had his own by him, but I handed him mine. He flung it down, and
says:
"Gimme a  case-knife. "
I didn't know just what to do--but then I thought. I scratched around
amongst the old tools, and got a pickax and give it to him, and he
