How cold you are," kissing her. " What did make you 
stay so long? Sit down here and get good and warm 
while I make the tea. And could we treat ourselves to a 
bit of broiled fish, do you think ? " 
"Yes," she answered, as she took off her wrappings 
and smiled upon the little household. Celia was fourteen, 
very like her mother every way, only much smaller, and 
with a tender, sympathetic face, at least it was that now. 
The other children were more like their father. Bertie 
had the bright versatility that she had once so admired 
in another and thought it a proof of a happy nature, able 
to extract honey from any flower. He was easily moved ; 
but sometimes his mother was appalled by a lack of con- 
scientiousness on what she considered vital points. 
Her eyes wandered over the little group. It had come 
to this with them, so early in life, that they were much 
happier without their father. He generally slept late in 
the morning, sometimes not having any meal until dinner. 
Then he would saunter out. If he had a little money, or 
anybody treated, he was as likely to spend the rest of the 
day and evening, up to midnight, when he would stumble 
home, redolent of the fumes of the bar-room. He did not 
pretend to do anything now. Eleanor gave him money 
sorely against her will and her better judgment, because 
she hated constant bickering before the children. It was 
much pleasanter when he was away. 
Were these tender young souls to be trained and de- 
veloped into men and women who would do their duty 
honorably in the world, or thrust out to hardship, petty 
mortification, and open shame? Were they never to 
have a home free from a foul blot ? There was a birth- 
mark of refinement and intellect, but none knew better 
than she how constant association could wear one down 
to a lower level. 
" I do not believe papa will come home," said Celia in 
a tone that strongly suggested a feeling of relief. " So 
come, mamma." 
There was something in the face that reminded you of 
twilight, soft coloring, and a wavering light that came 
and went in her eyes. The discords of life would pierce 
 
her to the very soul, wear upon her. Courage she had, 
but not the buoyant endurance of her mother. It might 
have been the result of her too early shadowed life. 
They took their places. Daisy and Bertie chatted 
gaily. How handsome the boy looked with his glowing 
eyes, the rings of fair hair, the tender, rosy mouth with 
the beguiling curves of a pictured cupid. She always 
remembered the night she had seen him under the influ- 
ence of his father's whiskey. Even now she shuddered. 
She let them play about after supper and sing their 
school songs, studying them intently as her hands lay 
idly in her lap, an unusual thing for her. She was think- 
ing of her cousins' well-kept children, not nearly as pretty 
as hers. Would Aunt Clara like them to hear oaths and 
rough words? to have their sweet lips kissed by the vile, 
fevered ones of a drunken man ? Was it nothing, or at 
least only a trifle, to have her husband stagger home to 
her from that low den ? 
Who would think now of inviting Thomas Marshall to 
an evening company? Why, respectable people would 
feel disgraced. But she had not sinned, yet she was 
socially ostracized. Even as a business woman she could 
make a position for herself ; and as for giving up, as Aunt 
Clara feared she would be compelled to, she had nothing 
to give up. It would be virtually going into a new world 
where she might find some nice middle-class working people 
that would be better than any she could attract to her 
side now. 
That very day she had received notice to move. Mrs. 
Beach was not a bad-hearted woman ; but she had never 
cordially taken to Mrs. Marshall, and Mr. Marshall's goings 
out and comings in, especially the latter, scandalized her. 
The poor in spirit are apt to fling out occasionally. 
"A stuck-up thing!" she explained to her sister gos- 
sips. " What 's the good of her being old Wilder's niece 
and they living in a palace ? She never runs in, pleasant 
and neighborly, and is as much afraid of her children as 
if they were gold. And what is her husband but a lazy, 
drunken shirk, spending his time in that den of Hassler's, 
swilling beer and fooling with that girl. I 'll give her a 
piece of my mind some day ! " 
Not the girl, who was a confessed attraction to the 
saloon, but Mrs. Marshall, who in the face of all this dared 
to be proud and reticent. Mrs. Beach was as good or as 
bad as her word. Then, as a new tenant came for the 
rooms, she was invited to look elsewhere. 
" For we never have had drunken people coming in all 
hours of the night. I 'm worried to death with thinking 
that he may set the house afire," said Mrs. Beach. 
Mrs. Marshall bowed, but made no comment. There are 
some tender phases in the intercourse of the poor, but oh, 
how much that is hard and cruel ! 
There were not many respectable people who would 
open their doors to a denizen of Hassler's saloon. Eleanor 
must go where they were not particular, where there was 
small distinction made between the low and the poor, or 
she must take the other decisive step. She wanted so to 
go out of all this. 
She knew well enough how Mrs. Marshall would cry 
and implore her to think of poor Tom, not to give him 
up and push him over to certain destruction. Aunt Clara, 
no doubt, represented the general conservative sentiment. 
They would all be shocked at her flinging herself before 
the face of the world as a maker of bonnets and caps. 
This was the chance that had come to her. Miss Caruth 
kept a millinery store, with laces, ribbons, and certain 
styles of dress trimmings. Mrs. Marshall had only come 
to know her well during the last three years. She was a 
plain, ungraceful body, but she had exquisite taste and 
most skilful arrangement. For years she had lived by 
herself, and now she had determined to go "West and spend 
the remainder of her life with a widowed sister who owned 
a small place in a pretty town. 
In Mrs. Marshall's early days she had been noted for 
her taste in all kinds of outward adornment. Often had 
she been called upon by friends in despair when a few 
dexterous touches restored them to delight. She had an 
innate assurance that in a business like this she should be 
a success. It paid better than any kind of sewing she 
could get to do, it had variety, it would be a continual 
pleasure to her. 
"I have built up a good business," said Miss Caruth, 
"and anybody with style and taste would do just as well; 
indeed, I think a younger person would do better. I have 
made five or six hundred dollars every year over and above 
living, and have enough now to take care of myself in a 
moderate way. I 'd like to see you here, my dear Mrs. 
Marshall, and I 'd make it as easy for you as I possibly 
could. Think it over now." 
From one point they went to another. Eleanor opened 
her heart to this kindly, simple-hearted woman, who sym- 
pathized deeply with her. 
"My dear," said she, "I'd just go away by myself and 
live a decent, wholesome life, and bring up my children in 
the fear of the Lord. I don't think it right to work for 
him, that he may hang about saloons and drink ; it's really 
helping him on to the bad, you see. If he did not have 
you, he would have to go to work ; and the very shock 
might make a man of him. But just as long as you are 
a willing slave he will be the master. I don't know about 
divorces and such, only it does seem that where people 
can't agree they had better go separate ways. In this case 
you would have to do something to protect yourself and 
keep him away. I 'd work for a sick man, but I always 
did say I would never work for a lazy man." 
Miss Caruth offered her stock and fixtures for six hun- 
dred dollars. Four hundred was to be paid down and the 
remainder secured by a chattel mortgage. Eleanor was 
like one under the spell of an occult charm. Some hidden 
knowledge assured her continually that in this work she 
could succeed, that she might even make a little money 
for old age. It was quite useless to dream of her husband 
ever doing anything for her again. As the years went on, 
dissipation must tell in the shape of impaired faculties. 
If no one would trust him with a responsibility now, what 
could he do then ? Common manual labor he scouted. 
And the children needed something beside ordinary 
school training. They wanted all that a home implied, — 
position, society, a chance to develop what gifts God had 
bestowed upon them. Once Aunt Clara had hinted that 
she might take Celia presently, but she knew her aunt's 
pride ; and even there, granting that she could let her go 
from her aching heart and longing love, the father's sins 
would be visited upon the child. No one could forget 
that her father was a drunkard. 
Mrs. Marshall had a passionate love for purity, refine- 
ment, order, and the grace of beauty were it never so sim- 
ple. She enjoyed wealth and its accessories ; but she could 
make herself content in comparative poverty, if she could 
take it under favorable circumstances. But she had found 
that rents for poor people were of the highest, that places 
were dingy and out of repair, and that she no longer had 
a choice. Tom's reputation was too well known. She 
could not afford a cottage by herself, so she must take 
what landlords would allow her to have. We romance a 
great deal about poverty ; but the fact remains that it does 
grind souls and bodies into the dust until there is no longer 
any ambition to rise, until the nobler qualities have be- 
come dormant. She had seen some of these hopeless 
women, and blamed them severely; but she knew now 
how easy the descent was, how almost impossible it was 
to keep from being dragged down by these baleful forces. 
Like some gift of second sight it came to her. She 
could go on growing poorer and poorer, send her pretty 
girls to work in shops, see her boy grow up to rough and 
 
common ways, perhaps take early to drinking. Or she 
could go out of it all and save them. What if she devoted 
the next seven years to their salvation ? Three souls were 
surely of more account than one. 
Since this opportunity had come to her, several events 
had occurred to strengthen her desire, her almost frantic 
eagerness to find a way out of this quagmire, where she 
must inevitably sink deeper. There had been the night of 
Bertie's cold ; there had also been one occasion when he 
had struck Daisy such a blow that it had knocked the 
child down, and left a bruise on her forehead, — he was 
growing more brutal since he had taken to lounging so 
much in Hassler's saloon ; and then the girl ! Eleanor 
was not so much jealous as disgusted. This coarse, hand- 
some animal put in woman's form, but with no sacred 
womanly instincts ; laughing and jeering with half-drunken 
men; strong enough to shake them off when their hot 
grimy hands clutched too savagely at her ; bartering kisses 
for a tawdry gift, or as persuasion ruled ; lowering a man's 
respect and honor for his wife at home, or maddening the 
younger ones until they were ready to fight about her, — 
faugh ! she would have given anything not to have seen 
the vision, yet she knew it was best. She would not 
allow herself to ask whether Thomas Marshall had com- 
mitted any great sin, but even that kissing had discrowned 
their married love, if such a thing remained. She felt 
that he had ceased to regard her with the slightest respect. 
Sometimes he exhibited a cowardly fear of her, at others 
he was maudlin and wept profusely, blaming himself and 
declaring that he was not fit to live ; but he never reached 
the point of resolve to make himself fit for life and its 
duties once more. 
All these things had at last decided Mrs. Marshall; 
goaded her courage up to the point of applying to Aunt 
Clara for six hundred dollars, as a loan for two years, at 
lawful interest. She would not beg. Every penny should 
be paid back. If Miss Caruth could succeed, she certainly 
had as much on her side, and an indomitable energy if she 
oonld find a place to stand. 
It was true she felt quite disheartened at the very out- 
set. There were complications and questions. How much 
duty on the one side, how much on the other? Her soul 
was almost rent in twain. " Show me the way, Lord," she 
cried in her secret agony. "Point out to me the true 
path, and I will walk in it, even over thorns." But both 
paths lay pitilessly clear, — duty to husband, duty to chil- 
dren: the one love pure, sweet, clinging, unconsciously 
pleading, stretching out small, helpless hands to be saved 
from inhumanity, to be raised to its true estate, to be 
given a chance with other souls ; on the other side the 
great wrong, the secret endurance, the wounded trust, 
the rejected love and tenderness, the wasted riches, the 
womanhood poisoned and trampled into the dust, the 
light of a whole life darkened. Ah, no wonder the out- 
raged soul cried entreatingly in its anguish ! 
She saw clearly that she could expect no aid or counte- 
nance from the Marshalls. There were no relatives be- 
side Aunt Clara's family with whom she had been at all 
intimate. Clearly she could not look to relatives. Then 
as to friends, there might be some, but her inmost soul 
shrank from a round on such an errand. 
There was one. She knew of a person who would 
grant her this request kindly with no further wound to 
pride than the stab she would give herself in asking. 
Why she should have such perfect reliance upon this per- 
son she could not tell, since she had given him the deepest 
pang a woman can give, though not designedly. This 
flashed upon her almost like an answer to her prayer. 
Was it i answer? Did she dare believe anything "she 
really wanted was an answer? 
The children had played unheeded, but Daisy suddenly 
grew sleepy. Celia had been studying her lessons and 
 
wondering at her mother's idleness and abstractions. It 
was so seldom that her hands lay folded in her lap. 
" What beautiful hands she has ! " thought Celia. " They 
are so white, and the fingers taper to the very ends, while 
her nails are so prettily kept. They are like a picture." 
Mrs. Marshall roused herself. 
" I will put you to bed, Daisy," she began, " and Herbert 
may go with you a little while. I want to talk to Celia." 
There were three nice rooms on this floor and a small 
hall chamber that they kept for storage. The two girls 
slept on a lounge bedstead in the parlor, as it was called, 
though seldom needed for that purpose. The room 
between was Mrs. Marshall's. Bertie slept in a crib ; but, 
as he had a tendency to colds, it was often placed in the 
living-room when the parlor was very cold. 
Celia looked up in surprise at these words, then gave 
her mother a quick glance of confidence. The children 
were undressed in the warm room and wrapped in 
blankets, for the night was bitter cold. " I might have 
had a little fire," she thought — she could not afford but 
one steadily. 
When she returned Celia glanced up again inquiringly. 
"My dear," she said gravely, "put up your book, and 
come rest your arms on my lap, as you used to do. It 
was your favorite position as a little child." 
Celia brought a low seat, and, having settled herself, 
took the soft, white hands in hers, wondering how they 
kept so soft with all the rough work mamma had to do. 
" Something troubles you," she ventured, breaking the 
silence with a sweet, low tone. There was something 
peculiar about Celia Marshall's voice, a far-reaching 
depth, a kind of tender entreaty, not often found in one 
ao young. 
" I have a great and grave question to decide, my child. 
I do not know that you are old enough to take in all its 
bearings, or how it may affect you in after life, but I 
must make some confidence, and soon I shall need your 
help. It is a hard burden to lay upon you, my child — " 
and the voice faltered. 
" I can guess, mamma. I must give up school and go 
to work. I know we are very poor — other girls have to 
do it — " she paused, buried her face in her mother's lap, 
while a hard, tearless sob shook her. Only a moment, 
then she raised her sweet face again. " I am not going 
to be a coward, mamma, while you are so brave," and she 
kissed the hands that lay in her clasp with the very pas- 
sion of devotion. 
"It would be hard to leave school," her mother said 
slowly. 
"O mamma, why should I deny it? One can do 
what is right even against one's sense of delight in the 
thing relinquished. It would take a long while for me to 
be trained to teach, which I should like better than any 
real actual work. Three years more, perhaps four, and I 
could not be spared so long, I know. O mamma, forgive 
me, but when I see other girls whose fathers are proud of 
them and work for them, fathers who can be loved and 
respected, I wonder why God allows other men to bring 
children into the world to be disgraced! O mamma, 
you don't know what they say, — that papa is ' in love 
with a pretty Dutch girl at Hassler's saloon ! " 
Celia's overwrought soul gave way then to a rain of 
convulsive tears. 
"My darling, my love," her mother murmured sooth- 
ingly, as she kissed the white face. " Try to be calm, for 
I have much to say to you." 
"And I shall do what you think best. I hate shops 
and factories, but I do know of one where I could soon 
earn five or six dollars a week. It would help you so 
much. Sewing brings in such a little, and I hate it. 
Perhaps I should like dress-making," she added, "there is 
room for grace and beauty about that." 
 
"At present, my child, it is not so much what you shall 
do as what I shall do. I have been considering a step. 
Miss Caruth has offered me her store at a very reasonable 
rate.." 
"O mamma, millinery!" Celia's face was all aglow. 
"Think of the lovely ribbons and laces and flowers! 
Why it would be like living in a garden, the loveliest, 
loveliest thing ! I could help you, I know I could ; I feel 
it in my very finger ends," and her lithe body quivered 
in every pulse. "And in dull times I could study — 
O mamma, will you, can you take it?" 
" There are some other complications, granting that I 
could obtain the money. The most important one is this 
— I should separate from your father, and begin a new 
life." 
" A new life ! " Celia uttered it caressingly, as if she 
held in her hands a rare and lovely gift. Then she drew 
a long, exultant breath, and her eyes glowed with a light 
like sunrise. 
" The question is whether, having married him, I have 
any right to consider myself and you children, first." 
"But, mamma, do you know, if I was ruler of a 
country or state, I should make drunkenness a crime and 
punish it as one does stealing or forging. For it is a 
crime, and one that people are constantly tempted to 
commit because there are saloons everywhere. Then it 
leads to so many other things. What made papa — " 
"Misfortunes^I suppose, in the first place. Through 
death of a partner and other matters he was thrown out 
of business — " 
"But could he not have found something to do?" 
interrupted the child trenchantly. "Suppose you had 
taken to drink? — mamma, are not women the strongest, 
the better poised, the more persevering ? " 
"We cannot stop to discuss all the social and moral 
aspects. If I should take this business it would hamper 
me on every side and drag me down to have such a man 
about. Women have done it, I know, but it seems to me 
that I could not be a success. Later in life, when your 
judgment matures and your views are broader, or nar- 
rower," and she smiled sadly, " you may blame me for this 
step ; but I have tried faithfully for seven years, I have 
hoped against hope, I have been patient, I have pleaded, 
I have prayed until the very soul seems to have gone out 
of me and left a listless, lethargic endurance in its place. 
A new life would inspire me. Have I any right to reach 
out for it ? " 
" Why not, mamma? Is not every soul expected to do 
its best ? And isn't strength found in the very doing, if 
it is of a kind to inspire one? Oh, we might be so 
happy! We could have books and see people, and we 
should not always be listening for something we dreaded, 
or feeling continually ashamed. Mamma, I think of it 
every afternoon when I come home from school, and I 
pray softly to myself that I shall not meet him anywhere. 
Oh, let us go away and have a home of our own ! " she 
implored. 
"You do not inquire what may become of him?" 
"Of him?" Celia's face was moved by changes that 
went flashing over it, showing the activity of her mental 
processes. "But if you work and take care of four, can 
he not work and take care of one? He would have to 
then. And — he would have no one to give him money. 
O mamma, I sometimes wonder if it is right that he 
should spend your money in saloons?" 
" I think his mother and sister would see that he did 
not suffer. I have questioned if I did not pander to idle- 
