blank, near, little backgrounds of American history farther north. This
was a surprise to him. Like most New-Englanders, he had unconsciously
cherished the belief that all there was of historical importance, of
historical picturesqueness even, in the beginnings of the republic, was
associated with the Puritans from whom he was on his father's side
descended, was appended to their stately hats and ruffs, their wonderful
perseverance, their dignified orthography, the solemnities of their
speech and demeanor. And if, with liberality, he should stretch the
lines a little to include the old Dutch land-holders of Manhattan
Island, and the river up which the Half-moon had sailed, that had
seemed to him all that could possibly be necessary; there was, indeed,
nothing else to include. But here was a life, an atmosphere, to whose
contemporary and even preceding existence on their own continent neither
Puritan nor Patroon had paid heed; and it was becoming evident that he,
their descendant, with all the aids of easy communication, and that
modern way of looking at the globe which has annihilated distance and
made a voyage round it but a small matter--even he, with all this help,
had not, respecting this beautiful peninsula of his own country,
developed perceptions more keen than those of these self-absorbed
ancestors--an appreciation more delicate than their obtuse one.
Winthrop's appreciation was good. But it had been turned, as regarded
historical and picturesque associations, principally towards the Old
World. He now went through a good deal of meditation upon this subject;
he was pleased, yet, on the whole, rather ashamed of himself. When
Raphael was putting into the backgrounds of his pictures those prim,
slenderly foliaged trees which he had seen from Perugino's windows in
his youth, the Spaniards were exploring this very Florida shore; yet
when he, Evert Winthrop, had discovered the same tall, thin trees (which
up to that time he had thought rather an affectation) from the
overhanging balcony of the little inn at Assisi--it had seemed to
overhang all Umbria--did he not think of Raphael's day as far back in
the past, and as completely remote from the possibility of any
contemporary history in America as America is remote from the future
great cities of the Sahara plains? And when, in Venice, he dwelt with
delight upon the hues of Titian and Veronese, was he not sure (though
without thinking of it) that in their day the great forests of his own
New World untrodden by the white man's foot, had stretched unbroken to
the sea? Because no Puritan with grave visage had as yet set sail for
Massachusetts Bay, he had not realized that here on this southern shore
had been towns and people, governors, soldiers, persecutions, and
priests.
"I presume you intend to show me everything in its worst possible
aspect," he said, as he joined Garda in the sunny court below. She was
waiting for him beside the bananas, which were here not full grown--tall
shrubs that looked, with their long-winged leaves standing out stiffly
from their stalks, like green quill-pens that a giant might use for his
sonnet-writing.
"No; I have withdrawn my guardianship--don't you remember? You must now
guard yourself."
"From the great temptations opening before me."
"They may be such to you; they are not to me. I think I have never met
any great temptations; I wonder when they will begin?"
They had crossed the court, and passed through a cool, dark,
stone-floored hall on the other side; here they went out through a low
door, which Raquel opened for them. Winthrop declined the white umbrella
which this stately handmaid offered him, and as Garda would not let him
carry the one she had taken, he walked on beside her with his hands in
the pockets of his short morning-coat, looking about him with enjoyment,
as he usually did at East Angels. The façade of the house which looked
towards the lagoon was broken by the small balcony, roofed and closely
shaded by green blinds, where they had been sitting, and where the
hammock was swung. This little green cage, hung up on the side of the
house, had no support from below; there was neither pillar nor trellis;
not even a vine wandered up to its high balustrade. The most agile Romeo
could not have climbed to it. But a Romeo, in any case, could not have
approached near enough to attempt such a feat, since a wide space of
open ground, without tree or shrub upon it, extended from the
house-walls outward to a certain distance on all sides. Winthrop had
already noticed these features--the heavy barred shutters of the lower
floor, the high-hung little balcony, the jealous open space--he had
pronounced them all very Spanish. He now looked about him again--at the
dumb old house, the silvery sheen of the lagoon, the feathery tops of
the palmettoes on Patricio opposite, the blue sky, and the sunny sea
stretching eastward to Africa. "I ask nothing more," he said at last.
"This is content."
His companion glanced at him. "You do look wonderfully contented," she
commented.
"It amuses you? Perhaps it vexes you?"
"Neither. I was only wondering what there could be here to make you so
contented."
This little speech pleased the man beside her highly. He said to himself
that in the mind of a girl accustomed to the ways of the world, it would
have belonged to the list of speeches too obvious in application to be
made; while a little country coquette would have said it purposely. But
Garda Thorne had spoken both naturally and indifferently, without
thinking or caring as to what he might say in reply.
"I was remembering," he answered, "that at home all the rivers are
frozen over, not to speak of the water-pipes, and that ice-blocks are
grinding against each other in the harbor; is it any wonder, then, that
in this charming air I should be content? But there are various degrees
even in contentment, and I should reach a higher one still if you would
only let me carry that umbrella." For she had opened it, and was holding
it as women will, not high enough to admit him under its shade, but at
just the angle that kept him effectually at a distance on account of the
points which were dangerously on a level, now with his hat, now with his
collar, now with some undefended portion of his face. He had always
admired the serenity with which women will pass through a crowded
street, raking all the passers-by as they go with an umbrella held at
just that height, the height that suits themselves; smilingly and with
agreeable countenances they advance, without the least conception,
apparently, of the wild dodging they force upon all persons taller than
themselves, of the wrath and havoc they are leaving behind them.
"No man knows how to hold a sun-umbrella," answered Garda. "To begin
with, he never has the least idea where the sun is."
"I have learned that when you say 'To begin with,' there is small hope
for us. Might I offer the suggestion, humbly, that there may be other
methods of holding umbrellas in existence, besides those prevalent in
Gracias."
Garda laughed. Her laugh was charming, Winthrop had already noticed
that; it was not a laugh that could be counted upon, it did not come
often, or upon call. But when it did ripple forth it was a distinct
laugh, merry and sweet, and not the mere magnified smile, or the two or
three shrill little shouts in a descending scale, which do duty as
laughs from the majority of feminine lips. Its influence extended also
to her eyes, which then shot forth two bright beams to accompany it. "I
see that it will not do to talk to you as I talk to--to the persons
about here," she said.
"Are there many of them--these persons about here?"
"Four," replied Garda, promptly. "There is Reginald Kirby, surgeon. Then
there is the Reverend Mr. Moore, rector of St. Philip and St. James.
Then we have Adolfo Torres, from the Giron plantation, south of here,
and Manuel Ruiz, from Patricio, opposite."
"A tropical list," said Winthrop; "discouragingly tropical."
"But I'm tropical myself," Garda responded.
She was taking him through a narrow path, between what had once been
hedges, but were now high tangled walls, overrun with the pointed leaves
of the wild smilax. The girl had a light step, but if light, it was not
quick; it could have been best described, perhaps, by the term
unhurrying, a suggestion of leisure lay in each motion, from the poise
of the small head to the way the pretty feet moved over the path or
floor. Winthrop disliked a hurried step, he disliked also a tardy one;
the step that is light but at the same time leisurely--this seemed to
him to mark the temperament that gets the most out of life as a whole,
certainly the most of pleasure, often too the most of attainment. Garda
Thorne had this step. In her case, probably, there had been more of
pleasure than of attainment. She did not indeed strike one as a person
who had given much thought to attainment, whether of scholarship or
housewifely skill, of needle-work or graceful accomplishments, or even
of that balance of conscience, that trained obedience of the mind, which
are so much to many of her sisters farther north. But these same sisters
farther north would have commented, probably, commented from the long,
rocky coast of New England, and from the many intelligent communities of
the Middle States, that no woman need trouble herself about attainment,
or anything else, if she were as beautiful as Edgarda Thorne.
For in their hearts women always know that of all the gifts bestowed
upon their sex that of beauty has so immeasurably the greatest power
that nothing else can for one moment be compared with it, that all other
gifts, of whatsoever nature and extent, sink into insignificance and
powerlessness beside it. It is, of course, to the interest of domestic
men, the good husbands and fathers who are satisfied with home comforts
and home productions, and desire nothing so much as peace at the
hearth-stone, to deny this fact, to qualify it as much as possible, and
reduce its universality. But the denials of these few, contented,
low-flying gentlemen are lost in the great tide of world-wide agreement,
and no one is deceived by them, save, in occasional instances, their own
wives, who in that case have been endowed by nature with much faith (or
is it self-complacence?), and powers of observation not much beyond
those of the oyster. But on that long New England coast already spoken
of, and in those pleasant, pretty towns of the Middle States,
observation has been keenly cultivated, and self-complacence held in
abeyance by much analysis. All the northern sisters who lived there
would probably have answered again, and with one voice, that with simply
the most ordinary good qualities in addition, a girl as beautiful as
Edgarda Thorne would carry all before her in any case.
Garda was of medium height, but her litheness made her seem tall. This
litheness had in it none of the meagre outlines of the little mother,
its curves were all moulded with that soft roundness which betrays a
southern origin. But the observer was not left to this evidence alone,
there was further and indisputable proof in her large, dark, beautiful,
wholly Spanish eyes. She had, in truth, been well described by Mrs.
Thorne's phrase--"the portrait of her Spanish grandmother, painted in
English colors." The tints of her complexion were very different from
the soft, unchanging, creamy line which had been one of the beauties of
the beautiful Ines de Duero; Garda's complexion had the English
lightness and brightness. But it was not merely pink and white; there
were browns under its warm fairness--browns which gave the idea that it
was acquainted with the open air, the sun, the sea, and enjoyed them
all. It never had that blue look of cold which mars at times the beauty
of all women who are delicately fair; it never had the fatal shade of
yellow that menaces the brunette. It was a complexion made for all times
and all lights; pure and clear, it had also a soft warmth of color which
was indescribably rich. The lustrous black braids of Ines de Duero had
been changed in her grand-daughter to braids equally thick, but in color
a bright brown; not the brown that is but golden hair grown darker, nor
that other well-known shade, neither light nor dark, which covers the
heads of so many Americans that it might almost be called the national
color; this brown had always been bright, had never changed; the head of
the little Garda of two years old had showed a flossy mass of the same
hue. This hair curled slightly through all its length, which gave the
braids a rippled appearance. It had, besides, the beauty of growing low
and thickly at the temples and over the forehead. The small head it
covered was poised upon a throat which was not a mere point of union, an
unimportant or lean angle to be covered by a necklace or collar; this
throat was round, distinct in outline, its fairness beautiful not only
in front, but also behind, under and at the edges of the hair where the
comb had lifted the thick, soft mass and swept it up to take its place
in the braids above. Garda's features were fine, but they were not of
the Greek type, save that the beautiful forehead was low; the mouth was
not small, the lips full, delicately curved. When she smiled, these lips
had a marked sweetness of expression. They parted over brilliantly white
teeth, which, with the colors in her hair and complexion, were the
direct gifts of English ancestors, as her dark eyes with their long,
curling, dark lashes, the thickness of her brown braids, her rounded
figure with its graceful unhurrying gait and high-arched little feet,
were inheritances from the Dueros.
But written words are not the artist's colors; they can never paint the
portrait which all the world can see. A woman may be described, and by a
truthful pen, as possessing large eyes, regular features, and so on
through the list, and yet that woman may move through life quite without
charm, while another who is chronicled, and with equal truthfulness, as
having a profile which is far from showing accordance with artists'
rules, may receive through all her days the homage paid to loveliness
alone. The bare catalogue of features, tints, and height does not
include the subtle spell whose fulness crowns the one, while its lack
mars the other, and a narrator, therefore, while allowing himself as
detailed a delineation as it pleases him to give, should set down
plainly at the end the result, the often mysterious and unexpected
whole, which the elements he has described have, in some occult manner,
combined to produce. "There was an enchantment in her expression,"
"There was an irresistible sweetness about her;" these phrases tell more
than the most minute record of hue and outline; they place the reader
where he would be were the living, breathing presence before him,
instead of the mere printed page.
But in the case of Garda Thorne it could have been said that she had not
only brilliant beauty, but the loveliness which does not always
accompany it. There was sufficient regularity in her face to keep from
it the term irregular; but it had also all the changing expressions, all
the spirit, all the sweetness, which faces whose features are not by
rule often possess. She had undoubtedly a great charm, a charm which no
one had as yet analyzed; she was not a girl who turned one's thoughts
towards analysis, one was too much occupied in simply admiring her. She
was as open as the day, her frankness was wonderful; it would have been
said of her by every one that she had an extraordinary simplicity, were
it not that the richness of her beauty threw over her a sort of
sumptuousness which did not accord with the usual image of pure, rather
meagre limpidity called up by the use of that word.
Evert Winthrop, beholding her for the first time in the little Episcopal
church of Gracias, had said to himself that she was the most beautiful
girl (viewing the matter impersonally) whom he had ever seen.
Impersonally, because he would have set down his personal preference as
decidedly for something less striking, for eyes of blue rather than
black, eyes which should be not so much lustrous as gentle, for smooth
hair of pale gold, a forehead and eyebrows like those of a Raphael
Madonna. He was sure, also, that he much preferred slenderness; even a
certain virginal thinness and awkwardness he could accept, it might be
part of the charm. A friend of his, a lady older than himself, upon
hearing him express these sentiments not long before, had remarked that
they shed a good deal of light backward over his past. When he asked her
what she meant, she added that a liking for little wild flowers in a man
of the world of his age, and an indifference to tea-roses, did not so
much indicate a natural simplicity of taste as something quite apart
from that--too long an acquaintance, perhaps, with the heavily perfumed
atmosphere of conservatories.
"I don't know what you are trying to make me out," Winthrop had
answered, laughing.
"I make you out a very good fellow," replied the lady. "But you are like
my husband (who is also a very good fellow); he wonders how I can go to
the theatre, plays are so artificial. I suppose they are artificial; but
I notice that it required his closest--I may almost say his
nightly--attention for something like fifteen years to find it out."
Winthrop happened to think of this little conversation--he knew not
why--as he followed his guide through her green-walled path, which had
now become so narrow that he could no longer walk by her side. As it
came up in his mind he said to himself that here was a tea-rose, growing
if not quite in the seclusion of untrodden forests where the wild
flowers have their home, then at least in natural freedom, in the pure
air and sunshine, under the open sky. There was--there could be--nothing
of the conservatory, nothing artificial, in the only life Edgarda Thorne
had known, the life of this remote southern village where she had been
born and brought up. Her knowledge of the world outside was--must
be--confined to the Spanish-tinted legends of the slumberous little
community, to the limited traditions of her mother's small experience,
and to the perceptions and fancies of her own imagination; these last,
however numerous they might be in themselves, however vivid, must leave
her much in the condition of a would-be writer of dramas who has never
read a play nor seen one acted, but has merely evolved something vaguely
resembling one from the dreaming depths of his own consciousness;
Garda's idea of the world beyond the barrens must be equally vague and
unreal. And then, as he looked at her, sweet-natured and indifferent,
walking onward with her indolent step over her own land, under the low
blue sky, it came over him suddenly that probably she had not troubled
herself to evolve anything, to think much of any world, good or bad,
outside of her own personality. And he said to himself that wherever she
was would be world enough for most men. In which class, however, he
again did not include Evert Winthrop.
The path made a sudden turn, and stopped. It had brought them to the
borders of a waste.
"This was one of the sugar fields," said Garda, with her little air of
uninterested proprietorship.
Two old roads, raised on embankments, crossed the level, one from north
to south, the other from east to west. The verge upon which they stood
had once been a road also, though now narrowed and in some places
blocked by the bushes which had grown across it. "A little farther on,
beyond that point, you will find our ruin," said Garda. "There will not
be time to sketch it, I will wait for you here."
"You are deserting me very soon."
"I am not deserting you at all, I intend to take you remorselessly over
the entire place. But there are thorns in those bushes, and thorns are
dangerous."
"I know it, I am already wounded."
"I mean that the briers might tear my dress," explained Miss Thorne,
with dignity.
This stately rejection of so small and, as it were, self-made a pun
entertained her companion highly; it showed how unfamiliar she was with
the usual commonplaces. Talking with her would be not unlike talking
with a princess in a fairy tale--one of those who have always lived
mysteriously imprisoned in a tower; such a damsel, regarding her own
rank, would be apt to have a standard which might strike the first comer
as fantastically high. His entertainment, however, was not visible as,
with a demeanor modelled upon the requirements of her dignity, he bent
back the thorny bushes of the green cape, and made a passageway for her
round its point. When his little roadway was finished, she came over it
with her leisurely step, as though (he said to himself) it and the whole
world, including his own poor individuality, belonged to her by
inherited right, whenever she should choose to claim them. He was well
aware that he was saying to himself a good many things about this girl;
but was it not natural--coming unexpectedly upon so much beauty, set in
so unfamiliar a frame? It was a new portrait, and he was fond of
portraits; in picture-galleries he always looked more at the portraits
than at anything else.
On the opposite side of the thorny cape the ruin came into view,
standing back in a little arena of its own. Two of its high stone walls
remained upright, irregularly broken at the top, and over them clambered
a vine with slender leaves and long curling sprays that thrust
themselves boldly out into the air, covered with bell-shaped, golden
blossoms. This was the yellow jessamine, the lovely wild jessamine of
Florida.
"You will look at it, please, from the other side," announced Garda; "it
looks best from there. There will not be time to sketch it."
"Why do you keep taking it for granted that I sketch? Do I look like an
artist?"
"Oh no; I've never seen an artist, but I'm sure you don't look like one.
I suppose you sketch simply because I suppose northerners can do
everything; I shall be fearfully disappointed if they cannot--when I see
them."
"Do you wish to see them?"
"I wish to see hundreds," answered Miss Thorne, with great deliberation,
"I wish to see thousands. I wish to see them at balls; I have never seen
a ball. I wish to see them driving in parks; I have never seen a park. I
wish to see them climbing mountains; I have never seen a mountain--"
"They don't do it in droves, you know," interpolated her companion.
"--I wish to see them in the halls of Congress; I have never seen
Congress. I wish to see them at the Springs; I have never seen Springs.
I wish to see them wearing diamonds; I have never seen diamonds--"
"The last is a wish easily gratified. In America, as one may say, the
diamond's the only wear," remarked Winthrop, taking out a little
linen-covered book.
Garda did not question this assertion, which reduced her own
neighborhood to so insignificant an exception to a general rule that it
need not even be mentioned. To her Florida was Florida. America? That
was quite another country.
"You are going to sketch, after all," said the girl. She looked about
her for a conveniently shaped fragment among the fallen blocks, and,
finding one, seated herself, leaning against a second sun-warmed
fragment which she took as her chair's back. "I thought I mentioned that
there would not be time," she added, indolently, in her sweet voice.
"It will take but a moment," answered Winthrop. "I am no artist, as you
have already mentioned; but, plainly, as a northerner, I must do
something, or fall hopelessly below your expectations. There is no
mountain here for me to climb, there is no ball at which I can dance.
I'm not a Congressman and can't tell you about the 'halls,' and I
haven't a diamond to my name, not one. Clearly, therefore, I must
sketch; there is nothing else left." And with slow, accurate touch he
began to pencil an outline of the flower-starred walls upon his little
page. Garda, the handle of her white umbrella poised on one shoulder,
watched him from under its shade. He did not look up nor break the
silence, and after a while she closed her eyes and sat there motionless
in the flower-perfumed air. Thus they remained for fully fifteen
minutes, and Winthrop, going on with his work, admired her passiveness,
he had never before seen the ability to maintain undisturbed an easy
silence in a girl so young. True, the silence had in it something of
that same element of indifference which he had noted in her before; but
one could pardon her that for her tranquillity, which was so charming
and so rare.
"Ah--sketching?" said a voice, breaking the stillness. "Yes--yes--the
old mill has, I suppose, become an object of antiquity; we must think of
it now as venerable, moss-grown."
Garda opened her eyes. "Jessamine-grown," she said, extending her hand.
The new-comer, whose footsteps had made no sound on the sand as he came
round the cape of thorns, now crossed the arena, and made a formal
obeisance over the little glove; then he threw back his shoulders, put
his hands behind him, and remained standing beside her with a
protecting, hospitable air, which seemed to include not only herself and
the stranger artist, but the ruin, the sky, the sunshine, and even to
bestow a general benediction upon the whole long, warm peninsula itself,
stretching like a finger pointing southward from the continent's broad
palm into the tropic sea.
But now Miss Thorne laid her white umbrella upon the heap of fallen
blocks beside her, and rose; she did this as though it were something of
a trouble, but a trouble that was necessary. She walked forward several
steps, and turned first towards the new-comer, then towards the younger
gentleman. "Let me present to you, Doctor, Mr. Evert Winthrop, of New
York," she said, formally. "Mr. Winthrop, this is our valued friend, Mr.
Reginald Kirby, surgeon, of Gracias-á-Dios." She then returned to her
seat with the air of one who had performed an important task.
Dr. Kirby now advanced and offered his hand to Winthrop. He was a little
man, but a little man with plenty of presence; he bore--if one had an
eye for such things--a general resemblance to a canary-bird. He had a
firm, plump little person, upon which his round, partly bald head
(visible as he stood with hat doffed) was set, with scarcely any
