books, of the principal perversions, I do not pretend 
to carry any of them in my head. The huge bare 
mass, without ornament, without grace, despoiled of its 
battlements and defaced with sordid modern windows, 
covering the Rocher des Doms, and looking down over 
the Rhone and the broken bridge of Saint-Benazet 
(which stops in such a sketchable manner in mid 
stream), and across at the lonely tower of Philippe le 
Bel and the ruined wall of Villeneuve, makes at a dis 
tance, in spite of its poverty, a great figure, the effect 
of which is carried out by the tower of the church be 
side it (crowned though the latter be, in a top-heavy 
fashion, with an immense modern image of the Virgin) 
and by the thick, dark foliage of the garden laid out 
on a still higher portion of the eminence. This garden 
recalls, faintly and a trifle perversely, the grounds of 
the Pincian at Rome. I know not whether it is the 
shadow of the Papal name, present in both places, 
combined with a vague analogy between the churches, 
which, approached in each case by a flight of steps, 
seemed to defend the precinct, but each time I have 
seen the Promenade des Doms it has carried my 
thoughts to the wider and loftier terrace from which 
you look away at the Tiber and Saint Peter s. 
As you stand before the Papal palace, and espe 
cially as you enter it, you are struck with its being a 
very dull monument. History enough was enacted 
here: the great schism lasted from 1305 to 1370, dur 
ing which seven Popes, all Frenchmen, carried on the 
court of Avignon on principles that have not com 
mended themselves to the esteem of posterity. But 
history has been whitewashed away, and the scandals 
of that period have mingled with the dust of dilapi 
dations and repairs. The building has for many years 
been occupied as a barrack for regiments of the line, 
and the main characteristics of a barrack an extreme 
nudity and a very queer smell prevail throughout its 
endless compartments. Nothing could have been more 
cruelly dismal than the appearance it presented at the 
time of this third visit of mine. A regiment, changing 
  
quarters, had departed the day before, and another 
was expected to arrive (from Algeria) on the morrow. 
The place had been left in the befouled and belittered 
condition which marks the passage of the military after 
they have broken camp, and it would offer but a me 
lancholy welcome to the regiment that was about to 
take possession. Enormous windows had been left 
carelessly open all over the building, and the rain and 
wind were beating into empty rooms and passages; 
making draughts which purified, perhaps, but which 
scarcely cheered. For an arrival, it was horrible. A 
handful of soldiers had remained behind. In one of 
the big vaulted rooms several of them were lying on 
their wretched beds, in the dim light, in the cold, in 
the damp, with the bleak, bare walls before them, and 
their overcoats, spread over them, pulled up to their 
noses. I pitied them immensely, though they may 
have felt less wretched than they looked. I thought 
not of the old profligacies and crimes, not of the 
funnel-shaped torture-chamber (which, after exciting 
the shudder of generations, has been ascertained now, 
I believe, to have been a mediaeval bakehouse), not of 
the tower of the glacttre and the horrors perpetrated 
here in the Revolution , but of the military burden of 
young France. One wonders how young France en 
dures it, and one is forced to believe that the French 
conscript has, in addition to his notorious good-liumor, 
greater toughness than is commonly supposed by those 
who consider only the more relaxing influences of 
French civilization. I hope he finds occasional com- 
pensation for such moments as I saw those damp 
young peasants passing on the mattresses of their 
hideous barrack, without anything around to remind 
them that they were in the most civilized of countries. 
The only traces of former splendor now visible in 
the Papal pile are the walls and vaults of two small 
chapels, painted in fresco, so battered and effaced as 
to be scarcely distinguishable, by Simone Memmi. It 
offers, of course, a peculiarly good field for restoration, 
and I believe the government intend to take it in 
hand. I mention this fact without a sigh; for they 
cannot well make it less interesting than it is at 
present. 
XXXIV. 
FORTUNATELY, it did not rain every day (though I 
believe it was raining everywhere else in the depart 
ment); otherwise I should not have been able to go 
to Villeneuve and to Vaucluse. The afternoon, indeed, 
was lovely when I walked over the interminable bridge 
that spans the two arms of the Rhone, divided here 
by a considerable island, and directed my course, like 
a solitary horseman on foot, to the lonely tower 
which forms one of the outworks of Villeneuve-les- 
Avignon. The picturesque, half-deserted little town 
lies a couple of miles further up the river. The im 
mense round towers of its old citadel and the long 
stretches of ruined wall covering the slope on which 
  
it lies, are the most striking features of the nearer 
view, as you look from Avignon across the Rhone. I 
spent a couple of hours in visiting these objects, and 
there was a kind of pictorial sweetness in the episode; 
but I have not many details to relate. The isolated 
tower I just mentioned has much in common with the 
detached donjon of Montmajour, which I had looked 
at in going to Les Baux, and to which I paid my 
respects in speaking of that excursion. Also the work 
of Philippe le Bel (built in 1307), it is amazingly big 
and stubborn, and formed the opposite limit of the 
broken bridge, whose first arches (on the side of 
Avignon) alone remain to give a measure of the oc 
casional volume of the Rhone. Half an hour 's walk 
brought me to Villeneuve, which lies away from the 
river, looking like a big village, half depopulated, and 
occupied for the most part by dogs and cats, old 
women and small children; these last, in general, re 
markably pretty, in the manner of the children of 
Provence. You pass through the place, which seems 
in a singular degree vague and unconscious, and come 
to the rounded hill on which the ruined abbey lifts 
its yellow walls, the Benedictine abbey of Saint- 
Andre, at once a church, a monastery, and a fortress. 
A large part of the crumbling enceinte disposes itself 
over the hill; but for the rest, all that has preserved 
any traceable cohesion is a considerable portion of 
the citadel. The defence of the place appears to have 
been intrusted largely to the huge round towers that 
flank the old gate; one of which, the more complete, 
the ancient warden (having first inducted me into his 
own dusky little apartment, and presented me with 
a great bunch of lavender) enabled me to examine in 
detail. I would almost have dispensed with the privi 
lege, for I think I have already mentioned that an ac 
quaintance with many feudal interiors has wrought a 
sad confusion in my mind. The image of the outside 
always remains distinct; I keep it apart from other 
images of the same sort; it makes a picture sufficiently 
ineffaceable. But the guard-rooms, winding staircases, 
loop-holes, prisons, repeat themselves and intermingle; 
they have a wearisome family likeness. There are 
always black passages and corners, and walls twenty 
feet thick; and there is always some high place to 
climb up to for the sake of a "magnificent" view. 
The views, too, are apt to get muddled. These dense 
gate-towers of Philippe le Bel struck me, however, as 
peculiarly wicked and grim. Their capacity is of the 
largest, and they contain ever so many devilish little 
dungeons, lighted by the narrowest slit in the pro 
digious wall, where it comes over one with *a good 
deal of vividness and still more horror that wretched 
human beings ever lay there rotting in the dark. The 
dungeons of Villeneuve made a particular impression 
on me, greater than any, except those of Loches, 
which must surely be the most grewsome in Europe. 
I hasten to add that every dark hole at Villeneuve is 
called a dungeon; and I believe it is well established 
that in this manner, in almost all old castles and 
towers, the sensibilities of the modern tourist are uu- 
scrupulously played upon. There were plenty of black 
holes in the Middle Ages that were not dungeons, but 
household receptacles of various kinds; and many a 
tear dropped in pity for the groaning captive has really 
been addressed to the spirits of the larder and the 
faggot-nook. For all this, there are some very bad 
corners in the towers of Villeneuve , so that I was not 
wide of the mark when I began to think again , as I 
had often thought before, of the stoutness of the human 
composition in the Middle Ages, and the tranquillity 
of nerve of people to whom the groaning captive and 
the blackness of a "living tomb" were familiar ideas, 
which did not at all interfere with their happiness or 
their sanity. Our modern nerves, our irritable sym 
pathies, our easy discomforts and fears, make one think 
(in some relations) less respectfully of human nature. 
Unless, indeed, it be true, as I have heard it main 
tained, that in the Middle Ages every one did go mad, 
every one was mad. The theory that this was a 
period of general insanity is not altogether indefensible. 
Within the old walls of its immense abbey the 
town of Villeneuve has built itself a rough faubourg; 
the fragments with which the soil was covered having 
been, I suppose, a quarry of material. There are no 
streets; the small, shabby houses, almost hovels, straggle 
at random over the uneven ground. The only im 
portant feature is a convent of cloistered nuns, who 
have a large garden (always within the walls) behind 
their house, and whose doleful establishment you look 
down into, or down at simply, from the battlements of 
the citadel. One or two of the nuns were passing in 
and out of the house; they wore gray robes, with a 
bright red cape. I thought their situation most pro 
vincial. I came away, and wandered a little over the 
base of the hill, outside the walls. Small white stones 
cropped through the grass, over which low olive-trees 
were scattered. The afternoon had a yellow bright 
ness. I sat down under one of the little trees, on the 
grass, the delicate gray branches were not much 
above my head, and rested, and looked at Avignon 
across the Rhone. It was very soft, very still and 
pleasant, though I am not sure it was all I once should 
have expected of that combination of elements : an old 
city wall for a background, a canopy of olives, and, 
for a couch, the soil of Provence. 
When I came back to Avignon the twilight was 
already thick; but I walked up to the Rocher dcs 
Doms. Here I again had the benefit of that amiable 
moon which had already lighted up for me so many 
romantic scenes. She was full, and she rose over the 
Rhone, and made it look in the distance like a silver 
serpent. I remember saying to myself at this mo 
ment, that it would be a beautiful evening to walk 
round the walls of Avignon, the remarkable walls, 
which challenge comparison with those of Carcassonne 
and Aigues-Mortes , and which it was my duty, as an 
observer of the picturesque, to examine with some at 
tention. Presenting themselves to that silver sheen, 
they could not fail to be impressive. So, at least, I 
said to myself; but, unfortunately, I did not believe 
  
what I said. It is a melancholy fact that the walls of 
Avignon had never impressed me at all, and I had 
never taken the trouble to make the circuit. They 
are continuous and complete, but for some mysterious 
reason they fail of their effect. This is partly because 
they are very low, in some places almost absurdly so; 
being buried in new accumulations of soil, and by 
the filling in of the moat up to their middle. Then 
they have been too well tended ; they not only look at 
present very new, but look as if they had never been 
old. The fact that their extent is very much greater 
makes them more of a curiosity than those of Carcas 
sonne; but this is exactly, as the same time, what is 
fatal to their pictorial unity. With their thirty-seven 
towers and seven gates they lose themselves too much 
to make a picture that will compare with the ad 
mirable little vignette of Carcassonne. I may mention, 
now that I am speaking of the general mass of Avignon, 
that nothing is more curious than the way in which, 
viewed from a distance, it is all reduced to nought by 
the vast bulk of the palace of the Popes. From across 
the Rhone, or from the train, as you leave the place, 
this great gray block is all Avignon; it seems to occupy 
the whole city, extensive, with its shrunken population, 
as the city is. 
 
IT was the morning after this, I think (a certain 
Saturday), that when I came out of the Hotel de 
l'Europe, which lies in a shallow concavity just within 
the city gate that opens on the Rhone, came out to 
look at the sky from the little place before the inn, 
and see how the weather promised for the obligatory 
excursion to Vaucluse, I found the whole town in a 
terrible taking. I say the whole town advisedly; for 
every inhabitant appeared to have taken up a position 
on the bank of the river, or on the uppermost parts 
of the promenade of the Doms, where a view of its 
course was to be obtained. It had risen surprisingly 
in the night, and the good people of Avignon had 
reason to know what a rise of the Rhone might signify. 
The town, in its lower portions, is quite at the mercy 
of the swollen waters; and it was mentioned to me 
that in 1856 the Hotel de FEurope, in its convenient 
hollow, was flooded up to within a few feet of the 
ceiling of the dining-room, where the long board which 
had served for so many a table d hote floated dis 
reputably, with its legs in the air. On the present 
occasion the mountains of the Ardeche, where it had 
been raining for a month, had sent down torrents 
which, all that fine Friday night, by the light of the 
innocent-looking moon, poured themselves into the 
Rhone and its tributary, the Durance. The river was 
enormous, and continued to rise; and the sight was 
  
beautiful and horrible. The water in many places 
was already at the base of the city walls; the quay, 
with its parapet just emerging, being already covered. 
The country, seen from the Plateau des Doms, re 
sembled a vast lake, with protrusions of trees, houses, 
bridges, gates. The people looked at it in silence, as 
I had seen people before on the occasion of a rise 
of the Arno, at Pisa appear to consider the prospects 
of an inundation. "II monte; il monte toujours," 
there was not much said but that. It was a general 
holiday, and there was an air of wishing to profit, for 
sociability 's sake, by any interruption of the common 
place (the popular mind likes "a change," and the 
element of change mitigates the sense of disaster); but 
the affair was not otherwise a holiday. Suspense and 
anxiety were in the air, and it never is pleasant to be 
reminded of the helplessness of man. In the presence 
of a loosened river, with its ravaging, unconquerable 
volume, this impression is as strong as possible; and 
as I looked at the deluge which threatened to make 
an island of the Papal palace, I perceived that the 
scourge of water is greater than the scourge of fire. 
A blaze may be quenched, but where could the flame 
be kindled that would arrest the quadrupled Rhone? 
For the population of Avignon a good deal was at 
stake, and I am almost ashamed to confess that in the 
midst of the public alarm I considered the situation 
from the point of view of the little projects of a senti 
mental tourist. Would the prospective inundation inter 
fere with my visit to Vaucluse, or make it imprudent 
to linger twenty- four hours longer at Avignon? I must 
add that the tourist was not perhaps, after all, so 
sentimental. I have spoken of the pilgrimage to the 
shrine of Petrarch as obligatory, and that was, in fact, 
the light in which it presented itself to me; all the 
more that I had been twice at Avignon without under- 
taking it. This is why I was vexed at the Rhone if 
vexed I was for representing as impracticable an ex 
cursion which I cared nothing about. How little I 
cared was manifest from my inaction on former oc 
casions. I had a prejudice against Vaucluse, against 
Petrarch, even against the incomparable Laura. I was 
sure that the place was cockneyfied and threadbare, 
and I had never been able to take an interest in the 
poet and the lady. I was sure that I had known many 
women as charming and as handsome as she, about 
whom much less noise had been made; and I was 
convinced that her singer was factitious and literary, 
and that there are half a dozen stanzas in Wordsworth 
that speak more to the soul than the whole collection 
of his fioriture. This was the crude state of mind in 
which I determined to go, at any risk, to Vaucluse. 
Now that I think it over, I seem to remember that I 
had hoped, after all, that the submersion of the roads 
would forbid it. Since morning the clouds had gathered 
again, and by noon they were so heavy that there was 
every prospect of a torrent. It appeared absurd to 
choose such a time as this to visit a fountain a 
fountain which would be indistinguishable in the 
general cataract. Nevertheless I took a vow, that if 
  
at noon the rain should not have begun to descend 
upon Avignon I would repair to the head-spring of the 
Sorgues. When the critical moment arrived, the clouds 
were hanging over Avignon like distended water-bags, 
which only needed a prick to empty themselves. The 
prick was not given, however; all nature was too much 
occupied in following the aberration of the Rhone to 
think of playing tricks elsewhere. Accordingly, I started 
for the station in a spirit which, for a tourist who 
sometimes had prided himself on his unfailing supply 
of sentiment, was shockingly perfunctory. 
For tasks in hours of insight willed 
May be in hours of gloom fulfilled. " 
I remembered these lines of Matthew Arnold (written, 
apparently, in an hour of gloom), and carried out the 
idea, as I went, by hoping that with the return of in 
sight I should be glad to have seen Vaucluse. Light 
has descended upon me since then, and I declare that 
the excursion is in every way to be recommended. 
The place makes a great impression, quite apart from 
Petrarch and Laura. 
There was no rain; there was only, all the after 
noon, a mild, moist wind, and a sky magnificently 
black, which made a repoussoir for the paler cliffs of 
the fountain. The road, by train, crosses a flat, ex 
pressionless country, toward the range of arid hills 
which lie to the east of Avignon, and which spring 
(says Murray) from the mass of the Mont-Ventoux. At 
Isle-sur-Sorgues, at the end of about an hour, the fore- 
ground becomes much more animated and the distance 
much more (or perhaps I should say much less) actual. 
I descended from the train, and ascended to the top 
of an omnibus which was to convey me into the re 
cesses of the hills. It had not been among my pre 
visions that I should be indebted to a vehicle of that 
kind for an opportunity to commune with the spirit of 
Petrarch; and I had to borrow what consolation I 
could from the fact that at least I had the omnibus to 
myself. I was the only passenger; every one else was 
at Avignon, watching the Rhone. I lost no time in 
perceiving that I could not have come to Vaucluse at 
a better moment. The Sorgues was almost as full as 
the Rhone, and of a color much more romantic. Rush 
ing along its narrowed channel under an avenue of 
fine platanes (it is confined between solid little embank 
ments of stone), with the good-wives of the village , on 
the brink, washing their linen in its contemptuous 
flood, it gave promise of high entertainment further on. 
The drive to Vaucluse is of about three quarters of 
an hour; and though the river, as I say, was promis 
ing, the big pale hills, as the road winds into them, 
did not look as if their slopes of stone and shrub were 
a nestling-place for superior scenery. It is a part of 
the merit of Vaucluse, indeed, that it is as much as 
possible a surprise. The place has a right to its name, 
for the valley appears impenetrable until you get fairly 
into it. One perverse twist follows another, until the 
omnibus suddenly deposits you in front of the "cabinet" 
of Petrarch. After that you have only to walk along 
  
the left bank of the river. The cabinet of Petrarch is 
to-day a hideous little cafe, bedizened, like a sign 
board, with extracts from the ingenious "Rime." The 
poet and his lady are, of course, the stock in trade of 
the little village, which has had for several generations 
