his set teeth, and pushed on up through the Via 
Guicciardini. "I will go to the Boboli because I 
said I would." 
As he walked along, he seemed to himself to be 
merely crumbling away in this impulse and that, in 
one abortive intent and another. What did it all 
mean ? Had he been his w hole life one of these 
weak wills which are a curse to themselves and 
others, and most a curse when they mean the best .
Was that the secret of his f ailure in life ? But for 
many years he had seemed to succeed, to be as other 
men were, hard, practical men ; he had once made a 
goodTnewspaper, which was ceiFtafnly not a dream of 
romance. Had_he_giYen "EEaTlip "at~Tas?rteeause he 
was a weak will '? And now was he runnin g away 
from Florence because his will was weak ? He could 
look back to that squalid tragedy of his youth, and 
see that a more violent, a more determined man 
could have possessed himself of the girl whom he 
 
had lost. And now would it not be more manly, if 
more brutal, to stay here, where a hope, however 
fleeting, however fitful, of what might have been, 
had revisited him in the love of this young girl ? 
He felt sure, if anything were sure, that something 
in him, in spite of their wide disparity of years, had 
captured her fancy, and now, in his abasement, he 
felt again the charm of his own power over her. 
They were no farther apart in years than many a 
husband and wife ; they would grow more and 
more together ; there was youth enough in his heart 
yet ; and who was pushing him away from her, for- 
bidding him this treasure that he had but to put out 
his hand and make his own ? Some one whom 
through all his thoughts of another he was trying to 
please, but whom he had made finally and inexor- 
ably his enemy. Better stay, th en, something said 
to him ; and when h e answered, " I will," something 
else reminded him that this also w aij IlOt willing but 
unwilling. 
XIV. 
When he entered the beautiful old garden, ita 
benison of peace fell upon his tumult, and he began 
to breathe a freer air, reverting to his purpose to be 
gone in the morning and resting in it, as he strolled 
up the broad curve of its alley from the gate. He 
had not been there since he walked there with one 
now more like a ghost to him than any of the dead 
who_had since died. It was there that she had 
refused him ; he recalled with a grim smile the 
awfewardnoss of getting back with her to the gate 
from the point, far within the garden, where he had 
spoken. Except that this had happened in the fall, 
and now it was early spring, there seemed no change 
since then ; the long years that had elapsed were 
like a winter between. 
He met people in groups and singly loitering 
through the paths, and chiefly speaking English ; 
but no one spoke to him, and no one invaded the 
solitude in which he walked. But the garden itself 
seemed to know him, and to give him a tacit recog- 
nition; the great, foolish grotto before the gate, with 
its statues by Bandinelli, and the fantastic effects 
of drapery and flesh in party-coloured statues lifted 
high on either side of the avenue ; the vast shoulder 
of wall, covered thick with ivy and myrtle, which 
he passed on his way to the amphitheatre hehind 
the palace ; the alternate figures and urns on their 
pedestals in the hemicycle, as if the urns were placed 
there to receive the ashes of the figures when they 
became extinct ; the white statues or the colossal 
busts set at the ends of the long alleys -against black 
curtains of foliage ; the big fountain, with its group 
in the centre of the little lake, and the meadow, 
quiet and sad, that stretched away on one side from 
this ; the keen light under the levels of the dense 
pines and ilexes ; the paths striking straight on 
either hand from the avenue through which he 
sauntered, and the walk that coiled itself through 
the depths of the plantations ; all knew him, and 
from them and from the winter neglect which was 
upon the place distilled a subtle infiuence, a charm, 
an appeal belonging to that combination of artifice 
and nature which is perfect only in an Italian 
garden under an Italian sky. He was right in the 
name which he mockingly gave the effect before he 
felt it; it was a debauch, delicate, refined, of un- 
serious pensiveness, a smiling melancholy, in which 
he walked emancipated from his harassing hopes, 
and keeping only his shadowy regrets. 
Colville did not care to scale the easy height from 
which you have the magnificent view, conscious of 
many photographs, of Florence. He wandered about 
the skirts of that silent meadow, and seeing himself 
unseen, he invaded its borders far enough to pluck 
one of those large scarlet anemones, such as he had 
given his gentle enemy. It was tilting there in the 
breeze above the unkempt grass, and the grass vrns 
beginning to feel the spring, and to stir and stretch 
itself after its winter sleep; it was sprinkled with 
violets, but these he did not molest. He came back 
to a stained and mossy stone bench on the avenue, 
fronting a pair of rustic youths carved in stone, who 
had not yet finished some game in which he remem- 
bered seeing them engaged when he was there before. 
He had not walked fast, but he had walked far, and 
was warm enough to like the whiffs of soft wind on 
his uncovered head. The spring was coming ; that 
was its breath, which you know unmistakably in 
Italy after all the kisses that winter gives. Some 
birds were singing in the trees ; down an alley into 
which he could look, between the high walls of 
green, he could see two people in flirtation : he 
waited patiently till the young man should put his 
arm round the girl's waist, for the fleeting embrace 
from which she pushed it and fled further down the 
path. 
" Yes, it 's spring," thought Colville ; and then, 
with the selfishness of the troubled soul, he wished 
that it might be winter still and indefinitely. It 
occurred to him now that he should not go back to 
Des Vaches, for he did not know what he should do 
there. He would go to New York ; though he did 
not know what he should do in New York, either. 
He became tired of looking at the people who 
 
passed, and of speculating about them through the 
second consciousness which enveloped the sad sub- 
stance of his misgivings like an atmosphere ; and 
he let his eyelids fall, as he leaned his head back 
against the tree behind his bench. Then their 
voices pursued him through the twilight that he had 
made himself, and forced him to the same weary 
conjecture as if he had seen their faces. He heard 
gay laughter, and laughter that affected gaiety ; the 
tones of young men in earnest disquisition reached 
him through the veil, and the talk, falling to whisper, 
of girls, with the names of men in it ; sums of money, 
a hundred francs, forty thousand francs, came in high 
tones ; a husband and wife went by quarrelling in 
the false security of English, and snapping at each 
other as confidingly as if in the sanctuary of home. 
The man bade the woman not be a fool , and she 
asked him how she was to endure his company if 
she was not a fool. 
Colville opened his eyes to look after them, when 
a voice that he knew called out, " Why, it is Mr. 
Colville!" 
It was Mrs. Amsden, and pausing with her, as if 
they had passed him in doubt, and arrested them- 
selves when they had got a little way by, were Effie 
Bowen and Imogene Graham. The old lady had the 
child by the hand, and the girl stood a few paces 
apart from them. She was one of those beauties 
who have the property of looking very plain at times, 
and Colville, who had seen her in more than one 
transformation, now beheld her somehow clumsy of 
 
feature, and with the youth gone from her aspect 
She seemed a woman of thirty, and she wore an un- 
becoming walking dress of a fashion that contributed 
to this effect of age. Colville was aware afterward 
of having wished that she was really as old and 
plain as she looked. 
He had to come forward, and put on the conven- 
tional delight of a gentleman meeting lady friends. 
" It 's remarkable how your having your eyes shut 
estranged you,'' said Mrs. Amsden. " Now, if you 
had let me see you oftener in church, where people 
close their eyes a good deal for one purpose or 
another, I should have known you at once. ' 
" I hope you haven't lost a great deal of time, as 
it is, Mrs. Amsden," said Colville. "Of course I 
should have had my eyes open if I had known you 
were going by." 
" Oh, don't apologise ! " cried the old thing, with 
ready enjoyment of his tone. 
" I don't apologise for not being recognisable ; I 
apologise for being visible," said Colville, with some 
shapeless impression that he ought to excuse his 
continued presence in Florence to Imogene, but 
keeping his eyes upon Mrs. Amsden, to whom what 
he said could not be intelligible. " I ought to be in 
Turin to-day." 
" In Turin ! Are you going away from Florence ?" 
" I 'm going home." 
"Why, did you know that ?" asked the old lady 
of Imogene, who slightly nodded, and then of Effie, 
who also assented. "Eeally, the silence of the 
 
Bowen family in regard to the affairs of others is 
extraordinary. There never was a family more 
eminently qualified to live in Florence. I dare say 
that if I saw a little more of them, I might hope to 
reach the years of discretion myself some day. Why 
are you going away? (You see I haven't reached 
them yet !) Are you tired of Florence already ? " 
" No," said Colville passively ; " Florence is tired 
of me." 
" You 're quite sure ? " 
"Yes; there's no mistaking one of her sex on 
such a point.'' 
Mrs. Amsden laughed. " Ah, a great many people 
mistake us, both ways. And you're really going 
back to America. What in the world for ? " 
" I haven't the least idea." — 
" Is America fonder of you than Florence ? " 
" She 's never told her love. I suspect it 's merely 
that she 's more used to me." 
They were walking, without any volition of his, 
down the slope of the broad avenue to the fountain, 
where he had already been. 
" Is your mother well ? " he asked of the little girl. 
It seemed to him that he had better not speak to 
Imogene, who still kept that little distance from the 
rest, and get away as soon as he decently could. 
" She has a headache," said Effie. 
" Oh, I 'm sorry," returned Colville. 
" Yes, she deputed me to take her young people out 
for an airing," said Mrs. Amsden ; " and Miss Graham 
decided us for the Boboli, where she hadn't been yet. 
 
I Ve done what I could to make the place attractive. 
But what is an old woman to do for a girl in a garden ? 
We ought to have brought some other young people 
—some of the Inglehart boys. Bat we 're respect- 
able, we Americans abroad ; we 're decorous, above 
all things ; and I don't know about meeting you here, 
Mr. Colville. It has a very bad appearance. Are 
you sure that you didn't know I was to go by here 
at exactly half -past four ? " 
" I was living from breath to breath in the ex- 
pectation of seeing you. You must have noticed 
how eagerly I was looking out for you." 
" Yes, and with a single red anemone in your hand, 
so that I should know you without being obliged to 
put on my spectacles." 
" You divine everything, Mrs. Amsden," he said, 
giving her the flower. 
" I shall make my brags to Mrs. Bowen when I 
see her," said the old lady. "How far into the 
country did you walk for this ? " 
" As far as the meadow yonder." 
They had got down to the sheet of water from 
which the sea-horses of the fountain sprang, and the 
old lady sank upon a bench near it. Colville held 
out his hand toward Effie. " I saw a lot of violets 
over there in the grass." 
"Did you ?" She put her hand eagerly into his, 
and they strolled off together. After a first motion 
to accompany them, Imogene sat down beside Mrs. 
Amsden, answering quietly the talk of the old lady, 
and seeming in nowise concerned about the expedi- 
 
tion for violets. Except for a dull first glance, she 
did not look that way: Colville stood in the border of 
the grass, and the child ran quickly hither and thither 
in it, stooping from time to time upon the flowers. 
Then she came out to where he stood, and showed 
her bunch of violets, looking up into the face which 
he bent upon her, while he trifled with his cane. 
He had a very fatherly air with her. 
" I think I 'll go and see what they 've found," 
said Imogene irrelevantly, to a remark of Mrs. 
Amsden's about the expensiveness of Madame Bossi's 
bonnets. 
"Well,'' said the old lady. Imogene started, 
and the little girl ran to meet her. She detained 
Effie with her admiration of the violets till Colville 
lounged reluctantly up. " G-o and show them to Mrs. 
Amsden," she said, giving back the violets, which 
she had been smelling. The child ran on. "Mr. 
Colville, I want to speak with you." 
" Yes,'' said Colville helplessly. 
" Why are you going away ? " 
" Why ? Oh, I 've accomplished the objects — or 
no-objects — I came for," he said, with dreary trivi- 
ality, " and I must hurry away to other fields of 
activity." He kept his eyes on her face, which he 
saw full of a passionate intensity, working to some 
sort of overflow. 
" That is not true, and you needn't say it to spare 
me. You are going away because Mrs. Bowen said 
something to you about me." 
" Not quite that," returned Colville gently. 
 
" No ; it was something that she said to me about 
you. But it 's the same thing. It makes no differ- 
ence. I ask you not to go for that.'' 
" Do you know what you are saying, Imogene ?" 
"Yes." 
Colville waited a long moment. " Then, I thank 
you, you dear girl, and I am going to-morrow, all 
the same. But I shan't forget this; whatever my 
life is to be, this will make it less unworthy and less 
unhappy. If it could buy anything to give you joy, 
to add some little grace to the good that must come 
to you, I would give it. Some day you 'll meet the 
young fellow whom you 're to make immortal, and 
you must tell him of an old fellow who knew you 
afar off, and understood how to worship you for an 
»angel of pity and unselfishness. Ah, I hope he 'll 
understand, too ! Good-bye." If he was to fly, that 
was the sole instant. He took her hand, and said 
again, "Good-bye." And then he suddenly cried, 
" Imogene, do you wish me to stay ? " 
" Yes ! " said the girl, pouring all the intensity of 
her face into that whisper. 
" Even if there had been nothing said to make me 
go away — should you still wish me to stay ? " 
"Yes." 
He looked her in the starry, lucid eyes, where a 
divine fervour deepened. He sighed in nerveless 
perplexity ; it was she who had the courage. 
" It 's a mistake ! You mustn't ! I am too old 
for you ! It would be a wrong and a cruelty ! Yes, 
you must let me go, and forget me. I have been to 
 
blame. If Mrs. Bowen has blamed me, she was right 
— I deserved it ; I deserved all she could say against 
me." 
"She never said anything against you. Do you 
think I would have let her ? No ; it was I that said 
it, and I blamed you. It was because I thought that 
you were — you were " 
" Trifling with you ? How could you think that ?" 
" Yes, I know now how it was, and it makes you 
seem all the grander to me. Did you think I cared 
for your being older than I was ? I never cared for 
it — I never hardly thought of it after the very first. 
I tried to make you understand that, and how it hurt 
me to have you speak of it. Don't you think that I 
could see how good you were ? Do you suppose that 
all I want is to be happy ? I don't care for that — I 
despise it, and I always hate myself for seeking my 
own pleasure, if I find myself doing it. I have seen 
enough of life to know what that comes to ! And 
what hurt me worst of all was that you seemed to 
believe that I cared for nothing but amusing myself, 
when I wished to be something better, higher ! It 's 
nothing whether you are of my age or not, if — if — 
you care for me." 
" Imogene ! " 
" All that I ask is to be with you, and try to make 
you forget what 's been sad in your life, and try to 
be of use to you in whatever you are doing, and I 
shall be prouder and gladder of that than anything 
that people call happiness." 
Colville stood holding her hand, while she uttered 
 
these ideas and incoherent repetitions of them, with 
a deep sense of powerlessness. " If I believed that 
I could keep you frotn regretting this " 
" What should I regret ? I won't let you depreci- 
ate yourself — make yourself out not good enough 
for the best. Oh, I know how it happened ! But 
no* you shall never think of it again. No ; I will 
not let you. That is the only way you could make 
me regret anything." 
" I am going to stay," said Colville. " But on 
my own terms. I will be bound to you, but you 
shall not be bound to me." 
" You doubt me ! I would rather have you go ! 
No ; stay. And let me prove to you how wrong 
you are. I mustn't ask more than that. Only give 
me the chance to show you how different I am from 
what you think — how different you are, too." 
" Yes. But you must be free." , 
" Well." 
" What are they doing so long there ?" asked Mrs. 
Amsden of EfSe, putting her glasses to her eyes. " I 
can't see." 
" They are just holding hands," said the child, 
with an easy satisfaction in the explanation, which 
perhaps the old lady did not share. " He always 
holds my hand when he is with me." 
" Does he, indeed ? " exclaimed Mrs. Amsden, with 
a cackle. She added, " That 's very polite of him, 
isn't it ? You must be a great favourite with Mr. 
Colville. You will miss him when he 's gone." 
"Yes. He 's very nice." 
Colville and ImOgene returned, coming slowly 
across the loose, neglected grass toward the old 
woman's seat. She rose as they came up. 
" You don't seem to have succeeded so well in 
getting flowers for Miss Graham as for the other 
ladies. But perhaps you didn't find her favourite 
over there. What is your favourite flower, Miss 
Graham ? Don't say you have none ! I didn't 
know that I preferred scarlet anemones. Were there 
no forget-me-nots over there in the grass ? " 
" There was no occasion for them," answered 
Colville. 
"You always did make such pretty speeches!" 
said the old lady. " And they have such an orphic 
character, too ; you can interpret them in so many 
different ways. Should you mind saying just whit 
you meant by that one V 
" Yes, very much," replied Colville. 
The old lady laughed with cheerful resignation. 
