for which he had embarked in the present venture.

It was a good six-mile pull to Westport, but Paul was used to the
Dragon, and she went ahead without much effort on his part. The lake was
as smooth as glass, and the rower wondered that it could ever be as
rough as it had been the day the Silver Moon was so nearly wrecked.
Though he was as tough as an oak knot, and had not yet become tired, he
thought it was about time for the stranger in the stern to begin to do
his share of the pulling, for the boat was now about half way to
Westport. Sandy Point was half a mile ahead, and Paul mentioned the fact
as a hint that his companion had better take the oars.

"They say you used to live there, Bristol Brick," said Tom in reply, and
without taking the hint, which was altogether too indefinite for one
with a skin so thick and dirty as the bruiser had.

"I lived there two years," replied Paul indifferently.

"Sho'! You don't say so!" exclaimed Tom, albeit there was nothing very
astonishing in the statement. "They say the Beech Hill fellers kerried
the house you lived in over to Hornet P'int one night, and left
everything jest as though there never hadn't been no house there."

"That's all very true. Major Billcord warned my mother to move the
cottage within twenty-four hours, and told her he should pitch it into
the lake if she didn't do it," added Paul; and the stranger seemed to be
the only person in Addison County who didn't know all the particulars of
the affair.

"I guess the major was a little struck up when he found it had scooted,"
said Tom, with a cheerful grin, as he looked ahead at the point where he
had suggested a meeting of the oarsman with Walk Billcord on the evening
of that day.

"He was very much astonished, and so were the students of the institute,
to whom he had promised a pile of fun in tipping the cottage and all
that it contained into the lake."

"I don't see how the Beech Hill fellers could move the house. I don't
believe they did it," added Tom, shaking his head.

Paul explained how the job had been done, and assured his companion he
had seen the whole work himself. Tom insisted on being incredulous, for
just then he believed he was particularly cunning.

"I never went ashore at Sandy Point, Bristol Brick, and I should like to
see how the land lays there," suggested Tom, with one of his cheerful
grins, exaggerated for the occasion.

"You can see the whole of the shore from here," replied Paul, turning
around and pointing out the locality of the cottage.

"But I want to see the place, and 't won't take two minutes for me to
run up to where the house was," Tom insisted. "Then I will row the rest
of the way over to Westport, and nobody won't git hurt none."

Paul had started more than an hour earlier than he had intended, and
would reach his destination before Lily had finished her day's work.
Besides, he had a kind of affection for the place where he had lived two
years. Just then it flashed upon his mind that he had never visited the
hollow tree which had done duty as a safe for the two dollars and the
gold rings belonging to his mother.

In the excitement of his last visit to the point at the invitation of
the magnate, he had forgotten all about the treasure. His mother had
spoken of it often, but Paul had no doubt it was safe in its
hiding-place, for the money and rings had been put at a tin box.

His mother had spoken of it, and so had he, at the time of it, but
latterly it seemed to have passed out of the memory of all the family.
Paul pulled to the shore as soon as the treasure came into his mind,
and he wondered that he had not thought of it before. His mother had
plenty of money now, and that seemed to be the reason it had been
forgotten.

When Paul swung the boat around, and headed it for the point, he took a
look down the lake. Over in the direction of Button Bay he saw a steam
yacht. There were several such craft on the lake, though all or nearly
all of them were kept farther down. The yacht looked exactly like the
Sylph, and he had no doubt it was she.

"I wonder what the Sylph is doing over there," said he, continuing to
pull for the beach before him. "She went down to Port Henry towing the
gundalow with a cargo of stone."

"I guess the fellers are taking a little turn in her while the men are
unloadin' the stone," suggested Tom, who was not at all pleased to find
the Beech Hill steamer in this part of the lake.

"She is headed this way, and perhaps she is going back to Beech Hill
after something that was forgotten," added Paul, as the Dragon struck
the sand on the beach.

Paul took the painter in his hand and stepped ashore. He paused a moment
to take another look at the Sylph. She was coming up from Button Bay on
the east shore of the lake, and this course would carry her within a
mile of Sandy Point. It was now four o'clock in the afternoon, and the
steamer, with her heavy tow, must have reached Port Henry by eleven at
the latest. If anything had been forgotten, they must have found it out
earlier in the day.

While he was looking at the steam yacht and wondering what she was doing
in this part of the lake without her tow, she suddenly changed her
course and stood over in the direction of Westport. This settled it that
nothing had been forgotten, for she was not going back to Beech Hill.
She was sailing very fast, and seemed to be shaken by the effort of her
engine. They were certainly driving her at a very unusual speed.

Tom Topover was walking about the point, apparently engaged in a very
minute inspection of the locality. Paul saw him looking at the former
site of the cottage, and then he disappeared in the woods. The owner of
the Dragon drew his boat a little farther up on the beach, but he
continued to watch the movements of the steamer; and he was so absorbed
in the effort to fathom her strange behavior that he was in danger of
again forgetting the treasure in the tin box.

From his position on the point Paul could see the steamboat wharf at
Westport, or, rather, he could see where it was, for it was over two
miles distant. But the steam yacht did not go to it; and for a short
time she disappeared from his view behind the trees on the lower arm of
the point. But he knew she must come in sight again soon, for there was
no landing-place above the wharf, and the water was shoal.

In a few minutes she did reappear, and now she was close inshore,
following the southern trend of the bay. She had reduced her speed
somewhat, but she was still sailing faster than her standard rate. Paul
watched her till she reached Barber's Point, behind which she again went
out of sight. He could make nothing of her erratic movements, and he was
forced to the conclusion that Tom was right, and that the fellows were
taking a little turn in her while waiting for the cargo of the gundalow
to be discharged, or for the iron shoe for the keel of the Lily.

By this time Tom Topover appeared to have completed his survey of the
locality of the cottage, and joined Paul on the beach. The cunning
fellow seemed to be somewhat uneasy and excited, though his companion
was too much absorbed in the wonder of the steam yacht to notice it.

"Be you about ready to start on?" asked Tom, after he had looked about
him for a few minutes. "I guess I've seen the whole thing now."

"I can't make out what the Sylph is doing," said Paul, still perplexed
by the problem, though there wasn't the least reason why he should
bother his head at all about her strange movements; but, like the
average boy of intelligence, he desired to know what everything meant.

"She's only cruising about for the fun on't," grinned Tom. "I guess I
don't want to stop no longer."

That cunning reprobate had arranged his plan of operations. In the
darkness of the woods he had examined the tarred spun-yarn which filled
one of his trousers pockets. He had taken it from a new building on the
back road, where it had been used to secure bundles of laths. He had
coiled up the single lengths in such a way that they would be ready for
use when wanted. With these he intended to bind his victim hand and
foot, and then tie him to a sapling, which he had selected for the
purpose, in the woods back of the cottage site, where the prisoner could
not be seen or heard from the lake.

He had promised to row the Dragon from Sandy Point to Westport; and it
was with a purpose that he had proposed to do so. Paul was to sit in the
stern, and would have to get into the boat first. Tom would be close
behind him, and when he took the first step, he would seize him by the
throat, throw him down on the beach, and lie down on him. With the
spun-yarn in his pocket he could easily secure his hands behind him. He
had picked up a stout stick in the woods, which he dropped carelessly on
the shore, where it would be available in case of need.

Tom had no doubt whatever of his ability to carry out this
nicely-arranged programme. Paul was a stout fellow, and events at the
point and elsewhere proved that he had plenty of pluck, and that he hit
hard. But if he took him behind, what could Paul do? What could any
fellow do, under such unfavorable circumstances? The blunder of the six
ruffians, in Tom's estimation, was in attacking him in front instead of
in the rear.

The cunning bruiser was ready to execute the plan his busy brain had
contrived, and he was a little nervous and uneasy, as before noted. He
did not take the least interest in the movements of the steamer, though
he was rather pleased to find Paul so much absorbed in anything that
kept his mind occupied.

"You git in fust, as I'm go'n to row the rest of the way," said Tom, as
he took the oars from the boat, the blades of which were projecting over
the bow.

"I am not quite ready to go yet; I have to go over after something I
left in the hollow of a tree," replied Paul, as he turned away from the
boat.

"In the holler of a tree!" exclaimed Tom.

"That's what I said," added Paul. "It is a tin box containing a little
money and a couple of gold rings. It won't take me long to get them."

"How fur off is it?" asked the bruiser, much interested when he heard
there was money in the box, for he was sure to get it.

Paul said it was up in the hollow, and started off.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

A HARD BATTLE AT SANDY POINT.


The brilliant strategy of the bruiser was not affected by the visit of
Paul Bristol to the hollow tree. On the contrary, it improved its
prospects of success. The intimation that there was even a little money
in the tin box was encouraging, for it would add something to the ten
dollars he was to receive on account of his blind bargain with Walk
Billcord.

As soon as Paul disappeared in the woods, Tom took the boathook from the
Dragon, the oars being already in his possession, and hastened off in
the direction to which he had carried his previous survey of the
locality. He had found a low place beyond the site of the cottage, where
a rotten log lay on the ground. Beneath this decayed wood he deposited
the oars and boathook. Pulling off enough of the punky wood to cover the
articles, he returned to the boat with a rapid step.

He had been absent but a few minutes, and Paul had not yet appeared
with the tin box. If the cunning strategist had been asked why he
concealed the oars and the boathook, very likely he would have replied
that he had done so to prevent the possibility of an escape on the part
of his victim. But Tom was a cunning fellow, and this was by no means
his object. If he failed to accomplish his purpose in the first
onslaught, there is not the slightest doubt that he would have been
entirely willing that his intended victim should escape, and even be
glad to have him do so, even if he had been left to find his way on foot
from the point.

The three implements which constituted the furniture of the Dragon might
be dangerous weapons in the hands of a resolute fellow like Paul
Bristol. He had secured a club for himself, and picking it up, he was
plying it as a cane and plaything, in order to avert any suspicion as to
its probable use.

Paul soon returned with the tin box in his hand. It was an old mustard
can, and it was not a convenient thing to have in his pocket, and was of
no value. He took the rings and money from it, and put them into his
pocket, throwing away the can.

"How much money have you got, Bristol Brick?" asked Tom, with his usual
grin.

"Only a two-dollar bill, and that belongs to my mother," replied Paul,
who did not know his companion, and would not have been afraid of losing
the money if he had.

"Ain't you goin' to spend it down to Westport, and treat a feller that
helps you row the boat?" asked Tom, with a mighty grin.

"Of course not; I don't spend my mother's money for anything, without
her orders to do so," replied Paul.

"What odds does it make?"

"It makes a good deal of odds to me, for I don't spend what don't belong
to me. By the big wooden spoon! There comes the Sylph again, and without
the gundalow in tow. She is going as though she were running a race too.
It looks to me just as though Captain Dory Dornwood had gone crazy, and
I shouldn't wonder if Captain Gildrock hauled him over the coals for
it."

"Is the cap'n aboard?" inquired Tom.

"No; he went to Burlington this morning in the cars."

"Then he won't know nothin' about it."

"Some one will be sure to tell him; but the officers have to keep a log,
and put down the speed every hour. I am afraid Dory will catch it, for
that steamer is running fifteen knots an hour. They say she can do it,
but the fellows are not allowed to do more than twelve."

"All right; but I guess we can watch her from the boat just as well as
we can here," suggested the strategist, placing himself close behind his
victim, and bracing up for the effort he was to make.

"If she comes near us, we can hail her, and find out what she is doing,
for I should like to know," added Paul, as he stepped down to the beach,
in the direction of the bow of the boat; but his eyes were fixed all the
time on the steamer, which was certainly going like the Flying Dutchman.

"Jump in, Bristol Brick, and I will take the oars."

Paul had reached the stem of the Dragon by this time, still closely
observing the steamer. He was just beginning to wonder if she would not
blow up under such a tremendous pressure of steam as she appeared to
have on, when the arms of the cunning strategist encircled his neck, and
his right knee was applied to the small of his back. He had raised one
foot to step into the boat, but he had no chance to bring it down, for
he went over backwards on the beach.

The bruiser had the club in his hand when he passed his arm around the
neck of his victim. In the suddenness of the attack Tom Topover had it
all his own way, as he had intended to have it. As he drew his prisoner
back, he threw him over so that he fell on his face, and Tom came down
on top of him. He hugged him with all his might. Dropping the stick, he
fixed his grip on the throat of Paul, and began to jam down upon him
with his knees.

But Paul soon came to a realizing sense of his situation, and he was not
at all inclined to submit to the sharp discipline of his companion. He
began to struggle with all the energy of desperation. His hands were at
liberty, and, reaching down with them, he succeeded in getting hold of
the legs of his assailant. He immediately put a stop to the action of
the assailant's knees, and then, with a mighty effort, rolled over so
that Tom was under him, though Paul was still wrong side up.

With the weight of his victim upon him, Tom could no longer kick or use
his knees, and Paul's hands were relieved for other duty. He brought
them up and got hold of Tom's hair, getting two fistfuls of it, for the
bruiser did not wear a fighting cut just then. He pulled with all his
strength, increased by his desperation. At the same time the struggle
with the other parts of the body continued, Tom's hair was coming out by
the roots, and the intense pain caused him to yield a little of his hold
at the prisoner's neck.

Paul felt his advantage, and, seizing the hands of his foe, dragged them
from his throat. This enabled him to turn over in part so that he could
use his fists. He did not wait for any preliminaries, but rained his
blows upon the head of his assailant in the agony of his desperation.
Tom could no more stand this treatment than he could have endured the
pounding of a trip-hammer. He begged for mercy, and Paul let him up.

Neither of them could speak, and Tom's dirty face was covered with
blood. Both were gasping for breath, and an involuntary truce prevailed.
Paul had received no blows in the face, though his throat was
considerably lacerated by the nails of his cowardly enemy. Tom was now
in a position to understand the reason why the six ruffians had been so
badly used before they succeeded in making a prisoner of Paul. It seemed
to make no difference in the end whether the attack was made in the
front or the rear. Possibly, the brilliant strategist was willing to
believe that he had made a mistake in the quality and quantity of his
intended victim.

A couple of minutes were enough to enable the combatants to recover
their breath. Neither of them said a word, but Tom suddenly made a
spring at Paul, this time with clenched fists. But the latter had been
looking for something of this kind, and he easily parried the blows
aimed at him, and then upset the bruiser with a heavy blow between the
eyes. Paul realized that he could do this sort of thing till the sun
went down, but he was tired of it.

Tom lay still for a minute or so after his fall, for his ideas were
doubtless greatly confused. Paul looked at him; and as he did so he saw
one of the coils of rope-yarn sticking out of his trousers pocket. He
seized it at once, and, turning his assailant over, tied his hands
behind him, and then secured his arms at the elbows. As Tom came to a
realizing sense of his defeat, he began to resist, but the bruiser was
about played out, and Paul dragged him to a tree and made him fast.

"You don't fight fair, Bristol Brick," said he, rather feebly, and he
made a weak attempt to break from his bonds.

"I don't mean to fight fair with such fellows as you are," replied
Paul, looking with disgust at his prisoner. "I suppose you do, though,
and that's the reason you pitched into me when my back was turned. You
may call it fair to jump on a fellow's back and pull him down."

"But 't ain't fair for you to tie me afore we have done," groaned Tom.
"That's mean, and Tom Topover never lets up on a feller that don't fight
fair."

"Oh, then, you are Tom Topover, are you?" exclaimed Paul, looking over
his victim from head to foot. "Why didn't you tell me who you were when
I asked you?"

"I was afear'd you'd run away if I told you who I was," answered the
bruiser, who was likely to be a bully to the end.

"I don't believe I should have run away," added Paul, with a smile on
his face. "I don't run away from such carrion as you are."

"You haven't seen the end of this thing yet. I can lick you in fair
fight any time," blustered Tom, as he began to regain his strength.

"Will you do it now if I let you loose?" demanded Paul sharply.

"I don't feel very well to-day," replied Tom, after some hesitation. "I
ain't in fightin' trim nohow, and that's the reason I got the worst
on't so fur."

"What did you pitch into me for if you are not in good condition?"
demanded Paul, who was good-natured enough by this time to smile.

"I didn't think you was so much of a feller, and I had to do what I did
to-day," muttered Tom.

"Why to-day?" demanded Paul.

"Well, I agreed to do it."

"Whom did you agree with?" continued Paul, picking up the stick the
mighty strategist had brought from the woods.

"It don't make no difference," whined Tom, evidently startled when he
