" You waited a good while, David." 
"I know I know," said Sewell miserably. "I 
was waiting waiting He stopped, and then 
added with a burst, " I was waiting till I could put 
it to you in some favourable light." 
"I' m glad you're  honest about it at last, my 
dear ! " 
" Yes. And while I was waiting I forgot Barker 's 
 
letter altogether. I put it away somewhere I 
can't recollect just where, at the moment. But that 
makes no difference ; he 's here with the whole poem 
in his pocket, now." Sewell gained a little courage 
from his wife 's forbearance ; she knew that she 
could trust him in all great matters, and perhaps 
she thought that for this little sin she would not 
add to his punishment. "And what I propose to 
do is to make a complete thing of it, this time. 
Of course," he went on convicting himself, "I see 
that I shall inflict twice the pain that I should have 
done if I had spoken frankly to him at first ; and 
of course there will be the added disappointment, 
and the expense of his coming to Boston. But," 
he added brightly, "we can save him any expense 
while he 's here, and perhaps I can contrive to get 
him to go home this afternoon." 
" He wouldn't let you pay for his dinner out of 
the house anywhere," said Mrs. Sewell. "You must 
ask him to dinner here." 
"Well," said Sewell, with resignation; and sus 
pecting that his wife was too much piqued or hurt 
by his former concealment to ask what he now 
meant to do about Barker, he added : " I' m going 
to take him round to a publisher and let him con 
vince himself that there 's no hope for him in a 
literary way." 
" David ! " cried his wife ; and now she left off 
adjusting the shams, and erecting herself looked at 
him across the bed, " You don't intend to do any 
thing so cruel." 
"Cruel?" 
" Yes ! Why should you go and waste any pub 
lisher 's time by getting him to look at such rubbish ? 
Why should you expose the poor fellow to the mor 
tification of a perfectly needless refusal ? Do you 
want to shirk the responsibility to put it on some 
one else ? " 
"No ; you know I don t." 
" Well, then, tell him yourself that it won't do." 
"I have told him." 
" What does he say ? " 
" He doesn't say anything. I can't make out 
whether he believes me or not." 
" Very well, then ; you've done your duty, at any 
rate." Mrs. Sewell could not forbear saying also, 
"If you'd done it at first, David, there wouldn't 
have been any of this trouble." 
" That 's true," owned her husband, so very humbly 
that her heart smote her. 
"Well, go down and tell him he must stay to 
dinner, and then try to get rid of him the best way 
you can. Your time is really too precious, David, 
to be wasted in this way. You must get rid of him, 
somehow." 
Sewell went back to his guest in the reception- 
room, who seemed to have remained as immovably 
in his chair as if he had been a sitting statue of him 
self. He did not move when Sewell entered. 
"On second thoughts," said the minister, "I 
believe I will not ask you to go to a publisher with 
me, as I had intended ; it would expose you to un- 
 
necessary mortification, and it would be, from my 
point of view, an unjustifiable intrusion upon very 
busy people. I' must ask you to take my word for 
it that no publisher would bring out your poem, and 
it never would pay you a cent if he did." The boy 
remained silent as before, and Sewell had no means 
of knowing whether it was from silent conviction or 
from mulish obstinacy. " Mrs. Sewell will be down 
presently. She wished me to ask you to stay to 
dinner. "We have an early dinner, and there will be 
time enough after that for you to look about the 
city." 
"I shouldn't like to put you out," said Barker. 
" Oh, not at all," returned Sewell, grateful for this 
sign of animation, and not exigent of a more formal 
acceptance of his invitation. " You know," he said, 
" that literature is a trade, like every other vocation, 
and that you must serve an apprenticeship if you 
expect to excel. But first of all you must have 
some natural aptitude for the business you undertake. 
You understand ? " asked Sewell ; for he had begun 
to doubt whether Barker understood anything. He 
seemed so much more stupid than he had at home ; 
his faculties were apparently sealed up, and he had 
lost all the personal picturesqueness which he had 
when he came in out of the barn, at his mother 's 
call, to receive Sewell. 
"Yes," said the boy. 
"I don't mean," continued Sewell, "that I 
wouldn't have you continue to make verses when 
ever you have the leisure for it. I think, on the 
 
contrary, that it will give a grace to your life which 
it might otherwise lack. AYe are all in daily 
danger of being barbarised by the sordid details of 
life ; the constantly recurring little duties which 
must be done, but which we must not allow 
to become the whole of life." Sewell was so 
much pleased with this thought, when it had 
taken form in words, that he made a mental note 
of it for future use. "We must put a border of 
pinks around the potato-patch, as Emerson would 
say, or else the potato-patch is no better than a field 
of thistles." Perhaps because the logic of this figure 
rang a little false, Sewell hastened to add : " But 
there are many ways in which we can prevent the 
encroachment of those little duties without being 
tempted to neglect them, which would be still worse. 
I have thought a good deal about the condition of 
our young men in the country, and I have sympa 
thised with them in what seems their want of oppor 
tunity, their lack of room for expansion. I have 
often wished that I could do something for them 
help them in their doubts and misgivings, and per 
haps find some way out of the trouble for them. I 
regret this tendency to the cities of the young men 
from the country. I am sure that if we could give 
them some sort of social and intellectual life at home, 
they would not be so restless and dissatisfied." 
Sewell felt as if he had been preaching to a dead 
wall; but now the wall opened, and a voice came 
out of it, saying : " You mean something to occupy 
their minds ? " 
 
" Exactly so ! " cried Sewell. "^Something to occupy 
their minds. Now," he continued, with a hope of 
getting into some sort of human relations with his 
guest which he had not felt before, " why shouldn't 
a young man on a farm take up some scientific study, 
like geology, for instance, which makes every inch of 
earth vocal, every rock historic, and the waste places 
social ? " Barker looked so blankly at him that he 
asked again, " You understand ? " 
"Yes," said Barker ; but having answered Sewell 's 
personal question, he seemed to feel himself in no 
wise concerned with the general inquiry which Sewell 
had made, and he let it lie where Sewell had let it 
drop. But the minister was so well pleased with 
the fact that Barker had understood anything of 
what he had said, that he was content to let the 
notion he had thrown out take its chance of future 
effect, and rising, said briskly : " Come upstairs with 
me into my study, and I will show you a picture of 
Agassiz. It 's a very good photograph." 
He led the way out of the reception-room, and 
tripped lightly in his slippered feet up the steps 
against which Barker knocked the toes of his clumsy 
boots. He was not large, nor naturally loutish, but 
the heaviness of the country was in every touch and 
movement. He dropped the photograph twice in 
his endeavour to hold it between his stiff thumb and 
finger. 
Sewell picked it up each time for him, and restored 
it to his faltering hold. When he had securely 
lodged it there, he asked sweetly : " Did you ever 
 
hear what Agassiz said when a scheme was once 
proposed to him by which he could make a great 
deal of money ? " 
"I don't know as I did," replied Barker. 
" But, gentlemen, I've  no lime to make money. " 
Barker received the anecdote in absolute silence, 
standing helplessly with the photograph in his hand ; 
and Sewell with a hasty sigh forbore to make the 
application to the ordinary American ambition to be 
rich that he had intended. " That J 's a photograph 
of the singer Nilsson," he said, cataloguing the other 
objects on the chimney-piece. " She was a peasant, 
you know, a country girl in Norway. That 's Grevy, 
the President of the French Republic; his father 
was a peasant. Lincoln, of course. Sforza, throw 
ing his hoe into the oak," he said, explaining the 
picture that had caught Barker 's eye on the wall 
above the mantel. " He was working in the field, 
when a band of adventurers came by, and he tossed 
his hoe at the tree. If it fell to the ground, he 
would keep on hoeing ; if it caught in the branches 
and hung there, he would follow the adventurers. 
It caught, and he went with the soldiers and became 
Duke of Milan. I like to keep the pictures of these 
great Originals about me," said Sewell, " because in 
our time, when we refer so constantly to law, we 
are apt to forget that God is creative as well as 
operative." He used these phrases involuntarily; 
they slipped from his tongue because he was in 
the habit of saying this about these pictures, and he 
made no effort to adapt them to Barker 's compre- 
 
hension, because he could not see that the idea 
would be of any use to him. He went on pointing 
out the different objects in the quiet room, and he 
took down several books from the shelves that 
covered the whole wall, and showed them to Barker, 
who, however, made no effort to look at them for 
himself, and did not say anything about them. He 
did what Sewell bade him do in admiring this thing 
or that ; but if he had been an Indian he could not 
have regarded them with a greater reticence. Sewell 
made him sit down from time to time, but in a 
sitting posture Barker 's silence became so deathlike 
that Sewell hastened to get him on his legs again, 
and to walk him about from one point to another, 
as if to keep life in him, At the end of one of 
these otherwise aimless excursions Mrs. Sewell 
appeared, and infused a gleam of hope into her 
husband 's breast. Apparently she brought none 
to Barker ; or perhaps he did not conceive it polite 
to show any sort of liveliness before a lady. He 
did what he could with the hand she gave him to 
shake, and answered the brief questions she put to 
him about his family to precisely the same effect as 
he had already reported its condition to Sewell. 
" Dinner 's ready now," said Mrs. Sewell, for all 
comment. She left the expansiveness of sympathy 
and gratulation to her husband on most occasions, 
and on this she felt that she had less than the usual 
obligation to make polite conversation. Her two 
children came downstairs after her, and as she 
unfolded her napkin across her lap after grace she 
 
said, " This is my son, Alfred, Mr. Barker ; and 
this is Edith." Barker took the acquaintance 
offered in silence, the young Sewells smiled with 
the wise kindliness of children taught to be good 
to all manner of strange guests, and the girl 
cumbered the helpless country boy with offers of 
different dishes. 
Mr. Sewell as he cut at the roast beef lengthwise, 
being denied by his wife a pantomimic prayer to 
be allowed to cut it crosswise, tried to make talk 
with Barker about the weather at Willoughby 
Pastures. It had been a very dry summer, and he 
asked if the fall rains had filled up the springs. 
He said he really forgot whether it was an apple 
year. He also said that he supposed they had dug 
all their turnips by this time. He had meant to 
say potatoes when he began, but he remembered 
that he had seen the farmers digging their potatoes 
before he came back to town, and so he substituted 
turnips ; afterwards it seemed to him that dig was 
not just the word to use in regard to the harvesting 
of turnips. He wished he had said, "got your 
turnips in," but it appeared to make no difference 
to Barker, who answered, " Yes, sir," and "No, sir," 
and " Yes, sir," and let each subject drop with that. 
III. 
THE silence grew so deep that the young Sewells 
talked together in murmurs, and the clicking of the 
knives on the plates became painful. Sewell kept 
himself from looking at Barker, whom he nevertheless 
knew to be changing his knife and fork from one 
hand to the other, as doubt after doubt took him as 
to their conventional use, and to be getting very 
little good of his dinner in the process of settling 
these questions. The door-bell rang, and the sound 
of a whispered conference between the visitor and 
the servant at the threshold penetrated to the 
dining-room. Some one softly entered, and then 
Mrs. Sewell called out, " Yes, yes ! Come in ! 
Come in, Miss Yane !" She jumped from her chair 
and ran out into the hall, where she was heard to 
kiss her visitor ; she reappeared, still holding her 
by the hand, and then Miss Yane shook hands with 
Sewell, saying in a tone of cordial liking, How'd ye 
do?" and to each of the young people as she shook 
hands in turn with them, " How'd ye do, dear ? " 
She was no longer so pretty as she must have once 
been ; but an air of distinction and a delicate charm 
of manner remained to her from her fascinating 
youth. 
Young Sewell pushed her a chair to the table, 
and she dropped softly into it, after acknowledging 
Barker 's presentation by Mrs. Sewell with a kindly 
glance that probably divined him. 
" You must dine with us," said Mrs. Sewell. 
" You can call it lunch." 
" No, I can t, Mrs. Sewell," said Miss Vane. " I 
could once, and should have said with great plea 
sure, when I went away, that I had been lunching at 
the Sewells ; but I can't now. I've  reformed. What 
have you got for dinner ? " 
"Roast beef," said Sewell. 
"Nothing I dislike more," replied Miss Vane. 
" What else ?" She put on her glasses, and peered 
critically about the table. 
"Stewed tomatoes, baked sweet potatoes, maca 
roni." 
"How unimaginative! What are you going to 
have afterwards ? " 
" Cottage pudding." 
" The very climax of the commonplace. Well ! " 
Miss Vane began to pull off her gloves, and threw 
her veil back over her shoulder. " I will dine with 
you, but when I say dine, and people ask me to 
explain, I shall have to say, Why, the Sewells still 
dine at one o clock, you know, and laugh over your 
old-fashioned habits with them. I should like to 
do differently, and to respect the sacredness of 
broken bread and that sort of thing ; but I' m trying 
 
to practise with every one an affectionate sincerity, 
which is perfectly compatible not only with the 
brotherliness of Christianity, but the politeness of 
the world." Miss Vane looked demurely at Mrs. 
Sewell. "I can't make any exceptions." 
The ladies both broke into a mocking laugh, in 
which Sewell joined with sheepish reluctance ; after 
all, one does not like to be derided, even by one 's 
dearest friends. 
" As soon as I hear my other little sins denounced 
from the pulpit, I' m going to stop using profane 
language and carrying away people 's spoons in my 
pocket." 
The ladies seemed to think this also a very good 
joke, and his children laughed in sympathy, but 
Sewell hung his head; Barker sat bolt upright 
behind his plate, and stared at Miss Vane. " I 
never have been all but named in church before," 
she concluded, "and I've  heard others say the 
same." 
" Why didn't you come to complain sooner ? " 
asked Sewell. 
" Well, I have been away ever since that occasion. 
I went down the next day to Newport, and I've been 
there ever since, admiring the ribbon-planting." 
" On the lawns or on the ladies ? " asked Sewell. 
"Both. And sowing broadcast the seeds of 
plain speaking. I don't know what Newport will 
be in another year if they all take root." 
"I dare say it will be different," said SewelL 
"I' m not sure it will be worse." He plucked up 
 
a little spirit, and added : " Now you see of how 
little importance you really are in the community ; 
you have been gone these three weeks, and your 
own pastor didn't know you were out of town." 
" Yes, you did, David," interposed his wife. " I 
told you Miss Vane was away two weeks ago." 
"Did you? Well I forgot it immediately; the 
fact was of no consequence, one way or the other. 
How do you like that as a bit of affectionate 
sincerity ? " 
" I like it immensely," said Miss Vane. " It 's 
delicious. I only wish I could believe you were 
honest." She leaned back and laughed into her 
handkerchief, while Sewell regarded her with a face 
in which his mortification at being laughed at was 
giving way to a natural pleasure at seeing Miss 
Vane enjoy herself. " What do you think," she 
asked, "since you're  in this mood of exasperated 
veracity or pretend to be of the flower charity ? " 
" Do you mean by the barrel, or the single sack ? 
The Graham, or the best Haxall, or the health-food 
cold-blast ? " asked Sewell. 
Miss Vane lost her power of answering in another 
peal of laughter, sobering off, and breaking down 
again before she could say, "I' mean cut flowers for 
patients and prisoners." 
" Oh, that kind ! I don't think a single pansy 
would have an appreciable effect upon a burglar ; 
perhaps a bunch of forget-me-nots might, or a few 
lilies of the valley carelessly arranged. As to the 
influence of a graceful little boutonnikre y in cases of 
 
rheumatism or cholera morbus, it might be efficacious; 
but I can't really say." 
" How perfectly cynical ! " cried Miss Vane. 
" Don't you know how much good the flower mission 
has accomplished among the deserving poor ? 
Hundreds of bouquets are distributed every day. 
They prevent crime." 
" That shows how susceptible the deserving poor 
are. I don't find that a bowl of the most expensive 
and delicate roses in the centre of a dinner-table 
tempers the asperity of the conversation when it 
turns upon the absent. But perhaps it oughtn't to 
do so." 
" I don't know about that," said Miss Vane ; " but 
if you had an impulsive niece to supply with food 
for the imagination, you would be very glad of any 
thing that seemed to combine practical piety and 
picturesque effect." 
" Oh, if you mean that," began Sewell more 
soberly, and his wife leaned forward with an in 
terest in the question which she had not felt while 
the mere joking went on. 
"Yes. When Sibyl came in this morning with 
an imperative demand to be allowed to go off and 
