that though, indeed, the constituted powers might have to 
' count ' with him, it would be in better taste for him not to 
be importunate about a settlement. What he had come to 
fear for him was that he should be precipitated by crude 
agencies, with results in which the deplorable might not 
exclude the ridiculous. It may even be said that Mr. 
Vetch had a secret project of settling a little on his 
behalf. 
Lady Aurora peeped into the room, very noiselessly, 
nearly half an hour after Hyacinth had left it, and let the 
 
fiddler know that she was called to other duties but that the 
nurse had come back and the doctor had promised to look 
in at five o'clock. She herself would return in the evening, 
and meanwhile Hyacinth was with his aunt, who had 
recognised him, without a protest ; indeed seemed intensely 
happy that he should be near her again, and lay there with 
closed eyes, very weak and speechless, with his hand in 
hers. Her restlessness had passed and her fever abated, 
but she had no pulse to speak of and Lady Aurora did not 
disguise the fact that, in her opinion, she was rapidly sink- 
ing. Mr. Vetch had already accepted it, and after her 
ladyship had quitted him he lighted another philosophic 
pipe upon it, lingering on, till the doctor came, in the dress- 
maker's dismal, forsaken bower, where, in past years, he had 
indulged in so many sociable droppings-in and hot tumblers. 
The echo of all her little simple surprises and pointless 
contradictions, her gasping reception of contemplative 
paradox, seemed still to float in the air ; but the place felt 
as relinquished and bereaved as if she were already beneath 
the sod. Pinnie had always been a wonderful hand at 
' putting away' ; the litter that testified to her most elaborate 
efforts was often immense, but the reaction in favour of an 
unspeckled carpet was greater still; and on the present 
occasion, before taking to her bed, she had found strength 
to sweep and set in order as daintily as if she" had been 
sure that the room would never again know her care. Even 
to the old fiddler, who had not Hyacinth's sensibility to 
the scenery of life, it had the cold propriety of a place 
arranged for an interment. After the doctor had seen 
Pinnie, that afternoon, there was no doubt left as to its soon 
being the stage of dismal preliminaries. 
Miss Pynsent, however, resisted her malady for nearly a 
fortnight more, during which Hyacinth was constantly in 
her room. He never went back to Mr. Crookenden's, with 
whose establishment, through violent causes, his relations 
seemed indefinitely suspended ; and in fact, for the rest of 
the time that Pinnie demanded his care he absented himself 
but twice from Lomax Place for more than a few minutes. 
On one of these occasions he travelled over to Audley Court 
and spent an hour there ; on the other he met Millicent 
Henning, by appointment, and took a walk with her on the 
Embankment. He tried to find a moment to go and thank 
Madame Poupin for a sympathetic offering, many times 
repeated, of tisane, concocted after a receipt thought supreme 
by the couple in Lisson Grove (though little appreciated in 
the neighbourhood generally) ; but he was obliged to acknow- 
ledge her kindness only by a respectful letter, which he 
composed with some trouble, though much elation, in the 
French tongue, peculiarly favourable, as he believed, to 
little courtesies of this kind. Lady Aurora came again and 
again to the darkened house, where she diffused her beneficent 
influence in nightly watches, in the most modern sanative sug- 
gestions, in conversations with Hyacinth, directed with more 
ingenuity than her fluttered embarrassments might have led 
one to attribute to her, to the purpose of diverting his mind, 
and in tea-makings (there was a great deal of this liquid con- 
sumed on the premises during Pinnie's illness), after a 
system more enlightened than the usual fashion of Penton- 
ville. She was the bearer of several messages and of a good 
deal of medical advice from Rose Muniment, whose interest 
in the dressmaker's case irritated Hyacinth by its fine 
courage, which even at second-hand was still obtrusive; 
 
she appeared very nearly as resigned to the troubles of 
others as she was to her own. 
Hyacinth had been seized, the day after his return from 
Medley, with a sharp desire to do something enterprising 
and superior on Pinnie's behalf. He felt the pressure of a 
sort of angry sense that she was dying of her poor career, 
of her uneffaced remorse for the trick she had played him 
in his boyhood (as if he hadn't long ago, and indeed at the 
time, forgiven it, judging it to have been the highest 
wisdom !) of something basely helpless in the attitude of 
her little circle. He wanted to do something which should 
prove to himself that he had got the best opinion about 
the invalid that it was possible to have : so he insisted that 
Mr. Buffery should consult with a West End doctor, if the 
West End doctor would consent to meet Mr. Buffery. A 
physician capable of this condescension was discovered 
through Lady Aurora's agency (she had not brought him 
of her own movement, because on the one hand she 
hesitated to impose on the little household in Lomax 
Place the expense of such a visit, and on the other, with 
all her narrow personal economies for the sake of her 
charities, had not the means to meet it herself) ; and in 
prevision of the great man's fee Hyacinth applied to Mr. 
Vetch, as he had applied before, for a loan. The great 
man came, and was wonderfully civil to Mr. Buffery, whose 
conduct of the case he pronounced judicious ; he remained 
several minutes in the house, while he gazed at Hyacinth 
over his spectacles (he seemed rather more occupied with 
him than with the patient), and almost the whole of the 
Place turned out to stare at his chariot. After all, he 
consented to accept no fee. He put the question aside 
with a gesture full of urbanity a course disappointing and 
displeasing to Hyacinth, who felt in a manner cheated of 
the full effect of the fine thing he had wished to do for 
Pinnie ; though when he said as much (or something like 
it) to Mr. Vetch, the caustic fiddler greeted the observation 
with a face of amusement which, considering the situation, 
verged upon the unseemly. 
Hyacinth, at any rate, had done the best he could, and 
the fashionable doctor had left directions which foreshadowed 
relations with an expensive chemist in Bond Street a 
prospect by which our young man was to some extent 
consoled. Poor Pinnie's decline, however, was not arrested, 
and one evening, more than a week after his return from 
Medley, as he sat with her alone, it seemed to Hyacinth 
that her spirit must already have passed away. The nurse 
had gone down to her supper, and from the staircase a 
perceptible odour of fizzling bacon indicated that a more 
cheerful state of things prevailed in the lower regions. 
Hyacinth could not make out whether Miss Pynsent were 
asleep or awake ; he believed she had not lost conscious- 
ness, yet for more than an hour she had given no sign of 
life. At last she put out her hand, as if she knew he was 
near her and wished to feel for his, and murmured, ' Why 
did she come ? I didn't want to see her.' In a moment, 
as she went on, he perceived to whom she was alluding : 
her mind had travelled back, through all the years, to the 
dreadful day (she had described every incident of it to 
him), when Mrs. Bowerbank had invaded her quiet life and 
startled her sensitive conscience with a message from the 
prison. ' She sat there so long so long. She was very 
large, and I was frightened. She moaned, and moaned, 
 
and cried too dreadful. I couldn't help it I couldn't 
help it ! ' Her thought wandered from Mrs. Bowerbank in 
the discomposed show-room, enthroned on the yellow sofa, 
to the tragic creature at Milbank, whose accents again, for 
the hour, lived in her ears; and mixed with this mingled 
vision was still the haunting sense that she herself might 
have acted differently. That had been cleared up in the 
past, so far as Hyacinth's intention was concerned ; but 
what was most alive in Pinnie at the present moment was 
the passion of repentance, of still further expiation. It 
sickened Hyacinth that she should believe these things 
were still necessary, and he leaned over her and talked 
tenderly, with words of comfort and reassurance. He told 
her not to think of that dismal, far-off time, which had 
ceased long ago to have any consequences for either of 
them ; to consider only the future, when she should be 
quite strong again and he would look after her and keep 
her all to himself and take care of her better, far better, 
than he had ever done before. He had thought of many 
things while he sat with Pinnie, watching the shadows made 
by the night-lamp high, imposing shadows of objects low 
and mean and among them he had followed, with an 
imagination that went further in that direction than ever 
before, the probable consequences of his not having been 
adopted in his babyhood by the dressmaker. The work- 
house and the gutter, ignorance and cold, filth and tatters, 
nights of huddling under bridges and in doorways, vermin, 
starvation and blows, possibly even the vigorous efflorescence 
of an inherited disposition to crime these things, which 
he saw with unprecedented vividness, suggested themselves 
as his natural portion. Intimacies with a princess, visits to 
fine old country-houses, intelligent consideration, even, of 
the best means of inflicting a scare on the classes of privi- 
lege, would in that case not have been within his compass ; 
and that Finnic should have rescued him from such a 
destiny and put these luxuries within his reach was an 
amelioration which really amounted to success, if he could 
only have the magnanimity to regard it so. 
Her eyes were open and fixed on him, but the sharp ray 
the little dressmaker used to direct into Lomax Place as she 
plied her needle at the window had completely left them. 
' Not there what should I do there ? ' she inquired, very 
softly. ' Not with the great the great ' and her voice 
failed. 
' The great what ? What do you mean ? ' 
' You know you know,' she went on, making another 
effort. ' Haven't you been with them ? Haven't they 
received you ? ' 
' Ah, they won't separate us, Finnic ; they won't come 
between us as much as that,' said Hyacinth, kneeling by 
her bed. 
' You must be separate that makes me happier. I 
knew they would find you at last.' 
I Poor Finnic, poor Finnic,' murmured the young man. 
' It was only for that now I'm going,' she went on. 
' If you'll stay with me you needn't fear,' said Hyacinth, 
smiling at her. 
' Oh, what would they think ? ' asked the dressmaker. 
'I like you best,' said Hyacinth. 
' You have had me always. Now it's their turn ; they 
have waited.' 
' Yes, indeed, they have waited ! ' Hyacinth exclaimed. 
 
' But they will make it up ; they will make up every- 
thing ! ' the invalid panted. Then she added, ' I couldn't 
couldn't help it ! ' which was the last flicker of her 
strength. She gave no further sign of consciousness, and 
four days later she ceased to breathe. Hyacinth was with 
her, and Lady Aurora, but neither of them could recognise 
the moment. 
Hyacinth and Mr. Vetch carried her bier, with the help 
of Eustache Poupin and Paul Muniment. Lady Aurora 
was at the funeral, and Madame Poupin as well, and twenty 
neighbours from Lomax Place ; but the most distinguished 
person (in appearance at least) in the group of mourners 
was Millicent Henning, the grave yet brilliant beauty of 
whose countenance, the high propriety of whose demeanour, 
and the fine taste and general style of whose black 'costume' 
excited no little attention. Mr. Vetch had his idea ; he had 
been nursing it ever since Hyacinth's return from Medley, 
and three days after Pinnie had been consigned to the 
earth he broached it to his young friend. The funeral had 
been on a Friday, and Hyacinth had mentioned to him 
that he should return to Mr. Crookenden's on the Monday 
morning. This was Sunday night, and Hyacinth had been 
out for a walk, neither with Millicent Henning nor with 
Paul Muniment, but alone, after the manner of old days. 
When he came in he found the fiddler waiting for him, and 
burning a tallow candle, in the blighted show-room. He 
had three or four little papers in his hand, which exhibited 
some jottings of his pencil, and Hyacinth guessed, what 
was the truth but not all the truth, that he had come to 
speak to him about business. Pinnie had left a little will, 
of which she had appointed her old friend executor ; this 
fact had already become known to our hero, who thought 
such an arrangement highly natural. Mr. Vetch informed 
him of the purport of this simple and judicious document, 
and mentioned that he had been looking into the dress- 
maker's ' affairs.' They consisted, poor Pinnie's affairs, of 
the furniture of the house in Lomax Place, of the obliga- 
tion to pay the remainder of a quarter's rent, and of a sum 
of money in the savings-bank. Hyacinth was surprised to 
learn that Pinnie's economies had produced fruit at this 
late day (things had gone so ill with her in recent years, 
and there had been often such a want of money in the 
house), until Mr. Vetch explained to him, with eager 
clearness, that he himself had watched over the little 
hoard, accumulated during the period of her comparative 
prosperity, with the stiff determination that it should be 
sacrificed only in case of desperate necessity. Work had 
become scarce with Pinnie, but she could still do it when 
it came, and the money was to be kept for the very possible 
period when she should be helpless. Mercifully enough, 
she had not lived to see that day, and the sum in the bank 
had survived her, though diminished by more than half. 
She had left no debts but the matter of the house and 
those incurred during her illness. Of course the fiddler 
had known he hastened to give his young friend this 
assurance that Pinnie, had she become infirm, would 
have been able to count absolutely upon him for the 
equivalent, in her old age, of the protection she had given 
him in his youth. But what if an accident had overtaken 
Hyacinth ? What if he had incurred some nasty penalty 
for his revolutionary dabblings, which, little dangerous as 
they might be to society, were quite capable, in a country 
 
where authority, though good-natured, liked occasionally to 
make an example, to put him on the wrong side of a 
prison-wall ? At any rate, for better or worse, by pinching 
and scraping, she had saved a little, and of that little, after 
everything was paid off, a fraction would still be left. 
Everything was bequeathed to Hyacinth everything but a 
couple of plated candlesticks and the old 'cheffonier,' which 
had been so handsome in its day; these Pinnie begged Mr. 
Vetch to accept in recognition of services beyond all price. 
The furniture, everything he didn't want for his own use, 
Hyacinth could sell in a lump, and with the proceeds he 
could wipe out old scores. The sum of money would 
remain to him ; it amounted, in its reduced condition, to 
about thirty-seven pounds. In mentioning this figure Mr. 
Vetch appeared to imply that Hyacinth would be master of 
a very pretty little fortune. Even to the young man him- 
self, in spite of his recent initiations, it seemed far from 
contemptible ; it represented sudden possibilities of still 
not returning to old Crookenden's. It represented them, 
that is, till, presently, he remembered the various advances 
made him by the fiddler, and reflected that by the time 
these had been repaid there would hardly be twenty pounds 
left. That, however, was a far larger sum than he had ever 
had in his pocket at once. He thanked the old man for 
his information, and remarked and there was no hypocrisy 
in the speech that he was very sorry Pinnie had not 
given herself the benefit of the whole of the little fund 
in her lifetime. To this her executor replied that it had 
yielded her an interest far beyond any other investment ; 
for he was persuaded she believed she should never live 
to enjoy it, and this faith was rich in pictures, visions of 
the effect such a windfall would produce in Hyacinth's 
career. 
' What effect did she mean do you mean ? ' Hyacinth 
inquired. As soon as he had spoken he felt that he knew 
what the old man would say (it would be a reference to 
Pinnie's belief in his reunion with his ' relations,' and the 
facilities that thirty-seven pounds would afford him for 
cutting a figure among them) ; and for a moment Mr. Vetch 
looked at him as if exactly that response were on his lips. 
At the end of the moment, however, he replied, quite 
differently 
' She hoped you would go abroad and see the world.' 
The fiddler watched his young friend ; then he added, 
' She had a particular wish that you should go to Paris.' 
Hyacinth had turned pale at this suggestion, and for a 
moment he said nothing. 'Ah, Paris!' he murmured, at 
last. 
' She would have liked you even to take a little run 
down to Italy.' 
' Doubtless that would be pleasant. But there is a limit 
to what one can do with twenty pounds.' 
' How do you mean, with twenty pounds ? ' the old man 
asked, lifting his eyebrows, while the wrinkles in his fore- 
head made deep shadows in the candle-light. 
' That's about what will remain, after I have settled my 
account with you.' 
' How do you mean, your account with me ? I shall 
not take any of your money.' 
Hyacinth's eyes wandered over his interlocutor's sug- 
gestive rustiness. 'I don't want to be ungracious, but 
suppose you should lose your powers.' 
 
' My dear boy, I shall have one of the resources that 
was open to Pinnie. I shall look to you to be the support 
of my old age.' 
'You may do so with perfect safety, except for that 
danger you just mentioned, of my being imprisoned or 
hanged.' 
' It's precisely because I think it will be less if you go 
abroad that I urge you to take this chance. You will see 
the world, and you will like it better. You will think 
society, even as it is, has some good points,' said Mr. 
Vetch. 
' I have never liked it better than the last few months.' 
' Ah well, wait till you see Paris ! ' 
' Oh, Paris Paris,' Hyacinth repeated, vaguely, staring 
into the turbid flame of the candle as if he made out the 
most brilliant scenes there ; an attitude, accent and expres- 
sion which the fiddler interpreted both as the vibration of 
a latent hereditary chord and a symptom of the acute sense 
of opportunity. 
BOOK FOURTH 
XXIX 
THE boulevard was all alive, brilliant with illuminations, 
with the variety and gaiety of the crowd, the dazzle of shops 
and cafes seen through uncovered fronts or immense lucid 
plates, the flamboyant porches of theatres and the flashing 
lamps of carriages, the far-spreading murmur of talkers and 
strollers, the uproar-of pleasure and prosperity, the general 
magnificence of Paris on a perfect evening in June. 
Hyacinth had been walking about all day he had walked 
from rising till bed-time every day of the week that had 
elapsed since his arrival and now an extraordinary fatigue, 
which, however, was not without its delight (there was a 
kind of richness, a sweet satiety, in it), a tremendous las- 
situde had fallen upon him, and he settled himself in a 
chair beside a little table in front of Tortoni's, not so much 
to rest from it as to enjoy it. He had seen so much, felt 
so much, learned so much, thrilled and throbbed and 
laughed and sighed so much, during the past several days, 
that he was conscious at last of the danger of becoming 
incoherent to himself, of the need of balancing his 
accounts. 
To-night he came to a full stop ; he simply sat at the 
door of the most dandified cafe in Paris and felt his pulse 
and took stock of his impressions. He had been intend- 
ing to visit the Varietes theatre, which blazed through 
intermediate lights and through the thin foliage of trees 
not favoured by the asphalt, on the other side of the great 
avenue. But the impression of Chaumont he relinquished 
that, for the present ; it added to the luxury of his situation 
to reflect that he should still have plenty of time to see 
the succes du jour. The same effect proceeded from his 
determination to order a marqiiise, when the waiter, whose 
superior shirt-front and whisker emerged from the long 
white cylinder of an apron, came to take his commands. 
He knew the decoction was expensive he had learnt as 
much at the moment he happened to overhear, for the first 
time, a mention of it ; which had been the night before, in 
his place in a stall, during an entr'acte, at the Comedie 
Frangaise. A gentleman beside him, a young man in 
evening-dress, conversing with an acquaintance in the row 
behind, recommended the latter to refresh himself with the 
article in question after the play : there was nothing like it, 
the speaker remarked, of a hot evening, in the open air, 
when one was thirsty. The waiter brought Hyacinth a tall 
glass of champagne, in which a pine-apple ice was in solu- 
tion, and our hero felt that he had hoped for a sensation 
no less delicate when he looked for an empty table on 
Tortoni's terrace. Very few tables were empty, and it was 
his belief that the others were occupied by high celebrities ; 
at any rate they were just the types he had had a prevision 
of and had wanted most to meet, when the extraordinary 
opportunity to come abroad with his pocket full of money 
(it was more extraordinary, even, than his original meeting 
with the Princess), became real to him in Lomax Place. 
