had an idea of that kind in her life before, and that this 
sudden subtlety should have gleamed upon her as a 
momentary talisman gives the measure of her present 
nervousness. 
' If I could take her to New York, I would take her 
farther,' she remarked, hoping she was enigmatical. 
'  You talk about " taking " her, as if you were a lecture- 
agent Are you going into that business ?' Mrs. Luna asked. 
Ransom could not help noticing that Miss Chancellor 
would not shake hands with him, and he felt, on the whole, 
rather injured. He paused a moment before leaving the 
room standing there with his hand on the knob of the 
door. ' Look here, Miss Olive, what did you write to me 
to come and see you for?' He made this inquiry with a 
countenance not destitute of gaiety, but his eyes showed 
something of that yellow light just momentarily lurid of 
which mention has been made. Mrs. Luna was on her way 
downstairs, and her companions remained face to face. 
' Ask my sister I think she will tell you,' said Olive, 
turning away from him and going to the window. She 
remained there, looking out ; she heard the door of the 
house close, and saw the two cross the street together. As 
they passed out of sight her fingers played, softly, a little air 
upon the pane; it seemed to her that she had had an 
inspiration. 
Basil Ransom, meanwhile, put the question to Mrs. 
Luna. ' If she was not going to like me, why in the world 
did she write to me?' 
' Because she wanted you to know me she thought / 
would like you !' And apparently she had not been wrong ; 
for Mrs. Luna, when they reached Beacon Street, would not 
hear of his leaving her to go her way alone, would not in 
the least admit his plea that he had only an hour or two 
more in Boston (he was to travel, economically, by the boat) 
and must devote the time to his business. She appealed 
to his Southern chivalry, and not in vain ; practically, at 
least, he admitted the rights of women. 
XIII. 
MRS. TARRANT was delighted, as may be imagined, with 
her daughter's account of Miss Chancellor's interior, and 
the reception the girl had found there ; and Verena, for the 
next month, took her way very often to Charles Street. 
' Just you be as nice to her as you know how/ Mrs Tarrant 
had said to her ; and she reflected with some complacency 
that her daughter did know she knew how to do every- 
thing of that sort. It was not that Verena had been taught ; 
that branch of the education of young ladies which is known 
as '  manners and deportment ' had not figured, as a definite 
head, in Miss Tarrant's curriculum. She had been told, 
indeed, that she must not lie nor steal ; but she had been 
told very little else about behaviour ; her only great advan- 
tage, in short, had been the parental example. But her 
mother liked to think that she was quick and graceful, and 
she questioned her exhaustively as to the progress of this 
interesting episode; she didn't see why, as she said, it 
shouldn't be a permanent ' stand-by ' for Verena. In Mrs. 
Tarrant's meditations upon the girl's future she had never 
thought of a fine marriage as a reward of effort j she would 
have deemed herself very immoral if she had endeavoured 
to capture for her child a rich husband. She had not, in 
fact, a very vivid sense of the existence of such agents of 
fate ; all the rich men she had seen already had wives, and 
the unmarried men, who were generally very young, were 
distinguished from each other not so much by the figure of 
their income, which came little into question, as by the 
degree of their interest in regenerating ideas. She supposed 
Verena would marry some one, some day, and she hoped 
the personage would be connected with public life which 
meant, for Mrs. Tarrant, that his name would be visible, in 
 
the lamplight, on a coloured poster, in the doorway of 
Tremont Temple. But she was not eager about this vision, 
for the implications of matrimony were for the most part 
wanting in brightness consisted of a tired woman holding 
a baby over a furnace-register that emitted lukewarm air. 
A real lovely friendship with a young woman who had, as Mrs. 
Tarrant expressed it, ' prop'ty,' would occupy agreeably such 
an interval as might occur before Verena should meet her 
sterner fate ; it would be a great thing for her to have a 
place to run into when she wanted a change, and there was 
no knowing but what it might end in her having two homes. 
For the idea of the home, like most American women of 
her quality, Mrs. Tarrant had an extreme reverence ; and 
it was her candid faith that in all the vicissitudes of the 
past twenty years she had preserved the spirit of this insti- 
tution. If it should exist in duplicate for Verena, the girl 
would be favoured indeed. 
All this was as nothing, however, compared with the fact 
that Miss Chancellor seemed to think her young friend's 
gift was inspirational, or at any rate, as Selah had so often 
said, quite unique. She couldn't make out very exactly, 
by Verena, what she thought ; but if the way Miss Chan- 
cellor had taken hold of her didn't show that she believed 
she could rouse the people, Mrs. Tarrant didn't know what 
it showed. It was a satisfaction to her that Verena 
evidently responded freely; she didn't think anything of 
what she spent in car-tickets, and indeed she had told her 
that Miss Chancellor wanted to stuff her pockets with them. 
At first she went in because her mother liked to have her ; 
but now, evidently, she went because she was so much 
drawn. She expressed the highest admiration of her new 
friend ; she said it took her a little while to see into her, 
but now that she did, well, she was perfectly splendid. 
When Verena wanted to admire she went ahead of every 
one, and it was delightful to see how she was stimulated 
by the young lady in Charles Street. They thought every- 
thing of each other that was very plain; you could scarcely 
tell which thought most. Each thought the other so noble, 
and Mrs. Tarrant had a faith that between them they would 
rouse the people. What Verena wanted was some one 
 
who would know how to handle her (her father hadn't 
handled anything except the healing, up to this time, with 
real success), and perhaps Miss Chancellor would take hold 
better than some that made more of a profession. 
' It's beautiful, the way she draws you out/ Verena had 
said to her mother; f there's something so searching that 
the first time I visited her it quite realised my idea of the 
Day of Judgment. But she seems to show all that's in 
herself at the same time, and then you see how lovely it is. 
She's just as pure as she can live ; you see if she is not; 
when you know her. She's so noble herself that she makes 
you feel as if you wouldn't want to be less so. She doesn't 
care for anything but the elevation of our sex ; if she can 
work a little toward that, it's all she asks, I can tell you, 
she kindles me ; she does, mother, really. She doesn't care 
a speck what she wears only to have an elegant parlour. 
Well, she has got that ; it's a regular dream-like place to sit. 
She's going to have a tree in, next week ; she says she 
wants to see me sitting under a tree. I believe it's some 
oriental idea ; it has lately been introduced in Paris. She 
doesn't like French ideas as a general thing ; but she says 
this has more nature than most. She has got so many of 
her own that I shouldn't think she would require to borrow 
any. I'd sit in a forest to hear her bring some of them 
out,' Verena went on, with characteristic raciness. ' She 
just quivers when she describes what our sex has been 
through. It's so interesting to me to hear what I have 
always felt. If she wasn't afraid of facing the public, she 
would go far ahead of me. But she doesn't want to speak 
herself; she only wants to call me out. Mother, if she 
doesn't attract attention to me there isn't any attention to 
be attracted. She says I have got the gift of expression 
it doesn't matter where it comes from. She says it's a 
great advantage to a movement to be personified in a bright 
young figure. Well, of course I'm young, and I feel bright 
enough when once I get started. She says my serenity 
while exposed to the gaze of hundreds is in itself a qualifi- 
cation ; in fact, she seems to think my serenity is quite God- 
given. She hasn't got much of it herself; she's the most 
emotional woman I have met, up to now. She wants to 
ioo   XIIT. 
know how I can speak the way I do unless I feel ; and of 
course I tell her I do feel, so far as I realise. She seems 
to be realising all the time ; I never saw any one that took 
so little rest. She says I ought to do something great, and 
she makes me feel as if I should. She says I ought to 
have a wide influence, if I can obtain the ear of the public ; 
and I say to her that if I do it will be all her influence.' 
Selah Tarrant looked at all this from a higher stand- 
point than his wife ; at least such an altitude on his part 
was to be inferred from his increased solemnity. He 
committed himself to no precipitate elation at the idea of 
his daughter's being taken up by a patroness of movements 
who happened to have money ; he looked at his child only 
from the point of view of the service she might render to 
humanity. To keep her ideal pointing in the right direc- 
tion, to guide and animate her moral life this was a duty 
more imperative for a parent so closely identified with 
revelations and panaceas than seeing that she formed pro- 
fitable worldly connections. He was ' off,' moreover, so 
much of the time that he could keep little account of her 
comings and goings, and he had an air of being but 
vaguely aware of whom Miss "Chancellor, the object 
now of his wife's perpetual reference, might be. Verena's 
initial appearance in Boston, as he called her performance 
at Miss Birdseye's, had been a great success; and this 
reflection added, as I say, to his habitually sacerdotal 
expression. He looked like the priest of a religion that 
was passing through the stage of miracles ; he carried his 
responsibility in the general elongation of his person, of 
his gestures (his hands were now always in the air, as if he 
were being photographed in postures), of his words and 
sentences, as well as in his smile, as noiseless as a patent 
hinge, and in the folds of his eternal waterproof. He was 
incapable of giving an off-hand answer or opinion on the 
simplest occasion, and his tone of high deliberation in- 
creased in proportion as the subject was trivial or domestic. 
If his wife asked him at dinner if the potatoes were good, 
he replied that they were strikingly fine (he used to speak 
of the newspaper as 'fine' he applied this term to 
objects the most dissimilar), and embarked on a parallel 
 
worthy of Plutarch, in which he compared them with other 
specimens of the same vegetable. He produced, or would 
have liked to produce, the impression of looking above 
and beyond everything, of not caring for the immediate, of 
reckoning only with the long run. In reality he had one 
all-absorbing solicitude the desire to get paragraphs put 
into the newspapers, paragraphs of which he had hitherto 
been the subject, but of which he was now to divide the 
glory with his daughter. The newspapers were his world, 
the richest expression, in his eyes, of human life ; and, for 
him, if a diviner day was to come upon earth, it would be 
brought about by copious advertisement in the daily prints. 
He looked with longing for the moment when Verena 
should be advertised among the 'personals/ and to his 
mind the supremely happy people were those (and there 
were a good many of them) of whom there was some 
journalistic mention every day in the year. Nothing less 
than this would really have satisfied Selah Tarrant ; his 
ideal of bliss was to be as regularly and indispensably a 
component part of the newspaper as the title and date, or 
the list of fires, or the column of Western jokes. The 
vision of that publicity haunted his dreams, and he would 
gladly have sacrificed to it the innermost sanctities of home. 
Human existence to him, indeed, was a huge publicity, in 
which the only fault was that it was sometimes not suffi- 
ciently effective. There had been a Spiritualist paper of 
old which he used to pervade ; but he could not persuade 
himself that through this medium his personality had at- 
tracted general attention ; and, moreover, the sheet, as he 
said, was played out anyway. Success was not success so 
long as his daughter's physique, the rumour of her engage- 
ment, were not included in the ' Jottings/ with the certainty 
of being extensively copied. 
The account of her exploits in the West had not made 
their way to the seaboard with the promptitude that he 
had looked for; the reason of this being, he supposed, 
that the few addresses she had made had not been lectures, 
announced in advance, to which tickets had been sold, but 
incidents, of abrupt occurrence, of certain multitudinous 
meetings, where there had been other performers better 
 
known to fame. They had brought in no money ; they 
had been delivered only for the good of the cause. If it 
could only be known that she spoke for nothing, that 
might deepen the reverberation ; the only trouble was that 
her speaking for nothing was not the way to remind him 
that he had a remunerative daughter. It was not the way 
to stand out so very much either, Selah Tarrant felt ; for 
there were plenty of others that knew how to make as 
little money as she would. To speak that was the one 
thing that most people were willing to do for nothing ; it 
was not a line in which it was easy to appear conspicuously 
disinterested. Disinterestedness, too, was incompatible with 
receipts ; and receipts were what Selah Tarrant was, in his 
own parlance, after. He wished to bring about the day 
when they would flow in freely ; the reader perhaps sees 
the gesture with which, in his colloquies with himself, he 
accompanied this mental image. 
It seemed to him at present that the fruitful time was 
not far off; it had been brought appreciably nearer by that 
fortunate evening at Miss Birdseye's. If Mrs. Farrinder 
could be induced to write an ' open letter ' about Verena, 
that would do more than anything else. Selah was not 
remarkable for delicacy of perception, but he knew the 
world he lived in well enough to be aware that Mrs. 
Farrinder was liable to rear up, as they used to say down 
in Pennsylvania, where he lived before he began to peddle 
lead-pencils. She wouldn't always take things as you 
might expect, and if it didn't meet her views to pay a 
public tribute to Verena, there wasn't any way known to 
Tarrant's ingenious mind of getting round her. If it was 
a question of a favour from Mrs. Farrinder, you just had 
to wait for it, as you would for a rise in the thermometer. 
He had told Miss Birdseye what he would like, and she 
seemed to think, from the way their celebrated friend had 
been affected, that the idea might take her some day of 
just letting the public know all she had felt. She was off 
somewhere now (since that evening), but Miss Birdseye had 
an idea that when she was back in Roxbury she would 
send for Verena and give her a few points. Meanwhile, 
at any rate, Selah was sure he had a card ; he felt there 
 
was money in the air. It might already be said there 
were receipts from Charles Street ; that rich, peculiar young 
woman seemed to want to lavish herself. He pretended, 
as I have intimated, not to notice this ; but he never saw 
so much as when he had his eyes fixed on the cornice. 
He had no doubt that if he should make up his mind to 
take a hall some night, she would tell him where the bill 
might be sent. That was what he was thinking of now, 
whether he had better take a hall right away, so that 
Verena might leap at a bound into renown, or wait till she 
had made a few more appearances in private, so that 
curiosity might be worked up. 
These meditations accompanied him in his multifarious 
wanderings through the streets and the suburbs of the New 
England capital. As I have also mentioned, he was absent 
for hours long periods during which Mrs. Tarrant, sus- 
taining nature with a hard-boiled egg and a doughnut, 
wondered how in the world he stayed his stomach. He 
never wanted anything but a piece of pie when he came 
in ; the only thing about which he was particular was that 
it should be served up hot. She had a private conviction 
that he partook, at the houses of his lady patients, of little 
lunches; she applied this term to any episodical repast, 
at any hour of the twenty-four. It is but fair to add that 
once, when she betrayed her suspicion, Selah remarked 
that the only refreshment he ever wanted was the sense 
that he was doing some good. This effort with him had 
many forms ; it involved, among other things, a perpetual 
perambulation of the streets, a haunting of horse-cars, 
railway-stations, shops that were 'selling off.' But the 
places that knew him best were the offices of the news- 
papers and the vestibules of the hotels the big marble- 
paved chambers of informal reunion which offer to the 
streets, through high glass plates, the sight of the American 
citizen suspended by his heels. Here, amid the piled-up 
luggage, the convenient spittoons, the elbowing loungers, 
the disconsolate ' guests/ the truculent Irish porters, the 
rows of shaggy-backed men in strange hats, writing letters 
at a table inlaid with advertisements, Selah Tarrant made 
innumerable contemplative stations. He could not have 
 
told you, at any particular moment, what he was doing ; 
he only had a general sense that such places were national 
nerve-centres, and that the more one looked in, the more 
one was ' on the spot.' The penetralia of the daily press 
were, however, still more fascinating, and the fact that they 
were less accessible, that here he found barriers in his 
path, only added to the zest of forcing an entrance. He 
abounded in pretexts ; he even sometimes brought contri- 
butions ; he was persistent and penetrating, he was known 
as the irrepressible Tarrant. He hung about, sat too long, 
took up the time of busy people, edged into the printing- 
rooms when he had been eliminated from the office, talked 
with the compositors till they set up his remarks by 
mistake, and to the newsboys when the compositors had 
turned their backs. He was always trying to find out 
what was 'going in'; he would have liked to go in himself, 
bodily, and, failing in this, he hoped to get advertisements 
inserted gratis. The wish of his soul was that he might be 
interviewed ; that made him hover at the editorial elbow. 
Once he thought he had been, and the headings, five or 
six deep, danced for days before his eyes ; but the report 
never appeared. He expected his revenge for this the 
day after Verena should have burst forth ; he saw the 
attitude in which he should receive the emissaries who 
would come after his daughter. 
XIV. 
' WE ought to have some one to meet her,' Mrs. Tarrant 
said ; ' I presume she wouldn't care to come out just to see 
us.' ' She,' between the mother and the daughter, at this 
period, could refer only to Olive Chancellor, who was dis- 
cussed in the little house at Cambridge at all hours and 
from every possible point of view. It was never Verena 
now who began, for she had grown rather weary of the 
topic ; she had her own ways of thinking of it, which were 
not her mother's, and if she lent herself to this lady's 
extensive considerations it was because that was the best 
way of keeping her thoughts to herself. 
Mrs. Tarrant had an idea that she (Mrs. Tarrant) liked 
to study people, and that she was now engaged in an 
analysis of Miss Chancellor. It carried her far, and she 
came out at unexpected times with her results. It was still 
her purpose to interpret the world to the ingenuous mind 
of her daughter, and she translated Miss Chancellor with a 
confidence which made little account of the fact that she 
had seen her but once, while Verena had this advantage 
nearly every day. Verena felt that by this time she knew 
Olive very well, and her mother's most complicated versions 
of motive and temperament (Mrs. Tarrant, with the most 
imperfect idea of the meaning of the term, was always 
talking about people's temperament), rendered small justice 
to the phenomena it was now her privilege to observe in 
Charles Street Olive was much more remarkable than 
Mrs. Tarrant suspected, remarkable as Mrs. Tarrant believed 
her to be. She had opened Verena's eyes to extraordinary 
pictures, made the girl believe that she had a heavenly 
mission, given her, as we have seen, quite a new measure 
of the interest of life. These were larger consequences 
io6   xiv. 
than the possibility of meeting the leaders of society at 
Olive's house. She had met no one, as yet, but Mrs. 
Luna ; her new friend seemed to wish to keep her quite 
for herself. This was the only reproach that Mrs. Tarrant 
directed to the new friend as yet ; she was disappointed 
that Verena had not obtained more insight into the world 
of fashion. It was one of the prime articles of her faith 
that the world of fashion was wicked and hollow, and, 
moreover, Verena told her that Miss Chancellor loathed 
and despised it. She could not have informed you wherein 
it would profit her daughter (for the way those ladies shrank 
from any new gospel was notorious) ; nevertheless she was 
vexed that Verena shouldn't come back to her with a little 
more of the fragrance of Beacon Street. The girl herself 
would have been the most interested person in the world if 
she had not been the most resigned ; she took all that was 
given her and was grateful, and missed nothing that was 
withheld ; she was the most extraordinary mixture of eager- 
ness and docility. Mrs. Tarrant theorised about tempera- 
ments and she loved her daughter; but she was only vaguely 
aware of the fact that she had at her side the sweetest 
flower of character (as one might say) that had ever bloomed 
on earth. She was proud of Verena's brightness, and of 
her special talent ; but the commonness of her own surface 
was a non-conductor of the girl's quality. Therefore she 
thought that it would add to her success in life to know a 
