the hospitality of the Elms. The great cause of his 
mother's and Basil's prejudice is quite unknown to him, 
and he sees no reason why they should not all be friends 
with the lovely little mistress of the Elms. In truth, 
he is sure there will be a reason presently why they 
must. 
The Conynghams come the next day to luncheon, and 
Mrs. Gilbert is more than surprised — delighted. Though 
Miss Kingsford made rather an esdandre at the last, the 
winter at Florence was charming, and she brightens into 
her olden self. She has never felt quite at home with 
the Wentworth relatives. There is a secret misgiving in 
her soul that they despise her. She wishes, indeed, that 
Doris had asserted herself strongly in the beginning and 
held them in check. But Doris is the kind of person 
Mrs. Gilbert would never understand. 
However, to-day Doris is quite satisfied with her. It 
is like the old times when they all travelled from Novara 
to Venice ; the motherly grace comes out, the kindly desire 
to see all about her happy. She is not over-effusive on 
the subject of her poor, dead husband ; it may be that 
she fears some remembrance of rather discreditable mat- 
ters may linger in Conyngham's mind. So she contents 
herself with discussing the bright events of the winter. 
"Did I hear that Miss Kingsford married?" Conyng- 
ham asks. 
 
 
 
"Yes; a Russian nobleman, with an unpronounceable 
name. We were in Paris awhile the next winter, and I 
heard about it, quite a splendid affair. She was a very 
spirited and attractive girl." 
" Yes," he says. The episode looks quite ridiculous to 
him now. "Mrs. Wentworth, where were you that gay 
winter?" he inquires. 
" Doris was really a little girl at school. I went for 
her in June of the next summer, and some one found 
her out and carried her off. I never could manage to 
keep any daughters," Mrs. Gilbert concludes, bridling 
her head with the elation of success, if her voice is 
regretful. 
Mrs. Conyngham and Doris compare notes about Brus- 
sels and Naples. They go up to the nursery to see 
Master Lloyd, who is strong, hearty, and boisterous, as 
unlike either parent as can well be imagined. Mrs. 
Conyngham has a little girl at home. They look over 
engravings, curiosities ; they listen to one of Olive's organ 
recitals; and linger, as Mr. Conyngham declares, in an 
enchanted country, trying their utmost to persuade Doris 
to return them a visit in winter, when New York abounds 
with gayeties. They are cordial with Mrs. Gilbert; 
indeed, who could fail to be in her present attractive 
mood ? As for her, it is so delightful to feel one's own 
power agaiji. In her secret heart she knows her life will 
be much more enjoyable without Mr. Gilbert, though it 
seems rather more impressive to mourn decorously for 
him. 
They all go out in the family carriage. Mr. Conyng- 
ham is set down at Judge Minturn's oflSce. A wandering 
smile crosses Doris's fair face as she thinks of her first 
wild endeavor for counsel. Then they drive on up the 
beautiful wild river road, over the long sweep of hill 
where fields are waving with tasselled corn, or golden 
with stubble where grain has been cut. Presently they 
 
 
 
say good by to Mrs. Conyngham, who declares that she 
has had a most delightful day, and who will always be in 
the future one of Doris's warmest partisans. 
Conyngham discourses business a brief quarter of an 
hour with the junior member of the firm ; then he says : — 
"We have been lunching at the Elms, and had a very 
pleasant time. I renewed my acquaintance with Mrs. 
Gilbert, and she is my old friend of Florentine memory, 
but some one made a^big blunder when they confused 
Miss Kingsford with the niece. You see it was the next 
summer that she went for Miss Hawthorne, who was at 
school at Brussels, and Lloyd must have stumbled over 
them immediately ; so she. Miss Hawthorne, never had a 
chance to be talked about or even to see society. It is 
awfully cruel for people to gossip in that fashion. And 
Mrs. Gilbert isn't at all bad. She couldn't help what her 
husband did, for I fancy he was rather an unmanageable 
man." 
Basil gathers up his papers afterward, clears his desk, 
for working hours are over, and then takes down a pon- 
derous tome to look up some intricate points. But his 
fancy follows the carriage party in their summer-day 
leisure, such leisure as he used to delight in. Now it is 
all hard reading, work, plans. He is cast utterly out of 
that old life, and there are moments when he hates this one 
in the toils of which he has bound himself. He seems 
slowly awaking from a curious spell, as if from the very 
day he left the Elms, nay, from the hour he heard of the 
birth of Lloyd's child, he had turned into some ^strange 
iron rigidity. And when he says sternly to himself that 
he is not coveting the child's heritage, he tells the simple 
truth. The disappointment has been great, it must have 
been for any one, but it is from quite a different motive. 
He has hated Doris ; he could have ground her to powder 
under his feet. It is a jealous hate, because she stole 
Lloyd's love that had always been his, and also the sense of 
 VjjOOQIC 
 
a mortifying, disgraceful secret hanging over them all. 
Even now he sees how any one could easily have confused 
matters, but he had the truth before him in Doris Went- 
worth's sweet young face, in her simple story. He, the 
impartial, strictly just advocate, has measured out severity 
.and cruelty ; and not only that, but in one mad moment 
made wreck of another precious argosy. 
Basil Wentworth means to deal with himself as sternly, 
and demand as much in a poii^ of honor, as he would 
from any of his fellow-men. There is nothing to posi- 
tively undo. It is hardly necessary to go to her and say, 
"' I have misapprehended, misjudged you," and confess a 
bit of society gossip. How could he have so allowed it 
to sway him ? But he must retrace some steps. He can- 
not go on with this groundless hatred, when the earth on 
which he stood has been cut from under his feet. He 
must show some interest in Lloyd's boy, commended to 
him by that last pathetic prayer. 
Such a wave of utter self-abasement sweeps over him, 
tingling every nerve ! All the rectitude of his life seems 
dross and ashes since it has betrayed him into this. He 
hates himself for that evil, obstinate narrowness that 
would see nothing outside a certain point. The words on 
the page he is reading run together, and he shuts the book, 
paces up and down the office with lips compressed, and an 
eager desire to shake out that part of memory as if it was 
some living, distasteful thing. He has not meant to be 
resentful, but all the same he has shown bitter malevo- 
lence, not only to the living, but to the dead. 
It is quite late when he goes home. Dinner has been 
waiting some time. Mrs. Wentworth is out ; he remem- 
bers now she spoke of it in the morning. He wants 
nothing to eat, but takes a cup of tea, puts on his hat, and 
strolls out to the quiet cemetery, the old burying-ground so 
sacred to Westwater. There are some freshly cut flowers 
on Lloyd's grave, and the falling dew makes the air all 
 
 
 
about them sweet. Two women only do this now, — the 
wife he loved, and the cousin who loved him. 
How long Bsusil stands there he never remembers. Just 
before he goes, he drops on his knees by the side of the 
mound, and buries his face in the dew-wet flowers. 
" Lloyd ! " he cries, with the deep repentance of a strong, 
man, — '' Lloyd, forgive me I " 
 
 
CHAPTER XIX. 
A YOUNG man's FANCY. 
"Where is Doris?" Graham Wentworth asks, im- 
patiently. He is reclining lazily in the hammock, while 
Olive sits in a veranda chair. The odorous dusk lies 
softly about them, and a few stars are coming out, just 
visible between two columns where there are no vines. 
" Up-stairs with the baby," Olive answers, composedly. 
" The baby has his nurse and everybody," says the 
young man, in an aggrieved tone, " and my stay is drawing 
to a close." 
" Which perhaps is just as well." 
" Just as well ! What do you mean, Olive ? " 
" Do you wish me to BSijjust what I mean? " 
" Of course." Yet he is not quite sure. 
" I am under the impression it will be a relief to Doris." 
There is a flavor of irony in this reply. 
" That is refreshingly cool. You scarcely let her out 
of your sight, and follow her about like a duenna, as if 
you were afraid — '' 
"Graham!" 
It is like a challenge. Olive's sharp eyes have pene- 
trated his lovely little romance ; that he knows by her 
tone. Still, he prefers not to reply. 
" You have been rather exigeant of late," she says 
slowly ; then her voice drops, — " and foolish." 
He is roused by this. " There is no foolishness about 
it," he answers, quickly. " I am in earnest. Do you 
suppose she will waste all her life? Even Lloyd would 
not ask such a sacrifice as that. I love her. I mean to 
win her. I am glad the estate doesn't come to her after 
 
 
 
the child's death. No one can accuse me of mercenary 
views." 
Graham has uttered this in one rapid breath, with his head 
inclined toward Olive, and his voice just raised above a 
whisper. She sits amazed. That it has been anything 
more than a volatile, pleasure-loving young man's amuse- 
ment, has not occurred to her, and his confession makes 
her angry. 
"You!" she says, with a certain scorn, — "you are 
not half worthy of her." 
' ' I don't pretend to be worthy — now. And I shouldn't 
ask her yet. But I shall try to make a better man of 
myself. I shall try to advance my fortunes in every way. 
And she is not like fashionable girls, neither has she the 
grand ideas of Agatha. She is a simple, wholesome, 
sweet, serious-minded woman, and she never loved Lloyd 
with half the strength of her nature. She did not know 
how. She does not, and will not until some man touches 
the sacred chords of her soul." 
" Graham, you are raving ! You know a great deal 
about love, — flirting with every girl you meet ! And then 
you think to offer her — " 
"I'm not worse than other young men, not as bad," 
he cries, indignantly. "And when I have a motive like 
that — " 
"But — can't you see? — you are not suitable. You 
are so careless and volatile, so fond of pleasure, of your 
ease and everything. Why you are crazy to think of such 
a thing." 
" Aiid Doris should be young and pleasure-loving, and 
have some one to take her about, and all that. I can 
hardly forgive Lloyd marrying her, only it has brought her 
to us. And you have all acted like fiends toward her, 
while she has been an angel of sweetness." 
"Yes, we were all simply horrible. I despise myself 
for it, and I feel as if I never could forgive Basil and 
 
 
 
mamma, and Agatha is still like an iceberg, But such a 
love as yours is not going to make amends. I should 
never want to see her your wife. It is dreadful to talk 
of her marrying again ; and if she should, it will be a long 
while first, and some one quite different from you." 
He could strangle Olive. " Are you going to fight 
against me ? " he asks, savagely. '' I give you fair warn- 
ing that it will not be easy work, I have never seen a 
woman that I wanted to marry until now, and I do mean 
to win her if I have to move heaven and earth.'' 
" Even then you will not win her," says Olive, with a 
confidence that is exasperating. '' Graham, do exercise a 
little common-sense. She is so utterly unlike you — " 
" Was she like Lloyd? Is she like any one you know? 
You are ridiculous ! " 
''Yes," Olive admits incautiously, "she is like some 
one I know. There are the same delicate instincts, the 
same fine loyalty to truth and all the higher virtues, the 
generous love and sacrifice, the earnest purpose to make 
others happy. Graham, your life looks paltry beside it. 
And you dare to think of her ! " 
" Olive, you live in an atmosphere of idealized and 
romantic views and impossible standards. You have 
dreamed your life away thus far, and you know nothing of 
the real men and women, of their wants, their delights, 
their satisfactions. And if you mean Trevenna — " 
Some one speaks in the hall ; it is Mrs. Fair going up, 
and Doris answers. The light step sounds on the oaken 
stairs, purposely uncarpeted, and she comes out to them. 
Graham springs from the hammock. 
" Are you here ? " asks the soft voice, with the inflec- 
tion that sounds so like a welcome. 
Graham finds her a chair and places himself on a step, 
almost at her feet. There is an outside lantern that lights 
the path, and the long ray falls beside them without be- 
traying either figure. 
 
 
 
But now that she has come, he is not to be master of the 
situation. Trevenna walks up the path and bids them a 
cordial good evening, dropping down upon the step with 
an air of home feeling that stirs all the blood in Graham 
Wentworth's veins. Is it true that Trevenna has dared to 
think — well, they used to have a fancy that he had 
raised his eyes to Agatha, and he cannot remember that 
any one ever exhibited any indignation about it. But 
Doris — it seems as if she belonged to the family, indeed 
she must not go out of it. 
But Trevenna and Olive have most of the talk, and 
when he proposes music, Olive is rather evasive. 
'' Then I will go in and play for myself, if Mrs. Went- 
worth doesn't mind," he says. 
'' Oh, no ! I like it so much." 
He does not need any special light, and they seldom 
illuminate the long drawing-room unless there are guests. 
The music comes wandering out to them, and seems a part 
of the summer night that would not be perfect without it. 
It is like a worship, full of immortal longings, chastened 
desires, aims and motives too intangible ever to be put 
into words, and that could find no other voice save that 
reverent melody. 
Graham watches the changes that flit over the face of 
Doris. Is it true? Can Trevenna win her? Is there 
something in that life that would touch and electrify all 
the higher impulses of her being? She is above him, just 
as the angels are above us all, and he feels no more 
inclined to protest. But the other evening he saw a 
vision that delighted him, — Doris floating through mazy 
rings to seductive bars and swells that stirred one's 
blood, with her soft fingers clasped in his, her dewy 
sweet lips just parted with languid rapture. Surely she 
ought to have one taste of the world's delightsome 
pleasure. 
Olive cannot resist, and rises to go in. Graham's pen- 
 
 
 
chant looks really absurd to her. If he ventured to say 
anything, Doris would surely rebuff him. 
" Charmed at length," Graham whispers, and glances 
up with a half -smile. 
There is a brief, answering intelligence in Doris's eyes. 
The same suspicion, almost certainly, is in both minds. 
His heart gives a great bound. If Doris cared ever so 
little, it would not be just that expression. 
" I wish," he says at a venture, urged thereto by jeal- 
ousy, ' ' that Olive may come to some — some great hap- 
piness." 
Doris smiles. He has much ado to keep from snatch- 
ing her hands and covering them with kisses. If he 
knows anything about women, and he fancies in the last 
two years he has made them quite a study, she does not 
care for Trevenna in any sense of absolute love, neither 
present nor to come ; and a thrill of triumph electrifies 
him. He hopes sincerely that Olive herself will drift into 
the possibility she sees for another. 
But the days fly onward and his vacation is at an end. 
This time he absolutely hates business. Can he, dare he, 
leave his precious prize without any word of promise ? And 
yet it does seem sacrilege to speak. It is too sudden ; 
it would fall on her ear abruptly, rather than tenderly. 
They have come to such a pleasant understanding that 
Doris's lonely heart is most grateful. Graham has suc- 
ceeded in creating a different atmosphere about her, — so 
many invitations have been showered upon them, though 
Doris has only accepted the quietest ones. 
Even Mrs. Stirling has unbent, and deigns to appear at 
a dainty five-o'clock tea that Doris has ventured upon, 
aided by Olive and Graham, and it is a success. Mr. 
and Mrs. Basil Wentworth do riot come, as Mrs. Went- 
worth is going out of town to an elegant fete ; and Basil 
has a self -condemning thought that he is not worthy of 
her hospitality in Lloyd Wentworth's house. 
 
 
 
" But, Doris,'' Graham says one morning, when he has 
managed to elude Olive, and they are walking through the 
shady grounds, " do you mean to slip into middle life and 
never have any youth?" 
Doris sighs. Olive is eight years older than she, and 
in many things whole decades ; indeed, Olive has never 
known merry girlhood. Doris has the " eternal youth," 
and grief has not crowded it out nor buried it fathoms 
deep. She has an indescribable longing for gladness and 
life and light, and the radiant joys of youth. 
" Because you have had one great sorrow, it does not 
seem right to darken all your sweet life, to wrap it about 
in sombre coloring. I can't think Lloyd would have 
wished it." 
She turns her lovely, questioning eyes to him. No one 
talks of Lloyd save Olive, and it seems to Doris that she 
makes him a graver, less tender nature than her experi- 
ence has proved him. If she dared show Graham that 
last sweet letter that she has kept a secret even from 
Olive ! 
" I sometimes wonder," she says, slowly ; " I am afraid 
to do anything that may hurt or jar, or not be quite right. 
I would much rather give up all. And when there is any 
especial enjoyment, I always long to have Lloyd here to 
share it." 
What she needs, decides this self-conscious young man, 
is to be lifted quite out of her old life, and only marriage 
can do that. It will be his bliss to share youth and joy 
with her ; but he realizes now that he can no more ask 
that grave question, with her sweet, serious eyes upon him, 
than he could repeat some of the sharp, cruel things the 
others have said. He must be higher and finer. There 
is a curious, disquieting sense, as if he was in ignorance 
of the full stature of manhood, and nothing less worthy 
can be offered. Pleasure and gayety alone cannot hallow 
love for her. 
 
 
 
" But you must remember," he says, with a gravity 
quite foreign to him, " that you are not required to give 
up all innocent delights." Then, with a sudden subtle 
alteration that he does not comprehend himself, he says 
eagerly, " Doris, let me be your friend, your brother. 
Write to me of all the little matters that perplex you. I 
may not always decide wisely, perhaps," with a new 
humility, " but my experience has been wider — " 
" You are so good " ; and there is a fascinating tremu- 
lousness in her voice. "I know you have done many 
kindnesses for me this summer, and you must have for- 
given my coming here, a stranger with no real right. 
How can I thank you?" 
"You must never feel that you had no right. Was it 
not all Lloyd's?" 
She puts out her hand with a grateful motion. He 
carries it to his lips. 
