child's consciousness between himself and me.  As docile, as dutiful,
as beautiful as ever, as loving and as lovable, yet the little fellow
would at times withdraw from me and stand off; as if he looked on at
me, and criticised me, and kept his criticism to himself.  Verily the
child was growing.  He had become a separate soul.  In a world of
souls, what was mine--miserable, ignorant, half-developed, wholly
unfit--what was mine to do with his?  How was I to foster him?
When I came face to face with the problem of Boy's general education,
this question pressed upon me bitterly.  Looking abroad upon the people
and their principles of life, the more I studied them, the more did I
stand perplexed before them.  I was in the centre of a vast Theocracy.
Plainly, our community was but one of who knew how many?--governed by
an unseen Being, upon laws of which I knew nothing.  The service of
this invisible Monarch vied only with the universal affection for Him.
So far as I could understand the spiritual life at all, it seemed to be
the highest possible development and expression of love.  What these
people did that was noble, pure, and fine, they did, not because they
must, but because they would.  They believed because they chose.  They
were devout because they wished to be.  They were unselfish and true,
and what below we should have called "unworldly," because it was the
most natural thing in the world.  They seemed so happy, they had such
content in life, that I could have envied them from my soul.
How, now, was I to compass this national kind of happiness for my son?
Misery I could bear; I was sick and sore with it, but I was used to it.
My child must never suffer.  Passed beyond the old system of suffering,
why should he?  Joy was his birthright in this blessed place.
How was I, being at discord from it, to bring my child into harmony
with it?  I was at odds, to start on, with the whole system of
education.  The letters, art, science, industry, of the country were of
a sort that I knew not.  They were consecrated to ends with which I was
unfamiliar.  They were pursued in a spirit incomprehensible to me.
They were dedicated to the interests of a Being, Himself a stranger to
me.  Proficiency, superiority, were rated on a scale quite out of my
experience.  To be distinguished was to possess high spiritual traits.
Deep at the root of every public custom, of every private deed, there
hid the seed of one universal emotion,--the love of a living soul for
the Being who had created it.
I, who knew not of this feeling, I, who was as a savage among this
intelligence, who was no more than an object of charity at the hands of
this community,--what had I to offer to my son?
A father's personal position?  Loving influence?  Power to push the
little fellow to the front?  A chance to endow him with every social
opportunity, every educational privilege, such as it is a father's
pride to enrich his child wherewith?
Nay, verily.  An obscure man ignorant of the learning of the land,
destitute of its wealth, unacquainted among its magnates, and without a
share in its public interests--nothing was I; nothing had I; nothing
could I hope to do, or be, for which my motherless boy should live to
bless his father's name.  Stung by such thoughts as these, which
rankled the more in me the longer I cherished them, I betook myself to
brooding and to solitary strolling in quiet places, where I could
ponder on my situation undisturbed.
I was in great intellectual and spiritual stress, less for myself than
for the child; not more for him, than because of his mother.  What
would Helen say?
How would she hold me to account for him?  How should I meet her--if I
ever saw her face again--to own myself scarcely other than a pauper in
this spiritual kingdom; our child an untaught, unimportant little
fellow, of no more consequence in this place than the gamins of the
street before her door?
In these cold and solitary experiences which many a man has known
before me, and many more will follow after me, the soul is like a
skater, separated from his fellows upon a field of ice.  Every movement
that he makes seems to be bearing him farther from the society and the
sympathy of his kind.  Too benumbed, perhaps, to turn, he glides on,
helpless as an ice-boat before the wind.  Conscious of his mistake, of
his danger, and knowing not how to retract the one or avoid the other,
his helpless motions, seemingly guided by idleness, by madness, or by
folly, lead him to the last place whither he would have led
himself,--the weak spot in the ice.
Suddenly, he falls crashing, and sinks.  Then lo! as he goes under,
crying out that he is lost because no man is with him, hands are
down-stretched, swimmers plunge, the crowd gathers, and it seems the
whole world stoops to save him.  The sympathy of his kind wanted
nothing but a chance to reach him.
I cannot tell; no man can tell such things; I cannot explain how I came
to do it, or even why I came to do it.  But it was on this wise with
me.  Being alone one evening in a forest, at twilight, taking counsel
with myself and pondering upon the mystery from which I could not
gather light, these words came into my heart; and when I had cherished
them in my heart for a certain time, I uttered them aloud:
"Thou great God!  If there be a God.  Reveal Thyself unto my immortal
soul!  If I have a soul immortal."
CHAPTER XV.
My little boy came flying to me one fair day; he cried out that he had
news for me, that great things were going on in the town.  A visitor
was expected, whose promised arrival had set the whole place astir with
joy.  The child knew nothing of what or whom he spoke, but I gathered
the impression that some distinguished guest was about to reach us, to
whom the honours of the city would be extended.  The matter did not
interest me; I had so little in common with the people; and I was about
to dismiss it idly, when Boy posed me by demanding that I should
personally conduct him through the events of the gala day.  He was
unusually insistent about this; for he was a docile little fellow, who
seldom urged his will uncomfortably against my own.  But in this case I
could not compromise with him, and half reluctantly I yielded.  I had
no sooner done so than an urgent message to the same effect reached me
from my friend the surgeon.
"Go with the current to-day," he wrote; "it sets strongly.  Question it
not.  Resist it not.  Follow and be swept."
Immediately upon this some neighbours came hurriedly in, and spoke with
me of the same matter eagerly.  They pleaded with me on no account to
miss the event of the day, upon whose specific nature they were
somewhat reticent.  They evinced the warmest possible interest in my
personal relation to it; as people do who possess a happy secret that
they wish, but may not feel at liberty, fully to share with another.
They were excited, and overflowed with happiness.  Their very presence
raised my spirits.  I could not remember when I had received precisely
this sort of attention from my neighbours; and it was, somehow, a
comfort to me.  I should not have supposed that I should value being
made of consequence in this trifling way; yet it warmed my heart.  I
felt less desolate than usual, when I took the hand of my happy boy,
and set forth.
The whole vicinity was aroused.  Everybody moved in one direction, like
"a current," as my friend had said.  Shining, solemn, and joyous faces
filled the streets and fields.  The voices of the people were subdued
and sweet.  There was no laughter, only smiles, and gentle expectation,
and low consulting together, and some there were who mused apart.  The
"sick of soul" were present with the happier folk: these first had a
wistful look, as of those not certain of themselves or of their
welcome; but I saw that they were tenderly regarded by the more
fortunate.  I myself was most gently treated; many persons spoke with
me, and I heard expressions of pleasure at my presence.  In the crowd,
as we moved on, I began to recognize here and there a face;
acquaintances, whom I had known in the lower life, became visible to
me.  Now and then, some one, hastening by, said:--
"Why, Doctor!" and then I would perceive some old patients; the look
which only loving patients wear was on their faces, the old impulse of
trust and gratitude; they would grasp me heartily by the hand; this
touched me; I began to feel a stir of sympathy with the general
excitement; I was glad that I had joined the people.
I pressed the hand of my little boy, who was running and leaping at my
side.  He looked confidingly up into my face, and asked me questions
about the day's event; but these I could not answer.
"God knows, my child," I said.  "Your father is not a learned man."
As we swept on, the crowd thickened visibly.  The current from the city
met streams from the fields, the hills, the forests; all the distance
overflowed; the concourse began to become imposing.  Here and there I
observed still other faces that were not strange to me; flashes of
recognition passed between us; some also of my own kin, dead years ago,
I saw, far off, and I felt drawn to them.  In the distance, not near
enough to speak with her, shining and smiling, I thought that I
perceived Mrs. Faith, once more.  My boy threw kisses to her and
laughed merrily; he was electric with the universal joy; he seemed to
dance upon the air like a tuft of thistledown; to be "light-hearted"
was to be light-bodied; the little fellow's frame seemed to exist only
as the expression of his soul.  I thought:--
"If he is properly educated in this place, what a spirit he will make!"
I was amazed to see his capacity for happiness.  I thought of his
mother.  I wished to be happy, too.
Now, as we moved on toward the plain, the sound of low chanting began
to swell from the crowd.  The strain gained in distinctness; power
gathered on it; passion grew in it; prayer ascended from it.  I could
not help being moved by this billow of sweet sound.  The forms and
faces of the people melted together before my eyes; their outlines
seemed to quiver in the flood of song; it was as if their manifold
personalities blurred in the unity of their feeling; they seemed to me,
as I regarded them, like the presence of one great, glad, loving human
soul.  This was their supplication.  Thus arose the heavenly song:--
  "Thou that takest away
  The sins of the world!
  Whosoever believeth
  Shall have life.
  Whosoever believeth on Thee
  Shall have eternal life.
  Thou that takest away
  The sins of the world!
  And givest--and givest
  Eternal life!"
"I cannot sing that pretty song," said my boy sadly.  "There is nobody
to teach me.  Father, I wish you were a learned man!"
Now, this smote me to the heart, so that I would even have lifted my
voice and sought to join the chant, for the child's sake, and to
comfort him; but when I would have done so, behold, I could not lift my
soul; it resisted me like a weight too heavy for my lips; for, in this
land, song never rises higher than the level of the soul; there are
fine laws governing this fact whose nature I may not explain, and could
not at that time even understand, but of the fact itself I testify.
"Alas, alas, my son!" I said, "would God I were!"
Now suddenly, while I was conversing with my child, I perceived a stir
among the people, as if they moved to greet some person who was
advancing toward them.  I looked in the direction whither all eyes were
turned; but I saw nothing to account for the excitement.  While I stood
gazing and wondering, at one movement, as if it were by one heart-heat,
the great throng bowed their heads.  Some object, some Presence of
which I could not catch a glimpse, had entered among them.  Whispers
ran from lip to lip.  I heard men say that He was here, that He was
there, that He was yonder, that He had passed them, that He touched
them.
"He blesseth me!" they murmured.
"And me!  And me!"
"Oh, even me!"
I heard low cries of delight and sobs of moving tenderness.  I heard
strange, wistful words from the disabled of soul who were among
us,--pleadings for I knew not what, offered to I knew not whom.  I
heard words of sorrow and words of utter love, and I saw signs of
shame, and looks of rapture, and attitudes of peace and eager hope.  I
saw men kneeling in reverence.  I saw them prostrate in petition.  I
saw them as if they were clinging affectionately to hands that they
kissed and wept upon.  I saw them bowed as one bows before the act of
benediction.
These things I perceived, but alas, I could perceive no more.  What
went I out, with the heavenly, happy people, for to see?
Naught, God help me, worse than naught; for mine eyes were holden.
Dark amid that spiritual vision, I stood stricken.  Alone in all that
blessedness, was I bereft?
Whom, for very rapture, did they melt to welcome?  Whom greeted they,
with that great wave of love, so annihilating to their consciousness of
themselves that I knew when I beheld it, I had never seen the face of
Love before?
Among them all, I stood alone--blind, blind.  Them I saw, and their
blessedness, till I was filled with such a sacred envy of it that I
would have suffered some new misery to share it.  But He who did move
among them thus royally and thus benignly, who passed from each man to
each man, like the highest longing and the dearest wish of his own
heart, who was to them one knew not whether the more of Master or of
chosen Friend,--Him, alas, I saw not.  To me He was denied.  No
spiritual optic nerve in me announced His presence.  I was blind,--I
was blind.
Overcome by this discovery, I did not notice that my boy had loosened
his hold upon my hand until his little fingers were quite disengaged
from my clasp; and then, turning to speak to him, I found that he had
slipped from me in the crowd.  This was so great and the absorption so
universal that no one noticed the mishap; and grateful, indeed, at that
miserable moment, to be unobserved, I went in search of him.
Now, I did not find the child, though I sought long and patiently; and
when I was beginning to feel perplexed, and to wonder what chance could
have befallen him, I turned, and behold, while I had been searching,
the throng had dispersed.
Night was coming on  All the citizens were strolling to their homes.
On street, and plain, and hill stirred the shadows of the departing
people.  They passed quietly.  Every voice was hushed.  All the world
was as still as a heart is after prayer.
In the silent purple plain, only I was left alone.  Moved by solitude,
which is the soul's sincerity, I yielded myself to strange impulses,
and turning to the spot, where He who was invisible had passed or
seemed to pass, I sought to find upon the ground and in the dusk some
chance imprint of His steps.  To do this it was necessary for me to
stoop; and while I was bowed, searching for some least sign of Him, in
the dew and dark, I knew not what wave of shame and sorrow came upon
me, but I fell upon my knees.  There was no creature to hear me, and I
spoke aloud, and said:--
"Thou departest from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord!" ...
"Lord," I said, "that I may receive my sight!"
I thought I had more to say than this, but when I had uttered these
words no more did follow them.  They seemed to fill my soul and flood
it till it overflowed.
And when I had lifted up my eyes, the first sight which did meet them
was the face of my own child.  I saw at once that he was quite safe and
happy.  But I saw that he was not alone.
One towered above me, strange and dim, who held the little fellow in
His arms.  When I cried out to Him, He smiled.  And He did give the
child to me, and spoke with me.
CHAPTER XVI.
The natural step to knowledge is through faith.  Even human science
teaches as much as this.  The faith of the scholar in the theoretic
value of his facts precedes his intelligent use of them.  Invention
dreams before it does.  Discovery believes before it finds.  Creation
imagines before it achieves.
Spiritual intelligence, when it came at last, to me, came with
something of the jar of all abnormal processes.  The wholesome
movements of trust I had omitted from my soul's economy.  The function
of faith was a disused thing in me.  Truth had to treat me as an
undeveloped mind.
In the depth of my consciousness, I knew that, come what might, I had
for ever lost the chance to be a symmetrical healthy human creature,
whose spiritual faculties are exercised like his brain or muscle; who
has lived upon the earth, and loved it, and gathered its wealth and
sweetness and love of living into his being, as visible food whereby to
create invisible stature; whose earthly experience has carried him on,
as Nature carries growth--unconsciously, powerfully, perfectly, into a
diviner life.  For ever it must remain with me that I had missed the
natural step.
If I say that the realization of knowledge was the first thing to teach
me the value of faith, I shall be understood by those who may have read
this narrative with any sort of sympathy to the present point; and, for
the rest, some wiser, better man than I must write.
I do not address those who follow these pages as I myself should once
have done.  I do not hope to make myself intelligible to you, as I
would to God I could!  Personal misery is intelligible, and the shock
of belated discovery.  But the experience of another in matters of this
kind has not a "scientific" character.
No one can know better than I how my story will be dismissed as
something which is not "a fact."
In the times to be, it is my belief that there shall yet arise a soul,
worthier of the sacred task than I to which shall be given the perilous
and precious commission of interpreter between the visible life and the
life invisible.  On this soul high privilege will be bestowed, and
awful opportunity.  Through it the deaf shall hear, the dumb shall
speak.  The bereaved shall bless it, and the faint of heart shall lean
on it, and those who know not God shall listen to it, and the power of
God shall be upon it.  But mine is not that soul.
Even as One who was above man did elect to experience the earthly lot
of man to save him; so one who is a man among men may yet be permitted
to use the heavenly lot in such wise as to comfort them.  The first
mission called for superhuman power.  The second may need only human
purity.
I now enter upon a turn in my narrative, where my vehicle of
communication begins to fail me.  Human language, as employed upon the
earth, has served me to some extent to express those phases of
celestial fact upon which I still looked with earth-blind eyes.  With
spiritual vision comes the immediate need of a spiritual vocabulary.
Like most men of my temperament and training, I have been accustomed to
some caution in the use of words.  I know not any, which would be
intelligible to the readers of this record, that can serve to express
my experiences onward from this point.
"A man becomes terrestrialized as he grows older," said an unbeliever
of our day, once, to me.
It is at least true that the terrestrial intellect celestializes by the
hardest; and it remains obvious, as it was written, that the things
which are prepared may not enter into the heart of man.
This is only another way of saying that my life from the solemn hour
which I have recorded underwent revolutions too profound for me to
desire to utter them, and that most of my experiences were of a nature
which I lack the means to report.  My story draws to a stop, as a cry
of anguish comes to a hush of peace.  What word is there to say?
There is, indeed, one.  With lips that tremble and praise God, I add it.
At a period not immediately following the event which I have described,
yet not so far beyond it that the time, as I recall it, seemed
wearisome to me, I received a summons to go upon an errand to a distant
place.  It was the first time that I had been intrusted with any
business of a wider nature than the care of my own affairs or the
immediate offices of neighbourhood, and I was gratified thereby.  I
had, indeed, longed to be counted worthy to perform some special
service at the will of Him who guided all our service, and had
cherished in my secret heart some project of praying that I might be
elected to a special task which had grown, from much musing, dear to
me.  I did most deeply desire to become worthy to wear the seal of a
commission to the earth; but I had ceased to urge the selfish cry of my
personal heart-break.  I did not pray now for the precious right to
visit my own home, nor weary the Will in which I had learned to confide
with passionate demands for my beloved.  I may rather say that I had
come almost to feel that when I was worthy to see Helen I should be
worthy of life eternal; and that I had dropped my love and my longing
and my shame into the Hands of Infinite Love, and seen them close over
these, as over a trust.
The special matter to which I refer was this: I desired to be permitted
to visit human homes, and set myself, as well as I might, to the effort
of cultivating their kindliness.  I longed to cherish the sacred graces
of human speech.  I wished to emphasize the opportunity of those who
love each other.  I groaned within me, till I might teach the
preciousness and the poignancy of words.  It seemed to me that if I
might but set the whole force of a man's experience and a spirit's
power to make an irritable scene in loving homes held as degrading as a
blow, that I could say what no man ever said before, and do what no
spirit would ever do again.
If this be called an exaggerated view of a specific case, I can only
say that every human life learns one lesson perfectly, and is qualified
to teach that, and that alone, as no other can.  This was mine.
When, therefore, I received the summons to which I have alluded, I
inferred that the wish of my heart had been heard, and I set forth
joyfully, expecting to be sent upon some service of the nature at which
I have hinted.  My soul was full of it, and I made haste to depart,
putting no question in the way of my obedience.  No information,
indeed, was granted to me beyond the fact that I should follow a
certain course until I came to its apparent end, and there await what
should occur, and act as my heart prompted.  The vagueness of this
command stirred my curiosity a little, I confess; but that only added
to the pleasure of the undertaking.  It would be difficult to say how
much relief I found in being occupied once again to some purpose, like
a man.  But it would be impossible to tell the solemn happiness I had
in being counted fit humbly to fulfil the smallest trust placed in me
by Him who was revealed, at this late, last moment, after all, to me,
unworthy.
I set forth alone.  The child was left behind me with a neighbour, for
so I thought the way of wisdom in this matter.  Following only the
general directions which I had received, I found myself soon within the
open country toward the region of the hills.  As I advanced, the
scenery became familiar to me, and I was not slow to recognize the path
as the one which I myself had trodden on my first entrance to the city
wherein of recent days I had found my home.  I stopped to consider this
fact, and to gather landmarks, gazing about me diligently and musing on
my unknown course; for the ways divided before me as foot-paths do in
fields, each looking like all and all like each.  While I stood
uncertain, and sensitively anxious to make no mistake, I heard the hit!
hit! of light feet patting the grass behind me, and, turning, saw a
little fellow coming like the morning wind across the plain.  His
bright hair blew straight before him, from his forehead.  He ran
sturdily.  How beautiful he was!
He did not call me nor show the slightest fear lest he should fail to
overtake me.  Ha had already learned that love always overtakes the
beloved in that blessed land.
"You forgot your little boy," he said reproachfully, and put his hand
quietly within mine and walked on beside me, and forgot that he had
been forgotten immediately, and looked upward at me radiantly.
Remembering the command to await what should occur, and do as my heart
prompted, I accepted this accident as part of a purpose wiser than my
own, and kissed the little fellow, and we travelled on together.
As we came into the hill country, our way grow wilder and more
desolate.  The last of the stray travellers whom we chanced to meet was
now well behind us.  In the wide spaces we were quite alone.  Behind
us, dim and distant, shimmering like an opal in a haze of fair
half-tints, the city shone.  On either side of us, the forest trees
began to tread solemnly, like a vast procession which no man could
number, keeping step to some inaudible march.  Before us, the great
crest of the mountains towered dark as death against the upper sky.  As
we drew near, the loneliness of these hills was to me as something of
which I had never conceived before.  Earth did not hold their likeness,
and my heart had never held their meaning.  I could almost have dreaded
them, as we came nearer to them; but the deviation of the paths had
