the steward of the Daredevil was famous in his calling. 
But it was conceded to be unusually cold, even for 
March, at Georges'. One must keep the blood racing, 
somehow, for life's sake. 

Whiskey flowed fast between meals. Jack was ob- 
served not to limit himself. " It was for luck," he said. 
Take it through, it was a hard trip. The sober men — 
there were some — looked grim and pinched ; the drink- 
ers ugly. 

" It 's a hound's life," said a dory-mate of Jack's one 
day. His name was Rowe — Rowe Salt ; he was a half- 
brother of Jim's. But Jim was at home. And Teen, 
of course, was at home. Jack had not spoken of her ; 
he had thought of her, — he had thought of nothing 
else. God knows what those thoughts had been. When 
Rowe spoke to him in this fashion, Jack looked hard at 
him. 

" I 've been thinkin' ef it disobligated a feller," he 
said. 

" Hey ? " asked Rowe. 

" If you was treated like folks ; but you ain't. You 're 
froze. You 're soaked. You 're wrecked. Your nets 
is stole. You 're drove off in the fog. You 're drownded, 
and you lose your trawls. If you swear off, you 
miss your luck. It 's dirty aboard. Folks don't like 
the looks of you. There 's alwers a hanker in the pit o' 
your stomick. When you get upon a tear you don't 
know what you — do to — folks." 

Jack stopped himself abruptly, and leaned upon his 
oar ; they were trawling, and the weather grew thick. 

"Rowe," he said, staring off into the fog, "did ye 
ever think we was like fishes, us Fairharbor folks ?" 

"I don't know's I hev," said the dory-mate, staring 
too. 

" Well, we be, I think. We live in it and we 're 
drownded in it, and we can't get out on 't, — we can't 
get out. We look like 'em, too. I 've thought about 
that. Some of us look like haddock. You 've got the 
halibut look yourself. Skipper, he 's got the jib of a 
monk-fish, — you ken see it for yourself. There's a 
man I messed with, once, reminded me of a sculpin. I 
guess I 'd pass for a lobster, myself, — for color, anyhow.
We take it out someways, each on us. Don't 
ye know the look the women folks have when they get 
old and have gone hungry ? You can tell by the build 
of a boy which way he'll turn out, — halibut way, or 




hake, or mebbe mackerel if he 's sleek and little. It 's a 
kind of a birth-mark, I shouldn't wonder. There 's no 
gettin' out on 't, no more 'n it out of you. Sometimes 
I used to think — 

" Good Lord ! " cried Jack. He laid down his oar 
again, and the dory wheeled to starboard sharply. 

" Rowe Salt, you look there ! You tell me if you see 
a woman yonder, on the water ! " 

" You 've got the jim-jams, Jack. Women folks don't 




walk at Georges'. I can't see nothin' nowhere, but it's 
thick as " — 

" It's thick as hell," interrupted Jack, "and there's 
a woman walkin' on the water, — Lord ! don't you see 
her ? Lord ! her hair is yeller hair, and it 's streamin' 
over her, — don't you see her ? She 's walkin' on this 
devilish fog to-wards the dory, — Teen? Teen ! There! 
Lord save me, Rowe, if I didn't see my wife come 
walkin' towards us, us settin' in this dory. — Hi-i-igh ! 
I 'll swear off when I get home. I 'll tell her so. I 
hate to see such things." 

" You see, Rowe," Jack added presently, — for he had 
not spoken after that, but had fallen grimly to work. 
It was ten below, and the wind was taking the backward 
spring for a bitter blow ; both men, tugging at their 
trawls through the high and icy sea, were suffering too 
much to talk, — " ye see we had some words before I 
come aboard, and she warn't right smart. The baby 
can't be very old. I don' know how old it is. I was 
oncommon drunk ; I don't remember what I did to her. 
I 'm afraid I hit her, — for I had some words with her. 
I wished I was at home. She won't tell nobody. She 
never does. But I 'm set to be at home and tell her 
I 've sworn off. I 've got money for her this trip, too ; 
I 'm afraid she 's in a hurry for it." 

After this outburst of confidence, Jack seemed to 
cling to his dory-mate ; he followed him about deck, and 
looked wistfully at him. Jack had begun to take on the 
haggard look of the abstainer once again. The crew 
thought he did not seem like himself. He had stopped 
drinking, abruptly, after that day in the fog, and suffered 
heavily from the weather and from exposure. 

" I say, Rowe," he asked one day, " if anything was 




to happen, would you jest step in and tell my wife I 
didn't believe that yarn about her ? She'll know." 

Now it befell, that when they were rounding Eastern 
Point, and not till then, they bespoke the Destiny, which 
was outward bound, and signaled them. She drew to 
speaking distance, and her skipper had a word with the 
master of the Daredevil, but he spoke none too loud, 
and made his errand quickly, and veered to his own 
course, and the two boats parted company, and the Daredevil 
came bustling in. They were almost home. 

It was remembered afterward that Jack was badly 
frostbitten upon that voyage ; he looked badly ; he had 
strange ways ; the men did not know exactly how to 
take him. He was overheard to say : 

" I ain't agoin' to go to Georges' again." 

Rowe Salt overheard this, after the skipper of the 
Destiny had signaled and tacked. Jack was sitting aft 
alone, when he said it, looking seaward. He had paid 
little or no attention to the incident of the Destiny, but 
sat staring, plunged in some mood of his own which 
seemed as solitary, as removed from his kind and from 
their comprehension, as the moods of mental disorder 
are from the sane. 

So then, with such dexterity as the ignorant man 
could muster, Salt got his friend down below, on some 
pretext, and stood looking at him helplessly. 

"You don't look well, Rowe," Jack suggested pleasantly. 

" Jack," said his dory-mate, turning white enough, 
" I 'll make no bones of it, nor mince nothin', for 
somebody 's got to tell ye, and they said it must be me. 
There 's a warrant after ye. The sheriff's on the tug 
betwixt us and the wharf. She \s layin' off of the island, 
him aboard of her." 




"I never was in prison," faltered Jack. "The boys 
have always bailed me." 

"I ain't a bailin' matter, Jack, this time." 

" What did you say ? " 

" I said it wasn't a bailin' business. Somebody 's 
got to tell you." 

Jack gazed confidingly up into his friend's face. 

"What was it that I done, old boy? Can't ye tell 

me?" 

" Let the sheriff tell you. Ask the sheriff. I 'd 
rather it was the sheriff told you, Jack." 

" Tell me what it is I done, Rowe Salt ; I 'd tell you." 
He looked puzzled. 

" The sheriff knows more about it nor I do," begged 
the fisherman ; " don't make an old messmate tell you." 

"All right," said Jack, turning away. He had now 
grown very quiet. He pleaded no more, only to mutter 
once : 

" I 'd rather heard it from a messmate." 

Rowe Salt took a step or two, turned, stopped, stirred, 
and turned again. 

"You killed somebody, then, if you will know." 

" Killed somebody ? " 

" Yes." 

" I was drunk and killed somebody ? " 

" Lord help you, yes." 

" I hope," hoarsely — " Look here, Salt. I hope Teen 
wont know. 

"I say, Rowe," after a long pause, "who was it that 
I killed?" 

"Ask the sheriff." 

"Who was it that I killed ?" 

"The skipper 'll tell you, mebby. I won't. No, I 




vow I won't. Let me go. I 've done my share of this. 
Let me up on deck ! I want the air ! " 

"I won't let you up on deck— so help me! — till you 
tell!" 

" Let me off, Jack, let me off ! " 




" Tell me who it was, I say ! " 

"Lord in heaven, the poor devil don't know, — he 
really don't." 

" I thought you would ha' told me, Rowe," said Jack 
with a smile, — his old winning smile, that had captivated 
his messmates all his life. 

" I will tell you ! " cried Rowe Salt with an oath of 
agony. " You killed your wife ! You murdered her. 
She 's dead Teen ain't to home. She 's dead." 



VI. 

They made way for him at this side and at that, for 
he sprang up the gangway, and dashed among them. 
When he saw them all together, and how they looked at 
him, he stopped. A change seemed to strike his pur- 
pose, be it what it might. 

" Boys," said Jack, looking all about, " ye won't have 
to go no bail for me. I 'll bide my account, this time." 

He parted from them, for they let him do the thing 
he would, and got himself alone into the bows, and there 
he sank down, crouching, and no one spoke to him. 

The Daredevil rounded Eastern Point, and down the 
shining harbor, all sails set, came gayly in. They were 
almost home. 

Straightway there started out upon the winter sea a 
strong, sweet tenor, like a cry. It was Jack's voice, — 
everybody knew it. He stood by himself in the bows, 
back to them, singing like an angel or a madman, — 
>.cme said this ; some said the other, — 

" Rock of Ages, cleft for me ! 
Let me hide myself in thee ; . . . 

Thou must save, and thou alone . . . 

When I soar to worlds unknown, 
See thee on thy judgment throne," — 

sang Jack. 



With the ceasing of his voice, they divined how it 
was, by one instinct, and every man sprang to him. 
But he had leaped and gained on them. 




The waters of Fairharbor seemed themselves to leap 
to greet him as he went down. These that had borne 
him and ruined him buried him as if they loved him. 



He had pushed up his sleeves for the spring, hard to the 
shoulder, like a man who would wrestle at odds. 

As he sank, one bared arm, thrust above the crest of 
the long wave, lifted itself toward the sky. It was his 
right arm, on which the crucifix was stamped. 

VII. 

White and gold as the lips and heart of a. lily, the 
day blossomed at Fairharbor one June Sunday, when 
these things were as a tale that is told. It was a warm 
day, sweet and still. There was no wind, no fog. The 
harbor wore her innocent face. She has one ; who can 
help believing in it, to see it ? The waves stretched 
themselves upon the beach as if they had been hands 
laid out in benediction ; and the colors of the sky were 
like the expression of a strong and solemn countenance. 

So thought Mother Mary, standing by her husband's 
side that day, and looking off from the little creature in 
her arms to the faces of the fishermen gathered there 
about her for the service. It was an open-air service, held 
upon the beach, where the people she had served and 
loved could freely come to her — and would. They had 
sought the scene in large numbers. The summer peo- 
ple, too, strolled down, distant and different, and hung 
upon the edges of the group. They had a civil welcome, 
but no more. This was a fisherman's affair ; nobody 
needed them ; Mother Mary did not belong to them. 

" The meetin 's ours," said Rowe Salt. " It 's us she 's 
after. The boarders ain't of no account to her." 

His brother Jim was there with Rowe, and Jim's wife, 
and some of the respectable women neighbors. The 
skipper of the Daredevil was there, and so were many 




"But no one heard the other words, said BY Mother Mary." 

of Jack's old messmates. When it was understood that 
Mother Mary had adopted Jack's baby, the news had 
run like rising tide, from wharf to wharf, from deck to 
deck, — everybody knew it, by this time. Almost everybody 
was there, to see the baptism. The Fairharbor 
fishermen were alert to the honor of their guild. They 
turned out in force to explain matters, sensitive to show 
their best. They would have it understood that one 
may have one's faults, but one does not, therefore, 
murder one's wife. 

The scene in the annals and the legends of Fairharbor 
was memorable, and will be long. It was as strange to 
the seamen as a leaf thrown over from the pages of the 
Book of Life, inscribed in an unknown tongue of which 
they only knew that it was the tongue of love. Whether 
it spoke as of men or of angels, they would have been 
perplexed to say. 

Into her childless life, its poverty, its struggles, its 
sacrifices, and its blessed hope, Mother Mary's great 
heart took the baby as she took a man's own better nature 
for him ; that which lay so puny and so orphaned in 
those wild lives of theirs, an infant in her hands. 

Jack's baby, Jack's baby and Teen's, as if it had been 
anybody's else baby, was to be baptized "like folks." 
Jack's baby, poor little devil, was to have his chance. 

The men talked it over gravely ; it affected them with 
a respect one would not anticipate, who did not know 
them. They had their Sunday clothes on. They were 
all clean. They had a quiet look. One fellow who had 
taken a little too much ventured down upon the beach ; 
but he was hustled away from the christening, and 
clucked in the cove, and hung upon the rocks to dry. 
One must be sober who helped to baptize that baby. 


This was quite understood. 

They sang the hymn, Jack's hymn and Teen's : of 
course they sang the Rock of Ages ; and Mother Mary's 
husband read " the chapter " to them, as he was used, 
and spoke to them ; and it was so still among them 
thaf they could hear each wave of the placid sea beat 
evenly as if they listened to the beating of a near and 
mighty peaceful heart. Mother Mary spoke with them 
herself a little. She told them how she took the child, in 
despair of the past, in hope of the future ; in pain and in 
pity, and in love ; yearning over him, and his, and those 
who were of their inheritance, and fate, their chances, 
and their sorrows, and their sins. She told them of the 
child's pure heart within us all, which needs only to be 
mothered to be saved ; which needs only that we foster 
it, to form it ; which needs that we treat it as we do 
other weak and helpless things, whether in ourselves or 
in another. What was noble in them all, she said, was 
to them like this little thing, to her. It was a trust. 
She gave it to them, so she said, as she took the baby, 
here before their witnessing, to spare him from their 
miseries, if she might. 
