mystery was dissolved; they were neither guards nor smugglers--they
were lovers; and she ran on at once through the bramble and called
shrilly to the cows.
The excursionists, meanwhile, had reached Hendaye and had been ferried
across the stream that flows between it and Fuenterrabia. At the
landing they were met by a gentleman in green and red who muttered some
inquiry. The boatman undid the straps of the valise which they bore,
and this rite accomplished, the gentleman in green and red looked idly
in them and turned as idly away. The boatman shouldered the valises
again, and started for the inn.
Mr. Incoul and his friend were both men to whom the visible world
exists and they followed with lingering surprise. They ascended a
sudden slope, bordered on one side by a high white wall in which
lizards played, and which they assumed was the wall of some monastery,
but which they learned from the boatman concealed a gambling-house,
and soon entered a small grass-grown plaza. To the right was a church,
immense, austere; to the left were some mildewed dwellings; from an
upper window a man with a crimson turban looked down with indifferent
eyes and abruptly a bird sang.
From the plaza they entered the main street and soon were at the inn.
Mr. Incoul and Blydenburg were both men to whom the visible world
exists, but they were also men to whom the material world has much
significance. In the hall of the inn a chicken and two turkeys clucked
with fearless composure. The public room was small, close and full
of insects. At a rickety table an old man, puffy and scornful, was
quarreling with himself on the subject of a peseta which he held in
his hand. The inn-keeper, a frowsy female, emerged from some remoter
den, eyed them with unmollifiable suspicion and disappeared.
“We can’t stop here,” said Blydenburg with the air of a man denying the
feasibility of a trip to the moon.
On inquiry they learned that the town contained nothing better. At
the Casino there were roulette tables, but no beds. Travelers usually
stopped at Hendaye or at Irun.
“Then we will go back to Biarritz.”
They sent their valises on again to the landing place and then set out
in search of Objects of Interest. The palace of Charlemagne scowled at
them in a tottering, impotent way. When they attempted to enter the
church, a chill caught them neck and crop and forced them back. For
some time they wandered about in an aimless, unguided fashion, yet
whatever direction they chose that direction fed them firmly back to
the landing place. At last they entered the Casino.
The grounds were charming, a trifle unkempt perhaps, the walks were not
free from weeds, but the air was as heavy with the odor of flowers as a
perfumery shop in Bond street. In one alley, in a bower of trees, was a
row of tables; the covers were white and the glassware unexceptionable.
“We could dine here,” Blydenburg said in a self-examining way. A pretty
girl of the manola type, dressed like a soubrette in a vaudeville,
approached and decorated his lapel with a tube-rose. “We certainly can
dine here,” he repeated.
The girl seemed to divine the meaning of his words. “Ciertamente,
Caballero,” she lisped.
Mr. Blydenburg had never been called Caballero before, and he liked
it. “What do you say, Incoul?” he asked.
“I am willing, order it now if you care to.”
But the ordering was not easy. Mr. Blydenburg had never studied
pantomime, and his gestures were more indicative of a patient
describing a toothache to a dentist than of an American citizen
ordering an evening meal. “Kayry-Oostay,” he repeated, and then from
some abyss of memory he called to his aid detached phrases in German.
The girl laughed blithely. Her mouth was like a pomegranate cut in
twain. She took a thin book bound in morocco from the table and handed
it to the unhappy gentleman. It was, he found, a list of dishes and
of wines. In his excitement, he pointed one after another to three
different soups, and then waving the book at the girl as who should
say, “I leave the rest to you,” he dared Mr. Incoul to go into the
Casino and break the bank for an appetizer.
The Casino, a low building of leprous white, stood in the centre of
the garden. At the door, a lackey, in frayed, ill-fitting livery,
took their sticks and gave them numbered checks in exchange. The
gambling-room was on the floor above, and occupied the entire length
of the house. There, about a roulette table, a dozen men were seated
playing in a cheap and vicious way for small stakes. They looked
exactly what they were, and nothing worse can be said of them. “A den
of thieves in a miniature paradise,” thought Mr. Blydenburg, and his
fancy was so pleasured with the phrase that he determined to write a
letter to the Evening Post, in which, with that for title, he would
give a description of Fuenterrabia. He found a seat and began to play.
Mr. Incoul looked on for a moment and then sought the reading-room.
When he returned Blydenburg had a heap of counters before him.
“I have won all that!” he exclaimed exultingly. He looked at his watch,
it was after seven. He cashed the counters and together they went down
again to the garden.
The dinner was ready. They had one soup, not three, and other dishes
of which no particular mention is necessary. But therewith was a
bottle of Val de Peñas, a wine so delicious that a temperance lecturer
suffering from hydrophobia would have drunk of it. The manola with the
pomegranate mouth fluttered near them, and toward the close of the
meal Mr. Blydenburg chucked her under the chin. “Nice girl that,” he
announced complacently.
“I dare say,” his friend answered, “but I have never been able to take
an interest in women of that class.”
Blydenburg was flushed with winnings and wine. He did not notice the
snub and proceeded to relate an after-dinner story of that kind in
which men of a certain age are said to luxuriate. Mr. Incoul listened
negligently.
“God knows,” he said at last, “I am not a Puritan, but I like
refinement, and refinement and immorality are incompatible.”
“Fiddlesticks! Look at London, look at Paris, New York even; there are
women whom you and I both know, women in the very best society, of whom
all manner of things are said and known. You may call them immoral if
you want to, but you cannot say that they are not refined.”
“I say this, were I related in any way, were I the brother, father, the
husband of such a woman, I would wring her neck. I believe in purity in
women, and I believe also in purity in men.”
“Yes, it’s a good thing to believe in, but it’s hard to find.”
Mr. Incoul had spoken more vehemently than was his wont, and to this
remark he made no answer. His eyes were green, not the green of the cat
but the green of a tiger, and as he sat with fingers clinched, and a
cheerless smile on his thin lips, he looked a modern hunter of the Holy
Grail.
The night train leaves Hendaye a trifle after ten, and soon a sereno
was heard calling the hour, and declaring that all was well. It was
time to be going, they knew, and without further delay they had
themselves ferried again across the stream. The return journey was
unmarked by adventure or incident. Mr. Blydenburg fell into a doze, and
after dreaming of the pomegranate mouth awoke at Biarritz, annoyed
that he had not thought to address the manola in Basque. At the station
they found a carriage, and, as Blydenburg entered it, he made with
himself a little consolatory pact that some day he would go back to
Fuenterrabia alone.
The station at Biarritz is several miles from the town, and as the
horses were slow it was almost twelve o’clock before the Continental
was reached. Blydenburg alighted there and Mr. Incoul drove on alone
to the villa. As he approached it he saw that his wife’s rooms were
illuminated. For the moment he thought she might be waiting for him,
but at once he knew that was impossible, for on leaving he had said he
would pass the night in Spain.
The carriage drew up before the main entrance. He felt for small money
to pay the driver, but found nothing smaller than a louis. The driver,
after a protracted fumbling, declared that in the matter of change he
was not a bit better of. Where is the cabman who was ever supplied?
Rather than waste words Mr. Incoul gave him the louis and the man drove
off, delighted to find that the old trick was still in working order.
Mr. Incoul looked up again at his wife’s window, but during his parley
with the driver the lights had been extinguished. He entered the gate
and opened the door with a key. The hall was dark; he found a match and
lit it. On the stair was Lenox Leigh. The match flickered and went out,
but through the open door the moon poured in.
The young man rubbed his hat as though uncertain what to do or say. At
last he reached the door, “I am at the Grand, you know,” he hazarded.
“Yes, I know,” Mr. Incoul answered, “and I hope you are comfortable.”
Leigh passed out. Mr. Incoul closed and bolted the door behind him. For
a moment he stood very still. Then turning, he ascended the stair.
CHAPTER X.
THE POINT OF VIEW.
On leaving the villa Lenox Leigh experienced a number of conflicting
emotions, and at last found relief in sleep. The day that followed he
passed in chambered solitude; it was possible that some delegate from
Mr. Incoul might wish to exchange a word with him, and in accordance
with the unwritten statutes of what is seemly, it behooved him to be
in readiness for the exchange of that word. Moreover, he was expectant
of a line from Maida, some word indicative of the course of conduct
which he should pursue, some message, in fact, which would aid him
to rise from the uncertainty in which he groped. As a consequence he
remained in his room. He was not one to whom solitude is irksome,
indeed he had often found it grateful in its refreshment, but to be
enjoyable solitude should not be coupled with suspense; in that case
it is uneasiness magnified by the infinite. And if fear be analyzed,
what is it save the dread of the unknown? When the nerves are unstrung
a calamity is often a tonic. The worst that can be has been done, the
blow has fallen, and with the falling fear vanishes, hope returns, the
healing process begins at once.
The uneasiness which visited Lenox Leigh came precisely from his
inability to determine whether or not a blow was impending. As to the
blow, he cared, in the abstract, very little. If it were to be given,
let it be dealt and be done with; that which alone troubled him was his
ignorance of what had ensued after his meeting with Mr. Incoul, and his
incapacity to foresee in what manner the consequences of that meeting
would affect his relations with Mr. Incoul’s wife.
In this uncertainty he looked at the matter from every side, and, that
he might get the broadest view, he recalled the incidents connected
with the meeting. The facts of the case seemed then to resolve
themselves into this: Mr. Incoul had unexpectedly returned to his home
after midnight, and had met a friend of his wife’s descending the
stair. Their greeting, if formal, had been perfectly courteous. The
departing guest had informed the returning husband at what hotel he
was stopping, and that gentleman had expressed the hope that he was
comfortable. Certainly there was nothing extraordinary in that. People
who dwelled in recondite regions might see impropriety in a call that
extended up to and beyond midnight, whereas others who lived in more
liberal centres might consider it the most natural thing in the world.
It was, then, merely the point of view, and what was the point of view
which Mr. Incoul had adopted? If he considered it an impropriety why
had he seemed so indifferent? And, if he considered it natural and
proper, why should he have been so damned civil? Why should he have
expressed the hope that his wife’s guest was comfortable at a hotel?
Was the expression of that hope merely a commonplace rejoinder, or was
it an intentional slur? Surely, every one possessed of the brain of a
medium-sized rabbit feels that it is as absurd to expect an intelligent
being to be comfortable in a hotel as it is to suppose that he can
find enjoyment in an evening party or amusement in a comic paper. Then
again, and this, after all, was the great question: was the return of
Mr. Incoul intentional or accidental? If it was intentional, if he
had gone away intending that he would be absent all night merely that
by an unexpected return he might verify any suspicions which he may
have harbored, then in driving to his door in a rumbling coach he had
shown himself a very poor plotter. On the other hand, if the return
were accidental had it served to turn a suspicionless husband into a
suspicious one, and if it had so served, how far did those suspicions
extend? Did he think that his wife and her guest had been occupied with
aimless chit-chat, or did he believe that their conversation had been
of a personal and intimate nature?
As Lenox pondered over these things it seemed to him that, let Mr.
Incoul suspect what he might, the one and unique cause for apprehension
lay in the attitude which Maida had assumed when her husband, after
closing the door, had gone to her in search of an explanation. That
he had so gone there was to him no possible doubt. And it was in the
expectancy of tidings as to the result of that explanation that he
waited the entire day in his room.
But the afternoon waned into dusk and still no tidings came. As
the hours wore on his uneasiness decreased. “Bah!” he muttered to
himself at last, “in the winter I gave all my mornings to Pyrrho and
Ænesidemus, and here six months later during an entire day I bother
myself about eventualities.”
He sighed wearily with an air of self-disgust, and rising from the sofa
on which his meditations had been passed he went to the window. The
Casino opposite was already illuminated. “They will be there to-night,”
he thought. “I have been a fool for my pains. If Maida hasn’t written
it is because there has been nothing to write. I will look them up
after dinner and everything will be as before.” He took off his morning
suit and got himself into evening dress. He tied his white cravat
without emotion, with a precision that was geometric in its accuracy,
and to hold the tie in place he ran a silver pin through the collar
without so much as pricking his neck. He was thoroughly at ease. The
fear of the blow had passed. Pyrrho, Ænesidemus, the whole corps of
ataraxists had surged suddenly and rescued him from the toils of the
inscrutable.
At a florist’s in the street below he found an orchid with which he
decked his button-hole, and then in search of dinner he sauntered
into Helder’s, a restaurant on the main street, a trifle above the
Grand Hôtel. It was crowded; there did not seem to be a single table
unoccupied. He hesitated for a moment, and was about to go elsewhere
when he noticed some one signaling to him from the remoter end of the
garden. He could not at first make out who it was and it was not until
he had made use of a monocle that he recognized a fellow Baltimorean,
Mr. Clarence May, with whom in days gone by he had been on terms
approaching those of intimacy.
Mr. Clarence May, more familiarly known as Clara, was a pigeon-shooter
who for some years past had been promenading the side scenes of
continental life. He was well known in the penal colonies of the
Riviera, and hand-in-glove with some of the most distinguished
rastaquouères, yet did he happen in a proscenium it was by
accident. In appearance he was not beautiful: he was a meagre little
man, possessed of vague features and an allowance of sandy hair so
undetermined that few were able to remember whether or not he wore any
on his face. When he spoke it was with a slight stutter, a trick of
speech which he declared he had inherited from his wet-nurse.
He rose from his seat, and hurrying forward, greeted Lenox as though he
had seen him the week before. He was anything but an idealist, yet he
treated Time as though it were the veriest fiction of the non-existent,
and he bombarded no one with questions as to what had become of them,
or where had they been.
“I have just ordered dinner,” he said, in his amusing stammer, “you
must share it with me.” And Lenox, who had not a prejudice to his name,
accepted the invitation as readily as it was made.
“I don’t know,” May continued, when they were seated--“I don’t know
whether you will like the dinner--I have ordered very little. No
soup, too hot, don’t you think? No oysters, there are none; all out
visiting, the man said; for fish I have substituted a melon; fish, at
the seaside, is never good; then we are to have white truffles, with a
plain sauce, a chateaubriand, salad, a bit of cheese--voilà! How will
that suit you?”
Lenox nodded, as who should say, had I ordered it myself it could not
be more to my taste, and thus encouraged, May offered him a glass of
Amer Picon, a beverage that smells like an orange and looks like ink.
The dinner passed off pleasantly enough. The white truffles were
excellent, and the chateaubriand cooked to a turn. The only fault to be
found was with the Brie, which May seemed to think was not as flowing
as it should be.
“By the way,” he said at last when coffee was served, “you know Mirette
is here?”
“Mirette? Who is Mirette?”
“Why, good gad! My dear fellow, Mirette is Mirette; the one adorable,
unique, divine Mirette. You don’t mean to say you never heard of her!”
“I do, though perhaps she may have had the good fortune to hear of me.”
“Heavens alive, man! don’t you read the papers?”
Lenox smiled. “Why should I? I am not interested in the community. It
might be stricken with dry-rot, elephantiasis and plica polonica for
ought I care. Besides, there is nothing in them; the English papers
are all advertisements and aridity, the French are frivolous and
obscene. I mind neither frivolity nor obscenity; both have their uses,
as flowers and cesspools have theirs; but I object to them served with
my breakfast. I think if once a year a man would read a summary of the
twelvemonth, he would get in ten minutes a digest of all that might be
necessary to know, and what is more to the point, he would have to his
credit a clear profit of two hundred hours at the very least, and two
hundred hours rightly employed are sufficient for the acquirement of
such a knowledge of a foreign language as will permit a man to make
love in it gracefully. No, I seldom read the papers, so forgive my
ignorance as to Mirette.”
“After such an explanation I shall have to. But if you care to learn
by word of mouth that which you decline to read in print, Mirette is
premier sujet.”
“In the ballet, you mean.”
“Yes, in the ballet, and I can’t for the life of me think of a ballet
without her.”
“She must have gone to your head.”
“And to every one’s who has seen her.”
“You say she is here?”
“Yes, she’ll be at the Casino to-night; I’ll present you if you say so.”
“I might take a look at her, but I fancy I shalt be occupied elsewhere.”
“As you like.” May drew out his watch. “It’s after nine,” he added, “if
we are going to the Casino we had better be t-toddling.”
On the way there May entered a tobacconist’s, and Lenox waited for him
without. As he loitered on the curb, Blydenburg rounded an adjacent
corner.
“Well,” exclaimed the latter, “you didn’t see our friends off.”
“What friends?”
“The Incouls of course; didn’t you know that they had gone?”
Lenox looked at him blankly. “Gone,” he echoed.
“Yes, they must have sent you word. Incoul seemed to expect you. They
have gone up to Paris. If I had known beforehand--”
Mr. Blydenburg rambled on, but Lenox no longer listened. It was for
this then that he had been bothering himself the entire day. The
abruptness of the departure mystified him, yet he comforted himself
with the thought that had there been anything abnormal, it could not
have escaped Blydenburg’s attention.
“And you say they expected me?” he asked at last.
“Yes, they seemed to. Incoul left good-bye for you. When you get to
Paris look them up.”
While he was speaking May came out from the tobacconist’s.
“I will do so,” Lenox said, and with a parting nod he joined his friend.
As he walked on down the road to the Casino, Mr. Blydenburg looked
musingly after him. He would not be a bad match for Milly, he told
himself, not a bad match at all; and thinking that perhaps it might be
but a question of bringing the two young people together, he presently
started off in search of his daughter and led her, lamb-like, to the
Casino. But once there he felt instinctively that for that evening at
least any bringing together of the young people was impossible. Lenox
was engaged in an animated conversation with a conspicuously dressed
lady, whom, Mr. Blydenburg learned on inquiry, was none other than the
notorious Mlle. Mirette, of the Théâtre National de l’Opéra.
CHAPTER XI.
THE HOUSE IN THE PARC MONCEAU.
There had been a crash in Wall street. Two of the best houses had gone
under. Of one of these the senior partner had had recourse to the
bare bodkin. For several years previous his wife had dispensed large
hospitality from a charming hôtel just within the gates of the Parc
Monceau. At the news of her ruined widowhood she fled from Paris. In a
week it was only her creditors that remembered her. The hôtel was sold
under the hammer. A speculator bought it and while waiting a chance to
sell it again at a premium, offered it for rent, fully furnished, as it
stood. This by the way.
After the dinner in Spain, Mr. Incoul passed some time in thought.
The next morning he sent for Karl, and after a consultation with him,
he went to the square that overhangs the sea, entered the telegraph
office, found a blank, wrote a brief message, and after attending
to its despatch, returned to the villa. His wife was in the library,
and as he entered the room the maître d’hôtel announced that their
excellencies were served.
Maida had never been more bewildering in her beauty. Her lips were
moist, and under her polar-blue eyes were the faintest of semicircles.
“Did you enjoy your trip to Fuenterrabia?” she asked.
“Exceedingly,” he answered. But he did not enter into details and the
breakfast was done before either of them spoke again.
At last as Maida rose from the table Mr. Incoul said: “We leave for
Paris at five this afternoon. I beg you will see to it that your things
are ready.”
She steadied herself against a chair, she would have spoken, but he had
risen also and left the room.
For the time being her mind refused to act. Into the fibres of her
there settled that chill which the garb and aspect of a policeman
produces on the conscience of a misdemeanant. But the chill passed as
policemen do, and a fever came in its place.
To hypnotize her thoughts she caught up an English journal. She read
of a cocoa that was grateful and comforting, the praises of Pear’s
Soap, an invitation from Mr. Streeter to view his wares, a column of
testimonials on the merits of a new pill, appeals from societies for
pecuniary aid. She learned that a Doré was on exhibition in New Bond
street, that Lady Grenville, The Oaks, Market Litchfield, was anxious
to secure a situation for a most excellent under-housemaid, that money
in large amounts or small could be obtained without publicity on simple
note of hand by applying personally or by letter to Moss & Lewes,
Golden Square. She found that a harmless, effective and permanent cure
for corpulency would be sent to any part of the world, post-paid, on
receipt twelve stamps, and that the Junior Macready Club would admit a
few more members without entrance fee. She read it all determinedly,
by sheer effort of will, and at last in glancing over an oasis her eye
fell upon a telegram from Madrid which stated cholera had broken out
afresh.
She took the paper with her and hurried from the room. In the hall
her husband stood talking to Karl. She went to him and pointed to the
telegram. “Is it for this we are to leave?” she asked.
He read the notice and returned it. “Yes,” he answered, “it is for
that.” And then it was that both chill and fever passed away.
The journey from Biarritz was accomplished without incident. On their
previous visit to Paris, they had put up at the Bristol and to that
hostelry they returned. The manager had been notified and the yellow
suite overlooking the Palace Vendôme was prepared for their reception.
On arriving, Maida went at once with her maid to her room. Mr. Incoul
changed his clothes, passed an hour at the Hamman, breakfasted at
Voisin’s, and then had himself driven to a house-agent.
The clerk, a man of fat and greasy presence, gave him a list of
apartments, marking with a star those which he thought might prove
most suitable. Mr. Incoul visited them all. He had never lived in an
apartment in Paris and the absence of certain conveniences perplexed
him. The last apartment of those that were starred was near the Arc de
Triomphe. When he had been shown it over he found a seat, and heedless
of the volubility of the concierge, rested his head in his hand and
thought. For the moment it seemed to him as though it would be best to
