Dossons. If the Proberts made a noise and they 
made none it would be they who would have the 
best appearance. Moreover, now, with each elaps- 
ing day she felt that she did wish to see Gaston 
about it. Her desire was to wait, counting the 
hours, so that she might just explain, saying two 
or three things. Perhaps these things would not 
make it better very likely they would not ; but 
at any rate nothing would have been done in the 
interval, at least on her part and her father s and 
Delia s, to make it worse. She told her father 
that she should not like him to go round, and 
she was in some degree relieved at perceiving 
that he did not seem very clear as to what it was 
open to him to say to the Proberts. He was not 
afraid but he was vague. His relation to almost 
everything that had happened to them as a family 
for a good while back was a sense of the absence 
of precedents, and precedents were particularly 
absent now, for he had never before seen a lot 
of people in a rage about a piece in the paper. 
Delia also reassured her; she said she would see 
to it that their father didn 't dash off. She com 
municated to her indeed that he had not the 
smallest doubt that Gaston, in a few days, would 
blow them all up much higher than they had 
blown her and that he was very sorry he had let 
her go round on that sort of summons to Mme. 
de Brecourt s. It was for her and the rest to 
come to Francie and to him, and if they had 
anything practical to say they would arrive in a 
body yet. If Mr. Dosson had the sense of his 
daughter s having been roughly handled he derived 
some of the consolation of amusement from his 
persistent humorous view of the Proberts as a 
, " body." If they were consistent with their char 
acter or with their complaint they would move 
en masse upon the hotel, and he stayed at home a 
good deal, as if he were waiting for them. Delia 
intimated to her sister that this vision cheered 
them up as they sat, they two, in the red salon 
while Francie was in bed. Of course it did not ex 
hilarate this young lady, and she even looked for 
no brighter side now. She knew almost nothing 
but her sharp little ache of suspense, her pre 
sentiment of Gaston s horror, which grew all the 
while. Delia remarked to her once that he would 
have seen lots of society-papers over there, he 
would have become familiar ; but this only sug 
gested to the girl (she had strange new moments 
of quick reasoning at present,) that that really 
would only prepare him to be disgusted, not to 
be indifferent. His disgust would be colder than 
anything she had ever known and would complete 
her knowledge of him make her understand him 
properly for the first time. She would just meet 
it as briefly as possible ; it would finish the busi 
ness, wind up the episode, and all would be over. 
He did not write ; that proved it in advance ; 
there had now been two or three posts without a 
letter. He had seen the paper in Boston or in 
New York and it had struck him dumb. It was 
very well for Delia to say that of course he didn 't 
write when he was on the sea : how could they 
get his letters even if he did ? There had been 
time before before he sailed; though Delia 
represented that people never wrote then. They 
were ever so much too busy at the last and they 
were going to see their correspondents in a few 
days anyway. The only missives that came to 
Francie were a copy of the Reverberator, 
addressed in Mr. Flack s hand and with a great 
inkmark on the margin of the fatal letter, and a 
long note from Mme. de Brecourt, received forty- 
eight hours after the scene at her house. This 
lady expressed herself as follows : 
" MY DEAR FRANCIE, I felt very badly after you had 
gone yesterday morning, and I had twenty minds to go 
and see you. But we have talked it over conscientiously 
and it appears to us that we have no right to take any such 
step till Gaston arrives. The situation is not exclusively 
ours but belongs to him as well, and we feel that we ought 
to make it over to him in as simple and compact a form as 
possible. Therefore, as we regard it, we had better not 
touch it (it s so delicate, isn 't it, rny poor child ?) but leave 
it just as it is. They think I even exceed my powers in 
writing you these simple lines, and that once your partici 
pation has been c.onstatee (which was the only advantage of 
that dreadful scene), everything should stop. But I have 
liked you, Francie, I have believed in you, and I don 't 
wish you to be able to say that in spite of the thunderbolt 
you have drawn down upon us I have not treated you with 
tenderness. It is a thunderbolt indeed, my poor and inno 
cent but disastrous little friend ! We are hearing more of 
it already the horrible Republican papers here have (as 
we know) already got hold of the unspeakable sheet and are 
preparing to reproduce the article : that is such parts of it 
as they may put forward (with innuendoes and sous-eniendus 
to eke out the rest) without exposing themselves to a suit 
for defamation. Poor Leonie de Villepreux has been with 
us constantly and Jeanne and her husband have telegraphed 
that we may expect them day after to-morrow. They are 
evidently immensely emotionnes, for they almost never 
telegraph. They wish so to receive Gaston. We have 
determined all the same to be intensely quiet, and that will 
be sure to be his view. Alphonse and Maxime now 
recognise that it is best to leave Mr. Flack alone, hard as 
it is to keep one s hands off him. Have you anything to 
lui faire dire to my precious brother when he arrives? 
But it is foolish of me to ask you that, for you had much 
better not answer this. You will no doubt have an oppor 
tunity to say to him whatever, my dear Francie, you can 
say! It will matter comparatively little that you may 
never be able to say it to your friend, with every 
allowance, 
" SUZANNE DE BRECOURT." 
Francie looked at this letter and tossed it away 
without reading it. Delia picked it up, read it to 
her father, who didn 't understand it, and kept it 
in her possession, poring over it as Mr. Flack liad 
seen her pore over the cards that were left while 
she was out or over the registers of American 
travellers. They knew of Gaston s arrival by his 
telegraphing from Havre (he came back by the 
French line), and he mentioned the hour " about 
dinner-time " at which he should reach Paris. 
Delia, after dinner, made her father take her to 
the circus, so that Francie should be left alone to 
receive her intended, who would be sure to hurry 
round in the course of the evening. The girl 
herself expressed no preference whatever on this 
point, and the idea was one of Delia s masterly 
ones, her flashes of inspiration. There was never 
any difficulty about imposing such conceptions on 
her father. But at half-past ten, when they 
returned, the young man had not appeared, and 
Francie remained only long enough to say, "I 
told you so ! " with a white face and to inarch off 
to her room with her candle. She locked herself 
in and her sister could not get at her that night. 
It was another of Delia s inspirations not to try, 
after she had felt that the door was fast. She 
forbore, in the exercise of a great discretion, but 
she herself in the ensuing hours slept not a wink. 
Nevertheless, the next morning, as early as ten 
o clock, she had the energy to drag her father out 
to the banker s and to keep him out two hours. 
It would be inconceivable now that Gas ton should 
not turn up before the cUjeuner. He did turn 
up ; about eleven o clock he came in and found 
Francie alone. She perceived, in the strangest 
way, that he was very pale, at the same time that he 
was sunburnt ; and not for an instant did he smile 
at her. It was very certain that there was no 
bright nicker in her own face, and they had the 
most singular, the most unnatural meeting. As 
he entered the room he said " I could not come 
last evening ; they made it impossible ; they were 
all there and we were up till three o clock this 
morning." He looked as if he had been through 
terrible things, and it was not simply the strain 
of his attention to so much business in America. 
What passed next she could not remember after 
wards; it seemed only a few seconds before he 
said to her, slowly, holding her hand (before this 
he had pressed his lips to hers, silently), " Is it 
true, Francie, what they say (and they swear to 
it !) that you told that blackguard those horrors 
that that infamous letter is only a report of your 
talk ? " 
"I told him everything it s all me, me, ME I" 
the girl replied, exaltedly, without pretending to 
hesitate an instant as to what he might mean. 
Gaston looked at her with deep eyes ; then he 
walked straight away to the window and remained 
there in silence. Francie said nothing more. 
At last the young man went on, " And I who 
insisted to them that there was no natural 
delicacy like yours ! " 
" Well, you 'll never need to insist about any 
thing any more ! " she cried. And with this she 
dashed out of the room by the nearest door. When 
Delia and Mr. Dosson returned the red salon was 
empty and Francie was again locked into her 
room. But this time her sister forced an entrance. 
XIII. 
MR. DOSSON, as we know, was meditative, and 
the present occasion could only minister to that 
side of his nature, especially as, so far at least as 
the observation of his daughters went, it had not 
urged him into uncontrollable movement. But 
the truth is that the intensity, or rather the con 
tinuity, of his meditations did engender an act 
which was not perceived by these young ladies, 
though its consequences presently became definite 
enough. While he waited for the Proberts to 
arrive in a phalanx and noted that they failed to do 
so he had plenty of time to ask himself and also 
to ask Delia questions about Mr. Flack. So far 
as they were addressed to his daughter they were 
promptly answered, for Delia had been ready from 
the first, as we have seen, to pronounce upon the 
conduct of the young journalist. Her view of it 
was clearer every hour ; there was a difference 
however in the course of action which she judged 
this view to demand. At first he was to be blown 
up for the mess he had got them into (profitless as 
the process might be and vain the satisfaction) ; 
he was to be visited with the harshest chastise 
ment that the sense of violated confidence could 
inflict. Now he was simply to be dropped, to be 
cut, to be let alone to his dying day : the girl 
quickly recognised that this was a much more dis 
tinguished way of showing displeasure. It was in 
this manner that she characterised it, in her 
frequent conversations with her father, if that can 
be called conversation which consisted of his 
serenely smoking while she poured forth argu 
ments which combined both variety and repetition. 
The same cause will produce consequences tho 
most diverse : a truth according to which the 
catastrophe that made Delia express freely the 
hope that she might never again see so much as 
the end of Mr. Flack s nose had just the opposite 
effect upon her father. The one thing he wanted 
positively to do at present was to let his eyes 
travel over his young friend s whole person : it 
seemed to him that that would really make him 
feel better. If there had been a discussion about 
this the girl would have kept the field, for she had 
the advantage of being able to tell her reasons, 
whereas her father could not have put his into 
words. Delia had touched on her deepest con 
viction in saying to Francie that the correspondent 
of the Reverberator had played them that trick 
on purpose to get them into such trouble with the 
Proberts that he might see his own hopes bloom 
again under cover of their disaster. This had 
many of the appearances of a strained interpreta 
tion, but that did not prevent Delia from placing 
it before her father several times an hour. It 
mattered little that he should remark, in return, 
that he didn 't see what good it could do Mr. Flack 
that Francie and he and Delia, for all he could 
guess should be disgusted with him : to Mr. 
Dosson s mind that was such a queer way of 
reasoning. Delia maintained that she understood 
perfectly, though she couldn 't explain and at any 
rate she didn 't want the manoeuvring creature to 
come flying back from Nice. She didn 't want 
him to know that there had been a scandal, that 
they had a grievance against him, that any one 
had so much as heard of his article or cared what 
he published or didn 't publish : above all she 
didn 't want him to know that the Proberts had 
cooled off. Mixed up with this high rigour on 
Miss Dosson s part was the oddest secret com 
placency of reflection that in consequence of what 
Mr. Flack had published the great American 
community was in a position to know with what 
fine folks Francie and she were associated. She 
hoped that some of the people who used to call on 
them when they were " off to-morrow " would take 
the lesson to heart. 
While she glowed with this consolation as well 
as with the resentment for which it was required 
her father quietly addressed a few words, by 
letter, to George Flack. This communication 
was not of a minatory order; it expressed 
on the contrary the loose sociability which was 
the essence of Mr. Dosson s nature. He wanted 
to see Mr. Flack, to talk the whole thing over, 
and the desire to hold him to an account would 
play but a small part in the interview. It was 
much more definite to him that the soreness of 
the Proberts was a kind of unexpected insanity 
(so little did his experience match it), than that 
a newspaper-man had misbehaved in trying to 
turn out an attractive article. As the newspaper 
man happened to be the person with whom he 
had most consorted for some time back he felt 
drawn to him in the presence of a new problem, 
and somehow it did not seem to Mr. Dosson to 
disqualify him as a source of comfort that it was 
just he who had been the fountain of injury. 
The injury was a sort of emanation of the crazy 
Proberts. Moreover Mr. Dosson could not dislike 
at such short notice, a man who had smoked 
so many of his cigars, ordered so many of his 
dinners and helped him so loyally to spend his 
money : such acts constituted a bond, and when 
there was a bond people gave it a little jerk 
in time of trouble. His letter to Nice was the 
little jerk. 
The morning after Francie had turned her back 
on Gaston and left him planted in the salon (he 
Lad remained ten minutes, to see if she would 
reappear, and then had marched out of the hotel), 
she received by the first post a letter from him, 
written the evening before. It conveyed his deep 
regret that their meeting in the morning should 
have been of so painful, so unnatural a character, 
and the hope that she did not consider, as her 
strange behaviour had seemed to suggest, that 
she had anything to complain of. There was too 
much he wanted to say and above all too much 
he wanted to ask, for him to consent to the indefi 
nite postponement of a necessary interview. There 
were explanations, assurances, de part et'd autre, 
with which it was manifestly impossible that 
either of them should dispense. He would there 
fore propose that she should see him, and not be 
wanting in patience to that end, on the following 
evening. He did not propose an earlier moment 
because his hands were terribly full at home. 
Frankly speaking, the state of things there was 
of the worst. Jane and her husband had just 
arrived and had made him a violent, an unexpected 
scene. Two of the French newspapers had got 
hold of the article and had given the most perfi 
dious extracts. His father had not stirred out of 
the house, had not put his foot inside of a club, 
for more than a week. Marguerite and Maxime 
were immediately to start for England, for an 
indefinite stay. They couldn 't face their life in 
Paris. For himself, he was in the breach, fighting 
hard and making, on her behalf, asseverations 
which it was impossible for him to believe, in 
spite of the dreadful defiant confession she had 
appeared to throw at him in the morning, that 
she would not virtually confirm. He would come 
in as soon after nine as possible ; the morrow, up 
to that time, would be severe in the Cours la 
Heine, and he begged her in the meantime not 
to doubt of his perfect tenderness. So far from 
his distress having made it less he had never yet 
felt so much that she had, in his affection, a 
treasure of indulgence to draw upon. 
A couple of hours after this letter arrived 
Francie lay on one of the satin sofas with her eyes 
closed and her hand clinched upon it in her pocket. 
Delia sat near her with a needle in her fingers, 
certain morsels of silk and ribbon in her lap, several 
pins in her mouth, and her attention wandering 
constantly from her work to her sister s face. 
The weather was now so completely vernal that 
Mr. Dosson was able to sit in the court, and he 
had lately resumed this practice, in which he 
was presumably at the present moment absorbed. 
Delia had lowered her needle and was watching 
Francie, to see if she were not asleep she had 
been perfectly still for so long when her glance 
was drawn to the door, which she heard pushed open. 
Mr. Flack stood there, looking from one to the 
other of the young ladies, as if to see which of 
them would be most agreeably surprised by his visit. 
" I saw your father down stairs he says it s 
all right," said the journalist, advancing and smil 
ing. " He told me to come straight up I had 
quite a talk with him." 
"All right all right ?" Delia Dosson repeated, 
springing up. "Yes, indeed, I should say so." 
Then she checked herself, asking in another 
manner : " Is that so ? father sent you up ? " 
And then, in still another : " Well, have you 
had a good time at Nice ? " 
"You'd better all come down and see. It s 
lovely down there. If you 'll come down I 'll go 
right back. I guess you want a change," Mr. 
Flack went on. He spoke to Delia but he looked 
at Francie, who showed she had not been asleep 
by the quick consciousness with which she raised 
herself on her sofa. She gazed at the visitor with 
parted lips, but she said nothing. He hesitated a 
moment, then came toward her, smiling, with his 
hand out. His bright eyes were brighter than 
ever, but they had an odd appearance of being 
smaller, like penetrating points. " Your father 
has told me all about it. Did you ever hear of 
anything so ridiculous ? " 
"All about what? all about what?" said 
Delia, whose attempt to represent happy ignorance 
seemed likely to be spoiled by an intromission of 
ferocity. She might succeed in appearing ignorant, 
but she could scarcely succeed in appearing 
happy. Francie had risen to her feet and had 
suffered Mr. Flack to possess himself for a moment 
of her hand, but neither of the girls had asked 
the young man to sit down. " I thought you were 
going to stay a month at Nice," Delia continued. 
"Well, I was, but your fathers letter started 
me up." 
"Father s letter?" 
" He wrote me about the row didn 't you know 
it? Then I broke. You didn 't suppose I was 
going to stay down there when there were such 
times up here." 
" Gracious ! " Delia exclaimed. 
" Is it pleasant at Nice ? Is it very gay ? Isn 't 
it very hot now?" Francie asked. 
