and years, as reckoned by the time of men, for in 
Eternity there is no time. And Sioned — where 
was she ? Desolate and abandoned, shrieked at 
by sudden winds, flying terrified and helpless 
over level, horizonless plains only to fling herself 
upon the grey waves of Death's noiseless ocean ? 
Oh, if he could but find her and make her forget! 
Together, what would matter death and silence 
and everlasting unrest ? All would be forgot, 
all but the exquisite pain of the regret for the 
years he had wasted on earth, and for the 
solitary heritage he had left the world. Those 
children of his brain ! They were with him still. 
Would that he had left them below to sing his 
name down through the ages ! They were a 
torment to him here, in their futility and inaction. 
They could not sing to these shapeless ghosts 
about him; their voices would be unheeded 
music; nor would any strain sweep downward to 
that world whose tears he might have drawn, 
whose mirth provoked, whose passions played 
upon at his will. The one grand thing he had 
done must alone speak for him. There was in 
it neither pathos nor mirth; it had sprung to the 
cloud-capped point of human genius, and its
sublimity would prove its barrier to the world's 
approval. But it would give him fame when — 
God ! what was that thought ? The manuscript 
of that poem had lain in the room where he had 
met his death. Had the hand that had slain him 
executed a more terrible vengeance still ? Oh, 
it could not be ! No man would be so base. 
And yet, what mercy had he the right to expect ? 
And the nature of the man — cold — relentless — 
To consign the man who had wronged him to 
eternal oblivion — would he not feel as he watched 
the ashes in the brazier, that such vengeance 
was sweeter than even the power to kill ? And 
he was impotent ! He was a waif tossed about 
in the chaos of eternity, with no power to smite 
the man whose crime had — perhaps — been greater 
than the thrusting of two lives from existence a 
few years before their time. He was as pow- 
erless as the invisible beggar who floated at his 
side. And that man was on earth yet, perchance, 
coldly indifferent in his proud position, inwardly 
gloating at the fullness of his revenge. . . . 
Years, years, years! They slipped from his 
consciousness like water from the smooth 
surface of a rock. And yet each had pressed more 
heavily and stung more sharply than the last. 
Oh, if he could but know that his poem had been 
given to the world — that it had not been blotted 
from existence! This was what was meant by 
Hell. No torture that man had ever pictured 
could approach the torments of such regret, such 
uncertainty, such pitiable impotence. Truly, if 
his sin had been great, his punishment was 
greater. 
 
But why was he going downward ? What
invisible hand was this which was resistlessly 
guiding him through the portals of the shadow land, 
past the great sun and worlds of other men, and 
down through this quivering ether ? What ? 
He was to be Jaorn again ? A bit of clay needed 
an atom of animate force to quicken it into life, 
and he must go again ? And it was to the planet 
Earth he was going ? Ah ! his poem ! his 
poem ! He could write it again, and of what 
matter the wasted generations ? And Sioned — 
they would meet again. Sooner or later, she too 
must return, and on Earth they would find what 
had been denied them above. What was that ? 
His past must become a blank ? His soul must 
be shorn of its growth ? He must go back to 
unremembering, unforseeing infancy, and grow 
through long, slow years to manhood again ? Still, 
his genius and his intelligence in their elements 
would be the same, and with development would 
come at last the fruition of all his fondest hopes. 
And Sioned ? He would know her when they met. 
Their souls must be the same as when the great 
ocean of Force had tossed them up; and evolu- 
tion could work no essential change. Ah ! they 
had entered the blue atmosphere. And, yes — 
there lay the earth below them. How he 
remembered its green plains and white cities and blue 
waters! And that great island — yes, it was 
familiar enough. It was the land which had 
 
given him birth, and which should have knelt at 
his feet and granted him a resting-place amidst 
its illustrious dead. And this old castle they 
were descending upon ? He did not remember 
it. Well, he was to be of the chosen of 
earth again. He would have a proud name to 
offer her, and this time it should be an unsullied 
one. This time the world should ring with his 
genius, not with his follies. This time — Oh, 
what was this ? Stop ! Stop ! No; he could 
not part with it. The grand, trained intellect of 
which he had been so proud — the perfected 
genius which had been his glory — they should 
not strip them from him — they were part of 
himself; they were his very essence; he would not 
give them up ! Oh, God ! this horrible 
shrinking ! This was Hell; this was not re-birth. 
Physical torture ? The words were meaningless 
beside this warping, this tearing apart of spirit 
and mind — those precious children of his brain 
— limb from limb. Their shrieks for help ! — their 
cries of anguish and horror ! their clutches ! 
their last spasmodic — despairing — weakening 
embrace ! He would hold them ! His clasp 
would defy all the powers of Earth and Air ! 
No, they should not go — they should not. Oh ! 
this cursed hand, with its nerves of steel. It 
would conquer yet, conquer and compress him 
down into an atom of impotence — There ! it had 
wrenched them from him; they were gone — 
 
gone — forever. But no, they were there beside 
him; their moans for help filled the space about 
him; yes, moans — they were cries no longer — 
and they were growing fainter — they were 
fading — sinking — dying — and he was shrink- 
ing 
X. 
Harold opened his eyes. The night had 
gone; the sun was struggling through the heavy 
curtains; the lamps and the fire had gone out, 
and the room was cold. He was faint and 
exhausted. His forehead was damp with horror, and 
his hands were shaking. That terrible struggle 
in which intellect and its attainments had been 
wrenched apart, in which -the spirit and its 
memories had been torn asunder ! He closed his 
eyes for a moment in obedience to his exhausted 
vitality. Then he rose slowly to his feet, went 
into his bedroom, and looked into the glass. 
Was it HaroldDartmouth or the dead poet who was 
reflected there ? He went back, picked up the 
locket, and returned to the glass. He looked at 
the picture, then at his own face, and again at 
the picture. They were identical; there was not 
a line or curve or tint of difference. He returned 
to his chair and rested his head on his hand. Was 
he this man re-born ? Did the dead come back 
and live again ? Was it a dream, or had he 
actually lived over a chapter from a past existence ? 
 
He was a practical man-of-the-world, not a vague 
dreamer — but all nature was a mystery; this 
would be no stranger than the general mystery 
of life itself. And he was not only this man 
reproduced in every line and feature; he had 
his nature as well. His grandmother had never 
mentioned her husband's name, but the Dart- 
mouths had been less reticent. They were fond 
of reiterating anecdotes of Lionel Dartmouth's 
lawless youth, of his moody, melancholy 
temperament, and above all, of the infallible signs he 
had shown of great genius. That his genius had 
borne no fruit made no difference in their 
estimate; he had died too soon, that was all — died 
of fever in Constantinople, the story ran; there 
had never been a suggestion of scandal. And 
he had come back to earth to fulfill the 
promise of long ago, and to give to the world the 
one splendid achievement of that time. It had 
triumphed over death and crime and revenge — 
but — He recalled those nights of conflict in his 
mind. Would will and spirit ever conquer that 
mechanical defect in his brain which denied his 
genius speech ? 
He drew his hand across his forehead; he was 
so tired. He pushed the manuscript and letters 
into a drawer of the desk, and turning the key 
upon them, opened the window and stepped out 
into the air. His vitality was at as low an ebb as 
if from physical overwork and fasting. He made 
 
no attempt to think, or to comment on the events 
just past. For the moment they lost their 
interest, and he strolled aimlessly about the park, 
his exhausted forces slowly recuperating. At 
the end of an hour he returned to the house and 
took a cold shower-bath and ate his breakfast. 
Then he felt more like himself. He had a strong 
desire to return to his study and the lost 
manuscript, but, with the wilful and pleasing procras- 
tination of one who knows that satisfaction is 
within his grasp, he put the temptation aside for 
the present, and spent the day riding over his 
estates with his steward. He also gave his 
business affairs a minute attention which delighted 
his servant. After dinner he smoked a cigar, 
then went into his study and locked the door. 
He sat down before the desk, and for a moment 
experienced a feeling of dread. He wanted no 
more visions: would contact with those papers 
induce another ? He would like to read that 
poem with the calm criticism of a trained 
and cultivated mind; he had no desire to be 
whirled back into his study at Constantinople, 
his brain throbbing and bursting with what was 
coming next. He shrugged his shoulders. It 
was a humiliating confession, but there were 
forces over which he had no control; there was 
nothing to do but resign himself to the in- 
evitable. 
He opened the drawer and took out the 
manuscript. To his unspeakable satisfaction he re- 
mained calm and unperturbed. He felt merely 
a cold-blooded content that he had balked his 
enemiesand that his ambition was to be gratified. 
Once, before he opened the paper, he smiled at 
his readiness to accept the theory of 
reincarnation. It had taken complete possession of him, 
and he felt not the slightest desire to combat it. 
Did a doubt cross his mind, he had but to recall 
the park seen by his spiritual eyes, as he 
descended upon it to be born again. It was the 
park in which he, Harold Dartmouth, had played 
as a child during his annual visits to his parents; 
the park surrounding the castle in which he had 
been born, and which had belonged to his father's 
line for centuries. For the first time in his life 
he did not reason. It seemed to him that there 
was no corner or loophole for argument, nothing 
but a cold array of facts which must be 
unconditionally accepted or rejected. 
He spread out the poem. It was in blank 
verse, and very long. He was struck at once 
with its beauty and power. Although his soul 
responded to the words as to the tone of a dear 
but long unheard voice, still he was spared the 
mental exaltation which would have clouded his 
judgment and destroyed his pleasure. He leaned 
his elbows on the desk, and, taking his head be- 
tween his hands, read on and on, scarcely draw- 
ing breath. Poets past and present had been 
 
his familiar friends, but in them he had found no 
such beauty as this. The grand sweep of the 
poem, the depth of its philosophy, the sublimity 
of its thought, the melody of its verse, the color, 
the radiant richness of its imagery, the sonorous 
swell of its lines, the classic purity of its style — 
Dartmouth felt as if an organ were pealing with- 
in his soul, lifting the song on its notes to the 
celestial choir which had sent it forth. Heav- 
enly fingers were sweeping the keys, heavenly 
voices were quiring the melody they had with 
wanton hand flung into a mortal's brain. As 
Harold read on he felt that his spirit had 
dissolved and was flowing through the poem, 
to be blended, unified with it forever. He 
seemed to lose all physical sensation, not from 
the causes of the previous night, but from the 
spiritual exaltation and absorption induced by 
the beauty and grandeur of the theme. When he 
had finished, he flung out his arms upon the desk, 
buried his head in them, and burst into tears. 
The tears were the result, not so much of 
extreme nervous tension, as of the wonder and awe 
and ecstacy with which his own genius had filled 
him. In a few moments his emotion had 
subsided and was succeeded by a state less purely 
spiritual. He stood up, and leaning one hand 
on the desk, looked down at the poem, his soul 
filled with an exultant sense of power. Power 
was what he had gloried in all his life. His birth 
 
had given it to him socially, his money had lent 
its aid, and his personal fascination had com- 
pleted the chapter. But he had wanted some- 
thing more than the commonplace power which 
fate or fortune grants to many. He had wanted 
that power which lifts a man high above his 
fellow-men, condemning him to solitude, 
perhaps, but, in that fiercely beating light, revealing 
him to all men's gaze. If life had drifted by 
him, it had been because he was too much of a 
philosopher to attempt the impossible, too clever 
to publish his incompetence to the world. 
His inactivity had not been the result of lack 
of ambition, and yet, as he stood there gazing 
down upon his work, it seemed to him that he 
had never felt the stirrings of that passion 
before. With the power to gratify his ambition, 
ambition sprang from glowing coals into a 
mighty flame which roared and swept about him, 
darted into every corner and crevice of his 
being, pulsated through his mind and spirit, and 
temporarily drove out every other instinct and 
desire. He threw back his head, his eyes flash- 
ing and his lips quivering. For the moment he 
looked inspired, as he registered a vow to have 
his name known in every corner of the civilized 
world. That he had so far been unable to 
accomcomplish anything in his present 
embodiment gave him no uneasiness at the 
moment. Sooner or later the imprisoned song 
would force its way through the solid masonry 
in which it was walled up — He gave a short laugh 
and came down to earth; his fancy was running 
away with him. 
He folded the poem compactly and put it in his 
breast pocket, determined that it should never 
leave him again until a copy was in the hands of the 
printer. It should be sent forth from Constan- 
tinople. The poem must be the apparent off- 
spring of his present incarnation; and as he had 
never been in Constantinople he must go there 
and remain for several months before publica- 
tion. 
He went into the library and sat down before 
the fire. He closed his eyes and let his head fall 
back on the soft cushion, a pleasant languor and 
warmth stealing through his frame. What a 
future ! Power, honor, adoration — the proudest 
pedestal a man can stand upon. And, as if this 
were not enough, an unquestioned happiness with 
the woman he loved with his whole heart. To 
her advent into his life he owed his complete and 
final severance from the petty but infinite distrac- 
tions and temptations of the world. His present 
without flaw, and his future assured, what was to 
prevent his gifts from flowering thickly and un- 
ceasingly in their peaceful soil and atmosphere 
of calm ? He remembered that his first 
irresistible impulse to write had come on the night he 
had met her. Would he owe to her his final 
 
power to speak, as he had owed to that other — 
He sat suddenly erect, then leaned forward, 
gazing at the fire with eyes from which all
languor had vanished. He felt as if a flash of 
lightning had been projected into his brain. That 
other? Who was that other ? — why was she so 
marvellously like Weir ? Her grandmother ? 
Yes, but why had he felt for Weir that sense of 
recognition and spiritual kinship the moment he 
had seen her ? 
He sprang to his feet and strode to the middle 
of the room. Great God ! Was Weir reem- 
bodied as well as himself ? Lady Sioned Pen- 
rhyn was indisputably the woman he had loved 
in his former existence — that was proved once 
for all by the scene in the gallery at Rhyd- Alwyn 
and by the letters he had found addressed to 
her. He recalled Weir's childhood experience. 
Had she really died, and the desperate, 
determined spirit of Sioned Penrhyn taken possession 
of her body ? Otherwise, why that sense of 
affinity, and her strange empire over him the 
night of their mutual vision ? There was 
something more than racial resemblance in form and 
feature between Sioned and Weir Penrhyn; there 
was absolute identity of soul and mind. 
He strode rapidly from one end of the room 
to the other. Every nerve in his body seemed 
vibrating, but his mind acted rapidly and
sequentially. He put the links together one by 
 
one, until, from the moment of his last 
meeting with Sioned Penrhyn at Constantinople to 
the climax of his vision in his study, the chain 
was complete. Love, then, as well as genius, 
had triumphed over the vengeance of Dafyd 
Penrhyn and Catherine Dartmouth. In that 
moment he felt no affection for his grandmother. 
She had worshipped and spoilt him, and had 
shown him only her better side; but the weakness 
and evil of her nature had done him incalculable 
injury, and he was not prepared to forgive her at 
once. 
He returned to his seat. Truly they all were 
the victims of inexorable law, but the law was 
just, and if it took to-day it gave to-morrow. If 
he and Sioned Penhryn had been destined to 
short-lived happmess and tragic death in that 
other existence, there was not an obstacle or 
barrier between them in the present. And if — He 
pushed his chair suddenly back and brought his 
brows together. A thought had struck him 
which he did not like. He got up and put 
another log on the fire. . Then he went over to 
the table and took up a book — a volume of Fig- 
uier. He sat down and read a few pages, then 
threw down the book, and drawing writing 
materials toward him, wrote a half-dozen business 
letters When they were finished, together with 
a few lines to Weir, and no other correspondence 
suggested itself, he got up and walked the 
length of the room several times. Suddenly he 
brought his fist violently down on the table. 
" I am a fool," he exclaimed. " The idea of a 
