love your daughter ? Can you not understand ' 
' I understand that you are wholly mad ! ' exclaimed the 
prince, still staring at his visitor in blank astonishment. 
' No, I am not mad. I love Donna Faustina ' 
' You ! You dare to love Faustina ! You, a painter, a 
man with a profession and with nothing but what you earn ! 
You, a Zouave, a man without a name, without ' 
' You are an old man, prince, but the fact of my having 
made you an honourable proposition does not give you the 
right to insult me.' The words were spoken in a sharp, 
determined voice, and brought Montevarchi to his senses. 
He was a terrible coward and would rather go to a consider 
able expense than face an angry man. 
' Insult you, my dear sir ? I would not think of it ! ' he 
answered in a very different tone. ' But my dear Monsieur 
Gouache, I fear that this is quite impossible ! In the first 
place, my daughter's marriage is already arranged. The 
negotiations have been proceeding for some time she is to 
marry Frangipani you must have heard it. And, moreover, 
with all due respect for the position you have gained by 
your immense talent immense, my dear friend, I am the 
first to say it the instability of human affairs obliges me 
to seek for her a fortune, which depends upon the vulgar 
possession of wealth rather than upon those divine gifts of 
genius with which you are so richly endowed.' 
The change from anger to flattery was so sudden that 
Gouache was confounded and could not find words in which 
to answer what was said to him. Montevarchi's eyes had 
lost their expression of astonishment, and a bland smile 
played about the corners of his sour mouth, while he rubbed 
his bony hands slowly together, nodding his head at every 
comma of his elaborate speech. Anastase saw,' however, 
that there was not the slightest hope that his proposal would 
ever be entertained, and by his own sensations he knew that 
he had always expected this result. He felt no disappoint 
ment, and it seemed to him that he was in the same position 
xix SANT' ILAHIO 287 
in which he had been before he had spoken. On the other 
hand he was outraged by the words that had fallen from 
Montevarchi's lips in the first moments of anger and astonish 
ment. A painter, a man with a profession, without a name ! 
Gouache was too human not to feel the sting of each truth 
as it was uttered. He would have denned himself in very 
much the same way without the least false pride ; but to 
hear his own estimate of himself, given by another person 
as the true one, was hard to bear. A painter, yes he was 
proud of it A man with a profession, yes was it not 
far nobler to earn money by good work than to inherit what 
others had stolen in former times ? A man without a name 
was not his own beginning to be famous, and was it not 
better to make the name Gouache glorious by his own efforts 
than to be called Orsini because one's ancestors had been 
fierce and lawless as bears, or Sciarra because one's progenitor 
had slapped the face of a pope ? Doubtless it was a finer 
thing to be great by one's own efforts in the pursuit of a 
noble art than to inherit a greatness originally founded upon 
a superior rapacity, and a greater physical strength than had 
characterised the ordinary men of the period. Nevertheless, 
Gouache knew with shame that at that moment he wished 
that his name could be changed to Frangipani, and the fabric 
of his independence, of which he had so long been proud, was 
shaken to its foundations as he realised that in spite of all 
fame, all glory, all genius, he could never be what the miserly, 
cowardly, lying old man before him was by birth a Roman 
prince. The conclusion was at once inexpressibly humiliat 
ing and supremely ludicrous. He felt himself laughable in 
his own eyes, and was conscious that a smile was on his 
face, which Montevarchi would not understand. The old 
gentleman was still talking. 
' I cannot tell you,' he was saying, ' how much I regret 
my total inability to comply with a request which evidently 
proceeds from the best motives, I might almost say from the 
heart itself. Alas ! my dear friend, we are not all masters 
of our actions. The cares of a household like mine require 
A foresight, an hourly attention, an unselfish devotion which 
we can only hope to obtain by constant ' 
course, it will take several months to make the division, as 
the Signer -Marchese will only receive the direct inheritance 
of his great-grandfather, while the Saracinesca retain all that 
has come to them by their marriages during the last four 
generations.' 
' Of course. Who will be employed to make the 
division ? ' 
' Half Rome, I fancy. It will be an endless business.' 
' But San Giacinto is prince. He will do homage for his 
titles next Epiphany.' 
'Yes. He must present his ten pounds of wax and a 
silver bowl cheap ! ' observed Meschini with a grin. 
It may be explained here that the families of the Roman 
nobility were all subject to a yearly tribute of merely nominal 
value, which they presented to the Pope at the Feast of the 
Epiphany. The custom was feudal, the Pope having been 
the feudal lord of all the nobles until 1870. The tribute 
generally consisted of a certain weight of pure wax, or of a 
piece of silver of a specified value, or sometimes of both. 
As an instance of the survival of such customs in other 
countries, I may mention the case of one great Irish family 
which to this day receives from another a yearly tribute, 
paid alternately in the shape of a golden rose and a golden 
spur. 
' So we have won everything ! ' exclaimed Montevarchi 
after a pause, looking hard at the librarian, as though trying 
to read his thoughts. ' We have won everything, and the 
thanks are due to you, my good friend, to you, the faithful 
and devoted companion who has helped me to accomplish 
this act of true justice. Ah, how can I ever express to you 
my gratitude ! ' 
' The means of expression were mentioned in our agree 
ment,' answered Meschini with a servile inclination. ' I 
agreed to do the work for your Excellency at a certain fixed 
price, as your Excellency may remember. Beyond that I 
ask nothing. I am too humble an individual to enjoy the 
honour of Prince Monte varchi's personal gratitude.' 
' Yes, of course, but that is mere money I ' said the old 
gentleman somewhat hastily, but contemptuously withal. 
' Gratitude proceeds from the heart, not from the purse. 
When I think of all the work you have done, of the unselfish 
way in which you have devoted yourself to this object, I feel 
that money can never repay you. Money is sordid trash, 
Meschini, sordid trash ! Let us not talk about it. Are we 
not friends ? The most delicate sensibilities of my soul rejoice 
when I consider what we have accomplished together. There 
is not another man in Rome whom I would trust as I trust 
you, most faithful of men ! ' 
' The Signor Principe is too kind,' replied Meschini. 
' Nevertheless, I repeat that I am quite unworthy of such 
gratitude for having merely performed my part in a business 
transaction, especially in one wherein my own interests were 
so deeply concerned.' 
' My only regret is that my son-in-law can never know the 
share you have had in his success. But that, alas, is quite 
impossible. How, indeed, would it be practicable to inform 
him ? And my daiighter, too ! She would remember you 
in all her innocent prayers, even as I shall do henceforth ' 
No, Meschini, it is ordained that I, and I alone, should V 
the means of expressing to you the heartfelt thanks of those 
whom you have so highly benefited, but who unfortunately 
can never know the name of their benefactor. Tell me now, 
did the men of tht law look long at the documents ? Did 
they show any hesitation ? Have you any reason to believe 
that their attention was roused, arrested by by the writing V 
' No, indeed ! I should be a poor workman if a parcel of 
lawyers could detect my handwriting ! ' 
'It is a miracle!' exclaimed Montevarchi, devoutly. 'I 
consider that heaven has interposed directly to accomplish 
the ends of justice. An angel guided your hand, my dear 
friend, to make you the instrument of good ! ' 
'I am quite ready to believe it. The transaction has 
been as providential for me as for the Signor Marchese.' 
'Yes,' answered the prince rather drily. 'And now, 
my dear Meschini, will you leave me for a time ? I have 
appointed this hour to see my last remaining daughter con 
cerning her marriage. She is tb<3 last of those fair flowers ! 
Ah me ! How sad a thing it is to part with those we love 
 
course, it will take several months to make the division, as 
the Signer -Marchese will only receive the direct inheritance 
of his great-grandfather, while the Saracinesca retain all that 
has come to them by their marriages during the last four 
generations.' 
' Of course. Who will be employed to make the 
division ? ' 
' Half Kome, I fancy. It will be an endless business.' 
' But San Giacinto is prince. He will do homage for his 
titles next Epiphany.' 
'Yes. He must present his ten pounds of wax and a 
silver bowl cheap ! ' observed Meschini with a grin. 
It may be explained here that the families of the Roman 
nobility were all subject to a yearly tribute of merely nominal 
value, which they presented to the Pope at the Feast of the 
Epiphany. The custom was feudal, the Pope having been 
the feudal lord of all the nobles until 1870. The tribute 
generally consisted of a certain weight of pure wax, or of a 
piece of silver of a specified value, or sometimes of both. 
As an instance of the survival of such customs in other 
countries, I may mention the case of one great Irish family 
which to this day receives from another a yearly tribute, 
paid alternately in the shape of a golden rose and a golden 
spur. 
' So we have won everything ! ' exclaimed Montevarchi 
after a pause, looking hard at the librarian, as though trying 
to read his thoughts. ' We have won everything, and the 
thanks are due to you, my good friend, to you, the faithful 
and devoted companion who has helped me to accomplish 
this act of true justice. Ah, how can I ever express to you 
my gratitude ! ' 
' The means of expression were mentioned in our agree 
ment,' answered Meschini with a servile inclination. ' I 
agreed to do the work for your Excellency at a certain fixed 
price, as your Excellency may remember. Beyond that I 
ask nothing. I am too humble an individual to enjoy the 
honour of Prince Monte varchi's personal gratitude.' 
' Yes, of course, but that is mere money ! ' said the old 
gentleman somewhat hastily, but contemptuously withal 
'Gratitude proceeds from the heart, not from the purse. 
When I think of all the work you have done, of the unselfish 
way in which you have devoted yourself to this object, I feel 
that money can never repay you. Money is sordid trash, 
Meschini, sordid trash ! Let us not talk about it. Are we 
not friends ? The most delicate sensibilities of my soul rejoice 
when I consider what we have accomplished together. There 
is not another man in Rome whom I would trust as I trust 
you, most faithful of men ! ' 
'The Signor Principe is too kind,' replied Meschini. 
' Nevertheless, I repeat that I am quite unworthy of such 
gratitude for having merely performed my part in a business 
transaction, especially in one wherein my own interests were 
so deeply concerned.' 
' My only regret is that my son-in-law can never know the 
share you have had in his success. But that, alas, is quite 
impossible. How, indeed, would it be practicable to inform 
him ? And my daughter, too ! She would remember you 
in all her innocent prayers, even as I shall do henceforth ' 
No, Meschini, it is ordained that I, and I alone, should V 
the means of expressing to you the heartfelt thanks of those 
whom you have so highly benefited, but who unfortunately 
can never know the name of their benefactor. Tell me now, 
did the men of the law look long at the documents ? Did 
they show any hesitation ? Have you any reason to believe 
that their attention was roused, arrested by by the writing T 
' No, indeed ! I should be a poor workman if a parcel of 
lawyers could detect my handwriting ! ' 
'It is a miracle!' exclaimed Montevarchi, devoutly. 'I 
consider that heaven has interposed directly to accomplish 
the ends of justice. An angel guided your hand, my dear 
friend, to make you the instrument of good ! ' 
'I am quite ready to believe it. The transaction has 
been as providential for me as for the Signor Marchese.' 
' Yes,' answered the prince rather drily. ' And now, 
my dear Meschini, will you leave me for a time ? I have 
appointed this hour to see my last remaining daughter con 
cerning her marriage. She is the last of those fair flowers ! 
Ah me ! How sad a thing it is to part with those we love 
 
so well ! But we have the consolation of knowing that it is 
for their good, that consolation, that satisfaction which only 
come to us when we have faithfully done our duty. Return 
to your library, therefore, Meschini, for the present. The 
consciousness of good well done is yours also to-day, and will 
soothe the hours of solitude and make your new labours 
sweet. The reward of righteousness is. in itself and of itself. 
Good-bye, my friend, good-bye ! Thank you, thank you ' 
' Would it be agreeable to your Excellency to let me have 
the money now ? ' asked the librarian. There was a firmness 
in the tone that startled Montevarchi. 
' What money ? ' he inquired with a well- feigned surprise. 
' I do not understand.' 
' Twenty thousand scudi, the price of the work,' replied 
Meschini with alarming bluntness. 
' Twenty thousand scudi ! ' cried the prince. ' I remem 
ber that there was some mention of a sum two thousand, I 
think, I said. Even that is enormous, but I was carried 
away in the excitement of the moment. We are all liable 
to such weakness ' 
' You agreed to pay me twenty thousand scudi in cash on 
the day that the verdict was given in favour of your son-in- 
law.' 
' I never agreed to anything of the kind. My dear friend, 
success has quite turned your head ! I have not so much 
money at my disposal in the whole world.' 
' You cannot afford to make a fool of me,' cried Meschini, 
making a step forward. His face was red with anger, and 
his long arms made odd gestures. ' Will you pay me the 
money or not ? ' 
' If you take this tone with me I will pay you nothing 
whatever. I shall even cease to feel any sense of grati 
tude ' 
' To hell with your gratitude ! ' exclaimed the other 
fiercely. ' Either you pay me the money now, or I go at 
once to the authorities and denounce the whole treachery.' 
' You will only go to the galleys if you do.' 
' You will go with me.' 
' Not at all. Have you any proof that I have had any- 
XIX 
thing to do with the matter ? I tell you that you are quite 
mad. If you wanted to play this trick on me you should 
have made me sign an agreement. Even then I would have 
argued that since you had forged the documents you had, of 
course, forged the agreement also. But you have nothing, 
not so much as a scrap of paper to show against me. Be 
reasonable and I will be magnanimous. I will give you the 
two thousand I spoke of in the heat of anticipation ' 
'You will give me the twenty thousand you solemnly 
promised me,' said Meschini, with concentrated anger. 
Montevarchi rose slowly from his chair and rang the bell. 
He knew that Meschini would not be so foolish as to expose 
himself, and would continue to hope that he might ultimately 
get what he asked. 
' I cannot argue with a madman,' he said calmly. 
He was not in the least afraid of the librarian. The idea 
never entered his mind that the middle-aged, round-shouldered 
scholar could be dangerous. A single word from Gouache, 
a glance of the artist's eye had cowed him less than an hour 
ago ; but Meschini's fury left him indifferent. The latter 
saw that for the present there was nothing to be done. To 
continue such a scene before a servant would be the worst 
kind of folly. 
' We will talk the matter over at another time,' he said 
sullenly, as he left the study by a small door which opened 
upon a corridor in communication with the library. 
Montevarchi sent the servant who answered the bell with 
a message begging Donna Faustina to come to the study at 
once. Since it was to be a day of interviews he determined 
to state the case plainly to his daughter, and bid her make 
ready to comply with his will in case the match with Frangi- 
pani turned out to be possible. He seemed no more disturbed 
by Meschini's anger than if the affair had not concerned him 
in the least. He had, indeed, long foreseen what would 
occur, and even at the moment when he had promised the 
bribe he was fully determined never to pay it. The librarian 
had taken the bait greedily, and it was his own fault if the 
result did not suit him. He had no redress, as Montevarchi 
had told him ; there was not so much as 4 a note to serve as a 
294  
record of the bargain. Meschini had executed the forgery, and 
he would have to ruin himself in order to bring any pressure 
to bear upon his employer. This the latter felt sure that 
he would not do, even if driven to extremities. Meschini's 
nature was avaricious and there was no reason to suppose 
that he was tired of life, or ready to go to the galleys for a 
bit of personal vengeance, when, by exercising a little patience, 
he might ultimately hope to get some advantage out of the 
crime he had committed. Montevarchi meant to pay him what 
he considered a fair price for the work, and he did not see that 
Meschini had any means of compelling him to pay more. Now 
that the thing was done, he began to regret that he himself had 
not made some agreement with San Giacinto, but a moment's 
reflection sufficed to banish the thought as unworthy of his 
superior astuteness. His avarice was on a large scale and 
was merging into ambition. It might have been foreseen 
that, after having married one of his two remaining daughters 
to a man who had turned out to be Prince Saracinesca, his 
determination to match Faustina with Frangipani would be 
even stronger than it had been before. Hence his sudden 
wish to see Faustina and to prepare her mind for what was 
about to take place. All at once it seemed as though he could 
not act quickly enough to satisfy his desire of accomplish 
ment. He felt as an old man may feel who, at the end of a 
busy life, sees countless things before him which he would 
still do, and hates the thought of dying before all are done. 
A feverish haste to complete this last step in the aggrandise 
ment of his family, overcame the old prince. He could not 
understand why he had submitted to wasting his time with 
Gouache and Meschini instead of busying himself actively 
in the accomplishment of his purpose. There was no reason 
for waiting any longer. Frangipani's father had already 
half-agreed to the match, and what remained to be done in 
volved only a question of financial details. 
As he sat waiting for Faustina a great horror of death 
rose suddenly and clearly before him. He was not a very 
old man and he would have found it hard to account for the 
sensation. It is a notable fact, too, that he feared death 
rather because it might prevent him from carrying out hia 
intentions, than because his conscience was burdened with 
the recollection of many misdeeds. His whole existence had 
been passed in such an intricate labyrinth of duplicity to 
wards others and towards himself that he no longer distin 
guished between the true and the untrue. Even in this 
last great fraud he had so consistently deceived his own 
sense of veracity that he almost felt himself to be the instru 
ment of justice he assumed to be. The case was a delicate 
one, too, for the most unprejudiced person could hardly have 
escaped feeling sympathy for San Giacinto, the victim of his 
ancestor's imprudence. Montevarchi found it very easy to 
believe that it was permissible to employ any means in order 
to gain such an end, and although he might have regarded 
the actual work of the forgery in the light of a crime, 
venial indeed, though contrary to the law, his own share in 
the transaction, as instigator of the deed itself, appeared to be 
defensible by a whole multitude of reasons. San Giacinto, 
by all the traditions of primogeniture dear to the heart of 
the Eoman noble, was the head of the family of Saracinesca. 
But for a piece of folly, hardly to be equalled in Montevarchi's 
experience, San Giacinto would have been in possession of the 
estates and titles without opposition or contradiction since the 
day of his father's death. The mere fact that the Saracinesca 
had not defended the case proved that they admitted the 
justice of their cousin's claims. Had old Leone foreseen the 
contingency of a marriage in his old age, he would either never 
have signed the deed at all, or else he would have introduced 
just such a conditional clause as had been forged by Meschini. 
When a great injustice has been committed, through folly or 
carelessness, when those who have been most benefited by it 
admit that injustice, when to redress it is merely to act in 
accordance with the spirit of the laws, is it a crime then to 
bring about so much good by merely sacrificing a scruple of 
conscience, by employing some one to restore an inheritance 
to its rightful possessor with a few clever strokes of the 
pen ? The answer seemed so clear to Montevarchi that he 
did not even ask himself the question. Indeed it would 
have been superfluous to do so, for he had so often satisfied 
ill objections to doubtful courses by a similar sophistry that 
296  CHAP 
he knew beforehand what reply would present itself to his 
self-inquiry. He did not even experience a sense of relief 
as he turned from the contemplation of what he had just 
done to the question of Faustina's marriage, in which there 
was nothing that could torment his conscience. He was 
not even aware that he ought to recognise a difference 
between the two affairs. He was in great haste to settle the 
