money."
"You can sell it at St. Louis when you're through usin' it."
"I should have to take my risk of it."
"You seem to be pretty good on a trade, for a boy. I reckon you'll sell
it."
"Do you want all the money down. Mr. Slocum?"
"Well, I might wait for half of it, ef I think it's safe. What's your
security?"
"We--that is, mother and I--own the ranch bordering on the other side of
the creek. The wheat crop we are harvesting will probably amount to
fourteen hundred bushels. I understand it is selling for two dollars a
bushel or thereabouts." (This was soon after the war, when high prices
prevailed for nearly all articles, including farm products.)
"I reckon you're safe, then," said Mr. Slocum. "Now we'll see if we can
agree upon a price."
I will not follow Bob and Mr. Slocum in the bargaining that succeeded.
The latter was the sharper of the two, but Bob felt obliged to reduce
the price as much as possible, in view of the heavy mortgage upon the
ranch.
"I shall never breathe easy till that mortgage is paid, mother," he
said. "Mr. Wolverton is about the last man I like to owe. His attempt to
collect the interest twice shows that he is unscrupulous. Besides, he
has a grudge against me, and it would give him pleasure, I feel sure, to
injure me."
"I am afraid you are right, Robert," answered his mother. "We must do
our best, and Heaven will help us."
Finally Mr. Slocum agreed to accept seventy-five dollars cash down, or
eighty dollars, half in cash, and the remainder payable after Bob's
river trip was over and the crop disposed of.
"I wouldn't make such terms to any one else," said the boat-owner, "but
I've been a boy myself, and I had a hard row to hoe, you bet. You seem
like a smart lad, and I'm favorin' you all I can."
"Thank you, Mr. Slocum. I consider your price very fair, and you may
depend upon my carrying out my agreement. Now, if you will come up to
the house, I will offer you some dinner, and pay you the money."
Ichabod Slocum readily accepted the invitation, and the three went up to
the house together.
When Bob told his mother of the bargain he had made, she was somewhat
startled. She felt that he did not realize how great an enterprise he
had embarked in.
"You forget, Robert, that you are only a boy," she said.
"No, mother, I don't forget it. But I have to take a man's part, now
that father is dead."
"St. Louis is a long distance away, and you have no experience in
business."
"On the other hand, mother, if we sell here, we must make a great
sacrifice--twenty-five cents a bushel at least, and that on fourteen
hundred bushels would amount to three hundred and fifty dollars. Now
Clip and I can navigate the boat to St. Louis and return for less than
quarter of that sum."
"The boy speaks sense, ma'am," said Ichabod Slocum. "He's only a kid,
but he's a smart one. He's good at a bargain, too. He made me take fifty
dollars less for the boat than I meant to. You can trust him better than
a good many men."
"I am glad you have so favorable an opinion of Robert, Mr. Slocum," said
Mrs. Burton. "I suppose I must yield to his desire."
"Then I may go, mother?"
"Yes, Robert; you have my consent."
"Then the next thing is to pay Mr. Slocum for his boat."
This matter was speedily arranged.
"I wish, Mr. Slocum," said Bob, "that you were going to St. Louis. I
would be very glad to give you free passage."
"Thank you, lad, but I must turn my steps in a different direction."
"Shall I have any difficulty in managing the boat on our course down the
river?"
"No, you will drift with the current. It is easy enough to go down
stream. The trouble is to get back. But for that, I wouldn't have sold
you the boat. At night you tie up anywhere it is convenient, and start
again the next morning."
"That seems easy enough. Do you know how far it is to St. Louis, Mr.
Slocum?"
"There you have me, lad. I ain't much on reckonin' distances."
"I have heard your father say, Robert, that it is about three hundred
miles from here to the city. I don't like to have you go so far from
me."
"I've got Clip to take care of me, mother," said Bob, humorously.
"I'll take care of Massa Bob, missis," said Clip, earnestly.
"I suppose I ought to feel satisfied with that assurance," said Mrs.
Burton, smiling, "but I have never been accustomed to think of Clip as a
guardian."
"I'll guardian, him, missis," promised Clip, amid general laughter.
After dinner, in company with Mr. Slocum, Bob and Clip went on board the
ferry-boat, and made a thorough examination of the craft, with special
reference to the use for which it was intended.
"You expect to harvest fourteen hundred bushels?" inquired Mr. Slocum.
"Yes; somewhere about that amount."
"Then you may need to make two or three extra bins."
"That will be a simple matter," said Bob.
"The roof over the boat will keep the wheat dry and in good condition.
When you get to the city you can sell it all to one party, and
superintend the removal yourself. You can hire all the help you need
there."
Bob was more and more pleased with his purchase.
"It is just what I wanted," he said, enthusiastically. "The expenses
will be almost nothing. We can take a supply of provisions with us,
enough to keep us during the trip, and when the business is concluded we
can return on some river steamer. We'll have a fine time, Clip."
"Golly! Massa Bob, dat's so."
"You will need to tie the boat," continued Ichabod Slocum, "or it may
float off during the night, and that would upset all your plans. Have
you a stout rope on the place?"
"I think not. I shall have to buy one at the store, or else cross the
river."
"Then you had better attend to that at once. The boat may become
dislodged at any moment."
After Mr. Slocum's departure, Bob lost no time in attending to this
important matter. He procured a heavy rope, of sufficient strength, and
proceeded to secure the boat to a tree on the bank.
"How soon will we start, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, who was anxious for the
excursion to commence. He looked upon it somewhat in the light of an
extended picnic, and it may be added that Bob also, apart from any
consideration of business, anticipated considerable enjoyment from the
trip down the river.
"Don't tell anybody what we are going to do with the boat, Clip," said
Bob. "It will be a fortnight before we start, and I don't care to have
much said about the matter beforehand."
Clip promised implicit obedience, but it was not altogether certain that
he would be able to keep strictly to his word, for keeping a secret was
not an easy thing for him to do.
Of course it leaked out that Bob had bought a ferry-boat. Among others
Mr. Wolverton heard it, but he did not dream of the use to which Bob
intended to put it. He spoke of it as a boy's folly, and instanced it as
an illustration of the boy's unfitness for the charge of the ranch. It
was generally supposed that Bob had bought it on speculation, hoping to
make a good profit on the sale, and Bob suffered this idea to remain
uncontradicted.
Meanwhile he pushed forward as rapidly as possible the harvest of the
wheat, being anxious to get it to market.
When this work was nearly finished Mr. Wolverton thought it time to make
a proposal to Mrs. Burton, which, if accepted, would bring him a
handsome profit.
CHAPTER XVI.
WOLVERTON'S BAFFLED SCHEME.
Mrs. Burton was somewhat surprised, one evening, when told that Mr.
Wolverton was at the door, and desired to speak with her. Since the time
his demand for a second payment of the interest had been met by a
production of the receipt, he had kept away from the ranch. It might
have been the mortification arising from baffled villainy, or, again,
from the knowledge that no advantage could be gained from another
interview. At all events, he remained away till the wheat was nearly
harvested. Then he called, because he had a purpose to serve.
"Tell Mrs. Burton that I wish to see her on business," he said to the
servant who answered his knock.
"You can show Mr. Wolverton in," said the widow.
Directly the guest was ushered into her presence.
"I needn't ask if I see you well, Mrs. Burton," he said, suavely. "Your
appearance is a sufficient answer."
"Thank you," answered Mrs. Burton, coldly.
Aaron Wolverton noticed the coldness, but did not abate any of his
suavity. He only said to himself: "The time will come when you will feel
forced to give me a better reception, my lady!"
"I have called on a little business," he resumed.
"Is it about the interest?" asked the widow.
"No; for the present I waive that. I have been made the victim of a base
theft, and it may cost me a hundred and fifty dollars: but I will not
speak of that now."
"What other business can you have with me?"
"I have come to make you an offer."
"What!" exclaimed Mrs. Burton, indignantly.
Aaron Wolverton chuckled, thereby showing a row of defective and
discolored teeth.
"You misunderstand me," he said. "I come to make you an offer for your
wheat crop, which I suppose is nearly all gathered in."
"Yes," answered the widow relieved. "Robert tells me that it will be all
harvested within three days."
"Just so. Now, I am willing to save you a great deal of trouble by
buying the entire crop at a fair valuation."
"In that case, Mr. Wolverton, you will allow me to send for Robert. He
attends to the business of the ranch, and understands much more about it
than I do."
"Wait a minute, Mrs. Burton. Robert is no doubt a smart boy, but you
give him too much credit."
"I don't think I do. He has shown, since his father's death, a judgment
not often found in a boy of his age."
"She is infatuated about that boy!" thought Wolverton. "However, as I
have a point to carry, I won't dispute with her."
"You may be right," he said, "but in this matter I venture to think that
you and I can make a bargain without any outside help."
"You can, at any rate, state your proposition, Mr. Wolverton."
"Have you any idea as to the amount of your wheat crop?"
"Robert tells me there will be not far from fourteen hundred bushels."
Wolverton's eyes showed his pleasure. If he made the bargain proposed,
this would bring him an excellent profit. "Very good!" he said. "It will
be a great help to you."
"Yes; I feel that we are fortunate, especially when I consider that the
ranch has been carried on by a boy of sixteen."
"Well, Mrs. Burton, I am a man of few words. I will give you a dollar
and a half a bushel for your wheat, and this will give you, on the basis
of fourteen hundred bushels, twenty-one hundred dollars. You are a very
fortunate woman."
"But, Mr. Wolverton, Robert tells me he expects to get at least two
dollars a bushel."
It must be remembered that grain was then selling at "war prices."
"I don't know what the boy can be thinking of," said Wolverton,
contemptuously. "Two dollars a bushel! Why don't he say five dollars at
once?"
"He gained his information from a St. Louis paper."
"My dear madam, the price here and the price in St. Louis are two
entirely different matters. You must be aware that it will cost a good
deal to transport the wheat to St. Louis."
"Surely it cannot cost fifty cents a bushel?"
"No; but it is a great mistake to suppose that you can get two dollars a
bushel in St. Louis."
"I must leave the matter to Robert to decide."
"Excuse my saying that this is very foolish. The boy has not a man's
judgment."
"Nevertheless, I must consult him before deciding."
Mrs. Barton spoke so plainly that Wolverton said, sullenly: "Do as you
please, Mrs. Burton, but I would like to settle the matter to-night."
Robert was sent for, and, being near the house, entered without delay.
Mr. Wolverton's proposition was made known to him.
"Mr. Wolverton," said Bob, regarding that gentleman with a dislike he
did not attempt to conceal, "You would make a very good bargain if we
accepted your proposal."
"Not much," answered Wolverton, hastily. "Of course I should make a
little something, but I am chiefly influenced in making the offer, by a
desire to save your mother trouble."
"You would make seven hundred dollars at least, out of which you would
only have to pay for transportation to St. Louis."
"That is a very ridiculous statement!" said Wolverton, sharply.
"Why so? The wheat will fetch two dollars a bushel in the market."
"Some one has been deceiving you."
"Shall I show you the paper in which I saw the quotations?"
"No; it is erroneous. Besides, the expense of carrying the grain to
market will be very large."
"It won't be fifty cents a bushel."
"Young man, you are advising your mother against her best interests.
Young people are apt to be headstrong. I should not expect to make much
money out of the operation."
"Why, then, do you make the offer?"
"I have already told you that I wished to save your mother trouble."
"We are much obliged to you, but we decline your proposal."
"Then," said Wolverton, spitefully, "I shall have to hold you to the
terms of the mortgage. I had intended to favor you, but after the tone
you have taken with me, I shall not do so."
"To what terms do you refer, Mr. Wolverton?" asked the widow.
"I will tell you. I have the right at the end of six months to call for
a payment of half the mortgage--fifteen hundred dollars. That will make,
in addition to the interest then due, sixteen hundred and fifty
dollars."
"Can this be true?" asked Mrs. Burton, in dismay, turning to Robert.
"It is so specified in the mortgage," answered Wolverton, triumphantly.
"You can examine it for yourself. I have only to say, that, had you
accepted my offer, I would have been content with, say, one quarter of
the sum, knowing that it would be inconvenient for you to pay half."
Bob, as well as his mother, was taken by surprise, but in no way
disposed to yield.
"We should be no better off," he said. "We should lose at least five
hundred dollars by accepting your offer, and that we cannot afford to
do."
"You refuse, then," said Wolverton, angrily.
"Yes."
"Then all I have to say is that you will rue this day," and the agent
got up hastily, but upon second thought sat down again.
"How do you expect to get your grain to market?" he asked.
"I shall take it myself."
"What do you mean?"
"I shall store it on a boat I have purchased, and Clip and I will take
it to St. Louis."
"You must be crack-brained!" ejaculated Wolverton. "I never heard of a
more insane project."
"I hope to disappoint you, Mr. Wolverton. At any rate, my mind is made
up."
Wolverton shuffled out of the room, in impotent rage.
"We have made him our enemy, Robert," said his mother, apprehensively.
"He was our enemy before, mother. He evidently wants to ruin us."
As Wolverton went home, one thought was uppermost in his mind. "How
could he prevent Bob from making the trip to St. Louis?"
CHAPTER XVII.
WOLVERTON'S POOR TENANT.
Bob hired a couple of extra hands, and made haste to finish harvesting
his wheat, for he was anxious to start on the trip down the river as
soon as possible. His anticipations as to the size of the crop were
justified. It footed up fourteen hundred and seventy-five bushels, and
this, at two dollars per bushel, would fetch in market nearly three
thousand dollars.
"That's a pretty good crop for a boy to raise, mother," said Bob, with
pardonable exultation. "You haven't lost anything by allowing me to run
the ranch."
"Quite true, Robert. You have accomplished wonders. I don't know what I
could have done without you. I know very little of farming myself."
"I helped him, missis," said Clip, coveting a share of approval for
himself.
"Yes," said Bob, smiling. "Clip has been my right-hand man. I can't say
he has worked very hard himself, but he has superintended the others."
"Yes, missis; dat's what I done!" said Clip, proudly.
He did not venture to pronounce the word, for it was too much for him,
but he was vaguely conscious that it was something important and
complimentary.
"Then I must buy Clip a new suit," said Mrs. Burton, smiling.
"I'll buy it in St. Louis, mother."
When the grain was all gathered in Bob began to load it on the
ferry-boat. Wolverton sent Sam round every day to report progress, but
did not excite his nephew's suspicions by appearing to take unusual
interest in the matter.
To prepare the reader for a circumstance which happened about this time,
I find it necessary to introduce another character, who was able to do
Bob an important service.
In a small house, about three-quarters of a mile beyond the Burton
ranch, lived Dan Woods, a poor man, with, a large family. He hired the
house which he occupied and a few acres of land from Aaron Wolverton,
who had obtained possession of it by foreclosing a mortgage which he
held. He permitted Woods, the former owner, to remain as a tenant in the
house which once belonged to him, charging him rather more than an
average rent. The poor man raised vegetables and a small crop of wheat,
enough of each for his own family, and hired out to neighbors for the
balance of his time. He obtained more employment on the Burton ranch
than anywhere else, and Mrs. Burton had also sympathized with him in his
difficult struggle to maintain his family. But, in spite of friends and
his own untiring industry, Dan Woods fell behind. There were five
children to support, and they required not only food but clothing, and
Dan found it uphill work.
His monthly rent was ten dollars; a small sum in itself, but large for
this much-burdened man to pay. But, however poorly he might fare in
other respects, Dan knew that it was important to have this sum ready on
the first day of every month. Wolverton was a hard landlord, and
admitted of no excuse. More than once after the rent had been paid there
was not a dollar left in his purse, or a pinch of food in his house.
A week before this time Dan was looking for his landlord's call with
unusual anxiety. He had been sick nearly a week during the previous
month, and this had so curtailed his earnings that he had but six
dollars ready in place of ten. Would his sickness be accepted as an
excuse? He feared not.
Wolverton's call was made on time. He had some expectation that the rent
would not be ready, for he knew Dan had been sick; but he was resolved
to show him no consideration.
"His sickness is nothing to me," he reflected. "It would be a pretty
state of affairs if landlords allowed themselves to be cheated out of
their rent for such a cause."
Dan Woods was at work in the yard when Wolverton approached. He was
splitting some wood for use in the kitchen stove. His heart sank within
him when he saw the keen, sharp features of his landlord.
"Good morning, Dan," said Wolverton, with suavity. His expression was
amiable, as it generally was when he was collecting money, but it
suffered a remarkable change if the money was not forthcoming.
"Good-morning, sir," answered Woods, with a troubled look.
"You've got a nice, snug place here, Dan; it's a fine home for your
family."
"I don't complain of it, sir. As I once owned it myself, probably I set
more store by it than a stranger would."
"Just so, Dan. You get it at a very low rent, too. If it were any one
but yourself I should really feel that I ought to raise the rent to
twenty dollars."
"I hope you won't do that, sir," said Woods, in alarm. "It's all I can
do to raise ten dollars a month, with all my other expenses."
"Oh, well, I'll let it remain at the present figure as long as you pay
me promptly," emphasizing the last words. "Of course I have a right to
expect that."
Dan's heart sank within him. It was clear he could not expect any
consideration from such a man. But the truth must be told.
"No doubt you are right, Mr. Wolverton, and you've found me pretty
prompt so far."
"So I have, Dan. I know you wouldn't be dishonest enough to make me
wait."
Dan's heart sank still lower. It was becoming harder every minute to own
that he was deficient.
"Still, Mr. Wolverton, bad luck will come----"
"What!" exclaimed Wolverton, with a forbidding scowl.
"As I was saying, sir, a man is sometimes unlucky. Now, I have been sick
nearly a week out of the last month, as you may have heard, and it's put
me back."
"What are you driving at, Dan Woods?" demanded Wolverton, severely. "I
hope you're not going to say that you are not ready to pay your rent?"
"I haven't got the whole of it, sir; and that's a fact."
"You haven't got the whole of it? How much have you got?"
"I can pay you six dollars, Mr. Wolverton."
"Six dollars out of ten! Why, this is positively shameful! I wonder you
are not ashamed to tell me."
"There is no shame about it that I can see," answered Dan, plucking up
his spirit. "I didn't fall sick on purpose; and when I was sick I
couldn't work."
"You ought to have one month's rent laid by, so that whatever happens
you could pay it on time."
"That's easy to say, Mr. Wolverton, but it takes every cent of my
earnings to pay my monthly expenses. There's little chance to save."
"Any one can save who chooses," retorted Wolverton, sharply.
"Shall I get you the six dollars, sir?"
"Yes, give it to me."
"And you will wait for the other four?"
"Till to-morrow night."
"But how can I get it by to-morrow night?" asked Dan in dismay.
"That's your lookout, not mine. All I have to say is, unless it is paid
to me to-morrow night you must move the next day."
With these words Wolverton went off. Dan Woods, in his trouble, went to
Bob Burton the next day, and Bob readily lent him the money he needed.
"Thank you!" said Dan, gratefully; "I won't forget this favor."
"Don't make too much of it, Dan; it's a trifle."
"It's no trifle to me. But for you my family would be turned out of
house and home to-morrow. The time may come when I can do you a
service."
"Thank you, Dan."
The time came sooner than either anticipated.
CHAPTER XVIII.
WOLVERTON'S WICKED PLAN.
Wolverton was somewhat puzzled when on his next call Dan Woods paid the
balance due on his rent.
"So you raised the money after all?" he said. "I thought you could if
you made an effort."
"I borrowed the money, sir."
"Of whom?"
