her.
And then, unconsciously, through some obscure channel of memory, he was
back where he had once been, in a Gasthof in the Bavarian Mountains.
It was not yet dusk. Through the window came a choir of birds, and he
could see the tender asparagus-green of neighborly trees. He was seated
at a great, bare table of oak, and as he raised from it to his lips a
stone measure of beer, his eyes rested on an engraving that hung on the
wall. It represented a huntsman, galloping like mad, one steadying hand
on the bridle and the other stretched forward to grasp a phantom that
sped on before. Under the picture, in quaint German text, was the
legend, The Chase after Happiness. "H'm;" he mused, "I don't see why I
should think of that."
"That's the gist of it all," Jones was saying. "It's the fashion to rail
against critics. I remember telling one of the guild the other day not
to read my books--they might prejudice him in my favor; but in
comparison to certain publishers the average reviewer stands as a
misdemeanant does to a burglar. No, I have said it before and I say it
again, until that copyright law is passed, the Government is guilty of
nothing less than compounding a felony."
Of what had gone before Tristrem had not heard a single word, and these
ultimate phrases which reached him were as meaningless as
church-steeples. He started as one does from a nap, with that shake of
the head which is peculiar to the absent-minded. He was standing, he
discovered, at the entrance to the hotel at which he lodged.
"Don't you agree with me?" Jones asked. "Come and lunch at the Casino.
You will get nothing here. Narragansett cookery is as iniquitous as the
legislature. Besides, at this hour they give you dinner. It is tragic,
on my word, it is."
"Thank you," Tristrem answered, elusively. "I have an appointment
with--with a train." And with this excuse he entered the hotel, and as
soon after as was practicable he returned to town.
It was, he learned, as Jones had said. Mrs. Raritan and Miss Raritan
were passengers on a steamer which had sailed two days before. It was
then Friday. One of the swiftest Cunarders was to sail the following
morning, and it seemed not improbable to Tristrem that he might reach
the other side, if not simultaneously with, at least but a few hours
after the arrival of the Wednesday boat. Such preparations, therefore,
as were necessary he made without delay. As incidental thereto, he went
to the house in Thirty-ninth Street. There he learned, from a squat
little Irishwoman who came out from the area and eyed him with
unmollifiable suspicion, that, like the Narragansett cottage, the house
was to let. The only address which he could obtain from her was that of
a real-estate agent in the lower part of the city. Thither he posted at
once. Yet even there the information which he gleaned was meagre. The
house was offered for a year. During that period, the agent understood,
Mrs. Raritan proposed to complete her daughter's musical education
abroad; where, the agent did not know. The rental accruing from the
lease of the house was to be paid over to the East and West Trust Co.
Further than that he could say nothing. Thereupon Tristrem trudged
hopefully to Wall Street; but the secretary of the East and West was
vaguer even than the agent. He knew nothing whatever on the subject of
Mrs. Raritan's whereabouts, and from his tone it was apparent that he
cared less. There is, however, an emollient in courtesy which has
softened greater oafs than he, and that emollient Tristrem possessed.
There was in his manner a penetrating and pervasive refinement, and at
the gruffness with which he was received there came to his face an
expression of such perplexity that the secretary, disarmed in spite of
himself, turned from his busy idleness and told Tristrem that if Mrs.
Raritan had not left her address with him she must certainly have given
it to the lawyer who held the power of attorney to collect the rents and
profits of her estate. The name of that lawyer was Meggs, and his office
was in the Mills Building.
In the Mills Building Tristrem's success was little better. Mr. Meggs,
the managing clerk announced, had left town an hour before and would not
return until Monday. However, if there was anything he could do, he
was entirely at Tristrem's disposal. And then Tristrem explained his
errand anew, adding that he sailed on the morrow, and that it was
important for him to have Mrs. Raritan's address before he left. The
clerk regretted, but he did not know it. Could not Mr. Meggs send it to
him?
"He might cable it, might he not?" Tristrem suggested. And as this plan
seemed feasible, he gave the clerk a card with a London address scrawled
on it, and therewith some coin. "I should be extremely indebted if you
would beg Mr. Meggs to send me the address at once," he added; and the
clerk, who had read the name on the card and knew it to be that of the
claimant and renouncer of a great estate, assured him that Mr. Meggs
would take great pleasure in so doing.
After that there was nothing for Tristrem to do but to return to his
grandfather's house and complete his preparations. He dined with Mr. Van
Norden that evening, and a very pleasant dinner it was. Together they
talked of those matters and memories that were most congenial to them;
Mr. Van Norden looking steadily in the past, and Tristrem straight into
the future. And at last, at midnight, when the carriage came to take
Tristrem to the wharf--for the ship was to sail at so early an hour in
the morning that it was deemed expedient for the passengers to sleep on
board--as Tristrem took leave of his grandfather, "Bring her back soon,"
the old gentleman said, "bring her back as soon as you can. And,
Tristrem, you must take this to her once more, with an old man's love
and blessing."
Whereupon he gave Tristrem again the diamond brooch that had belonged to
his daughter.
XII.
The journey over was precisely like any other, except in this, that, the
tide of travel being in the contrary direction, the number of cabin
passengers was limited. Among them there was no one whom Tristrem had
met before; yet, after the second day out, there were few whom his
appearance and manner had not attracted and coerced into some overture
to better acquaintance. Of these his attention was particularly claimed
by an Englishman who sat next to him at table, and a young lady who
occupied the seat opposite to his own. In the eyes of the latter was the
mischievous look of a precocious boy. She was extremely pretty; blonde,
fair, with a mouth that said Kiss me--what the French call a frimousse
frottée de champagne; and her speech was marked by great vivacity. She
was accompanied by an elderly person who appeared at table but once, and
who during the rest of the voyage remained bundled in shawls in the
ladies' cabin, where refreshments were presumably brought her.
It was rumored that this young lady was an ex-star of the Gaiety, and
more recently a member of a burlesque troupe that had disbanded in the
States. It was added--but then, are not ill-natured things said about
everybody? You, sir, and you, madam, who happen to read this page, have
never, of course, been spoken of other than with the greatest respect,
but what is said of your neighbor? and what have you said yourself?
Tristrem, unaffected by the gossip of the smoking-room, to which,
indeed, he lent but an inattentive ear, allowed the young lady to march
him up and down the deck and, as was his wont, permitted himself to be
generally made use of. Yet if the elderly person in the ladies' cabin
had exacted of him similar attentions, the attentions would have been
rendered with the same prompt and diligent willingness. He was not a
good listener, although he seemed one, but there was a breeziness in the
young lady's conversation which helped him not a little to forget the
discomforts of ocean travel. He walked with her, in consequence, mile
after mile, and when she wearied of that amusement, he got her
comfortably seated and, until she needed him again, passed the time in
the smoking-room.
It was there that he became acquainted with the Englishman who sat next
to him at table. His name, he learned, was Ledyard Yorke. He was an
artist by profession, and in the course of a symposium or two Tristrem
discovered that he was a very cultivated fellow besides. He seemed to be
well on in the thirties, and it was evident that there were few quarters
of the globe with which he was not familiar. He was enthusiastic on the
subject of French literature, but the manufactures of the pupils of the
Beaux Arts he professed to abominate.
"The last time I was at the Salon," he said, one evening, "there were in
those interminable halls over three thousand pictures. Of these, there
were barely fifty worth looking at. The others were interesting as
colored lithographs on a dead wall. There was a Manet or two, a Moreau,
and a dozen or more excellent landscapes, but the rest represented the
apotheosis of mediocrity. The pictures which Gérôme, Cabanel,
Bouguereau, and the acolytes of those pastry-cooks exposed were stupid
and sterile as church doors. What is art, after all, if it be not an
imitation of nature? To my thinking, the greater the illusion, the
nearer does the counterfeit approach the model. And look at the nymphs
and dryads which those hair-dressers present. In the first place, nymphs
and dryads are as overdone as the assumption of Virgins and the loves of
Leda. Besides they were not modern, but even if they were, fancy a girl
who lives in the open air in her birthday costume, and who, exposed to
the sun, to say nothing of the wind, still preserves the pink and white
skin of a baby--and a skin, mind you, that looks as though it had been
polished and pinched by a masseur; however, place a dozen of them
lolling in conventional attitudes in a glade, or represent them bathing
in a pond, and although the sun shines on them through the foliage, be
careful not to get so much as the criss-cross of a shadow on their
bodies, smear the whole thing with cold cream, label one 'Arcadia,' and
the other 'Nymphs surprised,' and you have what they call in France the
faire distingué."
There was nothing particularly new in what Mr. Yorke had to say, and if,
like the majority of men whose thoughts run in a particular channel, he
was apt to be dogmatic in his views, he yet possessed that saving
quality, which consists in treating the subject in hand not as were it a
matter of life and death, but rather as one which is as unimportant as
the gout of a distant relative. And it was in the companionship of this
gentleman, and that of the young lady alluded to, that Tristrem passed
the six days which separated him from the Irish coast.
On the day preceding the debarcation he was in great and expectant
spirits, but as the sun sank in the ocean his light-heartedness sank
with it. During dinner his charming vis-à-vis rallied him as best she
might, but he remained unresponsive, answering only when civility made
it necessary for him to do so. It is just possible that the young lady
may have entertained original ideas of her own on the subject of his
taciturnity, but, however that may be, it so happened that before the
meal was done Tristrem went up on deck, and seeking the stern of the
ship, leaned over the gunwale.
So far in the distance as his eyes could reach was a trail of glistening
white. On either side were impenetrable wastes of black. In his ears was
the sob of water displaced, the moan of tireless discontent, and
therewith the flash and shimmer of phosphorus seemed to invite and tell
of realms of enchanted rest beneath. And, as Tristrem watched and
listened, the sibilants of the sea gurgled in sympathy with his
thoughts, accompanying and accentuating them with murmurs of its own.
Its breast was bared to him, it lay at his feet, open-armed as though
waiting his coming, and conjuring him to haste. "There is nothing
sweeter," it seemed to say, "nothing swifter, and naught more still. I
feed my lovers on lotus and Lethe. There is no fairer couch in the world
than mine. A sister's kiss is not more chaste. I am better than fame,
serener than hope; I am more than love, I am peace. I am unforsakable,
and I never forsake."
And as the great ship sped on in fright, it almost seemed to Tristrem
that the sea, like an affianced bride, was rising up to claim and take
him as her own. Many months later, he thought of the sensation that he
then experienced, the query that came to his mind, he knew not how or
whence, whether it were not better perhaps--and then the after-shudder
as he started back, wondering could it be that for the moment he was
mad, and telling himself that in a few hours, a few days at most, he
would be with Her. And what had the sea to do with him? Many months
after he thought of it.
And as he still gazed at the tempting waters, he felt a hand touch his
own, rest on, and nestle in it. He looked around; it was his charming
vis-à-vis who had sought him out and was now looking in his face. She
did not speak; her eyes had lost their mischief, but her mouth framed
its message as before. Awkwardly as men do such things, Tristrem
disengaged his hand. The girl made one little effort to detain it, and
for a moment her lips moved; but she said nothing, and when the hand had
gone from her, she turned with a toss of the head and disappeared in the
night.
Soon after, Tristrem turned, too, and found his way to the smoking-room.
In some way the caress which he had eluded had left a balm. He was as
hopeful as before, and he smiled in silent amusement at the ups and
downs of his needless fears. In a corner of the room was Yorke.
"I have been looking at the sea," he said, as he took a seat at his
side; "it is captious as wine."
"You are a poet, are you not?" Yorke spoke not as though he were paying
a compliment, but in the matter-of-fact fashion in which one drummer
will say "Dry goods?" to another.
"No; I wish I were. I have never written."
"It's a popular prejudice to suppose that a poet must write. The
greatest of all never put pen to paper. What is there left to us of
Linus and Musæus? Siddartha did not write, Valmiki did not know how. The
parables of the Christ were voiced, not written. Besides, the poet
feels--he does not spend a year, like Mallarmé, in polishing a sonnet.
De Musset is certainly the best example of the poet that France has to
offer; with him you always catch the foot-fall of the Muse--you feel, as
he felt, the inspiration. And all the more clearly in that his verses
limp. He never would have had time to express himself if he had tried to
sand-paper his thoughts. Don't you suppose that Murillo was a poet?
Don't you suppose that Guido was? Don't you think that anyone who is in
love with beauty must be? I say beauty where I might say the ideal. That
is the reason I thought you a poet. You have in your face that constant
preoccupation which is distinctive of those who pursue the intangible."
"I am not pursuing the intangible, though," Tristrem answered, with a
little sententious nod.
"Ah, who shall say? We all do. I am pursuing it myself, though not in
the sense that I attribute to you. Did you ever read Flaubert's
Tentation? No? Well, fancy the Sphinx crouching at sunset in the
encroaching sand. In the background is a riot of color, and overhead a
tender blue fading into salmon and the discreetest gray. Then add to
that the impression of solitude and the most absolute silence. In the
foreground flutters a Chimera, a bird with a dragon's tail and the
rainbow wings of a giant butterfly. The Sphinx is staring at you, and
yet through and beyond, as though her eyes rested on some inaccessible
horizon. Cities crumble, nations rise and subside, and still that
undeviating stare! And in her face the unroutable calm of fabulous
beauty. I want those eyes, I want that face. You never heard the duo
which Flaubert gives, did you? It runs somewhat this way: The motionless
Sphinx calls: 'Here, Chimera, rest a while.'
"The Chimera answers: 'Rest? Not I.'
"The Sphinx. Whither goest thou in such haste?
"The Chimera. I gallop in the corridors of the labyrinth. I soar to
the mountain-tops. I skim the waves. I yelp at the foot of precipices. I
cling to the skirt of clouds. With my training tail I sweep the shores.
The hills have taken their curve from the form of my shoulders. But
thou--I find thee perpetually immobile, or else with the end of thy claw
drawing alphabets in the sand.
"The Sphinx. I am guarding my secret, I calculate and I dream.
"The Chimera. I--I am joyous and light of heart. I discover to man
resplendent perspectives, Utopias in the skies, and distant felicities.
Into his soul I pour the eternal follies, projects of happiness, plans
for the future, dreams of fame, and the vows of love and virtuous
resolutions. I incite to perilous journeys, to great undertakings. It is
I that chiselled the marvels of architecture. It is I that hung bells on
the tomb of Porsenna, and surrounded with an orchalc wall the quays of
the Atlantides. I seek new perfumes, larger flowers, and pleasures
unenjoyed. If anywhere I perceive a man whose mind rests in wisdom, I
drop from space and strangle him.
"The Sphinx. All those whom the desire of God torments, I have
devoured."
Yorke had repeated these snatches from the duo in French. He had
repeated them well, bringing out the harmony of the words in a manner
which in our harsher tongue would have been impossible. And now he felt
parched, and ordered some drink of the steward.
"It is the face of that Sphinx that I want," he continued. "If I were a
composer I would put the duo itself to music. I know of no prose more
admirable. I have the scene on canvas, all of it, that is, except the
Sphinx's face, and that, of course, is the most important. I want a face
that she alone could possess. I may find it, I may not. At all events,
you see that just at present I too am in pursuit of the intangible. But
there, tell me of the artist who is not. It is true, you go to the
Academy, and in the Cleopatras and Psyches you recognize the same Mary
Jane who the day before offered herself as model to you. My Sphinx,
however, was not born in Clapham. Nor does she dwell in Pimlico. But,
apropos to Pimlico, I have a fancy that that little friend of yours is
on her way to St. John's Wood."
"What little friend?"
"Why, the girl that sits opposite. And what's more to the point, she's
in love with you. Tous mes compliments, c'est un vrai morceau de roi."
At this Tristrem blushed in spite of himself. She might have been the
Helen for whom the war of the world was fought; she might have been
Mylitta or Venus Basilea, and still would she have left him unimpressed.
He would not have recognized the divinity--he bowed but to one.
"You remind me," said Yorke, who had watched his expression--"you remind
me of De Marsay, who did not know what he did to the women to make them
all fall in love with him. There is nothing as fetching as that. And
there is nothing, at least to my thinking, that compares with that charm
which a woman in love exhales to her lover. It is small matter whether
the woman is the daughter of an earl or whether she is a cocotte. There
are, I know, people who like their claret in decanters, but so long as
the wine is good, what does the bottle matter?
    "'Aimer est le grand point, qu' importe la maitresse?
    Qu' importe le flacon, pourvu qu'on ait l'ivresse?'"
"De Musset was drunk when he wrote that," said Tristrem. "But whether he
was drunk or sober, I don't agree with him. I don't agree with him at
all. It is the speech of a man who can think himself in love over and
over again, and who discovers in the end that through all his affairs he
has loved no one but himself."
All of which Mr. Yorke pooh-poohed in the civilest manner, and when
Tristrem had finished his little speech, expounded the principles of
love as they are formulated in the works of a German metaphysician,
supporting them as he did so with such clarity and force of argument
that Tristrem, vanquished but unconvinced, left him in disgust.
The next day they were at Liverpool. In the confusion that is incidental
to every debarcation Tristrem had had no opportunity of exchanging a
word with his vis-à-vis. But in the custom-house he caught sight of
her, and went forward to bid her good-bye.
"Good-bye," she answered, when he had done so, and putting out her hand,
she looked at him with mischievous eyes. "Good-bye," she repeated,
lightly, and then, between her teeth, she added, "Imbecile that you
are!"
Though what she may have meant by that, Tristrem never understood.
XIII.
It was under cover of a fog of leprous brown striated with ochre and
acrid with smoke that Tristrem entered London. In allusion to that most
delightful of cities, someone has said somewhere that hell must be just
such another place. If the epigrammatist be right, then indeed is it
time that the rehabilitation of the lower regions began. London is
subtle and cruel, perhaps, and to the meditative traveller it not
infrequently appears like an invocation to suicide writ in stone. But
whoso has once accustomed himself to its breath may live ever after in
flowerful Arcadias and yet dream of its exhalations with regret. In
Venice one may coquette with phantoms; Rome has ghosts and memories of
her own; in Paris there is a sparkle that is headier than absinthe;
Berlin resounds so well to the beat of drums that even the pusillanimous
are brave; but London is the great enchantress. It is London alone that
holds the secret of inspiring love and hatred as well.
Tristrem sniffed the fog with a sensation of that morbid pleasure which
girls in their teens and women in travail experience when they crave and
obtain repulsive food. Had he not hungered for it himself? and did she
not breathe it too?
The journey from Euston Square to the hotel in Jermyn Street at which he
proposed to put up, was to him a confusion of impatience and
anticipation. He was sure of finding a cablegram from Mrs. Raritan's
attorney, and was it not possible that he might see Viola that very
night? In Jermyn Street, however, no message awaited him. Under the
diligent supervision of a waiter who had the look and presence of a
bishop he managed later to eat some dinner. But the evening was a blank:
he passed it twirling his thumbs, dumbly irritated, incapable of action,
and perplexed as he had never been before.
The next morning his Odyssey began. He cabled to Mr. Meggs, and saw the
clerk put beneath the message the cabalistic letters A. P. And then,
in an attempt to frighten Time, he had his measure taken in Saville Row
and his hair cut in Bond Street. But in vain--the day dragged as though
its wheels were clogged. By noon he had exhausted every possible
resource. Another, perhaps, might have beguiled the tedium with drink,
or cultivated what Balzac has called the gastronomy of the eye, and
which consists in idling in the streets. But unfortunately for Tristrem,
he was none other than himself. The mere smell of liquor was distasteful
to him, and he was too nervous to be actively inactive. Moreover, as in
September there are never more than four million people in London, his
chance of encountering an acquaintance was slight. Those that he
possessed were among the absent ten thousand. They were in the country,
among the mountains, at the seaside, on the Continent--anywhere, in
fact, except in the neighborhood of Pall Mall. And even had it been
otherwise, Tristrem was not in a mood to suffer entertainment. He had
not the slightest wish to be amused. Wagner might have come to Covent
Garden from the grave to conduct Parsifal in person and Tristrem would
not have so much as bought a stall. He wanted Miss Raritan's address,
and until he got it a comet that bridged the horizon would have left him
incurious as the dead.
On the morrow, with his coffee, there came to him a yellow envelope. The
message was brief, though not precisely to the point "Uninformed of
Mrs. Raritan's address," it ran, and the signature was Meggs.
For the first time it occurred to Tristrem that Fate was conspiring
against him. It had been idiocy on his part to leave New York before he
had obtained the address; and now that he was in London, it would be
irrational to write to any of her friends--the Wainwarings, for
instance--and hope to get it. He knew the Wainwarings just well enough
to attend a reception if they gave one, and a slighter acquaintance than
that it were idle to describe.
Other friends the girl had in plenty, but to Tristrem they were little
more than shadows. There seemed to be no one to whom he could turn.
Indeed he was sorely perplexed. Since the hour in which he learned that
his father and Viola's were not the same he had been possessed of but
one thought--to see her and kneel at her feet; and in the haste he had
not shown the slightest forethought--he had been too feverishly
energetic to so much as wait till he got her address; and now in the
helter-skelter he had run into a cul-de-sac where he could absolutely
do nothing except sit and bite his thumb. The enforced inactivity was
torturesome as suspense. In his restlessness he determined to retrace
his steps; he would return to New York, he told himself, learn of her
whereabouts, and start afresh. Already he began to calculate the number
of days which that course of action would necessitate, and then
suddenly, as he saw himself once more on Fifth Avenue, he bethought him
of Alphabet Jones. What man was there that commanded larger sources of
social information than he? He would cable to him at once, and on the
morrow he would have the address.
The morrow dawned, and succeeding morrows--a week went by, and still no
word from Jones. A second week passed, and when a third was drawing to a
close and Tristrem, outwearied and enervated, had secured a berth on a
returning steamer, at last the answer came--an answer in four
words--"Brown Shipley, Founders' Court." That was all, but to
Tristrem, in his over-wrought condition, they were as barbs of flame.
"My own bankers!" he cried; "oh, thrice triple fool! why did I not think
