“That house would delight your author’s soul. Every room is the
materialization of a dream, as Hermia would say;” and she gave him an
account of her friend’s inartistic but original abode.
Cryder listened with much interest. Romance was a dead-letter to him,
but he was alive to the picturesque. He concluded that it would be quite
enchanting to make love to a woman in a feudal library or an Indian
jungle, and more than satisfactory to awaken the sleeping beauty. It
would be a charming episode for his present brief stay in New York,
altogether quite the choicest specimen in his herbarium. What she was
waiting for was a combination of brain and skill.
“You have made me want to know her,” he said, “but, of course, she did
not ask me to call.”
“I will take you to see her some time.”
“That is very good of you. Some afternoon when you have nothing better
to do.”
“Come on Monday. That is her day. You won’t have much chance to talk to
her, but then you can go again as soon as you like.”
Cryder took out his note-book and penciled a memorandum, “On Monday,
then.”
Helen concluded that if she had been born a man she would have elected
diplomacy as a career.
                 
                              CHAPTER XIV.
                       IN A METROPOLITAN JUNGLE.
Cryder called on Hermia Monday afternoon. Although the room was full he
had a few words with her, and she thought him very charming.
“I want to talk to you,” he said. “I have wanted to talk to you ever
since I met you, but I was in such a bad humor the other night that I
would not inflict you. Are you ever alone? Cannot I have an hour or two
some evening?”
Hermia smiled. “Come on Thursday evening. I have not another evening
until late next week.”
“I have an engagement, but I will break it. And will you think me
impertinent if I ask you to show me all over this wonderful house? There
is nothing like it in Europe.”
“I shall be delighted,” said Hermia, enthusiastically. “So few people
appreciate it.”
“It is good of you to think I can. But in thought I always dwell in the
past (he hated the past), and although my work is realistic, because
realism is of more value to literature, yet my nature is essentially a
romantic one. Only, one so seldom acknowledges romance, one is so afraid
of being laughed at.”
He watched her as he spoke, and saw a sudden gleam come into her eyes. A
year’s training and her own native cleverness had taught Hermia not to
believe all that men said to her, but Cryder had struck a well-loved
chord. And she had no wish to be skeptical.
On Thursday evening Hermia arrayed herself with great care. After much
deliberation she donned a gown which as yet she had never worn. It was
of tan-gold velvet, with irregular appliqués of dark-brown plush. Down
the front was a curious design of gold braid and deep-green brilliants.
She received Cryder in the conservatory. It had but recently been
completed, and looked enough like a jungle to deceive the most
suspicious of tigers. The green tiles of the floor were painted with a
rank growth of grasses and ferns. Through the palms and tropical shrubs
that crowded the conservatory glared the wild beasts of far-off jungles,
marvelously stuffed and poised. The walls were forgotten behind a
tapestry of reeds and birds of the Orient. In one corner was a fountain,
simulating a pool, and on its surface floated the pink, fragrant lilies
that lie on eastern lakes. Few people had seen this jungle—before its
completion, Hermia had learned that it was dangerous to test her city’s
patience too far.
Hermia sat down on a bank and waited for the curtain to rise. She felt
the humor of the situation, but she knew that the effect was good. A few
moments later Cryder came in and was charmed. He had the same remote
yearning for the barbaric that the small, blonde actor has for the part
of the heavy villain. As he walked down the jungle toward Hermia, he
felt that he gave this Eastern ideal its completing touch.
Hermia held up her hand. “I would not have dared do this for any one but
you,” she said, “but you will understand.”
“For Heaven’s sake do not apologize!” exclaimed Cryder. He raised her
hand to his lips and sat down on the bank beside her. “There was never
anything so enchanting in real life. And you—you are Cleopatra in your
tiger-hood.”
“I was Semiramis before,” said Hermia, indifferently. She turned her
head and gave him a meditative glance. “Do you know,” she said, with an
instinct of coquetry rare to her, “I cannot understand your being a
realistic author.”
He was somewhat taken aback, but he replied promptly: “That is a mere
accident. To tell you the truth, I care no more for realism than I do
for idealism, and dialect is a frightful bore. I will tell you what I
have told no one else. Now that my position is established, my name
made, I am going to leave dialect to those who can do no better, and
write a great romantic novel.”
Hermia thought his last remark a trifle conceited, but she forgave it
for the sake of its sentiment. “I shall like that,” she said, “and be
romantic without sensationalism. Tell me the plot of your book.”
“It is too vague to formulate, but you and your house are to be its
inspiration. I have wanted to meet a woman like you; the study will be
an education. Tell me of your life. You have not always been as you are
now?”
Hermia gave him a startled glance. “What do you mean?” she demanded.
“I mean that you have two personalities, an actual and an assumed. You
are playing a part.”
Hermia gave him a fierce glance from beneath her black brows. “You know
that until a year ago I was poor and obscure, and you are rude enough to
remind me that I play the part of grande dame very badly,” she
exclaimed.
“I beg your pardon,” said Cryder, quickly, “I knew nothing of the kind.
You might have spent the last ten years in a fashionable boarding-school
for all I have heard to the contrary. But I repeat what I said. I
received two impressions the night we met. One was that you were at war
with something or somebody; the other that you had a double personality,
and that of one the world had no suspicion. It is either that you have a
past, or that you are at present in conditions entirely new and
consequently unfamiliar. I believe it is the latter. You do not look
like a woman who has lived. There is just one thing wanting to make
your face the most remarkable I have seen; but until it gets that it
will be like a grand painting whose central figure has been left as the
last work of the artist.”
Hermia leaned her elbow on her knee and covered her face with her hand.
She experienced the most pleasurable sensation she had ever known. This
was the first man who had shown the faintest insight into her
contradictory personality and complicated nature. For the moment she
forgot where she was, and she gave a little sigh which brought the blood
to her face. To love would not be so difficult as she had imagined.
“What is it?” asked Cryder, gently. He had been watching her covertly.
“I want to amend something I said a moment ago. You have not lived in
fact but you have in imagination, and the men your fancy has created
have made those of actual, prosaic life appear tame and colorless.”
Hermia’s heart gave a bound. She turned to him with shining eyes. “How
do you know that?” she murmured.
“Is it not true?”
“Yes,” she said, helplessly, “it is true.”
“Then I will tell you how I know. Because I have lived half my natural
life with the population of my brain, and dream-people know one another.
Ours have met and shaken hands while we have been exchanging
platitudes.”
“That is very pretty,” said Hermia; “I hope their estates border upon
each other, and that their chosen landscape is the same, for
dream-people may have their antipathies, like the inhabitants of the
visible world. Because we have taken out our title-deeds in dream-land,
it does not follow that our tenants live in harmony.”
“It would not—except that we both instinctively know that there has not
been even border warfare. There have been marriage and inter-marriage;
the princes of my reigning house have demanded in state——”
Hermia interrupted him harshly: “There is no marriage or giving in
marriage in my kingdom. I hate the word! Are you very much shocked?”
Cryder smiled. “No,” he said, “one is surprised sometimes to hear one’s
own dearest theories in the mouth of another, but not shocked. It only
needed that to make you the one woman I have wanted to know. You have
that rarest gift among women—a catholic mind. And it does not spring
from immorality or vulgar love of excitement—you are simply brave and
original.”
Hermia leaned forward, her pupils dilating until her eyes looked like
rings of marsh about lakes of ink. “You know that—you understand that?”
she whispered, breathlessly.
Cryder looked her full in the eyes. “Yes,” he said, “and no one ever did
before.”
His audacity had the desired effect. Men were always a little afraid of
Hermia. She looked at him without speaking—a long gaze which he
returned. He was certainly most attractive, although in quite a
different way from any man born of her imaginings. Perhaps, however,
that gave him the charm of novelty. He was almost magnetic; he almost
thrilled her—not quite, but that would come later. She had received so
many impressions this evening that no one could master her. Yes, she was
sure she was going to love him.
“No,” she said, at last, “no one ever did.”
“You have been loved in a great many ways,” Cryder went on; “for your
beauty, which appeals to the senses of men, yet which at the same time
frightens them, because of the tragic element which is as apparent as
the passionate; for your romantic surroundings, which appeal to their
sentiment; for the glamour which envelops you as one of the most
sought-after women in New York; for your intellect; and for your
incomprehensibility to the average mind, which has the fascination of
mystery. But I doubt if any man has ever known or cared whether you have
a psychic side. If I fall in love with you, I shall love your soul,
primarily. Passion is merely the expression of spiritual exaltation.
Independently of the latter it is base. A woman of your strong psychical
nature could never forget the soul for the body—not for a moment.”
“That is very beautiful,” murmured Hermia, dreamily. “Can it be? And are
you sure that I have any spirituality?”
“If you do not know it, it is because you have never loved and never
been loved in the right way.” He sprang suddenly to his feet, and then,
before she could answer, he was gone.
She sank her elbow into a cushion and leaned her cheek on her palm.
Cryder had touched her sensuous nature by the artistic novelty of his
wooing—her ideal had been brutal and direct. She had always imagined
she should like that best, but this was a new idea and very charming. It
appealed to the poetic element in her. The poetic vase tossed aloft the
spray of refined passion and rode contemptuously over the undertow of
sensuality. That was as it should be.
She went up-stairs, and, after she was in bed, thought for a long time.
She slept until late the next day, and in the afternoon paid a number of
calls. In the temporary seclusion of her carriage she took pleasure in
assuring herself that Cryder was uppermost in her mind.
                 
                              CHAPTER XV.
                           A CLEVER TRIFLER.
The next afternoon Cryder came again. Hermia received him this time in
the hall which, with its Gothic roof, its pictured windows, its walls
ribbed and dark, and its organ, looked like a cathedral. As she came
down the broad staircase, in a gown that made her look as if she had
stepped from some old French canvas, Cryder stood gazing at her for a
moment, then without a word sat down before the organ and began to play.
The organ needs only a skillful hand; its own rich, sonorous tones pour
soul through cold, calm fingers. Cryder played Tristan’s Death Song, and
Hermia sank into a chair and felt that naught existed but glory of color
and surge of sound.
Cryder played but a short time—he never did anything too long—then
went over and sat beside her. He made her talk about herself, and
managed to extract much of her past. He learned nothing, however, of her
former lack of beauty. Then he entertained her brilliantly for an hour
with accounts of celebrated people he had met.
After he had gone she felt a vague sense of disappointment; he had not
touched upon co-personal topics for a moment. The sense of
disappointment grew and deepened, and then she gave a sudden start and
smiled. She could not feel disappointment were she not deeply
interested. Was this the suffering, the restlessness, which were said to
be a part of love? Surely! She was pained that he could talk lightly
upon indifferent subjects, and apparently quite forget the sympathy
which existed between them. The pain and the chagrin might not be very
acute, but they were forewarnings of intenser suffering to come. Of
course she wanted to suffer. All women do until the suffering comes.
After that they do not go out of their way to look for it.
She went up-stairs and sat down before the fire in her boudoir. It was
very delightful to fall in love with a man as mentally agreeable as
Cryder. He would always entertain her. She would never be bored! The
intervals between love-making would never drag; she had heard that they
were sometimes trying. And then the pictures between those framing
intervals—when the fierce, hot tide of passion within her would leap
like a tidal wave, lashed into might by the convulsion at its heart. And
Cryder! To see the tiger in the man fling off its shackles and look
through the calm brown of his eyes! (Like all girls, Hermia believed
that every man had a tiger chained up inside him, no matter how cold he
might be exteriorly.) What a triumph to break down that cool
self-control!
Her maid brought her a cup of tea and she drank it; then, resting her
elbows on her knees leaned her chin on her locked fingers. There were
some things she did not like about Cryder. He lacked literary
conscience, and she doubted if he had much of any sort. Her high ideals
still clung to her; but perhaps this was her mission in life—to remold
Cryder. A man is always much under the influence of the woman who gives
him his happiness; she would have a grand opportunity to make him
better. When the end came, as of course it would—she was no longer such
a fool as to imagine that love lasted forever—he should have much to
thank her for.
When a woman thinks she loves a man, she dreams of making him better.
When she really loves him, she would have him share his virtues with the
saints. She loves his faults and encourages them; she glories in the
thought that his personality is strong enough to make her indifferent to
defects. This lesson, however, Hermia had yet to learn; but she was
pleased with the idea of putting the spirituality of which Cryder had
accused her to some practical use. She had not a very clear idea what
spirituality meant, but she thought she was learning.
                 
                              CHAPTER XVI.
                           A LITERARY DINNER.
A few weeks later Hermia gave a dinner to Cryder. The other guests were
Mr. Overton, Mr. Simms, Alan Emmet, a young author who combined the
literary and the sensational in a manner which gave him much notoriety,
Mr. Langley, Cryder’s publisher, and Ralph Embury, a noted young
journalist. Helen Simms was there to chatter serious thought to ambush,
and Miss Starbruck, primly alert, and waiting to be shocked.
Poor Miss Starbruck! She drifted like a gray shadow through Hermia’s
rooms, and longed for her modest cottage at Nantucket. She had been an
active member of sewing-circles and reading-clubs, and the farther down
her past’s perspective did this unexciting environment retreat, the
oftener did she sigh as she contrasted its cool shadows with the hot
glare into which fate’s caprice had suddenly cast her. But Hermia was
considerate—if Miss Starbruck appeared at her niece’s dinners and
receptions, and drove with her occasionally, she could sit up in her
room and dream of Nantucket and bewail duty as much as she pleased. Mrs.
Dykman was chaperon-in-chief.
Hermia wore a gown of white velvet, simply made, and fitting in
wrinkleless perfection the free lines and curves of her full, lithe
figure. About her throat hung a silver chain of Roman workmanship, and
around her waist a girdle of similar but heavier links. The wiry maze of
her hair outshone the diamond pins that confined it.
Miss Simms wore a dinner-gown of black tulle and a profusion of
chrysanthemums. Her hair was as sleek as a mole.
The conversation was naturally more or less literary, and Hermia drew
out her ambitious guests with a good deal of skill. It was hard to curb
them when they were started, but she managed to make each feel that he
had had an opportunity to shine. Some day, when her personal interest in
life had ceased, she intended to have a salon, and this was a pleasant
foretaste. She even let Mr. Simms tell a few anecdotes, but after the
third gently suppressed him.
It is not easy to check the anecdotal impulse, and both Mr. Langley and
Mr. Overton were reminiscent. The former told a tale of a young man who
had brought him a manuscript ten years before, and never returned to ask
its destiny.
“He looked delicate, and I imagine he died of consumption,” said the
great publisher, placidly, as he discussed his pâté. “At all events I
have never heard from him since. Our readers unanimously advised us not
to publish the manuscript. It was entirely out of our line, and would
have involved great risk. We put it aside and forgot all about it. The
other day I happened to meet one of the readers through whose hands it
passed—he has not been with us for some years—and he asked me why I
did not publish the rejected book. ‘That sort of thing has become
fashionable now,’ he said, ‘and you would make money out of it.’ I
merely mention this as an illustration of how fashion changes in
literature as in everything else.”
“You publishers are awful cowards,” said Emmet, in his drawling tones;
“you are so afraid of anything new that all authors you introduce are
branded Prophets of the Commonplace.”
Mr. Langley’s blonde, pleasant little face took a warmer hue, and he
answered somewhat testily: “The publisher was brave, indeed, who
presented you to the public, Mr. Emmet.”
In spite of the general laugh, Emmet replied imperturbably: “The best
advertisement I had, and the only one which I myself inserted, was that
‘Mrs. Bleeker’ had been refused by every conservative house in New York.
My reward is that I have the reputation instead of the firm.”
“No; the firm hasn’t any left—that’s a fact,” retorted Mr. Langley; and
Emmet turned to Helen with a pout on his boyish face.
“Do my books shock you?” he asked her.
Helen smiled. “No, they do not,” she said, briefly. “I quite adore them.
I don’t always acknowledge having read them, but I don’t mind telling
you, considering that you are the author.”
“Oh, some women assure me that nothing would induce them to read my
books. I am glad you have the courage of your opinions. I scorn women
who have not, and I will not talk to a girl unless I can do so as freely
as to a man.”
“Oh, I am not a prude,” said Helen, lightly. “I only draw the line at
positive indecency, and you are quite vague enough. But do you always
talk to men on improper subjects?”
“Oh—no; I merely meant that I like to feel the same lack of restraint
with women as with men. It is a bore to call up every thought for
inspection before you utter it.”
“Yes,” said Helen; “you wouldn’t talk at all, you would only inspect.”
“Speaking of mysterious disappearances,” broke in Embury’s voice, “what
has become of that girl who used to give us such bucketfuls of soulful
lava?—the one who signed herself ‘Quirus’?”
Mr. Overton laughed, and much to Hermia’s relief every one turned to
him. “She brought me that poem I published, herself, and I came near
laughing outright once or twice. I have seen few plainer women; there
was such a general dinginess about her. At the same time there was a
certain magnetism which, I imagine, would have been pronounced had she
been a stronger woman. But I should not be surprised to hear that she
had died of consumption.”
“Is it possible?” said Embury. “Her work was strong, however. Why didn’t
you take her in hand and bring her up in the way she should go?”
“My dear Embury, life is too short. That girl was all wrong. She worked
her syllogisms backward, so to speak. Her intellect was molten with the
heat of her imagination, and stunted with the narrowness of her
experience. She reasoned from effect to cause. Her characters, instead
of being the carefully considered products of environment and heredity,
were always altered or distorted to suit some dramatic event. Intellect
without experience of the heart and of life is responsible for more
errors than innate viciousness which is controlled by worldly wisdom, or
natural folly which is clothed in the gown of accumulated knowledge. I
have seen so many clever writers go to pieces,” he added, regarding his
empty plate with a sigh; “they lie so. They have no conscience whatever,
and they are too clever to see it.”
“Then how can they help themselves?” asked Hermia, with a puzzled look.
“They had better wait until they can.”
Hermia did not care to pursue the subject, and saw, moreover, that
Embury was waiting to be heard. “What would journalism do if no one knew
how to lie?” she asked him, with a smile, and was somewhat surprised
when every man at the table except Embury laughed aloud.
Embury colored, but replied promptly: “It would probably die for want of
patronage.”
“You are right, Embury,” said Cryder. “You could not have found a more
appreciative field for your talents.”
Embury looked at him reproachfully, and Cryder continued: “I never could
resist the temptation to kick a friend when he was down. I will give you
an opportunity later.”
“Life is made up of lost opportunities—I probably shall not see it.
True, I might review your books, but to do so I should have to read
them.”
“Is this the way literary people always spar?” murmured Hermia to
Cryder.
“Oh! do not let it worry you,” he replied. “This is only
facetiousness—American humor. It doesn’t hurt.” He dropped his voice.
“Are you not well? You look tired.”
“I am tired,” said Hermia, returning his gaze—he seemed very near to
her at that moment. “Clever people, singly, are very delightful, but en
masse they keep one on the rack.”
“Don’t bother any more!” said Cryder. “Leave them to me; I will take
care of them.”
“You are good,” murmured Hermia. “When I am old I shall like a salon;
I shall like the power of it. Now—it bores me a little.”
Cryder bent somewhat nearer to her. “Do not wait too long for anything,”
he murmured. “A man’s power comes with age; a woman’s power goes with
age.”
He turned from her suddenly and addressed a remark to Embury which
immediately gave that clever young man a chance to entertain his
companions for ten minutes. Hermia found herself drifting from her
guests. She had undergone many evolutions of thought and feeling during
the past few weeks. At times she had believed herself in love with
Cryder; at others, she had been conscious of indifferent liking. She was
puzzled to find that his abstract image thrilled her more than his
actual presence. On the other hand, she liked him better when with
him. He was so entertaining, so sympathetic; he had such delicate tact
and charm. When absent, she sometimes thought of him with a certain
distaste; he had qualities that she disliked, and he was diametrically
different from all imagined lovers. Then she would make up her mind to
close her eyes to his deficiencies and to love him spiritually. She
would compel herself to think of him for hours together on an exalted
mental and spiritual plane, where passion had no place. Not that she
believed him incapable of passion, by any means—she believed that all
men were constructed on the same plan—but he was so different from that
man who now dwelt behind a barred door in her brain that she felt it her
duty, to both, to love him in a different way. She was surprised to find
that after such æsthetic communion she almost hated him. Reaction
following excess of passion may be short-lived; but immoderate
sentimentality leaves a mental ennui that requires a long convalescence.
Sentimentality is a growth of later civilization, and trails its roots
over the surface like a pine; while passion had its seeds planted in the
garden of Eden, and is root, branch, twig, and leaf of human nature.
In summing up her sensations she had come to the conclusion that on the
