to blame, he was blockaded in his own disgrace. He told himself this; he
repeated it even in varying keys; but beneath it all he felt that some
redress should be. The idea that the house he had entered as an honored
guest would see him depart in shame had already brought the blood to his
cheeks. And that blood now was leaving a stain that years would not
efface. "I must write," he decided; "I must write some word." And he was
about to seat himself at the table, when Atcheh appeared.
"Tuan," he murmured, in the soft vocables of his tongue. "The gharry
waits your lordship."
At this Zut, who was surprisingly polyglot of ear, yelped with renewed
delight. Tancred pointed to his effects, and waited until they had been
removed. It was possible, he reflected, that he might meet Liance or
Mrs. Lyeth in the hall. Yet should he not do so, then, he told himself,
he would write from Singapore.
But when he reached the veranda, only the general was there. Beyond, the
gharry stood in readiness, and by it was Atcheh, the trunk and shirt-box
already strapped in place. Tancred stretched his hand.
"General--"
"I wish you a pleasant journey, sir," that gentleman answered, and
lifted his hat.
Mechanically Tancred raised his own.
"I thank you," he said. And with a backward glance he called to Zut and
entered the conveyance.
A whip cracked, the gharry started; in a moment it was on the road.
Tancred turned to take another and a parting look. Already the general
had disappeared, but from a window he caught a glimpse of some one robed
in white. A curve was rounded and the bungalow disappeared.
For an hour over a road beside which the Corniche is commonplace indeed,
the gharry rolled on. To Tancred, however, its beauties were remote and
undiscerned. If he noticed them at all it was only as accessories. He
was wholly absorbed in his own discomfiture, and the gharry drew up and
halted at the wharf before he was aware that Siak had been reached and
the journey was done.
About him was the same assortment of fat-faced Celestials and gaunt
Malays that he had noticed before. Apparently nothing had happened to
them; they had contented themselves with continuing to be. Before him
was a glistening sea, a limitless horizon. To the left the shore
extended, fairer and more brilliant than the courtyard of a royal
domain. Just beyond, one of the ships of the Dutch East India service
was moored, her funnels lengthening and fading in spirals of smoke. And
when Tancred had attended to the transfer of his luggage, and was about
to step into the sampan that was to convey him to the steamer, there
came a clatter of horse's hoofs, and on a black and panting pony Atcheh
suddenly appeared.
"Tuan," he cried, and waved something in the air. "Tuan, a moment more."
In that moment he had sprung from the pony and run to where Tancred
stood.
"From the little lady, Lord," he said, and, handing a basket to his
master's guest, bowed to the ground.
Tancred found a bit of gold.
"For you," he said, and the Malay bowed again. "To the lady, give my
thanks."
And at once his heart gave an exultant throb; his departure was
regretted. As he lowered himself into the boat his excess of joy was so
acute he nearly fell. Truly, if it be pleasant to appreciate, it is also
pleasant to be appreciated. He still clutched at the basket, his hands
moist with excitement, his face aglow, and it was not until the ship was
reached that he noticed that Zut was sniffing at it.
"Behave," he ordered. But his voice was so kindly that the little fellow
only sniffed the more. It was easy to see that he was jubilating too.
On deck Tancred experienced some difficulty in securing a cabin. But for
what were rupees coined and tips invented? The steward consulted the
purser, the purser consulted the first officer, and in five minutes the
cabin of the latter functionary was at Tancred's disposal. It was roomy
and cool; or perhaps it would be more exact to say that it was fully as
large as a closet and that the thermometer did not mark one degree above
ninety. In short, Tancred had every reason to consider himself in luck.
He shut the door and throwing himself on a wicker settee he opened the
basket, which until now he had kept tight clasped in his hand.
It was, he saw, filled with sweetmeats such as he had eaten at the
bungalow. On top, pinned to the interior of the basket, was a slip of
paper that contained a single line--Souvenir et bon voyage--and for
signature, Liance. He read the message twice, and, it may be, he would
have repeated the message aloud, but Zut kept bothering him with little
hungry yelps. To quiet the dog be tossed him a sweet and put the basket
down.
In some mysterious manner his joy had taken itself away. It was not from
Liance he had expected a remembrance. When Atcheh placed the basket in
his hand, he had told himself that, whatever it might contain, it was at
least a gift from Mrs. Lyeth, a token expressive of her regret at his
departure. And instead of that there was a handful of bonbons that might
have been sent to a child, and a meaningless message from one to whose
solicitude he was indifferent. The disappointment, indeed, was great.
For a while he let it intensify within him. But presently he stood up:
it was getting dark; long since the sob of water displaced had told him
that the ship had started; a turn on deck might do him good, he thought;
and as he moved to the door he called to his dog.
"Zut!"
And as the dog did not immediately appear, Tancred wondered could he
have got out. But no, the door was closed.
"What the dickens can have become of him?" he muttered, and turning
again he caught sight of Zut stretched on the floor. "Hello!" he
exclaimed, "there you are. Why don't you come when you're called?"
Even at this, however, the dog did not move. Tancred bent over and
touched him, and then suddenly kneeled down. "Why, what is the matter
with him? A moment ago he was right enough; it is impossible that--Zut!
Zut Alors!"
And raising the dog's head up he stared at it. The eyes were convulsed,
the tongue was swollen and distorted. "He is dead," he murmured. "He is
dead. But how?"
To this question no answer was vouchsafed. In his bewilderment he stood
up again and leaned at the port-hole. Already Siak had faded. Above was
a splatter of callous stars, beneath was the sea, black now and almost
chill.
"But how?" he repeated. Then at once he clutched at the woodwork; his
eyes had fallen on the basket; he remembered the sweet he had tossed to
the dog. The cabin seemed to be turning round.
At his side the door opened, and the steward looked in. "Supper is
ready, sir; will you come?"
"The rafflesia!" Tancred gasped at him. But what he meant by that absurd
reply the steward did not think it necessary to ask.
"Very good, sir," he answered, and shut the door.
THE GRAND DUKE'S RUBIES.
There is in New York a club called the Balmoral, which has two
peculiarities--no one ever goes there much before midnight, and it is
the only place in town where you can get anything fit to eat at four
o'clock in the morning. The members are politicians of the higher grade,
men about town, and a sprinkle of nondescripts. In the unhallowed
inspiration of a moment, Alphabet Jones, the novelist,--in polite
society Mr. A. B. Fenwick Chisholm-Jones,--baptized it the Smallpox, a
name which has stuck tenaciously, the before-mentioned members being
usually pitted--against each other. Of the many rooms of the club, one,
it should be explained, is the most enticing. It is situated on an upper
floor, and the siren that presides therein is a long table dressed in
green. Her name is Baccarat.
One night last February, Alphabet Jones rattled up to the door in a
vagabond hansom. He was thirsty, impecunious, and a trifle tired. He had
been to a cotillon, where he had partaken of champagne, and he wanted to
get the taste of it out of his throat. He needed five hundred dollars,
and in his card-case there were only two hundred and fifty. The bar of
the Athenæum Club he knew at that hour was closed, possible
money-lenders were in bed, and it was with the idea of killing the two
birds of the legend that he sought the Balmoral.
He encountered there no difficulty in slaking his thirst; and when, in
one draught, which brought to his tonsils a suggestion of art, science,
and Wagner combined, he swallowed a brandy-and-soda, he felt better, and
looked about to see who might be present. The room which he had entered
was on what is called the parlor floor. It was long, high-ceiled,
comfortably furnished, and somewhat dim. At the furthermost end three
men were seated, two of whom he recognized, the one as Sumpter Leigh,
the other as Colonel Barker; but the third he did not remember to have
seen before. Some Westerner, he thought; for Jones prided himself on
knowing every one worth knowing in New York, and, it may be added, in
several other cities as well.
He took out his card-case and thumbed the roll of bills reflectively.
If he went upstairs, he told himself, he might double the amount in two
minutes. But then, again, he might lose it. Yet, if he did, might not
five hundred be as easily borrowed as two hundred and fifty?
"It's brutal to be so hard up," he mused. "Literature doesn't pay. I
might better set up as publisher, open a drug-shop, turn grocer, do
anything, in fact, which is brainless and remunerative, than attempt to
earn a living by the sweat of my pen. There's that Interstate
Magazine: the editor sent me a note by a messenger this morning, asking
for a story, adding that the messenger would wait while I wrote it.
Evidently he thinks me three parts stenographer and the rest
kaleidoscope. What is a good synonym for an editor, anyway?"
And as Jones asked himself this question he glared fiercely in a mirror
that extended from cornice to floor. Then, mollified, possibly, by his
own appearance, for he was a handsome man, tall, fair, and clear of
skin, he threw himself on a sofa, and fell to thinking about the
incidents of the ball.
For some time past he had been as discreetly attentive as circumstances
permitted to a young girl, the only child of a potent financier, and on
that particular evening he had sat out the cotillon with her at an
assembly. She was very pretty and, unusual as it may seem in a
débutante, rather coy. But when, a half-hour before, he had wished her
sweet dreams in that seductive manner for which he was famous, she had
allowed the tips of her fingers to rest in his own just one fleeting
second longer than was necessary, and, what is more to the point, had
looked into his eyes something which now, under the influence of the
brandy-and-soda, seemed almost a promise. "Dear little soul!" he
muttered; "if she marries me I will refuse her nothing. It will be the
devil's own job, though, to get her any sort of an engagement ring.
Tiffany, perhaps, might give me one on credit, but it will have to be
something very handsome, something new; not that tiresome solitaire.
Those stones I saw the other day--H'm! I wonder what that fellow is
staring at me for?"
He lounged forward to where the men were seated, and, being asked to
draw a chair, graciously accepted the invitation and another
brandy-and-soda as well.
"It was this way," the stranger exclaimed, excitedly, when he and Jones
had been introduced. "I was telling these gentlemen when you came in
that you looked like the Grand Duke Sergius--"
"Thank you," the novelist answered, affably. "The same to you."
"I never saw him though," the stranger continued.
"No more have I."
"Only his picture."
"Your remark, then, was doubly flattering."
"But the picture to which I allude was that of a chimerical grand duke."
"Really, sir, really you are overwhelming."
"But wait a minute, do wait a minute. Mr. Jones, I don't know whether
you caught my name: it is Fairbanks--David Fairbanks."
"Delighted! I remember it perfectly. My old friend, Nicholas Manhattan,
bought a ruby of you once, and a beauty it was. I heard at the time that
you made a specialty of them."
"So did the grand duke. He came here, you know, on that man-of-war."
"Yes, I know. Mrs. Wainwaring gave him a reception. It was just my luck:
I was down with the measles at the time."
"Oh, you were, were you? You were down with the measles, eh? Well, I
wish I had been. Gentlemen, listen to this; you must listen. I was in my
office in Maiden Lane one day, when a young man came in. He wore the
most magnificent fur coat I have ever seen in my life. No, that coat was
something that only Russia could have produced. He handed me a card on
which was engraved
     P^{CE} MICHEL ZAROGUINE,
     Aide-de-camp de S. A. I. le grand-duc Serge de Russie.
"And then, of all things in the world, he offered me a pinch of snuff,
and when I refused he helped himself out of a beautiful box and flicked
the grains which had fallen on his lapel with a nimbleness of finger
such as it was a pleasure to behold. I ought to tell you that he spoke
English with great precision, though his accent was not pleasant--sort
of grizzled, as it were. Well, gentlemen, he said that his prince, as
he called him, the grand duke, wanted some rubies; they were intended
for a present; and, though my visitor did not imply anything either by
word or gesture, I suspected at once that they were for a lady. The
grand duke at that time had been here a fortnight, and it was
said--However, there is no use in going into that. So I showed him a
few; but, if you will believe me, he wanted enough to make a tiara. I
told him that a tiara of stones of that quality would come anywhere from
sixty to eighty thousand dollars. If I had said a peck of groats he
could not have appeared more indifferent. 'It is a great deal of money,'
I said. He smiled a little at that, as though he were thinking, 'Poor
devil of an American, it may seem a great deal of money to you, but to a
grand duke--!' Then I brought out all I had. He looked them over with
the pincers very carefully, and asked how much I valued them at. I told
him a hundred and ten thousand dollars. He didn't turn a hair."
"Was he bald?" Jones asked.
"No, sir, he was not; and your jest is ill-timed. Gentlemen, I appeal to
you. I insist on Mr. Jones's attention--"
"Why, the man is crazy," Jones mused. "What does he mean by saying that
my jest is ill-timed? But why does he insist on my attention? He's
drunk--that's what he is; he's drunk and quarrelsome. Well, let him be.
What do I care?" And Alphabet Jones looked complacently at his white
waistcoat and then over at his excitable vis-à-vis. Mr. Fairbanks was
a little man of the Cruikshank pattern, very red and rotund, and as he
talked he gesticulated.
"So I said to him, 'There's been a corner in rubies, but it broke, and
that is the reason why I can give them at that price.' He didn't know
what a corner was, and when I explained he took a note-book out of his
pocket and wrote something in it. 'I am making a collection of
Americanisms for the Czarina,' he said. 'By the way,' he added, 'what is
a Sam Ward!' I told him. He laughed, and put it down--"
"His throat?"
Mr. Fairbanks glanced at Jones with unconcealed irritation: "Dr.
Hammond, sir, says that punning is a form of paresis."
"Be careful about that epsilon; it's short."
"Well, Mr. Jones, you ought to know how to pronounce the word better
than I, for you have the disease and I haven't. Gentlemen, I insist--"
But Jones had begun to muse again. "That fat little brute is a type," he
told himself. "I must work him in somewhere. I wonder, though, if I had
not better leave him and go up to the baccarat. It might be more
remunerative. It would be amusing," and Alphabet smiled at the fantasy
of his own thought, "it would be amusing indeed if he tried to prevent
me." He put his hand over his eyes and let Mr. Fairbanks ramble on.
"You see," he heard him say, in connection with something that had gone
before, "a man in my business has to be careful. Now, there are rubies
and rubies. I only handle the Oriental stones, which are a variety of
the hyaline corindus. They are found in Ceylon, in Thibet, and in Burmah
among the crumblings of primordial rock. But I have seen beauties that
were picked from waste lands in China from which the granite had
presumably disappeared. They are the most brilliant and largest of all.
There is another kind, which looks like a burned topaz: it is found in
Brazil and Massachusetts. Then there is the Bohemian ruby, which is
nothing but quartz reddened by the action of manganese; and there are
also imitations so well made that only an expert can tell them from the
real. I keep a few of the latter on hand so as to be able to gauge a
customer. Well, gentlemen, the Russian picked up two of them, which I
placed before him, and put them to one side. He knew the false article
at a glance. Your friend, Jones, that simpleton Nicholas Manhattan,
would have taken one of the imitation if I had not prevented him, but
this fellow was so clever about it that he won my immediate respect."
"Jones, indeed!" Alphabet muttered. "Why, the brute is as familiar as a
haberdasher's advertisement!" He looked at him again: his face was like
a brandied peach that had fallen into the fire, and his head was set on
his shoulders like an obus on a cannon. "Bah!" he continued, "what is
the use in being irritated at a beggar who is as ugly as a high hat at
the seashore?"--"When you do me the honor to address me, sir," he said,
aloud, "I shall be obliged if you will call me Mr. Jones."
"Tut, tut!" the little man answered, and then, without further attention
to Alphabet, he continued his tiresome tale:
"When the Russian had examined the rubies very carefully a second time,
he said, half to me and half to himself, 'I think they will do.' Then,
looking up at me, he added, 'Mr. Fairbanks, you do not make a
hundred-thousand-dollar sale every day, do you?' 'No, your Excellency,'
I answered,--you see, I made a dash at Excellency; Prince seemed sort of
abrupt, don't you think?'--'No, your Excellency, it does not happen
over once a week.' He smiled at that, and well he might, for the biggest
sale I had previously made amounted to but nine thousand dollars. 'Mr.
Fairbanks,' he continued, 'the grand duke is rich, as you well know. I
am not. You will understand me the better when I tell you that at
present, unless cholera has visited Russia since I left (and I hope it
has), there are exactly twenty-nine people in Petersburg who bear the
same name and title as myself. Now, if the grand duke purchases these
rubies, what will my commission be?' 'That is squarely put, your
Excellency,' I answered--'squarely put. Will his Imperial Highness pay
cash for the rubies?'"
"You might have asked him if his Imperial Highness would pay rubis sur
l'ongle. But I remember you don't approve of wit."
This interjection came, of course, from Jones. Mr. Fairbanks, however,
let it pass unnoticed. It may be that he did not understand.
"'Necessarily,' he replied. 'A recent ukase of the Czar's inhibits any
member of the Imperial family from purchasing so much as a brass samovar
on credit.' I bowed. 'A very proper and wise ukase that is, your
Excellency. Under such circumstances I think I see my way to giving you
one per cent.' He laughed at that, as though I had made a remark of
great brilliance."
"I like that," Jones exclaimed, in spite of himself. "Why, you wouldn't
be brilliant in a calcium light."
But this remark, like the former, passed unheeded. For the first time
since his memory ran not to the contrary it seemed to Jones that he was
being ignored; and to ignore Jones! Allons donc!
"'Look at me,' said the Russian," Mr. Fairbanks continued. "'The grand
duke will not buy these rubies except on my recommendation, and I value
that recommendation at not a kopeck less than ten thousand dollars. It
is to take or to leave. Choose, sir, choose.' And with that he picked up
his hat. 'I cannot, your Excellency, I cannot.' He turned away and made
for the door. 'Excellency,' I cried, 'I will give you five.' He wheeled
about. 'If,' he said, 'you offer one per cent when you can give five and
three-fifths, you are just as well able to give nine and two-thirds."
"He was a lightning calculator, wasn't he?"
"'On my conscience,' I answered, 'I cannot give more than seven.' 'Ah!'
he replied, 'I do not know how to haggle.' He reflected a moment. 'It is
well,' he said; 'I accept.' Gentlemen, when he said that, I felt that I
had done a good day's work. Apart from the commission I had a clean
profit of eighteen thousand dollars; and eighteen thousand dollars is a
tidy sum--not to you, gentlemen, nor to Jones there, but to me."
"Ged, the little cad is getting sarcastic." And Jones laughed quietly to
himself and finished his brandy-and-soda.
Mr. Fairbanks waved his arms and pounded the table so excitedly that he
roused a waiter from a nap.
"Yes, bring the same," he cried. "Now, gentlemen, I am coming to the
point. I insist on your attention. Mr. Jones, I will thank you not
to interrupt--unless it happens that you care to aid me with the
details. Yes, sir, I said details,--d-e-t-a-i-l-s. Now wait a minute,
will you? Gentlemen, I appeal to you. He shall wait. Beat it into his
head--can't you?--that I am coming to the point, and very interesting, I
promise, you will all find it to be."
"Tu te vantes, mon bonhomme, tu te vantes. Here's to you."
"Here's to you. Well, gentlemen, it was then one o'clock. I always lunch
at that hour, and I asked the Russian if he would let me offer him a
bite. 'I would very much like to try a Sam Ward,' he said, 'and I might
take some tea and a bit of toast.' 'That,' I replied, 'would be tasty
with a little caviare.' I wanted to show him that, though a dealer in
precious stones, I was first and foremost a man of the world."
Alphabet Jones rolled over in spasms of delight. "Divinities of Pindar,"
he shouted, "listen to that!"
"Gentlemen, gag that man--gag him: I will be listened to. There, now,
will you be quiet? You make me lose the thread. Where was I? Oh, yes:
the Russian seemed to reflect a moment, and looked at his watch. 'I
think,' he said, 'it would be better to go straight to the Brevoort
House.' (The grand duke, I knew, was stopping there.) 'My prince is to
go out this afternoon between two and three, and if you do not see him
to-day it may be hard to manage it to-morrow.' 'I am at your orders,
Excellency,' I answered; 'business before pleasure.' 'Good, then,' he
returned; 'we will take a droschky, or, better even, your railway that
is in the air.' 'The elevated, you mean,' I said--'the elevated. Yes, of
course.' Inwardly I was well pleased that the suggestion should have
come from him, for I am not over-fond of riding in a cab with a hundred
and ten thousand dollars' worth of rubies in my pocket and a stranger
for sole companion. For he was a stranger--wasn't he?--and, by his own
account, not well-to-do. But that Russian had a knack of disarming
suspicion. And, besides, how was it possible for me to have any doubts
about a man who fought as he had over the percentage? It would have been
nonsensical. So I did the rubies up in cotton, put them in a box, and
off we went. On the way to the elevated you ought to have seen how the
people stared at that coat. All the time he kept up a delightful flow of
conversation. He told me any number of interesting things about his
country, and when I asked if he had read 'The Journey Due North' he told
me that he had, and that when Sala was in Russia his father had
entertained him at his country-house a few versts from Moscow. Think of
that, now! Altogether, he made himself most agreeable. I asked him on
the way if he thought that inasmuch as I was to have the honor of seeing
the grand duke it would not be more in accordance with etiquette for me
to put on a dress-coat. But he laughed, and said, no, the grand duke
would never notice. Then he told me some very curious anecdotes about
him--how, for instance, he fainted dead away at the sight of an apple,
and yet kept a balloon and an aeronaut, just as Jones there might keep a
dogcart and a groom. He told me, among other things, that at Petersburg
the grand duke had a pet tiger, which would accept food from no one but
him, and on my asking how the tiger got along when the grand duke was
away, he said that the grand duke had him stuffed. Oh, he was very
entertaining, and spoke English better than you would have imagined. We
walked over from Eighth Street to the hotel, and when we reached it he
took me straight upstairs to his own room. 'If you will sit a minute,'
he said, 'I will see if his Highness can receive you.' He went away, and
I looked about me. The room into which I had been shown was a
sitting-room with a bedroom opening from it. There was a writing-table
standing against the door which led to the adjoining apartment, and
while I was waiting I just glanced at the things with which the table
was littered. There were a number of foreign newspapers, but in what
language they were printed I could not make out; there was a package of
official-looking documents tied with a string, a great blue envelope
addressed in French to the Prince Michel Zaroguine and post-marked
Washington, and back of all, in a frame, the photograph of a man."
For some minutes previous Mr. Fairbanks had been speaking quite
composedly, though Jones, with the observant eye of his class, had
noticed that near the ears his cheeks and his forehead as well were wet
with perspiration. But now abruptly he grew unaccountably excited, and
his speech displayed a feverish animation. His face had lost its
scarlet; it had grown very white; and it seemed to the novelist that in
