smile.

"While I am glad to see you deprived of the power to injure the cause I
love, and to which I have pledged all that I have and all that I am, I
am sorry that you should be in trouble, Christy. I hope I have Christian
feeling enough to keep me from rejoicing at the misfortunes of any
person, and especially of my brother's son. I can say sincerely that
I am sorry you are in trouble," said the colonel solemnly.

"Oh, I am not in trouble, Uncle Homer!" exclaimed Christy, laughing.
"I have done my duty to my country, my conscience is clean, and I am
not to be upset by an accident like this. I am really happy in the
consciousness that I have been faithful to the cause of my country."

  [Illustration: "I am glad to see you, Christy."--Page 308.]

"I wish you had been; but we will not talk about that, for I suppose you
and your father have the same views," replied the planter, looking very
sad.

"I don't believe we should agree if we talked about it for a year, and
we had better give the subject the go-by. But how are Aunt Lydia and
Gerty?"

"Both are very well. I hope your father is in good health, as well as
your mother and sister."

"All very well."

"I have not heard a word from any of you for about five months,"
continued Colonel Passford. "In fact, not since you were here in May."

"We got home all right, and the Bellevite is a man-of-war now. She
captured one valuable prize off the coast of Carolina, and another at
Pensacola," replied Christy cheerfully.

"She ought never to have been allowed to leave Mobile Bay," added the
colonel.

"Your people certainly did everything they could to prevent her from
leaving, and I hope you don't blame yourselves for letting her go. What
about Corny, sir?" asked Christy.

"Major Pierson was very much to blame for permitting the Bellevite to
pass the forts when she came in, and he lost his command. But he has
devoted all his life to redeem his fault by her recapture. He took Corny
with him, and a naval officer; I only know that the attempt to recapture
her failed from the fact that the Bellevite is now on the blockade."

Finding that his uncle knew nothing of the events which had transpired
at Bonnydale, Christy told him all about them, informing him at the end
that Corny was a prisoner of war on parole at his father's house,
recovering from his wound.




CHAPTER XXVIII

AN ENTERPRISE FOR A DARK NIGHT


"Corny wounded!" exclaimed Colonel Passford, rising with no little
emotion from the box on which he had seated himself.

"Not seriously, Uncle Homer," added Christy.

"But how was he wounded? I have heard of no battle in the vicinity of
New York till now, though our papers contain some news from outside,"
continued the planter.

"It was hardly a battle," replied Christy. "Captain Carboneer had
brought a crew for a steamer through Canada, I believe, for the purpose
of capturing the Bellevite as she lay at Bonnydale. Major Pierson and
Corny were to assist him; and the major wished Captain Carboneer to take
Florry on board of her, and convey her to the South, when he had taken
possession of the steamer; but the naval officer was too high-toned to
do anything of the kind."

"I did not suppose Major Pierson could do such a thing," added the
planter, biting his lips.

"But the major insisted that he did not mean to take her against her
own will. Captain Carboneer bought an old steamer, put his men on board
of her, and started up the river to make the capture. I knew they were
coming, and was ready for them. We fired only one shot at the old
steamer, which smashed her walking-beam, and disabled her. A piece of
the machinery struck Corny, and injured him in the shoulder. The doctor
says he is not permanently injured, though it will be months before he
is able to use his arm. He was paroled, and mother is taking as good
care of him as though I had been wounded."

"I am thankful it is not worse," added the colonel, with a sigh of
relief. "What became of Major Pierson?"

"I don't know, but I suppose he is a prisoner in Fort Lafayette. He
refused to give his parole when he found he could not be a guest at
Bonnydale. Captain Carboneer obtained the command of a steamer, but it
was captured by the Bellevite, and probably he is with the major in the
fort."

The planter asked a great many questions in regard to the affair on the
Hudson, and Christy answered them. He gave some of the particulars of
the capture of the Teaser, and mentioned the name of Lonley, who had
told him that Colonel Passford had offered him the command of a schooner
he had loaded with cotton to run the blockade; but the planter said
nothing to indicate that he had ever heard of the privateersman.

"The Bellevite has been very fortunate so far, and she seems to have a
charmed existence," added the colonel.

"That is only because she is well handled," replied Christy, laughing.

"And you seem to be equally fortunate, Christy, for you have twice been
the means of saving your father's steamer. Corny has done nothing, is
wounded, and practically a prisoner. But, Christy, the tide will turn,
for Heaven is always on the side of a just cause," added the planter
solemnly.

"I believe it, uncle; and that will be the reason why the Union will
prevail in the end. Besides, Napoleon believed that Heaven was always
on the side of the stronger battalions."

"That was an impious remark; and Heaven, by its own mysterious ways,
will conduct the just cause of the South to a successful ending, and the
Confederate States of America will be an honored member of the family of
nations."

"I think we had better not talk politics, even though we mix in a little
religion," suggested Christy.

"As your father has been kind to my boy, wounded and a prisoner in the
midst of enemies, I ought to do something for you, Christy," continued
Colonel Passford, looking on the floor.

"Not at all, Uncle Homer; I am not wounded as Corny is, and there is
no need of doing anything for me," interposed Christy, laughing in the
serious face of the planter.

"I can get you paroled, and then I shall be glad to have you remain at
Glenfield until you are exchanged," said the planter.

"I shall not accept a parole, Uncle Homer," replied Christy promptly.

"Not accept a parole!" exclaimed the colonel. "Corny did so."

"If I were wounded, as Corny is, I would accept it."

"I hope you don't mean to try to escape, Christy," added his uncle, with
a look of deep concern on his dignified face, as he looked about the
apartment in which his nephew was confined.

"I don't say that I shall; if I did say so, you would have our guard
doubled, and ready to shoot me if they saw my head at a window,"
answered Christy with earnestness.

"You seem to think I am a heathen; but you forget that you are an active
enemy of my country," added the planter, with a pained expression.

"I don't forget it, uncle; but I am not half as active as I hope to be
before this thing ends. I believe you would see me shot or hung by the
neck till I was dead if it were for the benefit of what you call your
country."

"I hope and pray that I may never be placed in a situation to see
anything of that kind."

"I know you are earnest, honest, and sincere, Uncle Homer, and no
partiality to your own kindred would permit you to shirk what you
consider to be your duty. I find no fault with you; and I believe my
father would be equally firm," said Christy warmly.

"I think you understand me, my boy; but do not attempt any rash project.
I cannot prevent the guard from shooting you if you attempt to escape."

"I prefer to keep my own counsels in a matter of this kind, Uncle Homer.
Give my love to Aunt Lydia and Gerty, for I suppose I am not likely to
see them, as I am liable to be sent away any day."

"Oh, yes, you will see them, for they shall call upon you here as soon
as they return from Montgomery, where they have gone for a few days."

"It will be very kind of them to do so," added Christy, though he did
not believe he should be "at home" when they came.

"I do not wish you were wounded, my dear boy, but if you were, we would
do all that your father and mother are doing for poor Corny," replied
Colonel Passford fervently, "Now, promise me, Christy, that you will not
attempt to escape."

"I can't make any promises, uncle."

"I will do the best I can to have your condition improved, and see that
you have a better diet, if I send your food from a hotel."

"You are very kind, uncle, and I know that you will do all that your
duty will permit you to do for me."

"But I shall live in fear and trembling if I leave you without your
promise to refrain from daring exploits. Just consider, my dear boy; you
are in the fourth story of this warehouse, and the guard-room is below
you. You have really no chance at all of success, and a fall or a shot
may kill or disable you for life."

"I do not say that I shall try to escape, uncle."

"And you do not say that you will not try to escape."

For half an hour longer Colonel Passford endeavored to induce his nephew
to give the desired promise; but he remained obstinate to the end;
and his uncle was compelled to leave him, to enter upon the fear and
trembling in which he was to live while his enterprising nephew remained
a prisoner. But he promised to call upon him every day, and to write to
his wife and daughter to return at once.

"I think I shall not wait for him to call," said Christy to Flint,
as soon as he had gone.

"Do you expect to get out of this place, Mr. Passford?" asked the
master's mate, with lively interest.

"This very night!" replied Christy, in an energetic whisper, as he put
his finger on his lips to indicate that nothing more was to be said on
the subject.

The second lieutenant of the Bellevite had not been confined in the
warehouse three days without considering his chances of escape, and
the means of accomplishing such a purpose. He had looked the building
over with the greatest care. The room the prisoners occupied was next
to the roof. The rear windows opened upon a narrow alley, and he had
ascertained by looking out at them that the warehouse was one of a long
block. He had been in Mobile a great deal while the family were visiting
at Glenfield, and he had been careful to notice the location when he was
conducted to it with the others.

At the end of the loft next to the main street were thirty or forty
other prisoners, with whom Christy and Flint had been on good terms,
though they belonged to the army, and seemed to be inclined to keep
by themselves. They had been exhausted by hard service, and they had
nothing to do but eat and sleep, though the former occupation did not
occupy any great amount of their spare time. But as soon as it was
fairly dark, they stretched themselves on their beds of vines and weeds,
and most of them were soon asleep.

The evening that followed the day on which Colonel Passford visited his
nephew was dark, foggy, rainy, and as gloomy as even a blockade runner
might ask. Christy seated himself under one of the rear windows of the
loft, which appeared to have been intended only for storage, and was
only from seven to eight feet between studs. Flint placed himself at the
side of his companion, as he was requested to do.

"This is just the kind of a night we want," said Christy, in a whisper,
for he could hear the tramp of a sentinel outside the door of the loft.

"I should as soon think of getting out if we were buried a hundred feet
under ground as to think of getting out of this place," replied Flint,
who was hardly as enterprising as his officer, though he was always
ready to follow when he was well led. "There is a guard at the door,
Mr. Passford."

"He may stay there; we don't want anything of him," replied Christy.

"I see no other way out of this den, unless we jump down into the
street; but I will follow you, sir, if I fall a hundred feet in doing
it," protested the master's mate.

"You shall not fall six inches, and you will have no opportunity to do
so. But if you are all ready to follow my lead, we may as well begin at
once," added Christy, who had expected that it would require some
persuasion to induce his companion to join him.

The first thing the midshipman did was to take off his shoes, and to
require Flint to do the same. With these in their hands, Christy paced
off twenty steps, which brought him, according to a calculation he
had made in the daylight, under a scuttle that led to the roof of the
warehouse. Stationing the master's mate as a mark, he laid off five
paces at right angles with the first line from the party-wall. It was as
dark as Egypt, and the scuttle could not be seen; but the operator had
located it mathematically, and was confident as to its position. Flint
was planted under the opening, with the shoes of both at his side.

The master's mate was nearly six feet in his stocking feet as he stood,
and Christy whispered to him the next thing in his scheme. With the aid
of his willing assistant, the midshipman was mounted on the shoulders of
the former, where he stood up like an athlete in the gloom, though he
almost instantly obtained a hold above with his hands. He unfastened the
scuttle, and slid it off the aperture with the greatest care. Then he
drew himself up with his strong hands, and was on the roof. Then Flint
passed up the shoes, as he reached down for them. Seating himself on one
side of the frame, he braced his feet against the other side, and
grasped the hands of the mate. It did not work.




CHAPTER XXIX

THE NEW MATE OF THE COTTON SCHOONER


Christy had given himself credit for more physical strength, or Flint
for less weight, than the circumstances warranted, and found that he
could not draw up his companion as he intended. He made several efforts
to accomplish his purpose, but he failed every time. The fear of making
a noise cramped his efforts to some extent.

"Let go, Mr. Passford," whispered Flint, when he realized that his
avoirdupois was too much for the young officer. "I will get that box,
and then I can manage it myself."

"All right; but don't make a particle of noise," added Christy.

It required some time for the mate to find the box in the darkness, but
he had it in position at last, standing upon one end. Mounting it, he
found that his head was on a level with the roof, and he could easily
draw himself up; but he did not do so at once.

"What are you waiting for, Flint?" asked Christy, rather impatiently.

"If I leave the box where it is, the guard will see where we have gone
when they inspect the prison at ten o'clock," replied Flint.

"That's so; I did not have the box in my plan, and that would tell the
guard where to look for us," replied Christy. "We must make a line, and
haul it up after you."

"Here are two big handkerchiefs," added Flint, as he removed his
neck-cloth, and passed up his pocket handkerchief with it.

Christy tied the handkerchiefs together with great care, adding two more
of his own to the length, which he thought would reach the box, Flint
made it fast to the broken end of a board on the side, and then, without
the least difficulty or noise, sprang lightly to the roof of the
warehouse. With the aid of his companion, Christy drew up the box,
careful that it should not strike against the frame of the scuttle. The
door was closed, though of course they were unable to hook it on the
inside, as they had found it; but the guard were not likely to notice
that it was not fastened before morning.

"What next, Mr. Passford?" asked the master's mate, after they had
rested for a few minutes from their labors, though they had not been
very arduous.

"The next thing is to get down into the street, where we shall be as
safe as though we were as patriotic, over the left, as my Uncle Homer.
The burden of the work is done, but I hope we shall be able to kill two
birds with one stone," replied Christy, though his meaning was
mysterious to his companion.

"It don't seem to me that we are much better off than we were in the
loft," suggested the mate.

"I believe we are, though I don't think we had better indulge in any
long speeches just now. We have a favorable night, and we must make the
best of it. I don't intend to be seen in this town in the morning, but
we have the whole night before us."

"There will be a lively time looking for us to-morrow, for I don't think
they will be willing that you should get off, though it won't make much
difference to them about me."

"They would not be willing to part with you, my friend."

"But you made yourself rather noted in helping the Bellevite out last
May, and they will have a history of the loss of the Teaser in the
newspapers in due time, if they have not had it already; and they will
not like it a bit when they find that you have stepped out."

"They are welcome to their own reflections," replied the lieutenant.

"And they will send a searching party out to your uncle's estate at
Glenfield; but of course we shall not go near there," said Flint.

"That is just where I am going," replied Christy, decidedly, "for that
is where I expect to kill one of the birds with the stone I fire. But we
had better be moving, for we have a long tramp before us."

The midshipman led the way, and though the roof, which was nearly flat,
was wet with the falling rain, they walked, still in their stockinged
feet, to the farther end of the block. Neither of them wore his uniform,
as they remained as they had dressed for the duty they were to do on
board of the Teaser. This was a point in their favor in the course they
were to pursue, for their uniform would have betrayed them as soon as
they were seen.

Before they reached the end of the block of warehouses, they had found
and tried all the scuttles on the roof, but they had not discovered one
which had been left unfastened. At the last one this became a serious
question. The scuttle at the end warehouse was securely hooked on the
inside; but neither of the pair felt discouraged at this circumstance.
Looking about them they found a piece of joist about ten feet long,
which might have been left there when the building was finished. Christy
examined the scuttle with the greatest care, to determine on which side
the hooks were placed.

While he was doing this, Flint detached a couple of bricks from the
party-wall, which were used as a fulcrum for the lever, made of the
joist. The building was not inhabited, and there was little to be feared
at that height above the street from any noise they might make. Flint
sat down on the end of the lever, and the scuttle flew up at once, the
