"Might as well send a district messenger; he'd 
get there next week," said Fulkerson. " No, no ! 
It'll all keep till to-morrow, and be the better for 
it. If he 's got this fancy for March, as I say, he 
ain't agoing to change it in a single night. People 
don't change their fancies for March in a lifetime. 
Heigh ? " 

When Fulkerson turned up very early at the 
office next morning, as March did, he was less 
strenuous about Dryfoos's fancy for March. It was 
as if Miss Woodburn might have blown cold upon 
that theory, as something unjust to his own merit, 
for which she would naturally be more jealous than 
he. 

March told him, what he had forgotten to tell 
him the day before, though he had been trying, all 



  

through their excited talk, to get it in, that the 
Dryfooscs were going abroad. 

" Oh, ho ! " cried Fiilkorson. " That 's the milk in 
the cocoanut, is it ? Well, I thmight there must bo 
something." 

But this fact had not changed Mrs. March at all 
in her conviction that it vas Mr. Dryfoos's fancy 
for her husband which had moved him to make him 
this extraordinary offer, and she reminded him that 
it had first been made to him, without regard to 
Fulkerson. "And perhaps," she went on, "Mr. 
Dryfoos has been changed — softened; and doesn't 
find money all in all any more. He 's had enough 
to change him, poor old man ! " 

"Does anything from without change us?" her 
husband mused aloud. "We're brought up to 
think so by the novelists, who really have the 
charge of people's thinking, nowadays. But I 
doubt it, especially if the thing outside is some 
great CA-ent, something cataclysmal, like this tre- 
mendous sorrow of Dryfoos's." 

"Then what is it that changes usi " demanded his 
wife, almost angiy wilh him for his heresy. 

"Well, it won't do to say, the Holy Spirit in- 
dwelling. That would sound like cant at this day. 
But the old fellows that used to say that had some 
glimpses of the truth. They kncw that it is the 
still, small Aoicc that the soul heeds, not the 
deafening blasts of doom. I suppose I should have 
to say that avc didn't change at all. We dcA'clop. 
There 's the making of several characters in each of 



  

ns ; we are each several characters, and sometimes 
this character has the lead in us, and sometimes 
that. From what Fulkerson has told me of Dry- 
foos I should say he had always had the potentiality 
of better things in him than he has ever been yet ; 
and perhaps the time has come for the good to 
have its chance. The growth iu one direction has 
stopped ; it 's begun in another ; that 's all. The 
man hasn't been changed by his son's death; it 
stunned, it benumbed him ; but it couldn't change 
him. It was an event, like any other, and it had 
to happen as much as his being born. It was fore- 
cast from the beginning of time, and was as en- 
tirely an effect of his coming into the world " 

"Basil! Basil!" cried his wife. "This is fatal- 
ism ! " 

" Then you think," he said, "that a sparrow falls 
to the ground uithout the will of God ? " and he 
laughed provokingly. But he went on more soberly. 
"I don't know what it all means, Isabel, though I 
believe it means good. What did Christ himself 
say ? That if one rose from the dead it would not 
avail. And yet we are always looking for the mira- 
culous ! I believe that unhappy old man truly grieves 
for his son, whom he treated cruelly without the final 
intention of cruelty, for he loved him and wished to 
be proud of him ; but I don't think his death has 
changed him, any more than the smallest event iu 
the chain of events remotely working through his 
nature from the beginning. But why do you think 
he 's chansred at all ? Because he offers to sell me 



  

Ever II Other Week on easy terms ? He says himself 
that he has no further use for the thing ; and ho 
knows perfectly well that he couldn't get his money 
out of it now, -without an enormous shrinkage. He 
couldn't appear at this lute day as the owner, and 
sell it to anybody but Fulkerson and me for a fifth 
of what it's cost him. He can sell it to us for all 
it's cost him; and four per cent, is no bad interest 
on liis money till we can pay it back. It 's a good 
thing for us; but we have to ask whether Dryfoos 
has done us the good, or whether it's the blessing 
of Heaven. If it 's merely the blessing of Heaven, I 
don't propose being grateful for it." 

March laughed again, and his wife said, " It 's 
disirustintc." 

" It 's business," he assented. " Business is busi- 
ness ; but I don't say it isn't disgusting. Lindau 
had a low opinion of it." 

" I think that with all his faults Mr. Dryfoos is a 
better man than Lindau," she proclaimed. 

" Well, he 's certainly able to offer us a better 
thing in Every Other JFccl;" said !March. 

She knew he was enamoured of the literary finish 
of his cynicism, and that at heart he was as humbly 
and truly grateful as she was for the good fortune 
oj)eiiing to theui. 



XVII. 

Beaton was at Ins best when he parted for the 
last time with Alma Leighton, for he saw then that 
what had happened to him was the necessary conse- 
quence of what he had been, if not what he had 
done. Afterward he lost this clear vision ; he began 
to deny the fact ; he drew upon his knowledge of 
life, and in arguing himself into a different frame of 
mind he alleged the case of different people who had 
done and been much worse things than he, and yet 
no such disagreeable consequence had befallen them. 
Then he saw that it was all the work of blind chance, 
and he said to himself that it was this that made him 
desperate, and willing to call evil his good, and to 
take his own wherever he could find it. There was a 
great deal that was literary and factitious and tawdry 
in the mood in which he went to see Christine Dry- 
foos, the night when the Marches sat talking their 
prospects over ; and nothing that was decided in his 
purpose. He knew what the drift of his mind was, 
but he had always preferred to let chance determine 
his events, and now since chance had played him 
such an ill turn with Alma, he left it the whole re- 
sponsibility. Not in terms, but in effect, this was 


his thought as he walked on uptown to pay the first 
of the A'isits which Dryfoos had practically invited 
him to resume. He had an insolent satisfaction in 
having delayed it so long ; if he was going back he 
was going back on his own conditions, and these 
werc to be as hard and humiliating as he could make 
them. But this intention again was inchoate, float- 
ing, the stuff of an intention, rather than intention ; 
an expression of temjerament cliiefly. 

He had bci ti expected before that. Christine had 
got out of Mela that her father had been at Beaton's 
studio, and then she had gone at the old man and 
got from him every smallest fact of the interview 
there. She had flung back in liis teeth the good-will 
toward herself with which he had gone to Beaton. 
She was furious with shame and resentment; she 
told him he had made bad worsc, that he had made 
a fool of himself to no end ; she spared neither his 
age, nor his grief-broken spirit, in which his will 
could not rise against hers. She filled the house 
witli her rage, screaming it out upon him ; but whcn 
her fury was once spent, she began to have some 
hopes from what her father had done. She no 
longer kept her bed ; CA'cry eA'cning she dressed 
herself in the dress Beaton admired the most, and 
sat up till a certain hour to receive him. She had 
fixed a day in her own mind before which, if he 
came, she would forgive him all he had made her 
suffer : the mortification, the suspense, the despair. 
Beyond this, she had the purpose of making her 
father go to Europe ; she felt that she could no 



  

longer live in America, witli the double disgrace 
that had been put upon her. 

Beaton rang, and while the servant was coming 
the insolent caprice seized him to ask for the young 
ladies instead of the old man, as he had supposed 
of course he should do. The maid who answered 
the bell, in the place of the reluctant Irishman of 
other days, had all his hesitation in admitting that 
the young ladies were at home. 

He found Mela in the drawing-room. At sinht of 
him she looked scared ; but she seemed to be reas- 
sured by his calm. He asked if he was not to have 
the pleasure of seeing Miss Dryfoos too ; and Mela 
said she reckoned the girl had gone upstairs to tell 
her. Mela was in black, and Beaton noted how well 
the solid sable became her rich, red blond beauty ; 
he wondered what the effect would be with Christine. 

But she, when she appeared, was not in mourning. 
He fancied that she wore the lustrous black silk, 
with the breadths of white Venetian lace about the 
neck which he had praised, because he praised it. 
Her cheeks burned with a Jacqueminot crimson , 
what should be white in her face was chalky white. 
She carried a plumed ostrich fan, black and soft, 
and after giving him her hdnd, sat down and waved 
it to and fro slowly, as he remembered her doing 
the night they first met. She had no ideas, except 
such as related intimately to herself, and she had no 
gabble, like Mela ; and she let him talk. It was 
past the day when she had promised herself she 
would forgive him; but as he talked on she felt all 



  

her passion for him revived, and the conflict of desires, 
the desire to liate, the desire to love, made a dizzying 
 whirl in her brain. She looked at him, half doubting 
whcther he was really there or not. He had never 
looked so handsome, with his dreamy eyes floating 
under his heavy overhanging hair, and his pointed 
brown beard defined against his lustrous shirt-front. 
His mellowly modulated, mysterious voice lulled her; 
when Mela made an errand out of the room, and 
Eeaton crossed to her and sat down by her she 
shivered. 

" Arc you cold ? " he asked, and she felt the cruel 
mockery and exultant consciousness of power in his 
tone, as perhaps a wild thing feels captivity in the 
voice of its keeper. But now, she said she would 
still forgive him if he asked her. 

Mela came back, and the talk fell again to the 
former level ; but Beaton had not said anything 
that really meant what she wished, and she saw that 
he intended to say nothing. Her heart began to 
burn like a fire in her breast. 

"You been tellun' him about our goun' to 
Europe ? " Mela asked. 

"No," said Christine briefly, and looking at the 
fan spread out on her lap. 

Beaton asked when ; and then he rose, and said 
if it was so soon, he supposed he should not sec 
them again, unless he saw them in Paris ; he might 
very likely run over, during the summer. He said 
to himself that he had given it a fair trial with 
Christine, and he could not make it go. 



  

Christine rose, with a kind of gasp, and mechani- 
cally followed him to the door of the drawing-room ; 
Mela came too; and while he was putting on his 
overcoat, she gurgled and bubbled in good-humour 
with all the world. Christine stood looking at him, 
and thinking how handsomer still he was in his over- 
coat ; and that fire burned fiercer in her. She felt 
him more than life to her and knew him lost, and 
the frenzy that makes a woman kill the man she 
loves, or fling vitriol to destroy the beauty she can- 
not have for all hers, possessed her lawless soul. 
He gave his hand to Mela, and said, in his wind- 
harp stop, " Good-bye." 

As he put out his hand to Christine, she pushed 
it aside with a scream of rage ; she flashed at him, 
and with both hands made a feline pass at the face 
he bent toward her. He sprang back, and after an 
instant of stupefaction he pulled open the door be- 
hind him, and ran out into the street. 

"Well, Christine Dryfoos ! " said Mela. " Spag 
at him like a wild-cat ! " 

"I don't care," Christine shrieked. "I'll tear his 
eyes out ! " She flew upstairs to her own room, and 
left the burden of the explanation to Mela, who did 
it justice. 

Beaton found himself, he did not know how, in 
his studio, reeking with perspiration and breathless. 
He must almost have run. He struck a match with 
a shaking hand, and looked at his face in the glass. 
He expected to see the bleeding marks of her nails 
on his cheeks, but he could see nothinsr. He 



  

grovelled inwardly ; it was all so low and coarse and 
vulgar ; it was all so just and apt to liis deserts. 

There was a pistol among the dusty bric-a-brac on 
the mantel which he had kept loaded to fire at a cat 
in the area. He took it and sat looking into the 
muzzle, wishing it might go off by accident and kill 
him. It slipped through his hand and struck the 
floor, and there was a report ; he sprang into the 
air, feeling that he had been shot. But he found 
himself still alive, with only a burning line along his 
cheek, such as one of Christine's finger-nails might 
have left. 

He laughed with cynical recognition of the fact 
that he had got his punishment in the right way, and 
that his case was not to be dignified into tragedy. 



XVIII. 

The Marches, with Fulkerson, went to see the 
Dryfooses off on the French steamer. There was 
no longer any business obligation on them to be 
civil, and there was greater kindness for that reason 
in the attention they offered. Hvery Other Week had 
bern made over to the joint ownership of March 
and Fulkerson, and the details arranged with a 
hardness on Dryfoos's side which certainly left Mrs. 
March with a sense of his incomplete regeneration. 
Yet when she saw him there on the steamer, she 
pitied him ; he looked wearied and bewildered ; 
oven his wife, with her twitching head, and her 
prophecies of evil, croaked hoarsely out, while she 
clung to Mrs. March's hand where they sat together 
till the leave-takers were ordered ashore, was less 
pathetic. Mela was looking after both of them, and 
trying to cheer them, in a joyful excitement. " I 
tell 'em it's goun' to add ten years to both their 
lives," she said. " The voyage 'll do their healths 
good ; and then, we 're gittun' away from that 
miser'ble pack o' servants that was eatun' us up, 
there in New York. I hate the place ! " she said, 
as if they had already left it. " Yes, Mrs. Mandel 's 




gouu', too," she added, following the direction of 
Mrs. March's eyes where they noted Mrs. Mandcl 
speaking to Christine on the other side of the cabin. 
'• Her and Christine liad a kind of a spat, and she 
was goun' to leave, but here only the other day, 
Christine offered to make it up with her, and now 
they're as thick as thieves. Well, I reckon we 
couldn't very well 'a' got along without lier. She 's 
about the only one that speaks French in this family." 

Mrs. March's eyes still dwelt upon Christine's 
face ; it was full of a furtive wildness. She seemed 
to be keeping a watch to prevent herself from look- 
ing as if she were looking for some one. " Do you 
know," !Mrs, March said to her husband as thoy 
jingled along homeward in the Christopher Street 
bob-tail car, " I thought she was in love with that de- 
testable Mr. Beaton of yours at one time ; and that 
he was amusing himself with her." 

" I can bear a good deal, Isabel," said March, " but 
I wish you wouldn't attribute Beaton to me. lie's 
the invention of that Mr. Fulkerson of yours." 

" "Well, at any rate, I hope, now, you 'll both get 
rid of him, in the reforms you 're going to carry out." 

These reforms were for a greater economy in the 
management of Every Other IFeeh ; but in their very 
nature they could not include the suppression of 
Beaton. Ho had always shown himself capable 
