(I do not say as intelligently), and it may be 
done as honorably, as to question the good- 
nature of the Czar, or the poetic rank of Mil- 
ton, or the disposition of any other being superior 
to the questioner. 
God is an unknown force. He is expressed 
to us through facts. It is our right to interpret 
the nature of that force through these 
facts. It is our duty to exercise this right in 
a manner worthy of a right so solemn, of facts 
so grave, of a force so vast. 
Human impressions are of a singularly limited 
reliability, but if there is one which can 
be said to be trustworthy, it is that people 
know when they suffer. In the infinitely 
complicated system of pain and pleasure that gov- 
erns this world we find, I premise, the 
emphatic predominance of pain. Did we not re- 
member that there have been great teachers 
who deny (as there are those who admit) this, 
and that they have found important and noble 
disciples, we might presume that none but a 
shallow or selfish nature could fail to be aware 
of this predominance. 
There are two ways of viewing such a system. 
It is natural to be chiefly struck with 
the sadness of it. It is possible to be chiefly 
moved by the error in it. It is thought by 
many people — the world contains no better — 
that the latter is the natural, as it should be 
the habitual, avenue by which an upright intelligence 
ought to approach the facts of life. 
This I doubt. It seems to me rather that 
it is mainly by its perception of pain that a 
limited or created nature can constitute itself 
the appraiser of blame ; and that precisely in 
proportion to the purity of a soul must the 
misery of a sight appeal in advance of the 
guilt of it. " I want," said the villain, in a 
thoughtful story, to the unsuccessful clergyman, 
who was opening his Testament upon 
him, — "I want to talk with a man whose 
first impulses are always warm towards the 
worst of men. Your best thoughts seem to 
be your second thoughts." "Do you know 
what keeps the gin palaces open ? " cried the 
pure and consecrated Robertson. " Misery ! 
The miserable go there to forget." 
I should wish, however, to add that I believe 
so thoroughly in the reality of what we call 
sin, that I shall have nothing to say of it here 
as a disconnected fact in the human economy, 
but, in speaking of the miseries of life, shall 
class it, first and finally, as the greatest human 
misery that we know anything about. 
There will be readers of an essay like this to 
whom it will seem that the uncandidness of 
unnecessary gloom pervades it, and that the 
distresses of life, upon which it is always
possible to look from at least two sides, are
presented with unfair emphasis. Be it said, once 
for all, that the writer is not unaware of the 
absence from this discussion of certain genial 
aspects of the world's mystery, nor of the 
sliohtness with which others are brought forward. 
It is my intention, at this time, to leave 
the task of urging these aspects to other 
hands. We are perhaps all of us more familiar 
with their force than with that of argument 
wrested from the reluctance of fate. Let it be 
ours, just now, to see what can be said for human 
life upon its darkest side. Let us look, 
for once, at the divine, as we often do at the 
human problem, and, taking things at their 
worst, see what our chances are. We do this, 
in the one case, for good cheer's sake. For 
good cheer's sake I ask to be trusted in saying
we may do it in the other, too. 
Further, I urge, especially, that we owe it to 
our faith to make it less easy than it is for 
shrewd atheists to say, " Those who believe in 
a God of love must close their eyes to the phenomena
of life, or garble the universe to suit 
their theory" 
It not being our object to furnish a full 
index, or even a concordance, to the miseries 
of mankind, I have selected only three avenues, 
from which, with merciful brevity, to 
approach our problem. 
Let us review for a moment our impressions 
of the Creator, as received through the mani- 
festations of natural law. 
Nature is orderly, wise, beautiful, mysterious, 
terrible, remorseless, cruel. Surrender 
yourself to her awful moods. Test her at her 
tenderest. Try her at her strongest. Shall 
we bask in her midsummer sun ? It is a fire 
from which we must guard ourselves as if 
from the very glory of an offended God. 
Would we have the iron of her snows in our 
blood ? It is at our peril that they do not 
pierce our hearts. If the eternal resurrection 
of her spring does not pour freshets on our 
homes and mildew on our seeds, we kneel to 
thank her. If the red flags of her autumn 
wave no signals of disease or death about our 
firesides, we draw our held breath for another 
cycle of her seasons, and trust her still. She 
bestows the harvest at the chances of the 
famine. She gives her shine on condition of 
her storm. She blazons with beauty the heavens 
in which the bolt lurks to strike us down. 
She stimulates our courage by her seas. She 
forms our fortitude by her deserts. She creates 
our nations by her mountains. The ava- 
lanche, the shipwreck, and the sirocco are the 
cost. Behind every blessing she hides its 
penalty. Beneath every faculty of mind and 
body she secures its denial. Every bestowal 
is a danger. Acceptance measures bereave- 
ment. Possession is the gauge of loss. 
" Life," says a " scientific " historian, " is 
one long tragedy ; creation is one great 
crime." 
The holder of happier faiths must at least 
confess that the mass of evidence, in the great 
trial of Nature before the bar of man, is vo- 
luminous and stern. Forever the temperament 
will select for itself, and certain points in the 
case will intensify the prcejudicia with which 
each of us comes to the hearing. There are 
some minds for which the gentlest caprice of 
the accused can never blot the memory of 
sternly isolated facts in her history. There 
are nicely poised perceptions to which the 
dark corners of her past are always unveiled. 
There are tenderly balanced sympathies for 
which no personal immunity from infliction 
can muffle the wail of recorded anguish. It is 
probably through a small, finely varied, and 
strictly characteristic collection of illustrations 
that each of us practically views a subject like 
this. Is Nature merciful ? It may be natural 
for you to give the historic answer, — to turn 
to ages when the world existed only for the 
propagation of monstrous animal growths, 
that breed, attack, rend each other, die, and 
give place to the next phase of apparently 
purposeless suffering. You recall primitive 
man, who dwelt in caves, like cubs ; who was 
without intelligible speech or human sympathy, 
or the decency of any wild beast known 
to the observation of science. Or you think 
of the highly develoj)ed savage, whose language 
resembled the hissing of serpents ; or of 
him, still ascending in the type, who fed upon 
the quivering flesh of live elephants, cultivated 
what is known as tribal marriage, and buried 
his dead with awful laughter ; or of him whose 
war-phrase, being interpreted, signifies, " Let 
us go and eat that nation." Or you point to 
cities that confide in a crater, and in an hour 
are seething into lava, like the inorganic rock ; 
or to those waste places where famine has 
preceded the traveler, and where the starved 
corpses of entirely vanished communities offer 
him their gaunt hospitality. 
Is Nature merciful ? It may be that your 
impulse gives the poetic answer. You turn 
the query over to the tiger in the jungles, the 
death within the fruit, the venom in the 
thicket, the poison in the flower, the wreck 
beneath the sea, the plague upon the air. To 
many readers and lovers of Frederick Robertson 
his awful illustration of the ichneumon fly 
will stand apart in their minds, and reply for 
them with the convincing vividness by which 
single images fasten themselves upon a sen- 
sitive absorption of truth too painful to be 
endured in full. 
The celebrated arraignment of the " great 
mother " by Stuart Mill will be well remembered : — 
" Nature impales men, breaks them as if on 
the wheel, casts them to be devoured by wild 
beasts, burns them to death, crushes them with 
stones like the first Christian martyrs, starves 
them with hunger, freezes them with cold, poisons 
them by the quick or slow venom of her 
exhalations, and has hundreds of other hideous 
deaths in reserve, such as the ingenious cruelty 
of a Nabis or a Domitian never surpassed. 
All this Nature does with the most supercilious 
disregard both of mercy and of justice, emptying 
her shafts upon the best and noblest in- 
differently with the meanest and the worst ; 
. . . often as the direct consequences of the 
noblest acts, and it might almost be imagined 
as a punishment for them." 
Is Nature merciful? It may be easy for 
you to proffer the judicial reply. You re- 
member her immense and kindly recuperative 
force : that the grass grows over her extinct 
volcano, that the harvest follows the furrow or 
the freshet, that the agitation of her oceans 
creates her temperature, that gorgeous beauty 
crowns the terrors of her tropics, that the 
snow protects the seed, that time restores the 
ruin of her cyclones, that flowers seek her 
graves, that death itself preserves her from 
the asphyxia of her superfluous life. You 
recall the exquisite system of development by 
which she is manifested to human knowledge ; 
you observe that ages of animal pleasure and 
pain went to the preparation of the globe for 
the habitation of rudimentary races, that in 
their turn peopled the earth and perished from 
it to make way for men who could master it, 
who also yielded to others who had the mas- 
tery of them, who have themselves vanished 
before our blossoming civilization, as ours 
shall vanish before the symmetry of the future 
form. You have been taught by faith, as you 
are taught over again to-day by science, that 
the world is steadily becoming a better place 
to live in ; that the sum of its happiness 
absolutely increases ; and that the " sacrifice 
consumed," the cost at which the glory of the 
future shall be reached, has been what we are 
accustomed to call " worth while." 
Nevertheless, is Nature merciful ? Let us 
be just to her; but for myself, whenever I 
hear those three words, three things present 
themselves to my imagination, — the pant of 
a hunted hare, the look in the eye of a lost 
dog, and the heart of a woman towards a man 
who would betray her. 
Is Nature merciful ? The intellect of a 
child can accuse her. Goethe at an infant 
age did as much. The subtlety of a seer cannot 
defend her. Wordsworth would have 
done it, if any man could. The abj-ss of her 
harshness is deeper than Eydal Lake. 
Take, again, — it is not an abrupt transition,
— our views o£ the Great Designer as 
affected by the relation of the sexes. This is 
a subject upon which words must be few, but 
impressions deep. It is a commonplace to 
say that nothing contributes so far to either 
the happiness or the misery of the race as this 
sole incident in its development. 
From the Abyssinian bride sold by her husband 
for a weapon, an ornament, a dinner, to 
the last victim of a mariage de convenance 
in civilized life, what a sealed and awful 
book ! From the heart of Dante, of Abelard, 
of Vittoria Colonna, to the blush of the little 
lass betrothed in a country lane last week, 
what a range of capacity for what is called 
joy ! I scarcely hesitate before saying that 
the attraction between man and woman cannot 
be presumed to have added to the delight, in 
proportion as it has intensified the denial, of 
existence. We may be quite willing to in- 
trust this assertion to the happiest lover in the 
world, provided his happiness be of that sensitive
sort which does not shut out the apprehension 
of other people's deprivation. Since, 
were he not the most sensitive, he could not 
be the happiest ; and were he the most sensitive,
he would be the most sympathetic. It 
would be almost enough, in this connection, to 
suggest the inherent vagrancy of the affectional 
instinct in man, and the historic con- 
stancy of woman. What ingenuity could 
surpass that involved in this one exquisite 
invention of actual or possible anguish ? 
It would be almost enough to take one 
absolute look at the heart of an honorable man 
who, in an hour of beautiful delusion, has 
wedded an insincere woman. 
It would be almost enough to shut the eyes 
before the conflicts of a pure heart, to which 
the supreme attraction occurs, when every law 
of God or man has welded it to the claim of 
the less. 
It would be almost enough to look into the 
face of a drunkard's wife. 
It would be more than enough to hear the 
cry of the deserted girl, who leaped to a death 
more merciful at its worst than life at its best 
to her. 
It would be unjust not to recall the heavy 
pressure of happiness against the scale of the 
question, involved in pure betrothals, bridal 
hours, assured domestic content, the experience
of tried and calm affections, the bliss of 
young parents, the rejuvenation of age in its 
offspring, and the repose of those for whom 
the prayer of Tobit has been answered : 
" Mercifully grant that we may grow aged together." 
But it would be illogical not to observe the 
intricate insecurity of the happiest hour that 
history could be shown to have given to the 
most fortunate affections of the race. It would 
be almost enough to watch the countenance of 
the radiant young mother, who, her children 
leaning about her, at her fireside, hears 
suddenly grating upon their laughter the 
discordant sound of a croupy cough. 
It would be almost enough to stand with 
the father of motherless babes by the first 
gash life has ever cut in the churchyard turf 
for him. 
It would be almost enough to avert the face 
from a meeting between pure parents and a 
ruined son. 
It would be almost enough to remember the 
mystery of womanhood, so " heavily weighted, 
in the race of life," as a great scientist of our 
day expresses it, by maternity. 
It would be almost enough to follow the red 
feet of war to the obscure life of one widowed 
girl. 
It would be enough to watch the process of 
descent by which a betrothal ever reaches a 
divorce. 
Look once more at our impressions of their 
First Cause as received from the sufferings 
of the lower classes of society. These are 
" facts " before which the wisest, the tenderest, 
the healthiest, the most joyous, and the 
most devout among us may well wish for the 
wings of the seraphim in the sacred story ; of 
whom it is said that " with twain they covered 
their faces, and with twain they covered their 
feet, and with twain they did fly." 
A miniature bast of Michael Angelo's Slave 
stands as a paper-weight upon the MS. which 
this pen is tracing. The pose of the muti- 
lated head, the droop of the swollen eyelids, 
the quiver of the pitiful mouth, the protest of 
the thoughtful brow, present themselves, so 
many mute arguments, appealing to be used. 
The bit of plaster is an unanswered accusation. 
It bewails the mystery of human cap- 
tivity, of which the enslaving of man by man 
was the rudest form, as the ministration of one 
portion of the race to-day to the leisure of the 
other is the most lenient. From the first captive 
mother condemned to murder her own 
child, to the last poor wretch who sold her soul 
to buy bread for her family ; from the slave at 
the galley-oar, in the seraglio, under the lash, 
facing the blood-hound, on the auction-block ; 
to the factory-girl with the " cotton-cough," 
the miner in the fire - damp, the poisoned 
" hand " in the lead-works, or the child of 
four years rolling cigars for a passionate or 
drunken overseer, — there is a range of sheer 
human fear, which it is not easy to contemplate 
either with or without an explanation 
of its existence. 
From the filthy shiverers who shared the 
straw of the feudal hovel with their donkey or 
their goat, to the Irish laborer evicted at mid- 
winter from the home of his life-time ; from 
the temperate and diligent American family 
found to have lived for three months on bread 
and water, to the all too real " little Joe " of 
Dickens, or the " abused child " in any of 
our Christian cities, habituated to sufferings 
which it would blot this page to repeat ; from 
the poor woman who told Octavia Hill that 
she chose her deadly cellar because " it lay 
between ninepence and the sun " to the six 
hundred and twenty-three descendants of an 
ignorant girl, now famous and infamous to 
social science as u Pauper Margaret ; " from 
the great causes of the English corn-law resistance, 
or the Reign of Terror, to the Nihilist 
passion fermenting beneath the Winter Palace, 
or the New York tenement house (sinister 
forerunner of revolution !), where four fam- 
ilies occupy one room, and wherein, by math- 
ematical estimate, there belongs to each living 
being under the roof a space on the floor's surface 
measuring eight feet by four, — there is 
a margin for simple human endurance, upon 
which it is not agreeable, either with or 
without its obverse relief, to dwell. 
On this obverse, it were uncandid not to 
remember, are pale and pleasant compensations 
to benignant thought. Beyond a certain point, 
deprivation unquestionably dulls susceptibility, 
denial teaches endurance, obscurity preserves 
from responsibility, the transient pleasure is more emphatic, the finer foreboding 
perhaps less acute, aspiration cools into 
acceptance, and ignorance stratifies into repose. 
It is not a grateful task to remind people 
how unfortunate they are. One who seems 
