' You asked me if I were sure that I really loved you,' said 
Hilda very gravely. 'You must be mad, but those were your 
words.' 
' Hear me, sweetheart ! I only asked because you see, you are 
so different from other women ! How can I explain ! ' 
' So you have had experience of others ! ' She spoke coldly and 
her voice had an incisive ring in it that wounded him as a knife. 
He was too inexperienced to know what to do, and he instinctively 
assumed that look of injured superiority which it is the peculiar 
privilege of women to wear in such cases, and which, in a man, 
exasperates them beyond measure. 
' My dear,' said Greif, ' you have quite misunderstood me. I 
will explain the situation.' 
' It is necessary,' answered Hilda, looking at the trees. 
' In the first place, you must remember what we were saying, 
or rather what you were saying a little while ago. You wanted 
an explanation of the nature of love. Now that made me think 
that you had never felt what I feel 
' I have not had your experience,' observed Hilda. 
' But I have not had any experience either ! ' exclaimed Greif, 
suddenly breaking down in his dissertation. 
'Then how do you know that I am so different from other 
women ? ' was the inexorable retort. 
' I have seen other women, and talked with them 
'About love?' 
'No about the weather,' answered Greif, annoyed at her 
persistence. 
' And were their views about the weather so very different from 
mine ? ' inquired the young girl, pushing him to the end of the 
situation. 
' Perhaps.' 
' You do not seem sure. I wish you would explain yourself, as 
you promised to do ! ' 
' Then you must not interrupt me at every word.' 
' Was I interrupting ? I thought my questions might help you. 
Go on.' 
' I only mean to say that I never heard of a woman who 
wanted an explanation of her feelings when she was in love. And 
then I wondered whether your love was like mine, and as I am 
very sure, I supposed that if you felt differently you could not be 
so sure as I. That is all. Why are you so angry ? ' 
'You know very well why I am angry. That is only an 
excuse.' 
' If you are going to argue in that way -' Greif shrugged his 
shoulders and said nothing more. Hilda seemed to be collecting 
her thoughts. 
' You evidently doubt me/ she said at last, speaking quietly. 
' It is the first time. You have tried to defend your question, and 
you have not succeeded. All that you can tell me is that I am 
different from other women with whom you have talked. I know 
that as well as you do, though I have never seen them. It is 
quite possible that the difference may come from my education, or 
want of education. In that case, if you are going to be ashamed 
of me, when I am your wife, because I know less than the girls 
you have seen in towns and such places why then, go away and 
marry one of them. She will feel as you expect her to feel, and 
you will be satisfied.' 
' Hilda ! ' 
'I mean- what I say. But there may be something else. The 
difference may be there because I have not learned the same out- 
ward manners as the city people, because I do not laugh when 
they would laugh, cry when they would cry, act as they would 
act. I do not know half the things they like, or do, or say, 
but from what I have read I fancy that they are not at all simple, 
nor straightforward in their likings and dislikes, nor in their speech 
either. I do not even know whether I look like them, nor whether if 
I went to their places they would not take me for some strange 
wild animal. I make my own clothes. I have heard that they 
spend for one bit of dress as much as my mother and I spend in a 
whole year upon everything. I suppose they do, for your mother 
must wear what people wear in towns, and her things must cost a 
great deal. I think I should feel uncomfortable in them, but if 
we are married I will wear what you please 
' How can you say such things ' 
' I am only going over the points in which I am different from 
other women. That is one of them. Then I believe they learn 
all sorts of tricks they can play on the piano I have never seen 
one, for it is the only thing you have not got at Greifenstein, 
they draw and paint, they talk in more than one language, whereas 
I only know what little French my mother could teach me, they 
sing from written music for that matter, I can sing without, 
which I suppose ought to be harder. But they can do all those 
little things, which I suppose amuse you, and of which I cannot 
do one. Perhaps those accomplishments, or tricks, change them 
 
so that they feel more than I do. ' But I do not believe it. If I 
had the chance of learning them I would do it, to please you. It 
would not make me love you any more. I believe that we, who 
think of few people because we know few, think of them more and 
more lovingly. But if I took trouble to please you, it would show 
you how much I love you. Perhaps perhaps that is what you 
really want, that I should say more, act more, make a greater 
show. Is that it, after a!U' 
Her mood had changed while she was speaking, perhaps by 
the enumeration of her points of inferiority. She turned her 
bright eyes towards Greif with a look of curiosity, as though 
wondering whether she had hit the mark, as indeed she had, by a 
pure accident. 
' It cannot be that I cannot be such a fool !' Greif exclaimed 
with all the resentment of a man who has been found out in his 
selfishness. 
' I should not think any the worse of you,' said Hilda. ' It is 
I who have been foolish not to guess it before. How should you 
understand that I love you, merely because I say good morning 
and kiss you, and good evening and kiss you, and talk about the 
weather and your mother's ribbands ! There must be something 
more. And yet I feel that if you married some one else, I should 
be very unhappy and should perhaps die. Why not ? There would 
not be anything to live for. Why can I not find some way of 
letting you know how I love you ? There must be ways of showing 
it but I have thought of everything I can do for you, and it is 
so little, for you have everything. Only Greif, you must not 
doubt that I love you because I have no way of showing it or if 
you do 
' Forgive me, Hilda I never doubted 
' Oh, but you did, you did,' answered Hilda with great emphasis, 
and in a tone which showed how deeply the words had wounded 
her. ' It is natural, I suppose, and then, is it not better that I 
should know it ? It is of no use to hide such things. I should have 
felt it, if you had not told me.' 
It was not in Hilda's nature to shed tears easily, for she had 
been exposed to so few emotions in her life that she had never 
acquired the habit of weeping. But there was something in her 
expression that moved Greif more than a fit of sobbing could have 
done. There was an evident strength in her resentment, even 
though it showed itself in temperate words, which indicated a 
greater solidity of character than the young man had given her 
credit for. He had not realised that a love developed by natural 
and slow degrees, without a shadow of opposition, could be deeper 
and more enduring than the spasmodic passion that springs up 
amidst the unstable surroundings of the world, ill nourished by an 
uncertain alternation of hope and fear, and prone to consume itself 
in the heat of its own expression. The one is about as different 
from the other as the slowly moving glacier of the Alps is from 
the gaudily decorated and artificially frozen concoction of the ice- 
cream vendor. 
'I am very sorry I said it,' returned Greif penitently, He 
took her passive hand in his, hoping to make the peace as quickly 
as he had broken it, but she did not return the pressure of his 
fingers. 
' So am I,' she answered thoughtfully. ' I was angry at first. 
I do not think I am angry any more, but I cannot forget it, 
because, in some way or other, it must be my fault. Forgive you 
There is nothing to forgive, dear. Why should one not speak out 
what is in one's heart ? It would be a sort of lie, if one did not. 
I would tell you at once, if I thought you did not love me ' 
Greif smiled. 
' Ah Hilda ! Since we have been sitting here, you have told 
me you thought I might change do you not remember ? Was 
what I said so much worse than that ? ' 
' Of course it was,' she answered. ' Ever so much worse.' 
Thereupon Greif meditated for some moments upon the nature 
of woman, and to tell the truth he was not so far advanced as to 
have no need for such study. Finding no suitable answer to what 
she had said, he could think of nothing better than to press her 
hand gently and stroke her long straight fingers. Presently, the 
pressure was returned and Greif congratulated himself, with some 
reason, upon having discovered the only plausible argument within 
his reach. But his wisdom did not go so far as to keep him 
silent. 
' I think I understand you better than I did,' he said. 
Hilda did not withdraw her hand, but it became again quite 
passive in his, and she once more seemed deeply interested in the 
trees. 
'Do youT she asked indifferently after a pause. 
' Perhaps I should rather say myself,' said Greif, finding that 
he had made a mistake. ' And that is quite another matter.' 
'Yes it is. Which do you mean V Hilda laughed a little. 
'Whichever you like best,' answered Greif, who was at his 
wit's end. 
'Whichever I like,' she looked at him long, and then her face 
 
softened wonderfully. 'Let it be neither, dear,' she said. ' Let 
us not try to understand, but only love, love, love for ever ! Love 
is so much better than any discussion about it, so much sweeter 
than anything that you or I can say in its favour, so much more 
real and lasting than the meanings of words. If you could describe 
it, it would be like anything else, and if you tried, and could not, 
you might think there was no such thing at all, and that would 
not be true.' 
' You talk better than I do, sweetheart. Where did you learn 
to say such things?' 
' I never learned, but I think sometimes that the heart talks 
better than the head, because the heart feels what it is talking 
about, and the head only thinks it feels. Do you see? You 
have learnt so much, that your head will not let your heart 
speak in plain German.' 
Greif smiled at the phrase, which indeed contained a vast 
amount of truth. 
'If you could make the professors of philosophy understand 
that,' he answered, ' you would simplify my education very much.' 
' I do not know what philosophy is, dear, but if there were a 
professor here, I would try and persuade him, if it would do you 
any good. I know I am right.' 
' Of course you are. You always will be you represent what 
Plato hankered after and never found.' 
'What was that?' 
' Oh ! nothing only perfection,' laughed Greif. 
' Nonsense ! If I am perfection, what must you be ? Plato 
himself? I do not know much about him, but I have read that 
he was a good man. Perhaps you are like him.' 
' The resemblance cannot be very striking, for no one has 
noticed it, not even the professors themselves, who ought to know.' 
'Must you go back to Schwarzburg?' Hilda asked, suddenly 
growing serious. 
' Yes, but it is the last time. It will not seem long there is 
so much to be done.' 
' No. It will not seem long,' answered Hilda, thinking of all 
that she and her mother must do before the wedding. ' But the 
long times are not always the sad times,' she added sorrowfully. 
' I shall be here for Christmas,' said Greif. ' And in the new 
year we will be married, and then we must think of what we will 
do.' 
'We will live at Sigmundskron, as you said, shall we not?' 
' Yes. But before that we will go away for a while,' 
 
' Away ? Why ? ' 
' People always do when they are married. We will go to 
Italy, if you like, or anywhere else.' 
' But why must we go away ? ' asked Hilda anxiously. ' Do 
you think we shall not be as happy here as anywhere else ? Oh, 
I could not live out of the dear forest ! ' 
'But, sweetheart, you have never seen a town, nor anything 
of the world. Would you not care to know what it is all like 
beyond the trees '? ' 
' By and by yes, I would like to see it all. But I would like 
poor old Sigmundskron to see how happy we shall be. I think 
the grey towers will almost seem to laugh on that day, and the 
big firs they saw my great-grandfather's wedding, Greif! I 
would rather stay in the old place, for a little while. And, after 
all, you have travelled so much, that you can tell me about Italy 
by the fire in the long evenings, and I shall enjoy it quite as 
much because you will be always with me.' 
'Thank you, darling,' said Greif tenderly, as he drew her 
cheek to his, and he said no more about the wedding trip on that 
afternoon. 
The shadows were beginning to lengthen and the cool breeze 
was beginning to float down the valley, towards the heated plain 
far away, when Hilda and Greif rose from their seat under the 
shadow of the Hunger-Thurm, and strolled slowly along the broad 
road that led into the forest beyond. Whatever feeling of unpleasantness had been roused by Greif's unlucky speech, had 
entirely disappeared, but the discussion had left its impress far 
in the depths of Hilda's heart. It had never occurred to her in 
her whole life before that any one, and especially Greif, could 
doubt the reality or the strength of her love. What had now 
passed between them had left her with a new aspiration of which 
she had not hitherto been conscious. She felt that hereafter she 
must find some means of making Greif understand her. When 
he had said that he understood her better, she had very nearly 
been offended again, for she saw how very far he was from knowing 
what was in her heart. She longed, as many have longed before, 
for some opportunity of sacrifice, of heroic devotion, which might 
show him in one moment the whole depth and breadth and loyalty 
of her love. 
CHAPTER IV 
WHILE Hilda and Greif were talking together the three older 
members cf the family party had established themselves in a 
shady arbour of the garden, close to the low parapet, whence one 
could look down the sheer precipice to the leaping stream and 
watch the dark swallows shooting through the shadow and the 
sunshine, or the yellow butterflies and moths fluttering from one 
resting-place to another, drawn irresistibly to the gleaming water, 
out of which their wet wings would never bear them up again to 
the flower-garden of the castle above. 
Frau von Greifenstein had seated herself in a straw chair with 
her parasol, her fan and her lap-dog, a little toy terrier which was 
always suffering from some new and unheard-of nervous complaint, 
and on which the sensitive lady lavished all the care she could 
spare from herself. The miserable little creature shivered all 
summer, and lay during most of the winter half paralysed with 
cold in a wadded basket before the fire. It snapped with pettish 
impotence at every one who approached it, including its mistress, 
and the house was frequently convulsed because there was too 
much salt in its soup or too little sugar in its tea. Greifenstein's 
pointers generally regarded it with silent scorn, but occasionally, 
when it was being petted with more than usual fondness, they 
would sit up before it, thrust out their long tongues and shake 
their intelligent heads, with a grin that reached to their ears, and 
which was not unlike the derisively laughing grimace of a street- 
boy. Greifenstein never took any notice of the little animal, but 
on the other hand he was exceedingly careful not to disturb it. 
He probably considered it as a sort of familiar spirit attached 
to his wife's being. Had he been an ancient Egyptian instead 
of a modern German, he would doubtless have performed a 
weekly sacrifice to it, with the same stiff but ready outward 
courtesy, and prompted by the same inward adherence to the 
principles of household peace, which so pre-eminently characterised 
him. 
The Lady of Sigmundskron had neither parasol, nor lap-dog, 
nor fan. Her plain grey dress, made almost as simply as a nun's, 
contrasted oddly with the profusion of expensive bad taste dis- 
played in her hostess's attire, as her serious white face and quiet 
noble eyes were strangely unlike Frau von Greifenstein's simpering, 
nervous countenance. The latter lady would certainly have been 
taken at first sight for the younger of the two, though she was in 
reality considerably older, but a closer examination showed an 
infinite number of minute lines, about the eyes, about the mouth, 
and even on her cheeks, not to mention that tell-tale wrinkle, the 
sign manual of advancing years, which begins just in front of 
the lobe of the ear and cuts its way downwards and backwards, 
round the angle of the jaw. There was a disquieting air of 
improbability, too, about some of the colouring in her face, though 
it was far from apparent that she was painted. Her hair, at all 
events, was her own and was not dyed. And yet, though she 
possessed an abundance of it, such as many a girl might have 
envied, it remained utterly uninteresting and commonplace, for its 
faded straw-like colour was not attractive to the eye, and it grew 
so awkwardly and so straight as to put its possessor to much 
trouble in the arrangement of the youthful ringlets she thought 
so becoming to her style. These, however, she never relinquished 
under any circumstances whatever. Nevertheless, at a certain 
distance and in a favourable light, the whole effect was youngish, 
though one could not call it youthful, the more so as Frau von 
Sigmundskron who sat beside her was, at little over forty, usually 
taken for an old lady. 
For some moments after they had all sat down, no one spoke. 
Then G-reifenstein suddenly straightened himself, as though an 
idea had occurred to him, and bending stiffly forward in his seat, 
addressed his cousin. 
' It gives us the greatest pleasure to see you once more in our 
circle,' he said emphatically. 
Frau von Sigmundskron looked up from her fine needlework, 
and gracefully inclined her head. 
' You are very kind,' she answered. ' You know how happy 
we are to be with you.' 
'Ah, it is too, too delightful!' cried Frau von Greifenstein, 
with sudden enthusiasm, covering the toy terrier with her hand at 
the same time, as though anticipating some nervous movement on 
his part at the sound of her voice. The dog stirred uneasily and 
 
uttered a feeble little growl, turned round on her lap, bit his tail, 
and then settled himself to rest again. The lady watched all 
these movements with anxious interest, smoothing the folds of her 
dress at the spot on which the beast was about to lay his head. 
'Ah! my beloved, my treasure!' she murmured in a strident 
whisper. ' Did I wake you ! Dear, dear Pretzel ! Do go to 
sleep ! I call him Pretzel,' she added, looking up with a wild 
smile, ' because when he is curled up, with his little legs together, 
on his side, he is just the shape of those little twisted rolls my 
husband likes with his beer. It is a vulgar name, yes but this 
is a vulgar age, dear cousin, you know, and we must not be behind 
our times !' 
'Is it V asked Frau von Sigmundskron without taking her eyes 
from her work. 
' Oh, dreadfully so ! Is it not, Hugo ? I am sure I have heard 
you say so. 
'Without doubt, the times are changed,' replied Greifenstein. 
' But I suppose that what is modern will always seem vulgar to 
old-fashioned people.' 
'Ah, you do not call me old-fashioned, dear husband? Do 
you ? Eeally, if I am old-fashioned, the times must have advanced 
very, very quickly ! Eh ? Dearest cousin, he calls us old-fashioned ! 
You and me ! Aber nein ! How is it possible ! ' 
A fit of spasmodic, unnatural laughter shook her from the tip 
of her lace parasol to the toes of her small slippers, causing such 
a convulsion in the lap-dog's mind that he sat up on her knees 
and joined his cries with hers, until he had succeeded in attracting 
her attention, when he was instantly caressed and kissed and 
petted, with expressions of the greatest anxiety for his comfort. 
In about thirty seconds, however, the noises suddenly ceased, 
Pretzel went to sleep again and his mistress sat looking at the 
swallows and the flitting butterflies, her weary features expressing 
nothing that could be connected with mirth, any more than if she 
had not laughed for years. The repose could not last long, but 
Greifenstein felt that it was refreshing. In five and twenty years 
of married life, by dint of never exhibiting any annoyance at his 
wife's way of expressing herself, he had grown hardened against 
the disturbing effect of her smile and voice until he was really 
very little affected by either. So far as her conduct was concerned, 
he had never had anything to complain of, and since he had 
chosen her of his own free will, he considered that one part of his 
duty consisted in suffering her eccentricities with patience and 
calm. The idea that a German who called himself a gentleman 
 
should not do his duty never entered his mind. On the other 
hand, his imperturbable manner sometimes irritated his wife, and 
in justice to her it must be allowed that his conversation in her 
presence was often very constrained. 
' The next time you come to Greifenstein,' he said, leaning 
forward again and speaking to his cousin, ' it will be on the 
occasion of a very happy event.' 
' Yes,' answered Frau von Sigmundskron with her gentle smile, 
' I hope so.' 
' I think that if you approve, and if your daughter has no 
objections ' 
'Objections!' cried Frau von Greifenstein, suddenly waking 
from her reverie and turning her face to her companion's with an 
engaging simper. ' As if dear, sweet, beautiful Hilda could have 
any objections to marrying our Greif ! Objections ! Ah no, dear 
cousin, that youthful heart is already on fire ! ' 
The words were uttered with such an affectation of softness 
that Pretzel did not move, as his mistress anxiously looked to see 
if he were awake when she had done speaking. 
' No,' replied the other lady calmly. * She has none. But I 
do not think that was what my cousin Greifenstein meant.' 
' I meant that the marriage might take place early in the new 
year, if neither you nor your daughter had any objections,' said 
Greifenstein. 
' But they have none she has just told you so ! Oh, Hugo, 
how dull men are, where love is concerned ! Why should they 
