tease you about Mr. Dryfoos ? " 
" Oh, good night, now, mamma ! This is becom- 
ing personal." 
PART THIRD. 
I. 
The scheme of a banquet to celebrate the initial 
success of Every Other JFeek expanded in Fulkerson's 
fancy into a series. Instead of the pubhshing and 
editorial force, with certain of the more representa- 
tive artists and authors sitting down to a modest 
supper in Mrs. Leighton's parlours, he conceived of 
a dinner at Delmonico's, with the principal literary 
and artistic people throughout the country as guests, 
and an inexhaustible hospitality to reporters and 
correspondents, from whom paragraphs, prophetic 
and historic, would flow weeks before and after the 
first of the series. He said the thing was a new de- 
parture in magazines ; it amounted to something in 
literature as radical as the American Revolution in 
politics : it was the idea of self-government in the 
arts ; and it was this idea that had never yet been 
fully developed in regard to it. That was what 
must be done in the speeches at the dinner, and the 
speeches must be reported. Then it would go like 
wildfire. He asked March whether he thought Mr. 
Depew could be got to come ; Mark Twain, he was 
sure would come ; he was a literary man. They 
ought to invite Mr. Evarts, and the Cardinal and 
the leading- Protestant divines. His ambition 
stopped at nothing, nothing hut the question of 
expense ; there he had to wait the return of the 
cider Dryfoos from the West, and Dryfoos was still 
delayed at Moffitt, and Fulkerson openly confessed 
that he was afraid he would stay there till his own 
enthusiasm escaped in other activities, other plans. 
Fulkerson was as little likely as possible to fall 
under a superstitious subjection to another man ; but 
March could not help seeing that in this possible 
measure Dryfoos was Fulkerson's fetish. He did not 
revere him, March decided, because it was not in 
Fulkerson's nature to revere anything ; he could like 
and dislike, but he could not respect. Apparently, 
however, Dryfoos daunted him somehow ; and be- 
sides the homage which those who have not pay 
to those who have, Fulkerson rendered Dryfoos the 
tribute of a feeling which Marcli could only define as 
a sort of bewilderment. As well as March could 
make out, this feeling was evoked by the spectacle 
of Dryfoos's unfailing luck, which Fulkerson was fond 
of dazzling himself with. It perfectly consisted with 
a keen sense of whatever was sordid and selfish in a 
man on whom his career must have had its inevitable 
effect. He liked to philosophise the case with March, 
to recall Dryfoos as he was when he first met him 
still somewhat in the sap, at jMofHtt, and to study 
the processes by which he imagined him to have 
dried into the hardened speculator, without even the 
 
pretence to any advantage but his own in his ven- 
tures. He was aware of painting the character too 
vividly, and he warned IMarch not to accept it 
exactly in those tints, but to subdue them and shade 
it for himself. He said that where his advantage 
was not concerned, there was ever so much good 
in Dryfoos, and that if in some things he had 
grown inflexible, he had expanded in others to the 
full measure of the vast scale on which he did busi- 
ness. It had seemed a little odd to March that a 
man should put money into such an enterprise as 
Every Other TFeeJc and go off about other affairs, not 
only without any sign of anxiety but without any 
sort of interest. But Fulkerson said that was the 
splendid side of Dryfoos. He had a courage, a 
magnanimity, that was equal to the strain of any 
such uncertainty. He had faced the music once for 
all, when he asked Fulkerson what the thing would 
cost in the different degrees of potential failure ; and 
then he had gone off, leaving everything to Fulkerson 
and the younger Dryfoos, with the instruction simply 
to go ahead and not bother him about it. Fulkerson 
called that pretty tall for an old fellow who used to 
bewail the want of pigs and chickens to occupy his 
mind. He alleged it as another proof of the versa- 
tility of the American mind, and of the grandeur of 
institutions and opportunities that let every man 
grow to his full size, so that any man in America 
could run the concern if necessary. He believed 
that old Dryfoos could step into Bismarck's shoes, 
and run the German Empire at ten days' notice, or 
 
about as long as it would take him to go from New 
York to Berlin. But Bismarck would not know 
anything about Dryfoos's plans till Dryfoos got 
ready to show his hand. Fulkerson himself did not 
pretend to say what the old man had been up to, 
since he went West. He was at Moffitt first, and 
then he was at Chicago, and then he had gone out to 
Denver to look after some mines he had out there, 
and a railroad or two ; and now he wns at Moffitt 
again. He was supposed to be closing up his aflfairs 
there, but nobody could say. 
Fulkerson told March the morning after Dryfoos 
returned that he had not only not pulled out at 
Moffitt, but had gone in deeper, ten times deeper 
than ever. He was in a royal good-humour, Fulker- 
son reported, and was going to drop into the office 
on his way up from the street (March understood 
Wall Street) that afternoon. He was tickled to 
death with Every Other Week so far as it had gone, 
and was anxious to pay his respects to the editor. 
March accounted for some rhetoric in this, but let 
it flatter him, and prepared himself for a meeting 
about which he could see that Fulkerson was onl}'- 
less nervous than he had shown himself about the 
public reception of the first number. It gave March 
a disagreeable feeling of being Owned and of being 
about to be inspected by his proprietor ; but he fell 
back upon such independence as he could find in the 
thought of those two thousand dollars of income be- 
yond the caprice of his owner, and maintained an 
outward serenity. 
 
He was a little ashamed afterward of the resolu- 
tion it had cost him to do so. It was not a question 
of Dryfoos's physical presence : that was rather 
effective than otherwise, and carried a suggestion of 
moneyed indifference to convention in the grey 
business suit of provincial cut, and the low, wide- 
brimmed hat of flexible black felt. He had a stick 
with an old-fashioned top of buck-horn worn smooth 
and bright by the palm of his hand, which had not 
lost its character in fat, and which had a history of 
former work in its enlarged knuckles, though it was 
now as soft as March's, and must once have been 
small even for a man of IVIr. Dryfoos's stature ; he 
was below the average size. But what struck March 
was the fact that Dryfoos seemed furtively conscious 
of being a country person, and of being aware that 
in their meeting he was to be tried by other tests 
than those which would have availed him as a 
shrewd speculator. He evidently had some curiosity 
about March, as the first of his kind whom he had en- 
countered ; some such curiosity as the country school 
trustee feels and tries to hide in the presence of the 
new schoolmaster. But the whole affair was of course 
on a higher plane ; on one side Dryfoos was much 
more a man of the world than March was, and he 
probably divined this at once, and rested himself 
upon the fact in a measure. It seemed to be his 
preference that his son should introduce them, for 
he came upstairs with Conrad, and they had fairly 
made acquaintance before Fulkerson joined them. 
Conrad offered to leave them at once, but his 
 
father made him stay. "I reckon Mr. March and 
I haven't got anything so priate to talk about that 
we want to keep it from the other partners. Well, 
Mr. March, are you getting used to New York yet ? 
It takes a little time." 
" Oh yes. But not so much time as most places. 
Everybody belongs more or less in New York ; 
nobody has to belong here altogether." 
"Yes, that is so. You can try it, and go away 
if you don't like it a good deal easier than you could 
from a smaller place. "Wouldn't make so much talk, 
would it ? " He glanced at IMarch with a jocose 
light in his shrewd eyes, " That is the way I feel 
about it all the time : just visiting. Now, it 
wouldn't be that way in Boston, I reckon ? " 
" You couldn't keep on visiting there your whole 
life," said March. 
Dryfoos laughed, showing his lower teeth in a 
way that was at once simple and fierce. " Mr. 
Fulkerson didn't hardly know as he could get you 
to leave. I suppose you got used to it there. I 
never been in your city." 
"I had got used to it; but it was hardly my 
city, except by marriage. My wife 's a Bostouian." 
"She's been a little homesick here, then," said 
Dryfoos, with a smile of the same quality as his 
laugh. 
" Less than I expected," said March. " Of course 
she was very much attached to our old home." 
" I guess my wife won't ever get used to New 
York," said Dryfoos, and he drew in his lower lij) 
with a sharp sigh. "But my girls like it; they're 
young. You never been out our way yet, Mr. 
March ? Out West ? " 
"Well, only for the purpose of being born, and 
brought up. I used to live in Crawfordsville, and 
then Indianapolis." 
"Indianapolis is bound to be a great place," said 
Dryfoos. " I remember now, Mr. Fulkerson told mo 
you was from our State." He went on to brag of 
the West, as if March were an Easterner and had to 
be convinced, " You ought to sec all that country. 
It 's a great country." 
"Oh yes," said March, "I understand that." He 
expected the praise of the great West to lead up to 
some comment on Every Other JFcck ; and there was 
abundant suggestion of that topic in the manuscripts, 
proofs of letter-press and illustrations, with advance 
copies of the latest number strewn over his table. 
But Dryfoos apparently kept himself from looking 
at these things. He rolled his head about on his 
shoulders to take in the character of the room, and 
said to his son, " You didn't change the woodwork 
after all." 
'  No ; the architect thought we had better let it 
be, unless we meant to change the whole place. He 
liked its being old-fashioned." 
"I hope you feel comfortable here, Mr. March," 
the old man said, bringing his eyes to bear upon him 
again after their tour of inspection. 
" Too comfortable for a working-man," said March, 
and he thousiht that this remark must brinsr them to 
 
some talk about liis "vvork, but the proprietor only 
smiled again. 
" I guess I shan't lose much on this house," he 
returned, as if musing aloud. "This down-town 
property is coming up. Business is getting in on all 
these side streets. I thought I paid a pretty good 
price for it, too." He went on to talk of real estate, 
and March began to feel a certain resentment at his 
continued avoidance of the only topic in which they 
could really have a common interest. " You live 
down this way somewhcre, don't you ? " the old man 
concluded. 
"Yes. I wished to be near my work." March 
was vexed with himself for having recurred to it ; 
but afterward he was not sure l)ut Dryfoos shared 
his own ditlidence in the matter, and was waitingfor 
him to bring it openly into the talk. At times he 
seemed wary and masterful, and then March felt 
that he was being examined and tested j at others so 
simple that March might well have fancied that he 
needed encouragement, and desired it. He talked of 
his wife and daughters in a way that invited March 
to say friendly things of his family, which appeared 
to give the old man first an undue pleasure, and 
then a final distrust. At moments he turned, AAdth 
an effect of finding relief in it, to his son and spoke 
to him across March of matters which he was un- 
acquainted with ; he did not seem aware that this 
was rude, but the young man must have felt it so ; 
he always brought the conversation back, and once 
at some cost to himself when his father made it 
personal. 
 
"I want to make a regular New York business 
man out of that fellow," he said to March, pointing 
at Conrad with his stick. "You s'pose I'm ever 
going to do it ? " 
"Well, I don't know," said March, trying to fall 
in with the joke. "Do you mean nothing but a 
business man ? " 
The old man laughed at whatever latent meaning 
he fancied in this, and said, " You think he would 
be a little too much for me there ? Well, I 've seen 
enough of 'em to know it don't always take a large 
pattern of a man to do a large business. But I want 
him to get the business training, and then if he 
wants to go into something else, he knows what the 
world is, anyway. Heigh ? " 
" Oh yes ! " March assented, with some compassion 
for the young man reddening patiently under his 
father's comment. 
Dryfoos went on as if his son were not in hearing. 
" Now that boy wanted to be a preacher. What 
does a preacher know about the world he preaches 
against, when he's been brought up a preacher? 
He don't know so much as a bad little boy in his 
Sunday-school ; he knows about as much as a girl. 
I always told him. You be a man first, and then you 
be a preacher, if you want to. Heigh ? " 
" Precisely." March began to feel some compas- 
sion for himself in being witness of the young fellow's 
discomfort under his father's homily. 
"When we first come to New York, I told him, 
Now here's your chance to see the world on a big 
 
scale. You know already what work and saving 
and steady habits and sense will bring a man to ; 
you don't want to go round among the rich ; you 
want to go among the poor, and sec what laziness, 
and drink, and dishonesty, and foolishness will bring 
men to.. And I guess ho knows, about as well as 
anybody ; and if he ever goes to preaching he 'll 
know what he's preaching about." The old man 
smiled his fierce, simple smile, and in his sharp eyes 
March fancied contempt of the ambition he had 
balked in his son. The present scene must have 
Ijccn one of many between them, ending in meek 
submission on the part of the young man -whom his 
father perhaps without realising his cruelty treated as 
a child. March took it hard that he should be made 
to suffer in the presence of a co-ordinate power like 
himself, and began to dislike the old man out of pro- 
portion to his offence, which might have been mere 
want of taste, or an effect of mere embarrassment 
before him. But evidently, whatever rebellion his 
daughters had carried through against him, he had 
kept his dominion over this gentle spirit unbroken. 
March did not choose to make any response, but to 
let him continue, if he would, entirely upon his 
own impulse. 
II. 
A SILENCE followed, of rather painful length. It 
was broken by the cheery voice of Fulkerson, sent 
before him to herald Fulkerson's cheery person. 
" Well, I suppose you 've got the glorious success of 
Every Other JFeeh down pretty cold in your talk by 
this time. I should have been up sooner to join you, 
but I was nipping a man for the last page of the 
cover. I guess we 'll have to let the Muse have that 
for an advertisement instead of a poem the next 
time, March. Well, the old gentleman given you 
boys your scolding ? " The person of Fulkerson had 
got into the room long before ho reached this 
question, and had planted itself astride a chair. 
Fulkerson looked over the chair back, now at March, 
and now at the elder Dryfoos as he spoke. 
March answered him. "I guess we must have 
been waiting for you, Fulkerson. At any rate we 
hadn't got to the scolding yet." 
'' Why, I didn't suppose Mr. Dryfoos could 'a' held 
in so long. I understood he was awful mad at the 
way the thing started off, and wanted to give you a 
piece of his mind, when he got at you. I inferred 
as much from a remark that he made." March and 
 
Dryfoos looked foolish, as men do when made the 
subject of this sort of merry misrepresentation. 
" I reckon my scolding will keep awhile yet," said 
the old man dryly. 
" Well, then, I guess it 's a good chance to give 
Mr. Dryfoos an idea of what we 've really done — just 
while we 're resting, as Artemus Ward says. Heigh, 
March ? " 
" I will let you blow the trumpet, Fulkerson. I 
think it belongs strictly to the advertising depart- 
ment," said March. He now distinctly resented the 
old man's failure to say anything to him of the 
magazine ; he made his inference that it was from a 
suspicion of his readiness to presume upon a recog- 
nition of his share in the success, and he was deter- 
mined to second no sort of appeal for it. 
"The advertising department is the heart and 
soul of every business," said Fulkerson hardily, 
" and I like to keep my hand in with a little practice 
on the trumpet in private. I don't believe Mr. Dry- 
foos has got any idea of the extent of this thing. 
He's been out among those Rackensackens, where 
we were all born, and he 's read the notices in their 
seven by nine dailies, and he's seen the thing selling on 
the cars, and he thinks he appreciates what's been 
done. But I should just like to take him round in 
this little old metropolis awhile, and show him Every 
Other week on the centre tables of the millionaires 
— the Vanderbilts and the Astors — and in the homes 
of culture and refinement everywhere, and let 
him judge for himself. It 's the talk of the clubs 
 
and the dinner-tables ; children cry for it ; it 's the 
Castoria of literature, and the Pearline of art, the 
Won't-be-haiDpy-till-he-gets-it of every enlightened 
man, woman, and child in this vast city. I knew 
we could capture the country ; but, my goodness ! 
I didn't expect to have New York fall into our hands 
at a blow. But that 's just exactly what New York 
has done. Every Other Week supplies the long-felt 
want that 's been grinding round in New York and 
keeping it awake nights ever since the war. It's 
the culmination of all the high and ennobling ideals 
of the past " 
"How much," asked Dryfoos, "do you expect to 
get out of it the first year, if it keeps the start it 's 
got ? " 
" Comes right down to business, every time ! " said 
Fulkerson, referring the characteristic to March with 
a delighted glance. " Well, sir, if everything works 
right, and we get rain enough to fill up the springs, 
and it isn't a grasshopper year, I expect to clear 
above all expenses something in the neighbourhood 
of twenty-five thousand dollars." 
" Humph ! And you are all going to work a year 
— editor, manager, publisher, artists, writers, printers, 
and the rest of 'em — to clear twenty-five thousand 
dollars ? — I made that much in half a day in Mofiitt 
once. I see it made in half a minute in Wall Street, 
sometimes." The old man presented this aspect of 
the case with a good-natured contempt, which in- 
cluded Fulkerson and his enthusiasm in an obvious 
likincr. 
 
His son suggested, "But vllcn we make that 
money here, no one loses it." 
"Can you prove that?" His father turned 
sliarply upon him. " Wliatever is won is lost. It's 
