my plan to describe these cities, I should need much space to devote
to the finest public buildings and public institutions of Montreal, the
handsome streets in the Protestant quarter, with their solid, tasteful,
and often elegant residences, the many churches, and the almost
unequalled possession of the Mountain as a park and resort, where one
has the most striking and varied prospects in the world. Montreal, being
a part of the province of Quebec, is not only under provincial control
of the government at Quebec, but it is ruled by the same French party
in the city, and there is the complaint always found where the poorer
majority taxes the richer and more enterprising minority out of
proportion to the benefits the latter receives. Various occasions
have produced something like race conflicts in the city, and there
are prophesies of more serious ones in the strife for ascendency. The
seriousness of this to the minority lies in the fact that the French
race is more prolific than any other in the province.
Perhaps nothing will surprise the visitor more than the persistence of
the French type in Canada, and naturally its aggressiveness. Guaranteed
their religion, laws, and language, the French have not only failed to
assimilate, but have had hopes—maybe still have—of making Canada French.
The French “national” party means simply a French consolidation, and has
no relation to the “nationalism” of Sir John Macdonald. So far as the
Church and the French politicians are concerned, the effort is to
keep the French solid as a political force, and whether the French are
Liberal or Conservative, this is the underlying thought. The province of
Quebec is Liberal, but the liberalism is of a different hue from that of
Ontario. The French recognize the truth that language is so integral
a part of a people’s growth that the individuality of a people depends
upon maintaining it. The French have escaped absorption in Canada mainly
by loyalty to their native tongue, aided by the concession to them
of their civil laws and their religious privileges. They owe this to
William Pitt. I quote from a contributed essay in the Toronto Week about
three years ago: “Up to 1791 the small French population of Canada was
in a position to be converted into an English colony with traces of
French sentiment and language, which would have slowly disappeared. But
at that date William Pitt the younger brought into the House of Commons
two Quebec Acts, which constituted two provinces—Lower Canada, with a
full provision of French laws, language, and institutions; Upper Canada,
with a reproduction of English laws and social system. During the debate
Pitt declared on the floor of the House that his purpose was to create
two colonies distinct from and jealous of each other, so as to guard
against a repetition of the late unhappy rebellion which had separated
the thirteen colonies from the empire.”
The French have always been loyal to the English connection under all
temptations, for these guarantees have been continued, which could
scarcely be expected from any other power, and certainly not in a
legislative union of the Canadian provinces. In literature and sentiment
the connection is with France; in religion, with Rome; in politics
England has been the guarantee of both. There will be no prevailing
sentiment in favor of annexation to the United States so long as
the Church retains its authority, nor would it be favored by the
accomplished politicians so long as they can use the solid French mass
as a political force.
The relegation of the subject of education entirely to the provinces
is an element in the persistence of the French type in the province
of Quebec, in the same way that it strengthens the Protestant cause
in Ontario. In the province of Quebec all the public schools are Roman
Catholic, and the separate schools are of other sects. In the council of
public instruction the Catholics, of course, have a large majority, but
the public schools are managed by a Catholic committee and the others
by a Protestant committee. In the academies, model and high schools,
subsidized by the Government, those having Protestant teachers are
insignificant in number, and there are very few Protestants in Catholic
schools, and very few Catholics in Protestant schools; the same is true
of the schools of this class not subsidized. The bulky report of the
superintendent of public instruction of the province of Quebec (which is
translated into English) shows a vigorous and intelligent attention
to education. The general statistics give the number of pupils in the
province as 219,403 Roman Catholics (the term always used in the report)
and 37,484 Protestants. In the elementary schools there are 143,848
Roman Catholics and 30,401 Protestants. Of the ecclesiastical teachers,
808 are Roman Catholics and 8 Protestants; of the certificated lay
teachers, 250 are Roman Catholic and 105 Protestant; the proportion
of schools is four to one. It must be kept in mind that in the French
schools it is French literature that is cultivated. In the Laval
University, at Quebec, English literature is as purely an ornamental
study as French literature would be in Yale. The Laval University, which
has a branch in Montreal, is a strong institution, with departments of
divinity, law, medicine, and the arts, 80 professors, and 575
students. The institution has a vast pile of buildings, one of the most
conspicuous objects in a view of the city. Besides spacious lecture,
assembly rooms, and laboratories, it has extensive collections in
geology, mineralogy, botany, ethnology, zoology, coins, a library
of 100,000 volumes, in which theology is well represented, but which
contains a large collection of works on Canada, including valuable
manuscripts, the original MS. of the Journal des Jésuites, and the most
complete set of the Relation des Jésuites existing in America. It has
also a gallery of paintings, chiefly valuable for its portraits.
Of the 62,000 population of Quebec City, by the census of 1881, not over
6000 were Protestants. By the same census Montreal had 140,747, of whom
78,684 were French, and 28,995 of Irish origin. The Roman Catholics
numbered 103,579. I believe the proportion has not much changed with the
considerable growth in seven years.
One is struck, in looking at the religious statistics of Canada, by
the fact that the Church of England has not the primacy, and that the
so-called independent sects have a position they have not in England.
In the total population of 4,324,810, given by the census of 1881,
the Protestants were put down at 2,436,554 and the Roman Catholics at
1,791,982. The larger of the Protestant denominations were, Methodists,
742,981; Presbyterians, 676,165; Church of England, 574,818; Baptists,
296,525. Taking as a specimen of the north-west the province of
Manitoba, census of 1886, we get these statistics of the larger sects:
Presbyterians, 28,406; Church of England, 23,206; Methodists, 18,648;
Roman Catholics, 14,651; Mennonites, 9112; Baptists, 3296; Lutherans,
3131.
Some statistics of general education in the Dominion show the popular
interest in the matter. In 1885 the total number of pupils in the
Dominion, in public and private schools, was 908,193, and the average
attendance was 555,404. The total expenditure of the year, not including
school buildings, was $9,310,745, and the value of school lands,
buildings, and furniture was $25,000,000. Yet in the province of Quebec,
out of the total expenditure of $3,102,410, only $353,077 was granted by
the provincial Legislature. And in Ontario, of the total of $3,904,797,
only $267,084 was granted by the Legislature.
The McGill University at Montreal, Sir William Dawson principal, is
a corporation organized under royal charter, which owes its original
endowment of land and money (valued at $120,000) to James McGill. It
receives small grants from the provincial and Dominion governments, but
mainly depends upon its own funds, which in 1885 stood at $791,000. It
has numerous endowed professorships and endowments for scholarships and
prizes; among them is the Donalda Endowment for the Higher Education of
Women (from Sir Donald A. Smith), by which a special course in separate
classes, by University professors, is maintained in the University
buildings for women. It has faculties of arts, applied sciences, law,
and medicine—the latter with one of the most complete anatomical museums
and one of the best selected libraries on the continent. It has several
colleges affiliated with it for the purpose of conferring
University degrees, a model school, and four theological colleges, a
Congregational, a Presbyterian, an Episcopalian, and a Wesleyan, the
students in which may supplement their own courses in the University.
The professors and students wear the University cap and gown, and
morning prayers are read to a voluntary attendance. The Redpath Museum,
of geology, mineralogy, zoology, and ethnology, has a distinction
among museums not only for the size of the collection, but for splendid
arrangement and classification. The well-selected library numbers about
30,000 volumes. The whole University is a vigorous educational centre,
and its well-planted grounds and fine buildings are an ornament to the
city.
Returning to the French element, its influence is not only felt in the
province of Quebec, but in the Dominion. The laws of the Dominion and
the proceedings are published in French and English; the debates in
the Dominion Parliament are conducted indifferently in both languages,
although it is observed that as the five years of any Parliament go on
English is more and more used by the members, for the French are more
likely to learn English than the English are to learn French. Of course
the Quebec Parliament is even more distinctly French. And the power of
the Roman Catholic Church is pretty much co-extensive with the language.
The system of tithes is legal in provincial law, and tithes can be
collected of all Roman Catholics by law. The Church has also what is
called the fabrique system; that is, a method of raising contributions
from any district for churches, priests’ houses, and conventual
buildings and schools. The tithes and the fabrique assessments make a
heavy burden on the peasants. The traveller down the St. Lawrence sees
how the interests of religion are emphasized in the large churches
raised in the midst of humble villages, and in the great Church
establishments of charity and instruction. It is said that the farmers
attempted to escape the tithe on cereals by changing to the cultivation
of pease, but the Church then decided that pease were cereals. There is
no doubt that the French population are devout, and that they support
the Church in proportion to their devotion, and that much which seems
to the Protestants extortion on the part of the Church is a voluntary
contribution. Still the fact remains that the burden is heavy on land
that is too cold for the highest productiveness. The desire to better
themselves in wages, and perhaps to escape burdens, sends a great many
French to New England. Some of them earn money, and return to settle in
the land that is dear by tradition and a thousand associations. Many do
not return, and I suppose there are over three-quarters of a million
of French Canadians now in New England. They go to better themselves,
exactly as New Englanders leave their homes for more productive farms in
the West. The Church, of course, does not encourage this emigration,
but does encourage the acquisition of lands in Ontario or elsewhere
in Canada. And there has been recently a marked increase of French
in Ontario—so marked that the French representation in the Ontario
Parliament will be increased probably by three members in the next
election. There are many people in Canada who are seriously alarmed at
this increase of the French and of the Roman Catholic power. Others look
upon this fear as idle, and say that immigration is sure to make the
Protestant element overwhelming. It is to be noted also that Ontario
furnishes Protestant emigrants to the United States in large numbers. It
may be that the interchange of ideas caused by the French emigration
to New England will be an important make-weight in favor of annexation.
Individuals, and even French newspapers, are found to advocate it. But
these are at present only surface indications. The political leaders,
the Church, and the mass of the people are fairly content with things as
they are, and with the provincial autonomy, although they resent federal
vetoes, and still make a “cry” of the Riel execution.
The French element in Canada may be considered from other points of
view. The contribution of romance and tradition is not an unimportant
one in any nation. The French in Canada have never broken with their
past, as the French in France have. There is a great charm about
Quebec—its language, its social life, the military remains of the last
century. It is a Protestant writer who speaks of the volume and
wealth of the French Canadian literature as too little known to
English-speaking Canada. And it is true that literary men have not
realized the richness of the French material, nor the work accomplished
by French writers in history, poetry, essays, and romances. Quebec
itself is at a commercial stand-still, but its uniquely beautiful
situation, its history, and the projection of mediævalism into existing
institutions make it one of the most interesting places to the tourist
on the continent. The conspicuous, noble, and commodious Parliament
building is almost the only one of consequence that speaks of the modern
spirit. It was the remark of a high Church dignitary that the object of
the French in Canada was the promotion of religion, and the object
of the English, commerce. We cannot overlook this attitude against
materialism. In the French schools and universities religion is not
divorced from education. And even in the highest education, where modern
science has a large place, what we may call the literary side is very
much emphasized. Indeed, the French students are rather inclined to
rhetoric, and in public life the French are distinguished for the
graces and charm of oratory. It may be true, as charged, that the public
schools of Quebec province, especially in the country, giving special
attention to the interest the Church regards as the highest, do little
to remove the ignorance of the French peasant. It is our belief that
the best Christianity is the most intelligent. Yet there is matter for
consideration with all thoughtful men what sort of society we shall
ultimately have in States where the common schools have neither
religious nor ethical teaching.
Ottawa is a creation of the Federal Government as distinctly as
‘Washington is. The lumber-mills on the Chaudière Falls necessitate a
considerable town here, for this industry assumes gigantic proportions,
but the beauty and attraction of the city are due to the concentration
here of political interest. The situation on the bluffs of the Ottawa
River is commanding, and gives fine opportunity for architectural
display. The group of Government buildings is surpassingly fine. The
Parliament House and the department buildings on three sides of a square
are exceedingly effective in color and in the perfection of Gothic
details, especially in the noble towers. There are few groups of
buildings anywhere so pleasing to the eye, or that appeal more strongly
to one’s sense of dignity and beauty. The library attached to the
Parliament House in the rear, a rotunda in form, has a picturesque
exterior, and the interior is exceedingly beautiful and effective.
The library, though mainly for Parliamentary uses, is rich in Canadian
history, and well up in polite literature. It contains about 90,000
volumes. In the Parliament building, which contains the two fine
legislative Chambers, there are residence apartments for the Speakers
of the Senate and of the House of Commons and their families, where
entertainments are given during the session. The opening of Parliament
is an imposing and brilliant occasion, graced by the presence of the
Governor-general, who is supposed to visit the Chambers at no other
time in the session. Ottawa is very gay during the session, society and
politics mingling as in London, and the English habit of night sessions
adds a good deal to the excitement and brilliancy of the Parliamentary
proceedings.
The growth of the Government business and of official life has made
necessary the addition of a third department building, and the new one,
departing from the Gothic style, is very solid and tasteful. There are
thirteen members of the Privy Council with portfolios, and the volume of
public business is attested by the increase of department officials.
I believe there are about 1500 men attached to the civil service in
Ottawa. It will be seen at once that the Federal Government, which
seemed in a manner superimposed upon the provincial governments, has
taken on large proportions, and that there is in Ottawa and throughout
the Dominion in federal officials and offices a strengthening vested
interest in the continuance of the present form of government. The
capital itself, with its investment in buildings, is a conservator of
the state of things as they are. The Cabinet has many able men, men who
would take a leading rank as parliamentarians in the English Commons,
and the Opposition benches in the House furnish a good quota of the
same material. The power of the premier is a fact as recognizable as
in England. For many years Sir John A. Macdonald has been virtually the
ruler of Canada. He has had the ability and skill to keep his party
in power, while all the provinces have remained or become Liberal. I
believe his continuance is due to his devotion to the national idea, to
the development of the country, to bold measures—like the urgency of the
Canadian Pacific Railway construction—for binding the provinces together
and promoting commercial activity. Canada is proud of this, even while
it counts its debt. Sir John is worshipped by his party, especially by
the younger men, to whom he furnishes an ideal, as a statesman of bold
conceptions and courage. He is disliked as a politician as cordially by
the Opposition, who attribute to him the same policy of adventure that
was attributed to Beaconsfield. Personally he resembles that remarkable
man. Undoubtedly Sir John adds prudence to his knowledge of men, and his
habit of never crossing a stream till he gets to it has gained him the
sobriquet of “Old To-morrow.” He is a man of the world as well as a man
of affairs, with a wide and liberal literary taste.
The members of Government are well informed about the United States, and
attentive students of its politics. I am sure that, while they prefer
their system of responsible government, they have no sentiment but
friendliness to American institutions and people, nor any expectation
that any differences will not be adjusted in a manner satisfactory and
honorable to both. I happened to be in Canada during the fishery
and “retaliation” talk. There was no belief that the “retaliation”
threatened was anything more than a campaign measure; it may have
chilled the rapport for the moment, but there was literally no
excitement over it, and the opinion was general that retaliation as to
transportation would benefit the Canadian railways. The effect of the
moment was that importers made large foreign orders for goods to be sent
by Halifax that would otherwise have gone to United States ports. The
fishery question is not one that can be treated in the space at
our command. Naturally Canada sees it from its point of view. To a
considerable portion of the maritime provinces fishing means livelihood,
and the view is that if the United States shares in it we ought to
open our markets to the Canadian fishermen. Some, indeed, and these are
generally advocates of freer trade, think that our fishermen ought to
have the right of entering the Canadian harbors for bait and shipment
of their catch, and think also that Canada would derive an equal benefit
from this; but probably the general feeling is that these privileges
should be compensated by a United States market. The defence of the
treaty in the United States Senate debate was not the defence of the
Canadian Government in many particulars. For instance, it was said that
the “outrages” had been disowned as the acts of irresponsible men. The
Canadian defence was that the “outrages”—that is, the most conspicuous
of them which appeared in the debate—had been disproved in the
investigation. Several of them, which excited indignation in the United
States, were declared by a Cabinet minister to have no foundation in
fact, and after proof of the falsity of the allegations the complainants
were not again heard of. Of course it is known that no arrangement made
by England can hold that is not materially beneficial to Canada and the
United States; and I believe I state the best judgment of both
sides that the whole fishery question, in the hands of sensible
representatives of both countries, upon ascertained facts, could be
settled between Canada and the United States. Is it not natural that,
with England conducting the negotiation, Canada should appear as a
somewhat irresponsible litigating party bent on securing all that she
can get? But whatever the legal rights are, under treaties or the law of
nations, I am sure that the absurdity of making a casus belli of them
is as much felt in Canada as in the United States. And I believe the
Canadians understand that this attitude is consistent with a firm
maintenance of treaty or other rights by the United States as it is by
Canada.
The province of Ontario is an empire in itself. It is nearly as large
as France; it is larger by twenty-live thousand square miles than
the combined six New England States, with New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, and Maryland. In its varied capacities it is the richest
province in Canada, and leaving out the forests and minerals and stony
wilderness between the Canadian Pacific and James Bay, it has an area
large enough for an empire, which compares favorably in climate and
fertility with the most prosperous States of our Union. The climate
of the lake region is milder than that of southern New York, and a
considerable part of it is easily productive of superior grapes, apples,
and other sorts of fruit. The average yield of wheat, per acre, both
fall and spring, for five years ending with 1886, was considerably above
that of our best grain-producing States, from Pennsylvania to those
farthest West. The same is true of oats. The comparison of barley
is still more favorable for Ontario, and the barley is of a superior
quality. On a carefully cultivated farm in York county, for this period,
the average was higher than the general in the province, being, of
wheat, 25 bushels to the acre; barley, 47 bushels; oats, 66 bushels;
pease, 32 bushels. It has no superior as a wool-producing and
cattle-raising country. Its waterpower is unexcelled; in minerals it is
as rich as it is in timber; every part of it has been made accessible to
market by railways and good highways, which have had liberal Government
aid; and its manufactures have been stimulated by a protective tariff.
Better than all this, it is the home of a very superior people. There
are no better anywhere. The original stock was good, the climate has
been favorable, the athletic habits have given them vigor and tone and
courage, and there prevails a robust, healthful moral condition. In any
company, in the clubs, in business houses, in professional circles, the
traveller is impressed with the physical development of the men, and
even on the streets of the chief towns with the uncommon number of women
who have beauty and that attractiveness which generally goes with good
taste in dress.
The original settlers of Ontario were 10,000 loyalists, who left New
England during and after our Revolutionary War. They went to Canada
impoverished, but they carried there moral and intellectual qualities
of a high order, the product of the best civilization of their day,
the best materials for making a State. I confess that I never could
rid myself of the school-boy idea that the terms “British redcoat”
and “enemy” were synonymous, and that a “Tory” was the worst character
Providence had ever permitted to live. But these people, who were
deported, or went voluntarily away for an idea, were among the best
material we had in stanch moral traits, intellectual leadership, social
position, and wealth; their crime was superior attachment to England,
and utter want of sympathy with the colonial cause, the cause of
“liberty” of the hour. It is to them, at any rate, that Ontario owes its
solid basis of character, vigor, and prosperity. I do not quarrel with
the pride of their descendants in the fact that their ancestors were
U. E. (United Empire) loyalists—a designation that still has a vital
meaning to them. No doubt they inherit the idea that the revolt was a
mistake, that the English connection is better as a form of government
than the republic, and some of them may still regard the “Yankees” as
their Tory ancestors did. It does not matter. In the development of
a century in a new world they are more like us than they are like
the English, except in a certain sentiment and in traditions, and in
adherence to English governmental ideas. I think I am not wrong in
saying that this conservative element in Ontario, or this aristocratical
element which believes that it can rule a people better than they
can rule themselves, was for a long time an anti-progressive and
anti-popular force. They did not give up their power readily—power,
however, which they were never accused of using for personal profit in
the way of money. But I suppose that the “rule of the best” is only held
today as a theory under popular suffrage in a responsible government.
The population of Ontario in 1886 was estimated at 1,819,026. For the
seven years from 1872—79 the gain was 250,782. For the seven years from
1879-86 the gain was only 145,459. These figures, which I take from the
statistics of Mr. Archibald Blue, secretary of the Ontario Bureau of
Industries, become still more significant when we consider that in the
second period of seven years the Government had spent more money in
developing the railways, in promoting immigration, and raised more money
by the protective tariff for the establishing of industries, than in the
first. The increase of population in the first period was 174 per cent.;
in the second, only 8 2/3 per cent. Mr. Blue also says that but for the
accession by immigration in the seven years 1879-86 the population
of the province in 1886 would have been 62,640 less than in 1879. The
natural increase, added to the immigration reported (208,000), should
have given an increase of 442,000. There was an increase of only
145,000. What became of the 297,000? They did not go to Manitoba—the
census shows that. “The lamentable truth is that we are growing men
for the United States.” That is, the province is at the cost of raising
thousands of citizens up to a productive age only to lose them by
emigration to the United States. Comparisons are also made with Ohio
