I waited until the splashing of water had nearly 
ceased, and then went up with my arms full. 
 
" I haven't had any thing so good for a month," 
said Joe in a quivering voice. " And these soft, 
clean clothes ! Thurston, old fellow, may I just 
stick mine into the fire ? They are rags and shreds, 
and not fit for any one to touch." 
They were all that, and they did go into the fire. 
Nothing could exceed his gratefulness for the suit 
of clothes. He brushed up his hair, and looked 
really well, though thin and haggard. 
Supper was quite late; and Joe seemed, indeed, a 
new creature. Eve went out, she was helping with 
some church matters. I must confess, that, since the 
talk of our purchasing a house, a good deal more 
deference had been paid us both. The old, old story 
of the gold ring and the fine apparel. It is always, 
" Friend, come up higher." 
While she was away, I had a long talk with Joe. 
The same quicksands that wreck so many, drink 
and bad company. Yet there is so little besides for 
thousands. Too often, if they attempt to cross the 
dividing-line, they are pushed back. I wondered 
secretly, if I had been a drunkard, whether any hand 
in all Athens would have been stretched out to save 
me. 
Yet Joe was not innately vicious. Given a pleas 
ant home and surroundings of interest, and he would 
have been quite satisfied. There was no evil longing 
 
for the sins that were dragging him down ; but he 
was right in the midst of them, and it was so hard 
to swim against the current. How much of virtue 
and goodness consists in surroundings, I think the 
great world little realizes. 
The poor lad had lost two places through the 
winter from drink and neglecting his business. I 
drew from him the fact that he had been drinking 
with Turner, who then procured a pass, and sent 
him farther down the road. Who would employ him 
in such disreputable attire ? A friend in Jersey City 
had written to him that there would be a vacancy 
about the 1st of May ; and on this slender hope he 
was going there, into new temptations and pitfalls 
Could anybody save him? Would not the evil 
forces so in the ascendency sweep him to destruction 
in the end ? 
We made him a bed down-stairs on the lounge. 
The next morning he looked like a new creature. 
He was so simply grateful, and he followed Eve about 
with such adoring eyes, that I was fain to smile. 
"Why couldn't you keep him for a few days?" 
said she. "He might help you clear up the place. 
You know you were talking of hiring some one for 
a while." 
The same thought had entered my mind the even 
ing before. The poor lad was homeless and without 
 
a penny. And I might hear of something for him 
that would be less dangerous than the great vortex 
of the city. 
I suggested the plan to Joe, and he caught at it 
eagerly. 
" I'd do any thing for you, Thurston. I'd like to 
pay back a little of your kindness. Yes, I'll work at 
any thing. And I know a good deal about such 
work too. Oh, how lucky you are ! I wonder 
but I don't suppose I shall ever have a home of my 
own," and he sighed. " I've often thought how nice 
it would be." 
" I was no nearer it at twenty than you are now," 
I made answer. " And there is a long stretch before 
me ere I can call the home really mine." 
"And you have your sister. My sister was so 
much older than I, and married, and somehow never 
took much interest in me. I'd like to marry " 
" Do not marry until you can care properly for a 
wife," I said, almost sharply I am afraid. " It is 
a shame to drag any woman through want and hard 
work." 
" I wasn't thinking of such a thing until I could 
afford it, Thurston," he answered humbly. 
" And until you can love and honor her, and en 
dow her with all your earnings, which will be little 
enough." 
 
Joe hung his head in abasement, and I felt sorry. 
Then I added in a cordial tone, " What is the de 
cision ? Will you stay? I can't afford to pay much 
besides the living." 
" I'll stay gladly, and do my best. I have been 
paid beforehand." 
Certainly Joe did his best. He had an aptitude 
for this kind of work. He was cheery and obliging, 
and he followed Eve about with the devotion of a 
true knight. Our garden flourished under his minis 
tration. We went at the famous blackberry tangle, 
armed with old gloves, and old clothes and sickles, 
and cut a long, straight path through. Then we dug 
up the roots, trimmed the dead branches out of the 
rows, and made it look quite business-like. It seemed 
as if Joe improved every day. Regular sleep and 
nourishing food took the haggard lines out of his 
face, his weak and bloodshot eyes cleared up, they 
were a soft hazel as to color, and his voice grew 
strong and ringing. He could sing well, and we 
passed some entertaining evenings. 
After the berry patch, we cleaned out our cistern, 
and then we felt that we could move in almost any 
time. We had tried our heater, and found it excel 
lent. There was a good deal of garden to make, 
for I had put in only pease and potatoes, and the 
chicken-house to remodel, for Eve had the poultry 
 
fever. She had already bought two dozen eggs, and 
had two hens sitting in the barn. 
" I'll get you some fancy ones," said Gordon Pryor 
one evening when we had been discussing the busi 
ness from the amusing as well as the profitable point. 
" I have a friend up on the other side of the river, 
who makes money out of it, does it with an eye to 
profit. I should like you to go up there sometime, 
Thurston. I'll get a horse and carriage some day, 
and we'll go. Crawford can keep the shop?" 
Joe nodded. 
" Westfield, you know .the station, Thurston, 
though this is a mile or two from the railroad. 
Vanduyne is my friend's name. He was very much 
out of health some years ago, and went to Florida, 
meaning to stay, but didn't like it. Then he started 
a chicken ranch. He keeps all of the fancy kinds, 
and sells eggs for hatching, raises prize birds, and all 
that. It is a sight, I tell you. But he is the most 
discouraging fellow to talk business that I ever 
heard. According to him, you want a fortune to 
start, and you want knowledge enough to run the 
Government of the United States, or settle the 
Indian question. Now, it never struck me that a 
hen was such a very abstruse subject." 
" Unless you had her for dinner at a boarding- 
house," said Joe dryly; and Pryor threw back his 
head and laughed. 
 
" I'll get you some white Leghorn eggs : they are 
all the rage. And the hens are warranted to lay two 
eggs a day." 
" Oh, dear ! what will I do with the eggs ? " said 
Eve in comic dismay. 
"Sell them at a dollar a dozen for hatching; and 
drop four out of every dozen in boiling water." 
" But why ? " 
" To keep the species from increasing too rapidly. 
Eight chickens are about as much as one can reason 
ably expect out of a dozen eggs." 
"-Yes," replied Eve soberly. "I'll remember that." 
Joe giggled. 
"Then, when your hens are laying bountifully, 
and eggs are cheap, you pack them in lime and some 
thing, and bring them out as fresh eggs when the 
price goes up to sixty cents." 
" Is that the way your friend does ? " 
"His methods are past finding out; but he has 
loads of eggs when prices are high, and hatches 
chickens in an incubator, to put on the market about 
the middle of February. But, as I said, he will talk 
you into believing the thing impossible before you 
have listened five minutes. Still, I have an old lady 
friend at Springdale, who doesn't keep a very large 
flock, from fifty to a hundred, and makes a clear 
hundred dollars every year." 
 
" I should like to see her" 
"But she hasn't any method. And she thinks any 
one can do it." 
" I have often wondered," I said, " why people in 
general advise you against the business they are in. 
Mr. Montgomery insists that no kind of farming or 
gardening pays ; people who try poultry, for the most 
part pronounce that a failure ; and so with many 
other things. Then, Watson told me the other day 
that I'd be sick of my house in a year or two ; that 
I could rent for half the sum interest and repairs 
would amount to." 
" Half the world is very depressing, the other half 
over-sanguine," commented Pryor dryly. 
" And the medium class go on and succeed," said 
Eve. "I have often heard people argue that real 
estate did not pay but Mrs. Harwood at thirty-five 
was left a widow with two small houses in New York, 
and now is a rich woman. She has bought and sold, 
owns considerable property, and has money out on 
mortgages. Everybody cannot work on a large 
scale ; but a good many can do their best in a small 
way, if they will." 
"You will do it, Miss Thurston," Pryor said 
admiringly. 
If Eve ever thought of failure, she did not allow 
it to herself a moment, I am sure. I used to stand 
 
still with a sudden fear, but I meant to do my best. 
Her efforts, I resolved, should not shame mine. 
And, as spring advanced, I came to the conclusion 
that there were few places more beautiful than 
Athens. The long, gradual swell of land up to the 
highest point, broken here and there abruptly, as 
well as in a picturesque manner, clothed with 
verdure in the innumerable shades of tender green. 
The river winding along, a blue ribbon under the 
skies of faultless blue. The ascent on the other side 
dotted with little hamlets, for they could hardly 
be called towns, and here and there a handsome 
residence perched on some eminence like a castle. 
The fresh, balmy air, the grassy fragrance, the twit 
ter of birds, the long, tender notes of the wood-robin, 
filled my soul with a peaceful exaltation. It was as if 
I had come out of a confused, hurrying struggle, and 
just begun to live. Indeed, I had secured time to live. 
It might be dull if one had no resource but a small rail 
road station, and no companion : I had both. What 
wonderful pictures Eve and I studied in our walks, 
what tones of color, what tenderness and breadth ! 
"It makes me wild to paint something higher than 
flowers," said Eve longingly. "I wish I had some 
friend who was a true artist, who could feel and see 
and worship ; and I should ask her to come and stay 
weeks with me." 
 
CHAPTER VII 
JOE'S FALL FKOM GRACE 
EVE went to New York for the day. Joe and 
I worked steadily all the morning ; and after lunch, I 
sent him down-town, as the business part of Athens 
was called. He was to leave a message with Pryor 
also. 
After an hour or so I began to wonder why he did 
not return. I went up to the house, but he was not 
there ; busied myself a while, then came down at four, 
as an up and a down train passed about that time. 
No Joe yet. It seemed odd: then I bethought 
myself that he might have gone riding with Pryor. 
At five he came sauntering up on the platform. I 
knew in a moment what had happened. I was hurt 
and mortified. I had made no comments on Joe's 
unfortunate weakness; and it seemed unpardonable 
in him, under the circumstances, to drink at some 
other person's expense, to bruit abroad the secret I 
had kept. 
He delivered his message in a voice that was a 
little thick, and his eyes avoided mine. 
 
"Joe," I said, "you have been drinking. How 
could you?" 
He turned and straightened himself, as if to brave 
it out, then suddenly collapsed. 
" O Thurston ! " he cried, " I'm a fool, a beast ! 
And when you've been so kind, and I resolved I'd 
never touch another drop ! Shake me off, and let 
me go to ruin ! I'm not worth saving." 
Those few words, "let me go to ruin," pierced 
me to the quick, though he had not uttered them 
upbraidingly. In that great bond of human brother 
hood I was in some degree answerable for him. I 
went and put my arm over his shoulder, and drew 
him into the office. Then he broke down and cried, 
as a half-drunken man is very apt to do. 
"I shall not shake you off without another 
chance," I said quietly. " But I am so hurt ! You 
might have cared more for me and my sister." 
He started up. " Let me go somewhere and hide. 
I'm not fit to meet her sweet eyes. O Thurston ! 
what devil did possess me ? I'm fated. There's no 
use trying. I've signed the pledge three times, and 
that doesn't help." 
" No," I said, " nothing will help until you resolve 
to help yourself. Now I am going to make you a 
cup of good strong coffee, and that will sober you up 
some. Miss Thurston can not be home until six. 
 
Come up-stairs," for I did not want to leave him 
alone. 
He stumbled along. " I'm a miserable wretch to 
treat the best friend a fellow ever had in this world 
in this manner. You had better cut me adrift. I 
shall never be good for any thing- Thurston, you 
don't know the awful temptation, the want that is so 
much stronger than yourself ! I have tried over and 
over again. No, I never can ! I'm a weak, miserable 
idiot!" 
I had put the kettle over the fire, and it was sing 
ing already; and in a few minutes more I poured 
a little water on the coffee. 
" Will you tell me whom you have been drinking 
with?" I asked. 
"No one. At least, this is the solemn truth, 
Thurston. While I was in Pryor's, he had a bottle 
of lager, and I took a glass. It stirred up all the 
devil of longing in me. I started to come home, 
then I went down the street to a saloon ; but I said 
I wouldn't go in, and I went past it, and on down 
to the boat-house. There is a little place below 
there " 
" Yes." A low den it was too. There had been 
strenuous objections to having the man's license 
renewed, but somehow it had worked through. 
" I went in, and had a drink of whiskey, and then 
 
my brain was all on fire. And I took another drink. 
I had only a quarter." 
" Where did you get it, Joe ? " I had been very 
careful not to give him any spending-money, and a 
horrible reflection on his honesty flashed through my 
mind. 
" Miss Thurston gave it to me. Oh, what a vile, 
thankless creature I have been ! I've carried that 
quarter since last Friday. Kick me out, Ad, dear 
old chap ! I'm not worthy of shelter and kindness." 
He began to cry again, and sprang up as if to go. 
I forced him back into his chair, and poured the 
coffee, which was black. 
" Here, drink it ! " I exclaimed. " Then lie down 
on my cot, and take a nap." 
" I will never touch another drop, I swear I will 
not, Thurston ! That is the last of the devilish stuff. 
Oh, what a good, good friend you are ! Do believe 
me, do ! " he entreated: 
"We will talk it over to-morrow. Now lie down." 
I led him to my bed, over which I had thrown a 
blanket, and went down-stairs. Eve did not arrive 
in that train ; but there were several of the business 
men I had come to know pretty well, and we chatted 
a bit. The next one was in at six-forty. I gave out 
some express parcels, looked over my accounts, and 
whiled away the time, half expecting a telegram, 
 
though none came. But she stepped out of the 
next train, and gave a careless nod to the polite 
conductor. 
"I am quite late," she began eagerly. "I hope 
you did not worry, and that you and Joe have had 
some supper. I have done such lots of things, and 
seen such crowds of people ! and, oh, it is so lovely 
to get back, even to a railroad station ! " 
We were in the waiting-room by this time. I had 
her satchel and parcel in one hand ; and the other 
arm I put around her, drawing her to me in a tender 
embrace, as I kissed her. She seemed so especially 
dear. 
" O Adam ! we might pass for lovers ! " with a 
curious little thrill in her voice. 
We went up-stairs, she talking rapidly; and then 
she threw her hat and mantle on the bed. I had set 
the dishes on the table, and the kettle was again 
boiling. 
" Where's Joe ? " she asked, as she lighted the lamp. 
" We had some coffee a while ago, and, as he was 
rather used up, I sent him to bed." 
"He is not ill?" 
" Oh, no ! rather tired out," I replied carelessly. 
I had resolved that I would not let Joe Crawford 
go ; and this secret, if kept between us two, might 
prove a bond. 
 
" I have had two dinners, or luncheons, or whatever 
they may be," she said gayly, " and a treat of cream, 
and some bananas; but I brought the last home 
to you and Joe. And now you must have some 
supper." 
I went out, and found Joe sleeping heavily as I 
expected. 
Eve poured my tea, and sliced the cold meat, 
dished out some jelly, and then leaned back in her 
chair. 
" You will laugh when I tell you all," and her face 
was radiant with mischief. " I have nearly furnished 
my house, and I have boarders and boarders ! " 
" O Eve ! " I exclaimed reproachfully. 
" I will begin at the very first. I went in to see 
Mrs. Harwood ; and she grows sweeter and sweeter, 
with just spice enou'gh to keep her from spoiling. 
She proposes to come over the first two weeks in 
June, and stipulated that she should be received as a 
boarder. She wants to go out driving every day, 
and it will be your business to hunt up the quadru 
ped and the vehicle. Then I went to the Browers's, 
for she told me they were going away. O Ad ! some 
people do have a lovely side to their misfortunes, after 
all. You know Mr. Brower failed in February ; and 
of course he gave up every thing, but that only paid 
thirty per cent. And now, through some friend, he 
 
has a situation to go out to a great fruit-importing 
house, at Zante I think it is, and he will take the 
family. Living is very cheap, and he has a good 
salary. Mrs. Brower is just wild with delight. Of 
course, she is charming any way ; but I couldn't help 
thinking that they never really suffered in any 
misfortune. They are selling off their furniture at 
private sale : that was hers, and the really valuable 
has all gone at a fairly good price. Next week they 
