fears; her confidence was assured as Might, and had you or I or any
other logician passed that way and demonstrated as clearly as a = a
that she was imbecile in her love, she would not have thanked either of
us for our pains. When a woman loves--and whatever the cynic may
affirm, civilization has made her monandrous--she differs from man in
this: she gives either the first-fruits of her affection, or else the
semblance of an after-growth. There are men, there are husbands and
lovers even, who will accept that after-growth and regard it as the
verdure of an enduring spring. But who, save a lover, is ever as stupid
as a husband? Man, on the other hand, is constant never. Civilization
has not improved him in the least. And when on his honor he swears he
has never loved before, his honor goes unscathed, for he may never yet
have loved a woman as he loves the one to whom he swears.
With Justine this was the primal verdure. Had she not met Roland
Mistrial, she might, and in all probability would, have exhibited
constancy in affection, but love would have been uncomprehended still.
As it was, she had come into her own; she was confident in it and
secure; and now, though by nature she was rebellious enough, as he
caught her hand her being went out to him, and as it went it thrilled.
"I love you," he said; and his voice was so flexible that it would have
been difficult to deny that he really did. "I will love you always, my
whole life through."
The words caressed her so well she could have pointed to the sky and
repeated with Dona Sol:
    "Regarde: plus de feux, plus de bruit. Tout se tait.
    La lune tout à l'heure à l'horizon montait:
    Tandis que tu parlais, sa lumière qui tremble
    Et ta voix, toutes deux m'allaient au coeur ensemble:
    Je me sentais joyeuse et calme, ô mon amant!
    Et j'aurais bien voulu mourir en ce moment."
But at once some premonition seemed to visit her. "Roland," she
murmured, "what if we leave our happiness here?"
And Roland, bending toward her, whispered sagely: "We shall know then
where to find it."
VI.
New York meanwhile, in its effeminateness, had forgotten the snow, and
was listening to the sun. And the day after the return from Aiken, as
Roland, in accordance with an agreement of which the locus sigilli had
a kiss for token, went down to knock at Mr. Dunellen's office door, the
sky was as fair as it had been in the South. Yet to him it was
unobtrusive. His mind was occupied with fancies that had a birth, a
little span of life, and which in passing away were succeeded by others
as ephemeral as themselves--thoughts about nothing at all that came and
went unnoticed: a man he had met in Corfu, and whom a face in the street
recalled; the glisten of silk in a window that took him back to
Japan;--but beneath them was a purpose settled and dominant, a
resolution to trick Fate and outwit it--one which, during the journey
from Aiken, had so possessed him that, in attending to the wants of Mrs.
Metuchen or in ministering to Justine, at times he had been
quasi-somnambulistic, at others wholly vague. But now, as he gave his
card to an office-boy, to all outward intent he was confident and at
ease; he picked up a paper and affected to lose himself in its columns.
Presently the boy returned, and he was ushered into the room which he
had previously visited. On this occasion Mr. Dunellen was not seated,
but standing, his back to the door. As Roland entered he turned, and the
young man stepped forward, his hand outstretched.
To his contentment, and a little also to his surprise, in answer to that
outstretched hand Honest Paul extended his, and Roland had the pleasure
of holding three apparently docile fingers in his own; but in a moment
they withdrew themselves, and he felt called upon to speak.
"Mr. Dunellen," he began, with that confident air a creditor has who
comes to claim his due, "Mr. Dunellen, I have ventured to interrupt you
again. And again I am a suppliant. But this time it is of your daughter,
not of my father, that--"
He hesitated, and well he might. Mr. Dunellen, who had remained
standing, and who in so doing had prevented Roland from sitting down,
now assumed the suspicious appearance of one who detects an unpleasant
smell; his features contracted, and for no other reason, apparently,
than that of intimidating the suppliant in his prayer.
But Roland was not to be abashed; he recovered himself, and continued
glibly enough: "The matter is this. I am sincerely attached to your
daughter, and I am come to ask your consent to our marriage."
"That is the purpose of your visit, is it?"
"It is."
"My daughter is aware of it, I suppose?"
"She is."
"And she consented, did she?"
"Perfectly."
"H'm! My daughter has made a mistake. I told her as much last night.
There can be no question of marriage. You will do me the favor to let
the matter drop."
"I am hot a rich man, Mr. Dunellen, but--"
"So I am informed. But that has nothing to do with it. There are other
things that I take into consideration, and in view of them I insist that
this matter be dropped."
"Mr. Dunellen, I love your daughter; I have reason to believe that she
cares for me. We became engaged a few days ago. I came here now to ask
your consent. If you refuse it, I have at least the right to ask what
your objection is."
"Rather unnecessary, don't you think?"
"I cannot imagine, sir, what you mean." And Roland, holding himself
unaffectedly straight, without the symptom of a pose, looked the old man
in the eyes.
That look Mr. Dunellen returned. "Take a seat," he said; and, motioning
Roland to a chair, he sat down himself.
"All this is needless," he announced; "but since you are anxious for an
explanation, I will give it. In the first place, when you were at my
house you remember that my nephew Dr. Thorold happened in. The other day
I mentioned to him that you were at Aiken. He then informed me of a
certain incident in your career, one which you have not forgotten, and
of which I do not care to speak. I may say, however, that it utterly
precludes the possibility of any further intercourse between my daughter
and yourself."
And the old man, still gazing at his guest, added: "This explanation
should, it seems to me, suffice." But he made no attempt to rise, or to
signify that the interview was at an end, and Roland, who was shrewd,
interpreted this in his own favor. "He is not altogether positive," he
reflected, "but he can be so to-morrow," and with a show of shame that
did him credit he hung his head.
"I had thought the incident to which you refer was forgotten," he
murmured, penitently enough.
"Forgotten? Do you suppose Thorold forgets? Do you suppose any man could
forget a thing like that--a sister's death, a mother's insanity? No, you
did not think it was forgotten. What you thought was this: you thought
that my nephew would hesitate to speak; and indeed even to me for ten
years he has kept silent. But now--there, you need not fear a criminal
charge. It was that you feared once, I understand, and it was on that
account you went abroad. At this date, of course, no proof is possible;
and, even were it otherwise, a charge would not be brought. Linen of
that kind is better washed at home."
"Mr. Dunellen, if you could know! It is the regret of my life."
"That I can believe; but I believe also that our natures never vary. We
may mould and shape them to our uses, but beneath the surface they
remain unchanged. I say this parenthetically. In regard to this incident
there are in one particular certain excuses you might allege--youth for
instance, inexperience, common attraction, love even. If you did, I
could enter into them. I have been young myself, and I have no wish to
imply that through the temptations of youth I passed unscathed. The man
who asserts he has reminds me of the horseman who declares he has never
been thrown. Nor because your victim happened to be my niece am I
actuated by retrospective indignation. I am too old for that; and,
moreover, the incident is too stale. No: my reason for forbidding my
daughter to receive you, as I have done, is this: the man that can
seduce a girl, and then, to conceal the effect, permit her to be
butchered by a quack, especially when he could have protected her by
marriage--that man, Mr. Mistrial, I tell you very plainly, is a
scoundrel, and being a scoundrel will never be anything else." And as
Honest Paul made this assertion he stood up and nodded affirmatively at
his guest.
"You are very hard, Mr. Dunellen."
"I may be, but so is justice."
"If I could tell you all. It was so sudden, so unpremeditated even, at
the first idea of a possibility of a catastrophe I lost my head."
"It was your honor you lost."
"Yes, and for years I have tried to recover it."
"That I am glad to learn, and I hope you have succeeded; but--"
"And will you not aid me?"
"In my sight you can never appear an honest man."
At this reproach, Roland, who had sat like Abjection, one hand
supporting his head, his eyes lowered and his body bent, sprang to his
feet.
"There are several forms of honesty," he exclaimed, "and frankness I
believe is counted among them. That you evidently possess. Let me
emulate you in it. I intend that your daughter shall be my wife. If you
don't care to come to the wedding your presence can be dispensed with."
And without any show of anger, but with an inclination of the head that
was insolent in its deference, he picked up his hat and left the room.
Presently he found himself in the street. "Who is ever as stupid as a
wise man?" he queried, and laughed a little to himself--"unless"--and he
fell to wondering whether Dunellen could have told his daughter all. On
the corner a cab was loitering; he hailed and entered it. A little later
he was ringing at the door of Honest Paul's abode.
Yes, Miss Dunellen was at home. And as the servant drew the portière to
the drawing-room aside, Roland was visited by that emotion the gambler
knows who waits the turning of a card. Another second, and the
expression of the girl's face would tell him what the future held. The
drawing-room, however, happened to be untenanted, and as he paced its
spacious splendors he still wondered was she or was she not informed. In
a corner was a landscape signed Courbet--a green ravine shut down by
bluest sky. The coloring was so true, it jarred. In another was a
statue--a cloaked and hooded figure of Death supporting a naked girl. As
he contemplated it, he heard the tinkle of the portière rings. It was
she, he knew; he turned, and at once his heart gave an exultant throb;
in her eyes was an invitation; he put his arms about her, and for a
moment held her so.
She does not know, he told himself, and to her he murmured, "I have
come to say good-bye."
"Wait, Roland." She led him to a seat. "Wait; I spoke to father last
night; he has some objection--"
"I told you I was poor--"
"It is that, I suppose; he did not say--"
"He will never consent, unless--"
"There, Roland. I know him best." She closed her eyes, and as he gazed
at her it seemed to him she had done so to shut some memory out. "It is
money with him always; you do not know--" And between her parted lips
she drew a breath he heard. "Last night he told me I must never see you
again. Hitherto his will has ruled: it is my turn to-day."
With this there came a splendor to her he had never marked before; she
looked defiant, and resolute as well. There was strength in her face,
and beauty too.
"He is unjust," she added. "It was my duty to tell him, and there my
duty ends. I am not a school-girl. I know my mind; better, perhaps,
than he knows his own. I have obeyed him always. It is easy to obey, but
now I will act for myself."
"He will never give his consent," Roland repeated.
"He may keep it, then."
Within her something seemed to rankle; and as Roland, mindful of the
slightest change in her expression, detected this, he wondered what it
could portend.
"Sweetheart," he ventured, "I have these two arms; they are all in all
for you."
At this Justine awoke at once. "If I did not know it--feel it; if I were
not sure of it, do you think I would speak to you as I do? No, Roland. I
have something of my own; when we are married, believe me, his consent
will come at once."
"It is not his consent I want--you know that; it is yours."
"You have it, Roland; I gave it you among the pines."
"Where is your hat, then? Let us go."
He caught her to him again, then suffered her to leave the room. And as
the portière which he had drawn that she might pass fell back into its
former folds, for a moment he stood perplexed. Somewhere a screw was
loose, he could have sworn. But where? Could it be that Honest Paul was
supporting a separate establishment? or did Justine think he wished to
mate her to some plutocrat of his choice? The first supposition was
manifestly absurd; the second troubled him so little that he turned and
occupied himself with the naked girl swooning in the arms of Death.
"I am ready, Roland." It was Justine, bonneted and veiled, buttoning her
glove.
"I have a cab," he answered, and followed her to the door.
VII.
When Roland and Justine re-entered the drawing-room that afternoon they
found Mr. Dunellen there. With him was Guy Thorold.
During the infant days of photography family groups were so much in
vogue that anyone with an old album in reach can find them there in
plenty. They are faded, no doubt; the cut of the garments is absurd;
even the faces seem to have that antique look which is peculiar to the
miniatures of people dead and departed: yet the impression they convey
is admirably exalting. That gentleman in the wonderful coat must have
been magnificent in every sphere of life: his mere pose, his attitude,
is convincing as a memoir. And that lady in the camel's-hair shawl--how
bewitchingly lovable she surely was! There is her daughter, who might be
her niece, so prettily does she seem inclined to behave; and there is
the son, a trifle effaced perhaps, yet with the makings of a man
manifest even in that effacement. Oh, good people! let us hope you were
really as amiable as you look: the picture is all we have of you; even
your names are forgot; and truly it were discomforting to have the
impression you convey disturbed in its slightest suggestion. We love you
best as you are; we prefer you so. I, for one, will have none of that
cynicism which hints that had a snap camera caught you unprepared the
charm would disappear.
Yet now, in the present instance, as Mr. Dunellen and his nephew stood
facing Roland and Justine, a photographer who had happened there could
have taken a family group which would in no manner have resembled those
which our albums hold.
"I told you last night," Mr. Dunellen was shrieking, "that I forbade you
to see that man."
And Justine, raising her veil, answered, "He was not my husband then."
"Husband!" The old man stared at his daughter, his face distorted and
livid with rage. "If you--"
But whatever threat he may have intended to make, Thorold interrupted.
"He is married already," he cried; "he is no more your husband than I."
At this announcement Mr. Dunellen let an arm he had outstretched fall to
his side; he turned to Thorold, and Justine looked wonderingly in
Roland's face.
"What does he mean?" she asked.
Roland shrugged his shoulders, "God knows," he answered. "He must be
screwed."
"You are married," Thorold called out. "You needn't attempt to deny it
here."
"I don't in the least: this lady has just done me the honor to become my
wife."
"But you have another--you told me so yourself."
Roland, who had been really perplexed, could not now conceal a smile.
He remembered that he had indeed told Thorold he was married, but he had
done so merely as an easy way of diverting the suspicions which that
gentleman displayed.
Justine, still looking at him, caught the smile.
"Why don't you speak?" she asked.
"What is there to say?" he answered. "It is false as an obituary."
"Then tell him so."
But for that there was no time. Mr. Dunellen, trained in procedure, had
already questioned Thorold, and found that save Mistrial's word he had
nothing to grapple on.
"Leave the house, sir," he shouted, and pointed to the door.
"When he goes, father, I go too."
"Then go." And raising his arms above his head as though to invoke the
testimony of heaven, he bawled at her, "I disown you."
"There's Christian forbearance," muttered Mistrial; and he might have
asserted as much, but Justine had lowered her veil.
"Come," she said.
And as she and her husband passed from the room the old man roared
impotently "I disinherit you--you are no longer my child."
"Didn't you tell me he had been used to having his own way?" Roland
asked, as he put Justine in the cab; and without waiting for an answer
he told the driver to go to the Brunswick, and took a seat at her side.
In certain crises the beauty of an old adage asserts itself even to the
stupidest. Roland had taken the bull by the horns and got tossed for his
pains; yet even while he was in the air he kept assuring himself that he
would land on his feet. The next morning the memory of the old man's
anger affected him not at all. Passion, he knew, burns itself out, and
its threats subside into ashes. The relentless parent was a spectacle
with which the stage had made him so familiar that he needed no
prompter's book to tell him that when the curtain fell it would be on a
tableau of awaited forgiveness. And even though Mr. Dunellen and the
traditional father might differ, yet on the subject of wills and
bequests he understood that the legislature had in its wisdom prevented
a testator from devising more than one-half his property to the
detriment of kith and of kin. If things came to the worst Justine would
get five million instead of ten; and five million, though not elastic
enough, as Jones had said, to entertain with, still represented an
income that sufficed for the necessaries of life. On that score his mind
was at rest. Moreover, it was manifestly impossible for Justine's father
to live forever: there was an odor of fresh earth about him which to his
own keen nostrils long since had betokened the grave; and if meanwhile
he chose to keep the purse-strings drawn, Justine had enough from her
mother's estate to last till the strings were loosed.
Rents are high in New York, and to those bred in certain of its manors
there is a choice between urban palaces and suburban flats. But Paris is
less fastidious. In that lovely city a thousand-franc note need not be
spent in a day; and in Italy the possibilities of the lira are great.
In view of these things, Roland and his wife one week later took ship
and sailed for France.
PART II.
I.
To those that have suffered certain things there are forms of
entertainment which neither amuse nor bore, but which pain. And this
evening, as Justine sat in the stalls, the play which was being given,
and which, as plays go, was endurable enough, caused her no pleasure, no
weariness even, only a longing to get away and be alone. Now and then a
shudder visited her, her hand tightened on her fan, and at times she
would close her eyes, dull her hearing, and try to fancy that her
girlhood was recovered, that she was free again, that she was dead, that
her husband was--anything imaginable in fact, save the knowledge that
she was there, side-by-side with him, and that presently they would
return together to the hideousness of their uptown flat.
She had been married now a little more than two years, and during the
latter portion of that time life had held for her that precise dose of
misery which is just insufficient to produce uncertainties of thought in
a mind naturally exalted. There had indeed been moments in which the
possibility of insanity had presented itself, and there had been moments
also in which she would have welcomed that possibility as a grateful
release: but those moments had passed, the possibility with them; and
this evening as she sat in the stalls her outward appearance was much
such as it had been two years before. But within, where her heart had
been, was a cemetery.
Among our friends and acquaintances there are always those who to our
knowledge have tombstones of their own. But there are others that evolve
a world--one that glows, subsides, and dies away unknown to any save
themselves. The solitudes of space appall; the solitudes of the heart
can be as endless as they. In those which Justine concealed, a universe
had had its being and its subsidence; a universe with gem-like hopes for
stars--one in which the sun had been so eager its rays had made her
blind. There had been comets gorgeous and tangential as aspirations ever
are; there had been the colorless ether of which dreams are made; and
for cosmic matter there was love. But now it was all dispersed; there
was nothing left, one altar merely--the petrefaction of a prayer erected
long since in the depths of her distress, and which for conscience' sake
now and then she tended still.
And now, as the play at which she assisted unrolled before her unseeing
eyes, one by one scenes from another drama rose unsummoned in its stead.
First was the meeting with Mistrial at Tuxedo, then the episode at
Aiken, the marriage that followed, and the banishment that ensued: a
banishment, parenthetically, which at the time being she was powerless
to understand. Her father's anger had indeed weighed on her; but it was
not wholly that--she was too much in love to let it be more than a
shadow on her delight; nor was it because of unfamiliar lands: it was
that little by little, through incidents originally misunderstood and
then more completely grasped, the discovery, avoided yet ever returning,
came to her, stayed with her, and made her its own--that the man whom
she had loved and the man whom she had married were separate and
distinct.
The psychologist of woman has yet to appear, and if he keep us waiting
may it not be because every woman he analyzes has a sister who differs
from her? The moment he formulates a rule it is over-weighted by
exceptions. Woman often varies, the old song says; but not alone in her
affections does she do so: she varies in temperament as well. And, after
all, is it not the temperament that makes or mars a life? Justine, in
discovering that the man she married and the man whom she loved were
separate and distinct, instead of being disgusted with herself and with
him, as you, madam, might have been, tried her utmost to forget the
lover and love the husband that had come in his place. In this effort
she had pride for an aid. The humiliation which the knowledge of
self-deception brings is great, but when that knowledge becomes common
property the humiliation is increased. The world--not the world that
ought to be, but the world as it is--is more apt to smile than condole.
There may be much joy in heaven over the sinner that repents: on earth
the joy is at his downfall. And according to the canons we have made for
ourselves, Justine, in listening to the dictates of her heart instead of
to those of her father, had sinned, so grievously even that that father
had bid her begone from his sight. She was aware of this, and in
consequence felt it needful to hold her head the higher. And so for a
while she made pride serve as fig-leaf to her nakedness. If abashed at
heart, at least the world should be uninformed of that abashment.
This effort on her part Mistrial hindered to the best of his ability.
Whether or not he loved her, whether save himself he was capable of
loving anyone, who shall say? Men too are difficult to decipher. There
were hours when after some écart he would come to her so penitent, so
pleasant to the eye, and seemingly so afflicted at his own misconduct,
that Justine found the strength--or the weakness, was it?--to forgive
and to forget anew.
During this period they lived not sumptuously, perhaps, but in that
large and liberal fashion which requires a ponderable rent-roll to
support; and at that time, however Mistrial comported himself elsewhere,
in her presence he had the decency to seem considerate, and affectionate
as well. But meanwhile, through constant demands, the value of the
letter of credit into which he had converted the better part of her
mother's estate became impaired. Retrenchment was necessary, and that is
never a pleasant thing. The man that passes out of poverty into wealth
finds the passage so easy, so Lethean even, that he is apt to forget
what poverty was; but when, as sometimes happens, he is obliged to
