matters of thrift and foresight her husband places implicit confidence in
her judgment. In matters of generosity and kindness implying the use of
money, he never consults her.
"It is amazing to see how much people will believe," she said, putting out
her candle and snuffing it with her thumb and forefinger. Then she began
to arrange the boxes she had brought, setting them in order upon the
shelves. Still neither of the men answered her. But she was not the woman
to be reduced to silence by silence.
"I am always telling you that it is all rubbish," she continued, turning a
broad expanse of alpaca-covered back upon her audience. "I am always
telling you that you are no more a count than Fischelowitz is a grand
duke, that the whole thing is a foolish imagination which you have stuck
into your head, as one sticks tobacco into a paper shell. And it ought to
be burned out of your head, or starved out, or knocked out, or something,
for if it stays there it will addle your brains altogether. Why cannot you
see that you are in the world just like other people, and give up all
these ridiculous dreams and all this chatter about counts and princes and
such like people, of whom you never spoke to one in your life, for all you
may say?"
The Count glanced at the back of Akulina's head, which was decently
covered by a flattened twist of very shining black hair, and then he
looked at Fischelowitz as though to inquire whether the latter would
suffer a gentleman to be thus insulted in his presence and on his
premises. Fischelowitz seemed embarrassed, and coloured a little.
"You might choose your language a little more carefully, wife," he
observed in a rather timid tone.
"And you might choose your friends with a better view to your own
interests," she answered without hesitation. "If you allow this sort of
thing to go on, and four children growing up, and you expecting to open
another shop this summer--why, you had better turn count yourself," she
concluded, triumphantly, and with that nice logical perception peculiar to
her kind.
"If you mean to say that the Count's valuable help has not been to our
advantage--" began Fischelowitz, making a desperate effort to give a more
pleasant look to things.
"Oh, I know that," laughed Akulina, scornfully. "I know that the Count, as
you call him, can make his two thousand a day as well as any one. I am not
blind. And I know you, and I know that it is a sort of foolish pleasure to
you to employ a count in the work and to pay your money to a count, though
he does not earn it any better than any one else, nor any worse, to be
just. And I know the Count, and I know his friends who borrow fifty marks
of you and pay you back in stuffed dolls with tunes in them. I know you,
Christian Gregorovitch"--at the thought of the lost money Akulina broke at
last into her native language and gave the reins to her fury in good
Russian--"yes, I know you, and him, and his friends and your friends, and
I see the good yellow money flying out of the window like a flight of
canary birds when the cage is opened, and I see you grinning like
Player-Ape over the vile Vienna puppet, and winding up its abominable
music as though you were turning the key upon your money in the safe
instead of listening to the tune of its departure. And then because
Akulina has the courage to tell you the truth, and to tell you that your
fine Count is no count, and that his friends get from you ten times the
money he earns, then you turn on me like a bear, ready to bite off my
head, and you tell me to choose my language! Is there no shame in you,
Christian Gregorovitch, or is there also no understanding? Am I the mother
of your four children or not? I would like to ask. I suppose you cannot
deny that, whatever else you deny which is true, and you tell me to choose
my language! Da, I will choose my language, in truth! Da, I will
choose out such a swarm of words as ought to sting your ears like hornets,
if you had not such a leathery skin and such a soft brain inside it. But
why should I? It is thrown away. There is no shame in you. You see
nothing, you care for nothing, you hear no reason, you feel no argument. I
will go home and make soup. I am better there than in the shop. Oh yes! it
is always that. Akulina can make good things to eat, and good tea and good
punch to drink, and Akulina is the Archangel Michael in the kitchen. But
if Akulina says to you, 'Save a penny here, do not lend more than you have
there,' Akulina is a fool and must be told to choose her language, lest it
be too indelicate for the dandified ears of the high-born gentleman! I
should not wonder if, by choosing her language carefully enough, Akulina
ended by making the high-born gentleman understand something after all.
His perception cannot possibly be so dull as yours, Christian
Gregorovitch, my little husband."
Akulina paused for breath after her tremendous invective, which, indeed,
was only intended by her for the preface of the real discourse, so fertile
was her imagination and so thoroughly roused was her eloquence by the
sense of injury received. While she was speaking, Fischelowitz, whose
terror of his larger half was only relative, had calmly risen and had
wound up the "Wiener Gigerl" to the extreme of the doll's powers, placing
it on the counter before him and sitting down before it in anticipation of
the amusement he expected to derive from its performance. In the short
silence which ensued while Akulina was resting her lungs for a second and
more deadly effort, the wretched little musical box made itself heard,
clicking and scratching and grinding out a miserable little polka. At the
sound, the sunny smile returned to the tobacconist's face. He knew that no
earthly eloquence, no scathing wit, no brutal reply could possibly
exasperate his wife as this must. He resented everything she had said, and
in his vulgar way he was ashamed that she should have said it before the
Count, and now he was glad that by the mere turning of a key he could
answer her storm of words in a way to drive her to fury, while at the same
time showing his own indifference. As for the Count himself, he had moved
nearer to the door and was looking quietly out into the irregularly
lighted street, smoking as though he had not heard a word of what had been
said. As he stood, it was impossible for either of the others to see his
face, and he betrayed no agitation by movement or gesture.
Akulina turned pale to the lips, as her husband had anticipated. It is
probable that the most tragic event conceivable in her existence could not
have affected her more powerfully than the twang of the musical box and
the twisting and turning of the insolent little wooden head. She came
round to the front of the counter with gleaming eyes and clenched fists.
"Stop that thing!" she cried, "Stop it, or it will drive me mad."
Fischelowitz still smiled, and the doll continued to turn round and round
to the tune, while the Count looked out through the open door. Suddenly
there was a quick shadow on the brightly lighted floor of the shop,
followed instantly by a crash, and then with a miserable attempt to finish
its tune the little instrument gave a resounding groan and was silent.
Akulina had struck the Gigerl such a blow as had sent it flying, pedestal
and all, past her husband's head into a dark corner behind the counter.
Fischelowitz reddened with anger, and Akulina stood ready to take to
flight, glad that the broad counter was between herself and her husband.
Her fury had spent itself in one blow and she would have given anything to
set the doll up in its place again unharmed. She realised at the same
instant that she had probably destroyed any intrinsic value which the
thing had possessed, and her face fell wofully. The Count turned slowly
where he stood and looked at the couple.
"Are you going to fight each other?" he inquired in unusually bland tones.
At the sound of his voice the Russian woman's anger rose again, glad to
find some new object upon which to expend itself and on which to exercise
vengeance for the catastrophe its last expression had brought about. She
turned savagely upon the Count and shook her plump brown fists in his
face.
"It is all your fault!" she exclaimed. "What business have you to come
between husband and wife with your friends and your cursed dolls, the
fiend take them, and you! Is it for this that Christian Gregorovitch and I
have lived together in harmony these ten years and more? Is it for this
that we have lived without a word of anger--"
"What did you say?" asked Fischelowitz, with an angry laugh. But she did
not heed him.
"Without a word of anger between us, these many years?" she continued. "Is
it for this? To have our peace destroyed by a couple of Wiener Gigerls, a
doll and a sham count? But it is over now! It is over, I tell you--go, get
yourself out of the shop, out of my sight, into the street where you
belong! For honest folks to be harbouring such a fellow as you are, and
not you only, but your friends and your rag and your tag! Fie! If you stay
here long we shall end in dust and feathers! But you shall not stay here,
whatever that soft-brained husband of mine says. You shall go and never
come back. Do you think that in all Munich there is no one else who will
do the work for three marks a thousand? Bah! there are scores, and honest
people, too, who call themselves by plain names and speak plainly! None of
your counts and your grand dukes and your Lord-knows-whats! Go, you
adventurer, you disturber of--why do you look at me like that? I have
always known the truth about you, and I have never been able to bear the
sight of you and never shall. You have deceived my husband, poor man,
because he is not as clever as he is good-natured, but you never could
deceive me, try as you would, and the Lord knows, you have tried often
enough. Pah! You good-for-nothing!"
The poor Count had drawn back against the well-filled shop and had turned
deadly pale as she heaped insult upon insult upon him in her incoherent
and foul-mouthed anger. As soon as she paused, exhausted by the effort to
find epithets to suit her hatred of him, he went up to the counter where
Fischelowitz was sitting, very much disturbed at the course events were
taking.
"My dear Count," began the latter, anxious to set matters right, "pray do
not pay any attention--"
"I think I had better say good-bye," answered the Count in a low tone. "We
part on good terms, though you might have said a word for me just now."
"He dare not!" cried Akulina.
"And as for the doll, if you will give it to me, I promise you that you
shall have your fifty marks to-morrow."
"Oho! He knows where to get fifty marks, now!" exclaimed Akulina,
viciously.
Fischelowitz picked up the puppet, which was broken in two in the waist,
so that the upper half of the body hung down by the legs, in a limp
fashion, held only by the little red coat. The tobacconist wrapped it up
in a piece of newspaper without a word and handed it to the Count. He felt
perhaps that the only atonement he could offer for his wife's brutal
conduct was to accede to the request.
"Thank you," said the Count, taking the thing. "On the word of a gentleman
you shall have the money before to-morrow night."
"A good riddance of both of them," snarled Akulina, as the Count lifted
his hat and then, his head bent more than was his wont, passed out of the
shop with the remains of the poor Gigerl under his arm.
CHAPTER IV.
The Count had no precise object in view when he hurriedly left the shop
with the parcel containing the broken doll. What he most desired for the
moment was to withdraw himself from the storm of Akulina's abuse, seeing
that he had no means of checking the torrent, nor of exacting satisfaction
for the insults received. However he might have acted had the aggressor
been a man, he was powerless when attacked by a woman, and he was aware
that he had followed the only course which had in it anything of dignity
and self-respect. To stand and bandy words and epithets of abuse would
have been worse than useless, to treat the tobacconist like a gentleman
and to hold him responsible for his wife's language would have been more
than absurd. So the Count took the remains of the puppet and went on his
way.
He was not, however, so superior to good and bad treatment as not to feel
deeply wounded and thoroughly roused to anger. Perhaps, if he had been
already in possession of the fortune and dignity which he expected on the
morrow, he might have smiled contemptuously at the virago's noisy wrath,
feeling nothing and caring even less what she felt towards him. But he had
too long been poor and wretched to bear with equanimity any reference to
his wretchedness or his poverty, and he was too painfully conscious of the
weight of outward circumstances in determining men's judgments of their
fellows not to be stung by the words that had been so angrily applied to
him. Moreover, and worst of all, there was the fact that Fischelowitz had
really lent the money to a poor countryman who had previously made the
acquaintance of the Count, and had by that means induced the tobacconist
to help him. It was true, indeed, that the poor Count had himself lent the
fellow all he had in his pocket, which meant all that he had in the world,
and had been half starved in consequence during a whole week. The man was
an idle vagabond of the worst type, with a pitiful tale of woe well worded
and logically put together, out of which he made a good livelihood.
Nature, as though to favour his designs, had given him a face which
excited sympathy, and he had the wit to cover his eyes, his own tell-tale
feature, with coloured glasses. He had cheated several scores of persons
in the Slav colony of Munich, and had then gone in search of other
pastures. How he had obtained possession of the Wiener Gigerl was a
mystery as yet unsolved. It had certainly seemed odd in the tobacconist's
opinion that a man of such outward appearance should have received such an
extremely improbable Christmas present, for such the adventurer declared
the doll to be, from a rich aunt in Warsaw, who refused to give him a
penny of ready money and had caused him to be turned from her doors by her
servants when he had last visited her, on the ground that he had joined
the Russian Orthodox Church without her consent. The facetious young
villain had indeed declared that she had sent him the puppet as a piece of
scathing irony, illustrative of his character as she conceived it. But
though such an illustration would have been apt beyond question, yet it
seemed improbable that the aunt would have chosen such a means of
impressing it upon her nephew's mind. Fischelowitz, however, asked no
questions, and took the Gigerl as payment of the debt. The thing amused
him, and it diverted him to construct an imaginary chain of circumstances
to explain how the man in the coloured glasses had got possession of it.
It was of course wholly inconceivable that even the most accomplished
shop-lifter should have carried off an object of such inconvenient
proportions from the midst of its fellows and under the very eyes of the
vendor. If he had supposed a theft possible, Fischelowitz would never have
allowed the doll to remain on his premises a single day. He was too
kind-hearted, also, to blame the Count, as his wife did, for having been
the promoter of the loan, for he readily admitted that he would have lent
as much, had he made the vagabond's acquaintance under any other
circumstances.
But the Count, since Akulina had expressed herself with so much force and
precision, could not look upon the affair in the same light. However
Fischelowitz regarded it, Akulina had made it clear that the Count ought
to be held responsible for the loss, and it was not in the nature of such
a man, no matter how wretched his own estate, to submit to the imputation
of being concerned in borrowing money which was never to be repaid. His
natural impulse had been to promise repayment instantly, and as he was
expecting to be turned into a rich man on the morrow the engagement seemed
an easy one to keep. It would be more difficult to explain why he wanted
to take away the broken puppet with him. Possibly he felt that in removing
it from the shop, he was taking with it even the memory of the transaction
of which the blame had been so bitterly thrown on him; or, possibly, he
was really attached to the toy for its associations, or, lastly, he may
have felt impelled to save it from Akulina's destroying wrath, so far as
it yet could be said to be saved.
As has been said, he had not dined on that day, and he would very probably
have forgotten to eat, even after being reminded of the meal by the
tobacconist, had he not passed, on his way homeward, the obscure
restaurant in which he and the other men who worked for Fischelowitz were
accustomed to get their food and drink. This fifth-rate eating-house
rejoiced in the attractive name of the "Green Wreath," a designation
painted in large dusty green Gothic letters upon the grey walls of the
dilapidated house in which it was situated. There are not to be found in
respectable Munich those dens of filth and drunkenness which belong to
greater cities whose vices are in proportion greater also. In Munich the
strength of fiery spirits is drowned in oceans of mild beer, a liquid of
which the head will stand more than the waistband and which, instead of
exciting to crime, predisposes the consumer to peaceful and lengthened
sleep. The worst that can be said of the poorer public-houses in Munich,
is that they are frequented by the poorer people, and that as the
customers bring less money than elsewhere, there is less drinking in
proportion, and a greater demand for large quantities of very filling food
at very low rates. As a general rule, such places are clean and decently
kept, and the sight of a drunken man in the public room would excite very
considerable astonishment, besides entailing upon the culprit a summary
expulsion into the street and a rather forcible injunction not to repeat
the offence.
The four windows of the establishment which opened upon the narrow street
were open, for the weather had become sultry even out of doors, and the
guests wanted fresh air. At one of these windows the Count saw the heads
of Dumnoff and Schmidt. With the instinct of the poor man, the Count felt
in his pocket to see whether he had any money, and was somewhat disturbed
to find but a solitary piece of silver, feebly supported on either side by
a couple of one-penny pieces. He had forgotten that he had refused to
accept his pay for the day's work, and it required an effort of memory to
account for the low state of his funds. But what he had with him was
sufficient for his wants, and settling his parcel under his arm he
ascended the three or four steps which gave access to the inn, and entered
the public room. Besides the Russian and the Cossack, there were three
public porters seated at the next table, dressed in their blue blouses,
their red cloth caps hanging on the pegs over their heads, all silent and
similarly engaged. Each had before him a piece of that national cheese of
which the smell may almost be heard, each had lately received a thick,
irregularly-shaped hunch of dark bread, and they had one pot of beer and
one salt-cellar amongst them. They all had honest German faces, honest
blue eyes, horny hands and round shoulders. Another table, in a far
corner, was occupied by a poorly-dressed old woman in black, dusty and
evidently tired. A covered basket stood on a chair at her elbow, she was
eating an unwholesome-looking "knödel" or boiled potato ball, and half a
pint of beer stood before her still untouched. As for the Cossack and
Dumnoff, they had finished their meal. The former was smoking a cigarette
through a mouth-piece made by boring out the well-dried leg-bone of a
chicken and was drinking nothing. Dumnoff had before him a small glass of
the common whisky known as "corn-brandy" and was trying to give it a
flavour resembling the vodka of his native land by stirring pepper into it
with the blade of an old pocket-knife. Both looked up, without betraying
any surprise, as the Count entered and sat himself down at the end of
their oblong table, facing the open window and with his back to the room.
A word of greeting passed on each side and the two relapsed into silence,
while the Count ordered a sausage "with horse-radish" of the sour-sweet
maiden of five-and-thirty who waited on the guests. The Cossack, always
observant of such things, looked at the oddly-shaped package which the
Count had brought with him, trying to divine its contents and signally
failing in the attempt. Dumnoff, who did not like the Count's
gentlemanlike manners and fine speech, sullenly stirred the fiery mixture
he was concocting. The colour on his prominent cheek-bones was a little
brighter than before supper, but otherwise it was impossible to say that
he was the worse for the half-pint of spirits he had certainly absorbed
since leaving his work. The man's strong peasant nature was proof against
far greater excesses than his purse could afford.
"What is the news?" inquired Johann Schmidt, still eyeing the bundle
curiously, and doubtless hoping that the Count would soon inform him of
the contents. But the latter saw the look and glanced suspiciously at the
questioner.
"No news, that I know of," he answered. "Except for me," he added, after a
pause, and looking dreamily out of the window at a street lamp that was
burning opposite. "To-morrow, at this time, I shall be off."
"And where are you going?" asked the Cossack, good-humouredly. "Are you
going for long, if I may ask?"
"Yes--yes. I shall never come back to Munich." He had been speaking in
German, but noticing that the other guests in the room were silent, and
thinking that they might listen, he broke off into Russian. "I shall go
home, at last," he said, his face brightening perceptibly as his visions
of wealth again rose before his eyes. "I shall go home and rest myself for
a long time in the country, and then, next winter, perhaps, I will go to
Petersburg."
"Well, well, I wish you a pleasant journey," said Schmidt. "So there is to
be no mistake about the fortune this time?"
"This time?" repeated the Count, as though not understanding. "Why do you
say this time?"
"Because you have so often expected it before," returned the Cossack
bluntly, but without malice.
"I do not remember ever saying so," said the other, evidently searching
among his recollections.
"Every Tuesday," growled Dumnoff, sipping his peppery liquor. "Every
Tuesday since I can remember."
"I think you must be mistaken," said the Count, politely.
Dumnoff grunted something quite incomprehensible, and which might have
been taken for the clearing of his huge throat after the inflaming
draught. The Cossack was silent, and his bright eyes looked pityingly at
his companion.
"And you have begun to put together your parcels for the journey, I see,"
he observed after a time, when the Count had got his morsel of food and
was beginning to eat it. His curiosity gave him no rest.
"Yes," answered the Count, mysteriously. "That is something which I shall
probably take with me, as a remembrance of Munich."
"I should not have thought that you needed anything more than a cigarette
to remind you of the place," remarked Dumnoff.
The Count smiled faintly, for, considering Dumnoff's natural dulness, the
remark had a savour of wit in it.
"That is true," he said. "But there are other things which could remind me
even more forcibly of my exile."
"Well, what is it? Tell us!" cried Dumnoff, impatiently enough, but
somewhat softened by the Count's appreciation of his humour. At the same
time he put out his broad red hand in the direction of the parcel as
though he would see for himself.
"Let it be!" said Schmidt sharply, and Dumnoff withdrew his hand again. He
had fallen into the habit of always doing what the Cossack told him to do,
obeying mutely, like a well-trained dog, though he obeyed no one else. The
descendant of freemen instinctively lorded it over the descendant of the
serf, and the latter as instinctively submitted.
The Count's temper, however, was singularly changeable on this day, for he
did not seem to resent Dumnoff's meditated attack upon the package, as he
would certainly have done under ordinary circumstances.
"If you are so very curious to know what it is, I will tell you," he said.
"You know the Wiener Gigerl?"
"Of course," answered both men together.
"Well, that is it, in that parcel."
"The Gigerl!" exclaimed the Cossack. Dumnoff only opened his small eyes in
stupid amazement. Both knew something of the circumstances under which
Fischelowitz had come into possession of the doll, and both knew what
store the tobacconist set by it.
"Then you have paid the fifty marks?" asked Schmidt, whose curiosity was
roused instead of satisfied.
"No. I shall pay the money to-morrow. I have promised to do so. As it
chances, it will be convenient." The Count smiled to himself in a meaning
way, as though already enjoying the triumph of laying the gold pieces upon
the counter under Akulina's flat nose.
"And yet Fischelowitz has already given it to you! He must be very sure of
you--" With his usual lack of tact, Schmidt had gone further than he meant
to do, but the transaction savoured of the marvellous.
"To be strictly truthful," said the Count, who had a Quixotic fear of
misleading in the smallest degree any one to whom he was speaking, "to be
exactly honest, there is a circumstance which makes it less remarkable
that Fischelowitz should have given me the doll at once."
"Of course, of course!" exclaimed the Cossack, anxious to appear credulous
out of kindness. "Fischelowitz knows as well as you do yourself how safe
you are to get the money to-morrow."
"Naturally," replied the Count, with great calmness. "But besides that,
the Gigerl is broken--badly broken in the middle, and the musical box is
spoiled too."
"Fischelowitz must have been very angry," observed Dumnoff.
"Not at all. It was his wife. Akulina knocked it from the counter into the
farthest corner of the shop."
"Tell us all about it," said Schmidt, more interested than ever.
"Ah, that--that is quite another matter," answered the Count, reddening
perceptibly as he remembered Akulina's furious abuse.
"If you do not, I have no doubt that she will," said Dumnoff, taking
another sip. "She always gives the news of you, before you come in the
morning, before we have made our first hundred."
