" So much the better, all things considered." 
"Are there all sorts of other things in her life? That's 
what I believe," Miriam went on, raising her eyes to him. 
" I can't tell you what there is in the life of such a woman." 
" Imagine when she's so perfect ! " the girl exclaimed, 
thoughtfully. "Ah, she kept me off she kept me off ! Her 
charming manner is in itself a kind of contempt. It's an 
abyss it's the wall of China. She has a hard polish, an 
inimitable surface, like some wonderful porcelain that costs 
more than you'd think." 
" Do you want to become like that ? " Sherringham asked. 
"If I could I should be enchanted. One can always try." 
" You must act better than she," said Sherringham. 
" Better ? I thought you wanted me to give it up. ;> 
" Ah, I don't know what I want, and you torment me and 
turn me inside out ! What I want is you yourself." 
'" Oh, don't worry," said Miriam, kindly. Then she added 
that Mademoiselle Yoisin had asked her to come to see her ; 
to which Sherringham replied, with a certain dryness, that she 
would probably not find that necessary. This made Miriam 
stare, and she asked, " Do you mean it won't do, on account 
of mamma's prejudices ? " 
" Say, this time, on account of mine. :i 
" Do you mean because she has lovers ? " 
" Her lovers are none of our business." 
" None of mine, I see. So you have been one of them? " 
" No such luck." 
" What a pity ! I should have liked to see that. One 
must see everything, to be able to do everything." And as 
he inquired what she had wished to see she replied : " The 
way a woman like that receives one of the old ones." 
Sherringham gave a groan at this, which was at the same 
time partly a laugh, and, turning away and dropping upon a 
bench, ejaculated : " You'll do you'll do ! " 
He sat there some minutes with his elbows on his knees 
and his face in his hands. Miriam remained looking at the 
portrait of Bachel ; after which she demanded : " Doesn't such 
a woman as that receive receive every one? " 
" Every one who goes to see her, no doubt." 
" And who goes ? " 
" Lots of men clever men, eminent men." 
" Ahj what a charming life ! Then doesn't sho go oxit ? " 
" Not what we Philistines mean by that not into society, 
never. She never enters a lady's drawing-room." 
" How strange, when one's as distinguished as that ; except 
that she must escape a lot of stupidities and corvees. Then 
where does she learn such manners ? " 
" She teaches manners, a ses heures : she doesn't need to 
learn them." 
" Oh, she has given me ideas ! But in London actresses go 
into society," Miriam continued. 
" Oh, in London nous melons Jes genres ! " 
" And sha'n't I go I mean if I want ? " 
" You'll have every facility to bore yourself. Don't doubt 
of it." 
"And doesn't she feel excluded? " Miriam asked. 
" Excluded from what ? She has the fullest life." 
The fullest ? " 
" An intense artistic life. The cleverest men in Paris talk 
over her work with her ; the principal authors of plays discuss 
with her subjects and characters and questions of treatment. 
She lives in the world of art." 
" Ah, the world of art how I envy her ! And you offer 
me Dashwood ! " 
Sherringham rose in his emotion. " I offer you ? " 
Miriam burst out laughing. " You look so droll ! You 
offer me yourself then, instead of all these things." 
" My child, I also am a very clever man," he said, smiling, 
though conscious that for a moment he had stood gaping. 
"You are you are; I delight in you. No ladies at all 
no femmes comme il faut ] " Miriam began again. 
" Ah, what do they matter ? Your business is the artistic 
life ! " he broke out with inconsequence and with a little 
irritation at hearing her sound that trivial note again. 
" You're a dear your charming good sense comes back to 
you ! What do you want of me then ? " 
" I want you for myself not for others ; and now, in time, 
before anything's done." 
" Why then did you bring me here ? Everything's done ; 
I feel it to-night." 
" I know the way you should look at it if you do look at 
it at all," Sherringham conceded. 
" That's so easy ! I thought you liked the stage so," 
Miriam said, artfully. 
" Don't you want me to be a great swell ? '' 
" And don't you want me to be ? " 
"You will be you'll share my glory." 
" So will you share mine." 
" The husband of an actress ? Yes, I see that ! " Sherringham 
cried, with a frank ring of disgust. 
" It's a silly position, no doubt. But if you're too good for 
it why talk about it ? Don't you think I'm important ? " 
Miriam inquired. Her companion stood looking at her, and 
she suddenly said in a different tone : " Ah, why should we 
quarrel, when you have been so kind, so generous? Can't we 
always be friends the solidest friends'? " 
Her voice sank to the sweetest cadence and her eyes were 
grateful and good as they rested on him. She sometimes said 
things with such perfection that they seemed dishonest, but 
in this case Sherringham was stirred to an expressive response. 
Just as he was making it, however, he was moved to utter 
other words "Take care, here's Dashwood ! " Mrs. Rooth's 
companion was in the doorway. He had come back to say- 
that they really must relieve him. 
XXII. 
MRS. D ALLOW came up to London soon after the meeting of 
Parliament ; she made no secret of the fact that she was fond 
of the place, and naturally in present conditions it would not 
have become less attractive to her. But she prepared to with- 
draw from it again for the Easter vacation, not to return to 
Harsh, but to pay a couple of country visits. She did not 
however leave town with the crowd she never did anything 
with the crowd but waited till the Monday after Parliament 
rose ; facing with composure, in Great Stanhope Street, the 
horrors, as she had been taught to consider them, of a Sunday 
out of the session. She had done what she could to mitigate 
them by asking a handful of "stray men" to dine with her 
that evening. Several members of this disconsolate class 
sought comfort in Great Stanhope Street in the afternoon, 
and them for the most part she also invited to come back at 
eight o'clock. There were therefore almost too many people 
at dinner there were even a couple of wives. Nick Dormer 
came to dinner, but he was not present in the afternoon. 
Each of the persons who were had said on coming in : " So 
you've not gone I'm awfully glad." Mrs. Dallow had 
replied, "No, I've not gone," but she had in no case added 
that she was glad, nor had she offered an explanation. She 
never offered explanations : she always assumed that no one 
could invent them so well as those who had the florid taste to 
desire them. 
And in this case she was right, for it is probable that few 
of her visitors failed to say to themselves that her not having 
gone would have had something to do with Dormer. That 
could pass for an explanation with many of Mrs. Dallow's 
visitors, who as a general thing were not morbidly analytic ; 
especially with those who met Nick as a matter of course at 
the dinner. His being present at this lady's entertainments, 
being in her house whenever, as the phrase was, a candle was 
lighted, was taken as a sign that there was something rather 
particular between them. Nick had said to her more than 
once that people would wonder why they didn't marry ; but 
he was wrong in this, inasmuch as there were many of their 
friends to whom it would not have occurred that his position 
could be improved by it. That they were cousins was a fact 
not so evident to others as to themselves, in consequence of 
which they appeared remarkably intimate. The person seeing 
clearest in the matter was Mrs. Gresham, who lived so much 
in the world that being alone had become her idea of true 
sociability. She knew very well that if she had been privately 
engaged to a young man as amiable as Nick Dormer she would 
have managed that publicity should not play such a part in 
their intercourse ; and she had her secret scorn for the stupidity 
of people whose conception of Nick's relation to Julia Dallow 
rested on the fact that he was always included in her parties. 
" If he never was there they might talk," she said to herself. 
But Mrs. Gresham was supersubtle. To her it would have 
appeared natural that Julia should celebrate the parliamentary 
recess by going down to Harsh and securing Nick's company 
there for a fortnight ; she recognized Mrs. Dallow's actual 
plan as a comparatively poor substitute the project of spend- 
ing the holidays in other people's houses, to which Nick had 
also promised to come. Mrs. Gresham was romantic ; she 
wondered what was the good of mere snippets and snatches, 
the chances that any one might have, when large, still days 
a deux were open to you chances of which half the sanctity 
was in what they excluded. However, there were more 
unsettled matters between Mrs. Dallow and her queer kins- 
man than even Mrs. Gresham' s fine insight could embrace. 
She was not present on the Sunday before Easter at the 
dinner in Great Stanhope Street ; but if she had been Julia's 
singular indifference to observation would have stopped short 
of encouraging her to remain in the drawing-room with Nick 
after the others had gone. I may add that Mrs. Gresham's 
extreme curiosity would have emboldened her as little to do 
so. She would have taken for granted that the pair wished 
to be alone together, though she would have regarded this 
only as a snippet. 
The guests stayed late and it was nearly twelve o'clock 
when Nick, standing before the fire in the room they had 
quitted, broke out to his companion : 
" See here, Julia, how long do you really expect me to 
endure this kind of thing?" Mrs. Dallow made him no 
answer ; she only leaned back in her chair with her eyes upon 
his. He met her gaze for a moment ; then he turned round 
to the fire and for another moment looked into it. After this 
he faced Mrs. Dallow again with the exclamation : " It's so 
foolish it's so damnably foolish ! " 
She still said nothing, but at the end of a minute she 
spoke without answering him. " I shall expect you on 
Tuesday, and I hope you'll come by a decent train." 
" "What do you mean by a decent train ? " 
" I mean I hope you'll not leave it till the last thing before 
dinner, so that we can have a little walk or something." 
" What's a little walk or something ? Why, if you make 
such a point of my coming to Griffin, do you want me to come 
at all?" 
Mrs. Dallow hesitated an instant ; then she exclaimed : u I 
knew you hated it ! " 
" You provoke me so," said Nick. " You try to, I think." 
" And Severals still worse. You'll get out of that if you 
can," Mrs. Dallow went on. 
" If I can ? What's to prevent me ] '' 
" You promised Lady Whiteroy. But of course that's 
nothing." 
" I don't care a straw for Lady Whiteroy." 
" And you promised me. But that's less still." 
" It is foolish it's quite idiotic," said Nick, with his hands 
in his pockets and his eyes on the ceiling. 
There was another silence, at the end of which Mrs. Dallow 
remarked : " You might have answered Mr. Macgeorge when 
he spoke to you." 
" Mr. Macgeorge what has he to do with it? " 
" He has to do with your getting on a little. If you think 
that's the way ! " 
Nick broke into a laugh. " I like lessons in getting on 
in other words I suppose you mean in urbanity from you, 
Julia ! " 
" Why not from me ? " 
" Because you can do nothing base. You're incapable of 
putting on a flattering manner, to get something by it : there- 
fore why should you expect me to ? You're unflattering 
that is you're austere in proportion as there may be some- 
thing to be got. ' 
Mrs. Dallow sprang up from her chair, coming towards him. 
" There is only one thing I want in the world you know very 
well." 
" Yes, you want it so much that you won't even take it when 
it's pressed upon you. How long do you seriously expect me 
to bear it ? " Nick repeated. 
" I never asked you to do anything base," she said, standing 
in front of him. "If I'm not clever about throwing myself 
into things, it's all the more reason you should be." 
" If you're not clever, my dear Julia ] " Nick, standing close 
to her, placed his hands on her shoulders and shook her a little 
with a mixture of tenderness and passion. " You're clever 
enough to make me furious, sometimes ! " 
She opened and closed her fan, looking down at it while she 
submitted to this attenuated violence. " All I want is that 
when a man like Mr. Macgeorge talks to you, you shouldn't 
appear to be bored to death. You used to be so charming in 
that sort of way. And now you appear to take no interest in 
anything. At dinner to-night you scarcely opened your lips ; 
you treated them all as if you only wished they'd go." 
" I did wish they'd go. Haven't I told you a hundred times 
what I think of your salon ] " 
" How then do you want me to live ? " Mrs, Dallow asked. 
" Am I not to have a creature in the house ? " 
" As many creatures as you like. Your freedom is complete, 
and as far as I am concerned always will be. Only when you 
challenge me and overhaul me not justly I think I must 
confess the simple truth, that there are many of your friends 
I don't delight in." 
" Oh, your idea of pleasant people ! '' Julia exclaimed. " I 
should like once for all to know what it really is." 
" I can tell you what it really isn't : it isn't Mr. Macgeorge. 
He's a being almost grotesquely limited." 
" He'll be where you'll never be unless you change." 
" To be where Mr. Macgeorge is not would be very nmch my 
desire. Therefore why should I change ? " Nick demanded. 
" However, I hadn't the least intention of being rude to him, 
and I don't think I was," he went on. " To the best of my 
ability I assume a virtue if I have it not ; but apparently I'm 
not enough of a comedian." 
" If you have it not ? It's when you say things like that 
that you're so dreadfully tiresome. As if there were anything 
that you haven't or mightn't have ! " 
Nick turned away from his hostess ; he took a few impatient 
steps in the room, looking at the carpet, with his hands in. his 
pockets again. Then he came back to the fire with the observ- 
ation : " It's rather hard to be found so wanting when one has 
tried to play one's part so beautifully." He paused, with his 
eyes on Mrs. Dallow's ; then continued, with a vibration in 
his voice : " I've imperilled my immortal soul, or at least I've 
bemuddled my intelligence, by all the things I don't care for 
that I've tried to do, and all the things I detest that I've tried 
to be, and all the things I never can be that I've tried to look 
as if I were all the appearances and imitations, the pretences 
and hypocrisies in which I've steeped myself to the eyes ; and 
at the end of it (it serves me right ! ) my reward is simply to 
learn that I'm still not half humbug enough ! " 
Mrs. Dallow looked away from him as soon as he had spoken 
these words ; she attached her eyes to the clock which stood 
behind him and observed irrelevantly : 
" I'm very sorry, but I think you had better go. I don't 
like you to stay after midnight." 
' ' Ah, what you like and what you don't like, and where one 
begins and the other ends all that's an impenetrable mys- 
tery ! " the young man declared. But he took no further 
notice of her allusion to his departure, adding in a different 
tone : " ' A man like Mr. Macgeorge ! ' When you say a thing 
of that sort, in a certain particular way, I should rather like 
to suffer you to perish." 
Mrs. Dallow stared ; it might have seemed for an instant 
that she was trying to look stupid. " How can I help it if a 
few years hence he is certain to be at the head of any Liberal 
government ? " 
" "We can't help it, of course, but we can help talking about 
it," Nick smiled. " If we don't mention it, it may not be 
noticed." 
" You're trying to make me angry. You're in one of your 
vicious moods," observed Mrs. Dallow, blowing out, on the 
chimney-piece, a guttering candle. 
" That I'm exasperated I have already had the honour very 
positively to inform you. All the same I maintain that I was 
irreproachable at dinner. I don't want you to think I shall 
always be so good as that." 
" You looked so out of it ; you were as gloomy as if every 
earthly hope had left you, and you didn't make a single con- 
tribution to any discussion that took place. Don't you think 
I observe you ? " Mrs. Dallow asked, with an irony tempered 
by a tenderness that was unsuccessfully concealed. 
" Ah, my darling, what you observe ! " Nick exclaimed, 
laughing and stopping. But he added the next moment, more 
seriously, as if his tone had been disrespectful: "You probe 
me to the bottom, no doubt." 
" You needn't come either to Griffin or to Severals if you 
don't want to." 
" Give them up yourself ; stay here with me ! " 
She coloured quickly, as he said this, and broke out : Lord ! 
how you hate political houses ! " 
" How can you say that, when from February to August I 
spend every blessed night in one? " 
" Yes, and hate that worst of all." 
" So do half the people who are in it. You must have so 
many things, so many people, so much miie-en-scene and such 
a perpetual spectacle to live," Nick went on. " Perpetual 
motion, perpetual visits, perpetual crowds ! If you go into the 
country you'll see forty people every day and be mixed up with 
them all day. The idea of a quiet fortnight in town, when by 
a happy if idiotic superstition everybody goes out of it, discon- 
certs and frightens you. It's the very time, it's the very place, 
to do a little work and possess one's soul." 
This vehement allocution found Mrs. Dallow evidently 
somewhat unprepared ; but she was sagacious enough, instead 
of attempting for the moment a general rejoinder, to seize on 
a single phrase and say : " Work ? What work can you do in 
London at such a moment as this ? " 
Nick hesitated a little. " I might tell you that I wanted 
to get up a lot of subjects, to sit at home and read blue-books; 
but that wouldn't be quite what I mean." 
" Do you mean you want to paint ? " 
" Yes, that's it, since you drag it out of me." 
" Why do you make such a mystery about it ? You're at 
perfect liberty," said Mrs. Dallow. 
She extended her hand, to rest it on the mantel-shelf, but 
her companion took it on the way and held it in both his 
own. " You're delightful, Julia, when you speak in that 
tone then I know why it is I love you ; but I can't do 
anything if I go to Griffin, if I go to Severals." 
" I see I see," said Julia, reflectively and kindly. 
" I've scarcely been inside of my studio for months and I 
feel quite homesick for it. The idea of putting in a few quiet 
days there has taken hold of me : I rather cling to it." 
"It seems so odd, your having a studio!" Julia dropped, 
speaking so quickly that the words were almost incom- 
prehensible. 
" Doesn't it sound absurd, for all the good it does me, or I 
do in it ? Of course one can produce nothing but rubbish on 
such terms without continuity or persistence, with just a few 
days here and there. I ought to be ashamed of myself, no 
doubt ; but even my rubbish interests me. ' Guenille si Von 
veut, ma guenille truest chere.' But I'll go down to Harsh with 
you in a moment, Julia," Nick pursued : " that would do as 
well, if we could be quiet there, without people, without a 
creature ; and I should really be perfectly content. You'd sit 
for me ; it would be the occasion we've so often wanted and 
never found." 
Mrs. Dallow shook her head slowly, with a smile that had 
a meaning for Nick. " Thank you, my dear ; nothing would 
induce me to go to Harsh with you." 
The young man looked at her. " What's the matter, when- 
ever it's a question of anything of that sort ? Are you afraid 
of me  ?" She pulled her hand quickly out of his, turning 
away from him ; but he went on : " Stay with me here then, 
when everything is so right for it. We shall do beautifully 
have the whole place, have the whole day to ourselves. Hang 
your engagements ! Telegraph you won't come. We'll live 
at the studio you'll sit to me every day. Now or never is 
our chance when shall we have so good a one ? Think how 
charming it will be ! I'll make you wish awfully that I shall 
do something." 
" I can't get out of Griffin it's impossible," returned Mrs. 
Dallow, moving further away, with her back presented to him. 
"Then you are afraid of me simply?" 
She turned quickly round, very pale. " Of course I am ; you 
are welcome to know it." 
He went toward her, and for a moment she seemed to make 
another slight movement of retreat. This however was 
scarcely perceptible, and there was nothing to alarm in the 
tone of reasonable entreaty in which Nick said to her as he 
went toward her : " Put an end, Julia, to our absurd situation 
it really can't go on : you have no right to expect a man to 
be happy or comfortable in so false a position. We're talked 
of odiously of that we may be sure ; and yet what good have 
we of it?" 
" Talked of I Do I care for that ] " 
"Do you mean you're indifferent because there are no 
grounds? That's just why I hate it." 
" I don't know what you're talking about," exclaimed Mrs. 
Dallow, with quick disdain. 
