who, not at all suspecting that the valise he had received from the
clerk was not his own, repaired to the International Hotel and engaged
one of the best rooms in the house, for he was a man of ample means. He
laid his valise on the bed and went down-stairs. Later in the day he
went out to take his customary walk.
Meanwhile Fred and his two companions walked about in a leisurely
manner, surveying the Falls from different points, and finally went to
Goat Island. Here they sat down on a bench and surrendered themselves
to the fascinations of the scene.
"Well, what do you think of Niagara, Fred?" asked Frank.
"It is even finer than I had supposed," replied the train boy.
"Some people are disappointed," said Mr. Ferguson, "because they expect
too much. The Falls of Montmorency are considerably higher but not
nearly as wide. There are some cascades in the Yosemite Valley of over
a thousand feet descent, but they are only a few feet wide. For
grandeur Niagara excels them all."
"I shouldn't like to be swept over the Falls," said Fred.
"It must be terrible!" said Frank, with a shudder.
"The reality is worse than any picture drawn by the imagination. Ten
years since it happened to me to see a poor wretch drawn down to
destruction over the cataract."
The boys looked eager for the story, and he proceeded.
"I may state," continued the detective, "that I was indirectly the
cause of the tragedy. A defaulting bank cashier had got as far as this
point on his way to Canada, which as now was a haven of refuge to
gentlemen of his character. I was close upon his track, and he was in
imminent danger of capture. There seemed to be only one way of
escape--crossing the river above the Falls. By some means he obtained
a row-boat, and being a fair rower set out on his dangerous trip,
exulting in having outwitted me and made his escape. I remember very
well how he stood up in the boat, and with a smile on his face waved
me a mock adieu, as he impelled the little craft out toward the middle
of the river.
"He was a strong, sturdy rower, but he had no conception of the
strength and rapidity of the current. He battled manfully, but the boat
immediately began to tend towards the cataract with continually
increasing rapidity. At length he came to realize the fate that
certainly awaited him. His smile was succeeded by a look of despair. I
can see even now the expression of terror and desperation, formed upon
the poor fellow's face when he saw that, struggle as he might, there
was no help or deliverance, I am sure at that time he would have
welcomed me as a friend and savior, and gone with me willingly to
prison, if only he could have been rescued from the impending doom.
Still, however, he plied the oars with desperate vigor and would not
resign himself to his fate. I was painfully excited, and in the poor
fellow's peril quite forgot that he was a criminal of whom I was in
pursuit. The end came speedily. When six feet from the edge of the
cataract, he dropped his oars, threw up his hands, and an instant later
boat and man were swept down into the gulf below."
"Was his body ever found?" asked Fred.
"Yes, but it was so mangled as to be almost beyond recognition. Many a
time when looking at the Falls I have pictured to myself the unhappy
victim of that day's tragedy."
"I suppose," said Frank, "it is impossible to go over the cataract and
live."
"Not if all stories are to be believed. There is a boy in the village
here who is said to have gone over the Falls, and yet he does not seem
to have suffered any injury. The same story is told of a cat, but cats
are noted for having nine lives, and therefore the story is not so
surprising."
After a little more chat the three left the island and returned to the
mainland. They had hardly reached it when a telegraph boy approached
Mr. Ferguson and handed him a despatch.
He opened it and read as follows:
ELMIRA, SUNDAY.
My nephew, Edmund Lawrence, is at Niagara. Communicate with him.
PHILO CARVER.
"This is your business," said the detective, handing the telegram to
Fred.
"Let us try to find Mr. Lawrence," said Fred, after reading it.
"It will be the best way. Mr. Carver does not mention at what hotel his
nephew is staying."
"Probably he does not know."
"Undoubtedly you are right."
"What will you do?"
"There is only one thing to do to call at the principal hotels, and
look over the registers. We will go first to the International."
"Very well, sir."
Ferguson scanned Fred with a smile.
"You certainly don't act like one under suspicion," he said.
Fred smiled in return. "I find it hard to realize that I am a suspected
burglar," he responded.
"So do I. Let us hope that you will very soon be cleared from
suspicion."
The detective and the two boys turned their steps towards the spacious
and attractive International.
"It seems a little ahead of the Lynch House," said Fred, "but probably
the prices at the latter suit my pocketbook better."
They stepped on the piazza, and went into the office.
Mr. Ferguson opened the hotel register, and among the recent entries
found the name of Edmund Lawrence.
"Is Mr. Lawrence in?" he asked the clerk.
"Yes, sir; he came in from a walk five minutes since."
"I will send up my card."
The detective wrote on a blank card:
OSCAR FERGUSON,
DETECTIVE.
Important.
This was handed to a hall boy, who took it up to Mr. Lawrence's room,
and returned with a message that the gentleman was to come up at once.
"I think you will have to go with me," said Ferguson to Fred. "It won't
do for me to give you a chance to escape."
"That is the last thing I have in mind," said the train-boy; "but I
shall be glad to see Mr. Lawrence."
Edmund Lawrence, a pleasant-looking man of middle age, looked somewhat
surprised when turning his eyes toward the door, he saw Ferguson enter,
followed by two boys.
"You wish to see me on important business?" he said interrogatively.
"Yes, sir."
"And you are a detective?"
"Yes, sir."
"I hope that I have not fallen under any suspicion."
"Not at all. Have you heard that your uncle--Philo Carver, of
Elmira--has been the victim of a burglary?"
"No! Tell me about it."
The detective told the story, and Mr. Lawrence listened with great
interest.
"Is any one suspected?" he asked.
"A party has been arrested on suspicion," answered the detective.
"Indeed! who is it?"
"This boy!" answered Ferguson, pointing to Fred.
"Impossible!" ejaculated Lawrence, eying Fred with incredulous
amazement.
CHAPTER XV.
MR. PALMER WALKS INTO A TRAP.
"Nevertheless it is true. I arrested him at the Lynch House this
morning," affirmed the detective.
"Do you believe him guilty?" asked Mr. Lawrence, noting with perplexity
Fred's open countenance and tranquil manner.
"No. Still, circumstances are against him."
"Please explain."
"I found your uncle's gold watch and chain in his bundle?"
"Is it possible?"
"It is quite true, Mr. Lawrence," said Fred calmly. "Mr. Ferguson will
allow me to say that I was as much surprised as he to find them. The
bundle was a small one and only contained a shirt and collar which I
bought at Jersey City yesterday morning. I can only say that the watch
was not in the bundle then."
"Perhaps," said Lawrence, who was favorably impressed by Fred's
openness, "you have some theory as to the manner in which the watch got
into your bag."
"Yes, sir, I have. I had for a room-mate a stranger--a man whom I only
met last evening after the train arrived. We fell in with each other
the way to the hotel. We were obliged to room together on account of
there being but one room vacant at the hotel."
"What was the man's appearance?"
"He was rather tall, thin, and dark complexioned. Though it was late he
did not go to bed at once, but sat up for a while finishing a book in
which he was interested. When I awoke in the morning he was gone."
"You think he was the real burglar?"
"Yes, sir."
"What is your reason?"
"Because it must have been he that put the watch and chain in my
bundle."
"With a view of diverting suspicion from himself?"
"Yes, sir."
"One question more. When were you in Elmira, last?"
"I was never in Elmira at all," said Fred promptly. "I have never been
so far West before."
"What was your object in making your present journey?"
"I came to make money," answered Fred, smiling.
"That answer may go against you," said the detective.
"Not when I explain that I am the train boy. I have usually made short
runs, but yesterday morning the superintendent told me I was to go to
Niagara, and gave me permission to stay over Sunday to have a chance to
see the Falls. I began to think I would not see them, after all, but
Mr. Ferguson was kind enough to walk out with me, and let me have a
view of them."
"Is this boy also a train boy?" asked Lawrence, indicating Frank
Hamblin.
"No; he is related to the clerk of the Lynch House, and was kind enough
to come up to my room and keep me company."
"Who has the watch?" asked Lawrence, after a pause. "I have," answered
the detective, producing it. Lawrence took it from his hand.
"It is my uncle's watch, sure enough," he said. "I remember it a dozen
years since. He sent to Europe for it."
"His name is in it," said Ferguson. "But for that I might not have
recognized it as one of the articles lost."
"Do you know what was taken besides?"
"Money and securities, I am informed, but to what value I have not
learned."
"You think the boy's room-mate has them in his possession?"
"There seems to be little doubt of it."
"Where do you think he is?"
"On the Canada side, no doubt."
"He went there this morning?"
"Yes."
"I was myself at the Clifton House this morning, and I now remember the
arrival of a man presenting the appearance of this young fellow's
room-mate. He is probably still at the Clifton House."
"Then he is beyond my jurisdiction," said Ferguson.
"Do you remember what luggage he had?" asked Lawrence, turning to Fred.
"He had a small valise, about the size of this," said Fred, his eyes
resting on the satchel which Lawrence had brought from the Clifton, and
thrown down carelessly. "Why," continued Fred, in excitement, "this is
his valise. I recognize it by a dark spot on the side."
"What do you mean?" said Lawrence sharply. "This is my valise."
He took it in his hand, and uttered an ejaculation.
"The boy is right! This is not my valise."
"Do you mean to say this valise belongs to the man who roomed with you
last night?" demanded die detective.
"Yes, I feel sure of it."
"Then--good Heavens!--it no doubt contains the property stolen from my
uncle. Mr. Ferguson, shall we be justified in opening it?"
"I will take the responsibility," said the detective.
He took from his pocket a bent wire, and dexterously inserting it in
the lock opened the valise.
All gathered eagerly about it, anxious to ascertain whether their
suspicions were correct.
There were a few articles of underwear, which the detective took out
hastily and laid upon the bed.
"Ha, here we have it!" he exclaimed triumphantly as he drew out two
long envelopes, such as are employed for bonds and securities. "I will
take the liberty to open them."
One envelope proved to contain two one thousand dollar railroad bonds.
The other contained two U. S. Government bonds of five hundred dollars
each, and miscellaneous securities all together amounting to three
thousand dollars more.
"A very clever capture on my word!" said Ferguson. "Really, Mr.
Lawrence, you have beaten me in my own line."
"I am entitled to no credit. It belongs to the boy who identified the
valise. I assure you the wrong bag was given me at the Clifton most
fortunately. I am content to lose the few articles which my own
contained for the sake of recovering my uncle's property. It really
seems like an interposition of Providence."
"I suspect the thief will feel very ill-satisfied with the exchange. I
wonder what he will do about it."
There was little chance for speculation on this point. There was a
knock at the door, and a hall boy put in his head.
"There is a gentleman below who wishes to see you, Mr. Lawrence," he
said. "Here is his card."
Mr. Lawrence took from his hand a card on which had been written the
name
F. GRANT PALMER.
"That is the man, Mr. Lawrence," exclaimed Fred in excitement. "He has
come for his valise."
"Bring Mr. Palmer up in about five minutes," said Lawrence; "not
sooner."
"All right, sir!"
"Now let us repack the valise," said the detective. "I always carry a
large bunch of keys with me, and shall probably find one that will
relock it."
The shirts, socks, and other articles which had been taken from the bag
were carefully replaced, and Ferguson, as he had thought probable,
found a key which fitted the lock. Then the valise was laid carefully
on the sofa.
"Mr. Palmer must not see us, and particularly the train-boy," said the
detective, "or he will think something is up. Where can you conceal
us?"
"There is a bedroom attached to the apartment," said Lawrence. "Go in
there, all of you, and remain till I call you. You can leave the door
ajar, as you will probably be curious to hear what goes on between us."
"Capital! Couldn't be better!"
Ferguson, followed by the two boys, entered the smaller room, and
waited impatiently for the entrance of Palmer.
A knock was heard.
"Come in!" Lawrence called out lazily.
The door opened, and F. Grant Palmer entered, carrying in his hand a
valise which seemed to be a fac-simile of the one lying on the sofa.
Palmer's quick eye caught sight of it as he entered the room.
"Pardon me for my intrusion!" he said suavely, "but I believe we
exchanged valises--at the Clifton--this morning."
CHAPTER XVI.
PALMER'S MALICE.
"Indeed!" said Lawrence, in assumed surprise.
"Yes, mine was left with the clerk."
"And mine also."
"And he doubtless made a mistake in delivering them. Upon my word I am
not surprised, as they certainly are very much alike."
"So they are!" said Lawrence, taking the valise from Palmer's hand.
"And here is your name too."
"It is quite a joke, ha, ha!" laughed Palmer, his spirits rising as he
saw that there would be no difficulty in effecting the exchange. "I
suppose I may take mine?"
"You are quite sure it is yours? Pardon my asking, but you are a
stranger to me."
"Oh, it's all right! You see this spot on my valise. Outside of that,
there is really no difference."
"You are willing to swear that valise I brought over from the Clifton
is yours?"
"Why, of course!" returned Palmer in surprise. "How can there be a
doubt after what I have said?"
"You will pardon my caution. It certainly does seem like it, but I
don't want to run any risk of giving it to the wrong party."
"Oh, that's all right!" said Palmer impatiently, setting down Lawrence
in his own mind as a crank.
"Probably you have the key that opens it."
"Certainly."
"Then do you mind opening it, and satisfying yourself and me that it
really belongs to you?"
"Surely not," said Palmer, really glad of an opportunity of satisfying
himself that the bonds were safe.
He drew from his pocket a bunch of keys, and carefully selecting one
inserted it in the lock of the valise. It opened at once, and Palmer
eagerly scanned the contents. The under-clothing had been carefully
replaced, and he did not discover that it had been disturbed, but when
he lifted it to look for the envelopes containing the bonds, his face
underwent a change.
"What is the matter?" inquired Lawrence, calmly.
"That valise has been opened," said Palmer, angrily.
"What makes you think so?"
"The most valuable contents have been removed. I hold you accountable
for this, Mr. Lawrence," continued Palmer, fiercely.
"Please be a little more explicit. What is it that you miss?"
"Two envelopes, containing valuable bonds."
"This is a serious charge. Are you sure they were in the valise?"
"Of course I am. I put them there myself, and when I opened the valise
this morning they were there."
"Wasn't it rash in you to leave articles of such value in your valise?
Can you name any of the bonds?"
"Yes; there were two Erie mortgage bonds of a thousand dollars each,
two government bonds of five hundred dollars each, some bank bills, and
miscellaneous securities."
"You don't mean it? And you placed them there?"
"I did, and I am willing to swear to the statement. I demand of you,
sir, where they are."
Mr. Lawrence rose from his seat, and on pretense of examining the
contents of the open valise, managed to get in between Palmer and the
door.
"A man in my employ had charge of the valise for a short time," he
said. "He may have opened it."
"Where is he? He must be arrested before he can get away," said Palmer
in excitement.
"Ferguson!" called Mr. Lawrence.
The detective, who had of course heard all that had passed, stepped out
from the inner room. He assumed the tone of a servant.
"Did you call, sir?" he asked.
"Yes."
"I am at your service."
"This gentleman here claims the valise as his property. He says that
some bonds have been abstracted from it. Am I right?"
"Yes," assented Palmer, with a fierce glance at the detective.
"He charges me with having opened the valise, and taken them."
"What does he say to that?" demanded Palmer in excitement.
"It is true," said Ferguson, calmly.
"You hear?" said Palmer. "Give me back those bonds, you scoundrel, and
I may let you go free. Otherwise I will have you arrested, and you can
guess what will follow. Don't let the fellow escape!" he added quickly,
as the detective edged towards the door.
Lawrence upon this went to the door and locked it.
"What have you to say for yourself?" he demanded, turning to Ferguson.
"Only that I am a detective, and that I am specially deputed to search
for and recover the bonds stolen from Philo Carver of Elmira, yesterday
afternoon. I have reason to think I have found them."
"Duped!" exclaimed Palmer, sinking into a chair in dismay.
"Yes, Mr. Palmer, it looks like it. There is one article missing, a
gold watch and chain."
"I don't know anything about them."
"We may find some one who does. Fred!"
At the summons the train boy stepped out from the inner room, followed
by Frank Hamblin.
At sight of his late room-mate Palmer first showed surprise, and then
anger.
"Did you put up this job on me?" he asked fiercely.
"It seems that you put up a job on me," said Fred, quietly. "The watch
was found in my bundle."
"Yes, that was to be your share," answered Palmer maliciously.
"Gentlemen, I suppose I shall have to surrender at discretion, but I am
not the only guilty party. That boy is my confederate!"
"It is an outrageous falsehood!" burst out Fred indignantly.
"It is of no use your denying it. I am convinced that you have betrayed
me, and I will have no mercy on you. Gentlemen, arrest me if you think
best, but arrest him too. He is just as guilty as I am."
"You assert that he is your confederate?" said Lawrence.
"Yes."
"How long have you known him?"
"Ever since he was born. His mother was a cousin of mine," Palmer
asserted unblushingly.
"Do you believe this, Mr. Ferguson?" asked Fred, quite overwhelmed. "I
never saw this man till last evening."
"If he is your cousin, what is his name?" asked the detective, not
answering Fred's appeal.
"Fred Fenton," said Palmer coolly.
"He has got my name right, but he saw it in the hotel register," said
Fred.
"I presume you are right," said Ferguson.
"You seem interested in my young cousin," said Palmer with a malicious
sneer.
"Do you mean to say that he was with you in Elmira?" asked Lawrence.
"Yes; he stood outside to warn me if any one came along, who was likely
to interfere with me."
"And you both took the train for Niagara after the burglary was
effected?"
"Exactly."
Lawrence was staggered by the positive assertions of the culprit. It
must be considered that he was not acquainted with Fred, who, so far as
he knew, might be an artful young adventurer.
"Why didn't you take the boy over to the Canada side with you?"
"It was understood that he was to come over later in the day. We passed
for strangers at the Lynch House, and I thought it might excite
suspicion if we both went away together at so early an hour in the
morning."
"Mr. Palmer," said Fred warmly, "you know perfectly well that all these
statements are false, and that I never met you or had anything to do
with you till last evening."
"It won't do, Fred!" said the burglar. "You and I are in the same boat.
You are a boy, and will probably get a lighter sentence than I. But you
shouldn't go back on your old pal like this."
"Do you believe that man, Mr. Ferguson?" asked Fred with a troubled
look.
