new-comer, it is doubtless true that the monotony of good weather, of
the sight of perpetual bloom and color in orchards and gardens, will
take away nervousness and produce a certain placidity, which might be
taken for laziness by a Northern observer. It may be that engagements
will not be kept with desired punctuality, under the impression that the
enjoyment of life does not depend upon exact response to the second-hand
of a watch; and it is not unpleasant to think that there is a corner of
the Union where there will be a little more leisure, a little more of
serene waiting on Providence, an abatement of the restless rush and
haste of our usual life. The waves of population have been rolling
westward for a long time, and now, breaking over the mountains, they
flow over Pacific slopes and along the warm and inviting seas. Is it
altogether an unpleasing thought that the conditions of life will be
somewhat easier there, that there will be some physical repose, the race
having reached the sunset of the continent, comparable to the desirable
placidity of life called the sunset of old age? This may be altogether
fanciful, but I have sometimes felt, in the sunny moderation of nature
there, that this land might offer for thousands at least a winter of
content.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE GENERAL OUTLOOK.--LAND AND PRICES.
From the northern limit of California to the southern is about the same
distance as from Portsmouth, New Hampshire, to Charleston, South
Carolina. Of these two coast lines, covering nearly ten degrees of
latitude, or over seven hundred miles, the Atlantic has greater extremes
of climate and greater monthly variations, and the Pacific greater
variety of productions. The State of California is, however, so
mountainous, cut by longitudinal and transverse ranges, that any
reasonable person can find in it a temperature to suit him the year
through. But it does not need to be explained that it would be difficult
to hit upon any general characteristic that would apply to the stretch
of the Atlantic coast named, as a guide to a settler looking for a home;
the description of Massachusetts would be wholly misleading for South
Carolina. It is almost as difficult to make any comprehensive statement
about the long line of the California coast.
It is possible, however, limiting the inquiry to the southern third of
the State--an area of about fifty-eight thousand square miles, as large
as Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode
Island--to answer fairly some of the questions oftenest asked about it.
These relate to the price of land, its productiveness, the kind of
products most profitable, the sort of labor required, and its
desirability as a place of residence for the laborer, for the farmer or
horticulturist of small means, and for the man with considerable
capital. Questions on these subjects cannot be answered categorically,
but I hope to be able, by setting down my own observations and using
trustworthy reports, to give others the material on which to exercise
their judgment. In the first place, I think it demonstrable that a
person would profitably exchange 160 acres of farming land east of the
one hundredth parallel for ten acres, with a water right, in Southern
California.
In making this estimate I do not consider the question of health or
merely the agreeability of the climate, but the conditions of labor, the
ease with which one could support a family, and the profits over and
above a fair living. It has been customary in reckoning the value of
land there to look merely to the profit of it beyond its support of a
family, forgetting that agriculture and horticulture the world over,
like almost all other kinds of business, usually do little more than
procure a good comfortable living, with incidental education, to those
who engage in them. That the majority of the inhabitants of Southern
California will become rich by the culture of the orange and the vine is
an illusion; but it is not an illusion that twenty times its present
population can live there in comfort, in what might be called luxury
elsewhere, by the cultivation of the soil, all far removed from poverty
and much above the condition of the majority of the inhabitants of the
foreign wine and fruit-producing countries. This result is assured by
the extraordinary productiveness of the land, uninterrupted the year
through, and by the amazing extension of the market in the United States
for products that can be nowhere else produced with such certainty and
profusion as in California. That State is only just learning how to
supply a demand which is daily increasing, but it already begins to
command the market in certain fruits. This command of the market in the
future will depend upon itself, that is, whether it will send East and
North only sound wine, instead of crude, ill-cured juice of the grape,
only the best and most carefully canned apricots, nectarines, peaches,
and plums, only the raisins and prunes perfectly prepared, only such
oranges, lemons, and grapes and pears as the Californians are willing to
eat themselves. California has yet much to learn about fruit-raising and
fruit-curing, but it already knows that to compete with the rest of the
world in our markets it must beat the rest of the world in quality. It
will take some time yet to remove the unfavorable opinion of California
wines produced in the East by the first products of the vineyards sent
here.
The difficulty for the settler is that he cannot "take up" ten acres
with water in California as he can 160 acres elsewhere. There is left
little available Government land. There is plenty of government land not
taken up and which may never be occupied, that is, inaccessible mountain
and irreclaimable desert. There are also little nooks and fertile spots
here and there to be discovered which may be pre-empted, and which will
some day have value. But practically all the arable land, or that is
likely to become so, is owned now in large tracts, under grants or by
wholesale purchase. The circumstances of the case compelled associate
effort. Such a desert as that now blooming region known as Pasadena,
Pomona, Riverside, and so on, could not be subdued by individual
exertion. Consequently land and water companies were organized. They
bought large tracts of unimproved land, built dams in the mountain
cañons, sunk wells, drew water from the rivers, made reservoirs, laid
pipes, carried ditches and conduits across the country, and then sold
the land with the inseparable water right in small parcels. Thus the
region became subdivided among small holders, each independent, but all
mutually dependent as to water, which is the sine qua non of
existence. It is only a few years since there was a forlorn and
struggling colony a few miles east of Los Angeles known as the Indiana
settlement. It had scant water, no railway communication, and everything
to learn about horticulture. That spot is now the famous Pasadena.
What has been done in the Santa Ana and San Gabriel valleys will be done
elsewhere in the State. There are places in Kern County, north of the
Sierra Madre, where the land produces grain and alfalfa without
irrigation, where farms can be bought at from five to ten dollars an
acre--land that will undoubtedly increase in value with settlement and
also by irrigation. The great county of San Diego is practically
undeveloped, and contains an immense area, in scattered mesas and
valleys, of land which will produce apples, grain, and grass without
irrigation, and which the settler can get at moderate prices. Nay, more,
any one with a little ready money, who goes to Southern California
expecting to establish himself and willing to work, will be welcomed and
aided, and be pretty certain to find some place where he can steadily
improve his condition. But the regions about which one hears most,
which are already fruit gardens and well sprinkled with rose-clad homes,
command prices per acre which seem extravagant. Land, however, like a
mine, gets its value from what it will produce; and it is to be noted
that while the subsidence of the "boom" knocked the value out of
twenty-feet city lots staked out in the wilderness, and out of insanely
inflated city property, the land upon which crops are raised has
steadily appreciated in value.
So many conditions enter into the price of land that it is impossible to
name an average price for the arable land of the southern counties, but
I have heard good judges place it at $100 an acre. The lands, with
water, are very much alike in their producing power, but some, for
climatic reasons, are better adapted to citrus fruits, others to the
raisin grape, and others to deciduous fruits. The value is also affected
by railway facilities, contiguity to the local commercial centre, and
also by the character of the settlement--that is, by its morality,
public spirit, and facilities for education. Every town and settlement
thinks it has special advantages as to improved irrigation, equability
of temperature, adaptation to this or that product, attractions for
invalids, tempered ocean breezes, protection from "northers," schools,
and varied industries. These things are so much matter of personal
choice that each settler will do well to examine widely for himself, and
not buy until he is suited.
Some figures, which may be depended on, of actual sales and of annual
yields, may be of service. They are of the district east of Pasadena and
Pomona, but fairly represent the whole region down to Los Angeles. The
selling price of raisin grape land unimproved, but with water, at
Riverside is $250 to $300 per acre; at South Riverside, $150 to $200; in
the highland district of San Bernardino, and at Redlands (which is a new
settlement east of the city of San Bernardino), $200 to $250 per acre.
At Banning and at Hesperia, which lie north of the San Bernardino range,
$125 to $150 per acre are the prices asked. Distance from the commercial
centre accounts for the difference in price in the towns named. The crop
varies with the care and skill of the cultivator, but a fair average
from the vines at two years is two tons per acre; three years, three
tons; four years, five tons; five years, seven tons. The price varies
with the season, and also whether its sale is upon the vines, or after
picking, drying, and sweating, or the packed product. On the vines $20
per ton is a fair average price. In exceptional cases vineyards at
Riverside have produced four tons per acre in twenty months from the
setting of the cuttings, and six-year-old vines have produced thirteen
and a half tons per acre. If the grower has a crop of, say, 2000 packed
boxes of raisins of twenty pounds each box, it will pay him to pack his
own crop and establish a "brand" for it. In 1889 three adjoining
vineyards in Riverside, producing about the same average crops, were
sold as follows: The first vineyard, at $17 50 per ton on the vines,
yielded $150 per acre; the second, at six cents a pound, in the sweat
boxes, yielded $276 per acre; the third, at $1 80 per box, packed,
yielded $414 per acre.
Land adapted to the deciduous fruits, such as apricots and peaches, is
worth as much as raisin land, and some years pays better. The pear and
the apple need greater elevation, and are of better quality when grown
on high ground than in the valleys. I have reason to believe that the
mountain regions of San Diego County are specially adapted to the apple.
Good orange land unimproved, but with water, is worth from $300 to $500
an acre. If we add to this price the cost of budded trees, the care of
them for four years, and interest at eight per cent. per annum for four
years, the cost of a good grove will be about $1000 an acre. It must be
understood that the profit of an orange grove depends upon care, skill,
and business ability. The kind of orange grown with reference to the
demand, the judgment about more or less irrigation as affecting the
quality, the cultivation of the soil, and the arrangements for
marketing, are all elements in the problem. There are young groves at
Riverside, five years old, that are paying ten per cent. net upon from
$3000 to $5000 an acre; while there are older groves, which, at the
prices for fruit in the spring of 1890--$1 60 per box for seedlings and
$3 per box for navels delivered at the packing-houses--paid at the rate
of ten per cent. net on $7500 per acre.
In all these estimates water must be reckoned as a prime factor. What,
then, is water worth per inch, generally, in all this fruit region from
Redlands to Los Angeles? It is worth just the amount it will add to the
commercial value of land irrigated by it, and that may be roughly
estimated at from $500 to $1000 an inch of continuous flow. Take an
illustration. A piece of land at Riverside below the flow of water was
worth $300 an acre. Contiguous to it was another piece not irrigated
which would not sell for $50 an acre. By bringing water to it, it would
quickly sell for $300, thus adding $250 to its value. As the estimate
at Riverside is that one inch of water will irrigate five acres of fruit
land, five times $250 would be $1250 per inch, at which price water for
irrigation has actually been sold at Riverside.
The standard of measurement of water in Southern California is the
miner's inch under four inches' pressure, or the amount that will flow
through an inch-square opening under a pressure of four inches measured
from the surface of the water in the conduit to the centre of the
opening through which it flows. This is nine gallons a minute, or, as it
is figured, 1728 cubic feet or 12,960 gallons in twenty-four hours, and
1.50 of a cubic foot a second. This flow would cover ten acres about
eighteen inches deep in a year; that is, it would give the land the
equivalent of eighteen inches of rain, distributed exactly when and
where it was needed, none being wasted, and more serviceable than fifty
inches of rainfall as it generally comes. This, with the natural
rainfall, is sufficient for citrus fruits and for corn and alfalfa, in
soil not too sandy, and it is too much for grapes and all deciduous
fruits.
CHAPTER IX.
THE ADVANTAGES OF IRRIGATION.
It is necessary to understand this problem of irrigation in order to
comprehend Southern California, the exceptional value of its arable
land, the certainty and great variety of its products, and the part it
is to play in our markets. There are three factors in the expectation of
a crop--soil, sunshine, and water. In a region where we can assume the
first two to be constant, the only uncertainty is water. Southern
California is practically without rain from May to December. Upon this
fact rests the immense value of its soil, and the certainty that it can
supply the rest of the Union with a great variety of products. This
certainty must be purchased by a previous investment of money. Water is
everywhere to be had for money, in some localities by surface wells, in
others by artesian-wells, in others from such streams as the Los Angeles
and the Santa Ana, and from reservoirs secured by dams in the heart of
the high mountains. It is possible to compute the cost of any one of the
systems of irrigation, to determine whether it will pay by calculating
the amount of land it will irrigate. The cost of procuring water varies
greatly with the situation, and it is conceivable that money can be lost
in such an investment, but I have yet to hear of any irrigation that has
not been more or less successful.
Farming and fruit-raising are usually games of hazard. Good crops and
poor crops depend upon enough rain and not too much at just the right
times. A wheat field which has a good start with moderate rain may later
wither in a drought, or be ruined by too much water at the time of
maturity. And, avoiding all serious reverses from either dryness or wet,
every farmer knows that the quality and quantity of the product would be
immensely improved if the growing stalks and roots could have water when
and only when they need it. The difference would be between, say, twenty
and forty bushels of grain or roots to the acre, and that means the
difference between profit and loss. There is probably not a crop of any
kind grown in the great West that would not be immensely benefited if it
could be irrigated once or twice a year; and probably anywhere that
water is attainable the cost of irrigation would be abundantly paid in
the yield from year to year. Farming in the West with even a little
irrigation would not be the game of hazard that it is. And it may
further be assumed that there is not a vegetable patch or a fruit
orchard East or West that would not yield better quality and more
abundantly with irrigation.
But this is not all. Any farmer who attempts to raise grass and potatoes
and strawberries on contiguous fields, subject to the same chance of
drought or rainfall, has a vivid sense of his difficulties. The potatoes
are spoiled by the water that helps the grass, and the coquettish
strawberry will not thrive on the regimen that suits the grosser crops.
In California, which by its climate and soil gives a greater variety of
products than any other region in the Union, the supply of water is
adjusted to the needs of each crop, even on contiguous fields. No two
products need the same amount of water, or need it at the same time. The
orange needs more than the grape, the alfalfa more than the orange, the
peach and apricot less than the orange; the olive, the fig, the almond,
the English walnut, demand each a different supply. Depending entirely
on irrigation six months of the year, the farmer in Southern California
is practically certain of his crop year after year; and if all his
plants and trees are in a healthful condition, as they will be if he is
not too idle to cultivate as well as irrigate, his yield will be about
double what it would be without systematic irrigation. It is this
practical control of the water the year round, in a climate where
sunshine is the rule, that makes the productiveness of California so
large as to be incomprehensible to Eastern people. Even the trees are
not dormant more than three or four months in the year.
But irrigation, in order to be successful, must be intelligently
applied. In unskilful hands it may work more damage than benefit. Mr.
Theodore S. Van Dyke, who may always be quoted with confidence, says
that the ground should never be flooded; that water must not touch the
plant or tree, or come near enough to make the soil bake around it; and
that it should be let in in small streams for two or three days, and not
in large streams for a few hours. It is of the first importance that the
ground shall be stirred as soon as dry enough, the cultivation to be
continued, and water never to be substituted for the cultivator to
prevent baking. The methods of irrigation in use may be reduced to
three. First, the old Mexican way--running a small ditch from tree to
tree, without any basin round the tree. Second, the basin system, where
a large basin is made round the tree, and filled several times. This
should only be used where water is scarce, for it trains the roots like
a brush, instead of sending them out laterally into the soil. Third, the
Riverside method, which is the best in the world, and produces the
largest results with the least water and the least work. It is the
closest imitation of the natural process of wetting by gentle rain. "A
small flume, eight or ten inches square, of common red-wood is laid
along the upper side of a ten-acre tract. At intervals of one to three
feet, according to the nature of the ground and the stuff to be
irrigated, are bored one-inch holes, with a small wooden button over
them to regulate the flow. This flume costs a trifle, is left in
position, lasts for years, and is always ready. Into this flume is
turned from the ditch an irrigating head of 20, 25, or 30 inches of
water, generally about 20 inches. This is divided by the holes and the
buttons into streams of from one-sixth to one-tenth of an inch each,
making from 120 to 200 small streams. From five to seven furrows are
made between two rows of trees, two between rows of grapes, one furrow
between rows of corn, potatoes, etc. It may take from fifteen to twenty
hours for one of the streams to get across the tract. They are allowed
to run from forty-eight to seventy-two hours. The ground is then
thoroughly wet in all directions, and three or four feet deep. As soon
as the ground is dry enough cultivation is begun, and kept up from six
to eight weeks before water is used again." Only when the ground is very
sandy is the basin system necessary. Long experiment has taught that
this system is by far the best; and, says Mr. Van Dyke, "Those whose
ideas are taken from the wasteful systems of flooding or soaking from
big ditches have something to learn in Southern California."
As to the quantity of water needed in the kind of soil most common in
Southern California I will again quote Mr. Van Dyke: "They will tell you
at Riverside that they use an inch of water to five acres, and some say
an inch to three acres. But this is because they charge to the land all
the waste on the main ditch, and because they use thirty per cent. of
the water in July and August, when it is the lowest. But this is no test
of the duty of water; the amount actually delivered on the land should
be taken. What they actually use for ten acres at Riverside, Redlands,
etc., is a twenty-inch stream of three days' run five times a year,
equal to 300 inches for one day, or one inch steady run for 300 days. As
an inch is the equivalent of 365 inches for one day, or one inch for 365
days, 300 inches for one day equals an inch to twelve acres. Many use
even less than this, running the water only two or two and a half days
at a time. Others use more head; but it rarely exceeds 24 inches for
three days and five times a year, which would be 72 multiplied by 5, or
360 inches--a little less than a full inch for a year for ten acres."
I have given room to these details because the Riverside experiment,
which results in such large returns of excellent fruit, is worthy of the
attention of cultivators everywhere. The constant stirring of the soil,
to keep it loose as well as to keep down useless growths, is second in
importance only to irrigation. Some years ago, when it was ascertained
that tracts of land which had been regarded as only fit for herding
cattle and sheep would by good ploughing and constant cultivation
produce fair crops without any artificial watering, there spread abroad
a notion that irrigation could be dispensed with. There are large areas,
dry and cracked on the surface, where the soil is moist three and four
feet below the surface in the dry season. By keeping the surface broken
and well pulverized the moisture rises sufficiently to insure a crop.
Many Western farmers have found out this secret of cultivation, and more
will learn in time the good sense of not spreading themselves over too
large an area; that forty acres planted and cultivated will give a
better return than eighty acres planted and neglected. Crops of various
sorts are raised in Southern California by careful cultivation with
little or no irrigation, but the idea that cultivation alone will bring
sufficiently good production is now practically abandoned, and the
almost universal experience is that judicious irrigation always improves
the crop in quality and in quantity, and that irrigation and cultivation
are both essential to profitable farming or fruit-raising.
CHAPTER X.
THE CHANCE FOR LABORERS AND SMALL FARMERS.
It would seem, then, that capital is necessary for successful
agriculture or horticulture in Southern California. But where is it not
needed? In New England? In Kansas, where land which was given to actual
settlers is covered with mortgages for money absolutely necessary to
develop it? But passing this by, what is the chance in Southern
California for laborers and for mechanics? Let us understand the
situation. In California there is no exception to the rule that
continual labor, thrift, and foresight are essential to the getting of a
good living or the gaining of a competence. No doubt speculation will
spring up again. It is inevitable with the present enormous and yearly
increasing yield of fruits, the better intelligence in vine culture,
wine-making, and raisin-curing, the growth of marketable oranges,
lemons, etc., and the consequent rise in the value of land. Doubtless
fortunes will be made by enterprising companies who secure large areas
of unimproved land at low prices, bring water on them, and then sell in
small lots. But this will come to an end. The tendency is to subdivide
the land into small holdings--into farms and gardens of ten and twenty
acres. The great ranches are sure to be broken up. With the resulting
settlement by industrious people the cities will again experience
"booms;" but these are not peculiar to California. In my mind I see the
time when this region (because it will pay better proportionally to
cultivate a small area) will be one of small farms, of neat cottages, of
industrious homes. The owner is pretty certain to prosper--that is, to
get a good living (which is independence), and lay aside a little
yearly--if the work is done by himself and his family. And the
peculiarity of the situation is that the farm or garden, whichever it is
called, will give agreeable and most healthful occupation to all the
boys and girls in the family all the days in the year that can be spared
from the school. Aside from the ploughing, the labor is light. Pruning,
grafting, budding, the picking of the grapes, the gathering of the fruit
from the trees, the sorting, packing, and canning, are labor for light
and deft hands, and labor distributed through the year. The harvest, of
one sort and another, is almost continuous, so that young girls and boys
can have, in well-settled districts, pretty steady employment--a long
season in establishments packing oranges; at another time, in canning
fruits; at another, in packing raisins.
It goes without saying that in the industries now developed, and in
others as important which are in their infancy (for instance, the
culture of the olive for oil and as an article of food; the growth and
curing of figs; the gathering of almonds, English walnuts, etc.), the
labor of the owners of the land and their families will not suffice.
There must be as large a proportion of day-laborers as there are in
other regions where such products are grown. Chinese labor at certain
seasons has been a necessity. Under the present policy of California
this must diminish, and its place be taken by some other. The pay for
this labor has always been good. It is certain to be more and more in
demand. Whether the pay will ever approach near to the European standard
is a question, but it is a fair presumption that the exceptional profit
of the land, owing to its productiveness, will for a long time keep
wages up.
During the "boom" period all wages were high, those of skilled mechanics
