things are too high, you see," turning to Winterburne 
with a laugh. 
Mrs. Halford glances from the girls to Regina, and then 
back again. 
" If you would like to go," sdys the tall daughter indif- 
ferently. " I am due at Madame Varney's in just tea 
minutes." 
" If you are sure we shall not inconvenience you," turn- 
ing to Winterburne. " Are you quite at liberty ? " 
" Entirely at your service." His voice is a little husky. 
"And being here — though I would come for you any 
time," he ends confusedly. 
" Oh, we could go this afternoon ! " Mrs. Halford says 
simply. She really would like to see more of him and his 
way of life, for she has hoped they would be cordial friends, 
" When shall we return ? " 
" If I were a real householder now, if my Sister were 
here, I could bid you to supper. I hope you will come 
then. As for trains — one leaves at six. One goes now in 
about ten miimtes," glancing at his watch. 
"Then I will drive you down," remarks Regina, "and 
come for you at half-past six ? " 
She does not look at Winterburne, but at her mother. 
" Yes," he makes answer. 
There is the gentle sort of confusion attendant upon 
departure. Mr. Sayre clasps his hand with more thaii 
ordinary fervor. 
" I wish you good luck," he says ; " I wish you the best 
of luck. I can't help thinking but that you will have it. 
The best deed of Silas Bradley's whole life was his dying 
without a will." 
 
This is not simply for Wiuterburne, but quite as niiicli 
for these pi-etty girls in whom he takes a fatherly pride. 
Tliey are great favorites at his house, and llegina is quite 
a young queen among Beverly people, with her beauty and 
her grand air. 
He walks down with the girls. Mrs. Halford is wait- 
ing on the platform. Regina has -turned the pony, and 
sits in her cloud of twilight gray, nodding a gracious 
farewell; 
Winterburne seats himself beside Mrs. Halford, and listens 
to her cheerful gossip of home affairs, delightful to him be- 
cause Kegina said this or thought that. The brief journey 
is rather pretty, most of it in sight of the river. At his 
own station he manages to find a decentj tWo-seated wagoii, 
though it is only a short distance to the mills. They are 
just in time to see the iron cast in its first stage, the rough 
pigs. The stream of fiery liquid runs slowly about the 
ground in its moulds, fascinatjng the small audience. They 
have a glimpse of the great furnace, they listen to the pro- 
cesses, inspect the piles of ore, the brusher, and watch the 
workmen with the eagerly curious eyes of youth. 
Afterward he drives them over to his new home. Mrs. 
Prall, at his request, sends them in a plate of delicious bread 
and butter and some of her best company cake, brews a 
cup of tea for Mrs. Halford, while the girls have a glass of 
milk. It is quite like a picnic. They inspect the rooms 
that look really habitable. 
" I don't see how you could have' chosen and arranged 
everything so prettily, and without a woman's help," says 
Mrs. Halford. 
"When he might have had our united wisdom," an- 
nounces Cynthia upbraidingly. 
"I never thought of that," he answers regretfully. 
"You see, I am a slow, stupid fellow at the best." 
" You are not stupid," declares Perdita; rather resent- 
fully. His strength and gentleness, his evident love for 
his sister, have touched her. "And you may have a large 
proportion of sureness to the slowness which makes an 
excellent adjustment. You know the tortoise won the 
race." 
It is a tender, attractive face that smiles up into his. 
He is wondering if he really cares so much about winning 
the race he has set for himself. The alluring vision is 
smouldering in dull grayish tints, just as he has seen clouds 
settle after a glowing sunset. They are all so happy 
among themselves, he seems far off outside of it all. Yet 
a few hours ago he was so content with what fate had 
brought him. Can he take this lesser pleasure held out to 
him so cordially ? Can he see her and not love her, not 
suffer from the icy barrier she has reared between them ? 
Mrs. Halford suggests that it must be train-time. 
She is most cordial. There is a motherliness in. it that 
touches him, and the pretty manner in which they have 
included him and his sister in their summer pleasures 
would make it quite' impossible for him to stand out. He 
promises some things with that uncertain pulsation at his 
heart that puts a tremor in his voice. It has been a charm- 
ing bit, like something out of a play, but he is glad to be 
alone. He watches the workmen filing out of the yardj 
talking in little groups and going their ways. . He bids 
Dale a good-evening, and walks a short distance with 
Graniss. 
" Well," says the latter, " there can be no question. The 
process is a success. You are a lucky chap, Winterburne, 
and we are in luck to have snapped you up in this fasliion. 
It is all right, I suppose, about your property ? " 
" Oh, yes, all right." 
" They're fortunate to get rid of it." 
Winterburne gives the conventional little sound that is 
sometimes a short laugh, — now, mere -assent. 
" When does your sister come ? " 
" Soon. I shall hear to-morrow." 
Graniss gives him a sharp, sidelong glance. He certainly 
is not in his usual buoyant mood. 
He tramps out to his new home, trying to disentangle 
the confusion of thought, to certify to himself just where 
 
he stands. Is her world something higher tlian his ? has 
it forms and graces and idealisms in which he is deficient ? 
Oh, he would try so hard to reach it! There are men who 
liave come up out of the depths and won the respect of the 
whole world. He has never been iu them. There has 
been no real want in his life, it has lain along the lines of 
the upper middle class ; he could have worked his way 
through college if he had chosen: he is not an ignorant 
boor : he realizes with a thrill of exultation that there are 
men who would trade their money for his brains. By the 
side of her grace and pretty refinements he may seem a 
little rude and clumsy — is it possible Jasper Bradley may 
be nearer her ideal ? Let him go carefully over the past. 
Has he not presumed with very little encouragement ? 
At first they were so friendly — he can recall the little 
room with its worn carpet, its rather crowded belongings, 
its cheerful aspect, and a certain jollity that made one feel 
at ease, though this was generally due to the gayety of 
the two younger girls, who are being toned down, — he can 
see that. Was the seeming recession on Regina's part a 
suggestion that he should have noted with a finer atten- 
tion ? Had he misread it ? He cannot imagine a woman 
dragging out her pure, white soul for a man's inspection, 
until he has made a bridge of his own for her to cross 
over to him. He has let himself , be borne along the inagic 
current of his own wishes without noting wliether the 
frailer bark was drifting in the beguiling current. Per- 
haps — yes, it is certain, that he has made a great, a pitiful 
mistake. And even in his dream of the fortune to be won 
for her he has gone astray. Even if she were poor, she 
could not be bought by money — as little tempted; he is 
proud of that, though he has not exactly dreamed of tempt- 
ing her, only setting her in that garden of delight wliere 
she naturally belonged. But it is all ended. She has 
shown him to-day, in that fine way he has heard of women 
using, that there can be nothing between them ; she has 
swept away the rapturous faith of the past, and left him 
to grope about until he can find some sure footing else- 
where. He is ignorant of ' such experiences ; he hardly 
knows where to turn for strength, or how to fight off that 
dumb nervelessness creeping over him. He is like a child 
in his first great disappointment. 
After a while he rouses himself. He has been going 
about mechanically, putting touclies here and there in a 
dazed way. Mrs. Prall has tapped at his door and begged 
him to come' in and have a cup of tea ; but he feels that 
he could not swallow food nor drink. He stands for some 
time nearly in the centre of the roomy his eyes wandering 
about, seeing nothing. 
"It is not her fault," he cries with repressed passion, 
as if some one had accused her ; " not her fault. She 
told me — yes — and I went on dreaming. I thought 
time and my own ardent wishes must work the miracle ; 
I fancied myself superhuman," and he laughs with a sad 
bitterness, " but the old world has no niiracle-workers 
to-day. She is innocent of it all — it has been my own 
heedless folly, so I must gather up myself and go on ; I 
am not the first man who has had his lamp blown out by 
an adverse blast, and I shall find my way "- it is there I 
know; I have only myself to blame." 
Then he tries to put it out of his mind. He will show 
her that he can take up the friendly basis this relationship 
gives them all, for he cannot go away His lot and his 
work are here. 
Past midnight he throws himself down on the Turkish 
lounge he selected only a few days ago with such pleasure. 
In a vague way he wonders whether anything will ever 
delight him again. His sleep is fragmentary and unre- 
freshing, but he is up in the early dawn of the summer 
morning, for there are some touches to be put to the flower- 
beds in front of the window w.liere Alice will sit and look 
out. Will it always be Alice now ? 
Two days later he goes to the station for her. When 
the train comes in he watches the two passenger coaclies, 
— the local trains are seldom long. Ah — and he hurries 
down to one end, smiling up into a familiar. face and pushes 
the brakeman aside, lifting her gently down himself; 
 
" You do not know how strong I have grown," she says 
smilingly. "I had half a mind to discard my old coin- 
panion," and she gives her ci-utch a pat ; " but it seemed 
ungrateful when he haa given me his cheerful support so 
many times. Dr. Graham has been studying up climates 
and altitudes and what not, and is quite sure the change 
will prove beneficial. So you are not to worry about the" 
ugliitess or the tone of society or any earthly thing; and 
I am so glad to get back to you, Norman — so glad. Do 
you believe it ? " 
He presses her hand. "You can hardly guess how glad 
I am to have you." He is not so utterly adrift after all. 
There is a sudden briglitening to life, so much joy can one 
generous, large-hearted wouian infuse. 
They have been walking down the platform. 
" Oh ! " she begins, " I have some boxes with me, 
'traps,' in a man's parlance; here are ray checks. And 
the others" — 
"May not be here until night." He goes to see after 
the traps. She steadies herself on her crutch and glances 
around J not a very inviting prospect truly. But over the 
river — ah! how much of comfort and beauty there often 
is over the river. She is thankful she has turned her eyes 
that way ; she is still gazing at the everlasting hills in their 
purple splendor, when Winterburne returns. His wagon 
is waiting for her, and he helps her in it with a satchel 
of reasonable size, and the rest are left for the express. 
" Do you remember," she says, " that it is two years since 
we have really lived together ? I could hardly believe it 
at first. Why, I would have been content to go out in a 
howling wilderness with you," and she gives a soft, glad 
laugh. 
They are very little alike in looks, but there are certain 
expressions and the peculiar soft tenderness of the laugh, 
that are wonderfully similar. 
"You have come to the wilderness, or perhaps it is 
nearer the desert ; but I found one oasis and pitched our 
tent there." 
" It looks very little like our neat, thrifty towns. There 
may be a good opportunity for missionary work, begiuuiug 
with cleanliness and order." 
" I had not thought of that." He glances about criti- 
 cally, quite as if he had hardly noted the disorder and 
evidences of unthrift before. " Most of the men get toler- 
ably good wages, too, and living is cheap. There is our 
mill." 
"I am so glad, so thankful that your experiment suc- 
ceeded ; and, Norman, one of my greatest sources of grati- 
tude is that it was won before this fortune came to you : 
you doii't owe it to that. I am half jealous, you see. You 
won it by your good right liand and' your clear brain, as so 
many of the great things of life have been won." 
He was so proud of it a month ago, he cares so little 
about it now. 
" And these people — these new cousins ? " she says 
inquiringly. • 
" They are anxious to see you ; you will like them, I am 
sure. There is quite an *odd story connected with them : 
I have not told you, it was so long to put in letters. I 
had met them before — the winter I was in New York — I 
boarded with a friend of theirs. We might never have met 
again " — is that quite the truth ? — " yet it is singular," 
he adds by way of compromise, " how often you do run across 
the sanje people. Of course I was more than surprised 
when I found who they were ; so we had a bit of acquaint- 
anceship to begin with. Mrs. Halford is such a delight- 
fully motherly woman. The two younger girls will amuse 
you : one is the niece. Miss Cope. Miss Halford is " — 
what shall he say about the woman he still loves? — "rather 
stately and cold, but handsome in a certain way." 
" And you liked them when they were poor ? " 
" Oh, immensely ! " 
" And the young man, the real Bradley among them ? " 
" I must not prejudice you. I don't believe I am very 
good at judging people, except for business purposes. He 
is rather peculiar, and very handsome." 
 
"Then the handsome young man and the handsome 
young woman ought to join liauds." 
He is glad she is looking straight ahead. 
" You certainly have not deceived me in regard to War- 
wick," she says with an abrupt change. "It is rather dis- 
mal. There is one redeeming feature in the landscape" — 
" We are going thither," and he makes a turn. " But 
we are not compelled to live here after all," he exclaims 
brightly. " I could come up and down on the train. Bev- 
erly is beautiful. Most of the little towns are, save in the 
iron districts." 
" I am not difficult to entertain, you know. And since I 
shall have you — and all your cousins," laughingly. " Were 
they glad to come into fortunes — but what a question ! 
Were they very poor, I mean ? " 
" Mrs. Halford was in some financial difficulty just then, 
' I believe, owing to bad times, but she had a small portion 
of her own. And Miss Cope as well," he explains briefly. 
"It really was nice to know something about them be- 
fore," Miss Hilliard says after a little pause. "And the 
young man was well known." 
"No, it was his father. He had spent his youth here, 
but that was long ago. For twenty or so years he had not 
been heard of. As I told you, it was a rather puzzling 
search." 
"Qh, this is quaint and pretty," she exclaims as they 
drive up the short lane. " Yes, I know I shall like it, 
since you are to be here." 
He smiles. They have come to the boy and girl plans : 
he was to have the home and she was to be the house- 
keeper. He lifts her out and stands her on the porch. 
There is one straggling rose in bloom here, and a great 
tangle of honeysuckle. All the air is fragrant with it. 
" I suppose," she says slowly, " that Bradley House is a 
grand old place ?  I almost wish you had been the Bradley, 
so that the first choice could have been yours." 
He takes her within and explains that he has left many 
little touches to her taste and pleasure, and that presently, 
when they get to real livihg, they will feel at home. And 
when Lois comes everything will move smoothly. Until 
then they are to Cake their meals with their landlady. 
Lois is a distant connection of the Hilliards, who came 
to nurse Alice in her misfortune, and has never left her 
save now and then for a brief visit. She has chosen this 
hiatus for a journey, and is to rejoin them in a day or two. 
"I shall inspect it with the eye of faith," says Alice, 
glancing about. " But you have done wonders. I always 
said you were as good as a woman," and she turns her eyes 
gratefully on him. " Hut you have fagged yourself all out. 
Wliy, I hardly noted it before. You are heavy-eyed, and 
— you look as if you had been studying late o' nights. 
Have you some new project in view ? There is a fascina- 
tion about inventing, I suppose, for most people never stop, 
whether they are successful or not." 
VVinterburne laughs gently. " It is simply a -process," 
he says. " I cannot aspire to the rank of an inventor at 
present." 
" I do not see any difference in.it. But you shall not 
wear yourself out. I have come just in time to take care 
of you." 
" Yes," he makes answer in a tone that gives her a quick 
thrill of pleasure. He is very glad to have her. Life 
seems brighter than it did yesterday. 
After she is a little rested and has gone around her new 
habitation, Mrs. Prajl is called in. She is a plain-featured 
country woman whose girlish softness vanished long ago. 
Her grayish gown is njade severely plain, and hangs rather 
than fits her lank figure. One shoulder is a trifle higher 
and larger than the other, and one hand has grown notice- 
ably larger with the continual using. They are very long, 
with dull bluish veins like small rivulets running in every 
direction. Her face has the weather-beaten look of women 
who are much out of doors. Her eyes are light but shrewd 
and kindly, and though her lips are thin, there is a faint 
shadow of a smile hovering about them, a remnant of 
earlier days when joyousness was a more frequent guest. 
 
Her thin hair, one of those nondescript tints, is drawn 
tightly back and twisted in a little knob. 
" I'm proper glad to see you," she says with a cordial 
clasp of the hand. " And no doubt you're all tuckered out 
with such a long trip. I ain't been to York in years and 
years, but my man, he goes once't in a while, and he says 
he's clean wore out with the crowds of people. Where 
they all come from is one of the seven mysteries. And 
you had a long journey before you reached there. Sakes 
alive ! but you had a good deal of courage. How could you 
find your way, and a stranger too ! " 
"I did not come alone." Miss Hilliard smiles with a 
tender grace that ciiaruis Mrs. Prall. " Or, at least, only 
irom Jersey City, where I was put on the train." 
" You don't look a mite like him," nodding toward Win- 
terburne, " only jest as you smiled. And he's got a smile 
like a woman, some of the sweet religious kind: I've been 
sayin' to Mr. Prall ever since he come here. And I do 
hope you'll like the house and the garden. I ain't much of 
a hand for the new-fangled flowers that you've got to take 
in-doors soon as frost comes. I've got pinks and sweet 
Williams and hollyhocks and marigolds and such. There 
use ter be lots of roses, but somehow they've died out. 
Worms eat 'em up, and Jason, he thought they wasn't 
worth keepin'. But I fcold Mr. Winterburne he could get 
whatever he liked. We shouldn't grumble, we ain't that 
kind ; " and she ends with a short laugh more like a chuckle. 
"Oh, I shall soon be quite at home," replies Miss Hil- 
liard. " And flowers are my dear delight. Are there many 
wild ones about ? " 
"Not around here," says Winterburne. "An iron and 
limestone soil doesn't help them to materialize." 
" There's rhodydendrons up the mountain a ways. Curis 
how city folks are alwers goin' after wild flowers, when you 
can have/em sweet and tame to home. And them queer 
things of ferns unrollin' out of a brown kind of hood — 
people go sarchin' after 'em 's if they were cracked. I 
alwers gather sweet fern,- it's so good to make tea when one's 
blood ain't jest right ; but I never knew any special use for' 
the others. City folks that come boardin' in the summer 
don't know what to do with their time. I never was at a 
loss. And when do you like to have your dinner ? I've 
alwers cooked at noon, aiid I told Mr. Winterburne you'd 
be good and hungry after such a trip," and she nods in a 
satisfied manner. 
" Yes,' dt noon," returns Miss Hilliard. "And you must, 
not change any of your ways for this little while until our 
own housekeeper comes." 
Mrs. Prall gathers up the corner of her checked apron 
and goes out to the kitchen where there is a savory smell. 
" I am afraid you will not find much in the way of com- 
panionship," Winterburne begins as if he had just realized 
the fact. " But there were not many places to choose from, 
and this had so much sunshine and was quiet. You could 
not live amid the clatter of machinery and the dirt and 
confusion, and /wanted something different when the day 
was done." 
" We shall be very comfortable, I know. And I could 
be content anywhere with you, remember that, always," 
