“It’s perfectly simple; a child would have thought of it. He is all
right, not a flaw in him, as far as I have carried the work. If I’ve
been able to bring him as far as the beginning of this century, what’s
to stop me now? I’ll go on and materialize him down to date.”
“Land, I never thought of that!” said Hawkins all ablaze with joy again.
“It’s the very thing. What a brain you have got! And will he shed the
superfluous arm?”
“He will.”
“And lose his English accent?”
“It will wholly disappear. He will speak Cherokee Strip--and other forms
of profanity.”
“Colonel, maybe he’ll confess!”
“Confess? Merely that bank robbery?”
“Merely? Yes, but why ‘merely’?”
The Colonel said in his most impressive manner: “Hawkins, he will be
wholly under my command. I will make him confess every crime he ever
committed. There must be a thousand. Do you get the idea?”
“Well--not quite.”
“The rewards will come to us.”
“Prodigious conception! I never saw such a head for seeing with a
lightning glance all the outlying ramifications and possibilities of a
central idea.”
“It is nothing; it comes natural to me. When his time is out in one jail
he goes to the next and the next, and we shall have nothing to do but
collect the rewards as he goes along. It is a perfectly steady income
as long as we live, Hawkins. And much better than other kinds of
investments, because he is indestructible.”
“It looks--it really does look the way you say; it does indeed.”
“Look?--why it is. It will not be denied that I have had a pretty wide
and comprehensive financial experience, and I do not hesitate to say
that I consider this one of the most valuable properties I have ever
controlled.”
“Do you really think so?”
“I do, indeed.”
“O, Colonel, the wasting grind and grief of poverty! If we could realize
immediately. I don’t mean sell it all, but sell part--enough, you know,
to--”
“See how you tremble with excitement. That comes of lack of experience.
My boy, when you have been familiar with vast operations as long as I
have, you’ll be different. Look at me; is my eye dilated? do you notice
a quiver anywhere? Feel my pulse: plunk-plunk-plunk--same as if I were
asleep. And yet, what is passing through my calm cold mind? A procession
of figures which would make a financial novice drunk just the sight of
them. Now it is by keeping cool, and looking at a thing all around,
that a man sees what’s really in it, and saves himself from the novice’s
unfailing mistake--the one you’ve just suggested--eagerness to realize.
Listen to me. Your idea is to sell a part of him for ready cash. Now
mine is--guess.”
“I haven’t an idea. What is it?”
“Stock him--of course.”
“Well, I should never have thought of that.”
“Because you are not a financier. Say he has committed a thousand
crimes. Certainly that’s a low estimate. By the look of him, even in
his unfinished condition, he has committed all of a million. But call it
only a thousand to be perfectly safe; five thousand reward, multiplied
by a thousand, gives us a dead sure cash basis of--what? Five million
dollars!”
“Wait--let me get my breath.”
“And the property indestructible. Perpetually fruitful--perpetually; for
a property with his disposition will go on committing crimes and winning
rewards.”
“You daze me, you make my head whirl!”
“Let it whirl, it won’t do it any harm. Now that matter is all
fixed--leave it alone. I’ll get up the company and issue the stock,
all in good time. Just leave it in my hands. I judge you don’t doubt my
ability to work it up for all it is worth.”
“Indeed I don’t. I can say that with truth.”
“All right, then. That’s disposed of. Everything in its turn. We old
operators, go by order and system--no helter-skelter business with
us. What’s the next thing on the docket? The carrying on of the
materialization--the bringing it down to date. I will begin on that at
once. I think--
“Look here, Rossmore. You didn’t lock It in. A hundred to one it has
escaped!”
“Calm yourself, as to that; don’t give yourself any uneasiness.”
“But why shouldn’t it escape?”
“Let it, if it wants to. What of it?”
“Well, I should consider it a pretty serious calamity.”
“Why, my dear boy, once in my power, always in my power. It may go
and come freely. I can produce it here whenever I want it, just by the
exercise of my will.”
“Well, I am truly glad to hear that, I do assure you.”
“Yes, I shall give it all the painting it wants to do, and we and the
family will make it as comfortable and contented as we can. No occasion
to restrain its movements. I hope to persuade it to remain pretty
quiet, though, because a materialization which is in a state of
arrested development must of necessity be pretty soft and flabby and
substanceless, and--er--by the way, I wonder where It comes from?”
“How? What do you mean?”
The earl pointed significantly--and interrogatively toward the sky.
Hawkins started; then settled into deep reflection; finally shook his
head sorrowfully and pointed downwards.
“What makes you think so, Washington?”
“Well, I hardly know, but really you can see, yourself, that he doesn’t
seem to be pining for his last place.”
“It’s well thought! Soundly deduced. We’ve done that Thing a favor. But
I believe I will pump it a little, in a quiet way, and find out if we
are right.”
“How long is it going to take to finish him off and fetch him down to
date, Colonel?”
“I wish I knew, but I don’t. I am clear knocked out by this new
detail--this unforeseen necessity of working a subject down gradually
from his condition of ancestor to his ultimate result as posterity. But
I’ll make him hump himself, anyway.”
“Rossmore!”
“Yes, dear. We’re in the laboratory. Come--Hawkins is here. Mind, now
Hawkins--he’s a sound, living, human being to all the family--don’t
forget that. Here she comes.”
“Keep your seats, I’m not coming in. I just wanted to ask, who is it
that’s painting down there?”
“That? Oh, that’s a young artist; young Englishman, named Tracy; very
promising--favorite pupil of Hans Christian Andersen or one of the other
old masters--Andersen I’m pretty sure it is; he’s going to half-sole
some of our old Italian masterpieces. Been talking to him?”
“Well, only a word. I stumbled right in on him without expecting anybody
was there. I tried to be polite to him; offered him a snack”--(Sellers
delivered a large wink to Hawkins from behind his hand), “but he
declined, and said he wasn’t hungry” (another sarcastic wink); “so I
brought some apples” (doublewink), “and he ate a couple of--”
“What!” and the colonel sprang some yards toward the ceiling and came
down quaking with astonishment.
Lady Rossmore was smitten dumb with amazement. She gazed at the sheepish
relic of Cherokee Strip, then at her husband, and then at the guest
again. Finally she said:
“What is the matter with you, Mulberry?”
He did not answer immediately. His back was turned; he was bending over
his chair, feeling the seat of it. But he answered next moment, and
said:
“Ah, there it is; it was a tack.”
The lady contemplated him doubtfully a moment, then said, pretty
snappishly:
“All that for a tack! Praise goodness it wasn’t a shingle nail, it would
have landed you in the Milky Way. I do hate to have my nerves shook up
so.” And she turned on her heel and went her way.
As soon as she was safely out, the Colonel said, in a suppressed voice:
“Come--we must see for ourselves. It must be a mistake.”
They hurried softly down and peeped in. Sellers whispered, in a sort of
despair--
It is eating! What a grisly spectacle! Hawkins it’s horrible! Take me
away--I can’t stand it.
They tottered back to the laboratory.
CHAPTER XX.
Tracy made slow progress with his work, for his mind wandered a good
deal. Many things were puzzling him. Finally a light burst upon him all
of a sudden--seemed to, at any rate--and he said to himself, “I’ve got
the clew at last--this man’s mind is off its balance; I don’t know how
much, but it’s off a point or two, sure; off enough to explain this mess
of perplexities, anyway. These dreadful chromos which he takes for old
masters; these villainous portraits--which to his frantic mind represent
Rossmores; the hatchments; the pompous name of this ramshackle old
crib--Rossmore Towers; and that odd assertion of his, that I was
expected. How could I be expected? that is, Lord Berkeley. He knows by
the papers that that person was burned up in the New Gadsby. Why, hang
it, he really doesn’t know who he was expecting; for his talk showed
that he was not expecting an Englishman, or yet an artist, yet I answer
his requirements notwithstanding. He seems sufficiently satisfied with
me. Yes, he is a little off; in fact I am afraid he is a good deal
off, poor old gentleman. But he’s interesting--all people in about his
condition are, I suppose. I hope he’ll like my work; I would like to
come every day and study him. And when I write my father--ah, that
hurts! I mustn’t get on that subject; it isn’t good for my spirits.
Somebody coming--I must get to work. It’s the old gentleman again. He
looks bothered. Maybe my clothes are suspicious; and they are--for an
artist. If my conscience would allow me to make a change, but that is
out of the question. I wonder what he’s making those passes in the air
for, with his hands. I seem to be the object of them. Can he be trying
to mesmerize me? I don’t quite like it. There’s something uncanny about
it.”
The colonel muttered to himself, “It has an effect on him, I can see it
myself. That’s enough for one time, I reckon. He’s not very solid, yet,
I suppose, and I might disintegrate him. I’ll just put a sly question
or two at him, now, and see if I can find out what his condition is, and
where he’s from.”
He approached and said affably:
“Don’t let me disturb you, Mr. Tracy; I only want to take a little
glimpse of your work. Ah, that’s fine--that’s very fine indeed. You are
doing it elegantly. My daughter will be charmed with this. May I sit
down by you?”
“Oh, do; I shall be glad.”
“It won’t disturb you? I mean, won’t dissipate your inspirations?”
Tracy laughed and said they were not ethereal enough to be very easily
discommoded.
The colonel asked a number of cautious and well-considered
questions--questions which seemed pretty odd and flighty to Tracy--but
the answers conveyed the information desired, apparently, for the
colonel said to himself, with mixed pride and gratification:
“It’s a good job as far as I’ve got with it. He’s solid. Solid and going
to last, solid as the real thing.”
“It’s wonderful--wonderful. I believe I could--petrify him.” After a
little he asked, warily “Do you prefer being here, or--or there?”
“There? Where?”
“Why--er--where you’ve been?”
Tracy’s thought flew to his boarding-house, and he answered with
decision.
“Oh, here, much!”
The colonel was startled, and said to himself, “There’s no uncertain
ring about that. It indicates where he’s been to, poor fellow. Well, I
am satisfied, now. I’m glad I got him out.”
He sat thinking, and thinking, and watching the brush go. At length he
said to himself, “Yes, it certainly seems to account for the failure of
my endeavors in poor Berkeley’s case. He went in the other direction.
Well, it’s all right. He’s better off.”
Sally Sellers entered from the street, now, looking her divinest, and
the artist was introduced to her. It was a violent case of mutual love
at first sight, though neither party was entirely aware of the fact,
perhaps. The Englishman made this irrelevant remark to himself, “Perhaps
he is not insane, after all.” Sally sat down, and showed an interest in
Tracy’s work which greatly pleased him, and a benevolent forgiveness of
it which convinced him that the girl’s nature was cast in a large mould.
Sellers was anxious to report his discoveries to Hawkins; so he took
his leave, saying that if the two “young devotees of the colored Muse”
 thought they could manage without him, he would go and look after his
affairs. The artist said to himself, “I think he is a little eccentric,
perhaps, but that is all.” He reproached himself for having injuriously
judged a man without giving him any fair chance to show what he really
was.
Of course the stranger was very soon at his ease and chatting along
comfortably. The average American girl possesses the valuable qualities
of naturalness, honesty, and inoffensive straightforwardness; she
is nearly barren of troublesome conventions and artificialities,
consequently her presence and her ways are unembarrassing, and one is
acquainted with her and on the pleasantest terms with her before
he knows how it came about. This new acquaintanceship--friendship,
indeed--progressed swiftly; and the unusual swiftness of it, and the
thoroughness of it are sufficiently evidenced and established by one
noteworthy fact--that within the first half hour both parties had
ceased to be conscious of Tracy’s clothes. Later this consciousness
was re-awakened; it was then apparent to Gwendolen that she was almost
reconciled to them, and it was apparent to Tracy that he wasn’t. The
re-awakening was brought about by Gwendolen’s inviting the artist to
stay to dinner. He had to decline, because he wanted to live, now--that
is, now that there was something to live for--and he could not survive
in those clothes at a gentleman’s table. He thought he knew that. But he
went away happy, for he saw that Gwendolen was disappointed.
And whither did he go? He went straight to a slopshop and bought as neat
and reasonably well-fitting a suit of clothes as an Englishman could be
persuaded to wear. He said--to himself, but at his conscience--“I know
it’s wrong; but it would be wrong not to do it; and two wrongs do not
make a right.”
This satisfied him, and made his heart light. Perhaps it will also
satisfy the reader--if he can make out what it means.
The old people were troubled about Gwendolen at dinner, because she was
so distraught and silent. If they had noticed, they would have found
that she was sufficiently alert and interested whenever the talk
stumbled upon the artist and his work; but they didn’t notice, and so
the chat would swap around to some other subject, and then somebody
would presently be privately worrying about Gwendolen again, and
wondering if she were not well, or if something had gone wrong in
the millinery line. Her mother offered her various reputable patent
medicines, and tonics with iron and other hardware in them, and her
father even proposed to send out for wine, relentless prohibitionist
and head of the order in the District of Columbia as he was, but these
kindnesses were all declined--thankfully, but with decision. At bedtime,
when the family were breaking up for the night, she privately looted one
of the brushes, saying to herself, “It’s the one he has used, the most.”
The next morning Tracy went forth wearing his new suit, and equipped
with a pink in his button-hole--a daily attention from Puss. His
whole soul was full of Gwendolen Sellers, and this condition was an
inspiration, art-wise. All the morning his brush pawed nimbly away at
the canvases, almost without his awarity--awarity, in this sense being
the sense of being aware, though disputed by some authorities--turning
out marvel upon marvel, in the way of decorative accessories to the
portraits, with a felicity and celerity which amazed the veterans of the
firm and fetched out of them continuous explosions of applause.
Meantime Gwendolen was losing her morning, and many dollars. She
supposed Tracy was coming in the forenoon--a conclusion which she had
jumped to without outside help. So she tripped down stairs every little
while from her work-parlor to arrange the brushes and things over again,
and see if he had arrived. And when she was in her work-parlor it was
not profitable, but just the other way--as she found out to her sorrow.
She had put in her idle moments during the last little while back, in
designing a particularly rare and capable gown for herself, and this
morning she set about making it up; but she was absent minded, and made
an irremediable botch of it. When she saw what she had done, she knew
the reason of it and the meaning of it; and she put her work away from
her and said she would accept the sign. And from that time forth she
came no more away from the Audience Chamber, but remained there and
waited. After luncheon she waited again. A whole hour. Then a great
joy welled up in her heart, for she saw him coming. So she flew back
up stairs thankful, and could hardly wait for him to miss the principal
brush, which she had mislaid down there, but knew where she had mislaid
it. However, all in good time the others were called in and couldn’t
find the brush, and then she was sent for, and she couldn’t find it
herself for some little time; but then she found it when the others had
gone away to hunt in the kitchen and down cellar and in the woodshed,
and all those other places where people look for things whose ways they
are not familiar with. So she gave him the brush, and remarked that
she ought to have seen that everything was ready for him, but it hadn’t
seemed necessary, because it was so early that she wasn’t expecting--but
she stopped there, surprised at herself for what she was saying; and
he felt caught and ashamed, and said to himself, “I knew my impatience
would drag me here before I was expected, and betray me, and that is
just what it has done; she sees straight through me--and is laughing at
me, inside, of course.”
Gwendolen was very much pleased, on one account, and a little the other
way in another; pleased with the new clothes and the improvement
which they had achieved; less pleased by the pink in the buttonhole.
Yesterday’s pink had hardly interested her; this one was just like it,
but somehow it had got her immediate attention, and kept it. She wished
she could think of some way of getting at its history in a properly
colorless and indifferent way. Presently she made a venture. She said:
“Whatever a man’s age may be, he can reduce it several years by putting
a bright-colored flower in his button-hole. I have often noticed that.
Is that your sex’s reason for wearing a boutonniere?”
“I fancy not, but certainly that reason would be a sufficient one. I’ve
never heard of the idea before.”
“You seem to prefer pinks. Is it on account of the color, or the form?”
“Oh no,” he said, simply, “they are given to me. I don’t think I have
any preference.”
“They are given to him,” she said to herself, and she felt a coldness
toward that pink. “I wonder who it is, and what she is like.” The flower
began to take up a good deal of room; it obtruded itself everywhere,
it intercepted all views, and marred them; it was becoming exceedingly
annoying and conspicuous for a little thing. “I wonder if he cares for
her.” That thought gave her a quite definite pain.
CHAPTER XXI.
She had made everything comfortable for the artist; there was no further
pretext for staying. So she said she would go, now, and asked him to
summon the servants in case he should need anything. She went away
unhappy; and she left unhappiness behind her; for she carried away all
the sunshine. The time dragged heavily for both, now. He couldn’t paint
for thinking of her; she couldn’t design or millinerize with any heart,
for thinking of him. Never before had painting seemed so empty to him,
never before had millinerizing seemed so void of interest to her. She
had gone without repeating that dinner-invitation--an almost unendurable
disappointment to him. On her part-well, she was suffering, too; for she
had found she couldn’t invite him. It was not hard yesterday, but it was
impossible to-day. A thousand innocent privileges seemed to have been
filched from her unawares in the past twenty-four hours. To-day she
felt strangely hampered, restrained of her liberty. To-day she couldn’t
propose to herself to do anything or say anything concerning this young
man without being instantly paralyzed into non-action by the fear that
he might “suspect.” Invite him to dinner to-day? It made her shiver to
think of it.
And so her afternoon was one long fret. Broken at intervals. Three times
she had to go down stairs on errands--that is, she thought she had to go
down stairs on errands. Thus, going and coming, she had six glimpses of
him, in the aggregate, without seeming to look in his direction; and she
tried to endure these electric ecstasies without showing any sign, but
they fluttered her up a good deal, and she felt that the naturalness
she was putting on was overdone and quite too frantically sober and
hysterically calm to deceive.
The painter had his share of the rapture; he had his six glimpses, and
they smote him with waves of pleasure that assaulted him, beat upon him,
washed over him deliciously, and drowned out all consciousness of what
he was doing with his brush. So there were six places in his canvas
which had to be done over again.
At last Gwendolen got some peace of mind by sending word to the
Thompsons, in the neighborhood, that she was coming there to dinner.
She wouldn’t be reminded, at that table, that there was an absentee
who ought to be a presentee--a word which she meant to look out in the
dictionary at a calmer time.
About this time the old earl dropped in for a chat with the artist, and
invited him to stay to dinner. Tracy cramped down his joy and gratitude
by a sudden and powerful exercise of all his forces; and he felt that
now that he was going to be close to Gwendolen, and hear her voice and
watch her face during several precious hours, earth had nothing valuable
to add to his life for the present.
The earl said to himself, “This spectre can eat apples, apparently. We
shall find out, now, if that is a specialty. I think, myself, it’s a
specialty. Apples, without doubt, constitute the spectral limit. It was
the case with our first parents. No, I am wrong--at least only partly
right. The line was drawn at apples, just as in the present case, but
it was from the other direction.” The new clothes gave him a thrill of
pleasure and pride. He said to himself, “I’ve got part of him down to
date, anyway.”
Sellers said he was pleased with Tracy’s work; and he went on and
engaged him to restore his old masters, and said he should also want him
to paint his portrait and his wife’s and possibly his daughter’s.
The tide of the artist’s happiness was at flood, now. The chat flowed
pleasantly along while Tracy painted and Sellers carefully unpacked a
picture which he had brought with him. It was a chromo; a new one,
just out. It was the smirking, self-satisfied portrait of a man who was
inundating the Union with advertisements inviting everybody to buy his
specialty, which was a three-dollar shoe or a dress-suit or something
of that kind. The old gentleman rested the chromo flat upon his lap and
gazed down tenderly upon it, and became silent and meditative. Presently
Tracy noticed that he was dripping tears on it. This touched the young
fellow’s sympathetic nature, and at the same time gave him the painful
sense of being an intruder upon a sacred privacy, an observer of
emotions which a stranger ought not to witness. But his pity rose
superior to other considerations, and compelled him to try to comfort
the old mourner with kindly words and a show of friendly interest. He
said:
“I am very sorry--is it a friend whom--”
“Ah, more than that, far more than that--a relative, the dearest I had
on earth, although I was never permitted to see him. Yes, it is young
Lord Berkeley, who perished so heroically in the awful conflagration.
Why what is the matter?”
“Oh, nothing, nothing.”
“It was a little startling to be so suddenly brought face to face, so
to speak, with a person one has heard so much talk about. Is it a good
likeness?”
“Without doubt, yes. I never saw him, but you can easily see the
resemblance to his father,” said Sellers, holding up the chromo and
glancing from it to the chromo misrepresenting the Usurping Earl and
back again with an approving eye.
“Well, no--I am not sure that I make out the likeness. It is plain that
the Usurping Earl there has a great deal of character and a long
face like a horse’s, whereas his heir here is smirky, moon-faced and
