part of the kingdom of Nejed for many years after that. For the power of
the Shammars was broken, and they could nowhere have mustered a thousand
men able to bear arms. Khaled set a governor in the place of the Sultan
and ordered all the laws of the country in the same manner as those of
Nejed, and after he had been absent from Riad nearly two months, he set
aside a part of his force to remain behind and keep the peace in case
there should be an outbreak, and with the rest he began to journey
homeward, taking a great spoil and many captives with him.
During the march most of the women captives rode on camels, but a few of
the most beautiful were taken in litters lest the fatigues of riding
should injure their appearance and thus diminish their value. Almasta
was one of these, and the Sultan of Haïl was taken in a cage as has been
said, though he was not otherwise ill-treated, and received his portion
of camel's meat and bread, equal to that of the soldiers.
Khaled sent messengers on fleet mares to Riad to give warning of his
coming, but he could not himself proceed very quickly, because his army
was burdened with so much spoil; and as there was now no haste to
overtake an enemy he journeyed chiefly at night, resting during the day
wherever there was water, for although the summer was far advanced it
was still hot. He thought continually of Zehowah, by day in his tent and
by night on the march, for he supposed that she would be glad when she
heard of the victory and that she would now love him, because he had
avenged her people, and taken Haïl, and brought back gold and captives,
besides other treasures.
'She was already pleased with my deeds, before we left Riad,' he
thought, 'for she asked me how many of the Shammars I had slain with my
own hand, and at the last she wished me to stay with her, most probably
that I might tell her more about the fight. How much the more will she
be glad now, since I have killed so many more and have brought back
treasure, and made a whole country subject to her father. Shall not
blood and gold buy the love of a woman?'
It chanced once during this journey that Khaled was sitting at the door
of his tent after the sun had gone down and before the night march had
begun. Upon the one side, at a little distance, was the tent of the
women captives who had been taken from the palace in Haïl, and upon the
other the soldiers had set down the cage in which the Sultan of Shammar
was carried. The men had laid a carpet over the cage to keep the sun
from the prisoner during the heat of the day, lest he should not reach
Riad alive as Khaled desired. For the Sultan was fat and of a choleric
temper. Now the soldiers had given him food but had forgotten to bring
him water, and it was hot under the carpet now that the evening had
come. But he could lift it up a little on one side, and having done so,
he began to cry out, cursing Khaled and railing at him, not knowing that
he was so near at hand.
'Oh you whose portion it shall be to broil everlastingly, and to eat
thistles and thorns, and to lie bound in red-hot chains as I lie in this
cage! Have you brought me out into the desert to die of thirst like a
lame camel? Surely your entertainment on the day of judgment shall be
boiling water and the fruit of Al Zakkam, and whenever you try to get
out of hell you shall be dragged back again and beaten with iron clubs,
and your skin shall dissolve, and the boiling water shall be poured upon
your head!'
In this way the captive cried out, for he was very thirsty. But when
Khaled saw that no one gave him water he called in the darkness to the
women who sat by their tent.
'Fetch water and give the man to drink,' he said.
One of the women rose quickly and filled a jar at the well close by, and
took it to the cage. But then the railing and cursing broke out afresh,
so that Khaled wondered what had happened.
'Who has sent me this unbelieving woman to torture me with thirst?'
cried the prisoner. 'Are you not Aziz whom I was about to take for my
fourth wife on account of your red hair? But your hair shall be a
perpetual flame hereafter, burning the bones of your head, and your
flesh shall be white with heat as iron in a forge. If I were still in my
kingdom you should eat many sticks! If Allah delivers me from my enemies
I will cause your skin to be embroidered with gold for a trapping to my
horse!'
The moon rose at this time, being a little past the full, and Khaled
looked towards the cage and saw that the woman was standing two paces
away from the Sultan's outstretched hand. She dabbled in the cool water
with her fingers so that a plashing sound was heard, and then drank
herself, and scattered afterwards a few drops in the face of the thirsty
captive.
'It is good water,' she said. 'It is cold.'
Khaled knew from her broken speech that it was Almasta, and he
understood that she was torturing the prisoner with the sound and sight
of the water, and with her words. So he rose from his place and went to
the cage.
'Did I not tell you to give him drink?' he asked, standing before the
woman.
'Oh my lord, be merciful,' cried the captive, when he saw that Khaled
himself was there. 'Be merciful and let me drink, for your heart is
easily moved to pity, and by an act of charity you shall hereafter sit
in the shade of the tree Sedrat and drink for ever of the wine of
paradise.'
'I do not desire wine,' said Khaled. 'But you shall certainly not
thirst. Give him the jar,' he said to Almasta. But she shook her head.
'He is bad and ugly,' she said. 'If he does not drink, he will die.'
Then Khaled put out his hand to take the jar of water, but Almasta threw
it violently to the ground, and it broke to pieces. Thereupon the
captive began again to rail and curse at Almasta and to implore Khaled
with many blessings.
'You shall drink, for I will bring water myself,' said Khaled. He went
back to his tent and took his own jar to the well, and filled it
carefully.
When he turned he saw that Almasta was running from his tent towards the
cage, with a drawn sword in her hand. He then ran also, and being very
swift of foot, he overtook her just as she thrust at the Sultan through
the bars. But the sword caught in the folds of the soft carpet, and
Khaled took it from her hand, and thrust her down so that she fell upon
her knees. Then he gave the prisoner the jar with the water that
remained in it, for some had been spilt as he ran.
'Who has given you the right to kill my captives?' he asked of Almasta.
'Kill me, then!' she cried.
'Indeed, if you were not so valuable, I would cut off your head,' Khaled
answered. 'Why do you wish me to kill you?'
'I hate him,' she said, pointing to the captive who was drinking like a
thirsty camel.
'That is no reason why I should kill you. Go back to the tents.'
But Almasta laid her hand on the sword he held and tried to bring it to
her own throat.
'This is a strange woman,' said Khaled. 'Why do you wish to die? You
shall go to Riad and be the Sultan's wife.'
'No, no!' she cried. 'Kill me! Not him, not him!'
'Of whom do you speak?'
'Him!' she answered, again pointing to the prisoner. 'Is he not the
Sultan?'
Khaled laughed aloud, for he saw that she had supposed she was to be
taken to Riad to be made the wife of the Sultan of Shammar. Indeed, the
other women had told her so, to anger her.
'Not this man,' he said, endeavouring to make her understand. 'There is
another Sultan at Riad. The Sultan of Shammar is one, the Sultan of
Nejed another.'
'You?' she asked, suddenly springing up. 'With you?'
The moon was bright and Khaled saw that her eyes gleamed like stars and
her face grew warm, and when she took his hands her own were cold.
'No, not I,' he answered. 'I am not the Sultan.'
But her face became grey in the moonlight, and she covered her head with
her veil and went slowly back to her tent.
'This woman loves me,' Khaled thought. 'And as I have not talked much
with her, it must be because I am strong and have conquered the people
among whom she was captive. How much the more then, will Zehowah love
me, for the same reason.'
So he was light of heart, and soon afterwards he commanded everything to
be made ready and mounted his bay mare for the night march.
CHAPTER V
When Khaled was within half a day's march of Riad, the Sultan came out
to meet him with a great train of attendants and courtiers, with cooks
bringing food and sweetmeats, and a number of musicians. And they all
encamped together for a short time in the shade of the trees, for there
were gardens in the place. The Sultan embraced Khaled and put upon him a
very magnificent garment, after which they sat down together in a large
tent which the Sultan had brought with him. When they had eaten and
refreshed themselves they began to talk, and Khaled told his
father-in-law all that he had done, and gave him an account of the
spoils which he had brought back, commanding the most valuable objects
to be brought into the tent. After this the Sultan desired to see the
women captives.
'There is one especially whom it may please you to take for yourself,'
said Khaled, and he ordered Almasta to be brought in.
When the male slaves had left the tent, Almasta drew aside her veil. The
Sultan looked at her and smiled, stroking his beard, for he was much
pleased.
'Her face is like a pearl and her hair is a setting of red gold,' he
said. 'Truly she is like the sunrise on a fair morning when there are
red clouds in the east.'
Almasta looked attentively at him, and afterwards she glanced at Khaled,
who could not avoid looking at her on account of her beauty. Her face
was grave and indifferent. Then Khaled told the Sultan how she had hated
the Sultan of Shammar and had tried to kill him on the journey.
'This is a dangerous woman, my son,' said the old man. But he laughed as
he said it, for although he was old, he was no coward. 'She is
dangerous, indeed. Will you love me, pearl of my soul's treasures?' he
inquired of her, still smiling.
'You are my lord and my master,' she answered, looking down.
When Khaled heard this he wondered whether his father-in-law would get
any affection from her. Zehowah had answered in the same words.
'By Allah, I will give you such gifts as will make you love me,' said
the Sultan. 'What shall I give you?'
'His head,' answered Almasta, raising her eyes quickly.
'The head of the Sultan of Shammar?'
Almasta nodded, and Khaled could see that her lips trembled.
'A dead man has no companions,' said the Sultan, looking at Khaled to
see what he would do. But Khaled cared little, and said nothing.
So the Sultan called a slave and ordered the captive's head to be struck
off immediately. Then Almasta threw herself upon the carpet on the floor
of the tent and embraced his feet.
'See how easily the love of a woman is got,' Khaled thought, 'even by an
old man whose beard is grey and his limbs heavy.'
When Almasta rose again, she looked at Khaled triumphantly, as though to
remind him of the night on the journey when he had hindered her from
killing the captive in his cage. But though he understood her, he held
his peace, for he had cared nothing whether the prisoner lived or died
after he had delivered him over to his father-in-law, and he was
considering whether he might not please Zehowah in some similar manner.
This was not easy, however, for he was not aware that Zehowah had any
private enemy, whose head he might offer her.
After the Sultan had seen the other women and the best of the spoils,
Khaled begged that he might be allowed to ride on into Riad alone, for
he saw that the Sultan intended to spend the night in feasting where he
had encamped. The Sultan was so much pleased with Almasta and so
greatly diverted in examining the rich stuffs and the gold and silver
vessels and jewels, that he let Khaled go, almost without trying to
detain him, though he made him many speeches praising his conduct of the
war, and would have loaded him with gifts. But Khaled would take nothing
with him, saying that he would only receive his just share with the
rest; and the fame of his generosity immediately went abroad among the
soldiers and the Bedouins throughout all the camp.
'For,' said Khaled, 'there is not a fleeter mare than mine among all
those we have taken; my sword proves to be a good one, for I have tried
it well; as for women, I am satisfied with one wife; and besides a wife,
a sword and a horse, there are no treasures in the world which I covet.'
So Khaled rode away alone into Riad, for he desired no company, being
busy with his own thoughts. He reached the gates at nightfall and went
immediately to the palace and entered Zehowah's apartments. He found her
sitting among her women in her accustomed place, listening to the tales
of an old woman who sat in the midst of the circle. As soon as Zehowah
saw her husband she sprang up gladly to meet him, as a friend would have
done.
'Though it is summer-time, I have pursued the enemy,' said Khaled. 'And
though the sun was hot, I have got the victory and brought home the
spoil.'
He said this remembering how she had tried to hinder him from going.
Then he gave her his sword and he sat down with her, while the women
brought food and drink, for he was weary, and hungry and thirsty. The
women also brought their musical instruments and began to sing songs in
praise of Khaled's deeds; but after a time he sent them all away and
remained alone with Zehowah.
'O Zehowah,' he said, 'you are my law and my rule. You are my speech and
my occupation. You are my Kebla to which I turn in prayer. For the love
of you I have got the victory over many foes. And yet I see that your
cheek is cold and the light of your eyes is undisturbed. Have you no
other enemies for me to destroy, or have you no secret foe whose head
would be a pleasant gift?'
Zehowah laughed, as she fanned him with a palm leaf.
'Do you still thirst for war, Khaled?' she asked. 'Truly you have
swallowed up all our enemies as the dry sand swallows up water. Where
shall I find enemies enough for you to slay? You went out in pride and
you have returned in glory. Are you not yet satisfied? And as for any
secret foe, if I have any I do not know him. Rest, therefore; eat and
drink and spend your days in peace.'
'I care little for either food or drink,' Khaled answered, 'and I need
little rest.'
'Will nothing but war please you? Must you overcome Egypt and make Syria
pay tribute as far as Damascus before you will rest?'
'I will conquer the whole world for you, if you wish it,' said Khaled.
'What should I do with the world?' asked Zehowah. 'Have I not treasures
and garments enough and to spare, besides the spoil you have now brought
home? And besides, if you would conquer the world you must needs make
war upon true believers, amongst whom we do not count the people of
Shammar. Be satisfied therefore and rest in peace.'
'How shall I be satisfied until I have kindled the light in Zehowah's
eyes at my coming, and until I feel that her hand is cold and trembles
when I take it in mine?'
'Do I say to my eyes, "be dull"--or to my hand, "do not tremble"?'
Zehowah asked. 'Is this, which you ask of me, something I can command at
will, as I can a smile or a word? If it is, teach me and I will learn.
But if not, why do you expect of me what I cannot do? Can a camel gallop
like a horse, or a horse trot like a camel, or bear great burdens
through the desert? Have you come back from a great war only to talk of
this something which you call love, which is yours and not mine, which
you feel and I cannot feel, which you cannot explain nor describe, and
which, after all, is but a whim of the fancy, as one man loves sour
drink and another sweet?'
'Do you think that love is nothing but a whim of the fancy?' asked
Khaled bitterly.
'What else can it be? Would you love me if you were blind?'
'Yes.'
'And if you were deaf?'
'Yes.'
'And if you could not touch my face with your hands, nor kiss me with
your lips?'
'Yes.'
Zehowah laughed.
'Then love is indeed a fancy. For if you could not see me, nor touch me,
nor hear me, what would remain to you but an empty thought?'
'Have I seen you, or touched you, or heard your voice for these two
months and a half?' asked Khaled. 'Yet I have loved you as much during
all that time.'
'You mean that you have thought of me, as I have thought of you, by the
memory of what was not fancy, but reality. Would you dispute with me,
Khaled? You will find me subtle.'
'There is more wit in my arm than in my head,' Khaled answered, 'and it
is not easy for a man to persuade a woman.'
'It is very easy, provided that the man have reason on his side. But
where are the treasures you have brought back, the slaves and the rich
spoils? I would gladly see some of them, for the messengers you sent
told great tales of the riches of Haïl.'
'To-morrow they will be brought into the city. Your father has remained
feasting in the gardens towards Dereyiyah, and the whole army with him.
I rode hither alone.'
'Why did you not remain too?'
'Because that whim of the fancy which I call love brought me back,'
Khaled answered.
'Then I am glad you love me,' said Zehowah. 'For I am glad you came
quickly.'
'Are you truly glad?'
'I was very tired of my women,' she answered. 'I am sorry you have
brought nothing with you. Are there any among the captives who are
beautiful?'
'There is one, a present sent lately to the Sultan of Shammar. She is
very beautiful, and unlike all the rest. Your father is much pleased
with her, and will perhaps marry her.'
'Of what kind is her beauty?' asked Zehowah.
'She is as white as milk, her eyes are twin sapphires, her mouth is a
rose, her hair is like gold reddened in fire.'
Zehowah was silent for a while, and twisted a string of musk-beads round
her fingers.
'The others are all Arabian women,' Khaled said at last.
'Why did you not keep the beautiful one for yourself?' asked Zehowah,
suddenly throwing aside her beads and looking at him curiously. 'Surely
you, who have borne the brunt of the war, might have chosen for yourself
what pleased you best.'
Khaled looked at her in great astonishment.
'Have I not married Zehowah? Would you have me take another wife?'
'Why not? Is it not lawful for a man to take four wives at one time? And
this woman might have loved you, as you desire to be loved.'
'Would it be nothing to you, if I took her?'
'Nothing. I am the King's daughter. I shall always be first in the
house. I say, she might love you. Then you would be satisfied.'
'Zehowah, Zehowah!' cried Khaled. 'Is love a piece of gold, that it
matters not whence it be, so long as a man has it in his own possession?
Or is it wood of the 'Ood tree that one may buy it and bring it home and
make the whole house fragrant with it? Is a man's heart like his belly,
which is alike satisfied with different kinds of food?'
'He who eats, knows by the taste whether he eats Persian mutton, or
barley bread, or only broiled locusts. But a man who believes that he is
loved, knows that he is loved, so far as knowing is possible, and must
be satisfied, if to be loved is what he desires.'
'That may be true. But he who desires bread is not satisfied with
locusts. It is your love which I would have. Not the love of another.'
'You are like a man who hopes to get by argument a sum of money from one
who has nothing,' said Zehowah, smiling at him. 'Can you make gold grow
in the purse of a beggar? Or can you cause a ghada bush to bear dates by
reasoning with it? Your heart is a palm tree, but mine is a ghada bush.'
'Yet an angel may touch the ghada and it will bear fruit,' answered
Khaled, for he remembered how the angel had turned dry leaves into rich
garments for him to wear.
'Doubtless, Allah can do all things. But where is the angel? Hear me,
Khaled, for I speak very reasonably, as a wife should speak to her
husband, who is her lord and master. My lord is not satisfied with me
and desires something of me which is not mine to give. Let him take
another wife beside me. I have given my lord a kingdom and great riches
and power. Let him take another wife now, who will give him this fancy
of his thoughts for which he yearns, though she have no other
possessions. In this way my lord will be satisfied.'
Khaled listened sadly to what Zehowah said, and he began to despair,
for he was not subtle in argument nor eloquent in speech. The reason of
this was plain. In the days when he had been one of the genii he had
wandered over the whole earth and had heard the eloquence of all nations
and the arguments of all philosophers, learning therefrom that deeds are
no part of words, and that they who would be believed must speak little
and do much. But the genii possess no insight into the hearts of women.
Khaled reflected also that the length of life granted him was uncertain,
and that he had already spent two months and a half at a distance from
Zehowah in accomplishing the conquest whereby he had hoped to win her
love. But since this had utterly failed, he cast about in his mind for
some new deed to do, which could be done without leaving her even for a
short time. But he was troubled by her indifference, and most of all by
her proposing that he should take another wife. As he thought of this,
he was filled with horror, and he understood that he loved Zehowah more
than he had supposed, since he could not bear to think of setting
another woman beside her.
Then his face became very dark and his eyes were like camp fires far off
in the desert, and he took Zehowah's wrist in his hand, holding it
tightly as though he would not let it go. As his heart grew hot in his
breast, words came to his lips unawares like the speech of a man in a
dream, and he heard his own voice as it were from a distance.
'I will not take another,' he said. 'What is the love of any other woman
to me? It is as dust in the throat of a man thirsting for water. Show me
a woman who loves me. Her face shall be but a cold mirror in which the
image of a fire is reflected without warmth, her soft words shall be to
me as the screaming of a parrot, her touch a thorn and her lips ashes.
What is it to me if all the women of the world love me? Kindle a fire
and burn them before me, for I care not. Let them perish all together,
for I shall not know that they are gone. I love you and not another.
Shall it profit a man to fill his mouth with dust, though it be the dust
of gold mingled with precious stones, when he desires water? Or shall he
be warmed in winter by the reflection of a fire in a mirror? By Allah! I
want neither the wealth of Haïl, nor a wife with red hair. Let them take
gold who do not ask for love. I want but one thing, and Zehowah alone
can give it to me. Wallah! My heart burns. But I would give it to be
burned for ever in hell if I might get your love now. This I ask. This
only I desire. For this I will suffer and for this I am ready to die
before my time.'
Zehowah was silent, looking at him with wonder, and yet not altogether
pleased. She saw that she could not understand him, though she did as
well as she could.
'Has he not all that the heart of man can desire?' she thought. 'Am I
not young and beautiful, and possessed of many jewels and treasures?
Have I not given him wealth and power, and has he not with his own hand
got the victory over his enemies and mine? And yet he is not satisfied.
Surely, he is too hard to please.'
But he, reading her thoughts from her face, continued in his speech.
'What is all the happiness of the world without love?' he asked. 'It is
like a banquet in which many rich viands are served, but the guests
cannot eat them because there is no salt in any of them. And what is a
beautiful woman without love? She is like a garden in which there are
all kinds of rare flowers, and much grass, and deep shade, but in which
a man cannot live, because nothing grows there which he can eat when he
is hungry.'
'Truly,' said Zehowah, 'that is what you will make of your life. For
there is a garden called Irem, planted in a secret place of the deserts
about Aden, by Sheddad the son of Ad, who desired to outdo the gardens
of paradise, and was destroyed for his impiety with all his people, by
the hand of Allah. But a certain man named Abdullah ibn Kelabah was
searching in the desert for a lost camel, and came unawares upon this
place. There were fruits and water there and all that a man could wish
for, and Abdullah dwelt in peace and plenty, praising Allah. Then on a
certain day he desired to eat an onion, and finding none anywhere, he
