politest bows. "While you were talking with the captain of the Ionian,
I saw the first officer of this steamer go into the cabin. I was told by
a sailor that he was the mate. In a minute or two he came on deck again,
and I saw that he had something under his coat. He moved forward, and
was going to the side when I jumped upon him. After a struggle I took
this tin case from him."

The detective stepped forward, and handed the tin case to the executive
officer as gracefully as though he had been figuring in a ballroom.
Captain Sawlock had followed the officers over from the port side. He
appeared to be confounded, and listened in silence to the explanation of
Mr. Gilfleur. But he looked decidedly ugly.

"That case is my personal, private property," said he, as soon as it was
in the hands of the chief officer of the boarding-party.

"I don't dispute it, Captain Sawlock; but at the same time I intend to
examine its contents," replied Mr. Birdwing mildly, but firmly.

"This is an outrage, Mr. Officer!" exclaimed the discomfited master.

"If it is, I am responsible for it," added the executive officer, as he
removed the cover from the end of the case.

"I protest against this outrage! I will not submit to it!" howled
Captain Sawlock, carried away by his wrath.

"Perhaps you will," said Mr. Birdwing quietly.

"But I will not!"

With a sudden movement he threw himself upon the officer, and attempted
to wrest the tin case from his hands. Christy, who was standing behind
him, seized him by the collar with both hands, and hurled him to the
deck. A moment later two seamen, by order of Mr. Carlin, took him each
by his two arms, and held him like a vice.

"I think we will retire to the cabin to examine these papers, for I see
that the case is filled with documents, including some sealed letters,"
continued Mr. Birdwing, as he moved towards the cabin door.

"That cabin is mine! You can't go into it!" howled Captain Sawlock,
crazy with anger. "Don't let them go into the cabin, Withers!"

Withers appeared to be the mate, and he stepped forward as though he
intended to do something; but a couple of seamen, by order of the first
lieutenant, arrested and held him. He had apparently had enough of it in
his encounter with the detective, for he submitted without any
resistance. If the captain of the steamer was a fool, the mate was not,
for he saw the folly of resisting a United States force.

"Mr. Carlin, you will remain on deck with the men; Mr. Passford and Mr.
Gilfleur, may I trouble you to come into the cabin with me?" continued
Mr. Birdwing, as he led the way.

The executive officer seated himself at the table in the middle of the
cabin, and his companions took places on each side of him. The first
paper drawn from the case was the clearance of the Ionian for
Wilmington, with a cargo of old iron. The manifest had clearly been
trumped up for the occasion. The old iron was specified, and a list of
other articles of merchandise.

At this point the executive officer sent for Mr. Carlin, and directed
him to take off the hatches and examine the cargo, especially what was
under the pieces of machinery. There were several letters to unknown
persons, and one in particular to the captain himself, in which he was
directed to deliver the machinery to a gentleman with the title of
"Captain," who was doubtless a Confederate agent, in St. George's,
Bermuda. The papers were abundantly sufficient to convict Davis of
treason. The last one found in the case directed Captain Sawlock to
deliver the cannon and ammunition in the bottom of the vessel to the
steamer Dornoch, on her arrival at St. George's, or at some convenient
place in the Bahama Islands.




CHAPTER VII

A BOLD PROPOSITION


The evidence was sufficient to justify the capture of the Ionian without
a particle of doubt, for she was as really a Confederate vessel as
though the captain and officers were provided with commissions signed by
Mr. Jefferson Davis.

Mr. Birdwing went to the door and directed the third lieutenant to have
Captain Sawlock conducted to the cabin; and the two seamen who had held
him as a prisoner brought him before the first lieutenant of the
Chateaugay. He appeared to have got control of his temper, and offered
no further resistance. Mr. Carlin came to the door, and his superior
directed him to examine all hands forward, in order to ascertain whether
they were Confederates or otherwise. He gave him the shipping-list to
assist him.

"Are you an American citizen, Captain Sawlock?" asked Mr. Birdwing,
as soon as the third lieutenant had departed on his mission.

"I am," replied he stiffly.

"Where were you horn?"

"In Pensacola."

"Have you ever taken the oath of allegiance to the United States
government?"

"No; and I never will!" protested the captain with an oath.

"I must inform you, Captain Sawlock, that I am directed by the commander
of the United States steamer Chateaugay to take possession of the
Ionian, on finding sufficient evidence on board that she is engaged in
an illegal voyage. I have no doubt in regard to the matter, and I take
possession of her accordingly."

"It is an outrage!" howled the captain with a heavy oath.

"You can settle that matter with the courts. I have nothing more to
say," replied Mr. Birdwing as he rose and left the cabin, followed by
Christy and the detective.

"I found ten heavy guns and a large quantity of ammunition at the bottom
of the hold," reported Mr. Carlin, as his superior appeared on deck, and
handed back the shipping-list of the vessel. "The three engineers appear
to be Englishmen, and so declare themselves. I find six Americans among
the crew, who are provided with protections, and they all desire to
enlist in the navy. The rest of the crew are of all nations."

"Let the six men with protections man the first cutter. You will remain
on board of the Ionian, Mr. Carlin, till orders come to you from the
captain," said the first lieutenant. "I shall now return to the
Chateaugay to report."

Christy decided to return to the ship; but the detective wished to
remain, though he said there was nothing more for him to do. The six
sailors who wished to enter the navy were ordered into the boat, two of
the regular crew remaining in it. The recruits were good-looking men,
and they pulled their oars as though they had already served in the
navy. They supposed the Ionian was really bound to Wilmington; but they
could not explain why they had not enlisted at Brooklyn if they desired
to do so. The first lieutenant went on board of the ship, and reported
to the captain.

Mr. Gwyndale was at once appointed prize-master, with Mr. Tompers as his
executive officer, and sent on board with the ten seamen who had been
put on board of the Chateaugay expressly for this duty. Several pairs of
handcuffs were sent on board of the Ionian, for the first lieutenant
apprehended that they would be needed to keep Captain Sawlock and his
mate in proper subjection. The papers which had been contained in the
tin case were intrusted to the care of Mr. Gwyndale, with the strictest
injunction to keep them safely, and deliver them to the government
official before any of the Ionian ship's company were permitted to land.

The cutters returned from the prize with all the hands who had been sent
from the ship, including Mr. Gilfleur. The prize-master had a sufficient
force with him to handle the steamer, and to control the disaffected, if
there were any besides the captain and mate. The engineers and firemen
were willing to remain and do duty as long as they were paid. In a
couple of hours the Ionian started her screw and headed for New York,
where she would arrive the next day.

Captain Chantor directed the quartermaster at the wheel to ring one
bell, and the Chateaugay began to move again. The events of the day were
discussed; but the first business of the ship had been successfully
disposed of, and the future was a more inviting field than the past. The
captain requested the presence of the two passengers in his cabin, and
read to them in full the latest instructions that had been sent off to
him.

"Our next duty is to look for the Dornoch, with her six guns and fifty
men, and we are not likely to have so soft a time of it as we had with
the Ionian," said Captain Chantor, when he had read the letter.

"The Chateaugay is reasonably fast, though she could not hold her own
with the Bellevite, or even the Bronx; and you have a pivot gun
amidships, and six broadside guns," added Christy.

"Oh, I shall be happy to meet her!" exclaimed the commander. "I don't
object to her six guns and fifty men; the only difficulty I can see is
in finding her. I am afraid she has already gone into St. George's
harbor, and she may not come out for a month."

"Why should she wait all that time?" asked Christy. "Her commander knew
nothing about the Ionian, that she was to take in a valuable cargo for
her, and she will not wait for her."

"That is true; but I am afraid we shall miss the Ovidio if we remain too
long in these waters."

"It seems to me that the Dornoch has had time enough to reach the
Bermudas," said Christy. "Possibly she is in port at this moment."

"That is a harassing reflection!" exclaimed the commander.

"I don't see that there is any help for it," added Christy. "You cannot
go into the port of St. George's to see if she is there."

"Why not?" asked Mr. Gilfleur, speaking for the first time. "I spent a
winter there when I was sick from over-work and exposure; and I know all
about the islands."

"That will not help me, Mr. Gilfleur," said the captain, with a smile at
what he considered the simplicity of the Frenchman.

"But why can you not go in and see if the Dornoch is there?" inquired
the detective.

"Because if I learned that she was about to leave the port, the
authorities would not let me sail till twenty-four hours after she had
gone."

"You need not wait till she gets ready to leave," suggested the
Frenchman.

"She might be ready to sail at the very time I arrived, and then I
should lose her. Oh, no; I prefer to take my chance at a marine league
from the shore," added the captain, shaking his head.

"Perhaps I might go into Hamilton harbor and obtain the information you
need," suggested Mr. Gilfleur, looking very earnest, as though he was
thinking of something.

"You!" exclaimed Captain Chantor, looking at him with amazement. "How
could you go in without going in the ship?"

"You know that I have a boat on deck," replied the detective quietly.

"But you are not a sailor, sir."

"No, I am not a sailor; but I am a boatman. After I had worked up the
biggest case in all my life in Paris,--one that required me to go to
London seven times,--I was sick when the bank-robbers were convicted,
and the excitement was over. The doctors ordered me to spend the winter
in Martinique, and I went to the Bermudas in an English steamer, where I
was to take another for my destination; but I liked the islands so well
that I remained there all the winter. My principal amusement was
boating; and I learned the whole art to perfection. I used to go through
the openings in the reefs, and sail out of sight of land. I had a boat
like the one on deck."

"Your experience is interesting, but I do not see how it will profit
me," said the captain.

"I can go to the Bermudas, obtain the information you want, and return
to the Chateaugay," replied Mr. Gilfleur rather impatiently.

"That would be a risky cruise for you, my friend," suggested Captain
Chantor, shaking his head in a deprecatory manner.

"I don't think so. I have been outside the reefs many times when the
wind blew a gale, and I felt as safe in my boat as I do on board of this
ship," said the detective earnestly.

"How would you manage the matter?" asked the commander, beginning to be
interested in the project.

"You shall run to the south of the islands, or rather to the south-west,
in the night, with all your lights put out, and let me embark there in
my boat. You will give me a compass, and I have a sail in the boat. I
shall steer to the north-east, and I shall soon see Gibbs Hill light. By
that I can make the point on the coast I wish to reach, which is Hogfish
Cut. I have been through it twenty times. Once inside the reefs I shall
have no difficulty in reaching Hamilton harbor. Then I will take a
carriage to St. George's. If I find the Dornoch in the harbor, I will
come out the same way I went in, and you will pick me up."

"That looks more practicable than I supposed it could be," added Captain
Chantor.

"While I am absent you will be attending to your duty as commander of
the Chateaugay, for you will still be on the lookout for your prize,"
continued the versatile Frenchman. "You can run up twenty or thirty
miles to the northward, on the east side of the islands, where all large
vessels have to go in."

"How long will it take you to carry out this enterprise, Mr. Gilfleur?"

"Not more than two days; perhaps less time. Do you consent?"

"I will consider it, and give you an answer to-morrow morning," replied
Captain Chantor.

"Won't you take me with you, Mr. Gilfleur?" asked Christy, who was much
pleased with the idea of such an excursion.

"I should be very happy to have your company, Mr. Passford," replied the
detective very promptly, and with a smile on his face which revealed his
own satisfaction.

"Are you in earnest, Lieutenant Passford?" demanded the commander,
looking with astonishment at his passenger.

"Of course I am: I see no difficulty in the enterprise," replied
Christy. "I have had a good deal of experience in sailboats myself, and
I do not believe I should be an encumbrance to Mr. Gilfleur; and I may
be of some service to him."

"You would be of very great service to me, for you know all about ships,
and I do not," the detective added.

"Just as you please, Mr. Passford. You are not under my orders, for you
are not attached to the ship," said the captain.

The commander went on deck, and the two passengers retired to Christy's
stateroom, where they discussed the enterprise for a couple of hours.
In the mean time the Chateaugay was making her best speed, for Captain
Chantor did not wish to lose any of his chances by being too late; and
he believed that the Dornoch must be fully due at the Bermudas. Before
he turned in that night he had altered the course of the ship half a
point more to the southward, for he had decided to accept the offer of
Mr. Gilfleur; and he wished to go to the west of the islands instead of
the east, as he had given out the course at noon.

For two days more the Chateaugay continued on her voyage. At noon the
second day he found his ship was directly west of the southern part of
the Bermudas, and but fifty miles from them. He shaped his course so as
to be at the south of them that night.




CHAPTER VIII

A NOTABLE EXPEDITION


The position of the Chateaugay was accurately laid down on the chart
fifty miles to the westward of Spears Hill, which is about the
geographical centre of the Bermuda Islands. Captain Chantor had invited
his two passengers to his cabin for a conference in relation to the
proposed enterprise, after the observations had been worked up at noon,
on the fourth day after the departure from New York.

"Now, Mr. Gilfleur, if you will indicate the precise point at which you
desire to put off in your boat, I will have the ship there at the time
you require," said the captain, who had drawn a rough sketch of the
islands, and dotted upon it the points he mentioned in his statement.

"Of course you do not wish the ship to be seen from the islands,"
suggested the detective.

"Certainly not; for if the Dornoch is in port at St. George's that would
be warning her to avoid us in coming out, and she might escape by
standing off to the northward," replied the commander. "Besides, there
might be fishing-craft or other small vessels off the island that would
report the ship if she were seen. It is not advisable to go any nearer
to the islands till after dark. We will show no lights as we approach
your destination."

"How near Gibbs Hill light can you go with safety in the darkness,
Captain?" asked Mr. Gilfleur.

"I should not care to go nearer than ten miles; we could not be seen
from the shore at that distance, but we might be seen by some small
craft."

"That will do very well; and if you will make a point ten miles
south-west of Gibbs Hills light, I shall be exactly suited," added the
detective, as he made a small cross on the sketch near the place where
he desired to embark in the boat.

The conference was finished, and the two passengers went on deck to
inspect the craft which was to convey them to the islands. By order of
the commander the carpenter had overhauled the boat and made such
repairs as were needed. Every open seam had been calked, and a heavy
coat of paint had been put upon it. The sailmaker had attended to the
jib and mainsail, and everything was in excellent condition for the trip
to the shore.

"Is this the same boat that you used when you were in the Bermudas, Mr.
Gilfleur?" asked Christy, as they were examining the work which had been
done on the craft, its spars and sails.

"Oh, no; it was six years ago that I spent the winter in the islands. I
found this boat under a shed on a wharf in New York. It had been picked
up near the Great Abaco in the Bahama Islands by a three-master, on her
voyage from the West Indies," replied Mr. Gilfleur. "When I had formed
my plan of operations in the vicinity of Nassau, in order to obtain the
information the government desired, I bought this boat. When picked up,
the boat had her spars, sails, oars, water-breakers, and other articles
carefully stowed away on board of her; and it appeared as though she had
broken adrift from her moorings, or had been carried away by a rising
tide from some beach where those in charge of her had landed. I happened
to find the captain of the vessel that brought the boat to New York; and
he made me pay roundly for her, so that he got well rewarded for his
trouble in picking it up."

The Chateaugay stood due south till six o'clock at little more than half
speed, and when she came about her dead reckoning indicated that she was
seventy-five miles to the south-west of Gibbs Hill light. The weather
was very favorable for the proposed enterprise, with a moderate breeze
from the west. Mr. Gilfleur did not wish to leave the ship till after
midnight, for all he desired was to get inside the outer reefs before
daylight. The speed of the ship was regulated to carry out this idea.

The light so frequently mentioned in the conference is three hundred and
sixty-two feet above the sea level, for it is built on the highest point
of land in the south of the Bermudas, and could be seen at a distance of
thirty miles. At three bells in the first watch the light was reported
