and he think best, will be best. Haven't you been our good angel ever
since--Oh, I'm not half good enough for you, and I shouldn't be, even if
there were no stain--"
"Stop!" he said; he caught her hand, and pulled her toward him.
The doctor came out, and said in a low voice, "There's nothing to be
anxious about, but she really must have quiet. I'll send Mrs. Morrell
down to see you, after tea. She's quiet itself."
Suzette submitted, and let Matt take her hand again in parting.
"Will you give me a lift, doctor, if you're going toward town?"
"Get in," said the doctor.
Sue went indoors, and the two men drove off together.
Matt looked at the card in his hand, and read: "Mr. Putney: Please talk
to Mr. Hilary as you would to my sister or me." Suzette's printed name
served for signature. Matt put the card in his pocket-book, and then he
said, "What sort of man is Mr. Putney, doctor?"
"Mr. Putney," said the doctor, with a twinkle of his blue eyes, "is one
of those uncommon people who have enemies. He has a good many because
he's a man that thinks, and then says what he thinks. But he's his own
worst enemy, because from time to time he gets drunk."
"A character," said Matt. "Do you think he's a safe one? Doesn't his
getting drunk from time to time interfere with his usefulness?"
"Well, of course," said the doctor. "It's bad for him; but I think it's
slowly getting better. Yes, decidedly. It's very extraordinary, but ever
since he's been in charge of the Miss Northwicks' interests--"
"Yes; that's what I was thinking of."
"He's kept perfectly straight. It's as if the responsibilities had
steadied him."
"But if he goes on sprees, he may be on the verge of one that's
gathering violence from its postponement," Matt suggested.
"I think not," said the doctor after a moment. "But of course I can't
tell."
"They trust him so implicitly," said Matt.
"I know," said the doctor. "And I know that he's entirely devoted to
them. The fact is, Putney's a very dear friend of mine."
"Oh, excuse me--"
"No, no!" The doctor stayed Matt's apologies. "I understand just what
you mean. He disliked their father very much. He was principled against
him as a merely rich man, with mischievous influence on the imaginations
of all the poor people about him who wanted to be like him--"
"Oh, that's rather good," said Matt.
"Do you think so?" asked the doctor, looking round at him. "Well! I
supposed you would be all the other way. Well! What I was saying was
that Putney looks upon these poor girls as their father's chief victims.
I think he was touched by their coming to him, and has pitied them. The
impression is that he's managed their affairs very well; I don't know
about such things; but I know he's managed them honorably; I would stake
my life on it; and I believe he'll hold out straight to the last. I
suppose," the doctor conjectured, at the end, "that they will try to get
at Northwick now, and arrange with his creditors for his return."
"I don't mind telling you," said Matt, "that it's been tried and failed.
The State's attorney insists that he shall come back and stand his
trial, first of all."
"Oh!" said the doctor.
"Of course, that's right from the legal point of view. But in the
meantime, nobody knows where Mr. Northwick is."
"I suppose," said the doctor, "it would have been better for him not to
have written that letter."
"It's hard to say," Matt answered. "I thought so, too, at first. I
thought it was cowardly and selfish of him to take away his children's
superstition about his honesty. You knew that they held to that through
all?"
"Most touching thing in the world," said the doctor, leaning forward to
push a fly off his horse with the limp point of his whip. "That poor old
maid has talked it into me till I almost believed it myself."
"I don't know that I should hold him severely accountable. And I'm not
sure now that I should condemn him for writing that letter. It must have
been a great relief to him. In a way, you may say he had to do it.
It's conceivable that if he had kept it on his mind any longer, his mind
would have given way. As it is, they have now the comfort of another
superstition--if it is a superstition. What do you think, doctor? Do you
believe that there was a mental twist in him?"
"There seems to be in nearly all these defaulters. What they do is so
senseless--so insane. I suppose that's the true theory of all crime. But
it won't do to act upon it, yet awhile."
"No."
The doctor went on after a pause, with a laugh of enjoyment at the
notion. "Above all, it won't do to let the defaulters act upon that
theory, and apply for admission to the insane asylums instead of taking
the express for Canada, when they're found out."
"Oh, no," said Matt. He wondered at himself for being able to analyze
the offence of Suzette's father so cold-bloodedly. But in fact he could
not relate the thought of her to the thought of him in his sin, at all;
he could only realize their kindred in her share of his suffering.
XIX.
Putney accepted Suzette's authorization of Matt with apparent
unconsciousness of anything but its immediate meaning, and they talked
Pinney's scheme intimately over together. In the end, it still remained
a question whether the energies of such an investigator could be
confined to the discovery of Northwick's whereabouts; whether his
newspaper instincts would not be too strong for any sense of personal
advantage that could be appealed to in him. They both believed that it
would not be long before Northwick followed up the publication of his
letter by some communication with his family.
But time began to go by again, and Northwick made no further sign; the
flurry of activity which his letter had called out in the detectives
came to nothing. Their search was not very strenuous; Northwick's
creditors were of various minds as to the amount of money he had carried
away with him. Every one knew that if he chose to stay in Canada, he
could not be molested there; and it seemed very improbable that he could
be persuaded to put himself within reach of the law. The law had no
terms to offer him, and there was really nothing to be done.
Putney forecast all this in his talk with Matt, when he held that they
must wait Northwick's motion. He professed himself willing to wait as
long as Northwick chose, though he thought they would not have to wait
long, and he contended for a theory of the man's whole performance which
he said he should like to have tested before a jury.
Matt could not make out how much he really meant by saying that
Northwick could be defended very fairly on the ground of insanity; and
that he would enjoy managing such a defence. It was a common thing to
show that a murderer was insane; why not a defaulter? Tilted back in his
chair, with one leg over the corner of his table, and changing the
tobacco in his mouth from one cheek to the other as he talked, the
lawyer outlined the argument which he said could be made very effective.
There was the fact to begin with, that Northwick was a very wealthy man,
and had no need of more money when he began to speculate; Putney held
that this want of motive could be made a strong point; and that the
reckless, almost open, way in which Northwick used the company's money,
when he began to borrow, was proof in itself of unsound mind: apparently
he had no sense whatever of meum and tuum, especially tuum. Then,
the total collapse of the man when he was found out; his flight without
an effort to retrieve himself, although his shortage was by no means
hopelessly vast, and could have been almost made up by skilful use of
the credit that Northwick could command, was another evidence of shaken
reason. But besides all this, there was his behavior since he left home.
He had been absent nearly five months, and in that time he had made no
attempt whatever to communicate with his family, although he must have
known that it was perfectly safe for him to do so. He was a father who
was almost dotingly fond of his children, and singularly attached to his
home; yet he had remained all that time in voluntary exile, and he had
left them in entire uncertainty as to his fate except so far as they
could accept the probability of his death by a horrible casualty. This
inversion of the natural character of a man was one of the most striking
phenomena of insanity, and Putney, for the purpose of argument,
maintained that it could be made to tell tremendously with a jury.
Matt was unable to enjoy the sardonic metaphysics of the case with
Putney. He said gravely that he had been talking of the matter with Dr.
Morrell, and he had no doubt that there was a taint of insanity in every
wrong-doer; some day he believed the law would take cognizance of the
fact.
"I don't suppose the time is quite ripe yet, though I think I could make
out a strong case for Brother Northwick," said Putney. He seemed to
enter into it more fully, as if he had a mischievous perception of
Matt's uneasiness, and chose to torment him; but then apparently he
changed his mind, and dealt with other aspects of their common interest
so seriously and sympathetically, that Matt parted from him with a
regret that he could not remove the last barrier between them, and tell
the lawyer that he concerned himself so anxiously in the affairs of that
wretched defaulter because his dearest hope was that the daughter of the
criminal would some day be his wife.
But Matt felt that this fact must first be confided to those who were
nearest him; and how to shape it in terms that would convey the fact and
yet hide the repulsiveness he knew in it, was the question that teased
him all the way back to Vardley, like some tiresome riddle. He
understood why his love for Suzette Northwick must be grievous to his
father and mother; how embarrassing, how disappointing, how really in
some sort disastrous; and yet he felt that if there was anything more
sacred than another in the world for him, it was that love, he must be
true to it at whatever cost, and in every event, and he must begin by
being perfectly frank with those whom it would afflict, and confessing
to himself all its difficulties and drawbacks. He was not much afraid of
dealing with his father; they were both men, and they could look at it
from the man's point of view. Besides, his father really cared little
what people would say; after the first fever of disgust, if he did not
change wholly and favor it vehemently, he would see so much good in it
that he would be promptly and finally reconciled.
But Matt knew that his mother was of another make, and that the blow
would be much harder for her to bear; his problem was how to lighten it.
Sometimes he thought he had better not try to lighten it, but let it
fall at once, and trust to her affection and good sense for the rest.
But when he found himself alone with her that night, he began by making
play and keeping her beyond reach. He was so lost in this perverse
effort that he was not aware of some such effort on her part, till she
suddenly dropped it, and said, "Matt, there is something I wish to speak
to you about--very seriously."
His heart jumped into his throat, but he said "Well?" and she went on.
"Louise tells me that you think of bringing this young man down to the
shore with you when you come to see us next week."
"Maxwell? I thought the change might do him good; yes," said Matt, with
a cowardly joy in his escape from the worst he feared. He thought she
was going to speak to him of Suzette.
She said, "I don't wish you to bring him. I don't wish Louise to see him
again after she leaves this place--ever again. She is fascinated with
him."
"Fascinated?"
"I can't call it anything else. I don't say that she's in love; but
there's no question but she's allowed her curiosity to run wild, and her
fancy to be taken; the two strongest things in her--in most girls. I
want to break it all up."
"But do you think--"
"I know. It isn't that she's with him at every moment, but that her
thoughts are with him when they're apart. He puzzles her; he piques her;
she's always talking and asking about him. It's their difference in
everything that does it. I don't mean to say that her heart is touched,
and I don't intend it shall be. So, you mustn't ask him to the shore
with you, and if you've asked him already, you must get out of it. If
you think he needs sea air, you can get him board at some of the
resorts. But not near us." She asked, in default of any response from
her son, "You don't think, Matt, it would be well for the acquaintance
to go on?"
"No, I don't mother; you're quite right as to that," said Matt, "if
you're not mistaken in supposing--"
"I'm not; you may depend upon it. And I'm glad you can see the matter
from my point of view. It is all very well for you to have your queer
opinions, and even to live them. I think it's all ridiculous; but your
father and I both respect you for your sincerity, though your course has
been a great disappointment to us."
"I know that, mother," said Matt, groaning in spirit to think how much
worse the disappointment he was meditating must be, and feeling himself
dishonest and cowardly, through and through.
"But I feel sure," Mrs. Hilary went on, "that when it's a question of
your sister, you would wish her life to be continued on the same plane,
and in the surroundings she had always been used to."
"I should think that best, certainly, for a girl of Louise's ideas,"
said Matt, trying to get his own to the surface.
"Ideas!" cried his mother. "She has no ideas. She merely has impulses,
and her impulses are to do what people wish. But her education and
breeding have been different from those of such a young man, and she
would be very unhappy with him. They never could quite understand each
other, no matter how much they were in love. I know he is very talented,
and all that; and I shouldn't at all mind his being poor. I never minded
Cyril Wade's being poor, when I thought he had taken her fancy, because
he was one of ourselves; and this young man--Matt, you can't pretend,
that with all his intellectual qualities, he's what one calls a
gentleman. With his origin and bringing up; his coarse experiences; all
his trials and struggles; even with his successes, he couldn't be; and
Louise could not be happy with him for that very reason. He might have
all the gifts, all the virtues, under the sun; I don't deny that he
has--"
"He has some very serious faults," Matt interrupted.
"We all have," said Mrs. Hilary, tolerantly. "But he might be a perfect
saint--a hero--a martyr, and if he wasn't what one calls a gentleman,
don't you see? We can't be frank about such things, here, because we
live in a republic; but--"
"We get there, just the same," said Matt, with unwonted slang.
"Yes," said his mother. "That is what I mean."
"And you're quite right, as to the facts, mother." He got up, and began
to walk about the long, low living-room of the farmhouse where they were
sitting. Louise had gone to direct her maid in packing for her flitting
to the seaside in the morning; Matt could see a light in the ell-chamber
where Maxwell was probably writing. "The self-made man can never be the
society equal of the society-made man. He may have more brains, more
money, more virtue, but he's a kind of inferior, and he betrays his
inferiority in every worldly exigency. And if he's successful, he's so
because he's been stronger, fiercer, harder than others in the battle of
life. That's one reason why I say that there oughtn't to be any battle
of life. Maxwell has the defects of his disadvantages--I see that. He's
often bitter, and cynical, and cruel because he has had to fight for his
bread. He isn't Louise's social equal; I quite agree with you there,
mother; and if she wants to live for society, he would be always in
danger of wounding her by his inferiority to other people of her sort.
I'm sorry for Maxwell, but I don't pity him, especially. He bears the
penalty of his misfortunes; but he is strong enough to bear it. Let him
stand it! But there are others--weaker, unhappier--Mother! You haven't
asked me yet about--the Northwicks." Matt stopped in front of her chair,
and looked down into her lifted face, where the satisfaction his
acquiescence in her views concerning Louise was scarcely marred by her
perception that he had not changed his mind at all on other points. She
was used to his way of thinking, and she gratefully resolved to be more
and more patient with it, and give him time for the change that was sure
to come. She interpreted the look of stormy wistfulness he wore as an
expression of his perplexity in the presence of the contradictory facts
and theories.
"No," she said, "I expected to do that. You know I've seen them so very
lately, and with this about Louise on my mind--How are they? That poor
Adeline--I'm afraid it's killing her. Were you able to do anything for
them?"
"Ah, I don't know," the young man sighed. "They have to suffer for their
misfortunes, too."
"It seems to be the order of Providence," said Mrs. Hilary, with the
resignation of the philosophical spectator.
"No!" Matt protested. "It's the disorder of improvidence. There's
nothing of the Divine will in consequences so unjust and oppressive.
Those women are perfectly innocent; they've only wished to do right, and
tried to do it; but they're under a ban the same as if they had shared
their father's guilt. They have no friends--"
"Well, Matt," said his mother, with dignity, "I think you can hardly say
that. I'm sure that as far as we are concerned, we have nothing to
reproach ourselves with. I think we've gone to the extreme to show our
good-will. How much further do you want us to go? Come; I don't like
your saying this!"
"I beg your pardon. I certainly don't blame you, or Louise, or father. I
blame myself--for cowardice--for--for unworthiness in being afraid to
say--to tell you--Mother," he burst out suddenly, after a halt, "I've
asked Suzette Northwick to marry me."
Matt had tried to imagine himself saying this to his mother, and the
effect it would have, ever since he had left Suzette's absorbing
presence; all through his talk with Putney, and all the way home, and
now throughout what he and his mother had been saying of Maxwell and
Louise. But it always seemed impossible, and more and more impossible,
so that when he found the words spoken in his own voice, it seemed
wholly incredible.
XX.
The effect of a thing is never quite what we have forecast. Mrs. Hilary
heard Matt's confession without apparently anything of his tumult in
making it. Women, after all, dwell mainly in the region of the
affections; even the most worldly women have their likes and dislikes,
and the question of the sort Matt had sprung upon his mother, is first a
personal question with them. She was not a very worldly woman; but she
liked her place in the world, and she preferred conformity and
similarity; the people she was born of and bred with, were the nicest
kind of people, and she did not see how any one could differ from them
to advantage. Their ideas were the best, or they would not have had
them; she, herself, did not wish to have other ideas. But her family was
more, far more, to her than her world was. She knew that in his time her
husband had not had the ideas of her world concerning slavery, but she
had always contrived to honor the ideas of both. Since her son had begun
to disagree with her world concerning what he called the industrial
slavery, she contrived, without the sense of inconsistency, to suffer
him and yet remain with the world. She represented in her maternal
tolerance, the principle actuating the church, which includes the facts
as fast as they accomplish themselves, without changing any point of
doctrine.
"Then you mean, Matt," she asked, "that you are going to marry her?"
"Yes," said Matt, "that is what I mean," and then, something in his
mother's way of taking it nettled him on Sue's behalf. "But I don't know
that my marrying her necessarily followed from my asking her. I expected
her to refuse me."
"Men always do; I don't know why," said Mrs. Hilary. "But in this case I
can't imagine it."
"Can't imagine it? I can imagine it!" Matt retorted; but his mother
did not seem to notice his resentment.
"Then, if it's quite settled, you don't wish me to say anything?"
"I wish you to say everything, mother--all that you feel and
think--about her, and the whole affair. But I don't wish you to think--I
can't let you think--that she has ever, by one look or word, allowed
me to suppose that my offer would be welcome."
"Oh, I didn't mean that," said Mrs. Hilary. "She would be too proud for
that. But I've no doubt it was welcome." Matt fretted in silence, but he
allowed his mother to go on. "She is a very proud girl, and I've no
doubt that what she's been through has intensified her pride."
"I don't suppose she's perfect," said Matt. "I'm not perfect, myself.
But I don't conceal her faults from myself any more than I do my own. I
know she's proud. I don't admire pride; but I suppose that with her it
can't be helped."
"I don't know that I object to it," said Mrs. Hilary. "It doesn't always
imply hardness; it goes with very good things, sometimes. That hauteur
of hers is very effective. I've seen it carry her through with people
who might have been disposed to look down on her for some reasons."
"I shouldn't value it, for that," Matt interrupted.
"No. But she made it serve her instead of her want of those family
connections that every one else has--"
"She will have all of ours, I hope, mother!" Matt broke in, with a
smile; but his mother would not be diverted from the point she was
making.
"And that it always seemed so odd she shouldn't have. I'm sure that to
see her come into a room, you would think half Boston, or all the
princes of the blood, were her cousins. She's certainly a magnificent
creature."
Matt differed with his mother from the ground up, in all her worldly
reasons for admiring Suzette, but her praises filled his heart to
overflowing. Tears stood in his eyes, and his voice trembled:
"She is--she is--angelically!"
"Well, not just that type, perhaps," said Mrs. Hilary. "But she is a
good girl. No one can help respecting her; and I think she's even more
to be respected for yielding to that poor old maid sister of hers about
their property, than for wishing to give it up."
"Yes," Matt breathed gratefully.
"But there, there is the real skeleton, Matt! Suzette would grace the
highest position. But her father! What will people say?"
"Need we mind that, mother?"
"Not, perhaps, so much, if things had remained as they were--if he had
never been heard from again. But that letter of his! And what will he do
next? He may come home, and offer to stand his trial!"
"I would respect him for that!" cried Matt passionately.
"Matt!"
"It isn't a thing I should urge him to do. He may not have the strength
for it. But if he had, it would be the best thing he could do, and I
should be glad to stand by him!"
"And drag us all through the mire? Surely, my son, whatever you feel
about your mother and sister, you can't wish your poor father to suffer
anything more on that wretch's account?"
"Wish? No. And heaven knows how deeply anxious I am about the effect my
engagement may have on father. I'm afraid it will embarrass
him--compromise him, even--"
"As to that, I can't say," said Mrs. Hilary. "You and he ought to know
best. One thing is certain. There won't be any opposition on his part or
mine, my son, that you won't see yourself is reasonable--"
"Oh, I am sure of that, mother! And I can't tell you how deeply I
feel--"
"Your father appreciates Suzette as fully as I do; but I don't believe
he could stand any more Quixotism from you, Matt, and if you intend to
make your marriage a preliminary to getting your father-in-law into
State's prison, you may be very sure your father won't approve of your
marriage."
Matt laughed at the humor of the proposition, which his mother did not
perceive so keenly.
"I don't intend that, exactly."
"And I'm satisfied, as it is, he won't be easy about it till the thing
is hushed up, or dies out of itself, if it's let alone."
"But father can't let it alone!" said Matt. "It's his duty to follow it
up at every opportunity. I don't want you to deceive yourself about the
matter. I want you to understand just how it will be. I have tried to
face it squarely, and I know how it looks. I shall try to make Suzette
see it as I do, and I'm sure she will. I don't think her father is
guiltier than a great many other people who haven't been found out. But
he has been found out, and he ought, for the sake of the community, to
be willing to bear the penalty the law inflicts. That is his only hope,
his salvation, his duty. Father's duty is to make him bear it whether
he's willing or not. It's a much more odious duty--"
"I don't understand you, Matt, saying your father's part is more odious
