is no better. Pray remember me to her."
Thereupon Ghisleri passed on, inwardly wondering how long it would be
before Adele became quite mad. Two days later he received a note from
her. She had heard from her husband that he was in Rome, she said, and
wrote to ask a great favour of him. He was doubtless aware of her
father's passion for manuscripts, which was well known in Rome. It was
reported that a certain dealer had bought Prince Montevarchi's library
after the crash, and she very much wished to buy a very interesting
manuscript of which she had often heard her father speak, and which
contained an account of the famous, or infamous, Isabella Montevarchi's
life, written with her own hand--a sort of confession, in fact. As she
did not know the exact title of the document, if it had any, she would
call it a confession, though, of course, in a strictly lay sense. Now,
she inquired, would Ghisleri, for old friendship's sake, try to obtain
it for her at a reasonable price? She knew, of course, that such an
original would be expensive, but she was prepared to discuss the terms
if not wholly beyond her means. She sent her note by the carrier, as
that was generally quicker than writing by the post, she said. Would
Ghisleri kindly answer by the same means? The man would call again on
the next day but one. That would perhaps give time to make preliminary
inquiries. With which observation, and with best thanks in anticipation
of the service he was about to render, Adele called herself most
sincerely his.
Ghisleri was not an extremely suspicious man, but he would have given
evidence of almost infantine simplicity if he had not seen that there
was something wrong about Adele's note. It was certainly very well
planned, and if Laura had never shown him the letters Adele had sent
her, it might very possibly have succeeded. On ascertaining the price
set by the dealer on the manuscript, he would probably have written a
few words, stating in a business-like way the sum for which the
so-called confession could be bought. In all likelihood, too, he would
have only dated his note by the day of the week, omitting altogether the
month and the year. He saw at a glance how easily a communication of
that kind might have taken such a shape as to be very serviceable
against him, and how hard it might have been to show that he was writing
about a genuine transaction concerning a manuscript actually for sale.
He determined to be very careful.
His first step was to find out the name of the dealer who had bought the
Montevarchi library. He next ascertained that what Adele wanted was
still unsold, and that he must therefore necessarily enter into
correspondence with her. After that he sought out a young lawyer whom he
had employed once or twice within the last few years when he had needed
legal advice in regard to some trifling point, and laid the whole matter
before him. This young man, Ubaldini by name, had rapidly acquired a
reputation as a criminal lawyer, and had successfully defended some
remarkable cases, but, as he justly observed, acquitted prisoners of the
classes in which crimes are common, pay very little, and condemned
criminals pay nothing at all. He was therefore under the necessity of
taking other kinds of business as a means of support. The last murderer
who had escaped the law by Ubaldini's eloquence had sent him a bag of
beans and a cream cheese, which was all the family could afford in the
way of a fee, but upon which a barrister who had a taste for variety
could not subsist any length of time.
Ghisleri explained at considerable length the whole story, as far as it
has been told in these pages, and expressed the belief that Donna Adele
Savelli was intent upon ruining him for what, after all, seemed very
insufficient reasons.
"When a woman lives on morphia and the fear of discovery, instead of
food and drink, I would not give much for the soundness of any of her
reasons," said Ubaldini, with a laugh. "What shall we do with the
Princess? Shall we convict her of homicide, or bring an action for
defamation, which we are sure to win? I like this case. We shall amuse
ourselves."
"I do not wish to bring any accusation nor any action against Donna
Adele Savelli," answered Ghisleri. "All I wish to do is to protect
myself. Of course I should be curious to know what became of that
written confession of hers, if it ever existed. But at present I wish
you to have certified copies made of all my letters to her, and to keep
the originals of those she writes me. If she makes such another attack
on me as the last one, I will ask you, perhaps, to take the matter up.
In the mean time, I only desire to keep on the safe side."
"In a case like this," said the lawyer, "it is far safer to attack than
to wait for the enemy. Be careful in what you write, at all events. It
would be wiser to show me the letters before you send them. One never
can tell at what point the error of omission or commission will be made,
upon which everything will depend. As a bit of general advice, I should
warn you always to date every sheet on which you write anything, always
to mention the name of the dealer when you speak of him, and invariably
to give in full the correct title by which the manuscript is known. If
you do that, and take good care that the dealer knows you perfectly each
time you see him, and remembers your visits, it will not be easy to
manage. But Donna Adele Savelli is evidently a clever person, whether
her reasons for hating you are good or bad. That little trick of sending
her own letters to the other lady was masterly--absolutely diabolical.
The reason she failed was that she struck too high. She over-reached
herself. She accused you of too much. That shows that although her
methods are clever her judgment is insufficient. The same is true of
this last attempt. By the bye, have you ever mentioned me to her, so far
as you can recollect?"
"No, I believe not."
"Then avoid doing so, if you please. It is always better to keep the
opposite party in ignorance of one's lawyer's name until the last
minute."
"Very well."
As soon as Ghisleri was gone Ubaldini wrote a draft of a letter to
Adele, as follows:
    "EXCELLENCY:--At the decease of a client of humble station a number
    of papers have come under my notice and are now in my hands. One of
    them, of some length, has evidently gone astray, for it is written
    by your Excellency and apparently addressed to a member of the
    clergy, besides containing, as one glance told me, matter of a
    private nature. It is my wish to restore it immediately, and I
    therefore write to inquire whether I may entrust it to the
    post-office, or whether I shall hand it sealed to your Excellency's
    legal representative. I need not add the assurance that so far as I
    am concerned the matter is a strict secret, nor that I desire to
    restore the document as a duty of honour, and could not consider for
    a moment the question of any remuneration.
    "Deign, Excellency, to receive graciously the expression of
    profoundest respect with which I write myself,
    "Your Excellency's most humble, obedient servant,
    "RINALDO UBALDINI, Advocate."
CHAPTER XXV.
As Ghisleri had anticipated, Adele kept up a lively correspondence with
him for some time. All her letters were duly filed by Ubaldini, who took
certified copies of Pietro's replies, but did not mention what he
himself had done in the matter. Adele bargained sharply until Ghisleri
wrote to her as plainly as he well could that the manuscript was not to
be had for less than the sum he had repeatedly named, and that he could
do nothing more for her. Thereupon she answered that she would consider
the matter, and did not write again. Pietro, after waiting several days,
left Rome again, and returned to Torre de' Ghisleri, glad to be relieved
at last from the irksome and dangerous task of writing concise and
lawyer-like communications about a subject which did not interest him at
all.
Meanwhile Adele had been through a series of emotions of which Pietro
knew nothing, and which very nearly drove her to increasing her daily
doses of morphia again. On receiving Ubaldini's very respectful and
straightforward letter, she had felt that she was saved at last, though
it definitely destroyed the illusion by which she had so long persuaded
herself that the confession was still in the oubliette at Gerano.
Without much hesitation she wrote to Ubaldini, and laid a bank-note for
five hundred francs in the folded sheet. She begged him to send a
special messenger with the sealed packet to Castel Savello, and
requested him, in spite of his protest, to accept the enclosed sum to
cover expenses.
During forty-eight hours she enjoyed to the full the anticipation of at
last getting back the letter which had cost her such terrible anxiety at
various times during the past two years and a half. Then came Ubaldini's
answer, though when she opened it she had no idea that it was from him.
He had made his clerk both write and sign the fair copy of the first
letter, which had been written on paper not stamped with an address. He
now wrote with his own hand upon the paper he kept for business
correspondence upon which, of course, the address was printed. There was
consequently not the slightest resemblance between the two letters. But
Adele was not prepared for the contents. The first thing she noticed was
her bank-note, carefully pinned inside the sheet. Even the form of
addressing her was not the same, and the one now employed was the
correct one, the Savelli being one of the families in which the title of
Prince and Princess belongs indiscriminately to all the children, and
consequently to the wives of all the sons. The letter was as follows:
    "SIGNORA PRINCIPESSA:--I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt
    of a communication from your Excellency, in which you request me to
    send a certain sealed packet to Castel Savello by a special
    messenger, and enclosing a bank note for five hundred francs (Banca
    Romana S. 32/0945) which I return herewith. I take the occasion to
    say that I know nothing whatever of the sealed packet referred to,
    and I beg to suggest that your Excellency may have accidentally
    addressed the letter to me instead of to some other person, perhaps
    in using a directory. If, however, it was written in answer to one
    supposed to have been indited to you by me, the letter must have
    been composed and sent by some designing person in the hope of
    intercepting the reply and gaining possession of the money, which I
    am glad to be able to send back to its original owner. Believe me,
    Signora Principessa,
    "Your Excellency's most obedient,
    "RINALDO UBALDINI."
The shock was almost more than Adele could bear, and the room reeled
with her as she comprehended what had happened, so far as she was able
to understand it all. The truth did not strike her, however. What she
believed was what the lawyer suggested, that some person had played a
trick on her, and had made use of Ubaldini's name and address in the
hope of getting the money he or she naturally expected that she would
send as compensation for such an important service. The hardest to
endure was the disappointment of finding that she was not to have the
confession after all. The point proved was that, whether it were still
in the oubliette or had been found and carried off, there was in either
case at least one person at large who knew it existed, and who knew that
the contents would be greatly to her disadvantage if known. And if one
person knew it, she argued, all Rome might be acquainted with the story,
and probably was. But the comforting conviction that the letter was
still safe at Gerano did not return. There was a tone about the first
communication disclaimed by Ubaldini, which forced upon her the belief
that the writer knew everything, and could ruin her at a moment's
notice.
What Ubaldini gained was the certainty that the story which Ghisleri
described as current gossip was a fact, and a very serious one. He had
played detective instead of lawyer, and he had been very successful. He
knew also, that, as he had acted altogether in the interests of his
client, Ghisleri, and had returned Adele's money, no objection could,
strictly speaking, be made to the stratagem, however it might be looked
upon by gentlemen and men of the world, like Ghisleri himself. But
Ubaldini was a lawyer, and it was not his business to consider what the
fine world would think of his doings. He filed Adele's letter with the
copies of his own.
In the course of a few days, Adele, who was all the time carrying on her
correspondence with Pietro, gathered some hope from the latter's
answers. She had a suspicion that he might keep all the notes he
received from her, and after the first she was as careful never to
mention the manuscript except as "the confession," as he, on his part,
was always to write out its title in full. It struck her, however, that
a man playing such a part as she wished to have it thought that he was
playing, would naturally use some such means for making his letters seem
commonplace if they should fall into the wrong hands, and it would be
easy to persuade her friends that the autobiographic writings of
Isabella Montevarchi meant Adele Savelli's confession, by common
consent, though she herself had not taken the trouble to use such a long
title more than once. The thought elated her, and comforted her in a
measure for the disappointment she had suffered, and which had shaken
her nerves severely.
She now spent much time in going over the correspondence, weighing each
word in the attempt to establish its exact value if regarded from the
point of view of a systematic attempt to extort money. With a relative
coolness which would not have disgraced a strong man, and which showed
how far she had recovered control of herself by diminishing the doses of
morphia, she set to work to put her case together on the supposition
that she meant to lay it before her husband, for instance, or any other
intelligent person, with a request for advice. And the case, as she put
it, was better than might have been expected, though it depended
ultimately, for its solidity, on the supposition that the confession
could never be found.
In the first place, she intended to admit that she had been jealous of
Laura for years, and to own frankly that she had often said cruel and
spiteful things of her, and of Arden, just as everybody she knew said
spiteful things of somebody. She would even admit that she had first set
afloat the rumour that Lord Herbert was intemperate, and that Laura had
the evil eye. She could then point out that her conduct had suddenly
changed in deference to her father's wishes, that there had been an open
reconciliation, not very heartfelt on her part at first, but made
sincere by the remorse she felt after Arden's death. For she meant to go
even so far as to confess that Arden might have caught the scarlet fever
in her house, seeing that her maid was only just recovering from it at
the time. The woman's illness had been kept strictly secret, and she had
been, from the first, taken to a distant part of the palace, so that
Adele had not believed there could be any danger. Even her husband had
not known what the maid's illness was, and poor Lucia had pleaded so
hard not to be sent to the hospital that Adele had yielded. But to
prove, she would say, how little fear of contagion she had, her own
children had not been sent into the country. The Palazzo Savelli was big
enough to have had a whole infirmary in one part of it, completely
isolated from all the rest. Nevertheless, she had always felt that there
was a possibility of Arden's last illness having been taken at that
dinner-party, and her secret remorse had caused her the greatest
suffering. Between that and a nervous disorder from which she had little
hope of ever recovering, she had fallen very ill, and had gone to
Gerano. While there, her conscience had so pricked her in the matter of
her past unkindness to her step-sister and to Arden, that although she
had been to confession at Easter, she wrote a long letter to her
confessor in Rome, going again over the full details of the past winter.
From that point she could tell the truth, without even sparing Lucia,
until she came to the discovery that it was Ghisleri himself who had
picked up the letter, or confession, under the shaft of the oubliette.
And here she would lay great stress on Ghisleri's attachment to Laura,
and consequent dislike of herself. The well-known fact that Pietro had
fought a desperate duel merely because Campodonico said that Lady
Herbert Arden might have the evil eye, sufficiently showed to what
lengths he would go in her defence. Nothing more would really be needed.
But there was plenty more. All Rome knew that he had broken with
Maddalena dell' Armi for Laura's sake, and that he had exhibited the
most untiring devotion ever afterwards. Never, since the death of the
Princess Corleone, Adele would boldly assert, had he been faithful to
any one woman for such a length of time. That was a strong point. The
Princess of Gerano herself could testify to her own anxiety about Laura
since Ghisleri had been so much with her. Laura herself had behaved in
the most admirable manner ever since the reconciliation, but Ghisleri,
in constituting himself her champion, had become, so to say, more
royalist than the king, and more catholic than the pope. His dislike, if
not his positive hatred, for Adele was apparent at every step in the
story. He did not, it is true, speak of it to any one, but his reticence
was a well-known peculiarity of his character. It was when he was alone
in conversation with Adele that he showed what he felt. But his manner
was always courteous and rather formal. It was by sarcastic hints that
he conveyed his meaning. Nevertheless, Adele had maintained the outward
forms of friendly acquaintance, and once, some six months after Arden's
death, when matters had not been so bad as they now were, she had asked
him to stay a few days at Gerano. Lucia could testify that he was there
at the time when the confession disappeared, and Lucia, who had
attempted to extort money for it, and would have succeeded if the
document had been forthcoming, had naturally been as interested as any
one to find it. Not until some time later had Adele suspected that it
had been picked up by Ghisleri. The thing, of course, had not any very
great value, but what woman, Adele would ask, could bear to think that
the most private outpourings of her soul to her spiritual director were
in the hands of a man who hated her, and who could, if he pleased,
circulate them and make them the talk of the town? When Ghisleri, in the
following winter, had begun to torment her systematically by quoting
little phrases and expressions which she remembered to have written in
the letter, she had at last boldly taxed him with having it in his
possession, and he, with the unparalleled cynicism for which he was
famous, had laughed at her and owned the truth. Every one would allow
that this was very like him. She had threatened to complain to her
husband, and he had expressed the utmost indifference. He was a known
duelist and a dangerous adversary, and for her husband's sake she had
held her tongue, while Ghisleri continued to make her life miserable
with his witticisms. Then she had once asked him what he would consider
an equivalent for the letter. He had laughed again, and had said that he
would take a large sum of money in exchange for it, which, he added, he
would devote to building a small hospital in the village of Torre de'
Ghisleri, saying that it would be for the good of her soul to found a
charity of that kind. She would not undertake to say whether he would
have employed the money for that purpose or not, if she had given it to
him. Possibly he would. But she had not been able to dispose of any such
sum as he had then named. Under her marriage contract she controlled
only her pin-money, and her father allowed her nothing out of the great
fortune which would some day be hers. She and Ghisleri had corresponded
about the matter in town, by notes sent backwards and forwards. She, on
her part, had at that time thought she was doing wisely in burning his,
but he had been less careful. He had, in fact, been so grossly negligent
as to leave five of them at one time in the pocket of one of his coats.
It was through his tailor to whom the coat had been sent for some
alteration or repair that two of these notes had come back to Adele. A
woman, apparently a seamstress, had come to her with them one day, and
had offered them to her for sale, together with a card of Lady Herbert
Arden's enclosed in an envelope addressed to "Maria B." at the general
post-office. On the card were written the words: "For Maria B., with
best thanks." The woman confessed that she was in great distress, that
she had found the letters in a coat upon which she was working, had
easily ascertained who Ghisleri was, and what his relations towards Lady
Herbert were, and had appealed to the latter for help, offering the
letters in exchange for any charity, and actually sending three of them
when she had only received five francs. Lady Herbert had then sent her
fifty francs more with the card in question, but the poor woman thought
that very little. She bitterly repented not having brought them all at
once to Donna Adele. Of course they belonged to her, and Donna Adele
had a right to them all, without payment. But the woman was very poor.
Adele had unhesitatingly given her a hundred francs and had kept the two
notes and the card, which proved at least that even at that time she had
been corresponding with Ghisleri and protesting her inability to pay the
sum he demanded, and that Laura Arden was aware of the correspondence,
and had been willing for Ghisleri's sake to pay money to obtain it. For
a long time after this Adele had made no further attempt, but had
avoided finding herself alone in conversation with Pietro, as many
people had indeed noticed, because she could not bear to be perpetually
annoyed by his reference to his power over her. Yet, out of fear lest
some harm should befall her husband, she had still held her peace. Early
in the preceding summer, shortly before leaving for her annual visit to
Gerano, Ghisleri had managed to be alone with her, and had not lost the
opportunity of inflicting another wound, which had revived all her old
desire to obtain possession of the lost letter. He had, indeed, almost
admitted that unless she would reconsider the matter he would send it to
one of her friends to read. The Montevarchi library was then about to be
sold, and many persons were talking of the famous confession of Isabella
Montevarchi. By way of safety, Adele, in agreeing to think the whole
thing over once more, had told him that when writing she should speak of
her own letter as though it were this well-known manuscript. She had
already some experience of his carelessness in regard to notes. Against
his own statement, and against her own secret positive conviction, yet
to give him one chance, as it were, she had made one desperate effort to
have the oubliette opened and searched. Her father would remember how
angry she had been, and, indeed, she had lost her temper, being always
ill and nervous. He had positively refused. Then, in despair, she had
reopened negotiations with Ghisleri, whose demands, though not so high
as formerly, were still quite beyond her means. As a matter of fact,
the dealer had asked an exorbitant price for the manuscript, being well
aware of its historical importance, which was little less than that
attaching to the famous manuscript account of the Cenci trial. Adele was
in despair. She had no means of raising such a sum as Ghisleri required,
except by selling her jewels, which she could not possibly do without
exciting her husband's suspicions. She was powerless. Had any woman ever
been placed in such a situation? Ghisleri's last letter distinctly
stated that he could do nothing more for her if she refused to buy the
confession of Isabella Montevarchi at the price he had last named. Those
were his very words. They meant that unless she paid, he would make use
of the letter he had. He even added, that in that case the manuscript
would probably before long be disposed of elsewhere, as though to make
his meaning clearer.
Her position was very strong, Adele thought, as she reached the end of
her statement as she first drew it up in her own mind. A clever lawyer
could doubtless make it even stronger, for he would know how to take
advantage of every point, and how to call attention to the strongest and
pass smoothly over the weaker links in the chain. The real danger, and
the only real danger, lay in the possibility that the confession itself
might be found and might be produced, with all which she said it
contained, and with the one central black statement of which she made no
mention in working up the case. But who could produce it? If any one had
it, that man was Ghisleri, who had more than once gone very near the
truth in the hints he had thrown out. Say that he had it--suppose the
hypothesis a fact. Its being in his possession would be the most ruining
evidence of all. He would not dare to show it, for though it might ruin
her, it would be far worse ruin to him, for it would of itself suffice
to prove the truth of every word of her story, and he would not only
incur the full penalty of the law for a most abominable attempt at
levying blackmail, but his very memory would be blasted for ever as
that of the most dastardly and cowardly villain ever sent to penal
servitude. As for herself, she felt that she had not long to live, and
if worse came to worst, a little over-dose of morphia would end it all.
She would have had her triumph, and she would have seen Laura's face by
that time.
It did not occur to her to ask herself any question about the origin of
a hatred so implacable as to make the sacrifice of life itself seem easy
in the accomplishment of its end. She was not able to trace the history
of her jealousy backwards by a firm concentration of memory, as she was
able by the force of vivid imagination to construct the vengeance she
anticipated in the future. That the most dire revenge should be
contemplated, pursued, and ultimately executed for the sake of a wrong
wholly imaginary in the first instance is not altogether novel in the
history of humanity. There are minds which under certain conditions
cannot judge of the past as they can of events present and to come.
Adele's hatred of Laura Arden amounted almost to a fixed idea. It had
begun in very small things. Its origin lay, perhaps, in the simple fact
