" Some parties came to see me." 
Mrs. Vantine raised her brows. It was an ar- 
tide of her creed that a young woman could know 
nothing of business. 
" Of course you referred them to Mr. Vantine?" 
" I had not decided about giving up the place,' 
Sabrina answered slowly. 
" You didn't hold out any hopes, or allow your- 
self to be drawn into any promises ? These peo- 
ple are not the ones who have set about building 
up the town. They are outside parties, dealing in 
futures, who mean to bring the property into the 
market after the town is really built. Your uncle 
is shrewd enough to play one off against the other. 
If they miss it, why it's their lookout ; and if they 
have to hold the property twelve or fifteen years, 
that is their business also, with taxes and interest 
eating it up." 
Mrs. Vantine nodded with confident sagacity. 
Miss Eastwood kept silent. 
" So it is lucky you didn't take that Winchester 
offer. This is double. Have you seen anything 
of the man ? Wasn't there some sort of accident.^ 
I am sure your uncle was reading it." 
"There was — at the mill. I was away. I only 
heard of it last evening. He is very ill." 
Mrs. Vantine studied her carefully. " Did he 
come over to Chester House ? " 
" Oh, no," answered Sabrina. 
" What did you all do ? Was there much com- 
pany ? Your friend must have been very enter- 
taining. What was her husband like ? " 
"There was no husband." Sabrina smiled now. 
" An elderly widow, and an invalid sister ; an 
adopted daughter ; Miss Disbrowe ; and Mrs. Her- 
rick and her niece came." 
" All women ! Is there any society ? " 
" Not what we would call society, or I might not 
have fared so well." 
■ The woman from the modiste's was announced. 
She had samples, patterns, and styles. Sabrina 
listened in dismay. Had she ever considered 
wherewithal she should be clothed of such para- 
mount importance ? It was irksome, irritating. 
How had she ever endured it ? How could she 
endure it now ? 
Then came luncheon, shopping, a continuous 
sort of worrying, a ceaseless purring of regret that 
the summer had been wasted. Everything that 
did not tend directly to the admiration of society 
was a waste in Mrs. Vantine's estimation. She 
was never cross nor sharp, seldom ironical ; but 
she felt now that there were so many weeks, so 
many lost opportunities to deplore. Sabrina won- 
dered whether this was all the aim in life that 
inspired Mrs. Vantine. She had been wearied 
with it before, but now her whole being made a 
protest. 
The current was changed by the entrance of 
Mr. Vantine. He was a rather stout, middle-aged 
man, fine looking still. Whatever he touched 
came to the fore sooner or later. He slipped 
out of doubtful things long enough beforehand to 
clear himself of any suspicious connection. He 
was not regularly in business, he merely dabbled ; 
but larger operators consulted him. He was on 
boards of directors ; he was trustee of several large 
estates, and his business honesty was unquestioned. 
"My dear Sabrina," he said, taking both hands, 
" it is a great pleasure to see you again. You 
can't imagine how we have missed you. Well, 
have you fallen so in love with Chester House 
that you could hardly resolve to leave it ? We 
were on the point of surprising you. The fever 
of improvement has broken out, I hear. Towns 
are not so often built up in a night as at the 
West, but we steady-going Easterners have a 
little push left. And it is amusing how we do 
push each other when we get started. Are the 
factories in operation ? " 
Sabrina smiled. " Hardly, though the change 
seems magical. I am not sure that I approve 
unqualifiedly.'' 
Mr. ^Vantine rubbed his hands softly together. 
They were white and well shaped, with rather 
long fingers. 
"No ; women seldom are ranged on the hubbub 
side of improvement. They have a certain vein 
of romance about old places and old furniture. 
Mrs. Vantine has brought home no end of boxes 
of ugly curiosities, to rouse the envy of her 
friends. How far are you from this embryo 
city ? " 
" Two miles or so from the point of the new 
railroad station ; the factories are to be built in 
that vicinity. The streets are laid out in our 
direction. There is a gentle ascent until Ches- 
ter Farm is reached, then the ground declines 
again." 
Mr. Vantine raised his brows and compressed 
his lips. " So far as that ? " he inquired. " Then, 
Sabrina, let me tell you, you have received a first- 
class offer for the old place, and I should close 
with it ! They may go a little higher if I can 
work up the other side ; but it is too good to let 
slip. . They are crazy to put that much money 
where they are not certain of turning it over for 
years. Two miles is a long distance to build up. 
I am surprised. Level-headed fellows, too, with 
lots of money." 
He looked at her with a kind of amazement, as 
if she were in league with them. 
" There need be no hurry," she returned quietly. 
" I don't know as to that. My motto has ak 
ways been to strike while the iron's hot. In three 
months they may reconsider. It is a tremendous 
price ! I thought you were a little wrong-headed 
not to close it out to Winchester. What is he 
saying about all this ? " 
" He has said nothing that I have heard." 
" Well, you were on the lucky side that time ! 
And you are in luck now. Zounds ! how plucky 
your mother was ! Not the sort of woman you'd 
look to for nerve, either. I suppose there is no 
real objection on your part ? When I have 
squeezed these people sufficiently " — 
Sabrina made a slight gesture of dissent with 
her hand, that arrested his voluble speech. He 
looked questioningly at her. 
" I am in no hurry to part with Chester House," 
she began slowly. " I cannot make up my mind 
at once" — 
" Really, are you going to be sentimental about 
the old place ? " He gave a mellow, pleasant 
laugh, as if it amused him. " But if you liked you 
might keep the house and — say ten acres or so. 
I really must go up and take a look. Here is 
a rough diagram," and he took a paper out of his 
memorandum. " You see — yes, the house is way 
over here. They want the property joining on 
the new town, — seventy odd acres in all. Well, 
you might dispose of fifty. Looking at it in the 
most advantageous light, the town can't stretch 
out to that point under ten years. Meanwhile, 
there are taxes, interests, and improvements. 
Why, it will eat up all the profits ! You see you 
have the interest of the money, and that may be 
turned over half a dozen times. When they come 
to study it out they may withdraw. You had 
better consent to my taking the best offer I can 
get. You know I shall not accept a poor one." 
" I wish — I would like to wait awhile — I want 
to think," she began confusedly. 
"Well, a fortnight > " 
"Sabrina, we will go to Newport next week." 
Mrs. Vantine had been looking over some letters. 
The Poynters are to make their farewell visit at 
the Barclays', and they would be delighted to meet 
us again. They are to sail about the middle of 
September. Yes, let your uncle manage matters 
as he thinks best. I must send a note to Madame 
Nadine to-night. The packing-case can follow us. 
Let me see, we will start on Monday, and I will 
send a letter of acceptance at once. Sir Archibald 
has been over to the Pacific coast, and is wildly 
enthusiastic." 
Mrs. Vantine went over to her desk. 
" I will think about the offer," Sabrina said to 
her guardian. Then she rose and went to her 
own room. The bric-a-brac had been packed 
away. The chairs were swathed in protecting 
covers. The profusion of flowers that was wont 
to greet her was absent, and it gave her a chilled, 
unhomelike feeling. The simplitity of Green- 
fields, the earnestness of the life there, touched 
her with longing. Yes, she had been in another 
country, where the atmosphere was fragrant with 
the higher purposes of the soul. Now she was 
to take heed again how she was clothed, how she 
dispensed her smiles. The needy or the suffering 
were not to be considered. There was a charmed 
.circle that demanded, not the best one had to 
give, but certain gifts and graces. She was go- 
ing back into it. For some time to come she 
must stand a little apart from the ideal that so 
stirred her. Fate took the high and inspiring 
possibility out of her hands. For a moment she 
protested ; for many moments she almost let her- 
self be swept into the current that yawned before 
her. 
Was this weakness the sense of disappointment 
because another had won the blessing that could 
have crowned her life.^ Sabrina straightened her- 
self and glanced in the tall mirror. She thought 
of the creed of honor and high-mindedness that 
she had set for herself long before this. Now, 
when she had reached a larger awakening, should 
she let a jealous regard rob her of the grace she 
had been striving to win ? Had she not longed to 
give of her very best? Was not that herself? 
Should she keep back part of the price ? The love 
that "seeketh not her own." Ah! that was it. 
With that high endeavor went all the rest. 
That evening she listened with a tender gra- 
ciousness to Mrs. Vantine's plans and her regrets 
for the wasted summer, the vague gossip, the 
anxiety that dressmakers were, the plans for a 
winter campaign, — subjects she should hear dis- 
cussed daily, no doubt. She could be thankful 
she had had such a long respite from them. In 
many ways she could order her life anew, but it 
would not be wise to make any violent break. 
Mr. Vantine had enjoyed his dinner and his 
cigars, and now he half dozed, wondering how it 
was that women could fill up their minds with 
such trifles ! 
Miss Eastwood, with her cool freshness, was 
quite an acquisition. There was Sir Archibald 
Poynter, who had been deeply fascinated with the 
fair American in the early years of his widower- 
hood, and who had supposed her eager for a title- 
his daughter, a nervous invalid ; his niece, the tra. 
ditionally robust English girl. Marianne Poynter 
had grown really fond of Miss Eastwood when 
she found she had no designs on her father, and 
now she welcomed her with unmistakable delight. 
Marianne had her poor and her schools at home, 
and her plans for the advancement of the world in 
general. Sabrina listened to them with a graceful 
attention that delighted the elder woman. But 
how different from Pearl Disbrowe, with her ac- 
tive, ardent love for humanity ! 
She watched her host and hostess with a new 
interest, thinking of the pathetic story she had 
left behind in Greenfields. No doubt the two 
much-buffeted pilgrims could claim kinship. How 
cruel that they had been compelled to drop out of 
their own gentle circle! A little of the luxury 
here would have been so much to them, saved so 
many pangs in their lives. Was not Pearl Dis- 
browe's kindly work greater than the ostentatious 
charities so often discussed.^ 
All this time she kept revolving her project in 
her mind. Pearl should have Chester House 
now, in the beginning of her life. If she, Sabrina, 
had gone on accumulating all these years, 
without any real income from that property, then 
surely she did not need it. Why should she seek 
to add to her already sufficient fortune.^ She 
wondered a little how she could best accomplish 
her purpose. There was no one to consult. The 
Vantines would consider her foolish above all 
women. Yet here was Marianne Poynter with a 
little orphanage of her own, established in a house 
bequeathed by an aunt, interested in the welfare 
of half a dozen little girls, and using her utmost 
endeavor to place it on a sure and permanent 
foundation, — girls who were to be trained to 
household service, no matter what their desires or 
their capacities might be. And there was Rhea 
Vasilis, rescued from, her hard, poverty-pinched 
life, and set in a high place, surrounded by love, 
some day, perhaps, to gladden the hearts of many. 
There were drives and dinners, receptions and 
dances, plans for winter, invitations given and ac- 
cepted. Between this and the Tuxedo engage- 
ment there intervened a week. Sabrina announced 
her intention of spending a few days at Chester 
House. Mr. Vantine had found his customers 
loath to increase their first offer, and he was 
holding off warily. Sabrina insisted that he 
should make no bargain until her return. 
" I think you ought to go at once to the city, 
and see about your fall wardrobe. It seems to 
me, Sabrina, that you really do not care how you 
look," declared Mrs. Vantine. "You might as 
well turn Quaker at once." 
Sabrina smiled. "They are spared a good deal 
of worry and anxiety. No wonder they keep look- 
ing young and pretty." 
" Well, but they are really going out of fashion, 
you see," returned Mrs. Vantine. "I have read 
in some of the statistics that they decrease in 
numbers every year. And there's the sisterhood 
idea that young unmarried women affect. It may 
be well enough when one feels that one's chances 
for marriage have passed; but I do hope, Sabrina, 
you won't take up any of these fads." 
Sabrina smiled again. Did everything revolve 
about marriage ? She was beginning to look at life 
with different eyes, — earnest eyes that, touched 
with the sacred fire of truth, could see how much 
nobler daily living might be made, without con- 
ventual seclusion. She wanted to be in the 
world, to take part in its advancement. She had 
the means ; she had, too, certain gifts, not those 
she desired most, perhaps, but at least one tal- 
ent which she must use. She could endeavor to 
make some virtues attractive to those with whom 
her daily life was cast. If she did not quite know 
the language of the byways, she could see that in 
the highways were standing many honest, fervent 
souls, whom "no man had hired," who were wait- 
ing for some one to show them the way, to point 
out the path that led to the "King's Country." 
She meant to so beautify some of these truths 
that others seeing would say, "We will go with 
thee." She had given up herself, and cast out 
the sweet hope of reward. 
The September afternoon had a slight autumnal 
chill in it as she was driven over the familiar way. 
There had been quite a frost during the night, 
ajid at noon the uncertain sky had turned off low- 
ering, indicating a coming storm. Little of the 
foliage had changed. Here and there a branch of 
scarlet maple was outlined against the gray sky, 
and bunches of flame-red sumach intensified the 
fading green by the wayside. But the wide porch 
was deserted. The lonely air sent a strange thrill 
through Sabrina. Pearl had caught sight of her, 
and sprang to the door. 
''I am so glad," she cried. "I wrote yesterday. 
Come in by the fire. You must be chilled with 
your drive. It has turned off quite cold." 
There was a fire on the wide, old-fashioned 
hearth, and a pleasant fragrance of pine and hem- 
lock diffused through the room. The spacious 
sofa had been drawn out from the corner, and 
Miss Barclay reclined there. Her eyes had a soft, 
mysterious brightness that transfigured her face, 
less thin, Sabrina thought, but with a curious 
transparent pallor. Mrs. Duane and Rhea were 
the only other inmates. The girl sat by the win- 
dow doing some pencil work. Pearl had been 
reading. What a pretty, homelike scene it was ! 
And in the corner stood a great jar of oak, maple, 
and hemlock branches, with sprays of flowers in- 
terspersed. It was almost as if one had brought 
in a bit of the woods. 
There was a good deal to tell. Mrs. Herrick 
and Stacy had given them a day and a night on 
their homeward way, and Stacy had been chari|j^ 
ing. Matters were improving a little at Brent- 
ford. Some of the shops were running again, 
though not on full time. But there was less abso- 
lute suffering. Mr. Olmstead's friend had re- 
turned and relieved him from duty, though he 
was still staying with Mr. Winchester, who was 
not improving as rapidly as they had all hoped. 
Their household had narrowed. Miss Searle had 
found her opportunity as a companion and sort of 
secretary to an elderly invalid, whose means and 
kindly heart admitted of many good works. They 
had one poor woman still unprovided for, but Mrs. 
Herrick had a place opening for her. 
From time to time Miss Eastwood glanced over 
to Miss Barclay. She remarked that Mrs. Duane 
brought in her supper; that Desire White came 
and carried her to her room in her strong arms. 
Presently the two girls were left alone. 
"I wonder if you would care to come here an- 
other summer, Pearl, and go on with your experi- 
ment ? " Sabrina asked after a long silence. "You 
know I had an offer for the place. Now there is 
another, by different parties, that has quite cap- 
tured my guardian, and he proposed that if I 
cared for the house I should reserve that and a 
few acres, and dispose of the rest. I suppose I 
ought to have some romantic attachment to Ches- 
ter House. If mamma had ever lived here — if I 
had any tender associations with it, except one " — 
"And that." asked Pearl, stretching out her 
hand over Miss Eastwood's. 
" It is you, Pearl. Do you know you ought to 
be mistress of a quaint, pretty home. You seem 
to be a part of just such an old house as this. 
Whether as a wife and mother, — that would give 
me the most delight, — or as one dispensing kindly 
comforts to needy souls and bodies. But you want 
a standing place, a centre. Pearl, I have been 
thinking, planning, learning about the sacredness 
of the life in which 'no man liveth unto himself.' I 
have been roused from my purposeless existence. 
I begin to see the great work there is to be done. 
I haven't the courage as yet to go out of my own 
sphere, but in it I can find some earnest souls 
that will suffice me until I reach a higher round. 
And I want you to go on unhampered, to feel free 
to try some of the experiments in which you de- 
light. Will you take Chester House and do with 
it what seems best — redeem it from the disagree- 
able impression it has had for me ? I used to 
think I never wanted to enter its doors. And you 
have made it a House Beautiful. Let me come 
now and then " — 
Pearl drew a long breath. " You do not mean " 
— she said hesitatingly. 
" I mean it as a gift. It has never been con- 
sidered of much value until now. I have plenty 
without it. There have been some quarrels and un- 
