But he had made an effort, and a great one. There was in him something
of the ascetic, with all his faults, and something of the enthusiasm
which is capable of sudden and great self-denial if once roused. He knew
what he had done, for he knew what it had cost him, mentally and
physically. Lean as he had been before, he had grown perceptibly thinner
since Monday. He knew that, so far, he had succeeded. For the first
time, perhaps, he had every point of justice on his side. If he had
been inclined to be merciful and humble and submissive towards those who
doubted him now, he would not have been human. The two beings whom he
loved in the world, his mother and Katharine, were the very two who had
doubted him most. As for his mother, he had not persuaded her, for she
had persuaded herself--by means of such demonstration as no sane being
could have rejected, namely, the authoritative statement of a great
doctor, personally known to her. What had followed had produced a
strange result, for he felt that he was more closely bound to her than
ever before, a fact which showed, at least, that he did not bear malice,
however deeply he had been hurt. But he could not go about everywhere
for a week with Doctor Routh at his heels to swear to his sobriety. He
told himself so with some contempt, and then he thought of Katharine,
and his face grew harder as the minutes went by and no answer came to
his letter.
It was far more cruel of her than it had been in his mother’s case.
Katharine had only heard stories and reports of his doings, and she
should be willing to accept his denial of them on her faith in him. He
had never lied to her. On Wednesday night, he had gratuitously told her
the truth about himself--a truth which she had never suspected--and had
insisted upon making it out to be even worse than it was. His wisdom
told him that he had made a mistake then, in wilfully lowering himself
in her estimation, and that this was the consequence of that; if he had
not forced upon her an unnecessary confession of his weakness, she would
now have believed in his strength. But his sense of honour rose and
shamed his wisdom, and told him that he had done right. It would have
been a cowardly thing to accept what Katharine had then been forcing
upon him, and had actually made him accept, without telling her all the
truth about himself.
He had done wrong to yield at all. That he admitted, and repeated,
readily enough. He made no pretence of having a strong character, and he
had been wretchedly weak in allowing her to persuade him to the secret
marriage. He should have folded his arms and refused, from the first. He
had foreseen trouble, though not of the kind which had actually
overtaken him, and he should have been firm. Unfortunately, he was not
firm, by nature, as he told himself, with a sneer. Not that Katharine
had been to blame, either. She had made her reasons seem good, and he
should not have blamed her had she been ever so much in the wrong. There
his honour spoke again, and loudly.
But for what she was doing now, in keeping silence, leaving him without
a word when she must know that he was most in need of her faith and
belief--for abandoning him when it seemed as though every man’s hand
were turned against him--he could not help despising her. It was so
cowardly. Had it all been ten times true, she should have stood by him
when every one was abusing him.
It was far more cruel of her than of his mother, for all she knew of the
story had reached her by hearsay, whereas his mother had seen him, as he
had seen himself, and his appearance might well have deceived any one
but Doctor Routh. He did not ask himself whether he could ever forgive
her, for he did not wish to hear in his heart the answer which seemed
inevitable. As for loving her, or not loving her, he thought nothing
about it at that moment. With him, too, as with her, love was in a state
of suspended animation. It would have been sufficiently clear to any
outsider acquainted with the circumstances that when the two met that
evening, something unusual would probably occur. Katharine, indeed,
believed that John would not appear at the dinner-party; but John, who
firmly intended to be present, knew that Katharine was going, and he
expected to be placed beside her. It was perfectly well known that they
were in love with one another, and the least their greatest friends
could do was to let them enjoy one another’s society. This may have
been done partly as a matter of policy, for both were young enough and
tactless enough to show their annoyance if they were separated when they
chanced to be asked to sit at the same table. John looked forward to the
coming evening with some curiosity, and without any timidity, but also
without any anticipation of enjoyment.
He was trying to imagine what the conversation would be like, when Frank
Miner returned, beaming with enthusiasm, and glowing from his walk in
the cold, wet air. He had been gone a long time.
“Well?” asked John, as his friend came up to the fire, and held out his
hands to it.
“Very well--very well, indeed, thank you,” answered the latter, with a
cheerful laugh. “I’ll bet you twenty-five cents to a gold watch that you
can’t guess what’s happened--at Routh’s.”
“Twenty-five cents--to a gold watch? Oh--I see. Thank you--the odds
don’t tempt me. What did happen?”
“I say--those were awfully good cigars of yours, Jack!” exclaimed Miner,
by way of answer. “Haven’t you got another?”
“There’s the box. Take them all. What happened?”
“No--I’ll only take one--it would look like borrowing if I took two, and
I can’t return them. Jack, there’s a lot of good blood knocking about
in this family, do you know? I don’t mean about the cigars--I’m
naturally a generous man when it comes to taking things I like. But the
other thing. Do you know that somebody had been to Routh about making
him write the letter, before I got there?”
“What? To make him write it? Not Ham Bright? It would be like him--but
how should he have known about Routh?”
“No. It wasn’t Bright. Want to guess? Well--I’ll tell you. It was your
mother, Jack. Nice of her, wasn’t it?”
“My mother!”
Ralston leaned forward and began to poke the logs about. He felt a
curious sensation of gladness in the eyes, and weakness in the throat.
“Tell me about it, Frank,” he added, in a rather thick voice.
“There’s not much to tell. I marched in and stated my case. He’s between
seven and eight feet high, I believe, and he stood up all the time--felt
as though I were talking to scaffold poles. He listened in the calmest
way till I’d finished, and then took up a letter from his desk and
handed it to me to read and to see whether I thought it would do. I
asked what it meant, and he said he’d just written it at the request of
Mrs. Ralston, who had left him a quarter of an hour ago, and that if I
would take it to the proper quarter--as he expressed it--he should be
much obliged. He’s a brick--a tower of strength--a tower of bricks--a
perfect Babel of a man. You’ll see, when the evening papers come out--”
“Did you take it down town?”
“Of course. And I got hold of one of the big editors. I sent in word
that I had a letter from Doctor Routh which must be published in the
front page this evening unless the paper wanted Mr. Robert Lauderdale to
bring an action against them for libel to-morrow morning. You should
have seen things move. What a power cousin Robert is! I suppose I took
his name in vain--but I don’t care. Old Routh is not to be sneezed at,
either. You’ll see the letter. There’s some good old English in it. Oh,
it’s just prickly with epithets--‘unwarrantable liberty,’ ‘impertinent
scurrility’--I don’t know what the old doctor had for breakfast. It’s
not like him to come out like that, not a bit. He’s a cautious old bird,
as a rule, and not given to slinging English all over the ten-acre lot,
like that. You see, he takes the ground that you’re his patient, that
you had some sort of confustication of the back of your head, and that
to say that you were screwed when you were ill was a libel, that the
terms in which the editor had allowed the thing to appear proved that it
was malicious, and that as the editor was supposed to exercise some
control, and to use his own will in the matter of what he published and
circulated, it was wilfully published, since the city paid for places in
which people who had no control over their wills were kept for the
public safety, and that therefore the paragraph in question was a
wilfully malicious libel evidently published with the intention of doing
harm--and much more of the same kind of thing--all of which the editor
would have put into the waste paper basket if it had not been signed,
Martin Routh, M.D., with the old gentleman’s address. Moreover, the
editor asked me why, in sending in a message, I had made use of
threatening language purporting to come from Mr. Robert Lauderdale. But
as you had told me the whole story, I knew what to say. I just told him
that you had left the house of your uncle, Mr. Robert Lauderdale, after
spending some time with him, when you met with the accident in the
street which led to all your subsequent adventures. That seemed to
settle him. He said the whole thing had been a mistake, and that he
should be very sorry to have given Mr. Lauderdale any annoyance,
especially at this time. I don’t know what he meant by that, I’m
sure--unless uncle Robert is going to buy the paper for a day or two to
see what it’s like--you know the proprietor’s dead, and they say the
heirs are going to sell. Well--that’s all. Confound it, my cigar’s out.
I’m a great deal too good to you, Jack!”
Ralston had listened without comment while the little man told his
story, satisfied, as he proceeded from point to point, that everything
was going well for him, at last, and mentally reducing Miner’s strong
expressions to the lowest key of probability.
“So it was my mother who went first to Doctor Routh,” he said, as though
talking with himself, while Miner relighted his cigar.
“Yes,” answered Miner, between two puffs. “I confess to having been
impressed.”
“It’s like her,” said John. “It’s just like her. You didn’t happen to
see any note for me lying on the hall table, did you?” he asked, rather
irrelevantly.
“No--but I’ll go and look, if you like.”
“Oh--it’s no matter. Besides, they know I haven’t been out this morning,
and they’d bring anything up. I’m very much obliged to you, Frank, for
all this. And I know that you’ll tell anybody who talks about it just
what I’ve told you. I should like to feel that there’s a chance of some
one’s knowing the truth when I come into the room this evening.”
“Oh, they’ll all know it by that time. Routh’s letter will run along the
ground like fire mingled with hail. As for Teddy Van De Water, he lives
on the papers. Of course they won’t fly at you and congratulate you all
over, and that sort of thing. They’ll just behave as though nothing at
all had happened, and afterwards, when we men are by ourselves, smoking,
they’ll all begin to ask you how it happened. That is, unless you want
to tell the story yourself at table, and in that case I’ll set you on,
as I said.”
“I don’t care to talk about it,” answered John. “But--look here,
Frank--listen! You’re as quick as anybody to see things. If you notice
that a number of the set don’t know about Routh’s letter--that there’s a
sort of hostile feeling against me at table--why, then just set me on,
as you call it, and I’ll defend myself. You see, I’ve such a bad temper,
and my bones ache, and I’m altogether so generally knocked out, that it
will be much better to give me my head with for a clear run, than to let
people look as though they should like to turn their backs on me, but
didn’t dare to. Do you understand?”
“All right, Jack. I won’t make any mistake about it.”
“Very well, then. It’s a bargain. We won’t say anything more about it.”
Miner presently took his departure, and John was left alone again. In
the course of time he gave up looking at his watch, and relinquished all
hope of hearing from Katharine. Little by little, the certainty formed
itself in his mind that the meeting that evening was to be a hostile
one.
Not very long after Miner had gone, another hand opened the door, and
John sprang to his feet, for even in the slight sound he recognized the
touch. Mrs. Ralston entered the room. With more impulsiveness than was
usual in him he went quickly to meet her, and threw his arms round her,
kissing her through her veil, damp and cold from the snowy air.
“Mother, darling--how good you are!” he exclaimed softly. “There isn’t
anybody like you--really.”
“Why--Jack? What is it?” asked Mrs. Ralston, happy, but not
understanding.
“Miner was here--he told me about your having been to old Routh to make
him write--”
“That? Oh--that’s nothing. Of course I went--the first thing. Didn’t he
say last night that he’d give his evidence in a court of law? I thought
he might just as well do it. The business is all settled, dear boy. I’ve
seen the lawyer, and he’s making out the deed. He’ll bring it here for
me to sign when he comes up from his office, and the transfers of the
titles will be registered to-morrow morning--just in time before
Sunday.”
“Don’t talk about that, mother!” answered John. “I didn’t want you to do
it, and it’s never going to make the slightest difference between us.”
“Well--perhaps not. But it makes all the difference to me. Promise me
one thing, Jack.”
“Yes, mother--anything you like.”
“Promise me to remember that if you and Katharine choose to get married,
in spite of her father and all the Lauderdales, this is your house, and
that you have a right to it. You won’t have much to live on, but you
won’t starve. Promise me to remember that, Jack. Will you?”
“I’ll promise to remember it, mother. But I’ll not promise to act on
it.”
“Well--that’s a matter for your judgment. Go and get ready for luncheon.
It must be time.”
Once more John put his arms round her neck, and drew her close to him.
“You’re very good to me, mother--thank you!”
CHAPTER XXIX.
Katharine spent more time than necessary over dressing for dinner on
that evening, not because she bestowed more attention than usual upon
her appearance, but because there were long pauses of which she was
scarcely conscious, although the maid reminded her from time to time
that it was growing late. The result, however, was satisfactory in the
opinion of her assistant, a sober-minded Scotch person of severe tastes,
who preferred black and white to any colours whatsoever, and thought
that the trees showed decided frivolity in being green, and that the
woods in autumn were positively improper.
It was undoubtedly true that the simple black gown, without ornament and
with very little to break its sweeping line, was as becoming to
Katharine’s strong beauty as it was appropriate to her frame of mind. It
made her look older than she was, perhaps, but being so young, the loss
was almost gain. It gave her dignity a background and a reason, as it
were. Her face was pale still, but not noticeably so, and her eyes were
quiet if not soft. Only a person who knew her very well would have
observed the slight but steady contraction of the broad eyebrows, which
was unusual. As a rule, if it came at all, it disappeared almost
instantly again. She remembered afterwards--as one remembers the absurd
details of one’s own thoughts--that when she had looked into the mirror
for the last time, she had been glad that her front hair did not curl,
and that she had never yielded to the temptation to make it curl, as
most girls did. She had been pleased by the simplicity of the two thick,
black waves which lay across the clear paleness of her forehead, like
dark velvet on cream-white silk. She forgot the thought instantly, but,
later, she remembered how severe and straight it had looked, and the
consciousness was of some value to her--as the least vain man, taken
unexpectedly to meet and address a great assembly, may be momentarily
glad if he chances to be wearing a particularly good coat. The gravest
of us have some consciousness of our own appearance, and be our strength
what it may, when it is appropriate to appear in the wedding garment, it
is good for us to be wearing one.
Katharine stopped at her mother’s door as she descended the stairs. Mrs.
Lauderdale was dining at home, and the Lauderdales dined at eight
o’clock, so that she was still in her room at ten minutes before the
hour. Katharine knocked and entered. Her mother was standing before the
mirror. The door which led to her father’s dressing-room, by a short
passage between two wardrobes built into the house, was wide open.
Katharine heard him moving some small objects on his dressing-table.
“You’re late, child,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, not turning, for as
Katharine entered, she could see her reflection in the mirror. “Are you
going to take Jane with you? If not, I wish you’d tell her to come here,
as you go down--I let you have her because I knew you’d be late.”
“No,” answered Katharine, “I don’t want her--she’s only in the way. It’s
the Van De Waters’, you know. Good night, mother.”
“Good night, darling--enjoy yourself--you’ll be late, of course--they’ll
dance, or something.”
“Yes--but I shan’t stay. I’m tired. Good night again.”
Katharine was going to the door, when her father appeared from his
dressing-room, serenely correct, as usual, but wearing his black tie
because no one was coming to dinner.
“I want to speak to you, Katharine,” he said.
She turned and stood still in the middle of the room, facing him. He had
a letter in his hand.
“Yes, papa,” she answered quietly, not anticipating trouble.
“I’m sorry I could not see you earlier,” said Alexander Junior, coming
forward and fixing his steely eyes on his daughter’s face. “But I
hadn’t an opportunity, because I was told that you were asleep when I
came home. This morning, as I was leaving the house as usual, a
messenger put this letter into my hands. It has a special delivery stamp
on it, and you will see that the mark on the dial edge stands at eight
forty-five A.M. Consequently, the boy who brought it was dilatory in
doing his duty. It is addressed to you in John Ralston’s handwriting.”
“Why didn’t you send it up to me, instead of keeping it all day?”
enquired Katharine, with cold surprise.
“Because I do not intend that you shall read it,” answered her father,
his lips opening and shutting on the words like the shears of a
cutting-machine.
Mrs. Lauderdale turned round from the mirror and looked at her husband
and daughter. It would have been impossible to tell from her face
whether she had been warned of what was to be done or not, but there was
an odd little gleam in her eyes, of something which might have been
annoyance or satisfaction.
“Why don’t you intend me to read my letters?” asked Katharine in a lower
tone.
“I don’t wish you to correspond with John Ralston,” answered Alexander
Junior. “You shall never marry him with my consent, especially since he
has disgraced himself publicly as he did yesterday. There was an account
of his doings in the morning papers. I daresay you’ve not seen it. He
was taken home last night in a state of beastly intoxication by two
policemen, having been picked up by them out of a drunken brawl with a
prize-fighter. To judge from the handwriting of the address on this
letter, it appears to have been written while he was still under the
influence of liquor. I don’t mean that my daughter shall receive letters
written by drunken men, if I can help it.”
“Show me the letter,” said Katharine, quietly.
“I’ll show it to you because, though you’ve never had any reason to
doubt my statements, I wish you to have actually seen that it has not
been opened by me, nor by any one. My judgment is formed from the
handwriting solely, but I may add that it is impossible that a man who
was admittedly in a state of unconsciousness from liquor at one o’clock
in the morning, should be fit to write a letter to Katharine Lauderdale,
or to any lady, within six hours. The postmark on the envelope is
seven-thirty. Am I right?” He turned deliberately to Mrs. Lauderdale.
“Perfectly,” she answered, with sincere conviction.
And it must be allowed that, from his point of view, he was not wrong.
He beckoned Katharine to the gas-light beside the mirror and held up
the letter, holding it at the two sides of the square envelope in the
firm grip of his big, thin fingers, as though he feared lest she should
try to take it. But Katharine did not raise her hands, as she bent
forward and inspected the address. It was assuredly not written in
John’s ordinary hand, though the writing was recognizable as his, beyond
doubt. There was an evident attempt at regularity, but a too evident
failure. It looked a little as though he had attempted to write with his
left hand. At one corner there was a very small stain of blood, which,
as every one knows, retains its colour on writing paper, even under
gas-light, for a considerable time. It will be remembered that John had
hurt his right hand.
Katharine’s brows contracted more heavily. She was disgusted, but she
was also pained. She looked long and steadily at the writing, and her
lips curled slightly. Alexander Lauderdale turned the letter over to
show her that it was sealed. Again, where the finger had hurriedly
pressed the gummed edge of the envelope, there was a little mark of
blood. Katharine drew back very proudly, as from something at once
repulsive and beneath her woman’s dignity. Her father looked at her
keenly and coldly.
“Have you satisfied yourself?” he enquired. “You see that it has not
been opened, do you?”
“Yes.”
“I will burn it,” said Alexander Lauderdale, still watching her.
“Yes.”
He seemed surprised, for he had expected resistance, and perhaps some
attempt on her part to get possession of the letter and read it. But she
stood upright, silent, and evidently disgusted. He lifted his hand and
held the letter over the flame of the gas-light until it had caught fire
thoroughly. Then he laid it in the fireless grate--the room, like all
the rest of the house, was heated by the furnace,--and with his usual
precise interpretation of his own conscience’s promptings, he turned his
back on it, lest by any chance he should see and accidentally read any
word of the contents as the paper curled and flared and blackened and
fell to ashes. Katharine, however, was well aware that a folded letter
within its envelope will rarely burn through and through if left to
itself. She went to the hearth and watched it. It had fallen flat upon
the tiles, and one thickness after another flamed, rose from one end and
curled away as the one beneath it took fire. She would not attempt to
read one of the indistinct words, but she could not help seeing that it
had been a long letter, scrawled in a handwriting even more irregular
than that on the envelope. The leaves turned black, one by one, rising
and remaining upright like black funeral feathers, till at last there
was only a little blue light far down in the heart of them. That, too,
went out, and a small, final puff of smoke rose and vanished. Katharine
turned the heap over with the tongs. Only one little yellow bit of paper
remained unconsumed at the bottom. It was almost round, and as she
turned it over, she read on it the number of the house. That was all
that had not been burned.
“I’m glad to see that you look at the matter in its true light,” said
her father, as she stood up again.
“How should I look at it?” asked Katharine, coldly. “Good night,
mother--good night,” she repeated, nodding to her father.
She turned and left the room. A moment later she was on her way to the
Van De Waters’ house, leaning back in the dark, comfortable brougham,
her feet toasting on the foot-warmer, and the furs drawn up closely
round her. It was a bitterly cold night, for a sharp frost had succeeded
the snow-storm after sunset. Even inside the carriage Katharine could
feel that there was something hard and ringing in the quality of the air
which was in harmony with her own temper. She had plenty of time to go
over the scene which had taken place in her mother’s room, but she felt
no inclination to analyze her feelings. She only knew that this letter
of John’s, written when he was still half senseless with drink, was
another insult, and one deeper than any she had felt before. It was a
direct insult--a sin of commission, and not merely of omission, like his
absence from the ball on the previous night.
She supposed, naturally enough, that he would not appear at the
dinner-party, but at that moment she was almost indifferent as to
whether he should come or not. She was certainly not afraid to meet him.
It would be far more probable, she thought, that he should be afraid to
meet her.
It was a quarter past eight when she reached the Van De Waters’, and she
was the last to arrive. It was a party of sixteen, almost all very
young, and most of them unmarried--a party very carefully selected with
a view to enjoyment--an intimate party, because many out of the number
were more or less closely connected and related, and it was indicative
of the popularity of the Lauderdales, that amongst sixteen young persons
there should be four who belonged more or less to the Lauderdale tribe.
There was Katharine, there was Hamilton Bright,--the Crowdies had been
omitted because so many disliked Crowdie himself,--there was little
Frank Miner, who was a near relation of the Van De Waters, and there
stood John Ralston, talking to Ruth Van De Water, before Crowdie’s new
portrait of her, as though nothing had happened.
