begun. I shall learn more.”
“I’m afraid you won’t learn much from me, Mrs. Lauderdale. It’s very
different work from miniature--and I have no rule. It seems to me that
the longer I paint the more hopeless all rules are. Ten years ago, when
I was working in Paris, I used to believe in canons of art, and fixed
principles, and methods, and all that sort of thing. But I can’t any
more. I do it anyhow, just as it seems to come--with anything--with a
stump, a brush, a rag, hands, fingers, anything. I should not be
surprised to find myself drawing with my elbow and painting with the
back of my head! No, really--I sometimes think the back of my head
would be a very good brush to do fur with. Any way--only to get at the
real thing.”
“I once saw a painter who had no arms,” said the old gentleman. “It was
in Paris, and he held the brushes with his toes. There is an idiot in
the asylum now, who likes nothing better than to pull his shoes off and
tie knots in a rope with his feet all day long.”
“He is probably one of us,” suggested Crowdie. “We artists are all
half-witted. Give him a brush and see whether he has any talent for
painting with his toes.”
“That’s an idea,” answered the philanthropist, thoughtfully.
“Transference of manual skill from hands to feet,” he continued in a
low, dreamy voice, thinking aloud. “Abnormal connections of nerves with
next adjoining brain centres--yes--there might be something in
it--yes--yes--”
The old gentleman had theories of his own about nerves and brain
centres. He had never even studied anatomy, but he speculated in the
wildest manner upon the probability of impossible cases of nerve
derangement and imperfect development, and had long believed himself an
authority on the subject.
The dinner was quite as short as most modern meals. Old Mr. Lauderdale
and Crowdie smoked, and Alexander Junior, who despised such weaknesses,
stayed in the dining-room with them. Neither Mrs. Lauderdale nor
Katharine would have objected to smoking in the library, but Alexander’s
inflexible conservatism abhorred such a practice.
“I can’t tell why it is,” said Katharine, when she was alone with her
mother, “but that man is positively repulsive to me. It must be
something besides his ugliness, and even that ought to be redeemed by
his eyes and that beautiful voice of his. But it’s not. There’s
something about him--” She stopped, in the sheer impossibility of
expressing her meaning.
Her mother said nothing in answer, but looked at her with calm and quiet
eyes, rather thoughtfully.
“Is it very foolish of me, mother? Don’t you notice something, too, when
he’s near you?”
“Yes. He’s like a poisonous flower.”
“That’s exactly what I wanted to say. That and--the title of Tennyson’s
poem, what is it? Oh--‘A Vision of Sin’--don’t you know?”
“Poor Crowdie!” exclaimed Mrs. Lauderdale, laughing a little, but still
looking at Katharine.
“I wonder what induced Hester to marry him.”
“He fascinated her. Besides, she’s very fond of music, and so is he, and
he sang to her and she played for him. It seems to have succeeded very
well. I believe they are perfectly happy.”
“Oh, perfectly. At least, Hester always says so. But did you ever
notice--sometimes, without any special reason, she looks at him so
anxiously? Just as though she expected something to happen to him, or
that he should do something queer. It may be my imagination.”
“I never noticed it. She’s tremendously in love with him. That may
account for it.”
“Well--if she’s happy--” Katharine did not finish the sentence. “He does
stare dreadfully, though,” she resumed a moment later. “But I suppose
all artists do that. They are always looking at one’s features. You
don’t, though.”
“I? I’m always looking at people’s faces and trying to see how I could
paint them best. But I don’t stare. People don’t like it, and it isn’t
necessary. Crowdie is vain. He has beautiful eyes and he wants every one
to notice them.”
“If that’s it, at all events he has the sense to be vain of his best
point,” said Katharine. “He’s not an artist for nothing. And he’s
certainly very clever in all sorts of ways.”
“He didn’t say anything particularly clever at dinner, I thought. By the
bye, was the dinner good? Your father didn’t tell me Crowdie was
coming.”
“Oh, yes; it did very well,” answered Katharine, in a reassuring tone.
“At least, I didn’t notice what we had. He always takes away my
appetite. I shall go and steal something when he’s gone. Let’s sit up
late, mother--just you and I--after papa has gone to bed, and we’ll
light a little wee fire, and have a tiny bit of supper, and make
ourselves comfortable, and abuse Mr. Crowdie just as much as we like.
Won’t that be nice? Do!”
“Well--we’ll see how late he stays. It’s only a quarter past nine yet.
Have you got a book, child? I am going to read that article about wet
paintings on pottery--I’ve had it there ever so long, and the men won’t
come back for half an hour at least.”
Katharine found something to read, after handing her mother the review
from the table.
“Perhaps reading a little will take away the bad taste of Crowdie,” said
Mrs. Lauderdale, with a laugh, as she settled herself in the corner of
the sofa.
“I wish something would,” answered Katharine, seating herself in a deep
chair, and opening her book.
But she found it hard to fix her attention, and the book was a dull one,
or seemed so, as the best books do when the mind is drawn and stretched
in one direction. Her thoughts went back to the twilight hour, when
Ralston had been there, and to the decided step she was about to take.
The only wonder was that she had been able to talk with a tolerable
continuity of ideas during dinner, considering what her position was.
Assuredly it was a daring thing which she meant to do, and she
experienced the sensation familiar even to brave men--the small, utterly
unreasoning temptation to draw back just before the real danger begins.
Most people who have been called upon to do something very dangerous,
with fair warning and in perfectly cold blood, know that little feeling
and are willing to acknowledge it. It is not fear. It is the inevitable
last word spoken by the instinct of self-preservation.
There are men who have never felt it at all, rare instances of perfectly
phlegmatic physical recklessness. They are not the ones who deserve the
most credit for doing perilous deeds. And there are other men, even
fewer, perhaps, who have felt it, but have ceased to feel it, in whom
all love of life is so totally and hopelessly dead that even the bodily,
human impulse to avoid death can never be felt again. Such men are very
dangerous in fight. ‘Beware of him who seeks death,’ says an ancient
Eastern proverb. So many things which seem impossible are easy if the
value of life itself be taken out of the balance. But with the great
majority of the human race that value is tolerably well defined. The
poor Chinaman who sells himself, for the benefit of his family, to be
sliced to death in the stead of the rich criminal, knows within an ounce
or two of silver what his existence is worth. The bargain has been made
so often by others that there is almost a tariff. It is not a pleasant
subject, but, since the case really happens, it would be a curious thing
to hear theologians discuss the morality of such suicide on the part of
the unfortunate wretch. Would they say that he was forfeiting the hope
of a future reward by giving himself to be destroyed for money, of his
own free will? Or would they account it to him for righteousness that he
should lay down his life to save his wife and children from starving to
death? For a real case, as it is, it certainly presents difficulties
which approach the fantastic.
It was very quiet in the room, as it had been once or twice when there
had been a silence between Katharine and Ralston a few hours earlier.
The furniture was all just as it had been--hardly a chair had been
turned. The scene came back vividly to the young girl’s imagination, and
the sound of Ralston’s voice, just trembling with emotion, rang again in
her ears. That had been the sweetest of all the many sweet hours she had
spent with him since they had been children. Her book fell upon her
knees and her head sank back against the cushion. With lids half
drooping, she gazed at a point she did not see. The softest possible
light, the exquisite, trembling radiance of spotless maidenhood’s
divinest dream, hovered about the lovely face and the girlish lips just
parted to meet in the memory of a kiss.
Suddenly, from the next room, as the three men came towards the closed
door of the library, Crowdie’s laugh broke the stillness, high,
melodious, rich. Some men have a habit of laughing at anything which is
said just as they leave the dining-room.
Katharine started as though she had been stung. She was unconscious that
her mother had ceased reading, and had been looking at her for several
minutes, wondering why she had never fully appreciated the girl’s beauty
before.
“What’s the matter, dear?” she asked, as she saw the start and the quick
expression of resentment and repulsion.
“It’s that man’s voice--it’s so beautiful and yet--ugh!” She shivered as
the door opened and the three men came in.
“You’ve not been long,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, looking up at Crowdie. “I
hope they gave you a cigar in there.”
“Oh, yes, thanks--and a very good one, too,” added the artist, who had
not succeeded in smoking half of the execrable Connecticut
six-for-a-quarter cigar which the philanthropist had offered him.
It seemed natural enough to him that a man who devoted himself to idiots
should have no taste, and he would have opened his eyes if he had been
told that the Connecticut tobacco was one of the economies imposed by
Alexander Junior upon his long-suffering father. The old gentleman,
however, was really not very particular, and his sufferings were not to
be compared with those of Balzac’s saintly charity-maniac, when he gave
up his Havanas for the sake of his poor people.
Crowdie looked at Katharine, as he answered her mother, and continued to
do so, though he sat down beside the latter. Katharine had risen from
her seat, and was standing by the mantelpiece, and Mrs. Lauderdale was
sitting at the end of the sofa on the other side of the fireplace, under
the strong, unshaded light of the gas. She made an effort to talk to her
guest, for the sake of sparing the girl, though she felt uncomfortably
tired, and was looking almost ill.
“Did you talk any more about the soul, after we left?” she asked,
looking at Crowdie.
“No,” he answered, still gazing at Katharine, and speaking rather
absently. “We talked--let me see--I think--” He hesitated.
“It couldn’t have been very interesting, if you don’t remember what it
was about,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, pleasantly. “We must try and amuse you
better than they did, or you won’t come near us again.”
“Oh, as far as that goes, I’ll come just as often as you ask me,”
answered Crowdie, suddenly looking at his shoes.
But he made no attempt to continue the conversation. Mrs. Lauderdale
felt a little womanly annoyance. The constant and life-long habit of
being considered by men to be the most important person in the room,
whenever she chose to be considered at all, had become a part of her
nature. She made up her mind that Crowdie should not only listen and
talk, but should look at her.
“What are you doing now? Another portrait?” she asked. “I know you are
always busy.”
“Oh, yes--the wife of a man who has a silver mine somewhere. She’s
fairly good-looking, for a wonder.”
His eyes wandered about the room, and, from time to time, went back to
Katharine. Old Mr. Lauderdale was going to sleep in an arm-chair, and
Alexander Junior was reading the evening paper.
“Does your work always interest you as it did at first?” asked Mrs.
Lauderdale, growing more and more determined to fix his attention, and
speaking softly. “I mean--are you happy in it and with it?”
His languid glance met hers for an instant, with an odd look of lazy
enquiry. He was keen and quick of intuition, and more than sufficiently
vain. There is a certain tone of voice in which a woman may ask a man if
he is happy which indicates a willingness to play at flirtation. Now, it
had never entered the head of Walter Crowdie that Mrs. Lauderdale could
possibly care to flirt with him. Yet the tone was official, so to say,
and he had some right to be surprised, the more so as he had never heard
any man--not even the famous club-liar, Stopford Thirlwall--even suggest
that she had ever really flirted with any one, or do anything worse than
dance to the very end of every dancing party, and generally amuse
herself in an innocent way to an extent that would have ruined the
constitutions of most women not born in Kentucky. Even as he turned to
look at her, however, he realized the absurdity of the impression he had
received, and his eyes went mechanically back to Katharine’s profile.
The smile that moved his heavy, red mouth was for himself, as he
answered Mrs. Lauderdale’s question.
“Oh, yes,” he said, quite naturally. “I love it. I’m perfectly happy.”
And again he relapsed into silence.
Mrs. Lauderdale was annoyed. She turned her head, under the glaring
light, towards the carved pillar at the right of the fireplace. An
absurd little looking-glass hung by a silken cord from the mantelpiece
to the level of her eyes--one of those small Persian mirrors set in a
case of embroidery, such as are used for favours at cotillions.
She saw very suddenly the reflection of her own face. The glass was
perhaps a trifle green, which made it worse, but she stared in a sort
of dumb horror, realizing in a single moment that she had grown old,
that the lines had deepened until every one could see them, that the
eyes looked faded, the hair dull, the lips almost shrivelled, the once
dazzling skin flaccid and sallow--that the queenly beauty was gone, a
perishable thing already perished, a memory now and worse than a memory,
a cruelly bitter regret left in the place of a possession half divine
that was lost for ever and ever, dead beyond resurrection, gone beyond
recall.
That was the most terrible moment in Mrs. Lauderdale’s life. Fate need
not have made it so appallingly sudden--she had prepared for it so long,
so conscientiously, trying always to wean herself from a vanity the
sternest would forgive. And it had seemed to be coming so slowly, by
degrees of each degree, and she had thought it would be so long in
coming quite. And now it was come, in the flash of a second. But the
bitterness was not past.
Instinctively in the silence she looked up before her and saw her
daughter’s lovely face. Her head reeled, her sight swam. A great, fierce
envy caught at her heart with iron fingers and wrung it, till she could
have screamed,--envy of her who was dearest to her of all living
things--of Katharine.
CHAPTER VII.
John Ralston had given his word to Katharine and he intended to keep it.
Whenever he was assailed by doubts he recalled by an act of will the
state of mind to which the young girl had brought him on Monday evening,
and how he had then been convinced that there was no harm in the secret
marriage. He analyzed his position, too, in a rough and ready way, with
the intention of proving that the clandestine ceremony could not be of
any advantage to himself, that it was therefore not from any selfish
motive that he had undertaken to have it performed, and that,
consequently, since the action itself was to be an unselfish one, there
could be nothing even faintly dishonourable in it. For he did not really
believe that old Robert Lauderdale would do anything for him. On the
contrary, he thought it most likely that the old man would be very angry
and would bid the young people abide by the consequences of their
doings. He would blame Ralston bitterly. He would not believe that he
had been disinterested. He would say that he had married Katharine, and
had persuaded her to the marriage in the hope of forcing his uncle to
help him, out of consideration for the girl. And he would refuse to do
anything whatsoever. He might even go so far as to strike the names of
both from his will, if he had left them a legacy, which was probable.
But, to do Ralston justice, so long as he was sure of his own motives he
had never cared a straw for the opinions others might form of them, and
he was the last man in the world to assume a character for the sake of
playing on the feelings of a rich relation. If Robert Lauderdale should
send for him, and be angry, and reproach him with what he had done, John
was quite capable of answering that he had acted from motives which
concerned himself only, that he was answerable to no one but Katharine
herself and that uncle Robert might make the best of it at his leisure.
The young man possessed that sort of courage in abundance, as every one
knew, and being aware of it himself, he suspected, not without grounds
of probability, that the millionaire was aware of it also, and would
simply leave him alone to his own devices, refusing Katharine’s request,
and never mentioning the question again. That the old man would be
discreet, was certain. With a few rare exceptions, men who have made
great fortunes unaided have more discretion than other people, and can
keep secrets remarkably well.
The difficulty which presented itself to Ralston at once was a material
one. He did not in the least know how such an affair as a secret
marriage should be managed. None of his close acquaintances had ever
done anything so unusual, and although he knew of two cases which had
occurred in New York society, the one in recent years and the other long
ago, he had no means of finding out at short notice how the actual
formalities necessary had been fulfilled in either case. He knew,
however, that a marriage performed by a respectable clergyman of any
denomination was legal, and that a certificate signed by him was
perfectly valid. He had heard of marriages before a Justice of the
Peace, and even of declarations made before respectable witnesses and
vouched for, which had been legal marriages beyond dispute, but he did
not like the look of anything in which there was no religious ceremony,
respectfully indifferent though he was to all religion. The code of
honour, which was his only faith, is connected, and not even very
distantly, with Christianity. There are honourable men of all religions
under the sun, including that of Confucius, but we do not associate the
expression ‘the code of honour’ with non-Christians--which is singular
enough, considering the view the said code takes of some moral
questions.
There must be a marriage service, therefore, thought Ralston, and it
must be performed in New York. There was no possibility of taking
Katharine into a neighbouring State, and he had no wish to do so for
many reasons. He was not without foresight, and he intended to be able
to prove at any future time that the formality, the whole formality, and
nothing but the formality of the ceremony had been fulfilled. It was not
easy. He racked his recollections in vain, and he read all the
newspapers published that morning with an interest he had certainly
never felt in them before, in the hope of finding some account of a case
similar to his own. He thought of going to a number of clergymen, of the
social type, with whom he had a speaking acquaintance, and of laying the
facts before each in turn, until one of them consented to marry him. But
though many of them were excellent men, he had not enough confidence in
their discretion. He laughed to himself when he thought that the only
men he knew who seemed to possess the necessary qualities for such a
delicate affair were Robert the Rich himself and Hamilton Bright, whom
Ralston secretly suspected of being somewhat in love with Katharine on
his own account. It was odd, he thought, that of all the family Bright
alone should resemble old Robert, physically and mentally, but the
resemblance was undeniable, though the relationship only consisted in
the fact that Bright was descended from old Robert Lauderdale’s
grandfather, the primeval Alexander often mentioned in these pages.
Ralston turned the case over and over in his mind. He thought of going
to some dissenting minister quite unknown to him, and trying what
eloquence could do. He had heard that some of them were men of heart to
whom one could appeal in trouble. But he knew very well that every one
of them would tell him to do the thing openly, or not at all, and the
mere idea revived his own scruples. He wondered whether there were not
churches where the marrying was done by batches of four and five couples
on a certain Sunday in the month, as babies are baptized in some parts
of the world, and whether he and Katharine could not slip in, as it were
by mistake, and be married by a man who did not even know their names.
But he laughed at the idea a moment later, and went on studying the
problem.
Another of his ideas was to consult a detective, from a private office.
Such men would, in all likelihood, know a good deal about runaway
couples. And this seemed one of the wisest plans which had suggested
itself, though it broke down for two reasons. He hated the thought of
getting at his result by the help of a man belonging to what he
considered a mean and underhand profession; and he reflected that such
men were always on the lookout for private scandals, and that he should
be putting himself in their power. At last he decided to consult a
lawyer. Lawyers and doctors, as a rule, were discreet, he thought,
because their success depended on their discretion. He could easily find
a man whom he had never seen, honest and able to keep a secret, who
would give him the information he wanted in a professional way and take
a fee for the trouble. This seemed to him honourable and wise. He wished
everything to be legal, and the best way to make it so was to follow a
lawyer’s directions. There was not even a doubt but that the said
lawyer, if requested, would make a memorandum of the case, and take
charge of the document which was to prove that Katharine Lauderdale had
become the lawful wife of John Ralston. There were lists and directories
in which he could find the names of hundreds of such men. He was in his
native city, and between the names and the places of business he thought
he could form a tolerably accurate opinion of the reputation and
standing of some, if not of all, of the individuals.
In the course of a couple of hours he had found what he wanted--a lawyer
whose name was known to him as that of a man of good reputation and a
gentleman, one whom he had never seen and who had probably never seen
him, old enough, as he knew, to have a wide experience, yet not so old
as to be justified in assuming airs of vast moral superiority in order
to declare primly that he would never help a young man to commit an act
of folly. For folly it was, as Ralston knew very well in his heart.
He lost no time, and within half an hour was interviewing the authority
he had selected, for, by a bit of good luck, he was fortunate enough to
meet the lawyer at the door of his office, just returning from luncheon.
Otherwise he might have had some difficulty in gaining immediate
admittance. He found him to be a grave, keen personage of uncertain age,
who laid his glasses beside him on his desk whenever he spoke, and put
them on again as soon as he had done. He wiped them carefully when
Ralston had explained what he wanted, and then paused a moment before
replying. Ralston was by no means prepared for what he said.
“I presume you are a novelist.”
The lawyer looked at him, smiled pleasantly, looked away and turned his
glasses over again.
The young man was inclined to laugh. No one had ever before taken him
for a man of letters. He hesitated, however, before he answered,
wondering whether he had not better accept the statement in the hope of
getting accurate information, rather than risk a refusal if he said he
was in earnest. The lawyer took his hesitation for assent.
“Because, in that case, it would not be at all difficult to manage,” he
continued, without waiting any longer for a reply. “Lots of things can
happen in books, you see, and you can wind up the story and publish it
before the people in the book who are to be kept in the dark have found
out the secret. In real life, it is a little different, because, though
it’s very easy to be married, it’s the duty of the person who marries
you to send a certificate or statement of the marriage to the office
where the record of statistics is kept.”
“Oh!” ejaculated Ralston, and his face fell. “I didn’t know that.”
“Yes. That’s necessary, on pain of a fine. And yet the marriage may
remain a secret a long while--for a lifetime under favourable
circumstances. So that if you are writing a story you can let the young
couple take the chances, and you can give them in their favour.”
“Well--how, exactly?” asked John. “That sort of thing isn’t usual, I
fancy.”
“Not usual--no.” The lawyer smiled. “But there are more secret marriages
than most people dream of. If your hero and heroine must be married in
New York, it is easy enough to do it. Nobody will marry them without
afterwards making out the certificate, which is recorded. If anybody
suspects that they are married, it is the easiest thing in the world to
find out that the marriage has been registered. But if nobody looks for
it, the thing will never be heard of. It’s a thousand to one against
anybody’s finding it out by accident.”
“But if it were done in that way it would be absolutely legal and could
never be contested?”
