eyes that suddenly looked childish and eager. 
"It is true," she said, frankly, " I have no 
desire to marry and have many children. My 
father has never said to me, *Thou must 
marry ; ' and I have sometimes thought I 
would say *No' when that time came. For 
the present I am contented with my books and 
to ride about the country on a wild horse ; but 
perhaps — I do not know — I may not always 
be contented with that. Sometimes when 
reading Shakespeare I have imagined myself 
each of those women in turn. But generally, 
of course, I have thought little of being any 
one but myself What else could I be here .? " 
" Nothing; excepting a Joan of Arc when 
the Americans sweep down upon us. But 
that would be only for a day ; we should be such 
easy prey. If I could put you to sleep and 
awaken you fifty years hence, when California 
was a modern civilization ! God speed the 
Americans: Therein lies our only chance.' 
" What ! " she cried. '*You — you would 
have the Americans ? You — a Californian ! 
But you are an Estenega ; that explains every- 
thing." 
'* I am a Californian," he said, ignoring the 
scorn of the last words, ' ' but I hope I have 
acquired some common-sense in roving about 
the world. The women of California are ad- 
mirable in every way, — chaste, strong of 
character, industrious, devoted wives and 
mothers, born with sufficient capacity for 
small pleasures. But what are our men ? 
Idle, thriftless, unambitious, too lazy to walk 
across the street, but with a horse for every 
step, sleeping all day in a hammock, gambling 
and drinking all night. They are the natural 
followers of a race of men who came here to 
force fortune out of an unbroken country ^yith 
little to help them but brains and will. The 
great effort produced great results ; therefore 
there is nothing for their sons to do, and they 
luxuriously do nothing. What will the next 
generation be ? Our women will marry Americans, 
— respect for men who are men will 
overcome prejudice, — the crossed blood will 
fight for a generation or two, then a race will 
be born worthy of California. Why are our 
few great men so very great to us? What 
have men of exceptional talent to fight down 
in the Californias except the barriers to its de- 
velopment ? In England or the United States 
they still would be great men, — Alvarado and 
Castro, at least, — but they would have to work 
harder. " 
Chonita, in spite of her disapproval and her 
blood, looked at him with interest His ideas 
and language were strikingly unlike the sentimental
rhetoric of the caballeros. 
"It is as you say," she admitted ; "but the 
Califomian's highest duty is loyalty to his country. 
Ours is a double duty, isolated as we are 
on this far strip of land, away from all other 
civilization. We should be more contemptible
than Indians if we were not true to our 
flag." 
"No wonder that you and that famous patriot 
of ours. Dona Eustaquia Ortega, are bonded 
friends. I doubt if you could hate as well as 
she. You have no such violence in your nature ; 
you could neither love nor hate very 
hard. You would love (if you loved at all) 
with majesty and serenity, and hate with chill 
severity." While he spoke he watched her 
intently. 
She met his gaze unflinchingly. " True, 
senor ; I am no * bundle of shallow emotions,' 
nor have I a lion in me, like Eustaquia. I am 
a creature of deliberation, not of impulse : I 
love and hate as duty dictates. " 
"You are by nature the most impulsive wo- 
man I ever saw," he said, much amused, "and 
Eustaquia's lion is a kitten to the one that sleeps 
in you. You have cold deliberation enough, 
but it is manufactured, and the result of pretty 
hard work at that. Like all edifices reared 
without a foundation, it will fall with a crash some 
day, and the fragments will be of very little use 
to you." And there the conversation ended: 
they had reached the plaza, and a babel of 
voices surrounded them. Governor Alvarado 
stood on the upper corridor of his house, 
throwing handfuls of small gold coins among the 
people, who were shrieking with delight. The 
girl guests mingled with them, seeing that no 
palm went home empty. Beside the governor 
sat Doiia Martina, radiant with pride, and 
behind her stood the nurse, holding the infant on its 
pillow. 
"We had better go to the house as soon as 
possible," said Estenega. "It is nearly time 
for the bull-bear fight, and we must have good 
seats." 
They forced their way through the crowd, 
dismounted at the door, and went up to the 
corridor. The Castros and I were already there, 
with a number of other invited guests. The 
women sat in chairs, close to the corridor 
railing ; several rows of men stood behind them. 
The plaza was a jagged circle surrounded by 
dwelling-houses, some one story in height, 
others with overhanging balconies ; from it 
radiated five streets. All corridors were crowded 
with the elegantly-dressed men and women of 
the aristocracy ; large black fans were waving ; 
every eye was flashing expectantly ; the 
people stood on platforms which had been erected 
in four of the streets. 
Amidst the shouts of the spectators, two 
vaqueros, dressed in black velvet short-clothes, 
dazzling linen, and stiff black sombreros, 
tinkling bells attached to their trappings, jingling 
spurs on their heels, galloped into the plaza, 
driving a large aggressive bull. They chased 
him about in a circle, swinging their reatas, 
dodging his onslaughts, then rode out, and four 
others entered, dragging an unwilling bear by a 
reata tied to each of its legs. By means of a long 
chin and pauch dexterity they fastened the two 
 
 
 
beasts together, freed the legs of the bear, then 
retired to the entrance to await events. But the 
bull and the bear would not fight. The latter 
arose on his haunches and regarded his enemy 
warily ; the bull appeared to disdain the bear 
as too small game ; he but lowered his horns 
and pawed the ground. The spectators grew 
impatient. The brave caballeros and dainty 
donas wanted blood. They tapped their feet 
and murmured ominously. . As for the populace, 
it howled for slaughter. Governor Al- 
varado made a sign to one of the vaqueros ; the 
man rushed abruptly upon the bull and hit him 
a sharp blow across the nose with the cruel 
quirto. The bulls dignity vanished. With the 
quadrupedian capacity for measuring distance, 
he inferred that the blow had been inflicted by 
the bear, who sat some twenty feet away, mildly 
licking his paws. He made a savage onset. 
The bear, with the dexterity of a vaquero, 
leaped aside and sprang upon the assailant's 
neck, his teeth meeting argumentatively in the 
rope-like tendons. The bull roared with pain 
and rage and attempted to shake him off, but 
he hung on ; both lost their footing and rolled 
over and over amidst clouds of dust, a mighty 
noise, and enough blood to satisfy the early 
thirst of the beholders. Then the bull wrenched 
himself free ; before the mountain visitor could 
scramble to his feet, he fixed him with his horns 
and tossed him on high. As the bear came 
down on his back with a thud and a snap which 
would have satisfied a bull less anxious to show 
what a bull could do, the victor rushed upon 
the corpse, kicked and stamped and bit until 
the blood spouted into his eyes, and pulp and 
dust were indistinguishable. Then how the 
delighted spectators clapped their hands and 
cried "Brava I " to the bull, who pranced about 
the plaza, dragging the carcass of the bear 
after him, his head high, his big eyes red and 
rolling! The women tore off their rebosos and 
waved them like banners, smashed their fans, 
and stamped their little feet ; the men whirled 
their sombreros with supple wrists. But the 
bull was not satisfied; he pawed the ground 
with demanding hoofs ; and the vaqueros gal- 
loped into the ring with another bear. Nor had 
they time to detach their reatas before the bull 
was upon the second antagonist; and they 
were obliged to retire in haste. 
Estenega, who stood between Chonita and 
myself, watched The Doomswoman atten- 
tively. Her lips were compressed fiercely ; 
for a moment they bore a strange resemblance 
to his own as I had seen them at times. Her 
nostrils were expanded, her lids half covered 
her eyes. '*She has cruelty in her," he mur- 
mured to me as the first battle finished ; " and 
it was her imperious wish that the bull should 
win, because he is the more lordly animal. 
She has no sympathy for the poor bundle 
of hair and quivering flesh that bounded on 
the mountain yesterday. Has she brutality 
in her.? — ^just enough " 
"Brava! Brava I " The women were on 
their feet ; even Chonita for the moment forgot 
herself, and beat the railing with her small 
fist. Another bear had been impaled and 
tossed and trampled. The bull, panting from 
his exertions, dashed about the plaza, still 
dragging his first victim after him. Suddenly 
he stopped ; the blood gushed from his nos- 
trils ; he shivered like a skeleton hanging in 
the wind, then fell in an ignominious heap — 
dead. 
'* A warning, Diego," I said, rising and shak- 
ing my fan at him. "Be not too ambitious, 
else wilt thou die of thy victories. And do not 
love the polar star," I murmured in his ear, 
" lest thou set fire to it and fall to ashes 
thyself,"
III. 
In the long dining-room, opening upon the 
large high-walled garden at the back of the 
Governor's house, a feast was spread for fifty 
people. Dona Martina sat for a little time at 
the head of the table, her yellow gown almost 
hidden by the masses of hair which her small 
head could not support. Castro was on one 
side of her, Estenega on the other, Chonita by 
her arch-enemy. A large bunch of artificial 
flowers was at each plate, and the table was 
loaded with yellowed chickens sitting proudly 
in scarlet gravy, tongues covered with walnut 
sauce, grilled meats, tamales, mounds of tor- 
tillas, and dulces. 
Alvarado, at the lower end of the table, sat 
between Dona Modeste Castro and myself ; and 
between the extremes of the board were faces 
glowing, beautiful, ugly, but without exception 
fresh and young. From all, the mantilla and 
serape had been removed, jewels sparkled in 
the lace shirts of the men, white throats were 
encircled by the invariable necklace of Baja 
Californian pearls. Chonita alone wore a string* 
of black pearls. I never saw her without it. 
Dona Martina took little part in the talk and 
laughter, and after a time slipped away, mo- 
tioning to Chonita to take her place. The con- 
versation turned upon war and politics, and in 
its course Estenega, looking from Chonita to 
Castro with a smile of good-natured irony, 
said, — 
"Dona Chonita is of your opinion, coronel, 
that California was the direct gift of heaven to 
the Spaniards, and that the Americans cannot 
have us." 
Castro raised his glass to the comadre. 
" Dona Chonita has the loyal bosom of all Cali- 
fornian women. Our men love better the olive 
of peace than the flavor of discord; but did 
the bandoleros dare to approach our peaceful 
shores with dastardly intent to rob, then, 
thanks be to God, I know that every man among 
them would fight for this virgin land. Thou, 
too, Diego, thou wouldst unsheathe thy sword, 
in spite of thy pretended admiration of the 
Americans. " 
Estenega raised his shoulders. " Possibly. 
But in American occupation lies the hope of 
California. What have we done with it in our 
seventy years of possession ? Built a few 
missions, which are rotting, terrorized or cajoled 
a few thousand worthless Indians into civilized 
imbecility, and raised a respectable number of 
horses and cattle. Our hide and tallow trade 
is only good ; the Russians have monopolized 
the fur trade ; we continue to raise cattle and 
horses because it would be an exertion to 
suppress them ; and meanwhile we dawdle 
away our lives very pleasurably, whilst a 
magnificent territory, filled with gold and 
richer still in soil, lies idle beneath our feet. 
Nature never works without a plan. She com- 
pounded a wonderful country, and she created 
a wonderful people to develop . it. She has 
allowed us to drone on it for a little time, but 
it was not made for us ; and I am sufficiently 
interested in California to wish to see her rise 
from her sleep and feel and live in every part 
of her. " He turned suddenly to Chonita. ' ' If 
I were a sculptor," he said; " I should use you 
as a model for a statue of California. I have 
the somewhat whimsical idea that you are the 
human embodiment of her." 
Before she could muster her startled and 
angry faculties for reply, before Estenega had 
finished speaking, in fact, Castro brought his 
open palm down on the table, his eyes blazing. 
"Oh, execrable profanation!" he cried. 
'* Oh, unheard-of perfidy ! Is it possible that 
a man calling himself a Californian could give 
utterance to such sentiments ? Oh, abomina- 
tion ! You would invite, welcome, uphold, the 
American adventurer ? You would tear apart 
the bosom of your country under pretense of 
doctoring its evils ? You would cast this fair 
gift of Almighty God at the feet of American 
swine? Oh, Diego ! Diego ! This comes of 
the heretic books thou hast read. It is better 
to have heart than brain." 
" True : the palpitations do not last as long. 
We have had proof which I need not recapitu- 
late that to preserve California to itself it must 
be tied fast to Mexico, otherwise would it die 
of anarchy or fall a prey to the first invader. 
So far so good. But what has Mexico done for 
California ? Nothing ; and she will do less. 
She is a mother who has forgotten the child she 
put out to nurse. England and France and 
Russia would do as little. But the United 
States, young and ambitious, will give her 
greedy attention, and out of their greed will 
California's good be wrought. And although 
they sweep us from the earth, they will plant 
fruit where they found weeds." 
Don Jose pushed back his chair violently and 
left the table. Estenega turned to Chonita and 
found her pallid, her nostrils tense, her eyes 
flashing. 
" Traitor! " she articulated. "I hate you ! 
And it was yo\x— you — who kept my loyal 
brother from serving his country in the Depart- 
mental Junta. He is as full of fire and
patriotism as Castro ; and yet you, whose blood is 
ice, could be a member of the Electoral College 
and defeat the election of a man who is as 
much an honor to his country as you are a 
shame. " 
He smiled a little cruelly, but without anger 
or shame in his face. "Senorita," he said, " I 
defeated your brother because I did not believe 
him to be of any use to his country. He 
would only have been in the way as a mem- 
ber of the Junta, and an older man wanted the 
place. Your brother has Don Josh's enthusiasm 
without his magnetism and remarkable execu- 
tive power. He is too young to have had 
experience, and has done neither reading nor 
thinking. Therefore I did my best to defeat 
him. Pardon my rudeness, senorita ; ascribe 
it to revenge for calling me a traitor." 
' You — you " she stammered, then bent 
her head over her plate, her Spanish dignity 
aghast at the threatening tears. Her hand 
hung clinched at her side. Diego took it in 
spite of resistance, and, opening the rigid
fingers, bent his head beneath the board and 
kissed them. 
"I believe you are somewhat of a woman, 
after all," he said. 
IV. 
The party deserted the table for the garden, 
there to idle until evening should give them 
the dance. All of the men and most of the 
women smoked cigaritos, the latter using the 
gold or silver holder, supporting it between the 
thumb and finger. The high walls of the 
garden were covered with the delicate fragrant 
pink Castilian roses, and the girls plucked 
them and laid them in their hair. 
"Does it look well, Don Diego?" asked 
one girl, holding her head coquettishly on one 
side. 
"It looked better on its vine," he said, 
absently. He was looking for Chonita, who 
had disappeared. " Roses are like women: 
they lose their subtler fragrance when plucked ; 
but, like women, their heads always droop 
invitingly. " 
"I do not understand thee, Don Diego," 
said the garl, fixing her wide innocent eyes on 
the young man's inscrutable face. " What dost 
thou mean ? " 
''That thou art sweeter than Castilian 
roses," he said and passed on. " And how is 
thy little one ? " he asked a young matron 
whose lithe beauty had won his admiration a 
year ago, but to whom maternity had been too 
generous. She raised her soft brown eyes, 
out of which the coquettish sparkle had gone. 
" Beautiful ! Beautiful ! " she cried. " And 
so smart, Don Diego. He beats the air with 
his little fists, and — Holy Mary, I swear it ! — 
he winks one eye when I tickle him." 
Estenega sauntered down the garden 
endeavoring to imagine Chonita fat and classified. 
He could not. He paused beside a woman 
who did not raise her eyes at once, but 
coquettishly pretended to be absorbed in the
conversation of those about her. She too had been 
married a year and more, but her figure had 
not lost its elegance, and she was very hand" 
some. Her coquetry w^as partly fear. Este- 
nega's power was felt alike by innocent girls 
and chaste matrons. There were few scandals 
in those days ; the wom^n of the aristocracy 
