came into the rude and now outgrown days 
of hazing history. 
The students of Harle College were sober 
enough that morning. It was quite 
unnecessary for the hazors to assume any of 
those expressions of hilarity or indifference 
by which the college boy is accustomed to 
hide his head in the sand of his offenses. 
Such idle pretense would only have identi 
fied them in the general gloom and anxiety. 
Donald Marcy, if not the most guilty, was, 
perhaps, the most sensitive of the culprits ; 
and his distress was greater than the sunny, 
easy, happy - go - lucky fellow knew how to 
bear. Life had gone lightly with Don ; it 
had been one long play-day ; the events of 
his young history had been so many games 
to be won on holiday afternoons. He had 
always come off on the winning side. His 
father had supplied him freely with money 
for the asking ; his mother was an invalid 
who was disabled from interfering with his 
wishes, and quite unfit to do so if she could. 
From the restraints of a home which Don 
did not love very much, he had easily freed 
himself since he came to college, by vacation 
stays too short to interfere with his freedom 
as a rare and flying guest. He had traveled, 
visited, yachted, flirted, sung, joked, . and 
laughed his way through his irresponsible 
youth so merrily and so charmingly, that it 
seldom occurred to anybody to find more 
fault with him than with a bumble-bee. He 
had never been a bad boy. Vice was vulgar, 
and Don had the tastes of a gentleman. On 
the whole, too, he had meant to study - 
some time ; he would take rank when he 
got round to it. The primary object of a 
collegiate education, of course, was to have 
a good time, and form pleasant acquaint 
ances ; that achieved, he really preferred to 
come singing to the upper end of the upper 
 
division of his large class; in fact, lie 
pictured himself as waltzing in among the 
honors at the turn of the dance, when it 
suited him, as some day it assuredly would. 
For Don was no dunce ; in his solitary mo 
ments, he had but few such moments ; he 
was too popular, there was always a fellow 
around, or a girl to take somewhere, in 
his attacks of occasional solitude, he went so 
far, sometimes, as to dream of scholarship, 
and intellectual power and the world of 
thought, and the glory thereof. But he 
supposed that kind of thing would come to 
him, somehow, without too much trouble. 
Everything else had. 
Then he had been such a likable fellow ; 
it had occupied most of his time to see that 
people loved him ; they always did. It was 
a matter of course. Popularity is an 
occupation, if not a trade. Don had accepted 
his sincerely enough, he was no trickster, 
but it had kept him quite busy. Matters 
had always gone pleasantly with the lova 
ble fellow. His classmates liked him ; his 
young lady friends fell in love with him ; 
his " sweep " and his laundress adored him ; 
the society of whatever place he might 
happen to bestow his easy young presence upon 
invited him ; even the faculty had never 
been hard on him ; he called on the 
Professor 's daughters, and was on pleasant per 
sonal terms with the President, and, up to 
this time, had successfully evaded the black 
list of college discipline. Don had seen no 
reason why this sort of thing t should not go 
on forever. When he came face to face 
with the full horror and the full danger of 
the Calhoun affair, into whose consequences 
he had suffered himself to slip so jauntily, 
the shock was something inconceivable by a 
more thoughtful or a worse boy. 
Don was almost too miserable to keep 
about, and play the little part necessary to 
his own self-preservation. He sat most of 
the day in his own room, with Jamie Fleet. 
Don 's room was less gorgeous than it used 
to be in Freshman year; he had learned 
simplicity of living, and the healthy pleasure 
of adapting one 's self to the circumstances 
of one 's comrades ; it was a pretty, comfort 
able room, handsomely appointed, but of a 
little more studious cast. The Axminster 
carpet remained ; but there was less bric-a- 
brac, the upholstery was shabbier, and there 
were more books. 
Don sat in his pleasant room with his 
 
sympathetic chum, and faced his first serious 
scrape as well as he could. Jamie was grave ; 
it was a grave business. Jamie never went 
in for that sort of thing. But he did not 
preach to Don, or exasperate him by one 
" I-told-you-so." Jamie 's quiet " Didn't 
pay, Don, did it ? " meant more to Don 
than any keener moral rebuke that ever 
visited him. 
" Jamie," said Don wretchedly, " if I ever 
get out of this, I 'll try a new track." 
" Oh, I know you will ! " cried Jamie 
Fleet lovingly. He looked up from his 
Tacitus with sad, adoring eyes, that followed 
Don with something finer than reproach. 
" But he 'll die," groaned Don. " Calhoun 
will die, I know he will. I expect some of 
us will be hung, J. It 's just as likely to be 
I. I don't know," added Don desperately, 
" but I should rather be hung. I think I 
should enjoy it. If Calhoun dies, I don't 
see but it would be the only thing left for 
a fellow to do, to give himself up to the 
authorities. I 'll do it, if you say so, J. 
You're about right, every time." 
" I'd wait awhile," said Jamie Fleet en 
couragingly. "Don't plan for the gallows 
to-day. Learn your Latin, and keep in your 
room, and stay by me. You can't do better. 
It will steady your head." 
" Bless you, J," said Don forlornly, 
taking up his books, " I know how a boat feels 
tugging at her anchor, when I sit here with 
you. I want to get up and go, and be into 
something, but I'm happier here. I really 
am, Jamie. But Lee will die. I am a 
murderer. Lee Calhoun will die. He 's just such 
a flat," added Don, with a spurt of his nat 
ural spirit. " Why, I could have made my 
way out of that coffin in no time. What 
are a few screws ? It only needed a little 
gumption and muscle. Just like Lee ! " 
Lee did not die that day. He lived till 
morning, and despair blunted into acute 
anxiety. He held on two days, and the 
more sanguine students began easily to hope. 
On the third day, he showed signs of 
consciousness, and fifteen hundred faces in 
Harle College brightened. The next morning 
his physician pronounced him in for a 
clear case of brain fever, and fifteen hundred 
faces fell. 
Now the bitterest lesson of life the tor 
ment of prolonged suspense set in for the 
hazing party. 
CHAPTER VII. 
A MANLY ACT. 
THE students all bore the suspense of 
Calhoun 's illness better, in a way, than 
Don, whose athletic strength shook beneath 
the strain. lie paled and weakened and 
worried, till Jamie Fleet warned him that 
the faculty would need no evidence against 
him ; his own honest face would be his un 
answerable accuser. Don replied that he 
didn't care if it did. If he'd got to be a 
murderer, he needn't be a cheat ; and if 
this lasted many weeks more he should die 
before Lee did, and glad of it. 
" Oh, brace up ! " said Trouncey O Grian. 
" Brace up, and square off ! " 
But that same day Trouncey came into 
the rhetoric class looking almost as pale as 
Don. He tossed over six settees a paper 
ball, which Don, snatching, unfolded, and 
read : 
" Faculty swooped like a wolf on the fold. 
Braggs and me hit for ringleaders. Shall 
be sat on to-night." 
And, indeed, that night, at half-past 
eleven, Trouncey tumbled into Donald 's 
room, and flinging himself into Fleet 's empty 
revolving study-chair (Jamie had gone to 
bed), put his feet on the table, wheeled 
around slowly, and heavily said : 
" It 's all up, Marey. I'm expelled from 
Harle College." 
" What for ? " asked Don sharply, wheel 
ing too. 
" Oh, for the graveyard business." 
" Nothing else ? " 
" They didn't mention anything else. 
That was the point. Buried alive ; brutal 
ity, and that sort of thing." 
"Did you deny it?" 
" Oh, yes, yes. I said I never hit foul. 
I said I wasn't there. Middleton said I 
was. Prexy advised me to own up. Said 
it would be better for me. I said I'd be 
blanked first, for I wasn't there. So I was 
expelled. That 's all." 
" Anything said about me ? " asked Don 
ald thoughtfully ; his handsome face, refined 
by the suffering of the last few weeks, 
showed sensitive agitation while Trouncey 
spoke. 
" Not a word. Didn't seem to spot you. 
 
Impression out that you were cramming for 
Peeker Prizes that night. Friends of yours 
circulated it. I'm glad of it," added Trouncey 
generously. " I don't want you floored." 
There was a silence between the two boys, 
which neither seemed inclined to break. 
Don did not even offer Trouncey a cigar, 
the occasion seemed above smoking, some 
how. Donald looked haggardly at Troun- 
cey 's big, good-natured, lumbering face. Its 
distress was the more striking because he 
could not remember ever to have seen 
Trouncey look sad before. 
" My father," added the prize-fighter 's 
son stoutly, " will knock me down. I ex 
pect he 'll kill me, he 'll be so mad. He 
thought I'd make a scholar, turn out a're 
spectable fellow, and that sort of thing ; he 
said he didn't want a son of his in the ring. 
He promised my mother he'd make a su 
perior citizen of me, he did really. She 
died five years ago. My father liked my 
mother. She was a good woman. Hard 
hit to father that I'm such a dunce, any 
how. T is, really. He thought I'd win for 
a purse of a thousand on rank, and that. I 
can't, you know, Marcy. T isn't in me. I 
expect to come out as I sailed in, last 
division, and a good way down, too. But I 
never thought I'd be expelled from Harle," 
said Trouncey, with a broken voice. " My 
mother would have been disappointed, 
wouldn't she ? Well, I can stand the lick 
ing, I guess. He can pommel me, if he 
wants to. But I'm sort o glad she ain't 
around." 
" Trouncey," said Donald, in a firm voice, 
"you just wait here a few minutes, will 
you ? I've got a little errand to attend to. 
I 'll be back directly, and we 'll get up some 
thing hot, and talk it over. I 'll run over 
and get a few lemons ; and I believe I'm 
out of sugar." 
Donald Marcy did not go for lemons and 
sugar ; at least not just then. On the con 
trary, he went to the President 's house ; he 
went as straight as he could go ; he ran all 
the way, and came panting up to the door 
of the official mansion, a very short-winded 
and heavy-hearted young man. 
Yet there was a curious, delicate lightness 
in his soul, too, as if rudiments of wings 
were there, ready to fly, if they had a 
chance. It was an odd sensation, to which 
the boy was not used. 
The sombre house of the President was 
 
dark ; only one light burned in it ; that was 
in the study, and the study was an ell. The 
President sat in the room, hard at work. 
The ell had an outer door of its own, 
expressly for the use of the students, and Don 
ald, without a moment 's hesitation, loudly 
rang the bell of the study door. 
The President opened it directly, with 
some nervousness ; and, seeing who it was, 
he said, with the irritation of a man who 
feels that he has been needlessly alarmed : 
" Marcy ? Why, come in ! What can 
you want at this hour ? " 
Donald stepped into the bright, warm 
room, and stood among the books, which 
reached from floor to ceiling all about the 
study. At that moment nothing seemed so 
vivid to him as the educated life which this 
spot represented ; the honor and the 
preciousness of all those intangible values which 
come to a man from the self-denial of 
thought, and toil, and gravity of purpose, 
and simplicity of life. His own vague 
young dreams of the some time when he, too, 
would belong to that high world which 
scholars know, swam before his brain 
dizzily. He had to collect himself, he tried 
to control himself, not to think of what 
he was about to surrender forever ; he found 
it difficult to articulate. He looked at the 
President appealingly. 
"Speak out, man ! " cried President Bax 
ter, a little crossly. " What is your 
errand ? " 
A woman 's figure seemed, to Donald 's 
excited vision, to float between his faltering 
purpose and the stern face of the college 
officer. Odd ! But the thing which stead 
ied the boy, and gave him the grace and 
strength of his emergency at that moment, 
the only thing that calmed his tumultuous 
thoughts into words, and his words into the 
prompt and manly ring that the President 
spoke of afterward, was the image of 
Trouncey 's mother. A pity to " disappoint 
" a woman, and a dead one, too ! 
" Sir," said Donald simply, " I've come 
to own up. Don't expel O Grian. He 
wasn't in that graveyard scrape. I was." 
When Donald got back to his room, he 
had lemons and sugar, and proceeded 
quietly to make his lemonade. Trouncey was 
asleep on the lounge, looking as miserable 
as a boy, when misery could not keep him 
awake, might be expected to look. 
 
Donald waited till the lemonade was hot, 
and then brought some (in his toilet mug), 
and waked the sleeper with a little push. 
" Come, Trouncey," he said gently, 
" here 's your lemonade. It 's piping hot. 
And you're not expelled, Trouncey. I've 
seen the President. It 's all right." 
Trouncey O Grian sat up sleepily and 
stared at Donald 's excited face. 
" The dickens you have ! Say ! Marcy ? 
well. Yes. Seen the President ! Good 
heavens ! But what in time did he say to 
you ? " 
" Oh, he didn't say very much," said 
Don quietly. "He told me the faculty 
would consider my case and let me know in 
a few days." 
CHAPTER VIII. 
THE FACULTY S VIEW OF IT. 
HARLE COLLEGE grew no calmer when 
the latest developments in the hazing scrape 
became widely known. Calhoun was be 
ginning to improve ; the fever had abated, 
and signs of intelligence in the sick boy 
returned. His doctor ventured to give a 
favorable prognosis for the outcome of the 
illness ; and the easy hope of the sanguine 
students bobbed to the surface gayly. 
College sympathy, now that the Freshman 's 
danger had decreased, lurched over to the 
popular Sophomore. 
Ben Braggs was expelled in good ear 
nest; and there was no more than the usual 
amount of college growling at this 
exhibition of discipline. But Braggs was not pop 
ular. He was a rough, fast, surly fellow, 
who had disgraced the university in other 
ways than heavy hazing, before this ; and 
he retired from the catalogue of the 
institution without any warmer regret than that 
 
vague amount of class feeling which the 
boys thought it proper to expend upon their 
departed comrade. 
With Donald it was another matter. 
Everybody liked Don Marcy too much to 
accept his disgrace. It was fought like a 
general injustice. Then he had done such 
a manly, honorable deed in sacrificing him 
self to save the prize-fighter 's son ; in the 
language of the boys, it was " such a square 
deal" that his immediate popularity was 
amazing. Instead of being the culprit of 
the faculty, Don was likely to become the 
hero of the college. This would have spoiled 
a vainer boy, or one with less basis of real 
sense in his nature. It might have hurt 
Don more than it did but for the sturdy, 
steady power of his chum, to which, in that 
hour of his humiliation and misery, Donald 
affectionately yielded. 
Jamie Fleet loved Don more than all 
Harle College put together did or could, 
and Don knew it ; but Jamie never flattered 
nor fooled him. 
In this case, he told him, frankly enough, 
that he had gone too far ; that he had done 
a cruel deed : " not manly," Jamie called it 
once ; and Don, who had never heard those 
iron words from anybody 's lips before, 
winced before his gentle friend. 
"Don't let the fellows gull you, Don," 
said Jamie Fleet. " It 's a bad business. I 
wouldn't forget that. It 's awfully nice of 
you to let up on Trouncey. But I don't 
see how you could have done less ; do you, 
Don?" 
" No," said Don mournfully. " I'm a 
gentleman and a man of honor. I had to 
