American backwoods order of architecture. The interstices were generally
daubed with clay to make them water-tight, and the roofs were covered
with sheets of bark, kept down by logs laid upon them. There were tents,
also, made of slabs, and covered with canvas. Still others were covered
with bullock hides.
To Harry and Jack the sight was a novel one, and they regarded the
extemporized village with interest.
Obed's eyes glistened, and he rubbed his hands with delight.
"This seems like home," he said. "It's just like Shantytown in
Californy, where I worked three months last year. I say, boys, how do
you like it?"
"I shouldn't like to live here very long," said Harry.
"I like shipboard better," said Jack.
"I agree with you, boys," said Obed, "but it'll suit me well enough if I
can find enough gold here. When I've made my pile, Australy won't hold
me long. I shall make tracks for America. We have no bushrangers
there."
"But you have Indians," retorted the police captain, who did not quite
relish the strictures upon the colony of which he was an official. "I
would rather be captured by a bushranger than scalped by an Indian."
"I agree with you, captain, but the Indians won't scalp you unless you
go where they are. I never saw one till I was past twenty-one."
"Indeed!" said the captain in evident surprise. "I thought they were all
over the country. Why, one of your countrymen told me they would
sometimes surprise families within ten miles of your great city of New
York, and scalp them all. He said he was brought up--raised, he called
it--twenty miles away, and was obliged to barricade the doors and
windows every night, and keep a supply of loaded muskets by the side of
his bed, to resist the Indians in case they made a night attack."
Obed laughed till the tears came to his eyes, and the two boys also
looked amused.
"Did you believe all this, captain?" he asked.
"Why not?" asked the captain, looking offended. "My informant was a
countryman of yours."
"He was stuffing you, captain."
"Stuffing me! I don't understand," said the captain, puzzled.
"He saw that you knew very little of America, and he practised a little
on your credulity--isn't that the word?"
"How do I know but you are doing the same now? Probably you want to give
me a favorable idea of your country."
"I only want you to judge it correctly, captain. Why, there aint no more
danger of being scalped in New York than in London."
"I presume not, in New York, but I am speaking of the neighborhood of
New York."
"So am I. I'll tell you what, captain, if you can find me a case of a
man that's been scalped within five hundred miles of New York within the
last fifty years, I'll give you my share of the reward. Of course if
it's in Canada, it don't count."
"I can't accept any such wager. I have no means of proving it, even if
it is so."
"That's true, squire; but I'll give you an idea. Harry, how many Indians
have you ever seen in your life?"
"About half a dozen," answered Harry, after a pause for reflection.
"And you, Jack?"
"I never saw one that I can remember."
"And yet you were both born in the States. You see, captain, Indians are
not so abundant in our country as you supposed. Jack has never seen an
Indian, but he has seen a bushranger; eh, Jack?"
"I have seen more than I wanted to," answered Jack, smiling.
By this time they had descended the hill, and were on the borders of the
mining settlement. They had now attracted the attention of the miners,
and when the prisoner was recognized there went up an angry shout, and a
band of swarthy, bearded men advanced menacingly to meet them.
"Give him to us!" they cried. "Give up the murderer! We will make short
work of him!"
CHAPTER XXI.
BUYING A CLAIM.
The face of the prisoner, as he met the angry glances of the miners,
betrayed extreme fear. In spite of his terrible crime, Harry could not
help pitying him when he saw the gray pallor that overspread his
countenance.
The captain of the police was a brave and determined man, and though his
little force was outnumbered five to one he showed no signs of
yielding.
"What is it you want, men?" he demanded sternly.
"We want that man--the murderer," was the unanimous cry.
"What would you do with him?"
"String him up to the nearest tree," replied a brawny miner.
"There is no occasion for you to punish him--he is in the hands of the
law," replied the captain.
"He may escape. We want to make sure of him."
"I will answer for it that he does not escape. You know me, and you can
accept my assurance. Is that satisfactory?"
There was a sullen murmur among the miners. It was evident that they
were not wholly satisfied.
The captain of police watched them keenly and saw that there was danger
of an attack.
He drew a pistol, and holding it firmly in his hand, said: "The first
man that interferes with me in the discharge of my duty, dies. I give
you fair warning."
A determined man generally carries his point, even against odds. Had the
captain showed the slightest sign of wavering, the mob would have been
upon him. But they saw that he was in earnest, and meant what he said.
"How long is he to live?" asked the brawny miner already referred to,
after a slight pause.
"I shall take him before the magistrate at once, and you know he is not
likely to defer punishment."
The police magistrate who dispensed justice, and frequently injustice,
at Bendigo, was noted for his severity, and this assurance seemed to
satisfy the miners. They followed the cavalcade, however, to make sure
that the captain kept his word. It may be stated here that, at this
early period in the history of the colony, the judicial forms which
prevail in other countries were for the most part dispensed with, and
punishment was swift and certain, especially where life or property had
been attacked.
Harry and Jack followed the crowd to a wooden structure more pretentious
than most of the buildings roundabout. The magistrate--whom I will call
Judge Wood--was at hand. He was a short, stout man, of severe aspect,
and had a harsh voice.
"Whom have we here?" he asked quickly.
The captain of police answered the question, relating also where and
under what circumstances the capture was made.
"What have you to say for yourself, my man?" he asked, turning to the
prisoner.
"I am innocent," was the reply in trembling accents.
"Of course. You all are. I never had a man brought before me who was not
innocent," said the magistrate with a sneer. "Have you any
accomplices?"
"Your honor, I am innocent, as I have already told you."
"Answer my question!" said the magistrate sternly.
"No, your honor."
"Ha! You alone are guilty then. Captain, are there any witnesses? though
it is hardly necessary. The man's face shows his guilt."
It will easily be seen how much hope the prisoner had of getting off
with such a judge presiding at the trial. Luckily for the cause of
justice the man was undoubtedly guilty, and so the judicial proceedings,
hurried and one-sided as they were, did not entail any injustice. In
half an hour the trial was completed, a conviction was obtained, and the
unhappy wretch was sentenced to execution on the following morning.
Meanwhile he was to be confined in a structure set apart as a prison.
"Well, are you satisfied?" asked the captain, as he passed the
ringleader of the miners.
"I don't see the use of waiting till morning," grumbled the miner. "The
job might as well have been finished up at once."
"You can rest satisfied. The man hasn't long to live."
This proved to be the case. During the night Harry and Jack, who were
accommodated with beds in a hut near the prison, heard a noise and a
sound of men's voices, but they were too fatigued and worn-out to be
thoroughly roused. In the morning, when they left the hut, they needed
no explanation. From a lofty branch of a gum-tree a hundred yards to the
west dangled the body of the unfortunate criminal, a terrible spectacle,
contrasting painfully with the bright and cheerful morning. They learned
afterward that the prison had been guarded by a volunteer company of
miners, who detected, or feigned to detect, the prisoner in an attempt
to escape,--probably the latter,--and forcing an entrance, laid violent
hands upon him, and saved the law officers the trouble of executing
him.
The captain of police didn't learn what had happened till morning. As it
chanced, Obed Stackpole was with him when he received the information.
He took it very coolly.
"What are you goin' to do about it, captain?" asked Obed.
"Nothing."
"Do you allow such doin's here?"
"It doesn't matter much. The man was to have been executed this morning
at any rate. He only lost a few hours. It has saved us some trouble."
"Suppose he was an innocent man?"
"But he wasn't, you know. And now, Mr. Stackpole, if you will come with
me, I will see about your getting your share of the reward."
"Thank you, captain. I won't deny that it'll be particularly convenient,
seein' I'm reduced to my last cent."
The police captain exerted himself in a very friendly manner, and owing
to the absence of red tape which in an older settlement might have
occasioned delay, that same day our Yankee friend was made happy by
receiving the sum of fifty pounds.
He called the boys to him, and dividing the money, as well as he could,
into three equal parts, he offered one each to Harry and Jack.
"Now we start alike," he said. "There's nearly seventeen pounds apiece.
It seems a good deal, but it won't last long here. We must find
something to do before long."
"That's just what I want," said Harry, "I came out here to work, and
make money, not to loaf about."
"That's the way with me," said Jack, but his tone was not so hopeful or
cheerful as Harry's.
"Confess now, Jack," said Harry, "you would rather be on board ship than
here at the diggings."
"I would," said Jack; "wouldn't you?"
"Not yet. There is no money to be made on board ship."
"When you've made your pile, my lad," said Obed, "you can go back to
Melbourne, and easily get a berth on board some merchant ship bound to
Liverpool or New York. There is a great demand for sailors at that
port."
This made Jack more cheerful. He was willing to stay a while, he said,
and help Harry and Mr. Stackpole, but in the end he must return to his
old life.
Mr. Stackpole and the boys took a long walk, and reconnoitred the
diggings on both sides of Bendigo creek. Toward the middle of the
afternoon they came upon a thin, melancholy looking young man, who was
sitting in a despondent attitude with his arms folded.
"Are you sick, my friend?" asked Obed.
"I am very ill," was the answer. "I don't think I shall ever be any
better."
Further questioning elicited the information that he had taken a severe
cold from exposure two months before, in consequence of which his lungs
were seriously affected.
"Why do you stay here, then?" asked Obed.
"I shall go back to Melbourne as soon as I have sold my claim."
"What do you want for it?"
"It is worth fifty pounds. I will take twenty-five."
Obed after careful inquiry judged that it was a bargain. He proposed to
the two boys to join him in the purchase of the claim. They felt that
they could safely follow his judgment, and struck a bargain. So before
twenty-four hours had passed, the three friends were joint proprietors
of a claim, and had about eight pounds apiece to meet expenses till it
began to yield a return.
CHAPTER XXII.
STRIKING LUCK.
"Now, boys," said Obed, "we have some hard work before us. Mining isn't
like standing behind a counter, or measuring off calico. It takes
considerable more muscle."
"I am used to hard work," said Jack, "but you'll have to show me how."
"I'll keep up with Jack," said Harry manfully. "You won't have to charge
either of us with laziness."
"I believe you, boys. There isn't a lazy bone in either of you. As I
have experience, I'll boss the job, and all you'll have to do will be to
obey orders."
"All right, captain!" said Jack, touching his cap, with a smile.
This, then, was the understanding between the three, and it was
faithfully adhered to. The two boys, sensible of their ignorance, were
very ready to obey Obed, and he found them willing workers. They
installed themselves in a cabin which had been occupied by the man they
bought out. He gave them the use of it, having no further occasion for
it himself, and they began to keep house as one family. They lived
roughly enough, and yet, so high were all articles of food, on account
of the trouble and expense of transportation from Melbourne, that it
cost them as much as would have paid for living at a respectable hotel
in the States.
All three entered upon their labors with high hopes. The first day and
the second day yielded no results, but, as Obed reminded them, a miner
needs to be patient. But when one week--two weeks--passed, and the
amount of gold found amounted to less than ten dollars, all three began
to look sober.
"This is beginning to look serious, boys," said Obed thoughtfully, as
they set about their work on the first day of the third week. "Our claim
aint pannin' out very rich."
"My store of money is panning out very fast," said Harry, with a faint
smile.
"I've got less than two pounds left," said Jack. "What are we going to
do when it's all gone?"
"I don't know," said Obed, "unless we catch another murderer."
The boys smiled, but not hilariously. They felt, as Obed expressed it,
that matters were indeed becoming serious. To run short of money nearly
ten thousand miles from home was no light thing.
"We might sell the claim," suggested Harry.
Obed shook his head.
"I don't think we could," he replied. "Everybody would understand our
reason for selling--that we despaired of finding any gold--and instead
of getting twenty-five pounds, I doubt if you could get twenty-five
shillings for it. You know about how long twenty-five shillings would
last us."
"I suppose there is nothing to do but to keep on," said Harry.
Obed nodded. "You've said it," he returned. "Let us keep up good heart,
my boys. Don't borrow trouble. When things come to the worst, we'll
decide what to do then."
By way of setting the example of cheerfulness, Obed began to whistle
"Yankee Doodle," and the boys joined in. It was not altogether a
successful effort, but it made them feel a little more cheerful. At all
events it attracted a listener--a tall, shabby-looking tramp, who had
been wandering about for a day or two, visiting one claim after another,
trying to raise a loan.
"I say, you're uncommon jolly, you chaps," he began, as he stood in a
lounging attitude watching the little party at their work.
"If we are it's a credit to us," returned Obed dryly, "for there isn't
much to be jolly about."
"Isn't your claim a good one?"
"That's what we're trying to find out. Where's yours, stranger?"
The tramp returned an evasive answer and shambled off.
"Do you think he's got a claim, Obed?" asked Jack.
"No; but he's prowling around to see what he can pick up."
"Do you think he's a thief?"
"I think he's willing to be. He heard us whistling, and thought we'd
found something."
"We are safe from robbery for the present." said Harry.
"Yes, there's that advantage about being poor. It reminds me of old Jack
Pierce in our village."
"What about him?" asked Harry.
"He read in the paper one day that a certain bank had burst. So he went
home in a hurry to see if he had any bills on that bank. He found that
he had no bills on that bank or any other--and then he felt better."
Harry laughed.
"It was a poor consolation, I think," he said. "I remember hearing a
sermon from our minister at home in which he said that riches were a
great responsibility, but I don't think I should mind taking the
responsibility."
"That's my idee, Harry. I am afraid there isn't much chance of our
having that responsibility, but there's one thing we can do if we don't
make the claim pay."
"What's that, Obed?"
"We can join the bushrangers."
"Will you set us the example?" asked Harry, smiling.
"I'm not quite desperate enough yet. We'll try the claim a little
longer. But I'm gettin' tuckered out. We'll go and get some dinner and
then start diggin' again."
They repaired to their cabin, and solaced themselves with food. Then
they threw themselves down in the shadow of the cabin to rest, and Obed
pulled out his pipe. This was a solace which the boys didn't enjoy. They
were sensible enough to know, that, whatever may be said of men, boys
only receive injury from the use of tobacco. In the resolution to
abstain, they were upheld and encouraged by Obed, who, veteran smoker as
he was, did not approve of smoking.
"You're better off without it, boys," he said. "It won't do you no good.
I wish I could leave it off."
"Why don't you?" asked Harry.
"Easier said than done, my boy. Let me see, I was only turned of
thirteen when I used to slink off to the barn and smoke, for I knew
father wouldn't let me if he knew it. It made me sick at first, but I
thought it was makin' a man of me, and I kept on. Well, the habit's on
me now, and it's hard to break. It don't hurt a man as much as a boy,
but it don't do him any good, either. Jack, did you ever smoke?"
"No, Obed; but one of the sailors gave me a piece of tobacco to chew
once. I didn't like it and spit it out."
"The best thing you could do. I wish all boys were as sensible."
In their hours of rest the three often chatted of home. Their
conversation was generally of one tenor. They liked to fancy themselves
returning with plenty of money, and planned how they would act under
such pleasant circumstances. Instead of the barren hills among which
they were encamped, familiar scenes and faces rose before them, and the
picture was so attractive that it was hard to come back to the cheerless
reality.
"Well, boys," said Obed, at the end of an hour, "we may as well go to
work again. The gold's waitin' for us."
It was an old joke, and scarcely elicited a smile now. In fact, the boys
felt that they had waited a long time for the gold. It was not,
therefore, with a very hopeful feeling that they obeyed the summons and
returned to the claim. Though of a sanguine disposition, they began to
doubt seriously whether their efforts would ever be rewarded. They had
pretty much lost the stimulus of hope.
About four o'clock, when Jack was at work with the pick, something
curious happened. Instead of sinking into the earth it glanced off, as
from something hard.
"What is it, Jack?" asked Obed quickly.
"I must have struck a rock, Obed."
"Here, give me the pick," said Obed eagerly.
He struck, and lo! a yellow streak became plainly visible.
"Boys," said he in an agitated voice, "I believe our luck has come."
"What do you mean, Obed?"
"I believe we've found a nugget;" and to the boys' intense surprise he
immediately began to cover it up with dirt.
"What's that for?" asked Harry.
"Hush! we mustn't take it out now. Somebody might be looking. We'll wait
till it's darker."
Just then the tramp before mentioned strolled up.
"What luck, friends?" he asked.
"Same as usual," answered Obed, shrugging his shoulders. "Don't you want
to buy the claim?"
"Not I," and the tramp, quite deceived by his manner, kept on his
round.
CHAPTER XXIII.
RAISING THE NUGGET.
"It's lucky we covered up the gold," said Obed, in a low voice. "That's
the last man I wanted to discover our good luck."
"Shan't we keep on working?" asked Harry, in excitement.
"I will just probe a little to form some idea of the size of the
nugget," answered Obed.
"Then you think it is a nugget?" asked Jack eagerly.
"Yes, I think our luck has come at last, boys. I think we will be able
to pull up stakes and go back to America. But about keeping on now, we
shall need to be cautious. Someone might come by, and see what we are
about."
Then Harry made a suggestion.
"Let Jack go up to the top, and if anyone comes he can whistle. That
will put us on our guard."
"A good idea!" said Obed.
So Jack threw himself on the ground in a listless posture, and the other
two continued their explorations. They dug all about the boulder, which
proved to be about a foot in diameter. It was embedded in clay, from
which it was separated with some difficulty. It was encased in quartz,
but the interior was bright, glittering gold.
"It's a regular beauty," said Obed in a low tone, his eyes glittering
with excitement. "It isn't once in a dog's age that so big a nugget is
discovered."
"How much do you call it worth, Obed?" asked Harry in the same low
tone.
"That's hard tellin', Harry; but it's worth ten thousand dollars
easy."
"Thank God!" ejaculated Harry fervently. "That will release us from our
imprisonment, and enable us to go back to America."
"You are right, Harry, but the hardest job lies before us."
"What's that?"
"To get it out without observation, and keep it secure from thieves."
"We'll do our best. Only you give the orders, Obed."
"Then, first and foremost, we'll cover it up again, and go up till
evening, when we will secure it, and carry it to our cabin."
So said, so done. They joined Jack at the limit of the excavation.
"Is it all right?" asked the young sailor eagerly.
"Yes," answered Harry.
"Is it really a big one?"
"Yes; we can all go back to America, Jack."
"And I can once more be a sailor?"
"Yes, if you like it."
Jack was told of their plan of removing the nugget by night, and saw at
once that it was a wise one.
"Shall we go to the cabin now?" he asked.
"No, Jack; it won't do to leave our treasure unguarded. We will lounge
here and make sure that no one robs us of our discovery."
So they sat down, and Obed lighted his pipe once more.
A neighbor strolled up and sat down beside them.
"You are leaving off work early," he said.
"Yes," answered Obed with a yawn, "we might as well take it easy. It's
hard work--this mining."
"What luck?"
