and I said that was a great deal of money to in- 
trust to one man. 
" Henderson showed a little impatience. It de* 
pended upon the man. That was his lookout. The 
money would be deposited, he said, in bank to my 
order, and he asked me for my signature that he 
could send with the deposit. 
" Of course I thanked him warmly, and said I 
hoped I could do some good with it. He did not 
seem to pay much attention to what I was saying. 
He was looking out of the window to the bare 
trees in the court back of his office, and his hands 
were moving the papers on his table aimlessly 
about. 
" ' I shall know,' he said, * when you have drawn 
this out. I've got a fancy for keeping a little fund 
of this sort there.' And then he added, still not 
looking at me, but at the dead branches, ' You 
might call it the Margaret Fund.' " 
"That was the name of his first wife!" Edith 
exclaimed. 
" Yes, I remember. I said I would, and began to 
thank him again as I rose from my chair. He was 
still looking away, and saying, as if to himself, ' I 
think she would like that.' And then he turned, 
and, in his usual abrupt office manner, said : ' Good- 
morning, good-morning. I am very much obliged 
to you.' " 
" "Wasn't it all very strange !" Edith spoke, after 
a moment. " I didn't suppose he cared. Do you 
think it was just sentiment ?" 
" I shouldn't wonder. Men like Henderson do 
queer things. In the hearts of such hardened men 
there are sometimes roots of sentiment that you 
wouldn't suspect. But I don't know. The Lord 
somehow looks out for his poor." 
Notwithstanding this windfall of charity, Father 
Damon seemed somewhat depressed. "I wish," 
he sa"id, after a pause, " he had given it to the mis- 
sion. ATe are so poor, and modern philanthropy 
all runs in other directions. The relief of tempo- 
rary suffering has taken the place of the care of 
souls." 
"But Dr. Leigh said that you were interesting 
the churches in the labor unions." 
"Yes. It is an effort to do something. The 
church must put herself into sympathetic relations 
with these people, or she will accomplish nothing. 
To get them into the church we must take up their 
burdens. But it is a long way round. It is not 
the old method of applying the gospel to men's 
sins." 
"And yet," Edith insisted, "you must admit 
that such people as Dr. Leigh are doing a good 
work." 
Father Damon did not reply immediately. Pres- 
ently he asked : " Do you think, Mrs. Delancj^, that 
Dr. Leigh has any sympathy with the higher life, 
with spiritual things ? I wish I could think so." 
" With the higher life of humanity, certainly." 
" Ah, that is too vague. I sometimes feel that 
she and those like her are the worst opponents to 
our work. They substitute humanitarianism for 
the gospel." 
" Yet I know of no one who works more than 
Ruth Leigh in the self-sacrificing spirit of the 
Master." 
" "Whom she denies !" The quick reply came 
with a flush in his pale face, and he instantly arose 
and walked away to the window and stood for 
some moments in silence. When he turned there 
was another expression in his eyes and a note of 
tenderness in his voice that contradicted the se- 
verity of the priest. It was the man that spoke. 
" Yes, she is the best woman I ever knew. God 
help me ! I fear I am not fit for my work." 
This outburst of Father Damon to her, so unlike 
his calm and trained manner, surprised Edith, al- 
though she had already some suspicion of his state 
of mind. But it would not have surprised her if 
she had known more of men, the necessity of the 
repressed and tortured soul for sympathy, and that 
it is more surely to be found in the heart of a pure 
woman than elsewhere. 
But there was nothing that she could say, as she 
took his hand to bid him good-by, except the com- 
monplace that Dr. Leigh had expressed anxiety 
that he was overworking, and that for the sake 
of his work he must be more prudent. Yet her 
eyes expressed the sympathy she did not put in 
words. 
Father Damon understood this, and he went 
away profoundly grateful for her forbearance of 
verbal expression as much as for her sympathy. 
But he did not suspect that she needed sympathy 
quite as much as he did, and consequently he did 
not guess the extent of her self-control. It would 
have been an immense relief to have opened her 
heart to him and to whom could she more safely 
do this than to a priest set apart from all human 
entanglements ? and to have asked his advice. But 
Edith's peculiar strength or was it the highest 
womanly instinct? lay in her discernment of the 
truth that in one relation of life no confidences are 
possible outside of that relation except to its injury, 
and that to ask interference is pretty sure to seal 
its failure. As its highest joys cannot be partici- 
pated in, so its estrangements cannot be healed by 
any influence outside of its sacred compact. To 
give confidence outside is to destroy the mutual 
confidence upon which the relation rests, and though 
interference may patch up livable compromises, the 
bloom of love and the joy of life are not in them. 
Edith knew that if she could not win her own bat- 
tle, no human aid could win it for her. 
And it was all the more difficult because it was 
vague and indefinite, as the greater part of domes- 
tic tragedies are. For the most part life goes on 
with external smoothness, and the public always 
professes surprise when some accident, a suit at law, 
a sudden death, a contested will, a slip from appar- 
ent integrity, or family greed or feminine revenge, 
turns the light of publicity upon a household, to 
find how hollow the life has been ; in the light of 
forgotten letters, revealing check - books, servants' 
gossip, and long-established habits of aversion or 
forbearance, how much sordidness and meanness ! 
Was not everything going on as usual in the 
Delancy house and in the little world of which it 
was a part? If there had been any open neglect 
or jealousy, any quarrel or rupture, or any scene, 
these could be described. These would have an in- 
terest to the biographer and perhaps to the public. 
But at this period there was nothing of this sort 
to tell. There were no scenes. There were no 
protests or remonstrances or accusations, nor to the 
world was there any change in the daily life of 
these two. 
It was more pitiful even than that. Here was a 
woman who had set her heart in all the passionate 
love of a pure ideal, and day by day she felt that 
the world, the frivolous world, with its low and 
selfish aims, was too strong for her, and that the 
stream was wrecking her life because it was bear- 
ing Jack away from her. What could one woman 
do against the accepted demoralizations of her so- 
cial life ? To go with them, not to care, to accept 
Jack's idle, good - natured, easy philosophy of life 
and conduct, would not that have insured a peace- 
ful life? Why shouldn't she conform and float, 
and not mind ? 
To be sure, a wise woman, who has been blessed 
or cursed with a long experience of life, would have 
known that such a course could not forever, or for 
long, secure happiness, and that a man's love ulti- 
mately must rest upon a profound respect for his 
wife and a belief in her nobility. Perhaps Edith 
did not reason in this way. Probably it was her 
instinct for what was pure and true showing, in- 
deed, the quality of her love that guided her. 
To Jack's friends he was much the same as usual. 
He simply went on in his ante -marriage ways. 
Perhaps he drank a little more, perhaps he was a 
little more reckless at cards, and it was certain that 
his taste for amusing himself in second-hand book- 
shops and antiquity collections had weakened. 
His talked-of project for some regular occupation 
seemed to have been postponed, although he said 
to himself that it was only postponed until his 
speculations, which kept him in a perpetual fever, 
should put him in a position to command a busi- 
Meantime he did not neglect social life that is, 
the easy, tolerant company which lived as he liked 
to live. There was at first some pretence of declin- 
ing invitations which Edith could not accept, but 
he soon fell into the habit of a man whose family 
has temporarily gone abroad, with the privileges 
of a married man, without the responsibilities of a 
bachelor. Edith could see that he took great credit 
to himself for any evenings he spent at home, and 
perhaps he had a sort of support in the idea that 
he was sacrificing himself to his family. Major 
Fairfax, whom Edith distrusted as a misleader of 
youth, did not venture to interfere with Jack again, 
but he said to himself that it was a blank shame 
that with such a wife he should go dangling about 
with women like Carmen and Miss Tavish, not that 
the Major himself had any objection to their soci- 
ety, but, hang it all, that was no reason why Jack 
should be a fool. 
In midwinter Jack went to Washington on busi- 
ness. It was necessary to see Mavick, and Mr. 
Henderson, who was also there. To spend a few 
weeks at the capital, in preparation for Lent, has 
become a part of the programme of fashion. There 
can be met people like-minded from all parts of 
the Union, and there is gayety, and the entertain- 
ment to be had in new acquaintances, without in- 
curring any of the responsibilities of social contin- 
uance. They meet there on neutral ground. Half 
Jack's set had gone over or were going. Young 
Van Dam would go with him. It will be only for 
a few days, Jack had said, gayly, when he bade 
Edith good-by, and she must be careful not to let 
the boy forget him. 
It was quite by accident, apparently, that in the 
same train were the Chesneys, Miss Tavish, and 
Carmen going over to join her husband. This gave 
the business expedition the air of an excursion. 
And indeed at the hotel where they stayed this Xew 
York contingent made something of an impression, 
promising an addition to the gayety of the season, 
and contributing to the importance of the house as 
a centre of fashion. Henderson's least movements 
were alwa\ r s chronicled and speculated on, and for 
years he had been one of the stock subjects, out of 
which even the dullest interviewers, who watch 
the hotel registers in all parts of the country, felt 
sure that they could make an acceptable paragraph. 
The arrival of his wife, therefore, was a newspaper 
event. 
They said in Washington at the time that Mrs. 
Henderson was one of the most fascinating of 
women, amiable, desirous to please, approachable, 
and devoted to the interests of her husband. If 
some of the women, residents in established so- 
ciety, were a little shy of her, if some, indeed, 
thought her dangerous women are always think- 
ing this of each other, and surely they ought to 
know nothing of this appeared in the reports. 
The men liked her. She had so much vivacity, 
such esprit, she understood men so well, and the 
world, and could make allowances, and was always 
an entertaining companion. More than one Sen- 
ator paid marked court to her, more than one brill- 
iant young fellow of the House thought himself 
fortunate if he sat next her at dinner, and even 
cabinet officers waited on her at supper. It could 
not be doubted that a smile and a confidential or 
a witty remark from Mrs. Henderson brightened 
many an evening. "Wherever she went her charm- 
ing toilets were fully described, and the public 
knew as well as her jewellers the number and cost 
of her diamonds, her necklaces, her tiaras. But 
this was for the world and for state occasions. At 
home she liked simplicity. And this was what im- 
pressed the reporters when, in the -line of their 
public duty, they were admitted to her presence. 
"With them she was very affable, and she made 
them feel that they could almost be classed with 
her friends, and that they were her guardians 
against the vulgar publicity, which she disliked 
and shrank from. 
There went abroad, therefore, an impression of 
her amiability, her fabulous wealth in jewels and 
apparel, her graciousness and her cleverness and 
her domesticity. Her manners seemed to the re- 
porters those of a " lady," and of this both her wit 
and freedom from prudishness and her courteous 
treatment of them convinced them. And the best 
of all this was that while it was said that Hender- 
son was one of the boldest and shrewdest of oper- 
ators, and a man to be feared in the Street, he was 
in his family relations one of the most generous 
and kind-hearted of men. 
Henderson himself had not much time for the 
frivolities of the season, and he evaded all but the 
more conspicuous social occasions, at which Car- 
men, sometimes with a little temper, insisted that 
he should accompany her. "You would come 
here," he once said, "when you knew I was im- 
mersed in most perplexing business." 
" And now I am here," she had replied, in a tone 
equally wanting in softness, " you have got to make 
the best of me." 
"Was Jack happy in the whirl he was in ? Some 
days exceedingly so. Some days he sulked, and 
some days he threw himself with recklessness born 
of artificial stimulants into the always gay and rat- 
tling moods of Miss Tavish. Somehow he could 
get no nearer to Henderson or to Mavick than when 
he was in New York. Not that he could accuse 
Mavick of trying to conceal anything; Mavick 
bore to him always the open, " all right " attitude, 
but there were things that he did not understand. 
And then Carmen? Was she a little less de- 
pendent on him, in this wide horizon, than in New 
York? And had he noticed a little disposition to 
patronize on two or three occasions ? It was ab- 
surd. He laughed at himself for such an idea. 
' Old Eschelle's daughter patronize him ! And yet 
there was something. She was very confidential 
with Mavick. They seemed to have a great deal 
in common. It so happened that even in the little 
expeditions of sight-seeing these two were thrown 
much together, and at times when the former rela- 
tions of Jack and Carmen should have made them 
comrades. They had a good deal to say to each 
other, and momentarily evidently serious things, 
and at receptions Jack had interrupted their glances 
of intelligence. But what stuff this was ! He jeal- 
ous of the attentions of his friend to another man's 
wife ! If she was a coquette, what did it matter 
to him? Certainly he was not jealous. But he 
was irritated. 
One day after a round of receptions, in which 
Jack had been specially disgruntled, and when he 
was alone in the drawing-room of the hotel with 
Carmen, his manner was so positively rude to her 
that she could not but notice it. There was this 
trait of boyishness in Jack, and it was one of the 
weaknesses that made him loved, that he always 
cried out when he was hurt. 
Did Carmen resent this ? Did she upbraid him 
for his manner ? Did she apologize, as if she had 
done anything to provoke it? She sank down 
wearily in a chair and said : 
" I'm so tired. I wish I were back in New 
Tork." 
" You don't act like it," Jack replied, gruffly. 
"No. You don't understand. And now you 
want to make me more miserable. See here, Mr. 
Delancy," and she started up in her seat and turned 
to him, " you are a man of honor. Would you ad- 
vise me to make an enemy of Mr. Mavick, know- 
ing all that he does know about Mr. Henderson's 
affairs." 
" I don't see what that has got to do with it," 
said Jack, wavering. " Lately your manner " 
" Nonsense !" cried Carmen, springing up and ap- 
proaching Jack with a smile of animation and 
trust, and laying her hand on his shoulder. " We 
are old, old friends. And I have just confided to 
you what I wouldn't to any other living being. 
There !" And looking around at the door, she 
tapped him lightly on the cheek and ran out of 
the room. 
Whatever you might say of Carmen, she had 
this quality of a wise person, that she never cut 
herself loose from one situation until she was en- 
tirely sure of a better position. 
For one reason or another Jack's absence was 
prolonged. He wrote often, he made bright com- 
ments on the characters and peculiarities of the 
capital, and he said that he was tired to death of 
the everlasting whirl and scuffle. People plunged 
in the social whirlpool always say they are weary 
of it, and they complain bitterly of its exactions 
and its tax on their time and strength. Edith 
judged, especially from the complaints, that her 
husband was enjoying himself. She felt also that 
his letters were in a sense perfunctory, and gave 
her only the surface of his life. She sought in 
vain in them for those evidences of spontaneous 
love, of delight in writing to her of all persons in 
the world, the eagerness of the lover that she re- 
called in letters written in other days. However 
affectionate in expression, these were duty letters. 
Edith was not alone. She had no lack of friends, 
who came and went in the common round of so- 
cial exchange, and for many of them she had a 
sincere affection. And there were plenty of rela- 
tives on the father's and on the mother's side. But 
for the most part they were old-fashioned, home- 
keeping New-Yorkers, who wefe sufficient to them- 
selves, and cared little for the set into which 
Edith's marriage had more definitely placed her. 
In any real trouble she would not have lacked 
support. She was deemed fortunate in her mar- 
riage, and in her apparent serene prosperity it was 
believed that she was happy. If she had had 
mother or sister or brother, it is doubtful if she 
would have made either a confidant of her anxi- 
eties, but high-spirited and self-reliant as she was, 
there were days when she longed with intolerable 
heartache for the silent sympathy of a mother's 
presence. 
It is singular how lonely a woman of this nature 
can be in a gay and friendly world. She had her 
interests, to be sure. As she regained her strength 
she took up her social duties, and she tried to re- 
sume her studies, her music, her reading, and she 
occupied herself more and more with the charities 
and the fortunes of her friends who were giving their 
lives to altruistic work. But there was a sense of 
unreality in all this. The real thing was the soul 
within, the longing, loving woman whose heart 
was heavy and unsatisfied. Jack was so lovable, 
he had in his nature so much nobility, if the world 
did not kill it, her life might be so sweet, and so 
completely fulfil her girlish dreams. All these 
schemes of a helpful, altruistic life had been in her 
dream, but how empty it was without the mutual 
confidence, the repose in the one human love for 
which she cared. 
Though she was not alone, she had no confidant. 
She could have none. What was there to confide ? 
There was nothing to be done. There was no 
flagrant wrong or open injustice. Some women 
in like circumstances become bitter and cynical. 
