It made Tom hot, and he says : 
 Well, it's enough to make a body sick, such 
mullet-headed ignorance. If either of you knowed 
anything about history, you'd know that Richard 
Cur de Lyon, and the Pope, and Godfrey de Bulloyn, 
and lots more of the most noble-hearted and pious 
people in the world hacked and hammered at the 
paynims for more than two hundred years trying 
to take their land away from them, and swum neck- 
deep in blood the whole time — and yet here's a 
couple of sap -headed country yahoos out in the 
backwoods of Missouri setting themselves up to 
know more about the rights and the wrongs of it 
than they did ! Talk about cheek ! ' 
Well, of course that put a more different light 
on it, and me and Jim felt pretty cheap and 
ignorant, and wished we hadn't been quite so 
chipper. I couldn't say nothing, and Jim he 
couldn't for a while ; then he says : 
'Well, den, I reckon it's all right, beca'ze ef dey 
didn't know, dey ain't no use for po' ignorant folks 
like us to be tryin' to know ; en so, ef it's our duty, 
we got to go en tackle it en do de bes' we kin. 
Same time, I feel as sorry for dem paynims as 
Mars Tom. De hard part gwyne to be to kill folks 
dat a body hain't 'quainted wid and hain't done 
him no harm. Dat's it, you see. Ef we uz to go 
'mongst 'em, jist us three, and say we's hungry, en 
ast 'em for a bite to eat, why maybe dey's jist like 
yuther people en niggers— don't you reckon dey is ? 
Why, dcid give it, I know dey would ; en den — 
'Then what ? ' 
' Well, Mars Tom, my idea is like dis. It ain't 
no use, we can't kill dem po' strangers dat ain't 
doin' us no harm, till we've had practice— I knows it 
perfectly well, Mars Tom— 'deed, I knows it per- 
fectly well. But ef we takes a' axe or two, jist you 
en me en Huck, en slips acrost de river to-night 
arter de moon's gone down, en kills dat sick fambly 
dat's over on de Sny, en burns dey house down, 
en ' 
'Oh, shut your head ! you make me tired. I 
don't want to argue no more with people like you 
and Huck Finn, that's always wandering from the 
subject and ain't got any more sense, than to try to 
reason out a thing that's pure theology by the laws 
that protects real estate.' 
Now, that's just where Tom Sawyer warn't fair. 
Jim didn't mean no harm, and I didn't mean no 
harm. We knowed well enough that he was right 
and we was wrong, and all we was after was to get 
at the how of it — that was all; and the only 
reason he couldn't explain it so we could understand 
it was because we was ignorant — yes, and pretty 
dull, too, I ain't denying that ; but land ! that ain't 
no crime, I should think. 
But he wouldn't hear no more about it ; just 
said if we had tackled the thing in a proper spirit 
he would 'a' raised a couple of thousand knights 
and put them up in steel armour from head to hee], 
and made me a lieutenant and Jim a sutler, and 
took the command himself, and brushed the whole 
paynim outfit into the sea like flies, and come back 
across the world in a glory like sunset. But he 
said we didn't know enough to take the chance 
when we had it, and he wouldn't ever offer it again. 
And he didn't. When he once got set, you couldn't 
budge him. 
But I didn't care much. I am peaceable, and 
don't get up no rows with people that ain't doing 
nothing to me. I allowed if 
the paynims was satisfied I 
was, and we would let it stand 
at that. 
Now, Tom he got all that wild notion out of 
Walter Scott's books, which he was always reading. 
And it was a wild notion, because in my opinion 
he never could 'a' raised the men, and if he did, as 
like as not he would  got licked. I took the 
books and read all about it, and as near as I 
could make it out, most of the folks that shook 
farming to go crusading had a mighty rocky time 
of it. 
CHAPTER II 
Well, Tom got up one thing after another, but 
they all had sore places in them somewheres, and 
he had to shove them aside. So at last he was 
'most about in despair. Then the St. Louis papers 
begun to talk a good deal about the balloon that 
was going to sail to Europe, and Tom sort of 
thought he wanted to go down and see what it 
looked like, but couldn't make up his mind. But 
the papers went on talking, and so he allowed that 
maybe if he didn't go he mightn't ever have 
another chance to see a balloon ; and next, he
found out that Nat Parsons was going down to see 
it, and that decided him, of course. He wasn't 
going to have Nat Parsons coming back bragging 
about seeing the balloon and him having to listen 
to it and keep his head shut. So he wanted me 
and Jim to go too, and we went. 
It was a noble big balloon, and had wings, and 
fans, and all sorts of things, and wasn't like any 
balloon that is in the pictures. It was away out 
towards the edge of town, in a vacant lot corner of 
Twelfth Street, and there was a big crowd around it 
making fun of it, and making fun of the man — 
which was a lean, pale feller with that soft kind of 
moonlight in his eyes, you know — and they kept say- 
ing it wouldn't go. It made him hot to hear them, 
and he would turn on them and shake his fist and 
say they was animals and blind, but some day they 
would find they'd stood face to face with one of the 
men that lifts up nations and makes civilisations, 
and was too dull to know it, and right here on this 
spot their own children and grandchildren would 
build a monument to him that would last a thou- 
sand years, but his name would outlast the monu- 
ment ; and then the crowd would burst out in a 
laugh again, and yell at him, and ask him what was 
his name before he was married, and what he would 
take to don't, and what was his sister's cat's grand- 
mother's name, and all them kind of things that a 
crowd says when they've got hold of a feller they 
see they can plague. Well, the things they said 
was fanny — yes, and mighty witty too, I ain't 
denying that ; but all the same it warn't fair nor 
brave, all them people pitching on one, and they 
so glib and sharp, and him without any gift of talk 
to answer back with. But good land ! what did he 
icant to sass back for ? You see, it couldn't do him 
no good, and it was just nuts for them. They had 
him, you know. But that was his way ; I reckon 
he couldn't help it : he was made so, I judge. He 
was a good enough sort of a cretur, and hadn't no 
harm in him, and was just a genius, as the papers 
said, which wasn't his fault. We can't all be sound : 
we've got to be the way we are made. As near as 
I can make out, geniuses think they know it all, 
and so they won't take people's advice, but always 
go their own way, which makes everybody forsake 
them and despise them, and that is perfectly 
natural. If they was humbler, and listened and 
tried to learn, it would be better for them. 
The part the professor was in was like a boat, 
and was big and roomy, and had water-tight 
lockers around the inside to keep all sorts of things 
in, and a body could set on them and make beds on 
them too. We went aboard, and there was twenty 
people there, snooping around and examining, and 
old Nat Parsons was there too. The professor kept 
fussing around getting ready, and the people went 
ashore, drifting out one at a time, and old Nat he 
was the last. Of course it wouldn't do to let him go 
out behind us. We mustn't budge till he was gone, 
so we could be last ourselves. 
But he was gone now, so it was time for us to 
follow. I heard a big shout, and turned around — 
the city was dropping from under us like a shot ! 
It made me sick all through, I was so scared. Jim 
turned grey, and couldn't say a word, and Tom 
didn't say nothing but looked excited. The city 
went on dropping down, and down, and down, but 
we didn't seem to do nothing but hang in the 
air and stand still. The houses got smaller and 
smaller, and the city pulled itself together closer and 
closer, and the men and waggons got to looking like 
ants and bugs crawling about, and the streets was 
like cracks and threads ; and then it all kind of 
melted together, and there wasn't any city any more : 
it was only a big scab on the earth, and it seemed 
to me a body could see up the river and down the 
river about a thousand miles, though of course it 
wasn't so much. By-and-by the earth was a ball 
-just a round ball, of a dull colour, with shiny 
stripes wriggling and winding around over it, which 
was rivers. And the weather was getting pretty 
chilly. The widder Douglas always told me the 
world was round like a ball, but I never took no 
stock in a lot of them superstitions o' hern, and of 
course I paid no attention to that one because 
I could see myself that the world was the shape of 
a plate, and flat. I used to go up on the hill and 
take a look all around and prove it for myself, 
because I reckon the best way to get a sure thing 
on a fact is to go and examine for yourself and not 
take it on anybody's say-so. But I had to give in, 
now, that the widder was right. That is, she was 
right as to the rest of the world, but she warn't 
right about the part our village is in : that part is 
the shape of a plate, and flat, I take my oath. 
The professor was standing still all this time 
like he was asleep, but he broke loose, now, and 
he was mighty bitter. He says something like 
this : 
'Idiots ! they said it wouldn't go. And they 
wanted to examine it and spy around and get the 
secret of it out of me. But I beat them. Nobody 
knows the secret but me ! Nobody knows what 
makes it move but me ; and it's a new power ! A 
new power, and a thousand times the strongest in 
the earth. Steam's foolishness to it. They said 
I couldn't go to Europe. To Europe ! why there's 
power aboard to last five years, and food for three 
months. They are fools — what do they know about 
it ? Yes, and they said my air-ship was flimsy ; 
why, she's good for fifty years. I can sail the skies 
all my life if I want to, and steer where I please, 
though they laughed at that, and said I couldn't. 
Couldn't steer ! Come here, boy ; we'll see. You 
press these buttons as I tell you.' 
He made Tom steer the ship all about and every 
which way, and learnt him the whole thing in 
nearly no time, and Tom said it was perfectly easy. 
He made him fetch the ship down 'most to the 
earth, and had him spin her along so close to the 
Illinois prairies that a body could talk to the 
farmers and hear everything they said, perfectly 
plain ; and he flung out printed bills to them that 
told about the balloon and said it was going to 
Europe. Tom got so he could steer straight for a 
tree till he got nearly to it and then dart up and 
skin right along over the top of it. Yes, and he 
learnt Tom how to land her ; and he done it first 
rate, too, and set her down in the prairie as soft as 
wool ; but the minute we started to skip out the 
professor says, ' No you don't ! ' and shot her up 
into the air again. It was awful. I begun to beg, 
and so did Jim ; but it only give his temper a rise, 
and be begun to rage around and look wild out of 
his eyes, and I was scared of him. 
Well, then he got on to his troubles again, and 
mourned and grumbled about the way he was 
treated, and couldn't seem to git over it, and espe- 
cially people's saying his ship was flimsy. He scoffed 
at that, and at their saying she warn't simple and 
would be always getting out of order. Get out of 
order— that gravelled him ; he said she couldn't any 
more get out of order than the solar sister. He got 
worse and worse, and I never see a person take on 
so. It give me the cold shivers to see him, and 
so it did Jim. By-and-by he got to yelling and 
screaming, and then he swore the world shouldn't 
ever have his secret at all now, it had treated him 
so mean. He said he would sail his balloon around 
the globe just to show what he could do, and then he 
would sink it in the sea, and sink us all along with 
it, too. Well, it was the awfullest fix to be in ; and 
here was night coming on. 
He give us something to eat, and made us go 
to the other end of the boat, and laid down on a 
locker where he could boss all the works, and put 
his old pepper-box revolver under his head, and said 
anybody that come fooling around there trying to 
land her he would kill him. 
We set scrunched up together, and thought 
considerable, but didn't say nothing, only just a 
word once in a while when a body had to say some- 
thing or bust, we was so scared and worried. The 
night dragged along slow and lonesome. We was 
pretty low down, and the moonshine made every- 
thing soft and pretty, and the farm-houses looked 
snug and homeful, and we could hear the farm 
sounds, and wished we could be down there ; but 
laws ! we just slipped along over them like a ghost, 
and never left a track. 
Away in the night, when all the sounds was late 
sounds, and the air had a late feel, and a late smell, 
too — about a two o'clock feel, as near as I could 
make out— Tom said the professor was so quiet 
this long time he must be asleep, and we better 
' Better what ? ' I says in a whisper, and feel- 
ing sick all over, because I knowed what he was 
thinking about. 
 Better slip back there and tie him and land the 
ship,' he says. 
I says : 
' No, sir ! Don't you budge, Tom Sawyer.' 
And Jim— well, Jim was kind of gasping, he was 
so scared. He says : 
' Oh, Mars Tom, don't ! Ef you tetches him we's 
gone— we's gone, sho' ! I ain't gwyne anear him, 
not for nothin' in dis worl'. Mars Tom, he's plum 
crazy.' 
Tom whispers and says : 
' That's why we've got to do something. If he 
wasn't crazy I wouldn't give shucks to be anywhere 
but here ; you couldn't hire me to get out, now 
that I've got used to this balloon and over the scare 
of being cut loose from the solid ground, if he was 
in his right mind ; but it's no good politics sailing 
around like this with a person that's out of his 
head and says he's going around the world and 
then drown us all. We've got to do something, I 
tell you, and do it before he wakes up, too, or we 
mayn't ever get another chance. Come ! ' 
But it made us turn cold and creepy just to think 
of it, and we said we wouldn't budge. So Tom was 
for slipping back there by himself to see if he couldn't 
get at the steering gear and land the ship. We 
begged and begged him not to, but it warn't no use ; 
so he got down on his hands and knees and begun 
to crawl an inch at a time, we a-holding our breath 
and watching. After he got to the middle of the 
boat he crept slower than ever, and it did seem 
like years to me. But at last we see him get to the 
professor's head and sort of raise up soft and look 
a good spell in his face and listen. Then we see him 
begin to inch along again towards the professor's 
feet where the steering buttons was. Well, he got 
there all safe, and was reaching slow and steady 
towards the buttons, but he knocked down some- 
thing that made a noise, and we see him slump flat 
and soft in the bottom and lay still. The professor 
stirred, and says, ' What's that ? ' But everybody 
kept dead still and quiet, and he begun to mutter 
and mumble and nestle, like a person that's going 
to wake up, and I thought I was going to die, I was 
so worried and scared. 
Then a cloud come over the moon, and I 'most 
cried, I was so glad. She buried herself deeper and 
deeper in the cloud, and it got so dark we couldn't 
see Tom no more. Then it begun to sprinkle rain, 
and we could hear the professor fussing at his ropes 
and things and abusing the weather. We was 
afraid every minute he would touch Torn, and then 
we would be goners and no help ; but Tom was 
already on his way home, and when we felt his hands 
on our knees my breath stopped sudden, and my 
heart fell down amongst my other works, because I 
couldn't tell in the dark but it might be the pro- 
fessor, which I thought it was. 
Dear ! I was so glad to have him back that I 
was just as near happy as a person could be that was 
up in the air that way with a deranged man. You 
can't land a balloon in the dark, and so I hoped it 
would keep on raining, for I didn't want Tom to go 
meddling any more and make us so awful uncomfortable.
Well, I got my wish. It drizzled and 
drizzled along the rest of the night, which wasn't 
long, though it did seem so ; and at daybreak it 
cleared, and the world looked mighty soft and grey 
and pretty, and the forests and fields so good to see 
again, and the horses and cattle standing sober and 
thinking. Next, the sun come a-blazing up gay 
and splendid, and then we begun to feel rusty and 
stretchy, and first we knowed we was all asleep. 
CHAPTER III 
We went to sleep about four o'clock, and woke up 
about eight. The professor was setting back there 
at his end looking glum. He pitched us some 
breakfast, but he told us not to come abaft the 
midship compass. That was about the middle of 
the boat. Well, when you are sharp set, and you 
eat and satisfy yourself, everything looks pretty 
different from what it done before. It makes a 
body feel pretty near comfortable, even when he is 
up in a balloon with a genius. We got to talking 
together. 
There was one thing that kept bothering me, 
and by-and-by I says : 
' Tom, didn't we start East ? ' 
' Yes.' 
'How fast have we been going ? ' 
' Well, you heard what the professor said when 
he was raging around ; sometimes, he said, we was 
making fifty miles an hour, sometimes ninety, 
sometimes a hundred ; said that with a gale to help 
he could make three hundred any time, and said if 
he wanted the gale, and wanted it blowing the 
right direction, he only had to go up higher or 
down lower and find it.' 
'Well, then it's just as I reckoned. The pro- 
fessor lied.' 
' Why ? ' 
' Because if we was going so fast we ought to be 
past Illinois, oughtn't we ? ' 
' Certainly.' 
' Well, we ain't.' 
' What's the reason we ain't ? ' 
'I know by the colour. We're right over Illinois 
yet. And you can see for yourself that Indiana 
ain't in sight.' 
' I wonder what's the matter with you, Huck. 
You know by the colour ? ' 
' Yes — of course I do.' 
' What's the colour got to do with it ? ' 
' It's got everything to do with it. Illinois is 
green, Indiana is pink. You show me any pink 
down here if you can. Nro, sir ; it's green.' 
'Indiana pink ? Why, what a lie ! ' 
' It ain't no lie ; I've seen it on the map, and 
it's pink.' 
You never see a person so aggravated and dis- 
gusted. He says : 
' Well, if I was such a numskull as you, Huck 
Finn, I would jump over. Seen it on the map ! 
Huck Finn, did you reckon the States was the 
same colour out of doors that they are on the map ? ' 
 Tom Sawyer, what's a map for ? Ain't it to 
