take away the criminal’s chance of earning his living.”
“Oh, if he was a criminal,” said young Camp, “he would be all right
here. The state would give him a chance to earn his living then.”
“But if he had no other chance of earning his living, and had committed no
offence against the laws--”
“Then the state would let him take to the road--like that fellow.”
He pulled aside the shade of the window where he sat, and we saw pausing
before the house, and glancing doubtfully at the doorstep, where the dog
lay, a vile and loathsome-looking tramp, a blot upon the sweet and
wholesome landscape, a scandal to the sacred day. His rags burlesqued the
form which they did not wholly hide; his broken shoes were covered with
dust; his coarse hair came in a plume through his tattered hat; his red,
sodden face, at once fierce and timid, was rusty with a fortnight’s beard.
He offended the eye like a visible stench, and the wretched carrion seemed
to shrink away from our gaze as if he were aware of his loathsomeness.
“Really,” said Mrs. Makely, “I thought those fellows were arrested now. It
is too bad to leave them at large. They are dangerous.” Young Camp left
the room, and we saw him going out toward the tramp.
“Ah, that’s quite right,” said the lady. “I hope Reuben is going to send
him about his business. Why, surely, he’s not going to feed the horrid
creature!” she added, as Camp, after a moment’s parley with the tramp,
turned with him and disappeared round a corner of the house. “Now, Mrs.
Camp, I think that is really a very bad example. It’s encouraging them.
Very likely he’ll go to sleep in your barn, and set it on fire with his
pipe. What do you do with tramps in Altruria, Mr. Homos?”
The Altrurian seemed not to have heard her. He said to Mrs. Camp: “Then I
understand from something your son let fall that he has not always been at
home with you here. Does he reconcile himself easily to the country after
the excitement of town life? I have read that the cities in America are
draining the country of the young people.”
“I don’t think he was sorry to come home,” said the mother, with a touch
of fond pride. “But there was no choice for him after his father died; he
was always a good boy, and he has not made us feel that we were keeping
him away from anything better. When his father was alive we let him go,
because then we were not so dependent, and I wished him to try his fortune
in the world, as all boys long to do. But he is rather peculiar, and he
seems to have got quite enough of the world. To be sure, I don’t suppose
he’s seen the brightest side of it. He first went to work in the mills
down at Ponkwasset, but he was ‘laid off’ there when the hard times came
and there was so much overproduction, and he took a job of railroading,
and was braking on a freight-train when his father left us.”
Mrs. Makely said, smiling: “No, I don’t think that was the brightest
outlook in the world. No wonder he has brought back such gloomy
impressions. I am sure that if he could have seen life under brighter
auspices he would not have the ideas he has.”
“Very likely,” said the mother, dryly. “Our experiences have a great deal
to do with forming our opinions. But I am not dissatisfied with my son’s
ideas. I suppose Reuben got a good many of his ideas from his father: he’s
his father all over again. My husband thought slavery was wrong, and he
went into the war to fight against it. He used to say when the war was
over that the negroes were emancipated, but slavery was not abolished
yet.”
“What in the world did he mean by that?” demanded Mrs. Makely.
“Something you wouldn’t understand as we do. I tried to carry on the farm
after he first went, and before Reuben was large enough to help me much
and ought to be in school, and I suppose I overdid. At any rate, that was
when I had my first shock of paralysis. I never was very strong, and I
presume my health was weakened by my teaching school so much, and
studying, before I was married. But that doesn’t matter now, and hasn’t
for many a year. The place was clear of debt then, but I had to get a
mortgage put on it. The savings-bank down in the village took it, and
we’ve been paying the interest ever since. My husband died paying it, and
my son will pay it all my life, and then I suppose the bank will
foreclose. The treasurer was an old playmate of my husband’s, and he said
that as long as either of us lived the mortgage could lie.”
“How splendid of him!” said Mrs. Makely. “I should think you had been very
fortunate.”
“I said that you would not see it as we do,” said the invalid, patiently.
The Altrurian asked: “Are there mortgages on many of the farms in the
neighborhood?”
“Nearly all,” said Mrs. Camp. “We seem to own them, but in fact they own
us.”
Mrs. Makely hastened to say: “My husband thinks it’s the best way to have
your property. If you mortgage it close up, you have all your capital
free, and you can keep turning it over. That’s what you ought to do, Mrs.
Camp. But what was the slavery that Captain Camp said was not abolished
yet?”
The invalid looked at her a moment without replying, and just then the
door of the kitchen opened, and Young Camp came in and began to gather
some food from the table on a plate.
“Why don’t you bring him to the table, Reub?” his sister called to him.
“Oh, he says he’d rather not come in, as long as we have company. He says
he isn’t dressed for dinner; left his spike-tail in the city.”
The young man laughed, and his sister with him.
VIII
Young Camp carried out the plate of victuals to the tramp, and Mrs. Makely
said to his mother: “I suppose you would make the tramp do some sort of
work to earn his breakfast on week-days?”
“Not always,” Mrs. Camp replied. “Do the boarders at the hotel always work
to earn their breakfast?”
“No, certainly not,” said Mrs. Makely, with the sharpness of offence. “But
they always pay for it.”
“I don’t think that paying for a thing is earning it. Perhaps some one
else earned the money that pays for it. But I believe there is too much
work in the world. If I were to live my life over again, I should not work
half so hard. My husband and I took this place when we were young married
people, and began working to pay for it. We wanted to feel that it was
ours, that we owned it, and that our children should own it afterward. We
both worked all day long like slaves, and many a moonlight night we were
up till morning, almost, gathering the stones from our fields and burying
them in deep graves that we had dug for them. But we buried our youth and
strength and health in those graves, too, and what for? I don’t own the
farm that we worked so hard to pay for, and my children won’t. That is
what it has all come to. We were rightly punished for our greed, I
suppose. Perhaps no one has a right to own any portion of the earth.
Sometimes I think so, but my husband and I earned this farm, and now the
savings-bank owns it. That seems strange, doesn’t it? I suppose you’ll say
that the bank paid for it. Well, perhaps so; but the bank didn’t earn it.
When I think of that I don’t always think that a person who pays for his
breakfast has the best right to a breakfast.”
I could see the sophistry of all this, but I had not the heart to point it
out; I felt the pathos of it, too. Mrs. Makely seemed not to see the one
nor to feel the other very distinctly. “Yes, but surely,” she said, “if
you give a tramp his breakfast without making him work for it, you must
see that it is encouraging idleness. And idleness is very corrupting--the
sight of it.”
“You mean to the country people? Well, they have to stand a good deal of
that. The summer folks that spend four or five months of the year here
don’t seem to do anything from morning till night.”
“Ah, but you must recollect that they are resting! You have no idea how
hard they all work in town during the winter,” Mrs. Makely urged, with an
air of argument.
“Perhaps the tramps are resting, too. At any rate, I don’t think the sight
of idleness in rags, and begging at back doors, is very corrupting to the
country people; I never heard of a single tramp who had started from the
country; they all come from the cities. It’s the other kind of idleness
that tempts our young people. The only tramps that my son says he ever
envies are the well-dressed, strong young fellows from town that go
tramping through the mountains for exercise every summer.”
The ladies both paused. They seemed to have got to the end of their
tether; at least, Mrs. Makely had apparently nothing else to advance, and
I said, lightly: “But that is just the kind of tramps that Mr. Homos would
most disapprove of. He says that in Altruria they would consider exercise
for exercise’ sake a wicked waste of force and little short of lunacy.”
I thought my exaggeration might provoke him to denial, but he seemed not
to have found it unjust. “Why, you know,” he said to Mrs. Camp, “in
Altruria every one works with his hands, so that the hard work shall not
all fall to any one class; and this manual labor of each is sufficient to
keep the body in health, as well as to earn a living. After the three,
hours’ work, which constitutes a day’s work with us, is done, the young
people have all sorts of games and sports, and they carry them as late
into life as the temperament of each demands. But what I was saying to Mr.
Twelvemough--perhaps I did not make myself clear--was that we should
regard the sterile putting forth of strength in exercise, if others were
each day worn out with hard manual labor, as insane or immoral. But I can
account for it differently with you, because I understand that in your
conditions a person of leisure could not do any manual labor without
taking away the work of some one who needed it to live by; and could not
even relieve an overworked laborer, and give him the money for the work,
without teaching him habits of idleness. In Altruria we can all keep
ourselves well by doing each his share of hard work, and we can help those
who are exhausted, when such a thing happens, without injuring them
materially or morally.”
Young Camp entered at this moment, and the Altrurian hesitated. “Oh, do go
on!” Mrs. Makely entreated. She added to Camp: “We’ve got him to talking
about Altruria at last, and we wouldn’t have him stopped for worlds.”
The Altrurian looked around at all our faces, and no doubt read our eager
curiosity in them. He smiled and said: “I shall be very glad, I’m sure.
But I do not think you will find anything so remarkable in our
civilization, if you will conceive of it as the outgrowth of the
neighborly instinct. In fact, neighborliness is the essence of
Altrurianism. If you will imagine having the same feeling toward all,” he
explained to Mrs. Makely, “as you have toward your next-door neighbor--”
“My next-door neighbor!” she cried. “But I don’t know the people next
door! We live in a large apartment house, some forty families, and I
assure you I do not know a soul among them.”
He looked at her with a puzzled air, and she continued: “Sometimes it
does seem rather hard. One day the people on the same landing with us
lost one of their children, and I should never have been a whit the wiser
if my cook hadn’t happened to mention it. The servants all know each
other; they meet in the back elevator, and get acquainted. I don’t
encourage it. You can’t tell what kind of families they belong to.”
“But surely,” the Altrurian persisted, “you have friends in the city whom
you think of as your neighbors?”
“No, I can’t say that I have,” said Mrs. Makely. “I have my visiting-list,
but I shouldn’t think of anybody on that as a neighbor.”
The Altrurian looked so blank and baffled that I could hardly help
laughing. “Then I should not know how to explain Altruria to you, I’m
afraid.”
“Well,” she returned, lightly, “if it’s anything like neighborliness as
I’ve seen it in small places, deliver me from it! I like being
independent. That’s why I like the city. You’re let alone.”
“I was down in New York once, and I went through some of the streets and
houses where the poor people live,” said young Camp, “and they seemed to
know each other and to be quite neighborly.”
“And would you like to be all messed in with one another that way?”
 demanded the lady.
“Well, I thought it was better than living as we do in the country, so far
apart that we never see one another, hardly. And it seems to me better
than not having any neighbors at all.”
“Well, every one to his taste,” said Mrs. Makely. “I wish you would tell
us how people manage with you socially, Mr. Homos.”
“Why, you know,” he began, “we have neither city nor country in your
sense, and so we are neither so isolated nor so crowded together. You feel
that you lose a great deal in not seeing one another oftener?” he asked
Camp.
“Yes. Folks rust out living alone. It’s Human nature to want to get
together.”
“And I understand Mrs. Makely that it is human nature to want to keep
apart?”
“Oh no, but to come together independently,” she answered.
“Well, that is what we have contrived in our life at home. I should have
to say, in the first place, that--”
“Excuse me just one moment, Mr. Homos,” said Mrs. Makely. This perverse
woman was as anxious to hear about Altruria as any of us, but she was a
woman who would rather hear the sound of her own voice than any other,
even if she were dying, as she would call it, to hear the other. The
Altrurian stopped politely, and Mrs. Makely went on: “I have been thinking
of what Mr. Camp was saying about the blacklisted men, and their all
turning into tramps--”
“But I didn’t say that, Mrs. Makely,” the young fellow protested, in
astonishment.
“Well, it stands to reason that if the tramps have all been blacklisted
men--”
“But I didn’t say that, either.”
“No matter! What I am trying to get at is this: if a workman has made
himself a nuisance to the employers, haven’t they a right to punish him in
any way they can?”
“I believe there’s no law yet against blacklisting,” said Camp.
“Very well, then, I don’t see what they’ve got to complain of. The
employers surely know their own business.”
“They claim to know the men’s, too. That’s what they’re always saying;
they will manage their own affairs in their own way. But no man, or
company, that does business on a large scale has any affairs that are not
partly other folks’ affairs, too. All the saying in the world won’t make
it different.”
“Very well, then,” said Mrs. Makely, with a force of argument which she
seemed to think was irresistible, “I think the workmen had better leave
things to the employers, and then they won’t get blacklisted. It’s as
broad as it’s long.”
I confess that, although I agreed with Mrs. Makely in regard to what the
workmen had better do, her position had been arrived at by such
extraordinary reasoning that I blushed for her; at the same time, I wanted
to laugh. She continued, triumphantly: “You see, the employers have ever
so much more at stake.”
“Then men have everything at stake--the work of their hands,” said the
young fellow.
“Oh, but surely,” said Mrs. Makely, “you wouldn’t set that against
capital? You wouldn’t compare the two?”
“Yes, I should,” said Camp, and I could see his eye kindle and his jaw
stiffen.
“Then I suppose you would say that a man ought to get as much for his work
as an employer gets for his capital. If you think one has as much at stake
as the other, you must think they ought to be paid alike.”
“That is just what I think,” said Camp, and Mrs. Makely burst into a
peal of amiable laughter.
“Now, that is too preposterous!”
“Why is it preposterous?” he demanded, with a quivering nostril.
“Why, simply because it is” said the lady, but she did not say why, and
although I thought so, too, I was glad she did not attempt to do it, for
her conclusions seemed to me much better than her reasons.
The old wooden clock in the kitchen began to strike, and she rose briskly
to her feet and went and laid the books she had been holding in her lap on
the table beside Mrs. Camp’s bed. “We must really be going,” she said, as
she leaned over and kissed the invalid. “It is your dinner-time, and we
shall barely get back for lunch if we go by the Loop road; and I want very
much to have Mr. Homos see the Witch’s Falls on the way. I have got two or
three of the books here that Mr. Makely brought me last night--I sha’n’t
have time to read them at once--and I’m smuggling in one of Mr.
Twelvemough’s, that he’s too modest to present for himself.” She turned a
gay glance upon me, and Mrs. Camp thanked me, and a number of civilities
followed from all sides. In the process of their exchange, Mrs. Makely’s
spirits perceptibly rose, and she came away in high good-humor with the
whole Camp family. “Well, now, I am sure,” she said to the Altrurian, as
we began the long ascent of the Loop road, “you must allow that you have
seen some very original characters. But how warped people get living
alone so much! That is the great drawback of the country. Mrs. Camp thinks
the savings-bank did her a real injury in taking a mortgage on her place,
and Reuben seems to have seen just enough of the outside world to get it
all wrong. But they are the best-hearted creatures in the world, and I
know you won’t misunderstand them. That unsparing country bluntness--don’t
you think it’s perfectly delightful? I do like to stir poor Reuben up, and
get him talking. He is a good boy, if he is so wrong-headed, and he’s
the most devoted son and brother in the world. Very few young fellows
would waste their lives on an old farm like that; I suppose, when his
mother dies, he will marry and strike out for himself in some growing
place.”
“He did not seem to think the world held out any very bright inducements
for him to leave home,” the Altrurian suggested.
“Oh, let him get one of these lively, pushing Yankee girls for a wife, and
he will think very differently,” said Mrs. Makely.
The Altrurian disappeared that afternoon, and I saw little or nothing of
him till the next day at supper. Then he said he had been spending the
time with young Camp, who had shown him something of the farm-work, and
introduced him to several of the neighbors; he was very much interested in
it all, because at home he was, at present, engaged in farm-work himself,
and he was curious to contrast the American and Altrurian methods. We
began to talk of the farming interest again, later in the day, when the
members of our little group came together, and I told them what the
Altrurian had been doing. The doctor had been suddenly called back to
town; but the minister was there, and the lawyer and the professor and the
banker and the manufacturer.
It was the banker who began to comment on what I said, and he seemed to be
in the frank humor of the Saturday night before. “Yes,” he said, “it’s a
hard life, and they have to look sharp if they expect to make both ends
meet. I would not like to undertake it myself with their resources.”
The professor smiled, in asking the Altrurian: “Did your agricultural
friends tell you anything of the little rural traffic in votes that they
carry on about election time? That is one of the side means they have of
making both ends meet.”
“I don’t understand,” said the Altrurian.
“Why, you know, you can buy votes among our virtuous yeomen from two
dollars up at the ordinary elections. When party feeling runs high, and
there are vital questions at stake, the votes cost more.”
The Altrurian looked round at us all aghast. “Do, you mean that Americans
buy votes?”
The professor smiled again. “Oh no; I only mean that they sell them. Well,
I don’t wonder that they rather prefer to blink the fact; but it is a
fact, nevertheless, and pretty notorious.”
“Good heavens!” cried the Altrurian. “And what defence have they for such
treason? I don’t mean those who sell; from what I have seen of the
bareness and hardship of their lives, I could well imagine that there
might sometimes come a pinch when they would be glad of the few dollars
that they could get in that way; but what have those who buy to say?”
“Well,” said the professor, “it isn’t a transaction that’s apt to be
talked about much on either side.”
“I think,” the banker interposed, “that there is some exaggeration about
that business; but it certainly exists, and I suppose it is a growing evil
in the country. I fancy it arises, somewhat, from a want of, clear
thinking on the subject. Then there is no doubt but it comes, sometimes,
from poverty. A man sells his vote, as a woman sells her person, for
money, when neither can turn virtue into cash. They feel that they must
live, and neither of them would be satisfied if Dr. Johnson told them he
didn’t see the necessity. In fact, I shouldn’t myself, if I were in their
places. You can’t have the good of a civilization like ours without having
the bad; but I am not going to deny that the bad is bad. Some people like
to do that; but I don’t find my account in it. In either case, I confess
that I think the buyer is worse than the seller--incomparably worse. I
suppose you are not troubled with either case in Altruria?”
“Oh no!” said the Altrurian, with an utter horror, which no repetition of
his words can give the sense of. “It would be unimaginable.”
“Still,” the banker suggested, “you have cakes and ale, and at times the
ginger is hot in the mouth?”
“I don’t pretend that we have immunity from error; but upon such terms as
you have described we have none. It would be impossible.”
The Altrurian’s voice expressed no contempt, but only a sad patience, a
melancholy surprise, such as a celestial angel might feel in being
suddenly confronted with some secret shame and horror of the Pit.
“Well,” said the banker, “with us the only way is to take the business
view and try to strike an average somewhere.”
“Talking of business,” said the professor, turning to the manufacturer,
who had been quietly smoking, “why don’t some of you capitalists take hold
of farming here in the East, and make a business of it as they do in the
West?”
“Thank you,” said the other; “if you mean me, I would rather not invest.”
 He was silent a moment, and then he went on, as if the notion were
beginning to win upon him: “It may come to something like that, though. If
it does, the natural course, I should think, would be through the
railroads. It would be a very easy matter for them to buy up all the good
farms along their lines and put tenants on them, and run them in their own
interest. Really, it isn’t a bad scheme. The waste in the present method
is enormous, and there is no reason why the roads should not own the
farms, as they are beginning to own the mines. They could manage them
better than the small farmers do in every way. I wonder the thing hasn’t
occurred to some smart railroad man.”
We all laughed a little, perceiving the semi-ironical spirit of his talk;
but the Altrurian must have taken it in dead earnest: “But, in that case,
the number of people thrown out of work would be very great, wouldn’t it?
And what would become of them?”
“Well, they would have whatever their farms brought to make a new start
with somewhere else; and, besides, that question of what would become of
people thrown out of work by a given improvement is something that capital
cannot consider. We used to introduce a bit of machinery in the mill,
every now and then, that threw out a dozen or a hundred people; but we
couldn’t stop for that.”
“And you never knew what became of them?”
“Sometimes. Generally not. We took it for granted that they would light on
their feet somehow.”
“And the state--the whole people--the government--did nothing for them?”
“If it became a question of the poor-house, yes.”
“Or the jail,” the lawyer suggested.
“Speaking of the poor-house,” said the professor, “did our exemplary rural
friends tell you how they sell out their paupers to the lowest bidder, and
get them boarded sometimes as low as a dollar and a quarter a week?”
“Yes, young Mr. Camp told me of that. He seemed to think it was terrible.”
“Did he? Well, I’m glad to hear that of young Mr. Camp. From all that I’ve
been told before, he seems to reserve his conscience for the use of
capitalists. What does he propose to do about it?”
“He seems to think the state ought to find work for them.”
“Oh, paternalism! Well, I guess the state won’t.”
“That was his opinion, too.”
“It seems a hard fate,” said the minister, “that the only provision the
law makes for people who are worn out by sickness or a life of work should
be something that assorts them with idiots and lunatics, and brings such
shame upon them that it is almost as terrible as death.”
“It is the only way to encourage independence and individuality,” said the
professor. “Of course, it has its dark side. But anything else would be
sentimental and unbusinesslike, and, in fact, un-American.”
“I am not so sure that it would be un-Christian,” the minister timidly
ventured, in the face of such an authority on political economy.
“Oh, as to that, I must leave the question to the reverend clergy,” said
the professor.
A very unpleasant little silence followed. It was broken by the lawyer,
who put his feet together, and, after a glance down at them, began to say:
“I was very much interested this afternoon by a conversation I had with
some of the young fellows in the hotel. You know most of them are
graduates, and they are taking a sort of supernumerary vacation this
summer before they plunge into the battle of life in the autumn. They were
talking of some other fellows, classmates of theirs, who were not so
lucky, but had been obliged to begin the fight at once. It seems that our
