Court then. She shuddered, for she knew what awaited her. She should
have been in the house, getting supper, to be sure. She had not meant to
play so long, and even then she so seldom played.

Poor Dil! For a fortnight or so she carried the marks on her body.

“I’ll tache ye to be wastin’ of yer time foolin’ wid sich,” said her
mother.

Then Bess was “hurted,” and her mother ill in bed for weeks. They were
warned out of the house, and for some time it was hard lines for them
all. Dil never played any more. Childhood was at an end for her.

And when she heard the merry voices here, a cold, terrible shiver came
over her with the old memories. Was it softened by the thought that Bess
could run about then? But even little Bess had sometimes been cruelly
beaten. After that—was there a strange comfort that had never come
before, that Bess’s accident had saved her many an unreasonable
punishment? For Mrs. Quinn had let the poor little sufferer pretty much
alone. Dil had managed to stand between, and take the blows and ill
usage.

Does God note all the vicarious suffering in the world, and write it in
the book of remembrance?

Dil turned her head away. Another party were playing “Ring a round a
rosy.” And a group on the grass were being inducted into the mystery of
“Jacks.” She wondered a little where her mother was. She did not want to
see her, but she hoped matters were better with her. Surely she need not
work so hard. And oh, if she would not drink gin! But Dil had noted the
fact that most women did as they grew older.

Miss Lawrence came out presently with a bright cheery word for them all.

“You’re not playing,” she said to Dil. “You must run about and have some
fun, and get some color in your cheeks. And you must not sit and brood
over your hard life. That is all passed, and we hope the good Father has
something better in store. And you must be friendly with the others.”

“Yes’m,” answered Dil, with soft pathos. “Only I’d rather sit here an’
look on.”

“Don’t get homesick after your boys,” and the lady’s smile went to Dil’s
heart. “You’ll feel less strange to-morrow. I want this outing to be of
real benefit to you. I’m going down to the city now, and will see Mrs.
Wilson. When I come again I’ll bring you some word from the boys. I am
sure everything will be done for your comfort.”

“Yes’m,” Dil answered meekly, but with an uplifted smile.

Several little girls ran and kissed her a rapturous good-by. When Dil
saw her go out of the gate she felt strangely alone. She wanted to fly
home to the boys, to get their supper, to listen to their merry jests
and adventures, to see their bright eyes gleam, and hear the glad
laughter. She felt so rested. Oh, if she had not promised Patsey to
stay a whole long week. And one day was not yet gone.

She espied a vacant hammock, and stole lightly out from her leafy covert
to take possession. It was odd, but the little hump-backed girl seemed a
centre of attraction. She said so many droll, amusing things. She was
pert and audacious to be sure. She could talk broken Dutch and the
broadest Irish, and sing all the street songs. The children were
positively fascinated with her. A wonder came to Dil as to how it would
feel to be so enthusiastically admired.

She lay there swinging to and fro until the supper bell rang long and
loud. One of the attendants came and talked with her while the children
were tripping in from the woods. Something in her appearance and gentle
manner reminded Dil of the hospital nurse.

There was a good deal of singing in the evening, but they all went to
bed early. How wonderfully quiet it was! No dogs barking, no marauding
cats wauling dismally on back fences, no rattle and whiz of “L” cars, no
clatter of heavy wagons. And oh, the wonderful sweetness in the air! If
Dil had ever achieved Bible reading, she would have thought of “songs in
the night” and a “holy solemnity,” but she could feel the things
unutterable.

The window was next to her bed. She sat up and watched the ships of
fleece go drifting by. How the great golden stars twinkled! Were they
worlds? and did people live in them? They made a mysterious melody; and
though she had not heard of the stars singing for joy, she felt it in
every pulse with a sweet, solemn thrill of rapture.

Was that heaven back of the shining stars? And oh! would she and Bess
and John Travis be together there? For he would help her to call back
Bess, as she came on Sunday. It was only a little while to wait now. She
felt the assurance—for the poor ignorant little girl had translated St.
Paul’s sublime, “By faith.”

The moon silvered the tree-tops, and presently sent one slant ray across
the bed. Dil laid her hands in it with a trance of ecstasy. The
delicious state of quietude seemed to make her a part of all lovely,
heavenly things. It was the “land of pure delight” that John Travis sang
about. A whole line came back to her,—

    “And pleasures banish pain.”

Dilsey Quinn had attained to the spiritual pleasures. Pain was not,
could not be again.

She was not a bit sleepy. She watched the moon dropping down and down.
All the insects had stopped. A soft darkness seemed spread over
everything, and by dozens the stars went out. Ah, how wonderful it all
was! If people could only have chances to know!

“My child,” said Miss Mary at the breakfast table, “you are not eating
anything! Don’t you like porridge, and this nice milk?”

“Yes, it’s so good,” replied Dil gratefully. “An’ the milk seems almost
as if ’twas full of roses, it’s so sweet. But I can’t get hungry as I
used, an’ when I eat just a little I seem all filled up.”

“Would you like bread better? And some nice creamed potatoes?”

“I don’t want nothin’ more.” Dil looked up with a soft light in her
eyes. “Mebbe by noon I’ll be hungry—I most know I will.”

“Yes, I hope so.”

It was such a long morning to Dil, so hard to sit round and do nothing.
If there had been a baby to tend, or a room to tidy. She would have been
glad to go to the kitchen and help prepare the vegetables. She was so
used to work that she could not feel at home in idleness.

She went over to the woods with the children to please Miss Mary, who
suggested it so gently. But some feeling—the long disuse of
childhood—held her aloof. She could not join in their plays, but it was
a pleasure to watch them. And how wonderful the woods were! The soft
grasses with feathery heads, the mosses, some of them with tiny red
blossoms not as large as a pin’s head. There were a few wild flowers
left, and long trails of clematis wandering about; shining bitter-sweet,
green chestnut burrs in clusters, the long, fringy blossoms in yellow
brown still holding on to some of them. There were bunches of little fox
grapes, too bitter and sour for even children to eat.

She sat down on a stone and almost held her breath. It was the real,
every-day country, not Central Park. The birds sang at their own sweet
will, and made swift dazzles in the sunshine as they flew from tree to
tree. Could heaven be any better? But there was no pain nor sickness nor
weariness in heaven. And she felt so strangely tired at some moments.

She used her utmost endeavors to eat some dinner. It had such an
appetizing flavor. The little girl next to her, who had swallowed her
supper so quickly last night, eyed it longingly.

“You can have the potato and the meat,” Dil whispered softly. That
travelled down red lane, and still seemed to leave a hollow behind. It
was like the hungry boys at home, and she smiled.

She sat under the tree again, and Miss Mary tried to persuade her to go
and play, but she was gently obstinate.

“Miss Lawrence asked me specially to look after her,” she said to
another of the attendants. “She looks like a little ghost; but whether
she is really ill, or only dead tired out, I can’t decide. It’s so
natural for children to want to play, but she doesn’t seem to care to do
anything but mope. Yet she speaks up so cheerful.”

“Poor children! How hard some of their lives are,” and her companion
sighed.

Dil’s supper tasted good; and she was so sorry she couldn’t eat more, as
she glanced up and caught Miss Mary’s eye.

“I’m ever so much better,” she said in her soft, bright manner. “I’m
glad; for the boys wanted me to get well an’ fat, an’ have red cheeks.
I’ll try my best, you’re all so good. An’ it’s such a beautiful place. I
wonder what made—some one—think ’bout the little mothers? But the babies
ought to be here too.”

“That wouldn’t give the little mothers much rest. Are there many babies
in your family?”

“There ain’t any, but—but some that come in. Other people’s babies.”

“And does your mother keep a nursery?”

“I ain’t got any mother now. I took the babies ’cause I liked them.”

“But where do you live?”

“With my brother an’—an’ the boys. I keep house.”

How unchildishly reticent she seemed. And most of the children were
ready to tell everything.

The little household was called in for their evening singing.




XIV—VIRGINIA DEERING


Wednesday’s visitor was a tall, slim girl with an abundance of soft,
light hair, that fell in loose waves and dainty little curls. Her gown
was so pretty, a sort of grayish-blue china silk with clusters of
flowers scattered here and there. Her wide-brimmed, gray chip hat was
just a garden of crushed roses, that looked as if they might shake off.

There was a charm about her, for the children who had seen her the week
before ran to her with joyful exclamations. They kissed her white hands,
they caught hold of her gown, and presently she dropped on the grass and
they all huddled about her. She told them a story, very amusing it must
have been, they laughed so. Sadie Carr, the little deformed girl, seemed
to lay instant claim to her.

Dil had a strange, homesick yearning to-day. She longed so to see the
boys. Her eyes overflowed with tears as she thought of them and their
warm, vital love. She seemed almost to have lost Bess. Could she see her
again at Cent’l Park she wondered? She would ask Patsey to take her
there as soon as she went home.

A great hay wagon had come and taken a load of the children down to the
meadows. Three were in disgrace for being naughty, and had to spend an
hour sitting on the stoop. Some were reading. The German girl was
crocheting.

Dil sat out under the old branching apple-tree, whose hard red apples
would be delightful along in the autumn. She was counting up the days.
To-night they would be half gone. Would they let her go on Saturday she
wondered? She looked at her poor little hands—they hadn’t grown any fat.

“Who is that little girl? and why does she keep apart from the others?”
asked Miss Deering.

“I don’t know. She seems strange and hard to get on with. But she looks
so weakly that even sitting still may do her good. Go and see what you
can make of her, Miss Virginia.”

Miss Deering had several roses in her hand. She sauntered slowly down to
Dil, and dropped the roses in her lap on the thin white hands.

“Oh, thank you!” Dil exclaimed gravely. She did not pick them up with
the enthusiasm Miss Deering expected.

“Don’t you care for flowers?” Miss Deering seated herself beside the
quiet child, and studied the face turned a little from her.

“Yes, I like thim so much,” glancing at them with a curiously absent
air. Her manner was so formal and old-fashioned, and she roused a sense
of elusiveness that puzzled the young lady.

“I think I must have seen you before. I can’t just remember—”

Dil raised her soft brown eyes, lustrous still with the tears of longing
that were in them a moment ago. The short curved upper lip, the tumbled
hair, the gravely wondering expression—how curiously familiar it seemed.

“I hope you are happy here?” she said gently.

“I like it better home,” Dil returned, but with no emphasis of
ungraciousness. “I’m used to the boys, ’n’ they’re so good to me. But
they wanted me to come an’ get well. I wasn’t reel sick only—Patsey
don’t like me to look like a skiliton, he says. Everybody here’s so
nice.”

“And who is Patsey—your brother?”

She seemed to study Virginia Deering in her turn. It was a proud face,
yet soft and tender, friendly. It touched the reticent little soul.

“No; Owen’s my brother. There’s some more boys, an’ we keep house.
Patsey is—Patsey’s alwers been good to me an’ Bess.”

There was a touching inflection in her tone.

“Who is Bess?” with a persuasive entreaty that found its way to the
lonely heart.

“Bess is—Bess was”—The voice trembled and died out. Virginia Deering
slipped her arm about the small figure with a sympathetic nearness. Dil
made another effort.

“Bess was my poor little hurted sister. I didn’t ever have no other
one.”

“Don’t you want to tell me about her? I should so like to hear. How did
she get hurt?”

Virginia Deering had of late been taking lessons in divine as well as
human sympathy. She was willing to begin at the foundation with the
least of these.

Dil looked across the sunny field to the shaded, waving woods. There had
never been any one to whom she could tell all of Bess’s story. Mrs.
Brian, tender and kindly, had not understood. A helpless feeling came
over her.

“I wonder if she loved roses? Did she ever have any?” Miss Deering laid
her finger on those in Dil’s hand, then felt under and clasped the hand
itself.

Dil was suddenly roused. The grave face seemed transfigured. Where had
she seen it—under far different auspices?

“She had some wild roses wunst. Oh, do you know what wild roses is? I
looked in the woods for some yest’day.”

Wild roses! She had set herself to bear her lot, bruised and wrecked in
an evil moment, with all the bravery of true repentance.

“Yes,” in a soft, constrained tone. “I have always loved them. And last
summer where I was staying there were hundreds of them.”

“Oh,” cried Dil eagerly, “that was jest what he said. It was clear
away to las’ summer. Patsey was up to Grand Cent’l deepo’. He carried
bags an’ such. An’ a beautiful young lady gev him a great bunch. Casey
made a grab fer thim, but Patsey snatched, an’ he’s strongest, ’n’ he
gev it to Casey good till a cop come, ’n’ then he run all the way to
Barker’s Court an’ brought thim to Bess an’ me.”

“A great bunch of wild roses! Oh, then I know something about Patsey. It
was one day in August. And—and I had the roses.”

Dil’s face was a rare study. Virginia Deering bent over and kissed it.
Then the ice of strangeness was broken, and they were friends.

This was Patsey’s “stunner.” She was very sweet and lovely, with pink
cheeks, and teeth like pearls. Dil looked into the large, serious eyes,
and her heart warmed until she gave a soft, glad, trusting laugh.

“Patsey’ll be so glad to have me find you! They were the beautifullest
things, withered up some, but so sweet. Me an’ Bess hadn’t never seen
any; an’ I put them in a bowl of water, an’ all the baby buds come out,
an’ they made Bess so glad she could a-danced if she’d been well, ’cause
she used to ’fore she was hurted, when the hand-organs come. They was on
the winder-sill by where she slept, an’ every day we’d take out the poor
dead ones. ’N’ there was jes’ a few Sat’day when we went up to the
Square an’ met the man. ’N’ I allers had to wheel Bess, ’cause she
couldn’t walk.”

“What hurt her?”

“Well—pappy did. He was dreadful that night along a-drinkin’, an’ he
slammed her against the wall, an’ her poor little hurted legs never grew
any more. An’ the man said jes’ the same as you,—that he’d been stayin’
where there was hundreds of thim, an’ he made the beautifullest picture
of Bess—she was pritty as an angel.”

Miss Deering’s eyes fell on the little trail of freckles across Dil’s
nose. They were very small, but quite distinct on the waxen, pale skin.

“And he painted a picture of you! He put you in that wild-rose dell. I
know now. I thought I must have seen your face.”

Dil looked almost stupidly amazed.

“Bess was so much prittier,” she said simply. “Do you know ’bout him?
He went away ever so far, crost the ’Lantic Oshun. But he said he’d come
back in the spring.”

She lifted her grave, perplexed eyes to a face whose wavering tints were
struggling with keen emotion.

“He couldn’t come back in the spring. He went abroad with a cousin who
loved him very much, who was ill, and hoped to get well; but he grew
worse and weaker, and died only a little while ago. And Mr. Travis came
in on Monday, I think.”

Her voice trembled a little.

“Oh, I knew he would come!” The glad cry was electrifying.

And she, this little being, one among the waifs of a big city, had
looked for him, had a right to look for him.

“He ain’t the kind to tell what he don’t mean. Bess was so sure. An’ I
want to ast him so many things I can’t get straight by myself. I ain’t
smart like Bess was, an’ we was goin’ to heaven when he come back; he
said he’d go with us. An’ now Bess is dead.”

“My dear little girl,” Virginia held her close, and kissed the cool,
waxen cheek, the pale lips, “will you tell me all the story, and about
going to heaven?”

It was an easy confidence now. She told the plans so simply, with that
wonderful directness one rarely finds outside of Bible narratives. Her
own share in the small series of tragedies was related with no
consciousness that it had been heroic. Virginia could see the Square on
the Saturday afternoon, and Bess in her wagon, when she “ast Mr. Travis
to go to heaven with them.” And the other time—the singing. Ah, she well
knew the beauty and pathos of the voice. How they had hoped and
planned—and that last sad night, with its remembrance of wild roses.
Dil’s voice broke now and then, and she made little heart-touching
pauses; but Virginia was crying softly, moved from the depths of her
soul. And Dil’s wonderful faith that she could have brought Bess back to
life bordered on the sublime.

“Oh, my dear,” and Virginia’s voice trembled with tenderness, “you need
never doubt. Bess is in heaven.”

“No,” returned Dil, with a curious certainty in her tone, “she ain’t
quite gone, ’cause I’ve seen her. We all went up to Cent’l Park, Sunday
week ago. I was all alone, the boys goin’ off walkin’, an’ me bein’
tired. I wanted her so much, I called to her; an’ she come, all
beautiful an’ well, like his picture of her. I c’n talk to her, but
she can’t answer. There’s a little ketch in it I can’t get straight, not
bein’ smart like to understand. But she’s jes’ waitin’ somewheres, ’n’
