"I am with you, Captain Scott. But we are taking all the shot, and
giving none. I am not a nonresistant in such a situation as this," said
Louis. "We can't run away, and we must fight!"
"I am glad the suggestion comes from you, Louis," replied Scott.
"Morris, bring out your company of riflemen! You will act as
sharpshooters, and pay particular attention to the bridge and
pilot-house of the enemy."
"Ay, ay, Captain!" returned Woolridge.
Louis left the pilot-house to join the ranks. Don came up from the
fire-room, and Morris led his force to the hurricane deck, which
commanded the best view of the enemy. By this time the Fatimé was within
the eighth of a mile of the Maud. Her engineer was forcing her to her
best speed; but she was coming head on, and could not use her broadside
guns without swinging to, which Mazagan seemed to be unwilling to do, as
it caused considerable delay every time it was done.
She was coming in ahead of the Maud, and her starboard gun would soon be
available at a distance of not more than twenty yards. The work of the
riflemen on the upper deck was evidently having its effect, and one man
had been seen to fall on the bridge of the pirate.
Suddenly the helm of the Fatimé was put to starboard, and the steamer
presented her broadside to the Maud. The gun was discharged then, and
the shot struck the house on deck of the little steamer, tearing its way
through the galley. Scott, perhaps maddened by the crashing boards
behind him, put the helm to port. Felipe was driving the engine to its
full power, and the bow of the Maud struck the broadside of the Fatimé,
crushing in about six feet of her plates. Then he rang to back her, and
the little steamer went clear of the disabled pirate.
CHAPTER XIII
THE CATASTROPHE TO THE FATIMÉ
If the strength of the little Maud was never fully tested before, it was
done on the present occasion; and the construction and material of the
Fatimé at the same time. The story of the manner in which the
Guardian-Mother had run into and made a hole in the side of the Viking
had been many times repeated on board of the ship while the "Big Four"
were on board of her; for this affair had interested Scott more than any
other item of her voyage.
The young captain had done at this time precisely the same thing that
Captain Ringgold had at another; and the blow had not been given by
accident on either occasion. When at the distance of sixty feet from the
Maud, the pirate had swung to and discharged her starboard gun, the shot
from which had passed through the galley. She was under full steam; her
port gun was no doubt all ready, and another turn of the wheel would
have enabled her to send another shot through the Maud.
To Captain Scott it was the critical moment of the conflict. Another
ball from the enemy might go through the boiler or the engine, or
disable his beloved little craft in some other manner; and he did what
seemed to be the only thing he could do for the salvation of the Maud
and his ship's company. He had disabled his vindictive enemy.
Up to the moment when the Maud struck the decisive blow, the five
"sharpshooters," as Scott had called them, had used their rifles; but
the people of the Fatimé had taken refuge under her top-gallant
forecastle, or behind whatever would afford them shelter from the
bullets, and not many of them appeared to have been hit. Besides, the
situation was altogether too novel and exciting for the party to act
with anything like coolness, and the smoke from the twelve-pounder
concealed the enemy at the most critical moment. They had discharged the
rifles at random, rather than with careful aim at each shot.
The moment the collision came, the voice of the captain called the party
to the main deck; for the battle appeared to him to be ended. The enemy
could not board the Maud, for she had backed at least fifty feet from
the disabled steamer; but all hands were needed there in case they
attempted to do so with their boats, of which she had one on each
quarter.
"Don!" shouted Scott, as soon as the rifle-party appeared on the
forecastle, and while the little steamer was still backing.
"On deck, sir," promptly responded the second engineer.
"Go below forward, and see what damage has been done to us," added the
captain. "Flix, heave the lead!"
However it may have been with the others on board of the Maud, the young
commander was in full possession of all his faculties, in spite of the
tremendous excitement which must have pervaded the minds of all on board
of the little craft. His first care was for the Maud, and he looked all
about him to ascertain what mischief had been done. He sent Pitts to the
galley to report on the effect of the shot there.
"And a quarter seven!" reported Felix.
This was the first mark on the chart outside of the shoal line from one
to two miles from the shore. The captain now turned his attention to the
condition of the Fatimé. Louis had gone into the pilot-house to receive
any orders the commander had to give him. The collision had been a
surprise to him. It had not occurred to him that Captain Scott would
resort to such an extreme measure, though he had hinted at something of
the kind early in the morning.
"I suppose we may consider the battle as ended, Louis," said Scott, as
the other took his place on the opposite side of the wheel, where he
could see out of the front window on the port.
"I should say that it was decidedly ended, and in the most decisive
manner," replied Louis, though his thoughts were not a little scattered
and confused by the exciting events of the last few moments. "What
next?"
"If the pirates undertake to board us with their boats, we must be ready
to repel them," replied Scott.
"Board us! Why, the water is pouring into that hole in her side as
through a mill-sluice!" exclaimed Louis.
"But they are lowering their boats; and it remains to be seen what they
intend to do with them."
All the hands on board of the Fatimé appeared to be Moors, for they were
all dressed in Oriental costume. By this time she was letting off steam
with a tremendous racket. The crew were casting loose the boats at the
quarter davits. If there was an English engineer on board of her, he had
clothed himself in Moorish costume, for no one in a European dress could
be seen.
"She is settling in the water," said Louis, as he observed the condition
of the disabled vessel.
"In a word, Louis, she is going to the bottom!" exclaimed Captain Scott.
"Do you see anything of Mazagan?"
"I have been looking for him, but I can't make him out," replied Louis.
By this time one of the boats was in the water, and the men were
crowding into her without any order or method in their movements. No one
appeared to be in command, and every one was acting for himself. There
must have been a couple of officers besides the captain; but no one
exerted his authority. The other boat was soon in the water, and all
who had not found a place in the first one crowded into her, some of
them jumping overboard in their haste to save themselves.
The first boat shoved off from the side of the Fatimé, and all the
people of the Maud watched it, some of the firing party seizing their
rifles, and preparing to use them, to ascertain what the pirates
intended to do. It contained ten men, as Morris counted them. The four
men at the oars gave way as soon as it was clear of the vessel, but the
head of the boat was directed to the shore.
"Those villains have had fighting enough, and I don't believe they will
give us any more trouble," said Captain Scott, when the boat was fairly
in motion for the shore. It was evident enough that they could do
nothing to save the steamer, and they had abandoned her. The other boat
presently came out from the farther side of the vessel, and it contained
only seven persons, from which it appeared that the Fatimé's ship's
company consisted of only seventeen men, unless some of them had been
killed or wounded, and left on board.
"This looks like the end of the Fatimé, and I don't believe she will
give us any further trouble in our voyage, wherever we may go," said
Captain Scott, while all hands were watching the passage of the two
boats to the shore.
"But why don't she sink?" asked Louis.
"Though that is a big hole in her side, the most of it was above water
in the first of it, and the brine did not flow in very rapidly; but she
is settling very fast now, and it is a question of only a few minutes
with her now," replied the captain, as he rang three bells upon the gong
in the engine-room to back her. "We are rather too near her if she makes
much of a stir-about when she goes down."
"Help! Help! Save me! Save me!" came in rather feeble tones from the
wreck of the Fatimé.
At the same time the form of a man was seen staggering to the end of the
bridge.
"That's Captain Mazagan!" shouted Felix from the forecastle.
"Mazagan!" exclaimed Louis.
"Shall we do anything for that man, Captain Scott?" asked Don, coming to
the front windows of the pilot-house. "If we do, it must be done in a
hurry, for that craft is going to the bottom in less than two minutes."
"Of course we shall save him," replied the captain, looking at Louis.
"Certainly, we must save him!" added Louis with an earnestness that
impressed his companion. "Don't let us forget that we are Christians at
such a moment as this! How shall it be done, Captain? Give your orders,
and count me in as the first volunteer."
"Get the boat into the water, Morris! Be lively about it. Louis and
Felix will go in it to save this man if they can," replied the captain.
The boat on the hurricane deck was a small and light one, and the first
officer had it in the water almost in the twinkling of an eye. Louis and
Felix leaped into it, and in another instant they were pulling for the
wreck. It was a smooth sea, and the distance was not more than fifty
feet; for the captain had rung to stop the backward motion as soon as
the cry from the survivor reached his ears.
"Mind your eye, Louis!" shouted Scott, as soon as they were in motion.
"She may go down at any moment! When I shout to you, back out as fast as
you can! I will watch her, and let you know when she is likely to make
her last dive!"
"Ay, ay!" returned Louis.
"I beg you, Captain Scott, not to let them go any farther," said Don
very earnestly. "She is settling fast by the stern, and she will go down
by the time they get alongside of her. She has settled so that the hole
is more than half under water."
"That is so!" exclaimed Scott, as he glanced at the stern of the wreck.
"Hold on! Hold on!" he shouted with all the force of his lungs. "Back
out!"
The two rowers obeyed the order promptly, and backed water with all
their might; and it was fortunate that they did so, or they would have
been caught in the swirl of the sinking vessel. Before they had
retreated twenty feet, the stern of the Fatimé suddenly went down, with
a mighty rush of the water around her to fill up the vacant space inside
of her, and then she shot to the bottom, disappearing entirely from the
gaze of the beholders, as well in the two boats of the ship's company
that had abandoned her, as of those on board of the Maud.
"That is the end of the pirate!" exclaimed Captain Scott, with a sort of
solemnity in his tones and manner, as though he regarded the fate of the
steamer as a retribution upon her for the use to which she had been
applied.
"Amen!" responded Don at the window of the pilot-house.
The burden of his responsibility began to weigh upon his mind as Captain
Scott witnessed the last scene of the drama. But his thoughts were
recalled to the present moment when he saw Louis and Felix, the
commotion of the water having subsided, pulling with all their might
back to the scene of the catastrophe.
The little boat had not been far enough away from the turmoil of the
water to be unaffected by it; and for a moment the puny craft had rolled
and pitched as though it would toss its passengers into the bay. A
skilful use of the oars had saved the boat from being upset, and Louis
and Felix began to survey the scene of the uproar as soon as the waves
ceased the violence of their motion.
"Mazagan has gone to the bottom with her!" exclaimed Felix, as he looked
about the various objects that had floated away from the wreck as it
sank to the bottom.
"Perhaps not," replied Louis. "He was on the end of the bridge, and he
may have floated off and come to the surface. Give way again, Flix!"
"There he is!" shouted the Milesian, as he bent to his oar with his
boatmate. "His head just up out of the water, as though he had just come
up from the bottom."
A few more strokes brought the boat to the point where Felix had seen
the head just as it rose again. He rushed to the bow, and seized the
drowning man by the collar of his vest, for he wore no coat, and dragged
him to the middle of the boat. He seemed to be exhausted or insensible,
for he did not speak. With a great deal of difficulty they labored to
get him in; but the boat was so small that they did not succeed at once.
"All right, Flix; hold him where he is, if you can. The captain has
started the Maud, and she will be here in a moment," said Louis. "Pass
the painter of the boat under his arms, and make it fast if he is too
much for you, though it will be but for a moment."
"I can hold him in the water easily enough, my darling. I wonder what
made him come up," replied Felix.
"I suppose he was lighter than the water. But here is the Maud."
The little steamer ran alongside the tender, and Don and Pitts leaped
into it. By the order of the captain they drew the insensible form into
the boat, which was then taken on board with the victim in it. It was
shoved aft to the cabin door, in which Morris had made up a bed for the
sufferer.
The engineer and the cook proceeded to examine him. In his right
shoulder they found a bullet-wound, which he must have received while on
the bridge, doing his best for the destruction of the Maud. The cook
declared that it was not a very bad wound, and not at all likely to be
fatal. Pitts brought some brandy from the medicine-chest, and gave him a
small quantity of it.
This stimulant revived him, and then he wanted to talk; but Pitts would
not permit him to do so. He remained with him, while Louis and Felix
went forward to report to the captain, and Don went to the engine-room
to tell Felipe the news.
CHAPTER XIV
THE CONSULTATION IN THE PILOT-HOUSE
Felipe Garcias, the first engineer of the Maud, had filled the same
position on board of her when she was owned and used by Ali-Noury Pacha.
He was a young man of eighteen now, a native of the Canary Islands, and
a very religious Catholic. The orgies conducted by His Highness on board
of the little steamer, not to say the crimes, had disgusted and revolted
the pious soul of the youth, and he had rebelled against his master.
For this he had been abused; and he had run away from his employer,
departing alone in the Salihé, as she was then called. After an
adventure with the unreformed Scott, the "Big Four" had been picked up
at sea in an open boat, and conveyed to Gibraltar, where the Fatimé had
followed the Guardian-Mother from Funchal.
Felipe quieted his conscience for taking the steam-yacht by causing her
to be made fast to the Pacha's steamer, and leaving her there. At that
distance from his home the little craft was an elephant on the hands of
the owner, and he had sold her for a nominal price to one who had
disposed of her to the present owners. Don had been himself an engineer
on board of the Fatimé; but he had been threatened when he criticised
affairs which occurred on board of her, and he was ill-treated. He
escaped from her at Gibraltar, and had been employed by Captain Ringgold
in his present capacity.
"The Fatimé has gone to the bottom, Felipe," said Don as he entered the
engine-room. "There will be no more defiance of the laws of God and man
on board of her, for the present at least."
"God is good, and God is just," replied the chief engineer; but he did
not understand English quite well enough to comprehend the remark of
Don, who proceeded to repeat and explain it.
Captain Scott still remained at the wheel, and had not left it for a
moment. He was thinking all the time of what he had done, and wondering
what his recording angel had written down in regard to his action in the
greatest emergency of his lifetime.
"Mazagan is wounded in the shoulder; but Pitts thinks it will not prove
to be a fatal wound," said Felix as he went into the pilot-house.
"Has he come to his senses?" asked the captain.
"He has; and he wants to talk."
"I should like to hear him talk; for there are some things about this
affair which I do not yet understand."
"The cook says he must not talk yet, and he is taking charge of the
case."
"Where is Louis?"
"He was looking on, and doing what he could for the wounded man. Do you
know, Captain Scott, I believe it was the ball from his rifle that
struck Mazagan!" said Felix, with an impressive expression on his face.
"Nonsense, Flix!" exclaimed Scott. "How under the canopy can you tell
who fired the shot, when five of you were firing at the same time?"
"Within my knowledge Louis has defended himself with a revolver in his
hand three times, and in every one of them he hit his man in the right
shoulder," replied Felix. "He never fires to kill; he is a dead shot,
and he can put the ball just where he pleases every time. If Mazagan had
been shot dead, I should know that Louis did not do it."
"I remember that the fellow in the Muski was hit in the right shoulder,"
added the captain.
"That disables a man without making a very dangerous wound. But,
Captain, darling, don't whisper a word to Louis that he did it, for it
might make him feel bad."
"I won't say a word; but ask him to come to the pilot-house, for I want
to see him, Flix," said Scott, as he had had no opportunity since the
catastrophe to speak to the one he regarded as the most important
personage on board of the Maud.
In fact, but a very few minutes had elapsed since the event occurred.
Those on the wreck had made haste to escape before they should be
carried down with it, and they were still pulling at no great distance
from the Maud for the shore. Louis appeared at the door of the
pilot-house very promptly; for he imagined that his presence before the
wounded man was not agreeable to him, and that it emphasized in his mind
the disastrous failure of his expedition to this island.
"What next, Louis?" asked the captain with a smile on his face; for he
believed he had stolen his friend's first question "after the battle."
"That is for you to decide, Captain Scott, and I intend to avoid any
interference with the duties of the commander," replied Louis.
"But when the commander asks for advice it may be given without
offence," suggested Scott. "We have just got out of the tightest place
in which we have ever been placed, and our experience hitherto has been
boy's play compared with this day's work."
"That is very true; this is by all odds the most serious affair in which
we have ever been engaged," answered Louis, as he seated himself on the
divan.
"I am not going to beat about the bush for a moment, my dear fellow; and
before we talk about anything else, even of what we will do next in this
trying situation, I want to say that I am very much troubled in my mind
in regard to the consequences of what I have done," continued Scott,
as he seated himself by the side of his friend and model on the divan.
"I don't wonder that you are troubled; so am I, for I think we may well
regard what has happened as an extraordinary event," added Louis.
"I say what I have done; for I purposely abstained from asking advice
of you or any other fellow, after I had decided what to do, even if
there had been time for me to consult you. In other words, I took the
entire responsibility upon myself; and there I purpose to have it rest."
"Of course you had no time to ask the opinion of any fellow, even if it
could have been of any use to you."
"I believe I did the best I could. The shallow water at the south of us
prevented me from running away in that direction, as I tried to do, and
the only avenue out of the difficulty was directly ahead of the Maud."
"I understand it all perfectly, for I could measure the situation from
the upper deck," said Louis.
"I headed the steamer to the east. Then came that shot through the
galley. The Fatimé was coming about in order to bring her port gun to
bear upon us. She could not well avoid hitting us if she had tried to do
so, we were so near. If the ball went through the engine or the boiler,
both of which were exposed to the fire, that would have been the last of
us. Half of us might have been scalded to death; or, at the best,
Mazagan might have knocked the Maud all to pieces at his leisure after
he had disabled the vessel."
"Precisely so."
"I might have hoisted a white rag, and surrendered, permitting the
pirate to take you on board his steamer; but if I had done that, I
could never have held up my head again, and I could never have looked my
recording angel in the face to tell him I had let the pirate take Louis
Belgrave out of the Maud."
"It would not have ended in just the way you have pictured it, Captain
Scott," added Louis with a smile. "I think enough of the ship's company
would have stood by me to enable me to make an effectual resistance, and
Mazagan might have got a bullet through his left breast instead of
through his right shoulder."
"Every fellow would have stood by you, my dear fellow, as long as you
stood yourself," replied the captain. "If Mazagan had disabled the Maud,
he could have retired out of reach of our rifle balls, and knocked a
hole through the vessel with his guns, and sunk her. Then he would have
had nothing to do but to pick up his millionaire, and ransom him with
double the sum he demanded in Cairo."
"Perhaps you are right, Captain Scott; but I think we need not discuss
what might have been. We know what is; and this is the problem with
which we have to deal."
"Bluntly, Louis, I desire to ask you whether you approve or disapprove
what I have done as the captain of the Maud?" continued Scott rather
nervously for him.
"I wholly and heartily approve of what you have done!" protested Louis
with emphatic earnestness, and without an instant's hesitation.
"My dear Louis, give me your hand!" exclaimed Scott, springing to his
feet; they clasped hands in front of the wheel, and the captain seemed
disposed to extend it to an embrace. "You have removed all my doubts and
anxiety by what you said and the manner in which you said it. If you
approve my action, I believe the commander will do the same."
"While I do not accept your view of what might have followed if you had
done otherwise, I believe you did the best thing that could be done. If
the end had not come just as you say, it would have amounted to the same
thing. Let us leave the subject now, and come back to the question you
asked me when I came in. What shall be done next?" said Louis.
"I don't think we can do anything but wait here till the Guardian-Mother
comes. If we go to sea, she will not know where to find us," replied
Captain Scott. "What do you think of it, Louis?"
"I am decidedly opposed to remaining where we are. Though you and I may
agree that what has been done is all right, the officers of the Turkish
government in authority on this island may not be of that opinion. There
is no town, or anything like one, in sight, and I have not been able to
make out even a single house or habitation of any kind."
"It is an exceedingly rough-looking country on shore. There are nothing
but mountains and forests to be seen. The nearest town put down on the
chart is more than ten miles distant, though there may be a village or
houses behind those hills on the shore to the south of us. If any of
the inhabitants had heard the three shots fired by the pirate, they
would have shown themselves before this time."
"But I think we had better be farther from the island. When the
Guardian-Mother comes, she must take the same course which we followed
yesterday," persisted Louis. "I quite agree with you that we must remain
in this vicinity. It is almost as calm outside the bay as it is inside.
How is the water off the cape?"
"There are eight fathoms half a mile from the point. I think you are
right, on the whole, Louis; for we don't care to meet any Turkish
officers of any kind," replied the captain, as he rang the gong to go
ahead.
The sound of the bell brought all hands except Morris, who had
volunteered to stay with the patient in the cabin, to the forecastle.
Pitts had gone to the galley to ascertain the condition of his wares
after the passage of a twelve-pound shot through his quarters. The stove
had not been struck, but it had knocked about everything else into the
utmost confusion. He was arranging things as well as he could; for it
