him. 
" But what ? He cheated the gallows, 
that is all." 
" Don't," the girl cried, for his words 
were as blows ; " don't ! " 
And with the hands that she had ex- 
tended she cowered her face. 
" But, Myrrha, don't you know that he 
killed your father ? I had left him but a 
few minutes before. If not in the best of 
health, at least he was not ill. He wanted 
to see you. I went to tell your women. 
When I returned the door that had been 
open was locked. I tried it,, there was no 
answer. I knocked again ; then I got a 
chair, looked through the transom, and 
there was that man robbing the safe. The 
very cheques which he had forged and 
which he took; from it were found with other 
things of his on the ship." 
"What ship?" 
" The ship from which he threw himself. 
Though, even otherwise, even had he not 
committed suicide, I think I should have 
said nothing " 
Again the temptation to tell her beset 
him, but before he could formulate the 
words Myrrha had risen. 
" I don't see why," she murmured. Then, 
woman-like, she showed her teeth : " I 
always knew you hated him." 
And with a little princess air which she 
could assume very well when she chose, 
she stood up and turned away. 
Bancroft turned, too. A moment before 
he might have told ; now the telling seemed 
unfair, the adwantage too great. But, aside 
from himself, was not a knowledge of her 
relationship to Quain needful, one which it 
was his duty to impart, which would cause 
pain, as acute, too, as any surgeon could 
inflict, but one which would rid her forever 
of the poison she had breathed, of the gan- 
grene of regret as well ? No doubt it would 
be his duty were he other than himself, and 
yet again, would it ? 
Her father had not told, and might not 
even have contemplated doing so, were it 
not for the stress of circumstances in which 
at the time both labored. But since then 
the incentive had gone ; the man was dead. 
Besides, Myrrha had at least seen him as 
he was, and, time aiding, doubtless she 
would forget. Yet would she ? 
As he reflected, the dilemma heightened. 
It was a case of conscience, one which he 
might have decided one way or the other, 
had he been able to eliminate himself ; but 
such elimination being impossible, he could 
only console himself with the knowledge 
of Quain's decease, and elect for the moment to hold his tongue. Then, too, he had 
been brutal enough already. 
Myrrha had moved a little and stood 
looking out beyond the horizon into a sky 
perhaps which only she could see. 
In a moment he was at her side. 
"Will you forgive me?" 
She turned to him, a strange glad look in 
her eyes. " It is your turn now ; forgive me." 
And as he answered nothing, feigning 
perplexity as to anything she could do for 
which forgiveness should be requisite, the 
strangeness and gladness in her eyes 
diffused as the dawn diffuses, till all the 
beauty of her face was aglow. 
" I have had a cruel dream, one that pro- 
longed itself so I thought I never should 
awake. But it is going. Indeed, it is gone. 
Help me to banish all memory of it, won't 
you? Yes, help me, and be to me always 
the friend that you are." 
"Children, it is bedtime." 
From the doorway came a flood of light, 
and the high keys of Mrs. Smithwick's treble. 
It was in this way matters shaped them- 
selves. Summer had gone, autumn went, 
and a return to town was effected. There 
during the succeeding months there were 
days when Bancroft told himself the girl 
would never care, and there were others 
when her platonism was so tender that 
hope returned. In May the house at New- 
port was reopened, and it was then that 
Mrs. Smithwick made that statement to the 
housekeeper which the housekeeper re- 
ceived with respect. But immediately it 
was forgot. Fate and maritime connections 
supplied Mrs. Smithwick with other food 
for thought. One day when Myrrha had 
gone for a drive, a card was brought, and 
Harris, mottled with excitement, mumbled : 
" He told me to say he had a letter, but 
he had gone and loss it. Yes, mem." 
Mrs. Smithwick read and heard, but in 
her tufthunter face not a muscle moved. 
" Show him in." 
As ordered, so it was done ; and a fraction 
of an hour later, when the lady was again 
alone, she stood up and bowed to herself 
in the glass. 
" Never," as she presently related to 
Myrrha, " never in her life had she en- 
countered any one so utterly fascinating." 
And as the tale of the visit continued, 
Myrrha learned that a young Englishman 
who had been ill with yellow fever in Brazil 
had selected Newport as the most fitting 
place to recuperate. An introductory line 
which had been furnished him by a cousin 
of Mrs. Smithwick's late husband had been 
lost with certain of his effects. This he 
regretted, yet not poignantly in that the 
accident had at least afforded him the op- 
portunity to explain, and therewith to make 
the acquaintance of a lady so distinguished 
and charming as herself. 
No wonder he pleased Mrs. Smithwick ; 
and the next day, when he came again, he 
succeeded in pleasing Myrrha too. 
And now on this particular afternoon, as 
Mrs. Smithwick sounded his praises, evok- 
ing episodes, relating incidents, her fancy 
rising and subsiding indefatigably to the 
flux and reflux of her words, the door 
was thrown open, and Harris, purple with 
pride, announced majestically : 
"His lordship, the Earl of Cloden." 
CHAPTER II 
HIS LORDSHIP DROPS A GLASS 
"AND what sort of society is there in 
Rio ? " 
For centre-piece that evening the dinner- 
table had orchids dangling over a silver 
pond. About it were the guests whom Mrs. 
Smithwick had assembled two only, for in 
May eligibilities are rare at Newport, and, 
besides, there was mourning still in the 
house. At her right was the Earl of 
Cloden, at her left Melanchthon Stitt ; the 
latter encountered hap-hazard on Bellevue 
Avenue and gratified by an immediate 
"bid." 
" Society ? " and the young lord smiled. 
He was irritatingly good looking, with 
features pagan in their correctness ; a 
mouth that shut on teeth small, even, and 
almost transparent ; eyes large, sultry, and 
hazel eyes to keep mothers awake and 
bring their daughters dreams ; and hair, 
blue in its blackness, falling on either side 
of a brow in which there was one great 
furrow, sillowed there by emotions or by 
thought. The face, beardless and un- 
mustached, was so pale yet so chiselled, 
that the contrast of black and white joined 
to the perfection of feature gave him the 
appearance of a Latin of the decadence, of 
a young patrician of old Rome. It was 
when he spoke that his race was apparent, 
for he possessed that modulated intonation 
which is the distinct and practically inimitable characteristic of the Englishman of the 
higher class. 
" Society ? " he repeated, with just a glance 
at Myrrha, as though uncertain what liber- 
ties of description might be permitted in 
the presence of the American girl. " Oh, it 
is, I assure you, of the worst ! " 
Melanchthon Stitt drew breath. In that 
"assure " there was no h. At the Knicker- 
bocker, at the Calumet, there always was. 
But he recowered himself at once. 
" The worst society is often the best, 
don't you think ? " 
Mrs. Smithwick nodded approvingly. She 
had not grasped the jest, but she felt that in 
inviting the novelist she had not made a 
mistake. 
"You see," the earl continued, " there are 
countries where nature is so tempestuous 
that precepts are unavailing. In countries 
of that kind, instead of ethics there are bolts. 
Brazil is one of them. Socially it cannot be 
said to exist." 
" But during the emperor's time " 
" Ah, yes, then there was, I believe, an 
exotic imitation of the Tuileries. But you 
know in what it resulted." 
Conversation of this order stimulated Mrs. 
Smithwick like wine, and she permitted herself a question. 
" Speaking of that, Lord Cloden, you 
have you you have been presented to her 
Majesty ? " 
The earl consulted his plate ; but when 
he looked up, as he instantly did, the mirth 
which for a fleeting second had danced in 
his eyes was gone. 
" Yes, yes." He repeated the word with a 
slight prolongation of the last letter which de- 
lighted Mrs. Smithwick vastly. " I was quite 
young at the time, perhaps three months." 
" Ah ! " 
" She is my godmother." As he said this 
he spoke as though such relationship were 
shared by all the world. 
Mrs. Smithwick beamed, radiant with 
exultation. 
" How delightful, how truly delightful ! 
How you must venerate her ! And did she 
hold you in her arms, and and pet you ? " 
" I don't remember much about that. 
But I don't believe she did ; in fact, I am 
quite sure she didn't. I dare say she looked 
rather cross ; she usually does. I know she 
sent a Prayer-Book " 
" A Prayer-Book ! How good, how kind 
of her ! And you have treasured it, have 
you not, and put it among the heirlooms of 
your house ?" 
But at this naiveti Lord Qoden laughed 
outright. 
" No. I sold it at Eton ; to young 
Trent, the brewer's son. He gave me four 
and six for it ; I tried to get him up to ten 
bob, but it was no go ; he said it was all the 
autograph was worth, and by George, I 
believe now it was too much." 
" Tell me, Lord Cloden, how do you 
like the States? What do you think of it 
here?" 
It was Myrrha that had spoken, the snob- 
bishness of her aunt propelling her into 
platitudes. 
" I think you are a most amazing people," 
the earl, eager, too, perhaps, for a diversion, 
answered quickly. " You have killed off all 
your buffaloes, and now you are amusing 
yourselves by entertaining the descendant 
of the man who discowered them. Most 
amazing, I assure you." 
" Typical and good," laughed Stitt. " But 
it is all for business purposes. You know, 
Lord Cloden, every one over here is in 
trade." 
The earl nodded appreciatively. " It is 
the same thing at home. There is my 
cousin Ogilvy, his wife has a tea-shop in 
Half-Moon Street ; no end of fellows are 
in stocks ; Bredelbane is a cheese-monger, 
and Finsbury, the Duke of Holborn's son, 
you know, runs a music-hall in Islington. 
Oh, I assure you, trade is quite the thing 
with us. But you, Mr. Stitt, if I may ask 
without indiscretion, you are not in business, 
are you ? " 
" I educate little guinea-pigs," the nov- 
elist answered modestly. 
" He does nothing of the sort ! " And 
Mrs. Smithwick made a fine show of indig- 
nation. " He is a poet, a philosopher, a 
a publicist. How dare you say you are in 
trade ? " 
"By guinea-pigs, dear Mrs. Smithwick, I 
presume he means the public, of which I am 
one. I recall a most curious tale, a woman 
making the man she hated kill the man she 
loved. It was called, if I rightly remember, 
Why Not ? and the author's name singu- 
larly resembled his." 
" Of course it was his ! " Mrs. Smithwick 
cried triumphantly, while the novelist pre- 
tended to conceal impossible blushes. " It 
was a novel Owen Meredith might have been 
proud of, or or even or anybody else, for 
that matter," she added, with that decision 
which only ignorance provides. 
" No doubt, but it seemed to me rather 
different from that. How shall I say ? In 
intensity, in atmosphere and manipulation, it 
struck me as rather Russian, a quality which 
I have not noticed among other American 
novelists. There is Mr. Howells, for in- 
stance ; what, may I ask, do you think of 
him, Mr. Stitt ? " 
Mr. Stitt promptly assumed the air and 
attitude of a sphinx. 
"The foremost of the authors that are 
never read ! " 
" Not read ? You surprise me. I have 
not seen a magazine in which his name does 
not appear." 
" Precisely," Stitt answered, with that pontifical mien which only a novelist may as- 
sume. " No one reads magazines except " 
and -he raised a finger tragically " except the advertiser." 
At this Lord Cloden looked expectant, 
Mrs. Smithwick perplexed. Myrrha alone, 
her eyes fastened on the Englishman, seemed 
indifferent. But Mr. Stitt, sure of his effect, 
launched forth. 
" The advertiser, you must know, wishes 
his wares to penetrate everywhere. To 
facilitate that penetration, he has his adver- 
tisements written in a lively and engaging 
fashion. Do you imagine for one second 
that he will pay to have those advertisements 
inserted in a periodical whose reading-matter 
is absorbing ? Why, never in the world. He 
wants his wares heralded in magazines in 
which the reading-matter is so soporific, that 
the subscriber will turn to the advertise- 
ments for relief. The editor, who is not 
half as stupid as he looks, is aware of all 
this, and fully aware, too, that it is not the 
subscriber but the advertiser who must be 
coddled. For it is from the latter that profit 
comes. As a consequence, the contributors 
whom he selects are, considered as writers, 
below par, but as anaesthetists they are un- 
rivalled." 
" Anaesthetist, anaesthetist ! what is 
that ? " 
" Lexicographically, dear Mrs. Smithwick, 
an anaesthetist is a gentleman who holds 
chloroform at you until you sink into the 
gentle and innocent sleep of the cradle. 
Colloquially he is one whose literary produc- 
tions make you regard the advertisement of 
a cure for ' That Tired Feeling ' as a wild 
and thrilling thing, that stamp it indelibly 
on your memory, that force you out of sheer 
cussedness to go and purchase the stuff, by 
the quart at that. Oh, believe me, anaesthe- 
tists have their value, and Mr. Howells has 
his ! " 
" Dear, dear ! " exclaimed Mrs. Smith- 
wick, removing as she spoke her elbows 
from the table. " How delightful it is to 
hear men of talent talk ! But come, Myrrha, 
let us leave them to their smoke. They 
mustn't stay long, though," she concluded 
archly. " Must they, Myrrha ?" 
And circling the girl's waist, she almost 
tripped from the room. 
The men had risen. 
" Harris," said the novelist, as he reseated 
himself, "is there any whiskey in the 
house ? Very good, get me a glass of 
brandy, then. You will have some, won't 
you, Lord Cloden ? " 
" No. I never touch it. I would like 
another drop of Apollinaris, though, if I 
might." 
''Yes, my lord. Thank your lordship." 
And Harris poured out the water with the 
solemnity of an augur offering a libation. 
But presently he disappeared, and the earl 
looked up. 
"That is a most ingenious theory of yours 
about the advertiser. It explains so much. 
But does it explain why the public buy the 
magazines ? " 
"The public the public?" Mr. Stitt 
with grand contempt had raised a hand, the 
fingers extended. " But let me ask you how 
many idiots does it take to make a public ? " 
" Ah, yes, I see ! the little guinea-pigs 
again. But do give a stranger and a pilgrim 
some information. Are you living here ? " 
The earl had crossed his legs, lit a cigar- 
ette, and Mr. Stitt promised himself an 
agreeable ten minutes. 
" I ? Good Lord, no ! I only ran down 
for the day. Family matter. I'm off again 
to-morrow. There will be hardly any one 
here for a month yet. Should you come to 
town, I wish you would look me up." 
" Thanks ; you are very good. But tell 
me, I should think these ladies would find it 
rather dull here." 
Mr. Stitt had also crossed his legs; he, 
too, was smoking ; he was at his second 
glass of brandy, and altogether he felt com- 
fortable and expansive. 
" Dull ? Of course. But then, you see, it 
is rather obligatory. Miss Attersol's father 
has been dead hardly a year ; and he died, 
moreover, in er well, what I might call 
rather oddly, don't you know." 
" Ah ! " And the earl manifested such 
civil interest as earls may. 
" Yes ; a burglar got into the room and 
