good-naturedly.
The room was brightly lighted, and the light showed that the young
wife's face was more beautiful than ever; the grace of her figure also
was now heightened by all the aids that dress can bestow. Ruth had said
to Jared, jokingly, "Wait till you see how pretty I shall be in fine
clothes!" The fine clothes had been purchased in profusion, and, what
was better, Félicité knew how to adapt them perfectly to her slender
young mistress.
Mrs. Kip, having paid her tribute to "the association" (she did not say
whether the feeling was connected with Andrew Taylor, her first husband,
or with the equally departed John Kip, her second), now seated herself
beside Ruth, and, with the freedom of old friendship, examined her
costume. "I know you had that made in Paris!" she said. "Simple as it
is, it has a sort of something or other! And, oh, what a beautiful
bracelet! What splendid rings!"
Ruth wore no ornaments save that on her right wrist was a band of
sapphires, and on her right hand three of the same gems, all the stones
being of great beauty. On her left hand she wore the wedding circlet,
with her engagement-ring and the philopena guard over it. In answer to
the exclamation, she had taken off the jewels and tossed them all into
Mrs. Kip's lap. Mrs. Kip looked at them, her red lips open.
To some persons, Lilian Kip seemed beautiful, in spite of the fact that
the outline of her features, from certain points of view, was almost
grotesque; she had a short nose, a wide mouth, a broad face, and a
receding chin. Her dark-brown eyes were neither large nor bright, but
they had a soft, dove-like expression; her curling hair was of a
mahogany-red tint, and she had the exquisitely beautiful skin which
sometimes accompanies hair of this hue; her cheeks really had the
coloring of peaches and cream; her lips were like strawberries; her
neck, arms, and hands were as fair as the inner petals of a tea-rose.
With the exception of her imperfect facial outlines, she was as
faultlessly modelled as a Venus. A short Venus, it is true, and a
well-fed one; still a Venus. No one would ever have imagined her to be
the mother of that light-house of a daughter; it was necessary to recall
the fact that the height of the late Andrew Taylor had been six feet
four inches. Andrew Taylor having married Lilian Howard when she was but
seventeen, Lilian Kip, in spite of two husbands and her embarrassingly
overtopping child, found herself even now but thirty.
She had put Ruth's rings on her hands and the bracelet on her wrist; now
she surveyed the effect with her head on one side, consideringly. While
she was thus engaged, Mrs. Franklin's little negro boy, Samp, ushered in
another visitor--Walter Willoughby.
"Welcome to Florida, Mrs. Chase," he said, as he shook hands with Ruth.
"As you are an old resident, however, it's really your husband whom I
have come to greet; he is here, isn't he?"
"Yes; he is in the dining-room with Commodore Etheridge," Ruth
answered. "Will you go out?" For it was literally out; the old house was
built in the Spanish fashion round an interior court, and to reach the
dining-room one traversed a long veranda.
"Thanks; I'll wait here," Walter answered. In reality he would have
preferred to go and have a cigar with Chase. But as he had not seen his
partner's wife since she returned from Europe, it was only courtesy as
well as good policy to remain where he was. For Mrs. Chase was a power.
She was a power because her husband would always wish to please her;
this desire would come next to his money-making, and would even, in
Walter's opinion (in case there should ever be a contest between the two
influences), "run in close!"
Mrs. Kip had hastily divested herself of the jewels, and replaced them
on Ruth's wrist and hands, with many caressing touches. "Aren't they
lovely?" she said to Walter.
"That little one, the guard, was my selection," he replied, indicating
the philopena circlet.
"And not this also?" said Ruth, touching her engagement ring.
"No; that was my uncle Richard's choice; Chase wrote to him the second
time, not to me," Walter answered. "I'm afraid he didn't like my taste."
He laughed; then turned to another subject. "You were playing the guitar
when I came in, Mrs. Chase; won't you sing something?"
"I neither play nor sing in a civilized way," Ruth answered. "None of
us do. In music we are all awful barbarians."
"How can you say so," protested Mrs. Kip, "when, as a family, you are
so musical?" Then, summoning to her eyes an expression of great
intelligence, she added: "And I should know that you were, all of you,
from your thick eyebrows and very thick hair. You have heard of that
theory, haven't you, Mr. Willoughby? That all true musicians have very
thick hair?"
"Also murderers; I mean the women--the murderesses," remarked Dolly.
"Oh, Dolly, what ideas you do have! Who would ever think of associating
murderesses with music? Music is so uplifting," protested the rosy
widow.
"We should take care that it is not too much so," Dolly answered. "Lots
of us are ridiculously uplifted. We know one thing perhaps, and like it.
But we remain flatly ignorant about almost everything else. In a busy
world this would do no harm, if we could only be conscious of it. But
no; on we go, deeply conceited about the one thing we know and like, and
loftily severe as to the ignorance of other persons concerning it. It
doesn't occur to us that upon other subjects save our own, we ourselves
are presenting precisely the same spectacle. A Beethoven, when it comes
to pictures, may find something very taking in a daub representing a
plump child with a skipping-rope, and the legend: 'See me jump!' A
painter of the highest power may think 'The Sweet By-and-By' on the
cornet the acme of musical expression. A distinguished sculptor may
appreciate on the stage only negro minstrels or a tenth-rate farce. A
great historian may see nothing to choose, in the way of beauty, between
a fine etching and a chromo. It is well known that the most celebrated,
and deservedly celebrated, scientific man of our day devours regularly
the weakest fiction that we have. And people who love the best classical
music and can endure nothing else, have no idea, very often, whether
they belong to the mammalia or the crustacea, or whether the Cologne
cathedral is Doric or late Tudor."
"Carry it a little further, Miss Franklin," said Walter Willoughby; "it
has often been noted that criminals delight in the most sentimental
tales."
"That isn't the same thing," Dolly answered. "However, to take up your
idea, Mr. Willoughby, it is certainly true that it is often the good
women who read with the most breathless interest the newspaper reports
of crimes."
"Oh no!" exclaimed Mrs. Kip.
"Yes, they do, Lilian," Dolly responded. "And when it comes to tales,
they like dreadful events, with plenty of moral reflections thrown in;
the moral reflections make it all right. A plain narrative of an even
much less degree of evil, given impartially, and without a word of
comment by the author--that seems to them the unpardonable thing."
"Well, and isn't it?" said Mrs. Kip. "Shouldn't people be
taught--counselled?"
"And it's for the sake of the counsel that they read such stories?"
inquired Dolly.
During this conversation, Chase, in the dining-room, had risen and given
a stretch, with his long arms out horizontally. He was beginning to feel
bored by the talk of Anthony Etheridge, "the ancient swell," as he
called him. In addition, he had a vision of finishing this second cigar
in a comfortable chair in the parlor (for Mrs. Franklin had no objection
to cigar smoke), with Ruth near by; for it always amused him to hear his
wife laugh and talk. The commodore, meanwhile, having assigned to
himself from the day of the wedding the task of "helping to civilize the
Bubble," never lost an opportunity to tell him stories from his own more
cultivated experience--"stories that will give him ideas, and, by Jove!
phrases, too. He needs 'em!" He had risen also. But he now detained his
companion until he had finished what he was saying. "So there you have
the reason, Mr. Chase, why I didn't marry. I simply couldn't endure
the idea of an old woman's face opposite mine at table year after year;
for our women grow old so soon! Now you, sir, have shown the highest
wisdom in this respect. I congratulate you."
"I don't know about that," answered Chase, as he turned towards the
door. "Ruth will have an old man's face opposite her before very long,
won't she?"
"Not at all, my good friend; not at all. Men have no age. At least,
they need not have it," answered Etheridge, bringing forward with
joviality his favorite axiom.
Cordial greetings took place between Chase and Walter Willoughby. "Your
uncles weren't sure you would still be here," Chase remarked. "They
thought perhaps you wouldn't stay."
"I shall stay awhile--outstay you, probably," answered Walter, smiling.
"I can't imagine that you'll stand it long."
"Doing nothing, you mean? Well, it's true I have never loafed much,"
Chase admitted.
"You loafed all summer in Europe," the younger man replied, and his
voice had almost an intonation of complaint. He perceived this himself,
and smiled a little over it.
"So that was loafing, was it," commented Ruth, in a musing
tone--"catching trains and coaches on a full run, seeing three or four
cantons, half a dozen towns, two passes, and several ranges of mountains
every day?"
All laughed, and Mrs. Kip said: "Did you rush along at that rate? That
was baddish. There's no hurry here; that's one good thing. The laziest
place! We must get up a boat-ride soon, Ruth. Boat-drive, I mean."
Mrs. Franklin meanwhile, rising to get something, knocked over
accidentally the lamplighters which she had just completed, and Chase,
who saw it, jumped up to help her collect them.
"Why, how many you have made!" he said, gallantly.
She was not pleased by this innocent speech; she had no desire to be
patted on the back, as it were, about her curled strips of paper; she
curled them to please herself. She made no reply, save that her nose
looked unusually aquiline.
"Yes, mother is tremendously industrious in lamplighters," remarked
Dolly. "Her only grief is that she cannot send them to the Indian
missions. You can send almost everything to the Indian missions; but
somehow lamplighters fill no void."
"Do you mean the new mission we are to have here--the Indians at the
fort?" asked Walter Willoughby. "They are having a big dance to-night."
Ruth looked up.
"Should you like to see it?" he went on, instantly taking advantage of
an opportunity to please her. "Nothing easier. We could watch it quite
comfortably, you know, from the ramparts."
"I should like it ever so much! Let us go at once, before it is over!"
exclaimed Ruth, eagerly.
"Ruth! Ruth!" said her mother. "After travelling all day, Mr. Chase may
be tired."
"Not at all, ma'am," said Chase. "I don't take much stock in Indians
myself," he went on, to his wife. "Do you really want to go?"
"Oh yes, Horace. Please."
"And the commodore will go with me," said Mrs. Kip, turning her soft
eyes towards Etheridge, who went down before the glance like a house of
cards.
"But we must take Evangeline Taylor home first," said Mrs. Kip. "We'll
go round by way of Andalusia, commodore. It would never do to let her
see an Indian dance at her age," she added, affectionately, lifting
her hand high to pat her daughter's aerial cheek. "It would make her
tremble like a babe."
"Oh, did you hear her 'baddish'!" said Dolly, as, a few minutes later,
they went up the steps that led to the sea-wall, Chase and Walter
Willoughby, Ruth and herself. "And did you hear her 'boat-drive'? She
has become so densely confused by hearing Achilles Larue inveigh against
the use of 'ride' for 'drive' that now she thinks everything must be
drive."
Chase and Walter Willoughby smiled; but not unkindly. There are some
things which the Dolly Franklins of the world are incapable, with all
their cleverness, of comprehending; one of them is the attraction of a
sweet fool.
The sea-wall of St. Augustine stretches, with its smooth granite coping,
along the entire front of the old town, nearly a mile in length. On the
land side its top is but four or five feet above the roadway; towards
the water it presents a high, dark, wet surface, against which comes the
wash of the ocean, or rather of the inlet; for the harbor is protected
by a long, low island lying outside. It is this island, called
Anastasia, that has the ocean beach. The walk on top of the wall is
just wide enough for two. Walter Willoughby led the way with Dolly, and
Chase and his wife followed, a short distance behind.
Walter thought Miss Franklin tiresome. With the impatience of a young
fellow, he did not care for her clever talk. He was interested in clever
men; in woman he admired other qualities. He had spent ten days in
Asheville during the preceding summer in connection with Chase's plans
for investment there, and he had been often at L'Hommedieu during his
stay; but he had found Genevieve more attractive than Dolly--Genevieve
and Mrs. Kip. For Mrs. Kip, since her second widowhood, had spent her
summers at Asheville, for the sake of "the mountain atmosphere;" ("which
means Achilles atmosphere," Mrs. Franklin declared). This evening Walter
had felt a distinct sense of annoyance when Dolly had announced her
intention of going with them to see the Indian dance, for this would
arrange their party in twos. He had no desire for a tête-à-tête with
Dolly, and neither did he care for a tête-à-tête with Ruth; his idea had
been to accompany Mr. and Mrs. Chase as a third. However, he made the
best of it; Walter always did that. He had the happy faculty of getting
all the enjoyment possible out of the present, whatever it might be.
Postponing, therefore, to the next day his plan for making himself
agreeable to the Chases, he led the way gayly enough to the fort.
Fort San Marco is the most imposing ancient structure which the United
States can show. Begun in the seventeenth century, when Florida was a
province of Spain, it has turrets, ramparts, and bastions, a portcullis
and barbacan, a moat and drawbridge. Its water-battery, where once stood
the Spanish cannon, looks out to sea. Having outlived its use as a
fortification, it was now sheltering temporarily a band of Indians from
the far West, most of whom had been sentenced to imprisonment for crime.
With the captives had come their families, for this imprisonment was to
serve also as an experiment; the red men were to be instructed,
influenced, helped. At present the education had not had time to
progress far.
The large square interior court, open to the sky, was to-night lighted
by torches of pine, which were thrust into the iron rings that had
served the Spaniards for the same purpose long before. The Indians,
adorned with paint and feathers, were going through their wild
evolutions, now moving round a large circle in a strange squatting
attitude, now bounding aloft. Their dark faces, either from their actual
feelings or from the simulated ferocity appropriate to a war-dance, were
very savage, and with their half-naked bodies, their whoops and yells,
they made a picture that was terribly realistic to the whites who looked
on from the ramparts above, for it needed but little imagination to
fancy a bona fide attack--the surprise of the lonely frontier
farm-house, with the following massacre and dreadful shrieks.
Ruth, half frightened, clung to her husband's arm. Mrs. Kip, after a
while, began to sob a little.
"I'm thinking--of the wo-women they have probably scalped on the
pla-ains" she said to Etheridge.
"What?" he asked, unable to hear.
"Never mind; we'll convert them," she went on, drying her eyes
hopefully. For a Sunday-school was to be established at the fort, and
she had already promised to take a class.
But Dolly was on the side of the Indians. "The crimes for which these
poor creatures are imprisoned here are nothing but virtues upside down,"
she shouted. "They killed white men? Of course they did. Haven't the
white men stolen all their land?"
"But we're going to Christianize them," yelled Mrs. Kip, in reply.
They were obliged to yell, amid the deafening noise of the dance and the
whoopings below.
Ruth had a humorous remark ready, when suddenly her husband, to Walter's
amusement, put his hand over her lips. She looked up at him, laughing.
She understood.
"Funniest thing in the world," he had once said to her, "but the more
noise there is, the more incessantly women will talk. Ever noticed?
They are capable of carrying on a shrieking conversation in the cars all
day long."
The atmosphere grew dense with the smoke from the pitch-pine torches,
and suddenly, ten minutes later, Dolly fainted. This in itself was not
alarming; with Dolly it happened not infrequently. But under the present
circumstances it was awkward.
"Why did you let her come? I was amazed when I saw her here," said
Etheridge, testily.
For Etheridge was dead tired. He hated the Indians; he detested the
choking smoke; he loathed open ramparts at this time of night. Ruth and
Mrs. Franklin had themselves been surprised by Dolly's desire to see the
dance. But they always encouraged any wish of hers to go anywhere; such
inclinations were so few.
Walter Willoughby, meanwhile, prompt as ever, had already found a
vehicle--namely, the phaeton of Captain March, the army officer in
charge of the Indians; it was waiting outside to take Mrs. March back to
the Magnolia Hotel. "The captain lends it with pleasure; as soon,
therefore, as Miss Franklin is able, I can drive her home," suggested
Walter.
But Chase, who knew through his wife some of the secrets of Dolly's
suffering, feared lest she might now be attacked by pain; he would not
trust her to a careless young fellow like Walter. "I'll take her
myself," he said. "And Ruth, you can come back with the others, along
the sea-wall."
Dolly, who had recovered consciousness, protested against this
arrangement. But her voice was only a whisper; Chase, paying no
attention to it, lifted her and helped her down to the phaeton. He was
certainly the one to do it, so he thought; his wife's sister was his
sister as well. It was a pity that she was not rather more amiable. But
that made no difference regarding one's duty towards her.
The others also left the ramparts, and started homeward, following the
sea-wall.
This granite pathway is not straight; it curves a little here and there,
adapting itself to the line of the shore. To-night it glittered in the
moonlight. It was high tide, and the water also glittered as it came
lapping against the stones waveringly, so that the granite somehow
seemed to waver, too. Etheridge was last, behind Mrs. Kip. He did not
wish to make her dizzy by walking beside her, he said. Suddenly he
descended. On the land side.
Mrs. Kip, hearing the thud of his jump, turned her head, surprised. And
then the commodore (though he was still staggering) held out his hand,
saying, "We get off here, of course; it is much our nearest way. That's
the reason I stepped down," he carelessly added.
Mrs. Kip had intended to follow the wall as far as the Basin. But she
always instinctively obeyed directions given in a masculine voice. If
there were two masculine voices, she obeyed the younger. In this case
the younger man did not speak. She acquiesced, therefore, in the elder's
sharp "Come!" For poor Etheridge had been so jarred by his fall that his
voice had become for the moment falsetto.
Mrs. Chase and Walter Willoughby, thus deserted, continued on their way
alone.
It was a beautiful night. The moon lighted the water so brilliantly that
the flash of the light-house on Anastasia seemed superfluous; the dark
fort loomed up in massive outlines; a narrow black boat was coming
across from the island, and, as there was a breeze, the two Minorcans it
carried had put up a rag of a sail, which shone like silver. "How fast
they go!" said Ruth.
"Would you like to sail home?" asked Walter. He did not wait for her
answer, for, quick at divination, he had caught the wish in her voice.
He hailed the Minorcans; they brought their boat up to the next flight
of water-steps; in two minutes from the time she had first spoken, Ruth,
much amused by this unexpected adventure, was sailing down the inlet.
"Oh, how wet! I didn't think of that," Walter had exclaimed as he saw
the water in the bottom of the boat; and with a quick movement he had
divested himself of his coat, and made a seat of it for her in the
driest place. She had had no time to object, they were already off; she
must sit down, and sit still, for their tottlish craft was only a
dugout. Walter, squatting opposite, made jocular remarks about his
appearance as he sat there in his shirt-sleeves.
It was never difficult for Ruth to laugh, and presently, as the water
gained on her companion in spite of all his efforts, she gave way to
mirth. She laughed so long that Walter began to feel that he knew her
better, that he even knew her well. He laughed himself. But he also took
the greatest pains at the same time to guard her pretty dress from
injury.
The breeze and the tide were both in their favor; they glided rapidly
past the bathing-house, the Plaza, the Basin, and the old mansion which
Chase had taken. Then Walter directed the Minorcans towards another
flight of water-steps. "Here we are," he said. "And in half the time it
would have taken us if we had walked. We have come like a shot."
He took her to her mother's door. Then, pretty wet, with his ruined coat
over his arm, he walked back along the sea-wall to the St. Augustine
Hotel.
CHAPTER IX
Two weeks later Mrs. Kip gave an afternoon party for the Indians.
Captain March had not been struck by her idea that the sight of "a
lady's quiet home" would have a soothing effect upon these children of
the plains. Mrs. Kip had invited the whole band, but the captain had
sent only a carefully selected half-dozen in charge of the interpreter.
And he had also added, uninvited, several soldiers from the small force
at his disposal. Mrs. Kip was sure that these soldiers were present
"merely for form." There are various kinds of form. Captain March,
having confided to the colonel who commanded at the other end of the
sea-wall, that he could answer for the decorum of his six "unless the
young ladies get hold of them," a further detachment of men had arrived
from St. Francis Barracks; for the colonel was aware that the party was
to be largely feminine. The festivities, therefore, went on with double
brilliancy, owing to the many uniforms visible under the trees.
These trees were magnificent. Mrs. Kip occupied, as tenant, the old
Buckingham Smith place, which she had named Andalusia. Here, in addition
to the majestic live-oaks, were date-palms, palmettoes, magnolias,
crape-myrtles, figs, and bananas, hedges of Spanish-bayonet, and a
half-mile of orange walks, which resembled tunnels through a
glossy-green foliage, the daylight at each end looking like a far-away
yellow spot. All this superb vegetation rose, strangely enough to
Northern eyes, from a silver-white soil. It was a beautiful day, warm
and bright. Above, the sky seemed very near; it closed down over the
flat land like a soft blue cover. The air was full of fragrance, for
both here and in the neighboring grove of Dr. Carrington the
orange-trees were in bloom. Andalusia was near the San Sebastian border
of the town, and to reach it on foot one was obliged to toil through a
lane so deep in sand that it was practically bottomless.
There was no toil, however, for Mrs. Horace Chase; on the day of the
party she arrived at Andalusia in a phaeton drawn by two pretty ponies.
She was driving, for the ponies were hers. Her husband was beside her,
and, in the little seat behind, Walter Willoughby had perched himself.
It was a very early party, having begun with a dinner for the Indians at
one o'clock; Mr. and Mrs. Chase arrived at half-past two. Dressed in
white, Mrs. Kip was hovering round her dark-skinned guests. When she
could not think of anything else to do, she shook hands with them; she
had already been through this ceremony eight times. "If I could only
speak to them in their own tongue!" she said, yearningly. And the long
sentences, expressive of friendship, which she begged the interpreter to
translate to them, would have filled a volume. The interpreter, a very
intelligent young man, obeyed all her requests with much politeness.
"Tell them that we love them," said Mrs. Kip. "Tell them that we think
of their souls."
The interpreter bowed; then he translated as follows: "The white squaw
says that you have had enough to eat, and more than enough; and she
hopes that you won't make pigs of yourselves if anything else is
offered--especially Drowning Raven!"
The Chases and Walter Willoughby had come to the Indian party for a
