Her cliild would have been born in Nazareth, but 
for this accident of the CCUHUB. But w<t$ it only an 
accident that the census must come into the question 
just then? tlutt the family must register., awl in 
Bethlehem? Was it one of those divine incidents 
in which the groat Will ridow over little human \villn, 
and brings everything out as no ono could ponwbly 
have expected, sis no one could have planned ? For 
Mary was a render of the poets of her people ; and 
learned in all their Scriptures. A thousand yearn 
ago tho#o aueioiit dreanierti had uHHoeiaied ntrange 
things with the town of Bethlehem. Did nlui re- 
member thorn? If who did, cumld she (lincuHH thoiu V 
There, it had been written, the Governor of her poo- 
pic should be sought. There the Wonderful should 
enter the world. Could she dwell on this, and hold 
her courage? Could sho forget it, and be Mary ? 
Strictly apoakmg', there were no roads between 
Namrotli and Bethlehem, itoino built roadx* but 
not at thus time for lior ounlaved IleUrewn. Tho 
caravan routes that traversed Palentinc wore hard 
traveling. Kough pat rtuloneHH were the foot-way* 
3 
1 
PRESAGE 21 
and the hoof-ways that led from Nazareth down 
through the valley, over mountain side, and rolling 
rock, and jagged limestone, and through sliding 
dust ; a severe journey o five days or more, as you 
might make it, according to one's means of locomo- 
tion or the strength of the travelers. 
The wife's stove of strength was small, and the 
journey dragged. She was such a young creature ! 
-a more girl and deli cute of organization, as we 
know. 
Think of it us December, too, and that means the 
chilly HOUHOII in Piilostine, with roads across the 
plains in bad condition. The rains were over ; sun- 
tthiuo Ninote the hills, and the silver leaves of the 
olivoH glanced like little stool swords in the wet 
light* Even f ixwt wan possible at that time of the 
your* Snow wan not unheard of. 
Tho two tetvolwH arrived in Bethlehem at night, 
foofr-wom and chlllod and fount* Tho wife, perish- 
ing of faU&'uo, had pawwod the atago of physical suf- 
fering when one takes any care or thought for what 
Iw to happen next. BeeauHo of her weakness, they 
had logged behind the other travelers, and the town 
wan already brimming ovor with strangers like them- 
Holvoa. Kvory IIOUBO was crowded* Her anxious 
lumlmml took her from tliroHhold to threshold in 
vniu. Tho diiub to the village up a steep hill had 
added a last; hardship. A faint light, swinging on 
a pope ourooB n doorway, aigniiied the village inn. 
They toilod up ; the woman luilf dead of this last 
effort. Hut iho khan could not admit them. 
Alarmed by the condition of MB wife, Joseph 
22 THE STOBY OF JESUS CHKIST 
persisted manfully in his determination to find her 
shelter. Mary asked no question, expressed no 
concern. Her head fell upon her breast. The 
poor, homesick, young creature was dumb with suf- 
fering. Oh, the mistake of coming on this miser- 
able journey ! She thought o her home ut Naza- 
reth, of her bed, perhaps of her mother's faee ; or 
of that other, Elizabeth, who had understood and 
cherished her. 
Dully, at length, she heard her husband Hay tluit 
there was a stable behind the inn, and that for 
the common humanity of the deed, the people of 
the khan would let her in* He carried her to the 
stable : she crept among the wtraw, like the animal** 
around her; and there hastened probably by her 
cruel journey the anguish of motherhood over- 
took the exhausted wife. 
VII 
Mary, presently, looked about the stable. Wo- 
men are merciful to each other in thin one renpoet 
at least, and we are not forbidden to think that 
some matrons of the inn hud miniHteretl to the 
unfortunate young traveler* The child wan not 
dressed, but wrapped tightly in at long band,* th<3 
baby -clothes of the Kant, Tito women had loft 
the young mother, now, with her luinbawl and the 
cattle. She faintly regarded the Htubkt. 
The khan to which Joseph ami Mary Juui applfocl 
was not a comfortable place ; and the utuhlo in 
which the baby way born watt a rudo affair, Mary 
PRESAGE 23 
saw that it was a cave in the heart of a rock ; a 
species of grotto. A little flat lamp of clay whose 
wick floated in oil, or a rude kind of lantern 
made by straining waxed cloth over a frame of 
rings, was allowed her. It struggled feebly with 
the damp darkness. By the weak light she saw the 
cattle, prevented from sleeping by the presence of 
their unusual neighbors, and perplexedly rumina- 
ting. Straw was about, and hay and provender. 
Mud was beneath. The walls of the grotto dripped. 
She and Joseph were alone no, not alone: there 
lay the child) breathing beside her, 
It nnist have been far on in the night, proba- 
bly towards morning, that she stirred uneasily, and, 
out of fitful nimuber, broken by conscious suffer- 
ing, turned again, broad awake, and looked about 
her* 
!No, it wan DO dream. She was not at home in 
happy Ntwcaroth. Strango to the eye, wtrange to the 
ear, strange to the heart, were her rude surround- 
ings She was uwed to decent poverty, not to out- 
cuHfc, nqualid HOOUOB like this. Joseph sat silently 
regarding her. Had Joseph not slept? A tired 
man, himself ill need of rent how loyal was he 
to MB precious charge! But Joseph had arisen, 
and Htood straight and strong between her eyes and 
the cmtwinoo to the grotto. Voices wore audible. 
JoHOph was Hpookiug. Question and answer fol- 
lowed. ViHitorH were in the stable. 
/Day was breaking, The gray light crept in with 
a kind of reverence, as if the morning were on its 
kxxoos. In the cold color Mary saw the visitors. 
24 THE STORY OF JESUS C1IKIST 
Their calling was stamped on their dark, weathor- 
tinted faces, and on their rough, warm clothing. 
They wore mantles of woolen stuff, and heavy, 
sheepskin cloaks. They carried powerful sticks, 
strong enough to kill a wild beast. They wore 
shepherds. Some fierce dogs accompanied them. 
Mary did not speak. She lay on the straw, and 
listened perplexedly. The court of the khan was 
quite open to the public. The poor young mother 
had not been even allowed the privacy sacred to her 
emergency. That had been hard enough ; but visi- 
tors ! And now ! She winced when the intruders, 
all speaking fast in their excitement, pushed then* 
way towards her. Their eyes were fastened eagerly 
upon one object. She Lean I exclamations and an- 
swers, and the low, controlled replies of Joseph, 
She saw the great, tanned iingers of the men point- 
ing at the baby. She hoard one say to another ; 
" That was the sign ! " 
And another answer : 
" In a nuingw ! There he is ! n 
Then the shepherds wpoke all together, their sen- 
tences fulling over each other. But Mury - for hot 
ear was delicate and qmck----inud<) out UK muuh OH 
this : in their pastures, a milts or more out of Beth* 
Ichena, these strong, not untomlor men., Iron of ftwt 
to wolves and robbern, silken of toueh to nhoop and 
lambs, men wakeful of <>yo and ear by pwfiwnion, 
apt to sco or hoar what otlior nlopt through, mid* 
denly, in the doep of the night, luwl Htttm the Hky 
blossom with celestial forma and faeon, and hoard 
the otller ring with celestial tongue* and gong*. 
w 
fl 
tf 
W 
HI 
ft 
w 
w 
H 
PRESAGE 25 
Half in terror, half in delight, they had hurried 
up to the town to tell and to test their wonderful 
experience. Had the baby been in a respectable 
bed, had he been born like a comfortable child, they 
could not have found him. Only one newborn in- 
fant in Bethlehem lay in. the inanger of a public 
stable. 
Now these were not ordinary, coarse herdsmen, 
but men selected for a superior position that of 
guarding the flocks dedicated to the uses of the 
Temple; therefore they and their ewes, and the 
lambs dcHlinod for sacrifice, were encamped within 
easy distance of Jerusalem all the year round. 
Winter, like the summer, found these men at 
their posts of duty. They were important servants 
of the Temple, not without respect amoug the peo- 
ple, curtain to command a hearing. They went 
straight out from the stable, and told their ex- 
perience to anybody and everybody in the crowded 
town. The village, overflowing with guests from 
all pavtw of Palestine, listened to this strange tale ; 
ami travelers, returning to their homes, carried the 
rumor of it widely. 
The whepherdH went back to their sheep. They 
had Been their only angels. Tho next night, the 
next year, brought no more. They talked all their 
HVOB about this one groat experience. Did they\ 
search the nkien midnight upon midnight for that] 
flower o life ? Did they tell their children's chil- 
dren how the npleiulid Oriental zenith burst that 
only time into celestial bloom? How the soft, 
winter wind broke iuto articulate speech ? How he 
26 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
looked the mighty one, who was General of tlio 
Heavenly Host ? And how they found that spirits 
spoke the truth. For there was the child ; and the 
manger. 
But the young mother did not speak when she 
heard about the angels, and the sign. She was 
glad when the shepherds were gone oxit of the stable. 
She looked at the baby mutely. Her heart; was like 
a white flower, closing over a drop of dew. She 
kept these things, and pondered them. 
Joseph, too, was quiet. Ho was one of the plain 
men who make no fuss about duty ; but ho had been 
in a hard position. He thoxight about the shepherds, 
the angels, their startling mcsHa0, and the dream 
of his in Nazareth. It waw impossible to think how 
it would have been, if ho had not trusted it, and 
her. The eyes of the girl wife ([ueHtiouod her IHIH- 
band gently. The mysterious child wlepfc bcBute 
them. The hand of Joseph silently clasped that of 
Mary. 
vin 
Kepler, the astronomer, in the year 1004 htul a 
pupil superior to the common run of Htmlouttt, a 
thoughtful man, with his oyow open, and not afraid 
to say what ho saw with thorn- Iu Dooemlwr of 
the preceding year, ii conjunction of two of the 
superior planets (Saturn and Jupiter) had inter- 
ested all scholars of the Bl<y. Iu a fow numtliK, Marn 
had marched into the soeioty of thoao coloatial com- 
PRESAGE 27 
rades, making one of the important stellar events 
of the time. Following this conjunction, in the 
autumn of 1604, there flashed into the sky a new 
and short-lived star. This the pupil of Kepler 
pointed out to his muster, and this the master stud- 
ied. It was a very brilliant star, more like a dia- 
mond than a comet, and sparkling with changing 
colors. 
This star burned for a year, waned and wasted 
out of sight. But its life was long enough, for the 
groat astronomer to conceive a great idea. 
Kepler was familiar with astrology, as all masters 
of an accurate science ought to be with its kindred 
imaginative) studies ; and he knew quite well how 
the dreamers <> the Kast in the times of which we 
arc thinking wore governed by the speculations of 
that art. Kepler, from the astronomer's point of 
view, foil to studying certain events which are inter- 
wound with the opening flconow in the history of 
CliriHtianity. The result was one of the dramatic 
thcorion of Hcience, liable to be held only by men of 
imagination. 
According to the calculations of the great astron- 
omer, in the Roman year 747, or at a time closely 
preceding the birth of the strange child in the Beth- 
lehem ntablo, a similar conjunction o Saturn and 
Jupiter had appeared in the Oriental heavens, and 
MavB had joined the two in the spring of 748, mak- 
ing a brilliant exhibition. Koplor boldly hazarded 
the belief that the course of this conjunction was 
followed* like that of 1004, by a temporary star. 
Ilifl position has not boon altogether approved by 
28 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
modern astronomers, but it is far too interesting to 
omit from any record of a curious historical fact on 
which astronomy has a peculiar judicial claim. 
Persia at that time, as more or less at all times, 
was a camp of dreamers and astrologers. Tho study 
of the skies was a passionate ^pastime. The sagcst 
of men gave their lives to it. All men wore inter- 
ested in it. Accurate knowledge of the skies thoy 
had not, but its place was filled by what they 
thought they knew, or wished to believe. They woro 
constantly on the watch by night. 
The Eastern sages knew little enough about as- 
tronomy as Kepler knew it ; but they saw the grout 
conjunction, and it produced a strong effect upon 
them. They took note that the conjunction oc- 
curred in the Constellation of HMOS, which was up- 
posed by Chaldean astrologers to be immoduitoly 
connected with the future of Juclea. TlutM the 
thoughts of the sages were naturally turned in that 
direction. Whether they had boou nttulyintf the 
subject for a year, or IHOVO or Iess 1 IH not Important, 
and cannot be averred. VTho point of iutorait in* 
that a few of the star-gaxors of the East woro HO 
profoundly impressed by thifc planetary movement 
that they left their homos and occupation**, and 
foi*med a little traveling, company to umwtignto itn 
meaning. But this extraordinary journey w&# not 
entirely a scientific expedition. It had a political 
or historical character, MyHtteal or devout motiv<w 
influenced these men. A rather remarkable reason 
for this existed. 
PBESAGE 29 
IX 
Astrologers from the earliest times had always 
associated heavenly disturbances with the birth of 
great men. The expectation of the advent of an 
extraordinary being among the Jewish people was 
not, at that time, entirely confined to the Jews. 
Home, Persia, the far East, the civilized world to a 
certain extent shared it. Perhaps the Hebrew cap- 
tives, scattered past collection among alien peoples, 
had tried to console themselves by whispering the 
proudest hope of their proud nation in their captors' 
cars. Perhaps the social conditions of the times 
too miserable for the heart to dwell on, and too cor- 
rupt for the modern pen to describe had given 
foreo to the rumor. Decent men who thought, and 
studied, and aspired had reached the stage of despe- 
ration winch precedes despair. They were ready 
for any social or political experiment; they were 
attentive to any sign of the times. 
Each man took out his private fears or hopes for 
the csomlitiou of his ago, in his own way. The sen- 
sualist sank, the tyrant tortured, the slave despaired, 
the politician schemed, the rebel fought, the captive 
uonspmxl, the dreamer slept, the devout prayed, the 
my H tit* mused. 
Tho students of the sky followed the march of the 
stars. 
Tho Kastoru travelers, coming by an unknown 
route, reached Jerusalem* Here, these idealists 
asked strange questions, and they received signifi- 
cant replies Arrived at the capital of the Jewish 
30 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
nation, and at the very altar of the Jewish faith, 
they found themselves still perplexed. These " pe- 
culiar people," these educated slaves, did, indeed, 
confidently expect to be freed by a heaven-born de- 
liverer, to be ruled by a divinely appointed King. 
But nothing had been seen or heard of him. The 
Magi, with the persistence of men wlio have sacri- 
ficed too much for an idea to abandon it easily, 
betook themselves to the palace. Here they had 
an interview with one of the most abhorrent and 
abhorred of monarchs. 
Eome, like the rest of the world, was acquainted 
with the rumors about the yet unidentified Jewish 
King. The haughty Koniau eagle hung upon the 
Jewish Temple, but the powerful Messianic expecta- 
tion had reached the Roman intellect. I lenxl wan a 
coward as well as a tyrant, and ho feared nothing 
more than the ^nationalization of the ennlaved 
people. 
He appealed to the priests and teaehern of hit* 
remarkable and dreaded captives. Their governing 
body, the Sanhedrin, was called together. Tho 
question was officially put to them: Where WUH tin* 
King of theirs to be expected, or to be nought? 
With ecclesiastical precision the anxious monarch 
was referred to the record** ov Seripturert of the Jew- 
ish people, which indicated Bethlehem an the birth- 
place of their national hero. 
The capital wan now on lire witli the mutter. The 1 ! 
visit of the Eastern straugora had become the event 
of the day. With a stroke of imperial and diaboli- 
cal diplomacy, Herod feigned a warm xnturoHt in tlie 
PRESAGE 31 
errand of his guests, and suavely directed them to 
Bethlehem ; the condition of the royal politeness 
being that they should report the result of their in- 
vestigations to himself. 
The group of mystics, a little awed by the splen- 
dor and affability of the palace and the monarch, 
but less than commoner men, started at once for 
Bethlehem. 
Men who have cast down all the affairs of life to 
travel for seven months, or a year, or more, over 
deserts and mountains, and through fords and forests, 
and in peril of boasts and of robbers, in pursuance 
of: an idea, are not the men to be too much impressed 
with political, power or splendor ; still, they accepted 
Herod at his word, being foreigners and not fully 
awaro how little that was worth. A brilliant ap- 
poaranoo hi the skies, evidently temporary, and which 
had for Homo timo ptmlod thorn, now seemed to them 
to point towards Bethlehem ; to confirm their own 
astrological beliefs and the Jewish traditions and 
diiwtionH, 
Woro the hardships of that long itinerary draw- 
ing to an end ? DOOH the star know and love the 
Btudont of the sky, that it will not mislead hirn? 
The Magi trod the streets of Bethlehem with ar- 
roBtod breath. 
The mytori0un child was now some weeks of age ; 
the family woro no longer boarders in the stable of 
the khan* They may have been house-giiebts or 
lodgot'H at ih<*i inn ; but this they coulcl not afford 
for any hmgth of timo. If the mother of Mary 
been born in Bethlehem, had she not 
32 THE STOKY OF JESUS CHRIST 
there? people whose home had been too full, or 
whose welcome had been too chilly at the time of 
the registration, to admit the travelers ? 
Then, remember, had come the sacred shepherds 
of the Temple, talking everywhere, telling a wonder- 
ful tale. Then, the strange birth of the steingo 
child became the topic of the town. Them, the out- 
cast family became respectable, interesting. Thou, 
the love of the dramatic, which is strong in the Jow- 
ish nature, took hold of this vivid situation. Did 
