glancing carelessly at the basket that weighed down her step-mother's
shoulders. "I can't think how you can sew so steadily, year in, year
out; I never could."
"Well, I've had to get stronger spectacles," Prudence confessed. "And
they wouldn't take my old ones in exchange, neither, though they were
perfectly good."
"They're robbers, all of them, at that shop," commented Beppa,
agreeingly.
"Now, about your clothes, Bepper--when are you going to begin? I suppose
you'll come home for a while, so as to have time to do 'em; I can help
you some, and Nounce too; Nounce can sew a little."
"No, I don't think I'll come home; 'twouldn't pay me. About the
clothes--I'm going to buy 'em."
"They won't be half so good," Prudence began. Then she stopped. "I'm
very glad you've got the money laid up, my dear," she said,
commendingly.
"Oh, but I haven't," answered Beppa, laughing. "I want to borrow it of
you; that is what I came up for to-day--to tell you about it."
Prudence, her heart still softened, looked at the handsome girl with
gentle eyes. "Why, of course I'll lend it to you, Bepper," she said.
"How much do you want?"
"All you've got won't be any too much, I reckon," answered Beppa, with
pride. "I shall have to have things nice, you know; I don't want to
shame 'em."
"I've got twenty-five francs," said Prudence; "I mean I've got that
amount saved and put away; 'twas for--for a purpose--something I was
going to do; but 'tain't important; you can have it and welcome." Her
old face, as she said this, looked almost young again. "You see, I'm so
glad to have you happy," she went on. "And I can't help thinking--if
your father had only lived--the first wedding in his family! However,
I'll come--just as though I was your real mother, dear; you sha'n't
miss that. I've got my Sunday gown, and five francs will buy me a pair
of new shoes; I can earn 'em before the day comes, I guess."
"I'm afraid you can't," said Beppa, laughing.
"Why, when's the wedding? Not for two or three weeks, I suppose?"
"It's day after to-morrow," answered Beppa. "Everything's bought, and
all I want is the money to pay for 'em; I knew I could get it of you."
"Dear me! how quick! And these shoes are really too bad; they're clear
wore out, and all the cleaning in the world won't make 'em decent."
"Well, Denza, why do you want to come? You don't know any of Giuseppe's
family. To tell the truth, I never supposed you'd care about coming, and
the table's all planned out for (at Giuseppe's sister's), and there
ain't no place for you."
"And you didn't have one saved?"
"I never thought you'd care to come. You see they're different, they're
all well off, and you don't like people who are well off--who wear nice
clothes. You never wanted us to have nice clothes, and you like to go
barefoot."
"No, I don't!" said Prudence.
"'Tany rate, one would think you did; you always go so in summer. But
even if you had new shoes, none of your clothes would be good enough;
that bonnet, now--"
"My bonnet? Surely my bonnet's good?" said the New England woman; her
voice faltered, she was struck on a tender point.
"Well, people laugh at it," answered Beppa, composedly.
They had now reached the house. "You go in," said Prudence; "I'll come
presently."
She went round to the wood-shed, unstrapped her basket, and set it down;
then she climbed up on the barrel, removed the hay, and took out her
work-box. Emptying its contents into her handkerchief, she descended,
and, standing there, counted the sum--twenty-seven francs, thirty
centimes. "'Twon't be any too much; she don't want to shame 'em." She
made a package of the money with a piece of brown paper, and, entering
the kitchen, she slipped it unobserved into Beppa's hand.
"Seems to me," announced Granmar from the bed, "that when a girl comes
to tell her own precious Granmar of her wedding, she ought in decency
to be offered a bite of something to eat. Any one but Denza would think
so. Not that it's anything to me."
"Very well, what will you have?" asked Prudence, wearily. Freed from her
bonnet and shawl, it could be seen that her once strong figure was much
bent; her fingers had grown knotted, enlarged at the joints, and clumsy;
years of toil had not aged her so much as these recent nights--such long
nights!--of cruel rheumatic pain.
Granmar, in a loud voice, immediately named a succulent dish; Prudence
began to prepare it. Before it was ready, Jo Vanny came in.
"You knew I was up here, and you've come mousing up for an invitation,"
said Beppa, in high good-humor. "I was going to stop and invite you on
my way back, Giovanni; there's a nice place saved for you at the
supper."
"Yes, I knew you were up here, and I've brought you a wedding-present,"
answered the boy. "I've brought one for mamma, too." And he produced two
silk handkerchiefs, one of bright colors, the other of darker hue.
"Is the widow going to be married, too?" said Beppa. "Who under heaven's
the man?"
In spite of the jesting, Prudence's face showed that she was pleased;
she passed her toil-worn hand over the handkerchief softly, almost as
though its silk were the cheek of a little child. The improvised feast
was turned into a festival now, and of her own accord she added a second
dish; the party, Granmar at the head, devoured unknown quantities. When
at last there was nothing left, Beppa, carrying her money, departed.
"You know, Jo Vanny, you hadn't ought to leave your work so often," said
Prudence, following the boy into the garden when he took leave; she
spoke in an expostulating tone.
"Oh, I've got money," said Jo Vanny, loftily; "I needn't crawl." And
carelessly he showed her a gold piece.
But this sudden opulence only alarmed the step-mother. "Why, where did
you get that?" she said, anxiously.
"How frightened you look! Your doubts offend me," pursued Jo Vanny,
still with his grand air. "Haven't I capacities?--hasn't Heaven sent me
a swarming genius? Wasn't I the acclaimed, even to laurel crowns, of my
entire class?"
This was true: Jo Vanny was the only one of Tonio's children who had
profited by the new public schools.
"And now what shall I get for you, mamma?" the boy went on, his tone
changing to coaxing; "I want to get you something real nice; what will
you have? A new dress to go to Beppa's wedding in?"
For an instant Prudence's eyes were suffused. "I ain't going, Jo Vanny;
they don't want me."
"They shall want you!" declared Jo Vanny, fiercely.
"I didn't mean that; I don't want to go anyhow; I've got too much
rheumatism. You don't know," she went on, drawn out of herself for a
moment by the need of sympathy--"you don't know how it does grip me at
night sometimes, Jo Vanny! No; you go to the supper, and tell me all
about it afterwards; I like to hear you tell about things just as well
as to go myself."
Jo Vanny passed his hand through his curly locks with an air of
desperation. "There it is again--my gift of relating, of narrative; it
follows me wherever I go. What will become of me with such talents? I
shall never die in my bed; nor have my old age in peace."
"You go 'long!" said Prudence (or its Italian equivalent). She gave him
a push, laughing.
Jo Vanny drew down his cap, put his hands deep in his pockets, and thus
close-reefed scudded down the hill in the freezing wind to the shelter
of the streets below.
By seven o'clock Nounce and Granmar were both asleep; it was the most
comfortable condition in such weather. Prudence adjusted her lamp, put
on her strong spectacles, and sat down to sew. The great brick stove
gave out no warmth; it was not intended to heat the room; its three
yards of length and one yard of breadth had apparently been constructed
for the purpose of holding and heating one iron pot. The scaldino at her
feet did not keep her warm; she put on her Highland shawl. After a
while, as her head (scantily covered with thin white hair) felt the cold
also, she went to get her bonnet. As she took it from the box she
remembered Beppa's speech, and the pang came back; in her own mind that
bonnet had been the one link that still united her with her old Ledham
respectability, the one possession that distinguished her from all these
"papish" peasants, with their bare heads and frowzy hair. It was not
new, of course, as it had come with her from home. But what signified an
old-fashioned shape in a community where there were no shapes of any
kind, new or old? At least it was always a bonnet. She put it on, even
now from habit pulling out the strings carefully, and pinning the loops
on each side of her chin. Then she went back and sat down to her work
again.
At eleven o'clock Granmar woke. "Yam! how cold my legs are! Denza, are
you there? You give me that green shawl of yours directly; precisely, I
am dying."
Prudence came out from behind her screen, lamp in hand. "I've got it on,
Granmar; it's so cold setting up sewing. I'll get you the blanket from
my bed."
"I don't want it; it's as hard as a brick. You give me that shawl; if
you've got it on, it'll be so much the warmer."
"I'll give you my other flannel petticoat," suggested Prudence.
"And I'll tear it into a thousand pieces," responded Granmar,
viciously. "You give me that shawl, or the next time you leave Nounce
alone here, she shall pay for it."
Granmar was capable of frightening poor little Nounce into spasms.
Prudence took off the shawl and spread it over the bed, while Granmar
grinned silently.
Carrying the lamp, Prudence went into the bedroom to see what else she
could find to put on. She first tried the blanket from her bed; but as
it was a very poor one, partly cotton, it was stiff (as Granmar had
said), and would not stay pinned; the motion of her arms in sewing would
constantly loosen it. In the way of wraps, except her shawl, she
possessed almost nothing; so she put on another gown over the one she
wore, pinned her second flannel petticoat round her shoulders, and over
that a little cloak that belonged to Nounce; then she tied a woollen
stocking round her throat, and crowned with her bonnet, and carrying the
blanket to put over her knees, she returned to her work.
"I declare I'm clean tired out," she said to herself; "my feet are like
ice. I wouldn't sew any longer such a bitter night if it warn't that
that work-box 'ain't got a thing in it. I can't bear to think of it
empty. But as soon as I've got a franc or two to begin with again, I'll
stop these extry hours."
But they lasted on this occasion until two o'clock.
      
"It don't seem as if I'd ever known it quite so baking as it is
to-night." It was Prudence who spoke; she spoke to Nounce; she must
speak to some one.
Nounce answered with one of her patient smiles. She often smiled
patiently, as though it were something which she was expected to do.
Prudence was sitting in the wood-shed resting; she had been down to town
to carry home some work. Now the narrow streets there, thrown into shade
by the high buildings on each side, were a refuge from the heat; now the
dark houses, like burrows, gave relief to eyes blinded by the yellow
glare. It was the 30th of August. From the first day of April the broad
valley and this brown hill had simmered in the hot light, which filled
the heavens and lay over the earth day after day, without a change,
without a cloud, relentless, splendid; each month the ground had grown
warmer and drier, the roads more white, more deep in dust; insect life,
myriad legged and winged, had been everywhere; under the stones lurked
the scorpions.
In former summers here this never-ending light, the long days of burning
sunshine, the nights with the persistent moon, the importunate
nightingales, and the magnificent procession of the stars had sometimes
driven the New England woman almost mad; she had felt as if she must
bury her head in the earth somewhere to find the blessed darkness again,
to feel its cool pressure against her tired eyes. But this year these
things had not troubled her; the possibility of realizing her
long-cherished hope at last had made the time seem short, had made the
heat nothing, the light forgotten; each day, after fifteen hours of
toil, she had been sorry that she could not accomplish more.
But she had accomplished much; the hope was now almost a reality.
"Nounce," she said, "do you know I'm 'most too happy to live. I shall
have to tell you: I've got all the money saved up at last, and the
men are coming to-morrow to take away the cow-shed. Think of that!"
Nounce thought of it; she nodded appreciatively.
Prudence took the girl's slender hand in hers and went on: "Yes,
to-morrow. And it'll cost forty-eight francs. But with the two francs
for wine-money it will come to fifty in all. By this time to-morrow
night it will be gone!" She drew in her breath with a satisfied sound.
"I've got seventy-five francs in all, Nounce. When Bepper married, of
course I knew I couldn't get it done for Fourth of July. And so I
thought I'd try for Thanksgiving--that is, Thanksgiving time; I never
know the exact day now. Well, here it's only the last day of August, and
the cow-shed will be gone to-morrow. Then will come the new fence; and
then the fun, the real fun, Nounce, of laying out our front yard! It'll
have a nice straight path down to the gate, currant bushes in neat rows
along the sides, two big flowerin' shrubs, and little flower beds
bordered with box. I tell you you won't know your own house when you
come in a decent gate and up a nice path to the front door; all these
years we've been slinking in and out of a back door, just as though we
didn't have no front one. I don't believe myself in tramping in and out
of a front door every day; but on Sundays, now, when we have on our
best clothes, we shall come in and out respectably. You'll feel like
another person, Nounce; and I'm sure I shall--I shall feel like Ledham
again--my!" And Prudence actually laughed.
Still holding Nounce's hand, she went round to the front of the house.
[Illustration: "STILL HOLDING NOUNCE'S HAND, SHE WENT ROUND TO THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE"]
The cow-shed was shedding forth its usual odors; Prudence took a stone
and struck a great resounding blow on its side. She struck with so
much force that she hurt her hand. "Never mind--it done me good!" she
said, laughing again.
She took little Nounce by the arm and led her down the descent. "I shall
have to make the front walk all over," she explained. "And here'll be
the gate, down here--a swing one. And the path will go from here
straight up to the door. Then the fence will go along here--palings, you
know, painted white; a good clean American white, with none of these
yellows in it, you may depend. And over there--and there--along the
sides, the fence will be just plain boards, notched at the top; the
currant bushes will run along there. In the middle, here--and here--will
be the big flowerin' shrubs. And then the little flower-beds bordered
with box. Oh, Nounce, I can't hardly believe it--it will be so
beautiful! I really can't!"
Nounce waited a moment. Then she came closer to her step-mother, and
after looking quickly all about her, whispered, "You needn't if you
don't want to; there's here yet to believe."
"It's just as good as here," answered Prudence, almost indignantly.
"I've got the money, and the bargain's all made; nothing could be surer
than that."
The next morning Nounce was awakened by the touch of a hand on her
shoulder. It was her step-mother. "I've got to go down to town," she
said, in a low tone. "You must try to get Granmar's breakfast yourself,
Nounce; do it as well as you can. And--and I've changed my mind about
the front yard; it'll be done some time, but not now. And we won't talk
any more about it for the present, Nounce; that'll please me most; and
you're a good girl, and always want to please me, I know."
She kissed her, and went out softly.
      
In October three Americans came to Assisi. Two came to sketch the Giotto
frescos in the church of St. Francis; the third came for her own
entertainment; she read Symonds, and wandered about exploring the
ancient town.
One day her wanderings led her to the little Guadagni house on the
height. The back gate was open, and through it she saw an old woman
staggering, then falling, under the weight of a sack of potatoes which
she was trying to carry on her back.
The American rushed in to help her. "It's much too heavy for you," she
said, indignantly, after she had given her assistance. "Oh dear--I mean,
è troppo grave," she added, elevating her voice.
"Are you English?" said the old woman. "I'm an American myself; but I
ain't deef. The sack warn't too heavy; it's only that I ain't so strong
as I used to be--it's perfectly redeculous!"
"You're not strong at all," responded the stranger, still indignantly,
looking at the wasted old face and trembling hands.
A week later Prudence was in bed, and an American nurse was in charge.
This nurse, whose name was Baily, was a calm woman with long strong
arms, monotonous voice, and distinct New England pronunciation; her
Italian (which was grammatically correct) was delivered in the vowels of
Vermont.
One day, soon after her arrival, she remarked to Granmar, "That yell of
yours, now--that yam--is a very unusual thing."
"My sufferings draw it from me," answered Granmar, flattered by the
adjective used. "I'm a very pious woman; I don't want to swear."
"I think I have never heard it equalled, except possibly in lunatic
asylums," Marilla Baily went on. "I have had a great deal to do with
lunatic asylums; I am what is called an expert; that is, I find out
people who are troublesome, and send them there; I never say much about
it, but just make my observations; then, when I've got the papers out,
whiff!--off they go."
Granmar put her hand over her mouth apprehensively, and surveyed her in
silence. From that time the atmosphere of the kitchen was remarkably
quiet.
Marilla Baily had come from Florence at the bidding of the American who
had helped to carry the potatoes. This American was staying at the
Albergo del Subasio with her friends who were sketching Giotto; but she
spent most of her time with Prudence Wilkin.
"You see, I minded it because it was him," Prudence explained to her
one day, at the close of a long conversation. "For I'd always been so
fond of the boy; I had him first when he warn't but two years old--just
a baby--and so purty and cunning! He always called me mamma--the only
one of the children, 'cept poor Nounce there, that really seemed to care
for me. And I cared everything for him. I went straight down to town and
hunted all over. But he warn't to be found. I tried it the next day, and
the next, not saying what I wanted, of course; but nobody knew where he
was, and at last I made up my mind that he'd gone away. For three weeks
I waited; I was almost dead; I couldn't do nothing; I felt as if I was
broke in two, and only the skin held me together. Every morning I'd say
to myself, 'There'll certainly come a letter to-day, and he'll tell me
all about it.' But the letter didn't come, and didn't come. From the
beginning, of course, I knew it was him--I couldn't help but know; Jo
Vanny was the only person in the whole world that knew where it was. For
I'd showed it to him one day--the work-box, I mean--and let him put it
back in the hole behind the hay--'twas the time I took the money out for
Patro. At last I did get a letter, and he said as how he'd meant to put
it back the very next morning, sure. But something had happened, so he
couldn't, and so he'd gone away. And now he was working just as hard as
he could, he said, so as to be able to pay it back soon; he hardly
played on his mandolin at all now, he said, he was working so hard. You
see, he wasn't bad himself, poor little fellow, but he was led away by
bad men; gambling's an awful thing, once you get started in it, and he
was sort of drove to take that money, meaning all the while to pay it
back. Well, of course I felt ever so much better just as soon as I got
that letter. And I began to work again. But I didn't get on as well as
I'd oughter; I can't understand why. That day, now, when I first saw
you--when you ran in to help me--I hadn't been feeling sick at all;
there warn't no sense in my tumbling down that way all of a sudden."
One lovely afternoon in November Prudence's bed was carried out to the
front of the dark little house.
The cow-shed was gone. A straight path, freshly paved, led down to a
swing gate set in a new paling fence, flower beds bordered the path, and
in the centre of the open spaces on each side there was a large rose
bush. The fence was painted a glittering white; there had been an
attempt at grass; currant bushes in straight rows bordered the two
sides.
Prudence lay looking at it all in peaceful silence. "It's mighty purty,"
she said at last, with grateful emphasis. "It's everything I planned to
have, and a great deal nicer than I could have done it myself, though I
thought about it goodness knows how many years!"
"I'm not surprised that you thought about it," the American answered.
"It was the view you were longing for--fancy its having been cut off so
long by that miserable stable! But now you have it in perfection."
"You mean the view of the garden," said Prudence. "There wasn't much to
look at before; but now it's real sweet."
"No; I mean the great landscape all about us here," responded the
American, surprised. She paused. Then seeing that Prudence did not lift
her eyes, she began to enumerate its features, to point them out with
her folded parasol. "That broad Umbrian plain, Prudence, with those tall
slender trees; the other towns shining on their hills, like Perugia over
there; the gleam of the river; the velvety blue of the mountains; the
color of it all--I do believe it is the very loveliest view in the whole
world!"
"I don't know as I've ever noticed it much--the view," Prudence
answered. She turned her eyes towards the horizon for a moment. "You see
I was always thinking about my front yard."
"The front yard is very nice now," said the American. "I am so glad you
are pleased; we couldn't get snowballs or Missouri currant, so we had to
take roses." She paused; but she could not give up the subject without
one more attempt. "You have probably noticed the view without being
aware of it," she went on; "it is so beautiful that you must have
noticed it. If you should leave it you would find yourself missing it
very much, I dare say."
"Mebbe," responded Prudence. "Still, I ain't so sure. The truth is, I
don't care much for these Eyetalian views; it seems to me a poor sort of
country, and always did." Then, wishing to be more responsive to the
tastes of this new friend, if she could be so honestly, she added, "But
I like views, as a general thing; there was a very purty view from
Sage's Hill, I remember."
"Sage's Hill?"
"Yes; the hill near Ledham. You told me you knew Ledham. You could see
all the fields and medders of Josiah Strong's farm, and Deacon
Mayberry's too; perfectly level, and not a stone in 'em. And the
turnpike for miles and miles, with three toll-gates in sight. Then, on
the other side, there were the factories to make it lively. It was a
sweet view."
A few days afterwards she said: "People tell us that we never get what
we want in this world, don't they? But I'm fortunate. I think I've
always been purty fortunate. I got my front yard, after all."
      
A week later, when they told her that death was near, "My! I'd no idea I
was so sick as that," she whispered. Then, looking at them anxiously,
"What'll become of Nounce?"
They assured her that Nounce should be provided for. "You know you have
to be sorter patient with her," she explained; "but she's growing
quicker-witted every day."
Later, "I should like so much to see Jo Vanny," she murmured, longingly;
"but of course I can't. You must get Bepper to send him my love, my
dearest, dearest love."
Last of all, as her dulled eyes turned from the little window and rested
upon her friend: "It seems a pity--But perhaps I shall find--"
NEPTUNE'S SHORE
I
Old Mrs. Preston had not been able to endure the hotel at Salerno. She
had therefore taken, for two months, this house on the shore.
"I might as well be here as anywhere, saddled as I am with the
Abercrombies," she remarked to her cousin, Isabella Holland. "Arthur may
really do something: I have hopes of Arthur. But as to Rose, Hildegarde,
and Dorothea, I shall plainly have to drag them about with me, and drag
them about with me, year after year, in the hope that the constant
seeing of so many straight statues, to say nothing of pictures, may at
