geographical works.

"No, sir; they cover a broad range of useful information," replied the
commander. "Those of our company who are disposed to read novels supply
themselves with that kind of literature. Quite a number of them are
lecturers"--

"Lecturers!" exclaimed the distinguished guest. "Then a large number of
your passengers must be scientific people."

"Not at all, sir; the large majority of them are men and women of good
education, and Professor Giroud is a learned Frenchman who has been a
lecturer at various colleges and schools. Dr. Hawkes is a leading member of
his profession, and is sometimes a lecturer in various medical and surgical
institutions in New York. Both of these gentlemen are making this voyage to
regain their health, injured by over-work."

"You are fortunate in having such men on board," added his lordship.

"But most of our lecturers are persons of fair education, and only three of
them have been graduated from the university. We assign subjects to them
some time in advance, and they prepare themselves for the occasion. This
gives the unprofessional people an interest in the exercises they would not
otherwise have. For example, Mr. Woolridge"--

"I beg pardon, but he is the father of the beautiful young lady who was
seated at the table next to Mr. Belgrave, is he not?" interposed Lord
Tremlyn.

"The same, sir. At first he considered the lectures a bore; and doubtless
they were such to him, for he had been a sporting-man and a yachtsman,
though he has since abandoned the races. But I gave him as a subject the
horses and other animals of Egypt. He did very well with it in his peculiar
way; and since that he is one of the most interested in the lectures,--or
perhaps I had better call them simply talks," added the commander.

"Then this voyage will create a new taste for him."

"I have no doubt of it. He is a Fifth Avenue millionaire, and he is able to
cultivate any taste he may acquire. Mr. Belgrave is one of our most useful
speakers, for he studies his subjects very faithfully. He is a devoted
student, speaks French fluently, and gets along very well with Spanish.
This voyage is a college course for him."

"Do your ladies take an interest in these lectures, Captain Ringgold?"

"All of them, though I have assigned a subject to only one of them. They
all manifest their interest by asking questions. Like myself, Mrs. Belgrave
and Mrs. Blossom are Methodists, while the Woolridge family are
Episcopalians, though none of us are bigoted. The sisters of my church are
very favorable to religious topics, such as were suggested on the Nile; and
when we were near the land of Goshen and the Sinai peninsula Mrs. Belgrave
spoke to us in this connection. Mrs. Blossom is one of the "salt of the
earth," a very good woman, very religious, and her studies have been
confined to the Bible and her denominational newspapers. Her education was
neglected, and she is rather tonguey, so that she asks curious questions;
but we all esteem her very highly, though her American peculiarities may
seem very odd to you."

"I have known similar people in England, and your description of her leads
me to respect the lady," replied the titled gentleman, who appeared to be
very democratic so far as homely merit was concerned.

Dr. Hawkes had taken his professional brother in charge, and Louis, Sir
Modava, as the commander had Lord Tremlyn, and they were showing them over
the ship. We need not follow them or repeat their explanations; but they
finally reached the promenade deck, where all the officers were presented
to the guests of the steamer. At Conference Hall the three couples met, and
the lectures were again commented upon; for this subject was uppermost in
the mind of the commander.

"Do you have a lecture to-day, Captain Ringgold?" asked his lordship.

"No, sir; this is Sunday, and we keep the Sabbath in a reasonable manner,
and the conference is usually omitted on this day, though when the subject
is appropriate for the day the lecture is given. The professor is a Roman
Catholic; but we have not had the slightest friction in regard to any man's
creed. The owner and voyager in our consort, the white ship abreast of us,
whose boat picked up five men of your ship's company, is a Mohammedan,
though the captain and his wife are Congregationalists. We have a religious
service on board at eleven o'clock, to which your party are invited, though
no umbrage will be taken if you prefer to absent yourselves."

"I shall certainly attend," replied his lordship; and his companions said
the same. "Have you a chaplain?"

"We have not, and I am obliged to act in that capacity for the want of a
better," replied the captain. "We Methodists are all trained to 'speak in
meeting,' whether we have the gift or not."

At the appointed time the gong was sounded for divine service, and four
whistles were given, that all on board might hear the call. Chairs had been
provided for the guests, and all the party were seated when six bells
struck. The two engineers of the Travancore were seated on the platform
with, the cook, and all the officers and seamen who could be spared stood
within hearing.

Most of the party were provided with tune-books, and the captain gave out
"The Life-Boat." Books were passed to the strangers, and the commander led
off in the singing. Lord Tremlyn and Dr. Ferrolan joined in with vigorous
bass voices. Captain Ringgold then followed with an extemporaneous prayer,
in which he poured forth his thanks to the God who rules the sea and the
land for the mercy that had spared their brothers from other lands from the
mighty power of the raging billows. Instead of reading a printed sermon as
usual, he gave an impromptu address relating to the event of the early
morning. Its bearing was very religious, and it was as eloquent as it was
homely compared with studied discourses.

After the singing of "Nearer, my God, to thee," the service closed; but the
people were invited to keep their seats. Without any explanation of what
was to follow, the captain introduced Lord Tremlyn.

"Mr. Commander, and ladies and gentlemen, I am utterly unable to express my
high appreciation of the religious service in which we have all assisted.
It went to my heart, and I am sure we who have been saved from perishing in
the stormy billows joined heartily with him who officiated in giving thanks
to God for our preservation," his lordship began.

"We are all profoundly impressed by the kindness, the unbounded
hospitality, which have been extended to us in our unfortunate, I may say
our forlorn, condition; and I am sure that not one of us, from the amateur
captain of the Travancore, to the coolies who were saved by the Blanche,
will ever cease to bless the commander, the officers, the crew, and the
passengers of the Guardian-Mother for the overwhelming kindness and care
they have all bestowed upon us. Though we are not at the festive board, I
venture to propose to you the health of Captain Ringgold, as the
representative of all to whom we are so gratefully indebted."

           "For he's a jolly good fellow!
            For he's a jolly good fellow!
            For he's a jolly good fellow!
            So say we all of us!"

To the astonishment, and perhaps to the disgust, of the two Methodist
ladies, Dr. Ferrolan struck up this refrain, singing with a vigor which
proved his earnestness. Sir Modava, the engineers, and the cook immediately
joined in with him. Dr. Hawkes, Uncle Moses, Mr. Woolridge, and others,
because they approved the sentiment of the words, struck in at the second
line, and it became a full chorus before the last line was reached.

It is an English custom to follow a toast to a distinguished personage with
this refrain, as expressive of the sentiments of the company; and though it
was not adapted to Sunday use, it was sincere and heartfelt on the part of
all who sang it. Captain Ringgold rose and bowed his thanks, and Lord
Tremlyn spoke again:--

"It is very natural that you should desire to know something about the
guests who have been so fortuitously cast into your kindly embrace, and
especially in regard to the calamity which has made us the recipients of
your generous hospitality; and Captain Ringgold gives us this opportunity
to gratify your reasonable curiosity. I am no orator, like my brother, the
commander of the Guardian-Mother, and I shall call upon my friend and
secretary, who has been travelling with me in India for his health, to give
you the desired information." Though it was Sunday, even the commander
joined in the applause that greeted the doctor when he mounted the rostrum.

"Mr. Commander, and ladies and gentlemen, I beg to inform you that my Lord
Tremlyn is quite as capable of speaking for himself as I am for him; but as
I am called upon to make this explanation, I shall do so with pleasure. I
have the honor to be the secretary of the Right Honorable Viscount Tremlyn,
the son of the noble earl who is Secretary of State for India. He has been
on a mission in the interests of his father to obtain certain information,
though he holds no official position.

"Sir Modava Rao has held several official positions in India, and is
perhaps more familiar with the country and its British and native
governments than any other man. He has been travelling with Lord Tremlyn,
to assist him in obtaining the information connected with his unofficial
mission. My lord has completed the work assigned to him; but the viceroy
wished him to visit the Imam of Muscat unofficially for a certain purpose I
am not at liberty to state.

"In a small steam-yacht owned by Sir Modava, the most devoted friend of his
lordship, in which he had been all around the peninsula, and up several of
its rivers, we embarked for Muscat, and safely reached that country. Then
the viscount decided to proceed to Aden, where he had important business;
for he intended to return to England by the Euphrates route, in order to
inform himself in regard to the navigation of the river. We sailed for
Aden, believing we should have the calm and pleasant weather of the
north-east monsoon.

"Yesterday we encountered the gale from the south-west, which was very
unusual. But the Travancore was an able seaboat, and we went along very
well until we were run into by a steamer in the darkness and mist early
this morning. The side of the little steamer was stove in, and she began to
fill. We put on our life-preservers, and prepared for the worst. We
stretched a life-line fore and aft, and listened to the gurgling waters
below deck. Suddenly, when she was partly filled with water, she capsized.
We clung to the life-line, which unhitched forward.

"Of course we expected she would go down; but she did not for several
hours. We had our life-preservers on, and we made fast the lines forward,
which saved us from being washed off the bottom of the vessel. I had a
revolver in my pocket, and when I saw the port light of your steamer, I
fired it, and we all shouted at the top of our lungs.

"We could hear the air and the water bubbling and hissing under us at
times, and it was understood that the confined air above the water in the
hull had kept her afloat. But this air had all escaped as the
Guardian-mother approached us, and with no warning she went to the bottom.
We were floated by our life-preservers till your boats picked us up, though
we were fearfully shaken and tossed about by the waves. Our gallant
saviours know how we were rescued--all honor and glory to them!"

The doctor finished his explanation and took his seat.




                                 CHAPTER VIII

                      AN INTERVIEW IN THE CAPTAIN'S CABIN


"Our log-book indicates that we passed a steamer to the northward of us at
four bells in the mid-watch," said Captain Ringgold, when Dr. Ferrolan
finished his narrative. "She was headed about west by south; and very
likely it was the one which ran into the Travancore, for no other was
reported."

"She was a vessel of about four hundred tons," added the viscount. "I was
in the pilot-house at the time, though the weather was so thick that I
could hardly make her out as she slipped off from our starboard bow, and
went on her course."

"Didn't she hail you, and offer to stand by you?"
inquired the commander.

"I heard something like a shout coming from her, and in a moment she was
beyond hailing-distance. I supposed we were going to the bottom in a few
minutes, and had my hands full, so that I had no time to look out for her,
though I supposed she would come about and render assistance; but we did
not hear from her again."

"It is possible that she did so, and was unable to find you, for it was
very dark, and the sea was very rough," suggested the commander. "But her
conduct looks heathenish, and I will warrant that she was not an English
steamer; for the British tars never pass by their fellow-beings on the
ocean in distress without rendering assistance."

"It was a new experience to me," added his lordship, "and perhaps I
neglected something I ought to have done."

"I think not; for your first and supreme duty at that time was to look out
for the safety of your own vessel," replied Captain Ringgold.

"So far as that was concerned, I believe I did all I could do to repair the
mischief," continued the viscount. "The chief engineer reported to me that
the side of the yacht was stove in near the bow, and that the water was
pouring into the hull. He suggested that a double sailcloth be hauled under
the vessel. We had no sails, but we promptly made use of an awning, and we
succeeded in drawing it under the bottom, and covering the aperture."

"That was precisely the right thing to do," said the commander.

"Probably it enabled us to float a short time longer than we should
otherwise have done; but the yacht had taken in too much water before we
applied the remedy, for suddenly, on the top of a huge wave, she made a
heavy roll, capsized, and came up with her keel in the air. I am only
afraid that I did not do all that might have been done."

"I could have done no more if I had been there with all my ship's company,"
the commander declared; for the amateur captain of the Travancore was a
conscientious man, and desired to relieve his mind of all blame for his
conduct; and he had really done all that could be done, though the remedy
applied was a failure.

"My chief engineer was an experienced man, and I followed his counsels in
everything," added the viscount.

"His lordship did all that it was possible for any man to do in such a
case," interposed the chief engineer of the Travancore, who was seated on
the platform. "I can only thank God that we were all saved, and I am sure
that no one is to blame."

"I am told that our cabin waiter and four coolies were picked up by the
other steamer," said Lord Tremlyn, as he looked about him.

"That is true, sir," interposed Mr. Boulong, who stood on the deck by the
platform. "Sir Modava told me there were eleven persons on board of the
wreck. I saw that number saved myself."

The details of the wreck of the Travancore were fully explained, though
individuals continued to talk about it until lunch-time. At the mid-day
repast the commander gave up his plan of seating the party, and invited the
members of it to select their own places; and they all took those they had
occupied at breakfast. In the afternoon the rough sea had almost entirely
subsided under the influence of the north-east monsoon, and the motion of
the steamer was easy and pleasant.

The company assembled in the music-room after a walk on deck, and the
captain, with the three notable guests, joined them after they had finished
their cigars; for all of them smoked. The "Gospel Hymns" and other hymn and
tune books were distributed. It was the usual time for singing, and the
trio from the Travancore contributed largely to the volume of tone on the
occasion. The new third officer had been stationed in the watch with Mr.
Boulong, and Scott had the first part of the afternoon watch. The officers
and engineers not on duty, as well as the members of the party from the
wreck, gathered at the windows of the music-room, and the commander invited
them to take seats in the apartment, thus adding still more to the volume
of the harmony. The music was all sacred, and nothing purely secular was
permitted by the captain.

Dr. Ferrolan, who had a fine bass voice, was invited to sing "Rocked in the
Cradle of the Deep," at the suggestion of Lord Tremlyn. His lordship sang
"Oh that I had Wings!" and Mrs. Belgrave, who was the pianist of the
occasion, gave a solo, while Sir Modava sang the "Missionary Hymn," which
is still a favorite in England and America, translated into the Hindu
language. The party who could not understand him followed in the
hymn-books.

"I wonder who wrote that beautiful hymn," said Mrs. Blossom, when there was
a pause as the singer finished. "It says Heber in my book, but I don't know
who he was."

"Reginald Heber was an English clergyman and poet, born in 1783. He was a
student in an Oxford college; I forget which," replied Sir Modava.

"Brasenose," prompted the viscount.

"As a student in this college he wrote 'Palestine,' for which he obtained
the prize; and it still holds a place in the literature of England. He soon
obtained a living, and occupied a prominent position among the clergy of
his native island. In 1823 he was made Bishop of Calcutta.

"Three years later, in the midst of his zealous labors in the service of
his Master, he died at Trichinopoly of apoplexy, greatly lamented. Perhaps

                  'From Greenland's icy mountains,
                     From India's coral strand,'

which you have sung this afternoon, is the widest-known of Bishop Heber's
hymns; but will you indulge me if I ask you to sing another of them, which
I find in the book I hold in my hand?--

             'Brightest and best of the sons of the morning,
                Dawn on our darkness, and lend us thine aid.'"

The hymn was sung to Mozart's music by about twenty voices, and the effect
was exceedingly agreeable. Sir Modava seemed to be in a rapture, as the
piece was his favorite, and came from one who was connected with his native
land.

He was a rather tall and slender man, and all the ladies declared that he
was very handsome; and his slightly dusky hue added to, rather than took
from, the beauty of his countenance. He wore a small mustache, but no other
beard. He was a nervous and highly sensitive person, and there was always a
smile on his face. He had already become a favorite among the gentlemen as
well as the ladies.

Another meeting was held in the evening, which was varied by some speaking
on the part of the gentlemen, including the guests, Uncle Moses, Dr.
Hawkes, and the commander. At the conclusion of the exercises, Sir Modava
begged the company to close by singing another of Bishop Heber's verses,
which he repeated from memory, though it was in one of the books:--

           "God that madest earth and heaven,
              Darkness and light;
            Who the day for toil hast given,
              For rest the night,--
            May thine angel guards defend us,
            Slumber sweet thy mercy send us,
              This livelong night!"

With this musical prayer on their lips, the company retired. Most of them
went to their staterooms; for the guests were very tired, and the regular
inmates of the cabin had left their berths at an unusually early hour in
the morning. All of them, whether technically religious or not, had been
greatly impressed by the music and the speaking of the evening. Dr.
Ferrolan was a more inveterate smoker than his companions in misfortune,
and he went with the commander to the deck, and was invited to the
captain's cabin, where he was provided with cigars.

"As you have already learned, Doctor, I am greatly interested in the
educational feature of my ship," said Captain Ringgold, after they had
conversed a while. "I desire to make it as attractive as possible, and I
have studied to vary it all I could."

"You have turned your ship into a noble and useful institution," replied
the guest. "Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava have both spoken in the highest
terms of this feature. And these lectures are mainly for the benefit of Mr.
Belgrave, your owner?"

"The plan was introduced principally on his account; but it has grown into
an exercise for all the cabin party, and most of them are speakers as well
as listeners; for it makes all of them feel a greater interest in the
conferences," replied the commander. "To-morrow we are to begin upon India,
dwelling upon its geography, civilization, government, and history. Now, I
wish to ask you, Doctor, if there would be any impropriety in my asking the
members of your party berthed in the cabin to take part in these
exercises?"

"Not the slightest, Captain Ringgold."

"Probably you are all better informed in regard to the affairs of the
peninsula than any three other men I could find if I were to search for
them here and in England," added the commander.

"You are not far from right, sir, as far as my associates are concerned;
for officially or unofficially they have visited every part of India, and
