"But he fought like a hero in the action, for I was near him when he
fell under the sabre of the lieutenant yonder," added Sergeant Sluder.
"Who was the other man killed, Life?" asked Deck.
"Barron, another of the new recruits."
"I am sorry to lose him, for he was a very promising soldier, though he
had not been sufficiently drilled. Bury the dead in the field on the
right," said Deck as he started for the baggage-wagons, where the
wounded had been carried.
Life had detailed a burial party, and Logan had done the same for the
men he had lost. Shovels and picks had been supplied to both from one
of the wagons. Having attended to this duty, the orderly sergeant was
sent to the field to ascertain the condition of the prisoners in charge
of Corporal Tilford. They still sat upon their horses, with the right
hand made fast at the crupper-strap, and doubtless were anxiously
awaiting the result of the skirmish in the road.
"How goes it, Sergeant Knox?" asked Captain Coonly when Life came
within speaking distance of him.
"All right," replied the big Kentuckian.
"Haven't the regulars of the Confederate army licked you?"
"Not much; but they have been licked out of their boots, with the third
part of them killed or badly wounded. You have no show for gittin' out
of this scrape yet."
Tilford reported that the prisoners had not made any trouble; for they
all declared that the Riverlawns would be beaten, and they were waiting
to be set at liberty. The sentinels over them guarded them very
closely, and afforded them no opportunity to make a demonstration, even
if they had been disposed to do so; for the soldiers with loaded
carbines in their hands, and with orders to shoot any one who did not
obey orders, or who attempted to escape, was a fact patent to them all.
Life was satisfied with his inspection, and hastened back to the
wagons.
When he reached the road, he met two well-dressed gentlemen coming out
of the field on the left, from the direction of Colonel Halliburn's
house. Both of them were mounted, and were provided with saddle-bags.
He was a native of Kentucky, and he promptly recognized them as
doctors.
"Mornin', gentlemen," said he, riding towards them. "I reckon you uns
be doctors?"
"You are not far from right, soldier," replied the elder of the two.
"Be you Secesh or Union?" demanded Life, as though he had the right to
put the question.
"Divide the question, and each can answer for himself," replied the one
who had spoken before. "I am opposed to making Kentucky the
battleground of this war; and if I fought on either side, it would be
with the Confederates."
"Be you of the same mind?" asked Life, turning to the other.
"I am sorry to differ from my friend, Dr. McNairy; but I am a Union
man," answered the younger doctor, though he appeared to be at least
forty years old. "But what has happened here?" he continued, surveying
the surroundings, especially the work of the burial parties.
"There's been a bit of a scrimmage between your friends here and them
as runs with t'other doctor; but you are both wanted right now,"
replied Life.
At this moment Mr. Milton arrived at the spot, and had apparently
recognized the two gentlemen as they rode across the field. He saluted
them both, calling them by name.
"I've told these doctors what we want of them," added the sergeant.
"But what about this battle, Mr. Milton?" inquired Dr. McNairy, the
elder one, who appeared to be about sixty years old.
Milton gave a very brief account of the action, and mentioned that Mr.
Halliburn's mansion had been ransacked by the prisoners whom he pointed
out in the field.
"Why didn't you hang them?" demanded Dr. Barlow, the young doctor.
"The military officer in command of the detachment here managed the
business, and I had nothing to do with the matter; though I would have
strung up Coonly if I had had my way, for hanging would do him good.
But the lieutenant said that one outrage did not mend another," replied
Milton impatiently; for he was anxious to have the wounded cared for.
"The lieutenant is a sensible man," added Dr. McNairy.
"Now, Dr. Barlow, your coming is most opportune; and I hope you will
attend to the wounded of the Union force, and that Dr. McNairy will do
the same for the Confederates," added Milton.
"It is a mere accident that we happen to be here, for we have been over
to perform an operation on the wife of General Macklin; but I am glad
to be able to serve the Union wounded, and I am quite willing to do the
same for the Confederates."
"I will take care of the Confederates," added Dr. McNairy.
"Now, Sergeant Knox, if you will conduct Dr. McNairy to the
Confederates, I will take Dr. Barlow to the Union wounded."
"I'll do that; but tell the leftenant there is a cavalry force comin'
down the road, and I reckon it's the first platoon of our company."
Both of them departed on their missions, accompanied by the doctors.
CHAPTER VII
THE BATTLE AT THE BREEDINGS FORT
Dr. McNairy was introduced to Lieutenant Logan, and the surgeon began
his work at once. Both of the professional gentlemen had their
instruments with them, for they had performed an operation that
forenoon. Life remained but a moment after he had done his errand, and
hastened to a point where he could obtain a better view of the
approaching cavalry force. His supposition that it was the first
platoon of the first company proved to be correct, and he awaited its
arrival.
The column was moving leisurely, for there was no occasion for haste;
and it appeared later that the men had not been idle during the
forenoon. Captain Gordon and Lieutenant Belthorpe were riding at the
head of the platoon, and as they came to a turn in the road the scene
of the late action came into view; and both of the officers were
greatly surprised, for neither of them had supposed that Deck would
have anything to do but guard and hurry on the baggage-wagons.
"What does all that mean?" asked the captain, as he opened his eyes
very wide to take in the gathering in the road and the fields beside it
of men and horses.
"It looks as though Lieutenant Lyon had been doing something there; but
I will warrant that Deck has done his duty like a man, whatever he has
been at," replied Tom Belthorpe, who had an abundant admiration for the
young officer.
"I hope he has not been reckless, as I am afraid he is inclined to be
when things get warm around him," returned the captain.
"There comes Sergeant Knox; and things must be quiet in the camp, or he
would not have left Deck for a moment," added the lieutenant.
Life had ridden forward to inform the captain what had transpired in
the road and at the mansion of Mr. Halliburn; for he believed the
officers would be anxious to solve what was now a mystery to them.
"What's going on here, Sergeant?" demanded the captain as soon as Life
came within speaking-distance of him.
"We uns have had a bit of a scrimmage here with Confed'rit cavalry,"
replied the sergeant as he reined in his steed, and saluted the
captain.
"A skirmish?" said the captain.
"Well, yes; and it was a rayther lively bout till the enemy
surrendered."
"Did they surrender?" asked the commander of the company; for it was
not the habit of the Southern troopers to yield, and he had been
fighting with a portion of the same company that forenoon.
"They couldn't help theirselves; we outnumbered 'em, and they had to
give in or be cut to pieces."
"How is Lieutenant Lyon?" inquired the captain with no little anxiety
in his tones and his expression.
"I reckon he's got a sword-cut on the arm; but he's right side up, and
don't say nothin' about it."
"What were the losses?"
"We had two killed and four wounded."
"Who were the killed?"
"Orly Lyon and Barron."
"Both new recruits, and one of them is the nephew of Major Lyon."
"The enemy lost six killed, and nine wounded; and the captain in
command was in the fust lot, brought down by Leftenant Lyon in a
hand-to-hand squabble at the side of the road. Deck fit like a mad
rooster. His hoss stood up straight, and gin his rider a chance to git
in the cut that finished the officer."
"Lieutenant Lyon was reckless, wasn't he, Sergeant?" asked the captain.
"Not a bit on't! He was as cool as a frozen cowcumber; but he hit hard
when his hoss stood up endways," replied Life. "We cleaned out a gang
of gorillas afore we had this scrimmage in the road."
"Another affair? Did you have a hard fight with them?"
"No fight at all," answered the tall Kentuckian, with a slight chuckle.
"Deck bagged 'em like a flock of wild turkeys in a trap-pen."
"We will hear about that another time," said Captain Gordon as the head
of the column arrived at the scene of the fight. "Who are those over on
our right?"
"The fust ones is the Confed'rits burin' their dead. The next lot is
the doctor fixin' up the enemy's wounded. The surgeon is a Secesh, and
we picked up two on 'em as they come across lots from an operation on
some woman. T'other is over with our men, and he's a Union man."
"Where is Lieutenant Lyon?"
"I left him over by the baggage-wagons, lookin' out for the wounded. We
shall git there in a minute or two."
"What are those men on our left, in the field?" asked the captain as
they came to a point where the prisoners could be seen, still in charge
of Corporal Tilford.
"Them's the prisoners tooken over at the mansion of Mr. Halliburn, half
a mile from here," replied Life, as they approached the location of the
wounded Union soldiers.
Dr. Barlow had informed Deck of the coming of the first platoon, and he
had mounted his horse to go out and meet them. He was ready to come
into the presence of the captain of the company; for he felt that he
had done his duty faithfully, and also that he had conducted himself
with prudence and discretion.
"What in the world have you been doing over here, Lieutenant Lyon?"
asked Captain Gordon, as he rode forward, and grasped the hand of the
young officer. "You seem to have been busy here from what Sergeant Knox
has told me."
"We haven't had any time to spare, Captain; for in half an hour after
we parted events began to thicken upon us, and we have been kept busy
ever since," replied Deck.
"I will hear your report later, for my men are tired, and need their
dinner. It seems to be all quiet about here now, and we must take a
rest here."
"I have ordered our cooks to make coffee, and it will be ready to serve
out very soon," replied Deck, as he pointed to the fires in the field
behind the temporary hospital; and near them the horses of the troopers
and the mules that drew the wagons were eating their oats off the
grass. "We shall feed our men on herring and hardtack with the coffee."
Lieutenant Belthorpe ordered his men to picket their horses and feed
them; and in another hour the soldiers and their beasts had all been
fed. Seated on the grass with his two lieutenants, the captain listened
to the report of Deck on the events of the forenoon. When he came to
his encounter with Captain Letcher, both of his auditors were intensely
interested, though he told his story very modestly.
"I suppose you caused Ceph to stand up on end when you found yourself
in a tight place?" suggested Tom Belthorpe.
"I did not," answered Deck very emphatically. "Ceph knows more than
some men; but he became restive and uneasy after the captain and I had
pegged away at each other for some time, and he stood up of his own
accord. I had to hold on with all my might with my left hand; but my
horse did not try to leap over the other animal, for he was even taller
than Ceph. When I saw the captain's head below mine, I used the
opportunity, and made the cut that finished the affair. I was not
reckless, as I was once accused of being, but wrongly, Captain Gordon.
I have made it a business of mine to-day to keep cool, and not let my
impulses run away with me; and I think I succeeded very well."
"Life thinks so too," added the captain.
"I have not said a word to him about it. I have kept my affairs closely
in my own head."
"You managed the guerillas admirably, and bagged them very skilfully,"
said his superior approvingly.
"I think it was largely a matter of luck and chance that I gathered
them in without losing a man, or even having a fight," added Deck. "The
ruffians were all busy ransacking the mansion in search of the money;
and if they had found it, I learned from Mr. Milton that it would have
given them over two hundred dollars apiece. I got in without
disturbing them, and they did not suspect the presence of my platoon
till the bugler sounded the call for my men. Then they were surrounded,
and the carbines were pointed at every window, with half a dozen aimed
up the staircase. It was easy enough then to bring the affair to a
conclusion."
"What are you going to do with your prisoners, Lieutenant?" asked
Captain Gordon.
"I turn them over to my superior officer, of course; for I have ceased
to be in command now. Mr. Milton informed me that there is a Union Home
Guard at Millersville that might take charge of the guerillas," replied
Deck, glad to be rid of this responsibility.
"Who is this Mr. Milton?" asked the commander; and Deck told him all he
knew about him, and especially that he had been very useful to him as a
guide.
"Where is he now?" inquired the captain, as they continued to eat the
dinner of hardtack and herring, washed down with hot coffee.
"There he is near the hospital; he has just sat down to lunch with the
sergeants," replied Deck, pointing to the group.
"Ask him to join us, Lieutenant," said the captain.
Deck obeyed; and Milton immediately responded to the summons. The
lieutenant apologized to him for his want of attention, for he had been
very busy every moment of the time. He was introduced to the commander
and Lieutenant Belthorpe; and the former thanked him warmly for the
service he had rendered, and invited him to join them in the simple
repast before them. He freely answered all the questions put to him. He
declared that Millersville contained a majority of loyal people, many
of whom had enlisted in the Kentucky regiments, while others had formed
a Union Home Guard, and were ready to fight to keep the State in the
Union.
"I judge that your time has not been wasted this forenoon," said Deck.
"It has not, indeed," replied the commander of the company; and he
proceeded to detail his experience with the enemy at Breedings.
He found on his arrival at that place that the marauders were a
foraging-party of regular Confederate cavalry, and not guerillas. It
consisted of at least a platoon, or half a company. They were coming
across the field from the Millersville Road. As soon as they discovered
the Riverlawn force, the enemy retreated, as the captain understood it;
but they were only hastening to a small fortification of earthworks
thrown up by the Confederate Home Guards of the place, who were in the
majority in that locality, although there were several rich planters in
the district who were Union men.
The fort had been armed with two rusty iron cannons, which had been
used for salutes in the time when the Fourth of July had been generally
celebrated. But it was not large enough to hold all the cavalrymen, and
the second platoon of twenty-five men had been sent to a hill on the
other side of the road. The commander sent Lieutenant Belthorpe to
attack them there, while he gave his attention to the enemy in the
fort.
The two guns, loaded with home-made grape-shot, were discharged; but
the gunners were utterly ignorant of the art of handling the pieces,
and the scattering bullets all went over the heads of the loyal
cavalrymen. The captain did not give them time to repeat the
experiment, for he ordered his lieutenant to charge over the earthwork
before they had time to load again. The fort had been constructed in a
very rude manner, without the help of an engineer; and it was only a
sort of windrow of earth, as hay is raked up in a field, and the
mounted men had no difficulty in riding over it.
The Confederates had dismounted, turning their horses into a field.
This was a fatal mistake on the part of their officer. His men were
huddled together with the Home Guards in the small space; and though
they fought bravely, they were soon ridden down, and totally defeated.
Many of them had been killed or disabled, and the Home Guards had run
away as soon as the horses began to ride them down. The officer called
for quarter, and surrendered. He and his men were paroled at once.
At the hill Lieutenant Belthorpe had vigorously attacked the second
platoon, and soon drove them from their ground. When the victory was
won at the fort, Captain Gordon re-enforced Belthorpe with twenty men
while the paroling was in process; and the enemy seeing that they were
outnumbered more than before, when they were driven from the hill, gave
up the fight, and fled at the best speed of their horses by the way
they had come. The lieutenant in command pursued them as far as the
road, when the recall was sounded near the fort, and they returned to
the little village. Captain Letcher was in command of the platoon, and
he had continued to retreat, believing that his pursuers were still
following him.
CHAPTER VIII
BEFORE THE BATTLE OF MILL SPRINGS
Captain Gordon had related the history of the affair at Breedings, and
Deck had learned from Lieutenant Logan considerably more that was not
within the knowledge of the commander. As they finished their simple
dinner, they discovered a gentleman, attended by a couple of men who
looked like mechanics, the latter with muskets on their shoulders, and
all of them mounted on fine horses, approaching the camp. The two
surgeons had finished dressing the wounds of the injured, and had
mounted their horses to depart. The soldiers, the prisoners, and the
horses had all been fed, and it seemed to be time for the next
movement.
"That is Colonel Halliburn coming," said Milton.
"Is his title simply an honorary one, or is he a military man?"
inquired the captain.
"He has been the leading man in the militia for thirty years, though he
has never been in active service," replied Milton. "He is past the
military age now."
The gentleman was introduced to the party, and he gave Deck the most
cordial thanks for the service rendered to his brother.
"How is Miss Grace, Colonel?" asked Win.
"She is well and happy now, though she is much concerned about her
guardian, and would have returned to him if I had permitted her to do
so; but I am going over to my brother's now, and I shall persuade him
and his wife to come to my house, for it is not safe for them to be
alone there. I have brought a couple of my men with me; and if we can
do anything to assist you here, we are at your service."
"Thank you, sir; we have defeated the enemy on all sides, and we are
ready to move on now to join the other company of our squadron,"
replied the captain. "The next question that we have to settle is the
disposition of our wounded, some of whom are not in condition to be
moved."
"My house is at your service for this purpose. I have twenty-five men
who belong to the Home Guard of Millersville residing in my village;
and I have called them out since Miss Morgan came to my house, and they
will be able to defend us from any ordinary enemies, so that your men
will be safe there," said the colonel.
"I thank you with all my heart," answered Captain Gordon. "I shall
avail myself of your kind offer."
"I am the captain of the Home Guards, and Dr. Barlow is the surgeon;
and we will attend to the removal of the men. I will look after the
matter as soon as I return from my brother's. Mr. Milton and the doctor
will remain here till I come."
"I am under very great obligations to you, Colonel Halliburn," added
the captain, "and I hope I shall be able to render you any service in a
time of need which you may require."
The commander of the company paroled the Confederate prisoners, and
permitted them to retire with their horses. They carried their wounded
with them on stretchers or on horseback, and marched up the road to
join the rest of their company. The bugle sounded, and the first
company of the Riverlawns formed in the road. It was only about six
miles to Millersville, and the captain decided to march the guerilla
prisoners to that town. They were placed between the two platoons, with
a guard on the flank; but the fun had all gone out of them, and they
were as submissive as whipped puppies. The column marched, and in about
two hours arrived at their next destination.
They found a company of about fifty Home Guards, armed with muskets,
but without uniforms, drawn up to receive them; for the news of the
skirmish had reached the place, and a considerable body of citizens
were in attendance as spectators.
"I am Lieutenant Ripley, commanding in the absence of Captain Halliburn
the Home Guards, all loyal men, and we give you a Kentucky welcome,"
said the officer of the Guards, saluting the captain. "What can we do
for you?"
"You can take these guerilla prisoners off our hands, for they are a
nuisance to us," replied Captain Gordon with a smile.
"Do you wish us to hang them to those trees yonder?" asked the
lieutenant.
"I do not ask you to do anything of the kind, though it might do them
good to hang them; but we don't treat prisoners in that way, even if
they are guerillas," replied the commander with considerable energy.
"You can confine them in some building, or let them go; but you must
not kill, starve, or ill-treat them, for Union soldiers don't do such
things."
It was nearly sundown, and the captain decided to bivouac for the
night. The camp was laid out in a field, and the tents were pitched. A
supper was cooked for the men, though the commissioned officers were
invited to a private house; but they declined the invitations to sleep
away from the company, though they ate the supper provided for them in
the house of a Union magnate, and repeated again the story of the day's
events. The commander inquired particularly for the news from the seat
of war in this quarter.
"I understand that General Crittenden has joined the army of General
Zollicoffer, and, as he ranks him, has the command of the army,"
replied the host, who seemed to be a very well-informed gentleman. "I
believe most of the Confederate troops on the other side of the
Cumberland River are Tennesseeans, and that is about all I know in
regard to them."
"Do you know where they are located, Mr. Kennedy?" asked the captain.
"We all know that they are on the other side of the Cumberland, about
six miles below the point to which steamboats can ascend. Zollicoffer
has fortified the hills, three or four hundred feet high, and holds a
very strong position; in fact, one of the strongest in the State in the
hands of the enemy. It covers the coal-mines and a great many
salt-wells beyond the river, and these are of the utmost importance to
the Confederacy. But it is well understood in these parts that the army
of Zollicoffer is short of supplies, and some say his men are starving
in the camps. I know that the Tennessee cavalry are foraging on this
side of the river to a considerable extent; and you have met one of
these parties to-day, and defeated them. Compared with the guerillas
that are operating on their own account in many parts of the State, the
foragers are really very mild; for they do not insult women, or take
anything from the farmers and planters except provisions; and they
treat Federalists and Secessionists just alike, for supplies have
become an absolute necessity to their army."
"Troops are constantly arriving from the North; and doubtless they
intend to attack Zollicoffer or General Crittenden, whichever it may
be, in his position near the Cumberland," suggested Captain Gordon.
"I doubt if Zollicoffer will wait for them to do that; for he must find
the Union forces, and beat them, or retreat into Tennessee. Should he
stay where he is, he must either surrender or starve."
It appeared subsequently that he decided upon the alternative of
crossing the Cumberland, and attacking the Union forces wherever he
could find them. He was compelled to do this, as Mr. Kennedy declared,
