of January." 
It was a defective enough little story, crude 
and young ; I never glance at it without long 
ing to write it over ; but I cannot read it, to 
this day, without that physical distress which 
exceptional tragedy must produce in any 
sensitive organization ; nor can I ever trust my 
self to hear it read by professional elocutionists. 
I attribute the success of the story entirely to 
the historic and unusual character of the 
catastrophe on whose movement it was built. 
Of journalism, strictly speaking, I did no 
thing. But I often wrote for weekly denominational 
papers, to which I contributed those 
strictly secular articles so popular with the
religious public. My main impression of them 
now is a pleasant sense of sitting out in the 
apple-trees in the wonderful Andover Junes, 
 
and "noticing" new books with which Boston 
publishers kept me supplied ; for whatever 
reason, the weeklies gave me all I could do at 
this sort of thing. In its course I formed some 
pleasant acquaintances ; among others that of 
Jean Ingelow. I have never seen this poet, 
whom I honor now as much as I admired then ; 
but charming little notes, and books of her own, 
with her autograph, reached me from time to 
time for years. I remember when " The Gates 
Ajar" appeared, that she frankly called it 
"Your most strange book." 
This brings me to say : I have been so often 
and so urgently asked to publish some account 
of the history of this book, that perhaps I need 
crave no pardon of whatever readers these 
papers may command, for giving more of our 
space to the subject than it would otherwise 
occur to one to do to a book so long behind the 
day. 
Of what we know as literary ambition, I believe 
myself to have been as destitute at that 
time as any girl who ever put pen to paper. I 
was absorbed in thought and feeling as far 
removed from the usual class of emotions or mo 
tives which move men and women to write, as 
Wachusett was from the June lilies burning 
beside the moonlit cross in my father's garden. 
Literary ambition is a good thing to possess ; 
and I do not at all suggest that I was superior 
to it, but simply apart from it. Of its pangs 
and ecstasies I knew little, and thought less. 
I have been asked, possibly a thousand times, 
whether I looked upon that little book as in any 
sense the result of inspiration, whether what is 
called spiritualistic, or of any other sort. I have 
always promptly said " No " to this question. 
Yet sometimes I wonder if that convenient 
monosyllable in deed and truth covers the whole 
case. 
When I remember just how the book came 
to be, perceive the consequences of its being, 
and recall the complete unconsciousness of the 
young author as to their probable nature, there 
are moments when I am fain to answer the 
question by asking another : " What do we 
mean by inspiration ? " 
That book grew so naturally, it was so inevitable,
it was so unpremeditated, it came so 
plainly from that something not one's self which 
makes for uses in which one's self is extinguished,
that there are times when it seems to 
me as if I had no more to do with the writing 
of it than the bough through which the wind 
cries, or the wave by means of which the tide 
rises. 
The angel said unto me "Write!" and I 
wrote. 
 
It is impossible to remember how or when 
the idea of the book first visited me. Its
publication bears the date of 1869, but I am told 
that the exact time was in 1868 ; since
publishers sometimes give to an Autumn book the 
date of the coming year. My impressions are 
that it may have been towards the close of 
1864 that the work began ; for there was work 
in it, more than its imperfect and youthful 
character might lead one ignorant of the art of 
book-making to suppose. 
It was not until 1863 that I left school, being 
then just about at my nineteenth birthday. It 
is probable that the magazine stories and Sun 
day-school books and hack work occupied from 
one to two years without interruption ; but I 
have no more temperament for dates in my own 
affairs than I have for those of history. At the 
most, I could not have been far from twenty 
when the book was written ; possibly approach 
ing twenty-one. 
At that time, it will be remembered, our 
country was dark with sorrowing women. The 
regiments came home, but the mourners went 
about the streets. 
The Grand Review passed through Washing 
ton ; four hundred thousand ghosts of murdered 
men kept invisible march to the drum-beats, 
and lifted to the stained and tattered flags the 
proud and unreturned gaze of the dead who 
have died in their glory. 
Our gayest scenes were black with crape. 
The drawn faces of bereaved wife, mother, 
sister, and widowed girl showed piteously every 
where. Gray-haired parents knelt at the grave 
of the boy whose enviable fortune it was to be 
brought home in time to die in his mother's 
room. Towards the nameless mounds of Arlington, 
of Gettysburg, and the rest, the yearn 
ing of desolated homes went out in those waves 
of anguish which seem to choke the very air 
that the happier and more fortunate must 
breathe. 
Is there not an actual, occult force in the 
existence of a general grief ? It swells to a tide 
whose invisible flow covers all the little
resistance of common, human joyousness. It is like 
a material miasma. The gayest man breathes 
it, if he breathe at all ; and the most superficial 
cannot escape it. 
Into that great world of woe my little book 
stole forth, trembling. So far as I can remem 
ber having had any "object " at all in its 
creation, I wished to say something that would 
comfort some few I did not think at all about 
comforting many, not daring to suppose that 
incredible privilege possible of the women 
whose misery crowded the land. The smoke 
 
of their torment ascended, and the sky was 
blackened by it. I do not think I thought so 
much about the suffering of men the fathers, 
the brothers, the sons bereft ; but the wo 
men, the helpless, outnumbering, unconsulted 
women ; they whom war trampled down, with 
out a choice or protest ; the patient, limited, 
domestic women, who thought little, but loved 
much, and, loving, had lost all, to them I 
would have spoken. 
For it came to seem to me, as I pondered 
these things in my own heart, that even the 
best and kindest forms of our prevailing beliefs 
had nothing to say to an afflicted woman that 
could help her much. Creeds and commenta 
ries and sermons were made by men. What 
tenderest of men knows how to comfort his 
own daughter when her heart is broken ? What 
can the doctrines do for the desolated by death ? 
They were chains of rusty iron, eating into raw 
hearts. The prayer of the preacher was not 
much better ; it sounded like the language of 
an unknown race to a despairing girl. Listen 
to the hymn. It falls like icicles on snow. Or, 
if it happen to be one of the old genuine out 
cries of the church, sprung from real human 
anguish or hope, it maddens the listener, and 
she flees from it, too sore a thing to bear the 
touch of holy music. 
At this time, be it said, I had no interest at 
all in any especial movement for the peculiar 
needs of women as a class. I was reared in 
circles which did not concern themselves with 
those whom we should probably have called 
agitators. I was taught the old ideas of woman 
hood, in the old way, and had not to any 
important extent begun to resent them. 
Perhaps I am wrong here. Individually, I 
may have begun to recoil from them, but only 
in a purely selfish, personal way, beyond which 
I had evolved neither theory nor conscience, 
much less the smallest tendency towards
sympathy with any public movement of the question. 
In the course of two or three years spent in 
exceptional solitude, I had read a good deal in 
the direction of my ruling thoughts and feeling, 
and came to the writing of my little book, not 
ignorant of what had been written for and by 
the mourning. The results of this reading, of 
course, went into the book, and seemed to me 
at the time by far the most useful part of it. 
How the book grew, who can say ? More of 
nature than of purpose, surely. It moved like 
a tear or a sigh or a prayer. In a sense I 
scarcely knew that I wrote it. Yet it signified 
labor and time, crude and young as it looks to 
me now ; and often as I have wondered, from 
 
my soul, why it has known the history that it 
has, I have at least a certain respect for it, my 
self, in that it did not represent shiftlessness or 
sloth, but steady and conscientious toil. There 
was not a page in it which had not been sub 
jected to such study as the writer then knew 
how to offer to her manuscripts. 
Every sentence had received the best atten 
tion which it was in the power of my 
inexperience and youth to give. I wrote and rewrote. 
The book was revised so many times that I 
could have said it by heart. The process of 
forming and writing "The Gates Ajar" lasted, 
I think, nearly two years. 
I had no study or place to myself in those 
days ; only the little room whose one window 
looked upon the garden cross, and which it was 
not expected would be warmed in winter. 
The room contained no chimney, and, until I 
was sixteen, no fire for any purpose. At that 
time, it being supposed that some delicacy of 
the lungs had threatened serious results, my 
father, who always moved the sods beneath 
him and the skies above him to care for a sick 
child, had managed to insert a little stove into 
the room, to soften its chill when needed. But 
I did not have consumption, only life ; and one 
was not expected to burn wood all day for 
private convenience in our furnace-heated house. 
Was there not the great dining-room where the 
children studied ? 
It was not so long since I, too, had learned 
my lessons off the dining-room table, or in the 
corner by the register, that it should occur to 
any member of the family that these opportu 
nities for privacy could not answer my needs. 
Equally, it did not occur to me to ask for any 
abnormal luxuries. I therefore made the best 
of my conditions, though I do remember sorely 
longing for quiet. 
This, at that time, in that house, it was
impossible for me to compass. There was a grow 
ing family of noisy boys, four of them, of 
whom I was the only sister, as I was the old 
est child. When the baby did not cry (I have 
always maintained that the baby cried pretty 
steadily both day and night, but this is a point 
upon which their mother and I have affection 
ately agreed to differ), the boys were shouting 
about the grounds, chasing each other through 
the large house, up and down the cellar stairs, 
and through the wide halls, a whirlwind of 
vigor and fun. They were merry, healthy boys, 
and everything was done to keep them so. I 
sometimes doubt if there are any happier
children growing anywhere than the boys and girls 
of Andover used to be. I was very fond of 
the boys, and cherished no objection to their 
 
privileges in the house. But when one went 
down, on a cold day, to the register, to write 
one's chapter on the nature of amusements in 
the life to come, and found the dining-room 
neatly laid out in the form of a church congre 
gation, to which a certain proportion of brothers 
were enthusiastically performing the duties of 
an active pastor and parish, the environment 
was a definite check to inspiration. 
I wonder if all Andover boys played at 
preaching? It certainly was the one sport in our 
house which never satiated. 
Coming in one day, I remember, struggling 
with certain hopeless purposes of my own, for 
an afternoon's work, I found the dining-room 
chairs all nicely set in the order of pews ; a 
table, ornamented with Bible and hymn-books, 
confronted them ; behind it, on a cricket, 
towered the bigger brother, loudly holding forth. 
The little brother represented the audience 
it was usually the little one who was forced to 
play this duller role and, with open mouth, 
and with wriggling feet turned in on the rounds 
of the chair, absorbed as much exhortation as 
he could suffer. 
"My text, brethren," said the little minister, 
" is, * Suffer the little children to come unto 
me. " Pausing here to make a fit and full 
impression he solemnly proceeded : 
"My subject is, God ; Joseph ; and Moses in 
the bulrushes ! " 
Discouraged by the alarming breadth of the 
little preacher's topic, I fled upstairs again. 
There an inspiration did, indeed, strike me ; for 
I remembered an old fur cape, ox pelisse, of my 
mother s, out of fashion, but the warmer for 
that ; and straightway I got me into it, and 
curled up, with my papers, on the chilly bed in 
the cold room, and went to work. 
It seems to me that a good part of "The 
Gates Ajar " was written in that old fur cape. 
Often I stole up into the attic, or into some 
unfrequented closet, to escape the noise of the 
house while at work. I remember, too, writing 
sometimes in the barn, on the haymow. 
The book extended over a wide domestic to 
pography. 
I hasten to say that no person was to blame 
for inconveniences of whose existence I had 
never complained. Doubtless something would 
have been done to relieve them had I asked for 
it ; or if the idea that my work could ever be 
of any consequence had occurred to any of us. 
Why should it ? The girl who is never " do 
mestic " is trial enough at her best. She can 
not cook ; she will not sew. She washes dishes 
Mondays and Tuesdays under protest, while 
the nurse and parlor maid are called off from 
 
their natural avocations, and dusts the drawing- 
room with resentful obedience. She sits cutting 
out underclothes in the March vacations, 
when all the schools are closed, and when the 
heavy wagons from the distant farming region 
stick in the bottomless Andover mud in front 
of the professor's house. The big front door 
is opened, and the dismal, creaking sounds 
come in. 
The kind and conscientious new mother, to 
whom I owe many other gentle lessons more 
valuable than this, teaches how necessary to a 
lady's education is a neat needle. 
The girl does not deny this elemental fact ; 
but her eyes wander away to the cold sky above 
the Andover mud, with passionate entreaty. 
To this day I cannot hear the thick chu-chunk ! 
of heavy wheels on March mud without a sud 
den mechanical echo of that wild, young outcry : 
" Must I cut out underclothes forever ? Must 
I go on tucking the broken end of the thread 
into the nick in the spool ? Is this LIFE ? " 
I am more than conscious that I could not 
have been an easy girl to "bring up," and am 
sure that for whatever little difficulties beset 
the earlier time of my ventures as a writer, no 
person was in any fault. They were doubtless 
good for me, in their way. We all know that 
some of the greatest of brain-workers have 
selected the poorest and barest of spots in which 
to study. Luxury and bric-a-brac come to easy 
natures or in easy years. The energy that very 
early learns to conquer difficulty is always worth 
its price. 
I used, later, to hear in Boston the story of 
the gentleman who once took a friend to see 
the room of his son at Harvard College. The 
friend was a man of plain life, but of rich men 
tal achievement. He glanced at the Persian 
rugs and costly draperies of the boy's quarters 
in silence. 
"Well," cried the fond father, "don't you 
think my son has a pretty room ? " 
"Sir," said the visitor, with gentle candor, 
"you'll never raise a scholar on that carpet." 
Out of my discomforts, which were small 
enough, grew one thing for which I have all 
my life been grateful the formation of fixed 
habits of work. 
I have seldom waited for inspiration before 
setting about a task to be done. Life is too 
short for that. Broken health has too often 
interrupted a regimen of study which ought to 
have been more continuous ; but, so far as I 
may venture to offer an opinion from personal 
experience, I should say that the writers who 
would be wise to play hide and seek with their 
own moods are few. 
 
According to my custom, I said nothing (so 
far as I can remember) to any person about 
the book. 
It cannot be said that I had any hope of 
success with it ; or that, in my most irrational 
dreams, anything like the consequences of its 
publication ever occurred to my fancy. But I 
did distinctly understand that I had set forth 
upon a venture totally dissimilar to the safe 
and respectable careers of my dozen Sunday- 
school books. 
I am sometimes asked why it was that, hav 
ing such a rare critic at first hand as my father, 
I did not more often submit my manuscripts 
to his judgment. It would be difficult to say 
precisely why. The professor of rhetoric was 
a very busy man ; and at that time the illness 
which condemned him to thirty years of invalid 
suffering was beginning to make itself manifest. 
I can remember more often throwing down my 
pen to fly out and beg the children to be quiet 
in the garden while the sleepless man struggled 
for a few moments rest in the daytime, or 
stealing on tiptoe to his locked door, at any 
hour of the night, to listen for signs of sudden 
illness or need of help ; these things come back 
more easily than the desire to burden him with 
what I wrote. 
