It was another carriage that stopped the way now, 
and once more the barker made the night ring with 
what Westover felt his heartless and shameless cries 
for Miss Lynde's carriage. After a maddening delay, 
it lagged up to the curb and Jeff pulled the door 
open. 

" Hello ! " he said. " There's nobody here ! " 

'Nobody there?" cried Westover, and they fell 
upon the coachman with wild question and reproach ; 
the policeman had to tell him at last that the carriage 
must move on, to make way for others. 

The coachman had no explanation to offer : he did 
not know how or when Mr. Alan had got away. 

" But you can give a guess where he's gone ? " Jeff 
suggested, with a presence of mind which Westover 
mutely admired. 

" Well, sor, I know where he do be gahn, some- 
times," the man admitted. 



" Well, that will do ; take me there," said Jeff. 
" You go in and account for me to Miss Lynde," he 
instructed Westover, across his shoulder. " I'll get 
him home before morning, somehow ; and I'll send the 
carriage right back for the ladies, now." 

Westover had the forethought to decide that Miss 
Bessie should ask for Jeff if she wanted him, and this 
simplified matters very much. She asked nothing 
about him. At sight of Westover coming up to her 
where she sat with her aunt, she merely said, " Why, 
Mr. Westover! I thought you took leave of this 
scene of gayety long ago." 

"Did you?" Westover returned provisionally, and 
she saved him from the sin of framing some deceit in 
final answer by her next question. 

" Have you seen anything of Alan lately ? " she 
asked, in a voice involuntarily lowered. 

Westover replied in the same octave, " Yes, I saw 
him going a good while ago." 

" Oh ! " said the girl. " Then I think my aunt and 
I had better go, too." 

Still she did not go, and there was an interval in 
which she had the air of vaguely waiting. To West- 
over's vision, the young people still passing to and 
from the ballroom were like the painted figures of a 
picture quickened with sudden animation. There were 
scarcely any elders to be seen now, except the chaper- 
ons, who sat in their places with iron fortitude ; West- 
over realized that he was the only man of his age left. 
He felt that the lights ought to have grown dim, but 
the place was as brilliant as ever. A window had been 



 

opened somewliere, and the cold breath of the night 
was drawing through the heated rooms. 

He was content to have Bessie stay on, though he 
was almost dropping with sleep, for he was afraid that 
if she went at once, the carriage might not have got 
back, and the whole afiair must somehow be given 
away ; at last, if she were waiting, she decided to wait 
no longer, and then Westover did not know how to 
keep her. He saw her rise and stoop over her aunt, 
putting her mouth to the elder lady's ear, and he heard 
her saying, " I am going home. Aunt Louisa." She 
turned sweetly to him. " Won't you let us set you 
down, Mr. Westover ? " 

"Why, thank you, I believe I prefer walking. But 
do let me have your carriage called," and again he 
hurried himself into his overcoat and hat, and ran 
down-stairs, and the barker a third time sent forth his 
lamentable cries in summons of Miss Lynde's carriage. 

While he stood on the curb-stone eagerly peering 
up and down the street, he heard, without being able 
either to enjoy or reseut it, one of the policemen say 
across him to the other, " Miss Lynde seems to be do- 
in' a livery-stable business to-night." 

Almost at the moment a carriage drove up, and he 
recognized Miss Lynde's coachman, who recognized 
him. " Just got back, sor," he whispered, and a min- 
ute later Bessie came daintily out over the carpeted 
way with her aunt. 

" How good of you ! " she said, and " Good-night, 
Mr. Westover," said Miss Lynde, with an implication 
in her voice that virtue was peculiarly its own reward 



 

for those who performed any good office for her or 
hers. 

Westover shut them in, the carriage rolled off, and 
he started on his homeward walk with a long sigh of 
relief. 



XXXIV. 

Bessie asked the sleepy man wlio opened her aunt's 
door whether her brother had come in yet, and found 
that he had not. She helped her aunt off up-stairs 
with her maid, and when she came down again she 
sent the man to bed ; she told him she was going to 
sit up and she would let her brother in. The caprices 
of Alan's latch-key were known to all the servants, and 
the man understood what she meant. He said he had 
left a light in the reception-room and there was a fire 
there ; and Bessie tripped on down from the library 
floor, where she had met him. She had put ofE her 
ball dress and had slipped into the simplest and easiest 
of breakfast frocks, which was by no means plain. 
Bessie had no plain frocks for any hour of the day ; 
her frocks all expressed in stuS and style and color, and 
the bravery of their flying laces and ribbons, the audac- 
ity of spirit with which she. was herself chicqued to- 
gether, as she said. This one she had on now was 
something that brightened her dull complexion, and 
brought out the best effect of her eyes and mouth, and 
seemed the effluence of her personal dash and grace. 



 

It made the most of her, and she liked it beyond all 
her other negligees for its complaisance. 

She got a book, and sat down in a long, low chair 
before the fire and crossed her pretty slippers on the 
warm hearth. It was a quarter after three by the clock 
on the mantel ; but she had never felt more eagerly 
awake. The party had not been altogether to her 
mind, up to midnight, but after that it had been a 
series of rapid and vivid emotions, which continued 
themselves still in the tumult of her nerves, and seemed 
to demand an indefinite sequence of experience. She 
did not know what state her brother might be in when 
he came home ; she had not seen anything of him after 
she first went out to supper; till then, though, he had 
kept himself straight, as he needs must ; but she could 
not tell what happened to him afterwards. She hoped 
that he would come home able to talk, for she wished 
to talk. She wished to talk about herself ; and as she 
had already had flattery enough, she wanted some 
truth about herself; she wanted Alan to say what he 
thought of her behavior the whole evening with that 
jay. He must have seen something of it in the be- 
ginning, and she should tell him all the rest. She 
should tell him just how often she had danced with 
the man, and how many dances she had sat .out with 
him ; how she had pretended once that she was en- 
gaged when another man asked her, and then danced 
with the jay, to whom she pretended that he had en- 
gaged her for the dance. She had wished to see how 
he would take it ; for the same reason she ' had given 
to some one else a dance that was really his. She 



 

would tell Alan how the jay had asked her for that 
last dance, and then never come near her again. That 
would give him the whole situation, and she would 
know just what he thought of it. 

What she thought of herself she hardly knew, or 
made believe she hardly knew. She prided herself 
upon not being a flirt ; she might not be very good, as 
goodness went, but she was not despicable, and a flirt 
was despicable. She did not call the audacity of her 
behavior with the jay flirting ; he seemed to understand 
it as well as she, and to meet her in her own spirit ; 
she wondered now whether this jay was really more in- 
teresting than the other men one met, or only different ; 
whether he was original, like Alan himself, or merely 
novel, and would soon wear down to the tiresomeness 
that seemed to underlie them all, and made one 
wish to do something dreadful. In the jay's presence 
she had no wish to do anything dreadful. Was it 
because he was dreadful enough for both, all the time, 
without doing anything ? She would like to ask Alan 
that, and see how he would take it. Nothing seemed 
to put the jay out, so far as she had tried, and she 
had tried some bold impertinences with him. He was 
very jolly through them all, and at the worst of them 
he laughed and asked her for that dance, which he 
never came to claim, though in the meantime he 
brought her some belated supper, and was devoted to 
her and her aunt, inventing services to do for them. 
Then suddenly he went off and did not return, and 
Mr. Westover mysteriously reappeared, and got their 
carriage. 



 

She heard a scratching at the key-hole of the out- 
side door ; she knew it was Alan's latch. She had 
left the inner door ajar that there might be no uncer- 
tainty of hearing him, and she ran out into the space 
between that and the outer door where the fumbling 
and scraping kept on. 

" Is that you, Alan ? " she called, softly, and if she 
had any doubt before, she had none when she heard 
her brother outside, cursing his luck with his key as 
usual. 

She flung the door open, and confronted him with 
another man, who had his arms arouud him as if he 
had caught him from falling with the inward pull of 
the door. Alan got to his feet and grappled with the 
man, and insisted that he should come in and make a 
night of it. 

Bessie saw that it was Jeff, and they stood a mo- 
ment, looking at each other. JefE tried to free himself 
with an appeal to Bessie: "I beg your pardon. Miss 
Lynde. I walked home with your brother, and I was 
just helping him to get in — I didn't think that 
you—" 

Alan said, with his measured distinctness : " No- 
body cares what you think. Come in, and get some- 
thing to carry you over the bridge. Cambridge cars 
stopped running long ago. I say you shall ! " He 
began to raise his voice. A light flashed in a window 
across the way, and a sash was lifted ; some one must 
be looking out. 

" Oh, come in with him ! " Bessie implored, and at 
a little yielding in JeS, her brother added : 

Q 



 

" Come in, you damn jay ! " He pulled at JefE. 

Jefi made haste to shut the door behind them. He 
was laughing ; and if it was from mere brute insensi- 
bility to what would have shocked another in the sit- 
uation, his frank recognition of its grotesqueness jvas 
of better effect than any hopeless effort to ignore it 
woul(J have been. People adjust themselves to their 
trials ; it is the pretence of the witness that there is 
no trial which hurts, and Bessie was not wounded by 
Jeff's laugh. 

"There's a fire here in the reception-room," she 
said. " Can you get him in ? " 

" I guess so." 

Jeff lifted Alan into the room and stayed liim on 
foot there, while he took off his hat and overcoat, and 
then he let him sink into the low easy-chair Bessie 
had just risen from. All the time, Alan was bidding 
her ring and have some champagne and cold meat set 
out on the side-board, and she was lightly promising 
and coaxing. But he drowsed quickly in the warmth, 
and the last demand for supper died half uttered on 
his lips. 

Jeff asked across him : " Can't I get him up-stairs 
for you ? I can carry him." 

She shook her head, and whispered back, " I can 
leave him here," and she looked at Jeff with a mo- 
ment's hesitation.- " Did you — do you think that — 
any one noticed him, at Mrs. Enderby's ? " 

" No; they had got him in a room by himself — the 
caterer's men had." 

" And you found him there ? " 




" Mr. Westover found him there," Jeff answered. 

" I don't understand." 

"Didn't he come to you after I left ? " 

"Yes." 

" I told him to excuse me — " 

" He didn't." 

" Well, I guess he was pretty badly rattled." Jeff 
stopped himself in the vague laugh of one who re- 
members something ludicrous, and turned his face 
away. 

" Tell me what it was ! " she demanded, nervously. 

" Mr. Westover had been home with him once, and 
he wouldn't stay. He made Mr. Westover come back 
for me." 

" What did he want with you ? " 

Jeff shrugged. 

"And then what?" 

" We went out to the carriage, as soon as I could 
get away from you ; but he wasn't in it. I sent Mr. 
Westover back to you and set out to look for him." 

" That was very good of you. And I — thank you 
for your kindness to my brother. I shall not forget 
it. And I wish to beg your pardon." 

"What for?" asked Jeff, bluntly. 

" For blaming you when you didn't come back for 
the dance." 

If Bessie had meant nothing but what was fitting to 
the moment some inherent lightness of nature played 
her false. But even the histrionic touch which she 
could not keep out of her voice, her manner, another 
sort of man might have found merely pathetic. 



 

Jeff laughed with subtle intelligence. " Were you 
very hard on me ? " 

" Very," she answered in kind, forgetting her broth- 
er, and the whole terrible situation. 

" Tell me what you thought of me," he said, and 
he came a little nearer to her, looking very handsome 
and very strong. " I should like to know." 

" I said I should never speak to you again." 

" And you kept your word," said JeflE. " Well, 
that's all right. Good-night — or good-morning, which- 
ever it is." He took her hand, which she could not 
withdraw, or feigned to herself that she could not 
withdraw, and looked at her with a silent laugh, and 
a hardy, sceptical glance that she felt take in every 
detail of her prettiness, her plainness. Then he 
turned and went out, and she ran quickly and locked 
the door upon him. 



XXXV. 

Bessie crept up to her room, where she spent the 
rest of the night in her chair, amidst a tumult of emo- 
tion which she would have called thinking. She asked 
herself the most searching questions, but she got no 
very candid answers to them, and she decided that she 
must see the whole fact with some other's eyes before 
she could know what she had meant or what she had 
done. 

When she let the daylight into her room, it showed 
her a face in her mirror that bore no trace of conflict- 
ing anxieties. Her complexion favored this efEect of 
inward calm ; it was always thick ; and her eyes seemed 
to her all the brighter for their vigils. 

A sm'ile, even, hovered on her mouth as she sat 
