day?" 
Rose hesitated again. " No ; before your child 
was born. Soon after I came." 
"She had made up her mind then from the 
first?" 
" Yes," said Rose, with the serenitjr of superior 
sense ; " she had laid out for herself that pleasant 
little prospect. She called it a presentiment, a 
fixed idea." 
Tony took this in with a frown. "And you 
never spoke of it?" 
" To you ? Why in the world should I when 
she herself didn't ? I took it perfectly for what 
it was an inevitable but unimportant result of 
the nervous depression produced by her step 
mother's visit." 
Tony had fidgeted away with his hands in the 
pockets of his trousers. " Damn her step-mother's 
visit!" 
" That's exactly what I did ! " Rose laughed. 
" Damn her step-mother too ! " the young man 
angrily pursued. 
"Hush!" said the girl, soothingly: "we mustn't 
curse our relations before the Doctor ! " Doctor 
Ramage had come back from his patient, and she 
 
mentioned to him that the medicine for which she 
had gone out would immediately be delivered. 
" Many thanks," he replied : " I'll pick it up 
myself. I must run out to another case." 
Then with a friendly hand to Tony and a nod 
at the room he had quitted: " Things are quiet." 
Tony, gratefully grasping his hand, detained 
him by it. " And what was that loud ring that 
called you ? " 
" A stupid flurry of Nurse. I was ashamed of 
her." 
"Then why did you stay so long?" 
" To have it out with your wife. She wants 
you again." 
Tony eagerly dropped his hand. " Then I 
go!" " 
The Doctor raised his liberated member. "In 
a quarter of an hour not before. I'm most 
reluctant, but I allow her five minutes." 
"It may make her easier afterwards," Rose 
observed. 
" That's precisely the ground of my giving in. 
Take care, you know; Nurse will time you," 
Doctor Ramage said to Tony. 
"So many thanks. And you'll come back?" 
" The moment I'm free." 
When he had gone Tony stood there sombre. 
"She wants to say it again that's what she 
wants." 
" Well," Rose answered, " the more she says it, 
the less it's true. It's not she who decides it." 
"No," Tony brooded; "it's not she. But it's 
not you and I either," he soon went on. 
" It's not even the Doctor," Rose remarked with 
her conscious irony. 
Her companion rested his troubled eyes on her. 
"And yet he's as worried as if it were." She 
protested against this imputation with a word to 
which he paid no heed. "If anything should 
happen" and his eyes seemed to go as far as 
his thought "what on earth would become of 
me?" 
The girl looked down, very grave. " Men have 
borne such things." 
"Very badly the real ones." He seemed to 
lose himself in the effort to embrace the worst, 
to think it out. "What should I do? where 
should I turn?" 
She was silent a little. "You ask me too 
much ! " she helplessly sighed. 
" Don't say that," replied Tony, " at a moment 
when I know so little if I mayn't have to ask 
 
you still more!" This exclamation made her 
meet his eyes with a turn of her own that might 
have struck him had he not been following an 
other train. "To you I can say it, Rose she's 
inexpressibly dear to me." 
She showed him a face intensely receptive. 
" It's for your affection for her that I've really 
given you mine." Then she shook her head 
seemed to shake out, like the overflow of a cup, 
her generous smile. " But be easy. We sha'n't 
have loved her so much only to lose her." 
" I'll be hanged if we shall ! " Tony responded. 
"And such talk's a vile false note in the midst 
of a joy like yours." 
" Like mine ? " Rose exhibited some vagueness. 
Her companion was already accessible to the 
amusement of it. "I hope that's not the way 
you mean to look at Mr. Vidal ! " 
" Ah, Mr. Vidal ! " she ambiguously murmured. 
" Sha'n't you then be glad to see him ? " 
"Intensely glad. But how shall I say it?" 
She thought a moment and then went on as if 
she found the answer to her question in Tony's 
exceptional intelligence and their comfortable intimacy. "There's gladness and gladness. It isn't 
love's young dream ; it's rather an old and rather 
a sad story. We've worried and waited we've 
been acquainted with grief. We've come together 
a weary way." 
" I know you've had a horrid grind. But isn't 
this the end of it?" 
Rose hesitated. "That's just what he's to 
settle." 
"Happily, I see! Just look at him." 
The glass doors, as Tony spoke, had been 
thrown open by the butler. The young man 
from China was there a short, meagre young 
man, with a smooth face and a dark blue double- 
breasted jacket. " Mr. Vidal ! " the butler announced, withdrawing again, while the visitor, 
whose entrance had been rapid, suddenly and 
shyly faltered at the sight of his host. His 
pause, however, lasted but just long enough to 
enable Rose to bridge it over with the frankest 
maidenly grace ; and Tony's quick sense of being 
out of place at this reunion was not a bar to 
the impression of her charming, instant action, 
her soft " Dennis, Dennis ! " her light, fluttered 
arms, her tenderly bent head, and the short, bright 
stillness of her clasp of her lover. Tony shone 
down at them with the pleasure of having helped 
them, and the warmth of it was in his immediate 
 
grasp of the traveller's hand. He cut short his 
embarrassed thanks he was too delighted; and 
leaving him with the remark that he would pres 
ently come back to show him his room, he went 
off again to poor Julia. 
VI 
DENNIS VIDAL, when the door had closed on 
his host, drew again to his breast the girl to 
whom he was plighted, and pressed her there 
with silent joy. She softly submitted, then still 
more softly disengaged herself, though in his 
flushed firmness he but partly released her. The 
light of admiration was in his hard young face 
a visible tribute to what she showed again his 
disaccustomed eyes. Holding her yet, he covered 
her with a smile that produced two strong but 
relenting lines on either side of his dry, thin 
lips. " My own dearest," he murmured, " you're 
still more so than one remembered!" 
She opened her clear eyes wider. " Still more 
what?" 
"Still more of a fright!" And he kissed her 
again. 
"It's you that are wonderful, Dennis," she said: 
" you look so absurdly young." 
 
He felt with his lean, fine, brown hand his 
spare, clean, brown chin. " If I looked as old as 
I feel, dear girl, they'd have my portrait in the 
illustrated papers." 
He had now drawn her down upon the nearest 
sofa, and while he sat sideways, grasping the 
wrist of which he remained in possession after she 
had liberated her fingers, she leaned back and 
took him in with a deep air of her own. "And 
yet it's not that you're exactly childish or so 
extraordinarily fresh," she went on as if to puzzle 
out, for her satisfaction, her impression of him. 
" ' Fresh,' my dear girl ! " He gave a little 
happy jeer ; then he raised her wrist to his mouth 
and held it there as long as she would let him, 
looking at her hard. " That's the freshest thing 
I've ever been conscious of ! " he exclaimed as she 
drew away her hand and folded her arms. 
"You're worn, but you're not wasted," she 
brought out in her kind but considering way. 
" You're awfully well, you know." 
"Yes, I'm awfully well, I know" he spoke 
with just the faintest ring of impatience. Then 
he added: "Your voice, all the while, has been 
in my ears. But there's something you put into 
it that they out there, stupid things ! couldn't. 
Don't ' size me up ' so," he continued, smiling ; 
"you make me nervous about what I may seem 
to come to!" 
They had both shown shyness, but Rose's was 
already gone. She kept her inclined position and 
her folded arms; supported by the back of the 
sofa, her head preserved, toward the side on which 
he sat, its charming contemplative turn. "I'm 
only thinking," she said, "that you look young 
just as a steel instrument of the best quality, 
no matter how much it's handled, often looks 
new." 
"Ah, if you mean I'm kept bright by use ! " 
the young man laughed. 
" You're polished by life." 
" ' Polished ' is delightful of you ! " 
" I'm not sure you've come back handsomer than 
you went," said Rose, " and I don't know if you've 
come back richer." 
"Then let me immediately tell you I have!" 
Vidal broke in. 
She received the announcement, for a minute, 
in silence : a good deal more passed between this 
pair than they uttered. " What I was going to 
say," she then quietly resumed, "is that I'm 
awfully pleased with myself when I see that at 
 
any rate you're what shall I call you ? a made 
man." 
Vidal frowned a little through his happiness. 
"With 'yourself? Aren't you a little pleased 
with me ?" 
She hesitated. "With myself first, because I 
was sure of you first." 
" Do you mean before I was of you f I'm some 
how not sure of you yet ! " the young man 
declared. 
Rose coloured slightly ; but she gaily laughed. 
" Then I'm ahead of you in everything ! " 
Leaning toward her with all his intensified need 
of her and holding, by his extended arm, the top 
of the sofa-back, he worried with his other hand 
a piece of her dress, which he had begun to finger 
for want of something more responsive. " You're 
as far beyond me still as all the distance I've 
come." He had dropped his eyes upon the 
crumple he made in her frock, and her own dur 
ing that moment, from her superior height, de 
scended upon him with a kind of unseen appeal. 
When he looked up again it was gone. " What 
do you mean by a ' made ' man? " he asked. 
" Oh, not the usual thing, but the real thing. 
A man one needn't worry about." 
" Thank you ! The man not worried about is 
the man who muffs it." 
" That's a horrid selfish speech," said Rose 
Armiger. "You don't deserve I should tell you 
what a success I now feel that you'll be." 
" Well, darling," Vidal answered, " that matters 
the less as I know exactly the occasion on which 
I shall fully feel it for myself." 
Rose manifested no further sense of this occa 
sion than to go straight on with her idea. She 
placed her arm with frank friendship on his 
shoulder. It drew him closer, and he recovered 
his grasp of her free hand. With his want of 
stature and presence, his upward look at her, his 
small, smooth head, his seasoned sallowness and 
simple eyes, he might at this instant have struck 
a spectator as a figure actually younger and 
slighter than the ample, accomplished girl whose 
gesture protected and even a little patronised 
him. But in her vision of him she none the less 
clearly found full warrant for saying, instead of 
something he expected, something she wished and 
had her reasons for wishing, even if they repre 
sented but the gain of a minute's time. " You're 
not splendid, my dear old Dennis you're not 
dazzling, nor dangerous, nor even exactly distin- 
 
guished. But you've a quiet little something 
that the tiresome time has made perfect, and that 
just here where you've come to me at last 
makes me immensely proud of you ! " 
She had, with this, so far again surrendered her 
self that he could show her in the ways he pre 
ferred how such a declaration touched him. The 
place in which he had come to her at last was of 
a nature to cause him to look about at it, just as 
to begin to inquire was to learn from her that 
lie had dropped upon a crisis. He had seen Mrs. 
Bream, under Rose's wing, in her maiden days ; 
but in his eagerness to jump at a meeting with 
the only woman really important to him he 
had perhaps intruded more than he supposed. 
Though he expressed again the liveliest sense of 
the kindness of these good people, he was unable 
to conceal his disappointment at finding their 
inmate agitated also by something quite distinct 
from the joy of his arrival. "Do you really 
think the poor lady will spoil our fun? " he rather 
resentfully put it to her. 
" It will depend on what our fun may demand 
of her," said Rose. "If you ask me if she's in 
danger, I think not quite that: in such a case I 
must certainly have put you off. I daresay to-day 
will show the contrary. But she's so much to me 
you know how much that I'm uneasy, quickly 
upset ; and if I seem to you flustered and not my 
self and not with you, I beg you to attribute it 
simply to the situation in the house." 
About this situation they had each more to say, 
and about many matters besides, for they faced 
each other over the deep waters of the accumu 
lated and the undiscussed. They could keep no 
order, and for five minutes more they rather help 
lessly played with the flood. Dennis was rueful 
at first, for what he seemed to have lighted upon 
was but half his opportunity; then he had an 
inspiration which made him say to his companion 
that they should both, after all, be able to make 
terms with any awkwardness by simply meeting 
it with a consciousness that their happiness had 
already taken form. 
" Our happiness ? " Rose was all interest. 
" Why, the end of our delays." 
She smiled with every allowance. "Do you 
mean we're to go out and be married this 
minute ? " 
"Well almost: as soon as I've read you a 
letter." He produced, with the words, his 
pocket-book. 
 
She watched him an instant turn over its con 
tents. "What letter?" 
" The best one I ever got. What have I done 
with it?" On his feet before her, he continued 
his search. 
"From your people?" 
" From my people. It met me in town, and it 
makes everything possible." 
She waited while he fumbled in his pockets; 
with her hands clasped in her lap she sat looking 
up at him. " Then it's certainly a thing for me to 
hear." 
"But what the dickens have I done with it?" 
Staring at her, embarrassed, he clapped his hands 
on coat and waistcoat, to other receptacles ; at 
the end of a moment in which he had become 
aware of the proximity of the noiseless butler, 
upright in the high detachment of the superior 
servant who has embraced the conception of un 
packing. 
" Might I ask you for your keys, sir ? " 
Dennis Vidal had a light he smote his fore 
head. " Stupid it's in my portmanteau ! " 
" Then go and get it ! " said Rose, who per 
ceived as she spoke, by the door that faced her, 
that Tony Bream was rejoining them. She got 
up, and Tony, agitated, as she could see, but 
with complete command of his manners, immedi 
ately and sociably said to Dennis that he was 
ready to guide him upstairs. Rose, at this, inter 
posed. " Do let Walker take him I want to 
speak to you." 
Tony smiled at the young man. " Will you 
excuse me then ? " Dennis protested against the 
trouble he was giving, and Walker led him away. 
Rose meanwhile waited not only till they were 
out of sight and of earshot, but till the return of 
Tony, who, his hand on Vidal's shoulder, had 
gone with them as far as the door. 
" Has he brought you good news ? " said the 
master of Bounds. 
" Very good. He's very well ; he's all right." 
Tony's flushed face gave to the laugh with 
which he greeted this almost the effect of that of 
a man who had been drinking. "Do you mean 
he's quite faithful ? " 
Rose always met a bold joke. " As faithful as 
I ! But your news is the thing." 
" Mine ? " He closed his eyes a moment, but 
stood there scratching his head as if to carry off 
with a touch of comedy his betrayal of emotion. 
" Has Julia repeated her declaration ? " 
 
Tony looked at her in silence. " She has done 
something more extraordinary than that," he re 
plied at last. 
" What has she done ? " 
Tony glanced round him, then dropped into a 
chair. He covered his face with his hands. " I 
must get over it a little before I tell you ! " 
VII 
ROSE ARMIGER waited, compassionately, for 
Tony to recover himself, dropping again, during 
the pause, upon the sofa she had just occupied 
with her visitor. At last as, while she watched 
him, his silence continued, she put him a ques 
tion. "Does she at any rate still maintain that 
she sha'n't get well?" 
Tony removed his hands from his face. " With 
the utmost assurance or rather with the utmost 
serenity. But she treats that now as a mere 
detail." 
Rose wondered. " You mean she really feels 
that she's sinking?" 
"So she says." 
" But is she, good heavens ? Such a thing isn't 
a matter of opinion : it's a fact or it's not a 
fact." 
"It's not a fact," said Tony Bream. " How can 
it be when one has only to see that her strength 
 
hasn't failed? She of course says it has, but she 
has a remarkable deal of it to show. What's the 
vehemence with which she expresses herself but a 
sign of increasing life ? It's excitement, of course 
