get out the confession that for what he and the council 
had regarded as imperative military reasons they had so 
advised. 
' In God's name,' said Joan, ' my Lord's counsel is safer 
and wiser than yours. You thought to deceive me, but 
you have deceived yourselves, for I bring you the best help 
that ever knight or city had ; for it is God's help, not 
sent for love of me, but by God's pleasure. At the prayer 
of St. Louis and St. Charlemagne He has had pity on 
Orleans, and will not suffer the enemy to have both the 
Duke of Orleans and his city. The provisions to save the 
starving people are here, the boats are below the city, the 
wind is contrary, they cannot come up hither. Now then 
tell me, in God's name, you who are so wise, what that 
council of yours was thinking about, to invent this foolish 
difficulty.' 
Dunois and the rest fumbled around the matter a 
moment, then gave in and conceded that a blunder had 
been made. 
' Yes, a blunder has been made,' said Joan, ' and except 
God take your proper work upon Himself and change the 
wind and correct your blunder for you, there is none else 
that can devise a remedy.' 
Some of those people began to perceive that with all her 
technical ignorance she had practical good sense, and that 
with all her native sweetness and charm she was not the 
right kind of a person to play with. 
Presently God did take the blunder in hand, and by His 
grace the wind did change. So the fleet of boats came up 
and went away loaded with provisions and cattle, and con- 
veyed that welcome succour to the hungry city, managing 
the matter successfully under protection of a sortie from the 
walls against the bastille of St. -Loup. Then Joan began 
on the Bastard again : 
' You see here the army ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' It is here on this side by advice of your council ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' Now, in God's name, can that wise council explain why 
it is better to have it here than it would be to have it in the 
bottom of the sea ? ' 
Dunois made some wandering attempts to explain the 
inexplicable and excuse the inexcusable, but Joan cut him 
short and said — 
' Answer me this, good sir — has the army any value on 
this side of the river ? ' 
The Bastard confessed that it hadn't — that is, in view of 
the plan of campaign which she had devised and decreed. 
' And yet, knowing this, you had the hardihood to dis- 
obey my orders. Since the army's place is on the other 
side, will you explain to me how it is to get there ? ' 
The whole size of the needless muddle was apparent. 
Evasions were of no use ; therefore Dunois admitted that 
there was no way to correct the blunder but to send the 
army all the way back to Blois, and let it begin over again 
and come up on the other side this time, according to Joan's 
original plan. 
Any other girl, after winning such a triumph as this over 
a veteran soldier of old renown, might have exulted a little 
and been excusable for it, but Joan showed no disposition 
of this sort. She dropped a word or two of grief over the 
precious time that must be lost, then began at once to issue 
commands for the march back. She sorrowed to see her 
army go ; for she said its heart was great and its enthusiasm 
hiofh, and that with it at her back she did not fear to face 
all the might of England.  
All arrangements having been completed for the return 
of the main body of the army, she took the Bastard and La 
Hire and a thousand men and went down to Orleans, where 
all the town was in a fever of impatience to have sight 
of her face. It was eight in the evening when she and the 
troops rode in at the Burgundy gate, with the Paladin pre- 
ceding her with her standard. She was riding a white horse 
and she carried in her hand the sacred sword of Fierbois. 
You should have seen Orleans then. What a picture it 
was ! Such black seas of people, such a starry firmament 
of torches, such roaring whirlwinds of welcome, such boom- 
ing of bells and thundering of cannon ! It was as if the 
world was come to an end. Everywhere in the glare of the 
torches one saw rank upon rank of upturned white faces, 
the mouths wide open, shouting, and the unchecked tears 
running down ; Joan forged her slow way through the solid 
masses, her mailed form projecting above the pavement of 
heads like a silver statue. The people about her struggled 
along, gazing up at her through their tears with the rapt 
look of men and women who believe they are seeing one 
who is divine ; and always her feet were being kissed by 
grateful folk, and such as failed of that privilege touched 
her horse and then kissed their fingers. 
Nothing that Joan did escaped notice ; everything she 
did was commented upon and applauded. You could hear 
the remarks going all the time. 
' There — she's smiling — see ! ' 
' Now she's taking her little plumed cap off to somebody 
— ah, it's fine and graceful ! ' 
' She's patting that woman on the head with her 
gauntlet.' 
' Qh, she was born on a horse — see her turn in her 
saddle, and kiss the hilt of her sword to the ladies in the 
window that threw the flowers down.' 
' Now there's a poor woman lifting up a child — she's 
kissed it — oh, she's divine ! ' 
' What a dainty little figure it is, and what a lovely face 
— and such colour and animation ! ' 
Joan's slender long banner streaming backward had an 
accident — the fringe caught fire from a torch. She leaned 
forward and crushed the flame in her hand. 
' She's not afraid of fire nor anything ! ' they shouted, 
and delivered a storm of admiring applause that made 
everything quake. 
She rode to the cathedral and gave thanks to God, and 
the people crammed the place and added their devotions to 
hers ; then she took up her march again and picked her 
slow way through the crowds and the wilderness of torches 
to the house of Jacques Boucher, treasurer of the Duke of 
Orleans, where she was to be the guest of his wife as long 
as she stayed in the city, and have his young daughter for 
comrade and room-mate. The delirium of the people went 
on the rest of the night, and with it the clamour of the joy- 
bells and the welcoming cannon. 
Joan of Arc had stepped upon her stage at last, and was 
ready to begin. 
CHAPTER XIV 
She was ready, but must sit down and wait until there was 
an army to work with. 
Next morning, Saturday, April 30, 1429, she set about 
inquiring after the messenger who carried her proclamation 
to the English from Blois — the one which she had dictated 
at Poitiers. Here is a copy of it. It is a remarkable docu- 
ment, for several reasons : for its matter-of-fact directness, 
for its high spirit and forcible diction, and for its naive con- 
fidence in her ability to achieve the prodigious task which 
she had laid upon herself, or which had been laid upon her 
— which you please. All through it you seem to see the 
pomps of war and hear the rumbling of the drums. In it 
Joan's warrior soul is revealed, and for the moment the soft 
little shepherdess has disappeared from your view. This 
untaught country damsel, unused to dictating anything at 
all to anybody, much less documents of state to kings and 
generals, poured out this procession of vigorous sentences 
as fluently as if this sort of work had been her trade from 
childhood : 
' JESUS MARIA 
' King of England, and you Duke of Bedford who call yourself Regent 
of France ; William de la Pole, Earl of Suffolk ; and you Thomas Lord 
Scales, who style yourselves lieutenants of the said Bedford — do right to 
the King of Heaven. Render to the Maid who is sent by God the keys 
of all the good towns you have taken and violated in France. She is sent 
hither by God to restore the blood royal. She is very ready to make 
peace if you will do her right by giving up France and paying for what 
you have held. And you archers, companions of war, noble and other- 
wise, who are before the good city of Orleans, begone into your own 
land in God's name, or expect news fron the Maid who will shortly go to 
see you to your very great hurt. King of England, if you do not so, I am 
chief of war, and wherever I shall find your people in France I will drive 
them out, willing or not willing ; and if they do not obey I will slay them 
all, but if they obey, I will have them to mercy. I am come hither by God, 
the King of Heaven, body for body, to put you out of France, in spite of 
those who would work treason and mischief against the kingdom. Think 
not you shall ever hold the kingdom from the King of Heaven, the Son of 
the Blessed Mary ; King Charles shall hold it, for God wills it so, and has 
revealed it to him by the Maid. If you believe not the news sent by God 
through the Maid, wherever we shall meet you we will strike boldly and 
make such a noise as has not been in France these thousand years. Be 
sure that God can send more strength to the Maid than you can bring to 
any assault against her and her good men-at-arms ; and then we shall see 
who has the better right, the King of Heaven, or you. Duke of Bedford, 
the Maid prays you not to bring about your own destruction. If you do 
her right, you may yet go in her company where the French shall do the 
finest deed that has ever been done in Christendom, and if you do not, you 
shall be reminded shortly of your great wrongs. ' 
In that closing sentence she invites them to go on 
crusade with her to rescue the Holy Sepulchre. 
No answer had been returned to this proclamation, and 
the messenger himself had not come back. So now she 
sent her two heralds with a new letter warning the English 
to raise the siege and requiring them to restore that missing 
messenger. The heralds came back without him. All they 
brought was notice from the English to Joan that they 
would presently catch her and burn her if she did not clear 
out now while she had a chance, and ' go back to her 
proper trade of minding cows.' 
She held her peace, only saying it was a pity that the 
English would persist in inviting present disaster and 
eventual destruction when she was ' doing all she could to 
get them out of the country with their lives still in their 
bodies.' 
Presently she thought of an arrangement that might be 
acceptable, and said to the heralds, ' Go back and say to 
Lord Talbot this, from me : '' Come out of your bastilles 
with your host, and I will come with mine ; if I beat you, 
go in peace out of France ; if you beat me, burn me, 
according to your desire." ' 
I did not hear this, but Dunois did, and spoke of it. 
The challenge was refused. 
Sunday morning her Voices or some instinct gave her a 
warning, and she sent Dunois to Blois to take command of 
the army and hurry it to Orleans. It was a wise move, for 
he found Regnault de Chartres and some more of the 
King's pet rascals there trying their best to disperse the 
army, and crippling all the efforts of Joan's generals to head 
it for Orleans. They were a fine lot, those miscreants. 
They turned their attention to Dunois, now, but he had 
baulked Joan once, with unpleasant results to himself, and 
was not minded to meddle in that way again. He soon had 
the army moving. 
CHAPTER XV 
We of the personal staff were in fairy-land, now, during 
the few days that we waited for the return of the army. 
We went into society. To our two knights this was not a 
novelty, but to us young villagers it was a new and won- 
derful life. Any position of any sort near the person of the 
Maid of Vaucouleurs conferred high distinction upon the 
holder and caused his society to be courted ; and so the 
D'Arc brothers, and Noel, and the Paladin, humble peasants 
at home, were gentlemen here, personages of weight 
and influence. It was fine to see how soon their country 
diffidences and awkwardnesses melted away under this 
pleasant sun of deference and disappeared, and how lightly 
and easily they took to their new atmosphere. The Paladin 
was as happy as it was possible for any one in this earth to 
be. His tongue went all the time, and daily he got new 
delight out of hearing himself talk. He began to enlarge 
his ancestry and spread it out all around, and ennoble it 
right and left, and it was not long until it consisted almost 
entirely of Dukes. He worked up his old battles and 
tricked them out with fresh splendours ; also with new 
terrors, for he added artillery now. We had seen cannon 
for the first time at Blois — a few pieces — here, there was 
plenty of it, and now and then we had the impressive 
spectacle of a huge English bastille hidden from sight in a 
mountain of smoke from its own guns, with lances of red 
flame darting through it ; and this grand picture, along 
with the quaking thunders pounding away in the heart of 
it, inflamed the Paladin's imagination and enabled him to 
dress out those ambuscade-skirmishes of ours with a sub- 
limity which made it impossible for any to recognise them 
at all except people who had not been there. 
You may suspect that there was a special inspiration for 
these great eff"orts of the Paladin's, and there was. It was 
the daughter of the house, Catherine Boucher, who was 
eighteen, and gentle and lovely in her ways, and very 
beautiful. I think she might have been as beautiful as 
Joan herself, if she had had Joan's eyes. But that could 
never be. There was never but that one pair, there will 
never be another. Joan's eyes were deep and rich and 
wonderful beyond anything merely earthly. They spoke 
all the languages — they had no need of words. They pro- 
duced all eff"ects — and just by a glance, just a single glance : 
a glance that could convict a liar of his lie and make him 
confess it ; that could bring down a proud man's pride and 
make him humble ; that could put courage into a coward 
and strike dead the courage of the bravest ; that could 
appease resentments and real hatreds ; that could speak 
peace to storms of passion and be obeyed ; that could make 
the doubter believe and the hopeless hope again ; that could 
purify the impure mind ; that could persuade — ah, there it 
IS— persuasion ! that is the word ; what or who is it that it 
couldn't persuade ? The maniac of Domremy — the fairy- 
banishing priest — the reverend tribunal of Toul — the 
doubting and superstitious Laxart — the obstinate veteran of 
Vaucouleurs — the characterless heir of France— the sages 
and scholars of the Parliament and University of Poitiers 
— the darling of Satan, La Hire — the masterless Bastard of 
Orleans, accustomed to acknowledge no way as right and 
rational but his own — these were the trophies of that great 
gift that made her the wonder and mystery that she was. 
We mingled companionably with the great folk who 
flocked to the big house to make Joan's acquaintance, and 
they made much of us and we lived in the clouds, so to 
speak. But what we preferred even to this happiness was 
the quieter occasions, when the formal guests were gone 
and the family and a few dozen of its familiar friends were 
gathered together for a social good time. It was then that 
we did our best, we five youngsters, with such fascinations 
as we had, and the chief object of them was Catherine. 
None of us had ever been in love before, and now we had 
the misfortune to all fall in love with the same person at the 
same time — which was the first moment we saw her. She 
was a merry heart, and full of life, and I still remember 
tenderly those few evenings that I was permitted to have 
my share of her dear society and of comradeship with that 
little company of charming people. 
The Paladin made us all jealous the first night, for when 
he got fairly started on those battles of his he had every- 
thing to himself, and there was no use in anybody else's 
trying to get any attention. Those people had been living 
in the midst of real war for seven months ; and to hear 
this windy giant lay out his imaginary campaigns and fairly 
swim in blood and spatter it all around, entertained them 
to the verge of the grave. Catherine was like to die from 
pure enjoyment. She didn't laugh loud — we, of course, 
wished she would — but kept in the shelter of a fan, and 
shook until there was danger that she would unhitch her 
ribs from her spine. Then when the Paladin had got done 
with a battle and we began to feel thankful and hope for a 
change, she would speak up in a way that was so sweet 
and persuasive that it rankled in me, and ask him about 
some detail or other in the early part of his battle which 
she said had greatly interested her, and would he be so 
good as to describe that part again and with a little more 
particularity? — which of course precipitated the whole battle 
on us again, with a hundred lies added that had been over- 
looked before. 
I do not know how to make you realise the pain I 
suffered. I had never been jealous before, and it seemed 
intolerable that this creature should have this good fortune 
which he was so ill entitled to, and I have to sit and see 
myself neglected when I was so longing for the least little 
attention out of the thousand that this beloved girl was 
lavishing upon him. I was near her, and tried two or three 
times to get started on some of the things that had done in 
those battles — and I felt ashamed of myself, too, for stoop- 
ing to such a business — but she cared for nothing but his 
battles, and could not be g'ot to listen ; and presently when 
one of my attempts caused her to lose some precious rag 
or other of his mendacities and she asked him to repeat, 
thus bringing on a new engagement of course and increas- 
ing the havoc and carnage tenfold, I felt so humiliated by 
this pitiful miscarriage of mine that I gave up and tried no 
more. 
The others were as outraged by the Paladin's selfish 
conduct as I was — and by his grand luck, too, of course — 
perhaps, indeed, that was the main hurt. We talked our 
trouble over together, which was but natural, for rivals 
become brothers when a common affliction assails them 
and a common enemy bears off the victory. 
Each of us would do things that would please and get 
notice if it were not for this person, who occupied all the 
time and gave others no chance. I had made a poem, 
taking a whole night to it — a poem in which I most happily 
and delicately celebrated that sweet girl's charms, without 
mentioning her name, but any one could see who was 
meant ; for the bare title — ' The Rose of Orleans ' — would 
reveal that, as it seemed to me. It pictured this pure and 
dainty white rose as growing up out of the rude soil of war 
and looking abroad out of its tender eyes upon the horrid 
machinery of death, and then — note this conceit — it blushes 
for the sinful nature of man, and turns red in a single night. 
Becomes a red rose, you see — a rose that was white before. 
The idea was my own, and quite new. Then it sent its 
sweet perfume out over the embattled city, and when the 
beleaguering forces smelt it they laid down their arms and 
wept. This was also my own idea, and new. That closed 
that part of the poem ; then I put her into the similitude 
of the firmament — not the whole of it, but only part. That 
is to say, she was the moon, and all the constellations were 
following her about, their hearts in flames for love of her, 
but she would not halt, she would not listen, for 'twas 
thought she loved another. 'Twas thought she loved a 
poor unworthy suppliant who was upon the earth, facing 
danger, death, and possible mutilation in the bloody field, 
waging relentless war against a heartless foe to save her 
from an all too early grave, and her city from destruction. 
And when the sad pursuing constellations came to know 
and realise the bitter sorrow that was come upon them — 
note this idea — their hearts broke and their tears gushed 
forth, filling the vault of heaven with a fiery splendour, 
for those tears were falling stars. It was a rash idea, but 
beautiful ; beautiful and pathetic ; wonderfully pathetic, 
the way I had it, with the rhyme and all to help. At the 
end of each verse there was a two-line refrain pitying the 
poor earthly lover separated so far, and perhaps for ever, 
from her he loved so well, and growing always paler and 
weaker and thinner in his agony as he neared the cruel 
grave — the most touching thing — even the boys themselves 
could hardly keep back their tears, the way Noel said those 
lines. There were eight four-line stanzas in the first end 
of the poem — the end about the rose, the horticultural end, 
as you may say, if that is not too large a name for such 
a little poem — and eight in the astronomical end — sixteen 
stanzas altogether, and I could have made it a hundred 
and fifty if I had wanted to, I was so inspired and so all 
swelled up with beautiful thoughts and fancies ; but that 
would have been too many to sing or recite before a com- 
pany, that way, whereas sixteen was just right, and could 
be done over again, if desired. 
The boys were amazed that I could make such a poem 
as that out of my own head, and so was I, of course, it 
being as much a surprise to me as it could be to anybody, 
for I did not know that it was in me. If any had asked 
me a single day before if it was in me, I should have told 
them frankly no, it was not. 
That is the way with us ; we may go on half of our life 
not knowing such a thing is in us, when in reality it was 
there all the time, and all we needed was something to 
turn up that would call for it. Indeed, it was always so 
with our family. My grandfather had a cancer, and they 
never knew what was the matter with him till he died, and 
he didn't himself. It is wonderful how gifts and diseases 
can be concealed that way. All that was necessary in my 
case was for this lovely and inspiring girl to cross my path, 
and out came the poem, and no more trouble to me to 
word it and rhyme it and perfect it than it is to stone a 
dog. No, I should have said it was not in me ; but it was. 
The boys couldn't say enough about it, they were so 
charmed and astonished. The thing that pleased them 
the most was the way it would do the Paladin's business 
for him. They forgot everything in their anxiety to get 
him shelved and silenced. Noel Rainguesson was clear 
