"I hardly see Mona as the 'soul' of anything," the girl replied. "But
have they made no sound? Have you heard nothing at all?"
"Not a whisper, not a step, in all the eight days. Perhaps they don't
know. Perhaps they're crouching for a leap."
"But wouldn't they have gone down as soon as you left?"
"They may not have known of my leaving." Fleda wondered afresh; it
struck her as scarcely supposable that some sign shouldn't have flashed
from Poynton to London. If the storm was taking this term of silence to
gather, even in Mona's breast, it would probably discharge itself in
some startling form. The great hush of every one concerned was strange;
but when she pressed Mrs. Gereth for some explanation of it, that lady
only replied, with her brave irony: "Oh, I took their breath away!" She
had no illusions, however; she was still prepared to fight. What indeed
was her spoliation of Poynton but the first engagement of a campaign?
All this was exciting, but Fleda's spirit dropped, at bedtime, in the
chamber embellished for her pleasure, where she found several of the
objects that in her earlier room she had most admired. These had been
reinforced by other pieces from other rooms, so that the quiet air of it
was a harmony without a break, the finished picture of a maiden's bower.
It was the sweetest Louis Seize, all assorted and combined--old
chastened, figured, faded France. Fleda was impressed anew with her
friend's genius for composition. She could say to herself that no girl
in England, that night, went to rest with so picked a guard; but there
was no joy for her in her privilege, no sleep even for the tired hours
that made the place, in the embers of the fire and the winter dawn, look
gray, somehow, and loveless. She couldn't care for such things when they
came to her in such ways; there was a wrong about them all that turned
them to ugliness. In the watches of the night she saw Poynton
dishonored; she had cared for it as a happy whole, she reasoned, and the
parts of it now around her seemed to suffer like chopped limbs. Before
going to bed she had walked about with Mrs. Gereth and seen at whose
expense the whole house had been furnished. At poor Owen's, from top to
bottom--there wasn't a chair he hadn't sat upon. The maiden aunt had
been exterminated--no trace of her to tell her tale. Fleda tried to
think of some of the things at Poynton still unappropriated, but her
memory was a blank about them, and in trying to focus the old
combinations she saw again nothing but gaps and scars, a vacancy that
gathered at moments into something worse. This concrete image was her
greatest trouble, for it was Owen Gereth's face, his sad, strange eyes,
fixed upon her now as they had never been. They stared at her out of the
darkness, and their expression was more than she could bear: it seemed
to say that he was in pain and that it was somehow her fault. He had
looked to her to help him, and this was what her help had been. He had
done her the honor to ask her to exert herself in his interest,
confiding to her a task of difficulty, but of the highest delicacy.
Hadn't that been exactly the sort of service she longed to render him?
Well, her way of rendering it had been simply to betray him and hand him
over to his enemy. Shame, pity, resentment oppressed her in turn; in the
last of these feelings the others were quickly submerged. Mrs. Gereth
had imprisoned her in that torment of taste; but it was clear to her for
an hour at least that she might hate Mrs. Gereth.
Something else, however, when morning came, was even more intensely
definite: the most odious thing in the world for her would be ever again
to meet Owen. She took on the spot a resolve to neglect no precaution
that could lead to her going through life without that accident. After
this, while she dressed, she took still another. Her position had
become, in a few hours, intolerably false; in as few more hours as
possible she would therefore put an end to it. The way to put an end to
it would be to inform Mrs. Gereth that, to her great regret, she
couldn't be with her now, couldn't cleave to her to the point that
everything about her so plainly urged. She dressed with a sort of
violence, a symbol of the manner in which this purpose was precipitated.
The more they parted company the less likely she was to come across
Owen; for Owen would be drawn closer to his mother now by the very
necessity of bringing her down. Fleda, in the inconsequence of distress,
wished to have nothing to do with her fall; she had had too much to do
with everything. She was well aware of the importance, before breakfast
and in view of any light they might shed on the question of motive, of
not suffering her invidious expression of a difference to be accompanied
by the traces of tears; but it none the less came to pass, downstairs,
that after she had subtly put her back to the window, to make a mystery
of the state of her eyes, she stupidly let a rich sob escape her before
she could properly meet the consequences of being asked if she wasn't
delighted with her room. This accident struck her on the spot as so
grave that she felt the only refuge to be instant hypocrisy, some
graceful impulse that would charge her emotion to the quickened sense of
her friend's generosity--a demonstration entailing a flutter round the
table and a renewed embrace, and not so successfully improvised but that
Fleda fancied Mrs. Gereth to have been only half reassured. She had been
startled, at any rate, and she might remain suspicious: this reflection
interposed by the time, after breakfast, the girl had recovered
sufficiently to say what was in her heart. She accordingly didn't say it
that morning at all: she had absurdly veered about; she had encountered
the shock of the fear that Mrs. Gereth, with sharpened eyes, might
wonder why the deuce (she often wondered in that phrase) she had grown
so warm about Owen's rights. She would doubtless, at a pinch, be able to
defend them on abstract grounds, but that would involve a discussion,
and the idea of a discussion made her nervous for her secret. Until in
some way Poynton should return the blow and give her a cue, she must
keep nervousness down; and she called herself a fool for having
forgotten, however briefly, that her one safety was in silence.
Directly after luncheon Mrs. Gereth took her into the garden for a
glimpse of the revolution--or at least, said the mistress of Ricks, of
the great row--that had been decreed there; but the ladies had scarcely
placed themselves for this view before the younger one found herself
embracing a prospect that opened in quite another quarter. Her attention
was called to it, oddly, by the streamers of the parlor-maid's cap,
which, flying straight behind the neat young woman who unexpectedly
burst from the house and showed a long red face as she ambled over the
grass, seemed to articulate in their flutter the name that Fleda lived
at present only to catch. "Poynton--Poynton!" said the morsels of
muslin; so that the parlor-maid became on the instant an actress in the
drama, and Fleda, assuming pusillanimously that she herself was only a
spectator, looked across the footlights at the exponent of the principal
part. The manner in which this artist returned her look showed that she
was equally preoccupied. Both were haunted alike by possibilities, but
the apprehension of neither, before the announcement was made, took the
form of the arrival at Ricks, in the flesh, of Mrs. Gereth's victim.
When the messenger informed them that Mr. Gereth was in the
drawing-room, the blank "Oh!" emitted by Fleda was quite as precipitate
as the sound on her hostess's lips, besides being, as she felt, much
less pertinent. "I thought it would be somebody," that lady afterwards
said; "but I expected on the whole a solicitor's clerk." Fleda didn't
mention that she herself had expected on the whole a pair of constables.
She was surprised by Mrs. Gereth's question to the parlor-maid.
"For whom did he ask?"
"Why, for you, of course, dearest friend!" Fleda interjected, falling
instinctively into the address that embodied the intensest pressure. She
wanted to put Mrs. Gereth between her and her danger.
"He asked for Miss Vetch, mum," the girl replied, with a face that
brought startlingly to Fleda's ear the muffled chorus of the kitchen.
"Quite proper," said Mrs. Gereth austerely. Then to Fleda: "Please go to
him."
"But what to do?"
"What you always do--to see what he wants." Mrs. Gereth dismissed the
maid. "Tell him Miss Vetch will come." Fleda saw that nothing was in the
mother's imagination at this moment but the desire not to meet her son.
She had completely broken with him, and there was little in what had
just happened to repair the rupture. It would now take more to do so
than his presenting himself uninvited at her door. "He's right in asking
for you--he's aware that you're still our communicator; nothing has
occurred to alter that. To what he wishes to transmit through you I'm
ready, as I've been ready before, to listen. As far as I'm concerned,
if I couldn't meet him a month ago, how am I to meet him to-day? If he
has come to say, 'My dear mother, you're here, in the hovel into which
I've flung you, with consolations that give me pleasure,' I'll listen to
him; but on no other footing. That's what you're to ascertain, please.
You'll oblige me as you've obliged me before. There!" Mrs. Gereth turned
her back and, with a fine imitation of superiority, began to redress the
miseries immediately before her. Fleda meanwhile hesitated, lingered for
some minutes where she had been left, feeling secretly that her fate
still had her in hand. It had put her face to face with Owen Gereth, and
it evidently meant to keep her so. She was reminded afresh of two
things: one of which was that, though she judged her friend's rigor, she
had never really had the story of the scene enacted in the great
awestricken house between the mother and the son weeks before--the day
the former took to her bed in her over-throw; the other was, that at
Ricks as at Poynton, it was before all things her place to accept
thankfully a usefulness not, she must remember, universally
acknowledged. What determined her at the last, while Mrs. Gereth
disappeared in the shrubbery, was that, though she was at a distance
from the house and the drawing-room was turned the other way, she could
absolutely see the young man alone there with the sources of his pain.
She saw his simple stare at his tapestries, heard his heavy tread on his
carpets and the hard breath of his sense of unfairness. At this she went
to him fast.
VIII
"I asked for you," he said when she stood there, "because I heard from
the flyman who drove me from the station to the inn that he had brought
you here yesterday. We had some talk, and he mentioned it."
"You didn't know I was here?"
"No. I knew only that you had had, in London, all that you told me, that
day, to do; and it was Mona's idea that after your sister's marriage you
were staying on with your father. So I thought you were with him still."
"I am," Fleda replied, idealizing a little the fact. "I'm here only for
a moment. But do you mean," she went on, "that if you had known I was
with your mother you wouldn't have come down?"
The way Owen hung fire at this question made it sound more playful than
she had intended. She had, in fact, no consciousness of any intention
but that of confining herself rigidly to her function. She could already
see that, in whatever he had now braced himself for, she was an element
he had not reckoned with. His preparation had been of a different
sort--the sort congruous with his having been careful to go first and
lunch solidly at the inn. He had not been forced to ask for her, but she
became aware, in his presence, of a particular desire to make him feel
that no harm could really come to him. She might upset him, as people
called it, but she would take no advantage of having done so. She had
never seen a person with whom she wished more to be light and easy, to
be exceptionally human. The account he presently gave of the matter was
that he indeed wouldn't have come if he had known she was on the spot;
because then, didn't she see? he could have written to her. He would
have had her there to let fly at his mother.
"That would have saved me--well, it would have saved me a lot. Of course
I would rather see you than her," he somewhat awkwardly added. "When the
fellow spoke of you, I assure you I quite jumped at you. In fact I've no
real desire to see Mummy at all. If she thinks I like it--!" He sighed
disgustedly. "I only came down because it seemed better than any other
way. I didn't want her to be able to say I hadn't been all right. I dare
say you know she has taken everything; or if not quite everything, why,
a lot more than one ever dreamed. You can see for yourself--she has got
half the place down. She has got them crammed--you can see for
yourself!" He had his old trick of artless repetition, his helpless
iteration of the obvious; but he was sensibly different, for Fleda, if
only by the difference of his clear face, mottled over and almost
disfigured by little points of pain. He might have been a fine young man
with a bad toothache; with the first even of his life. What ailed him
above all, she felt, was that trouble was new to him: he had never known
a difficulty; he had taken all his fences, his world wholly the world of
the personally possible, rounded indeed by a gray suburb into which he
had never had occasion to stray. In this vulgar and ill-lighted region
he had evidently now lost himself. "We left it quite to her honor, you
know," he said ruefully.
"Perhaps you've a right to say that you left it a little to mine." Mixed
up with the spoils there, rising before him as if she were in a manner
their keeper, she felt that she must absolutely dissociate herself. Mrs.
Gereth had made it impossible to do anything but give her away. "I can
only tell you that, on my side, I left it to her. I never dreamed either
that she would pick out so many things."
"And you don't really think it's fair, do you? You don't!" He spoke
very quickly; he really seemed to plead.
Fleda faltered a moment. "I think she has gone too far." Then she added:
"I shall immediately tell her that I've said that to you."
He appeared puzzled by this statement, but he presently rejoined: "You
haven't then said to mamma what you think?"
"Not yet; remember that I only got here last night." She appeared to
herself ignobly weak. "I had had no idea what she was doing; I was taken
completely by surprise. She managed it wonderfully."
"It's the sharpest thing I ever saw in my life!" They looked at each
other with intelligence, in appreciation of the sharpness, and Owen
quickly broke into a loud laugh. The laugh was in itself natural, but
the occasion of it strange; and stranger still, to Fleda, so that she
too almost laughed, the inconsequent charity with which he added: "Poor
dear old Mummy! That's one of the reasons I asked for you," he went
on--"to see if you'd back her up."
Whatever he said or did, she somehow liked him the better for it. "How
can I back her up, Mr. Gereth, when I think, as I tell you, that she has
made a great mistake?"
"A great mistake! That's all right." He spoke--it wasn't clear to her
why--as if this declaration were a great point gained.
"Of course there are many things she hasn't taken," Fleda continued.
"Oh yes, a lot of things. But you wouldn't know the place, all the
same." He looked about the room with his discolored, swindled face,
which deepened Fleda's compassion for him, conjuring away any smile at
so candid an image of the dupe. "You'd know this one soon enough,
wouldn't you? These are just the things she ought to have left. Is the
whole house full of them?"
"The whole house," said Fleda uncompromisingly. She thought of her
lovely room.
"I never knew how much I cared for them. They're awfully valuable,
aren't they?" Owen's manner mystified her; she was conscious of a return
of the agitation he had produced in her on that last bewildering day,
and she reminded herself that, now she was warned, it would be
inexcusable of her to allow him to justify the fear that had dropped on
her. "Mother thinks I never took any notice, but I assure you I was
awfully proud of everything. Upon my honor, I was proud, Miss Vetch."
There was an oddity in his helplessness; he appeared to wish to persuade
her and to satisfy himself that she sincerely felt how worthy he really
was to treat what had happened as an injury. She could only exclaim,
almost as helplessly as himself: "Of course you did justice! It's all
most painful. I shall instantly let your mother know," she again
declared, "the way I've spoken of her to you." She clung to that idea as
to the sign of her straightness.
"You'll tell her what you think she ought to do?" he asked with some
eagerness.
"What she ought to do?"
"Don't you think it--I mean that she ought to give them up?"
"To give them up?" Fleda hesitated again.
"To send them back--to keep it quiet." The girl had not felt the impulse
to ask him to sit down among the monuments of his wrong, so that,
nervously, awkwardly, he fidgeted about the room with his hands in his
pockets and an effect of returning a little into possession through the
formulation of his view. "To have them packed and dispatched again,
since she knows so well how. She does it beautifully"--he looked close
at two or three precious pieces. "What's sauce for the goose is sauce
for the gander!"
He had laughed at his way of putting it, but Fleda remained grave. "Is
that what you came to say to her?"
"Not exactly those words. But I did come to say"--he stammered, then
brought it out--"I did come to say we must have them right back."
"And did you think your mother would see you?"
"I wasn't sure, but I thought it right to try--to put it to her kindly,
don't you see? If she won't see me, then she has herself to thank. The
only other way would have been to set the lawyers at her."
"I'm glad you didn't do that."
"I'm dashed if I want to!" Owen honestly declared. "But what's a fellow
to do if she won't meet a fellow?"
"What do you call meeting a fellow?" Fleda asked, with a smile.
"Why, letting me tell her a dozen things she can have."
This was a transaction that Fleda, after a moment, had to give up trying
to represent to herself. "If she won't do that--?" she went on.
"I'll leave it all to my solicitor. He won't let her off: by Jove, I
know the fellow!"
"That's horrible!" said Fleda, looking at him in woe.
"It's utterly beastly!"
His want of logic as well as his vehemence startled her; and with her
eyes still on his she considered before asking him the question these
things suggested. At last she asked it. "Is Mona very angry?"
"Oh dear, yes!" said Owen.
She had perceived that he wouldn't speak of Mona without her beginning.
After waiting fruitlessly now for him to say more, she continued: "She
has been there again? She has seen the state of the house?"
"Oh dear, yes!" Owen repeated.
Fleda disliked to appear not to take account of his brevity, but it was
just because she was struck by it that she felt the pressure of the
desire to know more. What it suggested was simply what her intelligence
supplied, for he was incapable of any art of insinuation. Wasn't it at
all events the rule of communication with him to say for him what he
couldn't say? This truth was present to the girl as she inquired if Mona
greatly resented what Mrs. Gereth had done. He satisfied her promptly;
he was standing before the fire, his back to it, his long legs apart,
his hands, behind him, rather violently jiggling his gloves. "She hates
it awfully. In fact, she refuses to put up with it at all. Don't you
see?--she saw the place with all the things."
"So that of course she misses them."
"Misses them--rather! She was awfully sweet on them." Fleda remembered
how sweet Mona had been, and reflected that if that was the sort of plea
he had prepared it was indeed as well he shouldn't see his mother. This
was not all she wanted to know, but it came over her that it was all she
needed. "You see it puts me in the position of not carrying out what I
promised," Owen said. "As she says herself"--he hesitated an
instant--"it's just as if I had obtained her under false pretenses."
Just before, when he spoke with more drollery than he knew, it had left
Fleda serious; but now his own clear gravity had the effect of exciting
her mirth. She laughed out, and he looked surprised, but went on: "She
regards it as a regular sell."
Fleda was silent; but finally, as he added nothing, she exclaimed: "Of
course it makes a great difference!" She knew all she needed, but none
the less she risked, after another pause, an interrogative remark. "I
forget when it is that your marriage takes place?"
Owen came away from the fire and, apparently at a loss where to turn,
ended by directing himself to one of the windows. "It's a little
uncertain; the date isn't quite fixed."
"Oh, I thought I remembered that at Poynton you had told me a day, and
that it was near at hand."
"I dare say I did; it was for the 19th. But we've altered that--she
wants to shift it." He looked out of the window; then he said: "In fact,
it won't come off till Mummy has come round."
"Come round?"
"Put the place as it was." In his offhand way he added: "You know what I
mean!"
He spoke not impatiently, but with a kind of intimate familiarity, the
sweetness of which made her feel a pang for having forced him to tell
her what was embarrassing to him, what was even humiliating. Yes indeed,
she knew all she needed: all she needed was that Mona had proved apt at
putting down that wonderful patent-leather foot. Her type was misleading
only to the superficial, and no one in the world was less superficial
than Fleda. She had guessed the truth at Waterbath and she had suffered
from it at Poynton; at Ricks the only thing she could do was to accept
it with the dumb exaltation that she felt rising. Mona had been prompt
with her exercise of the member in question, for it might be called
prompt to do that sort of thing before marriage. That she had indeed
been premature who should say save those who should have read the matter
in the full light of results? Neither at Waterbath nor at Poynton had
even Fleda's thoroughness discovered all that there was--or rather, all
that there was not--in Owen Gereth. "Of course it makes all the
difference!" she said in answer to his last words. She pursued, after
considering: "What you wish me to say from you then to your mother is
that you demand immediate and practically complete restitution?"
"Yes, please. It's tremendously good of you."
"Very well, then. Will you wait?"
"For Mummy's answer?" Owen stared and looked perplexed; he was more and
more fevered with so much vivid expression of his case. "Don't you think
that if I'm here she may hate it worse--think I may want to make her
reply bang off?"
Fleda thought. "You don't, then?"
"I want to take her in the right way, don't you know?--treat her as if I
gave her more than just an hour or two."
"I see," said Fleda. "Then, if you don't wait--good-bye."
This again seemed not what he wanted. "Must you do it bang off?"
"I'm only thinking she'll be impatient--I mean, you know, to learn what
will have passed between us."
"I see," said Owen, looking at his gloves. "I can give her a day or two,
you know. Of course I didn't come down to sleep," he went on. "The inn
seems a horrid hole. I know all about the trains--having no idea you
were here." Almost as soon as his interlocutress he was struck with the
absence of the visible, in this, as between effect and cause. "I mean
because in that case I should have felt I could stop over. I should have
felt I could talk with you a blessed sight longer than with Mummy."
"We've already talked a long time," smiled Fleda.
"Awfully, haven't we?" He spoke with the stupidity she didn't object to.
Inarticulate as he was, he had more to say; he lingered perhaps because
he was vaguely aware of the want of sincerity in her encouragement to
him to go. "There's one thing, please," he mentioned, as if there might
be a great many others too. "Please don't say anything about Mona."
She didn't understand. "About Mona?"
"About its being her that thinks she has gone too far." This was still
slightly obscure, but now Fleda understood. "It mustn't seem to come
from her at all, don't you know? That would only make Mummy worse."
Fleda knew exactly how much worse, but she felt a delicacy about
explicitly assenting: she was already immersed moreover in the deep
consideration of what might make "Mummy" better. She couldn't see as yet
at all; she could only clutch at the hope of some inspiration after he
should go. Oh, there was a remedy, to be sure, but it was out of the
question; in spite of which, in the strong light of Owen's troubled
presence, of his anxious face and restless step, it hung there before
her for some minutes. She felt that, remarkably, beneath the decent
rigor of his errand, the poor young man, for reasons, for weariness, for
disgust, would have been ready not to insist. His fitness to fight his
mother had left him--he wasn't in fighting trim. He had no natural
avidity and even no special wrath; he had none that had not been taught
him, and it was doing his best to learn the lesson that had made him so
sick. He had his delicacies, but he hid them away like presents before
Christmas. He was hollow, perfunctory, pathetic; he had been girded by
another hand. That hand had naturally been Mona's, and it was heavy even
now on his strong, broad back. Why then had he originally rejoiced so in
its touch? Fleda dashed aside this question, for it had nothing to do
with her problem. Her problem was to help him to live as a gentleman and
carry through what he had undertaken; her problem was to reinstate him
in his rights. It was quite irrelevant that Mona had no intelligence of
what she had lost--quite irrelevant that she was moved not by the
