rounded, in his portraiture of the men 
who were gathered in the town to await 
the arch enemy, by the picture of " a 
short, sturdy, plainly dressed man, who 
stands with legs a little apart, and hands 
behind his back, looking up with keen 
gray eyes into the face of each speaker. 
His cap is in his hands, so that you can 
see the bullet head of crisp, brown hair 
and the wrinkled forehead, as well as the 
high cheek bones, the short square face, 


the broad temples, the thick lips, which 
are yet firm as granite. A coarse, ple- 
beian stamp of man, yet the whole figure 
and attitude are that of boundless de- 
termination, self-possession, energy ; and 
when at last he speaks a few blunt words, 
all eyes are turned respectfully upon 
him, for his name is Francis Drake." 

And there on Plymouth Hoe was he 
playing at bowls when a sailor hurriedly 
put in shore, to say that the enemy had 
been sighted. The English, from lord 
high admiral to common sailor, were 
tired of waiting. They had grown un- 
easy over conflicting rumors and Eliza- 
beth's weathercock advance and with- 
drawal, and even the leaders sorely 
needed the solace of that match on the 
green. Yet when the great word broke 
upon the ear of Drake, what did he re- 
ply ? That he would play out his game, 
since there would afterwards be time 
enough and to spare for beating the 
Spaniard. But who would attempt re- 
peating the after-story which many have 
told so well ? Suffice it for us to recall 
the folk-version of the first scene in 
the grand drama, wherein the winds of 
heaven and the heroism of earth played 
 

antiphonal parts. When the Spanish 
fleet appeared, say Plymouth dames, Sir 
Francis quietly, called for a billet of 
wood and an axe. The stick he pro- 
ceeded to chop into small pieces, which, 
as he threw them into the water, speedily 
became men-of-war; and these Devo- 
nian dragon's teeth (fraternal and benefi- 
cent, unlike the crop of old !) fell upon 
the enemy of Gloriana the Great, and 
straightway destroyed him. 

At the right of the Hoe, a wilderness 
of greenery overlooking the sea, lies 
Mount Edgcumbe, wisely selected by 
the leader of the Armada for his own 
share of the spoils. He had an eye for 
beauty, this Medina Sidonia ; and even 
at this late day, with all our sympathies 
enlisted on the winning side, we can but 
feel "the pity of it '' that even so insolent 
an invader should thus have "loved a 
dream," though we smile, perforce, over 
old Fuller's ironical remark that "the 
bear was not yet killed, and Medina 
Sidonia might have catched a great cold, 
had he no other clothes to wear than, the 
skin thereof." It is easy to picture the 
delight with which the sea-wearied eyes 
of the Spanish mariners must have rested 
 

on this royal spot. Sheer above the 
dimpling water rise mountainous cliffs, 
crowned by a noble growth of trees, 
and carpeted with sweet under-verdure. 
Mount Edgcumbe Park, where the public 
is permitted to wander on specified days, 
is a miracle of beauty. Tracts of wood- 
land alternate with garden beds rich in 
color. Laurel and holly reflect the day 
in their shining leaves, and a wondrous 
giant hypericum stars the ground with 
bloom. The great estate is traversed by 
broad walks and winding paths, appar- 
ently due not to design, but to the errant 
will of some wanderer; and now and 
again, in skirting the cliff, you may look 
down into the summer sea, over the 
greenly wooded Drake's Island in the 
harbor. At happy intervals are lodge 
and cottage, where you may order delec- 
table tea and plum-cake for sixpence, or 
ham and eggs (the bulwark of England's 
greatness) for another silver trifle. And 
if the sky, such of it as you can see 
through the treetops, smile upon you, 
and the typical sight-seer be not omni- 
present, you will take the little boat 
again for Plymouth quay, after a dreamy 
half -day in the park, more alive than ever 
 

to England's beauty and Medina Sidonia's 
taste in real estate. 

Were one to attempt a summary of 
Plymouth's notable days and names, he 
would find an American tourist's stay 
within its gates all too short for dwelling 
fitly upon associations of such magnitude. 
From that port set sail, in its golden 
days, an " infinite swarm of expeditions." 
Drake put forth from its harbor to 
circumnavigate the globe. Sir John 
Hawkins made it the initial point of his 
dark but masterful career. Sir Walter 
Raleigh's fleet set sail thence for the 
settlement of Virginia, and hither he 
returned, broken-hearted, from his last 
fatal expedition in quest of the golden 
city of Manoa. Sir Humphrey Gilbert 
went thence to Newfoundland, a voyage 
destined to stretch on into that other, 
infinite journey, illumined by the burning 
words, " We are as near heaven by sea 
as by land." From Plymouth, also, em- 
barked, in 1620, those pilgrims who had 
left Holland for a bleaker but more de- 
sired haven. Quaint and dry are the 
early chronicles of the town, denoting a 
race of tough fibre, fit associates for the 
mariners whose names do so bum and 
 

flash upon the page. These were men 
who stood no more upon ceremony than 
old " Frankie Drake," and who could give 
and take such missiles of dry humor as 
might well be considered both danger- 
ous and deadly in their effect on friendly 
intercourse. Some of the stories con- 
nected with the early mayors recall the 
candor once prevailing in the pit of the 
English theatres. Shipley, being meek 
by nature and deportment, was popularly 
called " Sheepley," and evidently took no 
offense thereat. Farcy, who would have 
the world know that he was " gentleman 
bom," struck the town clerk for not call- 
ing him ''your Worship," and so was 
dubbed thereafter " Worshipful Farcy " 
by all the Plymouth gamins^ perhaps 
even with the concurrence of their tough- 
hided fathers. Yogge, who was blamed 
for belittling his office by bearing his 
meat home from market, returned with 
sturdy good wit, " It's a poor horse that 
won't carry its own provender ! " But 
of all the legends connected with these 
robust city fathers, none better shows us 
the stuff of which they were made than 
a true tale of Mayor Dirnford, who, in 
1455, in church "on his opening day," 
 

had a fit of apoplexy. No such slight in- 
cident, however, could really disturb his 
Worship. He came out of it with dignity, 
as from a recognized part of the services, 
and at dinner ate Michaelmas goose, say- 
ing grimly that the fit had given him an 
appetite. 

Of the beauty and strength of Ply- 
mouth at the present day, it would be 
difficult to say too much. It includes 
within its jurisdiction the sister towns 
of Stonehouse and Devonport, all three 
bearing the patent marks of military de- 
sign and occupation. Look into the Cat- 
water and Hamoaze, estuaries of the Plym 
and Tamar, twin rivers of Plymouth, and 
you shall find men-of-war and humble 
merchant vessels. Go to Devonport, and 
there you may seek the dockyards, en- 
ticingly open to such foreigners as are 
favored by the gods and the admiralty. 
Though the days have long passed when 
seafaring heroes trod the streets, Ply- 
mouth will disclose many a quaint comer 
to such as are patient as well as curious : 
witness, at least, the Barbican, where one 
who fears not sea slime and good-natured 
chafE may meet the fishing population at 
dawn; and also that eccentric auction 
 

distinguished by the falling of every bid. 
What lover of the past could be misled 
by a garnished exterior? Yet if there 
be one thus "fond and foolish/' let him 
in Plymouth seek out that square where 
so many stately buildings are congre- 
gated, and, ignoring their carven fresh- 
ness, enter old Saint Andrew's Church. 
For there were the people at service, 
three hundred years ago, when a salute 
told the news that Sir Francis Drake 
had returned from the seas which " were 
a prison for so large a spirit," and drew 
forth men, women, and children to meet 
the victorious hero. 

Another bit of earth where the loyal 
heart beats at thought of Kingsley and 
olden days is Clovelly, jewel dropped in 
a cleft of the rock, happy human nest 
builded close by the sea. The approach 
to this oddest comer of creation, past 
vestiges of a Roman encampment, gives 
no hint of the beauties on which the eye 
is presently to feed. The coach stops, 
apparently in a gentleman's park devoted 
to utilitarian ends ; and leaving care be- 
hind, in the shape of baggage, the trav- 
eler must thereupon take to his feet down 
a steep, rock-paved road, where all tour- 
 

ists fare alike, be they clad in frieze or 
gold. Suddenly, at a turn of the way, ap- 
pears Clovelly Street, descending sharply 
in low, broad stairs laid with cobblestones. 
No carriage has ever profaned this stony 
staircase. Only the tiny hoofs of don- 
keys go clattering up and down ; for it is 
Neddy who patiently toils under sacks 
of coal (trying, meanwhile, with gentle 
insistence, to " scrunch " the unwary 
traveler against the neighboring wall), 
or drags about sledges piled high with 
trunk and portmanteau, whose name 
here is legion. Flanking this declivitous 
way runs, on either side, a row of cot- 
tages, immaculate in whitewash, and 
adorned by fuchsia shrubs and gerani- 
ums. HaHway down stands the New 
Inn, its sign swinging across the street, 
— a little old-fashioned house, resplen- 
dent in old china, and kept in perpetual 
commotion by the influx of hungry ex- 
cursionists, who come by boat and coach 
to flood the tiny village with admiring 
exclamations. 

The quaintness of Clovelly is not all 
its charm ; it wears, too, that of a won- 
drous beauty and delight. Lpng as it 
does in an earth-cleft stretching down to 
 

the sea, it is fostered and overlooked by 
towering wooded cliffs, and, secure in 
humble contentment and sweetness of 
life, seems nowise inferior in merit to 
such natural pomp and magnificence. 
The little street wanders, in its progress 
to the water; once, perhaps twice, it 
boldly marches through the walls of a 
house (itself spanned by an archway 
above), and then after threading strange 
nooks and comers, where fishy smells 
mingle with the smoke which is Clovelly's 
natural breath, ends at the little harbor, 
— that harbor where, as Kingsley says, 
in the season of herring fishing so many 
boats set forth with song and prayer, 
some never to return. One scene, he 
tells us, would come upon him again and 
again : of " the old bay darkened with 
the gray coldness of the waterspouts 
stalking across the waves before the 
northern gales; and the tiny herring 
boats fleeing from their nets right for 
the breakers, hoping more mercy even 
from those iron walls of rock than from 
the pitiless howling wastes of spray be- 
hind them ; and that merry beach beside 
the town covered with shrieking women 
and old men, casting themselves on the 
 

pebbles in fruitless agonies of prayer, as 
corpse after corpse swept up at the feet 
of wife and child, till in one case alone 
the dawn saw upwards of sixty widows 
and orphans weeping over those who had 
gone out the night before in the fullness 
of strength and courage." 

Kingsley's father was rector of Clo- 
velly during six of those years when the 
sensitive lad must have been very deli- 
cately responsive to new impressions. 
Under the mysterious spell of sea and 
cliff, he conned the pages of England's 
naval history, learning it through the 
heart rather than the mind ; for here did 
he catch the spirit of those men who 
made it glow and bum. From Devon 
air, her sunshine, waves, and rocks, rather 
than Hakluyt's Chronicles, was born his 
fiery sympathy with that heroic race who 
peopled the deep three hundred years 
ago. "Now," said he to his wife, on 
her first visit to Clovelly, " now that you 
have seen the dear old paradise, you 
know what was the inspiration of my life 
before I met you." His very spirit per- 
meates the place; his name is there a 
household word. 

"Did you know Mr. Kingsley.?" I 
 

asked a woman, beautiful with health, 
and bearing the dignity of a sturdy 
character, the wife of a "master mari- 
ner," to whom a humble stone was 
erected in Clovelly churchyard. Evi- 
dently, that manner of speech was too 
familiar as concerning a beneficent house- 
hold deity. " We all saw him very often," 
she said with gravity. " As soon as he 
came on his visits, he was in and out of 
every house, as welcome as a bit of sun- 
light on a wet day, and asking how was 
this one, and how was that, and had the 
lads got home from sea ? Ah, we loved 
Mr. Kingsley ! " 

His happiest vacations were spent 
here, sometimes as a guest at Clovelly 
Court, and again in lodgings in a fuchsia- 
decked house on Clovelly Street. Thence 
he sailed to Lundy, or wherever a fisher- 
man's lot might lead him, delighting his 
keen eyes and reverent soul with God's 
wonders dredged up from the deep. " I 
cannot believe my eyes," was his home- 
satisfied cry, on settling into a welcoming 
nest. "The same place, the pavement, 
the dear old smells, the dear old hand- 
some faces again ! " 

The people who fill the picturesque 

village houses are of a noble and digni- 
fied type. Clovelly women are tall and 
shapely; the men bear in face and car- 
riage unmistakable marks of thought and 
feeling, and the children are marvels of 
dark-eyed beauty. With such simplicity 
and directness does the body here express 
the soul that you may read daily, in 
living lineaments, the story of a fine and 
striving race. Life to these men is little 
more or less than a year-long struggle 
with the treacherous sea. So constantly 
are they brought face to face with danger 
that minor griefs are no longer present 
to remembrance, and the desire of eter- 
nal life becomes to them all in all. Such 
men were their dead-and-gone ancestors, 
who fought the Armada, and went, "grim 
or jocund," in quest of the "golden South 
Americas ; " such, in endurance and rigid 
purpose, was Salvation Yeo, of "West- 
ward Ho!" who was bom in Clovelly 
Street, in the year 1526, where his "father 
exercised the mystery of a barber sur- 
geon and a preacher of the people since 
called Anabaptists." One noticeable cir- 
cumstance, strange and pregnant, is that 
Clovelly has no young men. They are 
all at sea, serving their apprenticeship, 
 

to come home for the innocent kisses of 
a dozen joyous women waiting on the 
quay, or to furnish new cause for the old 
ache, throbbing for the wanderer who 
may not return. 

