She had heard the children sing
    "I want to be an angel
      And with the angels stand;
    A crown upon my forehead,
      A harp within my hand,"
and the size of this confused her.
"But how could you play on it?" she asked.
"You stood this way. You could sit down, but it was considered more
graceful to stand. And you played in this manner."
She fingered the rusted strings. A few emitted a doleful sort of sound
almost like a cry.
"We've all grown old together," she said sorrowfully. "It was considered
a great accomplishment in my time. I believe people still play on the
harp. We had a great many curious things, but several years ago a
committee of some kind came and bought them. We needed the money sadly,
and we had no one to leave them to when we died. There was some
beautiful old china, and a lady bought the fan and handkerchief that my
grandmother carried at her wedding. The handkerchief was worked at some
convent in Italy and was fine as a cobweb. My mother used it, and then
it was laid by for us. But we never needed it," and she gave a soft
sigh.
She had glided out now and then to look after Jane, who was eating as
if she was starved. And in the broken bits of talk Mr. Underhill had
learned by indirect questioning that they had parted with their land by
degrees, and with some family valuables, until there was only this old
house and a small space of ground left.
Miss Jane was anxious now to see the visitors. But she was so deaf Lois
had to repeat everything, and she seemed to forget the moment a thing
was said. Dobbin whinnied as if he thought the call had been long
enough.
Mr. Underhill squeezed a bank-note into the hand of Miss Lois as he said
good-by. "Get some little luxury for your sister," he added.
"Thank you for all your friendliness," and the tears stood in her eyes.
"Come again and bring your sister Margaret," she said to the little
girl.
They drove over westward a short distance. The rocky gorge was still
there, and at its foot was one of the first battle-fields of this
vicinity. Hanny looked at it wonderingly.
"Then Washington retreated up to Kingsbridge," began her father. "They
found they could not hold that, and so went on to White Plains, followed
by some Hessian troops. They didn't seem very fortunate at first, for
they were beaten again. Grandmother can tell you a good deal about that.
And a great-uncle had his house burned down and they were forced to fly
to a little old house on top of a hill. My father was a little boy
then."
The little girl looked amazed. Did he know about the war?
"It seems such a long, long time ago--like the flood and the selling of
Joseph. And was grandmother really alive?"
"Grandmother is about as old as Miss Lois."
"Miss Lois doesn't look so awful old, but the other lady does. I felt
afraid of her."
"Don't think of her, pussy. It's very sad to lose your senses and be a
trouble."
"You couldn't," was the confident reply after much consideration. She
didn't see how such a thing could happen to him.
"I hope I never shall," he returned, with an earnest prayer just under
his breath.
Dobbin insisted upon going home briskly. He was thinking of his supper.
The little girl was so sorry not to have Benny Frank to talk over her
adventures with. Margaret and her mother were basting shirts; John was
drawing plans on the dining-room table. He had found a place to work at
house-building and was studying architecture and draughting. A man had
come in to see her father, so she was left quite alone. The Deans and
several of the little girls on the block had gone visiting. She walked
up and down a while, thinking how strange the world was, and what
wonderful things had happened, vaguely feeling that there couldn't be
any to come in the future.
At the end of the week she and Margaret went up to White Plains, as
grandmother was anxious to see them.
Her grandmother was invested with a curious new interest in her eyes.
That any one belonging to her should have lived in the Revolutionary War
seemed a real stretch of the imagination for a little girl eight years
old. Grandmother considered her wonderful also. She wasn't so much in
favor of short frocks and pantalets that came down to your ankles, but
the little girl did look pretty in them. And when she found how neatly
she could hemstitch and do such beautiful featherstitch, and darn, and
read so plainly that it was a pleasure to listen to her, she had to
admit that Hannah Ann was a real credit, and, she confessed in her
secret heart, a very sweet little girl.
"I've begun your new Irish chain patchwork," she said. "I've made one
block for a pattern, and cut out quite a pile. Aunt Eunice lighted upon
some beautiful green calico. I was upon a stand whether to have green or
red, but an Irish chain generally is pieced of green. It seems more
appropriate."
And yet people had not begun to sing "The Wearing of the Green."
"I declare," said Cousin Ann, "you're such an old-fashioned little thing
one can hardly tell which is the oldest, you or grandmother."
"Is it anything"--what should she say?--wrong or bad seemed too
forcible--"queer to be old-fashioned?"
"Well, yes, queer. But you're awful sweet and cunning, Hannah Ann, and
we'd just like to keep you forever."
With that she almost squeezed the breath out of the little girl and
kissed her a dozen times.
Grandmother could tell such wonderful stories as they sat and sewed. All
the glories of the old Underhill house, and the silver and plate that
had come over from England, and the set of real china that a sea
captain, one of the Underhills, had brought from China and how it had
taken three years to go there and come back. And the beautiful India
shawl it had taken seven years to make, and the Persian silk gown that
had been bought of some great chief or Mogul--grandmother wasn't quite
sure, but she thought they had a king or emperor in those countries. She
had a little piece of the silk that she showed Hanny, and a waist ribbon
that came from Paris, "For you see," said she, "we were so angry with
England that we wouldn't buy anything of her if we could help it. And
the French people came over and helped us."
"What did they fight about, grandmother?"
"Oh, child, a great many things. You can't understand them all now, but
you'll learn about them presently. The people who came here and settled
the country wanted the right to govern themselves. They thought a king,
thousands of miles away, couldn't know what was best for them. And
England sent over things and we had to pay for them whether we wanted
them or not. And it was a long struggle, but we won, and the British had
to go back to their own country. Why, if we hadn't fought, we wouldn't
have had any country," and grandmother's old face flushed.
The little girl thinks it would be dreadful not to have a country, but
her mind is quite chaotic on the subject. She is glad, however, to have
been on the winning side.
Nearly every day Uncle David took her out driving. They saw the old
house on the hill in a half-hidden, woody section where the family had
to live until the new house was built. They went round the battlefield,
but sixty years of peace had made great changes, and the next fifty
years was to see a beautiful town and many-storied palaces all about.
She dipped into the history of New Amsterdam again and began to
understand it better, though she did mistrust that Mr. Dederich
Knickerbocker now and then "made fun," not unlike her father.
The visit came to an end quite too soon, grandmother thought, and she
was very sorry to part with the little girl. She thought she would try
and come down when the fall work was done, and she gave Hanny only four
blocks of patchwork, for if she went to school there wouldn't be much
time to sew.
They stopped at Yonkers two days and picked up the boys, who were brown
and rosy. Aunt Crete was much better and did not have to go about with
her face tied up. She said there was no place like Yonkers, after all.
Retty seemed happy and jolly, but there was a new girl in the kitchen,
for Aunt Mary had gone to live with her children. George said he should
come down a while when the crops were in.
School commenced the 1st of September sharp. It was hot, of course.
Summer generally does lap over. The boys who had shouted themselves
hoarse with joy when school closed, made the street and the playground
ring with delight again. If they were not so fond of studying they liked
the fun and good-fellowship. And when they marched up and down the long
aisles singing:
    "Hail Columbia, happy land;
    Hail ye heroes, heaven-born band.
    Who fought and bled in freedom's cause!"
you could feel assured another generation of patriots was being raised
for some future emergency. Oh, what throats and lungs they had!
Mrs. Underhill had been around to see Mrs. Craven, and liked her very
well indeed. So the little girl was to go to school with Josie and Tudie
Dean.
Some new people had come in the street two doors below. Among the
members was a little girl of seven, the child of the oldest son, and a
large girl of fourteen or so, two young ladies, one of whom was teaching
school, and the other making artificial flowers in a factory down-town,
and two sons. The eldest one was connected with a newspaper, and was in
quite poor health. His wife, the little girl's mother, had been dead
some years. The child was rather pale and thin, with large, dark eyes,
and a face too old for her years and rather pathetic. And when Mrs.
Whitney came in a few days later to inquire where Mrs. Underhill sent
her little girl to school, she decided to let her grandchild go to Mrs.
Craven's also.
"She's quite a delicate little thing and takes after her mother. I tell
my son, she wants to company with other children and not sit around
nursing the cat. But Ophelia, that's my daughter who teaches down-town,
where we used to live, says the public school is no place for her. And
your little girl seems so nice and quiet like."
Nora, as they called her, was very shy at first. Hanny went after her,
and found the Deans waiting on their stoop. Nora never uttered a word,
but looked as if she would cry the next moment. Mrs. Craven took her in
charge in a motherly fashion, but it seemed very hard for her to
fraternize with the children.
Mrs. Craven lived in a corner house. The entrance to the school was on
Third Street, and the schoolroom was built off the back parlor, which
was used as a recitation-room for the older class. There were about
twenty little girls, none of them older than twelve. At the end of the
yard was a vacant lot, fenced in, which made a beautiful playground.
There were numbers of such schools at that period, but they were mostly
for little girls. Hanny liked it very much. On Wednesday afternoon they
had drawing, and reading aloud, when the girls could make their own
selections, which were sometimes very amusing. On Friday afternoon they
sewed and embroidered and did worsted work. There was quite a rage about
this. One girl had a large piece in a frame--"Joseph Sold by his
Brethren." Hanny never tired of the beautiful blue and red and orange
costumes. Another girl was working a chair seat. And still another had
begun to embroider a black silk apron with a soft shade of red. Then
they hemstitched handkerchiefs, they marked towels and napkins with
ornate letters, and really were a busy lot. Little Eleanora Whitney
couldn't sew a stitch, and some of the girls thought it "just dreadful."
Friday from half-past three until five Miss Helen Craven gave the
children, whose parents desired it, a dancing lesson. If Nora couldn't
sew, she could dance like a fairy. Her education was a curious
conglomeration. She could read and declaim, but spelling was quite
beyond her, and her attempts at it made a titter through the room. She
could talk a little French, and she had crossed the ocean to England
with her papa. So she wasn't to be despised altogether.
CHAPTER VIII
THE END OF THE WORLD
"'Taint no such thing! The world couldn't come to an end!" Janey Day
quite forgot Mrs. Craven's strictures on speech. "It's too strong.
And--and----"
"And it's round," said the wit of the school. "Round as a ring and has
no end. There now."
"But the world ain't like a ring."
"So isn't my love for you, my friend."
There was quite a little shout of laughter.
One of the larger girls, Hester Brown, stood with upraised head and
earnest countenance.
"It is coming to an end in October. It is only two or three weeks off.
My father has read it all in the Bible. And we are getting ready."
Her demeanor silenced the little group.
"But how do you get ready?"
"We must repent of our sins. And that's why mother wouldn't let me come
to the dancing-class. She thinks it wrong, any way. And mother and
Auntie are making their ascension robes. We go to church every night."
The girls stood awestruck.
"What's going to happen?" asked one.
"Why, the world will be burned up. All those who love God are to be
caught up to heaven. Then the dead people who have been good will rise
out of their graves. And all the rest--everything will be burned."
The solemnity of the girl's voice impressed so that they looked at each
other in silent fear.
"I just don't believe a word of it," declared Janey Day, drawing a long
breath. "My father's a good man and goes to church and reads the Bible
every night. He's read it through more than fifty times, and he's never
said a word about the world coming to an end. And he's building a new
house for us to move into next spring."
"Fifty times, Janey Day! It takes a long, long while to read the Bible
through. My grandmother's read it all through twice, and she's awful
old."
"Well--twenty times at least. And don't you 'spose he'd found something
about it?"
"Everybody can't tell. It's in Daniel. There's days and times to be
added up."
"Five of you, Janey," said the wit with a child's irreverence.
"Just when is it coming to an end? Girls, there's no use to study any
more lessons."
"It will be next week," said Hester with almost tragic solemnity. "But
you must all go on doing your work just the same."
"I don't see the sense. I've just begun fractions, and I hate them. I
won't do another sum."
The bell rang and recess was at an end. The girls straggled until they
reached the doorway, then suddenly straightened themselves into an
orderly line and took their seats quietly. There was a sound of rapidly
moving pencils--slates and pencils were in full swing then. No one had
invented "pads."
One after another read out answers. A few went up to Mrs. Craven for
assistance.
"Lottie Brower," the lady said presently.
Lottie colored. She had a kind of school-girl grudge against Hester.
"I--I haven't done my sums," she replied slowly.
"Why not?"
"Because the world is coming to an end. They're so hard, and what is the
use if we're not going to live longer than next week?"
Every girl stopped her work and stared at Hester, amazed, yet rather
enjoying Lottie's audacity.
"How did you come by such an idea?" asked Mrs. Craven quietly.
"But is there any use of studying or anything?" Lottie's voice had a
little tremble in it. "I'm sure I don't want the world to come to an
end, but----"
"Do your people believe this?"
"No, ma'am," replied Lottie.
"Where, then, did you get the idea?"
"Hester Brown is sure----"
Hester's face was scarlet. She felt that she was called upon to bear
witness.
"My father and mother believe it, and we are all getting ready. My uncle
means to give away all his things next week."
The girl was in such earnest that Mrs. Craven was puzzled for a moment.
"I do not think we shall know the day or the hour," was the reply. "We
are all exhorted to go on diligently with whatever we are doing. And
Lottie, Hester has certainly set you an example. She did her sums
correctly. She has added works to her faith as the Bible commands. I am
aware many people think the end of the world is near, but that is no
reason for our being careless and indolent. I doubt if that excuse would
be accepted; at all events, I cannot accept yours."
"But I hate fractions! The divisors and the multiples get all mixed up
and go racing round in my head until I can't tell one from the other."
"Bring your slate here." Mrs. Craven made room for her by the table.
"Now, what is the trouble?"
Twelve o'clock struck before Lottie was through, but she had to admit
that it wasn't so "awful" when Mrs. Craven explained the sums in her
quiet, lucid manner. The girls rose and went to the closet for their
hats and capes.
"Girls," began Mrs. Craven, "I want to say a word. I hope each one of
you will respect the other's religious belief. Our country has been
founded on the corner-stone of liberty in this matter, and one ought to
be noble enough not to ridicule or sneer at any honest, sincere faith,
remembering that we cannot all believe alike."
Hester went out with two or three of the larger girls.
"I do not think you were quite kind, Lottie," said her teacher, in a
soft tone.
"But what would be the use of fractions if the world came to an end?"
"Oh, Mrs. Craven! do you believe it? I should feel just dreadful. The
world has so many splendid things in it--and to be burned up."
"I should just be frightened to death," and one little girl shuddered.
"Children, I am sorry anything has been said about this. There are a
good many people who believe and who have preached for the last three
years that the end of the world is near. The time has been set for next
week. Yet the Bible does say that no man knoweth the day nor the
hour. I do not believe in these predictions," and she smiled
reassuringly. "I think we can all count on Thanksgiving and a merry
Christmas as well as a happy New Year. I want you all to be kind to each
other, and when Hester is disappointed next week, to refrain from
teasing her. If you think for a moment, you will find it very easy to
believe just as your parents do, for you love them the best of any one
in this world. And the more you respect and obey them, the more ready
you are to be kind and gentle and truthful to all about you, the better
you are serving God. You must leave this matter in His hands, and
remember that He loves you all, and will do whatever is best. Don't feel
troubled about the world coming to an end. I am afraid Lottie here will
have a great deal more trouble about fractions. I doubt if she gets
through by Christmas. Now run home or you will be late for dinner."
The little girl sat very quiet at the table. There was only her mother,
John, and the boys. She wished that her father or Steve were here so she
could ask them. A strange awe was creeping over her. It seemed so
dreadful to have all the world burned up. There might be some people
left behind in the hurry. It hurt terribly to be burned even a little.
There was a very sober lot of girls at school that afternoon. The jest
was all taken out of recess. Hester sat on the steps reading a little
pocket Testament. The others huddled together and shook their heads
mysteriously, saying just above a whisper, "I don't believe it." "My
mother says it isn't so." But somehow they did not seem to fortify
themselves much with these protestations.
Some of the elder cousins had come to visit and take tea. People went
visiting by three in the afternoon and carried their work along. There
was an atmosphere of relationship and real living that gave a certain
satisfaction. You enjoyed it. It was not paying a social debt
reluctantly, relieved to have it over, but a solid, substantial
pleasure.
Martha took the little girl up-stairs and put on a blue delaine frock and
white apron, and polished her "buskins," as the low shoes were called.
Then she went into the parlor and spoke to all the ladies. She had her
lace in a little bag, and presently she sat down on an ottoman and took
out her work.
"You don't mean to say that child can knit lace? And oak-leaf, too, I do
declare! What a smart little girl!"
"Oh, she embroiders quite nicely, also. Hannah Ann, get your apron and
show Cousin Dorcas."
The apron was praised and the handkerchiefs she had marked for her
father were brought out. Then she was asked what she was studying at
school.
Cousin Dorcas was knitting "shells" for a counterpane. There was one of
white and one of red, and they were put together in a rather long
diamond shape with a row of openwork between every block. It was for her
daughter, who was going to be married in the spring, and it interested
the little girl wonderfully.
Then they talked about Steve and Dolly Beekman. While the girls were at
White Plains, Steve had coaxed his father and mother up to the
Beekmans', and the engagement had been settled with all due formality.
Dolly and her mother had been down and taken tea. And now Steve went up
every Sunday afternoon and stayed to supper, and once or twice through
the week, and took Dolly out driving and escorted her to parties.
The Beekmans were good, solid people, and Peggy ought to be satisfied
that Stephen had chosen so wisely. "Was it true that Steve had been
buying some land way out of town? Did he mean to build there?"
"Oh, dear, no!" answered his mother. "It was a crazy thing, but John had
really persuaded him, and John was too young to have any judgment. But
he said the Astors were buying up there, and land was almost given
away."
"I don't know what it's good for," declared Aunt Frasie. "Why it'll be
forty years before the city'll go out there. Well, it may be good for
his grandchildren."
They all gave a little laugh.
Presently another of the cousins sat down at the piano and played the
"Battle of Prague."
Then Aunt Frasie said, "Do sing something. It doesn't seem half like
music without the singing."
Maria Jane ran her fingers over the keys, and began a plaintive air very
much in vogue:
    "Shed not a tear o'er your friend's early bier,
      When I am gone, I am gone."
Aunt Frasie heard her through the first verse, and then said
impatiently:
"You've sung that at so many funerals, Maria Jane, that it makes me feel
creepy. You used to sing 'Banks and Braes.' Do try that."
It had been said of Maria Jane in her earlier years that she had sung
"Bonnie Doon" so pathetically she had moved the roomful to tears. Her
voice was rather thin now, with a touch of shrillness on the high notes,
but the little girl listened entranced. Then she sang "Scots wha' hae"
and "Roy's wife of Aldivaloch." Margaret had come home, the
supper-table was spread, the men came in, and they sat down to the
feast. They teased Steve a little, and bade John beware, and were so
merry all the evening that when it came her bedtime the little girl had
forgotten all about the world coming to an end.
The girls discussed it the next day. Most of their mothers and fathers
had scouted the idea. Josie Dean was very positive it couldn't be--her
father had been going over the Bible and the Millerites had made a big
mistake.
"And girls," said Josie earnestly, "St. John, one of the disciples of
our Saviour, lived to be a hundred years old. Some people taught that
the world would come to an end before he died. And now it's 1843, and
it's stood all this while, though every now and then there's been an
excitement about it. And I ain't going to be afraid at all, there now!"
The little girl wondered whether she would be afraid. But Friday evening
the boys were full of it, and Steve said it was nonsense. She crept up
into her father's lap and asked him in a tremulous whisper if he was
afraid.
"No, dear," he answered, pressing her to his heart.
"But if it should come."
"Well--I'd take my little girl and mother and Margaret----"
