she began to think. Why had Aunt Hannah gone 
to her room? Had she suspected her absence? 



 

She had left her lamp burning, but she had shut 
the door, she was quite certain. She would not 
allow her, Bessie, a moment alone with Roy. But 
if she should be ill a long while up-stairs, there 
would have to be a servant, and Bessie would take 
the head of the house. 

After all, she might as well marry Roy. In all 
this while she had not seemed to attract any one's 
attention. And at the Deanes' there had been 
young men coming in nearly every evening. Here 
it was really out of the way. Of course it would 
be nice to go to the city if she knew just what to 
do ; but Roy would not consent, and she had no 
money to experiment with. But to go on this 
way 

Would Roy never come back ? She kept glanc 
ing furtively at the door, almost expecting Aunt 
Hannah to order her to open it at once. She 
began to cry again, from very loneliness as she sat 
crouching there, not daring to stir. There was a 
constriction in her throat that almost strangled her. 
And it seemed as if it must be morning when the 
sound of wagon wheels broke the awesome stillness. 

She sprang up and unfastened both doors. Roy 
and Mrs. Austen came in together. 

" Oh, you poor child ! what a dreadful accident ! " 
Then Mrs. Austen glanced around. 

"She is up-stairs," explained Roy. Then he 



 

lighted another lamp and led the way. Bessie 
followed, every pulse throbbing with indefinable 
apprehension. 

The long figure lay on the bed, just as he had 
tenderly deposited it there. " Oh, heaven grant 
she may not be dead ! " he cried in sharp sorrow. 

" Has she been alone all this time and nothing 
done ? " glancing at Bessie. 

" We did not know what could be done for 
her. Sometimes inexperience hinders more than 
it helps," he said in excuse. 

Mrs. Austen opened the blanket, then folded it 
again, while a shudder ran over her. 

"I don't suppose we can do anything but just 
wait," she said hopelessly as she dropped into a 
chair. 

Bessie lighted a candle and went through to her 
own room. There was a bracket against the wall 
on which she usually placed her lamp, as her 
dressing-table, as she always called the befur- 
belowed stand, was generally full of knick-knacks. 
A little way from it was an engraving in a celluloid 
frame, and then the window curtain. The lamp 
chimney was broken* The curtain, the picture, 
and the drapery of the table were burned to 
cinders. An untoward gust of wind from the 
window might have done the mischief, or the 
sudden opening of the door creating a draught. 



 

Her bed was blackened, the quilt partly burned, 
the room was full of the odor of smothered flames. 

Yes, if Aunt Hannah had staid in her own room 
instead of prying about. With all her horror and 
dread, Bessie was not specially moved to pity, since 
she felt underneath it all Aunt Hannah's motive. 
The table, too, was one of her aversions. Bessie 
had brought with her numberless little gifts with 
which she had adorned her bare room. The pict 
ure-frame had been especially cherished. 

"You had better come down-stairs," Royal 
Palmer said, looking in. Then he added, in a 
low, solemn tone : " She is not dead. Mrs. Aus 
ten thinks she must have inhaled the flames. 
Oh, when will the doctor come ! " 

Dead ! Bessie had not thought of such an 
ending. She stood horrified. 

" Oh, she will get well again. She is so 
strong " 

" How could it have happened ? " 

" I think she heard us talking and came 
in here. She must have done something. The 
lamp is on the table and the chimney broken. 
I left it on the bracket. Oh, why are people 
so suspicious ! " 

He took her hand and led her down-stairs. 
" You had better take the lounge and get some 
rest," he said, in so grave a tone that it sounded 



 

cold. Then he opened the door, stood a moment 
listening in silence, and passed out to pace rest 
lessly up and down until the doctor came. 

Being forewarned, Doctor Bevans brought a 
satchel of useful articles. Miss Gage was still 
unconscious. Mrs. Austen had looked up some 
clothing, for the nightdress had been burned to 
shreds. Her hair at the edge of her forehead 
was badly scorched, her face and chest had 
suffered severely ; but the greatest danger was 
from inhaling the flames and smoke, and both 
had reacted upon the brain. 

She moaned a little as they moved her, but 
took no note of the voices. 

" It is a very grave matter," said the doctor. 
"You will want a good nurse, and Mrs. Ostrom 
came home a day or two ago. The burns will 
heal, but the greatest danger is from within. Did 
she give no alarm ? How did it all happen ? " 

They went over to Bessie's room. The most 
probable solution was that she had heard the 
lamp chimney break, and had gone over, to find 
the curtain and picture-frame ablaze, and tried 
to put it out without giving any alarm, being 
almost at once strangled by the smoke. Yet the 
blaze had been extinguished easily, and it seemed 
as if it ought not to have brought about such 
terrible consequences. 



 

Doctor Bevans remained until morning, but 
there was little change in the patient. Palmer 
went down-stairs, to find Bessie asleep on the 
lounge. He threw a shawl over her and stirred 
the fire, for the September morning was coming 
in chilly. No, the relationship in this case did 
not count . for much, and he sighed. But if 
Bessie should be her aunt's heir, she would have 
enough to make a new start in life, something 
that would suit her better than living at Wes- 
thorpe. 

She roused when the doctor went away. Mr. 
Palmer had made some coffee, and she arranged 
a tempting breakfast, studying him furtively mean 
while. Surely she could not be to blame. 

About nine, Mrs. Ostrom came, and Mrs. 
Austen went home. Then neighbors and friends 
dropped in with kindly sympathy and ready 
offers of help. It was a strange, exciting day. 
Jane Mason staid at night, and she and Bessie 
took the room Miss Helen had occupied. Bessie 
was curiously awe-stricken, and it stood her in 
the stead of deeper emotion. Her frightened 
eyes appealed to Roy with something beyond 
pity, yet not love, as he had come to consider 
the divine passion. 

Miss Gage died without recovering conscious 
ness. Mrs. Ostrom was one of the kindly, help- 



 

ful women with a pleasant nature, and she felt 
really sorry for Bessie, who seemed stunned by 
the sad affair. The funeral was a large one, for 
Miss Gage had been held in general esteem. 

That very evening lawyer Ralston came over 
with the will. But it had been made several years 
before. He questioned Palmer as to whether she 
had expressed any desire to alter it after her niece 
came, wondering a little that it had not been done. 

"We never dreamed of her dying," answered 
Roy. " I do not suppose she thought about it at 
all. You see she has had a very busy summer." 

With the exception of several gifts to friends 
her few thousands went to different charities in 
which she had been interested. 

" Of course she knew nothing about Bessie 
then," said Mrs. Ostrom, " but it leaves the poor 
child in an awkward position, without a penny. 
I am sorry it doesn't go to her. Hasn't she some 
other relatives ? " 

" Not that I know of," returned Palmer. Had 
fate consigned her to him ? " You will remain 
with us awhile ? " to Mrs. Ostrom. 

" If you desire it yes. She is too young and 
inexperienced to kee"p house, and besides 

Mrs. Ostrom did not finish the sentence. But 
Royal Palmer knew she could not remain unless 
he married her. 



 

Bessie was bitterly disappointed at the will. 
She threw herself upon Roy's sympathies. She 
had no friend but him, and it would have taken a 
harder heart than his to resist her in her sorrow. 
She felt that he really ought to marry her, and he 
accepted what seemed a direct interposition of 
fate, and announced his intention to Mrs. Ostrom, 
who did not seem at all surprised. 

There had not been much real love-making. It 
seemed the only course to Palmer, and Bessie ac 
cepted without being at all exigent. She had not 
loved Aunt Hannah, though she was shocked at 
her death. It seemed in a curious way to Bessie 
she did not like to say a judgment but a result 
of opposing an event that had been marked out 
by Providence. If Aunt Hannah had accepted 
and resigned herself to a conclusion so eminently 
proper, the accident might never have happened. 

She hated the sombreness of mourning, but it 
would not do to defy the opinion of Westhorpe. 
She was married in a plain white gown, in the old 
parlor. So the rose had bloomed for both funeral 
and wedding. Roy took her away on a little jour 
ney, but she felt she did not dare plead for any 
dissipations. They stopped a night in New York, 
and she wondered if they could find Thirza Rolfe. 

" Some other time we will look her up," was the 
quiet, decisive reply. Somehow he did not want 



 

to see Thirza just yet. There had been an ideal 
manliness in his mind, and he had not lived up to 
it. He had not meant his sympathy for Bessie to 
be construed into 'love. He had begun to look upon 
her as a little sister thrown on his sympathy by a 
turn of fate ; but she had taken up the only idea 
possible to her narrow mind and her longing for 
liberty marriage. His tenderness prefigured that, 
of course, he would have loved her openly before, 
but for Aunt Hannah ; and then these two women 
had infected him with their nonsensical ideas ; but 
he would soon be trained out of them, and make 
just the sort of indulgent husband she wanted. 

She would have liked to surprise Thirza with her 
husband, and have her tell the news to Miss Otis. 
They would remain friends, for a while at least ; 
yet she doubted if the Otis relatives would approve 
altogether. But she did not dare insist, and she 
acquiesced sweetly, simply biding her time with an 
obstinate faith. 

She ventured, on her return, to discuss some kind 
of reception. 

" But you are in deep mourning," he answered, 
rather surprised, " and Aunt Hannah has always 
been such a good friend to me that I feel almost 
as if I had lost a relative. Then," hesitating, while 
a little crease settled between his eyes, " you know 
so few people in Westhorpe." 




" That is the very reason I should be introduced 
into my new position," and Bessie flushed with 
vexation. " No one really understood why I was 
almost like a servant in the summer. I think 
Aunt Hannah delighted to mortify me, and I had 
been educated and trained for society. But for 
Mr. Deane's misfortune we should no doubt have 
had a summer at some fashionable place, and I 
should have married very well indeed." 

She tossed her head with a touch of injured 
dignity, then added : " You cannot put me in my 
proper place too soon." 

He made no reply, but that night consulted Mrs. 
Ostrom, who looked surprised. 

"I don't think I would do it," she said. "You 
might send out cards, and people would call by 
degrees. Aunt Hannah's awful death has given 
everybody a shock, you see, and it would make a 
talk. I would wait awhile." 



CHAPTER IX 

A WOMAN AT HOME 

IT was so utterly delightful to get a place she 
could call her own home, Thirza Rolfe thought. " I 
must have been born for an old maid," she rumi 
nated, as she was unpacking and setting to rights 
the boxes that had been sent from the storage. A 
pretty flat with a long parlor, bay-windowed in the 
front, a room between, lighted by the air shaft, a 
back room of good dimensions with range and 
boiler, two hall rooms, and bath. Miss LeClear 
had only two trunks, a table, and some pictures ; 
Miss Prentice, some antique parlor furniture and a 
bedroom suit, beside her piano. They made a list 
of things to be bought, and each elected what she 
would buy. The floors were matted all through. 
Thirza supplied some pretty rugs that she had 
acquired at bargains. She took the middle room, 
as she was likely to do considerable work at home, 
and this had a closet in which she could stow away 
a great many articles. The others would be out a 
good deal. 

The housekeeping would ' be shared between 
 



 

them. Each one had kept herself in a " furnished 
room," and took meals in or out, as it happened. 
In the late spring, when they had talked over this 
plan and made their calculations, they had been 
surprised at the greater amount of comfort and 
pleasure they would have for the money. 

"As long as we agree," said Miss LeClear, 
laughingly. " We will try it for a year, anyhow. 
It will give one a curiously settled feeling, almost 
like the first year of marriage." 

" Why the first year, merely ? " 

" Because, when you are very much in love, you 
think it will last forever." 

" And doesn't it in most cases ? " asked Miss 
Prentice. 

" Does it ? How many marriage bonds would 
hold together more than a year and a day, if 
either party were free to go ? How many do, as 
it is ? But where you must stay, you fight awhile 
with him and with yourself, and then accept, if the 
chain doesn't break easily, or if you think it wis 
dom not to break it. You see a woman can't go 
out at once and step into something to earn her 
living. Perhaps if she could, there would be more 
separations. It is an ignoble factor in matrimony. 
But when we are able to care for ourselves, we are 
not so wild to rush at the first chance that offers. 
To come back to my text : We shall be the more 


