"And I'm going round the world some day," returned Ben.
"I'd like to go out with Frémont. The other side of our country seems so
curious to me, I want to see what it is like. The other side of the
Rocky Mountains! It's almost like saying the Desert of Sahara," and the
young fellow laughed.
There was the usual spring and summer dress-making for the ladies. Even
Miss Cynthia, looking sharply at Hanny, said:--
"I don't see what's the matter with that child! I supposed she'd have
everything outgrown, and some of her last summer's skirts won't need any
letting down. They're wearing them shorter now; and you know, Cousin
Underhill, you would have them made rather long last summer."
The little girl sometimes felt quite sore on the point. The Deans were
getting to be tall girls, and even Daisy Jasper had taken to growing.
And her lovely curls were quite long again. She certainly was very
pretty.
But when Hanny took this trouble to her father, he only laughed and
squeezed her in his arms, and sometimes rubbed her soft cheeks with his
beard, his old trick, as he said:--
"But I want to keep you my little girl. I don't want you to grow big
like Margaret. For if you should, some nice fellow will come along and
insist upon carrying you off, and then I should lose you. Whatever would
I do?"
That view of the matter was alarming to contemplate. She clung closer to
her father, and said, in a half-frightened tone, that she never would be
carried off. It quite reconciled her to the fact of not growing rapidly.
The girls all went down to see Nora Whitney one Saturday in June. It
looked rather threatening in the morning, but a yard or two of blue sky
gave them hope. Mr. Underhill took them all in the family carriage. Oh,
how lovely the little park looked with its soft grass and waving trees!
And in the area windows there were pots of flowers: ten-weeks' stock,
and spice pinks, and geraniums that were considered quite a rarity.
Nora was out on the front stoop with Pussy Gray, who arched his back and
waved his tail with an air of grandeur, and then sat down on the top
step and began to wash his face, while Father Underhill was planning to
take them all for a drive late in the afternoon.
Pussy Gray watched his little mistress out of one green eye, and washed
over one ear. He was just going over the other when Nora caught him,
"Why do you stop him?" asked Daisy.
"Because he wants to make it rain and spoil our day. Pussy Gray--if you
do!"
"But it wouldn't really?"
"Well, it's a sure sign when he goes over both ears. When I don't want
it to rain, I stop him."
"But suppose he does it when he is by himself?"
"I think sometimes he runs away and does it on the sly. Aunt Patty says
it is as sure as sure can be."
Pussy Gray winked at Hanny, as if he said he didn't believe in signs,
and that he should wash over both ears when he found a chance.
Dele was bright and merry. She "bossed" the house, for Mrs. Whitney had
subsided into novel-reading again, and now took books out of the
Mercantile Library. A woman was doing the Saturday morning's work, and
scrubbing the areas. After that she went over the front one with a red
wash that looked like paint, and freshened it. The girls took a run in
the yard. There was a long flower-bed down the side of the fence, and at
one end all manner of sweet herbs, lavender, thyme, and rosemary, sweet
verbena, and then tansy and camomile, and various useful things.
"Camomile tea is good for you when you lose your appetite," said Nora;
"but it's awful bitter. Aunt Patty cuts off the leaves and blossoms of
the sweet herbs, and sews them up in little bags of fine muslin, and
lays them among the clothes and the nice towels and pillow-cases. And
it makes them all smell just delicious."
The air was full of fragrance now. They played tag around the
grass-plot. Daisy sat on the stoop and said she didn't mind, though she
gave a little sigh, and wondered how it would feel to run about. The
little lame girl in Houston Street could get over the ground pretty
rapidly. She had interested Doctor Joe in her, and he had hunted up the
child's mother, who wouldn't listen to anything being done for her.
"Sure," said she, "if it's the Lord's will to send this affliction to
her, I'll not be flying in the face of Providence. She can manage, and
she's impident enough now. There'd be no livin' with her if she had two
good legs. And I'll not have any doctor cuttin' her up into mince-meat."
Pussy Gray came and sat beside Daisy with a flick of the ear and turn of
the tail, as if he said: "We'll let those foolish girls fly about and
squeal and laugh and get half roasted, while we sit here at leisure and
enjoy ourselves."
Afterward they swung, and then went up to Nora's play-house. Aunt Patty
had given her a rag doll that she had when she was a little girl, and it
was over fifty years old. It was undeniably sweet, because it had been
steeped in lavender, but it was not very pretty. There was a curious
little wooden cradle Aunt Patty's brother had made. All the children's
story-books were up here in a case Dele had made out of a packing box.
They thought after a little they would rather go over in the Park. Nora
took the key. It was very pleasant; and they watched the carts and
waggons going by, and the pedestrians. Presently a young woman unlocked
the gate at the lower end, and came in with two little children rather
queerly dressed. She had a white muslin cap on her head, very high in
front. We often see them now, but then they were a rarity. The little
children had very black eyes and curly black hair, and stared curiously
at the group of girls.
"They're French," explained Nora. "They live a few doors down below. And
they can't speak a word of English, nor the maid either, though we do
sometimes talk a little. There are two quite big boys, then the mother
and father, and the grandmother and grandfather. The old people come out
and sit on the stoop, now that it is warm. He reads French books to her,
and she makes lace. About four o'clock, the servant brings out a
tea-table, and they have some tea and little bits of cake. They do it
all summer long, Aunt Patty says, and the old lady is beautiful,--just
like a picture."
The girls walked down a little. The maid smiled and nodded. The children
made queer stiff bows, both alike, though they were girl and boy; but
they looked half afraid. The maid said "Bon jour" to Nora, who replied
with a longer sentence. And then she began to explain in English and her
scanty French that these were her friends, and that they were studying
French in school. The Deans talked a little; but Hanny was too shy, and
the conversation would have been very amusing to a spectator. But just
when it was getting quite exciting, and they couldn't make each other
understand at all, Hanny caught sight of Delia waving her handkerchief
from the front stoop, which was a signal that dinner was ready, so they
all curtsied and said good-bye.
Afterward Aunt Patty showed them her "treasures," some very odd dishes
and pitchers that were more than a hundred years old, and some jewels,
and the gown Aunt Clem had worn to Washington's Inauguration, and told
them about Mrs. Washington and going to the old theatre in John Street.
She had some beautiful combs, and buckles that her father used to wear,
and kid-gloves that had long arms and came most up to her shoulders. She
told the children so many entertaining stories that before the afternoon
seemed half gone Mr. Underhill came for them. Nora wanted to go also.
"You can take her home with you," said Dele; "and I'll come up for her
this evening. I'm just wild to see Mrs. Underhill and the boys. I hope
the children have had a good time. I've hardly had a glimpse of them
except at dinner."
They crossed the ferry and went over to Jersey. It was still pretty wild
and country-like, but the trees and shrubs and bloom everywhere lent it
a glory. The children chatted merrily, and all agreed the day was too
short.
"But you can come again," said Nora.
When the Deans sprang out, Charles Reed stood by the stoop talking to
Mr. Dean. Nora said the place hadn't changed a bit, and she wished she
was back again. There were nothing but old people in Beach Street, and
she had no little girls to play with. She didn't know what she should do
when vacation came.
They were just through supper when Delia arrived, and she insisted upon
sitting down at the table and having a cup of Mrs. Underhill's good tea.
She was her olden jolly self, and had her brother's letters almost by
heart. She thought them a great deal brighter and more amusing than
those published in the "Tribune."
"But I like those," exclaimed Ben; "I'm cutting them out for a
scrap-book. I just wish I was with him!"
"And he would like to have you," returned Dele. "I don't believe he ever
took so much of a fancy to any one as he did to you."
They talked books a little. No, Dele had not written any more stories.
The old ladies took a good deal of her time. And she had been studying.
She wished she were going to school again; she should appreciate it so
much more. She was reading the English essayists and Wordsworth, and
learning about the great men and women.
Ben walked out to the Bowery to put them in the stage; and Dele said,
rather ruefully:--
"I just wish we could study and read together. I miss The. so much, I
could always ask him questions; but now I have to look up everything
myself, and it's slow work."
"Dele has quite a family on her hands," said John, when she had gone.
"She's getting to be rather good-looking, too. Her eyes are very fine."
"But she doesn't grow much tidier," returned his mother.
"Her hair is curly and always looks tumbled," was the half-apologising
rejoinder. "But she is very bright, and she'll do something with
herself."
Mrs. Underhill glanced sharply at her son. There was no danger in Ben
being a little soft about Delia Whitney; but she was surprised at John's
commendation.
Doctor Joe walked down to see how his patient had stood the day. Her
mother had been almost afraid to have her go, lest "something might
happen." She was very tired, of course, and glad to take to the
reclining chair with all the pillows; but her eyes were in a glow, and
her cheeks a pretty pink that Mrs. Jasper was quite sure was undue
excitement.
"It was just splendid," Daisy declared; "Mamma, I do want to be like
other girls, and see what is going on in the world. The old ladies were
so quaint; and it was wonderful to have seen President Washington and so
many famous people. And what interested me, was her talking about them
just like ordinary persons. And Nora is so amusing. I want to learn
French so that I can really talk it. You can't imagine how funny it was
in the Park, trying to make each other understand. Oh, there are so many
things I want to learn."
"There will be time enough," said her mother.
When Doctor Joe took her hand and bent over her to say good-night, she
whispered softly,--
"I did try to forget my own misfortune, and I was very happy. I am
going to be brave. It is such a lovely world; and it is such a splendid
thing to be happy. Doctor Joe, you are my Mr. Greatheart."
CHAPTER IV
A WEDDING
There was a very fine noisy Fourth of July, and shortly after that came
vacation. The Jaspers were going to Lebanon Springs, and then to
Saratoga. Hanny came near to envying Daisy. She and Margaret had to
visit both grandmothers, and go over to Tarrytown, for the Morgans had
insisted upon it.
Hanny and her father had been reading some of Washington Irving's
stories, beside his famous history. He was abroad now; he had been sent
as Minister to the Court of Madrid, that wonderful Spanish city with its
Court so full of interest and beauty. She had been learning about it in
her history. But this old house was not grand, only in its splendid elms
and maples and lindens and tall arbor-vitæs. Wolfert's Roost was almost
hidden by them; but you could catch glimpses of its curious roof, full
of quaint corners and projections, and the old-fashioned stone mansion
said to be modelled after the cocked hat of Peter the Headstrong. Its
low stories were full of nooks and angles. There were roses and
hollyhocks like rows of sentinels, and sweet brier clambering about.
The little girl thought of it many a time afterward, when it had become
much more famous, as Sunnyside. Indeed, she was to sit on the old piazza
overlooking the river and listen to the pleasant voice that had charmed
so many people, and study the drawings of Rip Van Winkle and Sleepy
Hollow, to hear about Katrina Van Tassel, and the churn full of water
that Fammetie Van Blarcom brought over from Holland because she was sure
there could be no water good to drink in the new country.
Already she was coming to have a great interest in people who wrote
books and stories. It seemed such a wonderful gift.
Dr. Hoffman paid the cousins the compliment of a visit. Afterward there
were mysterious communings between the sisters.
Wedding presents were gifts of real preference and affection in those
days. A girl had her "setting out" from home, and perhaps some one gave
her an heirloom for her name, or because she was an especial favourite.
"Dr. Hoffman's well-to-do," said Joanna; "and Margaret's folks won't let
her go empty-handed. But I'd like to have some of our things go where
they would be appreciated. We've no one of our very own to leave them
to," and Miss Morgan sighed. "Margaret doesn't consider store articles
so much better than those made long ago. Let's each give her a pair of
linen sheets. I've a dozen good ones now, and, land sakes! we sha'n't
wear out half our bedding. And my tablecloth of the basket pattern, and
two towels. And--let me see--that white wool blanket of Aunt Hetty's. It
was spun and woven in 1800; and the sheep were raised here on the old
farm. Some peculiar kind they were, with long, soft fleece."
"Well," said Famie, slowly, "there's my snowball tablecloth and two
towels. 'Rastus's wife won't ever care for them with her fine Paris
things. But we won't give away the silver, nor the old pewter flagon,
nor the basin and cups. They've the crown mark on them, 1710 for a date.
Deary me, they'll outlast us," and she sighed also.
Roseann agreed. Six sheets and pillow-cases, three tablecloths and
half-a-dozen towels, and two blankets, one spun and woven by their own
mother. The initials and date were marked on them in old-fashioned
cross-stitch, which was a little more ornate than regular
sampler-stitch.
Aunt Hetty's blanket had been made from the wool of an especial cosset
lamb that had lost its mother and been brought up by hand. The little
girl was very much interested.
"Did it follow her about?" she asked.
"Dear sakes!" and Aunt Famie laughed. "I just guess it did. It grew very
troublesome, I've heard tell, and was quite quality, always wanting to
come into the sitting-room. And it would curl down at Aunt Hetty's feet
like a dog. She saved the wool every year, and spun it, and laid it away
until she had enough. But I don't believe it went to school, although
it could spell one word."
"One word!" cried the little girl, in amaze. "What was that?"
"Why b-a ba, of course. They said it could spell through the whole
lesson, and I don't see why not. I've heard lambs make a dozen different
sounds."
The little girl laughed. She was very fond of listening to what Aunt
Famie did when she was little; and they went to call upon some curious
old people who kept to the Dutch ways and wore the old costume. Some of
them had wooden clogs for rainy weather. When they talked real Dutch,
Hanny found it was quite different from German. They had a picture of
some old ancestor's house with the windmill in the front yard.
The drives about were beautiful then, and so many places had queer old
legends. Dr. Hoffman was very much interested, and it seemed to Hanny as
if she had strayed over into Holland. She resolved when she went home to
ask Ben to get her a history of Holland, so she and her father might
read it together. Her mother never had any time.
Margaret was much surprised at her gifts, and thanked the cousins with
warmest gratitude. Even Grandmother Van Kortlandt had hinted "that she
wasn't going to save up everything for Haneran." But the elder people in
those days were fond of holding on to their possessions until the very
last.
Uncle David came up for them and took them to White Plains, where they
had a nice visit; and grandmother selected some articles from her store
for the prospective bride.
Hanny remembered what Cousin Archer had said about the mittens, and
asked Uncle David. He found his hook, and, sure enough, it was something
like a crochet-needle. He took what the little girls called single
stitch. But he admitted that Hanny's pretty edgings and tidies were
quite wonderful.
"I thought the Germans must have brought the knowledge to the country,"
she said. "How long have you known it?"
"Oh, since my boyhood," and he gave a smile. "I heard a very old man say
once that Noah set his sons to work in the Ark making fishing-nets.
Perhaps Mrs. Noah set her daughter-in-laws to crocheting, as you call
it. Forty days was a pretty long spell of rainy weather, when they had
no books or papers to read, and couldn't go out to work in the garden."
"Didn't they have any books?" Hanny's eyes opened wide.
"All their writing was done on stone tablets, and very little of that."
"I think I wouldn't have liked living then. Books are so splendid. And
you get to know about so many people. But there was the Bible," and the
child's voice dropped to a reverent tone.
"Still, if Moses wrote the first books, that was a long while after the
Flood."
Hanny's vague idea was that the Bible had been created in the beginning,
like Adam and Eve.
Cousin Ann and Aunt Eunice were as much in love with the little girl as
ever, but were tremendously surprised at her stock of knowledge. It
didn't seem possible that one little girl could know so much. That she
could play tunes on the piano, and repeat ever so many French words,
then explain what they meant in English, was a marvel. But the child
never seemed spoiled by the admiration.
They had to come down to Yonkers, for Uncle Faid and Aunt Crete would
have been hurt and jealous. Only it did not seem now to Hanny as if she
had ever lived there. The old kitchen, the creek that went purling
along, bearing fleets of ducks and geese, and the wide old porch looked
natural, but the daily living was so changed! Old black Aunt Mary was
dead. Some of the neighbours had gone away. Cousin Retty had a new baby,
a little girl; but she said it was the crossest thing alive, and it did
seem to cry a good deal. It couldn't compare with Stephen's baby, who
was always laughing and jolly.
They had to stop at Fordham to see some cousins. When people live a
century or so in one place and intermarry, they get related to a good
many people. And there was a sweet little grandmother here, who, in her
girlhood, had the same name as the little visitor--Hannah Underhill.
There was no Ann in it to be sure. And now her name was Hannah Horton.
There were lots of gay, rollicking cousins. The little girl felt almost
afraid of the big boys, and she was used to boys, too.
Her mother had said she might make a visit with the Odell girls. They
had grown and changed; and Hanny felt quite as if she were undersized.
Mr. Odell had been building a new part to the house; and oh, what a
lovely garden they had! It made the little girl almost envious.
Margaret left her there for several days. At least, Dr. Hoffman drove up
one afternoon and took Margaret home, as Hanny's visit wasn't near
finished. They had to talk about their schools and the girls they knew.
Polly and Janey wanted to hear about the First Street girls and Daisy
Jasper, who was getting well, and Nora, who had moved away, and the
quaint old ladies in Beach Street.
There was a splendid big cat at the Odell's who liked nothing better
than being nursed, and two kittens that Hanny never tired of watching,
they were so utterly funny in their antics, and seemed to do so much
actual reasoning, as to cause and effect, that it amazed her. And, oh,
the beautiful country ways and wild flowers on every hand!
It does not look so now. One wonders where all the people have come from
to fill the rows and rows of houses, and to keep busy about the mills
and factories. But then the great city had only about five hundred
thousand inhabitants, and did not need to overflow into suburban
districts.
It seemed strange for the little girl to come home to a city street. It
looked narrow and bare, with its cobblestones and paved sidewalks. And,
oh, what a racket the waggons made! and she was amazed at the crowds of
people, as she thought there were then.
But inside everything was homelike and delightful. She was so glad to
see her mother and father and the boys. Ben looked like a young man. Jim
was to go to a preparatory school for a year, and then enter Columbia
College. Mrs. Craven had sold her house, and gone up to Seventh Street,
and was to have quite a young ladies' school. Josie Dean had decided to
study for a teacher. That made her seem quite grown up.
Old Mr. Beekman had died while the little girl was away; and Katschina
had grieved herself to death, and followed her master. Annette had a
lover, but of course she could not marry in some time. The old farm was
to be sold--at least, streets were to be cut through it, and the
outlying lots sold off. Mrs. Beekman was to keep the down-town house for
her part.
And now it was considered that Stephen Underhill had done a grand thing
for himself in marrying Dolly Beekman. Mr. Beekman owned no end of real
estate, was indeed much richer than people imagined. The girls would
each have a big slice. But Dolly was just as sweet and plain, and as
much interested in everybody as before. She was so ready to help and
advise Margaret, and go out shopping with her. For was she not very
wise and experienced, having been married two whole years!
Dr. Hoffman had bought his house up-town as well. Some people scouted
the idea that the city could be crowded even in fifty years. But the
long-headed ones reasoned that it must go up, as it could not expand in
breadth, and "down-town" must be given over to business.
Hanny went up to see the new house one Saturday. The front basement was
to be the office, and was being fitted up with some shelves and
cabinets. The back basement was the kitchen. There were two large
parlors and a third room, that was the dining-room. And one thing
interested the little girl greatly,--this was the "dumb waiter."
"Of course it can't talk," said she, laughingly. "And it can't hear; but
you can make it obey."
"It can creak and groan when it gets dry for a little oil. And it will
be like a camel if you put too heavy a load on it," returned the Doctor.
"Does the camel groan?"
"Horribly! And he won't stir an inch toward getting up until you lighten
his load."
There was a pretty pantry across the corner, with a basin to wash china
and silver, so it would not need to go downstairs. Hanny thought she
would like to come sometime and wash the pretty dishes.
Upstairs there were three rooms and a bath, and beautiful closets, and
on the third floor three rooms again.
"But what will you do with all of them?" asked Hanny.
Margaret had said the same thing to her lover. And Mrs. Underhill said
it was an awful extravagance to have such a great house for two people.
But John Underhill declared Dr. Hoffman had done just the right thing,
buying up-town. He would settle himself in a first-class practice
presently, as the well-to-do people kept moving thither.
There had been a good deal of discussion about the wedding. Dr. Hoffman
wanted to take Margaret to Baltimore, where his married sister resided,
and an aunt, his mother's sister, who was too feeble to undertake a
journey. They would go on to Washington as well. Wedding journeys were
not imperative, but often taken. An evening party at home seemed too
much for Mrs. Underhill; and Dolly, being in mourning, could not lead
any gaieties.
She cut the Gordian knot, however,--a church wedding, with cards for all
the friends, and a reception at home. They would take the train at six
from Jersey City. Mr. Underhill was rather sorry not to have an
old-fashioned festivity. But Miss Cynthia said this was just the thing.
So the marriage was at St. Thomas' church at two o'clock. A cousin of
Dolly's and a school friend were bridesmaids, though Annette Beekman had
been chosen. The bride wore a fine India mull that flowed around her
like a fleecy cloud, Dolly's veil, and orange blossoms, for it was good
luck to be married in something borrowed. The little girl headed the
procession, carrying a basket of flowers, and looked daintily sweet.
The "Home Journal," the society paper of that day, spoke of the
beautiful young couple in quite extravagant terms. Mrs. Underhill said
rather tartly afterward, "That Margaret was well enough looking; but she
had never thought of setting her up for a beauty." Yet down in the
depths of her heart her mother love had a little ache because her last
born would never be as beautiful. But Mr. Underhill considered they had
