a million rules in the world, and this makes a million standards 
to be looked out for. Major Sleeman mentions the case of some 


liigh-caste veiled ladies who were profoundl} scandalized when 
some English young ladies passed by with faces bare to the 
world ; so scandalized that they spoke out with strong indigna- 
tion and wondered that people could be so shameless as to 
expose their persons like that. And yet "the legs of the 
objectors were naked to mid-thigh." Both parties were clean- 
minded and irreproachably modest, while abiding by their 
separate rules, but they couldn't have traded rules for a change 
without suffering considerable discomfort. All human rules 
are more or less idiotic, I suppose. It is best so, no doubt. 
The way it is now, the asylums can hold the sane people, but 
if we tried to shut up the insane we should run out of building 
materials. 

You have a long drive through the outskirts of Benares 
before you get to the hotel. And all the aspects are melan- 
choly. It is a vision of dusty sterility, decaying temples, 
crumbling tombs, broken mud walls, shabby huts. The whole 
region seems to ache with age and penury. It must take ten 
thousand years of want to produce such an aspect. We were 
still outside of the great native city when we reached the hotel. 
It was a quiet and homelike house, inviting, and manifestly 
comfortable. But we liked its annex better, and went thither. 
It was a mile away, perhaps, and stood in the midst of a large 
compound, and was built bungalow fashion, everything on the 
ground floor, and a veranda, all around. They have doors in 
India, but I don't know why. They don't fasten, and they 
stand open, as a rule, with a curtain hanging in the doorspace 
to keep out the glare of the sun. Still, there is plenty of pri- 
vacy, for no white person will come in without notice, of course. 
The native men servants will, but they don't seem to count. 
They glide in, barefoot and noiseless, and are in the midst be- 
fore one knows it. At first this is a shock, and sometimes it 
is an embarrassment ; but one has to get used to it, and does. 

There was one tree in the compound, and a monkey lived 
in it. At first I was strongly interested in the tree, for I was 
told that it was the renowned peepul — the tree in whose 
shadow you cannot tell a lie. This one failed to stand the test, 
and I went away from it disappointed. There was a softly 
creaking well close by, and a couple of oxen drew water from 
it by the hour, superintended by two natives dressed in the 
usual " turban and pocket-handkerchief." The tree and the 
well were the only scenery, and so the compound was a sooth- 
ing and lonesome and satisfying place ; and very restful after 
so many activities. There was nobody in our bungalow but 
ourselves ; the other guests were in the next one, where the 
table d'hote was furnished, A body could not be more pleas- 
antly situated. Each room had the customary bath attached — 
a room ten or twelve feet square, with a roomy stone-paved 
pit in it and abundance of water. One could not easily 
improve upon this arrangement, except by furnishing it with 
cold water and excluding the hot, in deference to the fervency 
of the climate ; but that is forbidden. It would damage the 
bather's health. The stranger is warned against taking cold 
baths in India, but even the most intelligent strangers are 
fools, and they do not obey, and so they presently get laid up. 
I was the most intelligent fool that passed through, that year. 
But I am still more intelligent now. Now that it is too late. 

I wonder if the dorian, if that is the name of it, is another 
superstition, like the peepul tree. There was a great abun- 
dance and variety of tropical fruits, but the dorian was never 
in evidence. It was never the season for the dorian. It was 
always going to arrive from Burma sometime or other, but it 
never did. By all accounts it was a most strange fruit, and 
incomparably delicious to the taste, but not to the smell. Its 
rind was said to exude a stench of so atrocious a nature that 
when a dorian was in the room even the presence of a polecat 



was a refreshment. "We found many who had eaten the 
dorian, and they all spoke of it with a sort of rapture. They 
said that if you could hold your nose until the fruit was in 
your mouth a sacred joy would suffuse you from head to foot 
that would make you oblivious to 
the smell of the rind, but that if 
your grip slipped and you caught 
the smell of the rind before the 
fruit was in your mouth, you 
would faint. There is a for- 
tune in that rind. Some dav 
somebody will import it into 
Europe and sell it for cheese. 
Benares was not a disap- 
pointment. It justified its 
reputation as a curiosity. It 
is on high ground, and over- 
hangs a grand curve of the 
Ganges. It is a vast mass of 
building, compactly crusting 
a hill, and is cloven in all 
directions by an intricate 
confusion of cracks which 
stand for streets. Tall, slim 
minarets and beflagged tem- 
ple-spires rise out of it and 
give it picturesqueness, 
viewed from the river. The city is as busy as an ant-hill, and 
the hurly-burly of human life swarming along the web of 
narrow streets reminds one of the ants. The sacred cow 
swarms along, too, and goes whither she pleases, and takes 
toll of the grain-shops, and is very much in the way, and is a 
good deal of a nuisance, since she must not be molested. 


Benares is older than history, older than tradition, older 
even than legend, and looks twice as old as all of them put 
together. From a Hindoo statement quoted in Rev. Mr. 
Parker's compact and lucid Guide to Benares, I find that the 
site of the town was the beginning-place of the Creation. It 
was merely an upright "lingam," at first, no larger than a 
Istove-pipe, and stood in the midst of a shoreless ocean. This 
was the work of the God Vishnu. Later he spread the lingam 
out till its surface was ten miles across. Still it was not large 
enough for the business; therefore he presently built the 
globe around it. Benares is thus the center of the earth. 
This is considered an advantage. 

It has had a tumultuous history, both materially and spirit- 
ually. It started Brahminically, many ages ago ; then by and 
by Buddha came in recent times 2,500 years ago, and after 
that it was Buddhist during many centuries — twelve, per- 
haps — but the Brahmins got the upper hand again, then, and 
have held it ever since. It is unspeakably sacred in Hindoo 
eyes, and is as unsanitary as it is sacred, and smells like the 
rind of the dorian. It is the headquarters of the Brahmin 
faith, and one-eighth of the population are priests of that 
church. But it is not an overstock, for they have all India as 
a prey. All India flocks thither on pilgrimage, and pours its 
savings into the pockets of the priests in a generous stream, 
which never fails. A priest with a good stand on the shore of 
the Ganges is much better off than the sweeper of the best cross- 
ing in London. A good stand is worth a world of money. 
The holy proprietor of it sits under his grand spectacular 
umbrella and blesses people all his life, and collects his com- 
mission, and grows fat and rich; and the stand passes from 
father to son, down and down and down through the ages, 
and remains a permanent and lucrative estate in the family. 
As Mr. Parker suggests, it can become a subject of dispute, at 

one time or another, and then the matter will be settled, not 
by prayer and fasting and consultations with Yishnu, but by 
the intervention of a much more puissant power — an English 
court. In Bombay I was told by an American missionary 
that in India there are 640 Protestant missionaries at work. 
At first it seemed an immense force, but of course that was a 
thoughtless idea. One missionary to 500,000 natives — no, 
that is not a force ; it is the reverse of it ; 640 marching 
against an intrenched camp of 300,000,000 — the odds are too 
great, A force of 640 in Benares alone would have its hands 
over-full with 8,000 Brahmin priests for adversary. Mission- 
aries need to be well equipped with hope and confidence, and 
this equipment they seem to have always had in all parts of 
the world. Mr. Parker has it. It enables him to get a favor- 
able outlook out of statistics which might add up differently 
with other mathematicians. For instance: 

" During the past few years competent observers declare 
that the number of pilgrims to Benares has increased." 

And. then he adds up this fact and gets this conclusion : 

" But the revival, if so it may be called, has in it the marks 
of death. It is a spasmodic struggle before dissolution." 

In this world we have seen the Roman Catholic power 
dying, upon these same terms, for many centuries. Many a 
time we have gotten all ready for the funeral and found it 
postponed again, on account of the weather or something. 
Taught by experience, we ought not to put on our things for 
this Brahminical one till we see the procession move. Appar- 
ently one of the most uncertain things in the world is the 
funeral of a religion. 

I should have been glad to acquire some sort of idea of 
Hindoo theology, but the diificulties were too great, the matter 
was too intricate. Even the mere A, B, C of it is baffling. 


There is a trinity — Brahma, Shiva, and Vishnu — independent 
powers, apparently, though one cannot feel quite sure of that, 
because in one of the temples there is an image where an 
attempt has been made to concentrate the three in one person. 
The three have other names and plenty of them, and this 
makes confusion in one's mind. The three have wives and the 
wives have several names, and this increases the confusion. 
There are children, the children have many names, and thus 
the confusion goes on and on. It is not worth while to try to 
get any grip upon the cloud of minor gods, there are too many 
of them. 

It is even a justifiable economy to leave Brahma, the 
chiefest god of all, out of your studies, for he seems to cut no 
great figure in India. The vast bulk of the national worship 
is lavished upon Shiva and Vishnu and their families. Shiva's 
symbol — the " lingam " with which Vishnu began the Crea- 
tion — is worshiped by everybody, apparently. It is the com- 
monest object in Benares. It is on view everywhere, it is 
garlanded with flowers, offerings are made to it, it suffers no 
neglect. Commonly it is an upright stone, shaped like a 
thinble — sometimes like an elongated thimble. This priapus- 
worship, then, is older than history. Mr. Parker says that the 
lingams in Benares " outnumber the inhabitants.'' 

In Benares there are many Mohammedan mosques. There 
are Hindoo temples without number — these quaintly shaped 
and elaborately sculptured little stone jugs crowd all the lanes. 
The Ganges itself and every individual drop of water in it are 
temples. Keligion, then, is the business of Benares, just as 
gold-production is the business of Johannesburg. Other indus- 
tries count for nothing as compared with the vast and all-ab- 
sorbing rush and drive and boom of the town's specialty. Be- 
nares is the sacredest of sacred cities. The moment you step 
across the sharply -defined line which separates it from the rest 

of the globe, you stand upon ineffably and unspeakably holy 
ground. Mr. Parker says : " It is impossible to convey any 
adequate idea of the intense feelings of veneration and affec- 
tion with which the pious Hindoo regards ' Holy Kashi ' 
(Benares)." And then he gives you this vivid and moving pic- 
ture: 

" Let a Hindoo regiment be marched through the district, and as soon as 
they cross the line and enter the limits of the holy place they rend the air with 
cries of ' Kashi ji ki jai — jai — jai ! (Holy Kashi ! Hail to thee ! Hail ! 
Hail ! Hail)'. The weary pilgrim scarcely able to stand, with age and weak- 
ness, blinded by the dust and heat, and almost dead with fatigue, crawls out 
of the oven-like railway carriage and as soon as his feet touch the ground he 
lifts up his withered hands and utters the same pious exclamation. Let a 
European in some distant city in casual talk in the bazar mention the fact that 
he has lived at Benares, and at once voices will be raised to call down bless- 
ings on his head, for a dweller in Benares is of all men most blessed." 

It makes our own religious enthusiasm seem pale and cold. 
Inasmuch as the life of religion is in the heart, not the head, 
Mr. Parker's touching picture seems to promise a sort of indefi- 
nite postponement of that funeral. 



CHAPTER LI. 

Let me make the superstitions of a nation and I care not wbo makes its laws or 
its songs either. — Puddnhead Wilson's New Calendar. 

YES, the city of Benares is in effect just a big church, a 
religious hive, whose every cell is a temple, a shrine or 
a mosque, and whose every conceivable earthly and 
heavenly good is procurable under one roof, so to speak — a 
sort of Army and Navy Stores, theologically stocked. 

I will make out a little itinerary for the pilgrim ; then you 
will see how handy the system is, how convenient, how com- 
prehensive. If you go to Benares with a serious desire to spir- 
itually benefit yourself, you will find it valuable. I got some 
of the facts from conversations with the Rev. Mr. Parker and 
the others from his Guide to Benares ; they are therefore trust- 
worthy. 

1. Purification. At sunrise you must go down to the 
Granges and bathe, pray, and drink some of the water. This is 
for your general purification. 

2. Protection against Hunger. Next, you must fortify 
yourself against the sorrowful earthly ill just named. This 
you will do by worshiping for a moment in the Cow Temple. 
By the door of it you will find an image of Ganesh, son of 
Shiva ; it has the head of an elephant on a human body ; its 
face and hands are of silver. You will worship it a little, and 
pass on, into a covered veranda, where you will find devotees 
reciting from the sacred books, with the help of instructors. 
In this place are groups of rude and dismal idols. You may 
contribute something for their support ; then pass into the tem- 



pie, a grim and stenchy place, for it is populous with sacred 
cows and with beggars. You will give something to the beg- 
gars, and " reverently kiss the tails " of such cows as pass along, 
for these cows are peculiarly holy, and this act of worship will 
secure you from hunger for the day. 




3. " The Poor Mavus Friend You will next worship 
this god. He is at the bottom of a stone cistern in the temple 
of Dalbhyeswar, under the shade of a noble peepul tree on the 
bluff overlooking the Ganges, so you must go back to the 
river. The Poor Man's Friend is the god of material pros- 
perity in general, and the god of the rain in particular. You 
will secure material prosperity, or both, by worshiping him. 
He is Shiva, under a new alias, and he abides in the bottom 
of that cistern, in the form of a stone lingam. You pour 
Ganges water over him, and in return for this homage you 
get the promised benefits. If there is any delay about the 
rain, you must pour water in until the cistern is full ; the rain 
will then be sure to come. 

4. Fever. At the Kedar Ghat you will find a long flight 
of stone steps leading down to the river. Half way down is a 
tank filled with sewage. Drink as much of it as you want. It 
is for fever. 
 

5. Smallpox. Go straight from there to the central Ghat. 
At its upstream end you will find a small whitewashed build- 
ing, which is a temple sacred to Sitala, goddess of smallpox. 
Her under-study is there — a rude human figure behind a brass 
screen. You will worship this for reasons to be furnished 
presently. 

6. The Well of Fate. For certain reasons you will next 
go and do homage at this well. You will find it in the Dand- 
pan Temple, in . the city. The sunlight falls into it from a 
square hole in the masonry above. You mil approach it with 
awe, for your life is now at stake. You will bend over and 
look. If the fates are propitious, you will see your face pic- 
tured in the water far down in the well. If matters have been 
otherwise ordered, a sudden cloud will mask the sun and you 
will see nothing. This means that you have not six months to 
live. If you are already at the point of death, your circum- 
stances are now serious. There is no time to lose. Let this 
world go, arrange for the next one. Handily situated, at 
your very elbow, is opportunity for this. You turn and wor- 
ship the image of Maha Kal, the Great Fate, and happiness in 
the life to come is secured. If there is breath in your body 
yet, you should now make an effort to get a further lease of 
the present life. You have a chance. There is a chance for 
everything in this admirably stocked and wonderfully system- 
ized Spiritual and Temporal Army and Navy Store. You 
must get yourself carried to the 

7. Well of Long Life. This is within the precincts of the 
mouldering and venerable Briddhkal Temple, which is one of 
the oldest in Benares, You pass in by a stone image of the 
monkey god, Hanuman, and there, among the ruined court- 
yards, you will find a shallow pool of stagnant sewage. It 
smells like the best limburger cheese, and is filthy with the 
washings of rotting lepers, but that is nothing, bathe in it ; 



bathe in it gratefully and worshipfully, for this is the Foun- 
tain of Youth ; these are the Waters of Long Life. Your 
gray hairs will disappear, and with them your wrinkles and 
your rheumatism, the burdens of oare and the weariness of age, 
and you will come out young, fresh, elastic, and full of eager- 
ness for the new race of life. Now will come flooding upon 
you the manifold desires that haunt the dear dreams of the 
morning of life. You will go whither you will find 

8. Fulfilhnent of Desire. To wit, to the Kameshwar 
Temple, sacred to Shiva as the Lord of Desires. Arrange for 
yours there. And if you like to look at idols among the pack 
and jam of temples, there you will find enough to stock a 
museum. You will begin to commit sins now with a fresh, 
new vivacity ; therefore, it will be well to go frequently to a 
place where you can get 

9. Temporary Cleansing from Sin. To wit, to the Well 
of the Earring. You must approach this with the profoundest 
reverence, for it is unutterably sacred. It is, indeed, the most 
sacred place in Benares, the very Holy of Holies, in the esti- 
mation of the people. It is a railed tank, with stone stairways 
leading down to the water. The water is not clean. Of 
course it could not be, for people are always bathing in it. 
As long as you choose to stand and look, you will see the files 
of sinners descending and ascending — descending soiled with 
sin, ascending purged from it. " The liar, the thief, the mur- 
derer, and the adulterer may here wash and be clean," says 
the Eev. Mr. Parker, in his book. Very well. I know Mr. 
Parker, and I believe it ; but if anybody else had said it, I 
should consider him a person who had better go down in the 
tank and take another wash. The god Vishnu dug this tank. 
He had nothing to dig with but his " discus." I do not know 
what a discus is, but I know it is a poor thing to dig tanks 
with, because, by the time this one was finished, it was full of 


sweat — Vishnu's sweat. He constructed the site that 
Benares stands on, and afterward built the globe around it, 
and thought nothing of it, yet sweated like that over a little 
thing like this tank. One of these statements is doubtful. 1 
do not know which one it is, but I think it difficult not to 
believe that a god who could build a world around Benares 
would not be intelligent enough to build it around the tank 
too, and not have to dig it. Youth, long life, temporary puri- 
fication from sin, salvation through propitiation of the Great 
Fate — these are all good. But you must do something more. 
You must 

10. Make Salvation Sure. There are several ways. To 
get drowned in the Ganges is one, but that is not pleasant. 
