"I understand what you mean," said Jasper.
"Then I've only to say that it'll be best for you to remember it."
"Tell me again what you want."
"What I did want was, that you should collect this money and bring it to
me."
"I refuse."
"You needn't, for I don't intend to let you go out of my sight. I can't
trust you. No; I have another plan in view."
Jasper did not ask what it was. He felt sure that it was nothing that he
would be willing to do.
"What is the name of your employer?"
"Herman Fitch."
"Very good."
Jack drew from his pocket a small pocket-inkstand, a pen, and some
paper.
"Now," said he, "I want you to write a letter."
"Write a letter! To whom?" inquired Jasper, in surprise.
"To this man Fitch, telling him that you have had your pocket picked and
need some money. Tell him you will need at least seventy-five dollars,
as you haven't been able to collect anything."
"I can't do it," said Jasper.
"Can't do it! What do you mean?"
"I mean that by such a letter I should deceive my employer and be
obtaining money from him by false pretenses. I can't do it."
"Look here, boy," said Jack, sternly, "you don't know the man you are
trifling with. I am a desperate man, and will stick at nothing. I have
taken life before, and I am ready to do so again. Write this letter or I
will kill you!"
Jasper listened with horror to this terrible confession and his equally
terrible threat.
"Would you take my life for seventy-five dollars?" he said.
"Yes; your life is nothing to me, and I need the money. Quick, your
answer!"
As he spoke he drew out a long, murderous-looking knife, and approached
Jasper menacingly.
It was a terrible moment. Jack looked as if he fully intended to carry
out his threat At any rate, there was danger of it. On the one side was
death, on the other breach of trust.
Finally he decided.
"You may kill me if you will," he said at length, "but I won't write the
letter."
Jack uttered an execration and raised the knife, but suddenly he uttered
a stifled cry and fell to the ground, with blood spurting from a wound
in his breast.
Jasper bounded to his feet in astonishment. He had shut his eyes,
expecting death. His first glance was at the prostrate brigand. He saw
that the wound was made by an arrow, which had penetrated the region of
the heart. But who had sped the shaft? And was he also in danger? The
question was soon answered.
Out from the underbrush emerged three figures. The foremost was the
Indian maiden, Monima. Following her were two men of the same tribe. It
was one of these who had shot at Jack.
"Is white boy hurt?" asked Monima, running to Jasper and surveying him
anxiously.
"No," said Jasper. "Thank you, Monima."
"Monima is glad," said the Indian girl, joyfully.
Jack groaned, and Jasper came to his side and addressed him
compassionately, though but a minute before Jack had been about to take
his life. He saw that the blood was gushing forth from his wound.
"Is he badly wounded?" asked Jasper, turning to Monima.
She said something in her native language to the two men.
They spoke briefly, shaking their heads.
"White man will die," she said, interpreting to Jasper.
Our hero was shocked. It was the first time he had ever witnessed a
violent death, and it struck him with horror.
He kneeled by Jack's side. Just then the wounded man opened his eyes.
"Who shot me?" he asked, with difficulty.
"The Indians."
Jack's glance fell upon the two men, and he tried to lift himself up,
but the effort caused his wound to bleed more copiously. He burst into a
volley of oaths, which in his state shocked Jasper.
"Don't swear," he said. "Would you go into the presence of God with an
oath in your mouth?"
Jack's face grew livid with terror.
"Who says I am going to die?" he asked, wildly.
"The Indians say you cannot live," said Jasper, gravely.
"It's a lie!" exclaimed Jack, violently. "I'll live to kill you all!"
As he spoke he plucked the arrow from his breast; but this only hastened
his death. He fell back exhausted, and in five minutes breathed his
last.
Jasper looked so shocked that the Indian girl said, in a tone of
surprise:
"Is white boy sorry?"
"Yes," said Jasper.
"What for? He try to kill white boy."
"Yes; but it seems awful to see him killed so suddenly. I wish he could
have lived long enough to repent."
Monima could not understand this.
"He bad man!" she said, emphatically. "He try to kill white boy. Monima
white boy's friend."
Jasper took the hand of Monima gratefully and said:
"You have saved me, Monima. But for you he would have killed me."
The Indian girl's eyes lighted up, but she only said:
"Monima is glad."
"How fortunate that I fell in with her," thought Jasper, "and that I
made a friend of her!"
"Where white boy go to-night?" asked Monima.
"I don't know," said Jasper, doubtfully.
"Come to my father's lodge. In the morning Monima will show the way."
"Thank you, Monima," said our hero. "I will go."
He felt that he could not refuse such an offer from one who had rendered
him such a service. Moreover, it relieved him from embarrassment, as he
would not have known otherwise where to pass the night, which was now
close at hand.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
A STARTLING SUMMONS.
The Indian encampment was only half a mile away. There were assembled
about fifty persons, men, women, and children, lying on the grass about
the tents. Monima's favor was sufficient to insure a cordial reception
to Jasper, who was pressed to partake of supper, an offer he was glad to
accept, for it was now seven hours since he had eaten food. After the
repast a pipe was offered him, but this he declined, explaining that he
never had learned to smoke. On the whole, he enjoyed the adventure,
except that he could not help thinking from time to time of his late
companion, cut off so suddenly. He learned from Monima that her two
attendants had remained behind and buried Jack under the tree where he
had been killed.
At night he slept on skins in one of the tents, and in the morning he
was guided on his way by Monima as far as the road.
The Indian maiden looked sad when they were about to part.
"When will white boy come back?" she said.
"I don't know, Monima. I hope to see you again, some time, but perhaps
you won't remember me."
"Monima never forgets," she answered.
"And I shall not forget."
Attached to his watch was a silver chain which he had bought in St.
Louis three months before. He had noticed Momma's look of admiration
directed toward it, and he determined to give it to her. Detaching his
watch from it, he held it out to the Indian girl.
"Take it, Monima," he said. "It is a gift of friendship."
She uttered a cry of pleasure.
"You give it to Monima?" she said, half incredulous.
"Yes," he said.
"And I have nothing to give white boy," she said, sadly.
"You have given me my life. Is that nothing, Monima? Keep the chain, and
whenever you look at it remember Jasper."
So they parted, and Jasper pursued his journey to Plattville. He reached
the town without further adventure, and conducted satisfactorily the
business with which he was intrusted. He succeeded in obtaining half the
money due his employer, and in making arrangements for the speedy
payment of the rest. So it was with a mind well satisfied that he
returned to St. Louis.
When he told Mr. Fitch the particulars of his encounter with Jack, and
his escape, the latter said, earnestly:
"Jasper, you are the bravest boy I know."
"I am afraid you overrate my services," said Jasper, modestly.
"And you really refused to write the letter, though you knew your life
was in danger?"
"I was not willing to betray my trust."
"I honor your courage and fidelity, but you carried them too far. We
would far rather have lost ten times seventy-five dollars than risked
your life."
"I didn't think of that, I only thought it would be wrong to defraud
you."
"We shall not forget your fidelity. You may consider your wages raised
to twenty dollars a week."
"Thank you, sir," said Jasper, gratified.
"It is not merely on account of your courage and fidelity, but partly
because of the business ability you have shown in carrying on this
affair."
Again Jasper thanked his employer, and went about his duties with fresh
courage, feeling that his services were appreciated.
"I am glad I came to St. Louis," he thought. "How much better I am
situated than I should have been at home, tyrannized over by a
step-mother by whom I was disliked."
Three months more passed, when one day a boy entered the store.
"Is Jasper Kent here?" he asked.
"Yes," said Jasper, coming forward, "that is my name."
"I have a telegram for you," said the boy. Jasper tore it open, and read
these words:
    "Come home at once. Your step-mother is dying.
    "Otis Miller."
Shocked at this startling intelligence, Jasper at once sought his
employer, obtained leave of absence, and took the next train bound east.
We must precede him and explain what had happened, and what occasioned
Mrs. Kent's critical condition.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
DICK COMES BACK.
When Mrs. Kent's brother left her house with fifty dollars in his pocket
she warned him that it was the last money he could expect to receive
from her. He did not reply, but he had no intention of remaining
satisfied with so little.
"What is fifty dollars?" he thought, "to my sister's fortune? She
needn't think she has got rid of me so easily."
At that time he expected to make her another visit in the course of a
month or two, but circumstances prevented. The fact is, he was imprudent
enough to commit theft and incautious enough to be detected, not long
afterward, and the consequence was a term of imprisonment.
When he was released from confinement he at once made his way to his
sister's house.
As before, Nicholas was standing on the lawn. His countenance changed
when he recognized his uncle, though he didn't know that he had just
come from a prison.
"How are you, Nicholas?" said his uncle.
"I'm well," said his nephew, coldly.
"Really, you have grown a good deal since I saw you."
Even this compliment did not soften Nicholas, who turned his back and
did not invite his uncle into the house.
Dick scowled in an ugly manner but controlled his voice.
"How is your mother?"
"She's got the headache."
"I am sorry. I have been sick, too."
Nicholas did not exhibit the slightest curiosity on the subject.
"I have just come from the hospital," a slight fiction, as we know.
This aroused Nicholas, who retreated a little as he asked:
"Did you have anything catching?"
"No; besides, I'm well now. I should like to see your mother."
"I don't think she feels well enough to see you."
"Will you go up and see? I want to see her on important business."
Nicholas went up stairs grumbling.
"Well, mother," he said, "that disreputable brother of yours has come
again."
Mrs. Kent's brow contracted.
"Where is he?" she asked.
"Down stairs. He wants to see you, he says."
"How does he look?"
"Worse than ever. He says he has just come from a hospital."
"From a hospital? He has a good deal of assurance to come here," said
Mrs. Kent, with a hard look.
"So he has."
"I will tell you why," said his mother, in a lower tone. "He has not
told you the truth. He has not come from a hospital, as he represents."
"Why should he say so, then?" asked Nicholas, surprised.
"Because he didn't like to say prison."
"Has he been in prison? How do you know?"
"I saw an account in the papers of his arrest and conviction. I suppose
he has just come out of prison."
"Why didn't you tell me of this before, mother?"
"I wanted to keep the disgrace secret, on account of the relationship.
When he finds I know it, I shall soon be rid of him."
"Will you see him, then?"
"Yes; I will go down stairs, and you may tell him to come in."
Two minutes later the ex-convict entered his sister's presence. He read
no welcome in her face.
"Hang it!" he said, "you don't seem very glad to see your only brother."
"You are right," she said; "I do not seem glad, and I do not feel glad."
His face darkened as he sank heavily into an arm-chair.
"I suppose I'm a poor relation," he said, bitterly. "That's the reason,
isn't it?"
"No."
"You'd treat me better if I came here rich and prosperous."
"Probably I would."
"Didn't I say so? You haven't any feelings for the poor."
"I haven't any feeling for criminals," said Mrs. Kent, in a sharp voice.
He uttered a stifled oath and his face flushed.
"What do you mean?" he asked.
"I mean that you came here straight from a prison; deny it if you can,"
she said, sternly.
He hesitated. Then he said:
"I'm not the only innocent man that's been locked up."
"You can't deceive me," she answered, "though you protest your innocence
all day. I shall not believe you. I feel sure that you were guilty of
the crime for which you were punished."
"It's rather hard that my own flesh and blood should turn against me."
"You have disgraced the family," said Mrs. Kent. "I discard you. I no
longer look upon you as my brother."
"If you had not turned me off with such a pittance it wouldn't have
happened," he said, sullenly. "Out of your abundance you only gave me
fifty dollars."
"And you a stout, broad-shouldered man, must accept charity or steal!"
she said, sarcastically.
"Luck has always been against me."
"Your own bad habits have always been against you."
"Look here," said he, doggedly, "I won't stand any more of that, even
from my own sister."
"Very well. What have you come here for?"
"I'm out of money."
"And you expect me to supply you?"
"I think you might give me a little, just to get along."
"I shall not give you a cent. You have no claim upon me. I have already
said that I no longer look upon you as a brother."
"Is that all you've got to say?" demanded Dick, his face growing dark
with anger.
"It is my final determination."
"Then all I've got to say is, you'll repent it to the last day of your
life!" he burst out, furiously. "I'll go away"--here he arose--"but I'll
never forget your cruelty and harshness."
He strode out of the room, and she looked after him coldly.
"It is as well," she said to herself. "Now he understands that there is
no more to be got out of me, I hope I shall never lay eyes upon him
again."
"Well," said Nicholas, entering directly afterward, "what have you said
to him? He dashed out of the yard, looking as black as a thunder-cloud."
"I told him that he had disgraced the family and I should never more
acknowledge him as a brother."
"I'm glad you sent him off with a flea in his ear. I don't want to see
him around here again."
"I don't think we shall."
There was one thing Mrs. Kent forgot--her brother's brutal temper and
appetite for revenge. Had she thought of this she would, perhaps, have
been more cautious about provoking him.
          *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *
In the middle of the night Mrs. Kent awoke with a strange sense of
oppression, the cause of which she did not immediately understand. As
soon as she recovered her senses she comprehended the occasion--the
crackling flames--and the fearful thought burst upon her:
"The house is on fire!"
She threw on her dress and dashed hastily from the room. She was about
to seek the quickest mode of exit when she thought of Nicholas. He might
be asleep, unconscious of his peril. She was a cold and selfish woman,
but her one redeeming trait was her affection for her son. She rushed
frantically to his chamber, screaming:
"Nicholas! Wake up! The house is on fire!"
She entered his chamber, but he was not in it. He had already escaped,
and, full of selfish thoughts of his own safety, had fled without giving
heed to his mother, though there would have been time for him to save
her.
"He is safe!" thought Mrs. Kent, and, relieved of this anxiety, she
sought to escape.
But the flames had gained too much headway. Her dress caught fire, and
she ran frantically about, ignorant that in so doing she increased the
peril. She was barely conscious of being seized and borne out by
friendly hands. But though the flames were extinguished, she had already
received fatal injuries. She lingered till the afternoon of the
following day, and then died. Meanwhile Mr. Miller sent Jasper the
telegram already referred to.
Nicholas looked serious when he was informed of his mother's death, but
his was not a temperament to be seriously affected by the misfortune of
another. His own interests were uppermost in his mind.
"Will I get mother's property?" he asked Mr. Miller, while that mother
lay dead and disfigured in his presence.
"This is no time to speak of property," said Mr. Miller, coldly. "You
ought to think of your poor mother's fate."
"Of course I do," said Nicholas, trying to look sorrowful; "but I want
to know how I'm going to be situated."
"Wait till after the funeral, at any rate," said the other, disgusted.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
HOW IT ALL ENDED.
Jasper did not reach home till after the funeral had taken place and his
step-mother was buried. Though he had little reason to like her, he was
shocked and distressed by her sad and untimely fate.
"How could the house catch fire, Mr. Miller?" he asked.
"It is supposed to have been set on fire."
"Who would do it?"
"From what Nicholas tells me I suspect that the fire was the work of
Mrs. Kent's brother."
"Her brother!" exclaimed Jasper. "I met him in the West."
"Then you probably know that he was not a very respectable character."
"I know that he was concerned in kidnapping a child."
"Nicholas tells me that he had just got out of prison, and applied to
Mrs. Kent for help, which she refused. Incensed at this, he probably set
the house on fire."
"I think he would be capable of doing it. Has he been arrested?"
"Not yet, but the police are on his track. I don't think he can escape."
"Nicholas doesn't seem to take his mother's death very hard."
"No. I am disgusted with his selfishness. He seems to be principally
concerned about property which she leaves."
"I suppose he will inherit it."
"Yes. I don't know in what state it is, but it ought to amount to thirty
thousand dollars. It is a large slice of your father's fortune."
"I do not begrudge it to him. I shall have enough."
"That reminds me that it is time to open the instrument which your
father left with me."
The paper was opened then and there, and proved to contain the following
direction: That in case Jasper and his step-mother did not get along
harmoniously, his old friend, Mr. Miller, was empowered and requested to
assume the guardianship of Jasper.
"That arrangement suits me precisely," said Jasper, warmly. "Will you
accept the trust?"
"Cheerfully," said his friend. "I don't think there is any danger of our
disagreeing."
Jasper shook his head.
"If there should be any disagreement it would be my fault," he said.
"But won't Nicholas need a guardian?"
"Yes; one will have to be appointed."
"I suppose his uncle would be willing to take the post."
"His uncle, if found, will hardly be in a position to act in that
capacity."
Dick was not found. He disappeared, and from that day was not seen in
the neighborhood. It is supposed that he went West and found a secure
concealment in some of the distant territories, where probably he is
engaged in the same discreditable courses for which he was already
notorious.
As was anticipated, Nicholas inherited about thirty thousand dollars. He
selected as his guardian the young physician whom his mother had
employed in her husband's last sickness. But the man proved faithless to
his trust, and ran away with the entire fortune of his ward, leaving him
absolutely penniless. In this emergency Nicholas, humbled and mortified,
appealed to Jasper to help him.
With his guardian's permission, Jasper agreed, during his good behavior,
to pay for his use an annual sum of five hundred dollars, urging him to
continue at school. But this did not suit Nicholas. He obtained a place
in New York, where he soon developed fast tendencies, and ended by
running away with a considerable sum of money belonging to his employer.
It was believed that he went to California. His employer took no steps
to apprehend him, Jasper having agreed to make up to him the sum--nine
hundred dollars--which Nicholas had appropriated. For him it was a
saving, since by his conduct Nicholas had forfeited the annual provision
he had agreed to make for him.
And what became of Jasper? By his guardian's advice he went to school
for two years more. Then he returned to St. Louis, and again entered the
employment of Mr. Fitch.
At twenty-one, with a portion of his property, he bought an interest in
the business and became junior partner, and is now one of the most
respected and enterprising young business men in that flourishing city.
He was recently united in marriage to a charming young lady, the
daughter of a prosperous Western merchant, and so his prospects seem as
bright as could well be hoped for.
The trials of his early life are safely passed.
By his honesty, courage and generosity he has fairly earned the
