floor, and burying his face in a chair, groaned aloud.
Patience was disgusted, but his suffering, primary as it was, touched
her. Moreover, her broad vein of philosophy was active once more. She
was by no means prepared to leave him—the tide was ebbing very slowly.
She sat down on the chair, and lifted his face to her lap. “There,” she
said, “I am sorry I spoke. You don’t seem to understand me. If you did,
though, this scene could never have occurred. But I love you—of
course—and I do not regret it. So get up and bathe your eyes. It is
after seven o’clock.”
He kissed her hands, his face glowing again. The words were all
sufficient to him. “Then if you love me you will see how happy I’ll make
you,” he exclaimed. “I’ll never leave you a minute I can help; but if
you stop loving me I’ll make life hell for you.”
“I thought you said you’d kill yourself.”
“Well, I would, but I’d get square with you first.”
“Well, suppose you go into your own room now, and let me dress for
dinner.”
                                   IV
The summer passed agreeably enough. Circumstances prevented Beverly
bestowing an undue amount of his society on his wife, and until a woman
is wholly tired of a man she retains her self respect. Moreover,
Patience chose to believe herself in love with him: “it had been in her
original estimate of herself that she had been at fault.” She persuaded
herself that she loved him as much as she could love any man, and she
did her pathetic best to shed some glimmer of spiritual light into a man
who might have been compounded in a laboratory, so little soul was in
him. But despite the clay which was hers, she loved it a great deal for
a time in loving it at all, for that was her nature.
She went to several other garden-parties, and found them more amusing
than her own, although the young men that frequented them were quite
uninteresting: even Beverly scintillated by contrast, for he, at least,
had a temper; these more civilised youths appeared to have no emotions
whatever.
Peele Manor was full of company all summer. Patience found the married
men more entertaining than the younger ones, although they usually made
love to her; but after she had outgrown her surprise and disapproval of
their direct and business-like methods, it amused her to fence with
them. They had more self-control than Beverly Peele, and were a trifle
more skilful, but their general attitude was, as she expressed it to
Hal: “There’s no time to lose, dontcherknow! Life is short, and New
York’s a busy place. What the deuce is there to wait for? Sentiment? Oh,
sentiment be hanged! It takes too much time.”
Hal was an accomplished hostess, and allowed her guests little time to
make love or to yawn. There were constant riding and driving and
yachting parties, picnics and tennis and golf. In the evening they
danced, romped, or had impromptu “Varieties.”
Patience was fascinated with the life, although she still had the sense
of being an alien, and moments of terrible loneliness. But she was too
much of a girl not to take a girl’s delight in the dash and glitter and
picturesqueness of society. She was not popular, although she quickly
outgrew any external points of difference; but the essential difference
was felt and resented.
On the whole there was concord between herself and her mother-in-law.
Mr. Peele she barely knew. His family saw little of him. He had not
attended the wedding. When Patience had arrived at Peele Manor after her
trip, he had kissed her formally, and remarked that he hoped she “would
make something of Beverly.”
He was an undersized man with scant iron grey hair whose tint seemed to
have invaded his complexion. His lips were folded on each other so
closely, that Patience watched them curiously at table: when eating they
merely moved apart as if regulated by a spring; their expression never
changed. His eyes were dark and rather dull, his nose straight and fine,
his hands small and very white. He was not an eloquent man at the bar;
he owed his immense success to his mastery of the law, to a devilish
subtlety, and to his skill at playing upon the weak points of human
nature. No man could so adroitly upset an “objection,” no man so terrify
a witness. It was said of him that he played upon a jury with the
consummate art of a great musician for his instrument. He rarely lost a
case.
His voice was very soft, his manners exquisite. He was never known to
lose his temper. His cold aristocratic face looked the sarcophagus of
buried passions.
He deeply resented his children’s failure to inherit his brain, but in
his inordinate pride of birth, forgave them, for they bore the name of
Peele. Hal was his favourite, for she, at least, was bright.
May admired her sister-in-law “to death,” as she phrased it, and bored
her with attentions. Patience preferred Honora, who puzzled and repelled
her, but assuredly could not be called superficial, although her claims
to intellectuality were based upon her preference for George Eliot and
George Meredith to the lighter order of fiction, and upon her knowledge
of the history of the Catholic Church.
One day, as Patience was crossing the lawn in front of the house, May
called to her from the hall, beckoning excitedly. She and Hal and Honora
were standing by a table on which was a saucer half full of what
appeared to be dead leaves. As Patience entered, May lifted the saucer
to her sister-in-law’s nostrils.
“Why? What?” asked Patience, then paused.
“Oh,—what a faint, delicious, far-away perfume,” she said after a
moment. “What is it?”
May dropped the saucer and clapped her hands. Hal laughed as if much
gratified. Honora’s eyes wandered to the landscape with an absent and
introspective regard.
“What is it?” asked Patience again.
“Why, it’s dried strawberry leaves,” said May. “Don’t you know that they
say in the South that you can’t perceive their perfume unless every drop
of blood in your veins is blue? The common people can’t smell it at
all.”
Patience blushed and moved her head disdainfully, but she thrilled with
pleasure.
“Won’t you come up and see my room?” said Honora, softly. “You’ve never
called on me yet, and I think I have a very pretty room.”
“Oh, I’ll be delighted,” said Patience, who was half consciously
avoiding Beverly: Peele Manor was without guests for a few hours.
“Now you must tell me if you like my room as much as you do me,” said
Honora, who looked more like an angel than ever, in a white mull frock
and blue sash. Her manner to Patience was evenly affectionate, with an
undercurrent of subtle sadness and reproach.
As she opened the door of her room, Patience exclaimed with admiration.
The ceiling was blue, frescoed with golden stars, the walls with
celestial visions. A blue carpet strewn with lilies covered the floor,
fluttering curtains of blue silk and white muslin, the old windows. From
the dome of the brass bedstead mull curtains hung like clouds. A faint
odour of incense mixed with the sweet perfumes of summer.
“Is it not beautiful?” said Honora, in a rapt voice. “It makes me think
of heaven. Does it not you? It was dear Aunt Honora’s last Christmas
gift to me. It was so sweet of her, for of course I am only the poor
cousin.”
Patience looked at her, wondering, as she had often done, whether the
girl were a fool, or deeper than any one of her limited experience.
Honora rarely talked, but she had reduced listening to a fine art, and
was a favourite in society. Whether she had nothing to say, or whether
she had divined that her poverty would make eloquence unpardonable,
Patience had not determined. One thing was patent, however: she managed
her aunt, and her wants were never ignored.
“Now,” she said softly, “I am going to show you something that I don’t
show to every one—but you are dear Beverly’s wife.” She folded a screen
and revealed an altar covered with cloth of silver, antique
candlesticks, and heavy silver cross.
“My faith which sustains me in all the trials of life,” whispered
Honora, crossing herself. “Ah, if I could have made dear Beverly a
convert. Once he seemed balancing—but he slipped away. I have tried to
win Hal and May to the true faith too; but we were always so much more
to each other—Beverly and I,—playmates from childhood. I think I know
him better than anybody in the world.”
Patience felt an interloper, a thief and an alien, but out of her new
schooling answered carelessly: “Oh, he is awfully fond of you, but I
don’t think he is inclined to be religious. This room is too sanctified
to speak above a whisper in. Come to my room and talk to me awhile.”
Honora opened a door by the head of her bed, and they passed through a
large lavatory, then through Beverly’s room to that of the bride, a
square room whose windows framed patches of Hudson and Palisade, and
daintily furnished in lilac and white. A photograph of Miss Tremont hung
between the windows. On one side were shelves containing John Sparhawk’s
library.
Beverly arose from a deep chair, where he had been smoking and glowering
upon the Hudson. Patience caught Honora firmly by the waist and pushed
her into the most comfortable chair in the room, then with much skill
engaged her in a discussion with Beverly upon the subject of music, the
one subject besides horse which interested him.
                                   V
In August the girls went to Newport, and Patience became very tired of
her mother-in-law. May returned engaged to a wealthy Cuban, who had been
dancing attendance on her blondinitude for some months past, and Mrs.
Peele became so amiable that she forgot to lecture her daughter-in-law
or irritate her with the large vigilance of her polaric eyes. The girls
left again for Lenox and Tuxedo. On the first of January the family
moved to their town house for the winter.
Patience was alone with her husband.
During the first three days of this new connubial solitude it snowed
heavily. Beverly could not ride nor drive, and wandered restlessly
between the stable and the library, where his wife sat before the
blazing logs.
There were some two thousand volumes at Peele Manor. Patience had had no
time to read since her marriage, but on the morning of the family’s
departure she made for the library, partly in self defence, partly with
pleasurable anticipation. She hoped that Beverly would succumb to the
charms of the stable, where there were many congenial spirits and a
comfortable parlour; but she had barely discovered Heine’s prose and had
read but ten pages of the “Reisebilder,” when the door opened, and he
came in. She merely nodded, and went on reading. She was barely
conscious of his presence, for Heine is a magician, and she was already
under his spell.
“Well, you might shut up your book and talk to me,” said Beverly,
pettishly, flinging himself into a chair opposite her. “This is a nice
way to treat a fellow on a stormy day.”
“Oh, you read too,” murmured Patience.
“No, I will not. I want to talk to you.”
Patience closed the book over her finger and looked at him impatiently.
Then an idea occurred to her, and she spoke with her usual
impulsiveness.
“Look, Beverly,” she said, “you and I have to spend many months alone
together, and if we are to make a success of matrimony we must be
companions, and to be companions we must have similar tastes. Now I’ll
make a bargain with you: I’ll try to like horses if you’ll try to like
books. On pleasant days I’ll ride and drive with you, and when it storms
we’ll read together here in the library. I am sure you will like it
after a time. If you find it tiresome to read to yourself I’ll read
aloud. I don’t mind, and then we can talk it over.”
“All right,” said Beverly. “Anything you say. What’s that you’re reading
now?”
“Heine’s prose. He is wonderful—such a style and such sardonic wit, and
such exquisite thoughts. I’ll begin all over again. Now light a cigar
and make yourself comfortable.”
For a half hour she read aloud, and then Mr. Peele remarked,—
“Hang it! The skating is spoiled for a week.”
“Oh, Beverly, you haven’t been listening.”
“Well, I don’t like it very much. He skips around so. Besides, I always
did hate Germans. Give me America every time.”
“Well, read something American then,” said Patience, crossly.
“You find something and read it to me. I like to hear your voice, even
if I can’t keep my mind on it. Wait a while though. I guess I’ll go and
see how the stable is getting on.”
He bent down to kiss his wife, but she was once more absorbed, and did
not see him. He snatched the book from her with an oath and flung it
across the room. She sprang to her feet with flashing eyes, pushed him
aside with no gentle hand, and ran after the book.
“You sha’n’t read that book!” he cried. “The idea of forgetting your
husband for a book—a book! You are a lovely wife! You are a disgrace
to the name! You would rather read than kiss your husband! I’ll lock
this room up, damned if I don’t.”
“I’ll go and live with Miss Beale and do Temperance work,” sobbed
Patience. “I won’t live with you.”
“Oh, you won’t—what? What did I marry you for? My God! What did I marry
you for? My life is hell, for I’m no fool. I know you don’t love me. You
married me for my money.”
“I wish I had,” she exclaimed passionately, then controlled herself. “I
hope we are not going to squabble in the usual commonplace way. I shall
not, at any rate. If you lose your temper, you can have the quarrel all
to yourself. I shall not pay any attention to you. Now go out to the
stable and cool off, and when you come back I’ll read something else to
you.”
“Do you love me?”
“Oh, yes—yes.”
And Beverly disappeared, slamming the door behind him.
“I wonder if any one on earth has such a temper,” she thought. “And
people believe that vulgarity and lack of control are confined to the
lower classes! What is the matter with civilisation anyhow? I can only
explain my own remarkable aberration in this way: youthful love is a
compound of curiosity, a surplus of vitality, and inherited
sentimentalism. It is likely to arrive just after the gamut of
children’s diseases has run its course. Of course the disease is merely
a complacent state of the system until the germ arrives, which same is
the first attractive and masterful man. All diseases run their course,
however. I could not be more insensible to Beverly Peele’s dead
ancestors out in the vault than I am to him. No woman is capable of
loving at nineteen. She is nothing but an overgrown child, a chaos of
emotions and imagination. There ought to be a law passed that no woman
could marry until she was twenty-eight. Then, perhaps a few of us would
feel less like—Well, there is nothing to do but make the best of it,
regard life as a highly seasoned comedy, in which one is little more
than a spectator, after all—and at present I have Heine.”
Beverly did not return for an hour. When he did she rose at once, and
running her eye along the shelves, selected a volume of Webster’s
Speeches.
“You like politics,” she said; “and all of us should read the great
works of our great men. I’ll read the famous Seventh of March Speech.”
And she did, Beverly listening with considerable attention. When she had
finished he remarked enthusiastically,—
“Do you know what that speech has made me make up my mind to do? I’m
going to run for the Senate, and make speeches like that myself.”
Patience merely stared at him. She wondered if he were really something
more than a fool; if there was a sort of post-graduate course.
“What makes you look at me like that? Don’t you think I can?”
“Well—” She hardly knew what to say.
“Well! Is that the way you encourage a fellow? You are a nice wife. Here
my father has been at me all my life to do something, and just as soon
as I make up my mind, my wife laughs at me.”
“I didn’t laugh at you.”
“Well, it’s all the same. If I never do anything, it’ll be your fault.”
“Go to the Senate just as fast as ever you can get there. And you might
as well spend the rest of the day studying Webster; but suppose you read
to yourself for a while: my throat is tired.”
“I don’t like to read to myself.”
“Well, anyhow, I hear Lawson coming. Luncheon is ready.”
The table in the dining-room had been divested of its leaves, and the
young couple sat only a few feet apart. The room had once been a
banqueting-hall. It was very large and dark. The white light filtered
meagrely through the small panes. The wind moaned through the naked
elms.
“The country is awfully dull in winter,” remarked Patience. “I wish we
were in town.”
“That’s a beautiful speech to make to a husband. I don’t mind so long as
you are here.”
“Of course I am deeply flattered,” and she smiled upon him. There seemed
nothing else to do.
“Damn it!” cried Beverly, “this steak is as thin as a plate and burnt to
a cinder. Patience, I do wish you’d give some of your attention to
housekeeping and less to books. It is your place to see that things are
properly cooked, now that Honora is gone.”
“Oh, dear. I don’t know anything about cooking, or housekeeping,
either.”
“Well, then, I’d be much obliged if you’d learn as quickly as possible.
Take this steak out,” he said to the maid, “and bring some cold beef or
ham. Damn it! I might have known that when Honora went away I’d have
nothing fit to eat, with this new cook.”
But Patience refused to continue the conversation, and when the ham and
beef came he ate of them with such relish that his good-nature returned
as speedily as it had departed.
During the afternoon the scene of the morning was repeated with
variations, and the same might be said of the two following days. Then
came an interval of sleighing and skating. Then rain turned the snow to
slush, and once again Beverly exhibited the characteristics of a caged
tiger.
“I shall have nervous prostration before the winter is over,” thought
Patience, who was still determined to take the situation humorously,
still refused to face her former self. “I do wish the family would come
back, mother-in-law and all.”
Occasionally, despite Beverly’s indignant protests, she went to town for
the day, and shopped or paid calls with Hal. On one occasion they went
to see Rosita. That “beautiful young prima donna of ever increasing
popularity” wore black gauze over gold-coloured tights, and acted and
sang and danced and allured with consummate art. The opera house was
two-thirds crowded with men, although there was the usual matinée
contingent of girls and young married women.
“Well,” thought Patience, “she’s way ahead of me, for she’s made a
success of herself, at least, and is not bothered with scruples and
regrets.”
The winter dragged along as slowly as if time had lamed the old man,
then fallen asleep. The relations between Patience and Beverly became
very strained. His frequent tempers were alternated by sulks. He was
genuinely unhappy, for limited as he was, mentally and spiritually, he
was very human; and in his primitive way he loved his wife.
Patience’s resolution to go through life as a cynical humourist, deaf
and blind to the great wants of her nature, died hard, but it died at
last. Monotony accentuated fact, and the time came when pretence failed
her, and she visibly shrank from his lightest caress. The tide of horror
and loathing had risen slowly, but definitely. He threatened to kill
her, to commit suicide, to get a divorce; but his threats did not
disturb her. He was too weak to kill himself, too proud to make himself
ridiculous in the divorce courts, and too much in love to put her beyond
his reach. What sustained her was the hope that his passion would die a
natural death, and that they would then go their diverse ways as other
married people did,—that had come to seem to her the most blessed
meaning of the holy state of matrimony. Then she could enjoy her books,
and he would permit her to spend the winters in New York, or in travel.
Beverly’s affections, however, showed no sign of dissolution.
                                   VI
One afternoon in March, Patience, glancing out of the library window,
saw Hal coming up the lawn from the path that led down the slope to the
station. She suppressed a war-whoop with which she and Rosita had been
used to awake the echoes of the Californian hills, opened the window,
and vaulted out.
“Well,” cried Miss Peele, as Patience ran toward her, “you do look glad
to see me, sure enough. Bev can’t be very exciting, for you don’t look
as if it were me particularly—just somebody. Oh, matrimony! matrimony!
I envy the women that have solved the problem in some other way—the
journalists and artists, and authors and actresses, and even the
suffragists, God rest them. Hello, there’s Bev. He looks as if he were
about to cry. What have you been doing to him?”
“I left him writing an order for some new kind of horse-feed,” said
Patience, indifferently. Her husband stood at the window, staring
gloomily at the beaming faces. When the girls entered the room he had
gone.
“He looks as if he had just been let out of the dark room. Do you beat
him? What do you suppose my mother will say?”
“Oh, I suppose he’s bored too. You see it’s nearly three months now. I
tried to make him read, but after the third day he went to sleep.”
Hal drew a low chair to the fire, close to the one Patience occupied.
She laughed merrily.
“Fancy your trying to make Bev intellectual! That would be a good
subject for a one-act farce. Well, I’ve come up here to tell you
something, and to talk it over. I, too, am contemplating matrimony.”
“Oh, don’t!” cried Patience.
“I believe that is usually the advice of married people, but the world
goes on marrying itself just the same. But my problem is much more
complicated than the average, for there are two men in the question.”
“Two? You don’t mean to say you don’t know your own mind?”
“That is exactly the fact in the case. You remember Reginald Wynne?
Well, Patience, I do like that man. I never liked any man one tenth as
much. I might say he’s the only serious man I’ve ever met, the only one,
to put it in another way, that I ever could take seriously as a man. He
has brains—he’s a lawyer, you know, and they say very fine things of
him—and he is so kind, and strong. When I am with him I don’t feel
frivolous and worldly and one of a dozen. If I have any better nature
and any apology for a brain, they are on top then. He is the last sort
of man I ever thought I’d fall in love with, but it takes us some years
to become acquainted with ourselves, doesn’t it? I do respect him so,
and it is such a novel sensation. He even makes me read. Fancy! And I’ve
even promised him that I won’t read any more French novels, excepting
those he selects, nor smoke cigarettes. So, you see, I am in love.
“But, Patience,” she continued with tragic emphasis, “he hasn’t a
red—and I know I’d be miserable, poor. When papa saw which way the wind
was blowing, he took me into the library and told me that although he
made fifty thousand dollars a year, we spent nearly all of it, and that
he should not have much to leave besides his life insurance—one hundred
thousand—which of course would go to mamma. It is a matter of honour
never to sell this place, and the revenue from the farm—which is to go
to Beverly—would keep it up in a small way. The town house is to be
May’s and mine; but what will that amount to? May and I have always
pretty well understood that if we want to keep on having the things that
habit has made a necessity to us, we must marry rich men! Oh, dear! Oh,
dear!”
“Well, the other man?”
“He has appeared on the scene lately. He is not the usual alternative by
any means, for he is very attractive in his way. He has the manners of
the man of the world, a fin de siècle brain, and the devil in his eye.
He is rather good-looking and tremendously good form. And, my dear, he
has three cold millions. Think what I should be with three millions!
Fancy me in Boston on three or four hundred dollars a month. Oh,
Patience, what shall I do?” And Hal, the most undemonstrative of women,
laid her head on Patience’s knee and sobbed bitterly.
“I had to come to see you, Patience,” she continued after a moment. “I
have no one else; I could never have said a word of this to mamma or
May. And I like you better than any one in the world except Reginald
Wynne. And you seem to understand things. Do tell me what to do.”
“Do this: Be true to your ideals. If love means, and has always meant
more to you than anything else in the world, marry Reginald Wynne. If
money and power and luxury are the very essentials of happiness to you,
marry the other man. No temporary aberration can permanently divert
one’s paramount want from its natural course. As soon as the novelty has
