in the queen's buffet. The banquet 
lasted three hours, when the cloth was 
removed, the table was placed upon the 
ground — that is, removed from the dais 
— and their majesties, standing upon it, 
washed their hands in basins, as did the 
others. After the dinner was the ball, 
and that ended, they took their places 
at the windows of a room that looked 
out upon a square, where a platform 
was raised and a vast crowd was assem- 
bled to see the king's bears fight with 
greyhounds. This afforded great amuse- 
ment. Presently a bull, tied to the end 
of a rope, was fiercely baited by dogs. 
After this tumblers danced upon a rope 
 
and performed feats of agility on horse- 
back. The constable and his attendants 
were lighted home by half an hundred 
halberdiers with torches, and, after the 
fatigues of the day, supped in private. 
We are not surprised to read that 
on Monday, the 30th, the constable 
awoke with a slight attack of lum- 
bago. 
Like Elizabeth, all her subjects were 
fond of the savage pastime of bear and 
bull baiting. It cannot be denied that 
this people had a taste for blood, took 
delight in brutal encounters, and drew 
the sword and swung the cudgel with 
great promptitude ; nor were they fas- 
tidious in the matter of public execu- 
tions. Kiechel says that when the crim- 
inal was driven in the cart under the 
gallows, and left hanging by the neck 
as the cart moved from under him, his 
friends and acquaintances pulled at his 
 
legs in order that he might be strangled 
the sooner. 
When Shakespeare was managing his 
theatres and writing his plays London 
was full of foreigners, settled in the city, 
who no doubt formed part of his au- 
dience, for they thought that English 
players had attained great perfection. 
In 162 1 there were as many as ten thou- 
sand strangers in London, engaged in 
one hundred and twenty- one different 
trades. The poet need not go far from 
Blackfriars to pick up scraps of Ger- 
man and folk-lore, for the Hanse mer- 
chants were located in great numbers 
in the neighborhood of the steel-yard 
in Lower Thames Street. 
Foreigners as well as contempora- 
ry chronicles and the printed diatribes 
against luxury bear witness to the. pro- 
fusion in all ranks, of society and the 
variety and richness in apparel. There 
 
was a rage for the display of fine 
clothes. Elizabeth left hanging in her 
wardrobe above three thousand dresses 
when she was called to take that un- 
seemly voyage down the stream, on 
which the clown's brogan jostles the 
queen's slipper. The plays of Shake- 
speare, Jonson, Beaumont, and Fletcher, 
and of all the dramatists, are a perfect 
commentary on the fashions of the day, 
but a knowledge of the fashions is nec- 
essary to a perfect enjoyment of the 
plays. We see the fine lady in a gown 
of velvet (the foreigners thought it odd 
that velvet should be worn in the street), 
or cloth of gold and silver tissue, her hair 
eccentrically dressed, and perhaps dyed, 
a great hat with waving feathers, some- 
times a painted face, maybe a mask or a 
muffler hiding all the features except 
the eyes, with a muff, silk stockings, 
high -heeled shoes, imitated from the 
 
" chopine " of Venice, perfumed brace- 
lets, necklaces, and gloves — " gloves 
sweet as damask roses" — a pocket- 
handkerchief wrought in gold and sil- 
ver, a small looking-glass pendent at the 
girdle, and a love-lock hanging wantonly 
over the shoulder, artificial flowers at 
the corsage, and a mincing step. " These 
fashionable women, when they are dis- 
appointed, dissolve into tears, weep with 
one eye, laugh with the other, or, like 
children, laugh and cry they can both 
together, and as much pity is to be 
taken of a woman weeping as of a 
goose going barefoot," says old Burton. 
The men had even greater fondness 
for finery. Paul Hentzner, the Bran- 
denburg jurist, in 1598, saw, at the Fair 
of St. Bartholomew, the lord mayor, 
attended by twelve gorgeous aldermen, 
walk in a neighboring field, dressed in 
a scarlet gown, and about his neck a 
 
golden chain, to which hung a Golden 
Fleece. Men wore the hair long and flow- 
ing, with high hats and plumes of feath- 
ers, and carried muffs like the women; 
gallants sported gloves on their hats as 
tokens of ladies' favors, jewels and roses 
in the ears, a long love-lock under the 
left ear, and gems in a ribbon round the 
neck. This tall hat was called a " cap- 
atain." Vincentio, in the "Taming of 
the Shrew," exclaims : " O fine villain ! 
A silken doublet ! A velvet hose ! A 
scarlet cloak ! And a capatain hat !" 
There was no limit to the caprice and 
extravagance. Hose and breeches of 
silk, velvet, or other rich stuff, and 
fringed garters wrought of gold or sil- 
ver, worth five pounds apiece, are some 
of the items noted. Burton says, " 'Tis 
ordinary for a gallant to put a thousand 
oaks and an hundred oxen into a suit of 
apparel, to wear a whole manor on his 
 
back." Even serving -men and tailors 
wore jewels in their shoes. 
We should note also the magnificence 
in the furnishing of houses, the arras, 
tapestries, cloth of gold and silver, silk 
hangings of many colors, the splendid 
plate on the tables and sideboards. 
Even in the houses of the middle class- 
es the furniture was rich and comforta- 
ble, and there was an air of amenity in 
the chambers and parlors strewn with 
sweet herbs and daily decked with pret- 
ty nosegays and fragrant flowers. Lights 
were placed on antique candelabras, or, 
wanting these at suppers, there were liv- 
ing candle-holders. "Give me a torch," 
says Romeo ; " I'll be a candle-holder, 
and look on." Knowledge of the de- 
tails of luxury of an English home of the 
sixteenth century will make exceedingly 
vivid hosts of allusions in Shakespeare. 
Servants were numerous in great 
 
households, a large retinue being a mark 
of gentility, and hospitality was un- 
bounded. During the lord mayor's 
term in London he kept open house, 
and every day any stranger or foreigner 
could dine at his table, if he could find 
an empty seat. Dinner, served at eleven 
in the early years of James, attained a 
degree of epicureanism rivalling dinners 
of the present day, although the guests 
ate with their fingers or their knives, 
forks not coming in till 1611. There 
was mighty eating and swigging at the 
banquets, and carousing was carried to 
an extravagant height, if we may judge 
by the account of an orgy at the king's 
palace in 1606, for the delectation of the 
King and Queen of Denmark, when the 
company and even their majesties aban- 
doned discretion and sobriety, and " the 
ladies are seen to roll about in intoxica- 
tion." 
 
The manners of the male population 
of the period, says Nathan Drake, seem 
to have been compounded from the 
characters of the two sovereigns. Like 
Elizabeth, they are brave, magnanimous, 
and prudent ; and sometimes, like James, 
they are credulous, curious, and dissi- 
pated. The credulity and superstition 
of the age, and its belief in the su- 
pernatural, and the sumptuousness of 
masques and pageants at the court and 
in the city, of which we read so much in 
the old chronicles, are abundantly re- 
flected in the pages of Jonson, Shake- 
speare, and other writers. 
The town was full of coffee-houses 
and pleasure -gardens, but, curiously 
enough, the favorite place of public 
parading was the middle aisle of St. 
Paul's Cathedral— " Paul's Walk," as it 
was called — which was daily frequented 
by nobles, gentry, perfumed gallants, 
 
and ladies, from ten to twelve and three 
to six o'clock, to talk on business, pol- 
itics, or pleasure. Hither came, to ac- 
quire the fashions, make assignations, 
arrange for the night's gaming, or shun 
the bailiff, the gallant, the gamester, the 
ladies whose dresses were better than 
their manners, the stale knight, the 
captain out of service. Here Falstaff 
purchased Bardolph. " I bought him," 
says the knight, " at Paul's." The tai- 
lors went there to get the fashions of 
dress, as the gallants did to display 
them, one suit before dinner and an- 
other after. What a study was this 
varied, mixed, flaunting life, this dance 
of pleasure and license before the very 
altar of the church, for the writers of 
satire, comedy, and tragedy ! 
But it is not alone town life and court 
life and the society of the fine folk that 
is reflected in the English drama and 
 
literature of the seventeenth century, 
and here is another wide difference be- 
tween it and the French literature of 
the same period ; rural England and the 
popular life of the country had quite as 
much to do in giving tone and color to 
the writings of the time. It is necessary 
to know rural England to enter into the 
spirit of this literature, and to appreciate 
how thoroughly it took hold of life in 
every phase. Shakespeare knew it well. 
He drew from life the country gentle- 
man, the squire, the parson, the pedantic 
school-master who was regarded as half 
conjurer, the yeoman or farmer, the 
dairy maids, the sweet English girls, the 
country louts, shepherds, boors, and 
fools. How he loved a fool ! He had 
talked with all these persons, and knew 
their speech and humors. He had tak- 
en part in the country festivals — May 
Day, Plough Monday, the Sheep Shear- 
 
ing, the Morris Dances and Maud Ma- 
rian/ the Harvest Home and Twelfth 
Night. The rustic merry-makings, the 
feasts in great halls, the games on the 
greensward, the love of wonders and of 
marvellous tales, the regard for portents, 
the naive superstitions of the time pass 
before us in his pages. Drake, in his 
" Shakespeare and his Times," gives a 
graphic and indeed charming picture of 
the rural life of this century, drawn 
from Harrison and other sources. 
In his spacious hall, floored with 
stones and lighted by large transom 
windows, hung with coats of mail and 
helmets, and all military accoutrements, 
long a prey to rust, the country squire, 
seated at a raised table at one end, held 
a baronial state and dispensed prodigal 
hospitality. The long table was divided 
into upper and lower messes by a huge 
salt-cellar, and the consequence of the 
 
guests was marked by their seats above 
or below the salt. The distinction ex- 
tended to the fare, for wine frequently 
circulated only above the salt, and be- 
low it the food was of coarser quality. 
The literature of the time is full of al- 
lusions to this distinction. But the lux- 
ury of the table and good cooking were 
well understood in the time of Elizabeth 
and James. There was massive eating 
done in those days, when the guests 
dined at eleven, rose from the banquet 
to go to evening prayers, and returned 
to a supper at five or six, which was 
often as substantial as the dinner. Ger- 
vase Markham in his " English House- 
wife," after treating of the ordering of 
great feasts gives directions for " a more 
humble feast of an ordinary proportion." 
This " humble feast," he says, should 
consist for the first course of " sixteen 
full dishes, that is, dishes of meat that 
 
are of substance, and not empty, or for 
shew — as thus, for example: first, a 
shield of brawn with mustard ; second- 
ly, a boyl'd capon ; thirdly, a boyl'd 
piece of beef ; fourthly, a chine of beef 
rosted ; fifthly, a neat's tongue rosted ; 
sixthly, a pig rosted ; seventhly, chewets 
bak'd ; eighthly, a goose rosted; ninthly, 
a swan rosted ; tenthly, a turkey rosted ; 
the eleventh, a haunch of venison rosted ; 
the twelfth, a pasty of venison ; the thir- 
teenth, a kid with a pudding in the bel- 
ly; the fourteenth, an olive-pye; the fif- 
teenth, a couple of capons ; the six- 
teenth, a custard or dowsets. Now to 
these full dishes may be added sallets, 
fricases, quelque choses, and devised 
paste, as many dishes more as will make 
no less than two and thirty dishes, which 
is as much as can conveniently stand 
on one table, and in one mess ; and 
after this manner you may proportion 
 
both your second and third course, 
holding fullness on one half the dishes, 
and shew in the other, which will be 
both frugal in the splendor, content- 
ment to the guest, and much pleasure 
and delight to the beholders." After 
this frugal repast it needed an interval 
of prayers before supper. 
The country squire was a long-lived 
but not always an intellectual animal. 
He kept hawks of all kinds, and all sorts 
of hounds that ran buck, fox, hare, otter, 
and badger. His great hall was com- 
monly strewn with marrow-bones, and 
full of hawks'-perches, of hounds, span- 
iels, and terriers. His oyster-table stood 
at one end of the room, and oysters he 
ate at dinner and supper. At the upper 
end of the room stood a small table 
with a double desk, one side of which 
held a church Bible, the other Fox's 
" Book of Martyrs." He drank a glass 
l 
 
or two of wine at his meals, put syrup 
of gilly-flower in his sack, and always 
had a tun-glass of small beer standing 
by him, which he often stirred about 
with rosemary. After dinner, with a 
glass of ale by his side he improved his 
mind by listening to the reading of a 
choice passage out of the " Book of 
Martyrs." This is a portrait of one 
Henry Hastings, of Dorsetshire, in Gil- 
pin's " Forest Scenery." He lived to be 
a hundred, and never lost his sight 
nor used spectacles. He got on horse- 
back without help, and rode to the 
death of the stag till he was past four- 
score. 
The plain country fellow, ploughman, 
or clown, is several pegs lower, and de- 
scribed by Bishop Earle as one that 
manures his ground well, but lets him- 
self lie fallow and untilled. His hand 
guides the plough, and the plough his 
 
thoughts. His mind is not much dis- 
turbed by objects, but he can fix a half- 
hour's contemplation on a good fat 
cow. His habitation is under a poor 
thatched roof, distinguished from his 
barn only by loop-holes that let out the 
smoke. Dinner is serious work, for he 
sweats at it as much as at his labor, 
and he is a terrible fastener on a piece 
of beef. His religion is a part of his 
copyhold, which he takes from his land- 
lord and refers it wholly to his dis- 
cretion, but he is a good Christian in 
his way, that is, he comes to church in 
his best clothes, where he is capable 
only of two prayers — for rain and fair 
weather. 
The country clergymen, at least those 
of the lower orders, or readers, were dis- 
tinguished in Shakespeare's time by the 
appellation " Sir," as Sir Hugh, in the 
" Merry Wives," Sir Topas, in " Twelfth 
 
Night," Sir Oliver, in " As You Like 
It." The distinction is marked between 
priesthood and knighthood when Vista 
says, " I am one that would rather go 
with Sir Priest than Sir Knight." The 
clergy were not models of conduct in 
the days of Elizabeth, but their position 
excites little wonder when we read that 
they were often paid less than the cook 
and the minstrel. 
There was great fondness in cottage 
and hall for merry tales of errant knights, 
lovers, lords, ladies, dwarfs, friars, thieves, 
witches, goblins, for old stories told by 
