" Younger than you ? " 
Miss Overmore laughed again. It was 
the first time Maisie had seen her approach 
so nearly to a giggle. " Younger than no 
matter whom ! I don't know anything about 
him, and I don't want to ! " she rather incon- 
sequently added. "He's not my sort, and 
I 'm sure, my own darling, he 's not yours." 
And she repeated the embrace with which 
her colloquies with Maisie almost always 
terminated and which made the child feel 
that her affection at least was a gage of 
safety. Parents had come to seem preca- 
rious, but governesses were evidently to be 
trusted. Maisie' s faith in Mrs. Wix, for 
instance, had suffered no lapse from the fact 
that all communication with her was tempo- 
rarily at an end. During the first weeks of 
their separation Clara Matilda's mamma had 
repeatedly and dolefully written to her, and 
Maisie had answered with an excitement 
qualified only by orthographical delays ; but 
this correspondence had been duly submitted 
to Miss Overmore, with the final conse- 
quence of incurring a lively disapproval. It 
was this lady's view that Mr. Farange 
would n't care for it at all ; and she ended by 
confessing since her pupil pushed her 
that she didn't care for it herself. She was 
furiously jealous, she said; and that circum- 
stance was only a new proof of her disinter- 
ested affection. She pronounced Mrs. Wix's 
effusions moreover illiterate and unprofit- 
able, and made no scruple of declaring it 
extraordinary that a woman in her senses 
should have placed the formation of her 
daughter's mind in such ridiculous hands. 
Maisie was well aware that the proprietress 
of the old brown dress and the old odd head- 
gear was a very different class of person from 
Miss Overmore; but it was now brought 
home to her with pain that she was educa- 
tionally quite out of the question. She was 
buried for the time beneath a conclusive 
remark of Miss Overmore' s " She 's really 
beyond a joke! " This remark was made as 
that charming woman held in her hand the 
last letter that Maisie was to receive from 
Mrs. Wix; it was fortified by a decree 
abolishing the preposterous tie. "Must I 
then write and tell her ? " the child 
bewilderedly inquired. She grew pale at 
the image of the dreadful things it appeared 
to be prescribed to her to say. " Don't dream 
of it, my dear '  write; you may trust 
me ! " cried Miss Overmore, who indeed 
wrote to such purpose that a hush in which 
you could have heard a pin drop descended 
upon poor Mrs. Wix. She gave for weeks 
and weeks no sign whatever of life. It was 
as if she had been as effectually disposed of 
by Miss Overmore's communication as her 
little girl, in the Harrow Road, had been dis- 
posed of by the terrible hansom. Her very 
silence became, after this, one of the largest 
elements of Maisie's consciousness ; it proved 
a warm and habitable air, into which the 
child penetrated further than she dared ever 
to mention to her companions. Somewhere 
in the depths of it the dim straighteners 
were fixed upon her ; somewhere out of the 
troubled little current Mrs. Wix was in- 
tensely waiting. 
VII 
IT quite fell in with this intensity that 
one day, on returning from a walk with the 
housemaid, Maisie should have found her 
in the hall, seated on the stool usually 
occupied by the telegraph-boys who haunted 
Beale Farange's door and kicked their heels 
while, in his room, answers were concocted 
with the aid of smoke-puffs and growls. It 
had seemed to her on their parting that 
Mrs. Wix had reached the last limits of the 
squeeze; but she now felt those limits to be 
transcended and that the duration of her 
visitor's hug was a direct reply to Miss 
Overmore's act of abolition. She under- 
stood in a flash how the visit had come to be 
possible that Mrs. Wix, watching her 
chance, must have slipped in under protec- 
tion of the fact that papa, always tormented, 
in spite of her arguments, with the idea of a 
school, had for a three days' excursion to 
Brighton absolutely insisted on the attend- 
ance of her adversary. It was true that when 
Maisie explained their absence and their 
important motive Mrs. Wix wore an expres- 
sion so peculiar that it could only have had 
its origin in surprise. This contradiction, 
however, peeped out only to vanish, for at 
the very moment that, in the spirit of it, 
she threw herself afresh upon her young 
friend a hansom crested with neat luggage 
rattled up to the door and Miss Overmore 
bounded out. The shock of her encounter 
with Mrs. Wix was less violent than Maisie 
had feared on seeing her and didn't at all 
interfere with the sociable tone in which, 
in the presence of her rival, she explained to 
her little charge that she had returned, for a 
particular reason, a day sooner than she first 
intended. She had left papa in such nice 
lodgings at Brighton ; but he would come 
back to his dear little home on the morrow. 
As for Mrs. Wix, papa's companion supplied 
Maisie in later converse with the right word 
for the attitude of this personage : Mrs. Wix 
" stood up " to her in a manner that the child 
herself felt at the time to be astonishing. 
This occurred indeed after Miss Overmore 
had so far waived her interdict as to make 
a move to the dining-room, where, in the 
absence of any suggestion of sitting down, it 
was scarcely more than natural that even 
poor Mrs. Wix should stand up. Maisie 
immediately inquired if at Brighton, this 
time, anything had come of the possibility 
of a school ; to which, much to her surprise, 
Miss Overmore, who had always grandly 
repudiated it, replied, after an instant, but 
quite as if Mrs. Wix were not there 
" It may be, darling, that something will 
come. The objection, I must tell you, has 
been quite removed." 
At this it was still more startling to hear 
Mrs. Wix speak out with great firmness. 
"I don't think, if you'll allow me to say 
so, that there's any arrangement by which 
the objection can be ' removed. ' What has 
brought me here to-day is that I 've a mes- 
sage for Maisie from dear Mrs. Farange. " 
The child's heart gave a great thump. 
" Oh, mamma 's come back ? " 
"Not yet, sweet love, but she's coming," 
said Mrs. Wix; "and she has most thought- 
fully, you know sent me on to prepare you. " 
"To prepare her for what, pray?" asked 
Miss Overmore, whose primitive mildness 
had evidently, with this news, taken a turn 
for the worse. 
Mrs. Wix quietly applied her straighteners 
to Miss Overmore' s florid loveliness. "Well, 
miss, for a very important communication. " 
" Can't dear Mrs. Farange, as you so oddly 
call her, make her communications directly? 
Can't she take the trouble to write to her 
only daughter ? " the younger lady demanded. 
" Maisie herself will tell you that it 's months 
and months since she has had so much as a 
word from her." 
"Oh, but I 've written to mamma!" cried 
the child, as if this would do quite as well. 
" That makes her treatment of you all the 
greater scandal ! " the governess in posses- 
sion promptly declared. 
"Mrs. Farange is too well aware," said 
Mrs. Wix, with sustained spirit, "of what 
becomes of her letters in this house." 
Maisie's sense of fairness hereupon inter- 
posed for her visitor. "You know, Miss 
Overmore, that papa doesn't like everything 
of mamma's." 
"No one likes, my dear, to be made the 
subject of such language as your mother's 
letters contain. They were not fit for the 
innocent child to see," Miss Overmore 
observed to Mrs. Wix. 
"Then I don't know what you complain 
of, and she 's better without them. It serves 
every purpose that I 'm in Mrs. Farange 's 
confidence." 
Miss Overmore gave a scornful laugh. 
"Then you must be mixed up with some 
extraordinary proceedings." 
"None so extraordinary," cried Mrs. Wix, 
turning very pale, "as to say horrible things 
about the mother to the face of the helpless 
daughter." 
"Things not a bit more horrible, I think," 
Miss Overmore rejoined, "than those you, 
madam, appear to have come here to say 
about the father." 
Mrs. Wix looked for a moment hard at 
Maisie; then, turning again to her other 
interlocutress, she spoke with a trembling 
voice. " I came to say nothing about him, 
and you must excuse Mrs. Farange and me 
if we are not as irreproachable as the com- 
panion of his travels. " 
The young woman thus described stared an 
instant at the audacity of the description 
she apparently needed time to take it in. 
Maisie, however, gazing solemnly from one 
of the disputants to the other, observed that 
her answer, when it came, perched upon 
smiling lips. "It will do quite as well, no 
doubt, if you come up to the requirements 
of the companion of Mrs. Farange." 
Mrs. Wix broke into a queer laugh it 
sounded to Maisie like an unsuccessful imi- 
tation of a neigh. "That's just what I'm 
here to make known how perfectly the 
poor lady comes up to them herself!" She 
straightened herself before the child. " You 
must take your mamma's message, Maisie, 
and you must feel that her wishing me to 
 
come to you with it this way is a great proof 
of interest and affection. She sends you 
her particular love and announces to you 
that she 's engaged to be married to Sir 
Claude." 
" Sir Claude ? " Maisie wonderingly echoed. 
But while Mrs. Wix explained that this 
gentleman was a dear friend of Mrs. 
Farange's, who had been of great assistance 
to her in getting to Florence and in making 
herself comfortable there for the winter, she 
was not too violently shaken to perceive her 
old friend's enjoyment of the effect of this 
news on Miss Overmore. The young lady 
opened her eyes and flushed. She imme- 
diately remarked that Mrs. Farange's mar- 
riage would of course put an end to any 
further pretensions to take her daughter 
back. Mrs. Wix inquired with astonishment 
why it should do anything of the sort, and 
Miss Overmore promptly gave as a reason 
that it was clearly but another dodge in a 
system of dodging. She wanted to get out 
of the bargain : why else had she now left 
Maisie on her father's hands weeks and 
weeks beyond the time about which she had 
originally made such a fuss? It was vain 
for Mrs. Wix to represent as she speedily 
proceeded to do that all this time would be 
made up as soon as Mrs. Farange returned. 
She, Miss Overmore, knew nothing, thank 
heaven, about her confederate; but she was 
very sure that any person capable of forming 
that sort of relation with the lady in Florence 
was a person who could easily be put for- 
ward as objecting to the presence in his 
house of the fruit of a union that his dignity 
must ignore. It was a game like another, 
and Mrs. Wix's visit was clearly the first 
move in it. Maisie found in this exchange 
of asperities a fresh incitement to the un- 
formulated fatalism in which her observation 
of her own career had long since taken 
refuge ; and it was the beginning, for her, of 
a deeper prevision that, in spite of Miss 
Overmore' s brilliancy and Mrs. Wix's pas- 
sion, she should live to see a change in the 
nature of the struggle she appeared to have 
come into the world to produce. It would 
still be essentially a struggle, but its object 
would now be not to receive her. 
Mrs. Wix, after Miss Overmore's last 
demonstration, addressed herself wholly to 
the little girl, and, drawing from the pocket 
of her dingy old pelisse a small flat parcel, 
removed its envelope and wished to know if 
that looked like a gentleman who wouldn't 
be nice to everybody let alone to a person 
he would be so sure to find so nice. Mrs. 
Farange, in the geniality of new-found hap- 
piness, had enclosed a " cabinet " photograph 
of Sir Claude, and Maisie lost herself in 
admiration of the fair, smooth face, the 
regular features, the kind eyes, the amiable 
air, the general glossiness and smartness of 
her prospective step-father only vaguely 
puzzled to think that she should now have 
two fathers at once. Her researches had 
hitherto indicated that to incur a second 
parent of the same sex you had usually to 
lose the first. "Isn't he sympathetic?" 
asked Mrs. Wix, who had clearly, on the 
strength of his charming portrait, made 
up her mind that Sir Claude promised her a 
future. "You can see, I hope," she added 
with much expression, " that he 's a perfect 
gentleman ! " Maisie had never before heard 
the word "sympathetic" applied to any- 
body's face; it struck her very much, and 
from that moment it agreeably remained 
with her. She testified, moreover, to the 
force of her own perceptions in a long, soft 
little sigh of response to the pleasant eyes 
that seemed to seek her acquaintance, to 
speak to her directly. " He 's quite lovely ! " 
she declared to Mrs. Wix. Then eagerly, 
irrepressibly, as she still held the photo- 
graph and Sir Claude continued to frater- 
nize, "Oh, can't I keep it?" she broke out. 
No sooner had she done so than she looked 
up from it at Miss Overmore this was 
with the sudden impulse to put the case to 
the authority that had long ago impressed on 
her that she mustn't ask for things. Miss 
Overmore, to her surprise, looked distant 
and rather odd, hesitating and giving her 
time to turn again to Mrs. Wix. Then 
Maisie saw that lady's long face lengthen. 
It was stricken and almost scared, as if her 
young friend really expected more of her 
than she had to give. The photograph was 
a possession that, direly denuded, she clung 
to, and there was a momentary struggle 
between her fond clutch of it and her capa- 
bility of every sacrifice for her precarious 
pupil. With the acuteness of her years, 
however, Maisie was of the opinion that her 
own avidity would triumph, and she held 
out the picture to Miss Overmore as if she 
were quite proud of her mother. "Isn't he 
just lovely ? " she demanded, while poor Mrs. 
Wix hungrily wavered, her straighteners 
largely covering it and her pelisse gathered 
about her with an intensity that strained 
its ancient seams. 
"It was to me, darling," the visitor said, 
"that your mamma so generously sent it; 
but of course, if it would give you particular 
pleasure ! " She faltered, only gasping 
her surrender. 
Miss Overmore continued extremely re- 
mote. "If the photograph's your property, 
my dear, I shall be happy to oblige you by 
looking at it on some future occasion. But 
you must excuse me if I decline to touch any 
object belonging to Mrs. Wix." 
Mrs. Wix, by this time, had grown very 
red. " You might as well see him this way, 
miss," she retorted, "as you certainly never 
will, I believe, in any other! Keep the 
pretty picture, by all means, my precious," 
she went on. "Sir Claude will be happy 
himself, I dare say, to give me one with a 
kind inscription." The pathetic quaver of 
this brave little boast was not lost upon 
Maisie, who threw herself so gratefully upon 
Mrs. Wix's neck that, on the termination of 
their embrace, the public tenderness of 
which, she felt, made up for the sacrifice she 
imposed, their companion had had time to 
put a quick hand to Sir Claude and, with a 
glance at him or not, whisk him effectually 
out of sight. Released from the child's 
arms Mrs. Wix looked about for the picture. 
Then she fixed Miss O verm ore with a hard, 
dumb stare ; and finally, with her eyes on the 
little girl again, achieved the grimmest of 
smiles. "Well, nothing matters, Maisie, 
because there's another thing your mamma 
wrote about. She has made sure of me." 
Even after her loyal hug Maisie felt like a 
small sneak as she glanced at Miss Overmore 
for permission to understand this. But 
Mrs. Wix left them in no doubt of what it 
meant. "She has definitely engaged me 
for her return and for yours. Then you'll 
see for yourself." Maisie, on the spot, 
quite believed she should; but the pros- 
pect was suddenly thrown into confusion by 
an extraordinary demonstration from Miss 
Overmore. 
"Mrs. Wix," said that young lady, "has 
some undiscoverable reason for regarding 
your mother's hold on you as strengthened 
by the fact that she 's about to marry. I 
wonder then on that system what Mrs. 
Wix will say to your father's." 
Miss Overmore' s words were directed to 
her pupil, but her face, lighted with the 
irony that made it prettier even than ever 
before, was presented to the dingy figure 
that had stiffened itself for departure. The 
child's discipline had been bewildering: it 
had ranged freely between the prescription 
that she was to answer when spoken to and 
the experience of lively penalties on obeying 
that prescription. This time, nevertheless, 
she felt emboldened for risks; above all as 
something still more bewildering seemed to 
have leaped into her sense of the relations 
of things. She raised to Miss Overmore's 
face all the timidity of her eyes. " Do you 
