interfere, and no one shall.  If I can forgive, you can have nothing to
resent; for the mere fact of your liking me very much does not give you
any sort of right to direct my life, does it? I am glad that you are so
fond of me, for I trust you and respect you in every way, and even now I
know that you are interfering only because you care for me.  But you
have not the right to interfere, not the slightest, and although you may
be able to, yet if I beg you not to, it will not be honourable of you to
come between us."
Colonel Wimpole moved a little impatiently.
"I will take my honour into my own hands," he said.
"But not mine," answered Helen.
They looked at each other in the gloom, as they leaned upon the railing.
"Yours shall be quite safe," said the colonel slowly.  "But if you will
drop that letter into the river, you will make things easier in every
way."
"I should write it over again.  Besides, I have telegraphed to him
already."
"What?  Cabled?"
"Yes.  You see that you can do nothing to hinder me.  He has my message
already.  The matter is decided."
She bent her head again, looking down into the rushing water as though
tired of arguing.
"You are a saint," said the colonel.  "I could not have done that."
"Perhaps I could not, if I had waited," answered Helen, in a voice so
low that he could hardly hear the words.  "But it is done now," she
added, still lower, so that he could not hear at all.
Wimpole had been a man of quick decisions so long as he had been a
soldier, but since then he had cultivated the luxury of thinking slowly.
He began to go over the situation, trying to see what he could do, not
losing courage yet, but understanding how very hard it would be to keep
Helen from sacrificing herself.
And she peered down at the black river, that rushed past with a cruel
sound, as though it were tearing away the time of freedom, second by
second.  It was done, now, as she had said. She knew herself too well to
believe that even if she should toss the letter into the stream, she
would not write another in just such words. But the regret was deep, and
thrilled with a secret, aching pulse of its own, all through her, and
she thought of what life might have been, if she had not made the great
mistake, and of what it still might be if she did not go back to her
husband.  The man who stood beside her loved her, and was ready to give
everything, perhaps even to his honour, to save her from unhappiness.
And she loved him, too, next to honour.  In the tranquil life she was
leading, there could be a great friendship between them, such as few
people can even dream of.  She knew him, and she knew herself, and she
believed it possible, for once in the history of man and woman.  In a
measure, it might subsist, even after she had gone back to Harmon, but
not in the same degree, for between the two men there would be herself.
Wimpole would perhaps refuse altogether to enter Harmon’s door or to
touch Harmon’s hand.  And then, in her over-scrupulousness, during the
time she was to spend with Archie, she knew that she should hesitate to
receive freely a man who would not be on speaking terms with the husband
whom she had taken back, no matter how she felt towards Wimpole.
Besides, he had told her that he loved her, and that made a difference,
too.  So long as the word had never been spoken, there had been the
reasonable doubt to shield her conscience.  His old love might, after
all, have turned to friendship, which is like the soft, warm ashes of
wood when the fire is quite burned out.  But he had spoken at last, and
there was no more doubt, and his quiet words had stirred her own heart.
He had begun by telling her that he had many things to say; but, after
all, the one and only thing he had said which he had never said before
was that he loved her.
It was enough, and too much, and it made everything harder for her.  We
speak of struggles with ourselves.  It would really be far more true to
talk of battles between our two selves, or even sometimes between our
threefold natures,--our good, our bad, and our indifferent
personalities.
To Helen, the woman who loved Richard Wimpole was not the woman who
meant to go back to Henry Harmon; and neither, perhaps, was quite the
same individual as the mother of poor Archie.  The three were at strife
with one another, though they were one being in suffering.  For it is
true that we may be happy in part, and in part be indifferent; but no
real pain of the soul leaves room for any happiness at all, or
indifference, while it lasts. So soon as we can be happy again, even for
a moment, the reality of the pain is over, though the memory of it may
come back now and then in cruel little day-dreams, after years.
Happiness is composite; pain is simple.  It may take a hundred things to
make a man happy, but it never needs more than one to make him suffer.
Happiness is, in part, elementary of the body; but pain is only of the
soul, and its strength is in its singleness.  Bodily suffering is the
opposite of bodily pleasure; but true pain has no true opposite, nor
reversed counterpart, of one unmixed composition, and the dignity of a
great agony is higher than all the glories of joy.
"Promise me that you will not do anything to hinder me," said Helen at
last.
"I cannot."  There was no hesitation in the answer.
"But if I ask you," she said; "if I beg you, if I entreat you--"
"It is of no use, Helen.  I should do my best to keep you away from
Harmon, even if I were sure that you would never speak to me nor see me
again.  I have said almost all I can, and so have you.  You are half a
saint, or altogether one, or you could not do what you are doing. But I
am not.  I am only a man.  I don’t like to talk about myself much, but I
would not have you think that I care a straw for my own happiness
compared with yours.  I would rather know that you were never to see
Harmon again than--"  He stopped short.
"Than what?" asked Helen, after a pause.
He did not answer at once, but stood upright again beside her, grasping
the rail.
"No matter, if you do not understand," he said at last.  "Can I give you
any proof that it is not for myself, because I love you, that I want to
keep you from Harmon?  Shall I promise you that when I have succeeded I
will not see you again as long as I live?"
"Oh, no!  No!"  The cry was sudden, low, and heartfelt.
Wimpole squeezed the cold railing a little harder in his hands, but did
not move.
"Is there any proof at all that I could give you?  Try and think."
"Why should I need proof?" asked Helen. "I believe you, as I always
have."
"Well, then--" he began, but she interrupted him.
"That does not change matters," she continued. "You are right merely
because you are perfectly disinterested for yourself, and altogether
interested for me alone.  I am not the only person to be considered."
"I think you are.  And if any one else has any right to consideration,
it is Archie."
"I know," Helen answered, "and you hurt me again when you say it.  But
besides all of us, there is Henry."
"And what right has he?" asked Wimpole, almost fiercely.  "What right
has he to any sort of consideration from you, or from any one?  If you
had a brother, he would have wrung Harmon’s neck long ago!  I wish I had
the right!"
"I never heard you say anything brutal before," said Helen.
"I never had such good cause," retorted Wimpole, a little more quietly.
"Put yourself in my position.  I have loved you all my life,--God knows
I have loved you honestly, too,--and held my tongue.  And Harmon has
spent his life in ruining yours in every way,--in ways I know and in
ways I don’t know, but can more than half guess.  He neglected you, he
was unfaithful to you, he insulted you, and at last he struck you.  I
have found that out to-day, and that blow must have nearly killed you.
I know about those things.  Do you expect me to have any consideration
for the brute who has half killed the woman I love?  Do you expect me to
keep my hands off the man whose hands have struck you and wounded you?
By the Lord, Helen, you are expecting too much of human nature!  Or too
little--I don’t know which!"
He had controlled his temper long, keeping down the white heat of it in
his heart, but he could not be calm forever.  The fighting instinct was
not lost yet, and must have its way.
"He did not know what he was doing," said Helen, shrinking a little.
"You have a right to say that," answered the colonel, "if you can be
forgiving enough.  But only a coward could say it for you, and only a
coward would stand by and see you go back to your husband.  I am not a
coward, and I won’t. Since you have cabled to him, I shall leave to
night, whether you send that letter or not. Can’t you understand?"
"But what can you do?  What can you say to him?  How can you influence
him?  Even if I admit that I have no power to keep you from going to
him, what can you do when you see him?"
"I can think of that on the way," said Wimpole.  "There will be more
than enough time. I don’t know what I shall say or do yet.  It does not
matter, for I have made up my mind."
"Will nothing induce you to stay here?" asked Helen, desperately.
"Nothing," answered Wimpole, and his lips shut upon the word.
"Then I will go, too," answered Helen.
"You!"  Wimpole had not thought of such a possibility, and he started.
"Yes.  My mind is made up, too.  If you go, I go.  I shall get there as
soon as you, and I will prevent you from seeing him at all.  If you
force me to it, I will defend him from you. I will tell the doctors that
you will drive him mad again, and they will help me to protect him.  You
cannot get there before me, you know, for we shall cross in the same
steamer, and land at the same moment."
"What a woman you are!"  Wimpole bent his head, as he spoke the words,
leaning against the railing.  "But I might have known it," he added; "I
might have known you would do that.  It is like you."
Helen felt a bitter sort of triumph over herself, in having destroyed
the last chance of his interference.
"In any case," she said, "I should go at once.  It could be a matter of
only a few days at the utmost.  Why should I wait, since I have made up
my mind?"
"Why indeed?"  The colonel’s voice was sad.  "I suppose the martyrs were
glad when the waiting was over, and their turn came to be torn to
pieces."
He felt that he was annihilated, and he suffered keenly in his defeat,
for he had been determined to save her at all risks.  She was making
even risk impossible.  If she went straight to her husband and took him
back, and protected him, as she called it, what could any one do?  It
was a hopeless case.  Wimpole’s anger against Harmon slowly subsided,
and above it rose his pity for the woman who was giving all the life she
still had left for the sake of her marriage vow, who was ready, and
almost eager, to go back to a state full of horror in the past, and of
danger in the future, because she had once solemnly promised to be Henry
Harmon’s wife, and could not find in all the cruel years a reason for
taking back her word.  He bowed his head, and he knew that there was
something higher in her than he had ever dreamt in his own honourable
life, for it was something that clung to its belief, against all
suggestion or claim of justice for itself.
It was not only pity.  A despair for her crept nearer and grew upon him
every moment. Though he had seen her rarely, he had felt nearer to her
since Harmon had been mad, and now he was to be further from her than
ever before.  He would probably not go so far as she feared, and would
be willing to enter her husband’s house for her sake, and in the hope of
being useful to her.  But he could never be so near to her again as he
was now, and his last chance of protecting her had vanished before her
unchangeable resolution.  He would almost rather have known that she was
going to her death, than see her return to Harmon.  He made one more
attempt to influence her.  He did it roughly, but his voice shook a
little.
"It seems to me," he said, "that if I were a woman, I should be too
proud to go back to a man who had struck me."
Helen moved and stood upright, trying to look into his face clearly in
the dimness as she spoke.
"Then you think I am not proud?"
He could see her white features and dark eyes, and he guessed her
expression.
"You are not proud for yourself," he answered rather stubbornly.  "If
you were, you could not do this."
She turned from him again, and looked down at the black water.
"I am prouder than you think," she said. "That does not make it easier."
"In one way, yes.  When you have determined to do a thing, you are
ashamed to change your mind, no matter what your decision may cost
yourself and others."
"Yes, when I am right.  At least, I hope I should be ashamed to break
down now."
"I wish you would!"
It was a helpless exclamation, and Wimpole knew it, for he was at the
end of all argument and hope, and his despair for her rose in his eyes
in the dark.  He could neither do nor say anything more, and presently
when he had left her at the door of her hotel, she would do what she
meant to do, to the letter.  For the second time on that day he wished
that he had acted, instead of speaking, and that he had set out on his
journey without warning her.  But in the first place he had believed
that she would take more time to consider her action; and again, he had
a vague sense that it would not have been loyal and fair to oppose her
intention without warning her.  And now she had utterly defeated him,
and upheld her will against him, in spite of all he could do.  He loved
her the better for her strength, but he despaired the more.  He felt
that he was going to say good-bye to her, as though she were about to
die.
He put out his hand to take hers, and she met it readily.  In her haste
to come out with her letter she had not even taken the time to put on
gloves, and her warm, firm fingers closed upon his thin hand as though
they were the stronger.
"I must go," she said.  "It is very late."
"Is it?"
"Yes.  I want to thank you, for wishing to help me--and for everything.
I know that you would do anything for me, and I like to feel that you
would.  But there is nothing to be done.  Henry will answer my cable,
and then I shall go to him."
"It is as though you were dying, and I were saying good-bye to you,
Helen."
"That would be easier," she answered, "for you and me."
She pressed his hand with a frank, unaffected pressure, and then
withdrew her own.  He sighed as he turned from the dark water to cross
the quiet street with her.  The people who had been walking about had
gone home suddenly, as they do in provincial places, and the electric
light glared and blinked upon the deserted, macadamized road.  There was
something unwontedly desolate, even the air, for the sky was cloudy, and
a damp wind came up from the lake.
Without a word the two walked to the post office, and as Wimpole saw the
irrevocable message dropped into the slit, his heart almost stopped
beating.  A faint smile that was cruelly sad to see crossed Helen’s
white face; a reflexion of the bitter victory she had won over herself
against such great odds.
                              CHAPTER XII
The two walked slowly and silently along the pavement to the hotel, the
damp wind following them in fitful gusts and chilling them as they went.
They had no words, for they had said all to each other; each knew that
the other was suffering, and both knew that their lives had led them
into a path of sadness from which they could not turn back.  They walked
wearily and unwillingly, side by side, and the way seemed long, and yet
too short, as it shortened before them.
At the lighted porch of the hotel they paused, reluctant to part.
"May I see you to-morrow?" asked Wimpole, in a dull voice.
"Yes, I must see you before I go," Helen answered.
In the light of the lamps he saw how pale she was, and how very tired,
and she looked at him and knew from his face how he was suffering for
her.  They joined hands and forgot to part them when their eyes had met.
But they had nothing to say, and they had only to bid each other a good
night which meant good-bye to both, though they should meet ever so
often again.
The porter of the hotel stood in the doorway a few steps above them and
watched them with a sort of stolid interest.  The lamplight gleamed upon
his gilt buttons, and the reflexion of them made Helen aware of his
presence.  Then he went into the entrance, and there was nobody else
about.  Voices came with broken laughter from the small garden adjacent
to the hotel, where there was a café, and far away, at the end of the
entrance hall, the clerk pored over his books.
Still Wimpole held Helen’s hand.
"It is very hard," he said.
"It is harder than you know," she answered.
For she loved him, though he did not know it, and she felt as well as he
did that she was losing him.  But because she was Harmon’s wife and
meant to stand by her husband, she would not call it love in her heart,
though she knew her own secret.  She would hardly let herself think that
it was much harder for her than for Wimpole, though she knew it.
Temptation is not sin.  She had killed her temptations that day, and in
their death had almost killed herself.
The sacrifice was perfect and whole-hearted, brave as true faith, and
final as death itself.
"Good night," said Wimpole, and his voice broke.
Helen still had strength to speak.
"Neither you nor I shall ever regret this," she answered, but she looked
long at him, as though she were not to see him again.
He pressed her hand hard and dropped it. Once more she looked at him and
then turned slowly and left him standing there.
The porter of the hotel was facing her on the steps.  Neither she nor
Wimpole had noticed that he had come back and was waiting for them to
part.  He held a telegram in his hand, and Helen started slightly as she
saw it, for she knew that it must be Harmon’s answer to her word of
forgiveness.
"Already!" she exclaimed faintly, as she took it.
She turned back to Wimpole, and met his eyes again, for he had not
moved.
"It is Henry’s answer," she said.
She opened the envelope, standing with her back to the light and to the
porter.  Wimpole breathed hard, and watched her face, and knew that
nothing was to be spared to either of them on that day.  As she read the
words, he thought she swayed a little on her feet, and her eyes opened
very wide, and her lips were white. Wimpole watched them and saw how
strangely they moved, as if she were trying to speak and could not.  He
set his teeth, for he believed that even the short message had in it
some fresh insult or injury for her.
She reeled visibly, and steadied herself against one of the pillars of
the porch, but she was able to hold out the thin scrap of paper to
Wimpole as he moved forwards to catch her.  He read it.  It was a cable
notice through the telegraph office from Brest.
"Your message number 731 Henry Harmon New York not delivered owing to
death of the person addressed."
Wimpole read the words twice before their meaning stunned him.  When he
knew where he was, his eyes were still on the paper, and he was grasping
Helen’s wrist, while she stood stark and straight against the pillar of
the porch.  She lifted her free hand and passed it slowly across her
forehead, opening and shutting her eyes as if waking.  The porter stared
at her from the steps.
"Come," said Wimpole.  "Let us go out again.  We can’t stay here."
Helen looked at him, only half comprehending. Even in the uncertain
light he could see the colour returning to her face, and he felt it in
his own.  Then her senses came back all at once with her own clear
judgment and decision, and the longing to be alone, which he could not
understand, as he tried to draw her away with him.
"No, no!" she cried, resisting.  "Let me go, please let me go!  Please!"
He had already dropped her wrist.
"Come to-morrow," she added quickly.
And all her lost youth was in her as she lightly turned and went from
him up the steps. Again he stood still, following her with his eyes, but
an age had passed, with Harmon’s life, between that time and this.
He understood better, when he himself was alone, walking far on, through
the damp wind, by the shore of the lake, past the big railway station,
just then in one of its fits of silence, past the wooden piers built out
into the lake for the steamers, and out beyond, not counting his steps,
nor seeing things, with bent head, and one hand catching nervously at
the breast of his coat.
He understood Helen, for he also had need of being alone to face the
tremendous contrast of the hour and to digest in secret the huge joy he
was ashamed to show to himself, because it was for the death of a man
whose existence had darkened his own.  Because Harmon was suddenly dead,
the sleeping hope of twenty years had waked with deep life and strength.
Time and age were rolled away like a mist before the morning breeze, the
world was young again, and the rose of yesterday was once more the
lovely flower of to-day.
Yet he was too brave a man, and too good, to let himself rejoice cruelly
in Harmon’s death, any more than he would have gloried, in his younger
days, over an enemy fallen in fight. But it was hard to struggle against
this instinct, deep rooted and strong in humanity ages before Achilles
dragged Hector round the walls of Troy.  Christianity has made it mean
to insult the dead and their memory.  For what we call honour comes to
us from chivalry and knighthood, which grew out of Christian doings when
men believed; and though non-Christian people have their standards of
right and wrong, they have not our sort of honour, nor anything like it,
and cannot in the least understand it.
But Wimpole was made happy by Harmon’s death, and he himself could not
deny it.  That was another matter, and one over which he had no control.
His satisfaction was in the main disinterested, being on Helen’s behalf;
for though he hoped, he was very far from believing that she would marry
him, now that she was a widow.  He had not even guessed that she had
loved him long.  It was chiefly because his whole nature had been
suffering so sincerely for her sake during the long hours since he had
read the paragraph in the paper, that he was now so immensely happy.  He
tried to call up again the last conversation in the dark, by the river;
but though the words both he and she had spoken came back in broken
echoes, they seemed to have no meaning, and he could not explain to
himself how he could possibly have stood there, wrenching at the cold
iron rail to steady his nerves, less than half an hour ago.  It was
incredible.  He felt like a man who has been in the delirium of a fever,
in which he has talked foolishly and struck out wildly at his friends,
and who cannot believe such things of himself when he is recovering,
though he dimly remembers them, with a sort of half-amused shame for his
weakness.
Wimpole did not know how long he wandered by the lake in the windy
darkness, before he felt that he had control of speech and action again
and found himself near the bridge, going towards his hotel.  It was less
than half an hour, perhaps, but ever afterwards, when he thought of it,
he seemed to have walked up and down all night, a hundred times past the
railway station, a hundred times along the row of steamboat piers,
struggling with the impression that he had no right to be perfectly
happy, and fighting off the instinct to rejoice in Harmon’s death.
But Helen had fled to her own room and had locked the door upon the
world.  To her, as to Wimpole, it would have seemed horrible to be
frankly glad that her husband was dead.  But she had no such instinct.
She had been dazed beyond common sense and speech by the sudden relief
from the strain she had borne so strongly and bravely.  She had been
dazzled by the light of freedom as a man let out of a dark prison after
half a lifetime of captivity.  She had been half stunned by the instant
release of all the springs of her nature, long forced back upon
themselves by the sheer strength of her conscience.  And yet she was
sorry for the dead man.
Far away in her past youth she remembered his handsome face, his bright
eyes, his strong vitality, his pleasant voice, and the low ringing tone
of it that had touched her and brought her to the ruin of her marriage,
and she remembered that for a time she had half loved him and believed
love whole.  She is a hard and cruel woman who has not a little pitiful
tenderness left for a dead past,--though it be buried under a hideous
present,--and some kind memory of the man she has called dear.
Helen thought of his face as he was lying dead now, white and stony, but
