thought Ben. "I am glad I put him off the track about the arrest."
"Excuse me," he said. "I believe the curtain is rising."
"Who is that fine-looking boy you were just speaking to?" asked
Percy Van Dyke, who came up at this moment.
"It is a cousin of mine," answered Clarence, not unwillingly.
"I should like to know what tailor he employs. He is finely
dressed, and a handsome fellow, besides."
"Of course, being a cousin of mine," said Clarence, with a smirk.
"How does it happen I have never met your cousin before?"
"He has only recently come to the city. He is staying at the
Metropolitan just at present."
Wonders will never cease. Here was Clarence Plantagenet Walton, the
son of a wealthy merchant, actually acknowledging with complacency
his relationship to a country cousin whom earlier in the day he had
snubbed.
He did not have another chance to speak to Ben that evening, as his
cousin remained in his seat till the close of the performance, and
in the throng at the close he lost sight of him.
As he and his father were walking home, Clarence said:
"I saw Ben in the lobby, between the acts."
"What did he say?" asked the merchant, who was himself not without
curiosity.
"I must have been mistaken about his being in charge of a
policeman," said Clarence.
"I thought you were."
"But the boy I saw looked precisely like Ben."
"What did your cousin say?"
"He has had a stroke of good luck. He has been engaged as private
secretary to a gentleman staying at the Metropolitan Hotel."
"Is this true, Clarence?"
"So Ben says; and he says, also, that he is to receive fifty dollars
a month."
"He can't be fitted for any such position with his country
education."
"So I told him."
"And what did he say?"
"He agreed with me. He said he was afraid his employer would find
out that he was paying him too much."
"The boy is candid. If all this is true, he is strangely lucky."
"Did you notice how stylishly he was dressed, pa?"
"I observed that he was dressed a good deal better than when he
called at my office to-day."
"Even Percy Van Dyke noticed it, and asked me who he was."
"Did you tell him?"
"Yes, I said he was a cousin of mine, who was staying at the
Metropolitan. He wanted to find out who was Ben's tailor."
"Your cousin seems a very smart boy. Perhaps he was right in
thinking that he would be better off in the city."
"I never saw such a change in a boy in my life. I told him I would
call on him at the hotel."
"Do so, Clarence. I confess I have a curiosity to learn how he has
managed to get such a position."
Certainly this had been a day of strange vicissitudes to Ben. He had
been in the depths of humiliation and at the summit of joy.
He had come to the city in the morning, a poor country boy. In the
evening he had attended a performance at a fashionable theatre as
elegantly dressed as any of his own age in the audience.
Mr. Grafton's room contained two beds, a large and a small one. The
latter was appropriated to Ben.
Our hero was very tired, and Mr. Grafton was obliged to call him
the next morning.
"Wake up, my boy," he said; "it is half-past eight."
"Half-past eight! Why, I got up at half-past six in the country."
"Dress yourself and we will go down to breakfast. Afterward I have
to make a business call, and you must go with me."
                            CHAPTER X.
                   AT THE OFFICE OF MR. CODICIL.
In one of the large business buildings appropriated chiefly to
offices, within a stone's throw of Printing-House Square, were the
commodious offices of Nathan Codicil, a prominent lawyer, whose
business related chiefly to the estates of wealthy clients.
Mr. Codicil himself was a dignified-looking gentleman, of grave
aspect, whose whitening locks seemed to indicate that he had reached
the age of threescore. He was a cautious, careful, trustworthy man,
whose reputation was deservedly high.
Mr. Grafton and Ben, stepping out of the elevator, paused before the
door of Mr. Codicil's office for a moment, when the former opened
the door and entered.
"You may sit down here, Philip, while I go in and speak to Mr.
Codicil," said Mr. Grafton, indicating a chair near the door.
"I wish he wouldn't call me Philip," thought Ben. "I like my own
name much better."
He did not complain aloud, however, for he felt that his salary
was liberal enough to compensate him for some slight sacrifice of
feeling.
"Good morning, Mr. Grafton," said the lawyer, advancing to meet his
visitor.
"Good morning, Mr. Codicil; I am glad to find you in, for I've made
quite an effort to reach your office at an early hour. You observe I
have brought the boy with me."
The sharp eyes of the lawyer had not failed to note the presence of
Ben.
"You observe that he is in excellent health, despite all reports to
the contrary."
"So it appears," said the lawyer. "He seems to have lost all
resemblance to the family."
"Do you think so?" said Grafton, carelessly. "Opinions differ about
that. For my own part, I can see the resemblance plainly."
"How old is he now?"
"Sixteen."
"I have not seen him since he was four years of age."
"Twelve years effect many changes."
"Very true."
"And now, Mr. Codicil, as I have another engagement very soon, if
you can conveniently attend to our little business at once--"
"Certainly, sir."
Mr. Codicil prepared a receipt which he requested Mr. Grafton to
sign. He then opened a check-book and filled a check for a large
amount, which he handed to his visitor. The latter pocketed it with
evident satisfaction.
"I hope, Mr. Codicil, you are not disappointed to know that the boy
is still alive?" he said.
"Heaven knows that I wish no harm to the lad!" said the lawyer,
warmly. "Yet, when I consider how his poor cousins are compelled to
struggle for a living, I cannot help regretting the injustice of
old John Portland's will, which maintains one grandchild in luxury,
while three others, having equal natural claims, should be thrown on
the cold mercies of the world."
"Yes, to be sure!" said Richard Grafton, carelessly. "Still a man's
last will and testament must be respected. A man can do as he likes
with his own."
"True, in the eyes of the law. Morally, there would be no harm in
your young ward doing something for his poor cousins. They would
like to meet him and make his acquaintance."
"I am afraid it won't be possible. We remain in the city but a short
time," said Mr. Grafton, hastily.
"Where do you go?"
"I have not quite decided whether to take a trip to the Pacific
coast or to return to Europe. Of course I shall apprise you promptly
when I have made my decision."
"Your ward is an American. Is it right to rear him in Europe,
leaving him without any adequate knowledge of his own country?"
"He will have advantages abroad which he would not have in his own
country. However, I will consider what you have said, and I may
arrange to spend a part of each year in America."
"I would like to speak to Philip," said Mr. Codicil.
Richard Grafton hesitated, but only for a moment. He was playing a
bold game for a large stake. It would not do to be timid.
"Come here, Philip," he said, "Mr. Codicil wishes to speak to you."
Ben rose and advanced to meet the lawyer.
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, sir," he said.
"And I am pleased to meet you, my boy. You look well!"
"Yes, sir; I always enjoy good health."
Mr. Codicil looked a little surprised, but he regarded with approval
the boy's bright face and manly figure.
"He is certainly a very attractive boy," thought the lawyer. "I
haven't much confidence in his guardian, but the boy doesn't appear
to be spoiled."
"Come, Philip. I am afraid I must hurry you away," said Mr. Grafton,
"as I have another visit to pay."
Ben shook hands with the lawyer and went out of his office.
"I cannot help distrusting that man," said Mr. Codicil, as the door
closed. "I believe him to be a trickster. I wish the boy were under
better influences."
Ben had been at such a distance from the inner office that he had
not heard or understood the conversation between his employer and
Mr. Codicil, yet it seemed to him singular that he should have
received so much attention from the lawyer.
"I suppose Mr. Grafton was speaking to him about me," said he to
himself.
When they reached the street Mr. Grafton said:
"Philip, I shall not require your company any longer this morning.
If you have any plans of your own you are quite at liberty to follow
them. Have you all the money you need?"
"Yes, sir; you gave me fifteen dollars yesterday."
"I remember. Very well; you can go where you please. We will meet at
the hotel at one o'clock."
"Would you object, Mr. Grafton, to my sending five dollars to my
mother? I shall have enough left for myself."
"Do as you like. You may send ten dollars if you like. When you are
out of money you have only to apply to me."
"You are very kind, sir," said Ben, gratefully.
"It is on account of your first month's wages, you know."
Then he paused a moment, regarding Ben with some apparent solicitude.
"By the way," he said, "I must guard you against saying too much
about me or your relation with me. I have a great dislike to have
myself or my affairs talked about."
"I will remember, sir."
"You need not mention that I have desired you to bear a different
name from your own."
"I will not mention it, sir, if you object."
"With me it is a matter of sentiment," said Mr. Grafton in a low
voice. "I had a dear son named Philip. He died, and left me alone in
the world. You resemble him. It is pleasant to me to call some one
by his name, yet I cannot bear to excite the curiosity of a cold,
unsympathizing world, and be forced to make to them an explanation
which will harrow up my feelings and recall to me my bitter loss."
"I quite understand you, Mr. Grafton," said Ben, with quiet
sympathy. "Though I would prefer to be called by my own name, I am
glad if I can help make up to you for your loss."
"Enough, my boy! I felt that I had judged you aright. Now go where
you please. Only try to be back at the hotel at one o'clock."
As Ben walked away Richard Grafton said to himself, in a tone of
self-congratulation:
"I might have sought far and wide without finding a boy that would
suit my purpose as well as this one. Codicil, as shrewd as he thinks
himself, was quite taken in. I confess I looked forward to the
interview with dread. Had I allowed the boy to be closely questioned
all would have come out, and I would have lost the handsome income
which I receive as his guardian. While the real Philip Grafton
sleeps in his foreign grave, his substitute will answer my purpose,
and insure me ease and comfort. But it won't do to remain in New
York. There are too many chances of discovery. I must put the sea
between me and the lynx-eyed sharpness of old Codicil."
Mr. Grafton's urgent business engagement was at the Park Bank,
where he got his check cashed. He next proceeded to the office of
the Cunard Steamship Company, and engaged passage for the next
Saturday for Richard Grafton and Master Philip Grafton.
                            CHAPTER XI.
                       THE HOME OF POVERTY.
The time has come to introduce some new characters, who will play a
part in my story.
Five minutes' walk from Bleecker street, in a tall, shabby tenement
house, divided, as the custom is, into suites of three rooms, or
rather two, one being a common room, and the other being subdivided
into two small, narrow chambers, lived Rose and Adeline Beaufort,
respectively nineteen and seventeen years of age, and their young
brother Harry, a boy of thirteen.
It is five o'clock in the afternoon when we look in upon them.
"Rose," said her sister, "you look very tired. Can't you leave off
for an hour and rest?"
Rose was bending over a vest which she was making. Her drooping
figure and the lines on her face bespoke fatigue, yet her fingers
swiftly plied the needle, and she seemed anxiously intent upon her
task.
She shook her head in answer to her sister's words.
"No, Addie," she said; "it won't do for me to stop. You know how
little I earn at the most. I can't make more than one vest in a day,
and I get but thirty-five cents apiece."
"I know it, Rose," replied Adeline, with a sigh; "it is a great deal
of work to do for that paltry sum. If I were able to help you we
might get along better, even at such wages. I feel that I am very
useless, and a burden on you and Harry."
"You mustn't think anything of the kind, Addie," said Rose, quickly,
looking affectionately at her sister. "You know you are not strong
enough to work."
"And so you have to work the harder, Rose."
"Never mind, Addie; I am strong, and I enjoy working for you."
"But still I am so useless."
"You chase us up, and we can work all the better."
"I earn nothing. I wonder if I shall always be so weak and useless?"
"No. Don't you remember the doctor said you would in all probability
outgrow your weakness and be as strong as I am? All that is needed
is patience."
"Ah, it is not so easy to be always patient--when I think, too, of
how differently we should have been situated if grandfather had
treated us justly."
A shadow came over the face of Rose.
"Yes; I don't like to think of that. Why should he have left all his
property to our cousin Philip and none to us?"
"But if Philip should die it would all be ours, so Mr. Codicil says."
"I don't want anything to happen to the poor boy."
"Nor I, Rose. But don't you think he might do something for us?"
"So he would, very probably, if he were left to himself; but
you know he is under the guardianship of that uncle of his,
Richard Grafton, who is said to be intensely selfish and wholly
unprincipled. He means to live as handsomely as he can at Philip's
expense."
"Did grandfather appoint him guardian?"
"I believe so. Richard Grafton is very artful, and he led
grandfather to believe him fitted to be an excellent guardian for
the boy."
"I suppose he is in Europe?"
"No; I heard from Mr. Codicil, yesterday, that he was in New York."
"Is Philip with him?"
"Yes. He was to take the boy to Mr. Codicil's office to-day. There
was a report some time since--I did not mention it to you for
fear of exciting you--that Philip was dead. Mr. Codicil wrote to
Mr. Grafton to make inquiry. In answer, he has come to New York,
bringing Philip with him. While the boy lives, he receives an
annual income of six thousand dollars for the boy's expenses, and
to compensate him for his guardianship. You see, therefore, that
Philip's death would make a great difference to him."
"And to us," sighed Adeline.
"Addie," said Rose, gravely, "don't allow yourself to wish for the
death of our young cousin. It would be wicked."
"I know it, Rose; but when I consider how hard you work, and how
confined Harry is as a cash-boy, I am strongly tempted."
"Then put away the temptation, and trust to a good Providence to
take good care of us. God will not fail us."
"I wish I had your faith, Rose," said her younger sister.
"So you would, Addie, if you had my strength," said Rose, in an
affectionate tone. "It is harder for you to be idle than for me to
work."
"You are right there, Rose. I only wish I could work. Do you know
where Philip and his guardian are staying?"
"Yes; Mr. Codicil told me they were staying at the Metropolitan
Hotel."
"Did you ever see Philip?"
"Not since he was a little boy. I would not know him."
"Do you suppose he knows anything about us?"
"Probably Mr. Grafton never mentions us. Yet he must know that he
has cousins living, but he may not know how hard we have to struggle
for a livelihood."
"I wish we could get a chance to speak to him. He might feel
disposed to help us."
"Probably his power is not great. He is only sixteen, and I presume
has little command of money."
"How do you think it would do for Harry to carry him a letter,
asking him to call upon us?"
"His guardian would intercept it."
"It might be delivered to him privately."
"There is something in what you say," returned Rose, thoughtfully.
"He is our cousin, and we are his only living relatives. It would
only be proper for him to call upon us."
"The sooner we communicate with him the better, then," said Adeline,
whose temperament was quick and impulsive. "Suppose I write a letter
and get Harry to carry it to the hotel when he comes home."
"As you please, Addie. I would write it, but I want to finish this
vest to-night."
"I will write it. I want to be of some little use."
She rose, and with languid step drew near the table. Procuring
writing materials, she penned a brief note, which she handed to
Rose, when completed, with the inquiry, "How will that do?"
Rose cast her eyes rapidly over the brief note, which read as
follows:
    "DEAR COUSIN PHILIP:--No doubt you are aware that you have
    three cousins in this city--my sister Rose, my brother
    Harry, who will hand you this note, and myself. We have not
    seen you for many years. Will it be too much to ask you to
    call on us? We are in humble quarters, but shall be glad to
    welcome you to our poor home.
    "Your cousin,
    "ADELINE BEAUFORT."
In a line below, the address was given.
"That will do very nicely, Addie," said Rose. "I am glad you did not
hint at our need of assistance."
"If he comes to see us, he can see that for himself. I hope
something may come of it," continued the younger sister.
"Don't count too much on it, or your disappointment will be the more
keen."
"Harry can carry it around after supper."
"Philip may be at supper."
"Then he can wait. I wish he would come home."
As if in answer to her wish the door was hastily opened, and a
bright, ruddy-faced boy entered.
"Welcome back, Harry," said Rose, with a smile. "How have you passed
the day?"
"Running round as usual, Rose. It's no joke to be a cash-boy."
"I wish I could run round, Harry," sighed Addie.
"So do I. That would be jolly. How are you feeling to-day, Addie?"
"About the same. Are you very tired?"
"Oh, no; only about the same as usual."
"Because I would like to have you do an errand for me."
"Of course I will," said Harry, cheerfully. "What is it?"
"I want you to take this note to the Metropolitan Hotel."
"Who do you know there?" asked Harry, in surprise.
An explanation was given.
"I want you to be very particular to give the note to Philip without
his guardian's knowledge. Can you manage it?"
"I'll try. I'll go the first thing after supper."
                           CHAPTER XII.
                    A SURPRISING ANNOUNCEMENT.
Harry Beaufort entered the Metropolitan Hotel with the confidence
of a city boy who knew that hotels are places of general resort,
and that his entrance would not attract attention. He walked slowly
through to the rear, looking about him guardedly to see if he could
discover anybody who answered to his idea of Philip Grafton. Had he
seen Ben, he would doubtless have supposed that he was the cousin of
whom he was in search; but Ben had come in about five o'clock and
had gone out again with his friend, the reporter, who had called for
him.
Thus Harry looked in vain, and was disposed to think that he would
have to leave the hotel with his errand unaccomplished. This he
didn't like to do. He concluded, therefore, to go up to the desk and
inquire of the clerk.
"Is there a boy staying here named Philip Grafton?" asked Harry.
"Yes, my boy. Do you want to see him?" returned the clerk.
"Yes, sir, if you please."
"He went out half an hour since," said a bell-boy, who chanced to be
near.
"You can leave any message," said the clerk.
"I have a note for him," said Harry, in a doubtful tone.
"I will give it to him when he comes in."
Harry hesitated. He had been told to put the note into Philip's own
hand. But there was no knowing when Philip would come in.
"I guess it'll do to leave it," he thought. "Please give it into his
own hands," he said; and the clerk carelessly assented.
Harry left the hotel, and five minutes later Richard Grafton, or
Major Richard Grafton, as he called himself, entered and walked up
to the clerk's desk.
"Any letters or cards for me?" he asked.
"There's a note for your nephew," said the clerk, producing the one
just left.
"Ha!" said the major, pricking up his ears suspiciously. "Very well,
I will take it and give it to him."
Of course the clerk presumed that this was all right, and passed it
over.
Major Grafton took the note carelessly and sauntered into the
reading-room, where he deliberately opened it.
"I must see who is writing to Philip," he said to himself. "It may
be necessary to suppress the note."
As he read the note, the contents of which are already familiar to
the reader, his brow darkened with anger and anxiety.
"It is fortunate that this came into my hands," he reflected. "It
would have puzzled the boy, and had he gone to see these people the
murder would have been out and probably my plans would have ended in
disaster. There is something about the boy that leads me to doubt
whether he would second my plans if he suspected what they were. I
must devise some means for throwing these people off the scent and
