Cora was a model client--she perfectly knew. “I mean help.”
Mrs. Gracedew closed an inkstand with a clap and locked a couple of
drawers. “What do you mean by help?”
The client’s inevitable answer seemed to perch on the girl’s lips:
“A thousand pounds.” But it came out in another, in a much more
charming form. “I mean that I love him.”
The family solicitor got up: it was a high figure. “And does he love
you?”
Cora hesitated. “Ask him.”
Mrs. Gracedew weighed the necessity. “Where is he?”
“Waiting.” And the girl’s glance, removed from her companion and
wandering aloft and through space, gave the scale of his patience.
Her adviser, however, required the detail. “But where?”
Cora briefly demurred again. “In that funny old grotto.”
Mrs. Gracedew thought. “Funny?”
“Half-way from the park gate. It’s very nice!” Cora more
eagerly added.
Mrs. Gracedew continued to reflect. “Oh, I know it!” She spoke as
if she had known it most of her life.
Her tone encouraged her client. “Then will you see him?”
“No.” This time it was almost dry.
“No?”
“No. If you want help----” Mrs. Gracedew, still musing, explained.
“Yes?”
“Well--you want a great deal.”
“Oh, so much!”--Cora but too woefully took it in. “I want,” she
quavered, “all there is!”
“Well--you shall have it.”
“All there is?”--she convulsively held her to it.
Mrs. Gracedew had finally mastered it. “I’ll see your father.”
“You dear, delicious lady!” Her young friend had again encompassed
her; but, passive and preoccupied, she showed some of the chill of
apprehension. It was indeed as if to meet this that Cora went earnestly
on: “He’s intensely sympathetic!”
“Your father?” Mrs. Gracedew had her reserves.
“Oh, no--the other person. I so believe in him!” Cora cried.
Mrs. Gracedew looked at her a moment. “Then so do I--and I like him
for believing in you.”
“Oh, he does that,” the girl hurried on, “far more than Captain
Yule--I could see just with one glance that he doesn’t at all. Papa
has of course seen the young man I mean, but we’ve been so sure
papa would hate it that we’ve had to be awfully careful. He’s the
son of the richest man at Bellborough, he’s Granny’s godson, and
he’ll inherit his father’s business, which is simply immense. Oh,
from the point of view of the things he’s in”--and Cora found
herself sharp on this--“he’s quite as good as papa himself. He
has been away for three days, and if he met me at the station, where,
on his way back, he has to change, it was by the merest chance in the
world. I wouldn’t love him,” she brilliantly wound up, “if he
wasn’t nice.”
“A man’s always nice if you will love him!” Mrs. Gracedew
laughed.
Her young friend more than met it. “He’s nicer still if he
‘will’ love you!”
But Mrs. Gracedew kept her head. “Nicer of course than if he
won’t! But are you sure this gentleman does love you?”
“As sure as that the other one doesn’t.”
“Ah, but the other one doesn’t know you.”
“Yes, thank goodness--and never shall!”
Mrs. Gracedew watched her a little, but on the girl’s meeting her
eyes turned away with a quick laugh. “You mean of course till it’s
too late.”
“Altogether!” Cora spoke as with quite the measure of the time.
Mrs. Gracedew, revolving a moment in silence, appeared to accept her
showing. “Then what’s the matter?” she impatiently asked.
“The matter?”
“Your father’s objection to the gentleman in the grotto.”
Cora now for the first time faltered. “His name.”
This for a moment pulled up her friend, in whom, however, relief seemed
to contend with alarm. “Only his name?”
“Yes, but----” Cora’s eyes rolled.
Her companion invitingly laughed. “But it’s enough?”
Her roll confessingly fixed itself. “Not enough--that’s just the
trouble!”
Mrs. Gracedew looked kindly curious. “What then is it?”
Cora faced the music. “Pegg.”
Mrs. Gracedew stared. “Nothing else?”
“Nothing to speak of.” The girl was quite candid now. “Hall.”
“Nothing before----?”
“Not a letter.”
“Hall Pegg?” Mrs. Gracedew had winced, but she quickly recovered
herself, and, for a further articulation, appeared, from delicacy, to
form the sound only with her mind. The sound she formed with her lips
was, after an instant, simply “Oh!”
It was to the combination of the spoken and the unspoken that Cora
desperately replied. “It sounds like a hat-rack!”
“‘Hall Pegg’? ‘Hall Pegg’?” Mrs. Gracedew now made it, like
a questionable coin, ring upon the counter. But it lay there as lead
and without, for a moment, her taking it up again. “How many has your
father?” she inquired instead.
“How many names?” Miss Prodmore seemed dimly to see that there was
no hope in that. “He somehow makes out five.”
“Oh, that’s too many!” Mrs. Gracedew jeeringly declared.
“Papa unfortunately doesn’t think so, when Captain Yule, I believe,
has six.”
“Six?” Mrs. Gracedew, alert, looked as if that might be different.
“Papa, in the morning-room, told me them all.”
Mrs. Gracedew visibly considered, then for a moment dropped
Mr. Pegg. “And what are they!”
“Oh, all sorts. ‘Marmaduke Clement----’” Cora tried to recall.
Mrs. Gracedew, however, had already checked her. “I see--‘Marmaduke
Clement’ will do.” She appeared for a minute intent, but, as with
an energetic stoop, she picked up Mr. Pegg. “But so will yours,”
she said, with decision.
“Mine?--you mean his!”
“The same thing--what you’ll be.”
“Mrs. Hall Pegg!”--Cora tried it, with resolution, loudly.
It fell a little flat in the noble space, but Mrs. Gracedew’s manner
quickly covered it. “It won’t make you a bit less charming.”
Cora wondered--she hoped. “Only for papa.”
And what was he? Mrs. Gracedew by this time seemed assentingly to
ask. “Never for me!” she soothingly declared.
Cora took this in with deep thanks that gripped and patted her
companion’s hand. “You accept it more than gracefully. But if you
could only make him----!”
Mrs. Gracedew was all concentration. “‘Him’? Mr. Pegg?”
“No--he naturally has to accept it. But papa.”
She looked harder still at this greater feat, then seemed to see
light. “Well, it will be difficult--but I will.”
Doubt paled before it. “Oh, you heavenly thing!”
Mrs. Gracedew after an instant, sustained by this appreciation, went a
step further. “And I’ll make him say he does!”
Cora closed her eyes with the dream of it. “Oh, if I could only hear
him!”
Her benefactress had at last run it to earth. “It will be enough if
I do.”
Cora quickly considered; then, with prompt accommodation, gave the
comfortable measure of her faith. “Yes--I think it will.” She was
quite ready to retire. “I’ll give you time.”
“Thank you,” said Mrs. Gracedew; “but before you give me time
give me something better.”
This pulled the girl up a little, as if in parting with her secret she
had parted with her all. “Something better?”
“If I help you, you know,” Mrs. Gracedew explained, “you must
help me.”
“But how?”
“By a clear assurance.” The charming woman’s fine face now gave
the real example of clearness. “That if Captain Yule should propose
to you, you would unconditionally refuse him.”
Cora flushed with the surprise of its being only that. “With my dying
breath!”
Mrs. Gracedew scanned her robust vitality. “Will you make it even
a promise?”
The girl looked about her in solid certainty. “Do you want me to
sign----?”
Mrs. Gracedew was quick. “No, don’t sign!”
Yet Cora was so ready to oblige. “Then what shall I do?”
Mrs. Gracedew turned away, but after a few vague steps faced her
again. “Kiss me.”
Cora flew to her arms, and the compact had scarce been sealed
before the younger of the parties was already at the passage to the
front. “We meet of course at the station.”
Mrs. Gracedew thought. “If all goes well. But where shall you be
meanwhile?”
Her confederate had no need to think. “Can’t you guess?”
The bang of the house-door, the next minute, so helped the answer to
the riddle as fairly to force it, when she found herself alone, from
her lips. “At that funny old grotto? Well,” she sighed, “I like
funny old grottos!” She found herself alone, however, only for a
minute; Mr. Prodmore’s formidable presence had darkened the door from
the court.
VII
“My daughter’s not here?” he demanded from the threshold.
“Your daughter’s not here.” She had rapidly got under arms.
“But it’s a convenience to me, Mr. Prodmore, that you are,
for I’ve something very particular to ask you.”
Her interlocutor crossed straight to the morning-room. “I shall be
delighted to answer your question, but I must first put my hand on Miss
Prodmore.” This hand the next instant stayed itself on the latch, and
he appealed to the amiable visitor. “Unless indeed she’s occupied
in there with Captain Yule?”
The amiable visitor met the appeal. “I don’t think she’s
occupied--anywhere--with Captain Yule.”
Mr. Prodmore came straight away from the door. “Then where the deuce
is Captain Yule?”
The amiable visitor turned a trifle less direct. “His absence, for
which I’m responsible, is just what renders the inquiry I speak of
to you possible.” She had already assumed a most inquiring air, yet
it was soon clear that she needed every advantage her manner could give
her. “What will you take----? what will you take----?”
It had the sound, as she faltered, of a general question, and
Mr. Prodmore raised his eyebrows. “Take? Nothing, thank you--I’ve
just had a cup of tea.” Then suddenly, as if on the broad hint:
“Won’t you have one?”
“Yes, with pleasure--but not yet.” She looked about her again; she
was now at close quarters and, concentrated, anxious, pressed her hand
a moment to her brow.
This struck her companion. “Don’t you think you’d be better for
it immediately?”
“No.” She was positive. “No.” Her eyes consciously wandered.
“I want to know how you’d value----”
He took her, as his own followed them, more quickly up, expanding in
the presence of such a tribute from a real connoisseur. “One of these
charming old things that take your fancy?”
She looked at him straight now. “They all take my fancy!”
“All?” He enjoyed it as the joke of a rich person--the kind of joke
he sometimes made himself.
“Every single one!” said Mrs. Gracedew. Then with still a finer
shade of the familiar: “Should you be willing to treat, Mr. Prodmore,
for your interest in this property?”
He threw back his head: she had scattered over the word “interest”
such a friendly, faded colour. She was either not joking or was rich
indeed; and there was a place always kept in his conversation for the
arrival of money, as there is always a box in a well-appointed theatre
for that of royalty. “Am I to take it from you then that you know
about my interest----?”
“Everything!” said Mrs. Gracedew with a world of wit.
“Excuse me, madam!”--he himself was now more reserved. “You
don’t know everything if you don’t know that my interest--considerable
as it might well have struck you--has just ceased to exist.
I’ve given it up”--Mr. Prodmore softened the blow--“for
a handsome equivalent.”
The blow fell indeed light enough. “You mean for a handsome
son-in-law?”
“It will be by some such description as the term you use that I
shall doubtless, in the future, permit myself, in the common course,
to allude to Captain Yule. Unless indeed I call him----” But
Mr. Prodmore dropped the bolder thought. “It will depend on what he
calls me.”
Mrs. Gracedew covered him a moment with the largeness of her
charity. “Won’t it depend a little on what your daughter herself
calls him?”
Mr. Prodmore seriously considered. “No. That,” he declared with
delicacy, “will be between the happy pair.”
“Am I to take it from you then--I adopt your excellent phrase,”
Mrs. Gracedew said--“that Miss Prodmore has already accepted him?”
Her companion, with his head still in the air, seemed to signify that
he simply put it down on the table and that she could take it or not
as she liked. “Her character--formed by my assiduous care--enables me
to locate her, I may say even to time her, from moment to moment.”
His massive watch, as he opened it, further sustained him in this
process. “It’s my assured conviction that she’s accepting him
while we stand here.”
Mrs. Gracedew was so affected by his assured conviction that, with
an odd, inarticulate sound, she forbore to stand longer--she rapidly
moved away, taking one of the brief excursions of step and sense that
had been for her, from the first, under the noble roof, so many dumb
but decisive communions. But it was soon over, and she floated back on
a wave that showed her to be, since she had let herself go, by this
time quite in the swing and describing a considerable curve. “Dear
Mr. Prodmore, why are you so imprudent as to make your daughter
afraid of you? You should have taught her to confide in you. She has
clearly shown me,” she almost soothingly pursued, “that she can
confide.”
Mr. Prodmore, however, suddenly starting, looked far from
soothed. “She confides in you?”
“You may take it from me!” Mrs. Gracedew laughed. “Let me suggest
that, as fortune has thrown us together a minute, you follow her good
example.” She put out a reassuring hand--she could perfectly show
him the way. “Tell me, for instance, the ground of your objection
to poor Mr. Pegg. I mean Mr. Pegg of Bellborough, Mr. Hall Pegg, the
godson of your daughter’s grandmother and the associate of his father
in their flourishing house; to whom (as he is to it and to her)
Miss Prodmore’s devotedly attached.”
Mr. Prodmore had in the course of this speech availed himself of the
support of the nearest chair, where, in spite of his subsidence, he
appeared in his amazement twice his natural size. “It has gone so far
as that?”
She rose before him as if in triumph. “It has gone so far that you
had better let it go the rest of the way!”
He had lost breath, but he had positively gained dignity. “It’s too
monstrous, to have plotted to keep me in the dark!”
“Why, it’s only when you’re kept in the dark that your daughter’s
kept in the light!” She argued it with a candour that might
have served for brilliancy. “It’s at her own earnest request
that I plead to you for her liberty of choice. She’s an honest
girl--perhaps even a peculiar girl; and she’s not a baby. You
over-do, I think, the nursing. She has a perfect right to her
preference.”
Poor Mr. Prodmore couldn’t help taking it from her, and, this being
the case, he still took it in the most convenient way. “And pray
haven’t I a perfect right to mine?” he asked from his chair.
She fairly seemed to serve it up to him--to put down the dish with a
flourish. “Not at her expense. You expect her to give up too much.”
“And what has she,” he appealed, “expected me to give up? What
but the desire of my heart and the dream of my life? Captain Yule
announced to me but a few minutes since his intention to offer her his
hand.”
She faced him on it as over the table. “Well, if he does, I think
he’ll simply find----”
“Find what?” They looked at each other hard.
“Why, that she won’t have it.”
Oh, Mr. Prodmore now sprang up. “She will!”
“She won’t!” Mrs. Gracedew more distinctly repeated.
“She shall!” returned her adversary, making for the staircase
with the evident sense of where reinforcement might be most required.
Mrs. Gracedew, however, with a spring, was well before him. “She
shan’t!” She spoke with positive passion and practically so barred
the way that he stood arrested and bewildered, and they faced each
other, for a flash, like enemies. But it all went out, on her part, in
a flash too--in a sudden wonderful smile. “Now tell me how much!”
Mr. Prodmore continued to glare--the sweat was on his brow. But while
he slowly wiped it with a pocket-handkerchief of splendid scarlet
silk, he remained so silent that he would have had for a spectator the
effect of meeting in a manner her question. More formally to answer
it he had at last to turn away. “How can I tell you anything so
preposterous?”
She was all ready to inform him. “Simply by computing the total
amount to which, for your benefit, this unhappy estate is burdened.”
He listened with his back presented, but that appeared to strike her,
as she fixed this expanse, as an encouragement to proceed. “If
I’ve troubled you by showing you that your speculation is built on
the sand, let me atone for it by my eagerness to take off your hands an
investment from which you derive so little profit.”
He at last gave her his attention, but quite as if there were nothing
in it. “And pray what profit will you derive----?”
“Ah, that’s my own secret!” She would show him as well no glimpse
of it--her laugh but rattled the box. “I want this house!”
“So do I, damn me!” he roundly returned; “and that’s why I’ve
practically paid for it!” He stuffed away his pocket-handkerchief.
There was nevertheless something in her that could hold him, and it
came out, after an instant, quietly and reasonably enough. “I’ll
practically pay for it, Mr. Prodmore--if you’ll only tell me your
figure.”
“My figure?”
“Your figure.”
Mr. Prodmore waited--then removed his eyes from her face. He appeared
to have waited on purpose to let her hope of a soft answer fall from a
greater height. “My figure would be quite my own!”
“Then it will match, in that respect,” Mrs. Gracedew laughed,
“this overture, which is quite my own! As soon as you’ve let me
know it I cable to Missoura Top to have the money sent right out to
you.”
Mr. Prodmore surveyed in a superior manner this artless picture of a
stroke of business. “You imagine that having the money sent right out
to me will make you owner of this place?”
She herself, with her head on one side, studied her sketch and seemed
to twirl her pencil. “No--not quite. But I’ll settle the rest with
Captain Yule.”
Her companion looked, over his white waistcoat, at his large tense
shoes, the patent-leather shine of which so flashed propriety back at
him that he became, the next moment, doubly erect on it. “Captain
Yule has nothing to sell.”
She received the remark with surprise. “Then what have you been
trying to buy?”
She had touched in himself even a sharper spring. “Do you mean to
say,” he cried, “you want to buy that?” She stared at his
queer emphasis, which was intensified by a queer grimace; then she
turned from him with a change of colour and an ejaculation that led to
nothing more, after a few seconds, than a somewhat conscious silence--a
silence of which Mr. Prodmore made use to follow up his unanswered
question with another. “Is your proposal that I should transfer my
investment to you for the mere net amount of it your conception of a
fair bargain?”
This second inquiry, however, she could, as she slowly came round,
substantially meet. “Pray, then, what is yours?”
“Mine would be, not that I should simply get my money back, but that
I should get the effective value of the house.”
Mrs. Gracedew considered it. “But isn’t the effective value of the
house just what your money expresses?”
The lid of his hard left eye, the harder of the two, just dipped
with the effect of a wink. “No, madam. It’s just what yours
does. It’s moreover just what your lips have already expressed so
distinctly!”
She clearly did her best to follow him. “To those people--when I
showed the place off?”
Mr. Prodmore laughed. “You seemed to be taking bids then!”
She was candid, but earnest. “Taking them?”
“Oh, like an auctioneer! You ran it up high!” And Mr. Prodmore
laughed again.
She turned a little pale, but it added to her brightness. “I
certainly did, if saying it was charming----”
“Charming?” Mr. Prodmore broke in. “You said it was magnificent.
You said it was unique. That was your very word. You said
it was the perfect specimen of its class in England.” He was more
than accusatory, he was really crushing. “Oh, you got in deep!”
It was indeed an indictment, and her smile was perhaps now rather
set. “Possibly. But taunting me with my absurd high spirits and
the dreadful liberties I took doesn’t in the least tell me how deep
you’re in!”
“For you, Mrs. Gracedew?” He took a few steps, looking at his
shoes again and as if to give her time to plead--since he wished to be
quite fair--that it was not for her. “I’m in to the tune of fifty
thousand.”
She was silent, on this announcement, so long that he once more faced
her; but if what he showed her in doing so at last made her speak, it
also took the life from her tone. “That’s a great deal of money,
Mr. Prodmore.”
The tone didn’t matter, but only the truth it expressed, which he
so thoroughly liked to hear. “So I’ve often had occasion to say to
myself!”
“If it’s a large sum for you, then,” said Mrs. Gracedew,
“it’s a still larger one for me.” She sank into a chair with
a vague melancholy; such a mass loomed huge, and she sat down before
it as a solitary herald, resigning himself with a sigh to wait, might
have leaned against a tree before a besieged city. “We women”--she
wished to conciliate--“have more modest ideas.”
But Mr. Prodmore would scarce condescend to parley. “Is it
as a ‘modest idea’ that you describe your extraordinary
intrusion----?”
His question scarce reached her; she was so lost for the moment in the
sense of innocent community with her sex. “I mean I think we measure
things often rather more exactly.”
There would have been no doubt of Mr. Prodmore’s very different
community as he rudely replied: “Then you measured this thing
exactly half an hour ago!”
It was a long way to go back, but Mrs. Gracedew, in her seat, musingly
made the journey, from which she then suddenly returned with a
harmless, indeed quite a happy, memento. “Was I very grotesque?”
He demurred. “Grotesque?”
