right and left, making way, partly in respect for her 
and much in fear for themselves. Far up the rising 
ground, the riot ceased as suddenly as it had begun ; 
the men-at-arms drew back in shame, and many tried 
to hide their faces, lest they should be known again. 
The tide of human beings divided before the swiftly 
riding women, as the cloud-bank splits before the 
northwest wind in winter, and the white mare sped 
like a ray of light between long wavering lines of 
rough faces and gleaming arms. 
The Queen glanced scornfully to each side as she 
passed in a gale, and the dear sense of power soothed 
her stirred pride. Still the line opened, and still she 
rode on, scarcely rising and sinking with the mare's 
wonderful stride. But the way that was made for her 
was not straight to the King now ; the throng was 
more dense there, and the people parted as they 
could, so that the three ladies had to follow the only 
open passage. Suddenly, before them, there was 
an end, where the rolling ground broke away 
sharply in a fall of forty feet to the edge of the 
lake below. The heads of the last of the crowd 
who stood at the brink were clear and distinct 
against the pale sky. The Queen could not see the 
water, but she felt that there was death in the leap. 
Her two companions looked beyond her and saw 
also. ' 
Eleanor dropped her lance quietly to the right, so 
that it should not make her followers fall, and 
with hands low and weight thrown back in the 
deep saddle she pulled with all her might. Her 
favourite black horse, broken to her own hand, would 
have obeyed her ; she might have been able to stop 
Beatrix's great Hungarian, for her white hands were 
as strong as a man's ; but the Arab mare was trained 
only to the touch of an Arab halter and the deep 
caress of an Arab voice, and at the first strain of the 
cruel French bit she threw up her head, swerved, 
caught the steel in her teeth, and shot forward again 
 
at twice her speed. Eleanor tried in vain to wrench 
the mare's head to one side, into the shrinking crowd. 
The Queen's face turned grey, but her lips were 
set and her eyes steady, as she looked death in the 
face. Behind her, Beatrix's little gloved hands were 
like white moths on her steadily jerking bridle, the 
Hungarian's terrific stride threw up the sods behind 
her, and there was a hopeless, far-away look in her 
face, almost like a death-smile. Only the strong 
dark woman of the South seemed still to have 
control over her horse, and he slowly slackened his 
speed, and fell a little behind the other two. 
In the fearful danger the crowd was silent and 
breathless, and many men turned pale as they saw. 
But none moved. 
One second, two seconds, three seconds, and to 
every second two strides ; the end of three women's 
lives was counted by the wild hoof -strokes. The 
race might last while one could count ten more. 
Gilbert Warde had at first tried to press nearer 
to the King, but he saw that it was useless, because 
the latter was already shoulder to shoulder with the 
nobles and knights. So he had turned back to face 
the crowd with those about him, and with the flat of 
his blade he had beaten down some few swords which 
men had dared to draw ; but he had wounded no one, 
for he knew that it was a madness which must pass 
and must be forgiven. 
Then he found himself with his horse on the very 
edge of the open track made by the dividing people, 
and he looked and saw the Queen, and Beatrix three 
or four lengths behind her, as the matchless Arab 
gained ground in the race. He had been above the 
deep fall and understood. Instantly he was on his 
feet on the turf, a step out in the perilous way; and 
he wished that he had the strength of Lancelot in his 
hands, with the leap of a wild beast in his feet, but 
his heart did not fail him. 
In one second he lived an hour. His life was 
nothing, but he could only give it once, to save 
one woman, and she must be Beatrix, let such chance 
befall Eleanor as might. Yet Eleanor was the 
Queen, and she had been kind to him, and in the 
fateful instant of doom his eyes were on her face ; 
he would try to save the other, but unconsciously he 
made one step forward again and stood waiting in 
midway. One second for a lifetime's thought, one 
for the step he made, and the next was the last. He 
could hear the rush of the wind, and Eleanor was 
looking at him. 
In that supreme moment her face changed, and the 
desperate calm in her eyes became desperate fear for 
him she loved even better than she knew. 
"Back!" she cried, and the cry was a woman's 
agonized scream, not for herself. 
With all her might, but utterly in vain, she 
wrenched sideways at the mare's mouth and she 
closed her eyes lest she should see the man die. He 
had meant to let her pass to her death, for the girl 
was dearer to him, and he had gathered his strength 
like a bent spring to serve him. But he saw her eyes 
and heard her cry, and in the flash of instinct he knew 
she loved him, and that she wished him to save him- 
self rather than her ; and thereby is real love proved 
on the touchstone of fear. 
" HE . . . HELD, WHILE EARTH AND SKY WHIRLKD WITH HIM " 
 
As he sprang, he knew that he had no choice, 
though he did not love her. The fall of her mare, 
if his grip held, might stop the rest. He sprang; 
he- saw only the Arab's bony head and the gold 
on the bridle, as both his hands grasped it. Then 
he saw nothing, but yet 'he held, and, dead, he would 
have held still, as the steel jaws of the hunter's 
trap hold upon the wolf's leg-bone. He knew that 
he was thrown down, dragged, pounded, bruised, 
twisted like a rope till his joints cracked. But he 
held, and felt no pain, while earth and sky whirled 
with him. It was not a second; it was an hour, a 
year, a lifetime; yet he could not have loosed his 
hands, had he wished to let go, for there were in him 
the blood and the soul of the race that never yielded 
its grip on whatsoever it held. 
It lasted a breathing-space, while the mare plunged 
wildly and staggered, and her head almost touched 
the ground and dragged the man's hands on the turf; 
then as his weight wrenched her neck back, her 
violent speed threw her hind quarters round, as a 
vane is blown from the gale. At the same instant 
the great Hungarian horse was upon her, tried to leap 
her in his stride, struck her empty saddle with his 
brown chest, and fell against her and upon her with 
all his enormous weight, and the two rolled over 
each other, frantically kicking. The standard bearer's 
horse, less mad than the others and some lengths 
behind, checked himself cleverly, and after two or 
three short, violent strides, that almost unseated his 
rider, planted his fore feet in the turf and stood stock- 
still, heaving and trembling. The race was over. 
With the strength and instinct of the born rider, 
Eleanor had slipped her feet from the stirrups and 
had let herself be thrown, lifting herself with her 
hands on the high pommel and vaulting clear away. 
She fell, but was on her feet before any man of the 
dazed throng could help her. She saw Gilbert lying 
his full length on his side, his body passive, but his 
arras stretched beyond his head, while his gloved 
hands still clenched upon the bridle and were pulled 
from side to side by the mare's faintly struggling 
head. His eyes were half open toward the Queen, 
but they were pale and saw nothing. The Hunga- 
rian had rolled half upon his back, little hurt, and 
the pommels of the saddle under him kept him from 
turning completely over. 
Beatrix lay like one dead. She had been thrown 
over the Arab's back, striking her head on the turf, 
and the mare in her final struggle had rolled upon 
her feet. The light steel cap had been forced down 
over her forehead in spite of its cushioned lining, and 
the chiselled rim had cut into the flesh so that a little 
line of dark blood was slowly running across the 
white skin ; and her white gloved hands were lying 
palm upward, half open and motionless. The Queen 
scarcely glanced at her. 
Many men sprang forward when the danger was 
past, and they dragged Beatrix out and began to get 
her horse upon his feet. Eleanor knelt by Gilbert 
and tried to take his fingers from the bridle, but 
could not, so that she had to loose the buckle from 
the long bars of the bit. Her hands chafed his 
temples softly, and she bent lower and blew upon 
 
his face, that her cool breath might wake him. There 
were drops of blood on his forehead and on his chin, 
his cloth tunic was torn in many places, and the 
white linen showed at the rents ; but Eleanor saw 
only the look in his face, serene and strong even in 
his unconsciousness, while in the dream of his swoon 
he saved her life again. 
In that moment, knowing that he could not see 
her, she thought not of her own face as she gazed 
upon his, nor of hiding what she felt ; and the thing 
she felt was evil, and it was sweet. But suddenly 
there was life in his look, with a gentle smile, and 
the strained fingers were loosed with a sigh, and a 
long-unused word came from his lips. 
"Mother!" 
Eleanor shook her beautiful head slowly. Then 
Gilbert's face darkened with understanding and the 
old pain clutched at his heart sharply, even before 
the keen bodily hurt awoke in his wrung limbs. All 
at once thought came, and he knew how, in a quick 
fall of his heart, he had forgotten Beatrix and had 
almost given his life to save the Queen. As if he 
had been stung, he started and raised himself on 
one hand, though it was as if he forced his body 
among hot knives. 
"She is dead! " he cried, with twisting lips. 
" No — you saved us both. " 
The words came soft and clear, as Eleanor laid her 
hand upon his shoulder to quiet him, and watched 
the change as the agony in his eyes faded to relief 
and brightened to peace. 
"Thank God!" 
He sank upon her arm, for he was much bruised. 
But her face changed, too, and she suffered new 
things, because in her there was good as well as evil; 
for as she loved him more than before he had saved 
her, so she would give him more, if she might, even 
to forgetting herself. 
And so, for a few moments, she knelt and watched 
him, heedless of the people about her, and scarcely 
seeing a dark man whom she had never noticed before, 
and who bent so low that she could not see his face, 
quietly loosening his master's collar and then feel- 
ing along his arms and legs for any bone hurt there 
might be. 
" Who are you ? " asked the Queen, at last, gently, 
as to one who was helping him she loved. 
"His man," answered Dunstan, laconically, with- 
out looking up. 
"Take care of him and bring me word of him," 
she answered, and from a wallet she gave him gold, 
which he took, silently bending his head still lower 
in thanks. 
He, too, had saved her that day, and knew it, 
though she did not. 
She stood up at last, gathering her mantle round 
her. Less than ten minutes had passed since she 
had thrown up her hand and called to her ladies to 
follow her. Since then the world had been in her- 
self and on fire, leaving no room for other thoughts ; 
but now the crowd had parted wide, and the King 
was coming towards her, slow and late, to know 
whether she were hurt, for he had seen her ride. 
" Madam, " he said, when he had dismounted, " I 
 
thank the mercy of Heaven, which deigned to hear 
the prayers I was continually offering up for your 
safety while your life was threatened by that dan- 
gerous animal. We will render thanks in divine 
services during ten days before proceeding farther, 
or during a fortnight if you prefer it." 
"Your Grace," said Eleanor, coldly, "is at liberty 
to praise Heaven by the month if it seems good to 
you. But for that poor Englishman, who lies there 
in a swoon, and who caught my horse's bridle at the 
risk of his life, you might have been ordering masses 
for my soul instead of for my bodily preservation. 
They would have been much needed had I been killed 
just then." 
The King crossed himself devoutly, half closed 
his eyes, bent himself a little, and whispered a short 
prayer. 
"It would be better," observed the Queen, "to 
move on at once and support the Emperor. " 
" It has pleased God that the army of the Emperor 
should be totally destroyed," answered the King, 
calmly. "The Emperor himself will be here in a 
few hours, unless he has perished with the rest of his 
knights, slain by the Seljuk horsemen who are pur- 
suing the fugitives." 
" The more reason why we should save those who are 
still alive. My army shall march to-morrow at day- 
break — your Grace may stay behind and pray for us. " 
She turned from him scornfully. Dunstan and some 
foot-soldiers had made stretchers with lances and pikes 
and were just beginning to carry Beatrix and Gilbert 
away, northward, in the direction of the camp. 
CHAPTER XV 
When Gilbert learned from his man that Beatrix 
was badly hurt and suffering great pain, he turned 
his face away and bit hard on the saddle-bag that 
served him for a pillow. It was late in the afternoon, 
and Dunstan had just come back from making in- 
quiries in the ladies' lines, half a mile away. 
Nothing could have been simpler than his round 
tent, which had a single pole and covered a circle 
four or five paces in diameter. The dry ground had 
been sprinkled with water and beaten with mallets 
so as to harden it as much as possible. Gilbert and 
his two men slept on smoke-cuied hides over which 
heavy woollen blankets were spread, almost as thick 
as carpets, hand-woven in rough designs of vivid 
blue and red, the coarse work of shepherds of Au- 
vergne, but highly valued. 
Against the pole the saddles were piled one upon 
another, Gilbert's own on top, with its curved pom- 
mels; Dunstan's, covered with plaited lines for 
binding on rolled blankets and all sorts of light 
packages and saddle-bags before and behind the 
rider's seat; and the mule's pack-saddle, on which 
little Alric rode, perched upon the close-bound bun- 
dles, when the road was fair. During most of the 
journey the sturdy Saxon had trudged along on foot, 
as Dunstan did also, but it was not seemly that a 
 
man of gentle blood should be seen walking on the 
march, except of great necessity. 
Above the saddles Gilbert's mail hung by the 
neck, with a stout staff run through both arms to 
stretch it out, lest dampness should rust it; also his 
other armour and his sword were fastened up like an 
ancient trophy, with bridles and leathern bottles and 
other gear. Beside the saddles, on the ground, 
the shining copper kettle held three bright brass 
bowls, well-scoured wooden trenchers, a long wooden 
ladle, an iron skewer, and three brass spoons, the 
simple necessities for cooking and eating. Forks 
had not been thought of in those days. 
Gilbert lay on his back and turned his face away 
from his man. He was bruised and scratched, and 
his head ached from being struck on the ground when 
the mare had dragged him; but he was whole and 
sound in limb, and Dunstan had stretched his joints 
and pressed his bruises with a wise touch that had 
in it something of Oriental skill. He lay wrapped 
in a long robe of coarse white linen, as thick as wool 
— a sensible Greek garment which he had got in 
Constantinople. The afternoon was warm, and 
though the flap of the tent was raised and stretched 
out like an awning, there was little air, and the 
place smelt of the leathern trappings and of hot 
canvas; and through the side to which he turned 
his face Gilbert could see little dazzling sparks of 
rays where the sun was beating full upon the out- 
side. 
He wished that in the mad rush of the Arab the 
life might have been pounded out of him, and that 
he might never have waked to know what he had 
done; for although in his sober senses he did not 
love the Queen, it seemed to him that he had loved 
her in the moment when he sprang to save her 
life, and that he could never again forget the look 
of fear for him in her eyes and her cry of terror for 
his sake. All that Beatrix had said to him in the 
garden at Constantinople came back to him now; 
until now, he had disbelieved it all, as a wild and 
foolish impossibility, for he was over-modest and 
diffident of himself in such matters. 
Beatrix would certainly have been killed but for 
the chance which had thrown the mare across the 
narrow way, and he had risked his life to save 
another woman. It mattered not that the other was 
the Queen ; that was not the reason why he had leapt 
upon the bridle. He had done it for a glance of 
her eyes, for the tone of her voice, as it were in an 
instant of temptation, when he had stepped out of 
the rank to face destruction for a dearer sake. It 
seemed like a crime, and it proved against his own 
belief that he loved what he loved not. Had he let 
the Queea pass, and had he stopped Beatrix's horse 
instead, she might have been unhurt, and one other 
brave man might have saved Eleanor at the brink. 
Indeed, he thought of the sad face with its pathetic 
little smile, drawn with pain and hot upon the pillow, 
by his fault ; and he thought with greater fear of the 
danger that some deep hurt might leave the slender 
frame bent and crippled for life. 
But meanwhile the news had spread quickly that 
it was the silent Englishman, neither knight nor 
 
squire, who had saved the Queen, and outside the 
tent men stopped and talked of the deed, and asked 
questions of Alric, who had picked up enough 
Norman-French to give tolerably intelligible an- 
swers. At first came soldiers, passing as they went 
to fetch water from the lake, and .again as they came 
back with copper vessels filled to the brim and drip- 
ping upon their shoulders, they set down their bur- 
dens and talked together. Presently came a great 
knight, the Count of Montferrat, brother to the 
Count of Savoy, who had been at V^zelay, where 
Gilbert had talked with him. He walked with 
slow strides, his bright eyes seeming to cut a 
way for him, his long mantle trailing, his soft red 
leather boots pushed down in close creases about 
his ankles, his gloved hand pressing down the cross- 
hilt of his sword, so that the sheath lifted his man- 
tle behind him. On each side of him walked his 
favourite knights, and their squires with them, all 
on their way to the King's quarters, where a council 
of war was to be held, since it was known how the 
great German host had been routed, and that the 
Emperor himself might follow Duke Frederick of 
Suabia. This Duke had already reached the camp, 
after beating off the Seljuk skirmishers who had 
harassed his retreat and driven in the first fright- 
struck Germans. 
The soldiers and grooms made way for the noble, 
but he asked which might be the tent of Gilbert 
Warde, the Englishman; so they pointed to the 
raised flap, where Alric stood with his sturdy legs 
apart, under the shadow of Gilbert's long shield. 
which was hanging from a lance stuck in the ground. 
The shield was blank, though many gentlemen 
already painted devices on theirs, and sovereign 
lords displayed the heraldic emblems of their houses 
long before their vassals began to use their coats- 
of-arms on their shields in war. But Gilbert would 
