right, only the girl had not yet found a 
descriptive term that was,) of the most mag 
nificent of men. Nothing could equal the 
frequency and variety of his communica 
tions to her ladyship but their extraordinary, 
their abysmal propriety. It was just the 
talk, so profuse sometimes that she wondered 
what was left for their real meetings, of the 
happiest people in the world. Their real 
meetings must have been constant, for half 
of it was appointments and allusions, all 
swimming in a sea of other allusions still, 
tangled in a complexity of questions that 
gave a wondrous image of their life. If 
Lady Bradeen was Juno, it was all certainly 
Olympian. If the girl, missing the answers, 
her ladyship 's own outpourings, sometimes 
wished that Cocker 's had only been one of 
the bigger offices where telegrams arrived 
as well as departed, there were yet ways in 
which, on the whole, she pressed the ro 
mance closer by reason of the very quantity 
of imagination that it demanded. The days 
and hours of this new friend, as she came to 
account him, were at all events unrolled, 
and however much more she might have 
known she would still have wished to go 
beyond. In fact she did go beyond; she 
went quite far enough. 
But she could none the less, even after a 
month, scarce have told if the gentlemen 
who came in with him recurred or changed ; 
and this in spite of the fact that they too 
were always posting and wiring, smoking in 
her face and signing or not signing. The 
gentlemen who came in with him were noth 
ing, at any rate, when he was there. They 
turned up alone at other times then only 
perhaps with a dim richness of reference. 
He himself, absent as well as present, was 
all. He was very tall, very fair, and had, 
in spite of his thick preoccupations, a good- 
humour that was exquisite, particularly as it 
so often had the effect of keeping him on. 
He could have reached over anybody, and 
anybody no matter who would have let 
him ; but he was so extraordinarily kind that 
he quite pathetically waited, never waggling 
things at her out of his turn or saying Here ! 
with horrid sharpness. He waited for pot 
tering old ladies, for gaping slaveys, for the 
perpetual Buttonsesfrom Thrupp s; and the 
thing in all this that she would have liked 
most unspeakably to put to the test was the 
possibility of her having for him a personal 
identity that might in a particular way 
appeal. There were moments when he 
actually struck her as on her side, arranging 
to help, to support, to spare her. 
But such was the singular spirit of our 
young friend that she could remind herself 
with a sort of rage that when people had 
awfully good manners people of that class 
you couldn't tell. These manners were for 
everybody, and it might be drearily unavail 
ing for any poor particular body to be over 
worked and unusual. What he did take for 
granted was all sorts of facility ; and his high 
pleasantness, his relighting of cigarettes 
while he waited, his unconscious bestowal 
of opportunities, of boons, of blessings, were 
all a part of his magnificent security, the 
instinct that told him there was nothing 
such an existence as his could ever lose by. 
He was, somehow, at once very bright and 
very grave, very young and immensely com 
plete ; and whatever he was at any moment, 
it was always as much as all the rest the 
mere bloom of his beatitude. He was some 
times Everard, as he had been at the Hotel 
Brighton, and he was sometimes Captain 
Everard. He was sometimes Philip with 
his surname and sometimes Philip without 
it. In some directions he was merely Phil, 
in others he was merely Captain. There 
were relations in which he was none of these 
things, but a quite different person the 
Count. There were several friends for 
whom he was William. There were several 
for whom, in allusion perhaps to his com 
plexion, he was the Pink Un. Once, 
once only by good luck, he had, coinciding 
comically, quite miraculously, with another 
person also near to her, been Mudge. Yes, 
whatever he was, it was a part of his hap 
piness whatever he was and probably what 
ever he wan' t. And his happiness was a 
part it became so little by little of some 
thing that, almost from the first of her being 
at Cocker's, had been deeply with the girl. 
This was neither more nor less than the 
queer extension of her experience, the double 
life that, in the cage, she grew at last to 
lead. As the weeks went on there she lived 
more and more into the world of whiffs and 
glimpses, and found her divinations work 
faster and stretch further. It was a pro 
digious view as the pressure heightened, a 
panorama fed with facts and figures, flushed 
with a torrent of color and accompanied with 
wondrous world-music. What it mainly 
came to at this period was a picture of how 
London could amuse itself; and that, with 
the running commentary of a witness so 
exclusively a witness, turned for the most 
part to a hardening of the heart. The nose 
of this observer was brushed by the bouquet, 
yet she could never really pluck even a daisy. 
What could still remain fresh in her daily 
grind was the immense disparity, the 
difference and contrast, from class to class, of 
every instant and every motion. There 
were times when all the wires in the country 
seemed to start from the little hole-and- 
corner where she plied for a livelihood, and 
where, in the shuffle of feet, the flutter of 
forms, the straying of stamps and the ring 
of change over the counter, the people she 
had fallen into the habit of remembering 
and fitting together with others, and of 
having her theories and interpretations of, 
kept up before her their long procession and 
rotation. What twisted the knife in her 
vitals was the way the profligate rich scat 
tered about them, in extravagant chatter 
over their extravagant pleasures and sins, 
an amount of money that would have held 
the stricken household of her frightened 
childhood, her poor pinched mother and tor 
mented father and lost brother and starved 
sister, together for a lifetime. During her 
first weeks she had often gasped at the 
sums people were willing to pay for the stuff 
they transmitted the much loves, the 
awful regrets, the compliments and won 
derments and vain, vague gestures that cost 
the price of a new pair of boots. She had 
had a way then of glancing at the people 's 
faces, but she had early learned that if you 
became a telegraphist you soon ceased to be 
astonished. Her eye for types amounted 
nevertheless to genius, and there were those 
she liked and those, she hated, her feeling 
for the latter of which grew to a positive 
possession, an instinct of observation arid 
detection. There were the brazen women, as 
she called them, of the higher and the lower 
fashion, whose squanderings and graspings, 
whose struggles and secrets and love-affairs 
and lies she tracked and stored up against 
them, till she had at moments, in private, a 
triumphant, vicious feeling of mastery and 
power, a sense of having their silly, guilty 
secrets in her pocket, her small retentive 
brain, and thereby knowing so much more 
about them than they suspected or would 
care to think. There were those she would 
have liked to betray, to trip up, to bring 
down with words altered and fatal ; and all 
through a personal hostility provoked by the 
lightest signs, by their accidents of tone and 
manner, by the particular kind of relation 
she always happened instantly to feel. 
There were impulses of various kinds, 
alternately soft and severe, to which she was 
constitutionally accessible and which were 
determined by the smallest accidents. She 
was rigid, in general, on the article of mak 
ing the public itself affix its stamps, and 
found a special enjoyment in dealing, to that 
end, with some of the ladies who were too 
grand to touch them. She had thus a play 
of refinement and subtlety greater, she flat 
tered herself, than any of which she could 
be made the subject; and though most peo 
ple were too stupid to be conscious of this, 
it brought her endless little consolations and 
revenges. She recognised quite as much 
those of her sex whom she would have liked 
to help, to warn, to rescue, to see more of; 
and that alternative as well operated exactly 
through the hazard of personal sympathy, 
her vision for silver threads and moonbeams 
and her gift for keeping the clues and find 
ing her way in the tangle. The moonbeams 
and silver threads presented at moments all 
the vision of what poor she might have made 
of happiness. Blurred and blank as the 
whole thing often inevitably, or mercifully, 
became, she could still, through crevices and 
crannies, be stupified, especially by what, 
in spite of all seasoning, touched the sorest 
place in her consciousness, the revelation of 
the golden shower flying about without a 
gleam of gold for herself. It remained pro 
digious to the end, the money her fine friends 
were able to spend to get still more, or even 
to complain to fine friends of their own that 
they were in want. The pleasures they pro 
posed were equalled only by those they 
declined, and they made their appointments 
often so expensively that she was left won 
dering at the nature of the delights to which 
the mere approaches were so paved with 
shillings. She quivered on occasion into the 
perception of this and that one whom she 
would, at all events, have just simply liked 
to be. Her conceit, her baffled vanity were 
possibly monstrous ; she certainly often threw 
herself into a defiant conviction that she 
would have done the whole thing much 
better. But her greatest comfort, on the 
whole, was her comparative vision of the 
men ; by whom I mean the unmistakable gen 
tlemen, for she had no interest in the spurious 
or the shabby, and no mercy at all for the 
poor. She could have found a sixpence, out 
side, for an appearance of want; but her 
fancy, in some directions so alert, had never 
a throb of response for any sign of the sordid. 
The men she did follow, moreover, she fol 
lowed mainly in one relation, the relation as 
to which the cage convinced her, she be- 
.lieved, more than anything else could have 
done, that it was quite the most diffused. 
She found her ladies, in short, almost 
always in communication with her gentle 
men, and her gentlemen with her ladies, and 
she read into the immensity of their inter 
course stories and meanings without end. 
Incontestibly she grew to think that the men 
cut the best figure ; and in this particular, 
as in many others, she arrived at a philos 
ophy of her own, all made up of her private 
notations and cynicisms. It was a striking 
part of the business, for example, that it was 
much more the women, on the whole, who 
were after the men than the men who were 
after the women ; it was literally visible that 
the general attitude of the one sex was that 
of the object pursued and defensive, apolo 
getic and attenuating, while the light of her 
own nature helped her more or less to con 
clude as to the attitude of the other. Per 
haps she herself a little even fell into the 
custom of pursuit in occasionally deviating 
only for gentlemen from her high rigour 
about the stamps. She had early in the day 
made up her mind, in fine, that they had the 
best manners; and if there were none of 
them she noticed when Captain Everard was 
there, there were plenty she could place and 
trace and name at other times, plenty who, 
with their way of being nice to her, and of 
handling, as if their pockets were private 
tills, loose, mixed masses of silver and gold, 
were such pleasant appearances that she 
could envy them without dislike. They 
never had to give change they only had to 
get it. They ranged through every sugges 
tion, every shade of fortune, which evidently 
included indeed lots of bad luck as well as of 
good, declining even toward Mr. Mudge and 
his bland, firm thrift, and ascending, in wild 
signals and rocket-flights, almost to within 
hail of her highest standard. So, from month 
to month, she went on with them all, through 
a thousand ups and downs and a thousand 
pangs and indifferences. What virtually hap 
pened was that in the shuffling herd that 
passed before her by far the greater part only 
passed a proportion but just appreciable 
stayed. Most of the elements swam straight 
away, lost themselves in the bottomless com 
mon, and by so doing really kept the page 
clear. On the clearness, therefore, what she 
did retain stood sharply out ; she nipped and 
caught it, turned it over and interwove it. 
VI 
She met Mrs. Jordan whenever she could, 
and learned from her more and more how 
the great people, under her gentle shake, 
and after going through everything with the 
mere shops, were waking up to the gain of 
putting into the hands of a person of real 
refinement the question that the shop-people 
spoke of so vulgarly as that of the floral 
decorations. The regular dealers in these 
decorations were all very well; but there 
was a peculiar magic in the play of taste of 
a lady who had only to remember, through 
whatever intervening dusk, all her own little 
tables, little bowls and little jars and little 
other arrangements, and the wonderful thing 
she had made of the garden of the vicarage. 
This small domain, which her young friend 
had never seen, bloomed in Mrs. Jordan 's 
discourse like a new Eden, and she con 
verted the past into a bank of violets by the 
tone in which she said, Of course you always 
knew my one passion! She obviously met 
now, at any rate, a big contemporary need, 
measured what it was rapidly becoming for 
people to feel they could trust her without a 
tremor. It brought them a peace that 
during the quarter of an hour before dinner 
in especial was worth more to them than 
mere payment could express. Mere pay 
ment, none the less, was tolerably prompt ; 
she engaged by the month, taking over the 
whole thing; and there was an evening on 
which, in respect to our heroine, she at last 
returned to the charge. It 's growing and 
growing, and I see that I must really divide 
the work. One wants an associate of one 's 
own kind, don't you know? You know the 
look they want it all to have? of having 
come, not from a florist, but from one of 
themselves. Well, I'm sure you could give 
it because you are one. Then we should 
win. Therefore just come in with me. 
And leave the P. O.? 
Let the P. O. simply bring you your 
letters. It would bring you lots, you'd see; 
orders, after a bit, by the dozen. It was 
on this, in due course, that the great advan 
tage again came up : One seems to live again 
with one 's own people. It had taken some 
little time (after their having parted com 
pany in the tempest of their troubles and 
then, in the glimmering dawn, finally sighted 
each other again) for each to admit that the 
other was, in her private circle, her only 
equal ; but the admission came, when it did 
come, with an honest groan, and since 
equality was named each found much per 
sonal profit in exaggerating the other 's origi 
nal grandeur. Mrs. Jordan was ten years the 
older, but her young friend was struck with 
the smaller difference this now made ; it had 
counted otherwise at the time when, much 
more as a friend of her mother's, the be 
reaved lady, without a penny of provision, 
and with stopgaps, like their own, all gone, 
had, across the sordid landing on which the 
opposite doors of the pair of scared miseries 
opened and to which they were bewilderedly 
bolted, borrowed coals and umbrellas that 
were repaid in potatoes and postage-stamps. 
It had been a questionable help, at that time, 
to ladies submerged, floundering, panting, 
swimming for their lives, that they were 
ladies ; but such an advantage could come up 
again in proportion as others vanished, and 
it had grown very great by the time it was 
the only ghost of one they possessed. They 
had literally watched it take to itself a por 
tion of the substance of each that had de 
parted ; and it became prodigious now, when 
they could talk of it together, when they 
could look back at it across a desert of 
accepted derogation, and when, above all, 
they could draw from each other a credulity 
about it that they could draw from no one 
else. Nothing was really so marked as that 
they felt the need to cultivate this legend 
much more after having found their feet and 
stayed their stomachs in the ultimate obscure 
than they had done in the upper air of mere 
frequent shocks. The thing they could now 
oftenest say to each other was that they 
knew what they meant, and the sentiment 
with which, all round, they knew it was 
known had been a kind of promise to stick 
well together again. 
Mrs. Jordan was at present fairly dazzling 
on the subject of the way that, in the practice 
of her beautiful art, she more than peeped 
in she penetrated. There was not a house 
of the great kind and it was, of course, 
only a question of those real homes of lux 
ury in which she was not, at the rate such 
people now had things, all over the place. 
The girl felt before the picture the cold 
breath of disinheritance as much as she had 
ever felt it in the cage; she knew, more 
over, how much she betrayed this, for the 
experience of poverty had begun, in her life, 
too early, and her ignorance of the require 
ments of homes of luxury had grown, with 
