"I shall get away to-morrow, I think, but where I shall go I can't
tell yet."
"Do you need any money?"
"No; my uncle left me some."
Ernest had not yet secured the gold, but he knew exactly where it was,
and now that all his business was ended, he felt that it was time to
possess himself of it. Accordingly he took a spade from the house and
bent his steps in the direction of the old oak tree.
He went alone, for he thought it best not to take anyone into his
confidence. Indeed the only persons whom he would have thought of
trusting were Joe Marks and Luke Robbins, and they were both employed,
Joe in his store and Luke on a hunting expedition.
Arrived at the tree, Ernest measured off five feet in the direction
mentioned by Peter and began to dig. It did not take him long to reach
the box, for it was only a foot beneath the surface of the ground.
It proved to be a cigar-box, for Peter was fond of smoking, though he
usually smoked a pipe, as being more economical. Ernest lifted the lid
and saw a small roll enclosed in brown wrapping-paper, which, on being
removed, revealed twenty five-dollar gold pieces. He regarded them
with satisfaction, for they afforded him the means of leaving Oak
Forks and going out into the great world which he had such a curiosity
to enter.
But Ernest was not the only one who regarded the gold pieces with
satisfaction.
Hidden behind a tree only a few feet away was a person with whom we
are already acquainted. It was Tom Burns, the tramp and vagabond.
He, too, was out in search of gold. He had come from Daneboro and was
prowling round the neighborhood, searching for old Peter's hidden
treasure. He had deliberated as to whether the cabin or the fields was
the more likely place to have been selected. He had nothing in
particular to guide him. He did not, however, venture to approach the
house just yet, as it would probably be occupied by Ernest.
"I wish I knowed where the old man hid his boodle," soliloquized Tom.
"I can't dig all over."
In fact digging was not in Tom's line. It was too much like work, and
if there was anything to which Tom was bitterly opposed it was work of
any kind.
"The boy must know. Likely the old man told him," he finally
concluded. "I'll watch the boy."
He feared he might be too late. Had it been his own case, he would
have searched for the gold immediately after the funeral. He naturally
supposed that Ernest would do the same. He therefore lost no time in
prowling around the cabin, with the especial object of watching
Ernest's movements. He was especially favored, as he thought, when
from a distance he saw Ernest leaving the cabin with the spade in his
hand.
The tramp's heart was filled with joy.
"He is going to dig for the treasure," he said. "I'll keep him in
sight."
Tom Burns had no difficulty in doing this, for Ernest bent his steps
in his direction.
"I hope he won't discover me," thought Burns; "at any rate, not till I
find out where he's going to dig."
All things seemed to favor the tramp. Ernest stopped when he came to
the oak tree, and it was evident this was the spot of which he was in
search.
"Why, that's where I was lying the other night!" thought Burns. "If I
had only knowed! Why, the gold was right under me all the time. If I'd
found it then, I should have gone off with it before this time. How
ever, it isn't too late now."
He watched with subdued eagerness while Ernest was digging. He no
longer doubted that this was the place where the gold was hidden.
Ernest could have no other object in digging in this place.
"I wonder how much there is," thought Burns. "There ought to be as
much as a thousand dollars. Perhaps there's two or three. But even if
there is only a thousand, it will set me on my feet. I'll soon get out
of this neighborhood. I'll go to Chicago or New York, and I'll live in
clover. I'll make up for lost time. I've been a vagabond long enough.
I'll buy some new clothes, and set up as a respectable man."
When Ernest found the roll of coins, and taking them out, put them in
his pocket, he was not disappointed, for he knew what to expect, but
Tom Burns was in dismay.
"Only a hundred dollars?" he soliloquized. "What's a hundred dollars?
The old man ought to be ashamed of himself. Why, it isn't
respectable!"
However, one thing was certain. A hundred dollars was better than
nothing. It would take him to Chicago, and enable him to live in
comfort for a while. Besides, he might multiply it many times at the
gaming table, for Tom Burns had been a gambler in his day. He
certainly did not propose to disdain the sum which fortune had placed
in his way simply because it was so small. Oh, no, Tom Burns was not
that sort of a man.
Ernest put the gold pieces in his pocket and turned to go back to the
cabin, when a voice reached him.
"Look here, boy, I'll trouble you to hand over that money."
CHAPTER VI.
A CRITICAL SITUATION.
Ernest turned and regarded the tramp in amazement.
"What do you mean?" he demanded.
"I want that money you just dug up," replied Tom Burns boldly.
Instantly Ernest comprehended his danger. He was a stout boy, but the
tramp was a large man, weighing probably fifty pounds more than
himself. Moreover, he looked desperate and reckless. The boy felt that
in strength he was no match for the thief who confronted him.
Yet he could not bear the thought of allowing himself to be robbed.
Left penniless, how could he carry out the plans which he had in view?
He tried to gain time.
"Do you want to rob me?" he asked.
"I have just as much right to that money as you," said the tramp.
"How do you make that out?"
"The man who put it there owed me money."
"Do you think I am a fool to believe that ridiculous story?"
"You'd better be careful how you talk," said Burns menacingly. "What I
say I mean."
"Then all I can say is that you have told a falsehood. You are the
man, I suppose, who entered our cabin at night and stole money out of
a trunk."
"I don't know anything about your trunk," said Burns mendaciously.
"But I have no time to talk--I want that money."
Ernest looked about him, hoping to see some one to whom he could
appeal for help, but no one appeared in sight. Next he looked at the
tramp, to note if he were armed. To his relief Burns did not appear to
have any weapon with him. Rapidly he determined not to give up the
money without a struggle.
"I won't give up the money to a thief," he said boldly.
As he spoke he turned and ran as fast as he was able.
Tom Burns uttered an execration and prepared to pursue him.
Winged with fear of losing his gold, Ernest flew rather than ran, not
heeding the direction he was taking. The tramp accepted the challenge
and put forth his utmost speed in the hope of overtaking him.
"You'll pay for this, boy," he growled. "Just let me catch you."
But Ernest did not mean to be caught. Being a fast runner for a boy of
his size, he bade fair to out-distance his pursuer. But directly in
his path was an excavation of considerable size and depth. Ernest
paused on the brink to consider whether to descend the sloping sides
or to go round it. The delay was fatal. The tramp saw his advantage,
and, pushing forward, seized him by the collar.
"I've caught you!" he cried, triumphantly. "Now give me the money."
There was a brief struggle, but a boy, even a strong boy, was no match
for a man taller and heavier than himself. The gold pieces were
snatched from him, and the tramp, releasing his hold, was about to
make off in triumph when he found himself seized in turn.
"Why, you contemptible thief!" exclaimed Luke Robbins, for it was he
whose opportune coming had saved Ernest from being plundered. "Are you
trying to rob the boy?"
He seized the tramp by the collar, forced him to give up the gold he
had just snatched from Ernest, and flung him on his back.
The tramp's surprise deepened to dismay when, looking up, he saw the
stalwart hunter with stern face looking down upon him.
"It was my money," he whined.
"Your money, you owdacious liar! Don't tell me that or I'll treat you
worse."
"But it was. I had hidden it under a tree. I came along just as the
boy dug it up. I told him to give it to me, for it was mine, but he
wouldn't, and then I chased him."
"What's the truth of the matter, Ernest?" asked Luke.
"It was money that Peter Brant had hidden away. He told me on his
deathbed where to look for it."
"I thought it was Peter's."
"I had just dug it up and put it in my pocket when this man came
along. He ordered me to give it him."
"Did he say he hid it there?"
"No. He said that Peter owed him money, and he wanted it."
"You appear to be a very ingenious liar," remarked Luke, turning to
the tramp. "Which of these stories do you want me to believe?"
"I hid it there!" said the tramp, doggedly.
"Then why did you tell the boy that Peter owed you money?"
"Because I didn't think he would believe that I hid it."
"You are right there. He don't believe it, nor do I. One thing
more--were you the man that broke into his cabin and stole two gold
pieces from his trunk?"
"No. I don't know anything about it."
"Of course you would deny it. All the same, I have no doubt that you
were the man."
"If I had done it he would have seen me."
"That won't go down. He was asleep. Ernest, what shall I do with this
fellow? Shall I shoot him?" and Luke Robbins pulled out a revolver,
which he handled in a significant way.
"Don't shoot! Spare my life, Mr. Robbins!" cried the tramp, in great
alarm.
"Humph! I don't see the good. Your life is of no value to the world."
"Let him go, Luke," said Ernest, "but tell him to clear out of this
neighborhood."
"It is treating him too well. Still, I will do as you say. Hark, you
fellow, what is your name?"
"Tom Burns."
"You are a disgrace to the name of Burns. If I spare your life will
you leave this neighborhood and never come back?"
"Yes, yes," answered the tramp, earnestly.
"You'd better keep that promise. If I ever catch sight of you again,
I'll shoot with out asking you any questions. Now get!"
Tom Burns got up and started away with celerity. He thought it wise to
put as great a distance as possible between himself and the tall and
stalwart hunter, fearing that he would repent his leniency and end his
life by a stray bullet.
"I'll scare him a little," said Luke.
He fired after the fugitive, taking care not to hit him, however. Tom
Burns heard the bullet whistling by his head, and with a cry of terror
increased his speed till he reached a place where he felt secure.
Then, sinking down on the ground, he uttered an ejaculation of relief.
"That is a terrible man!" he panted. "He'd as soon take my life as
not. I won't get in his way again if I can help it."
Luke Robbins laughed.
"That is my parting message," he said. "Well, Ernest, where do you
want to go? What are your plans?"
"I don't know," answered Ernest, gravely. "I am not sure that I have
any plans. I feel upset completely."
"Sit down here and I'll talk to you."
He pointed to a little ridge which would serve as a seat.
The two sat down together.
"Now, how much money have you got?"
"A hundred dollars,"
"It isn't much. Is that all your uncle left?"
"I think so. He said nothing about having more."
"It isn't much to begin the world with. I wish for your sake, boy,
that I had some to give you, but I never knew how to get together
money."
"I guess it will do, Luke. I have health and strength. I think I can
make my way."
"But you have no trade."
"Have you?"
"No, Ernest. You've got me there. I am only a hunter, but I don't make
much of a living. I don't recommend you to follow in my steps. I'd
like to keep you with me, but it wouldn't pay you."
"One thing is certain, Luke. I must get away from here. There is
nothing I can do in Oak Forks."
"Where do you want to go, lad?"
"I don't know. I might go eastward to Chicago or New York, or I might
go West to California. Have you ever been to either place, Luke?"
"No, lad, but if I had my choice I'd go westward. I've heard fine
stories of California. I think I should like to see that land, and
push on to the Pacific ocean."
"Why don't you go?"
"Stop a minute! Let me think!"
The hunter assumed a thoughtful look. He remained silent for five
minutes. Then he said, as if to himself, "Why not?"
Ernest still kept silence, but his eyes were fixed upon the face of
the hunter.
Finally Luke looked up.
"How do you want to go, lad?" he asked. "Do you want to go by the
railroad, or are you in for a tramp over the mountains and plains?"
"That depends on whether I am to go alone or not. If I go alone I
shall prefer to go by rail."
"Are you in for a long tramp with me?" asked Luke, his face glowing
with new-born enthusiasm.
"I will go anywhere with you, Luke."
"Then it is agreed. We will start to-morrow."
CHAPTER VII.
ON THE ROAD.
Nothing could have pleased Ernest better than to travel with the
companionship of Luke Robbins. He felt that he should be safe with the
sturdy hunter, who was strong, resolute, and reliable.
True, he was not a man who had succeeded, as men reckon success. He
had lived comfortably, but it had never occurred to him to lay up
money, nor indeed had he had any opportunity to do so. He mentioned
this as an objection to the trip which he had himself proposed.
"My lad," he said, "I am afraid I can't go with you, after all."
"Why not, Luke?"
"Because you're rich, compared with me."
"I have but a hundred dollars."
"And I well, lad, I'm ashamed to say so, but I have only fifteen."
"We'll share and share alike, Luke."
"No, lad. Luke Robbins is too proud to live upon a boy. I reckon I'd
better stay at home."
"But I want you to go and take care of me, Luke. How can I travel
alone?"
Luke brightened up.
"That puts a different face on it, Ernest. If you think you need me,
I'll go."
"I do need you."
"Then go I will; but one thing is understood--I won't take any of your
money."
"There won't be any trouble on that score, Luke."
So the two prepared for their trip. Ernest, with Luke's help,
purchased an outfit, and on the morning of the third day the two
started out together, neither having a very definite idea where they
were going except that their course was westward.
Luke knew very little of the States and Territories that lay between
Oak Forks and the Pacific coast. Ernest, whose education was decidedly
superior to his companion's, was able to give him some information. So
they plodded on, making slow progress, but enjoying the unconventional
life, and the scenery on the way.
They were in no hurry. They stopped to hunt and fish, and when the
weather was unfavorable they stayed overnight at some wayside cabin.
When the nights were fine they camped out, and enjoyed a sound rest
under the open canopy of heaven.
Part of their way led through woods and over prairies, but here and
there they came to a thriving village. There was little occasion to
spend money, but still they were compelled to use some.
One day--it was some weeks from the time when they started--Luke
turned to Ernest with a sober face.
"Ernest," he said, "I think you'll have to leave me at the next
poor-house."
"Why, Luke?"
"Because my money is nearly all gone. I started with fifteen dollars.
Now I have but one."
"But I have plenty left."
"That doesn't help me."
"I want to share it with you, Luke."
"Don't you remember what I said when we set out, lad?"
"What was it?"
"That I would not touch a dollar of your money."
"Then do you mean to leave me alone, Luke?" pleaded Ernest
reproachfully.
"You are a boy and I am a man. I'm forty years old, Ernest. Is it
right that I should live on a boy less than half my age?"
Ernest looked at him in perplexity.
"Is there no way of getting more money?" he asked.
"If we were in California now, and at the mines, I might make shift to
fill my purse; but there are no mines hereabouts."
"Let us keep on, and something may turn up."
When this conversation took place they were approaching Emmonsville, a
thriving town in Nebraska. As they walked through the principal
street, it was clear that something had happened which had created
general excitement. Groups of people were talking earnestly, and their
faces wore a perturbed and anxious look.
"What's the matter?" asked Luke, addressing a well-to-do appearing
man.
"Haven't you heard of the bank robbery over at Lee's Falls?"
"No."
"Two men, fully armed, rode up to the door, and, dismounting, entered
the bank. One stepped up to the window of the paying teller, and
covering him with his revolver, demanded five thousand dollars. At the
same time the other stood in the doorway, also with a loaded
revolver."
"Why didn't the teller shoot him down?" asked Luke.
"My friend, bank officers are not provided with loaded revolvers when
on duty. Besides, the ruffian had the drop on him."
"Well?" asked Luke.
"What could the teller do? Life is more than money, and he had no
alternative. The fellow got the money."
"Did he get away with it?"
"Yes; they both mounted their horses and rode off, no one daring to
interfere. Each held his revolver in readiness to shoot the first man
that barred his way."
"Where did you say this happened?"
"At Lee's Falls."
"Is it near at hand?"
"It is fifteen miles away."
"But why should that robbery create excitement here?"
"Because we have a bank here, and we are expecting a visit from the
same parties."
"Who are they?"
"They are supposed to be the Fox brothers, two of the most notorious
criminals in the West. Numberless stories are told of their bold
robberies, both from individuals and from banks."
"How long have these fellows been preying upon the community?"
"We have heard of them hereabouts for three years. It is said they
came from Missouri."
"Is there no one brave enough or bold enough to interfere with them?"
"More than one has tried it, but no one has succeeded. Twice they were
captured by a posse of men, but in each case they broke jail before it
was time for the trial.
"It seems to me you haven't many men of spirit in Nebraska."
"Perhaps you think you would be a match for them," said the citizen in
a sarcastic tone.
Luke Robbins smiled and handled his revolver in a significant way.
"If you think you can kill or capture them, stranger, there's a chance
to make a good sum of money."
"How is that?"
"A thousand dollars is offered for either, dead or alive."
"A thousand dollars!" repeated Luke, his face glowing with excitement.
"Is that straight?"
"It will be paid cheerfully. You can bet on that."
"Who offers it?"
"The Governor of the State."
Luke Robbins became thoughtful and remained silent.
"Did you hear that, lad?" he asked, when he and Ernest were alone.
"Yes, Luke."
"A thousand dollars would do us a great deal of good."
"That is true, Luke, but it would be as much as your life is worth to
hunt the rascals."
"Don't try to make a coward of me, Ernest."
"I couldn't do that, Luke. I only want you to be prudent."
"Listen, lad. I want that thousand dollars, and I'm going to make a
try for it. Come along with me."
"Where are you going?"
"To the bank. I'm going to have a talk with the officers, and then
I'll decide what to do."
CHAPTER VIII.
THE QUAKER DETECTIVE.
At the Emmonsville bank they were on their guard. The expectation of a
visit from the Fox brothers caused anxiety and apprehension. The evil
reputation of these men, and their desperate character, made them
formidable.
When Luke Robbins entered the place he was regarded with suspicion.
His hunting-costume was not unlike that of a bandit. But the fact that
he had a young companion tended to disarm suspicion. No one could
suspect Ernest of complicity with outlaws, and the Fox brothers had
never been known to carry a boy with them.
Luke was unused to banks. So far as he knew, he had never entered one
before. He looked around him in uncertainty, and finally approached
the window of the receiving teller.
"Are you the boss of this institution?" he asked.
The teller smiled.
"No," he said. "Perhaps you want to see the president?"
"I guess he's the man."
"If you will give me a hint of the nature of your business, I will
speak to him."
"I hear you're expectin' a visit from the Fox brothers."
"Have you anything to do with them?" asked the teller with some
suspicion.
"I want to have something to do with them," returned Luke.
"I don't understand you."
"Then I'll tell you what I mean. I hear there's a big reward out for
their capture."
"A thousand dollars."
"I want that thousand dollars, and I want it bad."
"I shall be very glad if you become entitled to it. Any one who will
rid the State of either of these notorious outlaws will richly deserve
