would have flattered a demi-god. And in truth he was a demi-god to this
girl, with her experience of elderly old-fashioned men and an occasional
callow youth encountered on a verandah in summer.
They followed the driveway that curved between one of the two larger
lawns and the deer park. The lawn was set thickly along its edge and
sparsely on its sweep with fragrant trees and shrubs. Beyond the deer
park was the black mass of the woods. The air was sweet with the mingled
breath of June roses, orange blossoms, and the pepper-tree. After a time
their way lay through a dark avenue of immense oaks, and the perfumes
came from the Mariposa lilies in the fields beyond.
If Trennahan had been with Ila, he would have conducted himself as his
surroundings and his companion demanded: he would have made love. But he
was a man who rarely made a mistake; he talked to Magdaléna of the
difference between California and the many other countries he had
visited, and answered her eager questions about life in the great
capitals. As they were returning, he said to her,--
"You say you ride before breakfast. Do you think I might join you
to-morrow? Your father has been kind enough to place his stable at my
disposal."
"Oh--I--I don't know. My father is very--Spanish, although he doesn't
like you to call it that."
"May I ask him?"
"Oh, yes, you could ask him."
When they reached the house he sought his host in the billiard-room. The
game was over, and Don Roberto, Mr. Polk, and Mr. Washington were seated
in front of the mantel-piece with their feet on the shelf. It was Don
Roberto's favourite attitude; he felt that it completed the structure of
his Americanism. He could only reach the tip of the shelf with the
points of his little elegant feet, but he was just as comfortable as Mr.
Polk, whose feet, large and booted, were planted against the wall. Mr.
Washington, who was a most correct gentleman, with the illustrious
forbears his name suggested, had never lifted his feet to one of his own
mantels in his life; but Don Roberto's guests always humoured this
little hobby, among many others.
"Ay, the Mr. Trennahan," said Don Roberto, graciously. "We make room for
you."
The others moved along, and Trennahan, seeing what was expected of him,
brought a chair and elevated his feet among the Chinese bric-à-brac. He
accepted a choice cigar--there were certain luxuries in which Don
Roberto never economised--and added his quota to the anecdotes of the
hearthstone. As his were fresh and the others as worn as an old
wedding-ring, it was not long before he had an audience which would
brook no interruption but applause.
A Chinaman brought a peremptory message from Mrs. Washington, and the
feet on the mantel were reduced to six. When these came down, two hours
later, Trennahan said to Don Roberto,--
"May I ride with Miss Yorba to-morrow before breakfast?"
"Yes; I no mind," said the don, beaming with approval of his new friend.
"But the boy, he go too. My daughter, no must ride alone with the
gentleman. And you no leave the grounds, remember."
XVI
When Magdaléna went up to her room, she spread all her pretty gifts on
the table and asked herself if they were the secret of this novel
feeling of content with herself and her world. She studied the mirror
and fancied that she was not so plain as usual. Her eyes returned to her
presents, and she shook her head. Her mind worked slowly, but it worked
logically; nor was that imagination hers which keeps woman in a fool's
paradise long after all but the husk of her Adam has gone.
"It is Mr. Trennahan," she admitted reluctantly but ruthlessly. "He is
so clever and so agreeable--no, fascinating--that for the first time I
forgot myself, and when I remembered was not unhappy because I am not
beautiful nor clever. The world must be much nicer than I thought if
there are many people like that in it."
To love she did not give a thought, but she smiled to herself after the
light was out, and, still smiling, fell asleep.
The next morning she was downstairs by six o'clock, but found Trennahan
before her. As he approached her,--he had been sauntering up and down
the drive,--she wondered what he thought of her costume. As she was not
allowed to leave the grounds, a habit had never been thought necessary
for the heiress of the house of Yorba. She had worn for the past two
years one of her mother's discarded black skirts and a cotton blouse.
But it is doubtful if an inspired mind-reader could have made anything
of such thoughts as Trennahan wished to conceal.
"You look as fresh as the morning," he said, with a gallantry which was
mechanical, but true and delightful to a girl in her first experience of
compliments.
"Did you sleep well?" she asked. "I hope the mosquitoes did not keep you
awake. They are very bad."
"I believe they are, but I received a friendly warning from Mr. Polk and
rubbed the leather which protects my skull with vinegar. I think it was
superfluous, but at all events I slept undisturbed."
Magdaléna regarded his skin attentively, much to his amusement. "It is
thick," she said, feeling that she could not honestly reassure him, but
quite positive that he expected her to answer.
He laughed heartily. "Oh!" he said. "What a pity you must 'come out'! I
am a convert to the Old-Californian system. But here are the horses."
The improvised groom, a sulky and intensely self-conscious stable-boy,
led up the horses, and Magdaléna put her foot in Trennahan's hand.
"Oh!" he exclaimed, with a note of real admiration in his voice; and
Magdaléna nearly fell over the other side of her horse.
They cantered off sharply, the boy following a good thirty yards behind,
feeling uncommonly sheepish when he was not thinking angrily of his
neglected chores. It was not thought good form in Menlo Park to put on
the trappings of Circumstance. Mrs. Washington drove a phaeton and took
a boy in the rumble to open the gates; but the coachmen when driving the
usual char-à-banc or wagonette performed this office while their
mistresses steered the horses through the gates. No one ever thought of
wearing a jewel or a décolleté gown to a dinner or a dance. Mrs. Dillon,
the Bonanza queen, having heard much of the simplicity of the worshipful
Menlo Park folk, had paid her first calls in a blue silk wrapper, but,
conceiving that she had done the wrong thing, sheltered her perplexities
in black silk thereafter. Her daughter upon the same occasion had worn a
voluminous frock of pale blue camel's hair trimmed with flounces of
Valenciennes lace, that being the simplest frock in her wardrobe; but
she privately thought even Mrs. Washington's apotheosised lawns and
organdies very "scrubby," and could never bring herself to anything less
expensive than summer silks, made at the greatest house in Paris.
"I am going to see the Mark Smith place this afternoon," said Trennahan.
"Your mother has very kindly offered to drive me over. I suppose it has
no woods on it. These are beautiful."
"They are the only ones in the San Mateo Valley," replied Magdaléna,
experiencing the full pride of possession. "Are there such beautiful
ones in Europe?"
"Those at Fontainbleau are not unlike. But in England you stand in the
middle of a wood and admire the landscape on either side."
"Helena wrote me something like that. She said that she always put on a
veil when she went into an English wood for fear she would get
freckled."
"Who is Helena?"
"She is my great friend. She is Colonel Jack Belmont's daughter, and the
most beautiful girl in California. At least I think she is, for of
course I have not seen them all."
"Are you always as conscientious as that? Why have I not seen this
peerless creature?"
"She is in Europe. You will see her in December. Of course I do not know
if she is a 'type,' but I don't see how anybody else could be like
Helena. Mr. Rollins said last night that she was the concentrated
essence of California."
"Describe her to me." He was delighted at the prospect of drawing her
out on any subject.
Magdaléna hesitated, wondering if she should have the courage to
continue, did she begin a monologue. She recalled the sustained
animation of the girls at her dinner, and moved as if to shake her head,
then recollected her ambition to shine in conversation. To no one had
she ever found it so easy to express herself as to this man. Why not
take advantage of that fact? And that represented but the half of her
present ambition. If she could only interest him!
He watched her closely, divining some cause of her hesitation, but not
all. Her complexion was even less desirable by day than by gas, but her
hair was tumbled, her eyes were sparkling softly; and the deep green
arbours of the wood were an enchanting aid to youth.
"She has curly shining hair about the colour of mahogany, and
big--long--dark blue eyes that look as if they were not afraid of
anything, and make you afraid sometimes, and regular features, and a
whiter skin than Tiny's, with a beautiful pink colour--" She stopped
short, feeling that her attempt at description was as ineffective as the
hours wasted upon her much modelled hero.
"That sounds very charming, but still--never mind her appearance. Tell
me what you so much admire in her."
"She talks so much, and she isn't afraid of anybody. She says she
wouldn't lie because she wouldn't pay anyone that compliment. She loves
to 'cheek' and shock people. She walks all round the outside of the
house--upstairs--on a narrow ledge, and she runs to fires--at least she
ran to one--and she won't study when she doesn't feel like it.
And--and--she even snatched off papa's skull-cap once."
Trennahan threw back his head and laughed loud and long. "And you would
have me believe that all that is what moves you to admiration. Don't you
know, my dear child, that you love your friend in spite of her tomboy
eccentricities, not because of them? You wouldn't be or do one of those
things if you could."
Again Magdaléna hesitated. The implied approval was delightful; but she
would not hold it on false pretences. She answered firmly,--
"I went to the fire with her."
"You? Delightful! Tell me about it. Every detail."
She told him everything except the terrible sequel. It was lamely
presented, but he cared nothing for the episode. His sympathies were
immediate if temporary, and experience had eaten off the very cover of
the book of seals. He followed her through every mental phase she
unconsciously rehearsed; and when she brought the story to an abrupt
close, lacking the art to run it off into generalities, he inferred
something of the last development and did not press her to continue. He
pitied her grimly. But he was an intensely practical man.
"You must never think of doing that sort of thing again," he said.
"Unless a person is naturally eccentric, the attempt to be so
demoralises him, because there is nothing so demoralising as
failure--except on one's own particular lines. Did you, for instance,
jump on a horse and career barebacked through Menlo Park like a wild
Indian,--a performance which your friend would probably carry off with
any amount of dash and chic--you would feel a hopeless fool; whereas,"
he gave her a keen side glance, "if you felt that you possessed a
talent--for music, say--and failed forty times before achieving success,
you would feel that your failures partook of the dignity of their cause,
and of your own character."
She turned to him with quickening pulse. "Do you think," she faltered,
hunting for phrases that would not commit her, "that if a person loved
an art very much, even if he could not be sure that he had genius, that
he would be right to go on and on, no matter how often he became
discouraged?"
Her eyes were staring at her horse's neck; she did not see him smile. He
had felt quite sure that she sought relief for the silences of her life
in literary composition. When an unattractive woman has not talent she
finds a double revenge in the torture of words, he thought. What shall I
say to her? That she is whittling thorns for her own soul? Bah! Did I
not find enjoyment once in the very imaginings of all that has scourged
me since? Would I have thanked anyone for opening my eyes? And the
positive is the one thing that grips the memory. It is as well to have
what high lights one can.
She had raised her head and was looking at him expectantly.
"Certainly," he said. "He should go on, by all means. Love of an art
presupposes a certain degree of talent."--May Heaven forgive me for that
lie, he thought.
She detected his lack of spontaneity, but attributed it to the fact that
he had not guessed her personal interest in the question. "Have you met
many literary people?" she asked. "But of course you must. Did you like
them very much?"
"I have inquired carefully, and ascertained that there are none in
Menlo. If there were, I should not think twice about the Mark Smith
place."
Magdaléna felt herself burning to her hair. She glanced at him quickly,
but he averted his eyes and called her attention to a magnificent oak
whose limbs trailed on the ground. Should I tell him? she thought, every
nerve quaking. Should I? Then she set her lips in scorn. He spoke of
"literary" people, she continued. It will be many a day before I am
that. Meanwhile, as Helena would say, what he doesn't know won't hurt
him.
He had no intention of letting her make any such confidences. "Tell me,"
he said. "I have heard something of the old Spanish families of
California. You, of course, belong to them. That is what gives you your
delightful individuality. I should like to hear something of that old
life. Of course it interests you?"
"Oh, I love it,--at least, I loved it once. My aunt, my father's sister,
used to talk constantly of that time, but I have no one to talk to of it
now; she has lived in Santa Barbara for the last three years. She told
me many stories of that time. It must have been wonderful."
He drew one leg across the horse's neck and brought him to a stand. They
had entered the backwoods and were walking their horses. The groom was
nowhere to be seen. He was, in fact, awaiting them at the edge of the
woods, his beast tethered, himself prone, the ring-master of a tarantula
fight.
"Tell me those stories," commanded Trennahan. He knew they would bore
him, but the girl was very interesting.
Magdaléna began the story of Ysabel Herrara. At first she stumbled, and
was obliged to begin no less than three times, but when fairly started
she told it very well. Many of her aunt's vivid picturesque phrases
sprang from their dusty shelves; her own early enthusiasm revived. When
she had finished she passed on to the pathetic little histories of Éléna
Duncan and Benicia Ortega. She had told over those stories many times to
herself; to-day they were little more than the recital of a well-studied
lesson. The intense earnestness of Trennahan's gaze magnetised her out
of self-consciousness. When she was concluding the third, his horse
shied suddenly at a snake, and while he quieted it she tumbled back to
the present. She sat with parted lips and thumping heart. Had she talked
as well as that? She, Magdaléna Yorba, the dull, the silent, the
terrified? She felt a glad pride in herself, and a profound gratitude to
the wizard who had worked the spell.
"I have never been more interested," he said in a moment. "How
delightfully you talk! What a pity you don't write!"
Magdaléna's heart shook her very throat, but she managed to answer, "And
then you wouldn't buy the Mark Smith place?"
"Well, no, perhaps I wouldn't," he answered hurriedly, lest she might be
moved to confidence. He had a lively vision of Magdaléna reading her
manuscripts to him, or sending them to him for criticism. "But you must
tell me a story every time we--I am so fortunate as to have you all to
myself like this. I suppose we should be going back now."
Magdaléna took out her watch. The little air of pride in her new
possession amused Trennahan, although he saw the pathos of it.
"Yes," she said; "it is nearly eight. We must go. Papa does not like us
to be late for breakfast."
As they reached the edge of the woods, Magdaléna gave an exclamation of
disgust; but Trennahan leaned forward with much interest. The two
tarantulas, after tearing each other's fur and legs off, were locked in
the death embrace, leaping and rolling.
"Get on your horse at once," said Magdaléna, sternly. "You are a cruel
boy."
"But that is very interesting," said Trennahan; "I never saw it before."
"They are always doing it here. They pour water--" She turned to the
boy, who was mounted, and close behind them, now that they were likely
to come within the range of the old don's vision at any moment. "Dick,"
she said sternly, "how did you get those tarantulas up? Have you a
whiskey flask about you?"
She spoke with all her father's harsh pride when addressing an inferior:
Don Roberto regarded servants, in spite of the heavy wage they
commanded, as he had the Indians of his early manhood. Trennahan watched
her closely, remarking upon the variety a man might find in a woman if
he chose to look for it.
The boy assured Magdaléna that the tarantulas had been above ground. She
shrugged her shoulders and turned her back expressively upon him.
"You see those little round holes covered with white film?" she said to
Trennahan. "They lead down to the tarantulas' houses,--real little
houses, with doors on hinges. People pour water down, and the old
tarantula comes up--back first, dragging his legs after him--to see what
is the matter. Then they set two of them at each other with sticks, and
they--the tarantulas--never stop fighting until they have torn each
other to death: they have two curved sharp teeth."
Good sport for variety's sake, thought Trennahan. I see myself engaged
on warm afternoons.
XVII
After breakfast Trennahan lay in a long chair on the verandah and smoked
undisturbed. Mrs. Yorba was busy, and Magdaléna sat up in her room,
longing to go down, but fearing to weary him. She recalled the early
hours with vivid pleasure. For the first time in her life she was almost
pleased with herself. She took out her writing materials; but her
beloved art would not hold her. She went to the window and unfastened
the shutter softly. Trennahan was not talking to himself nor even
walking up and down the hard boards below, but the aroma of his cigar
gave evidence that he was there. It mingled with the perfume of the pink
and white roses swarming over the roof of the verandah almost to her
window.
She experienced her first impulse to decorate herself, to gather a
handful of those roses and place them in her hair. Her aunt had never
been without that national adornment, worn with the grace of her slender
girlhood.
She stepped over the sill, catching her breath as the tin roof cracked
beneath her feet, but gathered the roses and returned to her mirror.
With the nimble fingers of her race she arranged the roses at one side
of her head, above and behind the ear. Certainly they were becoming. She
also discovered that she had her aunt's turn of the head, her graceful
way of raising her hand to her ear.
But it is so little, she thought with a sigh; if I could only have the
rest!
Her mind wandered back to the heroines of her aunt's tales. If she but
had the beauty of those wondrous girls, Trennahan would have taken fire
in the hour that he met her, as their caballeros had done. The thought
made her sigh again, not with a woman's bitterness,--she had lived too
little for that,--but with a girl's romantic sadness. Why had she been
defrauded of her birthright? She recalled something Colonel Belmont had
once said about "cross-breeding being death on beauty in nine cases out
of ten." Why could not her father have married another woman of his
race? She dismissed these reflections as unfilial and wicked, and
returned to her work; but it was only to bite the end of her pen-holder
and dream.
Meanwhile Trennahan fell asleep and dreamed that his Menlo house caught
fire one night and that all the maidens of his new acquaintance came in
a body to extinguish the flames. Miss Montgomery played a hose
considerably larger round than her neck, with indomitable energy and
persistence. Miss Brannan, in a dashing red cap and jacket, danced like
a bacchante on the roof, albeit manipulating large buckets of water.
Mrs. Washington was also there, and, swinging in a hammock, encouraged
the workers with her characteristic optimism expressed in picturesque
American. Magdaléna, in a suit of her father's old clothes, was handing
his books through the library window to Miss Folsom. Miss Geary was
scrambling up the ladder, a hose coiled about her like a python. The
leader of the company stood on the roof directly above the front door,
giving orders with imperious voice and gesture. But although the flames
leaped high about her, starting the leaves of a neighbouring tree into
sharp relief, he could not see her face.
XVIII
Trennahan did not see Magdaléna until luncheon. She came in late, and
her manner was a shade colder and more reserved than usual. After much
excogitation, she had decided to leave the roses in her hair, but it had
taken her ten minutes to summon up courage to go downstairs.
He understood perfectly, and his soul grinned. Then he sighed. Youth had
been very sweet to him, all manifestations of femininity in a woman very
dear. There were four long windows in the dining-room, but the roof of
the verandah, the thick vines springing from pillar to pillar, the
lilac-trees and willows just beyond, chastened the light in the room.
Magdaléna looked almost pretty, with her air of proud reserve, the roses
nestling in her dark hair. Ten years ago he might have loved her,
perhaps, in spite of her complexion.
Mrs. Yorba did not notice the roses. Her mind was blind with wrath: the
cream sauce of the chicken was curdled. During at least half the meal
she did not utter a word; and Trennahan, wondering if fate were forcing
him into the permanent role of the garrulous American, a breed for which
he had all the finely bred American's contempt, talked of the weather,
the woods, the climate, the beauty of the Californian women, with little
or no assistance from Magdaléna. The moment he paused, and he was
hungry, the catlike tread of the Chinese butlers was the only sound in
the large house; the silence was so oppressive that he reflected with
gratitude that his visit would be done with the morrow's morn.
Finally, Mrs. Yorba left the table and stepping through one of the open
casements walked up and down the verandah. She was very fond of this
little promenade between the last solid course of luncheon and the
griddle-cakes and fruit.
"I am glad you wear flowers in your hair," said Trennahan. "Your head
was made for them. I am certain your Ysabel What's-her-name must have
worn them just so the night her ardent lover conceived the idea of
robbing the Mission of its pearls for her fair sake."
Magdaléna's face glowed with its rare smile. "But Ysabel was so
beautiful," she said wistfully,--"the most beautiful woman in
California."
"All women are beautiful, my dear Miss Yorba--when they are young. If
girls could only be made to understand that youth is always beautiful,
they would be even prettier than they are."
Magdaléna's eyes were large and radiant for a moment. She was disposed
to believe in him implicitly. She determined that she would think no
more on the beautiful women of her race, but learn to make herself
attractive in other ways. Helena would return soon and would teach her.
"I have read in books that plain women are sometimes more fascinating
than beautiful ones," she said. "How can that be? Of course you must
know."
"A fascinating ugly woman is one who in the same moment sets the teeth
on edge and makes a beauty look like a daub or a statue. Her pitfall is
that she is apt to be lacking in pride: she makes too great an effort to
please. Your pride is magnificent. I say that in strict truth and
without any desire to pay you a compliment. Had fate been so unkind as
to make you an ugly woman, you would not have had a jot less; it is the
finest part of you, to my way of thinking. You are worrying now because
you have less to say than these girls who have travelled and been
educated abroad, and who, moreover, are of lighter make. Don't try to
imitate them. The knack of making conversation will come with time; and
you will always be appreciated by the men who are weary past your power
to understand of the women that chatter. If I buy this place, I shall
read over some of my favourite old books with you,--that is, if you will
let me; and I believe that you will."
Magdaléna's hands were clasped on the edge of the table; she was leaning
forward, her soul in her eyes. For the moment she was beautiful, and
Trennahan looked his admiration and forgot her lack of complexion. To
Magdaléna there had been a sudden blaze of golden light, then a rift,
through which she caught a brief flash of heaven. Her vague longings
suddenly cohered. She was to be solitary no longer. She was to have a
