immensely. They were quite unlike what she had been accustomed to hear,
and perhaps for that reason she enjoyed them the more.
“I think you sing splendidly,” she said.
Of course Paul blushed, and put in a modest disclaimer. Still he felt
pleased, and decided that Jennie Cunningham was the nicest girl he had
ever met.
“But what would she say,” he thought, “if she could see the miserable
place I live in?” and the perspiration gathered on his face at the mere
thought.
At ten o’clock Mrs. Cunningham suggested that it was time to go to bed.
“Paul, you will sleep in a little bedroom adjoining the library,” she
said.
“All right, ma’am.”
“Come with me and I will show you your bedroom.”
It was a pleasant room, though small, and seemed to Paul the height of
luxury.
“Shall I leave with you my husband’s revolver?” asked the lady.
“Yes, ma’am, I would like it.”
“Do you understand the use of revolvers?”
“Yes; I have practiced some with them in a shooting gallery.”
“I hope there will be no occasion to use it. I don’t think there will.
But it is best to be prepared.”
Paul threw himself on the bed in his uniform in order to be better
prepared to meet any midnight intruder.
“It won’t do to sleep too sound,” he thought, “or the house might be
robbed without my knowing it.”
He was soon fast asleep. It might have been because he had the matter
on his mind that about midnight he woke up. A faint light had been left
burning in the chandelier in the library. Was it imagination on Paul’s
part that he thought he heard a noise in the adjoining room? Instantly
he was on the alert.
“It may be a burglar!” he thought, with a thrill of excitement.
He got up softly, reached for the revolver, and with a stealthy step
advanced to the door that opened into the library.
What he saw was certainly startling.
A man, tall and broad shouldered, was on his knees before the safe,
preparing to open it.
“What are you doing there?” demanded the telegraph boy, firmly.
The man sprang to his feet, and confronted Paul standing with a
revolver in his hand pointed in his direction.
“O, it’s a kid!” he said, contemptuously.
“What are you doing there?” repeated Paul.
“None of yer business! Go back to bed!”
“Leave this house or I fire!”
The man thought of springing upon the boy, but there was something in
his firm tone that made him think it best to parley. A revolver, even
in a boy’s hand, might prove formidable.
“Go to bed, or I’ll kill you!” said the burglar, with an ugly frown.
“I will give you two minutes to leave this room and the house!” said
Paul. “If you are here at the end of that time I fire!”
There was an expression of baffled rage on the face of the low browed
ruffian as he stood bending forward, as if ready to spring upon the
undaunted boy.
CHAPTER V. AN EXCITING INTERVIEW.
For a full minute Paul and the burglar faced each other without either
moving. The telegraph boy of course waited for some aggressive movement
on the part of his opponent. In that case he would not hesitate to
fire. He felt the reluctance natural to any boy of humane instincts
to take human life, and resolved, if possible, only to disable the
ruffian. His heart quickened its pulsations, but in manner he was
cool, cautious and collected. If the burglar had seen any symptoms of
timidity or wavering, he would have sprung upon Paul. As it was, he was
afraid to do so, and was enraged at himself because he felt cowed and
intimidated by a boy. He resolved to inspire fear in Paul if he could.
“I have a great mind to kill you,” he growled.
“Two can play at that game,” said Paul, undaunted.
“Look here! You are making a fool of yourself. You are risking your
life for nothing.”
“I am only doing my duty,” said Paul, firmly.
“The kid’s in earnest,” thought the burglar. “I must try him on another
tack.
“Look here,” he said, changing his tone. “You are a poor boy, ain’t
you?”
“Yes.”
“Just you lower that weapon, and don’t interfere with me, and I will
make it worth your while.”
“What do you mean?” asked Paul, who, however, suspected the burglar’s
meaning.
“I mean this,” said the intruder, in an insinuating tone. “Let me open
the safe and make off with the contents, and I’ll give you a liberal
share of it.”
“What do you take me for?” demanded Paul, indignantly.
“For a boy, of course. What do you care for the people in the house?
They are rich and can afford to lose what will make us rich. Let me
know where you live, and I’ll deal squarely with you. I mean it. All
you’ve got to do is to go back to bed, and they’ll think you slept
through and didn’t see me at all. What do you say?”
“I say no a thousand times!” answered Paul, boldly. “I may be poor all
my life long, but I won’t be a thief.”
The burglar’s face expressed the rage he felt. It was very hard for him
to resist the impulse to spring upon Paul, but the resolute mien of the
boy satisfied him that it would be very dangerous.
“You refuse then?” he said, sullenly.
“Yes; you insult me by your proposal.”
“I wish I had brought a pistol; then you wouldn’t have dared speak to
me in that way.”
Paul was relieved to hear this. He had concluded that the burglar was
unarmed, but didn’t know it positively. Now he could dismiss all fear.
“Well,” he said, “are you going?”
The burglar eyed our hero during a minute of indecision, and decided
that his plan was a failure. He certainly could not open the safe
within range of a loaded revolver, and should he attack Paul, would not
only risk his life, but rouse the house, and fall into the hands of
the police, a class of men he made it his business to avoid. It was a
bitter pill to swallow, but he must submit.
“Will you promise not to shoot if I agree to leave the house?”
“Yes.”
“Will you promise not to start the burglar alarm, but allow me to
escape without interference?”
“Yes, if you will agree never to enter this house again.”
“All right!”
“You promise?”
“Yes, I do.”
“Then I’ll go. If you break your word, boy, you’ll wish you had never
been born,” he added, fiercely. “I’d hunt you night and day after I got
out of jail, and kill you like a dog.”
“You need not be afraid. I will keep my word.” There was something in
Paul’s tone and manner that inspired confidence.
“You ain’t a bad sort!” said the burglar, paying an involuntary tribute
to the boy’s staunch honesty. “You’re a cool kind of kid, any way. What
an honor you’d make to our profession!”
Paul could not help smiling.
“I suppose that’s a compliment,” he said. “Thank you. Now I must
trouble you to go.”
“I’m going! Remember your promise!”
In an instant the burglar was out of the window, through which he had
made his entrance, and disappeared from sight. Paul did not approach
the window, lest his doing so should excite alarm in the rogue. When a
sufficient time had elapsed he ran to the window, closed it, and once
more breathed freely. The danger was passed, and he began now to feel
the tension to which his nerves had been subjected.
“Has anything happened, Paul?” asked a voice. Turning, Paul saw Mrs.
Cunningham at the door. She had thrown a wrapper over her, and,
attracted by the sound of voices, had entered the library.
“Has any burglar been here?” she asked, nervously, observing Paul with
the revolver in his hand.
“Yes,” answered the telegraph boy; “I have just bidden the gentleman
good night.”
By this time Jennie, too, made her appearance. “What is it, mamma? What
is it, Paul?” she asked. “Why are you standing there with the revolver
in your hand?”
Paul told the story as briefly as the circumstances would admit.
“It was a mercy you were awake!” said Mrs. Cunningham. “Did you hear
the noise of the man’s entrance?”
“I don’t know how I happened to wake up,” said Paul. “I generally sleep
sound. But I opened my eyes, and immediately heard a noise in this
room.”
“But did you have time to dress?” asked Jennie.
“I did not need to do so, for I threw myself on the bed with my clothes
on.”
“And with your cap on?” inquired Jennie with an arch smile.
“No, but when I rose from the bed I put it on without thinking. I
don’t know whether I ought to have let the burglar get off free, but I
thought it the easiest way to avoid trouble.”
“You did right. I approve your conduct,” said Mrs. Cunningham. “You seem
to have acted with remarkable courage and discretion.”
“I am very glad if you are pleased, madam,” said Paul, gratified at
this cordial indorsement.
“Weren’t you awfully scared, Paul?” asked Jennie Cunningham.
“Well, I was a little scared, I admit,” answered Paul, with a smile,
“but I didn’t think it wise to show it before the burglar.”
“My hand would have trembled so that I couldn’t hold the pistol,”
declared the young lady.
“Of course; you are a girl, you know.”
“Don’t you think girls are brave, then?”
“They are not called upon to be brave in the same way.”
“A good answer,” said Mrs. Cunningham. “And now, Jennie, we had better
go back to bed. Will you not be afraid to sleep here the rest of the
night after this adventure?” she asked, turning to Paul.
“No, Mrs. Cunningham. The burglar won’t feel like coming back.”
“What’s that?” asked Jennie, pointing to some article on the floor.
“It is the burglar’s jimmy,” said Paul, stooping to pick it up. “He
left in such a hurry that he forgot to take it with him. I will carry
it into my room, and take care of it.”
Paul bade the two visitors good night and threw himself once more
on the bed. The remainder of the night passed quietly. The midnight
visitor did not reappear.
CHAPTER VI. PAUL MAKES A STRANGE DISCOVERY.
The next morning Mrs. Cunningham insisted on Paul’s taking breakfast
with her before he returned to the telegraph office. Though it was a
new experience to Paul sitting down at a luxuriously furnished table,
in a refined family, he was possessed of a natural good breeding, which
enabled him to appear to advantage.
He was flattered by the cordial manner in which Mrs. Cunningham and
her daughter treated him, and he was tempted to ask himself whether he
was the same boy that had lived for years in a squalid tenement house,
under the guardianship of a ragged and miserly old man. Being gifted
with a “healthy appetite,” Paul did not fail to appreciate the dainty
rolls, tender meat, and delicious coffee with which he was served.
“I can’t get such a breakfast as this at the ‘Jim Fisk’ restaurant,”
thought Paul. “Still, that is a good deal better than I could get at
home.”
“I am not sure whether I shall need you tonight, Paul,” said Mrs.
Cunningham, as they rose from the breakfast table. “It is not certain
whether Mr. Cunningham will be at home or be detained over another
night at Washington.”
“I shall be glad to come if you need me,” said Paul.
“I think I will have you come up, at any rate, about seven o’clock,”
said the lady. “I will write a line to the superintendent to that
effect.”
“Very well, ma’am.”
When Paul presented himself at the office he was the bearer of a note
to the superintendent.
That official showed some surprise as he read it.
“So you drove away a burglar, Number 91?” he said.
“I believe I frightened him away,” answered Paul.
“Humph! Was he a little fellow?”
“No, a large man.”
“And he was afraid of you?” continued the superintendent, surprised.
“He was afraid of my revolver,” amended Paul.
The superintendent asked more questions, being apparently interested in
the matter.
“The lady wishes you to go up again tonight,” he said.
“Yes, sir, so she told me, but it is not certain that I shall have to
stay all night.”
“Of course you are to go.”
As the telegraph office would receive a good round sum for Paul’s
services, the superintendent was very willing to send him up.
At noon Paul went home.
The tenement house seemed still more miserable and squalid, as he
clambered up the rickety staircase. He mentally contrasted it with the
elegant mansion in which he had spent the night, and it disgusted him
still more with the wretched surroundings of the place he called home.
He was about to open the door of old Jerry’s room, when he was arrested
by the sound of voices. Jerry’s, high pitched and quavering, was
familiar enough to him, but there seemed something familiar, also, in
the voice of the other, and yet he could not identify it with any of
Jerry’s acquaintances.
There was a round hole in the door, the origin of which was uncertain,
and Paul, knowing that he was at liberty to enter, did not think it
wrong to reconnoiter through it before doing so.
To his intense surprise, the face of the visitor, visible to him
through the opening, was that of the burglar whom he had confronted the
night before.
“What can he have to do with Jerry?” Paul asked himself, in
bewilderment.
Just then the man spoke.
“The fact is, father, I am hard pressed, and must have some money.”
Paul’s amazement increased. Was this burglar the son of old Jerry? He
remembered now having heard Jerry refer to a son who had left him many
years ago, and who had never since been heard of.
“I have no money, James,” whined the old man. “I am poor--very poor.”
“I’ve heard that talk before,” said the son, contemptuously; “and I
know what it means.”
“But I am poor,” repeated old Jerry, eagerly. “I don’t get enough to
eat. All I can afford is bread and water.”
“How much money have you got in the bank?” asked James.
“Wh--what makes you ask that?” asked the old man, in an agitated voice.
“Ha! I have hit the nail on the head,” said the visitor with an
unpleasant laugh.
“You see how poor I am,” said the old man. “Does this poor room look as
if I had money?”
“No, it doesn’t, but I know you of old, father. I suppose you are the
same old miser you used to be. I shouldn’t wonder if you could raise
thousands of dollars if you chose.”
“Hear him talk!” ejaculated the old man, raising his feeble arm in
despairing protest. “I--I haven’t got any money except a few cents
that Paul brought me yesterday.”
“And who is Paul?” asked the son, quickly.
“He is a boy I took years ago when he was very small. I--I took him out
of charity.”
“Very likely. That’s so like you,” sneered the son. “I warrant you have
got more out of him than he cost you.”
This was true enough, as Paul could testify. He was only six when he
came under the old man’s care, but even at that tender age he was
sent out on the street to sell papers and matches, and old Jerry
tried to induce him to beg; but that was something the boy had always
steadfastly refused to do.
He had an independent, self respecting spirit, which made him ashamed
to beg. He was always willing to work, and to work hard, and he
generally had an opportunity to do so. This will relieve Paul from the
charge of ingratitude, for he had always paid his own way, and really
owed Jerry nothing.
“He--he has cost me a great deal,” whined Jerry, “but I knew his
father, and I could not turn him out into the streets.”
“And how old is this boy now?” asked the son.
“I--I think he is about sixteen.”
“He ought to be able to earn something. What does he do?”
“He is a telegraph boy.”
“Ha!” exclaimed the burglar with a scowl, for the word provoked
disagreeable memories of the previous night. “I hate telegraph boys.”
“Paul is a good boy--a pretty good boy, but he eats a sight.”
The son indulged in a short laugh.
“How does he like your boarding house?” he asked.
“He doesn’t eat here; he goes to a restaurant. He spends piles of
money!” groaned the old man.
“Telegraph boys are not generally supposed to revel in riches,” said
the son in a sarcastic tone. “It’s so much out of your pocket, eh?”
“Yes,” groaned the old man. “If he would give me all his wages I should
be very comfortable.”
“But he wouldn’t. From what I know of your table, father, I think he
would starve to death in a month. I haven’t forgotten how you starved
me when I was a kid.”
“You look strong and well now,” said old Jerry.
“Yes, but no thanks to you! But to business! How much money have you
got?”
“Very little, James. I have eleven cents that Paul gave me yesterday.”
“Bah! You are deceiving me. Where is your bank book?”
“I have none. What makes you ask such questions?” demanded the old man,
querulously. “I wish you would go away.”
“That is a pretty way to treat a son you haven’t seen for twelve years.
Do you know what I am?”
“No.”
“Then I’ll tell you; for years I have been a burglar.”
Old Jerry looked frightened.
“You’re not in earnest, James?”
“Yes, I am. I ain’t proud of the business, but you drove me to it.”
“No, no,” protested the old man.
“You made me work hard, and half starved me when I was a boy, you gave
me no chance of education, and all to swell your paltry hoards. If I
have gone to the bad, you are responsible. But let that drop. I’ve been
unfortunate, and I want money.”
“I told you I had none, James.”
“And I don’t believe you. Hark you! I will come back tomorrow,” he
said, with a threatening gesture. “In the meanwhile, get fifty dollars
from the bank, and have it ready for me. Do you hear?”
“You must be mad, James!” said old Jerry, regarding his son with a look
of fear.
“I shall be, unless you have the money. I will go now, but I shall be
back tomorrow.”
Paul ran downstairs hastily, as he heard the man’s heavy step
approaching the door. He didn’t care to be recognized by his unpleasant
acquaintance of the night previous.
CHAPTER VII. PAUL RESOLVES TO MOVE.
After Jerry’s unwelcome visitor was well out of the way, Paul returned
to the room. He found old Jerry trembling and very much distressed. The
old man looked up with startled eyes when he opened the door.
“Oh, it’s you, Paul,” he said, in a tone of relief.
“Who did you think it was?” asked Paul, wishing to draw out the old man.
“I--I have had a visit from a bad man, who wanted to rob me.”
“Who was it?”
“I’ll tell you, Paul, but it’s a secret, mind. It was my son.”
“I didn’t know you had a son.”
“Nor I. I thought he might be dead, for I have not seen him for twenty
years. I am afraid he is very wicked.”
“How did he find you out?”
“I don’t know. He--he frightened me very much. He wanted me to give him
money--and I so miserably poor.”
Paul didn’t answer.
“You know how poor I am, Paul,” continued the old man appealingly.
“You always say so, Jerry.”
The old man did not appear to notice that Paul had ceased to call him
grandfather.
“And it’s true--of course it’s true. But he wants me to pay him fifty
dollars. He is coming back tomorrow.”
“But he can’t get it if you haven’t it to give.”
“I--I don’t know. He was always bad tempered--James was. I am afraid he
might beat me.”
“What! Beat his father!” exclaimed Paul, indignantly.
“He might,” said the old man. “He wasn’t a good boy like you. He always
gave me trouble.”
“Are you really afraid he will come, grand--Jerry?” asked Paul,
earnestly.
“Yes, he is sure to come--he said so.”
“Then I think we had better move to another place where he can’t find
us.”
“Yes--yes--let us go,” said the old man, hurriedly. “But, but,” he
added, with a sudden thought, “we have paid the rent here to the end of
the month. I can’t afford to lose that--I am so poor.”
“It will only be a dollar and a half; I will pay it,” said Paul.
“Then I think I shall go. When shall we leave, Paul?”
“This evening, Jerry, if I can get the time. I may have to stay up town
to guard a house where the gentleman is absent, but it isn’t certain.
If I do, I will be here early in the morning, before I go to work.”
This assurance seemed to abate the apprehensions of the old man, who,
it was evident, stood in great fear of his son. Paul was obliged to
take a hurried leave of him in order to have time for lunch before
returning to the office.
“Who would have dreamed,” he said to himself, “that the bold burglar
whom I encountered last night, was the son of old Jerry? One is as
timid as a mouse, the other seems like a daring criminal. I wonder why
Jerry never told me that he had a son.”
The discovery that Jerry had such a son made Paul still more unwilling
to own a relationship to him. It was bad enough to pass for the
grandson of a squalid miser, but it was worse to be thought the son or
nephew of a burglar.
The day passed quietly. Paul was not sent out much, on the supposition
that he might have to pass another night at the house of Mr. Cunningham.
About seven o’clock he rang the bell of the house in Fifty First Street.
The same servant admitted him. This time she received him with a smile,
knowing that he stood high with her mistress.
“Come right in,” she said. “The mistress will see you in the sitting
room.”
“Have you had any more visits from burglars?” asked Paul.
“No; may be they’re waiting till night.”
“Has Mr. Cunningham got back?”
“No, but he’s expected at eight.”
Paul was glad to hear this, for he preferred not to remain over night,
as he knew that old Jerry would need him.
When Paul entered the sitting room Mrs. Cunningham received him
cordially.
“I suppose you have not seen the burglar since,” said Mrs. Cunningham,
innocently.
She little dreamed what a discovery he had made, and he did not think
it wise to enlighten her.
“He has not called upon me,” answered Paul, with justifiable evasion.
“I don’t think I want to meet him again.”
“I hope he will never present himself here,” said the lady.
“He made me a promise that he would not,” said Paul.
“I suppose he wouldn’t mind breaking it.”
