saw that little lord toddling off with her, and trying 
to look as large as life. He asked her what a lord 
was like, anyway, and he made her laugh all the time. 
 
He told her his name, G. W. Hinkle, and asked 
whether she would be likely to remember it if they 
ever met again. 
Another man who interested her very much was a 
young Russian, with curling hair and neat, small feat 
ures who spoke better English than she did, and said 
he was going to be a writer, but had not yet decided 
whether to write in Russian or French ; she sup 
posed he had wanted her advice, but he did not wait 
for it, or seem to expect it. He was very much 
in earnest, while he fanned her, and his earnestness 
amused her as much as the American 's irony. He 
asked which city of America she came from, and 
when she said none, he asked which part of America. 
She answered New England, and he said, " Oh, yes, 
that is where they have the conscience." She did not 
know what he meant, and he put before her the ideal 
of New England girlhood which he had evolved from 
reading American novels. " Are you like that ? " he 
demanded. 
She laughed, and said, " Not a bit," and asked him 
if he had ever met such an American girl, and he said, 
frankly, No ; the American girls were all mercenary, 
and cared for nothing but money, or marrying titles. 
He added that he had a title, but he would not wear it. 
Clementina said she did not believe she cared for 
titles, and then he said, " But you care for money." 
She denied it, but as if she had confessed it, he went 
on : " The only American that I have seen with that 
conscience was a man. I will tell you of him, if you 
wish." 
 
He did not wait for her answer. " It was in Naples 
at Pompeii. I saw at the first glance that he was 
different from other Americans, and I resolved to 
know him. He was there in company with a stupid 
boy, whose tutor he was ; and he told me that he was 
studying to be a minister of the Protestant church. 
Next year he will go home to be consecrated. He 
promised to pass through Florence in the spring, and 
he will keep his word. Every act, every word, every 
thought of his is regulated by conscience. It is ter 
rible, but it is beautiful." All the time, the Russian 
was fanning Clementina, with every outward appear 
ance of flirtation. " Will you dance again ? No ? I 
should like to draw such a character as his in a ro- 
XXII. 
IT was six o clock in the morning before Miss Mil- 
ray sent Clementina home in her carriage. She would 
have kept her to breakfast, but Clementina said she 
ought to go on Mrs. Lander 's account, and she wished 
to go on her own. 
She thought she would steal to bed without waking 
her, but she was stopped by the sound of groans 
when she entered their apartment ; the light gushed 
from Mrs. Lander 's door. Maddalena came out, and 
blessed the name of her Latin deity (so much more 
familiar and approachable than the Anglo-Saxon di 
vinity) that Clementina had come at last, and poured 
upon her the story of a night of suffering for Mrs. 
Lander. Through her story came the sound of Mrs. 
Lander 's voice plaintively reproachful, summoning 
Clementina to her bedside. " Oh, how could you go 
away and leave me ? I 've  been in such misery the 
whole night long, and the docta didn 't do a thing for 
me. I 'm puffectly wolin out, and I couldn 't make 
my wants known with that Italian crazy-head. If it 
hadn 't been for the portyary comin in and interpret- 
in , when the docta left, I don 't know what I should 
 
have done. I want you should give him a twenty- 
leary note just as quick as you see him ; and oh, isn 't 
the docta comin ? " 
Clementina set about helping Maddalena put the 
room, which was in an impassioned disorder, to 
rights ; and she made Mrs. Lander a cup of her own 
tea, which she had brought from S. S. Pierce 's in 
passing through Boston ; it was the first thing, the 
sufferer said, that had saved her life. Clementina 
comforted her, and promised her that the doctor 
should be there very soon ; and before Mrs. Lander 
fell away to sleep, she was so far out of danger as to 
be able to ask how Clementina had enjoyed herself, 
and to be glad that she had such a good time. 
The doctor would not wake her when he came; he 
said that she had been through a pretty sharp gastric 
attack, which would not recur, if she ate less of the 
most unwholesome things she could get, and went 
more into the air, and walked a little. He did not 
seem alarmed, and he made Clementina tell him about 
the dance, which he had been called from to Mrs. 
Lander 's bed of pain. He joked her for not having 
missed him ; in the midst of their fun, she caught her 
self in the act of yawning, and the doctor laughed, 
and went away. 
Maddalena had to call her, just before dinner, when 
Mrs. Lander had been awake long enough to have sent 
for the doctor to explain the sort of gone feeling 
which she was now the victim of. It proved, when 
he came, to be hunger, and he prescribed tea and 
toast and a small bit of steak. Before he came she 
 
had wished to arrange for going home at once, and 
dying in her own country. But his opinion so far 
prevailed with her that she consented not to telegraph 
for berths. " I presume," she said, " it 'll do, any 
time before the icebugs begin to run. But I'd know, 
afta this, Clementina, as I can let you leave me quite 
as you be n doin . There was a lot of flowas come for 
you, this aftanoon, but I made Maddaleua put em on 
the balcony, for I don 't want you should get poisoned 
with em in your sleep; I always hea'd they was dan 
gerous in a person 's bed room. I'd know as they 
are, eitha." 
Maddalena seemed to know that Mrs. Lander was 
speaking of the flowers. She got them and gave them 
to Clementina, who found they were from some of 
the men she had danced with. Mr. Hinkle had sent 
a vast bunch of violets, which presently began to give 
out their sweetness in the warmth of the room, and 
the odor brought him before her with his yellow hair, 
scrupulously parted at the side, and smoothly brush 
ed, showing his forehead very high up. Most of the 
gentlemen wore their hair parted in the middle, or 
falling in a fringe over their brows ; the Russian 's was 
too curly to part, and Lord Lioncourt had none ex 
cept at the sides. 
She laughed, and Mrs. Lander said, " Tell about it, 
Clementina," and she began with Mr. Hinkle, and 
kept coming back to him from the others. Mrs. Lan 
der wished most to know how that lord had got down 
to Florence; and Clementina told her that he had 
said he was coming to see her. 
" "Well, I hope to goodness he won 't come to-day, 
ain 't fit to see anybody." 
" Oh, I guess he won 't come till to-morrow," said 
Clementina; she repeated some of the compliments 
she had got, and she told of all Miss Milray 's kind 
ness to her, but Mrs. Lander said, " Well, the next 
time, I 'll thank her not to keep you so late." She 
was astonished to hear that Mr. Ewins was there, and 
" Any of the nasty things out of the hotel the e ? " 
she asked. 
" Yes," Clementina said, " the e we e, and some of 
them we e very nice. They wanted to know if I 
wouldn 't join them, and have an aftanoon of our own 
here in the hotel, so that people could come to us all 
at once." 
She went back to the party, and described the rest 
of it. When she came to the part about the Russian, 
she told what he had said of American girls being 
fond of money, and wanting to marry foreign noble 
men. 
Mrs. Lander said, " Well, I hope you ain 't a going 
to get married in a hurry, anyway, and when you do 
I hope you 'll pick out a nice American." 
" Oh, yes," said Clementina. 
Mrs. Lander had their dinner brought to their 
apartment. She cheered up, and she was in some 
danger of eating too much, but with Clementina 's 
help she denied herself. Their short evening was one 
of the gayest ; Clementina declared she was not the 
least sleepy, but she went to bed at nine, and slept 
till nine the next day. 
 
Mrs. Lander, the doctor confessed, the second 
morning, was more shaken up by her little attack 
than he had expected ; but she decided to see the gen 
tleman who had asked to call on Clementina. Lord 
Lioncourt did not come quite so soon as she was 
afraid he might, and when he came he talked mostly 
to Clementina. He did not get to Mrs. Lander until 
just before he was going. She hospitably asked him 
what his hurry was, and then he said that he was off 
for Rome, that evening at seven. He was nice about 
hoping she was comfortable in the hotel, and he sym 
pathized with her in her wish that there was a set- 
bowl in her room ; she told him that she always tried 
to have one, and he agreed that it must be very con 
venient where any one was, as she said, sick so much. 
Mr. Hinkle came a day later ; and then it appeared 
that he had a mother whose complaints almost exactly 
matched Mrs. Lander s. He had her photograph with 
him, and showed it ; he said if you had no wife to 
carry round a photograph of, you had better carry 
your mother 's ; and Mrs. Lander praised him for being 
a good son. A good son, she added, always made a 
good husband ; and he said that was just what he told 
the young ladies himself, but it did not seem to make 
much impression on them. He kept Clementina 
laughing; and he pretended that he was going to 
bring a diagram of his patent right for her to see, 
because she would be interested in a gleaner like 
that ; and he said he wished her father could see it, 
for it would be sure to interest the kind of man Mrs. 
Lander described him to be. " I 'll be along up there 
 
just about the time you get home, Miss Clementina. 
When did you say it would be ? " 
" I don 't know ; pretty ea ly in the spring, I 
guess." 
She looked at Mrs. Lander, who said, " Well, it 
depends upon how I git up my health. I couldn 't 
bea the voyage now." 
Mr. Hinkle said, " No, best look out for your 
health, if it takes all summer. I shouldn 't want you 
to hurry on my account. Your time is my time. All 
I want is for Miss Clementina, here, to personally 
conduct me to her father. If I could get him to 
take hold of my gleaner in New England, we could 
make the blueberry crop worth twice what it is." 
Mrs. Lander perceived that he was joking ; and 
she asked what he wanted to run away for when the 
young Russian 's card came up. He said, " Oh, give 
every man a chance," and he promised that he would 
look in every few days, and see how she was getting 
along. He opened the door after he had gone out, 
and put his head in to say in confidence to Mrs. Lan 
der, but so loud that Clementina could hear, " I sup 
pose she 's told you who the belle of the ball was, the 
other night ? Went out to supper with a lord ! " 
He seemed to think a lord was such a good joke that 
if you mentioned one you had to laugh. 
The Russian 's card bore the name Baron Belsky, 
with the baron crossed out in pencil, and he began to 
attack in Mrs. Lander the demerits of the American 
character, as he had divined them. He instructed 
her that her countrymen existed chiefly to make 
 
money ; that they were more shopkeepers than the 
English and worse snobs ; that their women were triv 
ial and their men sordid ; that their ambition was to 
unite their families with the European aristocracies ; 
and their doctrine of liberty and equality was a shame 
less hypocrisy. This followed hard upon her asking, 
as she did very promptly, why he had scratched out 
the title on his card. He told her that he wished 
to be known solely as an artist, and he had to explain 
to her that he was not a painter, but was going to be 
a novelist. She taxed him with never having been 
in America, but he contended that as all America came 
to Europe he had the materials for a study of the 
national character at hand, without the trouble of 
crossing the ocean. In return she told him that she 
had not been the least sea-sick during the voyage, and 
that it was no trouble at all ; then he abruptly left her 
and went over to beg a cup of tea from Clementina, 
who sat behind the kettle by the window. 
" I have heard this morning from that American I 
met in Pompeii " he began. " He is coming north 
ward, and I am going down to meet him in Rome." 
Mrs. Lander caught the word, and called across the 
room, " Why, ain 't that whe e that lo'd 's gone ? " 
Clementina said yes, and while the kettle boiled, 
she asked if Baron Belsky were going soon. 
"Oh, in a week or ten days, perhaps. I shall know 
when he arrives. Then I shall go. We write to 
each other every day." He drew a letter from his 
breast pocket. " This will give you the idea of his 
character," and he read, " If we believe that the hand 
 
of God directs all our actions, how can we set up our 
theories of conduct against what we feel to be his 
inspiration ? " 
" What do you think of that ? " he demanded. 
"I don 't believe that God directs our wrong 
actions," said Clementina. 
" How ! Is there anything outside of God ? " 
" I don 't know whether there is or not. But there 
is something that tempts me to do wrong, sometimes, 
and I don 't believe that is God.  
The Russian seemed struck. " I will write that to 
him ! " 
" No," said Clementina, " I don 't want you to say 
anything about me to him." 
" No, no ! " said Baron Belsky, waving his hand 
reassuringly. " I would not mention your name ! " 
Mr. Ewins came in, and the Russian said he must 
go. Mrs. Lander tried to detain him, too, as she had 
tried to keep Mr. Hinkle, but he was inexorable. Mr. 
Ewins looked at the door when it had closed upon 
him. Mrs. Lander said, " That is one of the gentle 
men that Clementina met the otha night at the dance. 
He is a baron, but he scratches it out. You'd ought 
to hea'd him go on about Americans." 
" Yes," said Mr. Ewins coldly. " He 's at our hotel, 
and he airs his peculiar opinions at the table'd hote 
pretty freely. He 's a revolutionist of some kind, I 
fancy." He pronounced the epithet with an abhor 
rence befitting the citizen of a state born of revolution 
and a city that had cradled the revolt. " lie 's a Ni 
hilist, I believe." 
 
Mrs. Lander wished to know what that was, and he 
explained that it was a Russian who wanted to over 
throw the Czar, and set np a government of the people, 
when they were not prepared for liberty. 
" Then, maybe he isn 't a baron at all," said Mrs. 
Lander. 
" Oh, I believe he has a right to his title," Ewins 
answered. " It 's a German one." 
He said he thought that sort of man was all the 
more mischievous on account of his sincerity. He 
instanced a Russian whom a friend of his knew in 
Berlin, a man of rank like this fellow : he got to 
brooding upon the condition of working people and 
that kind of thing, till he renounced his title and for 
tune and went to work in an iron foundry. 
Mr. Ewins also spoke critically of Mrs. Milray. He 
had met her in Egypt ; but you soon exhausted the 
interest of that kind of woman. He professed a great 
concern that Clementina should see Florence in just 
the right way, and he offered his services in showing 
her the place. 
The Russian came the next day, and almost daily 
after that, in the interest with which Clementina 's 
novel difference from other American girls seemed to 
inspire him. His imagination had transmuted her 
simple Yankee facts into something appreciable to a 
Slav of his temperament. He conceived of her as the 
daughter of a peasant, whose beauty had charmed the 
widow of a rich citizen, and who was to inherit the 
wealth of her adoptive mother. He imagined that 
the adoption had taken place at a much earlier period 
 
than the time when Clementina 's visit to Mrs. Lander 
actually began, and that all which could be done had 
been done to efface her real character by indulgence 
and luxury. 
His curiosity concerning her childhood, her home, 
her father and mother, her brothers and sisters, and 
his misunderstanding of everything she told him, 
amused her. But she liked him, and she tried to 
give him some notion of the things he wished so much 
to know. It always ended in a dissatisfaction, more 
or less vehement, with the outcome of American con 
ditions as he conceived them. 
" But you," he urged one day, " you who are a 
daughter of the fields and woods, why should you for 
sake that pure life, and come to waste yourself here ? " 
" Why, don 't you think it 's very nice in Florence ? " 
she asked, with eyes of innocent interest. 
" Nice ! Nice ! Do we live for what is nice ? Is 
it enough that you have what you Americans^ lall a 
nice time ?" 
Clementina reflected. " I wasn 't doing much of 
anything at home, and I thought I might as well come 
with Mrs. Lander, if she wanted me so much." She 
thought in a certain way, that he was meddling with 
what was not his affair, but she believed that he was 
sincere in his zeal for the ideal life he wished her to 
lead, and there were some things she had heard about 
him that made her pity and respect him ; his self-exile 
and his renunciation of home and country for his prin 
ciples, whatever they were; she did not understand 
exactly. She would not have liked never being able 
 
to go back to Middlcmount, or to be cut off from all 
her friends as this poor young Nihilist was, and she 
said, now, " I didn 't expect that it was going to be 
anything but a visit, and I always supposed we should 
go back in the spring ; but now Mrs. Lander is be 
ginning to think she won 't be well enough till fall." 
"And why need you stay with her?" 
" Because she 's not very well," answered Clemen 
tina, and she smiled, a little triumphantly as well as 
tolerantly. 
" She could hire nurses and doctors, all she wants 
with her money." 
" I don 't believe it would be the same thing, exactly, 
and what should I do if I went back ? " 
"Do? Teach! Uplift the lives about you." 
" But you say it is better for people to live simply, 
and not read and think so much." 
" Then labor in the fields with them." 
Clementina laughed outright. " I guess if anyone 
saw r-&gt;e wo king in the fields they would think I was 
a disgrace to the neighbahood." 
Belsky gave her a stupified glare through his spec 
tacles. " I cannot undertand you Americans." 
" Well, you must come over to America, then, Mr. 
Belsky " he had asked her not to call him by his 
title " and then you would." 
" No, I could not endure the disappointment. You 
have the great opportunity of the earth. You could 
be equal and just, and simple and kind. There is 
nothing to hinder you. But all you try to do is to 
get more and more money." 
 
" Now, that isn 't faia, Mr. Belsky, and you know 
it." 
" Well, then, you joke, joke always joke. Like 
that Mr. Hinkle. He wants to make money with his 
patent of a gleaner, that will take the last grain of 
wheat from the poor, and he wants to joke joke ! 
Clementina said, " I won 't let you say that about 
