dear !" his hostess tenderly ejaculated. '' What does she 
think or dream ? Truly she's laying up treasure !" 
'' Oh, he likes her," said Mitchy.  '' He likes her in 
fact extremely." 
 '' Do you mean he has told you so ?" 
" Oh no — we never mention it ! But he likes her," 
Mr. Mitchett stubbornly repeated. '  And he's thorough- 
ly straight." 
Mrs. Brookenham, for a moment, turned these things 
over ; after which she came out in a manner that visibly 
surprised him.  ' It isn't as if you wished to be nasty 
 
about him, is it ? — because I know yon like him yourself. 
You're so wonderful to your friends '  — oh, she could let 
him see that she knew ! —  ' and in such different and ex- 
quisite ways. There are those, like Mm" — she signified 
her other visitor — 'Svho get everything out of you and 
whom you really appear to like, or at least to put up 
with, just for that. Then there are those who ask noth- 
ing — and whom you like in spite of it.'' 
Mitchy leaned back, at this, fist within fist, watching 
her with a certain disguised emotion. He grinned almost 
too much for mere amusement.  '' That's the class to 
which yoit belong." 
 '' It's the best one," she returned, '  and I'm careful 
to remain in it. You try to get us, by bribery, into the 
inferior place, because, proud as you are, it bores you a 
little that you like us so much. But we won't go — at 
least  I  won't. You may make Van," she w onderfully 
continued. " There's nothing you wouldn't do for him 
or give him." Mitchy admired her from his position, 
slowly shaking his head with it. " He's the man — with 
no fortune, and just as he is, to the smallest particular — 
whom you would have liked to be, whom you intensely 
envy, and yet to whom you're magnanimous enough to 
be ready for almost any sacrifice." 
Mitchy's appreciation had fairly deepened to a flush. 
 '' Magnificent — magnificent Mrs. Brook ! What are you, 
in thunder, up to ?" 
 ' Therefore, as I say," she imperturbably went on, 
'' it's not to do him an ill turn that you maintain what 
you've just told me." 
Mr. Mitchett, for a minute, gave no sign but his high 
color and his queer glare. " How could it do him an ill 
turn ?" 
' Oh, it would be a way, don't you see ? to put before 
me the need of getting rid of him. For he may Mike' 
Nanda as much as you please : he'll never, never," Mrs. 
  
Brookenham resolutely quayerecl — " he'll never come to 
the scratch. And to feel that as  I  do' she explained, 
" can only be, don't you also see ? to want to save her." 
It would have appeared at last that poor Mitchy did see. 
"By taking it in time ? By forbidding him the house ?" 
She seemed to stand with little nipping scissors in a 
garden of alternatives. "Or by shipping her off. Will 
you help me to save her ?" she broke out again after a 
moment. "It isn't true," she continued, "that she has 
any aversion to you." 
" Have you charged her with it ?" Mitchy demanded 
with a courage that amounted to high gallantry. 
It inspired, on the spot, his interlocutress ; and her own, 
of as fine a quality now as her diplomacy, which was say- 
ing much, fell but little below. " Yes, my dear friend — 
frankly." 
" Good. Then I know what she said." 
" She absolutely denied it." 
"Oh yes — they always do, because they pity me," 
Mitchy smiled. "She said what they always say — that 
the effect I produce is, though at first upsetting, one 
that, little by little, they find it possible to get used to. 
The world's full of people who are getting used to me," 
Mr. Mitchett concluded. 
"It's what  I  shall never do, for you're quite too 
delicious !" Mrs. Brookenham declared. " If I haven't 
threshed you out really more with Nanda," she continued, 
"it has been from a scruple of a sort you people never 
do a woman the justice to impute. You're the object of 
views that have so much more to set them off." 
Mr. Mitchett, on this, jumped up ; he was clearly con- 
scious of his nerves ; he fidgeted away a few steps, then, 
with his hands in his pockets, fixed on his hostess a coun- 
tenance more controlled. " What does the Duchess mean 
by your daughter's being — as I understood you to quote 
her just now — ' damaged and depraved ' ?" 
 
Mrs. Brookenham came up— she literally rose — smil- 
ing.  '' You fit the cap. You know how she would like 
you for little Aggie V 
  What does she mean, what does she mean ?" Mitchy 
repeated. 
The door, as he spoke, was thrown open ; Mrs. Brook- 
enham glanced round. ' You've the chance to find out 
from herself !" The Duchess had come back and little 
Aggie was in her wake. 
VIII 
That young lady, in this relation, was certainly a figure 
to have offered a foundation for the highest hopes. As 
slight and white, as delicately lovely, as a gathered gar- 
den lily, her admirable training appeared to hold her out 
to them all as with precautionary finger-tips. She pre- 
sumed, however, so little on any introduction that, shyly 
and submissively, waiting for the word of direction, she 
stopped short in the centre of the general friendliness till 
Mrs. Brookenham fairly became, to meet her, also a shy 
little girl — put out a timid hand with wonder-struck, 
innocent eyes that hesitated whether a kiss of greeting 
might be dared. '  Why, you dear, good, strange  ' ickle ' 
thing, you haven't been here for ages, but it is a joy to 
see you, and I do hope you've brought your doll !" — such 
might have been the sense of our friend's fond mur- 
mur while, looking at her up and down with pure pleas- 
ure, she drew the rare creature to a sofa. Little Aggie 
presented, up and down, an arrangement of dress exactly 
in the key of her age, her complexion, her emphasized 
virginity. She might have been prepared for her visit 
by a cluster of doting nuns, cloistered daughters of an- 
cient houses and educators of similar products, whose 
taste, hereditarily good, had grown, out of the world and 
  
most delightfully, so queer as to leave on everything they 
touched a particular shade of distinction. The Duchess 
had brought in with the child an air of added confidence 
for which, in a moment, an observer would have seen the 
grounds, the association of the pair being so markedly 
favorable to each. Its younger member carried out the 
style of her aunVs presence quite as one of the accessory 
figures effectively thrown into old portraits. The Duch- 
ess, on the other hand, seemed, with becoming blandness, 
to draw from her niece the dignity of a kind of office of 
state — hereditary governess of the children of the blood. 
Little Aggie had. a smile as softly bright as a southern 
dawn, and the friends of her relative looked at each other, 
according to a fashion frequent in Mrs. Brookenham's 
drawing-room, in free communication of their happy 
impression. Mr. Mitchett was, none the less, scantly 
diverted from his recognition of the occasion Mrs. Brook- 
enham had just named to him. 
"My dear Duchess," he promptly asked, "do you 
mind explaining to me an opinion that I have just heard 
of your — with marked originality — holding ?" 
The Duchess, with her head in the air, considered an 
instant her little ivory princess. "I'm always ready, 
Mr. Mitchett, to defend my opinions ; but if it's a ques- 
tion of going much into the things that are the subjects 
of some of them, perhaps we had better, if you don t 
mind, choose our time and our place." 
"No 'time,' gracious lady, for my impatience," Mr. 
Mitchett replied, "could be better than the present— but 
if you've reasons for wanting a better place, why shouldn't 
we go, on the spot, into another room ?" 
Lord Petherton, at this inquiry, broke into instant 
mirth. "Well, of all the coolness, Mitchy! — he does go 
at it, doesn't he, Mrs. Brook ? What do you want to do 
in another room ?" he demanded of his friend. "Upon 
my word, Duchess, under the nose of those — !" 
 
The Duchess, on the first blush, lent herself to the hu- 
mor of the case.  ' Well, Petherton, of 'those'? — I defy 
him to finish his sentence V she smiled to the others. 
" Of those," said his lordship, "who flatter themselves 
that when you do happen to find them somewhere your 
first idea is not quite to jump at a pretext for getting off 
somewhere else. Especially," he continued to jest, ''with 
a man of Mitchy's vile reputation." 
" Oh !" Edward Brookenham exclaimed at this, but 
only as if with quiet relief. 
" Mitchy's offer is perfectly safe, I may let him know," 
his wife remarked, "for I happen to be sure that noth- 
ing would really induce Jane to leave Aggie five minutes 
among us here without remaining herself to see that we 
don't become improper." 
" Well then, if we're already pretty far on the way to 
it," Lord Petherton resumed, " what on earth might we 
arrive at in the absence of your control ? I warn you. 
Duchess," he joyously pursued, "that if you go out of 
the room with Mitchy I shall rapidly become quite 
awful." 
The Duchess, during this brief passage, never took her 
eyes from her niece, who rewarded her attention with 
the sweetness of consenting dependence. The child's 
foreign origin was so delicately but unmistakably written 
in all her exquisite lines that her look might have ex- 
pressed the modest detachment of a person to whom the 
language of her companions was unknown. The Duch- 
ess then glanced round the circle. "You're very odd 
people, all of you, and I don't think you quite know how 
ridiculous you are. Aggie and I are simple stranger-folk ; 
there's a great deal we don't understand ; yet we're none 
the less not easily frightened. In what is it, Mr. Mitch- 
ett," she asked, "that I've wounded your susceptibili- 
ties ?" 
Mr. Mitchett hesitated ; he had apparently found time 
  
to reflect on his precipitation.  'I see what Petherton's 
np to, and I won t, by drawing you aside just now, ex- 
pose your niece to anything that might immediately 
oblige Mrs. Brook to catch her up and flee with her. 
But the first time I find you more isolated — well," he 
laughed, though not with the clearest ring, "all I can 
say is, mind your eyes, dear Duchess V 
"It's about your thinking, Jane," Mrs. Brookenham 
placidly explained, "that Nanda suffers — in her morals, 
don't you know ? — by my neglect. I wouldn't say any- 
thing about you that I can't bravely say to you ; there- 
fore, since he has plumped out Avith it, I do confess that 
I've appealed to him on what, as so good an old friend, 
he thinks of your contention." 
"What in the world is Jane's contention ?" Edward 
Brookenham put the question as if they were "stuck" 
at cards. 
"You really, all of you," the Duchess replied with ex- 
cellent coolness, "choose extraordinary conditions for 
the discussion of delicate matters. There are decidedly 
too many things on which we don't feel alike. You're 
all inconceivable just now. Je ne peux pourtant pas la 
mettre d la porte, cette cherie " — whom she covered again 
with the gay solicitude that seemed to have in it a vibra- 
tion of private entreaty : " Don't understand, my own 
darling — don't understand !" 
Little Aggie looked around with an impartial polite- 
ness that, as an expression of the general blind sense of 
her being, in every particular, in hands at full liberty 
either to spot or to spare her, was touching enough to 
bring tears to all eyes. It perhaps had to do with the 
sudden emotion with which — using now quite a different 
manner — Mrs. Brookenham again embraced her, and 
even with this lady's equally abrupt and altogether won- 
derful address to her : " Between you and me straight, 
my dear, and as from friend to friend, I know that you'll 
   
never doubt that everything must be all right ! — AVhat I 
spoke of to poor Mitchy," she went on to the Duchess, 
''is the drdadful view you take of my letting Nanda go 
to Tishy — and indeed of the general question of any ac- 
quaintance between young unmarried and young married 
females. Mr. Mitchett is sufficiently interested in us, 
Jane, to make it natural of me to take him into our confi- 
dence in one of our difficulties. On the other hand we 
feel your solicitude, and I needn t tell you, at this time 
of day, what weight, in every respect, we attach to your 
judgment. Therefore it ivill be a difficulty for us, carania, don't you see ? if we decide suddenly, under the 
spell of your influence, that our daughter must break off 
a friendship — it tuill be a difficulty for us to put the thing 
to Nanda herself in such a way as that she shall have 
some sort of notion of what suddenly possesses us. 
Then there'll be the much stiffer job of putting it to 
poor Tishy. Yet if her house is an impossible place, 
what else is one to do ? Carrie Donner's to be there, 
and Carrie Donner's a nature apart ; but how can we ask 
even a little lamb like Tishy to give up her own sister ?'' 
The question had been launched with an argumenta- 
tive sharpness that made it for a moment keep possession 
of the air, and during this moment, before a single mem- 
ber of the circle could rally, Mrs. Brookenham's effect 
was superseded by that of the reappearance of the butler. 
'' I say, my dear, don't shriek !" — Edward Brookenham 
had only time to sound this warning before a lady, pre- 
senting herself in the open doorway, followed close on 
the announcement of her name. ''Mrs. Beach Donner !" 
— the impression was naturally marked. Every one be- 
trayed it a little but Mrs. Brookenham, who, more than 
the others, appeared to have the help of seeing that, by 
a merciful stroke, her visitor has just failed to hear. 
This visitor, a young woman of striking, of startling ap- 
pearance, who, in the manner of certain shiny house 
  
doors and railings, instantly created a presumption of 
the lurking label  '' Fresh paint' found herself, with an 
embarrassment oddly opposed to the positive pitch of her 
complexion, in the presence of a group in which it was 
yet immediately evident that every one was a friend. 
Every one, to show no one had been caught, said some- 
thing extremely easy; so that it was after a moment 
only poor Mrs. Donner who, seated close to her hostess, 
seemed to be in any degree in the wrong. This, more- 
over, was essentially her fault, so extreme was the anom- 
aly of her having, without the means to back it up, 
committed herself to a " scheme of color " that was prac- 
tically an advertisement of courage. Irregularly pretty 
and painfully shy, she was retouched, from brow to chin, 
like a suburban photograph — the moral of which was 
simply that she should either have left more to nature or 
taken more from art. The Duchess had quickly reached 
her kinsman with a smothered hiss, an '' Edward dear, 
for God's sake take Aggie !" and at the end of a few min- 
utes had formed for herself in one of Mrs. Brookenham's 
admirable '  corners " a society consisting of Lord Peth- 
erton and Mr. Mitchett, the latter of whom regarded 
Mrs. Donner, across the room, with articulate wonder 
and compassion. 
" It's all right, it's all right — she's frightened only at 
herself !" 
The Duchess watched her as from a box at the play, 
comfortably shut in, as in the old operatic days at Na- 
ples, with a pair of entertainers. '  You're the most inter- 
esting nation in the world. One never gets to the end 
of your hatred of the mcance. The sense of the suitable, 
the harmony of parts — what on earth were you doomed 
to do that, to be punished sufficiently in advance, you 
had to be deprived of it in your very cradles ? Look at 
her little black dress — rather good, but not so good as it 
ought to be, and, mixed up with all the rest, see her type, 
 
her beauty, her timidity, her wickedness, her notoriety 
and her impudeur. It's only in this country that a 
woman is both so shocking and so shaky.'' The Duch- 
ess's displeasure overflowed. " If she doesn't know how 
to be good — " 
" Let her at least know how to be bad ? Ah," Mitchy 
replied, " your irritation testifies more than anything else 
could do to our peculiar genius, or our peculiar want of 
it. Our vice is intolerably clumsy — if it can possibly be 
a question of vice in regard to that charming child, who 
looks like one of the new-fashioned bill-posters, only, in 
the Avay of ' morbid modernity,' as Mrs. Brook would say, 
more extravagant and funny than any that have yet been 
risked. I remember," he continued, " Mrs. Brook's hav- 
ing spoken of her to me lately as  '  wild.' Wild ? — why, 
she's simply tameness run to seed. Such an expression 
shows the state of training to which Mrs. Brook has re- 
duced the rest of us." 
'  It doesn't prevent, at any rate, Mrs. Brook's train- 
ing, some of the rest of you being horrible," the Duchess 
declared.  '' What did you mean just now, really, by ask- 
ing me to explain before Aggie this so serious matter of 
Nanda's exposure ?" Then instantly, taking herself up 
before Mr. Mitchett could answer:  ''What on earth do 
you suppose Edward's saying to my darling ?" 
Brookenham had placed himself, side by side with the 
child, on a distant little settee, but it was impossible to 
make out from the countenance of either whether a 
sound had passed between them. Aggie's little manner 
was too developed to show, and her host's not developed 
enough. ' Oh, he's awfully careful," Lord Petherton 
reassuringly observed. "If you or I or Mitchy say any- 
thing bad, it's sure to be before we know it and without 
particularly meaning it. But old Edward means it — !" 
" So much that, as a general thing, he doesn't dare to 
say it ?" the Duchess asked. ' That's a pretty picture of. 
  
him, inasmuch as, for the most part, he never speaks. 
What, therefore, must he mean ?" 
' He's an abyss — he's magnificent!" Mr. Mitchett 
langhed. "I don 't know a man of an understanding 
more profound, and he's equally incapable of uttering and 
of wincing. If, by the same token, Tm ' horrible,' as you 
call me," he pursued,  ''it's only because, in every way, 
I'm so beastly superficial. All the same, I do sometimes 
go into things, and I insist upon knowing," he again 
broke out,  ''what it exactly was you had in mind in say- 
ing to Mrs. Brook, about Nanda, what she repeated to 
me." 
"You 'insist,' you silly man?" — the Duchess had 
veered a little to indulgence. " Pray, on what ground 
of right, in such a connection, do you do anything of the 
sort ?" 
Poor Mitchy showed but for a moment that he felt 
pulled up. "Do you mean that when a girl liked by a 
fellow likes him so little in return — ?" 
" I don't mean anything," said the Duchess, " that may 
provoke you to suppose me vulgar and odious enough to 
try to put you out of conceit of a most interesting and 
unfortunate creature ; and I don't quite, as yet, see — 
though I dare say I shall soon make it out ! — what our 
friend has in her head in tattling to you on these matters 
as soon as my back is turned. Petherton will tell you — 
I wonder he hasn't told you before — why Mrs. Grendon, 
though not perhaps herself quite the rose, is decidedly, 
in these days, too near it." 
" Oh, Petherton never tells me anything !" Mitchj 's 
answer was brisk and impatient, but evidently quite as 
sincere as if the person alluded to had not been there. 
The person alluded to, meanwhile, fidgeting frankly in 
his chair, alternately stretching his legs and resting his 
elbows on his knees, had reckoned as small the profit he 
might derive from this colloquy. His bored state indeed 
— if he was bored — prompted in him the honest impulse 
to clear, as he would have perhaps considered it, the at- 
mosphere. He indicated Mrs. Donner with a remarkable 
absence of precautions. ''Why, what the Duchess al- 
ludes to is my poor sister Fanny's stupid grievance — sure- 
ly you know about that." He made oddly vivid for a 
moment the nature of his relative's allegation, his some- 
what cynical treatment of which became peculiarly de- 
risive in the light of the attitude and expression, at that 
minute, of the figure incriminated. "My brother-in- 
law's too thick with her. But Cashmore's such a fine 
old ass. It's excessively unpleasant,'  he added, ''for 
affairs are just in that position in which, from one day to 
another, there may be something that people will get 
hold of. Fancy a man," he robustly reflected while the 
three took in more completely the subject of Mrs. Brook- 
enham's attention — "fancy a man with that sort of job 
on his hands ! The beauty of it is that the two women 
seem never to have broken off. Blest if they don't still 
keep seeing each other !" 
The Duchess, as on everything else, passed succinctly 
on this. "Ah, how can hatreds comfortably flourish 
without the nourishment of such regular 'seeing' as 
