"That may be, but he has long experience."
"If you take him back, pa, he will insult me again. I should think you
would have more consideration for me."
"I can require him to apologize to you. The man is poor as poverty, and
won't dare to refuse."
"Can't you cut down his pay?"
"Not very well. I pay him very little now. You see, Julian, this is a
matter of business. I think you are too much in the store, as you have
no employment there. If you want to go to work, that will be a different
matter."
"No, thank you. When I go into business I want to be a banker or a
wholesale merchant."
"If you will be at the store at noon I will have Benton apologize to
you."
Mr. Benton was at work in his place when Julian passed through the store
and paused in front of his counter.
"Pa wants to see you in the office," he said, abruptly.
"Very well, as soon as I fold up these goods," answered the salesman.
"You'd better hurry up if you know what's best for yourself."
"And you'd better cease talking to me in that way or I may teach you
better manners."
Julian Lorimer flushed, and his eyes blazed with anger.
"Oho!" he said, "you don't seem to know who I am."
"I know that you are an impudent boy."
Julian nodded vigorously, and went at once to his father.
"Well, I told Benton to come, and he said he'd come as soon as he got
ready."
"Are you repeating what he said exactly?"
"Yes, that is, he said he'd come when he'd folded up some goods."
"That is a different matter."
"He called me an impudent boy and threatened to lick me."
Mr. Lorimer did not reply to this. He had a suspicion that Julian had
represented matters worse than they were.
Two minutes later Henry Benton presented himself at the office. He was
quiet and calm.
"I understand you wish to see me, Mr. Lorimer," he said.
"Yes. My son has complained of you."
"You will excuse my saying that I am not in his employ, but in yours. If
he were your partner he would have a right to speak to me about my work.
As it is he is only your son, and I don't concede his right."
"As my son he is entitled to your respect."
"He would have been treated with respect had he treated me
respectfully."
"Did you ever hear the like?" Julian burst in.
"Silence, Julian!" said his father. "In your circumstances, Mr. Benton,
I think you have acted very unwisely."
"How?" asked Benton, briefly.
"You depend upon the wages I pay you for your livelihood."
"Very well, sir."
"And you make an enemy in my family and endanger your remaining in my
service."
"I understood that you discharged me yesterday."
"Ahem! yes, but I don't want to be too hard upon you. You have a family,
have you not?"
"I have a wife and young son."
"If I should discharge you they would suffer."
"What does this mean?" thought Benton.
"Therefore I have decided to recall the discharge, on condition that you
will apologize to Julian for treating him with insolence."
"If I am to retain my position on that condition, Mr. Lorimer, I prefer
to leave the store."
"I am surprised at your folly!" said the merchant, sharply. "Here, I
give you a chance to retain your place and your ill-timed pride steps in
and interferes with your interest."
"May I ask what I am to apologize to your son for, Mr. Lorimer?"
"You did not treat him with the respect due to my son," answered Mr.
Lorimer, pompously.
"Do you sustain him in interfering with my work?" asked Benton, calmly.
"I see you are incorrigible," said Lorimer, angrily. "If your family
suffers in consequence of your obstinacy, don't blame me."
"I shall not have occasion to blame you or anyone else."
"What do you mean by that? I don't understand you."
"I mean only that though I shall leave your employment I have another
place waiting for me. I shall not be idle for a day."
"Is this true?" asked Lorimer, astonished.
"Yes, sir, quite true."
"For whom are you going to work?"
"You must excuse my keeping that a secret for the present."
"When did you make application for a place?"
"I made no application at all. It was offered to me."
"I shall not give you any recommendation."
"None will be necessary, sir. I have worked elsewhere, and my former
employer will recommend me."
"I don't believe he's got a place, pa," put in Julian. "I'll bet he's
bluffing."
Benton regarded Julian with contempt, but did not say a word.
"What pay are you to get?" asked Lorimer.
"More than twice what you are paying me, sir. You took advantage of my
poverty and my necessities to reduce me to five dollars a week, a lower
price, probably, than is paid by any dry-goods merchant in the city to
an experienced salesman."
"It seems to me you are getting very independent," said Lorimer,
annoyed.
"I feel more independent than I did yesterday. I have one favor to ask."
"I have already told you that I cannot give you a recommendation."
"I don't care for one. If you can conveniently spare me I should like to
retire from your service to-day."
"Let him go, pa."
But Mr. Lorimer did not agree with Julian.
"I prefer that you should remain here till your week expires. If there
is any failure to get the situation you expect, I will continue you in
my service at six dollars a week."
"Thank you, sir, but I don't think there is any doubt about my
situation. If you have nothing further to say to me I will return to my
work."
When Benton had retired Mr. Lorimer turned to Julian angrily.
"There," he said, "I have lost one of my best salesmen, whom I was
getting dirt cheap, on account of your misconduct."
Julian was rather taken aback at this reproach.
"You can get lots of men in his place, pa," he said.
"Not at the same wages. Now go away, I am busy."
"I wish I knew where he is going to work," thought Julian. "I might
write an anonymous letter to his employer. I hate him. He puts on too
many airs for a cheap clerk."
Julian's malicious plot had certainly failed signally. The next day
about one o'clock he was passing the Somerset Hotel, on lower Broadway,
just as Rupert was coming out on an errand.
Julian at once noticed the watch chain. As he had never known of
Rupert's owning a watch, his curiosity was excited.
"What time is it?" he asked, jeeringly.
Rupert took out his watch.
"Five minutes after one," he answered.
The watch was a handsome one, as Julian noticed.
"Is that your watch?" he asked, abruptly.
"Yes."
"Is it oroide?"
"No; it is gold. Do you wish to look at it?"
Julian's curiosity was such that he took it into his hand. He could see
at once that it was a genuine and probably expensive gold watch.
"You must be making high pay to afford a watch like this," he said, in a
tone of annoyance.
"It was a present."
"From whom?"
"A friend up town."
Julian dropped the watch and went on his way in an ill humor. He had a
watch himself, but it was of less than half the value of Rupert's. He
inwardly resolved to ask his father for a new one.
CHAPTER XVII.
MR. PACKARD OF COLORADO.
In a short time the Bentons were settled in a neat flat located near
Washington Square. They purchased additional furniture on the
installment plan, and were able to offer Rupert a home more desirable
than the room he had occupied. The new prosperity was reflected in the
faces of the now happy wife and mother.
"It is you who have brought this happy change in our circumstances,
Rupert," she said. "I tremble to think what would have been our
condition but for you."
"In return you give me a pleasant home," said Rupert.
At the hotel things went on pleasantly. Rupert's services were
appreciated, and this was pleasant, though his salary had not been
increased.
Clarence Clayton never entered the hotel now. Rupert wondered what had
become of him. But one Thursday afternoon--his afternoon off--he strayed
down to the Battery.
Seated on one of the benches, looking out towards Governor's Island,
Rupert's attention was drawn after a while to two men who occupied a
neighboring bench. One of those he recognized at once as Clayton. The
other he also recognized as a guest at the Somerset Hotel, a new
arrival. He was a man of middle age who had the appearance of a
Westerner. Rupert now remembered that he had entered himself on the
hotel register as from Colorado.
"I wonder what mischief Clayton is up to now?" Rupert asked himself.
The benches were so near that he was able to hear the conversation
between the two men. Clayton had a showy gold watch in his hand which he
was endeavoring to sell to his new acquaintance.
"The fact is, my friend," Rupert heard him say, "I am awfully hard up. I
need money badly, and that is why I offer you such a bargain. This watch
is nearly new and cost me one hundred and fifty dollars in cold cash. I
offer it to you for fifty."
"How did you get so hard up?" asked the stranger.
"I took a flyer in Wall Street. I have a friend who is a broker, and he
gave me a pointer. I don't blame him, for he believed it, and invested
himself. However, things didn't turn out as we expected, and I was
cleaned out."
"How about him?"
"He lost a good deal more than I did, but he could stand it and I
couldn't."
The Western man took the watch in his hand.
"It seems a good watch," he said. "I suppose it is solid gold?"
"Undoubtedly."
"I don't know much about watches myself, though I come from a mineral
producing State. We have plenty of miners there, but I am a cattleman."
"Indeed! Is that a paying business?"
"Well, I've made a little money at it," said the other in a complacent
tone.
"I am looking for a paying business myself."
The stranger laughed.
"You are a city man," he said. "You wouldn't do for the West. You
wouldn't make much of a cowboy."
"I don't suppose I should."
"You couldn't wear patent-leather shoes in Colorado."
"Then I'll give it up if you say so. To tell the truth, I am better
fixed than you would suppose. I have an income of a thousand dollars a
year, paid me quarterly by the trustees of my late uncle's estate, but
the next payment won't come due for a month. I must tide over till then.
That is why I offer you this watch for fifty dollars."
"I shouldn't think you would like to make such a sacrifice."
"Oh, well, I need the money. Besides, what is my loss is your gain."
"You seem to take matters philosophically."
"That's my way. Seriously, though, it will be a great favor to me if you
take the watch. Fifty dollars isn't much, but with economy it will
carry me through till my next payment."
"Well, if you put it on that ground, I don't know but I will oblige
you."
The Colorado man took from his pocket a large wallet, evidently stuffed
with bills, and was about to consummate the bargain when Rupert rose
from his seat hastily. He felt that it was about time for him to take a
hand in the transaction.
"Mr. Packard," he said, "you'll excuse my interfering, but I advise you
not to buy that watch."
Clarence Clayton looked up quickly. He recognized Rupert only too well,
and would liked to have pitched him into the bay. What was to be done?
He determined to brazen it out.
"Young man," he said sharply, "you'd better mind your own business."
"How do you know my name?" asked the man from Colorado, not recognizing
Rupert.
"I am one of the bell-boys at the Somerset Hotel, where you are
boarding."
"Why do you give this warning? Can you judge of the value of the
watch?"
"No, sir; but I know this man."
"That is false," asserted Clayton; "I never saw you before to my
knowledge."
"I don't know what to think," said the cattleman, looking puzzled. "You
say you know this man?"
"Yes. He came near cheating one of our guests not long since by offering
to give his son a place in an office in Wall Street for a hundred and
fifty dollars."
"The boy lies," exclaimed Clayton. "I have a good mind to give you in
charge, you young rascal."
"You are quite welcome to do it," said Rupert, coolly.
"I hope my word is as good as this boy's," continued Clayton.
"Don't take either, Mr. Packard. I am no judge of watches. Suppose you
go to a jeweler's and ask him the value of it. If it is worth even a
hundred dollars, you can venture to give this man what he asks, that is,
supposing he has come by it honestly."
"That is a sensible proposal. I accept it."
"But I don't!" said Clayton. "I feel that I have been insulted, and I
decline to sell the watch. As for you, you young rascal, I shall
remember your interference with me in my business."
He rose and went off with his head very high in the air.
"Sit down and tell me all about this fellow," said the cattleman. "I
suspect you have saved me from being imposed upon."
Rupert told the story, and the stranger thanked him heartily.
"I have always been told that I must look out for myself in New York,
and I begin to realize it. How does it happen you are so far away from
the hotel?"
"It is my afternoon off."
They sat and chatted of Colorado, about which Rupert felt considerable
curiosity. At the end of fifteen minutes their attention was drawn to a
man of prosperous appearance who seemed in trouble. He paused as he
reached their bench, and asked anxiously, "Has either of you seen a
young man, nicely dressed and carrying a cane?" and he went on to
describe Clarence Clayton.
"Yes," answered Packard and Rupert, simultaneously, "the fellow was
sitting here less than half an hour since."
"He has stolen my gold watch," said the new acquaintance.
"He tried to sell it to me. He said it cost a hundred and fifty
dollars."
"So it did, and more, too."
"He offered it for fifty dollars."
"How did it happen that you did not buy it?"
"I was about to do so, but this boy told me he was a confidence man."
"Then you knew him?" asked the stranger.
"Yes," answered Rupert.
"Can you suggest any way in which I can recover my property?"
"Yes, sir. Report the matter to the police, and ask to have Richard
Darke, a well-known detective, put on the case. I will give you a line
to him. He will know at once who it is."
"I will do so. Where can I find you again?"
"At the Somerset Hotel, on Broadway."
"Thank you. If I receive it I will gladly compensate you for your
suggestion."
"I thank you, but do not wish any compensation. If I can defeat this
man's dishonest scheme I shall feel well repaid."
"Our cunning friend will soon be overhauled, I suspect," said the
cattleman. "Did you say you were off this afternoon?"
"Yes, sir."
"I am new to the city and want a guide. Are you open to an engagement?"
"Yes, sir," answered Rupert, with a smile. "But I don't care for pay."
"Then we don't go. Business is business, and there is no reason why I
should take up your time without paying you a fair sum."
"Just as you like, sir."
The two spent the next three or four hours in visiting different objects
of interest in New York. The Colorado man seemed much pleased with his
young companion.
"You must come out to Colorado some time, Rupert," he said. "You are a
boy who would succeed there, or indeed anywhere. We have some men come
out there who are failures at the East, and they are surprised that they
don't succeed in the West. But I tell you that it takes as much brains
to win success in Colorado as in New York."
"Is that always the case? I have heard of men getting rich in the West
who were poor at home."
"That is true. Perhaps they were in the wrong business. I don't mind
saying that was the case with me. I was in the insurance business in
Hartford, but I wasn't particularly well adapted for it. I couldn't
talk. Out in Colorado I have learned to understand cattle, and they have
made me rich."
"Mr. Clayton can talk."
"Yes, a little too well. Unfortunately he is not honest, and a dishonest
man ought not to thrive anywhere. In Colorado he wouldn't live wrong.
Thieves are summarily dealt with."
About seven o'clock Mr. Packard invited Rupert to dine with him at
Delmonico's.
Rupert had heard a great deal about this celebrated restaurant, and was
glad to accept the invitation.
CHAPTER XVIII.
A SCENE AT DELMONICO'S.
The two friends entered Delmonico's on the Broadway side, and took seats
at one of the windows. Rupert, after giving the order, looked about him.
He was curious to see that famous restaurant. He was destined to a
surprise. At the second table, sitting with his back to Mr. Packard and
himself, was a person whom he had the best reason to remember.
It was Clarence Clayton.
He touched Mr. Packard's arm, and silently pointed to Clayton.
"Well, I'll be jiggered!" exclaimed the cattleman, in surprise. "That
fellow has got nerve."
Mr. Clayton was evidently enjoying himself. Beside his plate stood a
pint bottle of champagne of Delmonico's special brand. His dinner would
probably involve an expense of five dollars.
"He must have sold or pawned the watch," suggested Rupert in a low
voice.
At this moment Clayton looked around. He at once recognized the two whom
he had last seen at the Battery.
"So we meet again?" he said, coolly.
"Yes," answered the cattleman. "You appear to be having a pleasant
time."
"I generally do," returned Clayton.
"You seem to have negotiated a loan."
"I met a party who seemed to know more about gold watches than you do."
"I congratulate you," said Packard, dryly.
Clayton returned to the discussion of his dinner, and soon the two
friends were served.
"Shall I order some champagne, Rupert?" asked the man from Colorado.
"Not for me. I have promised my mother to avoid drink."
"You are wise. Far be it from me to tempt you. I have seen too much of
the evil done by intemperance."
Clarence Clayton evidently had no such objection to drink. He drained
the bottle, and calling for a cigar, leaned back in his chair, with a
self-satisfied smile.
"That fellow is a curiosity," Packard said. "He probably has good
abilities, and would meet with success in an honest career. He has made
poor use of his talents. I wonder if he ever reflects upon the
inevitable end of his dishonesty?"
"It doesn't seem to trouble him much," returned Rupert.
Neither he nor Clayton observed the quiet entrance of a small,
unobtrusive man, with sharp eyes, who, taking rapid glances at the
guests, moved towards the table occupied by the adventurer.
Sitting in pleasant enjoyment of his cigar, Clayton's attention was
drawn by a slight tap on his shoulder. Looking up in momentary
impatience he saw the newcomer at his side.
Stifling an ejaculation he stared at him in dismay.
"Mr. Clayton," said Detective Darke, in a low voice, "I see you know
me."
"No, I can't say I have the pleasure," stammered Clayton.
"You are polite to call it a pleasure. I am Richard Darke."
"Can I offer you a glass of champagne, Mr. Darke?"
"There doesn't seem to be any left in the bottle."
"I will order another."
"I won't put you to that trouble. I have business with you, and must
request you to go with me."
"But----"
"I can take no denial," said the detective, sharply. "Go up to the desk,
settle your bill, and then we will go out together. There will be no
scene, and no one will know my errand, if you obey my directions."
Clayton went up to the desk, paid his check, and then, turning to the
detective, said,
"I am at your service."
By this time Rupert noticed what was going on, and silently called the
attention of Mr. Packard to it.
"Poor chap!" said the cattleman, as Clayton and his unwelcome companion
left the restaurant, "his punishment has come sooner than I anticipated.
He will be punished, but I am afraid the owner of the watch stands a
poor chance of recovering his property."
"Probably he will get possession of the pawn ticket and so secure the
watch, though it may cost him twenty-five dollars."
"It will be some time before the thief gets another such dinner as he
has eaten to-night."
After supper Packard said,
"Are you feeling tired, Rupert?"
"Oh, no, sir."
"Then suppose we go to some theatre."
"All right, sir. What theatre do you prefer?"
"I leave the choice to you."
"Palmer's Theatre is very near."
"Then let us go there."
They reached the theatre just as the curtain was rising. Mr. Packard
bought two choice seats, and they were soon seated in the orchestra. As
soon as he had a chance to look about him, Rupert discovered to his
surprise that Mr. Lorimer and Julian were sitting directly in front of
him. At the sound of his voice Julian turned, and was greatly surprised
to see the bell-boy occupying as high-priced a seat as himself. When the
first act was ended, he took measures to gratify his curiosity.
"I am surprised to see you here," he said.
"It is a mutual surprise," responded Rupert.
"You know what I mean. It is not usual to meet bell-boys in orchestra
seats."
"I was not asked at the ticket office what was my employment."
"Are you here alone?"
"No; let me introduce my friend, Mr. Packard, of Colorado."
