if you can see anything of Philip."
"I will go with him, Mr. Sprague."
"Very well; but be sure to come back before you take him away."
"I certainly shall. It would not be fair to you to do otherwise. You may
get ready the items of expense while I am gone."
"Thank you, I will."
"How provoking that Philip should go away just at this time!" thought
Nahum. "It seems so mysterious, too. I do hope nothing has happened to
the boy, or this fellow, who seems very sharp, may not be willing to pay
me my bill."
Meanwhile Oscar and Mark went to the village.
"Do you live in New York?" asked Oscar.
"Yes."
"Are you Mr. Gilbert's son?"
"No; I am only his messenger."
"And you actually came all the way from New York alone?"
"Yes."
"Did he give you plenty of money for traveling?"
"Well, a pretty good sum," answered Mark, smiling. "What do you think
has become of Philip?"
"Blest if I know. I don't see how he could get out of the window."
"I hope he hasn't come to any harm."
"Oh, I guess not," said Oscar indifferently.
"Do you like the boy?" asked Mark keenly.
"Well, I don't care much about kids," answered Oscar.
"Have you any idea where Philip would be likely to go? Has he ever left
home before?"
"No; and he wouldn't now if he wasn't crazy."
At this moment they met Albert Frost.
"Do you know that boy?" asked Mark. "Perhaps he has seen Philip."
"I say, Albert," said Oscar, "have you seen anything of Philip Lillis?"
"Why do you ask? Don't he live at your house?"
"Yes, but he's taken French leave."
Something in Albert's face led Mark to suspect that he knew more of
Philip than he cared to tell, also that he was a friend of the young
boy.
"I have come from New York to take Philip with me," he said
significantly. "A friend of his father is going to adopt him."
"Is this sure?" asked Albert.
"Yes; I am very anxious to find the boy."
"Come here," said Albert. "Perhaps I can put you on his track. No, not
you!" This last was addressed to Oscar.
"Now," went on Albert, "can I depend on your being a friend of Philip?"
"Yes, you can. The boy will be in good hands when he reaches New York."
"He isn't now," said Albert. "I helped him escape from old Sprague's
last night. I can get him for you."
"Do so then."
"You are sure Sprague won't beat him?"
"Yes; I am to pay him some money, and I won't do it if any harm comes to
the boy."
"Go back with Oscar," said Albert aloud, "and I will have Philip at the
house inside of half an hour."
"Where is he?" asked Oscar curiously.
"I don't know--exactly, but I can find him."
"Is he at your house?"
"No. Go back and you will soon see him."
Nahum Sprague was much pleased when the two boys brought home this
intelligence. He had prepared a bill for expenses amounting to a hundred
dollars, on which his profit would be considerable. Money with him was
all powerful, and though he would have been glad to give Philip a good
thrashing, he cared still more for money.
When Philip made his appearance, accompanied by Albert and Arthur Burks,
Mr. Sprague greeted him with a genial smile.
"I am almost tempted to call you a bad boy," he said. "You have made me
feel quite anxious. This young gentleman has come here to take you to
New York. We shall miss you sadly, Mrs. Sprague and I, but if it is for
your good we won't complain."
"Are you willing to go with me, Philip?" asked Mark.
Philip looked up in Mark's face, and did not hesitate a moment.
"Yes," he said, placing his hand in Mark's; "I am ready to go now."
"I don't know whether your clothes are ready," said Mr. Sprague. "They
may need washing."
Poor Philip's appearance was such that Mark felt that he would at once
have to buy him a new outfit.
"Never mind about the clothes, Mr. Sprague," he said. "I shall buy
Philip some new ones."
When they were preparing to start Mr. Sprague ostentatiously wiped his
eyes on a large bandana handkerchief.
"Pardon my emotion, Mr. Mason," he said, addressing Mark, "but Philip is
very near and dear to me, and so was his father. I cannot part from him
without a pang. Yet if he is to be better off I will not murmur. Philip,
my dear child, don't forget your uncle Nahum."
"I shall remember you, Mr. Sprague," said Philip. This at least he could
say with truth.
"Thank you, thank you! I thought you would."
"I say, kid," put in Oscar, "my birthday comes the 17th of October. If
you're rich and prosperous, you might send me a birthday gift."
Philip smiled. All this unwonted attention amused him.
"I won't forget you, Oscar," he said.
The buggy drove up, and Mark helped Philip inside.
"If you want to cry, don't mind me," he said to Philip with a smile.
"If I cry, it will be for joy," said Philip. "I never want to see Mr.
Sprague or any of his family again."
CHAPTER XXXIV.
ON THE WAY HOME.
AT San Francisco Mark stopped over a day to buy some clothing for
Philip.
"Did Mr. Sprague select your clothes, Philip?" asked Mark. "If so, I
can't compliment him on his taste."
"They are some old clothes of Oscar's," answered Philip. "They are the
best I could get."
"We'll see if San Francisco can't furnish you with something better."
At a clothing store on Market Street, Mark bought a complete outfit for
Philip. The latter was much pleased when he saw his transformation in a
pier glass in the store.
"Now I shall have nothing to remind me of Mr. Sprague," he said. "Do you
want me to take the old clothes with me?"
"No; we will leave them here."
They stopped at the Russ House. Just after supper Mark met an old
acquaintance, the bronzed miner whom he had seen in Omaha. The latter
walked up eagerly and grasped Mark's hand.
"It does me good to see you again, young pard," he said. "And is this
the kid?"
"Yes."
"Well, upon my word he looks like a little gentleman."
"He has improved in appearance since I made his acquaintance in
Gulchville," said Mark with a smile. "I have just bought him a new
outfit."
"So, so! Well, fine feathers make fine birds. Well, my boy, does Mark
make you call him father?"
Philip laughed heartily at the idea.
"Why, he's only a boy!" he rejoined.
"Philip," said Mark with a warning finger, "you must treat me with
proper respect."
"Shall I call you father?"
"No; perhaps it will be more suitable to call me brother Mark. Did you
stop over in Nevada, Mr. Dempsey?"
"Yes; I went to the mine."
"What did you learn?"
"That a New York syndicate is trying to purchase the mine, and this has
carried up the price of stock to two hundred and fifty dollars."
Mark's eyes sparkled.
"Why that would make mother's share worth fifty thousand dollars," he
said.
"I advise you to take measures to secure your mother's rights as soon
as you reach home. There is danger in delay."
"I certainly will follow your advice, Mr. Dempsey. Shall you hold on to
your shares?"
"No. I think I will sell out. I have an offer from a man in Virginia
City which I think I shall accept. The stock may go higher, but again it
may go lower. My shares will bring twenty-five thousand dollars, and
that will make a man like me rich."
"I wish I had control of mother's stock now," said Mark. "I could
realize a price which would make her comfortable for life."
The sudden rise in the value of the Golden Hope shares was already known
in New York. Mr. Talbot on receiving the intelligence called on his
brokers, Crane & Lawton.
"Would you advise me to sell now, Mr. Crane?" he asked.
"Wait a week, Mr. Talbot, and you may realize a few more points. Then
you had better unload."
"I will be guided by your advice. I am sure it is for the best."
There was still, however, a feeling of uneasiness in the mind of Mr.
Talbot, who knew very well that Mrs. Mason was the rightful owner of
half the stock which he controlled. He decided to call on his sister
in-law once more, and urge her to sign a paper releasing him from
further liability as executor of her father's estate.
"I wonder whether Mark has got back," he said to himself. "If not,
probably Ellen is very short of money. I will offer, if necessary, five
hundred dollars for her signature. I don't think she can resist that."
Mrs. Mason had just finished washing her breakfast dishes when there was
a knock at the door. Opening it, she saw the familiar face of Tom
Trotter, dressed in the uniform of a Western Uniform telegraph boy.
"What, Tom!" she exclaimed in surprise. "Have you changed your
business?"
"Yes, Mrs. Mason," answered Tom complacently. "I've give up blackin'
boots, and now I'm a messenger boy like Mark."
"You look very nice in your uniform, Tom. There's another improvement I
see."
"What is that, Mrs. Mason?"
"Your hands and face are both clean."
"I've got to keep clean now," said Tom soberly. "It seems kind of
strange, but I guess I'll get used do it. When I look in the glass I
don't hardly know myself."
"Don't you like it better?"
"Well, I guess I shall when I get used to it. But I forgot, I've got a
message for you," and Tom drew out an official envelope.
"It must be from Mark," said Mrs. Mason in excitement, and she tore open
the dispatch and read as follows:
       *       *       *       *       *
OMAHA, Sept. 17.
Shall be home on Friday. MARK.
       *       *       *       *       *
"Mark will be home on Friday, Tom!" said the happy mother. "How glad I
shall be!"
"Hurray!" exclaimed Tom. "That's good news."
"Come round and take dinner with us Sunday, Tom. We'll have a little
feast in honor of Mark's return."
"I'll see, Mrs. Mason. I was engaged to take dinner with Jay Gould, but
I'll telegraph him I can't come."
"I am afraid we can't give you as good a dinner as Jay Gould."
"You'll have Mark here and that's better than the best dinner Jay can
give me. Shall I wear my swallow tail?"
"No; your uniform will do."
Tom Trotter had hardly gone out when there was another knock at the
door. On opening it Mrs. Mason was somewhat surprised to see her
brother-in-law. Solon Talbot's manner was very gracious and
patronizing.
"I hope you are well, Ellen," he said extending his hand.
"Thank you, I am quite well," replied Mrs. Mason.
"And Edith too?"
Mr. Talbot seldom took any notice of Edith, but he had an object to gain
now.
"Yes, Edith is well. She has just gone to school."
"I think I heard that Mark was absent from the city."
"Yes, he is away."
"He has been gone some time?"
"Yes."
"I should think you would miss him."
"So I do. I miss him constantly."
"You must find it hard to get along without him--financially I mean."
"He left some money behind. I am not in want."
"Ellen, I am really sorry to see you living in such a poor way. These
humble rooms are not suitable for you."
Mrs. Mason was rather astonished to hear these words from her
brother-in-law. She did not understand that he was preparing the way for
another offer.
"It would certainly be pleasant for me to live better," she said. "I
hope to when Mark gets older."
"You had better not count too much upon that. An office boy's wages
seldom amount to much. How much does he earn?"
"He averaged about five dollars a week as a telegraph messenger."
"So I supposed. He may get a dollar or two more in a year or two--but
what is that?"
"It isn't much," Mrs. Mason admitted.
"I was talking the matter over with Mary the other day, and it is
largely on her account that I came here this morning to make a proposal
to you."
"Now it's coming!" thought Mrs. Mason. "Well?" she said.
"And I have made up my mind to offer you five hundred dollars."
"That is very kind," said Mrs. Mason demurely.
"On condition that you sign this paper releasing me from all
responsibility as executor of your father's estate."
"This seems important to you, Solon," said Mrs. Mason keenly.
"It is a matter of form. I shall present it at the probate court. But it
gives me an excuse for offering you a generous gift."
"I will think it over, Solon."
"Think it over? What thinking over do you need? I am not sure that I can
give you time for that, as the gift is entirely voluntary on my part. I
have brought the money with me, and in five minutes you can be a
comparatively rich woman."
"I have just had a telegram from Mark saying that he will be home on
Friday. I will wait till he comes. If you will come round Saturday----"
"I can't promise," said Talbot, deeply disappointed. "You stand very
much in your own light."
"I can make no other answer, Solon."
"Confound that young meddler, Mark!" muttered Talbot as he left the
house. "But for him I should have no difficulty in obtaining his
mother's signature."
CHAPTER XXXV.
EDGAR GETS INTO TROUBLE.
WHILE Solon Talbot was intent upon making money, his son Edgar was left
to spend his time pretty much as he pleased. His father had secured him
a place with a firm of brokers in Wall Street, in fact in the office of
Crane & Lawton, through whom he intended to dispose of his mining
stocks.
Edgar received five dollars a week, and this his father allowed him to
keep for himself. But five dollars a week in a city like New York won't
go very far when a boy gives up his evenings to playing pool.
One night Edgar made the acquaintance of a showy young man whom he
ignorantly supposed belonged to a prominent New York family. It was in
fact our old acquaintance, Hamilton Schuyler, with whom Mark had already
had some experiences which did not impress him very much in the young
man's favor.
Schuyler's attention was drawn to Edgar at a pool-room in the
neighborhood of Forty-Second Street, and he made inquiries about him.
Ascertaining that Edgar's father was supposed to be rich he cultivated
his acquaintance, and flattered him artfully.
"You play a good game of billiards, Mr. Talbot," he said.
"Oh, fair," answered Edgar complacently.
"Do you mind having a game with me?"
"You probably play a good deal better than I do."
"We can try and see. By the way, let me introduce myself," and he handed
Edgar his card.
"Schuyler Hamilton!" read Edgar, "that is an old name, is it not?"
"Yes," answered Schuyler carelessly. "I am related to most of the old
Knickerbocker families. I am very particular whom I associate with, but
I saw at once that you were a gentleman."
Foolish Edgar was very much flattered.
"My father is a capitalist," he said. "We used to live in Syracuse, but
he thinks he can make more money in New York."
"Just so. There are plenty of chances of making money here. I made five
thousand dollars in Wall Street last week myself."
"You did!" exclaimed Edgar dazzled.
"Yes. Sometimes I have made more. I don't often lose. Which ball will
you select. The spot?"
"Yes."
"I suppose it takes considerable money to speculate in Wall Street?"
"Oh no, not on a margin."
"I should like to make a strike myself. I am in the office of Crane &
Lawton."
"Are you indeed? I never did any business with them, but I understand
that they stand very high."
"I think they are rich."
The game was played, and resulted in the success of Edgar.
"Really, you play a strong game. Suppose--just for the excitement of
it--we stake a dollar on the next game. What do you say?"
"All right!"
Edgar had received his week's pay in the afternoon, and was well
provided. He flattered himself he could play better than Schuyler, and
thought it would be very agreeable to win money in that way. Schuyler
managed to let him win.
"Really," he said with pretended annoyance, "I am afraid you are more
than a match for me."
"Perhaps I was lucky," said Edgar, elated.
"At any rate I will try again. Let us call it two dollars."
"Very well," assented Edgar.
Somehow this game was won by his opponent by five points. Edgar was
annoyed, for this took a dollar from his pocket, and it had been
arranged that the loser should pay for the use of the tables.
It was an accident, however, and he kept on. At the close of the evening
he was without a cent.
"I have been unlucky," he said, trying to hide his mortification. "I
have lost all the money I had with me."
"That is too bad. Here, give me a memorandum for two dollars, and I will
hand you back that amount. Some time when you are in funds you can pay
me."
"Thank you!" said Edgar in a tone of relief.
"You are really a better player than I am," went on Schuyler, "but the
balls happened to run in my favor. Another evening I shall be the
loser."
This was the first of Edgar's acquaintance with Schuyler Hamilton, but
it was by no means the last. They got into the way of meeting nearly
every night and Edgar ran more and more into Schuyler's debt. However,
Hamilton was very easy with him. He accepted memorandums of
indebtedness, which somehow seemed a very easy way of paying debts.
Edgar did not reflect that a day of reckoning must come at last.
At last Hamilton Schuyler thought it time to bring matters to a crisis.
"Do you know how much you are owing me, Edgar?" he said one evening.
"No," answered Edgar uneasily.
"Seventy-five dollars!"
"It can't be!" exclaimed Edgar, incredulous.
"These things increase faster than you think for," said Schuyler
carelessly.
"I suppose you'll let it run," remarked Edgar with a troubled look.
"I should be glad to do so, my dear boy, but I need the money. I was hit
rather hard at the races yesterday, and the long and short of it is,
that you will have to pay me."
"I can't pay you," said Edgar doggedly.
Schuyler frowned.
"What do you mean by that?" he demanded sternly.
"I mean exactly what I say. I haven't got any money. I only get five
dollars a week, and I can't spare any of that."
"You've got to get the money. You had no business to bet if you couldn't
pay."
"I never did bet till I got acquainted with you."
"Enough of this, boy!" said Hamilton, waving his hand in a dignified
manner. "I shall have to lay the matter before your father."
"No, don't do that! He wouldn't let me keep my wages."
"That is your affair, not mine. Can't you tell him you want to pay a
tailor's bill, and get the money that way?"
"No; I get my clothes charged at his tailor's."
"Oh, well, I don't care how you get it as long as you do get it. Doesn't
your father leave any money lying about in his desk or in his bureau
drawers?"
"No. Besides, you don't want me to steal, do you?"
"Not if you can get the money any other way."
"Look here, Mr. Schuyler, I thought you were rich. How do you happen to
be in want of seventy-five dollars?"
"Anybody might be short of money. One day when I was traveling in the
Adirondacks, I met a rich man--a millionaire--who was in trouble. 'I
say, Schuyler,' he said to me, 'can you loan me a hundred dollars. I
give you my word I am almost penniless, and no one knows me here.' Now I
happened to have three hundred dollars in my pocketbook, and I at once
produced it and lent him the money. You see even a millionaire can get
into a money scrape."
"Who was the millionaire?" asked Edgar, who was not quite so credulous
a believer of Schuyler's pictures as formerly.
"I don't feel at liberty to tell. It would not be honorable. But to come
back to our own business! You must make some arrangement to pay me."
"Tell me how," said Edgar sulkily.
"Don't you deposit for your firm in the Park Bank?"
"Yes."
"Always checks?"
"Sometimes there are bank bills."
Schuyler bent over and whispered in Edgar's ear. Edgar flushed and then
looked nervous and agitated.
"You ask me to do that," he said.
"Yes, there is no danger. Say you lost the bills in the street."
Edgar was not a conscientious boy or a boy of high principle, but this
suggestion shocked him.
"Would you ruin me?" he asked.
"I would have you pay me what you owe me. If you don't there will be a
fuss."
"I wish I had never met you, Mr. Schuyler," said poor Edgar bitterly.
"I have been disappointed in you," said Schuyler coldly. "I thought you
were the son of a gentleman and a gentleman yourself."
"Who says I am not?"
"I don't. I expect you to behave like one. Good night."
This interview took place on Fifth Avenue not far from Delmonico's café.
When the two parted another boy, who had been following at a little
distance, moved rapidly forward and placed his hand on Edgar's shoulder.
"Cousin Edgar," he said.
Edgar turned.
"Mark!" he said, not with his old hauteur, for trouble had humbled his
pride.
"Yes. Who was that you were walking with?" asked Mark.
"No one you know. He is Mr. Schuyler, from one of the best New York
families."
Mark smiled.
"I hope you have no business with him," he said.
