which carefully satisfies individual vanity and 
raises in the mind a noble picture of modern 
civilization. The pen and the pencil contribute 
to this splendid result in the daily chronicle of 
our life. Those who are not present are really 
 
witnesses of the scene, and this pictorial and lit- 
erary triumph is justified in the fact that no other 
effort of the genius of reproduction is so eagerly 
studied by the general public. Not only in the 
city, but in the remote villages, these accounts are 
perused with interest, and it must be taken as an 
evidence of the new conception of the duties of 
the favored of fortune to the public pleasure that 
the participants in these fetes overcome, though 
reluctantly, their objection to notoriety. 
No other people in the world are so hospitable 
as the Americans, and so willing to incur discom- 
fort in showing hospitality. No greater proof 
of this can be needed than the effort to give 
princely entertainments in un- princely houses, 
where opposing streams of guests fight for prog- 
ress in scant passages and on narrow stairways, 
and pack themselves in stifling rooms. The Ma- 
vick house, it should be said, was perfectly adapted 
to the throng that seemed to fill but did not 
crowd it. The spacious halls, the noble stair- 
ways, the ample drawing-rooms, the ball-room, 
the music-room, the library, the picture-gallery, 
the dining-room, the conservatory — into these the 
crowd flowed or lingered without confusion or 
annoyance and in a continual pleasure of sur- 
prise. " The best point of view," said an artist 
of PhiHp's acquaintance, " is just here." They 
were standing in the great hall looking up at that 
 
noble gallery from which flowed down on either 
hand a broad stairway. " I didn't know there 
was so much beauty in New York. It never be- 
fore had such an opportunity to display itself. 
There is room for the exhibition of the most 
elaborate toilettes, and the costumes really look 
regal in such a setting." 
When Philip was shown to the dressing-room, 
conscious that the servant was weighing him 
lightly in the social scale on account of his 
early arrival, he found a few men who were wait- 
ing to make their appearance more seasonable. 
They were young men, who had the air of being 
bored by this sort of thing, and greeted each 
other with a look of courteous surprise, as much 
as to say, "Hello! you here?" One of them, 
whom Philip knew slightly, who had the reputa- 
tion of being the distributer if not the fountain 
of social information, and had the power of at- 
tracting gossip as a magnet does iron filings, gave 
Philip much valuable information concerning the 
function. 
" Mrs. Mavick has done it this time. Every- 
body has tumbled in. "Washington is drained of 
its foreign diplomats, the heavy part of the cab- 
inet is moved over to represent the President, who 
sent a gracious letter, the select from Boston, the 
most ancient from Philadelphia, and I know that 
Chicago comes in a special train. Ob, it's the 
 
thing. I assure you there was a scramble for 
invitations in the city. Lots of visiting nobility 
— Count de I'Auney, I know, and that little 
snob, Lord Montague." 
" Who is he ?" 
" Lord Crewe Monmouth Fitzwilliam, the 
Marquis of Montague, eldest son of the Duke of 
Tewksbury. He's a daisy. They say he is over 
here looking for capital to carry on his peer busi- 
ness Avhen he comes into it. Don't know who 
put up the money for the trip. These foreigners 
keep a sharp eye on our market, I can tell you. 
Tliej' say she is a nice little girl, rather a blue- 
stocking, face rather intelligent than pretty, but 
Montague won't care for that — excuse the old 
joke, but it is the figure Monte is after. lie 
hasn't any manners, but he's not a bad sort of 
a fellow, generally good-natured, immensely 
pleased with New York, and an enthusiastic 
connoisseur in club drinks." 
At the proper hour — the hour, it came into 
his mind, when the dear ones at Eivervale had 
been long in sleep, lulled by the musical flow of 
the Deerfield — Philip made his way to the recep- 
tion-room, where there actually was some press 
of a crowd, in lines, to approach the attraction 
of the evening, and as he waited his turn he had 
leisure to observe the brilliant scene. There was 
scarcely a person in the room he knew. One or 
 
two ladies gave him a preoccupied nod, a plain 
little woman whom he had talked with about 
books at a recent dinner smiled upon him en- 
couragingly. But what specially impressed him 
at the moment was the seriousness of the func- 
tion, the intentness upon the presentation, and 
the look of worry on the faces of the women in 
arranging trains and avoiding catastrophes. 
As he approached he fancied that Mr. Mavick 
looked weary and bored, and that a shade of ab- 
straction occasionally came over his face as if it 
were difficult to keep his thoughts on the chang- 
ing line. But his face lighted up a little when 
he took Philip's hand and exchanged with him 
the commonplaces of the evening. But before 
this he had to wait a moment, for he was pre- 
ceded by an important personage. A dapper lit- 
tle figure, trim, neat, at the moment drew him- 
self up before Mrs. Mavick, brought his heels 
together with a click, and made a low bow. 
Doubtless this was the French count. Mrs. Ma- 
vick was radiant. Philip had never seen her in 
such spirits or so fascinating in manner. 
"It is a great honor, count." 
" It ees to me," said the count, with a marked 
accent ; " I assure you it is like Paris in ze time of 
ze monarchy. Ah, ze Great Republic, madame 
— so it was in France in zfe ancien regime. Ah, 
mademoiselle ! Permit me," and he raised her 
 
hand to his lips; "I salute — is it not" (turning 
to Mrs. Mavick) — " ze princess of ze house ?" 
The next man who shook hands with the host, 
and then stood in an easy attitude before the 
hostess, attracted Philip's attention strongly, for 
he fancied from the deference shown him it must 
be the lord of whom he had heard. He was a 
short, little man, with heavy limbs and a clumsy 
figure, reddish hair, very thin on the crown, 
small eyes that were not improved in expression 
by white eyebrows, a red face, smooth shaven 
and freckled. It might have been the face of a 
hostler or a billiard-marker. 
" I am delighted, my lord, that you could make 
room in j^our engagements to come." 
" Ah, Mrs. Mavick, I wouldn't have missed 
it," said my lord, with easy assurance ; " I'd have 
thrown over anything to have come. And, do 
you know " (looking about him coolly), " it's quite 
English, 'pon my honor, quite English — St. James 
and that sort of thing." 
" You flatter me, my lord," replied the lady of 
the house, with a winning smile. 
"No, I do assure you, it's bang-up. Ah, 
Miss Mavick, delighted, delighted. Most charm- 
ing. Lucky for me, wasn't it? I'm just in 
time." 
" Tou've only recently come over. Lord Mon- 
tague?" asked Evelyn. 
 
" Been here before — EocMes, shooting, all that. 
Just arrived now — beastly trip, beastly." 
" And so you were glad to land ?" 
" Glad to land anywhere. But New York suits 
me down to the ground. It goes, as you say 
over here. You know Paris ?" 
" We have been in Paris. You prefer it ?" 
" For some things. Paris as it was in the Em- 
pire. For sport, no. For horses, no. And" 
(looking boldly into her face) " when you speak 
of American women, Paris ain't in it, as you 
say over here." 
And the noble lord, instead of passing on, 
wheeled about and took a position near Evelyn, 
so that he could drop his valuable observations 
into her ear as occasion offered. - 
To Philip Mrs. Mavick was civil, but she did 
not beam upon him, and she did not detain him 
longer than to say, " Glad to see you." But 
Evelyn — could Philip be deceived? — she gave 
him her hand cordially and looked into his eyes 
trustfully, as she had the habit of doing in the 
country, and as if it were a momentary relief to 
her to encounter in all this parade a friend. 
"I need not say that I am glad you could 
come. And oh" (there was time only for a word), 
" I saw the announcement. Later, if you can, you 
wiR tell me more about it." 
Lord Montague stared at him as if to say, 
 
" Who the deuce are you?" and as Phillp met his 
gaze he thought, " No, he hasn't the manner of a 
stable boy ; no one but a born nobleman could 
be so confident with women and so supercilious 
to men." 
But my lord was little in his thought. It was 
the face of Evelyn that he saw, and the dainty 
little figure ; the warmth of the little hand still 
thrilled him. So simple, and only a bunch of 
violets in her corsage for all ornament ! The 
clear, dark complexion, the sweet mouth, the 
wonderful ej^es ! "What could Jenks mean by in- 
timating that she was plain? 
Philip drifted along with the crowd. He was 
very much alone. And he enjoyed his solitude. 
A word and a smile now and then from an ac- 
quaintance did not tempt him to come out Of 
his seclusion. The gay scene pleased him. He 
looked for a moment into the ball-room. At 
another time he would have tried his fortune in 
the whirl. But now he looked on as at a spec- 
tacle from which he was detached. He had had 
his moment and he waited for another. The 
voluptuous music, the fascinating toilettes, the 
beautiful faces, the graceful forms that were 
woven together in this shifting kaleidoscope, 
were, indeed, a part of his beautiful dream. But 
how unreal they all were ! There was no doubt 
that Evelyn's eyes had kindled for him as for no 
 
one else whom she had greeted. She singled him 
out in all this crush, her look, the cordial press- 
ure of her hand, conveyed the feeling of com- 
radeship and understanding. This was enough 
to fill his thought with foolish anticipations. Is 
there any being quite so happy, quite so stupid, 
as a lover? A lover, who hopes everything and 
fears everything, who goes in an instant from the 
heights of bliss to the depths of despair. 
When the " reception " was over and the com- 
pany was breaking up into groups and moving 
about, Philip again sought Evelyn. But she was 
the centre of a somewhat noisy group, and it 
was not easy to join it. Yet it was something 
that he could feast his eyes on her and was re- 
warded by a look now and then that told him 
she was conscious of his presence. Encouraged 
by this, he was making his way to her, when 
there Avas a movement towards the supper-room, 
and Mrs. Mavick had taken the arm of the Count 
de I'Auney, and the little lord was jauntily lead- 
ing away Evelyn. Philip had a pang of disgust 
and jealousy. Evelyn was actually chatting 
with him and seemed amused. Lord Montague 
was evidently laying himself out to please and 
exerting all the powers of his subtle humor and 
exploiting his newly acquired slang. That Philip 
could hear as they moved past him. " The brute !" 
Philip said to himself, with the injustice which 
 
always clouds the estimate of a lover of a rival 
whose accomplishments differ from his own. 
In the supper-room, however, in the confusion 
and crowding of it, Philip at length found his 
opportunity to get to the side of Evelyn, whose 
smile showed him that he was welcome. It was 
in that fortunate interval when Lord Montague 
was showing that devotion to women was not 
incompatible with careful attention to terrapin 
and champagne. Philip was at once inspired to 
say : 
" How lovely it is ! Aren't you tired ?" 
"Not at all. Everybody is very kind, and 
some are very amusing. I am learning a great 
deal," and there was a quizzical look in her eyes, 
" about the world." 
"Well," said Philip, "it's all here." 
" I suppose so. But do you know," and there 
was quite an ingenuous blush in her cheeks as 
she said it, " it isn't half so nice, Mr. Burnett, as 
a picnic in Zoar." 
" So you remember that ?" Philip had not 
command of himself enough not to attempt the 
sentimental. 
" You must think I have a weak memory," she 
replied, Avith a laugh. "And the story? When 
shall we have it ?" 
" Soon, I hope. And, Miss Mavick, I owe so 
much of it to you that I hope you will let 
 
me send you the very first copy from the 
press." 
" Will you ? And do you — Of course I shall 
be pleased and" (making him a little curtsy) 
" honored, as one ought to say in this company." 
Lord Montague was evidently getting uneasy, 
for his attention was distracted from the occupa- 
tion of feeding. 
" No, don't go. Lord Montague, an old friend, 
Mr. Burnett." 
" Much pleased," said his lordship, looking 
round rather inquiringly at the intruder. "I 
can't say much for the champagne — ah, not bad, 
you know — but I always said that your terrapin 
isn't half so nasty as it looks." And his lordship 
laughed most good-humoredly, as if he were pay- 
ing the American nation a deserved compliment. 
" Yes," said Philip, " we have to depend upon 
France for the champagne, but the terrapin is 
native." 
" Quite so, and devilish good ! That ain't 
bad, 'depend upon France for the champagne!' 
There is nothing like your American humor, 
Miss Mavick." 
" It needs an Englishman to appreciate it," re- 
plied Evelyn, with a twinkle in her eyes which 
was lost upon her guest. 
In the midst of these courtesies Philip bowed 
himself away. The party was over for him, 
 
though he wandered about for a while, was at- 
tracted again by the music to the ball-room, and 
did find there a dinner acquaintance with whom 
he took a turn. The lady must have thought 
him a very uninteresting or a very absent-minded 
companion. 
As for Lord Montague, after he had what he 
called a "go" in the dancing-room, he found his 
way back to the buffet in the supper-room, and 
the historian saj's that he greatly enjoyed him- 
self, and was very amusing, and that he culti- 
vated the friendship of an obliging waiter early 
in the morning, who conducted his lordship to 
his cab. 
CHAPTER XVII 
The morning after The Puritan Nun was 
out, as Philip sat at his ofiBce desk, conscious 
that the eyes of the world were on him, Mr. Ma- 
vick entered, bowed to him absent-mindedly, and 
was shown into Mr. Hunt's room. 
Philip had dreaded to come to the office that 
morning and encounter the inquisition and per- 
haps the compliments of his fellow-clerks. He 
had seen his name in staring capitals in the book- 
seller's window as he came down, and he felt 
that it was shamefully exposed to the public 
gaze, and that everybody had seen it. The 
clerks, however, gave no sign that the event had 
disturbed them. He had encountered many peo- 
ple he knew on the street, but there had been no 
recognition of his leap into notoriety. Not a fel- 
low in the club, where he had stopped a moment, 
had treated him with any increased interest or 
deference. In the office only one person seemed 
aware of his extraordinary good fortune. Mr. 
Tweedle had come to the desk and offeredhis hand 
in his usual conciliatory and unctuous manner. 
" I see by the paper, Mr. Burnett, that we are 
an author. Let me congratulate you. Mrs. 
Tweedle told me not to come home without 
bringing your story. "Who publishes it ?" 
" I shall be much honored," said Philip, blush- 
ing, " if Mrs. Tweedle will accept a copy from 
me." 
"I didn't mean that, Mr. Burnett; but, of 
course, gift of the author — Mrs. Tweedle will be 
very much pleased." 
In half an hour Mr. Mavick came out, passed 
him without recognition, and hurried from the 
office, and Philip was summoned to Mr. Hunt's 
room. 
" I want you to go to "Washington immediate- 
ly, Mr. Burnett. Return by the night train. 
You can do without your grip? Take these 
papers to Buckston Higgins — you see the address 
— who represents the British Argentine syndi- 
cate. Wait till he reads them and get his reply. 
Here is the money for the trip. Oh, after Mr. 
Higgins writes his answer, ask him if you can 
telegraph me ' yes ' or ' no.' Good-morning." 
"While Philip was speeding to "Washington, an 
important conference was taking place in Murad 
Ault's office. He was seated at his desk, and be- 
fore him lay two despatches, one from Chicago 
and a cable from London. Opposite him, lean- 
ing forward in his chair, was a lean, hatchet-faced 
 
man, with keen eyes and aquiline nose, who 
watched his old curb-stone confidant like a cat. 
" I tell you, Wheatstone," said Mr. Ault, with 
an unmoved face, bringing his fist down on 
the table, " now is the time to sell these three 
stocks." 
" "Why," said Mr. Wheatstone, with a look of 
wonder, " they are about the strongest on the 
list. Maviok controls them." 
" Does he ?" said Ault. " Then he can take 
care of them." 
" Have you any news, Mr. Ault ?" 
" Nothing to speak of," replied Ault, grimly. 
" It just looks so to me. All you've got to do is 
to sell. Make a break this afternoon, about two 
or three points off." 
" They are too strong," protested Mr. "Wheat- 
stone. 
" That is just the reason. Everybody will 
think something must be the matter, or nobody 
would be fool enough to sell. You keep your 
eye on the Spectrum this afternoon and to-mor- 
row morning. About Organization and one or 
two other matters." 
" Ah, they do say that Mavick is in Argentine 
up to his neck," said the broker, beginning to be 
enlightened. 
