Sherburne to stand at the head. Bert will write books 
some day and lecture and pick out the beginnings of 
things from the time when the earth was without form and 
void." 

"Remember that Sherburne is still very young," said 
the little mother with tender persuasiveness. 

" And look back at my own indolent self-willed youth ! 
But I did one grand thing — gave them the mother they 
have," and he kissed his wife tenderly. 





"I am going over for the professor," Bert said the 
next morning. " If you and Dell can go I will order 
the big carriage." 

" Yes, I have a little errand at Aunt Fanny's. I will 
stop there while you go over to the station." 

" It looks more welcome-y," and Bert laughed. " Sher 
won't be home until dinner time, and papa has an 
opinion to make out. How he can make it out of whole 
cloth " 

" You will understand presently." 

" O, we always have something to go on," returned 
the boy loftily. 

Tessy kissed the sweet, grave face. How strange to 
see romances in the far future for her children, who were 
a crowd of babies only a little while ago! 



CHAPTER VIII. 

GETTING SETTLED. 

PROFESSOR KENNETH had gained a little in flesh 
A and changed mysteriously. The near-sightedness 
seemed at a first glance the strongest link to connect him 
with the grave man they had met at Melchias island. He 
reached over and took her hand. She was very quiet in 
aspect and said they would all be glad to see him, and 
took her seat behind her brother. 

" I half mistook this young lady for you," he began. 
" She was such a little girl a year ago." 

"But I remembered him," said Dell, triumphantly, 
" though he isn't so thin. When you lived with the 
Esquimos " 

She stopped and turned very red. 

• ' Did you want to know if he ate blubber ? ' ' asked 
Bertram. 

" No, I never had the courage to undertake that, 
though on a few of our outings we ran short of food and 
went hungry for awhile." 

"Was it awfully cold?" 

"Not as cold as it will be in winter. We did not go 
quite up to Hudson's bay." 

"O, I do wonder if I can go somewhere next sum- 
mer ? " exclaimed Bert, longingly. " Did you ever want 
to go on a North Pole expedition ? " 

" I have not had any longing that way yet. I must 


confess I am not an intrepid explorer. There are so 
many near-by things I have not half exhausted." 

"I suppose Mrs. Kenneth is settled again," Princess 
said in the pause, while Bertram had wandered in mind 
to the open polar sea. 

" Yes, we have the same apartment. It was all put in 
order and Mrs. Drayton had secured a competent servant, 
so we went to living at once. Long Island seemed bet- 
ter than Maine for Mrs. Kenneth. She has improved 
wonderfully, although I think Margaret's happiness had 
something to do with it. For a year or so she had been 
making up her mind to give up her daughter and not 
mar her loveliest years. Then she learned there were 
other sweet willing girls in the world. Ruth is like 
another daughter. I sometimes wonder how she will 
part with her. But then Margaret will be home." 

It was all planned out. Princess must learn to be glad 
for Ruth. Her life had always been rich and delightful 
with love, Ruth's dreary with covetousness and hatred. 

It was a lovely day and the drive inspiriting. The 
professor noted the grand old trees, the profusion of the 
clinging vines and the flowers. And there was the old 
house he had heard so much about, where he was given a 
cordial welcome. 

Of course Bertram took possession of him. He had 
so many things to tell him, so much to show him, and he 
felt somehow that he had the first claim. Two or three 
girl friends came over to take tea with Princess and learn a 
little about lawn tennis, so she was quite engrossed. Sher- 
burne returned with a friend, and the evening was spent 
out on the wide porch. Princess seemed to shelter her- 
self under her mother's wing, had she some vague pre- 
sentiment, the mother wondered. 



GETTING SETTLED. in 

She settled it for herself that night. The wide full- 
moon made a silver shower in her room. Sometimes she 
shut it out ; to-night she was not sleepy and she liked 
the company. It was almost like the finest human sym- 
pathy. 

It was not at all unlikely that many girls had an ideal 
in youth and were strongly attracted. Mamma said she 
had never cared for any one until papa came. But he 
was such a handsome young man, and he was Auntie Dell's 
dearest friend. Aunt Fanny laughed about trying on 
loves, and papa said Aunt Fanny had been a sad flirt, but 
she did love Doctor Underwood, and Princess thought 
him very fascinating, though he teased a good deal. 

And she was still so young. There would be a great 
deal to do with her life. She could wait the few years 
until some one came to claim it and ask her to make a 
new home with him. She would not even dream of a 
"might have been"; it would not be fair to the man 
who would come presently, to remember she had allowed 
herself to dream vain and envious dreams. She must 
keep a pure white soul until that day. 

They were over to Beaumanoir at luncheon the next 
day and the professor was very much interested in the 
charming old people who were living their young life over 
in their children and their children's children. Then 
Doctor Underwood dropped in and insisted they should 
take supper with him. These people were so delightfully 
hospitable. And to-morrow he must visit the hospital, 
which was really a flourishing institution. 

Professor Kenneth had been to the northward and 
westward, and gone down the Mississippi, but this was a 
new region to him, and everything in the natural world 
appealed to him. The manliness of Judge Beaumanoir 




attracted him as well, and Sherburne's youth and bright- 
ness was like the sunshine itself. How proud a man 
must be of such a family ! New instincts and hopes 
stirred his very soul. Science was not all. It was a 
grand thing to be filled with the breath of human life. 

He had spent the four days of his delightful stay, and 
on the last night it was unsatisfactory to him. Had he 
been so engrossed with books and studies and young men 
that the other part of life, the art of winning love had 
entirely escaped him ? Was he older than his years ? O, 
how had he the temerity to dream of this young girl ! They 
had seemed to come very near on the old island where 
they first met ; even a few months ago the distance had 
not appeared impassable, but now — what kept her so 
far off? 

And she was still so utterly sweet and lovely. Such a 
winsome daughter, such a tender, ready sister with in- 
finite patience and consideration. But he was afraid now 
that he had not the divine art of winning love. What if he 
should be called upon to lay aside the fascinating dream 
and confine himself to science all the rest of his life ! O, 
he could not without a bitter disappointment. The long- 
ing had entered his life, and he did not want to thrust 
it out. 

Yet — he was older than his years — older in a woman's 
sight, perhaps. He could be young with boys. Why he 
had learned to be young with all that crowd of merry 
boys and girls on Melchias island. 

Had he any right to take this beautiful girl life out of 
the garden of promise, where it could bloom abundantly 
and bear choice fruit, and shut it in a narrow place ? He 
had not thought of that before. Yes — it was selfish. 

If he had known girls and women better, he would 





have understood that love could transfigure any life when 
it was elected king. But he had never speculated upon 
it, and now he stood quite dismayed at his own temerity, 
at his alluring dream. Even Mrs. Kenneth had said 
months ago — " I don't see how you dared ! " They had 
not reverted to it since. 

Yet her mother surely had not thought it such an im- 
possible thing or beyond the bounds of reason. Only 
Princess had shrunk from any near approach on his part ; 
she seemed to evade every opportunity of being alone 
with him ; she had answered almost indifferently when 
he suggested she should come up to New York with her 
brothers. There had been no eager talk about knowledge 
and improvement and all the world's richness standing 
ready to be gathered by longing hands. She was the 
sweet, winsome daughter and sister, but not even inspired 
with the old friendliness. 

Some other fond eyes had been watching Princess with 
trembling, half-jealous scrutiny. The dainty reticence 
and evasion of anything like a tete-a-tcte, the quiet aspect 
of the girl surprised her mother. Was it that she was too 
noble, too innately wise to foster a regard that could come 
to nothing ? Was she so utterly fancy free ? And why 
had she given up the college project so easily ? 

Then Tessy recalled the fact that she and Cousin Ned 
Beaumanoir had seemed wonderfully attracted toward 
each other. Would that ripen into something deeper? 
She sincerely hoped not, though she liked Ned very 
much. Was it giving Princess that delicate self-appro- 
priation that comes with the first dawning of preference 
to every one but the coquette ? For it was plain to the 
mother. 

The luggage was all ready in the hall. Bert was im- 




portant. Sherburne serene as befitted a young man to 
whom traveling was no rarity and who had gone from 
home on longer journeys. The judge was to bear them 
company as far as Washington. The breakfast was early, 
but Princess and her mother graced it. 

The children came down and were running to and fro 
with their good-bye kisses. Eric Kenneth envied the re- 
cipients. How delightful to be set in a large family ! He 
was going away with a heavy heart. 

" These few days have been a great enjoyment to me," 
he said, taking Mrs. Beaumanoir's hand. "You need 
not fear but that I will look after Bertram quite as if he 
were a younger brother. And if I have been foolish to 
hope that so sweet a flower might bloom for me, it has at 
least shed a fragrance on my life that I shall not willingly 
let die out. I shall even cherish the mistake, and keep 
her in my heart until some worthier man finds the royal 
road to hers." 

It was worth the confession to have the sweet mother 
look of sympathy that softened her eyes like a mist of 
tears. 

" You take my sincere regard with you," she replied, 
when she found her voice. 

Then the carriage rolled away. She placed her arm 
about her daughter's neck, but Princess stood rather stiff, 
still looking out on the drive. 

" How much we shall miss them ! " but the girl's voice 
had a constrained sound. 

"Yes," answered the mother, and they walked within, 
Princess distant instead of desiring sympathy. 

Two hours later Sam came bark with the mail. 

Mrs. Beaumanoir glanced over her letters. A long 
one from Lyndell Carew, one from her own sister, Den- 





sie, a happy wife and mother, some invitations, and one 
she read with a sense of disappointment. 

"Just listen, Princess," she exclaimed. "Aunt Milly's 
nice girl has had all her plans changed. Her mother is 
going to marry — is married now, to an old friend who 
is to take them both out to a Texas ranch. Her mother 
would not go without her. But what are we to do for a 
governess ? I was depending on her. I wonder if Aunt 
Milly knows?" 

" I dare say she is hunting up some one else to make 
good the defection. We cannot quite blame the girl. I 
have a fancy I should try to follow you." 

Princess gave a soft laugh as she glanced up. 

"Ono, I do not blame her. The man, the lover," 
with a half smile, "came on quite unexpectedly." 

" I shall have to play governess awhile. Why not all 
the winter, mamma? It will keep me from getting 
rusty." 

" But you are to go to Washington and have a season 
with Aunt Violet. And they will want you in New York. 
Princess, you are to be a young lady and have a good 
time with the other girls." 

" Why not a good time at home ? " 

She glanced up to meet her mother's eyes, but some 
half enquiry in them caused hers to waver and droop. 

They went about the day's occupations. Princess had 
been teaching her sisters for the last fortnight. 

They sauntered upstairs now to the little study room. 
The house was very quiet. After an hour the children 
were dismissed for a run. She had a letter to write to 
Kitty Saxon, and before it was finished the lessons began 
again. 

There were but four of them to lunch. Aunt Fanny 




came over to take Dell and Milly out with her two little 
girls and keep them to tea. 

" The doctor liked your friend so much," said Fanny. 
 ' He thinks Bertram is fortunate to be under his care. And 
I suppose he will keep a kind of steady eye over Sher- 
burne, who seems very fond of fun and frolic, and if it 
didn't sound so wretched I should say females, for the 
sake of the alliteration. Half the girls around here are 
in love with him. It is fortunate for his peace of mind 
that he has to get down to real study." 

Tessy smiled, but did not reply. The children ran 
out eagerly and called to the two cousins. Fanny chat- 
tered a few moments longer and then went on with her 
drive. She would have gone to the moon if she could, 
for her children, and yet they were not spoiled enough 
to be a trial. 

It was still warm, and Tessy suggested they should 
take their sewing out on the porch. Princess was em- 
broidering some exquisite wild roses. 

How quiet they were ! Princess had no tender confi- 
dence for her mother, no sorrow that her soft tones could 
heal. But she knew she had given something out of her 
life, just as one cuts off the first bud of the rose. The 
others might be larger and richer for it, but no one could 
ever know what sweetness was infolded in the bud. 

Some of the young people came over in the evening, 
and they had music and talking ; but the chief plaint 
was that Sherburne was gone. They should miss him so 
everywhere. Why couldn't he stay and study with Doc- 
tor Underwood ? 

"There would be the lectures. And there was so 
much going on in the city." 

Princess kissed her mother good-night and went to her 





room. The two candles on her table were lighted, the 
curtains drawn. It was essentially a girl's room. She 
took up her Imitation of Christ. 

"Nothing is sweeter than love, nothing stronger, noth- 
ing higher, nothing wider, nothing fuller or better in 
heaven or earth." 

The supreme comfort was that there were many kinds 
of love. And if one gave away this precious thing ! 

The boys went straight to Aunt Lyndell's; Mr. Ken- 
neth to his sister's. The evening was a little cool and 
