angry and scornful. So we agreed to go to Europe in 
September and write to you from there. She wanted 
to go at once soon after you returned ; but I must 
wait till certain money comes in. I cannot live on 
what you so generously gave her. She would not 
go without me, and in spite of everything, I am almost 
ashamed to say, I have been very happy here " 
" Is that all ? I will go to my room now. Good- 
night" 
 
She hurried upstairs, wishing she had a sleeping 
powder. As she closed the door of her room, the 
tall sombre figure of Harriet rose from a chair and 
confronted her. Betty hastily lit two lamps. She 
could not endure Harriet in a half light, not while 
she wore black, at all events. 
" He has told me," she said briefly, answering the 
agonized inquiry in those haggard eyes. " I told him 
nothing." 
Harriet drew a long breath and swayed slightly. 
" Ah !" she said. " Ah ! Thank the Lord for that. I 
hope you will never have to go through what I have 
in this last half- hour." She seemed to recover herself 
rapidly, for after* she had walked the length of the room 
twice, she confronted Betty with a tightening of the 
muscles of her face that gave it the expression of 
resolution which her features always had seemed to 
demand. 
" This is wholly my affair now," she said. " It is all 
between him and me. It would be criminal for you 
to interfere. When I realised I loved him, I made 
up my mind to marry him at once. I knew that you 
would not permit it, and although I hated to deceive 
you, I made up my mind that I would have my happiness. I intended to tell you when you got back, but 
after what you said to me that day I was scared you 'd 
tell him. If you do if you do I swear before the 
Lord that I'll drown myself in that lake " 
" I have no intention of telling him. As you say, it 
is now your own affair." 
" It is ; it is. And although I may have to pay 
the price one day, I'll hope and hope till the last 
minute. I shall not let him return to America, and 
perhaps he will never guess. Somehow it seems as if 
everything must be right different over there, as if all 
life would look different." 
" You will find your point of view quite the same 
when you get there, for you take yourself with you. 
I 'd like to go to bed now, Harriet, if you don't mind. 
I 'rn terribly tired." 
" I'll go. There is only one other thing I want to 
say. I shall have no children. I vowed long ago that 
the curse I had been forced to inherit should not 
poison another generation. Your cousin's line will die, 
undishonored, with him. The crimes of many men 
will die in me. No further harm will be done if Jack 
never knows. And I hope and believe he never will. 
Good-night." 
XV 
BETTY slept fitfully, her dreams haunted by Miss 
Trumbull's expression of outraged virtue surrounded by 
curl-papers. She rose at four, almost mechanically, 
rather glad than otherwise that she had some one with 
whom to talk over the events of the night. But although 
she admired Senator North the more for his distinguished contrast to Jack Emory, she felt as if all 
romance and love had gone out of her. Harriet's case 
was romantic enough in all conscience, and it was 
hideous. 
She met Miss Trumbull in the lower hall. Outraged 
virtue had given way to an expression of self-satisfied 
importance. 
 
"Well, I 'm real glad they 're married," she drawled. 
" It warn't in human nature not to listen, and I did 
I ain't goin' to deny it, but I couldn't.have slept a 
wink if I hadn't. Ain't you glad I told you? " 
" I certainly am not glad that you told me, and I 
wish I had dismissed you three weeks ago. When I 
return I shall give you a month's wages and you can 
go to-day." 
She hurried down to the lake and unmoored her 
boat. Her conscience was abnormally active this 
morning, and she reflected that she too was going to a 
tryst of which the world must know nothing. True, it 
was kept on the open lake and was as full of daylight 
as it was of impeccability, but it was not for the world 
to discover, for all that. She made no attempt to 
smile as Senator North stepped into the boat, and he 
took the oars without a word and pulled rapidly up the 
lake. When they were beyond all signs of human 
habitation, he brought the boat under the spreading 
limbs of an oak and crossed his oars. 
"Now," he said, "what is it? Something very 
serious indeed has happened." 
" Jack Emory and Harriet have been married three 
months." She filled in the statement listlessly and 
added no comment. 
" And your conscience is oppressed and miserable 
because you feel as if you were the author of the catastrophe," he replied. " What have you made up your 
mind to do?" It was evident that her attitude alone 
interested him, but he understood her mood perfectly. 
His voice was friendly and matter-of-fact ; there was 
not a hint of the sympathizing lover about him. 
" It seems to me that as I did not act at the right 
 
time I only should make things worse by interfering 
now. As she said, it is a matter between her and 
him." 
"You are quite right. Any other course would be 
futile and cruel. And remember that you have acted 
wisely and well from the beginning. You have nothing 
to reproach yourself for. You brought the girl to your 
house for a period, because justice and humanity demanded it. The same principles demanded that you 
should keep her secret for the matter of that your 
mother made secrecy one of the conditions of her 
consent. I had hoped that you would get rid of her 
before she obeyed the baser instincts of her nature. 
For she was bound to deceive some man, and her victim is your cousin by chance only. Have you noticed 
in Washington or anywhere in the South that a 
negro is always seen with a girl at least one shade whiter 
than himself? The same instinct to rise, to get closer 
to the standard of the white man, whom they slavishly 
admire, is in the women as well as in the men. They 
are the weaker sex and must submit to Circumstance, 
but they would sacrifice the whole race for marriage 
with a white man. If you had left this girl to her fate, 
she would have gone to the devil, for a woman as 
white as that would have starved rather than marry a 
negro. If you had given her money and told her to go 
her way, she would have established herself at once in 
some first-class hotel where she would be sure to meet 
men of the upper class. And she would have married 
the first that asked her and told him nothing. I am 
sorry that your cousin happens to be the victim, because 
he is your cousin. But if you will reflect a moment you 
will see that he is no better, no more honorable or 
worthy than many other men, one of whom was 
bound to be victimized. I don't think she would have 
been attracted to a fool or a cad ; I am positive she 
would have married a gentleman. These women have 
a morbid craving for the caste they are so close upon 
belonging to." 
" I hate men," said Betty, viciously. 
" I am sure you do, and I shall not waste time on 
their defence. I am concerned only in setting you 
right with yourself." 
" I always feel that what you say is true must be 
true. I suppose it will take possession of my mind 
and I shall feel better after a while." 
" You will feel better after several hours' sleep. I 
am going to take you home now. Go to bed and sleep 
until noon." 
"My conscience hurts me. I have spoiled your 
visit." 
" I can live on the memory of yesterday for some 
time, and I shall return in a fortnight." 
" Well, I am glad you were here when it happened. 
I don't know what I should have done if I couldn't.
have talked to you about it. I feel a little better 
but cross and disagreeable, all the same." 
" You are a woman of contrasts," he said, smiling. 
" A machine is not my ideal." 
He rowed her back to the point where he had 
boarded the boat, and shook her warmly by the 
hand. 
"Good-bye," he said. "Be sensible and take the 
only practical view of it. If you care to write to me 
about anything, I need not say that I shall answer at 
 
When she reached home, she took his advice and 
went to bed; and whether or not her mind obeyed 
his in small matters as in great, she slept soundly for 
five hours. When she awoke, she felt young and 
buoyant and untarnished again. She went at once to 
her mother's room and told the story. Mrs. Madison 
listened with horror and consternation. 
" It cannot be ! " she exclaimed. " It cannot 
be ! Jack Emory? It never could have been per- 
mitted. The very Fates would interfere. His father 
will rise from his grave. Why, it 's monstrous. The 
woman ought to be hanged. And I thought her 
buried in her books ! I never heard of such deceit." 
" It was the instinct of self-defence, I suppose." 
" He too ! It never occurred to me to watch him 
or to warn him ; for that such a thing could ever 
threaten a member of my family never entered my 
head. What on earth is to be done?" 
It took Betty an hour to persuade her mother that 
Jack must be left to find out the truth for himself; 
that they had no right, after placing Harriet in the 
way of temptation, to make her more wretched than she 
was when they had rescued her. But she succeeded, 
as she always did ; and Mrs. Madison said finally, with 
her long sigh of surrender, 
" Well, perhaps he is paying for some of the sins of 
his fathers. But I wish he did not happen to be a 
member of our family. As the thing is done, I sup- 
pose I may as well be philosophical about it. It is so 
much easier to be philosophical now that I have let go 
my hold on most of the responsibilities of life. As 
long as nothing happens to you, I can accept everything else with equanimity. What story of her birth 
 
and family do you suppose she told him ? He must 
have asked her a good many questions." 
" Heaven knows. She is capable of concocting any- 
thing ; and you must remember that we had accepted 
her as a cousin. She could put him off easily, for he 
had no suspicion to start with. I must now go and 
have a final delightful interview with Miss Trumbull." 
She met her in the hall, and experienced a sudden 
sense of helplessness in the face of that mighty curiosity. She almost respected it. 
" I just want to say," drawled Miss Trumbull, tossing her head, " that I know mor' 'n you think I do. 
There just ain't nothin' I don't know, I'll tell you, as 
you've turned me out as if I was a common servant. 
I know who you meet up the lake and take breakfast 
in farmhouses with, and I know why Miss Harriet was 
so dreadful scared you 'd find out " 
Betty understood then why some people murdered 
others. Her eyes blazed so that the woman quailed. 
" Oh, I ain't so bad as you think," she stammered. 
" I 'd never think any harm of you, and I 'd never be 
so despisable as to take away any woman's character. 
I' m a Christian and I don't want to hurt any one. 
Likewise, I 'd never tell him that. Bad as she 's treated 
me I who am as good and better 'n she is any day 
I wouldn't do any woman sech a bad turn as that. 
Only I 'm just glad I do know it. When I 'm settin' 
in my poor little parlor waitin' for another position to 
turn up six months, mebbe it'll be a big satisfac- 
tion to me to think that I could ruin her if I had a 
mind to a big satisfaction." 
Betty went to her room, wrote a cheque for three 
months' wages and returned with it. 
 
"Take this and go," she said. "And be kind 
enough not to look upon the amount as a- bribe. The 
position of housekeeper is not an easy one to find, and 
I do not wish to think of any one in distress." 
XVI 
Miss TRUMBULL left that afternoon, and although 
Betty half expected the woman, who had possessed 
some of the attributes of the villain in the play, to 
reappear at intervals in the interest of her role, the 
grave might have closed over her for all the sign she 
gave. But Miss Trumbull had done enough, and the 
Fates do not always linger to complete their work. 
The housekeeper, with all her self-satisfaction, never 
would have thought of calling herself a Fate ; but 
motives are not always commensurate with results. 
She was only a common fool, and there were thousands 
like her, but her capacity for harm-doing was as far- 
reaching as had she had the brain of a genius and the 
soul of a devil. 
As Emory positively refused to go to Europe until 
money of his own came in, although Betty offered to 
lend him what he needed, and as he was really well 
only when in the Adirondacks, and an abrupt move to 
one of the hotels would have animated the gossips, it 
was decided finally that he and his wife should remain 
where they were until it was time to sail. Harriet 
offered to take charge of the servants until another 
Housekeeper could be found; and as she seemed 
 
anxious to do all she could to make amends for 
deceiving her benefactress, Betty let her assume what 
would have been to herself an onerous responsibility. 
After a day or two of constraint and awkwardness, the 
little household settled down to its altered conditions ; 
and in a week everybody looked and acted much as 
usual, so soon does novelty wear off and do mortals 
readjust themselves. Jack and Harriet seemed happy ; 
but the former, at least, was too fastidious to vaunt 
his affections in even the little public of his lifelong 
friends. He spent hours swinging in a hammock, reading philosophy and smoking; occasionally he read 
aloud to his aunt and Harriet, and in the afternoon 
he usually took his wife for a walk. 
Harriet at this period was a curious mixture of 
humility and pride. She could not demonstrate 
sufficiently her gratitude to Betty, but the very dilation 
of her nostril indicated gratified ambition. She had 
held her head high ever since her marriage ; since her 
acknowledgment by the world as a wife, her carriage 
had been regal. Betty gave a luncheon one day to 
some acquaintances at the hotel, and when she introduced Harriet as Mrs. Emory, she saw her quiver 
like a blooded horse who has won a doubtful race. 
As for Mrs. Madison, she finished by regarding the 
whole affair in the light of a novel, and argued with Betty 
the possible and probable results. Her interest in the 
plot became so lively that she took to discussing it 
with Harriet ; and although the heroine was grateful at 
first for her interest, there came a time when she 
looked apprehensive and careworn. Finally she begged 
Mrs. Madison, tearfully, not to allude to the subject 
again, and Mrs. Madison, who was the kindest of 
 
women, looked surprised and hurt, but replied that of 
course she would avoid the subject if Harriet wished. 
" It 's just this," said Mrs. Emory, bluntly ; " the subject is so much on your mind that I 'm in constant ter- 
ror you'll begin talking of it before Jack." 
" My dear girl, I never would tell him ; for his sake 
as well as your own, you can rely on me." 
" I know you would never do it intentionally, ma'am, 
but I 'm scared you'll do it without thinking ; you talk 
of it so much, more than anything. The other night 
when you began to talk of the crime of miscegenation, 
I thought I should die." 
"That was very inconsiderate of me. Poor girl, 
I'll be more careful." 
But in her secluded impersonal life few romantic 
interests entered, and although she was too courteous 
to harp upon a painful subject, it was evident that she 
avoided it with an effort, and that it dwelt in the fore- 
front of her mind. One evening after Betty had been 
playing some of the old Southern melodies, she caught 
Jack's hand in hers, and assured him brokenly that no 
people on earth were bound together as Southerners 
were, and that he must think of her always as his 
mother and come to her in the dark and dreadful 
hours of his life. He pressed her hand, and continued 
smoking his cigarette ; he never had doubted that his 
aunt loved him as a mother. Harriet rose abruptly 
and left the room. She returned before long, however, 
and after that night she never left her husband alone 
with Mrs. Madison for a moment. 
 
XVII 
BETTY herself was happy again. She hated the dark 
places of life, and got away from them and out into the 
sunshine as quickly as possible. Although she was too 
well disciplined to shirk her duty, she did it as quickly 
as possible and pushed it to the back of her mind. 
Jack and Harriet were married ; that was the end of it 
for the present. Let life go on as before. She gave 
several hours of the day to her mother, the rest to the 
forest and the lake. When Senator North came up 
again, she was her old gay self, the more attractive perhaps for the faint impression which contact with deep 
seriousness is bound to leave. If Jack and Harriet had 
been safely out of the country, she would have felt like 
a Pagan, especially after the Tariff Bill passed and 
Senator North came up to stay. 
" I shouldn't.have a care in the world," she said to 
him one morning, " if I did not know, little as I will 
permit myself to think of it, that exposure may come 
any day. There is only a chance that somebody at 
St. Andrew will hear of the marriage and denounce 
her, but it might happen. If only they were in Europe ! 
She told me the other night that she knows she can 
keep him there, her influence is so great. I hope that 
is true, but she cannot make him go till he has his own 
money to go with." 
"What she means is that he won't leave her. He 
has her here now and is in no hurry to move. He 
should be able to rent his farm. It is a very good 
one." 
 
"He has rented it for a year from September. 
He gets nothing till then. If pride were not a disease 
with him, he would let me advance the money, but he 
is not as sure as he might be of the man who has rented 
the farm and he will not take any risks. I am sorry 
for Harriet. She has the idea on her mind now that 
Molly will blurt it out, and she has the sort of mind 
that broods and exaggerates. I sincerely wish they had 
got off to Europe undiscovered and sent the news back 
by the pilot. I had to speak to Molly once or twice 
myself; I never knew her so garrulous about anything." 
Senator North laughed. " You have a great deal of 
trouble with your parent," he said. " I fear you have 
not been firm enough with her in the past. Will you 
come into the next lake ? I like the fish better there. 
You are not to worry about anything, my dear, while we 
have the Adirondacks to imagine ourselves happy in." 
" Ar'n't.you really happy? " she asked him quickly. 
" Not wholly so," he replied. " But that is a ques- 
tion we are not to discuss." 
XVIII 
SENATOR NORTH had been formally invited by Mrs. 
Madison for dinner that evening, and Betty, who had 
parted from him just seven hours before, restrained an 
impulse to run down the terrace as his boat made the 
landing. Emory and Harriet were on the verandah, 
however, and she managed to look stately and more or 
less indifferent at the head of the steps. There were 
pillars and vines on either side of her, and bunches of 
 
purple wistaria hung above her head. It was a picturesque frame for a picturesque figure in white, and a 
kindly consideration for Senator North's highly trained 
and exacting eye kept her immovable for nearly five 
minutes. As he reached the steps, however, self-consciousness suddenly possessed her and she started precipitately to meet him. She wore slippers with high 
Louis Quinze heels. One caught in a loosened strand 
of the mat. Her other foot went too far. She made 
a desperate effort to reach the next step, and fell down 
the whole flight with one unsupported ankle twisted 
under her. 
For a moment the pain was so intense she hardly was 
aware that Senator North had his arm about her 
shoulders while Emory was straightening her out. 
Harriet was screaming frantically. She gave a sharp 
scream herself as Emory touched her ankle, but repressed a second as she heard her mother's voice. 
Mrs. Madison stood in the doorway with more 
amazement than alarm on her face. 
