eternity would I think of her and suffer, if I must, because I think of
her.... I ... love her ... so.
(The Serenade ceases slowly, and sighs away.)
(DR. THORNE stands with the moonlight on his face. It is rapt, and
carries a certain majesty.)
(Spirits pass. Some of them glance at him, with wonder and respect. No
one addresses him. He stands like a statue of strong and noble solitude.
He does not perceive the presence of any spirit.)
Enter The Child. (Runs to his father.
Springs into his arms.)
THE CHILD. Lonesome, Papa? I will comfort you.
DR. THORNE (clasps the boy, who seems half-overcome with sleepiness.
Lays him gently on the grass). Go to sleep, my child. It is growing
late. (LADDIE drops asleep.)
DR. THORNE (continues to speak, for his emotion bears him on). I did
not expect to live when I was dead. I lived--I died--and yet I live. I
did not think that love would live when breath was gone. I loved--I
blasphemed love--I breathed my last--and still I love. If this be
true--anything may be true-- (breaks off). God! It may be years
before I can see her face--twenty years--thirty-- (groaning)--Whence
came the love of man and woman, that it should outlive the laws of
Nature, and defy dissolution, and outlast the body, and curse or bless
the spirit? If love can live, anything can live. Since this
is--anything may be-- (Falters; glances about; finds himself quite
alone with the sleeping child; lifts his eyes to the sky, and then his
hands; stands irresolute. Then slowly, reluctantly, still standing
manfully upright, with a touching embarrassment.)
DR. THORNE (prays). Almighty God!--if there be a God Almighty. Reveal
thyself to my immortal soul!--if I have a soul immortal.
       
(The moonlight fades into a dark midnight. The figure of DR. THORNE
disappears in it.)
(Dawn comes on subtly, but at once, for the nights and days of Paradise
are not governed by the laws of earth, and day breaks splendidly over
the heavenly world.)
Enter the Two Children (playing with
flowers, and tasting fruit).
LADDIE. How did you like coasting down that waterfall on rainbows?
MAIDIE. I want that butterfly--with fire on it.
LADDIE. Don’t be stupid, because you’re dead! That is a flower. (Picks
a flower in the shape of a butterfly with jeweled wings; hands it to the
girl.) No, it won’t fly. It isn’t grown up yet.
MAIDIE. Shall I fly when I’m grown up? I’ve got wings, too. (Shows her
feet, on the heels of which a tiny pair of wings appear.)
LADDIE (jealously). I didn’t know you had them. That’s why you can
jump over things and get ahead of me.
       Enter DR. THORNE and MRS. FAYTH.
MRS. FAYTH. Doctor, I don’t know what ails me. Perhaps it’s a symptom--a
moral symptom--but I can’t help thinking of Cleo. I wonder--
DR. THORNE (with reserve). I do not care to speak of the woman.
MRS. FAYTH. You are right. But I did not mean to be wrong. (I think it
must have been a symptom.) It’s the first time I’ve felt nervous since I
died. I beg your pardon.
LADDIE (running to meet them). Papa! Maidie’s got wings on her feet.
Why don’t I have some? Papa! Papa! Come into your new house. It grew
up out of the woods--like--like acorns.
DR. THORNE (addressing MRS. FAYTH, looking towards the cottage). It
is a shelter for the child, at all events. Quite in accordance with my
present social position in this place--a mere cottage--but it makes him
a home, poor little fellow!
MRS. FAYTH. It’s just what Helen would like. She hates palaces.
DR. THORNE (starts as if stabbed; makes no reply).
LADDIE (suddenly). Oh, Papa, Mrs. Fayth’s got wings on her feet, too.
Her dress covers them up. I like her better than I did that lady you
were so cross to.
MRS. FAYTH (laughing). I am so well!--oh, so well! I am a-shamed to be
so happy! I walk on air. I float on clouds. I move on waves. All nature
seems to be under my feet, and her glory in my heart.... Poor Doctor!
(Breaks off and looks at him with quick sympathy.) And yet I tru-ly
think you im-prove in spirits. You don’t look armed to the teeth, all
the time--now.
DR. THORNE (smiles cheerfully). A man must respect law, whatever state
he is in. I would conform to the customs of this place, so far as I can.
I would do this for the boy’s sake, at least. I don’t wish to be a
disgrace to him in this system of things.
MRS. FAYTH. Does Doctor Harvey treat you by scien-ti-fic ev-olu-tion?
That’s a man’s way. It’s a pretty slow one.
LADDIE (insistently). Papa, she has got wings on her feet.
MRS. FAYTH (blushing). Go away and play, children.
(The children run to the cottage. The little girl bounds before, with a
light, flying motion. They play in the cottage at “keeping house,”
running in and out.)
(Suddenly a change takes place upon the landscape. Its colors soften
and melt. Flying tints, like light broken through many prisms, float
upon the white flowers, rest upon the annunciation lilies, and
delicately touch the white robe of MRS. FAYTH. In fact, the whole
atmosphere takes on the appearance of a vast rainbow. Music from the
temple sounds clearly.)
VOICES (can be heard singing):--
    “Thou that takest away the
     Sins of the world!”
MRS. FAYTH (starts with a listening, devout expression). Do you hear
that?... Oh, watch, Doctor! Watch for what will happen!
(Spirits can be seen suddenly moving from all directions. They hurry,
and exhibit signs of joyful excitement. The singing continues;
repeats:--
    “Thou that takest away the
     Sins of the world!”)
(Now over the brilliant landscape falls a long, sharp, strange shadow.
It is seen to be the shadow of a mighty cross, which, if raised upright,
would seem to reach from earth to heaven. The children run back from the
cottage.)
LADDIE. Papa! who is worship? Is it a kind of game? Papa, what is Lord?
Is it people’s mother? What is it for?
DR. THORNE (with embarrassment). Alas, my boy, your father is not a
learned man.
LADDIE (imperiously). Teach me that pretty song! I cannot sing it. All
the other children can--
VOICES (chanting):--
    “Thou givest,
     Thou givest,
     Eternal life!”
DR. THORNE (sadly). My son, I cannot sing it, either.
LADDIE (with reproach, and with a certain dignity). Father, I wish you
were a learned man. (Walks away from his father; goes up the path.
The little girl follows him.)
(The evidences of public excitement increase visibly. From every part
of the country spirits can be seen moving, with signs of acute pleasure.
Some hasten towards the Temple; others gather in groups in the roads and
paths; all present a reverent but joyful aspect.)
MRS. FAYTH (gliding away). I cannot lose a moment. (Beckons to DR.
THORNE as she moves out of the grove and up the path. Calls.) Doctor!
Doctor!
DR. THORNE (shakes his head). I do not understand.
(MRS. FAYTH remains still full in sight, standing as if to watch a
pageant or to see the prominent figure of a procession.)
(LADDIE runs on beyond her, watching eagerly; shades his eyes with his
little hand.)
(MAIDIE flits along with him.)
(DR. THORNE stands quite alone. He, too, shades his eyes with his
hand, and scans the horizon and the foreground closely.)
(The shadow of the great cross falls upon him where he stands.)
(It can now be seen that the happy people beyond give evidence of
greeting some one who is passing by them. Some weep for joy; others
laugh for rapture. Some stretch their arms out as if in ecstasy. Some
throw themselves on the ground in humility. Some seem to be entreating a
benediction. But the figure of Him who passes by them remains invisible.
The excitement now increases, and extends along the group of spirits
until it reaches those in the foreground. Here can now be seen and
recognized some old patients of DR. THORNE’S--MRS. TRUE, NORAH, and
JERRY.)
(These wear the golden cross upon the breast. HARVEY enters
unnoticed, and mingles with the crowd. He stands behind MRS. FAYTH,
who remains rapt and mute, full in the light. She has forgotten DR.
THORNE.)
(DR. THORNE watches the scene with pathetic perplexity. He does not
speak.)
(The chanting continues, and the strain swells louder.)
[Illustration:
dolce.
Thou that tak-est a-way the sins of the
world! And givest, and giv-est e-ter-nal life!
]
(Now the Invisible Figure makes the impression of having reached the
nearer groups.)
(NORAH falls upon her knees.)
(JERRY salutes respectfully, as if he recognized a dear and honored
employer whom he wished to serve and please.)
(MRS. TRUE reaches out her arms with reverent longing.)
(MAIDIE kisses her little hands to the Unseen.)
(HARVEY stands devoutly with bowed head.)
(MRS. FAYTH holds out both hands lovingly. Then she sinks to the ground
upon her knees and makes the delicate motion of one who puts to her lips
the edge of the robe of the Unseen Passer. Her whole expression is
rapturous.)
(LADDIE, breaking away from his elders, now boldly steps out into the
path. He looks up; shades his eyes, as if from a brilliance; then
confidingly puts out his hand, as if he placed it in an Unseen Hand, and
walks along, smiling like a child who is led by One whom he trusts and
loves.)
DR. THORNE (in distress). I see nothing!--No one! I am blind--blind!
(Chanting.)
    “Thou that takest away
     The sins of the world!” ...
(DR. THORNE covers his face. The music ceases. The air grows dimmer
than twilight. But there is no moon, nor is it dark. The groups in the
foreground move away in quiet happiness, like those who have had their
heart’s wish granted.)
(Harvey, MRS. TRUE, NORAH, JERRY, and MAIDIE mingle with the other
spirits.)
(MRS. FAYTH rises from her knees; melts slowly in the dusk.)
(LADDIE runs into the grove, and disappears in the gloom. He acts as if
looking for some one.)
DR. THORNE (remains alone. He paces the grove, irresolute--then
suddenly turns in the direction whence the Invisible had come; walks
uncertainly up the path; searches, as if for signs of the Passer;
examines the grass, the shrubbery; touches the flowers, to see if they
had bent beneath His feet; stoops; examines the pathway reverently;
speaks in a low tone). The footprint! I have found the footprint! There
was One passing. And He stepped here. But I was blind! (Hesitates;
lifts his face to the sky; drops it to his breast; murmurs
inarticulately. Then slowly--as if half his nature battled with the
other half, and every fibre of his being yielded hard--he drops upon his
knees. He remains silent in this posture.)
(From the depth of the grove behind DR. THORNE’S cottage,)
Enter CLEO stealthily. (She watches
DR. THORNE with an expression in
which love, fear, reproach, and astonishment
contend. She makes no
sign, nor in any way is her presence
revealed to DR. THORNE. Taking a
few steps forward, she touches the
shadow of one arm of the mighty
cross. CLEO retreats in confusion.)
Enter The Child (running down the
path). Papa! Papa! (Points up the
path. Beckons to his father. Points
ecstatically.) Look, look, Papa!
(DR. THORNE arises to his full height; looks where The Child
points.)
(Slowly and solemnly,)
Enter JESUS THE CHRIST. (Our Lord
appears as a majestic figure, melting
of outline, divine of mien, with arms
outstretched in benediction.)
(CLEO at sight of the Sacred Figure wrings her hands in anguish, and
makes as if she would flee; but remains gazing at the Vision, as if
compelled by forces unknown to her. As the Vision draws nearer, CLEO
drops upon her face. Her long hair covers her. All her contours blur
into the increasing shadow. The scene is now quite dark, except for the
light which falls from the PERSON OF OUR LORD. This shall fully
reveal THE MAN, who falls at the feet of the Vision, and THE CHILD,
who stands entranced, with his little arms around his father’s neck.)
DR. THORNE (lifts his hands rapturously). I was blind--But, now, I
see! (Accepts and remains in the attitude of worship as manfully as he
had refused it.)
(THE SACRED FIGURE stirs, as if to meet the kneeling man; slowly dims,
melts, and fades; vanishes.)
       END OF SCENE III.
SCENE IV.
In the same perspective as Scene III. is the Heavenly
City on the Hill. Thronging spirits move to
and fro.
The distance is full of radiance and of happy social
life. In the foreground is seen a dim and desolate
place. It is cavernous and mountainous. Its extreme
edge yawns over a black space, like a gulf or pit, or
it might be the mouth of an underground river. Here
and there is a stark, dead tree. A narrow footpath
winds among the crags. The path turns a sharp
corner between boulders; and the fair contrast of a
sunny country smiles beyond it. Rosebushes in full
bloom peer above the top of the rocks. The annunciation
lily is still prominent among the flowers. No
sign of life appears in the mountainous foreground.
Suddenly, silently, and swiftly, moving from the
sunny land, around the sharp turn in the pathway,
feet and face set toward the cavernous region,
Enter AZRAEL, Angel of Death. (The
Angel is immovable of manner. But
an obvious tenderness wars with the
solemnity of his expression. He looks
neither to the right nor to the left, but
glides over the rough path steadily;
his robe, which is of dull, white gauze,
conceals his feet; his wings are
folded; he carries no flaming sword,
nor any weapon.)
(After a moment’s interval, following THE ANGEL quickly,)
Enter DR. THORNE (his robe is much
paler, but still of a purplish tint. It
is now clasped by the golden cross.
He cries aloud). Azrael!
ECHO (from the caverns). Azrael!
(AZRAEL makes no reply. Moves on steadily.)
DR. THORNE (in a lower voice). Azrael, Angel of Death!
(AZRAEL turns his head, but without pausing.)
DR. THORNE. In the name of Him who strove with thee, and conquered
thee--whither goest thou, Azrael?
(AZRAEL pauses. He looks over his folded wing at the man; regards him
steadily; does not speak; moves on again. DR. THORNE utters an
inarticulate exclamation. He follows the Angel. Halfway down the path he
stops, perplexed. His expression is anxious. AZRAEL moves on. He does
not again look back; glides to the edge of the ravine. The scene
darkens. The Angel does not pause, but can be seen to cross the gulf
fleetly. He does not fly, but appears to tread the air across the
space.)
       [Vanish AZRAEL.
(DR. THORNE stands alone in the gloom. His eyes are fixed upon the spot
where the Angel disappeared. A low, rushing sound, as of water, can now
be heard.)
DR. THORNE (shudders; speaks). It seems like an underground river.
Horrible! (Calls.) Azrael! Tell me thine errand--in this fearful
place!
(AZRAEL neither replies nor appears. It grows very dark. The
perspective of the Heavenly City fades. The rushing of the river can be
heard. Now, through the unearthly gloom, upon the hither side of the
gulf, slowly grow to form the outlines of a Woman. She stretches her
arms out with the motion of one feeling her way. She moves with
difficulty, tripping sometimes, but regaining her footing bravely. Her
robe is light. Her face cannot be recognized.)
DR. THORNE (on whose sensitive countenance falls the only light in the
scene, shows an unaccountable emotion. He murmurs). It is a
woman--alone--exhausted ... and a stranger. As I serve her, so may God
send some soul of fire and snow to serve my dear wife--in her hour of
mortal need! (He advances towards the woman with a chivalrous
sympathy.)
(The Woman moves on steadily; weakens; reels, but holds her ground. It
can now be seen that her eyes are closed. She falls. She does not cry
out.)
DR. THORNE. How brave you are! Keep courage. (Catches her before she
touches the ground. She lies in his arms in a faint or collapse.)
(DR. THORNE carries her along midway of the scene.)
(It lightens slowly. As it does so, it can be seen that the woman is
young and fair, and fine of nature. Her robe is of dazzling white; it
has a surface like that of satin-finished gauze, which reflects all the
light there is. Her long, dark hair is disordered, and falls about her.
She is pale. Her eyes do not open. She lies helplessly in his arms.)
(DR. THORNE lays her gently against the trunk of a dead tree, which has
fallen across a hollow in the cliff, and which rests so as to support
the woman. He seats himself beside her; bends to examine her face.)
DR. THORNE (recognizes the face of the woman; cries in a voice that
rings through the hills). Helen!
THE ECHO (takes up the cry). Helen!
HELEN THORNE (is half-conscious and confused; does not open her eyes;
murmurs). Will it last long?
DR. THORNE (clasps her reverently. As his arms touch her, they can be
seen to tremble. He moans). My--poor--wife!
HELEN THORNE (still lying with closed eyes; murmurs, but more
distinctly). I said I would die two deaths for him.... Are they over,
yet?... if that would help him any ... where he had gone. (Opens her
eyes, but they see nothing. Dreamily and solemnly, as if repeating a
familiar prayer, she speaks softly.) Great God! I will die ten deaths
for him ... and count myself a happy woman ... if that will make it any
easier for him.
DR. THORNE (groaning, puts his wife gently from him, as if she were a
being too sacred for his touch. Turns his face from her; speaks). I am
not fit!... I dare not touch her!
HELEN THORNE (praying). Dear Lord! I would die for him ... as Thou
didst die for us.... If that could be.... Dear Lord!
DR. THORNE (utterly broken). I am a sinful man, O God! (Removes from
her, and stands with his face in his hands.)
HELEN THORNE (recovering full consciousness, and with it sudden
strength, lifts herself to a sitting posture; looks about her; half
rises. Suddenly she recognizes her husband, where he stands aloof. She
cries plaintively). Esmerald?--Isn’t it over yet? Esmerald! Have you
forgotten me? Don’t you care for me any more?... (piteously). Oh,
Death! I did not think that thou wouldst crucify me ... so!
(Sudden darkness falls. When it passes, the gulf, the dark mountain,
the underground river, the ravines are gone. Slow and sweet light
returns softly. It is the setting of the sun. The perspective of the
Heavenly City and spirits are as before. The grim scenery surrounding
the mouth of the River of Death has given place to a fair meadow, sunny
and open. Some of the boulders remain, and the path which cut through
the ravine now runs across the field. Clumps of trees and thick shrubs
break the space between the foreground and the distant spirits, and the
path turns a curve through a thicket of roses. Lilies as before grow
higher than any other flowers, and nearer to the eye.)
HELEN THORNE (stands, tall and glorious. Faint color has returned to
her pale face. Her expression is radiant. She looks downward and
stretches down her hands; speaks, very softly). Dear!
DR. THORNE (prostrate at his wife’s feet, speaks). Forgive! Forgive
me, Helen.
(HELEN THORNE smiles divinely. Stoops to lift him up.)
(DR. THORNE resists her still, and, fallen at her feet, he draws the
hem of her robe slowly to his lips. Then he lays his cheek upon her feet
before he reverently kisses them.)
DR. THORNE. I said ... oh, I have broken my heart for what I said ... to
you!
HELEN THORNE (reaches down her beautiful arms to him. Draws him up).
Why, my poor Love! My dear Love! Did you think I would remember that?
(DR. THORNE arises. Holds out his shaking arms; does not speak.)
(HELEN THORNE in silence creeps to him, not royally, like a wife who
was wronged; but like the sweetest woman in the world, who loves him
because she cannot help it, and would not if she could. Her face falls
upon his breast.)
(DR. THORNE, as if she were a goddess, still not daring to caress her,
lays his cheek upon her soft hair. Before her face, but not touching it,
he delicately curves his hand as if he enclosed a sacred flame from the
rude air.)
HELEN THORNE (lifts her face to his. Her eyes, all womanly, turn to him
in Paradise as they did on earth. She speaks softly). I am in Heaven
... after all!
DR. THORNE. And I have never been there ... until now! (He clasps her
slowly to his heart; turns her face back upon his arm and reverently
looks at it; scans it adoringly; humbly crying.) Helen! Helen!
(DR. THORNE kisses his wife’s brow--eyes--cheek--and then her lips.
Suddenly, around the curve in the path where the thicket of roses
blossoms, running rapidly,)
Enter LADDIE (carrying a stalk of the
white lilies. He cries). Papa! Papa!
I’ve lost you, Papa! (The child runs
down the path. Closely following
him, fair and gentle, brightly smiling,)
Enter MRS. FAYTH. (She draws back
quickly; utters an inarticulate exclamation;
extends her hands in an impulsive
gesture of delight. But she
withdraws and puts her finger on her
lips. She retreats without speaking.)
(MRS. FAYTH, hidden for a moment behind the thicket of roses, reappears
beyond with the other spirits. The group of spirits stirs upward in the
bright scenery.)
(DR. THORNE and his Wife, having seen or heard nothing, still stand
rapt, embracing solemnly.)
LADDIE (stops on the path, irresolute. Frowns a little in pretty,
childish perplexity; makes as if he would go back; looks at the two
again. Then suddenly darts forward; cries). Why, that’s my Mamma!
(Springs to her; clutches at her white robe, pulls at her hand.)
HELEN THORNE (recognizes the child instantly, despite his larger
