"Father said you were not to." Jaqueline Mason raised her head with
dignity. "I used to think it rather funny when I was romping round, and
it teased Aunt Catharine; but I hate it now, and I've given up romping.
There is a great difference."
"And Cousin Annis is eager to hear about her side. You hardly know
which side you are on yourself."
She gave him a withering look, and turned to the little girl who stood
in a shrinking attitude, and whose eyes had a certain lustrousness, as
if tears were in their limpid depths.
"I wish you wouldn't interrupt, Louis Mason! I am trying to explain.
Grandfather Floyd isn't our very own grandfather--he married
grandmother--and he believes we shouldn't really have separated from
England, or at least we should have modeled our government upon hers
and had a king. He thought Washington ought to have stood up for some
grandeur and state, and he is afraid now we shall all go to ruin.
He never did like President Jefferson. But you are too little to
understand politics, Annis, and I was going to explain--father and
Aunt Catharine are own brother and sister; then there are five Floyd
children, uncle and aunt's too. You really are not related to them. You
are on our mother's side."
"Jaqueline, you will be qualified to write the genealogy of Virginia,"
and Louis laughed mockingly.
The girl colored with vexation. "Well, everybody is married to almost
everybody else; and now your mother has married our father, and that in
a way makes us sisters."
The little girl standing by the window, where the sunshine sifted
flecks of gold through the green clustering vines, looked up wistfully.
She had wished out in Kentucky that she had a sister, and now that
three had welcomed her and taken possession of her, she was not sure
that she wanted sisters. She had slept with Varina, who was about her
own age, but who had not taken to her very cordially. There was a still
younger child, a boy, curled upon the next window ledge, poring over an
old copy of Froissart, dog-eared and well worn. Varina was petting two
doves, who arched their necks and strutted about.
"Yes, people get queerly married, up or down or crosswise. I mean to
marry someone quite new and strange. But we were glad that father chose
a cousin of our own dear mother's, and I am sure we shall all like her.
What do you suppose they are about! Why don't they come to breakfast?"
This was the great dining room. Four windows faced the east, two the
south, shaded by the wide porch roof and the vines. There was a massive
sideboard and a china closet with glass doors, wherein were many family
heirlooms. The antlers and head of a great buck were suspended over the
mantel, which was graced by a pair of silver candlesticks with several
branches and a snuffers and tray. There was a large, roomy sofa and
some high-backed chairs, quite stiff enough for the dames of early
eighteen hundred. The floor was bare, but laid with various-colored
woods. It had a hospitable air, altogether, in spite of its massive
furnishing. The table was set for breakfast, and a tall silver coffee
urn graced one end of it.
There was a stir in the hall, and the sound of servants' voices
mingling with a mellow masculine greeting. The little girl made a rush
for her own dear mother, and ran into Chloe, but her new father rescued
her from harm, since the woman was carrying a dish of savory fried
fish, followed by other servants with numerous viands.
He lifted her in his arms and kissed her, and her mother bent over to
give her another caress. Then he stood her down, and she almost buried
her face in her mother's gown and impeded her progress.
"Well, chicken," and the round, cheery voice sounded as if a laugh was
at the back of it, ready for the slightest provocation, "how does it
seem with all these brothers and sisters? For that's what you are to
be. Children, here is your new mother, by daylight. Take a good look
at her and love her, though she will be more like a big sister than a
mother. I could have been her father. For when I first saw her she was
no older than you, Patty."
The children thronged about her. Second marriages were quite common
occurrences, and the children of those days were expected to accept
and make the best of them. Miss Catharine Mason had taken excellent
care of her brother's household, and now gone to Williamsburg to take
charge of the Rev. William Conway's rectory and be a mother to the
three children. There had been a governess, a certain Miss Betts, from
farther North, who somehow could not easily adapt herself to Southern
ways, and a rather turbulent household. There had been numerous
complaints, and at the summer vacation she had resigned. Miss Jaqueline
had in a measure taken the head of the house, with Maum Chloe and Mammy
Phil, who had brought up the younger part of the flock and comforted
the elders in times of difficulty and trouble.
The new mother held out her arms. Jaqueline and Patty gave her a warm
embrace. Louis shook hands with the grace of a gentleman, and smiled
out of fine soft-brown eyes. A very good-looking young fellow of
eighteen, home from his first college year.
"Oh, children, I hope you will all love me, for I have had a sad,
lonely time for the last five years. It seems so good to get to a real
home, and have a corner in your father's big heart. And we will all try
to make each other happy."
She was rather tall and slim, this new Mrs. Mason, with light-brown
hair and blue eyes, and a sweet, wistful smile. Nine years before this,
she and her husband and baby had gone out to Kentucky with a colony,
and though the valley was extraordinarily beautiful and fertile they
had known many hardships and more than one Indian skirmish. Still, they
were young and happy and prospering when death came to Philip François
Bouvier, and for five years she had been full of perplexity and sorrow,
when the coming of her dead cousin's husband had brought a glimpse of
rest and the proffer of a haven of delight.
"And this little one." She reached out her hand to Varina. "You and
Annis cannot be far apart in age, and will be excellent friends, I
trust. Was there not----" glancing around.
"Charles, put up your book and come and speak to your new mother.
And then to breakfast. I shouldn't blame Chloe if she put us on short
commons this morning, we are shamefully late. Your mother and I had
several points to discuss. We will do better to-morrow, Chloe. I hope
you have not allowed these marauders to tear down the house nor tear up
the garden. Ah, good-morning, Homer."
Homer was the tall, stately major-domo. The Indian blood in his veins
showed in his erect stature, his straight nose, and his hair, which,
though quite frosty and curly, was not kinky. And Homer felt as proud
of his blood as any of the Rolfe descendants.
They were all settled about the table presently--a household to be
proud of. Mrs. Mason took her place at the urn; Annis had a seat beside
her. Varina was on one side of her father, Charles on the other. A
fine-appearing flock, truly; Jaqueline and Patricia giving promise of
much beauty. Louis was tall and manly, though one could see he had been
bitten with the follies of early youth by a certain aspect of finery
that young men affected.
The meal was long and entertaining to the partakers. There was so much
to tell. Many things had happened in the six weeks' absence of the
head of the house, and everybody running wild. True, the overseer was a
man of judgment and foresight, and of wide experience, and the estate
had not suffered. Chloe had managed to keep what she called the "whip
hand" of the house servants. It was the children who had suffered most.
Indeed, if Aunt Catharine could have looked upon them now she would
have thought them demoralized beyond redemption.
But Squire Mason was an easy-going man, and had a feeling that most
things come out right if you give them a chance. Prosperity is apt to
make one buoyant and cheerful. And though the country was in a bad way
and the rulers in high places were disputing as to whether it could
hold together, and there were no end of sinister predictions even among
those who had borne the strain and burden of making a country. But
crops had been excellent, and on the large estates everything needful
was raised, so there was no stint. The Virginia planter, with his broad
acres, had a kingdom in virtue of this plenteousness.
Mrs. Mason watched the two chattering girls, the little Varina, who
held whispered confidences with her father, the abstracted boy Charles,
surprising herself with a sort of desultory conversation with the young
man who was explaining the many changes in men and events and places in
nine years.
"And we have brought the Capitol to Washington," he said, with the
dignity of his eighteen years. "You know there was a tremendous attempt
to locate it at Baltimore."
"Yes. Baltimore is dear to me. All my young life was passed there."
"I suppose there were some good reasons, but we Southerners made a
grand fight. We had Mr. Jefferson on our side. I think Virginia never
had full credit for her brave share of the war. At all events we had
the crowning victory, the surrender of Cornwallis."
"I have quite a desire to see Washington."
"It is so hard to get grants to go on with the buildings and
improvements. The country ought to have more enthusiasm. But the
eastern States are not over-cordial yet. Why, there could have been
next to nothing done when you went away!"
"There had been some trouble with Major l'Enfant, I believe. And
everybody was counting on a fortune for the ground."
"As they are yet," and the young man laughed. "Father has a tract
of swamp and elder bushes. When the streets reach out to us and the
population increases, we may go in. At least some of us younger ones. I
don't suppose anything would induce father to give up the estate here?"
"You are right there, Louis. This old Randolph place will last my time
out," said his father, who had caught the last of the sentence. "We are
near enough, and can get over to see the shows, while we keep out of
the quarrels. Some day it will be a fine town, and the country at large
may be proud of it. But there must be no end of money sunk in the bogs.
We will go over and inspect it."
"I hope Mrs. Madison finds more for her comfort than Mrs. Adams did,"
said Mrs. Mason, with a smile. "I can appreciate pioneer life."
"Mrs. Madison isn't lady of the White House absolutely, but she is sent
for to receive everybody. And she entertains delightfully herself. You
know," Jaqueline said this to her new mother, "that Aunt Jane lives in
the City----"
"She has not yet made Aunt Jane's acquaintance, or, if she did, it
was when Aunt Jane was a mere child. You were here on a visit--when,
Patricia?"
"Just before I was married, fifteen years ago, or nearly. And Jaqueline
was a little yellow-haired baby."
"Oh, how queer!" cried Patty.
"You see, mother was a widow some years, and her second family is still
quite young. Yes, Jane has married very well, a surveyor and civil
engineer. But it will not do for us to sit over the breakfast table all
day if we are going to mother's," and the squire rose, pulling himself
together with a sort of shake.
"Must we go to-day?" Mrs. Mason's voice was beseeching.
"Oh, mother would consider it an unpardonable slight! She is a great
stickler for deference and attention, and all that. Yes, and it is
a good long drive. We can return home by moonlight, however." He was
coming around to his wife's side. "We must take this little one and
show her to her grandparents. Rene, do you not want to go along?"
Varina looked undecided. She was not quite sure she wanted a new sister
so near her own age. She had been the pet and the plaything of the
household, and last night Mammy Phillis went over to the newcomer, who
had gone to bed for the first time in her life without being cuddled by
her own dear mother.
The squire pinched his new little girl's cheek softly. She leaned it
gently down in the hollow of his hand in a mute caress. He was very
fond of children.
There was the confusion of everyone rising, and all of them talking at
once, it seemed.
After her good night's sleep and her week of happiness Mrs. Patricia
Mason looked both young and pretty, though now she was not much past
two-and-thirty.
"I want to ride over," declared Jaqueline; "I have not been in ever
so long. And Marion is to have a party on her birthday, early in
September. What a pity Louis will be gone! She's desperately sweet on
Louis."
The young man flushed scarlet.
"You can't marry your aunt any more than you can marry your
grandmother," said his father in a teasing tone.
"Jack is always thinking about marrying," flung out the brother. "It's
a nasty way girls have."
"There! there! No disputing, or the new mother will think she has
fallen into a hornets' nest. Go and get ready. I'll take a glance at
the stables and see Dixon for a moment," and he turned away. But Louis
caught his arm and kept step with him.
"Well, what is it?" he asked rather impatiently. "Money again? You
young people think the well is exhaustless."
"No, it isn't money." His tone was a little husky. "Jerry is lame. I
rode him rather hard one day----"
The squire smothered an oath. He had promised his young wife he would
not swear at everything. It was a bad habit, a bad example to his
boys.
"How did that come about? I told you Jerry was not to be taken on
tramps. You young fellows have no sense."
"I was over to Kenyon's one day. They bet her against Kenyon's mare. I
tried to get out of it----"
"And you were beaten! Served you right! My poor Jerry!" with a touch of
desperate anger in the tone.
"No, I won!" There was a ring of elation in the young voice. "He came
in five seconds ahead. There was a great time, you may be sure, and
Kenyon was for trying it again. He thinks nothing can beat the mare. I
think Jerry trod on something. His foot and leg have been swollen. Cato
has him almost well, though."
"I meant to keep shady and enter him next year. I do believe if you
hadn't beat I should just take it out of your hide," and the squire
laughed. "Now it will go abroad that I have a crack horse. Well--and
what did Cato say?"
"He was lame the next morning, but Cato thought it wouldn't be much,
and when he grew worse Cato worked over him faithfully. He is sure he
will be all right."
"You are beginning early, young man. Next time you let my especial
horse alone. Well, I'm glad it's no worse. But I won't have you turning
out a horse jockey."
They had reached the stables, where two or three old men and half a
dozen negro boys were making a pretense of being busy, but they rushed
to welcome the squire. Cato and Jerry were both interviewed, and when
the master emerged with a pleasant face and scattered a handful of
coppers for the small fry to chase about, Louis felt quite relieved,
for, truth to tell, he had had several rather wretched days about his
father's favorite.
The squire ordered up the carriage, and Julius came down with missy's
commands.
Annis had followed her mother up the broad staircase to the large,
light room where a slim young colored girl was putting away various
articles in drawers and closets. The small wardrobe had been increased
during the brief time spent in Baltimore, but was not very extensive
yet.
When Randolph Mason had gone to Baltimore to settle the estate of
one of his wife's cousins, as he had been named executor, he found
Patricia Bouvier mentioned among the heirs. He recalled the pretty,
attractive girl his wife had taken such an interest in, who had married
an enthusiastic young French Huguenot, and some time after joined a
colony of emigrants to the "New Countries," as the Middle West was then
called.
"She was left a widow some years ago," said one of the relatives. "She
did write about coming back, but it is a long journey for a woman and
a little child. Latterly we have not heard. I dare say she is married
again."
There was a company going out to settle some boundary question and make
surveys, and on the spur of the moment the squire's adventurous blood
was roused and he joined them. They had magnificent summer weather,
and his enjoyment was intense. He found the little settlement and Mrs.
Bouvier, who had known varying fortunes since her husband's death. She
had been kindly cared for, and more than one man would gladly have
married her, but her heart yearned for her own people. To take the
journey alone seemed too venturesome, and she well knew the perils
of frontier travel. So she had waited with a longing soul for some
deliverance. She would go back gladly.
There was no difficulty in disposing of her claim in the settlement.
She bade good-by to the grave it had been a sad, sweet pleasure to
tend, and with her little girl and her delightful guide and convoy set
out on the journey.
Before they reached Baltimore a new tie had sprung up between them.
True, Squire Mason had thought occasionally during the last year
of marrying again. His sister Catharine had said to him before her
departure:
"The best thing you can do, Randolph, is to marry soon. The girls will
need someone to supervise them and see that they make proper marriages.
Mrs. Keen would be admirable, as she has no children. And there are the
Stormont girls; any of them would be suitable, since even Anne is not
young. I wish I had taken this in hand before."
"I wish you were not going away, Catharine. My girls ought to be nearer
to you than Mr. Conway's," he said ruefully.
"I will still do what I can for them. There is excellent society at
Williamsburg, and I can give them pleasant visits. But I never saw a
man more in need of a wife than Mr. Conway. It's a good thing clergymen
wear a surplice, for I am sure he never could tell whether he was
decent or not. Surely it is a plain duty."
"And you leave me in the lurch?"
"But, you see, a clergyman needs a person well fitted for the position,
which, I must say, every woman is not," with an air of complacency.
"And you think anyone will do for me!"
"How foolish you are, brother! I think no such thing. You certainly
have sense enough to make a wise choice."
But he had not chosen, and now he thought he should like this sweet,
sorrowful, tender Patricia. How bright he could make her life!
He was so strong, so sincere and cheerful. He made friends with
shy Annis, who sat on his knee and was intensely interested in his
girls--he always called them little. And before they reached Baltimore
he had asked Patricia to marry him, and Annis had consented to be
his little girl. Mrs. Bouvier's small patrimony was to be settled
on the child. But, then, she could not have imagined Mr. Mason being
mercenary.
Word had been sent to the household of the marriage. They had not
thought of objecting. In the great drawing room there was a portrait of
their mother in a white satin gown, with pearls about her neck. It had
been painted during a visit to London. They all went and looked at it,
and wondered if the cousin Patricia would be anything like that!
"I don't believe she is as beautiful," declared Jaqueline.
There had been several delays on the latter part of the journey, and
it was evening when the travelers reached home. The welcome had been
a hearty one, and when supper was over Annis was nodding. It was past
Varina's bedtime. Charles had already stolen off.
"Take the children to bed, Phillis," said the master. "They're to be
sisters, so they may as well begin by sharing the same room. You won't
feel lonesome, little Annis?"
"I'll go with her," said the mother in her soft voice.
"Nay." Randolph Mason put his hand on his wife's arm and kept her a
prisoner. "Phillie is the best of mammies. And you belong in part to
me. You have had a hard time, and now there is someone to wait upon you
and ease you up. Good-night, little ones."
He kissed both children. Annis wanted to cling to her mother, for even
through these three days of her married life her mother had heard her
little prayer and put her to bed, so she had not felt really separated.
But when Philly took her hand it came with a sudden wrench. She dared
not cry out in the face of them all. But, oh, was her own dear mother
not hers any more? Did she truly belong to father Mason? And all these
large children? Had she given herself away when father Mason had put a
ring on her finger and called her his wife?
She was out in the hall--being led upstairs, and Phillis' hand was as
soft as a crumpled rose leaf. Her voice was soft and sweet too. There
were two small white-covered beds, and when they were undressed and
within them Phillis crooned a low melody, and the little girl, being
very tired and sleepy, forgot her sorrows.
Then in the morning Phillis came and dressed them both and curled
Annis' soft, light hair. Jaqueline seized on her the moment she entered
the breakfast room.
"I hardly had a look at you last night," she began. "I do hope you
won't feel strange and that you will like us all. And there are ever so
many other relations. Did you never have any brothers or sisters?"
"No," answered Annis, with a kind of wistful regret, raising her eyes
shyly.
"We have another lot out at the Pineries. It's queer, but we don't call
them uncles and aunts, except Aunt Jane, because she is married and the
oldest. And we always dispute--it's very funny and queer. Grandfather
is a Federal--well, a sort of Tory, too--and father's a Republican.
People who live in a republic ought to be Republicans. That's what we
fought for."
Annis stared. "Out home--there," indicating the West with her head,
"they fought the Indians."
"Well--it is all about the same thing, only there are not many Indians
around here. And we don't fight each other."
"I don't know about that!" and the young man who was toying with the
ears of an English hound laughed.
Then had come the puzzling question, and Annis Bouvier wondered what
side she must take and was sadly mystified.
CHAPTER II.
THE PINERIES.
Annis ran and threw her arms around her mother's neck and kissed her
fervently.
"Are you glad to come here and do you like them all?" she asked when
she found her breath. "And it is so queer, with all the black people
and the great house and--and everything!"
"It is a little strange. You will like it better by and by," glancing
tenderly down in her child's eyes.
"And you--must you be mother to all the children? Am I never to have
you any more?"
"You have me now. Yes, you will always have me. Don't you remember you
used to wish for a sister like Sallie Reed? Her mother loved all the
children."
"But she had them when they were cunning little babies," was the
decisive reply.
"Dear,"--her mother knelt down and put her arms around the child,--"it
is this way. We have come to this lovely home which is to be ours, and
all the pleasant things a good friend can give--a kindly, generous
friend. I used to feel anxious and worried about your future. There
was no good school. The life was very narrow. And if I had been taken
away----"
"But they never would let the Indians take you. Oh, mother dear!" with
a fervent embrace. She had not meant that, but she would not give the
other explanation.
"And all these children are going to share their father's love with
you. He will give you this beautiful home, clothe you, educate you, and
he puts me in the place of their dear mother who is dead. He is going
to care for me and keep me from toil and sorrows and perplexities. When
you are older you will understand better. I hope you will try to love
them all, and this good dear friend who will be a father to you."
"But I shall love you the best."
"Yes, dear," with a proud certainty.
"And you will love me better than anyone else?" and Annis clasped her
mother with a child's unreasoning exclusiveness.
"Yes, dear."
A merry voice went lilting through the hall. Jaqueline paused a moment
at the door. She was in her pretty green riding habit, and her straw
hat had a bunch of iridescent cock's-plumes. She held her riding whip
in one gloved hand, and she really was a picture good to look at.
