fragrant gloom. He moved so little that I was sure--making no turn that
would have made me draw back; he only smoked slowly in his place and
seemed as lost in thought as I was lost in my attention to him. I scarce
knew what this told me; all I felt was that, however slight the incident
and small the evidence, it essentially fitted in. It had for my
imagination a value, for my theory a price, and it in fact constituted
an impression under the influence of which this theory, just impatiently
shaken off, perched again on my shoulders. It was of the deepest
interest to me to see Long in such detachment, in such apparent
concentration. These things marked and presented him more than any had
yet done, and placed him more than any yet in relation to other matters.
They showed him, I thought, as serious, his situation as grave. I
couldn't have said what they proved, but I was as affected by them as if
they proved everything. The proof simply acted from the instant the
vision of him alone there in the warm darkness was caught. It was just
with all that was in the business that he was, that he had fitfully
needed to be, alone. Nervous and restless after separating, under my
eyes, from Mrs. Briss, he had wandered off to the smoking-room, as yet
empty; he didn't know what to do either, and was incapable of bed and
of sleep. He had observed the communication of the smoking-room with the
terrace and had come out into the air; this was what suited him, and,
with pauses and meditations, much, possibly, by this time to turn over,
he prolonged his soft vigil. But he at last moved, and I found myself
startled. I gave up watching and retraced my course. I felt, none the
less, fairly humiliated. It had taken but another turn of an eye to
re-establish all my connections.
I had not, however, gone twenty steps before I met Ford Obert, who had
entered the corridor from the other end and was, as he immediately let
me know, on his way to the smoking-room.
"Is everyone then dispersing?"
"Some of the men, I think," he said, "are following me; others, I
believe--wonderful creatures!--have gone to array themselves. Others
still, doubtless, have gone to bed."
"And the ladies?"
"Oh, they've floated away--soared aloft; to high jinks--isn't that the
idea?--in their own quarters. Don't they too, at these hours, practise
sociabilities of sorts? They make, at any rate, here, an extraordinary
picture on that great staircase."
I thought a moment. "I wish I had seen it. But I do see it.
Yes--splendid. Is the place wholly cleared of them?"
"Save, it struck me, so far as they may have left some 'black plume as a
token'----"
"Not, I trust," I returned, "of any 'lie' their 'soul hath spoken!' But
not one of them lingers?"
He seemed to wonder. "'Lingers?' For what?"
"Oh, I don't know--in this house!"
He looked at our long vista, still lighted--appeared to feel with me our
liberal ease, which implied that unseen powers waited on our good
pleasure and sat up for us. There is nothing like it in fact, the
liberal ease at Newmarch. Yet Obert reminded me--if I needed the
reminder--that I mustn't after all presume on it. "Was one of them to
linger for you?"
"Well, since you ask me, it was what I hoped. But since you answer for
it that my hope has not been met, I bow to a superior propriety."
"You mean you'll come and smoke with me? Do then come."
"What, if I do," I asked with an idea, "will you give me?"
"I'm afraid I can promise you nothing more that I deal in than a bad
cigarette."
"And what then," I went on, "will you take from me?"
He had met my eyes, and now looked at me a little with a smile that I
thought just conscious. "Well, I'm afraid I can't take any more----"
"Of the sort of stuff," I laughed, "you've already had? Sorry stuff,
perhaps--a poor thing but mine own! Such as it is, I only ask to keep it
for myself, and that isn't what I meant. I meant what flower will you
gather, what havoc will you play----?"
"Well?" he said as I hesitated.
"Among superstitions that I, after all, cherish. Mon siège est fait--a
great glittering crystal palace. How many panes will you reward me for
amiably sitting up with you by smashing?"
It might have been my mere fancy--but it was my fancy--that he looked
at me a trifle harder. "How on earth can I tell what you're talking
about?"
I waited a moment, then went on: "Did you happen to count them?"
"Count whom?"
"Why, the ladies as they filed up. Was the number there?"
He gave a jerk of impatience. "Go and see for yourself!"
Once more I just waited. "But suppose I should find Mrs. Server----?"
"Prowling there on the chance of you? Well--I thought she was what you
wanted."
"Then," I returned, "you could tell what I was talking about!" For a
moment after this we faced each other without more speech, but I
presently continued: "You didn't really notice if any lady stayed
behind?"
"I think you ask too much of me," he at last brought out. "Take care of
your ladies, my dear man, yourself! Go," he repeated, "and see."
"Certainly--it's better; but I'll rejoin you in three minutes." And
while he went his way to the smoking-room I proceeded without more delay
to assure myself, performing in the opposite sense the journey I had
made ten minutes before. It was extraordinary what the sight of Long
alone in the outer darkness had done for me: my expression of it would
have been that it had put me "on" again at the moment of my decidedly
feeling myself off. I believed that if I hadn't seen him I could now
have gone to bed without seeing Mrs. Briss; but my renewed impression
had suddenly made the difference. If that was the way he struck me, how
might not, if I could get at her, she? And she might, after all, in the
privacy at last offered us by empty rooms, be waiting for me. I went
through them all, however, only to find them empty indeed. In conformity
with the large allowances of every sort that were the law of Newmarch,
they were still open and lighted, so that if I had believed in Mrs.
Briss's reappearance I might conveniently, on the spot, have given her
five minutes more. I am not sure, for that matter, that I didn't. I
remember at least wondering if I mightn't ring somewhere for a servant
and cause a question to be sent up to her. I didn't ring, but I must
have lingered a little on the chance of the arrival of servants to
extinguish lights and see the house safe. They had not arrived, however,
by the time I again felt that I must give up.
XI
I gave up by going, decidedly, to the smoking-room, where several men
had gathered and where Obert, a little apart from them, was in charmed
communion with the bookshelves. They are wonderful, everywhere, at
Newmarch, the bookshelves, but he put a volume back as he saw me come
in, and a moment later, when we were seated, I said to him again, as a
recall of our previous passage, "Then you could tell what I was
talking about!" And I added, to complete my reference, "Since you
thought Mrs. Server was the person whom, when I stopped you, I was sorry
to learn from you I had missed."
His momentary silence appeared to admit the connection I established.
"Then you find you have missed her? She wasn't there for you?"
"There's no one 'there for me'; so that I fear that if you weren't, as
it happens, here for me, my amusement would be quite at an end. I had,
in fact," I continued, "already given it up as lost when I came upon
you, a while since, in conversation with the lady we've named. At that,
I confess, my prospects gave something of a flare. I said to myself
that since your interest hadn't then wholly dropped, why, even at the
worst, should mine? Yours was mine, wasn't it? for a little, this
morning. Or was it mine that was yours? We exchanged, at any rate, some
lively impressions. Only, before we had done, your effort dropped or
your discretion intervened: you gave up, as none of your business, the
question that had suddenly tempted us."
"And you gave it up too," said my friend.
"Yes, and it was on the idea that it was mine as little as yours that we
separated."
"Well then?" He kept his eyes, with his head thrown back, on the warm
bindings, admirable for old gilt and old colour, that covered the
opposite wall.
"Well then, if I've correctly gathered that you're, in spite of our
common renunciation, still interested, I confess to you that I am. I
took my detachment too soon for granted. I haven't been detached. I'm
not, hang me! detached now. And it's all because you were originally so
suggestive."
"Originally?"
"Why, from the moment we met here yesterday--the moment of my first
seeing you with Mrs. Server. The look you gave me then was really the
beginning of everything. Everything"--and I spoke now with real
conviction--"was traceably to spring from it."
"What do you mean," he asked, "by everything?"
"Well, this failure of detachment. What you said to me as we were going
up yesterday afternoon to dress--what you said to me then is responsible
for it. And since it comes to that," I pursued, "I make out for myself
now that you're not detached either--unless, that is, simply detached
from me. I had indeed a suspicion of that as I passed through the room
there."
He smoked through another pause. "You've extraordinary notions of
responsibility."
I watched him a moment, but he only stared at the books without looking
round. Something in his voice had made me more certain, and my certainty
made me laugh. "I see you are serious!"
But he went on quietly enough. "You've extraordinary notions of
responsibility. I deny altogether mine."
"You are serious--you are!" I repeated with a gaiety that I meant as
inoffensive and that I believe remained so. "But no matter. You're no
worse than I."
"I'm clearly, by your own story, not half so bad. But, as you say, no
matter. I don't care."
I ventured to keep it up. "Oh, don't you?"
His good nature was proof. "I don't care."
"Then why didn't you so much as look at me a while ago?"
"Didn't I look at you?"
"You know perfectly you didn't. Mrs. Server did--with her unutterable
intensity; making me feel afresh, by the way, that I've never seen a
woman compromise herself so little by proceedings so compromising. But
though you saw her intensity, it never diverted you for an instant from
your own."
He lighted before he answered this a fresh cigarette. "A man engaged in
talk with a charming woman scarcely selects that occasion for winking at
somebody else."
"You mean he contents himself with winking at her? My dear fellow,
that wasn't enough for you yesterday, and it wouldn't have been enough
for you this morning, among the impressions that led to our last talk.
It was just the fact that you did wink, that you had winked, at me
that wound me up."
"And what about the fact that you had winked at me? Your
winks--come"--Obert laughed--"are portentous!"
"Oh, if we recriminate," I cheerfully said after a moment, "we agree."
"I'm not so sure," he returned, "that we agree."
"Ah, then, if we differ it's still more interesting. Because, you know,
we didn't differ either yesterday or this morning."
Without hurry or flurry, but with a decent confusion, his thoughts went
back. "I thought you said just now we did--recognising, as you ought,
that you were keen about a chase of which I washed my hands."
"No--I wasn't keen. You've just mentioned that you remember my giving
up. I washed my hands too."
It seemed to leave him with the moral of this. "Then, if our hands are
clean, what are we talking about?"
I turned, on it, a little more to him, and looked at him so long that he
had at last to look at me; with which, after holding his eyes another
moment, I made my point. "Our hands are not clean."
"Ah, speak for your own!"--and as he moved back I might really have
thought him uneasy. There was a hint of the same note in the way he went
on: "I assure you I decline all responsibility. I see the responsibility
as quite beautifully yours."
"Well," I said, "I only want to be fair. You were the first to bring it
out that she was changed."
"Well, she isn't changed!" said my friend with an almost startling
effect, for me, of suddenness. "Or rather," he immediately and
incongruously added, "she is. She's changed back."
"'Back'?" It made me stare.
"Back," he repeated with a certain sharpness and as if to have done at
last, for himself, with the muddle of it.
But there was that in me that could let him see he had far from done;
and something, above all, told me now that he absolutely mustn't have
before I had. I quickly moreover saw that I must, with an art, make him
want not to. "Back to what she was when you painted her?"
He had to think an instant for this. "No--not quite to that."
"To what then?"
He tried in a manner to oblige me. "To something else."
It seemed so, for my thought, the gleam of something that fitted, that I
was almost afraid of quenching the gleam by pressure. I must then get
everything I could from him without asking too much. "You don't quite
know to what else?"
"No--I don't quite know." But there was a sound in it, this time, that I
took as the hint of a wish to know--almost a recognition that I might
help him.
I helped him accordingly as I could and, I may add, as far as the
positive flutter he had stirred in me suffered. It fitted--it fitted!
"If her change is to something other, I suppose then a change back is
not quite the exact name for it."
"Perhaps not." I fairly thrilled at his taking the suggestion as if it
were an assistance. "She isn't at any rate what I thought her
yesterday."
It was amazing into what depths this dropped for me and with what
possibilities it mingled. "I remember what you said of her yesterday."
I drew him on so that I brought back for him the very words he had used.
"She was so beastly unhappy." And he used them now visibly not as a
remembrance of what he had said, but for the contrast of the fact with
what he at present perceived; so that the value this gave for me to what
he at present perceived was immense.
"And do you mean that that's gone?"
He hung fire, however, a little as to saying so much what he meant, and
while he waited he again looked at me. "What do you mean? Don't you
think so yourself?"
I laid my hand on his arm and held him a moment with a grip that
betrayed, I daresay, the effort in me to keep my thoughts together and
lose not a thread. It betrayed at once, doubtless, the danger of that
failure and the sharp foretaste of success. I remember that with it,
absolutely, I struck myself as knowing again the joy of the intellectual
mastery of things unamenable, that joy of determining, almost of
creating results, which I have already mentioned as an exhilaration
attached to some of my plunges of insight. "It would take long to tell
you what I mean."
The tone of it made him fairly watch me as I had been watching him.
"Well, haven't we got the whole night?"
"Oh, it would take more than the whole night--even if we had it!"
"By which you suggest that we haven't it?"
"No--we haven't it. I want to get away."
"To go to bed? I thought you were so keen."
"I am keen. Keen is no word for it. I don't want to go to bed. I want
to get away."
"To leave the house--in the middle of the night?"
"Yes--absurd as it may seem. You excite me too much. You don't know what
you do to me."
He continued to look at me; then he gave a laugh which was not the
contradiction, but quite the attestation, of the effect produced on him
by my grip. If I had wanted to hold him I held him. It only came to me
even that I held him too much. I felt this in fact with the next thing
he said. "If you're too excited, then, to be coherent now, will you tell
me to-morrow?"
I took time myself now to relight. Ridiculous as it may sound, I had my
nerves to steady; which is a proof, surely, that for real excitement
there are no such adventures as intellectual ones. "Oh, to-morrow I
shall be off in space!"
"Certainly we shall neither of us be here. But can't we arrange, say, to
meet in town, or even to go up together in such conditions as will
enable us to talk?"
I patted his arm again. "Thank you for your patience. It's really good
of you. Who knows if I shall be alive to-morrow? We are meeting. We
do talk."
But with all I had to think of I must have fallen, on this, into the
deepest of silences, for the next thing I remember is his returning: "We
don't!" I repeated my gesture of reassurance, I conveyed that I should
be with him again in a minute, and presently, while he gave me time, he
came back to something of his own. "My wink, at all events, would have
been nothing for any question between us, as I've just said, without
yours. That's what I call your responsibility. It was, as we put the
matter, the torch of your analogy----"
"Oh, the torch of my analogy!"
I had so groaned it--as if for very ecstasy--that it pulled him up, and
I could see his curiosity as indeed reaffected. But he went on with a
coherency that somewhat admonished me: "It was your making me, as I told
you this morning, think over what you had said about Brissenden and his
wife: it was that----"
"That made you think over"--I took him straight up--"what you yourself
had said about our troubled lady? Yes, precisely. That was the torch
of my analogy. What I showed you in the one case seemed to tell you what
to look for in the other. You thought it over. I accuse you of nothing
worse than of having thought it over. But you see what thinking it
over does for it."
The way I said this appeared to amuse him. "I see what it does for
you!"
"No, you don't! Not at all yet. That's just the embarrassment."
"Just whose?" If I had thanked him for his patience he showed that he
deserved it. "Just yours?"
"Well, say mine. But when you do----!" And I paused as for the rich
promise of it.
"When I do see where you are, you mean?"
"The only difficulty is whether you can see. But we must try. You've
set me whirling round, but we must go step by step. Oh, but it's all in
your germ!"--I kept that up. "If she isn't now beastly unhappy----"
"She's beastly happy?" he broke in, getting firmer hold, if not of the
real impression he had just been gathering under my eyes, then at least
of something he had begun to make out that my argument required. "Well,
that is the way I see her difference. Her difference, I mean," he
added, in his evident wish to work with me, "her difference from her
other difference! There!" He laughed as if, also, he had found himself
fairly fantastic. "Isn't that clear for you?"
"Crystalline--for me. But that's because I know why."
I can see again now the long look that, on this, he gave me. I made out
already much of what was in it. "So then do I!"
"But how in the world----? I know, for myself, how I know."
"So then do I," he after a moment repeated.
"And can you tell me?"
"Certainly. But what I've already named to you--the torch of your
analogy."
I turned this over. "You've made evidently an admirable use of it. But
the wonderful thing is that you seem to have done so without having all
the elements."
He on his side considered. "What do you call all the elements?"
"Oh, it would take me long to tell you!" I couldn't help laughing at the
comparative simplicity with which he asked it. "That's the sort of thing
we just now spoke of taking a day for. At any rate, such as they are,
these elements," I went on, "I believe myself practically in possession
of them. But what I don't quite see is how you can be."
Well, he was able to tell me. "Why in the world shouldn't your analogy
have put me?" He spoke with gaiety, but with lucidity. "I'm not an idiot
either."
"I see." But there was so much!
"Did you think I was?" he amiably asked.
"No. I see," I repeated. Yet I didn't, really, fully; which he presently
perceived.
"You made me think of your view of the Brissenden pair till I could
think of nothing else."
"Yes--yes," I said. "Go on."
"Well, as you had planted the theory in me, it began to bear fruit. I
began to watch them. I continued to watch them. I did nothing but watch
them."
The sudden lowering of his voice in this confession--as if it had
represented a sort of darkening of his consciousness--again amused me.
"You too? How then we've been occupied! For I, you see, have watched--or
had, until I found you just now with Mrs. Server--everyone, everything
but you."
"Oh, I've watched you," said Ford Obert as if he had then perhaps
after all the advantage of me. "I admit that I made you out for myself
to be back on the scent; for I thought I made you out baffled."
To learn whether I really had been was, I saw, what he would most have
liked; but I also saw that he had, as to this, a scruple about asking
me. What I most saw, however, was that to tell him I should have to
understand. "What scent do you allude to?"
He smiled as if I might have fancied I could fence. "Why, the pursuit of
the identification that's none of our business--the identification of
her lover."
"Ah, it's as to that," I instantly replied, "you've judged me baffled?
I'm afraid," I almost as quickly added, "that I must admit I have
been. Luckily, at all events, it is none of our business."
"Yes," said my friend, amused on his side, "nothing's our business that
we can't find out. I saw you hadn't found him. And what," Obert
continued, "does he matter now?"
It took but a moment to place me for seeing that my companion's
conviction on this point was a conviction decidedly to respect; and even
that amount of hesitation was but the result of my wondering how he had
reached it. "What, indeed?" I promptly replied. "But how did you see I
had failed?"
"By seeing that I myself had. For I've been looking too. He isn't here,"
said Ford Obert.
Delighted as I was that he should believe it, I was yet struck by the
complacency of his confidence, which connected itself again with my
observation of their so recent colloquy. "Oh, for you to be so sure, has
Mrs. Server squared you?"
"Is he here?" he for all answer to this insistently asked.
I faltered but an instant. "No; he isn't here. It's no thanks to one's
scruples, but perhaps it's lucky for one's manners. I speak at least for
mine. If you've watched," I pursued, "you've doubtless sufficiently seen
what has already become of mine. He isn't here, at all events," I
repeated, "and we must do without his identity. What, in fact, are we
showing each other," I asked, "but that we have done without it?"
"I have!" my friend declared with supreme frankness and with something
of the note, as I was obliged to recognise, of my own constructive joy.
"I've done perfectly without it."
I saw in fact that he had, and it struck me really as wonderful. But I
controlled the expression of my wonder. "So that if you spoke therefore
just now of watching them----"
"I meant of course"--he took it straight up--"watching the Brissendens.
And naturally, above all," he as quickly subjoined, "the wife."
I was now full of concurrence. "Ah, naturally, above all, the wife."
So far as was required it encouraged him. "A woman's lover doesn't
matter--doesn't matter at least to anyone but himself, doesn't matter to
you or to me or to her--when once she has given him up."
It made me, this testimony of his observation, show, in spite of my
having by this time so counted on it, something of the vivacity of my
emotion. "She has given him up?"
But the surprise with which he looked round put me back on my guard. "Of
