stone. 
Stores and shops too, there were, cafes and doctors’ 
signs, and drinkdng places full of sailors from every land 
it would seem, talking and gesticulating so fiercely one 
shuddered at the prospect of a coming fight. 
Sometimes Sylvie shrank in affright; then her interest 
was aroused or her amusement quickened by the queer 
antics of the half-clad negro boys who would stand on 
their heads, walk on their hands, sing a song or dance 
a jig or chatter in some mysterious lingo for the merest 
reward. Gervaise had her tightly by the hand; Jaques 
was caring for Angelique, and the two women headed the 
little procession as they viewed some of the most im- 
portant points. Then they wended their way back to 
the Rue Royale. 
M’sieu Lavalette had returned. Although the story- 
and-a-half building had not a very pretentious aspect, and 
the sanded floor and wooden benches were extremely 
plain, their host, with a great show of politeness, ushered 
them into an adjoining apartment, where there were 
plenty of chairs and a great round table ornamented by 
several well-thumbed packs of cards and a queer blue 
plate that did duty as an ash receiver. 
M’sieu Lavalette had the manners of a prince. Had 
he been receiving the guests in a royal apartment he could 
not have had more dignity and graciousness, and 
none of the effusiveness of an underbred person. Would 
they accept his hospitality and be seated? Then he sent 
his black servant for a pitcher of a kind of drink the 
Creoles manufactured to perfection, made of limes and 
oranges, and flavored with a decoction of flowers, it would 
seem. 
Mere Milhet began the conversation. In the best 
French at her command, she explained the situation. 
They were, in a certain sense, refugees, but would no 
doubt go back for their fortune unless they found Nouveau 
Orleans so pleasant. They would not be able to tear 
themselves away. For a year at least they would need 
a home. They desired a nice comfortable place, not 
right in the heart of the city, and with a garden spot. 
There was a cousin who had come to America before, 
and they were to make a search for him. The young 
man, M’sieu Aubreton, would do that while the others 
waited here. 
Mere Milhet had made pauses for the questions she 
knew would be asked, polite, tentative suggestions rather 
than absolute inquiries. And now she turned the guests 
over to M’sieu Lavalette. 
A tall, rather spare man with a pale complexion, soft 
dark eyes and hair of brown rather than black, and a 
scanty beard with some chestnut tints. All the features 
were rather aquiline, but not severe, vivacious and 
friendly. 
“A garden,” in a soft, musing tone. “And not quite 
in the town ?” 
“And on high ground,” appended Barbe. “Every- 
thing seems so low, so wet.” 
Lavalette gave a little shrug. “Yet tis mos’ beautiful,” 
he said, “with the river winding about and the lakes and 
bayous. A mos’ beautiful city presentlee,” with a soft 
lingering cadence on the last syllable. “Yes, I think 
I have one place. It is out on St. John Road. You 
know, Mere Milhet?” 
“Oh, that is not far.” 
“The family go to Havana. I, buy it with great 
cheapness. Roomy, beautiful, convenient. And such 
fruit, Madame, such a garden ! The other is less in cost, 
but no such garden.” 
“And the garden is most useful when one knows 
she glanced furtively at Jaques. 
“Yes, Madame. The garden will be my care. I 
could not settle to complete idleness.” 
“If it were not so late ” M’sieu Lavalette glanced 
at his watch. 
“We had better go in the morning,” said Barbe. 
“Then we can look all about, and if we think this too 
large we can inspect the other.” 
“I shall be mos’ happy to wait upon Madame. I have 
great honor in you,” and he bowed. “Mere Milhet, I 
am so much obliged for your very good friendship. 
And we will make these people quite at home,” smiling 
on the little group. “I have a daughter perhaps about 
your age,” and he bowed to Angelique. “It may please 
you to be friends.” 
Sylvie came a little nearer. The soft voice and gliding 
intonation quite fascinated her. 
“And is Zenobie your little girl too?” she asked, with 
charming timidity. 
'‘Non — my little girl is Felicite, less than you. Zeno- 
bie is large.” 
She betrayed her disappointment at the first part of 
his sentence, but now a smile like sunshine quivered about 
her rosy mouth. 
“Where did you hear about Zenobie?” he asked, 
glancing questioningly at Mere Milhet. 
“Laure knows her at school. She talked of the girls 
to the little one.” 
“Thou shalt see Zenobie, but she will be too large for 
thee. Felicite is very sweet and full of mirth.” 
He pressed the little hand and Sylvie smiled. 
At home they talked of the place and the plans and 
were full of interest. Laure had been unfortunate again 
and had a penance. She had said something not quite 
true, a failing with poor Laure, and she was not to 
talk to any one all the evening, and study her Spanish. 
‘T am glad I shall not go to the convent,” declared 
Sylvie. *‘But the bell rings so beautifully that one has 
to listen.” 
'‘The bell must not make you a Catholic, even if you 
do listen,” said Gervaise, teasingly. 
“As if a bell could !” indignantly. 
“Perhaps Zenobie will. You must have a care.” 
And Gervaise looked apprehensive. 
“Zenobie is very beautiful, Laure said,” and Sylvie 
tossed her head as if coquetting with danger. 
The town had sometime since overflowed its original 
boundaries. Not only in the business part and the ship- 
ping, but Toulouse, Royale, Chartres and many another 
street was stretching out into what seemed a wilderness 
only a few years ago. Thousands of Americans were 
settling on the outskirts and managed to get land, 
although the city had refused to sell to the English. 
And the road to the Bayou St. John was one of these 
lengthened-out places. The ground was a little high and 
sloped down to the river. There was quite a space in 
front bordered by magnolia trees, and a driveway up 
to the house, flanked by fragrant oleanders and blossom- 
ing shrubs. Its lower story was of brick and covered 
with trailing vines and thousands of roses. The upper 
story was frame, and on three sides a broad gallery over- 
hung by an extended roof, and supported by brick 
columns. The wide doorway opened into a great hall, 
and on one side were the slaves’ apartments ; on the other, 
innumerable kitchens. The family rooms were upstairs, 
large, commodious, and airy, and at the back the grounds 
stretched out through a magnificent allee to a kitchen 
garden. 
“But who has cultivated it?” cried Gervaise. “It is 
in such splendid order.” 
“Father Antoine. Three or four priests have a house 
farther up the river. And when there was no tenant 
Father Antoine proposed to take it and divide if some one 
came. Their mission extends up for miles, among the 
Indians. You will find them good neighbors.” 
“It will cost too much, I am afraid,” said Barbe, with 
a sigh, thinking of the grandeur of Brienne. “And a 
smaller place would do. We should want some ser- 
vants ” 
“They are easily obtained. Only this morning our 
housekeeper was begging us to hire two more servants, 
and the saints know w’e have a houseful now ! Their 
mistress has taken a journey to the States and does not 
want to sell them at present. A most excellent cook and 
waitress.” 
“We had better see the small house,” declared Barbe, 
decisively. 
But the small house was on a narrow dirty street, with 
a cabaret only a few doors away. One could not put a 
pretty girl like Angelique in it! And the children play- 
ing about were not at all mates for Sylvie. 
“Let us talk it over,” said M’sieu Lavalette. “To a 
good tenant I might say less. Anything is better than 
letting it go to ruin with the damp. Come, I think 
we can agree upon a bargain. And there are several 
pieces of old furniture in it. Consider, Madame.” 
And they considered to such good purpose that the 
house was taken. And now could M’sieu Lavalette 
advise them how to dispose of some precious stones? 
Part of their portion was still in the hands of a banker 
at Amsterdam. 
Monsieur Lavalette was profuse in his thanks to Mere 
Milhet for so good a tenant. The very next day he 
brought his wife, his daughter, a grown-up young lady, 
Claire, and the little Felicite, who was not more than five, 
and very shy. 
They all made a friendly acquaintance. Madame 
Lavalette was very handsomely attired; a tall, imposing 
woman, but with a soft, almost caressing voice. She 
was so charmed to meet them. There were hosts of 
refugees fleeing from France, some not at all desirable, 
and she gave a dainty shrug to her finely formed sloping 
shoulders in their cloud of black lace. But mercil 
What could one do but run away with one’s head in 
danger ? And the poor King and Queen ! But even their 
sorrows were at an end and the sweet motherof God would 
help reward them for their martydom. It was the poor 
children, after all, who were to be pitied. “You see we 
are French to the heart’s core, Madame. The Spaniard 
may make his laws and we obey them, outwardly at 
least,” smiling and twinkling her fine dark eyes. “But 
we can make reservation in our hearts and live our own 
lives in our homes. True, the Spaniard is not so 
bad, only we are French, and we all protested against 
being sold like slaves or cattle. So it is a pleasure to 
meet some one newly from our beloved country. We 
must be friends, and here is Mam’selle Claire, who will 
be very companionable for your niece — is it not?” 
“Perhaps not quite so near as that,” returned Barbe, 
embarrassed. 
“Mam’selle Angelique, you must come and visit Claire. 
And whatever can be done for you, my husband will do 
most cheerfully. Do not forget you are among friends.” 
Madame had talked so volubly that though Sylvie had 
framed a dozen questions about Zenobie, she had not 
found a place to put in even one, though she had been 
much interested and almost bewildered by the rapid 
stream of words. Felicite had stared and occasionally 
said, '‘Non” holding fast of her mother’s gown most of 
the time. 
“She is only a baby!” declared Sylvie, disdainfully, 
afterward. ‘T am years and years older! And, Angel, 
I have been married and have a husband,” with amusing 
importance. 
“But we are not to talk of that, you know. It is a 
great secret. And then — Cousin Hugh may — may not be 
found,” swallowing over a lump in her throat. 
“I do not care for Cousin Hugh. It is Gervaise who 
is my husband, and whom I shall always love. And to 
think of my caring for a baby who cannot talk plain!” 
drawing herself up with dignity. 
CHAPTER VI. 
MAKING A NEW HOME. 
No one of the household was happier than the little 
girl in the new home. The trees and birds and flowers 
filled her with a kind of exultant joy. That all these things 
were real; real figs, real oranges and lemons and apri- 
cots and peaches. And roses to be gathered by the 
armful. She ran and danced and sang, and was gay 
as a butterfly. 
The house was very pleasant. It was raised a little on 
brick pillars, that there might be a circulation of air 
underneath, as many of the best houses were now being 
built. The stone stairway that led to the real apartments 
was easy and broad. It looked almost like entering a 
church. Over the kitchen department was a spacious 
dining-room reached by another stairway. Most of the 
apartments opened upon the long oval hall, out of which 
at both ends a grating-door led to the corridors without. 
What to do for furniture perplexed Barbette. Where 
were there any shops or stores ? 
‘‘Madame Lavalette will be very glad to tell us. 
There is another thing, Barbe ” 
Angelique’s face went such a vivid scarlet that Barbe 
lifted both hands in amaze. 
“What is wrong, ma chere?” 
“Nothing is wrong, but we must set some things right 
in the very beginning,” exclaimed the young girl, with 
a touch of embarrassment. Then she came and put her 
arms about Barbe's neck. “You have been such a good 
friend to us, like a mother, Barbe.” 
“A mother indeed to the little one. But then I was 
like an elder sister to Sylvie de Chatillly, and when she 
became madame, sweet young thing, and her husband a 
good deal at the wars ” 
Barbe paused and wiped away a tear. 
“Yes. If you had been of her kin you could not have 
been more tender. And did you hear, Barbe, what a 
man was saying to M. Lavalette, that all titles were 
abolished in Paris and everybody was plain Citizen 
So-or-so ?” 
“Ah, the wickedness ! But what can you expect when 
they put a king to death? It is well the poor Marquise 
did not live to see the day. But what of all this, 
Mam’selle ?” 
She raised the sweet, flushed face and glanced into the 
brown eyes that had golden lights in them. 
“Perhaps I cannot explain this to you easily, Barbe, but 
you see we are two young girls and must have a pro- 
tectress. There must be a head to the house,, a Madame 
who can receive and order things for us and decide 
where we are to go and to take us out ” 
“Oh, poor things ! Yes, I see. And you have no 
relative ” interrupted Barbe, in a pained, sympathetic 
tone, studying the girl with tender pity. 
“You must be the relative, the aunt, the Madame. 
You will take charge of everything, so why should you 
not have the credit, the position? And we will all pay 
you the respect. I was talking to Gervaise and he agrees 
with me. It must be settled before any servants 
come. And Jaques is to be steward and manager. 
You see you are both fairly well educated. You read 
Latin. You know the French authors so well.” 
“Yes, I used to read to mv dear Madame Svlvie. And 
the Marquise enjoyed it. She said it quite weakened 
many of the pains.” 
“Well, then, you are to be a connection, a distant 
relative. It happens in many families that some are 
richer than others. But for you we should not have 
anything, and perhaps have been thrust into a convent. 
Who else would have thought to quilt diamonds and gold 
pieces in an old skirt? They would have taken the new 
and no doubt roused suspicion. And to say that I was 
a sick little child and bundle me up so that no one could 
tell! Oh, Barbe, we owe you everything!” 
They both cried sympathetically with their arms 
around each other. So many evils might have happened, 
and here they were all safe. 
“So you see, Barbe, this is the best thing to do. You 
shall be Madame Champe, as I introduced you that day 
to Madame Lavalette. And we shall call you Aunt, 
ma tante, they say here,” laughing lightly. ‘‘And you 
must always hold yourself up like a real lady, Barbe — 
you have always been with ladies and never in the place 
of a servant.” 
“As you like, rna chere” the woman answered, meekly. 
She felt like a mother to the girls. 
“There comes Gervaise. Oh, Gervaise, it is all ar- 
ranged. I have been explaining to Barbe, and now she 
understands. It will not take long for us to get settled 
in new ways. Ahd now we must see about a hundred 
things. It will be so delightful to feel at ease in a real 
home once more. If you were not going away ” 
She was very fond of Gervaise in a sisterly fashion. 
“Oh, I shall wait until we are in smooth running 
order. Indeed, I could wish I had no need to go at all. 
I like this queer, beautiful place. Everything seems so 
alive, so full of stirring romance.” 
“Yes, you must find Hugh,” she said, gravely. 
“I will do my best to trace him up. It is such a big 
country, Angel. Louisiana goes up north thousands of 
miles, and stretches out to the westward farther than man 
has travelled. Oh, how could any king give up such a 
grand domain ! And the heroes !• Pere Antoine was 
telling me about the man who discovered the mighty 
river here. And they have all been glorious Frenchmen ! 
All America should have been New France.” 
How bright and brave he looked in his enthusiasm. 
Madame Lavalette was very kind about the furnish- 
ing, though it was M’sieu who knew the best places and 
was the real bargain-maker. “Not too much for our 
purse,” Madame Champe said. “We must learn to have 
a closer garment — that is not quite it, I think,” smiling. 
“To cut one’s garment according to the cloth,” and 
Madame Lavalette showed her pretty pearly teeth in her 
laugh. “But you are so much better off than many of 
the refugees that you must indeed give thanks.” 
“As we do with our whole hearts.” 
Gervaise took a tour about with M. Lavalette. In a 
most unpromising second-hand place they found some fine 
old articles that required only a little furbishing up. 
There was not much needed in those days. Father 
Antoine begged they would buy of his simple house some 
chairs and settees made of a reedy grass the Indians had 
taught them how to weave. The money obtained in this 
manner was spent on the Indian missions. For many a 
brave, self-denying priest had come to the New World 
with only one object: to convert and civilize the heathen 
Indians. And as a travesty astute money-making men 
were pouring in and smuggling in Africans, with their 
fetich worship, their charms and incantations. 
Many people hired slaves, especially those who ex- 
pected to remain only a limited period. So to the new 
home came Marti, a tall, stout, well-ebonized woman with 
a magnificent turban over her woolly locks, great hoop 
earrings in her ears, and a jolly, laughing face; a most 
excellent cook; and a tall slim girl many shades lighter, 
who answered to the name of Viny. And then real 
living began. 
Society, too, for Angelique. Madame Lavalette came 
over with an invitation. 
“Thou must certainly accept, pretty one,” she said to 
the young girl. “Thou and thy cousin. Madame 
Henriade saw him pass with my husband and she is, 
oh, so interested ! And she has all the best society about 
her — a most charming woman, with lovers always at her 
feet, but true to her one love who perished at sea. It is 
thought she believes he may come back some day. It 
is a pretty little evening-dance. She is fond of young 
people, and is, what you call, irreproachable ; so no young 
girl can be scandalized who goes to Rue Royale. Claire 
is a great favorite. And Madame’s verdict admits any- 
where.’' 
“But ” began Barbe, rather nonplussed. “We 
have been here such a little while. And she has no 
attire. Oh, the closets and trunks full at Brienne !” 
“That is not needful, Madame. A simple white gown 
— Claire has several, and one could be fitted over easily. 
Indeed, there is one of last summer laid away. Claire 
grew stouter, which is not necessary in youth,” laughing 
gayly. “Mam’selle Angelique is so slim. Ah, yes, go she 
must, my good Madame Champe. I will chaperon them 
all. And your young man. My husband says it is a pity 
for him not to know people. He is so attractive.” 
“I will see what they think.” Both were out rambling 
now. The world they had gotten into was so exquisitely 
new and beautiful they could hardly stay indoors an hour. 
“Ah, but you must think for them, dear Madame. 
They cannot know; and it will not do for Mam’selle to 
grow up like a wild Indian girl of the forest. She is too 
pretty. And she must marry. Men are not so eager 
here about the dot. They are more generous, as you 
will find. They make fortunes for themselves. Though 
our girls will not be wanting in that respect. But the 
girl’s market is best when she is young and lovely.” 
Barbe had never had time to think of Angelique’s 
marrying. Events had so crowded upon one another. 
“And to settle this, you must come over and sup with 
us, all of you, and the little one. My husband bids it. 
Then you can see the frock. Do not be offended, Madame. 
M’sieu is so charmed with all of you and the young man. 
