what held me back I do not know--perhaps that kind Providence which
watches over fools--for I began to tremble in every contracting muscle
as do cats in ambush when their quarry passes unsuspecting.

There they stood in low-voiced consultation--Lady Shelton, my Lord
Dunmore, and my mortal enemy, Walter Butler, tricked out in lace and
velvet. He stood so near to me that my hot hand could have fastened on
his throat-strings where I crouched. He turned towards Dunmore with a
gesture.

"Sir Timerson should find them to-night," he said; "your thief-taker,
Bully Bishop, is with them, I understand."

"They are to search every rebel rat-hole in town," cried Dunmore,
eagerly; "they should claw them ere dawn, Captain Butler. Vive Dieu,
nous allons les clouer en terrain bouché!"

Lord Dunmore leered at Lady Shelton, and then contemplated his small
French hat as though seeking countenance for his halting tongue.

"If I am to conduct Miss Warren," said Butler, gloomily, "you had best
see her without delay, my Lord."

His round, amber eyes of a bird were fixed on Dunmore.

"Come now," said Dunmore, slyly, "I am half minded to conduct her
myself, Captain Butler, curse me if I am not. I hear you once vowed to
wed her in spite of Sir William and me too! Damme, I've a notion you
mean me ill, you rogue!"

"Your Lordship is merry," sneered Butler, but I saw his blank eyes
contracting as he spoke.

"Faith, I am not over-merry," said Dunmore, plaintively, drawing a
diamond pin from his wig and contemplating it. "I like not this night
journey to Williamsburg, that's flat!--and I care not if you know it,
Captain Butler."

"Then I pray you to release me from this duty," sneered Butler.

Dunmore eyed him askance, twirling his jewelled pin.

"If I merit your suspicions," added Butler, icily, "I beg to wish you
good fortune and good-night!" And he bowed very low and turned curtly
towards the door.

"No! Damme if I suspect you!" cried Dunmore, hastily. "Come back,
Captain Butler! Oh tally, man!--is there no wit in you that you freeze
at a jest from an over-fond suitor? You shall conduct Miss Warren to
Williamsburg. I say it! I mean it! Body o' Judas! am I not to follow
as soon as I hang this fellow Mount and his rabble o' ragged
pottle-pots?"

Butler came back, and--oh, the evil in his fixed stare as his kindling
eyes fastened on Dunmore again!

"Will you be pleased--to--to receive Miss Warren immediately?" asked
Lady Shelton, in a flutter of jellyfied excitement. "I have her
closely watched wherever she takes a step. She has her boxes packed,
the wilful child! Lud! she would have been gone these two hours had
not Captain Butler's man caught my footman with a guinea!"

"I have a copy of her letter," squeaked Dunmore, angrily. "Faith, I
could scratch her raw for what she wrote to that dirty forest-running
fellow, Cardigan!"

"Fie! Fie!" tittered Lady Shelton, hysterically, shaking a fat finger
at the painted beau. "Over-fond lovers should forgive!"

"Curse me if I forget, though," muttered his Lordship. "If I have to
wait till Innocents' day, I'll birch the little baggage yet!"

He turned nervously to Butler:

"You had best attend in the ballroom, Captain Butler. Gad! I can
persuade her, I think, within the half-hour. Lady Shelton, you will be
in one of your cursed twitters if you remain here, and those same
twitters set me dancing. Damme, madam! you are twittering now! I
sha'n't endure it! I can't endure it! Pluck me bald if I can!"

"I--I will send her to you," stammered the dowager, curtseying in a
panic.

"And stay away until you're wanted," added Dunmore, brutally.

Lady Shelton stared at him with frightened eyes; then her little fat
feet set themselves in motion, and she pattered hastily out of the
room. The men exchanged sneers.

"I'll be rid o' that ruddled sack o' lollypops now," observed Lord
Dunmore, complacently. "Will you not take your turn, Captain Butler?
No? Well, I owe thanks to Sir Timerson then. Pst! There's some one on
the stairs! Give me joy, Captain Butler, and mind you keep closed
eyes, you rogue!"

Butler gave him a contemptuous stare, then swung on his heel, and
balancing his thin hand on the hilt of his small-sword, walked
noiselessly into the dim ballroom.

Dunmore stood listening, passing the diamond pin back through his wig,
and shaking out the long, delicate lace on his cuffs.

Nobody came. He raised his spy-glass and tiptoed over to the mirror,
primping, preening, smirking, and ogling himself, occasionally turning
his good ear to the door to listen.

Presently he began to pace the velvet, fanning his nose with a lace
handkerchief, and simpering all to himself.

The extravagance of his dress might have amused me had not my mind
been filled with deadly thoughts. He was all in yellow, silk coat, and
silver-shot waistcoat, with breeches of gold brocade and white silk
stockings. Lace tumbled in soft cascades over his claw-like fingers; a
white sash and star, set with brilliants, covered his breast; a
gorgeous stock glittered under the fluffy lace at his withered throat.

I noted these features, one by one, but my thoughts had flown
up-stairs to seek throughout this shameful house for the dear maid who
had given herself to me.

Suddenly she appeared at the door, so suddenly that Lord Dunmore
started from the mirror with a suppressed squeal of surprise. As for
me, I quivered in my lurking-place, and for a moment could scarce see
her for the mist in my eyes.

Yet there she stood, hesitating, smiling, her hands busy with the
buckle of a travelling-coat adorned with row on row of dainty capes.
Under the silvery gray coat I could see her little doe-skin shoon
peeping out. Now, with gloved hands, she began widening the hood on
her head, to tie it beneath her chin, with a sidelong glance at the
mirror and a faint smile for her mirrored face.

Never, never had I seen her so lovely, never had her eyes so thrilled
me, nor her sweet, dumb lips called to me more clearly. For a moment I
thought she had perceived me through the cabinet's gilded foliage; but
my presence was still all unsuspected.

At first sight of her hood and travelling-coat, Lord Dunmore had
scowled. Then, fascinated, he pretended to a trance and clasped his
hands, rolling his rheumy eyes towards heaven. Seeing her face fall,
however, he recovered quickly enough and leered at her from head to
toe.

"Cruel one," he piped out in ecstasy, mincing towards her. "Cruel one,
what do you ask that I may adore?"

"Your Lordship's pardon," she said, gravely; "I am here to ask
forgiveness."

"Granted! You have it," protested Dunmore, eagerly, leading her to a
chair and bowing above her as she was seated. "You have grieved me,
but man was made to grieve. I forgive, and give my love as guerdon."

"You are too generous," said Silver Heels, sorrowfully; "I may keep
only your forgiveness, my Lord."

She would have spoken again, but Dunmore bent his stiff joints and
dropped on both knees, ogling her with watery eyes.

She half rose and drew back with a pleading gesture, but the
infatuated fool drowned her protests with his shrill prattle, and
clasping his transparent hands together under the lace, pleaded his
suit so passionately that my gorge rose and I could scarce contain
myself.

At last his chatter died away in miscellaneous noises, sniffs, gulps,
and senile sounds; and he tried to seize her gloved hand, making a
clacking smack with his thin, dry lips.

Silver Heels shrank deep into her chair, hiding her hands from him
under her chin, and begging him to rise, which he did at last,
scowling his displeasure.

Then, very gravely and pitifully, she told him that she did not love
him, that she had given her love to another, and that she could now
only ask his forgiveness, yet never forgive herself for the wickedness
she had so wilfully practised.

He stood listening in silence at first, then his faded eyes narrowed
with fury, and in his worn cheeks, under the rouge, a sickly colour
stained the flesh. The change in the man was frightful.

"D'ye mean to throw me over for that wood-running whelp, Cardigan?" he
burst out. "Oh no, my lady, that cock won't fight, d'ye hear?"

The startling coarseness of the outbreak brought Silver Heels to her
feet in frightened astonishment. Horror mantled throat and cheeks with
crimson; she shrank back, catching support on a marble table beside
her.

All over Dunmore's scowling visage the enamel was cracking; he paced
the carpet like one demented, chattering and scratching at the air.

"I will not be so used! Curse me if I will!" he snarled, biting his
polished nails. "Hell's fury! madam; do you think to throw me over for
a hind of buckskin? Damn me if you shall!--and Lady Shelton saw him
kiss you on the knoll at that! Fine sport, madam! Fine sport! So you
think to make me the laughing-stock o' Virginia? So you write letters
to your buckskin lout and plan to run off with him in a
post-chaise--eh? Damned if you shall! Damned if you do!"

"Pray--pray let me pass," gasped Silver Heels, choking with fright.

He caught the door in his hand, closing it, and planted himself with
his back against it. Then he fumbled behind him for the key, but it
was in the other side of the door.

"Oh no, not yet," he said.

"I must pass that door," repeated Silver Heels, breathlessly.

"By God, you shall not!" he cried. "You shall stay here all night,
d'ye hear? Ay, and folk shall hear of it and gossip, too, and the
whole world shall know how the Governor of Virginia bundled to win a
worthless wife! I tell you I mean to have you, and if you wed me not
fair you shall wed me compromised, and thank me, too, for my name to
cloak your shame withal!"

His voice ended in a shriek; the door behind him burst open, flinging
him forward, and Black Betty appeared, eyes ablaze and teeth bared.
The next instant Silver Heels sprang through the portal, the door
banged, and I heard the key turn on the other side with a click.

Dumfounded, I looked stupidly through the window behind me, then my
heart leaped up, for there, at the foot of the garden, stood a
post-chaise and four, lamps lighted, and postilions sitting their
horses. There, too, were Silver Heels and Betty, setting foot to the
chaise step. Dark figures aided them, the chaise door shut. I thanked
God silently and turned to deal with these wicked men whom He had
given into my hands.

Dunmore, insane with fury, was clawing at the window to raise it;
Butler came swiftly from the ballroom and tried the door. Finding it
locked, he looked at Dunmore with a ghastly laugh.

"She's gone!" shrieked Dunmore. "Gone in a chaise! That black slut of
hers did it! Let me out! Let me out! I'll claw them raw! I'll pinch
them to death! I won't stay here, d'ye hear?"

His voice soared into a falsetto screech, and he tore at his gums with
his nails and stamped his feet.

"Give place there!" said Butler, brutally elbowing the frantic man
aside. "Let me through that window, you doddering fool! You're done
for; it's my turn now."

"What!" gasped Dunmore. Then terror blanched his face, and he began to
scream: "That was your chaise! You mean to cheat me! You mean to
steal her! That was your chaise, and it's gone! No! No! Damme, you
shall not catch them at the gates!" And he flung himself on Butler to
drag him from the open window.

"Drive on!" shouted Butler, leaning out and calling to the people in
the chaise.

Startled, I turned and stared through the window behind me. To my
horror the horses started and the chaise began to move off. Even yet I
did not comprehend that the chaise was not my own, but to see it
slowly rolling away in the night terrified me, and I bounded out into
the room--barely in time, for Butler had already forced Dunmore from
the open window and had laid his hand on the wall to hoist himself
out. Quick as the thought, I balanced my heavy knife, hilt to palm,
swung forward and let it fly like lightning. The blade whistled true
and struck, pinning Butler's arm to the wall. God! how he shrieked and
shrank, twisting and turning to tear the blade loose. Dunmore ran
around like a crazed rat, but I knocked him senseless with a chair,
and sprang at Butler, who, writhing and ghastly pale, had just freed
his left hand of the knife. He ran at me with his sword, but I
shattered my heavy chair across his face, and seized him, meaning to
cut his throat. Twist and tear and clutch as he would, he could not
escape or hurt me; the coolness of murder was in my heart; I strangled
him with one hand and hunted around the floor for my knife. It was
gone, I could not find it. Then a wave of fury blazed in my brain; I
lifted the struggling wretch with both hands above my head and brought
him down on the floor, where he crashed as though every bone in him
were shattered to the marrow.

As I reeled, panting, towards the window, the key turned in the locked
door and Lady Shelton's frightened face appeared. When she saw me she
rushed at me and screamed, but I thrust the harridan out of my path,
vaulted through the open window, and ran down the orchard slope. Then,
as I sprang into the lane, I almost dropped, for there, where I had
left it, stood my post-chaise, awaiting me.

"Mount!" I shouted in terror. "Is she here?"

"Here?" he cried. "You are mad! Have you lost her?"

Through my whirling senses the awful truth broke like a living ray of
fire.

"Out o' the saddle!" I shouted. "She has taken another chaise. It's
Butler's men! Ride for her! Ride!"

"Gone?" thundered Mount, leaping to the seat, while I sprang to his
vacant saddle. But I only lashed at the horses, and set my teeth while
the dust flew and the pebbles showered through the flying wheels.

It seemed hours, yet it was scarcely five minutes, ere the gate-house
lights broke out ahead, dots of dim yellow dancing through the dust.
Now we were galloping straight into the eye of the great brass
lanthorn set above the guard-house; there came a far call in the
darkness, a shadow crossed the lamplit glare, then I turned in my
saddle and shouted: "Draw bridle!"--and our four horses came clashing
in a huddle with a hollow volley of hoof-beats.

"Road closed for the night!" said a sentinel, walking towards us from
the darkness ahead, cap, buckle, and buttons glittering in the
lamplight.

"A post-chaise passed five minutes ahead of us," began Mount, angrily.

"Tut! tut! my good fellow," said the sentry; "that's none o' your
business. Back up there!"

"I wish to see Mr. Bevan," said I, scarce able to speak.

"Mr. Bevan's gone home to bed," said the soldier, impatiently. "He
passed that other post-chaise at a gallop, or it would have been here
yet, I warrant you. Come, come, now! You know the law. Clear the road,
now!--turn your leaders, post-boy--back up, d'ye hear!"

"I tell you I've got to pass!" I persisted.

"Oh, you have, have you? And who are you, my important friend?" he
sneered, barring our way with firelock balanced.

"I am deputy of Sir William Johnson!" I roared, losing all
self-control. "Stand clear, there!"

"If you move I'll shoot!" he retorted; then without turning his head
he bawled out: "Ho, sergeant o' the quarter-guard! Post number
seven!--"

"Drive over him!" I shouted, lashing at the horses. There was a jolt,
an uproar, a rush of frantic horses, a bright flash and report. Then a
wheel caught the soldier and pitched him reeling into the darkness. I
turned in my stirrups, glancing fearfully at Renard, who was
recovering his balance in the saddle behind me and lifting a firelock
to the pommel.

"Shot?" I asked, breathlessly.

"No; I caught his firelock; it exploded in my hand."

"Look out!" called Mount, from his front seat on the chaise. "The
toll-gate's right ahead! There's a camp-guard due there at midnight!
Out with your coach-lamps!"

Shemuel jerked open each lanthorn and blew out the lights; darkness
hid even the horses from our sight.

A camp-guard! Suppose the gate was closed! Thirty men and a drummer
ahead of us!

"Cut the pike!" cried Mount, suddenly. "We save six miles by the old
Williamsburg post-road! Turn out! Turn out!"

Far ahead the toll-gate lamp twinkled through the dust; I signalled to
Renard and dragged the horses into a trot, straining my eyes for the
branch road we had seen that morning. I could see nothing.

"By Heaven! the guard is gone; there's only a sentry there!" said
Mount, suddenly.

"Pst!" muttered Renard. "We are the grand rounds, mind you. Answer,
Jack!"

"Halt!" cried a distant sentry. "Who goes there?"

"Grand rounds!" sang out Mount.

"Stand, grand rounds! Advance, sergeant, with the countersign!" came
the distant challenge again.

"Now," muttered Mount, leaping softly to the turf, "when I call, ride
up to me. Hark for a whippoorwill!"

He vanished in the darkness. I waited, scarcely breathing.

"He won't kill him," whispered the Weasel; "you will see, Mr.
Cardigan, how it's done. He'll get behind him--patience,
patience--pst!--there!"

A stifled cry, suddenly choked, came out of the night; the lanthorn at
the toll-gate went out and the toll-house door slammed.

"It's the keeper barricading himself," whispered Renard; "he thinks
the sentry has been surprised and scalped. Hush! Mount is calling."

"Whippoorwill! Whippoorwill!" throbbed the whimpering, breathless call
across the meadow; the Weasel answered it, and we trotted on until a
dark shape rose up in the road and caught at the leaders, drawing them
to a stand-still.

"'Nother firelock," said Mount, shoving the weapon into the chaise and
going back to the horses. "Here's the post-road; I'll guide you into
it." And he started east through a wall of shadow.

"Where's the sentry?" whispered Renard.
