She suggested this theory to Ewbert, and he denied it with blithe
derision, but she said that he need not tell her, and in confirming
herself in it she began to relax her belief that old Ransom Hilbrook had
preyed upon him. She even went so far as to say that the only
intellectual companionship he had ever had in the place was that which
he found in the old man's society. When she discovered, after the fact,
that Ewbert had written to him since they came away, she was not so
severe with him as she might have expected herself to be in view of an
act which, if not quite clandestine, was certainly without her privity.
She would have considered him fitly punished by Hilbrook's failure to
reply, if she had not shared his uneasiness at the old man's silence.
But she did not allow this to affect her good spirits, which were
essential to her husband's comfort as well as her own. She redoubled her
care of him in every sort, and among all the ladies who admired her
devotion to him there was none who enjoyed it as much as herself. There
was none who believed more implicitly that it was owing to her foresight
and oversight that his health mended so rapidly, and that at the end of
the bathing season she was, as she said, taking him home quite another
man. In her perfect satisfaction she suffered him his small joke about
not feeling it quite right to go with her if that were so; and though a
woman of little humor, she even professed to find pleasure in his joke
after she fully understood it.
"All that I ask," she said, as if it followed, "is that you won't spoil
everything by letting old Hilbrook come every night and drain the life
out of you again."
"I won't," he retorted, "if you'll promise to make the university people
come regularly to my sermons."
He treated the notion of Hilbrook's visits lightly; but with his return
to the familiar environment he felt a shrinking from them in an
experience which was like something physical. Yet when he sat down the
first night in his study, with his lamp in its wonted place, it was with
an expectation of old Hilbrook in his usual seat so vivid that its
defeat was more a shock than its fulfilment upon supernatural terms
would have been. In fact, the absence of the old man was spectral; and
though Ewbert employed himself fully the first night in answering an
accumulation of letters that required immediate reply, it was with
nervous starts from time to time, which he could trace to no other
cause. His wife came in and out, with what he knew to be an accusing
eye, as she brought up those arrears of housekeeping which always await
the housewife on the return from any vacation; and he knew that he did
not conceal his guilt from her.
They both ignored the stress which had fallen back upon him, and which
accumulated, as the days of the week went by, until the first Sunday
came.
Ewbert dreaded to look in the direction of Hilbrook's pew, lest he
should find it empty; but the old man was there, and he sat blinking at
the minister, as his custom was, through the sermon, and thoughtfully
passing the tip of his tongue over the inner edge of his lower lip.
Many came up to shake hands with the minister after church, and to tell
him how well he was looking, but Hilbrook was not among them. Some of
the university people who had made a point of being there that morning,
out of a personal regard for Ewbert, were grouped about his wife, in the
church vestibule, where she stood answering their questions about his
health. He glimpsed between the heads and shoulders of this gratifying
group the figure of Hilbrook dropping from grade to grade on the steps
outside, till it ceased to be visible, and he fancied, with a pang, that
the old man had lingered to speak with him, and had then given up and
started home.
The cordial interest of the university people was hardly a compensation
for the disappointment he shared with Hilbrook; but his wife was so
happy in it that he could not say anything to damp her joy. "Now," she
declared, on their way home, "I am perfectly satisfied that they will
keep coming. You never preached so well, Clarence, and if they have any
appreciation at all, they simply won't be able to keep away. I wish you
could have heard all the nice things they said about you. I guess
they've waked up to you, at last, and I do believe that the idea of
losing you has had a great deal to do with it. And that is something
we owe to old Ransom Hilbrook more than to anything else. I saw the poor
old fellow hanging about, and I couldn't help feeling for him. I knew he
wanted to speak with you, and I'm not afraid that he will be a burden
again. It will be such an inspiration, the prospect of having the
university people come every Sunday, now, that you can afford to give a
little of it to him, and I want you to go and see him soon; he evidently
isn't coming till you do."
XV.
Ewbert had learned not to inquire too critically for a logical process
in his wife's changes of attitude toward any fact. In her present mood
he recognized an effect of the exuberant good-will awakened by the
handsome behavior of the university people, and he agreed with her that
he must go to see old Hilbrook at once. In this good intention his
painful feeling concerning him was soothed, and Ewbert did not get up to
the Hilbrook place till well into the week. It was Thursday afternoon
when he climbed through the orchard, under the yellowing leaves which
dappled the green masses of the trees like intenser spots of the
September sunshine. He came round by the well to the side door of the
house, which stood open, and he did not hesitate to enter when he saw
how freely the hens were coming and going through it. They scuttled out
around him and between his legs, with guilty screeches, and left him
standing alone in the middle of the wide, low kitchen. A certain
discomfort of the nerves which their flight gave him was heightened by
some details quite insignificant in themselves. There was no fire in the
stove, and the wooden clock on the mantel behind it was stopped; the
wind had carried in some red leaves from the maple near the door, and
these were swept against the farther wall, where they lay palpitating in
the draft.
The neglect in all was evidently too recent to suggest any supposition
but that of the master's temporary absence, and Ewbert went to the
threshold to look for his coming from the sheds or the barn. But these
were all fast shut, and there was no sign of Hilbrook anywhere. Ewbert
turned back into the room again, and saw the door of the old man's
little bedroom standing slightly ajar. With a chill of apprehension he
pushed it open, and he could not have experienced a more disagreeable
effect if the dark fear in his mind had been realized than he did to see
Hilbrook lying in his bed alive and awake. His face showed like a fine
mask above the sheet, and his long, narrow hands rested on the covering
across his breast. His eyes met those of Ewbert not only without
surprise, but without any apparent emotion.
"Why, Mr. Hilbrook," said the minister, "are you sick?"
"No, I am first-rate," the old man answered.
It was on the point of the minister's tongue to ask him, "Then what in
the world are you doing in bed?" but he substituted the less
authoritative suggestion, "I am afraid I disturbed you--that I woke you
out of a nap. But I found the door open and the hens inside, and I
ventured to come in"--
Hilbrook replied calmly, "I heard you; I wa'n't asleep."
"Oh," said Ewbert, apologetically, and he did not know quite what to do;
he had an aimless wish for his wife, as if she would have known what to
do. In her absence he decided to shut the door against the hens, who
were returning adventurously to the threshold, and then he asked, "Is
there something I can do for you? Make a fire for you to get up by"--
"I ha'n't got any call to get up," said Hilbrook; and, after giving
Ewbert time to make the best of this declaration, he asked abruptly,
"What was that you said about my wantin' to be alive enough to know I
was dead?"
"The consciousness of unconsciousness?"
"Ah!" the old man assented, as with satisfaction in having got the
notion right; and then he added, with a certain defiance: "There ain't
anything in that. I got to thinking it over, when you was gone, and
the whole thing went to pieces. That idea don't prove anything at all,
and all that we worked out of it had to go with it."
"Well," the minister returned, with an assumption of cosiness in his
tone which he did not feel, and feigning to make himself easy in the
hard kitchen chair which he pulled up to the door of Hilbrook's room,
"let's see if we can't put that notion together again."
"You can, if you want to," said the old man, dryly "I got no interest
in it any more; 'twa'n't nothing but a metaphysical toy, anyway." He
turned his head apathetically on the pillow, and no longer faced his
visitor, who found it impossible in the conditions of tacit dismissal to
philosophize further.
"I was sorry," Ewbert began, "not to be able to speak with you after
church, the other day. There were so many people"--
"That's all right," said Hilbrook unresentfully. "I hadn't anything to
say, in particular."
"But I had," the minister persisted. "I thought a great deal about you
when I was away, and I went over our talks in my own mind a great many
times. The more I thought about them, the more I believed that we had
felt our way to some important truth in the matter. I don't say final
truth, for I don't suppose that we shall ever reach that in this life."
"Very likely," Hilbrook returned, with his face to the wall. "I don't
see as it makes any difference; or if it does, I don't care for it."
Something occurred to Ewbert which seemed to him of more immediate
usefulness than the psychological question. "Couldn't I get you
something to eat, Mr. Hilbrook? If you haven't had any breakfast to-day,
you must be hungry."
"Yes, I'm hungry," the old man assented, "but I don't want to eat
anything."
Ewbert had risen hopefully in making his suggestion, but now his heart
sank. Here, it seemed to him, a physician rather than a philosopher was
needed, and at the sound of wheels on the wagon track to the door his
imagination leaped to the miracle of the doctor's providential advent.
He hurried to the threshold and met the fish-man, who was about to
announce himself with the handle of his whip on the clapboarding. He
grasped the situation from the minister's brief statement, and confessed
that he had expected to find the old gentleman dead in his bed some
day, and he volunteered to send some of the women folks from the farm up
the road. When these came, concentrated in the person of the farmer's
bustling wife, who had a fire kindled in the stove and the kettle on
before Ewbert could get away, he went for the doctor, and returned with
him to find her in possession of everything in the house except the
owner's interest. Her usefulness had been arrested by an invisible but
impassable barrier, though she had passed and re-passed the threshold of
Hilbrook's chamber with tea and milk toast. He said simply that he saw
no object in eating; and he had not been sufficiently interested to turn
his head and look at her in speaking to her.
With the doctor's science he was as indifferent as with the farm-wife's
service. He submitted to have his pulse felt, and he could not help
being prescribed for, but he would have no agency in taking his
medicine. He said, as he had said to Mrs. Stephson about eating, that he
saw no object in it.
The doctor retorted, with the temper of a man not used to having his
will crossed, that he had better take it, if he had any object in
living, and Hilbrook answered that he had none. In his absolute apathy
he did not even ask to be let alone.
"You see," the baffled doctor fumed in the conference that he had with
Ewbert apart, "he doesn't really need any medicine. There's nothing the
matter with him, and I only wanted to give him something to put an edge
to his appetite. He's got cranky living here alone; but there is such
a thing as starving to death, and that's the only thing Hilbrook's in
danger of. If you're going to stay with him--he oughtn't to be left
alone"--
"I can come up, yes, certainly, after supper," said Ewbert, and he
fortified himself inwardly for the question this would raise with his
wife.
"Then you must try to interest him in something. Get him to talking, and
then let Mrs. Stephson come in with a good bowl of broth, and I guess we
may trust Nature to do the rest."
XVI.
When we speak of Nature, we figure her as one thing, with a fixed
purpose and office in the universal economy; but she is an immense
number of things, and her functions are inexpressibly varied. She
includes decay as well as growth; she compasses death as well as birth.
We call certain phenomena unnatural; but in a natural world how can
anything be unnatural, except the supernatural? These facts gave Ewbert
pause in view of the obstinate behavior of Ransom Hilbrook in dying for
no obvious reason, and kept him from pronouncing it unnatural. The old
man, he reflected, had really less reason to live than to die, if it
came to reasons; for everything that had made the world home to him had
gone out of it, and left him in exile here. The motives had ceased; the
interests had perished; the strong personality that had persisted was
solitary amid the familiar environment grown alien.
The wonder was that he should ever have been roused from his apathetic
unfaith to inquiry concerning the world beyond this, and to a certain
degree of belief in possibilities long abandoned by his imagination.
Ewbert had assisted at the miracle of this resuscitation upon terms
which, until he was himself much older, he could not question as to
their beneficence, and in fact it never came to his being quite frank
with himself concerning them. He kept his thoughts on this point in that
state of solution which holds so many conjectures from precipitation in
actual conviction.
But his wife had no misgivings. Her dread was that in his devotion to
that miserable old man (as she called him, not always in compassion) he
should again contribute to Hilbrook's vitality at the expense, if not
the danger, of his own. She of course expressed her joy that Ewbert had
at last prevailed upon him to eat something, when the entreaty of his
nurse and the authority of his doctor availed nothing; and of course she
felt the pathos of his doing it out of affection for Ewbert, and merely
to please him, as Hilbrook declared. It did not surprise her that any
one should do anything for the love of Ewbert, but it is doubtful if she
fully recognized the beauty of this last efflorescence of the aged life;
and she perceived it her duty not to sympathize entirely with Ewbert's
morbid regret that it came too late. She was much more resigned than he
to the will of Providence, and she urged a like submissiveness upon him.
"Don't talk so!" he burst out. "It's horrible!" It was in the first
hours after Ewbert's return from Hilbrook's death-bed, and his spent
nerves gave way in a gush of tears.
"I see what you mean," she said, after a pause in which he controlled
his sobs. "And I suppose," she added, with a touch of bitterness, "that
you blame me for taking you away from him here when he was coming
every night and sapping your very life. You were very glad to have me do
it at the time! And what use would there have been in your killing
yourself, anyway? It wasn't as if he were a young man with a career of
usefulness before him, that might have been marred by his not believing
this or that. He had been a complete failure every way, and the end of
the world had come for him. What did it matter whether such a man
believed that there was another world or not?"
"Emily! Emily!" the minister cried out. "What are you saying?"
Mrs. Ewbert broke down in her turn. "I don't know what I'm saying!"
she retorted from behind her handkerchief. "I'm trying to show you that
it's your duty to yourself--and to me--and to people who can know how to
profit by your teaching and your example, not to give way as you're
doing, simply because a wornout old agnostic couldn't keep his hold on
the truth. I don't know what your Rixonitism is for if it won't let you
wait upon the divine will in such a thing, too. You're more
conscientious than the worst kind of Congregationalist. And now for you
to blame me"--
"Emily, I don't blame you," said her husband. "I blame myself."
"And you see that that's the same thing! You ought to thank me for
saving your life; for it was just as if you were pouring your heart's
blood into him, and I could see you getting more anæmic every day. Even
now you're not half as well as when you got home! And yet I do believe
that if you could bring old Hilbrook back into a world that he was sick
and tired of, you'd give your own life to do it."
XVII.
There was reason and there was justice in what she said, though they
were so chaotic in form, and Ewbert could not refuse to acquiesce.
After all, he had done what he could, and he would not abandon himself
to a useless remorse. He rather set himself to study the lesson of old
Hilbrook's life, and in the funeral sermon that he preached he urged
upon his hearers the necessity of keeping themselves alive through some
relation to the undying frame of things, which they could do only by
cherishing earthly ties; and when these were snapped in the removal of
their objects, by attaching the broken threads through an effort of the
will to yet other objects: the world could furnish these inexhaustibly.
He touched delicately upon the peculiarities, the eccentricities, of the
deceased, and he did cordial justice to his gentleness, his blameless,
harmless life, his heroism on the battlefields of his country. He
declared that he would not be the one to deny an inner piety, and
certainly not a steadfast courage, in Hilbrook's acceptance of whatever
his sincere doubts implied.
The sermon apparently made a strong impression on all who heard it. Mrs.
Ewbert was afraid that it was rather abstruse in certain passages, but
she felt sure that all the university people would appreciate these. The
university people, to testify their respect for their founder, had come
in a body to the obsequies of his kinsman; and Mrs. Ewbert augured the
best things for her husband's future usefulness from their presence.
THE MAGIC OF A VOICE.
I.
There was a full moon, and Langbourne walked about the town, unable to
come into the hotel and go to bed. The deep yards of the houses gave out
the scent of syringas and June roses; the light of lamps came through
the fragrant bushes from the open doors and windows, with the sound of
playing and singing and bursts of young laughter. Where the houses stood
near the street, he could see people lounging on the thresholds, and
their heads silhouetted against the luminous interiors. Other houses,
both those which stood further back and those that stood nearer, were
dark and still, and to these he attributed the happiness of love in
fruition, safe from unrest and longing.
His own heart was tenderly oppressed, not with desire, but with the
memory of desire. It was almost as if in his faded melancholy he were
sorry for the disappointment of some one else.
At last he turned and walked back through the streets of dwellings to
the business centre of the town, where a gush of light came from the
veranda of his hotel, and the druggist's window cast purple and yellow
blurs out upon the footway. The other stores were shut, and he alone
seemed to be abroad. The church clock struck ten as he mounted the steps
of his hotel and dropped the remnant of his cigar over the side.
He had slept badly on the train the night before, and he had promised
himself to make up his lost sleep in the good conditions that seemed to
offer themselves. But when he sat down in the hotel office he was more
wakeful than he had been when he started out to walk himself drowsy.
The clerk gave him the New York paper which had come by the evening
train, and he thanked him, but remained musing in his chair. At times he
thought he would light another cigar, but the hand that he carried to
his breast pocket dropped nervelessly to his knee again, and he did not
smoke. Through his memories of disappointment pierced a self-reproach
which did not permit him the perfect self-complacency of regret; and yet
he could not have been sure, if he had asked himself, that this pang did
not heighten the luxury of his psychological experience.
He rose and asked the clerk for a lamp, but he turned back from the
stairs to inquire when there would be another New York mail. The clerk
said there was a train from the south due at eleven-forty, but it seldom
brought any mail; the principal mail was at seven. Langbourne thanked
him, and came back again to beg the clerk to be careful and not have him
called in the morning, for he wished to sleep. Then he went up to his
room, where he opened his window to let in the night air. He heard a dog
barking; a cow lowed; from a stable somewhere the soft thumping of the
horses' feet came at intervals lullingly.
II.
Langbourne fell asleep so quickly that he was aware of no moment of
waking after his head touched the fragrant pillow. He woke so much
refreshed by his first sound, soft sleep that he thought it must be
nearly morning. He got his watch into a ray of the moonlight and made
out that it was only a little after midnight, and he perceived that it
must have been the sound of low murmuring voices and broken laughter in
the next room which had wakened him. But he was rather glad to have been
roused to a sense of his absolute comfort, and he turned unresentfully
to sleep again. All his heaviness of heart was gone; he felt curiously
glad and young; he had somehow forgiven the wrong he had suffered and
the wrong he had done. The subdued murmuring went on in the next room,
and he kept himself awake to enjoy it for a while. Then he let himself
go, and drifted away into gulfs of slumber, where, suddenly, he seemed
to strike against something, and started up in bed.
A laugh came from the next room. It was not muffled, as before, but
frank and clear. It was woman's laughter, and Langbourne easily inferred
girlhood as well as womanhood from it. His neighbors must have come by
the late train, and they had probably begun to talk as soon as they got
into their room. He imagined their having spoken low at first for fear
of disturbing some one, and then, in their forgetfulness, or their
belief that there was no one near, allowed themselves greater freedom.
There were survivals of their earlier caution at times, when their
voices sank so low as scarcely to be heard; then there was a break from
it when they rose clearly distinguishable from each other. They were
never so distinct that he could make out what was said; but each voice
unmistakably conveyed character.
Friendship between girls is never equal; they may equally love each
other, but one must worship and one must suffer worship. Langbourne read
the differing temperaments necessary to this relation in the differing
voices. That which bore mastery was a low, thick murmur, coming from
deep in the throat, and flowing out in a steady stream of indescribable
coaxing and drolling. The owner of that voice had imagination and humor
which could charm with absolute control her companion's lighter nature,
as it betrayed itself in a gay tinkle of amusement and a succession of
nervous whispers. Langbourne did not wonder at her subjection; with the
first sounds of that rich, tender voice, he had fallen under its spell
too; and he listened intensely, trying to make out some phrase, some
word, some syllable. But the talk kept its sub-audible flow, and he had
to content himself as he could with the sound of the voice.
As he lay eavesdropping with all his might he tried to construct an
image of the two girls from their voices. The one with the crystalline
laugh was little and lithe, quick in movement, of a mobile face, with
gray eyes and fair hair; the other was tall and pale, with full, blue
eyes and a regular face, and lips that trembled with humor; very demure
and yet very honest; very shy and yet very frank; there was something
almost mannish in her essential honesty; there was nothing of feminine
coquetry in her, though everything of feminine charm. She was a girl who
looked like her father, Langbourne perceived with a flash of divination.
She dressed simply in dark blue, and her hair was of a dark mahogany
color. The smaller girl wore light gray checks or stripes, and the
shades of silver.
The talk began to be less continuous in the next room, from which there
came the sound of sighs and yawns, and then of mingled laughter at
these. Then the talk ran unbrokenly on for a while, and again dropped
into laughs that recognized the drowse creeping upon the talkers.
Suddenly it stopped altogether, and left Langbourne, as he felt,
definitively awake for the rest of the night.
He had received an impression which he could not fully analyze. With
some inner sense he kept hearing that voice, low and deep, and rich with
whimsical suggestion. Its owner must have a strange, complex nature,
which would perpetually provoke and satisfy. Her companionship would be
as easy and reasonable as a man's, while it had the charm of a woman's.
At the moment it seemed to him that life without this companionship
would be something poorer and thinner than he had yet known, and that he
could not endure to forego it. Somehow he must manage to see the girl
and make her acquaintance. He did not know how it could be contrived,
but it could certainly be contrived, and he began to dramatize their
meeting on these various terms. It was interesting and it was
delightful, and it always came, in its safe impossibility, to his
telling her that he loved her, and to her consenting to be his wife. He
resolved to take no chance of losing her, but to remain awake, and
somehow see her before she could leave the hotel in the morning. The
