had made itself felt as a non-conductor of messages. Densher knew of
course, as he took his way again, that Eugenio's invitation to return
was not what he missed; yet he knew at the same time that what had
happened to him was part of his punishment. Out in the square beyond
the fondamenta that gave access to the land-gate of the palace, out
where the wind was higher, he fairly, with the thought of it, pulled
his umbrella closer down. It couldn't be, his consciousness, unseen
enough by others--the base predicament of having, by a concatenation,
just to take such things: such things as the fact that one very acute
person in the world, whom he couldn't dispose of as an interested
scoundrel, enjoyed an opinion of him that there was no attacking, no
disproving, no (what was worst of all) even noticing. One had come to a
queer pass when a servant's opinion so mattered. Eugenio's would have
mattered even if, as founded on a low vision of appearances, it had
been quite wrong. It was the more disagreeable accordingly that the
vision of appearances was quite right, and yet was scarcely less low.

Such as it was, at any rate, Densher shook it off with the more
impatience that he was independently restless. He had to walk in spite
of weather, and he took his course, through crooked ways, to the
Piazza, where he should have the shelter of the galleries. Here, in the
high arcade, half Venice was crowded close, while, on the Molo, at the
limit of the expanse, the old columns of the Saint Theodore and of the
Lion were the frame of a door wide open to the storm. It was odd for
him, as he moved, that it should have made such a difference--if the
difference wasn't only that the palace had for the first time failed of
a welcome. There was more, but it came from that; that gave the harsh
note and broke the spell. The wet and the cold were now to reckon with,
and it was to Densher precisely as if he had seen the obliteration, at
a stroke, of the margin on a faith in which they were all living. The
margin had been his name for it--for the thing that, though it had held
out, could bear no shock. The shock, in some form, had come, and he
wondered about it while, threading his way among loungers as vague as
himself, he dropped his eyes sightlessly on the rubbish in shops. There
were stretches of the gallery paved with squares of red marble, greasy
now with the salt spray; and the whole place, in its huge elegance, the
grace of its conception and the beauty of its detail, was more than
ever like a great drawing-room, the drawing-room of Europe, profaned
and bewildered by some reverse of fortune. He brushed shoulders with
brown men whose hats askew, and the loose sleeves of whose pendent
jackets, made them resemble melancholy maskers. The tables and chairs
that overflowed from the cafés were gathered, still with a pretence of
service, into the arcade, and here and there a spectacled German, with
his coat-collar up, partook publicly of food and philosophy. These were
impressions for Densher too, but he had made the whole circuit thrice
before he stopped short, in front of Florian's, with the force of his
sharpest. His eye had caught a face within the café--he had spotted an
acquaintance behind the glass. The person he had thus paused long
enough to look at twice was seated, well within range, at a small table
on which a tumbler, half-emptied and evidently neglected, still
remained; and though he had on his knee, as he leaned back, a copy of a
French newspaper--the heading of the Figaro was visible--he stared
straight before him at the little opposite rococo wall. Densher had him
for a minute in profile, had him for a time during which his identity
produced, however quickly, all the effect of establishing
connexions--connexions startling and direct; and then, as if it were
the one thing more needed, seized the look, determined by a turn of the
head, that might have been a prompt result of the sense of being
noticed. This wider view showed him all Lord Mark--Lord Mark as
encountered, several weeks before, the day of the first visit of each
to Palazzo Leporelli. For it had been all Lord Mark that was going out,
on that occasion, as he came in--he had felt it, in the hall, at the
time; and he was accordingly the less at a loss to recognise in a few
seconds, as renewed meeting brought it to the surface, the same
potential quantity.

It was a matter, the whole passage--it could only be--but of a few
seconds; for as he might neither stand there to stare nor on the other
hand make any advance from it, he had presently resumed his walk, this
time to another pace. It had been for all the world, during his pause,
as if he had caught his answer to the riddle of the day. Lord Mark had
simply faced him--as he had faced him, not placed by him, not at
first--as one of the damp shuffling crowd. Recognition, though hanging
fire, had then clearly come; yet no light of salutation had been struck
from these certainties. Acquaintance between them was scant enough for
neither to take it up. That neither had done so was not, however, what
now mattered, but that the gentleman at Florian's should be in the
place at all. He couldn't have been in it long; Densher, as inevitably
a haunter of the great meeting-ground, would in that case have seen him
before. He paid short visits; he was on the wing; the question for him
even as he sat there was of his train or of his boat. He had come back
for something--as a sequel to his earlier visit; and whatever he had
come back for it had had time to be done. He might have arrived but
last night or that morning; he had already made the difference. It was
a great thing for Densher to get this answer. He held it close, he
hugged it, quite leaned on it as he continued to circulate. It kept him
going and going--it made him no less restless. But it explained--and
that was much, for with explanations he might somehow deal. The vice in
the air, otherwise, was too much like the breath of fate. The weather
had changed, the rain was ugly, the wind wicked, the sea impossible,
because of Lord Mark. It was because of him, a fortiori, that the
palace was closed. Densher went round again twice; he found the visitor
each time as he had found him first. Once, that is, he was staring
before him; the next time he was looking over his Figaro, which he
had opened out. Densher didn't again stop, but left him apparently
unconscious of his passage--on another repetition of which Lord Mark
had disappeared. He had spent but the day; he would be off that night;
he had now gone to his hotel for arrangements. These things were as
plain to Densher as if he had had them in words. The obscure had
cleared for him--if cleared it was; there was something he didn't see,
the great thing; but he saw so round it and so close to it that this
was almost as good. He had been looking at a man who had done what he
had come for, and for whom, as done, it temporarily sufficed. The man
had come again to see Milly, and Milly had received him. His visit
would have taken place just before or just after luncheon, and it was
the reason why he himself had found her door shut.

He said to himself that evening, he still said even on the morrow, that
he only wanted a reason, and that with this perception of one he could
now mind, as he called it, his business. His business, he had settled,
as we know, was to keep thoroughly still; and he asked himself why it
should prevent this that he could feel, in connexion with the crisis,
so remarkably blameless. He gave the appearances before him all the
benefit of being critical, so that if blame were to accrue he shouldn't
feel he had dodged it. But it wasn't a bit he who, that day, had
touched her, and if she was upset it wasn't a bit his act. The ability
so to think about it amounted for Densher during several hours to a
kind of exhilaration. The exhilaration was heightened fairly, besides,
by the visible conditions--sharp, striking, ugly to him--of Lord Mark's
return. His constant view of it, for all the next hours, of which there
were many, was as a demonstration on the face of it sinister even to
his own actual ignorance. He didn't need, for seeing it as evil, seeing
it as, to a certainty, in a high degree "nasty," to know more about it
than he had so easily and so wonderfully picked up. You couldn't drop
on the poor girl that way without, by the fact, being brutal. Such a
visit was a descent, an invasion, an aggression, constituting precisely
one or other of the stupid shocks he himself had so decently sought to
spare her. Densher had indeed drifted by the next morning to the
reflexion--which he positively, with occasion, might have brought
straight out--that the only delicate and honourable way of treating a
person in such a state was to treat her as he, Merton Densher, did.
With time, actually--for the impression but deepened--this sense of the
contrast, to the advantage of Merton Densher, became a sense of relief,
and that in turn a sense of escape. It was for all the world--and he
drew a long breath on it--as if a special danger for him had passed.
Lord Mark had, without in the least intending such a service, got it
straight out of the way. It was he, the brute, who had stumbled into
just the wrong inspiration and who had therefore produced, for the very
person he had wished to hurt, an impunity that was comparative
innocence, that was almost like purification. The person he had wished
to hurt could only be the person so unaccountably hanging about. To
keep still meanwhile was, for this person, more comprehensively, to
keep it all up; and to keep it all up was, if that seemed on
consideration best, not, for the day or two, to go back to the palace.

The day or two passed--stretched to three days; and with the effect,
extraordinarily, that Densher felt himself in the course of them washed
but the more clean. Some sign would come if his return should have the
better effect; and he was at all events, in absence, without the
particular scruple. It wouldn't have been meant for him by either of
the women that he was to come back but to face Eugenio. That was
impossible--the being again denied; for it made him practically
answerable, and answerable was what he wasn't. There was no neglect
either in absence, inasmuch as, from the moment he didn't get in, the
one message he could send up would be some hope on the score of health.
Since accordingly that sort of expression was definitely forbidden him
he had only to wait--which he was actually helped to do by his feeling
with the lapse of each day more and more wound up to it. The days in
themselves were anything but sweet; the wind and the weather lasted,
the fireless cold hinted at worse; the broken charm of the world about
was broken into smaller pieces. He walked up and down his rooms and
listened to the wind--listened also to tinkles of bells and watched for
some servant of the palace. He might get a note, but the note never
came; there were hours when he stayed at home not to miss it. When he
wasn't at home he was in circulation again as he had been at the hour
of his seeing Lord Mark. He strolled about the Square with the herd of
refugees; he raked the approaches and the cafés on the chance the
brute, as he now regularly imaged him, might be still there. He could
only be there, he knew, to be received afresh; and that--one had but to
think of it--would be indeed stiff. He had gone, however--it was
proved; though Densher's care for the question either way only added to
what was most acrid in the taste of his present ordeal. It all came
round to what he was doing for Milly--spending days that neither relief
nor escape could purge of a smack of the abject. What was it but abject
for a man of his parts to be reduced to such pastimes? What was it but
sordid for him, shuffling about in the rain, to have to peep into shops
and to consider possible meetings? What was it but odious to find
himself wondering what, as between him and another man, a possible
meeting would produce? There recurred moments when in spite of
everything he felt no straighter than another man. And yet even on the
third day, when still nothing had come, he more than ever knew that he
wouldn't have budged for the world.

He thought of the two women, in their silence, at last--he at all
events thought of Milly--as probably, for her reasons, now intensely
wishing him to go. The cold breath of her reasons was, with everything
else, in the air; but he didn't care for them any more than for her
wish itself, and he would stay in spite of her, stay in spite of odium,
stay in spite perhaps of some final experience that would be, for the
pain of it, all but unbearable. That would be his one way, purified
though he was, to mark his virtue beyond any mistake. It would be
accepting the disagreeable, and the disagreeable would be a proof; a
proof of his not having stayed for the thing--the agreeable, as it
were--that Kate had named. The thing Kate had named was not to have
been the odium of staying in spite of hints. It was part of the odium
as actual too that Kate was, for her comfort, just now well aloof.
These were the first hours since her flight in which his sense of what
she had done for him on the eve of that event was to incur a
qualification. It was strange, it was perhaps base, to be thinking such
things so soon; but one of the intimations of his solitude was that she
had provided for herself. She was out of it all, by her act, as much as
he was in it; and this difference grew, positively, as his own
intensity increased. She had said in their last sharp snatch of
talk--sharp though thickly muffled, and with every word in it final and
deep, unlike even the deepest words they had ever yet spoken: "Letters?
Never--now. Think of it. Impossible." So that as he had sufficiently
caught her sense--into which he read, all the same, a strange
inconsequence--they had practically wrapped their understanding in the
breach of their correspondence. He had moreover, on losing her, done
justice to her law of silence; for there was doubtless a finer delicacy
in his not writing to her than in his writing as he must have written
had he spoken of themselves. That would have been a turbid strain, and
her idea had been to be noble; which, in a degree, was a manner. Only
it left her, for the pinch, comparatively at ease. And it left him,
in the conditions, peculiarly alone. He was alone, that is, till, on
the afternoon of his third day, in gathering dusk and renewed rain,
with his shabby rooms looking doubtless, in their confirmed dreariness,
for the mere eyes of others, at their worst, the grinning padrona threw
open the door and introduced Mrs. Stringham. That made at a bound a
difference, especially when he saw that his visitor was weighted. It
appeared part of her weight that she was in a wet waterproof, that she
allowed her umbrella to be taken from her by the good woman without
consciousness or care, and that her face, under her veil, richly rosy
with the driving wind, was--and the veil too--as splashed as if the
rain were her tears.


III

They came to it almost immediately; he was to wonder afterwards at the
fewness of their steps. "She has turned her face to the wall."

"You mean she's worse?"

The poor lady stood there as she had stopped; Densher had, in the
instant flare of his eagerness, his curiosity, all responsive at sight
of her, waved away, on the spot, the padrona, who had offered to
relieve her of her mackintosh. She looked vaguely about through her wet
veil, intensely alive now to the step she had taken and wishing it not
to have been in the dark, but clearly, as yet, seeing nothing. "I don't
know how she is--and it's why I've come to you."

"I'm glad enough you've come," he said, "and it's quite--you make me
feel--as if I had been wretchedly waiting for you."

She showed him again her blurred eyes--she had caught at his word.
"Have you been wretched?"

Now, however, on his lips, the word expired. It would have sounded for
him like a complaint, and before something he already made out in his
visitor he knew his own trouble as small. Hers, under her damp
draperies, which shamed his lack of a fire, was great, and he felt she
had brought it all with her. He answered that he had been patient and
above all that he had been still. "As still as a mouse--you'll have
seen it for yourself. Stiller, for three days together, than I've ever
been in my life. It has seemed to me the only thing."

This qualification of it as a policy or a remedy was straightway for
his friend, he saw, a light that her own light could answer. "It has
been best. I've wondered for you. But it has been best," she said again.

"Yet it has done no good?"

"I don't know. I've been afraid you were gone." Then as he gave a
headshake which, though slow, was deeply mature: "You won't go?"

"Is to 'go,'" he asked, "to be still?"

"Oh I mean if you'll stay for me."

"I'll do anything for you. Isn't it for you alone now I can?"

She thought of it, and he could see even more of the relief she was
taking from him. His presence, his face, his voice, the old rooms
themselves, so meagre yet so charged, where Kate had admirably been to
him--these things counted for her, now she had them, as the help she
had been wanting: so that she still only stood there taking them all
in. With it however popped up characteristically a throb of her
conscience. What she thus tasted was almost a personal joy. It told
Densher of the three days she on her side had spent. "Well, anything
you do for me--is for her too. Only, only--!"

"Only nothing now matters?"

She looked at him a minute as if he were the fact itself that he
expressed. "Then you know?"

"Is she dying?" he asked for all answer.

Mrs. Stringham waited--her face seemed to sound him. Then her own reply
was strange. "She hasn't so much as named you. We haven't spoken."

"Not for three days?"

"No more," she simply went on, "than if it were all over. Not even by
the faintest allusion."

"Oh," said Densher with more light, "you mean you haven't spoken about
me?"

"About what else? No more than if you were dead."

"Well," he answered after a moment, "I am dead."

"Then I am," said Susan Shepherd with a drop of her arms on her
waterproof.

It was a tone that, for the minute, imposed itself in its dry despair;
it represented, in the bleak place, which had no life of its own, none
but the life Kate had left--the sense of which, for that matter, by
mystic channels, might fairly be reaching the visitor--the very
impotence of their extinction. And Densher had nothing to oppose it
withal, nothing but again: "Is she dying?"

It made her, however, as if these were crudities, almost material
pangs, only say as before: "Then you know?"

"Yes," he at last returned, "I know. But the marvel to me is that you
do. I've no right in fact to imagine or to assume that you do."

"You may," said Susan Shepherd, "all the same. I know."

"Everything?"

Her eyes, through her veil, kept pressing him. "No--not everything.
That's why I've come."

"That I shall really tell you?" With which, as she hesitated and it
affected him, he brought out in a groan a doubting "Oh, oh!" It turned
him from her to the place itself, which was a part of what was in him,
was the abode, the worn shrine more than ever, of the fact in
possession, the fact, now a thick association, for which he had hired
it. That was not for telling, but Susan Shepherd was, none the less,
so decidedly wonderful that the sense of it might really have begun, by
an effect already operating, to be a part of her knowledge. He saw, and
it stirred him, that she hadn't come to judge him; had come rather, so
far as she might dare, to pity. This showed him her own
abasement--that, at any rate, of grief; and made him feel with a rush
of friendliness that he liked to be with her. The rush had quickened
when she met his groan with an attenuation.

"We shall at all events--if that's anything--be together."

It was his own good impulse in herself. "It's what I've ventured to
feel. It's much." She replied in effect, silently, that it was whatever
he liked; on which, so far as he had been afraid for anything, he knew
his fear had dropped. The comfort was huge, for it gave back to him
something precious, over which, in the effort of recovery, his own hand
had too imperfectly closed. Kate, he remembered, had said to him, with
her sole and single boldness--and also on grounds he hadn't then
measured--that Mrs. Stringham was a person who wouldn't, at a pinch,
in a stretch of confidence, wince. It was but another of the cases in
which Kate was always showing. "You don't think then very horridly of
me?"

And her answer was the more valuable that it came without nervous
effusion--quite as if she understood what he might conceivably have
believed. She turned over in fact what she thought, and that was what
helped him. "Oh you've been extraordinary!"

It made him aware the next moment of how they had been planted there.
She took off her cloak with his aid, though when she had also,
accepting a seat, removed her veil, he recognised in her personal
ravage that the words she had just uttered to him were the one flower
she had to throw. They were all her consolation for him, and the
consolation even still depended on the event. She sat with him at any
rate in the grey clearance, as sad as a winter dawn, made by their
meeting. The image she again evoked for him loomed in it but the
larger. "She has turned her face to the wall."

He saw with the last vividness, and it was as if, in their silences,
they were simply so leaving what he saw. "She doesn't speak at all? I
don't mean not of me."

"Of nothing--of no one." And she went on, Susan Shepherd, giving it out
as she had had to take it. "She doesn't want to die. Think of her
age. Think of her goodness. Think of her beauty. Think of all she is.
Think of all she has. She lies there stiffening herself and clinging
to it all. So I thank God--!" the poor lady wound up with a wan
inconsequence.

He wondered. "You thank God--?"

"That she's so quiet."

He continued to wonder. "Is she so quiet?"

"She's more than quiet. She's grim. It's what she has never been. So
you see--all these days. I can't tell you--but it's better so. It would
kill me if she were to tell me."

"To tell you?" He was still at a loss.

"How she feels. How she clings. How she doesn't want it."

"How she doesn't want to die? Of course she doesn't want it." He had a
long pause, and they might have been thinking together of what they
could even now do to prevent it. This, however, was not what he brought
out. Milly's "grimness" and the great hushed palace were present to
him; present with the little woman before him as she must have been
