"No, thank you. I shall dine at home with my people."
"Shall you go to the garden party to-morrow?"
"No."
Guido looked at him curiously, and he immediately turned away, unlike
himself.
"Have you had any more strange dreams since I saw you?" Guido asked.
"Yes."
Lamberti did not turn round again, but looked attentively at an etching
on the table, so that Guido could not see his face. His monosyllabic
answers were nervous and sharp. It was clear that he was under some kind
of strain that was becoming intolerable, but of which he did not care to
speak.
"How is it going?" he asked suddenly.
"I think everything is going well," answered Guido, who knew what he
meant, though neither of them had spoken to the other of Cecilia, except
in the most casual way, since they had both met her.
"So you are going to marry an heiress after all," said Lamberti, with
something like a laugh.
"I love her," Guido replied. "I cannot help the fact that she is rich."
"It does no harm."
"Perhaps not, but I wish she had no more than I. If she had nothing at
all, I should be just as anxious to marry her."
"You do not suppose that I doubt that, do you?" Lamberti asked quickly.
"No. But you spoke at first as if you were reproaching me for changing
my mind."
"Did I? I am sorry. I did not mean it in that way. I was only thinking
that fate generally makes us do just what we do not intend. There is
something diabolically ingenious about destiny. It lies in wait for you,
it seems to leave everything to your own choice, it makes you think that
you are a perfectly free agent, and then, without the least warning, it
springs at you from behind a tree, knocks you down, tramples the breath
out of you, and drags you off by the heels straight to the very thing
you have sworn to avoid. Man a free agent? Nonsense! There is no such
thing as free will."
"What in the world has happened to you?" Guido asked, by way of answer.
"Is anything wrong?"
"Everything is wrong. Good night. You ought to be dressing for dinner."
"Come with me."
"To dine with people whom I hardly know, and who have not asked me?
Besides, I told you that I meant to dine at home."
"At least, promise me that you will go with me to-morrow to the Villa
Madama."
"No."
"Look here, Lamberti," said Guido, changing his tone, "you and I have
known each other since we were boys, and I do not believe there exist
two men who are better friends. I am not sure that the Contessina
Palladio will marry me, but her mother wishes it, and heaven knows that
I do. They are both perfectly well aware that you are my most intimate
friend. If you absolutely refuse to go near them they can only suppose
that you have something against them. They have already asked me if they
are never to see you. Now, what will it cost you to be decently civil to
a lady who may be my wife next year, and to her mother, who was your
mother's friend long ago? You need not stay half an hour at the villa
unless you please. But go with me. Let them see you with me. If I really
marry, do you suppose I am going to have any one but you for my best
man?"
Lamberti listened to this long speech without attempting to interrupt
Guido. Then he was silent for a few moments.
"If you put it in that light," he said, rising to go, "I cannot refuse.
What time shall you start? I will come here for you."
"Thank you," said Guido. "I should like to get there early. At four
o'clock, I should say. I suppose we ought not to leave here later than
half-past three."
"Very well. I shall be here in plenty of time. Good night."
When Guido pressed his hand, it was icy cold.
                              CHAPTER VIII
On the following morning Lamberti went out early, and before nine
o'clock he was in the private study of a famous physician, who was a
specialist for diseases of the nerves. Lamberti had never seen him and
had not asked for an appointment, for the simple reason that his visit
was spontaneous and unpremeditated. He had spent a wretched night, and
it suddenly struck him that he might be ill. As he had never been ill in
his life except from two or three wounds got in fight, he had been slow
to admit that anything could be wrong with his physical condition. But
it was possible. The strongest men sometimes fell ill unaccountably. A
good doctor would see the truth at a glance.
The specialist was a young man, squarely built, with a fresh complexion,
smooth brown hair, and a well-trimmed chestnut beard. At first sight, no
one would have noticed anything remarkable in his appearance, except,
perhaps, that he had unusually bright blue eyes, which had a fixed look
when he spoke earnestly.
"I am a naval officer," said Lamberti, as he took the seat the doctor
offered him. "Can you tell me whether I am ill or not? I mean, whether I
have any bodily illness. Then I will explain what brings me."
The doctor looked at him keenly a few seconds, felt his pulse, pressed
one ear on his waistcoat to listen to his heart, and then against his
back, made him face the light and gently drew down the lower lids of his
eyes, and finally stood off and made a sort of general survey of his
appearance. Then he made him stretch out one hand, with the fingers
spread out. There was not the least tremor. Last of all, he asked him to
shut his eyes tightly and walk slowly across the room, turn round, and
walk back. Lamberti did so, steadily and quietly.
"There is nothing wrong with your body," said the doctor, sitting down.
"Before you tell me why you come here, I should like to know one thing
more. Do you come of sound and healthy people?"
"Yes. My father is the Marchese Lamberti. My brothers and sisters are
all alive and well. So far as I know, there was never any insanity in my
family."
"Were your father and mother cousins?" enquired the doctor.
"No."
"Very good. That is all I need to know. I am at your service. What is
the matter?"
"If we lived in the Middle Ages," said Lamberti, "I should say that I
was possessed by the devil, or haunted." He stopped and laughed oddly.
"Why not say so now?" asked the doctor. "The names of things do not
matter in the least. Let us say that you are haunted, if that describes
what troubles you. Very good. What haunts you?"
"A young girl," Lamberti answered, after a moment's pause.
"Do you mean that you see, or think you see, the apparition of a young
girl who is dead?"
"She is alive, but I have only met her once. That is the strange thing
about it, or, at least, the beginning of the strange thing. Of course it
is perfectly absurd, but when I first saw her, the only time we met, I
had the sensation of recognising some one I had not seen for many years.
As she is only just eighteen, that is impossible."
"Excuse me, my dear sir, nothing is impossible. Every one is
absent-minded sometimes. You may have seen the young lady in the street,
or at the theatre. You may have stared at her quite unconsciously while
you were thinking of something else, and her features may have so
impressed themselves upon your memory, without your knowing it, that you
actually recognised her when you met her in a drawing-room."
"I daresay," admitted Lamberti, indifferently. "But that is no reason
why I should dream of her every night."
"I am not sure. It might be a reason. Such things happen."
"And every night when I wake from the dream, I hear some one close the
door of my room softly, as if she were just going out. I always lock my
door at night."
"Perhaps it sometimes shakes a little in the frame."
"It began at home. But I have been stopping in the country nearly a
fortnight, and the same thing has happened every night."
"You dream it. One may get the habit of dreaming the same dream every
time one sleeps."
"It is not always the same dream, though the door is always closed
softly when she goes away. But there is something else. I was wrong in
saying that I only met the lady once. I should have said that I have
spoken with her only once. This is how it happened."
Lamberti told the doctor the story of his meeting Cecilia at the house
of the Vestals. The specialist listened attentively, for he was already
convinced that Lamberti was a man of solid reason and practical good
sense, probably the victim of a series of coincidences that had made a
strong impression on his mind. When Lamberti paused, there was a
moment's silence.
"What do you yourself think was the cause of the lady's fright?" asked
the doctor at last.
"I believe that she had dreamed the same dream," Lamberti answered
without hesitation.
"What makes you believe anything so improbable?"
"Well--I hardly know. It is an impression. It was all so amazingly real,
you see, and when our eyes met, she looked as if she knew exactly what
would happen if she did not run away--exactly what had happened in the
dream."
"That was on the morning after you had first dreamt it, you say. Of
course it helped very much to strengthen the impression the dream had
made, and it is not at all surprising that the dream should have come
again. You know as well as I, that a dream which seems to last hours
really passes in a second, perhaps in no time at all. The slightest
sound in your room which suggested the closing of a door would be enough
to bring it all back before you were awake, and the sound might still be
audible to you."
"Possibly. Whatever it is, I wish to get rid of it."
"It may be merely coincidence," the doctor said. "I think it is. But I
do not exclude the theory that two people who have made a very strong
impression one on another, may be the subjects of some sort of mutual
thought transference. We know very little about those things. Some queer
cases come under my observation, but my patients are never sound and
sane men like you. What I should like to know is, why did the lady run
away?"
"That is probably the one thing I can never find out," Lamberti
answered.
"There is a very simple way. Ask her." The doctor smiled. "Is it so very
hard?" he enquired, as Lamberti looked at him in surprise. "I take it
for granted that you can find some opportunity of seeing her in a
drawing-room, where she cannot fly from you, and will not do anything to
attract attention. What could be more natural than that you should ask
her quite frankly why she was so frightened the other day? I do not see
how she could possibly be offended. Do you? When you ask her, you need
not seem too serious, as if you attached a great deal of importance to
what she had done."
"I certainly could try it," said Lamberti thoughtfully. "I shall see her
to-day."
"She may try to avoid you, because she is ashamed of what she did. But
if I were you, I would not let the chance slip. If you succeed in
talking to her for a few minutes, and break the ice, I can almost
promise that you will also break the habit of this dream that annoys
you. Will you make the attempt? It seems to me by far the wisest and
most sensible remedy, for I am nearly sure that it will turn out to be
one."
"I daresay you are right. Is there any other way of curing such habits
of the mind?"
"I could hypnotise you and stop your dreaming by suggestion."
"Nobody could make me sleep against my will." Lamberti laughed at the
mere idea.
"No," answered the doctor, "but it would not be against your will, if
you submitted to it as a cure. However, try the simpler plan first, and
come and see me in a day or two. You seem to hesitate. Perhaps you have
some reason for not wishing to make the nearer acquaintance of the lady.
That is your affair, but one more interview of a few minutes will not
make much difference, as your health is at stake. You are under a mental
strain altogether out of proportion with the cause that produces it, and
the longer you allow it to last the stronger the reaction will be, when
it comes."
"I have no good reason for not knowing her better," Lamberti said after
a moment's thought, for he was convinced against his previous
determination. "I will take your advice, and then I will come and see
you again."
He took his leave and went out into the bright morning air. It was a
relief to feel that he had been brought to a determination at last, and
he knew that it was a sensible one, from any ordinary point of view, and
that his one great objection to acting upon it had no logical value.
But the objection subsisted, though he had made up his mind to override
it. It was out of the question that he could really be in love with
Cecilia Palladio, who was probably quite unlike what she seemed to be in
his dreams. He had fallen in love with a fancy, a shadow, an unreal
image that haunted him as soon as he closed his eyes; but when he was
wide awake and busy with life the girl was nothing to him but a mere
acquaintance. His pulse would not beat as fast when he met her that very
afternoon as it had done just now, in the doctor's study, when he had
been thinking of the vision.
Besides, what Guido had said was quite true. He could not possibly
continue not to know Guido's future wife; and as there was no danger of
his falling in love with her when his eyes were open, he really could
not see why he should be so anxious to avoid her. So the matter was
settled. He took a long walk, far out of Porta San Giovanni, and turned
to the right by the road that leads through the fields to the tomb of
Cecilia Metella.
As he passed the great round monument, swinging along steadily, its name
naturally came to his mind, and it occurred to him for the first time
that Cecilia had been a noble name among the old Romans, that it had
come down unchanged, and that there had doubtless been more than one
Vestal Virgin who had borne it. The Vestal in his dream was certainly
called Cecilia. He was in the humour, now, to smile at what he called
his own folly, and as he strode along he almost laughed aloud. Before
the sun should set, the whole matter would be definitely at rest, and he
would be wondering how he could ever have been foolish enough to attach
any importance to it. He followed the Appian Way back to the city, with
a light heart.
                               CHAPTER IX
The Villa Madama was probably never inhabited, for it was certainly
never quite finished, and the grand staircase was not rebuilt after
Cardinal Pompeo Colonna set fire to the house. That was in the wild days
when Rome was sacked by the Constable of Bourbon's Spaniards and
Franzperg's Germans, and Pope Clement the Seventh was shut up in the
stronghold of Sant' Angelo; and at nightfall he looked from the windows
of the fortress and saw the flames shoot up on the slope of Monte Mario,
from the beautiful place which Raphael of Urbino had designed for him,
and which Giovanni of Udine had decorated, and he told those who were
with him that Cardinal Colonna was revenging himself for his castles
sacked and burned by the Pope's orders.
That was nearly four hundred years ago, and the great exterior staircase
was never rebuilt; but in order to save that part of the little palace
from ruin unsightly arches were reared up against the once beautiful
wing, and because of Giulio Romano's frescoes and Giovanni of Udine's
marvellous stucco work, the roof has been always kept in good repair.
Moreover, a good deal has been written about the building, some of which
is inaccurate, to say the least; as, for instance, that one may see the
dome of Saint Peter's from the windows, whereas the villa stands halfway
down the slope of the hill on the side which is away from the church,
and looks towards the Sabines and towards Tivoli and Frascati.
Those who have taken the trouble to visit the villa in its half-ruinous
condition, and who have lingered on the grass-grown terraces and at the
noble windows, on spring afternoons, when the sun is behind the hill,
can easily guess what it became when it passed into the ownership of the
Contessina Cecilia Palladio. Her guardian, the excellent Baron Goldbirn,
had bought it for her because it was offered for sale at a low price,
and was an excellent investment as well as a treasure of art; and he had
purposed to coat the brown stone walls with fresh stucco, to erect a
"belvedere" with nice green blinds on the roof, to hang the rooms with
rich magenta damask, to carpet them with Brussels carpets, to furnish
them with gilt furniture, to warm the house with steam heat, and to
light it with electricity.
To his surprise, his ward rejected each of these proposals in detail and
all of them generally, and declared that since the villa was hers she
could deal with it according to her own taste, which, she maintained,
was better than Goldbirn's. The latter answered that as he was
sixty-five years old and Cecilia was only eighteen, this was impossible;
but that under the circumstances he washed his hands of the matter, only
warning her that the Italian law would not allow her to cut down the
trees more than once in nine years.
"As if anything could induce me to cut them down at all!" Cecilia
answered indignantly. "There are few enough as it is!"
"My dear," the Countess had answered with admirable relevancy, "I hope
you are not ungrateful to your guardian."
Cecilia was not ungrateful, but she had her own way, for it was
preordained that she generally should, and it was well for the Villa
Madama that it was so. She only asked her guardian how much he would
allow her to spend on the place, and then, to his amazement and
satisfaction, she only spent half the sum he named. She easily persuaded
a good artist, whom her stepfather had helped at the beginning of his
career, to take charge of the work, and it was carried out with loving
and reverent taste. The wilderness of sloping land became a garden, the
beautiful "court of honour" was so skilfully restored with old stone and
brick that the restoration could hardly be detected, the great exterior
staircase was rebuilt, the close garden on the other side was made a
carpet of flowers; the water that gushed abundantly from a deep spring
in the hillside poured into an old fountain bought from the remains of a
villa in the Campagna, and then, below, filled the vast square basin
that already existed, and thence it was distributed through the lower
grounds. There were roses everywhere, already beginning to climb, and
the scent of a few young orange trees in blossom mingled delicately with
the odour of the flowers. Within the house the floor of the great hall
was paved with plain white tiles, and up to the cornice and between the
marvellous pilasters the bare walls were hung with coarse linen woven in
simple and tasteful patterns and in subdued colours.
The little gods and goddesses and the emblematic figures of the seasons
in the glorious vaults overhead, smiled down upon such a scene as had
not rejoiced the great hall for centuries. The Countess had asked all
Rome to come, with an admirable indifference to political parties and
social discords; and all Rome came, as it sometimes does, in the best of
tempers with itself and with its hostess. Roman society is good to look
at, when it is gathered together in such ways; for mere looks, there is
perhaps nothing better in all Europe, except in England. The French are
more brilliant, no doubt, for their women, and, alas, their men also,
affect a greater variety of dress and ornament than any other people.
German society is magnificent with military uniforms, Austrians
generally have very perfect taste; and so on, to each its own advantage.
But the Romans have something of their own, a beauty most distinctly
theirs, a sort of distinction that is genuine and unaffected, but which
nevertheless seems to belong to more splendid times than ours. When the
women are beautiful, and they often are, they are like the pictures in
their own galleries; among the men there are heads and faces that remind
one of Lionardo da Vinci, of Cæsar Borgia, of Lorenzo de' Medici, of
Guidarello Guidarelli, even of Michelangelo. Romans, at their best, have
about them a grave suavity, or a suave gravity, that is a charm in
itself, with a perfect self-possession which is the very opposite of
arrogance; when they laugh, their mirth is real, though a little
subdued; when they are grave, they do not look dull; when they are in
deep earnest, they are not theatrical.
Those who went to the Fortiguerra garden party never quite forgot the
impression they received. It was one of those events that are remembered
as memorable social successes, and spoken of after many years. It was
unlike anything that had ever been done in Rome before, unlike the
solemn receptions of the chief of the clericals, when the cardinals come
in state and are escorted by torch-bearers from their carriages to the
entrance of the great drawing-room, and back again when they go away;
unlike the supremely magnificent balls in honour of the foreign
sovereigns who occasionally spend a week in Rome, and are amusingly
ready to accept the hospitality of Roman princes; most of all, it was
unlike an ordinary garden party, because the Villa Madama is quite
unlike ordinary villas.
Moreover, every one was pleased that such very rich people should not
attempt to surprise society by vulgar display. There were no state
liveries, there were no ostentatious armorial bearings, there was no
overpowering show of silver and gold, there was no Hungarian band
brought expressly from Vienna, nor any fashionable pianist paid to play
about five thousand notes at about a franc apiece, to the great
annoyance of all the people who preferred conversation to music.
Everything was simple, everything was good, everything was beautiful,
from the entrancing view of Rome beyond the yellow river, and of the
undulating Campagna beyond, with the soft hills in the far distance, to
the lovely flowers in the garden; from the flowers without, to the
stately halls within; from their charming frescoes and exquisite white
traceries, to the lovely girl who was the centre, and the reason, and
the soul of it all.
Her mother received the guests out of doors, in the close garden, and
thirty or forty people were already there when Guido d'Este and Lamberti
arrived; for every one came early, fearing lest the air might be chilly
towards sunset. The Countess introduced the men and the young girls to
her daughter, and presented her to the married women. Presently, when
the garden became too full, the people would go back through the house
and wander away about the grounds, lighting up the shadowed hillside
with colour, and filling the air with the sound of their voices. They
would stray far out, as far as the little grove on the knoll, planted in
old times for the old-fashioned sport of netting birds.
Guido had told Cecilia on the previous evening that his friend had
returned from the country and was coming to the villa, and he had again
seen the very slight contraction of her brows at the mere mention of
Lamberti's name. He wondered whether there were not some connection
between what he took for her dislike of Lamberti, and the latter's
strong disinclination to meet her. Perhaps Lamberti had guessed at a
glance that she would not like him. He would of course keep such an
opinion to himself.
Guido watched Cecilia narrowly from the moment she caught sight of him
with Lamberti--so attentively indeed that he did not even glance at the
latter's face. It was set like a mask, and under the tanned colour any
one could see that the man turned pale.
"You know Cecilia already," said the Countess Fortiguerra, pleasantly.
"I hope the rest of your family are coming?"
"I think they are all coming," Lamberti answered very mechanically.
He had resolutely looked at the Countess until now, but he felt the
daughter's eyes upon him, and he was obliged to meet them, if only for a
single instant. The last time he had met their gaze she had cried aloud
and had fled from him in terror. He would have given much to turn from
her now, without a glance, and mingle with the other guests.
He was perfectly cool and self-possessed, as he afterwards remembered,
but he felt that it was the sort of coolness which always came upon him
in moments of supreme danger. It was familiar to him, for he had been in
many hand-to-hand engagements in wild countries, and he knew that it
would not forsake him; but he missed the thrill of rare delight that
made him love fighting as he loved no sport he had ever tried. This was
more like walking bravely to certain death.
Cecilia was all in white, but her face was whiter than the silk she
wore, and as motionless as marble; and her fixed eyes shone with an
almost dazzling light. Guido saw and wondered. Then he heard Lamberti's
voice, steady, precise, and metallic as the notes of a bell striking the
hour.
"I hope to see something of you by-and-by, Signorina."
Cecilia's lips moved, but no sound came from them. Then Guido was sure
that they smiled perceptibly, and she bent her head in assent, but so
slightly that her eyes were still fixed on Lamberti's.
Other guests came up at that moment, and the two friends made way for
