him as he sat talking, or went about the room, mak 
ing himself at home among them, as if he were 
welcome with every one. He joked her more than 
the rest, and accused her of having become a regu 
lar New-Yorker; he said he supposed that when she 
came back from Europe she would not know any 
body in Tuskingum; and his mother, playing with 
Ellen 's fingers, as if they had been the fringe of a 
tassel, declared that she must not mind him, for he 
carried on just so with everybody; at the same time 
she ordered him to stop, or she would go right out 
of the room. 
She gave no other sign of going, and it was her 
son who had to make the movement for her at last; 
she apparently did not know that it was her part 
to make it. She said that now the Kentons must 
come and return her call, and be real neighborly, 
just the same as if they were all at home together. 
When her son shook hands with every one she 
did so too, and she said to each, "Well, I wish 
you good morning," and let him push her be 
fore him, in high delight with the joke, out of the 
room. 
When they were gone the Kentons sat silent, Ellen 
with a rapt smile on her thin, flushed face, till Lot 
tie said, "You forgot to ask him if we might 
"breathe, poppa," and paced out of the room in 
stately scorn, followed by Boyne, who had apparent 
ly no words at the command of his dumb rage. 
Kenton wished to remain, and he looked at his wife 
for instruction. She frowned, and he took this 
 
for a sign that he had better go, and he went with a 
light sigh. 
He did not know what else to do with himself, 
and he went down to the reading-room. He found 
Bittridge there, smoking a cigar, and the young 
man companionably offered to bestow one upon him; 
but the judge stiffly refused, saying he did not 
wish to smoke just then. He noted that Bit 
tridge was still in his character of family fa 
vorite, and his hand trembled as he passed it 
over the smooth knob of his stick, while he sat 
waiting for the fellow to take himself away. 
But Bittridge had apparently no thought of going. 
He was looking at the amusements for the evening 
in a paper he had bought, and he wished to consult 
the judge as to which was the best theatre to go 
to that night; he said he wanted to take his mother. 
Kenton professed not to know much about the New 
York theatres, and then Bittridge guessed he must 
get the clerk to tell him. But still he did not part 
with the judge. He sat down beside him, and told 
him how glad he was to see his family looking so 
well, especially Miss Ellen; he could not remem 
ber ever seeing her so strong - looking. He said 
that girl had captured his mother, who was in 
love with pretty much the whole Kenton family, 
though. 
" And by-the-way," he added, " I want to thank 
you and Mrs. Kenton, judge, for the way you 're 
ceived my mother. You made her feel that she was 
among friends. She can 't talk about anything else, 
 
and I guess I sha n 't have much trouble in making 
her stay in New York as long as you 're here. She 
was inclined to be homesick. The fact is, though 
I don 't care to have it talked about yet, and I wish 
you wouldn 't say anything to Dick about it when 
you write home, I think of settling in New York. 
I ve been offered a show in the advertising depart 
ment of one of the big dailies I 'm not at liberty 
to say which and it 's a toss-up whether I stay here 
or go to Washington; I ve got a chance there, too, 
but it 's on the staff of a new enterprise, and I 'm not 
sure about it. I ve brought my mother along to 
let her have a look at both places, though she doesn 't 
know it, and I d rather you wouldn 't speak of it 
before her; I 'm going to take her on to Washington 
before we go back. I want to have my mother with 
me, judge. It 's better for a fellow to have that 
home-feeling in a large place from the start ; it keeps 
him out of a lot of things, and I don 't pretend 
to be better than other people, or not more super 
human. If I ve been able to keep out of scrapes, 
it 's more because I ve had my mother near me, 
and I don 't intend ever to be separated from her, 
after this, till I have a home of my own. She 's 
been the guiding-star of my life." 
Kenton was unable to make any formal response, 
and, in fact, he was so preoccupied with the question 
whether the fellow was more a fool or a fraud that 
he made no answer at all, beyond a few inarticulate 
grumblings of assent. These sufficed for Bittridge, 
apparently, for he went on contentedly : " When- 
THE KENTONS fa 
ever I ve been tempted to go a little wild, the 
thought of how mother would feel has kept me on 
the track like nothing else would. No, judge, there 
isn 't anything in this world like a good mother, 
except the right kind of a wife." 
Kenton rose, and said he believed he must go up 
stairs. Bittridge said, " All right; I 'll see you later, 
judge," and swung easily off to advise with the 
clerk as to the best theatre. 
VI 
KENTON was so unhappy that he could not wait 
for his wife to come to him in their own room; he 
broke in upon her and Ellen in the parlor, and at 
his coming the girl flitted out, in the noiseless 
fashion which of late had made her father feel 
something ghostlike in her. He was afraid she was 
growing to dislike him, and trying to avoid him, 
and now he presented himself quite humbly before 
his wife, as if he had done wrong in coming. He 
began with a sort of apology for interrupting, but 
his wife said it was all right, and she added, "We 
were not talking about anything in particular." She 
was silent, and then she added again : " Sometimes 
I think Ellen hasn 't very fine perceptions, after 
all. She doesn 't seem to feel about people as I 
supposed she would." 
"You mean that she doesn 't feel as you would 
suppose about those people?" 
Mrs. Kenton answered, obliquely. " She thinks 
it 's a beautiful thing in him to be so devoted to 
his mother." 
"Humph! And what does she think of his 
mother?" 
" She thinks she has very pretty hair." 
 
Mrs. Kenton looked gravely down at the work 
she had in her hands, and Kenton did not know 
what to make of it all. He decided that his wife 
must feel, as he did, a doubt of the child 's sincerity, 
with a sense of her evasiveness more tolerant than 
his own. Yet he knew that if it came to a question 
of forcing Ellen to do what was best for her, or 
forbidding her to do what was worst, his wife would 
have all the strength for the work, and he none. 
He asked her, hopelessly enough, "Do you think 
she still cares for him?" 
"I think she wishes to give him another trial; 
I hope she will." Kenton was daunted, and he show 
ed it. " She has got to convince herself, and we 
have got to let her. She believes, of course, that 
he 's here on her account, and that flatters her. Why 
should she be so different from other girls?" Mrs. 
Kenton demanded of the angry protest in her hus 
band 's eye. 
His spirit fell, and he said, " I only wish she were 
more like them." 
" Well, then, she is just as headstrong and as 
silly, when it comes to a thing like this. Our only 
hope is to let her have her own way." 
" Do you suppose he cares for her, after all ?" 
Mrs. Kenton was silent, as if in exhaustive self- 
question. Then she answered : " No, I don 't in that 
way. But he believes he can get her." 
" Then, Sarah, I think we have a duty to the poor 
child. You must tell her what you have told me." 
Mrs. Kenton smiled rather bitterly, in recognition 
 
of the fact that the performance of their common 
duty must fall wholly to her. But she merely said : 
" There is no need of my telling her. She knows 
it already." 
"And she would take him in spite of knowing 
that he didn 't really care for her ?" 
"I don 't say that She wouldn 't own it to 
herself." 
" And what are you going to do ?" 
" Nothing. We must let things take their course." 
They had a great deal more talk that came to 
the same end. They played their sad comedy, he 
in the part of a father determined to save his 
child from herself, and she in hers of resisting and 
withholding him. It ended as it had so often end 
ed before he yielded, with more faith in her wis 
dom than she had herself. 
At luncheon the Bittridges could not join the 
Kentons, or be asked to do so, because the table held 
only four, but they stopped on their way to their 
own table, the mother to bridle and toss in affected 
reluctance, while the son bragged how he had got 
the last two tickets to be had that night for the 
theatre where he was going to take his mother. He 
seemed to think that the fact had a special claim 
on the judge 's interest, and she to wish to find out 
whether Mrs. Kenton approved of theatre-going. 
She said she would not think of going in Ballards- 
ville, but she supposed it was more rulable in New 
York. 
During the afternoon she called at the Kenton 
 
apartment to consult the ladies about what she 
ought to wear. She said she had nothing but a 
black barege along, and would that do with the 
hat she had on? She had worn it to let them see, 
and now she turned her face from side to side to 
give them the effect of the plumes, that fell like 
a dishevelled feather-duster round and over the 
crown. Mrs. Kenton could only say that it would 
do, but she believed that it was the custom now 
for ladies to take their hats off in the theatre. 
Mrs. Bittridge gave a hoarse laugh. " Oh, dear ! 
Then I 'll have to fix my hair two ways! I don 't 
know what Clarence will say." 
The mention of her son 's name opened the way 
for her to talk of him in relation to herself, and 
the rest of her stay passed in the celebration of 
his filial virtues, which had been manifest from 
the earliest period. She could not remember that 
she ever had to hit the child a lick, she said, or 
that he had ever made her shed a tear. 
When she went, Boyne gloomily inquired, " What 
makes her hair so much darker at the roots than 
it is at the points?" and his mother snubbed him 
promptly. 
" You had no business to be here, Boyne. I don 't 
like boys hanging about where ladies are talking 
together, and listening." 
This did not prevent Lottie from answering, 
directly for Boyne, and indirectly for Ellen, "It 's 
because it 's begun to grow since the last bleach." 
It was easier to grapple with Boyne than with 
 
Lottie, and Mrs. Kenton was willing to allow her 
to leave the room with her brother unrebuked. She 
was even willing to have had the veil lifted from 
Mrs. Bittridge 's hair with a rude hand, if it would 
help Ellen. 
"I don 't want you to think, momma," said the 
girl, "that I didn 't know about her hair, or that 
I don 't see how silly she is. But it 's all the more 
to his credit if he can be so good to her, and admire 
her. Would you like him better if he despised 
her?" 
Mrs. Kenton felt both the defiance and the secret 
shame from which it sprang in her daughter 's words, 
and she waited for a moment before she answered, 
" I would like to be sure he didn t." 
" If he does, and if he hides it from her, it 's the 
same as if he didn t; it 's better. But you all wish 
to dislike him." 
"We don 't wish to dislike him, Ellen, goodness 
knows. But I don 't think he would care much 
whether we disliked him or not. I am sure your 
poor father and I would be only too glad to like 
him." 
"Lottie wouldn t," said Ellen, with a resentment 
her mother found pathetic, it was so feeble and 
aimless. 
"Lottie doesn 't matter," she said. She could 
not make out how nearly Ellen was to sharing the 
common dislike, or how far she would go in for 
tifying herself against it. She kept with difficulty 
to her negative frankness, and she let the girl 
 
leave the room with a fretful sigh, as if provoked 
that her mother would not provoke her further. 
There were moments when Mrs. Kenton believed 
that Ellen was sick of her love, and that she would 
pluck it out of her heart herself if she were left 
alone. She was then glad Bittridge had come, so 
that Ellen might compare with the reality the 
counterfeit presentment she had kept in her fancy; 
and she believed that if she could but leave 
him to do his worst, it would be the best for 
Ellen. 
In the evening, directly after dinner, Bittridge 
sent up his name for Mrs. Kenton. The judge 
had remained to read his paper below, and Lottie 
and Boyne had gone to some friends in another 
apartment. It seemed to Mrs. Kenton a piece of 
luck that she should be able to see him alone, and 
she could not have said that she was unprepared 
for him to come in, holding his theatre-tickets ex 
planatorily in his hand, or surprised when he began : 
"Mrs. Kenton, my mother 's got a bad headache, 
and Fve come to ask a favor of you. -She can 't use 
her ticket for to-night, and I want you to let Miss 
Ellen come with me. Will you ?" 
Bittridge had constituted himself an old friend 
of the whole family from the renewal of their ac 
quaintance, and Mrs. Kenton was now made aware 
of his being her peculiar favorite. In spite of 
the instant repulsion she felt, she was not averse 
to what he proposed. Her fear was that Ellen would 
be so, or that she could keep from influencing her 
 
to this test of her real feeling for Bittridge. " I will 
ask her, Mr. Bittridge," she said, with a severity 
which was a preliminary of the impartiality she 
meant to use with Ellen. 
" Well, that 's right," he answered, and while 
she went to the girl 's room he remained examining 
the details of the drawing-room decorations in easy 
security, which Mrs. Kenton justified on her 're 
turn. 
" Ellen will be ready to go with you, Mr. Bit 
tridge." 
"Well, that 's good," said the young man, and 
while he talked on she sat wondering at a nature 
which all modesty and deference seemed left out of, 
though he had sometimes given evidence of his 
intellectual appreciation of these things. He talked 
to Mrs. Kenton not only as if they were in every- 
wise equal, but as if they were of the same age, al 
most of the same sex. 
Ellen came in, cloaked and hatted, with her 
delicate face excited in prospect of the adventure, 
and her mother saw Bittridge look at her with more 
tenderness than she had ever seen in him before. 
" I 'll take good care of her, Mrs. Kenton," he said, 
and for the first time she felt herself relent a 
little towards him. 
A minute after they were gone Lottie bounced 
into the room, followed by Boyne. 
" Momma !" she shouted, " Ellen isn 't going to 
the theatre with that fellow?" 
"Yes, she is." 
 
"And you let her, momma! Without a chaper 
on?" 
Boyne 's face had mirrored the indignation in 
his sister s, but at this unprecedented burst of con 
ventionality he forgot their momentary alliance. 
" Well, you 're a pretty one to talk about chaperons! 
Walking all over Tuskingum with fellows at night, 
and going buggy-riding with everybody, and out 
rowing, and here fairly begging Jim Plumpton to 
come down to the steamer and see you off again !" 
" Shut up !" Lottie violently returned, " or I 'll tell 
momma how you ve been behaving with Rita Plump- 
ton yourself." 
" Well, tell !" Boyne defied her. 
" Oh, it don 't matter what a brat of a boy says 
or does, anyway," said Lottie. " But I think Ellen 
is disgracing the family. Everybody in the hotel 
is laughing at that wiggy old Mrs. Bittridge, with 
her wobbly eyes, and they can see that he 's just 
as green! The Plumptons have been laughing so 
about them, and I told them that we had nothing 
to do with them at home, and had fairly turned 
Bittridge out of the house, but he had impudence 
enough for anything; and now to find Ellen going 
off to the theatre with him alone !" 
Lottie began to cry with vexation as she whipped 
out of the room, and Boyne, who felt himself drawn 
to her side again, said, very seriously : " Well, it ain 't 
the thing in New York, you know, momma; and 
anybody can see what a jay Bittridge is. I think 
it 's too bad to let her." 
 
" It isn 't for you to criticise your mother, Boyne," 
said Mrs. Kenton, but she was more shaken than she 
would allow. Her own traditions were so simple 
that the point of etiquette which her children had 
urged had not occurred to her. The question 
whether Ellen should go with Bittridge at all being 
decided, she would, of course, go in New York as 
she would go in Tuskingum. Now Mrs. Kenton 
perceived that she must not, and she had her share 
of humiliation in the impression which his mother, 
as her friend, apparently, was making with her 
children 's acquaintances in the hotel. If they would 
think everybody in Tuskingum was like her, it 
would certainly be very unpleasant, but she would 
not quite own this to herself, still less to a four 
teen-year-old boy. "I think what your father and 
I decide to be right will be sufficient excuse for you 
with your friends." 
"Does father know it?" Boyne asked, most un 
expectedly. 
Having no other answer ready, Mrs. Kenton said, 
" You had better go to bed, my son." 
"Well," he grumbled, as he left the room, "I 
don 't know where all the pride of the Kentons is 
gone to." 
In his sense of fallen greatness he attempted to 
join Lottie in her room, but she said, " Go away, 
nasty thing!" and Boyne was obliged to seek his 
own room, where he occupied himself with a con 
trivance he was inventing to enable you to close 
your door and turn off your gas by a system of 
 
pulleys without leaving your bed, when you were 
tired of reading. 
Mrs. Kenton waited for her husband in much 
less comfort, and when he came, and asked, restless 
ly, " Where are the children?" she first told him that 
Lottie and Boyne were in their rooms before she 
could bring herself to say that Ellen had gone 
to the theatre with Bittridge. 
It was some relief to have him take it in the dull 
way he did, and to say nothing worse than, "Did 
you think it was well to have her?" 
"You may be sure I didn 't want her to. But 
what would she have said if I had refused to let 
