of your going away!"
Helen gave a long, sighing breath, then smiled.
"Miss Gage is to be taken to Europe, and her folks are willing," she
subjoined.
"And this place isn't so far away. You can write and come home in
vacation."
Then he would consent. She felt relieved that there was to be no
argument.
"What do you think Aunt Jane will say?" she inquired, clasping his arm.
"Well, she'll be mighty set against it. I'll have a hard row to hoe when
I go home. There'll be weeds of last year and year before," laughing
brusquely. "I wish the old lady had to tackle her."
"But I don't. Aunt Jane says a good many things at first that she
doesn't mean. It's the wrong side of something full of seams and knots,
but when you get it turned out it is ever so much smoother."
"You're right. You're just right. You've quick sight in a good many
things, Helen, and I should hate awfully to have you spoiled, and get so
grand you'd look down on us. Mother aint much for book learnin', and
Jen's as smart as a steel trap, if she is ours. Oh, and there's the
wedding. Why I don't see how we can do without you," and he looked
really alarmed.
"Perhaps I won't have to go so soon." Somehow she was almost afraid she
wouldn't go at all. It was one of the happenings that seemed too good to
be true, too wonderful for her.
"Well, I must get along. Mother'll wonder what kept me."
"And, oh, Uncle Jason, don't ever feel afraid that I shall forget you,
and all your goodness."
Helen flung her arms around his neck and kissed his rough cheek
tenderly.
"No, my girl, no. I should hope not. We'll hear soon, I suppose. And you
will come over."
"Yes." Helen felt a little conscience smitten. She could go over and
spend Sunday, but he did not ask it, and she did not proffer. She could
imagine the time there would be, and oh, she would so much rather be out
of it.
Mrs. Van Dorn said he was much more amenable to reason than she had
feared. She explained about the agreement, and her plans to go the last
of next week. Helen was transfixed with amazement.
Monday afternoon Mr. Warfield made his appearance. Miss Gage had gone
out with Mrs. Van Dorn. Helen was very glad to have Mrs. Dayton explain
the proposal, and point out its advantages.
"I don't like it," he exclaimed brusquely. "And you didn't take the
examination?"
"Oh, yes, I did, and it was splendid! I'll show you the papers. But why
don't you like it?" apprehensively.
"If you are going to teach in a public school, the discipline and
advantages of the public school education are immeasurably the best. I
don't like boarding schools except for the high up people who care most
for accomplishments. And I have been thinking it over, and had a plan to
propose to Mrs. Dayton."
"My schooldays seem a great perplexity all around," said Helen with a
dubious sort of laugh.
"I do suppose Helen could have worked her way through. I had decided to
give her a home, or her other expenses if a pleasant home offered. I
would much rather not have her put on the level of a domestic. We may
have some very fine theories on this subject, but Helen would have many
snubs to endure. And if she resolves to learn what is useful, she will
learn it as well there."
"But the experience will be so different. And two years will fit her
for just nothing at all. Every year more real education is demanded. I
am studying up for a college degree myself."
"Oh, dear!" Helen sighed lugubriously.
"Then, here, I should have had an oversight of your studies, and kept
you up to the mark."
"I am resolved I won't fall below anywhere," she replied resolutely; yet
there were tears in her eyes.
"But you don't know what the standard will be."
"Don't be discouraging, Mr. Warfield. Helen, go and get your papers,"
interposed Mrs. Dayton.
"Is that old body going to have Helen trained for a lady's maid?" Mr.
Warfield asked in an imperious manner; his lips touched with a bit of
scorn.
"You don't do her justice. At the end of two years Helen will be free to
choose her future course. She will be only sixteen then."
"And spoiled utterly. Full of airs and graces. She is too fine a girl to
be made a sort of puppet. There wasn't a girl in my class equal to her,
and some had had much better advantages. I should not want her to go on
living with the Mulfords."
Helen returned bright and eager, proud of her success as she handed him
her examination papers. But Mr. Warfield would not be reconciled to the
boarding school plan, and when he saw Mrs. Van Dorn step out of the
carriage in her fine attire, he felt that he hated her; that she was an
officious old body.
CHAPTER IX
DIFFERENT STANDPOINTS
Helen would have been figuratively torn to pieces if she had spent
Sunday at the Center. Uncle Jason's first resolve was that he would wait
until Sunday afternoon before announcing the conspiracy. The more he
thought of the plan the greater the benefit to Helen seemed. She was
different from the Mulfords, and she had no Cummings blood in her veins.
She had changed these few weeks of her sojourn with Mrs. Dayton. Not
that she had grown consequential. Indeed, she had never been more simply
sweet than on this afternoon.
She would hate the shop dreadfully. And after all the three dollars a
week she would earn the first year, would not more than pay for her
board and clothes. Jenny had gone at it with a vim. But she hated books.
The only thing that interested her was arithmetic. Uncle Jason could not
put it in words, but he could feel it.
The supper passed off without any squabbles. Sam and Jenny walked down
to the house, the children were tired and went to bed, and Aunt Jane
came out on the porch to take a turn in her rocking chair and fan
herself cool. But the wind blew up, and she did not even have to fan.
"Did you ask whether Helen would come home next week? Polly Samson comes
two days to make Jen's wedding gown, and she'll be married on the
sixteenth. We've got along wonderfully the last fortnight, and I begin
to see my way clear. Dear, how I shall miss Jen, but I'm glad she'll be
so near by. And she bid 'em good-by at the shop to-day. Reely's getting
to be quite a help. I don't know but it was better for her to have
Helen away in vacation."
Uncle Jason felt this was the golden opportunity. The lovers would not
be home until about ten. It took some courage. He cleared his throat,
listened a moment to the crickets, and then plunged into the subject;
blurting it all out before Aunt Jane could recover her breath. In fact
there was such an awful silence he wondered.
Then the storm descended. He smoked his pipe and listened, though he
heard the crickets with one ear, he would have said. And when he did not
make an immediate answer, she said angrily:
"You never consented to any such tomfoolery!"
"In the first place," he began slowly, "we couldn't keep Helen against
her will. Her father didn't make us guardians. At fourteen she can
choose. She isn't bound to us, and we haven't any real claim on her----"
"Except common gratitude," Aunt Jane flung out.
"We've taken care of her a few years. I dare say there'd be people in
North Hope who would take a smart girl like Helen and pay her three
dollars a week. Mrs. Dayton thought she might stay there and go to the
High School before that other offer come along. And Warfield thinks it
would be dreadful not to give her a chance at school when she could earn
it for herself. She doesn't want to go in the shop----"
"As if a girl of fourteen knew what she wanted!"
"Jenny did, and you agreed with her. I was awfully took by surprise when
old lady Van Dorn first snapped this onto me, but Helen and Mrs. Dayton
were so much in earnest, and then drivin' home I kept thinking it over.
If someone offered to take Sam and teach him store business, and he had
his heart set upon going, and it was a good chance, I don't believe it
would be right to oppose him. It's just the same with Helen."
"And have her stick up above us and despise us! She's had pride enough,
and I've tried to break her of it. I just wish I hadn't let her go at
all. She'll be unthankful and full of conceit, and she never shall go
with my consent."
Uncle Jason kept silence, which was very irritating. Aunt Jane went over
the ground again, growing more dogmatic at every step. Then the young
people returned.
"Goodness sakes, mother, what are you scolding about?" cried Jenny.
"They can hear you half a mile away."
Then the story had to be gone over again.
"Well, I declare! I don't see that it's anything to get mad about," said
Jenny sensibly. "Why, it's--it's just splendid! Pop, don't you think she
ought to go? And if she likes teaching better than anything else, for
goodness sake, let her teach! I'd rather go out washing. And a girl who
don't like it in the shop won't get along. Helen hasn't quite the right
way with her. She's on the Grant side of the fence. My! The idea! That
old lady must have taken a smashin' fancy to her. And she has sights of
money, folks say. Maybe she'll leave her something in the end, and she's
quite old."
"I'm fairly stumped!" declared Sam. "Mother, what's the reason you don't
want her to go?"
"Mother's afraid she'll put on airs, and crow over us. Goodness! Let
her, if she wants to. I'm going to have a good home, and a good
husband," squeezing Joe's hand, "and she may crow over me as much as she
likes. It won't hurt me a bit. And if you undertake to keep her home
she'll be cranky, and you'll wish you hadn't."
They were all on Helen's side. Mrs. Mulford could not make any headway
and went off to bed in high dudgeon. All day Sunday she carried about an
injured look, and said she had reached the time of life when her
opinions were of no account, after all she had done, and where would
anyone have been without her thrift and judgment?
On Monday Jenny helped wash and iron, and sang about the house. She told
her mother the matter wasn't worth minding. Tuesday, Polly Samson came
with three new patterns of wedding gowns, and fairly alive with the
wonderful news that a rich old woman boarding at Mrs. Dayton's was going
to adopt Helen, and send her away to school.
The next afternoon the carriage came over with Mrs. Van Dorn, Mrs.
Dayton, and Helen, and the agreement. Certainly Mrs. Van Dorn's part
sounded very generous. For the next two years she would provide wholly
for Helen, and keep her at school, but she would be free in the summer
vacation. After that Helen must decide her course. Mr. Castles, the
lawyer, vouched for Mrs. Van Dorn. The Mulfords were to visit her
whenever they chose.
"I don't agree to any of this," said Mrs. Mulford, in her most severe
tone. "I don't believe in girls being brought up above their station.
We're just plain farmer people, and Helen's our kin, though if she was
on the Cummings' side, I'd have some voice in the matter. Mr. Mulford's
willing, and if it turns out bad, and she grows up proud and lazy, and
ashamed of honest labor, 'taint my fault. I wash my hands of it all,"
and she fairly wrung them out.
Helen's face was scarlet.
Mrs. Van Dorn said in a very dignified manner, "Will you sign this, Mr.
Mulford? You will see the money is in Mr. Castles' hands, and must be
used for that alone. You can compel me to keep my word," smiling.
"I don't doubt you at all," said Mr. Mulford. "I'd trust you without the
scratch of a pen."
"But that wouldn't be business."
Jenny brought in some cake, and some very nice root beer. If the ladies
chose they could have a cup of tea.
Mrs. Van Dorn thought she would.
Then they talked about Jenny's wedding. Helen was to go to New York on
Saturday, and on Friday of next week was due at Aldred House.
"I'm awful sorry you can't come to the wedding," said Jenny. "We're
going away for a week, then we shall have a house-warming at my house.
I'm going to be married at noon, so the relatives can get home before
night. And I'm sure I wish you loads of good luck. It is just wonderful.
Mother'll get over it, and be just as proud as anybody. Father thinks it
just right, and Joe says it's like something out of a story book. He's
fond of stories, and used to read them to his mother. I shan't mind his
reading to me, for I'll sew and crochet."
"And I know you'll be happy, Jenny. I wish you all the good things. And
I could--stay all night," hesitatingly.
"No, I wouldn't. Come over and spend Friday, then mother'll be in a
better humor," laughing. "But father'll miss you dreadfully. He'd lotted
on your taking my place. Well, we'll all miss you, but it's such a
splendid chance. You'll let her come over on Friday?" to Mrs. Van Dorn.
"Then my wedding gown will be done. It's white lansdowne. I thought I
wouldn't splurge in silk or satin. Lansdowne will dye when it's soiled."
Mrs. Van Dorn promised for Friday, and they said their good-bys. Helen
ran out to the kitchen porch, and kissed Uncle Jason.
"There were two votes against it," said Mrs. Van Dorn dryly. "I think I
can understand your aunt, but I don't see the force of Mr. Warfield's
reasoning. Your cousin seems a nice, sensible girl."
How the days flew! One of the neighbors took her over Friday morning.
Joe and Jenny would bring her back. And she had a really happy time.
Jenny took her down to the house, and it was attractively nice and
comfortable, even if Jenny had tacked up some advertising pictures in
her chamber, and the dining-room. There was an old-time door-yard with
its long rows of flowers. Joe was a master hand for flowers. The
vegetable garden was in excellent order, and did not look ragged, as
gardens were wont to do in early autumn. There had been a second crop of
several things, which betokened thrift on Joe's part. Yes; Jenny would
be very happy. People were different, and the same pursuits and
pleasures could not satisfy all alike.
"I'm glad you are going to that school, Helen. You would never have
liked working in the shop. It's suited me well enough, because I've been
thinking of the money. I have two hundred dollars in the bank in my own
name, and Joe is going to let me have the butter and egg money. But I
don't know how I'll keep busy all the time, though I can help mother
with the sewing. She'd counted so much on you. And she thinks now----"
Jenny looked at Helen, and laughed merrily, "that if Mrs. Van Dorn would
put the money out at interest that she's going to spend on you the next
two years, it would be ever so much better for you."
"No, it wouldn't," returned Helen decisively. "Beside, what good reason
would she have for doing such a thing? She knows I am just wild for an
education. There are so many splendid knowledges in the world," and the
girl's face was brilliant with eagerness.
"You've changed some way, Helen. I guess you always were a little
different, though." Jenny seemed studying her from head to foot. "You're
taller. My, if you had on long skirts, you'd be a young lady."
"I just want to be a girl for ever so long. Mrs. Van Dorn doesn't want
me grown up."
"And I went in the shop when I was only half-past fourteen," laughing.
"I made mother let me wear long skirts, and when I was fifteen Joe began
to come round and bring me home from cottage meeting and singing school,
but his mother didn't like it a bit. She wouldn't have let him marry if
she had lived, but I was willing to wait and that maddened her. Now if
she'd been nice, I'd a' been real glad to have her round. And I say to
mother, don't you be getting cranky and snappy so as no one will want to
live with you when you get old. Isn't that Mrs. Van Dorn rather queer?"
"She is so bright and intelligent, and has traveled about so much and
read almost everything. Why I've learned about countries and their
government, and what they do at Washington, and about Congress and our
own capital, and the cities and towns that have mayors, and boroughs,
and villages."
"Oh dear, all that would set me crazy!" interrupted Jenny, holding up
her hand in entreaty. "I guess you do take after your father. Well my
life suits me best. Just imagine me marrying a man like Mr. Warfield!
Why I shouldn't know what to do--I'd rather work in the shop and have
fun with the girls. But if all these things suit you, you ought to have
them, when they are offered out and out to you."
"I am glad you think so;" and she gave Jenny's arm a caressing little
squeeze.
"And I do hope you won't get so big feeling that you will be too grand
to notice us. I'd like you to come next summer in vacation and make me a
nice long visit. I think I'll be able to stand book learning for a
while;" with her rather boisterous laugh. "And oh, you won't forget to
write to father."
"No indeed," with tender warmth. "I never loved Uncle Jason so much as
this last summer, though he's always been good to me."
"And he thinks a mighty sight of you, I can tell you," returned Jenny.
Then they walked homeward. There was a great ado bidding Helen good-by.
Aunt Jane gave her some severely good advice, which was quite
superfluous, seeing that she would not recognize the change in the
girl's life.
Uncle Jason put both arms around her and kissed her tenderly.
"Be a good, honest, truthful girl," he said in a rather broken voice,
"and then all the learning in the world won't hurt you."
The next morning there were some more good-bys. Joanna's was really
touching.
"There's a good deal of knowledge it's nice to have," she said, "but I
think your pretty ways must have come natural. And you do beat all at
drying dishes."
Mrs. Dayton felt almost as if she was giving up a child. Would it have
been better for her to have remained at Hope?
She was really astonished at the commotion the event created. Wasn't it
a great risk to have Helen Grant go off with a strange woman? Just as if
schools in Hope were not good enough!
"I never saw anything wonderful in Helen Grant," said Mrs. Graham. "Mr.
Warfield pushed her ahead when he should have been taking pains with
others, and I'll venture to say he helped her out with that examination.
She couldn't have gone to the High School anyhow. And Jason Mulford is
as stuck up as a telegraph post over her luck. We'd all laugh if it fell
through in a year!"
As for Helen there were several days of living in absolute fairyland.
The Hotel was a veritable palace to her, the ladies, queens and
princesses. As for the stores they were beyond any description, only she
thought they had been rehearsed in "Walks about Paris," but she was
sometime to see the difference.
Mrs. Van Dorn displayed excellent taste in selecting Helen's wardrobe.
It was simply pretty, fit for a girl in the ordinary walks of life. Her
measurements were left with madame, who, from time to time would send
her what was suitable and necessary.
She had been such a charming companion that Mrs. Van Dorn really hated
to give her up. If she were only two or three years older! Her
enthusiasms were so fresh and infectious, her health was so perfect, her
readiness, her pleasant temper, the pretty manner in which she took any
check or counsel, appealed curiously to the worn old heart still
hankering after something all its own, that should exhilarate and bring
her back to some of the freshness of youth. Two years. Well, there were
women who lived to ninety-six, or even a hundred. She would take good
care of herself and have this enjoyment in her later years.
Miss Gage took Helen to Westchester. It was a beautiful town with old
trees and old substantially-built houses. It was the county town also,
and twice a year presented quite a stirring aspect. The inhabitants were
refined and intelligent. Four different denominations had churches. A
lovely winding river ran on one side, full of suggestive nooks, dividing
it from a neighboring State. A smaller one ran nearly through the
center, crossed by several rustic bridges. Toward the east there was a
rather high bluff going up, a woody sort of crest, and on this stood
Aldred House, though it fronted on Elm Avenue. There were two terraces,
and two short flights of steps to reach it, and a great wide veranda
where a Virginia creeper and honeysuckle were burnishing their leaves in
the sun.
"Oh," sighed Helen with a long indrawn breath and luminous eyes, "tell
Mrs. Van Dorn that I shall be perfectly happy here, I know I shall."
And Mrs. Van Dorn wondered when the message was repeated. Youth was
easily caught by newness. What if Helen should be weaned away by other
friends? And there were girls born students who could not be satisfied
unless with some profession or business. What if she should be one of
these? The jealous old heart wanted all of her, all of the Babylon she
meant to build with its pleasant gardens and fascinating nooks of
variety. Well, Helen had cared for her old uncle, and she, Mrs. Van Dorn
would be a hundred times better to her.
The reception room was cozy, with one open bookcase, some pictures, a
great oriental jar full of trailing clematis and blazing sumac branches.
Mrs. Aldred came in, a rather tall, sweet-faced woman with a voice that
won at once, and a manner that had a welcome in it.
"I am very glad to have you come, and glad that I could oblige Mrs. Van
Dorn in any way. I hope you will soon feel at home," she exclaimed.
"Oh, it is so lovely everywhere! And the journey for the last mile or
two where you caught glimpses of the river, and in one place a great
pile of rocks big enough to shelter some of the old Norse gods was
enchanting. We have only one poor little river at home and there is but
one really beautiful place in it. And I am sure I shall like to live
here."
An enthusiastic girl, thought Mrs. Aldred. A fine, intelligent face
also, perhaps too romantic.
Miss Gage gave her few charges and said good-by, as she was to catch a
return train. It was early afternoon. Several of the scholars had
arrived and were settling their rooms. Then Helen's trunk came up. Mrs.
Aldred had been taking her through the long parlor on the opposite side
of the hall, and the dining room, where instead of one long table,
several small ones were cozily arranged. Back of this, toward the bluff,
was the schoolroom, and the study room, with several small ones for
recitations.
"I wonder if you would like best to be alone in a room or have a
companion?" questioned Mrs. Aldred. "I sometimes give girls a choice."
"I like folks," returned Helen, frankly. "That is----" pausing rather
confusedly.
"If they are agreeable?"
"Yes," said Helen, smiling.
"I will give you a room where you may have a companion if you like.
Some girls get homesick at first if they are alone."
"Oh, I shall not be homesick," she exclaimed with gay assurance.
Up the broad staircase they trooped, though there were two smaller ones
convenient to many of the rooms. There was a long corridor with small
rooms opening on the one side, and a cross hall leading to those in
front. In the double rooms were screens arranged to insure as much
privacy as one cared for. A white bed, a sort of closet with
book-shelves above, a bureau and dressing table, a wardrobe built in
the wall, a wicker arm chair and a rocking chair, with a large hassock
and a small one.
"Now," said Mrs. Aldred, "when your trunk comes you will empty it and
put your clothes away, and the servant will take it to the trunk room."
It came up in a few moments. Then Mrs. Aldred left her with some kindly
wishes.
Helen went to the window. It overlooked the southwest. There were tops
of trees, then a depression that was the river, and over beyond fields
golden in the sunshine,--that was the stubble of grain, others a dull
brown with here and there a bit of green weed pushing up sturdily since
the hay had been cut, young winter wheat over beyond, houses, farms,
rising ground again and woodlands. Far over to the westward were the
grand hills of another State. It was so much more beautiful than all the
Hopes with their levels.
This wonderful thing had happened to her. Hardly a year, indeed it was
at the beginning of the present year that Mr. Warfield had gone at her
rather fiercely, she thought, and told her there was no use of dawdling
and that she must pass for the High School.
"But I can't go to the High School," she had protested. That looked
impossible.
"No matter, you can pass," he had said so sternly that she wondered why
people must be cross when they were so much nicer in a pleasant mood.
Then Aunt Jane began to talk of next year when she should be through
school. She roused suddenly, she "took hold" as people say and found
