excitement — to which, indeed, he would have found it 
difficult instantly to give a name — brought him once more a 
downstairs and caused him for some minutes vaguely to 
wander. He went once more to the garden ; he looked 
into the public room, found Miss Gostrey writing letters  
and backed out ; he roamed, fidgeted and wasted time ; 
but he was to have his more intimate session with his 
friend before the evening closed.  
It was late — it was not till Strether had spent an hour 
upstairs with him — that this subject consented to betake 
himself to doubtful rest. Dinner and the subsequent stroll 
by moonlight — a dream, on Strether's part, of romantic 
effects rather prosaically merged in a mere missing of 
thicker coats — had measurably intervened, and this mid- 
night conference was the result of Waymarsh's having — 
when they were free, as he put it, of their fashionable 
friend — found the smoking-room not quite what he wanted, 
and yet bed what he wanted still less. His most frequent 
form of words was that he knew himself, and they were 
applied on this occasion to his certainty of not sleeping. 
He knew himself well enough to know that he should have 
a night of prowling unless he should succeed, as a pre- 
liminary, in getting as tired as he wanted. If the effort 
directed to this end involved, till a late hour, the presence 
of Strether — consisted, that is, in the detention of the latter 
for full discourse — there was yet an impression of minor 
discipline involved, for our friend, in the picture Way- 
marsh made as he sat, in trousers and shirt, on the edge of 
his couch. With his long legs extended and his large 
back much bent, he nursed alternately, for an almost 
incredible time, his elbows and his beard. He struck his 
visitor as extremely, as almost wilfully uncomfortable ; yet 
what had this been for Strether, from that first glimpse of 
him disconcerted in the porch of the hotel, but the pre- 
dominant note ? It was a discomfort that was in a manner 
contagious, as well as also, in a manner, inconsequent and 
unfounded ; the visitor felt that unless he should get used 
to it — or unless Waymarsh himself should — it would con- 
stitute a menace for his own prepared, his own already 
confirmed, consciousness of the agreeable. On their first 
going up together to the room that Strether had selected 
for him Waymarsh had looked it over, in silence, with a 
sigh that represented for his companion, if not the habit 
of disapprobation, at least the despair of felicity ; and 
this look had recurred to Strether as the key of much that 
he had since observed. " Europe," he had begun to gather 
from these things, had as yet, then, for him, rather failed 
of its message ; he had not got into tune with it, and had 
almost, at the end of three months, renounced any such 
expectation. 
He really appeared at present to insist on that by just 
perching there with the gas in his eyes. This of itself 
somehow conveyed the futility of single rectification in a 
multiform failure. He had a large, handsome head and a 
large, sallow, seamed face — a striking, significant physiog- 
nomic total, the upper range of which, the great political 
brow, the thick, loose hair, the dark, fuliginous eyes, re- 
called even to a generation whose standard had dreadfully 
deviated the impressive image, familiar by engravings and 
busts, of some great national worthy of the earlier part of 
the mid-century. He was of the personal type — and it 
was an element in the power and promise that in their 
earlier time Strether had found in him — of the American 
statesman, the statesman of " Congressional halls," of an 
elder day. The legend had been in later years that, as 
the lower part of his face, which was weak and slightly 
crooked, spoiled the likeness, this was the real reason for 
the growth of his beard, which might have seemed to spoil 
it for those not in the secret. He shook his mane ; he fixed, 
with his admirable eyes, his auditor or his observer ; he 
wore no glasses and had a way, partly formidable, yet also 
partly encouraging, as from a representative to a con- 
stituent, of looking very harfl at those who approached him. 
He met you as if you had knocked and he had bidden you 
enter. Strether, who had not seen him for a long interval, 
apprehended him now with a freshness of taste, and had 
perhaps never done him such ideal justice as on this occa- 
sion. The head was bigger, the eyes finer, than they need 
have been for the career ; but that only meant, after all, 
that the career was itself expressive. What it expressed 
at midnight in the gas-glaring bedroom at Chester was that 
the subject of it had, at the end of years, barely escaped, 
by flight in time, a general nervous collapse. But this very 
proof of the full life, as the full life was understood at 
Milrose, would have made, to Strether's imagination, an 
element in which Waymarsh could have floated easily had 
he only consented to float. Alas, nothing so little re- 
sembled floating as the rigour with which, on the edge of his 
bed, he hugged his posture of prolonged impermanence. It 
suggested to his comrade something that always, when kept 
up, worried him — a person established in a railway-coach 
with a forward inclination. It represented the angle at 
which poor Waymarsh was to sit through the ordeal of 
Europe. 
Thanks to the stress of occupation, the strain of pro- 
fessions, the absorption and embarrassment of each, they 
had not, for some five years before this sudden breach and 
almost bewildering reign of comparative ease, found, at 
home, so much as a day for a meeting ; a fact that was in 
some degree an explanation of the sharpness with which, 
for Strether, most of his friend's features stood out. Those 
he had lost sight of since the early time came back to him ; 
others that it was never possible to forget struck him now 
as sitting, clustered and expectant, like a somewhat defiant 
family group, on the doorstep of their residence. The 
room was narrow for its length, and Strether's friend on 
the bed thrust so far a pair of slippered feet that he had 
almost to step over them in his recurrent rebounds from 
his chair to fidget back and forth. There were marks they 
made on things to talk about and on things not to, and 
one of the latter, in particular, fell like the tap of chalk on 
the blackboard. Married at thirty, Waymarsh had not 
lived with his wife for fifteen years, and it came up vividly 
between them in the glare of the gas that Strether was not 
to ask about her. He knew they were still separate and 
that she lived at hotels, travelled in Europe, painted her 
face and wrote her husband abusive letters, of not one of 
which, to a certainty, that sufferer spared himself the pe- 
rusal ; but he respected without difficulty the cold twilight 
that had settled on this side of his companion's life. It 
was a province in which mystery reigned, and as to which 
Waymarsh had never spoken the informing word. Strether, 
who wanted to do him the highest justice wherever he could 
do it, singularly admired him for the dignity of his reserve, 
and even counted it as one of the grounds — grounds all 
handled and numbered — for ranking him, in the range of 
their acquaintance, as a success. He was a success, 
Waymarsh, in spite of overwork, of prostration, of sensible 
shrinkage, of his wife's letters and of his not liking Europe. 
Strether would have reckoned his own career less futile had 
he been able to put into it anything so handsome as so 
much fine silence. One might oneself easily have left Mrs. 
Waymarsh ; and one would assuredly have paid one's 
tribute to the ideal in covering with that attitude the de- 
rision of having been left by her. Her husband had held 
his tongue and had made a large income ; and these were 
the achievements, in especial, as to which Strether envied 
him. Our friend had had indeed, for his part too, a subject 
for silence, which he fully appreciated ; but it was a matter 
of a different sort, and the figure of the income he had 
arrived at had never been high enough to look anyone in 
the face. 
" I don't know as I quite see what you require it for. 
You don't appear sick to speak of." It was of Europe 
that Waymarsh thus finally spoke. 
" Well," said Strether, falling as much as possible into 
step, " I guess I don't get sick now that I've started. But 
I had pretty well run down before I did start." 
Waymarsh raised his melancholy look. " Ain't you 
about up to your usual average ? " 
It was not quite pointedly sceptical, but it seemed some- 
how a plea for the purest veracity, and affected our friend, 
proportionately, as the very voice of Milrose. He had long 
since made a mental distinction — though never, in truth, 
daring to betray it — between the voice of Milrose and the 
voice, even, of Woollett. It was the former, he felt, that 
was most in the real tradition. There had been occasions 
in his past when the sound of it had reduced him to tempo- 
rary confusion, and the present, for some reason, suddenly 
became such another. It was no light matter, none the 
less, that the very effect of his confusion should be to make 
him again prevaricate. " That description hardly does 
justice to a man to whom it has done such a lot of good to 
StQyoi." 
Waymarsh fixed on his washing-stand the silent, detached 
stare with which Milrose in person, as it were, might have 
marked the unexpectedness of a compliment from Woollett ; 
and Strether, on his side, felt once more like Woollett 
in person. " I mean," his friend presently continued, "that 
your appearance isn't as bad as I've seen it ; it compares 
favourably with what it was when I last noticed it." On 
this appearance Waymarsh's eyes yet failed to rest ; it was 
almost as if they obeyed an instinct of propriety, and the 
effect was still stronger when, always considering the basin 
and jug, he added, " You've filled out some since then." 
" I'm afraid I have," Strether laughed ; " one does fill 
some with all one takes in, and I've taken in, I daresay, 
more than I've natural room for. I was dog-tired when I 
sailed." It had the oddest sound of cheerfulness. 
" I was dog-tired," his companion returned, " when I 
arrived, and it's this wild hunt for rest that takes all the life 
out of me. The fact is, Strether — and it's a comfort to 
have you here at last to say it to ; though I don't know, 
after all, that I've really waited ; I've told it to people I've 
met in the cars — the fact is, such a country as this ain't my 
part of country, any way. There ain't a country I've seen 
over here that does seem my kind. Oh, I don't say but 
what there are plenty of pretty places and remarkable old 
things ; but the trouble is that I don't seem to feel anywhere 
in tune. That's one of the reasons, I suppose, I've gained 
so little. I haven't had the first sign of that lift I was led 
to expect." With this he broke out more earnestly. " Look 
here — I want to go back." 
His eyes were all attached to Strether's now, for he was 
one of the men who fully face you when they talk of them- 
selves. This enabled his friend to look at him hard and 
immediately to appear in his own eyes, by doing so, to the 
highest advantage. " That's a genial thing to say to a 
fellow who has come out on purpose to meet you." 
Nothing could have been finer than, on this, Waymarsh's 
sombre glow. " Have you come out on purpose ? " 
" Well — very largely." 
" I thought, from the way you wrote, there was some- 
thing back of it." 
Strether hesitated. " Back of my desire to be with 
you ? " 
" Back of your prostration." 
Strether, with a smile made more dim by a certain con- 
sciousness, shook his head. " There are all the causes of 
it!" 
" And no particular cause that seemed most to drive 
you ? " 
Our friend could at last conscientiously answer. " Yes. 
One. There is a matter that has had much to do with my 
coming out." 
Waymarsh waited a little. " Too private to mention ? " 
" No, not too private — for you. Only rather compli- 
cated." 
" Well," said Waymarsh, who had waited again. " I may 
lose my mind over here, but I don't know as I've done so 
yet." 
"Oh, you shall have the whole thing. But not to-night." 
Waymarsh seemed to sit stiffer and to hold his elbows 
tighter. " Why not — if I can't sleep ? " 
" Because, my dear man, I can ! " 
" Then where's your prostration ? " 
"Just in that — that I can put in eight hours"; and 
Strether brought it out that if Waymarsh didn't "gain" it 
was because he didn't go to bed : the result of which was, 
in its order, that, to do the latter justice, he permitted his 
friend to insist upon his really getting settled. Strether, 
with a kind of coercive hand for it, assisted him to this 
consummation, and again found his own part in their re- 
lation auspiciously enlarged by the smaller touches of 
lowering the lamp and seeing to a sufficiency of blanket. 
It somehow ministered for him to indulgence to feel 
Waymarsh, who looked unnaturally big and black in bed, 
as much tucked in as a patient in a hospital and, with his 
covering up to his chin, as much simpHfied by it. He 
hovered for vague pity, in fine, while his companion chal- 
lenged him out of the bedclothes, " Is she really after you ? 
Is that what's behind ?" 
Strether felt an uneasiness at the direction taken by his 
companion's vision, but he played a little at uncertainty, 
" Behind my coming out ?" 
" Behind your prostration, or whatever. It's generally 
felt, you know, that she follows you up pretty close." 
Strether's candour was never very far off. " Oh, it has 
occurred to you that I'm literally running away from Mrs. 
Newsome ? " 
" Well, I haven't known but what you are. You're a 
very attractive man, Strether. You've seen for yourself," 
said Waymarsh, " what that lady downstairs makes of it. 
Unless indeed," he rambled on with an effect between the 
ironic and the anxious, " it's you that are after her. Is 
Mrs. Newsome over here ? " He spoke as with a droll 
dread of her. 
It made his friend — though rather dimly — smile, " Dear 
no ; she's safe, thank goodness, as I think I more and 
more feel, at home. She thought of coming, but she gave 
it up. I've come in a manner instead of her ; and come, 
to that extent — for you're right in your inference — on her 
business. So you see there is plenty of connection." 
Waymarsh continued to bce at least all there was. 
" Involving accordingly the particular connection I've re- 
ferred to. " 
Strether took another turn about the room, giving a 
twitch to his companion's blanket and finally gaining the 
door. His feeling was that of a nurse who had earned 
personal rest by having made everything straight. " In- 
volving more things than I can think of breaking ground 
on now. But don't be afraid — you shall have them from 
me ; you'll probably find yourself having quite as much of 
them as you can do with. I shall — if we keep together — 
very much depend on your impression of some of them." 
Waymarsh's acknowledgment of this tribute was charac- 
teristically indirect. " You mean to say you don't believe 
we will keep together ? " 
" I onl)' glance at the danger," Strether paternally said, 
" because when I hear you wail to go back I seem to see 
you open up such possibilities of folly." 
Waymarsh took it — silent a little — like a large snubbed 
child. " What are you going to do with me  " 
It was the very question Strether himself had put to 
Miss Gostrey, and he wondered if he had sounded like 
that. But he at least could be more definite. " I'm going 
to take you right down to London." 
"Oh, I've dcen down to London!" Waymarsh more 
softly moaned. " I've no use, Strether, for anything down 
there." 
" Well," said Strether good-humouredly, " I guess you've 
some use for me." 
" So I've got to go?" 
" Oh, you've got to go further yet." 
" Well," Waymarsh sighed, " do your damnedest ! Only 
you will tell me before you lead me on all the way .- " 
Our friend had again so lost himself, both for amuse- 
ment and for contrition, in the wonder of whether he had 
made, in his own challenge that afternoon, such another 
figure, that he for an instant missed the thread. " Tell 
you ? " 
" Why, what you've got on hand." 
Strether hesitated. " Why, it's such a matter as that, 
even if I positively wanted, I shouldn't be able to keep it 
from you." 
Waymarsh gloomily gazed. " What does that mean, 
then, but that your trip is  ust/or her ?" 
"For Mrs. Newsome ? Oh, it certainly is, as I say. 
Very much." 
" Then why do you also say it's for me ? " 
Strether, in impatience, violently played with his latch. 
" It's simple enough. It's for both of you." 
Waymarsh at last turned over with a groan. " Well, / 
won't marry you ! " 
" Neither, when it comes to that ! " But Strether 
had alread)' laughed and escaped. 
Ill 
He had told Miss Gostrey that he should probably take,   
for departure with Waymarsh, some afternoon train, and it 
thereupon in the morning appeared that this lady had 
made her own plan for an earlier one. She had break- I 
fasted when Strether came into the coffee-room ; but,   
Waymarsh not having yet emerged, he was in time to 
recall her to the terms of their understanding and to   
pronounce her discretion overdone. She was not, surel ', J 
to break away at the very moment she had created a want. ' 
He had met her as she rose from her little table in a 
window, where, with the morning papers beside her, she 
reminded him, as he let her know, of Major Pendennis 
breakfasting at his club — a compliment of which she pro- 
fessed a deep appreciation ; and he detained her as 
pleadingly as if he had already — and notably under 
pressure of the visions of the night — learned to be unable 
to do without her. She must teach him at all events, 
before she went, to order breakfast as breakfast was 
ordered in Europe, and she must especially sustain him in 
the problem of ordering for Waymarsh. The latter had 
laid upon his friend, by desperate sounds through the door 
of his room, dreadful divined responsibilities in respect to 
beefsteak and oranges — responsibilities which Miss Gos- 
trey took over with an alertness of action that matched 
her quick intelligence. She had weaned the expatriated 
before from traditions compared with which the matutinal 
beefsteak was but the creature of an hour, and it was not 
for her, with some of her memories, to falter in the path ; 
though she freely enough declared, on reflection, that there 
was always, in such cases, a choice of opposed policies. 
" There are times when to give them their head, you 
know " 
They had gone to wait together in the garden for the 
dressing of the meal, and Strether found her more 
suggestive than ever. " Well, what ? " 
" Is to bring about for them such a complexity of rela- 
tions — unless indeed we call it a simplicity ! — that the 
situation has to wind itself up. They want to go back," 
" And you want them to go ! " Strether gaily concluded. 
" I always want them to go, and I send them as fast as 
I can." 
" Oh, I know — you take them to Liverpool." 
" Any port will serve in a storm. I'm — with all my 
other functions — an agent for repatriation. I want to 
repeople our stricken country. What will become of it 
else .'' I want to discourage others." 
The ordered English garden, in the freshness of the day, 
was delightful to Strether, who liked the sound, under his 
feet, of the tight, fine gravel, packed with the chronic 
damp, and who had the idlest eye for the deep smoothness 
of turf and the clean curves of paths. " Other people ? " 
" Other countries. Other people — yes. I want to en- 
courage our own." 
Strether wondered. " Not to come ? Why then do you 
  meet ' them ? — since it doesn't appear to be to stop 
them ? " 
" Oh, that they shouldn't come is, as yet, too much to 
ask. What I attend to is that they come quickly and 
return still more so. I meet them to help it to be over as 
soon as possible, and though I don't stop them I've my 
way of putting them through. That's my little system ; 
and, if you want to know," said Maria Gostrey, " it's my 
real secret, my innermost mission and use. I only seem, 
you see, to beguile and approve ; but I've thought it all 
out and I'm working all the while underground. I can't 
perhaps quite give you my formula, but I think that 
practically I succeed. I send you back spent. So you 
stay back. Passed through my hands " 
 ' We don't turn up again ? " The further she went, 
always, the further he seemed to see himself able to follow. 
" I don't want your formula — I feel quite enough, as I 
hinted yesterday, your abysses. Spent ! " he echoed. 
" Thank you — if that's how you're arranging so subtly to 
send me — for the warning." 
For a minute, in the pleasant place — poetry in tariffed 
items, but all the more, for guests already convicted, a 
challenge to consumption — they smiled at each other in 
confirmed fellowship. "Do you call it subtly? It's a 
plain, poor tale. Besides, you're a special case." 
" Oh, special cases — that's weak ! " She was weak 
enough, further still, to defer her journey and agree to 
accompany the gentlemen on their own, might a separate 
carriage mark her independence ; though it was, in spite of 
