again — how many weeks of agony would it cost 
me to get back to where I am now ! 
I must finish this time! 
May 22d. 
" No, ofificer, I am neither a burglar nor a 
highwayman, nor anything else worth bother- 
ing; I'm just a poet, and I'm crazy, to all prac- 
tical purposes, so please get used to me and let 
me wander about the streets at these strange 
hours of the night without worrying! " 
Poor, perplexed policeman! Poor, per- 
plexed world! Poor, perplexed mothers and 
fathers, sisters and cousins and aunts of poets! 
Mit deinen schwarzbraunen Augen 
Siehst du mich forschend an : 
" Wer bist du, ufid was fehlt dir, 
Du fremder, kranker Mann ! " 
Who does not love the poet Heine — melo- 
dious, beautiful, bitter soul? Is there any other 
poet who can mingle, in one sentence, savage 
irony and tenderness that brings tears into 
the eyes? "Who can tell the secret of his 
flower-like verses? 
Ich bin ein deutscher Dichter, 
Bekannt im deutschen Land ; 
Nennt man die besten Namen 
So wild auch der meine genannt. 
Und was mir fehlt, du Kleine, 
Fehlt manchem im deutschen Land ; 
Nennt man die schlimmsten Schmerzen, 
So wird auch die meine genannt ! 
I have never seen but one beautiful thing in 
New York, and that is its mighty river in the 
night-time. I wander down to the docks when 
my work is done, and when it is still; I sit and 
gaze at it until the city is quite gone, and all its 
restlessness, — until there is but that grave pres- 
ence, rolling restlessly, silently, as it has rolled for 
ages. It makes no comments; it has seen many 
things. 
To-night I sat and watched it till a tangled 
forest sprang up about me, and I saw a strange, 
high-bowed, storm-beaten craft glide past me, 
ghostly white, its ghostly sailors gazing ahead 
and dreaming of spices and gold. 
The old, old river — my only friend in a whole 
city! It goes its way — it is not of the hour. 
It fascinates me, and I sit and sit and wonder. 
I gaze into its black and gurgling depths, and 
whisper what Shelley whispered: " If I should go 
down there, I should know! " 
But no, I should not know anything. 
The days when thou wert not, did they trouble 
thee? The days when thou art not shall trouble 
thee as much. 
May 24th. 
AN ESSAY AFTER RIGHTEOUSNESS 
I write this to set forth a purpose which I 
have for over a year held before me. I write it 
that it may serve me for a standard. I write it 
at a time when my bank-account consists of 
twenty-five dollars, and I mean to publish it at 
such a time as by the method of plain living and 
high thinking, I shall have been able to increase 
it a hundredfold. 
We are told that a man who would write a 
great poem must first make a poem of his life. 
An artist, as I understand the word, is a man who 
has but one joy and one purpose and one inter- 
est in life — the creating of beauty; he is a man 
lifted above and set apart from all other motives 
of men; a man who seeks not wealth nor com- 
fort nor fame, nor values these things at all; a 
man whose heart is forever lonely, whose life is 
an endless sorrow, and whose excuse and whose 
spur and whose goal and whose consecration, is 
the creating of beauty. 
What power — be it talent or genius — God 
has given me, I can not tell ; I only know that an 
artist in that sense of the word I mean to be. I 
have thought out a plan by which I shall make 
the publishing of my books, as well as the writing 
of them, a thing of Art. 
No one will read very far in what I shall write 
without perceiving there a savage hatred of the 
spirit of the modem world of wealth; it is only 
because I have faith in democracy and hope in 
the people of my country that I do not go to wor- 
ship my God on a desert island. The world which 
I see about me at the present moment — the 
world of politics, of business, of society — seems 
to me a thing demoniac in its hideousness; a 
world gone mad with pride and selfish lust; a 
world of wild beasts writhing and grappling in 
a pit. 
I am but a voice crying in the wilderness, and 
these things must run their course. But in the 
meantime there is one thing that I can do, and 
the doing of that has become with me a passion 
— I can keep my own life pure; I can see that 
there is one man amid all this madness whose life 
is untouched by any stain of it; who lives not 
by bread alone, nor by jewelry and gold; who 
lives not to be stared at and made drunk with 
pride, but to behold beauty and dwell in love; 
who labors day and night to keep a heart full of 
worship and to sing of faith to suffering men; 
who takes of the reward of that singing just what 
food and shelter his body needs; and who 
shrinks from wealth and luxury as he would from 
the mouth of hell. 
To live humbly and in oblivion would be my 
choice, but it will be my duty to do differently. 
I know enough about the human heart to know 
that the presence of one righteous man makes 
ten thousand unrighteous men angry and un- 
comfortable. And therefore, for the help of any 
whom it may comfort, and for the damnation of 
all the rest, I shall choose that the life I live and 
the thing I do shall be public; I shall choose that 
the millions in our country who are wearing out 
their frantic lives in the pursuit of the dollar, and 
the few who are squandering their treasures in 
drunken pomp, shall know that there is one man 
who laughs at them — whom all the millions of 
all of them could not buy — and who dwells in 
joy and worship in a heaven of which they can 
not even know. In other words, it is my idea 
not merely to make a poem of my life, but to 
publish the poem. 
I shall have other, and deeper, and kinder rea- 
sons also, for what I shall do. What I write in 
my books must be from my deepest heart, the 
confession of those moments of which I would 
speak to no living soul; it must be all my tender- 
ness, and all my rapture, and all my prayer; and 
do you think it will come easily to me to put that 
out before the rough world to be stared at, to be 
bound up in a book and hawked about by com- 
mercial people? . . . 
(Here follows in the manuscript the outline of a plan for 
publishing the writer's works at cost.) 
Would it not be interesting to me, if I could 
but pierce the future once, and see how long it is 
destined to be before I do so publish a book! I 
would do my work better, I fancy, for that. — 
But let it lie. I shall publish it some day 
surely, that I know at least. 
Sometimes I can hardly realize what it will be 
to me when I have really won fame, when I can 
speak the things that so need speaking — and be 
heard. 
May 25th. 
Line by line, page by page, I do it. I am 
counting the days now, wondering — longing. 
It is not merely the writing of it, it is the see- 
ing of it — the planning and designing. Some- 
times I brood over it for hours — I can not find 
what I want; and then suddenly a phrase flashes 
over me and like a train of gunpowder my 
thought goes running on — leaping, flying; and 
then the whole thing is plain as day. And I hold 
it all living in my hands. 
I am blessed with a good memory. In times 
of excitement such as that I seize all the best 
phrases and carry them away, and bury them out 
of sight, like a miser. They are my nuggets of 
gold. 
And sometimes I am a greedy miser, and 
stand perplexed ; shall I go on and gather more, 
or shall I make off with the armful that I have? 
May 26th. 
My religion is my Art. I have no prayer but 
my work. 
Sometimes that is a glory, and sometimes 
again that is an agony. To have no duty out- 
side of yourself; to have no inspiration outside 
of yourself; to have no routine to help you, 
no voice to cry out when your conscience goes 
to sleep, no place of refuge in your weakness ! — 
All that is but the reason why I dare not be 
weak. I have chosen to lead and not to follow; 
therefore I have no rest, and may not look behind 
me, and can think of nothing but the way. 
To be the maker of a religion is to sweat 
blood in the night-time. 
There is but one way that I may live — to take 
every impulse that comes — to be watching, 
watching — to dare always and instantly, to hesi- 
tate, to put off never, to seize the skirt of my 
muse whenever it shimmers before me. So I 
make rnyself a habit, a routine, a discipline; and 
so each day I have new power. So each day I 
feel myself, I bare my arms, I walk erect, exult- 
ing — I laugh — I am a god! 
— And as I write that a feeling takes rise in 
me, and my heart beats faster; but I am tired, I 
sink back, I do not take the gift that is offered; 
and then my conscience gives a growl, and in a 
flash I see what I have done, and feel a throb of 
rage and leap up. 
One of my perils is that when I am strong I 
feel that I must always be so. This truth that is 
so obvious, these words that flow so swift — what 
need is there to fear for them, to write them 
now? — And so they are never written. 
May 27th. 
Will you imagine me to-day, kneeling by the 
bedside, shuddering; my face hidden, the tears 
streaming down my cheeks — and I crying aloud: 
" I will— oh, I will! " 
I can not tell any more. 
May 29th. 
I am coming to the last scenes. I hear them 
rumbling in my soul — far, far off — like a distant 
surf on a windless night. 
I am coming, step by step : I mean to fight it 
out on this line. 
I know a man who always rose to the occa- 
sion. Never was he challenged that he did not 
dare and triumph. Oh, if instead of being hun- 
gry and pining, I had but the music of that divine 
inspirer! — 
Heller schallend, 
mich umwallend, 
sind es Wellen 
sanfter Lufte .' 
Sind es Wogen 
wonniger Diifte ? 
Wie sie schwellen, 
mich umrauschen, 
soil ich athraen, 
soil ich lauschen .'' 
Soil ich schliirfen, 
untertauchen, 
siiss in Diiften 
mich verhauchen ? 
May 30th. 
To-day I had a spiritual experience — a reve- 
lation; to-day, in a flash of insight, I understood 
an age — whole centuries of time, whole nations 
of men. 
I had been writing one of the great hymns, 
one of the great victories; and I had been drunk 
with it, it had come with a surge and a sweep, it 
had set everything about me in motion — huge 
phantom shapes — all life and all being gone mad. 
And then, when I had written it, I went out 
into the dark night; I walked and walked, not 
knowing where, still tingling with excitement. 
And, suddenly, I stood spellbound — the cathe- 
dral! 
There it was — there it was! I saw it, alive 
and real before me — all of it — all that I had seen 
and known! I cried out for joy, I stretched out 
my arms to it — the great, dark surging presence; 
and all my soul went with it, singing, singing — 
up into the misty night! 
June 1st. 
I sat to-night by the river again. It was 
moonlight, and the water lay shimmering. A 
little yacht, gleaming with lights, sped by; it was 
very close, and I saw a group of people on it, I 
heard them laughing; and one of them — a wom- 
an — was singing. 
O God, what a voice! So rich, so exquisite! 
It soared upward and died again, quivering like 
the reflection of the stars on the water. It went 
in — in to the very depths of my soul; it loosed 
all the woe of my spirit, it made the tears gush 
into my eyes. And then it died away, away in the 
distance; and I sat with my hands clasped. 
Sail on — sail on — oh heavenly voice! Far- 
off vision of brightness and beauty ! Your lot is 
not my lot. 
— There is something within me that weeps 
yet, at the echo of that music. Oh, what would 
I not give for music! How much of my bitter- 
ness, how many of my sorrows have melted into 
tears at one stra:in! 
And I can not have it! Oh, you who do have 
it, do you know what you have? Oh beautiful 
voice, do you hear yourself? 
All things else I can make for myself — friend- 
ship and love — nature and books and prayer; 
all things but music! 
Can you not hear that voice dying — dying — 
" over the rolling waters " ? 
June 2d. 
I shall come out of this a man — a man! I 
shall know how to live all my days ! I shall have 
memories that will always haunt me, memories 
that I can build the years by ! 
June 3d. 
From the time that I began The Captive it 
has been almost two months; it is just six weeks 
from the day I wrote that I had ten or twelve 
weeks in which to finish. I have done well finan- 
cially — I have twenty-one dollars left, and I have 
paid for my typewriting. 
It is not a fortune. But enough is as good as 
a fortune. 
And I am coming on! I have been counting 
the scenes — I am really within sight of the end. 
— That day when I crouched by the bed I 
saw all of the end. I have seen the whole thing. 
It will leave me a wreck, but I can do it. And it 
will take me about three weeks. 
Think of my being able to say that ! — Five or 
six hundred lines at least I shall have to do, and 
still I dare to say that. But I am full of this 
thing, I mount with it all the time. I am finding 
my wings. 
Nothing can stop me now; I feel that I shall 
hold myself to it. I become more grim every 
day. 
No one can guess what it means to me to 
find that I have hold of the whole of this thing! 
It is like strong wine to me — I scarcely know 
where I am. 
June 4th. 
I am sitting down by the window, and first I 
kick my heels against my old trunk, and then I 
write this. Hi! Hi! I think of a poem that I 
used to recite about Santa Claus — " Ho, Castor! 
ho, Pollux! " — and then ho a lot of other things 
— a Donner and a Blitzen I remember in partic- 
ular. I want a reindeer — a Pegasus — a Valkyrie 
— an anything — to carry me away up into the air 
where I can exult without impropriety! 
Come blow your horn, hunter. 
Come blow your horn on high ! 
In yonder room there lieth a 'cello player. 
And now he's going to move away ! 
Come blow your horn 
That's an old Elizabethan song. I heard 
them come up for his trunk just now, and they've 
dragged it down-stairs, and I hear the landlady 
fuming because they are tearing the wall paper. 
I have never loved the sound of the landlady's 
voice before. 
— The world is divinely arranged, there is no 
question about it. 
June 5th. 
Deep in my soul I was convinced that the 
room would be let to something worse. But 
now it appears that the landlady's sister is to 
occupy it. 
— So now I will get to work I 
— Moving is noisy; I can't complain. I 
have been walking about the streets. I am hun- 
gry for the work; but still, I had much to think 
of. It is a wonderful thing — a glorious thing, 
this story — it will make men's hearts leap. 
June 6th. 
I have plenty of time to write journals, if I 
feel like it. There is the sister, and there is the 
landlady, and there is another woman, and they 
have been jabbering about dresses all of the 
morning. I have been like a crazy man — I was 
all on fire this morning, too! O God, it is too 
cruel! 
I could dress those three hags with broom- 
sticks. 
— How long is this to continue, I want to 
know. Here it is afternoon and they are still 
chattering. Every time I have tried to compose 
my thoughts they have come back and begun 
chattering again. And so I can only pace about, 
and then rush out into the street — and wear my- 
self sick. I call this simply monstrous. That my 
soul should be tied down to such vulgarity as this 
— is it not maddening? Here I am — with all my 
load of woe — at this fearful crisis ! And I am to 
be shattered and wrecked and ruined by this! 
Just as long as they choose to sit there, just so 
long I am helpless. Was it for this that I have 
borne all the pain? 
It seems to me that I hear jeering laughter 
around me from a swarm of little demons. I 
hide my face and flee, but they follow me. 
But what can you expect? Have they not a 
right to talk? — Yes — all the world has a right 
to be as hideous as it can. And I have no right 
but to suffer and to choke in my rage. 
Three vile, ignorant serving-women! Serv- 
ing-women — ah yes, and if they were my serv- 
ants! If I could pay them! — But who serves 
me! Of what consequence am I! 
These things goad me, they are like poisoned 
thorns in my flesh. The infinite degradation of 
it all, the shame, the outrage ! 
It has burned a brand deep into my flesh, 
and never while I live will it come out. Ah, 
you rich men! You who rule us, who own the 
treasures, the opportunities, the joys! You who 
trample the fair gardens of life like great blind 
beasts ! 
Do you think it is nothing to me that the 
inspiration and the glory of my whole lifetime 
