rigamarole they're doin' now"--that "rigamarole" being the
manual-at-arms. "I jest believe if I had somebody to teach me 'cept that
'ere yellin' tomcat of a Cadet Spencer I'd learn in a jiffy, dog on his
boots!"
"There he is now," said Mark, "in the second line there. And there on
the outside with his chevrons is Corporal Jasper, 'the committee.' They
look very different when they're in line."
"Nothin' 'd make that red-headed, freckle-faced coyote of a drill-master
look different," growled Texas. "I jes' wish he was bigger'n me so's I
could git up a scrap with him. Jest think o' that little martinet a
yellin' at me an' tellin' me I didn't have any sense. To-day, for
instance, d'you remember, he was tryin' to show Indian how to march an'
move his legs, an' Indian got twisted up into a knot; an' durnation,
jist because I laughed, why he rared round an' bucked fo' an hour!
What's the harm in laughing, anyhow?"
And Texas glared so savagely at his tormentor as the line swept by just
then that Mark concluded there was no harm and laughed.
"You're getting to be very stupid company, Texas," said he. "You never
do anything but growl at the cadets. I wish I had some diversion."
And Mark turned away in mock disgust and glanced down the archway of
trees.
"Here she comes," he said, after a moment's pause. "That's she walking
up the path with a cadet and another girl."
Texas turned as Mark spoke, and looked in the direction of his nod.
"So that's Mary Adams!" he exclaimed. "Well! well! That's the girl you
dodged barracks for, and risked your commission, and missed the fight,
and got called a coward, and sent to Coventry, and lots else. I swear!"
"That's the one," said Mark, smiling.
"She's stunning pretty," added Texas, as the trio drew near. "Gee-whiz!
I don't blame you."
"I liked her right well myself," admitted the other. "That is after I
saw her with that brother of hers. She certainly is a good sister to
him. But the cadets say she's something of a flirt, and Wicks Merritt
advised me to leave her alone, so I guess I shall."
"Sunday school teacher!" said Texas, laughing. "We'll have to call you
Parson, instead of Stanard. But I guess you're right. That's not a very
beautiful looking cadet she's with."
The three were passing then, and Mark arose.
"I guess I'll have to go speak to her," said he. "She's beckoning to me.
Wait a moment."
Texas watched his friend approach the group; he could not hear what was
said, however, and so he turned away to watch the parade. By doing it he
missed an interesting scene.
Mary Adams welcomed Mark with a look of gratitude and admiration that
Mark could not fail to notice. She had not forgotten the magnitude of
the service he had done for her. And then she turned to her two
companions.
"Miss Webb," she said, "let me present Mr. Mallory."
The other girl bowed, and Mary Adams turned to the cadet.
"Mr. Murray, Mr. Mallory," said she.
And then came the thunderclap. Mark put out his hand; the cadet quietly
put his behind his back.
"The cadets of this academy, Miss Adams," said he, "do not speak to Mr.
Mallory. Mr. Mallory is a coward!"
It was a trying moment; Mark felt the blood surge to his head, his
fingers twitched and his lip quivered. He longed to spring at the
fellow's throat and fling him to the ground.
It was a natural impulse. Texas would have done it. But Mark controlled
himself by the effort of his life. He clinched his hands behind him and
bit his tongue, and when he spoke he was calm and emotionless.
"Miss Adams," he said, "Mr. Murray and I will settle that later."
The two girls stared in amazement, "Mr. Murray" gazed into space, and
Mark turned without another word and strode over to where his friend was
sitting.
"Texas!" he muttered, gripping him by the shoulder. "Texas, there's
going to be a fight."
"Hey!" cried Texas, springing to his feet. "What's that? Whoop!"
CHAPTER XII.
THE EMBASSY OF THE PARSON.
"What's happened?" cried Texas, as soon as he'd managed to get calm
enough to talk coherently. "What's happened?"
"Sit down," said Mark, laughing in spite of himself. "Sit down and stop
your dancing. Everybody in the place is staring at you."
Texas sat, and then Mark described to him just what had happened. As
might have been expected, he was up in arms in a moment.
"Where is that feller? Now, look a 'yere, Mark, leggo me. Thar he goes!
Say, if I don't git him by the neck an'----"
The excitable youth was quieted after some ten minutes' work or so, and
immediate danger was over.
"And now," said Mark, "where's the Parson?"
"Over in library," responded the other, "a fossilizin'. What do you want
with him?"
"You be good," said Mark, "and I'll let you see. Come on."
They found the Parson as Texas had said, and they managed to separate
him from the books and drag him over to barracks. Then Mark, who by this
time had recovered his usual easy good-nature, told of "Mr. Murray's"
insult again.
"Now, I haven't the least objection," he continued, "of being sent to
Coventry. In fact, so long as it means the cadets' leaving me alone, I
rather like the idea. But I don't propose to stand a thing like that
which just happened for a moment. So there's got to be a fight, and if
they won't let me, I'll have to make 'em, that's all."
"Um," said the Parson, looking grave. "Um."
"Now, as for that fellow Murray," added Mark, "I don't propose to fight
him."
"Wow!" shouted Texas. "What in thunder do you mean? Now if you don't, by
jingo! I'll go and do it myself!"
"Take it easy," said Mark, laughing. "You see, Williams is the man the
class has selected to beat me; he's the best fighter. Now, if I beat
anybody else it won't do me the least bit of good; they'd still say I'm
afraid of Williams. So I'm going to try him first. How's that, Texas?"
"Reckon you're right," admitted Powers, rather sheepishly. "I 'spose
you'll let me go and arrange it, hey?"
"I'd as soon think of sending a dynamite bomb," laughed Mark. "You'd be
in a fight before he'd said three words. That's what I wanted the Parson
for. I think he'd be grave and scholarly even if they ate him."
"Thank you," said the Parson, gravely. "I should try."
"Wow!" growled Texas.
And thus it happened that the Parson set out for "Camp McPherson," a
short while later, his learned head full of prize fighting and the
methods and practice of diplomacy.
It was rather an unusual thing for a plebe to do--this venturing into
"camp;" and the cadets stared at the Parson, wondering what an amount of
curiosity he must have to go prospecting within the lines of the enemy.
The Parson, however, did not act as if curiosity had brought him; with a
businesslike air and a solemn visage he strode down the company street,
and, heedless of the cadets who had gathered at the tent doors to see
him, halted in front of one before which he saw "Billy" Williams
standing.
"Mr. Williams?" said the Parson.
Mr. Williams had been engaged in vigorously drying his face; he paused,
and gazed up out of the towel in surprise, and one of his tent mates,
Cadet Captain Fischer, ceased unwinding himself from his long red sash
and stared.
"My name is Stanard," said the Parson--"Peter Stanard."
"Pleased to meet you," said Williams, stretching out a long, brawny arm.
There was a twinkle in the yearling's eye as he glanced at the skinny
white fingers which Stanard put out in return. And, taking in the
stranger's lank, scholarly figure, Williams seized the hand and squeezed
with all his might.
He expected to hear a howl, but he was disappointed. The Parson drew up
his "prehensile muscles," as he called them. The result was that Cadet
Williams turned white, but he said nothing about it, and invited the
stranger into his tent.
The Parson deposited himself gently in one corner and drew up his long
legs under him. Then he gazed out of the tent and said--"ahem!"
"Warm day," said Williams, by way of a starter.
"It is not that the temperature is excessively altitudinous," responded
the Parson, "but the presence of a larger proportion of humidity retards
perspiratory exudation."
"Er--yes," said Williams. "Yes, I think that's it."
"I have come--ahem!" continued Stanard, "as a representative of Mr.
Mallory."
The other bowed.
"Mr. Mallory desires to know--if you will pardon my abruptness in
proceeding immediately to the matter in hand--to know if it is not
possible for you to fulfill a certain--er--engagement which you had with
him."
"I see," said Williams, thoughtfully, and he tapped the floor with his
foot for a minute or so.
"Mr. Mallory, of course, understands," he continued at last, "that I
have no grudge against him at all."
"Certainly," said the Parson.
"In fact, I rather admire Mr. Mallory, on the whole, though some of his
actions have been, I think, imprudent. In this matter I am simply the
deputy of the class."
"Exactly," said the Parson, bowing profusely.
"Therefore, I fight when the class says so, and when they say no, what
reason have I for fighting? Now, the class thinks that Mr. Mallory has
had chance enough, and----"
"But they don't know the circumstances!" protested Stanard, with more
suddenness than was usual with him.
"They do not," responded the other. "But they'd like to."
"I do not know them myself," said the Parson. "But I have faith enough
in Mr. Mallory to take his word that it was unavoidable."
"You must have a good deal," added Williams, his handsome face looking
grave, "a good deal to risk being sent to Coventry."
"I am willing. Examples of yet higher devotion to a fides amicus, so
to speak, are by no means extraordinary. Take the popular instance of
Damon and Pythias, or, if you look for one yet more conspicuous, I would
mention Prylocates and Tyndarus, in the well-known play of 'The
Captive,' by Plautus, with which you are doubtless familiar."
And the Parson closed his learned discourse with his favorite occupation
of wiping his brow.
"The risk is your own," responded the yearling, calmly. "You must not
mind if the class resents your view of the case."
There was a few moments' silence after that, during which the Parson
racked his head to think what to say next.
"You refuse, then, to fight Mr. Mallory?" he inquired at last.
"Absolutely!" responded the other. "Absolutely, until the class so
directs."
Then the Parson drew a long breath, and prepared for the culminating
stroke.
"What I say next, Mr. Williams," said he, "you will understand is said
with all possible politeness and good feeling, but it must be said. Mr.
Mallory has been insulted by some cadets as a coward. He must free
himself from the suspicion. Mr. Williams, if a plebe should strike an
older cadet, would that make a fight necessary?"
"Most certainly," said Williams, flushing.
"Well, now, suppose he simply threatened to do so," continued Stanard.
"Would that be cause enough?"
"It might."
"Well, then, Mr. Williams, Mr. Mallory desires me with all politeness
to beg permission to threaten to strike you."
"I see," said the other, smiling at the solemn air with which the lank
stranger made this extraordinary request. "I see. I have no objection to
his so doing."
"Thank you," said Stanard. "A fight is now necessary, I believe?"
"Er--yes," said Williams. "I believe it is." The fact of the matter was
that he saw that Mark was in a position to force a fight if he chose,
and the yearling was by no means reluctant, anyhow.
"I thank you for your courtesy," he continued, bowing Stanard out of the
tent. "Tell Mr. Mallory that I shall send my second to see him this
evening. Good-day."
And Stanard bowed and strode away with joy in his very stride.
"We have met the enemy," was his report to Mark. "We have met the enemy,
and there's going to be a fight!"
CHAPTER XIII.
PREPARATIONS FOR THE BATTLE.
It does not take long for news of so exciting a matter as a really
important fight to spread among the corps. No sooner did the Parson
leave camp than cadets began to stroll in to find out why he had come,
and, learning, they hurried off to discuss the news with their own
tentmates. So it happened that by the time the cadets marched down to
mess hall to supper every man in the battalion knew that Mark Mallory,
the B. J. beast, had succeeded in getting another chance at "Billy"
Williams. The plebes knew of it, too. When their rather ragged and
scattered company fell in behind the corps at barracks, they were all
talking about it, at least when the file closers weren't near. At supper
nobody talked of anything else, and everybody in the room was eying Mark
and his stalwart opponent and speculating as to what the chances would
be.
"Billy'll do him!" vowed the yearlings. "There's nobody in the class
that stands more chance."
And the plebes feared it would be that way, too, and yet there were a
few at the tables discussing the matter in whispers, venturesome enough
to say that perhaps maybe their classmate might win and to wonder what
on earth would happen to him if he did.
"It'll mean a revelation if he does!" they cried. "Perhaps it'll even
stop hazing."
The mood of the irate little corporal, who had vowed not an hour before
that Mallory should not have another chance, may well be imagined.
"I tell you, 'tis a shame!" he vowed to Williams. "A shame! I don't see
why in thunder you didn't hold out."
"It's not my fault, Jasper," responded the other, smiling good
naturedly. "If you'll think a while, you'll see he was in a position to
force a fight at any time he chose. If I refused to 'allow him to
threaten to hit me,' as he put it, he could have threatened anyway, and
then if that didn't do any good, he'd have actually to hit me, and there
you would have been. It's a great deal better this way."
"Yes!" growled Jasper. "That sounds all very well. But look where it
puts me, by George! You'll have to get somebody else to arrange it. I
won't. I went as a committee and told him he'd not get another chance,
and I tell you now I'll not go take it back for anybody, and with that
B. J. plebe especially."
"Perhaps he won't be so very B. J. after the fight," responded the
other, smiling. "I don't know, of course, but I shall do my best."
"If you don't," said the other, looking serious, "by jingo! we'll be in
a thundering fix. There's nobody in the class can beat you, and that
plebe'll have a walkover."
This last sentiment of Jasper's was the sentiment of the whole yearling
class, and the class was in a state of uncertainty in consequence. Texas
was known to have whipped four cadets in one morning, and all of them
good men, too; then there was a rumor out that Mark and Texas had had a
quarrel and that the latter had gone to the hospital some five minutes
later. The two facts put together were enough to make the most confident
do some thinking.
It is difficult for one who has never been to West Point to appreciate
what this state of affairs meant--because it is hard for him to
appreciate the relation which exists between the plebe and the rest of
the corps. From the moment of the former's arrival as an alarmed and
trembling candidate, it is the especial business of every cadet to
teach him that he is the most utterly, entirely and absolutely
insignificant individual upon the face of the universe. He is shouted at
and ordered, bullied, badgered, tormented, pulled and hauled, drilled
and laughed at until he is reduced to the state of mind of a rabbit. If
he is "B. J." about it, he is bullied the more; if he shows fight, he
has all he wants, and is made meeker still. The result of it all is that
he learns to do just as anybody else commands him, and
    Never dares to sneeze unless
    He's asked you if he might.
All of which is fun for the yearling.
Now, here was Mark Mallory--to say nothing of Texas--who had come up to
the Point with an absurd notion of his own dignity, who had outwitted
the yearlings at every turn, been sent to Coventry--and didn't care a
hang, and now was on the point of trying to "lick" the finest all-around
athlete in the whole third class. It was enough to make the corps
tremble--the yearlings, at any rate. The first class usually feels too
dignified to meddle with such things.
Billy Williams' ambassador put in an appearance on the following Sunday
morning, and, to Mark's disgust, he proved to be none other than his
old enemy, Bull Harris--sent, by the way, not because Williams so chose,
but because Bull himself had asked to be sent.
"Mr. Williams," said he, "says he'll give you another chance to run
away."
Mark bowed politely, determined that Harris should get as little chance
for insult as possible.
"He'll fight you to-morrow--Fort Clinton, at four, and if you don't
come, by thunder! he'll find out why."
Mark's face grew white, but he only bowed again, and swallowed it. And
just then came an unexpected interruption.
"Mr. Mallory, as the challenged party, has the right to name the time."
The voice was loud and clear, and seemed to have authority; Harris
turned and confronted Cadet First Captain Fischer, in all his glory of
chevrons and sword. Now, the first captain is lord of West Point--and
Harris didn't dare to say a word, though he was boiling within.
"And, moreover," continued the imposing young officer, angrily, "you
should remember that you came, Mr. Harris, as a gentleman and not as a
combatant. Mr. Mallory, what is your wish?"
"The time suits me," said Mark, quietly. "Good-day, Mr. Harris."
And Harris left in a very unpleasant mood indeed; he had meant to have
no end of amusement at the expense of Mark's feelings.
"You've a hard row to hoe," said the cadet officer to Mark, "and a hard
man to beat. And you were foolish to get into it, but, all the same,
I'll see that you have fair play."
"And that," exclaimed Texas to Mark, as he watched the tall, erect
figure of the cadet vanish through the sally port. "That is the first
decent word I've heard from a cadet since I've been here. Bully for
Fischer!"
"It's probable," said Mark, "that he knows Harris as well as we. And
now, old fellow," he added, "we've got nothing to do but pass time, and
wait--and wait for to-morrow morning!"
Mark slept soundly that night in spite of the excitement. It was Texas
who was restless, for Texas had promised to act as alarm clock, and,
realizing that not to be on time again would be a calamity indeed, he
was up half a dozen times to gaze out of the window toward the eastern
sky, watching for the first signs of morning.
While it was yet so dark that he could scarcely see the clock, he routed
Mark out of bed.
"Git up thar," he whispered, "git up an' git ready."
Mark "got," and the two dressed hurriedly and crept down the stairs,
past the sentry--the sentry was a cadet, and kindly "looked the other
way"--and then went out through the sally port to the parade ground. The
plain was shrouded in mist and darkness, and the stars still shone,
though there was a faint light in the east. The two stole past the
camp--where also the sentries were blind--scaled the ramparts, and stood
in the center of "old Fort Clinton."
The spot was deserted and silent, but scarcely had the two been there a
moment before a head peered over the wall nearest to the camp.
"They're here," whispered a cadet, and sprang over. A dozen others
followed him, and in a very few minutes more there were at least thirty
of them, excited and eager, waiting for "Billy" to put in an appearance.
It was not long before Billy came, and behind him his faithful chum,
Jasper, with a bucket of water, and sponges and towels enough for a
dozen. About the same time Stanard's long shanks appeared over the
breastworks, and Indian tumbled over a moment later. Things were about
ready then.
"Let's lose no time," said Jasper, always impatient. "Captain Fischer
will act as referee and timekeeper, if it's agreeable."
No one could have suited Mark more, and he said so. Likewise, he stated,
through his second, Mr. Powers, that he preferred to fight by rounds,
which evidently pleased Mr. Williams. Mr. Williams was by this time
stripped to the waist, his suspenders tied about him. And it was
evidently as Fischer had said. There was no finer man in his class, and
he was trained to perfection. His skin was white and glistening, his
shoulders broad and massive, and the muscles on his arms stood out with
every motion. His legs were probably as muscular, too, thought Mark, for
Williams held the record for the mile. The yearlings' hearts beat higher
as they gazed at their champion's determined face.
Mark was a little slower in stepping up; when he did so the watching
crowd sized him up carefully, and then there was doubt.
"Oh, gee, but this is going to be a fight!" was the verdict of every one
of them.
"Marquis of Queensberry rules," said Fischer, in a low tone. "Both know
them?"
Mark nodded.
"Shake hands!"
Mark put out his, by way of answer, and Williams gripped it right
heartily.
"Ready?"
And then the simple word "Go."
Let us gaze about a moment at the scene. The ring is surrounded by
earthworks, now grass-grown and trodden down, unkept since the
Revolutionary days, when West Point was a Gibraltar. Old cannon,
caissons and wagon wheels are scattered about inside, together with
ramparts and wire chevaux-de-friezes which the cadets are practiced in
constructing. In the southwest corner is a small, clear, smooth-trodden
space, where the two brawny, white-skinned warriors stand. The cadets
are forming a ring about them, for every one is too excited to sit down
and keep quiet. The "outlooks," posted for safety, are neglecting their
duty recklessly for the same reason, and looking in altogether. Every
eye is on the two.
Over in Mark's corner sits Texas, gripping his hands in excitement,
wriggling nervously and muttering to himself. Stanard is beside him with
"Dana's Geology" as a cushion. The Parson is a picture of calm and
scholarly dignity, in direct contrast with our friend Texas, who is on
the verge of one of his wild "fits." "Indian" is the fourth and only
other plebe present, and Indian is horrified, as usual, and mutters
"Bless my soul" at intervals.
On the opposite side of the circle of cadets are Jasper and another
second, both breathlessly watching every move. Nearby stands Cadet
Captain Fischer, calm and cool, critically watching the play.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE AFFAIR AT THE FORT.
The two began cautiously, like a pair of skillful generals sending out a
skirmish line to test the enemy's strength and resource. This was no
such battle as Texas', a wild rush, a few mighty blows, and then
victory. Williams was wary as a cat, sparring lightly, and taking no
risks, and the other saw the plan and its wisdom.
"Playing easy," muttered the referee, noting the half minute on his
watch. "Know their business, it seems."
"Wow!" growled Texas. "What's the good o' this yere baby business? Say,
Parson, ain't they never goin' to hit? Whoop!"
This last exclamation was caused by the real beginning of the battle.
Williams saw an unguarded face, and quick as thought his heavy arm shot
out; the crowd gasped, and Mark saw it. A sudden motion of his head to
one side was enough to send the blow past him harmlessly, and a moment
later the yearling's forward plunge was checked by an echoing crack upon
his ribs. Then for the rest of the round the excited cadets were
treated to an exhibition of sparring such as they had never seen in
