“Will you explain to these gentlemen what I have said?” said Cunningham
to the interpreter.
The latter did so, and the result was scowling looks on the swarthy
faces of the three Italians. The three captives awaited in silence the
result of their conference. They had not to wait long.
“I am sorry, gentlemen,” said the interpreter, “for what is going to
happen. My friends here are deeply disappointed.”
“It is not our fault,” said Amos Sanderson.
“They have stated the terms of release. They required five thousand
scudi, and they are not forthcoming. Under the circumstances they have
no choice but to doom you all to death.”
It was a terrible sentence, and the hearts of the three captives
quailed.
“At least spare the boy--spare Bernard,” said Walter Cunningham.
“We can make no exception,” replied the interpreter, after a brief
conference with the bandits. “All we can do is to give you the choice of
the knife or the pistol.”
“I choose the pistol,” said the Englishman.
“Look here, you are making fools of yourselves,” cried Amos Sanderson.
“Send me to Naples, and I will bring back the money. I see that you are
in earnest, and I will keep my word.”
Again there was a whispered conference. Then the interpreter spoke
again.
“My friends do not trust you,” he said. “You would not return.”
Sanderson wished to argue the question, but the interpreter silenced him
by an imperative gesture.
“No words of yours can alter our purpose,” he said. “We have been more
lenient with you than with most of our prisoners. We have given you
seven days to get the money for your ransom, and it is not here. We have
no time to waste. What is to be done must be done quickly.”
“There seems no help for it, Bernard,” said the Englishman.
Within five minutes the three captives, with hands tied, were bound to
trees, and with blanched faces awaited the fatal volley from the three
bandits, who stationed themselves at the distance of twenty paces
fronting them.
Bernard gave himself up for lost when something unexpected happened. He
heard shots, and for the moment thought they came from the pistols of
their intended murderers. But to his astonishment it was the robber
opposite him who fell. Another shot and another and the other two fell,
fatally wounded. Then a party of soldiers came dashing forward,
accompanied by a man whose face looked familiar to Bernard.
“Mr. Penrose!” he exclaimed.
“Yes, Bernard, it is I. I was robbed by these men a month since. I
tracked them, and I have at last brought them to justice.”
“You’re a trump, squire!” said Amos Sanderson. “I never felt so relieved
in the whole course of my life. Come and untie me.”
William Penrose took a jack-knife from his pocket, but he untied Bernard
first.
“You have the prior claim on me,” he said.
It was found that two of the bandits were dead.
The third was taken by the soldiers, and carried on an extemporized
litter to the nearest town, where he was imprisoned, but later tried and
sentenced to be executed.
Overjoyed at their unexpected rescue from peril, the three travelers
made the best of their way to Naples, where, despite the loss of five
thousand scudi, Walter Cunningham and Amos Sanderson enjoyed themselves
by trips to Mt. Vesuvius, Pompeii, and a ride to Sorrento along the
shores of the magnificent Bay of Naples.
“Have you consoled yourself for the loss of two thousand scudi?” asked
Bernard, addressing himself to the American, as they sat on a balcony
in their Sorrento hotel, looking out upon the moonlit waters of the
famous sea.
“Yes,” answered Mr. Sanderson. “Now that the three rascals who captured
us and nearly put us to death have met the same fate themselves, I don’t
make any account of the money. Thank Providence, I have plenty, left.”
“That’s the right way to look upon it,” said Walter Cunningham.
“I am the only one who has lost nothing,” said Bernard. “I have the best
reason to be satisfied.” The three still remained together. They had
been companions in misfortune, and this was a tie that still held them.
Yet, truth to tell, neither Bernard nor his English friend enjoyed the
society of the American, who was hardly congenial, and had some
objectionable qualities.
“I have no prejudice against your countrymen,” said Mr. Cunningham to
Bernard. “I have known many cultivated and refined Americans, whose
society I enjoyed, but they differed essentially from Mr. Sanderson. I
own I wish he would leave us.”
“He seems determined to stand by us,” said Bernard.
“Yes, so it seems.”
“There is one chance of separating from him. He has made up his mind to
go to Sicily and wants us to go with him.”
“We can refuse. But in that case he may give up his plan.”
“I don’t think he will. He tells me he has always wanted to go to
Sicily.”
“He may stand a chance of being again captured by banditti. I understand
that Sicily is more infested with them than the mainland.”
“I earnestly hope not. I don’t care especially for Mr. Sanderson, but I
think he has had his share of that kind of peril.”
That evening Mr. Sanderson broached the subject, and strongly urged his
two companions to start with him for Palermo.
“We shall have to disappoint you,” said Walter Cunningham. “We have
other plans.”
“But it won’t take long, and I surmise you have no important business to
keep you from going.”
The next day, however, Mr. Cunningham was provided with an excuse. He
received a letter from England informing him that an uncle, his mother’s
brother, was dying, and wished to see him.
“Are you ready to go back to England with me at once, Bernard?” he said.
“I shall be glad to do so.”
“Then pack your luggage, and we will go.”
In London Bernard received a letter from America that interested him.
CHAPTER XXXIV.  NAT BARCLAY’S LETTER.
|The day after Bernard reached London he received at his old address a
letter bearing the familiar postmark of Doncaster. It will be remembered
that it was at Doncaster our story opened, and it was there that the
boarding-school of Professor Ezekiel Snowdon was located. Bernard’s face
lighted up with pleasure, for in the superscription he recognized the
handwriting of his friend Nat Barclay.
He tore open the envelope and read the letter quickly. It ran thus:
“Dear Bernard:
“I write this with great anxiety, for I don’t know if you are living or
dead. Yesterday I met Septimus Snowdon, who is the same disagreeable
bully as ever, and he said, ‘Well, I have some news for you about your
friend Bernard Brooks.’ I was rather surprised at this, for I didn’t
suppose you would be very likely to write to him. Still I asked, ‘Have
you heard from him?’ ‘No,’ he answered disdainfully. ‘I wouldn’t have
any correspondence with a fellow like him. But he isn’t likely to write
any more letters.’ ‘Why not?’ I asked. ‘Because he’s dead, that’s why,’
snapped Septimus, and I saw that he seemed pleased. ‘I don’t believe
it,’ I returned. ‘Where do you get your information?’ ‘You’ll have to
believe it,’ he said. ‘Pa received a letter from his guardian, Mr.
Cornelius McCracken, of New York, saying that his death had been
reported to him by the gentleman in whose company he went to Europe. I
believe he wrote that he had met with an accident in Marseilles.’ Now I
had a good deal of doubt about the correctness of this statement, for I
knew from your own letters that you parted with Professor Puffer in
London, and were not likely to be in Marseilles with him. I asked
Septimus some further questions, but he seemed to have no more
information.
“‘Well,’ said Septimus sneeringly, ‘are you going to put on mourning for
your great friend Bernard?’ ‘I might,’ I answered, ‘if I believed him to
be dead, but I don’t believe it.’
“‘You’ll never see him again,’ said Septimus positively.
“Now, Bernard, though I don’t believe the story, I am anxious, and if
you are alive I hope you will write me again and tell me. I won’t
believe it till I have your own authority. That sounds like a bull,
doesn’t it? But I’ll go on and write as if you were still alive. You may
wish to know something about the school. To the best of my belief it is
far from prosperous. There are very few scholars, and those don’t look
as if their parents or guardians paid much for them. Then the professor
himself is looking very shabby and seedy. I don’t believe he has had a
new coat for over a year. Septimus looks better. There is a pupil in the
school about his size, and I really believe that Septimus is wearing his
clothes. I hear that old Snowdon gave the boy a dollar and a half for
his best suit. The boy was glad to sell it in order to get a little
pocket money. I know how he spent a part of it. He went to the baker’s
in the village and bought a supply of cakes and doughnuts, of which he
stood in need, for I hear that the seminary table, never very good, is
now poorer than ever.
“When are you coming back to America? I long to see you. If you do come
you must be sure to come out to Doncaster and see
“Your affectionate friend,
“Nat Barclay.”
Bernard showed his letter to Mr. Cunningham.
“Would you like to go to America, Bernard?” he asked.
“I don’t want to leave you, sir.”
“But suppose I should go, too?”
“Then I should be delighted to go.”
“I cannot go while my uncle’s life is in doubt, but when I am released
from attendance upon him I shall have nothing to hinder me.”
That day week the uncle died. After the funeral Mr. Cunningham said,
“Well, Bernard, I have not forgotten the promise I made you. We will go
to the office of the Cunard steamers, and see whether we can engage
passage by the Etruria, which is the first one to sail.”
It was found that one of the best staterooms on the palatial steamer was
still disengaged. Walter Cunningham lost no time in securing it, and the
two embarked on the following Saturday.
There is no occasion to dwell upon the voyage. The weather was good, and
the Etruria made one of the quick passages for which she is famous.
When Bernard steamed into port, and saw the familiar roofs and spires of
the great American city, his heart thrilled within him, and he felt that
warm glow which the sight of home is apt to enkindle.
CHAPTER XXXV.  PROFESSOR PUFFER’S DECLINE AND FALL.
|Bernard,” said Walter Cunningham, as they sat together in a handsome
apartment at the Brevoort House, “I feel that I have not done as well by
you as I should.”
“You have been a kind friend to me, Mr. Cunningham. I have lacked for
nothing since I have been with you. I think you do yourself injustice.”
“That is true, but suppose anything should happen to me, how would you
fare?”
“We won’t think of that, Walter. You are a young man. You are likely to
live for many years.”
“So I hope,” said the young Englishman, smiling. “Life is sweet to me,
and I have something to live for, especially now that I have you. But I
feel that I ought to make a provision for you, to place your future
beyond a contingency.”
Bernard did not reply. He waited for Mr. Cunningham to finish what he
had to say.
“I shall therefore go to my banker’s this morning, and turn over to you
the sum of fifteen thousand dollars. It is not all I intend to do for
you, but it will prevent your experiencing inconvenience in the event of
any sudden accident to me.”
“Fifteen thousand dollars!” repeated Bernard, in astonishment. “Why,
that will make me rich. How can I thank you for your great kindness?”
“I look upon you as a brother, Bernard. With the affection I feel for
you I could not allow you to run the risk of poverty and destitution. To
be sure, you are young and a boy of capacity, but for a time you might
be in trouble.”
That very morning Mr. Cunningham took Bernard to the office of his
banker in Wall Street, and transferred the sum he had mentioned to
Bernard’s account.
“I advise you to keep your money for the present in the hands of my good
friends here, unless you should prefer to deposit it with your old
guardian, Mr. McCracken.”
“I would not trust Mr. McCracken,” said Bernard, “but I should like
before I leave the city to pay him a visit.”
Walking down Broadway in the afternoon Bernard was treated to a
surprise. Marching in front of him with a slow and weary step was a
thick-set man of over fifty, sandwiched between two advertising boards,
bearing in large capitals these words:
“USE  SWEETLAND’S PILLS.”
There was something familiar in the figure, but from a rear view Bernard
could not immediately place it. However, the man presently turned partly
round, showing his side face, and Bernard was startled by a sudden
recognition.
It was Professor Puffer!
Yes, the celebrated professor, author (by his own account) of several
large and elaborate works on the antiquities of the old world, had
actually sunk so low as to become a sandwich man, earning the miserable
pittance of fifty cents a day.
Bernard at once in some excitement imparted his astonishing discovery to
his companion.
“What! Is that your Professor Puffer?” asked Cunningham in wonder. “How
have the mighty fallen!”
“He was never so mighty as I supposed,” said Bernard. “I feel quite sure
that he was a humbug and no professor at all.”
“I am inclined to agree with you. I don’t think any real professor would
ever be reduced to such shifts as this. What are you going to do? Shall
you make yourself known to your old companion?”
“I think I would like to do so,” said Bernard thoughtfully. “He may be
able to give me some information, concerning my guardian, for instance
that may be of service to me.”
“Perhaps you are right. At any rate, it will do no harm, unless you are
afraid that the professor will try to get you into his power again.”
Bernard smiled as he regarded with complacency his own well knit
figure--he was three inches taller than when he had been a fellow
passenger of the professor on the ship Vesta.
“If he should try to get me into his power, will you stand by me, Mr.
Cunningham?” he said.
“Yes; but I fancy that you are quite able to fight your own battles.”
Bernard stepped forward until he was in a line with Professor Puffer.
Then in a clear, distinct voice, he said, “Professor Puffer!”
The sandwich man turned quickly, and regarded Bernard with surprise. The
latter had not only grown, but he was much better dressed than when the
professor parted with him.
“Who are you?” he demanded, looking bewildered.
“Don’t you remember your old companion on the Vesta?”
“Bernard Brooks!” ejaculated Professor Puffer in deep amazement.
CHAPTER XXXVI. PROFESSOR PUFFER BECOMES AN ALLY.
|Professor Puffer let his eye glide slowly over Bernard’s figure. He
noted not only his increase in size, but his neat dress, and bright and
handsome face.
“How long have you been in America?” he asked abruptly.
“I arrived yesterday by the Etruria.”
“You seem well and prosperous,” went on Puffer, with an envious sigh.
“Yes; I have been fortunate.”
“It is wonderful. You are elegantly dressed. Yet I left you destitute,
or rather you left me, without a penny to fall back upon.”
“That is true, Professor Puffer.”
“It was a reckless step to take.”
“It may have been, but you must admit that I had good reasons for taking
the step,” said Bernard significantly.
“What are you doing? Are you employed?” asked the professor, without
comment.
“I am, and I am not. I am nominally private secretary to my kind friend,
Mr. Walter Cunningham,” said Bernard, with a look at that gentleman.
“The gentleman who advertised in London for a traveling companion?”
“The same.”
“I sought the position. I should have been much better qualified than
you,” said the professor peevishly.
“You don’t appear to have prospered,” rejoined Bernard.
“No. Is it not disgraceful that a man of my attainments should fill this
ignoble position?” said Professor Puffer bitterly.
“Couldn’t you get anything better to do?”
“If I could you would not have found me traveling through the streets as
a sandwich man. Up and down I walk through the livelong day, and how
much do you think I receive for my degrading labors?”
“I suppose it is not much.”
“Fifty cents a day,” answered the professor bitterly.
“And you live on that?”
“Don’t live on it I starve.”
“But I don’t see how you became so reduced. Was not Cornelius McCracken,
my old guardian, a friend of yours?”
“McCracken! The selfish beast! Don’t name him to me. I can’t bear to
hear his name spoken.”
“Has he treated you badly?” asked Bernard.
“Has he not? I was his confidential agent. He selected me to do his
dirty work. He placed you under my care, having certain interests of his
own to serve.”
“I have always wondered what his object could have been?”
As Bernard spoke he fixed his eyes eagerly upon the face of his old
companion. He felt persuaded that Professor Puffer could tell him what
he was very anxious to know. He meant before the interview was over to
obtain from him light as to his relations with Mr. McCracken.
“Have you see him lately? Won’t he do anything for you?” he continued.
“Listen! When I returned from Europe, two months since, I called upon
him. I had previously communicated with him by letter. He asked after
you. I told him that you were dead.”
“Why did you tell him that?”
“Because it was what he wished to know.”
“Did he wish me to die?” asked Bernard, startled, but not wholly
surprised.
“He did. In sending you to Europe with me, he wished to get rid of you,
and I had instructions to that effect.”
“That accounts for your trying to throw me overboard that night on the
Vesta.”
“Yes. I was endeavoring to carry out my instructions.”
“Were the instructions oral or written?”
“Written. I had a letter in McCracken’s own handwriting.”
“Don’t that give you a hold upon him?”
“It would if I had kept it, but unfortunately I lost it on the steamer,
I think.”
Bernard had the letter in his trunk at the hotel. He had always
preserved it, thinking that some time he might find a use for it. Of
course the professor didn’t know this.
“I reported your death,” continued Puffer. “I said you had been run over
and fatally injured in Marseilles. I could see how much satisfaction
this news afforded Mr. McCracken. He ascertained by cunning questions
that I didn’t have his letter in my possession, and then he became cool
and indifferent. ‘I am sorry for the boy’s death,’ he said. ‘He was
young to die. I think you must have been careless.’ ‘I was only carrying
out your instructions,’ I said. ‘What do you mean?’ he retorted. ‘I
committed him to your charge. If I gave you any instructions, produce
them.’
“This I couldn’t do, and he knew it.
“I represented to him that I was very poor, and needed help.
“‘Really,’ he said, ‘that is nothing to me.’
“‘Can’t you give me employment?’ I asked.
“‘I have no places vacant,’ he answered coldly.
“‘What am I to do?’ I asked. ‘I have no money.’
“‘Surely you don’t expect me to support you,’ he said impatiently. ‘You
have no claim upon me.’
“Then I bethought myself of a clever scheme.
“‘Surely,’ I said, ‘you will repay me the sum I paid out for the boy’s
funeral.’
“He reflected a moment, and then answered in the affirmative.
“‘Yes,’ he said, ‘if you will give me a receipt in due form.’
“I went out of the office with one hundred dollars in my pocket.”
“It was certainly a lucky thought,” said Bernard, smiling; “considering
that my funeral expenses are paid, I feel unusually full of life.
However, I am glad you got the money.”
“It is all gone now!” went on Puffer mournfully. “I lived perhaps too
freely while it lasted. When it was gone I called once more at Mr.
McCracken’s office, and was literally kicked out. What do you think of
that?”
Hitherto Walter Cunningham had stood by in silence, listening to the
conversation between Bernard and his quondam guardian. Now he came
forward with a question.
“Can you tell me, Professor Puffer,” he asked, “why Mr. McCracken wishes
to get rid of Bernard?”
“The answer is an easy one. He has in his possession ten thousand
dollars intrusted to him by Bernard’s father. It must amount to a good
deal more now from the interest that has accrued.”
“What proof can you give of this? Did he ever write to you to that
effect?”
“No; but he admitted it to me in conversation.”
“I am disposed to get this back from him. Are you willing to help me?”
“I wish I could,” said Puffer earnestly. “I owe him a grudge. That would
be a welcome revenge. But I am afraid there is no chance. If only I had
that letter of instructions I could prove at any rate that he wanted me
to get rid of him.”
“That would give us a hold on him, and with the help of it I think we
could bring him to terms.”
“But unfortunately I have lost the letter,” continued the professor
regretfully.
“Professor Puffer,” said Bernard, “that letter is still in existence.”
“Is it?” asked Puffer eagerly. “Where is it?”
“I have it in my trunk. I found it on the floor of your stateroom on the
Vesta. It is not quite complete, but there is enough in it with your
help to fasten a very serious charge upon Mr. McCracken.”
“Good! good! I am thankful,” said the professor. “I will go with you,
and beard him in his den. He shall repent the way in which he has
treated me. But you will have to wait till evening. I shall not be
through with my work till six o’clock.”
“You can leave it now,” said Cunningham. “I am not at all sure that you
are entitled to the title of professor, but at all events you are fit
for something better than a sandwich man. I will see that you are no
longer reduced to such humble work.”
“I shall be thankful,” said Ezra Puffer, “deeply thankful if you will
find me a better position. Sometimes I meet a man whom I knew in better
days, and then I am inexpressibly mortified to be seen in such a
position.”
“I think I can promise you some more congenial employment. Do you know
where the Brevoort House is?”
“Yes.”
“Come round there at ten o’clock to-morrow morning, and call for me. You
remember my name?”
“Yes; you are Mr. Cunningham.”
“Do you think,” asked Puffer, “that you could spare me half a dollar
now? I feel quite hungry, and I should like to make a good meal.”
“Certainly. Here are five dollars. Now, be sure to call at the Brevoort
House to-morrow morning.”
“Most certainly I will,” said the professor, eying the bank note he had
just received with a joyful glance. “I should be a fool if I didn’t.
Through you and Bernard, I hope to have another chance of living
respectably. Now I must go and surrender this badge of my servitude,”
 and he glanced disdainfully at the two placards which he had already
removed from their position behind and in front. “I hope, Bernard, you
will never be subjected to such humiliation.”
“I hardly think it likely,” said Walter Cunningham, “especially if
through you he obtains possession of his father’s money.”
