there were in an hour. But she got into trouble with 
the ciphers when she tried to multiply sixty by sixty in 
her head, and she began counting the strokes again. 
They always stopped for a few seconds somewhere 
between thirty and forty. 
She wished he would come back soon, for she was 
beginning to feel very cold again, so cold that presently 
she got upon her feet and walked a dozen steps, feeling her way along the great bronze statue. It was 
better than sitting still. She had heard of prisoners 
who had kept themselves sane in a dark dungeon by 
throwing away a few pins they had, and finding them 
again. It was a famous prisoner who did that. It 
was the prisoner of Quillon — no, " quillon " had something to do with a sword — no, it was Chillon. Then 
she felt dizzy again, and steadied herself against the 
statue, and presently groped her way back to her seat. 
She almost fell, when she sat down, but saved herself 
and at last succeeded in getting to her original posi- 
tion. It was not that she was faint from hunger yet ; 
her dizziness was probably the result of cold and weari- 
ness and discomfort, and most of all, of the unaccus- 
tomed darkness. 
She was ashamed of being so weak, when she listened 
to the steady strokes, far off, and thought of the 
strength and endurance it must need to do what Mali- 
pieri seemed to be doing so easily. But she was very 
cold indeed, chilled to the bone and shivering, and she 
could not think of any way of getting warm. She rose 
again, and struck one of the matches he had given her, 
and by its feeble light she walked a few seconds with- 
out feeling dizzy, and then sat down just as the little 
taper was going to burn her fingers. 
A few minutes later she heard footsteps overhead, 
and saw a faint light through the hole. He was com- 
ing at last, and she smiled happily before she saw him. 
He came down and asked how she was, and he sat on 
the Aphrodite beside iier. 
" If I could only get warm I " she answered. 
" Perhaps you can warm your hands a little on the 
sides of the lantern," he said. 
She tried that and felt a momentary sensation of 
comfort, and asked him what progress he was making. 
" Very slow," he replied. " I cannot hear the least 
sound from the other side yet. Masin is not there." 
She did not expect any other answer, and said noth- 
ing, as she sat shivering beside him. 
" You are very brave," he said presently. 
A long pause followed. She had bent her head low, 
so that her face almost touched her knees. 
" Signer Malipieri — " she began, at last, in rather a 
trembling tone. 
" Yes ? What is it ? " He bent down to her, but she 
did not look up. 
 
"I — I — hardly know how to say it," she faltered. 
" Shall you think very, very badly of me if I ask you 
to do something — something that — " She stopped. 
" There is nothing in heaven or earth I will not do 
for you," he answered. "And I shall certainly not 
think anything very dreadful." He tried to speak 
cheerfully. 
" I think I shall die of the cold," she said. " There 
might be a way — " 
" Yes ? Anything ! " 
Then she spoke very low. 
" Do you think you could just put your arms round 
me for a minute or two ? " she asked. 
Piteously cold though she was, the blood rushed to 
her face as she uttered the words; but Malipieri felt it 
in his throat and eyes. 
" Certainly," he answered, as if she had asked the 
m:Ost natural thing in the world. " Sit upon my 
knees, and I will hold my arms round you, till you are 
warm." 
He settled himself on the marble limbs of the Aphro- 
dite, and the frail young girl seated herself on his 
knees, and nestled to him for warmth, while he held 
her close to him, covering her with his arms as much 
as he could. They went quite round her, one above 
the other, and she hid her face against his shoulder. 
He could feel her trembling with the cold like a leaf, 
under the coat he had made her put on. 
Suddenly she started a little, but not as if she wished 
to go ; it was more like a sob than anything else. 
"What is the matter?" he asked, steadying his 
voice with difficulty. 
" I am so ashamed of myself ! " she answered, and 
she buried her face against his shoulder again. 
" There is nothing to be ashamed of," he said gently. 
" Are you a little warmer now ? " 
" Oh, much, much ! Let me stay just a little 
longer." 
"As long as you will," he answered, pressing her 
to him quietly. 
He wondered if she could hear his heart, which was 
beating like a hammer, and whether she noticed any- 
thing strange in his voice. If she did, she would not 
understand. She was only a child after all. He told 
himself that he was old enough to be her father, though 
he was not ; he tried not to think of her at all. But 
that was of no use. He would have given his body, 
his freedom, his soul and the life to come, to kiss her 
as she lay helpless in his arms ; he would have given 
anything the world held, or heaven, if it had been his ; 
anything, except his honour. But that he would not 
give. His heart might beat itself to pieces, his brain 
might whirl, the little fires might flash furiously in his 
closed eyes, his throat might be as parched as the rich 
man's in hell — she had trusted herself to him like a 
child, in sheer despair and misery, and safe as a child 
she should lie on his breast. She should die there, if 
they were to die. 
" I am warm now," she said at last, " really quite 
warm again, if you want to go back." 
 
He did not wonder. He felt as if he were on fire 
from his head to his feet. At her words he relaxed 
his arms at once, and she stood up. 
" You are so good to me," she said, with an impulse 
of gratitude for safety which she herself did not under- 
stand. " What makes you so good to me ? " 
He shook his head, as if he could not answer then, 
and smiled a little sadly. 
" Now that you are warm, I must not lose time," he 
said, a moment later, taking up his lantern. 
She sat down in her old place, and gathered her skirt 
to her feet and watched him as he climbed out and the 
last rays of light disappeared. Then the pounding at 
the wall began again, far off, and she tried to count the 
strokes, as she had done before ; but she wished him 
back, and whether she felt cold or not, she wished her- 
self again quietly folded in his arms, and though she 
was alone and it was quite dark she blushed at the 
thought. It seemed to her that the blows were struck 
in quicker succession now than before. Was he willing 
to tire himself out a little sooner, so as to earn the 
right to come back to her ? 
That was not it. He was growing desperate, and 
could not control the speed of his hands so per- 
fectly as before. The night was advancing, he knew, 
though he had not looked at the watch, which was still 
in Sabina's glove. It was growing late, and he could 
distinguish no sound but that of the blows he struck 
at the bricks and the steady roar of the water. The 
conviction grew on him that Masin was drowned, and 
perhaps old Sassi too, and that their bodies lay at the 
bottom of the outer chamber, between the well and the 
wall of the cellar. If Masin had been able to get into 
the well, before the water was too high, he would have 
risen with it, for he was a good swimmer. 
So was Malipieri, and more than once he thought of 
making an attempt to reach the widened slit in the wall 
by diving. That he could find the opening he was 
sure, but he was almost equallj' sure that he could 
never get through it alive and up to the surface on the 
other side. If he were drowned too, Sabina would be 
left to die alone, or perhaps to go mad with horror 
before she was found. He had heard of such things. 
It was no wonder that he unconsciously struck faster 
as he worked, and at first he felt himself stronger than 
before, as men do when they are almost despairing. 
The sweat stood out on his forehead, and his hands 
tingled, when he drew back the iron to clear away the 
chips. He worked harder and harder. 
The queer little tune did not ring in his head now, 
for he could think of nothing but Sabina and of what 
was to become of her, even if he succeeded in saving 
her life. It was almost impossible that such a strange 
adventure should remain a secret, and, being once 
known, the injury to the girl might be irreparable. 
He hated himself for having brought her to the place. 
Yet, as he thought it over, he knew that he would have 
done it again. 
It had seemed perfectly safe. Any one could have 
seen that the water had not risen in the well for many 
 
years. Day after day, for a long time, he and Masin 
had worked in the vaults in perfect safety. The way 
to the statues had been made so easy that only a timid 
old man like Sassi could have found it impassable. 
There had been absolutely no cause to fear that after 
fifty or sixty years the course of the water should be 
affected, and the chances against such an accident 
happening during that single hour of Sabina's visit 
were as many millions to one. His motive in bringing 
her had been quixotic, no doubt, but good and just, and 
so far as Sabina's reputation was concerned, Sassi's pres- 
ence had constituted a sufficient social protection. 
He hammered away at the bricks furiously, and the 
cavity grew deeper and wider. Surely he had made a 
mistake at first in wishing to husband his strength too 
carefully. If he had worked from the beginning as he 
was working now, he would have made the breach by 
this time. 
Unless that were impossible ; unless, after all, he 
had struck the end of a cross wall and was working 
through the length of it instead of through its thick- 
ness. The fear of such a misfortune took possession 
of him, and he laid down his crowbar to examine the 
the wall carefully. There was one way of finding out 
the truth, if he could only get light enough ; no mason 
that ever lived would lay his bricks in any. way except 
lengthwise along each course. If he had struck into a 
cross wall, he must be demolishing the bricks from 
their ends instead of across them, and he could find 
out which way they lay at the end of the cavity, if he 
could make the light of the lantern shine in as far as 
that. The depth was more than five feet now, and his 
experience told him that even in the construction of a 
mediaeval palace the walls above the level of the 
ground were very rarely as thick as that, when built 
of good brick and cement like this one. 
When he took up his lantern, he was amazed at what 
he had done in less than four hours ; if he had been 
told that an ordinary man had accomplished anything 
approaching to it in that time, he would have been 
incredulous. He had hardly realized that he had made 
a hole big enough for him to work in, kneeling on one 
knee, and bracing himself with the other foot. 
But the end was narrow, of course, and when he 
held the light before it, he could not see past the body 
of the lantern. He opened the latter, took out the 
little oil lamp carefully and thrust it into the hole. 
He could see now, as he carefully examined the bricks, 
and he was easily convinced that he had .not entered a 
cross wall. Nevertheless, when he had been working 
with the bar, he had not detected any change in the 
sound, as he thought he must have done, if he had 
been near the further side. Was the wall ten feet 
thick ? He looked again. It was not a vaulting, that 
was clear ; and it could not be anything but a wall. 
There was some comfort in that. He drew back a 
little, put the lamp into the lantern again and got out 
backwards. The passage was bright ; he looked up 
quickly and started. 
Sabina was standing beside him, holding the large 
 
lamp. Her big hat had fallen back and her hair made 
a fair cloud between it and her white face. 
" I thought something had happened to you," she 
said, "so I brought the lamp. You stopped working 
for such a long time," she explained, " I thought you 
must have hurt yourself, or fainted.'' 
"No," answered Malipieri. "There is nothing the 
matter with me. I was looking at the bricks." 
" You must need rest, for it is past ten o'clock. I 
looked at the watch." 
" I will rest when I get through the wall. There is 
no time to be lost. Are you very hungry ? " 
"No. I am a little thirsty." She looked at the 
black water, pouring down the overflow shaft. 
" That water is not good to drink," said Malipieri, 
thinking of what was at the bottom of the well. " We 
had better not drink it unless we are absolutely forced 
to. I hope to get you out in two hours." 
He stood leaning on his crowbar, his dark hair 
covered with dust, his white shirt damp and clinging 
to him, and all stained from rubbing against the broken 
masonry. 
" It would be better to rest for a few minutes," she 
said, not moving. 
He knew she was right, but he went with her reluc- 
tantly, and presently he was sitting beside her on the 
marble limbs of the Aphrodite. She turned her face 
to him a little shyly, and then looked away again. 
" Were ever two human beings in such a situation 
before!" 
"Everything has happened before,'' Malipieri an- 
swered. "There is nothing new." 
"Does it hurt very much to die of starvation?" 
Sabina asked after a little pause. 
" Not if one has plenty of water. It is thirst that 
drives people mad. Hunger makes one weak, that is 
all." 
"And cold, I am sure." 
"Very cold." 
They were both silent. She looked steadily at the 
gleaming bronze statue before her, and Malipieri looked 
down at his hands. 
"How long does it take to starve to death?" she 
asked at last. 
"Strong men may live two or three weeks if they 
have water." 
" I should not live many days," Sabina said thought- 
fully. "It would be awful for you to be living on 
here, with me lying dead." 
"Horrible. Do not think about it. "We shall get 
out before morning." 
"I am afraid not," she said quietly. "I am afraid 
we are going to die here." 
" Not if I can help it," answered Malipieri. 
"No. Of course not. I know you will do every- 
thing possible, and I am sure that if you could save me 
by losing your life, you would. Yes. But if you can- 
not break through the wall, there is nothing to be 
done." 
" The water may go down to-morrow. It is almost 
 
sure to go down before long. Then we can get out by 
the way we came in." 
" It will not go down. I am sure it will not." 
" It is too soon to lose courage," Malipieri said. 
" I am not frigbtened. It will not be bard to die, if 
it does not hurt. It will be much harder for you, be- 
cause you are so strong. You will live a long time." 
"Not xmless I can save you," he answered, rising. 
"I am going back to work. It will be time enough to 
talk about death when my strength is all gone." 
He spoke almost roughly, partly because for one mo- 
ment she had made him feel a sort of sudden dread that 
she might be right, partly to make her think that he 
thought the supposition sheer nonsense. 
"Are you angry? " she asked, like a child. 
" No ! " He made an effort and laughed almost 
cheerfully. "But you had better think about what 
you should like for supper in two or three hours ! It 
is hardly worth while to put out that lamp," he added. 
" It will burn nearly twelve hours, for it is big, and it 
was quite full. There is a great deal of heat in it, too." 
He went away again. But when he was gone, she 
drew the lamp over to her without leaving her seat, and 
put it out. She was very tired and a little faint, and 
by and by the distant sound of the crowbar brought 
back the drowsiness she had felt before, and leaning 
her head against the Aphrodite's curving waist, she 
lost consciousness. 
He worked a good hour or more without result, came 
down to her, and found her in a deep sleep. As he 
noiselessly left her, he wondered how many men could 
have slept peacefully in such a case as hers. 
Once more he took the heavy bar, and toiled on, but 
he felt that his strength was failing fast for want of 
food. He had eaten nothing since midday, and had not 
even drunk water, and in six hours he had done as 
much hard work as two ordinary workmen could have 
accomplished in a day. With a certain amount of rest, 
he could still go on, but a quarter of an hour would no 
longer be enough. He was very thirsty, too, but though 
he might have drunk his fill from the hollow of his 
hand, he could not yet bring himself to taste the water. 
He was afraid that he might be driven to it before long, 
but he would resist as long as he could. 
Every stroke was an effort now, as he struggled on 
blindly, not only against the material obstacle, but 
against the growing terror that was taking possession 
of him, the hideous probability of having worked in 
vain after all, and the still worse certainty of what the 
end must be if he really failed. 
Effort after effort, stroke after stroke, though each 
seemed impossible after the last. He could not fail, and 
let that poor girl die, unless he could die first, of sheer 
exhaustion. 
If he were to stop now, it might be hours before he 
could go on again, and then he would be already weak- 
ened by hunger. There was nothing to be done but to 
keep at it, to strike and strike, with such half-frantic 
energy as was left in him. Every bone and sinew 
ached, and his breath came short, while the sweat ran 
 
down into his short beard, and fell in rain on his dusty 
hands. 
But do what he would, the blows followed each other 
in slower succession. He could not strike twenty 
more, not ten, not five perhaps ; he would not count 
them ; he would cheat himself into doing what could 
not be done ; he would count backwards and for- 
wards, one, two, three, three, two, one, one, two — 
And then, all at once, the tired sinews were braced 
like steel, and his back straightened, and his breath 
came full and clear. The blow had rung hollow. 
He could have yelled as he sent the great bar flying 
against the bricks again and again, far in the shadow, 
and the echo rang back, louder and louder, every time. 
The bar ran through and the end he held shot from 
his hands, as the resistance failed at last, and half the 
iron went out on the other side. He drew it back 
quickly and looked to see if there were any light, but 
there was none. He did not care, for the rest would 
be child's play compared with what he had done, and 
easier than play now that he had the certainty of safety. 
The first thing to be done was to tell Sabina that 
the danger was past. He crept back with his light 
and stood upright. It hurt him to straighten him- 
self, and he now knew how tremendous the labour 
had been ; the last furious minutes had been like the 
delirium of a fever. But he was tough and used to 
every sort of fatigue, and hope had come back ; he 
forgot how thirsty he had been, and did not even 
glance behind him at the water. 
Sabina was still asleep. He stood before her, and 
hesitated, for it seemed cruel to wake her, even to 
tell her the good news. He would go back and widen 
the breach, and when there was room to get out, he 
could come and fetch her. She had put out the lamp. 
He lighted it again quietly, and was going to place it 
where it could not shine in her eyes and perhaps wake 
her, when he paused to look at her face. 
It was very still, and deadly pale, and her lips were 
blue. He could not she that she was breathing, for 
his coat hung loosely over her slender figure. She 
looked almost dead. Her gloved hands lay with the 
