The soldier looked doubtful. "We was there--I know that; yes, an' we had
a fight----"
"Yes--near a big white house."
The soldier nodded. "I guess so; I don't seem to place no big white
house----"
She asked calmly: "Your regiment had a mounted band once?"
He brightened.
"Yes, sir-ee! They played us in at Sandy River--and they got into it,
too, and was cut all to pieces!"
She motioned assent wearily; then, with an effort: "You don't know,
perhaps, where he--where their bandmaster was buried?"
"Sir?"
"The bandmaster of the Fourth Missouri? You remember him--that tall,
thin young officer who led them with his sabre--who sat his horse like a
colonel of regulars--and wore a cap of fur like--like a hussar of some
militia State guard----"
"Well, you must mean Captain Stanley, who was at that time bandmaster of
our regiment. He went in that day at Sandy River when our mounted band
was cut to pieces. Orders was to play us in, an' he done it."
There was a silence.
"Where is he--buried?" she asked calmly.
"Buried? Why, he ain't dead, is he?"
"He died at Sandy River--that day," she said gently. "Don't you
remember?"
"No, sir; our bandmaster wasn't killed at Sandy River."
She looked at him amazed, almost frightened.
"What do you mean? He is dead. I--saw him die."
"It must have been some other bandmaster--not Captain Stanley."
"I saw the bandmaster of your regiment, the Fourth Missouri Cavalry,
brought into that big white house and laid on my--on a bed----" She
stared at the boy, caught him by the sleeve: "He is dead, isn't he? Do
you know what you are telling me? Do you understand what I am saying?"
"Yes, sir. Captain Stanley was our bandmaster--he wasn't captain then,
of course. He played us in at Sandy River--by God! I oughter know,
because I got some cut up m'self."
"You--you tell me that he wasn't killed?" she repeated, steadying
herself against the canvas flap.
"No, sir. I heard tell he was badly hurt--seems like I kinder
remember--oh, yes!" The man's face lighted up. "Yes, sir; Captain
Stanley, he had a close shave! It sorter comes back to me now, how the
burial detail fetched him back saying they wasn't going to bury no man
that twitched when they shut his coffin. Yes, sir--but it's three years
and a man forgets, and I've seen--things--lots of such things in three
years with Baring's dragoons. Yes, sir."
She closed her eyes; a dizziness swept over her and she swayed where she
stood.
"Is he here?"
"Who? Captain Stanley? Yes, sir. Why, he's captain of the Black Horse
troop--F, third squadron.... They're down that lane near the trees.
Shall I take you there?"
She shook her head, holding tightly to the canvas flap; and the trooper,
saluting easily, resumed his truss of hay, hitched his belt, cocked his
forage cap, and went off whistling.
All that sunny afternoon she lay on the colonel's camp bed, hands
tightly clenched on her breast, eyes closed sometimes, sometimes wide
open, gazing at the sun spots crawling on the tent wall.
To her ears came bugle calls from distant hills; drums of marching
columns. Sounds of the stirring of thousands made tremulous the dim
silence of the tent.
Dreams long dead arose and possessed her--the confused dreams of a
woman, still young, awakened from the passionless lethargy of the past.
Vaguely she felt around her the presence of an earth new born, of a new
heaven created. She realized her own awakening; she strove to comprehend
his resurrection, and it frightened her; she could not understand that
what was dead through all these years was now alive, that the ideal she
had clung to, evoking it until it had become part of her, was real--an
actual and splendid living power. In this vivid resurgence she seemed to
lose her precise recollections of him now that he was alive.
While she had believed him dead, everything concerning his memory had
been painfully real--his personal appearance, the way he moved, turned,
the sound of his voice, the touch of his hand as it tightened in hers
when he lay there at sunset, while she and Death watched the color
fading from his face.
But now--now that he was living--here in this same world with her
again--strive as she would she could neither fix either his features nor
the sound of his voice upon her memory. Only the stupefying wonder of it
possessed her, dulling her senses so that even the happiness of it
seemed unreal.
                 *       *       *       *       *
How would they meet?--they two, who had never met but thrice? How would
they seem, each to the other, when first their eyes encountered?
In all their lives they had exchanged so little speech! Yet from the
first--from the first moment, when she had raised her gaze to him as he
entered in his long, blue cloak, her silence had held a deeper meaning
than her speech. And on that blessed night instinct broke the silence;
yet, with every formal word exchanged, consciousness of the occult bond
between them grew.
But it was not until she thought him dead that she understood that it
had been love--love unheralded, unexpected, incredible--love at the
first confronting, the first encountering glance. And to the memory of
that mystery she had been faithful from the night on which she believed
he died.
How had it been with him throughout these years? How had it been with
him?
The silvery trumpets of the cavalry were still sounding as she mounted
her horse before the colonel's tent and rode out into the splendour of
the setting sun.
On every side cavalrymen were setting toe to stirrup; troop after troop,
forming by fours, trotted out to the crest of the hill where the Western
light lay red across the furrowed grass.
A blaze of brilliant color filled the road where an incoming Zouave
regiment had halted, unslinging knapsacks, preparing to encamp, and the
setting sun played over them in waves of fire, striking fiercely across
their crimson fezzes and trousers.
Through their gorgeous lines the cavalry rode, colonel and staff
leading; and with them rode the Special Messenger, knee to knee with the
chief trumpeter, who made his horse dance when he passed the gorgeous
Zouave color guard, to show off the gridiron of yellow slashings across
his corded and tasseled breast.
And now another infantry regiment blocked the way--a heavy, blue column
tramping in with its field music playing and both flags flying in the
sunset radiance--the Stars and Stripes, with the number of the regiment
printed in gold across crimson; and the State flag--white, an Indian and
an uplifted sword on the snowy field: Massachusetts infantry.
On they came, fifes skirling, drums crashing; the colonel of the Fourth
Missouri gave them right of way, saluting their colors; the Special
Messenger backed her horse and turned down along the column.
Under the shadow of her visor her dark eyes widened with excitement as
she skirted the halted cavalry, searching the intervals where the troop
captains sat their horses, naked sabres curving up over their shoulder
straps.
"Not this one! Not this one," her little heart beat hurriedly; and
then, without warning, panic came, and she spurred up to the major of
the first squadron.
"Where is Captain Stanley?" Her voice almost broke.
"With his troop, I suppose--'F,'" replied that officer calmly; and her
heart leaped and the color flooded her face as she saluted, wheeled, and
rode on in heavenly certainty.
A New York regiment, fresh from the North, was passing now, its
magnificent band playing "Twinkling Stars"; and the horses of the
cavalry began to dance and paw and toss their heads.
One splendid black animal reared suddenly and shook its mane out; and at
the same moment she saw him--knew him--drew bridle, her heart in her
mouth, her body all a-tremble.
He was mastering the black horse that had reared, sitting his saddle
easily, almost carelessly, his long, yellow-striped legs loosely
graceful, his straight, slim figure perfect in poise and balance.
And now the trumpets were sounding; captain after captain turned in his
saddle, swung his sabre forward, repeating the order: "Forward--march!
Forward--march!"
The Special Messenger whirled her horse and sped to the head of the
column.
"I was just beginning to wonder--" began the colonel, when she broke in,
breathless:
"May I ride with Captain Stanley of F, sir?"
"Certainly," he replied, surprised and a trifle amused. She hesitated,
nervously picking at her bridle, then said: "When you once get me
through their lines--I mean, after I am safely through and you are ready
to turn around and leave me--I--I would like--to--to----"
"Yes?" inquired the colonel, gently, divining some "last message" to
deliver. For they were desperate chances that she was taking, and those
in the beleaguered city would show her no mercy if they ever caught her
within its battered bastions.
But the Special Messenger only said: "Before your regiment goes back,
may I tell Captain Stanley who I am?"
The colonel's face fell.
"Nobody is supposed to have any idea who you are----"
"I know it. But is there any harm if I only tell it to--to just this
one, single man?" she asked, earnestly, not aware that her eyes as well
as her voice were pleading--that her whole body, bent forward in the
saddle, had become eloquent with a confession as winning as it was
innocent.
The colonel looked curiously into the eager, flushed face, framed in its
setting of dark, curly hair, then he lifted a gauntleted hand from his
bridle and slowly stroked his crisp mustache upward to hide the smile he
could not control.
"I did not know," he said gravely, "that Captain Stanley was
the--ah--'one' and 'only' man."
She blushed furiously, the vivid color ran from throat to temple,
burning her ears till they looked like rose petals caught in her dark
hair.
"You may tell Captain Stanley--if you must," observed the colonel of the
Fourth Missouri. He was gazing absently straight between his horse's
ears when he spoke. After a few moments he looked at the sky where,
overhead, the afterglow pulsated in bands of fire.
"I always thought," he murmured to himself, "that old Stanley was in
love with that Southern girl he saw at Sandy River.... I had no idea he
knew the Special Messenger. It appears that I am slightly in error."
And, very thoughtfully, he continued to twist his mustache skyward as he
rode on.
When he ventured to glance around again the Special Messenger had
disappeared.
"Fancy!" he muttered; "fancy old Stanley knowing the mystery of the
three armies! And, by gad, gentlemen!" addressing, sotto voce, the
entire regiment, as he turned in his stirrups and looked back at the
darkening column behind him--"by gad! gentlemen of the Fourth Dragoons,
no prettier woman ever sat a saddle than is riding this moment with the
captain of Troop F!"
What Captain Stanley saw riding up to him through the dull afterglow was
a slightly built youth in the uniform of the regular cavalry, yellow
trimming on collar, yellow welts about the seams of the jacket, yellow
stripes on the breeches; and, as the youth drew bridle, saluted, and
turned to ride forward beside him, he caught sight of a lieutenant's
shoulder straps on the sergeant's shell jacket.
"Well, youngster," he said, smiling, "don't they clothe you in the
regulars? You're as eccentric as our butternut friends yonder."
"I couldn't buy a full uniform," she said truthfully. She did not add
that she had left at a minute's notice for the most dangerous
undertaking ever asked of her, borrowing discarded makeshifts anywhere
at hazard.
"Are you a West Pointer?"
"No."
"Oh! You've their seat--and their shapely leanness. Are you going with
us?"
"Where are you going?"
Stanley laughed. "I'm sure I don't know. It looks to me as though we
were riding straight into rebeldom."
"Don't you know why?" she asked, looking at him from under the shadow of
her visor.
"No. Do you?"
"Yes."
After a pause: "Well," he said, laughing, "are you going to tell me?"
"Yes--later."
Neck and neck, knee and knee they rode forward at the head of the Black
Horse troop, along a road which became dusky beyond the first patch of
woods.
After the inner camp lines had been passed the regiment halted while a
troop was detailed as flankers and an advanced guard galloped off ahead.
Along the road behind, the guns of the Rhode Island Battery came
thudding and bumping up, halting with a dull clash of chains.
Stanley said: "This is one of Baring's pet raids; we've done it dozens
of times. Once our entire division rode around Beauregard; but I didn't
see the old, blue star division flag this time, so I guess we're going
it alone. Hello! There's infantry! We must be close to the extreme
outposts."
In the dusk they were passing a pasture where, guarded by sentinels, lay
piled, in endless, straight rows, knapsacks, blankets, shelter tents,
and long lines of stacked Springfield rifles. Soldiers with the white
strings of canteens crossing their breasts were journeying to and from a
stream that ran, darkling, out of the tangled woodland on their right.
On the opposite side of the road were the lines of the Seventieth
Indiana, their colors, furled in oilcloth, lying horizontally across the
forks of two stacks of rifles. Under them lay the color guard; the
scabbarded swords of the colonel and his staff were stuck upright in
the ground, and the blanket-swathed figures of the officers in poncho
and havelock reposed close by.
The other regiment was the Eleventh Maine. Their colonel, strapped with
his silver eagles, was watching the disposal of the colors by a sergeant
wearing the broad stripe, blue diamond and triple underscoring on each
sleeve. With the sergeant marched eight corporals, long-limbed, rugged
giants of the color company, decorated with the narrow stripe and double
chevron.
A few minutes later the cavalry moved out past the pickets, then swung
due south.
Night had fallen--a clear, starlit, blossom-scented dimness freshening
the air.
The Special Messenger, head bent, was still riding with Captain Stanley,
evidently preferring his company so openly, so persistently, that the
other officers, a little amused, looked sideways at the youngster from
time to time.
After a while Stanley said pleasantly: "We haven't exchanged names yet,
and you haven't told me why a regular is riding with us to-night."
"On special service," she said in a low voice.
"And your name and regiment?"
She did not appear to hear him; he glanced at her askance.
"You seem to be very young," he said.
"The colonel of the Ninetieth Rhode Island fell at twenty-two."
He nodded gravely. "It is a war of young men. I think Baring himself is
only twenty-five. He's breveted brigadier, too."
"And you?" she asked timidly.
He laughed. "Thirty; and a thousand in experience."
"I, too," she said softly.
"You? Thirty?"
"No, only twenty-four; but your peer in experience."
"Your voice sounds Southern," he said in his pleasant voice, inviting
confidence.
"Yes; my home was at Sandy River."
Out of the corners of her eyes she saw him start and look around at
her--felt his stern gaze questioning her; and rode straight on before
her without response or apparent consciousness.
"Sandy River?" he repeated in a strained voice. "Did you say you lived
there?"
"Yes," indifferently.
The captain rode for a while in silence, then, carelessly: "There was, I
believe, a family living there before the war--the Westcotes."
"Yes." She could scarcely utter a word for the suffocating throb of her
heart.
"You knew them?"
"Yes."
"Do--do they still live at Sandy River?"
"The house still stands. Major Westcote is dead."
"Her--I mean their grandfather?"
She nodded, incapable of speech.
"And"--he hesitated--"and the boy? He used to ride a pony--the most
fascinating little fellow----"
"He is at school in the North."
There was a silence, then the captain turned in his saddle and looked
straight at her.
"Does Miss Westcote live there still?"
"Do you mean Celia Westcote?" asked the Messenger calmly.
"Yes--Celia--" His voice fell softly, making of her name a caressing
cadence. The Special Messenger bent her head lower over her bridle.
"Why do you ask? Did you know her?"
"Yes."
"Well?"
The captain lifted his grave eyes, but the Messenger was not looking at
him.
"I knew her--in a way--better than I ever knew any woman, and I saw her
only three times in all my life. That is your answer--and my excuse for
asking. Does she still live at Sandy River?"
"No."
"Do you know where she has gone?"
"She is somewhere in the South."
"Is she--married?" he asked under his breath.
The Special Messenger looked up at him, smiling in the darkness.
"No," she said. "I heard that she lost her--heart--to a bandmaster of
some cavalry regiment who was killed in action at Sandy River--three
years ago."
The captain straightened in his saddle as though he had been shot; in
the dim light his lean face turned darkly scarlet.
"I see her occasionally," continued the Messenger faintly; "have you any
message--perhaps----"
The captain turned slowly toward her. "Do you know where she is?"
"I expect that she will be within riding distance of me--very soon."
"Is your mission a secret one?"
"Yes."
"And you may see her--before very long?"
"Yes."
"Then tell her," said the captain, "that the bandmaster of the Fourth
Missouri--" He strove to continue; his voice died in his throat.
"Yes--yes--say it," whispered the Special Messenger. "I will tell her;
she will understand--truly she will--whatever you say."
"Tell her--that the bandmaster has--has never forgotten----"
"Yes--yes----"
"Never forgotten her!"
"Yes--oh, yes!"
"That he--he----"
"Yes! Oh, please--please say it--don't be afraid to say--what you wish!"
The captain's voice was not under perfect control.
"Say that he--thinks of her.... Say that--that he--he thought of her
when he was falling--there, in the charge at Sandy River----"
"But he once told her that himself!" she cried. "Has he no more to tell
her?"
And Captain Stanley, aghast, fairly leaped in his stirrups.
"Who are you?" he gasped. "What do you know of----"
His voice was smothered in the sudden out-crash of rifles, through which
startled trumpets sounded, followed by the running explosions of cavalry
carbines.
"Attention! Draw sabres!" rang out a far voice in the increasing uproar.
The night air thrilled with the rushing swish of steel drawn swiftly
across steel.
"Forward!" and "Forward! Forward!" echoed the officers, one after
another.
"Steady--right dress!"--taken up by the troop officers: "Steady--right
dress! By fours--right wheel--march!"
Pell-mell the flanking parties came crashing back out of the dusky
undergrowth, and:
"Steady--trot! Steady--right dress--gallop!" came the orders.
"Gallop!" repeated her captain, blandly; and, under his breath: "We are
going to charge. Quick, tell me who you are!"
"Steady--steady--charge!" came the clear shout from the front.
"Charge! Charge! Charge!" echoed the ringing orders from troop to troop.
In the darkness of the thickets she rode knee to knee with her captain.
The grand stride of her horse thundering along beside his through
obscurity filled her with wild exultation; she loosened curb and snaffle
and spurred forward amid hundreds of plunging horses, now goaded frantic
by the battle clangor of the trumpets.
Everywhere, right and left, the red flash of Confederate rifles ran
along their flanks; here and there a stricken horse reared or stumbled,
rolling over and over; or some bullet-struck rider swayed wide from the
saddle and went down to annihilation.
Fringed with darting flames the cavalry drove on headlong into the
unseen; behind clanked the flying battery, mounted gunners sabering the
dark forms that leaped out of the underbrush; on--on--rushed horses and
guns, riders and cannoneers--a furious, irresistible, chaotic torrent,
thundering through the night.
[Illustration: "'Yes,' she gasped, 'The Special
Messenger--noncombatant!'"]
Far behind them now danced and flickered the rifle flames; fainter,
fainter grew the shots; and at last, galloping steadily and, by degrees,
reforming as they rode, the column swung out toward the bushy hills in
the west, slowed to a canter, to a trot, to a walk.
"We are through!" said the Special Messenger, brokenly, breathing fast
as she pulled in her mount and turned in the starlight toward the man
she rode beside.
At the same moment the column halted; and he drew bridle and looked
steadily at her.
All around them was the confusion and turmoil of stamping, panting
horses, the clank of metal, the heavy breathing of men.
"Look at me!" she whispered, baring her head in the starlight. "Quick!
Look at me! Do you know me now? Look at me--if you--love me!"
A low cry broke from him; she held out both arms to him in the dim
light, forcing her horse up against his stirrup.
"If you love me," she breathed, "say so now!"
Leaning free from his saddle he caught her in his arms, held her, looked
into her eyes.
"You?"
"Yes," she gasped, "the Special Messenger--noncombatant!"
"The Special Messenger? You? Good God!"
A dull tattoo of hoofs along the halted column, nearer, nearer,
clattering toward them from the front, and:
"Good-by!" she sobbed; "they're coming for me! Oh--do you love me? Do
you? Life was so dark and dreadful without you! I--I never
forgot--never, never! I----"
Her gloved hands crept higher around the neck of the man who held her
crushed in his arms.
"If I return," she sighed, "will you love me? Don't--don't look at me
that way. I will return--I promise. I love you so! I love you!"
Their lips clung for a second in the darkness, then she swung her horse,
tearing herself free of his arms; and, bared head lifted to the skies,
