he cried. 
" What if it had been Barry? "interrupted 
Miriam quietly. 
Steele's eyelids almost imperceptibly 
drooped, but his dogmatic voice pushed on : 
" What is one dog — what are ten thou- 
sand dogs compared with the life of one 
baby ? " he demanded fiercely. 
Miriam now turned her averted head, and, 
 
for the first time that morning I looked him 
straight in the eyes. The misery in them held 
her rising denunciation back. 
" You have tormented many dogs. How 
many, I do not want to know. Have you ever 
saved the life of one baby ? Oh, I have seen 
men do that, down among' my poor people — 
good plain doctors — kind men, giving their 
lives for sick children. How many did you 
say you have saved ? " 
" But I might have ! I should have. I 
was on the eve of great discoveries. This 
unfortunate mishap has overthrown them 
all." 
Miriam's tender lip curled. This was a 
sight that he had never seen before, and it 
forced this outcry from him : " Your judgment 
is distorted ! You set that creature above me. 
You value him more than you value me. You 
care for him more ! " 
" Why should I dispute you ? It is quite 
true that I love my dog more than it is pos- 
sible for any one who could — treat him — as 
you have done — to understand." 
" You never loved me ! " Steele vehemently 
challenged her. 
 
" Oh, I thought I did," she answered 
drearily. " Don't blame me. I thought I 
did." * 
The man arose. The muscles of his face 
were taut. 
" Do you mean to say that you will allow 
this to come between us ? " 
" How can I help it ? " she cried. " I loved 
another kind of man." 
Steele strode up and down the room. His 
strong head, his stern chin, his professional 
bearing seemed to have no part in the turmoil 
of his passion. They seemed to stand aloof 
from it, and to criticise it, as if they mocked 
his plight. Once he heard her say beneath 
her quickened breath : 
" You would have known the voice of your 
own dog. So did I — that day — at the art 
school." 
Miriam had now arisen. The vivisector and 
the woman confronted each other. Her a^ita- 
tion was as great as his. The infinite pity of 
her nature did not desert her even then. He 
felt himself compassionated while he read his 
doom in her eyes. 
" Why should we talk any longer ? " she 
 
said with that finality of manner against which 
a gentleman does not argue. " It only makes 
it — hard — for both of us." 
Before she could measure the effect of her 
words Steele's towering figure seemed to blur 
before her like a swaying statue. Before she 
could prevent him he had dropped to his 
knees ; and this unimagined action had in it 
a certain dignity, and commanded a kind of 
respect which the most flippant spirit would 
not have refused him. 
Olin Steele held up his hands, and so grasp- 
ing both of hers, he entreated her ; one would 
have said not that he poured out his love so 
much as that he lifted it, a worship ennobled 
by despair, and offered as much in belated 
justice to himself as in hope of melting her. 
" I 'll be whatever you loved ! " he pleaded. 
" I will become the man you can love ! Name 
the price of your forgiveness ! I will pay it to 
the uttermost ! " 
Miriam, mute and miserable, shook her head. 
"I will abandon it — all," cried Steele. "I 
will give up experimentation. I will resign my 
professorship. I will fling away my ambition 
— everything that I hoped to do. I will begin 
 
all over again. I will become a plain doctor 
and heal the sick. All I want is you." 
The man stopped. His lips trembled before 
the miracle of the vows that he had uttered. 
Reverently he pressed his face into her hands, 
which he was still holding, and he left upon 
them the kiss of consecration that a perfect 
love offers to a woman whether she be won 
or lost. 
But Miriam was silent. Her wide eyes were 
as wretched as his. With a gentle, maternal 
movement she drew him to his feet, and re- 
leased her hands. 
" You make it so hard — You make it so 
hard ! " she breathed. 
Her fathomless tenderness, her solemn 
beauty, all the lost preciousness of her, 
flooded his being with an anguish like a 
mortal pain. 
" You torture me ! " he groaned. 
" Oh, no ! Oh, no ! " she gasped. " I do 
forgive you for this. May God go with you — 
if you do what you say — what you mean 
— but I cannot." 
Now Dr. Steele uttered these uncontrollable 
words : 
 
" You are more cruel to me than I was to 
that dog. You vivisect me." 
Miriam caught her breath. It was as if the 
recording angel had read from the Book of 
Life a sentence in an unknown tongue, and 
challenged her soul to translate it. She felt 
how easy it would be to make an eternal mis- 
take in that sacred language. But she did not 
flinch. Slowly and kindly she stirred from his 
side. She was blinded with her tears, and 
groped for the door. He thought she said, 
" Oh, good-by — good-by ! " 
But he was not sure. 
CHAPTER XII 
Mrs. Percy B. Jeffries arrived at the town 
house the next morning, and Miriam found 
herself denied that luxury of solitude which, 
to a nature like hers, is the first craving of 
acute trouble. Perhaps it is one of the values 
of misfortune that it shall not seem bearable 
until it has become so ; and not the least of its 
veiled advantages, that the superficial relations 
of life must go on in the teeth of emergency. 
Aunt Cornelia found a disturbed house- 
hold, nor was she the woman to soothe the 
nervous tension. She precipitated into the 
electric atmosphere the cook, the chamber- 
maid, and the laundress. She was surcharged 
with the achievements of a forced flitting, as 
well as with the mortification of the necessity 
for it. 
Before Mrs. Jeffries had time, or perhaps 
before Miriam had given opportunity, for re- 
proaches or inquiries, Maggie brought in a 
special delivery letter. This ran : 
 
My dear Mrs. Jeffries : Under the pre- 
sent painful circumstances, of whose nature 
you will doubtless by this time have been in- 
formed, I find myself under the necessity of 
resigning the presidency of the Society for 
the Prevention of Docking and Cropping 
Tails and Ears. That this noble and neces- 
sary work will find under your leadership 
recognition at the hands of the Legislature, I 
have no doubt. I am forced to feel that my 
connection with the cause would be an injury 
to it now. With thanks to you for your gen- 
erous hospitality, and with deep appreciation 
of the many pleasant hours that we have 
passed together, I am, 
Very truly yours, 
Olin Steele. 
Mrs. Jeffries was about to ring for Miriam 
to come and explain this blasting communica- 
tion when she looked down and perceived a 
little white statuette on the carpet at her feet. 
Trixy sat up in the begging attitude, but 
there was no beggar in her eyes. These re- 
garded Mrs. Jeffries complacently, and rather 
patronizingly ; in fact, Trixy had the air of 
being the hostess of the occasion. Mrs. Jef- 
fries put on her eye-glasses and examined this 
incident. Her courtesy overcame her per- 
plexity, and she held out her ringed hand to 
the little dog. At this moment Dan limped 
apologetically in. 
"She wants to shake hands with you, marm. 
Trixy 's glad to see you home again." 
" You mean paws," corrected Mrs. Jef- 
fries. 
" No, I don't," persisted Dan, falling back 
upon his old phrase. " Trixy don't know 
she 's got paws." 
Dan picked up his dog, perched her on his 
crooked shoulder, and left the room. Mrs. 
Jeffries, going out into the hall to call Miriam, 
heard the lad's uneven step wearily climbing 
the back stairs ; a fact which at the time she 
but half noted. 
"Come up, Auntie," answered Miriam. 
"I've got something to show you. I can't 
talk. But if you won't ask any questions, you 
had better come up and see." 
What new blow awaited ? With apjn-ehen- 
sion, Mrs. Jeffries mounted the stairs. With 
weariness in her nerves, and disapprobation on 
 
her lips, the lady entered her niece's room. 
In his basket before the fireplace lay the weak 
and mangled spaniel. Miriam, in her white 
negligee, was kneeling beside him. 
" It 's Caro, Auntie. Speak kindly to him. 
Don't ask me a question. Philip will tell you. 
Don't blame me for anything !" 
The painful color burned Aunt Cornelia's 
cheeks. 
" I didn't know I was as bad as that, my 
dear." Then she stooped and saw. 
A colder-hearted woman than Mrs. Jeffries 
might have melted at the sight before her, and 
Aunt Cornelia's tears fell fast upon the mu- 
tilated dog. 
Mrs. Jeffries and her dearest lawyer sat to- 
gether in the library. It was now mid-after- 
noon, and Surbridge, cheerfully cutting an 
hour from the busiest portion of his day, had 
already surrendered himself to the task of 
soothing the soul of his most adoring and 
most difficult client. 
"Put yourself in my place," said Aunt 
Cornelia solemnly. 
" That, my dear madam," returned Philip 
with his perfect manner, " I have often done 
— with envy." 
" There you are — your father all over 
again. You are very graceful, Philip, but 
you don't help me out as much as usual. If 
you were I, what, I should like to know, 
would you do in this extraordinary situa- 
tion?" 
"Accept it," said Philip quietly, " like the 
grande dame you are." 
" Yes, but not in a minute — not with a 
gasp. I haven't even had time for a good cry. 
Here I find the jDress of the city busied with 
our affairs — the privacy of this household 
endangered — that boy and his poodle on 
everybody's lips — your name in every paper 
— my niece's ostentatiously suppressed. I 
suppose we have you to thank for that." 
"Well, yes," drawled Philip. "I did my 
best." 
" I find Dr. Steele pilloried — whether justly 
or not, how do I know? I find my niece's 
imminent engagement to him indefinitely post- 
poned. I find that he has resigned the presi- 
dency of our noble society. I am overwhelmed 
with the responsibilities this will bring upon 
 
my poor head. I find upstairs — mysteriously 
returned to this family — a mangled dog. I 
find an evidently greater mystery behind him. 
Nobody tells me how he came to be as he is. 
Miriam positively refuses to speak about him. 
I must say, it would have been a great deal 
better for that child if he had been dead as 
she thought he was." 
Philip held up his firm and gentle hand, 
as if he were flagging a train. Mrs. Jeffries 
slowed up, and in a few quiet words the lawyer 
told her the whole story. 
Aunt Cornelia received this recital as if she 
had been struck between the eyes. The con- 
ventionality of her nature yielded hard, and 
she was convinced that no lady in her class of 
society had ever been put in such an embar- 
rassing position. She found it not quite natu- 
ral to suppose that Miriam was not, somehow, 
to blame. 
" If you had been in her place," urged 
Philip, " with your youth and beauty, and 
your warm heart " — 
"Well," admitted Aunt Cornelia, "I sup- 
pose I should have done the same thing." 
" Of course you would ! " insisted Philip, 
 
in his convincing tone. " Knowing you as I 
do, I should not even raise the question." 
" But, Philip, there is one thing more — 
and I have left that to the last on purpose. 
I go up into the attic, and I find that boy from 
the slums apparently established there with 
his poodle. I ask him if he is making another 
visit, and he says, No, he is staying. I have 
not approached Miriam at all upon this painful 
subject. I feel it too keenly. I am getting to 
be an old woman, and I wish I were in my 
own home. I find this house turned into a 
dog hospital and an orphan asylum. I was not 
brought up to such methods of life. Mr. Jef- 
fries liked to live as other people did ; our 
tastes were in perfect accord." 
Philip got up and put his hand upon his 
client's shoulder with that affectionate and 
protecting sympathy to which age is so much 
more sensitive than youth. 
" Dear Mrs. Jeffries, don't you see ? How 
could she do anythmg else? How coidd she 
send the poor chap away after what has hap- 
pened ? She never would have known an easy 
hour. It 's just like her. She 's adopted the 
lad — and Trixy — into the family." 
 
"Is he going to sit at the table?" de- 
manded Mrs. Jeffries, weeping. " Or perhaps 
they 'll both sit at the table ? She might give 
Trixy a high chair. She 's capable of it." 
Surbridge lausfhed outright. 
" Oh, Matthew and Maggie have bespoken 
their company. Now, dear Mrs. Jeffries, there 
is one queer thing about it nobody can ex- 
plain. Those two dogs have met before — 
in fact, they are practically inseparable. Any- 
thing that Caro wants in this house the poor 
fellow 's likely to have, I fancy, for the rest 
of his life. And I 'm sure you would be the 
very last person to wish to have it other- 
wise." 
Aunt Cornelia looked up, smiling. She had 
that rare expression which blurs the wrinkles 
out of an elderly face. No one but Philip 
ever saw it. 
" You are a dear boy," she said, " and an 
irresistible pleader. Like your father, you 'll 
be a distinguished lawyer some day. I never 
could withstand you." 
Philip did not answer, for at that moment 
Miriam entered the room. She had the injured 
dog in her arms, and Trixy danced behind 
 
her, like a pretty page, holding the train of 
her gown, and shaking it daintily. 
Miriam stopped for a moment, irresolute ; 
then, advancing, she stooped and kissed her 
Aunt Cornelia, and laid the spaniel in the 
lady's lustreless black silk lap. Trixy, jealous 
of this attention, jumped up and cuddled be- 
side her little friend. 
"Oh, well," sighed Mrs. Jeffries, "Mr. 
Surbridge says we must make the best of it, 
Trixy. Give me your hand. What are you 
laughing at, Philip ? " 
Philip pointed to the door, where Dan, 
irradiate, stood leaning on his crutch. Dan 
found it quite beyond the question now to 
have Trixy out of his sight ; for her, his eyes 
had become clairvoyant, his ears clairaudient. 
Trixy had always reserved her private doubts 
about her master's omnipotence ; his omni- 
presence was now a fact established beyond 
reach of skepticism. 
CHAPTER XIII 
The court-room was stifling, for the unsavory 
place was full. A strange array packed it to 
the doors, and beyond. When had the lower 
courts of the city known such an interplay of 
human rank? The old images of theology 
occurred to more than one person that morn- 
ing — the visions of childhood as they formed 
fearfully about the Day of the Last Judgment, 
when "great and small" should stand before 
the Judge. For, since it had gone abroad that 
a brilliant and daring young attorney (him- 
self of a social status from which one would 
have expected other, not to say better things) 
had proceeded against a great institution in 
behalf of a boy from the slums whose dog 
was mysteriously concerned, the extremes of 
society had thronged to this unprecedented, 
to this incredible trial. 
Gentlemen of the clubs and of the drawing- 
rooms protected clusters of ladies who had 
never set their delicate feet in such a spot be- 
 
fore. Fans and vinaigrettes agitated and 
protested against the polluted atmosphere of 
justice to which judge and lawyers were so 
used that they were conscious of surprise 
at the discomfort experienced by the leisure 
classes. 
Early seated, and crowded to the front, was 
to be noticed a group so unfamiliar to, and 
so unfamiliar with the criminal courts that it 
attracted a curious, something like a sympa- 
thetic attention. This was an academic group 
— a few professors, the dean of the involved 
institution, several men bearing the unmis- 
takable air of trustees, one of the defend- 
ants (understood to be an instructor), and, 
sitting beside him uneasily, the janitor of the 
medical school. The college counsel, a distin- 
