for but to bury, as decently as possible, her mistake?
                             XVII
It appeared thus that they might enjoy together extraordinary freedom,
the two friends, from the moment they should understand their position
aright. With the Prince himself, from an early stage, not unnaturally,
Charlotte had made a great point of their so understanding it; she had
found frequent occasion to describe to him this necessity, and, her
resignation tempered, or her intelligence at least quickened, by
irrepressible irony, she applied at different times different names to
the propriety of their case. The wonderful thing was that her sense of
propriety had been, from the first, especially alive about it. There
were hours when she spoke of their taking refuge in what she called the
commonest tact--as if this principle alone would suffice to light their
way; there were others when it might have seemed, to listen to her, that
their course would demand of them the most anxious study and the most
independent, not to say original, interpretation of signs. She talked
now as if it were indicated, at every turn, by finger-posts of almost
ridiculous prominence; she talked again as if it lurked in devious
ways and were to be tracked through bush and briar; and she even, on
occasion, delivered herself in the sense that, as their situation was
unprecedented, so their heaven was without stars. “‘Do’?” she once
had echoed to him as the upshot of passages covertly, though briefly,
occurring between them on her return from the visit to America that had
immediately succeeded her marriage, determined for her by this event as
promptly as an excursion of the like strange order had been prescribed
in his own case. “Isn’t the immense, the really quite matchless beauty
of our position that we have to ‘do’ nothing in life at all?--nothing
except the usual, necessary, everyday thing which consists in one’s not
being more of a fool than one can help. That’s all--but that’s as true
for one time as for another. There has been plenty of ‘doing,’ and there
will doubtless be plenty still; but it’s all theirs, every inch of it;
it’s all a matter of what they’ve done TO us.” And she showed how
the question had therefore been only of their taking everything as
everything came, and all as quietly as might be. Nothing stranger
surely had ever happened to a conscientious, a well-meaning, a perfectly
passive pair: no more extraordinary decree had ever been launched
against such victims than this of forcing them against their will into a
relation of mutual close contact that they had done everything to avoid.
She was to remember not a little, meanwhile, the particular prolonged
silent look with which the Prince had met her allusion to these primary
efforts at escape. She was inwardly to dwell on the element of the
unuttered that her tone had caused to play up into his irresistible
eyes; and this because she considered with pride and joy that she had,
on the spot, disposed of the doubt, the question, the challenge, or
whatever else might have been, that such a look could convey. He had
been sufficiently off his guard to show some little wonder as to their
having plotted so very hard against their destiny, and she knew well
enough, of course, what, in this connection, was at the bottom of his
thought, and what would have sounded out more or less if he had not
happily saved himself from words. All men were brutes enough to catch
when they might at such chances for dissent--for all the good it really
did them; but the Prince’s distinction was in being one of the few who
could check himself before acting on the impulse. This, obviously, was
what counted in a man as delicacy. If her friend had blurted or bungled
he would have said, in his simplicity, “Did we do ‘everything to avoid’
it when we faced your remarkable marriage?”--quite handsomely of course
using the plural, taking his share of the case, by way of a tribute
of memory to the telegram she had received from him in Paris after
Mr. Verver had despatched to Rome the news of their engagement.
That telegram, that acceptance of the prospect proposed to them--an
acceptance quite other than perfunctory--she had never destroyed; though
reserved for no eyes but her own it was still carefully reserved. She
kept it in a safe place--from which, very privately, she sometimes took
it out to read it over. “A la guerre comme a la guerre then”--it had
been couched in the French tongue. “We must lead our lives as we see
them; but I am charmed with your courage and almost surprised at my
own.” The message had remained ambiguous; she had read it in more lights
than one; it might mean that even without her his career was up-hill
work for him, a daily fighting-matter on behalf of a good appearance,
and that thus, if they were to become neighbours again, the event would
compel him to live still more under arms. It might mean on the other
hand that he found he was happy enough, and that accordingly, so far as
she might imagine herself a danger, she was to think of him as prepared
in advance, as really seasoned and secure. On his arrival in Paris with
his wife, none the less, she had asked for no explanation, just as he
himself had not asked if the document were still in her possession. Such
an inquiry, everything implied, was beneath him--just as it was beneath
herself to mention to him, uninvited, that she had instantly offered,
and in perfect honesty, to show the telegram to Mr. Verver, and that if
this companion had but said the word she would immediately have put
it before him. She had thereby forborne to call his attention to
her consciousness that such an exposure would, in all probability,
straightway have dished her marriage; that all her future had in fact,
for the moment, hung by the single hair of Mr. Verver’s delicacy (as
she supposed they must call it); and that her position, in the matter of
responsibility, was therefore inattackably straight.
For the Prince himself, meanwhile, time, in its measured allowance, had
originally much helped him--helped him in the sense of there not
being enough of it to trip him up; in spite of which it was just this
accessory element that seemed, at present, with wonders of patience,
to lie in wait. Time had begotten at first, more than anything else,
separations, delays and intervals; but it was troublesomely less of
an aid from the moment it began so to abound that he had to meet the
question of what to do with it. Less of it was required for the state of
being married than he had, on the whole, expected; less, strangely, for
the state of being married even as he was married. And there was a
logic in the matter, he knew; a logic that but gave this truth a sort
of solidity of evidence. Mr. Verver, decidedly, helped him with it--with
his wedded condition; helped him really so much that it made all the
difference. In the degree in which he rendered it the service on Mr.
Verver’s part was remarkable--as indeed what service, from the first
of their meeting, had not been? He was living, he had been living these
four or five years, on Mr. Verver’s services: a truth scarcely less
plain if he dealt with them, for appreciation, one by one, than if he
poured them all together into the general pot of his gratitude and let
the thing simmer to a nourishing broth. To the latter way with them he
was undoubtedly most disposed; yet he would even thus, on occasion, pick
out a piece to taste on its own merits. Wondrous at such hours could
seem the savour of the particular “treat,” at his father-in-law’s
expense, that he more and more struck himself as enjoying. He had
needed months and months to arrive at a full appreciation--he couldn’t
originally have given offhand a name to his deepest obligation; but by
the time the name had flowered in his mind he was practically living at
the ease guaranteed him. Mr. Verver then, in a word, took care of his
relation to Maggie, as he took care, and apparently always would, of
everything else. He relieved him of all anxiety about his married
life in the same manner in which he relieved him on the score of his
bank-account. And as he performed the latter office by communicating
with the bankers, so the former sprang as directly from his
good understanding with his daughter. This understanding had,
wonderfully--THAT was in high evidence--the same deep intimacy as the
commercial, the financial association founded, far down, on a community
of interest. And the correspondence, for the Prince, carried itself
out in identities of character the vision of which, fortunately, rather
tended to amuse than to--as might have happened--irritate him. Those
people--and his free synthesis lumped together capitalists and
bankers, retired men of business, illustrious collectors, American
fathers-in-law, American fathers, little American daughters, little
American wives--those people were of the same large lucky group, as one
might say; they were all, at least, of the same general species and had
the same general instincts; they hung together, they passed each other
the word, they spoke each other’s language, they did each other “turns.”
 In this last connection it of course came up for our young man at a
given moment that Maggie’s relation with HIM was also, on the perceived
basis, taken care of. Which was in fact the real upshot of the matter.
It was a “funny” situation--that is it was funny just as it stood. Their
married life was in question, but the solution was, not less strikingly,
before them. It was all right for himself, because Mr. Verver worked
it so for Maggie’s comfort; and it was all right for Maggie, because he
worked it so for her husband’s.
The fact that time, however, was not, as we have said, wholly on the
Prince’s side might have shown for particularly true one dark day on
which, by an odd but not unprecedented chance, the reflections just
noted offered themselves as his main recreation. They alone, it
appeared, had been appointed to fill the hours for him, and even to fill
the great square house in Portland Place, where the scale of one of the
smaller saloons fitted them but loosely. He had looked into this room
on the chance that he might find the Princess at tea; but though the
fireside service of the repast was shiningly present the mistress of the
table was not, and he had waited for her, if waiting it could be called,
while he measured again and again the stretch of polished floor. He
could have named to himself no pressing reason for seeing her at this
moment, and her not coming in, as the half-hour elapsed, became in fact
quite positively, however perversely, the circumstance that kept him on
the spot. Just there, he might have been feeling, just there he could
best take his note. This observation was certainly by itself meagre
amusement for a dreary little crisis; but his walk to and fro, and in
particular his repeated pause at one of the high front windows, gave
each of the ebbing minutes, none the less, after a time, a little more
of the quality of a quickened throb of the spirit. These throbs scarce
expressed, however, the impatience of desire, any more than they stood
for sharp disappointment: the series together resembled perhaps more
than anything else those fine waves of clearness through which, for
a watcher of the east, dawn at last trembles into rosy day. The
illumination indeed was all for the mind, the prospect revealed by it a
mere immensity of the world of thought; the material outlook was all the
while a different matter. The March afternoon, judged at the window,
had blundered back into autumn; it had been raining for hours, and the
colour of the rain, the colour of the air, of the mud, of the opposite
houses, of life altogether, in so grim a joke, so idiotic a masquerade,
was an unutterable dirty brown. There was at first even, for the
young man, no faint flush in the fact of the direction taken, while
he happened to look out, by a slow-jogging four-wheeled cab which,
awkwardly deflecting from the middle course, at the apparent instance
of a person within, began to make for the left-hand pavement and so at
last, under further instructions, floundered to a full stop before the
Prince’s windows. The person within, alighting with an easier motion,
proved to be a lady who left the vehicle to wait and, putting up no
umbrella, quickly crossed the wet interval that separated her from
the house. She but flitted and disappeared; yet the Prince, from his
standpoint, had had time to recognise her, and the recognition kept him
for some minutes motionless.
Charlotte Stant, at such an hour, in a shabby four-wheeler and a
waterproof, Charlotte Stant turning up for him at the very climax of
his special inner vision, was an apparition charged with a congruity at
which he stared almost as if it had been a violence. The effect of her
coming to see him, him only, had, while he stood waiting, a singular
intensity--though after some minutes had passed the certainty of this
began to drop. Perhaps she had NOT come, or had come only for Maggie;
perhaps, on learning below that the Princess had not returned, she was
merely leaving a message, writing a word on a card. He should see, at
any rate; and meanwhile, controlling himself, would do nothing. This
thought of not interfering took on a sudden force for him; she would
doubtless hear he was at home, but he would let her visit to him be all
of her own choosing. And his view of a reason for leaving her free was
the more remarkable that, though taking no step, he yet intensely hoped.
The harmony of her breaking into sight while the superficial conditions
were so against her was a harmony with conditions that were far from
superficial and that gave, for his imagination, an extraordinary value
to her presence. The value deepened strangely, moreover, with the rigour
of his own attitude--with the fact too that, listening hard, he neither
heard the house-door close again nor saw her go back to her cab; and
it had risen to a climax by the time he had become aware, with his
quickened sense, that she had followed the butler up to the landing from
which his room opened. If anything could further then have added to
it, the renewed pause outside, as if she had said to the man “Wait a
moment!” would have constituted this touch. Yet when the man had shown
her in, had advanced to the tea-table to light the lamp under the kettle
and had then busied himself, all deliberately, with the fire, she made
it easy for her host to drop straight from any height of tension and
to meet her, provisionally, on the question of Maggie. While the butler
remained it was Maggie that she had come to see and Maggie that--in
spite of this attendant’s high blankness on the subject of all
possibilities on that lady’s part--she would cheerfully, by the fire,
wait for. As soon as they were alone together, however, she mounted, as
with the whizz and the red light of a rocket, from the form to the fact,
saying straight out, as she stood and looked at him: “What else, my
dear, what in the world else can we do?”
It was as if he then knew, on the spot, why he had been feeling, for
hours, as he had felt--as if he in fact knew, within the minute, things
he had not known even while she was panting, as from the effect of the
staircase, at the door of the room. He knew at the same time, none the
less, that she knew still more than he--in the sense, that is, of all
the signs and portents that might count for them; and his vision
of alternative--she could scarce say what to call them, solutions,
satisfactions--opened out, altogether, with this tangible truth of her
attitude by the chimney-place, the way she looked at him as through the
gained advantage of it; her right hand resting on the marble and her
left keeping her skirt from the fire while she held out a foot to dry.
He couldn’t have told what particular links and gaps had at the end of
a few minutes found themselves renewed and bridged; for he remembered
no occasion, in Rome, from which the picture could have been so exactly
copied. He remembered, that is, none of her coming to see him in the
rain while a muddy four-wheeler waited, and while, though having
left her waterproof downstairs, she was yet invested with the odd
eloquence--the positive picturesqueness, yes, given all the rest of the
matter--of a dull dress and a black Bowdlerised hat that seemed to make
a point of insisting on their time of life and their moral intention,
the hat’s and the frock’s own, as well as on the irony of indifference
to them practically playing in her so handsome rain-freshened face. The
sense of the past revived for him nevertheless as it had not yet done:
it made that other time somehow meet the future close, interlocking with
it, before his watching eyes, as in a long embrace of arms and lips,
and so handling and hustling the present that this poor quantity scarce
retained substance enough, scarce remained sufficiently THERE, to be
wounded or shocked.
What had happened, in short, was that Charlotte and he had, by a single
turn of the wrist of fate--“led up” to indeed, no doubt, by steps and
stages that conscious computation had missed--been placed face to face
in a freedom that partook, extraordinarily, of ideal perfection, since
the magic web had spun itself without their toil, almost without their
touch. Above all, on this occasion, once more, there sounded through
their safety, as an undertone, the very voice he had listened to on the
eve of his marriage with such another sort of unrest. Dimly, again and
again, from that period on, he had seemed to hear it tell him why it
kept recurring; but it phrased the large music now in a way that filled
the room. The reason was--into which he had lived, quite intimately, by
the end of a quarter-of-an-hour--that just this truth of their safety
offered it now a kind of unexampled receptacle, letting it spread and
spread, but at the same time elastically enclosing it, banking it in,
for softness, as with billows of eiderdown. On that morning; in the Park
there had been, however dissimulated, doubt and danger, whereas the tale
this afternoon was taken up with a highly emphasised confidence. The
emphasis, for their general comfort, was what Charlotte had come to
apply; inasmuch as, though it was not what she definitely began with, it
had soon irrepressibly shaped itself. It was the meaning of the question
she had put to him as soon as they were alone--even though indeed, as
from not quite understanding, he had not then directly replied; it was
the meaning of everything else, down to the conscious quaintness of
her ricketty “growler” and the conscious humility of her dress. It had
helped him a little, the question of these eccentricities, to let her
immediate appeal pass without an answer. He could ask her instead what
had become of her carriage and why, above all, she was not using it in
such weather.
“It’s just because of the weather,” she explained. “It’s my little idea.
It makes me feel as I used to--when I could do as I liked.”
                            XVIII
This came out so straight that he saw at once how much truth it
expressed; yet it was truth that still a little puzzled him. “But did
you ever like knocking about in such discomfort?”
“It seems to me now that I then liked everything. It’s the charm, at
any rate,” she said from her place at the fire, “of trying again the
old feelings. They come back--they come back. Everything,” she went on,
“comes back. Besides,” she wound up, “you know for yourself.”
He stood near her, his hands in his pockets; but not looking at her,
looking hard at the tea-table. “Ah, I haven’t your courage. Moreover,”
 he laughed, “it seems to me that, so far as that goes, I do live in
hansoms. But you must awfully want your tea,” he quickly added; “so let
me give you a good stiff cup.”
He busied himself with this care, and she sat down, on his pushing up
a low seat, where she had been standing; so that, while she talked, he
could bring her what she further desired. He moved to and fro before
her, he helped himself; and her visit, as the moments passed, had more
and more the effect of a signal communication that she had come, all
responsibly and deliberately, as on the clear show of the clock-face
of their situation, to make. The whole demonstration, none the less,
presented itself as taking place at a very high level of debate--in the
cool upper air of the finer discrimination, the deeper sincerity, the
larger philosophy. No matter what were the facts invoked and arrayed,
it was only a question, as yet, of their seeing their way together: to
which indeed, exactly, the present occasion appeared to have so much to
contribute. “It’s not that you haven’t my courage,” Charlotte said,
“but that you haven’t, I rather think, my imagination. Unless indeed
it should turn out after all,” she added, “that you haven’t even my
intelligence. However, I shall not be afraid of that till you’ve given
me more proof.” And she made again, but more clearly, her point of a
moment before. “You knew, besides, you knew to-day, I would come. And
if you knew that you know everything.” So she pursued, and if he didn’t
meanwhile, if he didn’t even at this, take her up, it might be that she
was so positively fitting him again with the fair face of temporising
kindness that he had given her, to keep her eyes on, at the other
important juncture, and the sense of which she might ever since have
been carrying about with her like a precious medal--not exactly blessed
by the Pope suspended round her neck. She had come back, however this
might be, to her immediate account of herself, and no mention of their
great previous passage was to rise to the lips of either. “Above all,”
 she said, “there has been the personal romance of it.”
“Of tea with me over the fire? Ah, so far as that goes I don’t think
even my intelligence fails me.”
“Oh, it’s further than that goes; and if I’ve had a better day than you
it’s perhaps, when I come to think of it, that I AM braver. You bore
yourself, you see. But I don’t. I don’t, I don’t,” she repeated.
“It’s precisely boring one’s self without relief,” he protested, “that
takes courage.”
“Passive then--not active. My romance is that, if you want to know, I’ve
been all day on the town. Literally on the town--isn’t that what they
call it? I know how it feels.” After which, as if breaking off, “And
you, have you never been out?” she asked.
He still stood there with his hands in his pockets. “What should I have
gone out for?”
“Oh, what should people in our case do anything for? But you’re
wonderful, all of YOU--you know how to live. We’re clumsy brutes, we
other’s, beside you--we must always be ‘doing’ something. However,”
 Charlotte pursued, “if you had gone out you might have missed the chance
of me--which I’m sure, though you won’t confess it, was what you didn’t
want; and might have missed, above all, the satisfaction that, look
blank about it as you will, I’ve come to congratulate you on. That’s
really what I can at last do. You can’t not know at least, on such a day
as this--you can’t not know,” she said, “where you are.” She waited as
for him either to grant that he knew or to pretend that he didn’t;
but he only drew a long deep breath which came out like a moan of
impatience. It brushed aside the question of where he was or what he
knew; it seemed to keep the ground clear for the question of his visitor
herself, that of Charlotte Verver exactly as she sat there. So, for some
moments, with their long look, they but treated the matter in silence;
with the effect indeed, by the end of the time, of having considerably
brought it on. This was sufficiently marked in what Charlotte next said.
“There it all is--extraordinary beyond words. It makes such a relation
for us as, I verily believe, was never before in the world thrust upon
two well-meaning creatures. Haven’t we therefore to take things as we
find them?” She put the question still more directly than that of
a moment before, but to this one, as well, he returned no immediate
answer. Noticing only that she had finished her tea, he relieved her
of her cup, carried it back to the table, asked her what more she would
have; and then, on her “Nothing, thanks,” returned to the fire and
restored a displaced log to position by a small but almost too effectual
kick. She had meanwhile got up again, and it was on her feet that she
repeated the words she had first frankly spoken. “What else can we do,
what in all the world else?”
He took them up, however, no more than at first. “Where then have you
been?” he asked as from mere interest in her adventure.
“Everywhere I could think of--except to see people. I didn’t
want people--I wanted too much to think. But I’ve been back at
intervals--three times; and then come away again. My cabman must think
me crazy--it’s very amusing; I shall owe him, when we come to settle,
more money than he has ever seen. I’ve been, my dear,” she went on, “to
the British Museum--which, you know, I always adore. And I’ve been to
the National Gallery, and to a dozen old booksellers’, coming across
treasures, and I’ve lunched, on some strange nastiness, at a cookshop
in Holborn. I wanted to go to the Tower, but it was too far--my old
man urged that; and I would have gone to the Zoo if it hadn’t been too
wet--which he also begged me to observe. But you wouldn’t believe--I
did put in St. Paul’s. Such days,” she wound up, “are expensive; for,
besides the cab, I’ve bought quantities of books.” She immediately
passed, at any rate, to another point: “I can’t help wondering when you
must last have laid eyes on them.” And then as it had apparently for her
companion an effect of abruptness: “Maggie, I mean, and the child. For I
suppose you know he’s with her.”
“Oh yes, I know he’s with her. I saw them this morning.”
“And did they then announce their programme?”
“She told me she was taking him, as usual, da nonno.”
“And for the whole day?”
He hesitated, but it was as if his attitude had slowly shifted.
“She didn’t say. And I didn’t ask.”
“Well,” she went on, “it can’t have been later than half-past ten--I
mean when you saw them. They had got to Eaton Square before eleven.
You know we don’t formally breakfast, Adam and I; we have tea in our
rooms--at least I have; but luncheon is early, and I saw my husband,
this morning, by twelve; he was showing the child a picture-book. Maggie
had been there with them, had left them settled together. Then she had
gone out--taking the carriage for something he had been intending but
that she offered to do instead.”
The Prince appeared to confess, at this, to his interest.
“Taking, you mean, YOUR carriage?”
“I don’t know which, and it doesn’t matter. It’s not a question,” she
smiled, “of a carriage the more or the less. It’s not a question even,
if you come to that, of a cab. It’s so beautiful,” she said, “that it’s
not a question of anything vulgar or horrid.” Which she gave him time to
agree about; and though he was silent it was, rather remarkably, as if
he fell in. “I went out--I wanted to. I had my idea. It seemed to me
