doubt, but of those few I made one--until that day when my enemy
arrived--but of that in its place, for now I mean to say a word about
this city that I love--that we all love, understanding how alone she
stood in seven years' chains, yet dauntless, dangerous, and defiant.

For upon New York fell the brunt of British wrath, and the judgment of
God fell, too, passing twice in fire that laid one-quarter of the town
in cinders. Nor was that enough, for His lightning smote the
powder-ship, the Morning Star, where she swung at her moorings off
from Burling Slip, and the very sky seemed falling in the thunder that
shook the shoreward houses into ruins.

I think that, take it all in all, New York met and withstood every
separate horror that war can bring, save actual assault and sack.
Greater hardships fell to the lot of no other city in America, for we
lost more than a half of our population, more than a fourth of the city
by the two great fires. Want, with the rich, meant famine for the poor
and sad privation for the well-to-do; smallpox and typhus swept us;
commerce by water died, and slowly our loneliness became a maddening
isolation, when his Excellency flung out his blue dragoons to the very
edges of the river there at Harlem Bridge.

I often think it strange that New York town remained so loyal to the
cause, for loyalty to the king was inherent among the better classes.
Many had vast estates, farms, acres on acres of game parks, and lived
like the landed gentry of old England. Yet, save for the DeLanceys, the
Crugers, their kinsmen, the Fannings, kin to the Tryons, Frederick
Rhinelander, the Waltons, and others too tedious to mention, the
gentlemen who had the most to lose through friendliness to the cause of
liberty, chose to espouse that cause.

As for the British residents there, they remained in blameless loyalty
to their King, and I, for one, have never said one word to cast a doubt
upon the purity of their sentiments.

But with all this, knowing what must come, no other city in America so
gaily set forth upon the road to ruin as did patriotic New York. And
from that dreadful hour when, through the cannon smoke on Brooklyn
Heights, she beheld the ghastly face of ruin leering at her across the
foggy water--from that heart-breaking hour when the British drums
rolled from the east, and the tall war-ships covered themselves with
smoke, and the last flag flying was hacked from the halyards, and the
tramp of the grenadiers awoke the silence of Broadway, she never
faltered in her allegiance, never doubted, never failed throughout
those seven years the while she lay beneath the British heel, a
rattlesnake, stunned only, but deadly still while the last spark of
life remained.

Were I to tell a tithe of all I know of what took place during the
great siege, the incidents might shame the wildest fancies of
romance--how intrigue swayed with intrigue there, struggling hilt to
hilt; how plot and plot were thwarted by the counterplot; how all trust
in man was destroyed in that dark year that Arnold died, and a fiend
took his fair shape to scandalize two hemispheres!

Yet I am living witness of those years. I heard and saw much that I
shall not now revive, as where the victims of a pest lie buried it is
not wise to dig, lest the unseen be loosened once again. Yet something
it may be well to record of that time--the curtain lifted for a
glimpse, then dropped in silence--to teach our children that the men
who stood against their King stood with hope of no reward save liberty,
but faced the tempest that they had unchained with souls self-shriven
and each heart washed free of selfishness.

So if I speak of prisons where our thousands died--hind and gentleman
piled thick as shad in the fly market--sick and well and wounded all
together--it shall not be at length, only a scene or two that sticks in
memory.

Once, in the suffocating heat of mid-July, I saw a prison where every
narrow window was filled with human heads, face above face, seeking a
portion of the external air. And from that day, for many, many weeks
the dead-carts took the corpses to the outer ditches, passing steadily
from dawn to midnight.

All day, all night, they died around us in ship and prison, some from
suffocation, some from starvation, others delivered by prison fevers
which rotted them so slowly that I think even death shrank back
reluctant to touch them with his icy finger.

So piteous their plight, these crowded thousands, crushed in putrid
masses, clinging to the filthy prison bars, that they aroused
compassion in that strange and ancient guild that once had claimed the
Magdalen in its sad sisterhood, and these aided them with food, year
after year, until deliverance.

They had no other food, no water except from polluted drains, no fire
in winter, no barriers to the blackest cold that ever seared the city
from the times that man remembers. I say they had no other food and no
fire to cook the offal flung to them. That is not all true, because we
did our best, being permitted to furnish what we had--we and the
strange sisterhood--yet they were thousands upon thousands, and we were
few.

It is best that I say no more, for that proud England's sake from whose
loins we sprang--it is best that I speak not of Captain Cunningham the
Provost, nor of his deputy, O'Keefe, nor of Sproat and Loring. There
was butchers' work in my own North, and I shall not shrink from the
telling; there was massacre, and scalps taken from children too small
to lisp their prayers for mercy; that was devils' work, and may be
told. But Cunningham and those who served him were alone in their awful
trade; cruelty unspeakable and frenzied vice are terms which fall
impotent to measure the ghastly depths of an infamy in which they
crawled and squirmed, battening like maggots on hell's own pollution.

Long since, I think, we have clasped hands with England over Cherry
Valley and Wyoming, forgiving her the loosened fury of her red allies
and her Butlers and McDonalds. The scar remains, but is remembered only
as a glory.

How shall we take old England's wrinkled hand, stretched out above the
spots that mark the prisons of New York?--above the twelve thousand
unnamed graves of those who died for lack of air and water aboard the
Jersey? God knows; and yet all things are possible with Him--even this
miracle which I shall never live to see.

Without malice, without prejudice, judging only as one whose judgment
errs, I leave this darkened path for a free road in the open, and so
shall strive to tell as simply and sincerely as I may what only befell
myself and those with whom I had been long associated. And if the
pleasures that I now recall seem tinged with bitter, and if the gaiety
was but a phase of that greater prison fever that burnt us all in the
beleaguered city, still there was much to live for in those times
through which I, among many, passed; and by God's mercy, not my own
endeavor, passed safely, soul and body.




THE RECKONING




CHAPTER I

THE SPY


Having finished my duties in connection with Sir Peter's private estate
and his voluminous correspondence--and the door of my chamber being
doubly locked and bolted--I made free to attend to certain secret
correspondence of my own, which for four years now had continued,
without discovery, between the Military Intelligence Department of the
Continental army and myself through the medium of one John Ennis, the
tobacconist at the Sign of the Silver Box in Hanover Square.

Made confident by long immunity from the slightest shadow of suspicion,
apprehension of danger seldom troubled my sense of security. It did
sometimes, as when the awful treason at West Point became known to me;
and for weeks as I lay abed I thought to hear in every footfall on
Broadway the measured tread of a patrol come to take me. Yet the
traitor continued in New York without sinister consequence to me; and,
though my nights were none the pleasanter during that sad week which
ended in the execution of the British adjutant-general, no harm came to
me. Habit is the great sedative; at times, penning my spy's journal, I
smiled to remember how it was with me when first I came to New York in
1777, four years since, a country lad of nineteen, fresh from the
frontier, where all my life had been spent among the Oneidas and the
few neighbors nearest Broadalbin Bush--a raw youth, frightened but
resolved; and how I lived through those first months of mental terror,
now appalled by the fate of our Captain Nathan Hale, now burning with a
high purpose and buoyed up by pride that his Excellency should have
found in me a fit instrument for his designs.

I have never known whether or not I am what men call brave, for I
understand fear and I turn cold at thought of death. Often I have sat
alone in the house watching the sober folk along Broadway and Wall
Street, knowing all the while that these same good people might
to-morrow all go flocking to Catiemuts Hill near the Fresh Water, or to
that open space in the "Fields" between the jail and the Almshouse, to
see me on the gallows. If such thoughts do not assail the brave--if
restless nights, wakeful dawns, dull days are not their portion--I must
own that all these were mine, not often, perhaps, but too frequent to
flatter self-esteem. And, fight them as I might, it was useless; for
such moments came without warning--often when I had been merry with
friends, at times when, lulled by long-continued security, I had nigh
forgotten through eventless months that there was a war and that I had
become a New Yorker only because of war.

It was harder now, in one sense; four years as secretary to my kinsman,
Sir Peter Coleville, had admitted me to those social intimacies so
necessary to my secret office; and, alas! friendships had been made and
ties formed not only in the line of duty, but from impulse and out of
pure affection.

I had never found it was required of me to pose as a rabid loyalist,
and so did not, being known as disinterested and indifferent, and
perhaps for that reason not suspected. My friends were from necessity
among the best among the loyalists--from choice, too, for I liked them
for their own sakes, and it was against their cause I worked, not
against them.

It went hard with me to use them as I did--I so loathing perfidy in
others; yet if it be perfidy to continue in duty as I understood duty,
then I practised it, and at times could scarce tolerate myself, which
was a weakness, because in my own heart I knew that his Excellency could
set no man a task unworthy of his manhood. Yet it were pleasanter had my
duties thrown me with the army, or with Colonel Willett in my native
north, whence, at his request, I had come to live a life of physical
sloth and mental intrigue under the British cannon of New York--here in
the household of Sir Peter Coleville, his secretary, his friend, his
welcomed guest, the intimate of his family, his friends!--that was the
hardest of all; and though for months at a time I managed to forget it,
the recurring thought of what I was, and what they believed me to be,
stabbed me at intervals so I could scarce endure it.

Nothing, not even the belief that God was with us, I fear, could have
held me there when the stress of such emotion left me staring at the
darkness in my restless bed--only blind faith in his Excellency that he
would do no man this shame, if shame it was--that he knew as well as I
that the land's salvation was not to be secured through the barter of
men's honor and the death of souls.

                     *      *      *      *      *

The door being secured, as I say, and the heat of that July day abating
nothing, though the sun hung low over Staten Island, I opened my
windows, removed coat and waistcoat, and, drawing a table to the
window, prepared to write up that portion of my daily journal neglected
lately, and which, when convenient opportunity offered, was to find its
way into the hands of Colonel Marinus Willett in Albany. Before I wrote
I turned back a leaf or two so that I might correct my report in the
light of later events; and I read rapidly:

    July 12, 1781.--Nothing remarkable. Very warm weather, and a bad
    odor from the markets. There is some talk in the city of rebuilding
    the burned district. Two new cannon have been mounted in the
    southwest bastion of the fort (George). I shall report caliber and
    particulars later.

    July 13th.--This day Sir Peter left to look over the lands in
    Westchester which he is, I believe, prepared to purchase from Mr.
    Rutgers. The soldiers are very idle; a dozen of 'em caught drawing a
    seine in the Collect, and sent to the guard-house--a dirty trick for
    anybody but Hessians, who are accustomed to fish in that manner.
    The cannon in the southwest bastion are twelve-pounders and
    old--trunnions rusted, carriages rotten. It seems they are trophies
    taken from the Carolina militia.

    July 14th.--A ship arrived in the lower bay. Details later. In
    Nassau Street, about noon, a tall fellow, clothed like a drover,
    muttered a word or two as I passed, and I had gone on ere it struck
    me that he had meant his words for my ear. To find him I turned
    leisurely, retracing my steps as though I had forgotten something,
    and as I brushed him again, he muttered, "Thendara; tell me where it
    is."

    At that moment Captain Enderley of the Fifty-fourth Foot greeted me,
    linking his arm in mine, and I had no excuse to avoid him. More of
    this to-night, when, if the message was truly for me, I shall
    doubtless be watched and followed when I leave the house for a
    stroll.

    July 15th.--Last night there was no chance, Enderley and Captain
    O'Neil coming to take me to the theater, where the Thirty-eighth
    Regiment gave a frolic and a play--the latter most indifferent, save
    for Mrs. Barry's acting. I saw my drover in John Street, too, but
    could not speak to him.

    This morning, however, I met the drover, and he was drunk, or made
    most marvelous pretense--a great six-foot, blue-eyed lout in smock
    and boots, reeking of Bull's Head gin, his drover's whip a-trail in
    the dust, and he a-swaggering down Nassau Street, gawking at the
    shop-windows and whistling Roslyn Castle with prodigious gusto.

    I made it convenient to pause before Berry and Roger's show of
    jewels, and he stopped, too, swaying there gravely, balanced now on
    hobnail heel, now on toe. Presently he ceased his whistling of
    Roslyn Castle, and in a low but perfectly distinct voice he said,
    "Where is the town of Thendara, Mr. Renault?" Without looking at
    him or even turning my head, I answered, "Why do you ask me?"

    He stared stupidly at the show-window. "Pro patria et gloria," he
    replied under his breath; "why do you serve the land?"

    "Pro gloria," I muttered. "Give your message; hasten."

    He scratched his curly head, staring at the gewgaws. "It is this,"
    he said coolly; "find out if there be a lost town in the north
    called Thendara, or if the name be used to mask the name of Fort
    Niagara. When you have learned all that is possible, walk some
    evening up Broadway and out along Great George Street. We will
    follow."

    "Who else besides yourself?"

    "A brother drover--of men," he said slyly; "a little wrinkled
    fellow, withered to the bone, wide-eared, mild-eyed. He is my
    running mate, sir, and we run sometimes, now this way, now that,
    but always at your service, Mr. Renault."

    "Are you drunk, or is it a pretense?" I demanded.

    "Not too drunk," he replied, with elaborate emphasis. "But once
    this matter of Thendara is settled I hope to be so drunk that no
    friend of mine need be ashamed of me. Good day, sir. God save our
    country!"

    "Have a care," I motioned, turning away. And so I left him to enter
    the shop and purchase a trinket, thinking it prudent in case any
    passer-by had observed how long I lingered.

    July 16th.--Sir Peter not yet returned from Mr. Rutgers. The
    name "Thendara" ringing in my ears like a dull bell all night, and
    I awake, lying there a-thinking. Somewhere, in some long-forgotten
    year, I had heard a whispering echo of that name--or so it seemed
    to me--and, musing, I thought to savor a breeze from the pines, and
    hear water flowing, unseen, far in the forest silence.

    Thendara! Thendara!

    The name is not Iroquois--yet it may be, too--a soft, gracious
    trisyllable stolen from the Lenape. Lord! how the name intrigues
    me, sweetly sonorous, throbbing in my ears--Thendara, Thendara--and
    always I hear the pine breeze high blowing and the flowing
    undertone of waters.

    July 17th.--Nothing extraordinary. The Hon. Elsin Grey arrived
    from Halifax by the Swan packet to visit Sir Peter's family, she
    being cousin twice removed to Lady Coleville. I have not seen her;
    she keeps her chamber with the migraine. As she comes from her
    kinsman, General Sir Frederick Haldimand, Governor of Canada, she
    may be useful, being lately untethered from the convent and no more
    than seventeen or eighteen, and vain, no doubt, of her beauty, and
    so, I conclude, prone to babble if flattered.

Here my journal ended; I dipped my quill into the inkhorn and wrote
slowly:

    July 18th.--Nothing remarkable. The Hon. Elsin Grey still keeps
    her chamber. The heat in New York is very great. I am, without
    suspicion, sending money through Ennis to our prisoners aboard the
    ships in the Wallabout, and next week shall have more for the
    unfortunates in the Provost, the prisons, jails, and the
    sugar-house--my salary being due on the 20th inst. I have ever in
    mind a plan for a general jail delivery the instant his Excellency
    assaults by land and sea, but at present it is utterly hopeless, Mr.
    Cunningham executing the laws with terrible rigor, and double guards
    patrolling the common. As for those wretched patriots aboard the
    "Hell" and on those hulks--the Falconer, Good Hope, and
    Scorpion--which lie southeast of the Jersey, there can be no
    delivery save through compassion of that Dark Jailer who one day
    shall free us all.

I dropped my pen, listening intently. Close to my door the garret
stairs creaked, ever so lightly; and I bent forward across the table,
gathering my papers, on which the ink lay still wet.

Listening, I heard nothing more. Perhaps the great heat was warping the
new stairway, which led past my door, up through the attic, and out to
the railed cupola upon the roof.

I glanced at my journal; there was nothing more to add, and so, sanding
the sheets, I laid them back behind the swinging panel which I myself
had fashioned so cunningly that none might suspect a cupboard in the
simple wainscot. Then to wash hands and face in fresh water, and put on
my coat without the waistcoat, prepared to take the air on the cupola,
where it should soon blow cool from the bay.

Slipping lock and bolt, I paused, hand on the knob, to glance back
around the room--a habit formed of caution. Then, satisfied, I opened
the door and left it standing wide so that the room might air. As I
ascended the attic stairs a little fresh puff of wind cooled me.
Doubtless a servant had opened the flaps to the cupola, for they were
laid back; and as I mounted, I could see a square of blue sky overhead.

I had taken my pipe, and paused on the stairs to light it; then,
pouching flint and tinder-box, I emerged upon the roof, to find myself
face to face with a young girl I had never before seen--the Hon. Miss
Grey, no doubt--and very dainty in her powder and one coquette patch
that emphasized the slow color tinting a skin of snow.

My bow, I think, covered my vexation--I being all unpowdered and
wearing no waistcoat over an unfrilled shirt, for I do love fine
clothes when circumstances require; but the lady was none the less
punctilious, and as I made to toss my pipe into the street below, she
forbade me with perfect courtesy and a smile that only accented her
youthful self-possession.

"Mr. Renault need neither retire nor sacrifice his pleasure," she said.
"I have missed Sir Frederick's pipe-smoke dreadfully--so much, indeed,
that I had even thought to try Sir Peter's snuff to soothe me."

"Shall I fetch it, madam?" I asked instantly; but she raised a small
hand in laughing horror.

"Snuff and picquet I am preparing for--a youth of folly--an old age of
snuff and cards, you know. At present folly suffices, thank you."

And as I stood smiling before her, she said: "Pray you be seated, sir,
if you so desire. There should be sufficient air for two in this
half-charred furnace which you call New York. Tell me, Mr. Renault, are
the winters here also extreme in cold?"

"Sometimes," I said. "Last winter the bay was frozen to Staten Island
so that the artillery crossed on the ice from the city."

She turned her head, looking out over the water, which was now all a
golden sparkle under the westering sun. Then her eyes dropped to the
