A care-worn smile crept into his eyes. "A test for nerves, you think,
Mr. Gilland? I agree with you. Nobody fears what anybody can see."
There came the slightest movement beside me.
"Are you trembling?" I asked, turning.
"I was writing," she replied, steadily. "Did my elbow touch you?"
"By-the-way," said Professor Farrago, "I fear I forgot to congratulate
you upon your choice of a stenographer, Mr. Gilland."
A rosy light stole over her pale face.
"Am I to record that too?" she asked, raising her blue eyes.
"Certainly," he replied, gravely.
"But, professor," I began, a prey to increasing excitement, "do you
propose to attempt the capture of one of these animals?"
"That is what the cage is for," he said. "I supposed you had guessed
that."
"I had," murmured the pretty stenographer.
"I do not doubt it," said Professor Farrago, gravely.
"What are the chemicals for--and the tank and hose attachment?"
"Think, Mr. Gilland."
"I can't; I'm almost stunned by what you tell me."
He laughed. "The rosium oxide and salts of strontium are to be dumped
into the tank together. They'll effervesce, of course."
"Of course," I muttered.
"And I can throw a rose-colored spray over any object by the hose
attachment, can't I?"
"Yes."
"Well, I tried it on a transparent jelly-fish and it became perfectly
visible and of a beautiful rose-color: and I tried it on rock-crystal,
and on glass, and on pure gelatine, and all became suffused with a
delicate pink glow, which lasted for hours or minutes according to the
substance.... Now you understand, don't you?"
"Yes; you want to see what sort of creature you have to deal with."
"Exactly; so when I've trapped it I am going to spray it." He turned
half humorously towards the stenographer: "I fancy you understood long
before Mr. Gilland did."
"I don't think so," she said, with a sidelong lifting of the heavy
lashes; and I caught the color of her eyes for a second.
"You see how Miss Barrison spares your feelings," observed Professor
Farrago, dryly. "She owes you little gratitude for bringing her here,
yet she proves a generous victim."
"Oh, I am very grateful for this rarest of chances!" she said, shyly.
"To be among the first in the world to discover such wonders ought to
make me very grateful to the man who gave me the opportunity."
"Do you mean Mr. Gilland?" asked the professor, laughing.
I had never before seen Professor Farrago laugh such a care-free
laugh; I had never suspected him of harboring even an embryo of the
social graces. Dry as dust, sapless as steel, precise as the magnetic
needle, he had hitherto been to me the mummified embodiment of science
militant. Now, in the guise of a perfectly human and genial old
gentleman, I scarcely recognized my superior of the Bronx Park
society. And as a woman-hater he was a miserable failure.
"Heavens," I thought to myself, "am I becoming jealous of my revered
professor's social success with a stray stenographer?" I felt mean,
and I probably looked it, and I was glad that telepathy did not permit
Miss Barrison to record my secret and unworthy ruminations.
The professor was saying: "These transparent creatures break off
berries and fruits and branches; I have seen a flower, too, plucked
from its stem by invisible digits and borne swiftly through the
forest--only the flower visible, apparently speeding through the air
and out of sight among the thickets.
"I have found the footprints that I described to you, usually on the
edge of a stream or in the soft loam along some forest lake or lost
lagoon.
"Again and again I have been conscious in the forest that unseen eyes
were fixed on me, that unseen shapes were following me. Never but that
one time did these invisible creatures close in around me and venture
to touch me.
"They may be weak; their structure may be frail, and they may be
incapable of violence or harm, but the depth of the footprints
indicates a weight of at least one hundred and thirty pounds, and it
certainly requires some muscular strength to break off a branch of
wild guavas."
He bent his noble head, thoughtfully regarding the design on his
slippers.
"What was the rifle for?" I asked.
"Defence, not aggression," he said, simply.
"And the camera?"
"A camera record is necessary in these days of bad artists."
I hesitated, glancing at Miss Barrison. She was still writing, her
pretty head bent over the pad in her lap.
"And the clothing?" I asked, carelessly.
"Did you get it?" he demanded.
"Of course--" I glanced at Miss Barrison. "There's no use writing down
everything, is there?"
"Everything must be recorded," said Professor Farrago, inflexibly.
"What clothing did you buy?"
"I forgot the gown," I said, getting red about the ears.
"Forgot the gown!" he repeated.
"Yes--one kind of gown--the day kind. I--I got the other kind."
He was annoyed; so was I. After a moment he got up, and crossing to
the log cabin, opened one of the boxes of apparel.
"Is it what you wanted?" I inquired.
"Y-es, I presume so," he replied, visibly perplexed.
"It's the best to be had," said I.
"That's quite right," he said, musingly. "We use only the best of
everything at Bronx Park. It is traditional with us, you know."
Curiosity pushed me. "Well, what on earth is it for?" I broke out.
He looked at me gravely over the tops of his spectacles--a striking
and inspiring figure in his yellow flannel dressing-gown and
slippers.
"I shall tell you some day--perhaps," he said, mildly. "Good-night,
Miss Barrison; good-night, Mr. Gilland. You will find extra blankets
on your bunk--"
"What!" I cried.
"Bunks," he said, and shut the door.
XVI
"There is something weird about this whole proceeding," I observed to
the pretty stenographer next morning.
"These pies will be weird if you don't stop talking to me," she said,
opening the doors of Professor Farrago's portable camping-oven and
peeping in at the fragrant pastry.
The professor had gone off somewhere into the woods early that
morning. As he was not in the habit of talking to himself, the
services of Miss Barrison were not required. Before he started,
however, he came to her with a request for a dozen pies, the
construction of which he asked if she understood. She had been to
cooking-school in more prosperous days, and she mentioned it; so at
his earnest solicitation she undertook to bake for him twelve
apple-pies; and she was now attempting it, assisted by advice from me.
"Are they burned?" I asked, sniffing the air.
"No, they are not burned, Mr. Gilland, but my finger is," she
retorted, stepping back to examine the damage.
I offered sympathy and witch-hazel, but she would have none of my
offerings, and presently returned to her pies.
"We can't eat all that pastry," I protested.
"Professor Farrago said they were not for us to eat," she said,
dusting each pie with powdered sugar.
"Well, what are they for? The dog? Or are they simply objets d'art to
adorn the shanty--"
"You annoy me," she said.
"The pies annoy me; won't you tell me what they're for?"
"I have a pretty fair idea what they're for," she observed, tossing
her head. "Haven't you?"
"No. What?"
"These pies are for bait."
"To bait hooks with?" I exclaimed.
"Hooks! No, you silly man. They're for baiting the cage. He means to
trap these transparent creatures in a cage baited with pie."
She laughed scornfully; inserted the burned tip of her finger in her
mouth and stood looking at me defiantly like a flushed and bright-eyed
school-girl.
"You think you're teasing me," she said; "but you do not realize what
a singularly slow-minded young man you are."
I stopped laughing. "How did you come to the conclusion that pies were
to be used for such a purpose?" I asked.
"I deduce," she observed, with an airy wave of her disengaged hand.
"Your deductions are weird--like everything else in this vicinity.
Pies to catch invisible monsters? Pooh!"
"You're not particularly complimentary, are you?" she said.
"Not particularly; but I could be, with you for my inspiration. I
could even be enthusiastic--"
"About my pies?"
"No--about your eyes."
"You are very frivolous--for a scientist," she said, scornfully;
"please subdue your enthusiasm and bring me some wood. This fire is
almost out."
When I had brought the wood, she presented me with a pail of hot water
and pointed at the dishes on the breakfast-table.
"Never!" I cried, revolted.
"Then I suppose I must do them--"
She looked pensively at her scorched finger-tip, and, pursing up her
red lips, blew a gentle breath to cool it.
"I'll do the dishes," I said.
Splashing and slushing the cups and saucers about in the hot water, I
reflected upon the events of the last few days. The dog, stupefied by
unwonted abundance of food, lay in the sunshine, sleeping the sleep of
repletion; the pretty stenographer, all rosy from her culinary
exertions, was removing the pies and setting them in neat rows to
cool.
"There," she said, with a sigh; "now I will dry the dishes for you....
You didn't mention the fact, when you engaged me, that I was also
expected to do general housework."
"I didn't engage you," I said, maliciously; "you engaged me, you
know."
She regarded me disdainfully, nose uptilted.
"How thoroughly disagreeable you can be!" she said. "Dry your own
dishes. I'm going for a stroll."
"May I join--"
"You may not! I shall go so far that you cannot possibly discover
me."
I watched her forestward progress; she sauntered for about thirty
yards along the lake and presently sat down in plain sight under a
huge live-oak.
A few moments later I had completed my task as general bottle-washer,
and I cast about for something to occupy me.
First I approached and politely caressed the satiated dog. He woke up,
regarded me with dully meditative eyes, yawned, and went to sleep
again. Never a flop of tail to indicate gratitude for blandishments,
never the faintest symptom of canine appreciation.
Chilled by my reception, I moused about for a while, poking into boxes
and bundles; then raised my head and inspected the landscape. Through
the vista of trees the pink shirt-waist of the pretty stenographer
glimmered like a rose blooming in the wilderness.
From whatever point I viewed the prospect that pink spot seemed to
intrude; I turned my back and examined the jungle, but there it was
repeated in a hundred pink blossoms among the massed thickets; I
looked up into the tree-tops, where pink mosses spotted the palms; I
looked out over the lake, and I saw it in my mind's eye pinker than
ever. It was certainly a case of pink-eye.
"I'll go for a stroll, too; it's a free country," I muttered.
After I had strolled in a complete circle I found myself within three
feet of a pink shirt-waist.
"I beg your pardon," I said; "I had no inten--"
"I thought you were never coming," she said, amiably.
"How is your finger?" I asked.
She held it up. I took it gingerly; it was smooth and faintly rosy at
the tip.
"Does it hurt?" I inquired.
"Dreadfully. Your hands feel so cool--"
After a silence she said, "Thank you, that has cooled the burning."
"I am determined," said I, "to expel the fire from your finger if it
takes hours and hours." And I seated myself with that intention.
For a while she talked, making innocent observations concerning the
tropical foliage surrounding us. Then silence crept in between us,
accentuated by the brooding stillness of the forest.
"I am afraid your hands are growing tired," she said, considerately.
I denied it.
Through the vista of palms we could see the lake, blue as a violet,
sparkling with silvery sunshine. In the intense quiet the splash of
leaping mullet sounded distinctly.
Once a tall crane stalked into view among the sedges; once an unseen
alligator shook the silence with his deep, hollow roaring. Then the
stillness of the wilderness grew more intense.
We had been sitting there for a long while without exchanging a word,
dreamily watching the ripple of the azure water, when all at once
there came a scurrying patter of feet through the forest, and, looking
up, I beheld the hound-dog, tail between his legs, bearing down on us
at lightning speed. I rose instantly.
"What is the matter with the dog?" cried the pretty stenographer. "Is
he going mad, Mr. Gilland?"
"Something has scared him," I exclaimed, as the dog, eyes like lighted
candles, rushed frantically between my legs and buried his head in
Miss Barrison's lap.
"Poor doggy!" she said, smoothing the collapsed pup; "poor, p-oor
little beast! Did anything scare him? Tell aunty all about it."
When a dog flees without yelping he's a badly frightened creature. I
instinctively started back towards the camp whence the beast had fled,
and before I had taken a dozen steps Miss Barrison was beside me,
carrying the dog in her arms.
"I've an idea," she said, under her breath.
"What?" I asked, keeping my eyes on the camp.
"It's this: I'll wager that we find those pies gone!"
"Pies gone?" I repeated, perplexed; "what makes you think--"
"They are gone!" she exclaimed. "Look!"
I gaped stupidly at the rough pine table where the pies had stood in
three neat rows of four each. And then, in a moment, the purport of
this robbery flashed upon my senses.
"The transparent creatures!" I gasped.
"Hush!" she whispered, clinging to the trembling dog in her arms.
I listened. I could hear nothing, see nothing, yet slowly I became
convinced of the presence of something unseen--something in the forest
close by, watching us out of invisible eyes.
A chill, settling along my spine, crept upward to my scalp, until
every separate hair wiggled to the roots. Miss Barrison was pale, but
perfectly calm and self-possessed.
"Let us go in-doors," I said, as steadily as I could.
"Very well," she replied.
I held the door open; she entered with the dog; I followed, closing
and barring the door, and then took my station at the window, rifle in
hand.
There was not a sound in the forest. Miss Barrison laid the dog on the
floor and quietly picked up her pad and pencil. Presently she was deep
in a report of the phenomena, her pencil flying, leaf after leaf from
the pad fluttering to the floor.
Nor did I at the window change my position of scared alertness, until
I was aware of her hand gently touching my elbow to attract my
attention, and her soft voice at my ear--
"You don't suppose by any chance that the dog ate those pies?"
I collected my tumultuous thoughts and turned to stare at the dog.
"Twelve pies, twelve inches each in diameter," she reflected,
musingly. "One dog, twenty inches in diameter. How many times will the
pies go into the dog? Let me see." She made a few figures on her pad,
thought awhile, produced a tape-measure from her pocket, and, kneeling
down, measured the dog.
"No," she said, looking up at me, "he couldn't contain them."
Inspired by her coolness and perfect composure, I set the rifle in the
corner and opened the door. Sunlight fell in bars through the quiet
woods; nothing stirred on land or water save the great, yellow-striped
butterflies that fluttered and soared and floated above the flowering
thickets bordering the jungle.
The heat became intense; Miss Barrison went to her room to change her
gown for a lighter one; I sat down under a live-oak, eyes and ears
strained for any sign of our invisible neighbors.
When she emerged in the lightest and filmiest of summer gowns, she
brought the camera with her; and for a while we took pictures of each
other, until we had used up all but one film.
Desiring to possess a picture of Miss Barrison and myself seated
together, I tied a string to the shutter-lever and attached the other
end of the string to the dog, who had resumed his interrupted
slumbers. At my whistle he jumped up nervously, snapping the lever,
and the picture was taken.
With such innocent and harmless pastime we whiled away the afternoon.
She made twelve more apple-pies. I mounted guard over them. And we
were just beginning to feel a trifle uneasy about Professor Farrago,
when he appeared, tramping sturdily through the forest, green umbrella
and butterfly-net under one arm, shot-gun and cyanide-jar under the
other, and his breast all criss-crossed with straps, from which
dangled field-glasses, collecting-boxes, and botanizing-tins--an
inspiring figure indeed--the embodied symbol of science indomitable,
triumphant!
We hailed him with three guilty cheers; the dog woke up with a
perfunctory bark--the first sound I had heard from him since he yelped
his disapproval of me on the lagoon.
Miss Barrison produced three bowls full of boiling water and dropped
three pellets of concentrated soup-meat into them, while I prepared
coffee. And in a few moments our simple dinner was ready--the red
ants had been dusted from the biscuits, the spiders chased off the
baked beans, the scorpions shaken from the napkins, and we sat down at
the rough, improvised table under the palms.
The professor gave us a brief but modest account of his short tour of
exploration. He had brought back a new species of orchid, several
undescribed beetles, and a pocketful of coontie seed. He appeared,
however, to be tired and singularly depressed, and presently we
learned why.
It seemed that he had gone straight to that section of the forest
where he had hitherto always found signs of the transparent and
invisible creatures which he had determined to capture, and he had not
found a single trace of them.
"It alarms me," he said, gravely. "If they have deserted this region,
it might take a lifetime to locate them again in this wilderness."
Then, very quietly, sinking her voice instinctively, as though the
unseen might be at our very elbows listening, Miss Barrison recounted
the curious adventure which had befallen the dog and the first batch
of apple-pies.
With visible and increasing excitement the professor listened until
the very end. Then he struck the table with clinched fist--a
resounding blow which set the concentrated soup dancing in the bowls
and scattered the biscuits and the industrious red ants in every
direction.
"Eureka!" he whispered. "Miss Barrison, your deduction was not only
perfectly reasonable, but brilliant. You are right; the pies are for
that very purpose. I conceived the idea when I first came here. Again
and again the pies that my guide made out of dried apples disappeared
in a most astonishing and mysterious manner when left to cool. At
length I determined to watch them every second; and did so, with the
result that late one afternoon I was amazed to see a pie slowly rise
from the table and move swiftly away through the air about four feet
above the ground, finally disappearing into a tangle of jasmine and
grape-vine.
"The apparently automatic flight of that pie solved the problem; these
transparent creatures cannot resist that delicacy. Therefore I decided
to bait the cage for them this very night--Look! What's the matter
with that dog?"
The dog suddenly bounded into the air, alighted on all fours, ears,
eyes, and muzzle concentrated on a point directly behind us.
"Good gracious! The pies!" faltered Miss Barrison, half rising from
her seat; but the dog rushed madly into her skirts, scrambling for
protection, and she fell back almost into my arms.
Clasping her tightly, I looked over my shoulder; the last pie was
snatched from the table before my eyes and I saw it borne swiftly away
by something unseen, straight into the deepening shadows of the
forest.
The professor was singularly calm, even slightly ironical, as he
turned to me, saying:
"Perhaps if you relinquish Miss Barrison she may be able to free
herself from that dog."
I did so immediately, and she deposited the cowering dog in my arms.
Her face had suddenly become pink.
I passed the dog on to Professor Farrago, dumping it viciously into
his lap--a proceeding which struck me as resembling a pastime of
extreme youth known as "button, button, who's got the button?"
The professor examined the animal gravely, feeling its pulse, counting
its respirations, and finally inserting a tentative finger in an
attempt to examine its tongue. The dog bit him.
"Ouch! It's a clear case of fright," he said, gravely. "I wanted a dog
to aid me in trailing these remarkable creatures, but I think this dog
of yours is useless, Gilland."
"It's given us warning of the creatures' presence twice already," I
argued.
"Poor little thing," said Miss Barrison, softly; "I don't know why,
but I love that dog.... He has eyes like yours, Mr. Gilland--"
Exasperated, I rose from the table. "He's got eyes like holes burned
in a blanket!" I said. "And if ever a flicker of intelligence lighted
them I have failed to observe it."
The professor regarded me dreamily. "We ought to have more pies," he
observed. "Perhaps if you carried the oven into the shanty--"
"Certainly," said Miss Barrison; "we can lock the door while I make
twelve more pies."
I carried the portable camping-oven into the cabin, connected the
patent asbestos chimney-pipes, and lighted the fire. And in a few
minutes Miss Barrison, sleeves rolled up and pink apron pinned under
her chin, was busily engaged in rolling pie-crust, while Professor
Farrago measured out spices and set the dried apples to soak.
The swift Southern twilight had already veiled the forest as I
stepped out of the cabin to smoke a cigar and promenade a bit and
cogitate. A last trace of color lingering in the west faded out as I
looked; the gray glimmer deepened into darkness, through which the
white lake vapors floated in thin, wavering strata across the water.
For a while the frog's symphony dominated all other sounds, then
lagoon and forest and cypress branch awoke; and through the steadily
sustained tumult of woodland voices I could hear the dry bark of the
fox-squirrel, the whistle of the raccoon, ducks softly quacking or
whimpering as they prepared for sleep among the reeds, the soft
booming of bitterns, the clattering gossip of the heronry, the
Southern whippoorwill's incessant call.
At regular intervals the howling note of a lone heron echoed the
strident screech of a crimson-crested crane; the horned owl's savage
hunting-cry haunted the night, now near, now floating from infinite
distances.
And after a while I became aware of a nearer sound, low-pitched but
ceaseless--the hum of thousands of lesser living creatures blending to
