inland, a cross-country going of not less than twenty miles, a
shooting-box, and excellent golf-links.  In the winter it was cozy; in
the summer it was ideal.
I was intimately acquainted with the club's M. F. H., Teddy Hamilton.
We had done the Paris-Berlin run in my racing-car the summer before.
If I hadn't known him so well, I might still have been in durance vile,
next door to jail, or securely inside.  I had frequently dined with him
at the club during the summer, and he had offered to put me up; but as
I knew no one intimately but himself, I explained the futility of such
action.  Besides, my horse wasn't a hunter; and I was riding him less
and less.  It is no pleasure to go "parking" along the bridle-paths of
Central Park.  For myself, I want a hill country and something like
forty miles, straight away; that's riding.
The fact that I knew no one but Teddy added zest to the inspiration
which had seized me.  For I determined to attend that dance, happen
what might.  It would be vastly more entertaining than a possibly dull
theatrical performance.  (It was!)
I called for a messenger and despatched him to the nearest drug store
for a pack of playing-cards; and while I waited for his return I
casually glanced at the other diners.  At my table--one of those long
marble-topped affairs by the wall--there was an old man reading a
paper, and the handsomest girl I had set eyes upon in a month of moons.
Sometimes the word handsome seems an inferior adjective.  She was
beautiful, and her half-lidded eyes told me that she was anywhere but
at Mouquin's.  What a head of hair!  Fine as a spider's web, and the
dazzling yellow of a wheat-field in a sun-shower!  The irregularity of
her features made them all the more interesting.  I was an artist in an
amateur way, and I mentally painted in that head against a Rubens
background.  The return of the messenger brought me back to earth; for
I confess that my imagination had already leaped far into the future,
and this girl across the way was nebulously connected with it.
I took the pack of cards, ripped off the covering, tossed aside the
joker (though, really, I ought to have retained it!) and began
shuffling the shiny pasteboards.  I dare say that those around me sat
up and took notice.  It was by no means a common sight to see a man
gravely shuffling a pack of cards in a public restaurant.  Nobody
interfered, doubtless because nobody knew exactly what to do in the
face of such an act, for which no adequate laws had been provided.  A
waiter stood solemnly at the end of the table, scratching his chin
thoughtfully, wondering whether he should report this peculiarity of
constitution and susceptibility occasioning certain peculiarities of
effect from impress of extraneous influences (vide Webster),
synonymous with idiocrasy and known as idiosyncrasy.  It was quite
possible that I was the first man to establish such a precedent in
Monsieur Mouquin's restaurant.  Thus, I aroused only passive curiosity.
From the corner of my eye I observed the old gentleman opposite.  He
was peering over the top of his paper, and I could see by the glitter
in his eye that he was a confirmed player of solitaire.  The girl,
however, still appeared to be in a dreaming state.  I have no doubt
every one who saw me thought that anarchy was abroad again, or that
Sherlock Holmes had entered into his third incarnation.
Finally I squared the pack, took a long-breath, and cut.  I turned up
the card.  It was the ten-spot of hearts.  I considered this most
propitious; hearts being my long suit in everything but love,--love
having not yet crossed my path.  I put the card in my wallet, and was
about to toss the rest of the pack under the table, when, a woman's
voice stayed my hand.
"Don't throw them away.  Tell my fortune first."
I looked up, not a little surprised.  It was the beautiful young girl
who had spoken.  She was leaning on her elbows, her chin propped in her
palms, and the light in her grey chatoyant eyes was wholly innocent
and mischievous.  In Monsieur Mouquin's cellar people are rather
Bohemian, not to say friendly; for it is the rendezvous of artists,
literary men and journalists,--a clan that holds formality in contempt.
"Tell your fortune?" I repeated parrot-like.
"Yes."
"Your mirror can tell you that more accurately than I can," I replied
with a frank glance of admiration.
She drew her shoulders together and dropped them.  "I spoke to you,
sir, because I believed you wouldn't say anything so commonplace as
that.  When one sees a man soberly shuffling a pack of cards in a place
like this, one naturally expects originality."
"Well, perhaps you caught me off my guard,"--humbly.
"I am original.  Did you ever before witness this performance in a
public restaurant?"--making the cards purr.
"I can not say I have,"--amused.
"Well, no more have I!"
"Why, then, do you do it?"--with renewed interest.
"Shall I tell your fortune?"
"Not now.  I had much rather you would tell me the meaning of this
play."
I leaned toward her and whispered mysteriously: "The truth is, I belong
to a secret society, and I was cutting the cards to see whether or not
I should blow up the post-office to-night or the police-station.  You
mustn't tell anybody."
"Oh!"  She started back from the table.  "You do not look it," she
added suddenly.
"I know it; appearances are so deceptive," said I sadly.
Then the old man laughed, and the girl laughed, and I laughed; and I
wasn't quite sure that the grave waiter did not crack the ghost of a
smile--in relief.
[Illustration: The handsomest girl I had set eyes upon in a month of
moons.]
"And what, may I ask, was the fatal card?" inquired the old man,
folding his paper.
"The ace of spades; we always choose that gloomy card in secret
societies.  There is something deadly and suggestive about it," I
answered morbidly.
"Indeed."
"Yes.  Ah, if only you knew the terrible life we lead, we who conspire!
Every day brings forth some galling disappointment.  We push a king off
into the dark, and another rises immediately in his place.  Futility,
futility everywhere!  If only there were some way of dynamiting habit
and custom!  I am a Russian; all my family are perishing in Siberian
mines,"--dismally.
"Fudge!" said the girl.
"Tommy-rot!" said the amiable old gentleman.
"Uncle, his hair is too short for an anarchist."
"And his collar too immaculate."  (So the old gentleman was this
charming creature's uncle!)
"We are obliged to disguise ourselves at times," I explained.  "The
police are always meddling.  It is discouraging."
"You have some purpose, humorous or serious," said the girl shrewdly.
"A man does not bring a pack of cards--"
"I didn't bring them; I sent out for them."
"--bring a pack of cards here simply to attract attention," she
continued tranquilly.
"Perhaps I am a prestidigitator in a popular dime-museum," I suggested,
willing to help her out, "and am doing a little advertising."
"Now, that has a plausible sound," she admitted, folding her hands
under her chin.  "It must be an interesting life.  Presto--change!
and all that."
"Oh, I find it rather monotonous in the winter; but in the summer it is
fine.  Then I wander about the summer resorts and give exhibitions."
"You will pardon my niece," interpolated the old gentleman, coughing a
bit nervously.  "If she annoys you--"
"Uncle!"--reproachfully.
"Heaven forfend!" I exclaimed eagerly.  "There is a charm in doing
unconventional things; and most people do not realize it, and are
stupid."
"Thank you, sir," said the girl, smiling.  She was evidently enjoying
herself; so was I, for that matter.  "Do a trick for me," she commanded
presently.
I smiled weakly.  I couldn't have done a trick with the cards,--not if
my life had depended upon it.  But I rather neatly extricated myself
from the trap.
"I never do any tricks out of business hours."
"Uncle, give the gentleman ten cents; I want to see him do a
sleight-of-hand trick."
Her uncle, readily entering into the spirit of the affair, dived into a
pocket and produced the piece of silver.  It looked as if I were caught.
"There! this may make it worth your while," the girl said, shoving the
coin in my direction.
But again I managed to slide under; I was not to be caught.
"It is my regret to say,"--frowning slightly, "that regularity in my
business is everything.  It wants half an hour for my turn to come on.
If I tried a trick out of turn, I might foozle and lose prestige.  And
besides, I depend so much upon the professor and his introductory
notes: 'Ladies and gents, permit me to introduce the world-renowned
Signor Fantoccini, whose marvelous tricks have long puzzled all the
crowned heads of Europe--'"
"Fantoccini,"--musingly.  "That's Italian for puppet show."
"I know it, but the dime-museum visitors do not.  It makes a fine
impression."
She laughed and slid the dime back to her uncle.
"I'm afraid you are an impostor," she said.
"I'm afraid so, too," I confessed, laughing.
Then the comedy came to an end by the appearance of our separate
orders.  I threw aside the cards and proceeded to attack my dinner, for
I was hungry.  From time to time I caught vague fragments of
conversation between the girl and her uncle.
"It's a fool idea," mumbled the old gentleman; "you will get into some
trouble or other."
"That doesn't matter.  It will be like a vacation,--a flash of old
Rome, where I wish I were at this very moment.  I am determined."
"This is what comes of reading romantic novels,"--with a kind of
grumble.
"I admit there never was a particle of romance on your side of the
family," the girl retorted.
"Happily.  There is peace in the house where I live."
"Do not argue with me."
"I am not arguing with you.  I should only be wasting my time.  I am
simply warning you that you are about to commit a folly."
"I have made up my mind."
"Ah!  In that case I have hopes," he returned.  "When a woman makes up
her mind to do one thing, she generally does another.  Why can't you
put aside this fool idea and go to the opera with me?"
"I have seen Carmen in Paris, Rome, London and New York," she replied.
(Evidently a traveled young person.)
"Carmen is your favorite opera, besides."
"Not to-night,"--whimsically.
"Go, then; but please recollect that if anything serious comes of your
folly, I did my best to prevent it.  It's a scatter-brained idea, and
no good will come of it, mark me."
"I can take care of myself,"--truculently.
"So I have often been forced to observe,"--dryly.
(I wondered what it was all about.)
"But, uncle dear, I am becoming so dreadfully bored!"
"That sounds final," sighed the old man, helping himself to the
haricots verts.  (The girl ate positively nothing.)  "But it seems
odd that you can't go about your affairs after my own reasonable
manner."
"I am only twenty."
The old man's shoulders rose and fell resignedly.
"No man has an answer for that."
"I promise to tell you everything that happens; by telegraph."
"That's small comfort.  Imagine receiving a telegram early in the
morning, when a man's brain is without invention or coherency of
thought!  I would that you were back home with your father.  I might
sleep o' nights, then."
"I have so little amusement!"
"You work three hours a day and earn more in a week than your father
and I do in a month.  Yours is a very unhappy lot."
"I hate the smell of paints; I hate the studio."
"And I suppose you hate your fame?" acridly.
"Bah! that is my card to a living.  The people I meet bore me."
"Not satisfied with common folks, eh?  Must have kings and queens to
talk to?"
"I only want to live abroad, and you and father will not let
me,"--petulantly.
The music started up, and I heard no more.  Occasionally the girl
glanced at me and smiled in a friendly fashion.  She was evidently an
artist's model; and when they have hair and color like this girl's, the
pay is good.  I found myself wondering why she was bored and why Carmen
had so suddenly lost its charms.
It was seven o'clock when I pushed aside my plate and paid my check.  I
calculated that by hustling I could reach Blankshire either at ten or
ten-thirty.  That would be early enough for my needs.  And now to route
out a costumer.  All I needed was a grey mask.  I had in my apartments
a Capuchin's robe and cowl.  I rose, lighting a cigarette.
The girl looked up from her coffee.
"Back to the dime-museum?"--banteringly.
"I have a few minutes to spare," said I.
"By the way, I forgot to ask you what card you drew."
"It was the ten of hearts."
"The ten of hearts?"  Her amazement was not understandable.
"Yes, the ten of hearts; Cupid and all that."
She recovered her composure quickly.
"Then you will not blow up the post-office to-night?"
"No," I replied, "not to-night."
"You have really and truly aroused my curiosity.  Tell me, what does
the ten of hearts mean to you?"
I gazed thoughtfully down at her.  Had I truly mystified her?  There
was some doubt in my mind.
"Frankly, I wish I might tell you.  All I am at liberty to say is that
I am about to set forth upon a desperate adventure, and I shall be very
fortunate if I do not spend the night in the lock-up."
"You do not look desperate."
"Oh, I am not desperate; it is only the adventure that is desperate."
"Some princess in durance vile?  Some villain to smite?  Citadels to
storm?"  Her smile was enchantment itself.
I hesitated a moment.  "What would you say if I told you that this
adventure was merely to prove to myself what a consummate ass the
average man can be upon occasions?"
"Why go to the trouble of proving it?"--drolly.
"I am conceited enough to have some doubts as to the degree."
"Consider it positive."
I laughed.  "I am in hopes that I am neither a positive ass nor a
superlative one, only comparative."
"But the adventure; that is the thing that mainly interests me."
"Oh, that is a secret which I should hesitate to tell even to the
Sphinx."
"I see you are determined not to illuminate the darkness,"--and she
turned carelessly toward her uncle, who was serenely contemplating the
glowing end of a fat perfecto.
I bowed and passed out in Sixth Avenue, rather regretting that I had
not the pleasure of the charming young person's acquaintance.
The ten-spot of hearts seemed to have startled her for some reason.  I
wondered why.
The snow blew about me, whirled, and swirled, and stung.  Oddly enough
I recalled the paragraph relative to Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds.  By this time
she was being very well tossed about in mid-ocean.  As the old order of
yarn-spinners used to say, little did I dream what was in store for me,
or the influence the magic name of Hyphen-Bonds was to have upon my
destiny.
Bismillah!  (Whatever that means!)
II
After half an hour's wandering about I stumbled across a curio-shop, a
weird, dim and dusty, musty old curio-shop, with stuffed peacocks
hanging from the ceiling, and skulls, and bronzes and marbles,
paintings, tarnished jewelry and ancient armor, rare books in vellum,
small arms, tapestry, pastimes, plaster masks, and musical instruments.
I recalled to mind the shop of the dealer in antiquities in Balzac's
La Peau de Chagrin, and glanced about (not without a shiver) for the
fatal ass's skin.  (I forgot that I was wearing it myself that night!)
I was something of a collector of antiquities, of the inanimate kind,
and for a time I became lost in speculation,--speculation rather
agreeable of its kind, I liked to conjure up in fancy the various
scenes through which these curiosities had drifted in their descent to
this demi-pawnshop; the brave men and beautiful women, the clangor of
tocsins, the haze of battles, the glitter of ball-rooms, epochs and
ages.  What romance lay behind yon satin slipper?  What grande dame
had smiled behind that ivory fan?  What meant that tarnished silver
mask?
The old French proprietor was evidently all things from a pawnbroker to
an art collector; for most of the jewelry was in excellent order and
the pictures possessed value far beyond the intrinsic.  He was waiting
upon a customer, and the dingy light that shone down on his bald bumpy
head made it look for all the world like an ill-used billiard-ball.  He
was exhibiting revolvers.
From the shining metal of the small arms, my glance traveled to the
face of the prospective buyer.  It was an interesting face, clean-cut,
beardless, energetic, but the mouth impressed me as being rather hard.
Doubtless he felt the magnetism of my scrutiny, for he suddenly looked
around.  The expression on his face was not one to induce me to throw
my arms around his neck and declare I should be glad to make his
acquaintance.  It was a scowl.  He was in evening dress, and I could
see that he knew very well how to wear it.  All this was but momentary.
He took up a revolver and balanced it on his palm.
By and by the proprietor came sidling along behind the cases, the
slip-slip fashion of his approach informing me that he wore slippers.
"Do you keep costumes?" I asked.
"Anything you like, sir, from a crusader to a modern gentleman,"--with
grim and appropriate irony.  "What is it you are in search of--a
masquerade costume?'"
"Only a grey mask," I answered.  "I am going to a masked ball to-night
as a Grey Capuchin, and I want a mask that will match my robe."
"Your wants are simple."
From a shelf he brought down a box, took off the cover, and left me to
make my selection.  Soon I found what I desired and laid it aside,
waiting for Monsieur Friard to return.  Again I observed the other
customer.  There is always a mystery to be solved and a story to be
told, when a man makes the purchase of a pistol in a pawnshop.  A man
who buys a pistol for the sake of protection does so in the light of
day, and in the proper place, a gun-shop.  He does not haunt the
pawnbroker in the dusk of evening.  Well, it was none of my business;
doubtless he knew what he was doing.  I coughed suggestively, and
Friard came slipping in my direction again.
"This is what I want.  How much?" I inquired.
"Fifty cents; it has never been worn."
I drew out my wallet.  I had arrived in town too late to go to the
bank, and I was carrying an uncomfortably large sum in gold-bills.  As
I opened the wallet to extract a small bill, I saw the stranger eying
me quietly.  Well, well, the dullest being brightens at the sight of
money and its representatives.  I drew out a small bill and handed it
to the proprietor.  He took it, together with the mask, and sidled over
to the cash-register.  The bell gave forth a muffled sound, not unlike
that of a fire-bell in a snow-storm.  As he was in the act of wrapping
up my purchase, I observed the silent customer's approach.  When he
reached my side he stooped and picked up something from the floor.
With a bow he presented it to me.
"I saw it drop from your pocket," he said; and then when he saw what it
was, his jaw fell, and he sent me a hot, penetrating glance.
"The ten of hearts!" he exclaimed in amazement.
I laughed easily.
"The ten of hearts!" he repeated.
"Yes; four hearts on one side and four on the other, and two in the
middle, which make ten in all,"--raillery in my tones.  What the deuce
was the matter with everybody to-night?  "Marvelous card, isn't it?"
"Very strange!" he murmured, pulling at his lips.
"And in what way is it strange?" I asked, rather curious to learn the
cause of his agitation.
"There are several reasons,"--briefly.
"Ah!"
"I have seen a man's hand pinned to that card; therefore it is
gruesome."
"Some card-sharper?"
He nodded.  "Then again, I lost a small fortune because of that
card,"--diffidently.
"Poker?"
"Yes.  Why will a man try to fill a royal flush?  The man next to me
drew the ten of hearts, the very card I needed.  The sight of it always
unnerves me.  I beg your pardon."
"Oh, that's all right," said I, wondering how many more lies he had up
his sleeve.
"And there's still another reason.  I saw a man put six bullets into
the two central spots, and an hour later the seventh bullet snuffed the
candle of a friend of mine.  I am from the West."
"I can sympathize with you," I returned.  "After all that trouble, the
sight of the card must have given you a shock."
Then I stowed away the fatal card and took up my bundle and change.  I
have in my own time tried to fill royal flushes, and the disappointment
still lingers with a bitter taste.
"The element of chance is the most fascinating thing there is," the
stranger from the West volunteered.
"So it is," I replied, suddenly recalling that I was soon to put my
trust in the hands of that very fickle goddess.
He nodded and returned to his revolvers, while I went out of the shop,
hailed a cab, and drove up-town to my apartments in Riverside.  It was
eight o'clock by my watch.  I leaned back against the cushions,
ruminating.  There seemed to be something going on that night; the ten
of hearts was acquiring a mystifying, not to say sinister, aspect.
First it had alarmed the girl in Mouquin's, and now this stranger in
the curio-shop.  I was confident that the latter had lied in regard to
his explanations.  The card had startled him, but his reasons were
altogether of transparent thinness.  A man never likes to confess that
he is unlucky at cards; there is a certain pride in lying about the
enormous stakes you have won and the wonderful draws you have made.  I
frowned.  It was not possible for me to figure out what his interest in
the card was.  If he was a Westerner, his buying a pistol in a pawnshop
was at once disrobed of its mystery; but the inconsistent elegance of
his evening clothes doubled my suspicions.  Bah!  What was the use of
troubling myself with this stranger's affairs?  He would never cross my
path again.
In reasonable time the cab drew up in front of my apartments.  I
dressed, donned my Capuchin's robe and took a look at myself in the
pier-glass.  Then I unwrapped the package and put on the mask.  The
whole made a capital outfit, and I was vastly pleased with myself.
This was going to be such an adventure as one reads about in the
ancient numbers of Blackwood's.  I slipped the robe and mask into my
suit-case and lighted my pipe.  During great moments like this, a man
gathers courage and confidence from a pipeful of tobacco.  I dropped
into a comfortable Morris, touched the gas-logs, and fell into a
pleasant dream.  It was not necessary for me to start for the
Twenty-third Street ferry till nine; so I had something like
three-quarters of an hour to idle away. . . .  What beautiful hair that
girl had!  It was like sunshine, the silk of corn, the yield of the
harvest.  And the marvelous abundance of it!  It was true that she was
an artist's model; it was equally true that she had committed a mild
impropriety in addressing me as she had; but, for all I could see, she
