
"We were really in it," and Miss Holmes detailed her day, leaving out
some of the most trying incidents.

"Thank God you came back safely," he returned, with deep feeling. "It
was a most awful catastrophe. There has been an indignation meeting
held, and some of the miscreants will be brought to justice. Then,
there must be better arrangements for fighting fires. It was a
terrific sight, and there are hundreds of homeless people. The best
provision that could be, was made for them. Generous-hearted people
took them in, supplied them with food. Accidents were plentiful. Yet
it has been a terrible day, but if I had thought of you and the child
being there--"

"Oh, you couldn't, you see. And we came safely out of it all, so
don't feel distressed. Will you have some supper?"

"Yes. Though I was at the Dawsons' and had a meal. They came mighty
near going once or twice, if a dangerous gust of wind had lasted
longer. And the crowds that poured in upon them! The courage of these
people seems superhuman, but it has been severely tried now. I do not
believe any city ever suffered so much by fire and had the pluck to go
on again."

She began to busy herself about the meal. He leaned against the flat
post and went sound asleep, though he wakened easily. Then leaving her
dishes, an unusual thing for her, she retired herself.

For days the fire was the uppermost subject. They had always planned
rebuilding before with tremendous energy, but now courage seemed to
wane in this direction. But it was taken up energetically in others.
The great want of water in the fire department had to be remedied
speedily, and at any cost. Money was offered freely.

The other was a more strenuous effort for the punishment of criminals,
and a rigorous observance of law.

Among the immigrants had been convicts from different lands, lawless
men who formed themselves into bands for plunder and maliciousness.
Clark's Point, Broadway, and one end of Pacific Street was called
Sydney Town from its great number of convicts and ticket-of-leave men
from the Colonies; and to them were added the criminally inclined from
the States, who had left their own cities for the city's good. And
out of the earnest endeavor to put a stop to the lawlessness and crime
the Vigilance Committee was formed. Then an old Mexican law was
exhumed that forbade the emigration to California of criminals
convicted of crime elsewhere. Notices were served upon many vicious
persons and they were compelled to leave the city. And with it all
grew a greater regard for law and order.

Energy and perseverance did not fail, it is true, and the confidence
born of the geographical knowledge that this must eventually be the
great highway of trade, and the idea of a glorious future destiny,
inspired the really solid portion of the community to continue their
efforts to make it the city of the world. Still, many of the middle
classes, discouraged by misfortunes, returned to their native cities.
Others went further south in the more equable climate and became
farmers. Still others wooed by the endless forests further north, and
the many advantages for starting new cities on a better industrial
foundation, went to seek better fortunes. The city never could recover
from all the evils it was said. But the splendid bay and the
magnificent harbor were left, the gold fields were not exhausted. And
now arose the demand for a railroad across the Continent, which had a
hard fight for many years, but succeeded at length.

At Clark's Point a huge rock was quarried, and removed, and the hill
excavated to make room for new streets. Sansome and Battery Streets
were carried out and filled up with the débris. The wharves were
pushed further out, great warehouses built, and though it was a fact
that fewer people came to seek their fortunes, more brought with them
the idea of settling. Wherever any tiny stream ran among the sand
hills numerous vegetable gardens were laid out, and the fertility was
remarkable. Markets opened here and there, the New World Market,
enlarged and improved, where it seemed as if one might buy all the
luxuries of the world. San Francisco began to lose the characteristics
of a Spanish or Mexican town, how could such drowsy ways be tolerated
among the adventurous, hard-working people!

There came to be an admixture of foreign races--musical Germans;
light-hearted, theatre and dance-loving French; some from different
Mongolian countries, who looked on with grave faces, seldom
affiliating, and the Chinese, who made a settlement of their own, many
of them content to be hewers of wood and drawers of water, laundrymen
and servants, but others aspiring to the rank of merchants, even
bringing their wives later on.

On the opposite side of the bay, settlements were changing into towns,
and business seemed to run riot everywhere. There was no lack of
employment for those willing to work.

All these things were far away from the little girl's life. She
studied because she loved to know about everything, that was a New
England heritage. She acquired Spanish rapidly, while the Estenega
girls were stumbling over English. The Señora came up one afternoon
and they had a sort of high tea, with game of several kinds, a bird
pie, and a pudding that would have rejoiced the heart of a far
Easterner. It was a wonderful feast for the children, but the Señora
shook her head gravely over the superabundance of luxuries.

"Was not the little girl going to learn lace-making and drawn-work
that she would want presently for her trousseau? And were not the
catechism and the prayers, confirmation, music, and languages enough
for any girl? And these new Americanos, who dressed in silks and
velvets, and trailed up and down the streets nodding and laughing to
men!" and the Señora shuddered.

It was very true that stylishly attired women promenaded the two
shopping streets where the windows were full of rich goods. For the
early settlers had not to spin and weave in this golden country.
Vessels were coming in frequently laden with goods from almost
everywhere. India and China sent treasures, France and England did not
lag behind. So the women went gorgeously arrayed, leaned out of
handsome private equipages, as if they were queens. For gold was found
in most unexpected places, and miners came in only to waste and gamble
it away.

The old Spanish residents shook their heads over this wild
extravagance, and clung more closely to their Church and the old ways.
Even the natives were often amazed. There were not a few who had
Spanish blood, and proud enough they were of it. The emigration of the
French began to exercise an influence upon the heterogeneous society.
The skilled workman gave a finer air to shops and buildings; the
higher classes, lured by the wonderful reports, added their ease and
refinement to the society, gradually crystallizing into settled
classes.

"It is not all the Americans," Miss Holmes said, in answer to the
Señora's strictures. "All the Eastern cities I have seen are quite
unlike this. They grew slowly, and each from its own peculiar
industry. We had no gold mines on the Eastern coast, and you are
likely to prize more highly the fortunes you have to struggle for.
Here we have every nation, it seems to me, and often the very liberty
of choice degenerates into license. But it is hardly fair to blame it
all on our people."

"They have invaded us and taken away our land, our rights. Years ago
we were happy and content, and now it is all excitement, and if you do
not join you are pushed to the wall, driven out. The gold in the hills
was all ours."

"But you let it lie there. Yes, you could have discovered it. It was
the wild dream of more than one explorer, and yet he never tapped the
great secrets the land held."

Now that the hitherto placid Spanish woman was roused she went over
the ground with great bitterness, the war, the ceding of the country,
the influx of the nations for greed. Half her talk lapsed into her
native tongue. Miss Holmes pitied her in a certain way, but was it not
the old, old story since De Soto had crossed the Continent and Tonti
came down the Mississippi? The weaker nation was always distanced by
the stronger. And was supine content a virtue?

Meanwhile, the children had a merry time. Carmen gained courage to
mount Pelajo and rode around in fine style. The younger ones wanted
their turn. When they were called in to tea their cheeks glowed,
their eyes were bright with excitement, and they chattered like a
flock of birds.

The Señora looked on in surprise.

"Do you always allow so much wildness?" she asked, in a rather
disapproving tone.

If they had a little frolic their walk home always sobered them.

"Oh, no," returned Miss Holmes, with a smile. "They have lessons. This
is a holiday. And I am glad for Laverne to have companions. We
sometimes think she gets too grave."

"Girls," and their mother rapped on the table. What with their
laughing, the broken English, and the Spanish they were in quite a
whirl. Laverne looked on more calmly. Indeed, the Señora was a little
angry that she seemed rather to shame her girls.

"Oh, please, Señora, do not scold them. We were so merry riding the
pony. He is almost human. And he understood Spanish. I did not know
that before."

Laverne's face was a study, in its sweet pleading. The girls quieted
down, and their mother looked less severe, but she was considering a
proper penance.

The moon came up early. How magnificently the soft light silvered all
the open spaces, until one forgot the drought. Each twig that swayed
to and fro in the translucent air seemed alive.

Miss Holmes and Laverne walked some distance with their guests,
leaving Bruno to keep watch. They parted with the utmost cordiality.

"We have had such a splendid time," whispered Carmencita. "I wish I
was an American girl and had a good indulgent uncle such as thou
hast, little one. Then I would not care to go to the convent."

Laverne was astonished at the outburst, for Carmen had heretofore
rather cavilled at Americans. They walked back in silence until they
met Bruno's greeting.

"Didn't you have a nice time with the girls?" Miss Holmes asked.

"Oh, yes! Carmen was--well, I think I have been not exactly afraid of
her, but she seemed so much older, and this afternoon she was
splendid. And she wished--what do you think--that she was an American
girl! And I wish I knew some American girls."

"You will go to school presently. Your uncle was talking of it."

The thought startled the little girl. She was not quite sure she liked
it.

"Oh, there he is now," and she ran to meet him. The moon was up higher
and it was lighter. Her hands were outstretched, but he caught her
under the arms and, lifting her up, gave her several kisses. It was so
gratifying to have her always glad to see him.

Then he put her down and she caught his hand in both of hers and went
a hop and a skip, giving short, soft laughs.

"I'm late. Did you eat up all the supper?"

"Oh, we had ours early. The Estenegas were here, the mother and all.
We had a good, good time," with emphasis. "They all rode Pelajo.
Anesta fell off twice, but it didn't hurt any, she asked us not to
tell. And oh, how hungry they were!"

"Little girls ought always to be hungry. That makes them grow."

"And Carmen wished she had an uncle like you."

"Why--she has scarcely seen me."

"But then I talk about you," the child added, naïvely.

"Well--do you want to give me away?"

"Oh no, no."

"Or shall we adopt her?"

A positive unwillingness sprang up in the child's heart.

"I think her mother would not let her come," she replied evasively.

"But you would like her? You are tired of being alone."

"No, I don't want any one but you for all time," she admitted, a
little jealously.

He laughed. He was fond of this confession.

Miss Holmes' supper was satisfactory to the hungry man as well.
Afterward they went out and sat on the flat stone step. That always
made him think of his boyhood.

"Little one," he began, "how would you like to move? Or are the
Estenegas too dear to give up?"

"Move!" in a tone of surprise.

"Yes. We haven't much worldly goods, as these traps do not belong to
us. But we can take ourselves, Bruno, and Pelajo."

"Where would we go?"

"Quite far from here. Up on Telegraph Hill."

"Oh, that would be splendid! We could always see the bay, and over the
strait to all the mountains beyond. Yes, I should like to go."

"Well, I am glad. It will be more convenient for me, but we would
have to go, anyhow. This place has been sold."

"Is there a stable? And I think I would like a garden. And at least
one tree."

He laughed.

"They have been taking down part of the hill. No doubt some day they
will take it all down. That is the fashion of cities. But our end not
being so high will not be disturbed for some time to come."

"This has been nice," she said retrospectively. "But I shall like the
new place, and the bay, and--and----"

"And the change," he laughed. Then he called Miss Holmes, who had put
away the last of her dishes.

He had talked this over with her before, but he had not made his
bargain until to-day. Then they settled a few of the most important
points. There were to be some repairs made, but they could go the next
week. And to-morrow he would take them up to see it.

"Will you like to go?" Laverne asked of Miss Holmes as they were
preparing for bed.

"Yes, I think I shall. We shall be so much nearer everything. We can
often walk down among the stores. And we shall be nearer Miss Gaines.
You will miss the Estenega girls."

"But there may be other girls. I'd like to know some new ones," and
there was a sound of delightful expectation in her voice.




CHAPTER VI

A DIFFERENT OUTLOOK


It was almost being in a new town, Laverne thought. They had trotted
all over this bluff, to be sure; they had looked over to Sausalito, up
and down the bay, and to the wonderful ocean that reached to China.
But before they had been rather hidden away in a valley between the
ridges, and from the windows you could see very little. She was quite
wild at first, running from window to window, and calling on Miss
Holmes to see this or that.

Then they had a Chinaman to come in and help them settle, and that
amused her very much. He understood, but could not speak much English,
and she did wonder why he should tack another syllable to the short
words by adding the double e. But he was very handy and obedient,
quick to see, and the soft shoes that made no clatter allowed him to
go about so quietly that he often surprised one. His name was Ah Ling.

"I think I like Pablo better," she said gravely. "Then he knows so
many things about the country and the missions and the priests, and
the races of the Spaniards, and they did have bull fights, you know,
they have some now. Uncle Jason said he must not tell me about them,
they were too cruel. Do you suppose Pablo will come?"

Jason Chadsey had made the old Mexican an offer to come and live with
them, but he was loath to leave his little hut and his independence.
He knew Pablo could be trusted anywhere with the little girl, and that
he was a good gardener. He had even offered him a new hut, and Pablo
was taking matters into consideration as he lolled in the sun and
smoked his pipe. He did not want to be too hard worked, what good did
so much money do these Americanos; they went on working and working
and hustling the life out of one.

Here was the old Franciscan Mission where the first settlement was
made by the Fathers. It might have had the semi-solitude in those
early years, for all about was poetic enough. When it became a Mexican
province early in the century it had been stripped of its treasures,
and was even now a poor unsightly ruin with its few padres eking out
their subsistence and saying prayers for the living and the dead in
the little Campo Santo. Presently a modern cathedral was to overshadow
it, but that had not come yet, with the shops and dwellings that were
to crowd it still closer. But now there were outlying fields, tangles
of shrubbery and vines run wild. Not so many trees as farther down,
but still some that withstood the ocean blasts. And there was Alcatras
and Buena Yerba; almost within a stone's throw, it seemed, in the
clear air that often foreshortened space. Laverne never wearied
studying the marvellous pictures, and when her thoughts went back to
the dreary little Maine village she always gave a shiver.

The house was a newer one, its first story of adobe, as so many were
in the early days. It was not nearly so small, to begin with, and
there was so much entertainment buying furniture and supplying
household needs. Jason Chadsey had picked up a number of curious
articles from the ships coming in from foreign ports, some that would
have been the envy of a connoisseur.

But the early spring was rushing on again and every leaf and spear and
weed grew as if by magic.

One morning they had a visitor who came in a carriage, and Miss Holmes
glanced out in some surprise.

"Why, it's my friend Miss Alwood--you remember Miss Grace, Laverne. I
haven't seen her this long while," and the next instant she was
welcoming her warmly.

"We thought you had dropped out of existence. Why, even the Dawsons
have heard nothing from you--let me see--you went down to Santa Cruz
with an invalid lady----"

"Yes." Miss Alwood gave a short amused sound that was hardly a laugh,
and continued: "Well, there was plenty of money, but she was about as
queer as they make them. She had come from Baltimore, but she had some
of the worst New England features, though I think they do not belong
altogether to the Puritan birthright. But it kept one on the alert
attending to her whims. When she had been there a month her brother
came to see her. He thought she had better go on farther south--I
think she had consumption, the sort of wasting away without a cough.
While we were making preparations she was taken down to her bed. Mr.
Personette had to return here on urgent business matters. Four weeks
later she died. So he came back and there was the burial and all----"

Miss Alwood paused and a flush with an amused expression passed over
her face.

"And so you were released from bondage," suggested Miss Holmes; and
she, somehow, smiled, too.

"And accepted another. Mr. Personette, being a widower, made me an
offer of marriage. We are to be a not very far-away neighbor, as he
owns a house on Mason Street, and is really well-to-do, as we say at
home. There is a son of seventeen, a daughter two years younger, and
one of twelve. I went to hunt you up, but found the place deserted,
then looked up Miss Gaines and have been spending a week over wedding
