
"I laid him on the tail of a cart. The carter was asleep. I walked
behind to the gate, for I was sure that when he was found he would be
brought here, and that he would have care, and would get well."

"Was it far to walk?" inquired the Superintendent, delighted with the
result of his efforts as a detective. "You must have been very tired!"

"What is it to walk all night, if one carries no load on one's head?"
asked Regina with some scorn. "I walk as I breathe."

"You walked all night, then? That was Friday night. I do not wish to
keep you, my dear child, but if you would tell me how long Botti has
been ill--" he waited.

"This is the forty-ninth day," Regina answered at once.

"Dear me! Poor boy! That is a long time!"

"I stole eggs and wine to keep him alive," the girl explained. "They
tried to make me give him white beans and oil. They wanted him to die,
because he was an expense to them."

"Who were those people?" asked the Superintendent, putting the question
suddenly.

But Regina had gained time to prepare her story.

"Why should I tell you who they are?" she asked. "They did no harm,
after all, and they let him lie in their house. At first they hoped he
would get well, but you know how it is in the country. When sick people
linger on, every one wishes them to die, because they are in the way,
and cost money. That is how it is."

"But you wished him to live," said the Superintendent in an encouraging
tone.

Regina shrugged her shoulders and smiled, without the slightest
affectation or shyness.

"What could I do?" she asked. "A passion for him had taken me, the first
time that I saw him. So I stole for him, and sat up with him, and did
what was possible. He lay in an attic with only one blanket, and my
heart spoke. What could I do? If he had died I should have thrown myself
into the water below the mill."

Now there had been no mill within many miles of the inn on the Frascati
road, in which there could be water in summer. Regina was perfectly
sincere in describing her love for Marcello, but as she was a clever
woman she knew that it was precisely when she was speaking with the
greatest sincerity about one thing, that she could most easily throw a
man off the scent with regard to another. The Superintendent mentally
noted the allusion to the mill for future use; it had created an image
in his mind; it meant that the place where Marcello had lain ill had
been in the hills and probably near Tivoli, where there is much water
and mills are plentiful.

"I suppose he was a poor relation of the people," said the
Superintendent thoughtfully, after a little pause. "That is why they
wished to get rid of him."

Regina made a gesture of indifferent assent, and told something like
the truth.

"He had not been there since I had been servant to them," she answered.
"It must have been a long time since they had seen him. We found him
early in the morning, lying unconscious against the door of the house,
and we took him in. That is the whole story. Why should I tell you who
the people are? I have eaten their bread, I have left them, I wish them
no harm. They knew their business."

"Certainly, my dear, certainly. I suppose I may say that Marcello Botti
comes from Rocca di Papa?"

"Oh, yes," answered Regina readily. "You may say that, if you like."

As a matter of fact she did not care what he wrote in his big book, and
he might as well write one name as another, so far as she was concerned.

"But I never saw him there," she added by an afterthought. "There are
many people of that name in our village, but I never saw him. Perhaps
you had better say that he came from Albano."

"Why from Albano?" asked the Superintendent, surprised.

"It is a bigger place," explained Regina quite naturally.

"Then I might as well write 'Rome' at once?"

"Yes. Why not? If you must put down the name of a town in the book, you
had better write a big one. You will be less likely to be found out if
you have made a mistake."

"I see," said the Superintendent, smiling. "I am much obliged for your
advice. And now, if you will come with me, you shall see Botti. He has a
room by himself and is very well cared for."

The orderlies and nurses who came and went about the hospital glanced
with a little discreet surprise at the handsome peasant girl who
followed the Superintendent, but she paid no attention to them and
looked straight before her, at the back of his head; for her heart was
beating faster than if she had run a mile uphill.

Marcello put out his arms when he saw her enter, and returning life sent
a faint colour to his emaciated cheeks.

"Regina--at last!" he cried in a stronger and clearer tone than she had
ever heard him use.

A splendid blush of pleasure glowed in her own face as she ran forward
and leaned over him, smoothing the smooth pillow unconsciously, and
looking down into his eyes.

The Superintendent observed that Marcello certainly had no difficulty in
recalling the girl's name, whatever might have become of his own during
his illness. What Regina answered was not audible, but she kissed
Marcello's eyes, and then stood upright beside the bed, and laughed a
little.

"What can I do?" she asked. "It is a passion! When I see him, I see
nothing else. And then, I saved his life. Are you glad that Regina saved
your life?" She bent down again, and her gentle hand played with
Marcello's waving fair hair. "What should you have done without Regina?"

"I should have died," Marcello answered happily.

With much more strength than she had been used to find in him, he threw
his arms round her neck and drew her face down to his.

The Superintendent spoke to the nurse in a low tone, by the door, and
both went out, leaving the two together. He was a sensible man, and a
kind-hearted one; and though he was no doctor, he guessed that the
peasant girl's glorious vitality would do as much for the sick man as
any medicine.




CHAPTER VIII


Corbario reached Rome in the afternoon, and the footman who stood
waiting for him on the platform was struck by the change in his
appearance. His eyes were hollow and bright, his cheeks were sunken, his
lips looked dry; moreover, he moved a little nervously and his foot
slipped as he got out of the carriage, so that he nearly fell. In the
crowd, the footman asked his valet questions. Was he ill? What had
happened to him? Was he consuming himself with grief? No, the valet
thought not. He had been much better in Paris and had seen some old
friends there. What harm was there in that? A bereaved man needed
diversion. The change had come suddenly, when he had decided to return
to Rome, and he had eaten nothing for thirty-six hours. The valet asked
if the youth at the hospital, of whom Corbario had told him, were really
Marcello. The footman answered that none of the servants thought so,
after they had all been taken to see him.

Having exchanged these confidences in the half-dumb language which
servants command, they reached the gate. The footman rushed out to call
the carriage, the valet delivered the tickets and followed the footman
more slowly, carrying Corbario's bag and coat, and Corbario lighted a
cigar and followed his man at a leisurely pace, absorbed in thought.

Until the moment of passing the gate he had meant to drive directly to
the hospital, which is at some distance from the station in a direction
almost opposite to that of the Janiculum. He could have driven there in
ten minutes, whereas he must lose more than an hour by going home first
and then coming back. But his courage failed him, he felt faint and
sick, and quite unable to bear any great emotion until he had rested and
refreshed himself a little. A long railway journey stupefies some men,
but makes others nervous and inclined to exaggerate danger or trouble.
During the last twelve hours Corbario had been forcing himself to decide
that he would go to the hospital and know the worst at once, but now
that the moment was come he could not do it.

He was walking slowly through the outer hall of the station when a large
man came up with him and greeted him quietly. It was Professor Kalmon.
Corbario started at the sound of his voice. They had not met since
Kalmon had been at the cottage.

"I wish I had known that you were in the train," the Professor said.

"So do I," answered Corbario without enthusiasm. "Not that I am very
good company," he added, looking sideways at the other's face and
meeting a scrutinising glance.

"You look ill," Kalmon replied. "I don't wonder."

"I sometimes wish I had one of those tablets of yours that send people
to sleep for ever," said Corbario, making a great effort to speak
steadily.

But his voice shook, and a sudden terror seized him, the abject fright
that takes hold of a man who has been accustomed to do something very
dangerous and who suddenly finds that his nerve is gone at the very
moment of doing it again.

The cold sweat stood on Folco's forehead under his hat; he stopped where
he was and tried to draw a long breath, but something choked him.
Kalmon's voice seemed to reach him from a great distance. Then he felt
the Professor's strong arm under his own, supporting him and making him
move forward.

"The weather is hot," Kalmon said, "and you are ill and tired. Come
outside."

"It is nothing," Corbario tried to say. "I was dizzy for a moment."

Kalmon and the footman helped him into his low carriage, and raised the
hood, for the afternoon sun was still very hot.

"Shall I go home with you?" Kalmon asked.

"No, no!" cried Corbario nervously. "You are very kind. I am quite well
now. Good-bye. Home!" he added to the footman, as he settled himself
back under the hood, quite out of sight.

The Professor stood still in the glaring heat, looking after the
carriage, his travelling-bag in his hand, while the crowd poured out of
the station, making for the cabs and omnibuses that were drawn up in
rows, or crossing the burning pavement on foot to take the tram.

When the carriage was out of sight, Kalmon looked up at the hot sky and
down at the flagstones, and then made up his mind what to do.

"To the hospital of San Giovanni," he said, as he got into a cab.

He seemed to be well informed, for he inquired at the door about a
certain Marcello Botti, who was in a private room; and when he gave his
name he was admitted without even asking permission of the
Superintendent, and was at once led upstairs.

"Are you a friend of his, sir?" asked Regina, when he had looked a long
time at the patient, who did not recognise him in the least.

"Are you?" Kalmon looked at her quietly across the bed.

"You see," she answered. "If I were not, why should I be here?"

"She has saved my life," said Marcello suddenly, and he caught her hand
in his and held it fast. "As soon as I am quite well we shall be
married."

"Certainly, my dear boy, certainly," replied Kalmon, as if it were quite
a matter of course. "You must make haste and get well as soon as
possible."

He glanced at Regina's face, and as her eyes met his she shook her head
almost imperceptibly, and smiled. Kalmon was not quite sure what she
meant. He made a sign to her to go with him to the window, which was at
some distance from the bed.

"It may be long before he is well," he whispered. "There must be an
operation."

She nodded, for she knew that.

"And do you expect to marry him when he is recovered?"

She shook her head and laughed, glancing at Marcello.

"He is a gentleman," she whispered, close to Kalmon's ear. "How could he
marry me?"

"You love him," Kalmon answered.

Again she nodded, and laughed too.

"What would you do for him?" asked Kalmon, looking at her keenly.

"Die for him!"

She meant it, and he saw that she did. Her eyes shone as she spoke, and
then the lids drooped a little and she looked at him almost fiercely. He
turned from her and his fingers softly tapped the marble window-sill. He
was asking himself whether he could swear to Marcello's identity, in
case he should be called upon to give evidence. On what could he base
his certainty? Was he himself certain, or was he merely moved by the
strong resemblance he saw, in spite of long illness and consequent
emaciation? Was the visiting surgeon right in believing that the little
depression in the skull had caused a suspension of memory? Such things
happened, no doubt, but it also happened that doctors were mistaken and
that nothing came of such operations. Who could prove the truth? The boy
and girl might have a secret to keep; she might have arranged to get him
into the hospital because it was his only chance, but the rest of the
story, such as it was, might be a pure invention; and when Marcello was
discharged cured, they would disappear together. There was the
coincidence of the baptismal name, but men of science know how deceptive
coincidences can be. Besides, the girl was very intelligent. She might
easily have heard about the real Marcello's disappearance, and she was
clever enough to have given her lover the name in the hope that he might
be taken for the lost boy at least long enough to ensure him a great
deal more comfort and consideration in the hospital than he otherwise
would have got; she was clever enough to have seen that it would be a
mistake to say outright that he was Marcello Consalvi, if she was
practising a deception. Kalmon did not know what to think, and he wished
the operation could be performed before Corbario came; but that was
impossible.

Regina stood beside him, waiting for him to speak again.

"Do you need money?" he asked abruptly, with a sharp look at her face.

"No, thank you, sir," she answered. "He has everything here."

"But for yourself?" He kept his eyes on her.

"I thank you, sir, I want nothing." Her look met his almost coldly as
she spoke.

"But when he is well again, how shall you live?"

"I shall work for him, if it turns out that he has no friends. We shall
soon know, for his memory will come back after the operation. The
doctors say so. They know."

"And if he has friends after all? If he is really the man I think he
is, what then? What will become of you?"

"I do not know. I am his. He can do what he likes with me."

The Professor did not remember to have met any one who took quite such
an elementary view of life, but he could not help feeling a sort of
sympathy for the girl's total indifference to consequences.

"I shall come to see him again," he said presently, turning back towards
the bed and approaching Marcello. "Are you quite sure that you never saw
me before?" he asked, taking the young man's hand.

"I don't remember," answered Marcello, wearily. "They all want me to
remember," he added almost peevishly. "I would if I could, if it were
only to please them!"

Kalmon went away, for he saw that his presence tired the patient. When
he was gone Regina sat down beside the bed and stroked Marcello's hand,
and talked soothingly to him, promising that no one should tease him to
remember things. By and by, as she sat, she laid her head on the pillow
beside him, and her sweet breath fanned his face, while a strange light
played in her half-closed eyes.

"Heart of my heart," she sighed happily. "Love of my soul! Do you know
that I am all yours, soul and body, and earrings too?" And she laughed
low.

"You are the most beautiful woman in the world," Marcello answered. "I
love you!"

She laughed again, and kissed him.

"You love me better than Aurora," she said suddenly.

"Aurora?"

"Yes, for you have forgotten her. But you will not forget Regina now,
not even when you are very, very old, and your golden hair is all grey.
You will never forget Regina, now!"

"Never!" echoed Marcello, like a child. "Never, never, never!"

"Not even when your friends try to take me away from you, love, not even
if they try to kill me, because they want you to marry Aurora, who is a
rich girl, all dressed with silk and covered with jewels, like the image
of the Madonna at Genazzano. I am sure Aurora has yellow hair and blue
eyes!"

"I don't want any one but you," answered Marcello, drawing her face
nearer.

So the time passed, and it was to them as if there were no time. Then
the door opened again, and a very pale man in deep mourning was brought
in by the Superintendent himself. Regina rose and drew back a little, so
that the shadow should not fall across Marcello's face, and she fixed
her eyes on the gentleman in black.

"This is the patient," said the Superintendent in a low voice.

Corbario laid his hand nervously on his companion's arm, and stood still
for a moment, holding his breath and leaning forward a little, his gaze
riveted on Marcello's face. Regina had never before seen a man
transfixed with fear.

He moved a step towards the bed, and then another, forcing himself to go
on. Then Marcello turned his head and looked at him vacantly. Regina
heard the long breath Corbario drew, and saw his body straighten, as if
relieved from a great burden. He stood beside the bed, and put out his
hand to take Marcello's.

"Do you know me?" he asked; but even then his voice was unsteady.

Instead of answering, Marcello turned away to Regina.

"You promised that they should not tease me any more," he said
querulously. "Make them go away! I want to sleep."

Regina came to his side at once, and faced the two men across the bed.

"What is all this for?" she asked, with a little indignation. "You know
that he cannot remember you, even if he ever saw you before. Cannot you
leave him in peace? Come back after the operation. Then he will remember
you, if you really know him."

