hummed. Then, passing upward with the score, he reached the "Salve
Dimora," Faust's salute to Marguerite's home. But in the den where he
sat the aria did not fit. He went back again to the waltz. Then,
precisely as on the stage Marguerite appears, Marie entered.
Loftus jumped up, went to her, took her hand. It was trembling. He led
her to a sofa, seating himself at her side, her hand still in his.
He looked at her. She had the prettiness and timidity of a kitten, a
kitten's grace as well. Like a kitten, she could not have been vulgar
or awkward had she tried. But association and environment had wrapped
about her one of the invisible yet obvious mantles that differentiate
class from class. Loftus was quite aware of that. He was, though,
equally aware that love is a famous costumer. There are few mantles
that it cannot remove and remake. That the girl loved him he knew. The
tremor of her hand assured him more surely than words.
None the less he asked her. It seemed to him only civil. But she did
not answer. The dinginess of the den oppressed him. It occurred to him
that it might be oppressing her. Again he inquired. Only the tremor of
the hand replied.
"Tell me," he repeated.
The girl disengaged her hand. She looked down and away.
"Won't you?" he insisted.
"I ought not to," she said at last.
"But why?"
With her parasol the girl poked at the carpet. "Because it is not
right. It is not right that I should." But at once, with a little
convulsive intake of the breath, she added, "Yet I do."
Then it seemed to her that the room was turning around, that the walls
had receded, that there was but blankness. His lips were on hers. In
their contact everything ceased to be save the consciousness of
something so poignant, so new, that to still the pain of the joy of it
she struggled to be free.
Kissing her again Loftus let her go. Dizzily she got from the sofa.
The parasol had fallen. Her hat was awry. To straighten it she moved
to a mirror. Her face was scarlet. Instantly fear possessed her, fear
not of him but of herself. With uncertain fingers she tried to adjust
the hat.
"I must go."
But Loftus came to her. Bending a bit he whispered in her ear: "Don't
go--don't go ever."
Do what she might she could not manage with her hat. In the glass it
was no longer that which she saw, nor her face, but an abyss, suddenly
precipitate, that had opened there.
"No, don't go," Loftus was saying. "I love you and you love me."
It was, though, not love that was emotionalizing her then. It was
fear. A fear of that abyss and of the lower depths beneath.
"Don't go," Loftus reiterated. "Don't, that is, if you do love me; and
if you do, tell me, will you be my wife?"
At this, before her, in abrupt enchantment, the abyss disappeared.
Where its depths had been were parterres of gems, slopes of asphodel,
the gleam and brilliance of the gates of paradise.
"Your wife!" The wonder of it was in her voice and marveling eyes.
"Come." Taking her hand, Loftus led her to their former seat.
"But----"
"But what?"
"How can I be your wife? I am nobody."
"You are perfect. There is only one thing I fear--" Loftus hesitated.
Nervously the girl looked at him.
"Only one," he continued. "I am not and never shall be half good
enough for you."
"Oh!"
"Never half enough."
"Oh! How can you say that? It is not true. Could I care for you if it
were?"
"And you do?"
"Don't you know it?"
"Then don't go, don't go from me ever."
"But----"
"Yes, I know. You are thinking of your father, of whom you have told
me; perhaps, too, of my mother, of whom I told you. When she knows you
and learns to love you, as she will, we can be married before all the
world. We could now were I not dependent on her. Yet then, am I not
dependent too on you? Come with me, and afterward----"
"I cannot," the girl cried; "it would kill my father."
"You have but to wire him that you have gone to be married, and it
will be the truth."
"I cannot," the girl repeated. "Oh, what are you asking me to do?"
"I am asking you to be my wife. What is the ceremony to you? What are
a few words mumbled by a hired priest? Love, love alone, is marriage."
"No, no. To you perhaps. But not to me."
"And the ceremony shall follow as soon as we can manage. Can you not
trust me for that?"
"But----"
"Will you not trust me? If you are to put your whole life into my
keeping you should at least begin by doing that."
The girl looked at the man and then away, at vistas he could not see,
the winding slopes of asphodel, the sudden and precipitate abyss. Yet
he spoke so fair, she told herself. Surely it was to the slopes he
meant to take her, not to that blackening pit.
"Yet if you won't," Loftus continued, "it is best for both that we
should part."
"For--for always?"
"Yes."
Just why he omitted to explain. But then there are explanations that
explain nothing. Yet to her, for a moment, the threat was like a flash
in darkness. For a moment she thought that she could not let him go.
About her swarmed her dreams. Through them his kisses pierced. For a
moment only. The flash had passed. She was in darkness again. Before
her was the precipitate abyss. Shudderingly she drew from it.
But Loftus was very resolute. "If you will you have my promise."
For answer she looked at him, looked into his eyes, peered into them,
deep down, striving to see what was there, trying to mirror her soul
in his own.
"Before God and man I swear you shall be my wife."
At that, suddenly within her, fear melted away. If she had not seen
his soul she had heard it. Where fear had been was faith. Dumb with
the enchantment of a dream come true, she half arose. But his arms
went about her and in them she lay like seaweed in the tide.
CHAPTER V
MARIE CHANGES HER NAME
Gay Street knew Marie no more. Twenty-second street made her
acquaintance. There, in the Arundel, an apartment house which is just
around the corner from Gramercy Park, Loftus secured quarters for her.
These quarters, convenient for him, to her were temporary. She
regarded them as a tent on the road to the slopes. Even in that light
they were attractive. Though small, they were fastidiously furnished
and formed what agents call a "bijou." Loftus, who had whims which the
girl thought poetic, preferred "aviary." He preferred, too, that she
should change her name. Durand seemed to him extremely plebeian.
Mentally he cast about. Leroy suggested itself. It had in it an echo
of France and also of old New York. As such it appealed to him and,
therefore, to her. There and then Marie became known as Miss Leroy
and, incidentally, very busy.
Every day Annette, Juliette and Marguerite had frocks for her to try
on. There were hats to go with those frocks. There was lingerie to be
selected, stuffs immaterial as moonbeams, cambrics that could be drawn
through a ring. In addition, there was Signor Tambourini, who was to
teach her how to handle her voice, and Baron Mesnilmontant, who was to
teach her to handle a horse. When she so desired she had but to
telephone and in five minutes there was a victoria at the door. For
her sitting-room the florist who had so disturbed Mr. Cohen fetched
flowers every other day.
In the flowers there were thorns, of course. Marie worried about many
things, yet mainly because Mrs. Loftus had not yet "seen and learned
to love her." Against that, though, there were difficulties. At first
Mrs. Loftus had a dreadful cold. Then she had gone out of town to
recuperate. This was very unfortunate, but like the quarters, only
temporary. Loftus assured her of that. What he said was gospel.
The position in which the girl was placed worried her nevertheless.
She knew it was wrong. But always she consoled herself with the belief
that shortly it would be righted. On that belief she would have staked
her soul. Had he not sworn it? Precisely how she would have acted had
she realized that he had lied like a thief one may surmise and never
know. The misery of life is the necessity of becoming accustomed to
certain things. There are natures that adapt themselves more readily
than others. There are also natures that cannot adapt themselves at
all. Had Marie realized the truth it may be that she would have beaten
her head against the walls. Yet it may also be that in the end
adaptability would have come. But not happiness. Happiness consists,
if it consists in anything, in being on good terms with oneself. Had
Marie known the truth never could she have been that. In the
circumstances it was considerate of Loftus to withhold it from her.
But Loftus was a very considerate person. He hated tears, and scenes
he frankly abominated.
Loftus, though considerate, was vain. It was regrettable to him that
he could not parade Marie about. But social New York is severe. Among
its members it refuses to countenance any open disregard for what's
what. Though what occurs behind its back it is too high-bred to
notice.
Loftus, unable to parade Marie about, paraded her in. To the aviary he
brought men, some of whom having otherwise nothing to do with this
drama need not delay its recital, but, among others, he brought
Annandale and Orr.
Annandale, who could not keep a thing from Sylvia, told her about it.
The story so shocked her that she first made a point of his not going
there again and then debated whether she ought to recognize Loftus any
more. In the process she confided the story to Fanny Price, who got
suddenly red--a phenomenon rare with her and which annoyed her very
much, so much that she bit her lip, desisting only through fear of
making it bleed. What is the use of spoiling one's looks?
Marie, meanwhile, rather liked Annandale. She also rather liked Orr.
One evening both were bidden to the aviary. At the bidding Annandale
had hesitated. He did not wish to offend Sylvia. But reflecting that
she need never know, that, anyway, it was none of her business and,
besides, what the deuce! he was not tied to her apron strings, was he?
he concluded to go.
To that conclusion he was assisted by a cocktail. At the time he was
in Madison Square, where on a ground floor he occupied a set of
chambers, a suite of long, large rooms, sumptuously but soberly
furnished with things massive and plain. Here he lived in much luxury
and entire peace, save recently when he had lost a retainer and found
a burglar. The memory of that intrusion recurring, he touched a bell.
A man appeared, smug and solemn, a new valet that he had got in to
replace an old family servant whom an accident had eliminated.
"Harris, I forgot to ask. Did you get the revolver I told you to buy?"
"Yes, sir. A 32 calibre. It is in the pantry, sir."
"Put it in the drawer of my dressing-table."
"Yes, sir. Thank you, sir."
"And Harris, make me another cocktail." As the man was leaving
Annandale called after him, "Make two."
It was these that assisted Annandale to his decision. A man of means,
without immediate relatives, without ponderable cares, under their
influence he felt rather free to do as he saw fit. The bidding to the
aviary, telephoned for him to Harris, was for that evening. Yet that
evening he was also expected in Irving Place. But Marie's invitation
was for dinner, whereas he was not due at Sylvia's until later on.
It was not necessary, he told himself, to be in two places at once. He
could dovetail one with another. Then presently, having dressed, he
issued forth. But he had omitted to look at the evening papers. He was
interested in certain stocks, and to learn what they were doing he
stopped in at a neighboring club. There encountering men who asked him
to drink, he accepted--though how much he was on the morrow unable to
recall. Yet at the time the effect of the stuff, while insidious, was
not apparent. When ultimately he reached the aviary he was feeling
merely fit, a feeling which the dinner increased.
The dinner, perfect in itself, was perfectly served. The appointments
were superior and the table a delight. Loftus when he did things did
them well. Marie, in a creation of Paquin, imported by Annette, was a
pleasure to behold. She had Orr at her right, Annandale at her left.
Between them and Loftus were half a dozen other men. All were decorous
and beautifully behaved. Except for the absence of feminine guests and
one thing else, there was nothing to denote that they were not at the
house of some smart young married woman. There was not a word uttered
that could not have been bawled through a ballroom. There was not a
suggestion not eminently discreet. In this respect only did the dinner
differ from any other at which you might assist in the upper circles
of New York life.
During the preliminary courses stocks were the sole topic. There was a
boom on in the Street. Everybody was making money, including Marie,
for whom Loftus had bought a few hundred A. O. T.
Orr alone had sold. "You are all mad," he declared. "The whole city
is crazy. The country is on a debauch. Bulls cannot live forever. The
corridas of the Street are just like those of Spain. It is the climax
that differs. There the ring is swept by a supe, here it is struck by
a crisis. That crisis may come next week, next month, next year. But
it will come. It can no more desert the heavens of political economy
than the stars can deviate from their course. It is not here yet, the
bull is very lively, he is tossing everything sky high, but just when
he is at his best and fiercest, just when you are shouting yourselves
hoarse, the great espada, whose name is Time, with one swift thrust
will transfix him. That is the fate of bulls."
"We are to be transfixed, are we?" said Annandale.
Marie looked over at Loftus. "Had I not better sell?"
Orr turned to her. "No; hold on and lose. A loss, particularly a fist
loss, is always a good investment. Besides, if you will permit me to
say, you should have no heed of such things. No, Miss Leroy. You
should content yourself with continuing to be. A woman who does only
that acquires a charm almost supernatural. This was the occupation of
the young goddesses of old Greece. How delightful they were! The rose
was their model. They had learned the secret of its witchery. They
charmed and did nothing. To charm is never easy, but to do nothing is
the most difficult of all things, as it is, too, the most
intellectual. Yes," Orr added after a moment, "it is also a thing
which the rest of us sadly neglect."
"Oh, I say," Loftus threw in. "It is not so long ago that I heard you
maintaining that only imbeciles were idle, that everybody should have
something to do. You are rather contradictory, don't you think?"
"No, not a bit; and for the reason that then I was speaking of the
generality of people, and now of the exceptional few. The idleness of
the imbecile is always imbecilic, but the dreams of a poet have spells
that enthrall. Try to fancy a busy poet. You cannot. It is an anomaly
at which the imagination balks. By the same token you cannot fancy a
useful Venus. You cannot fancy Psyche occupied with anything but love.
Love is--or rather, should be--woman's sole occupation. The perfume of
Eros should be about them all."
"The perfume of Eros!" muttered Annandale, to whom the phrase
appealed. "The perfume of Eros!" he repeated and helped himself to
wine. "I say, Orr, what the dickens is that?"
"Only the motor force of the universe."
"What?"
"Yes, indeed. It is the sublimate of love. And love is the source of
human activity. It has no other. Without it civilization would
retrograde and society return to the woods. Love is the basis of
tragedy, the woof of romance, the incentive of commerce, of crime too,
of heroism as well."
"My!" said Marie, whom the brief deluge of words amazed. "My!"
"I must get that off," Annandale muttered. In the sotto voce of
thought he added, "to Sylvia." Obviously, he had had his fill. He
stood up, making an excuse, imperceptibility lurching as he did so.
It was after ten. Long since coffee had been served. Orr, too, got up.
He thanked his hostess. The other men imitated him. Loftus and Marie
were alone.
Loftus went to a window. Then he turned. "Put on your hat, little
girl, and we will go out; though, after all, I do not see that you
need bother with a hat, unless you prefer."
"I will do as you wish, dear."
Presently they were in Lexington avenue, a moment more, in Gramercy
Park. Loftus, after fumbling for his key, opened one of the little
gates. Within was silence. Occasionally, from the pavement without
came the sound of footsteps.
Loftus and Marie seated themselves on a bench near the gate through
which they had entered. Loftus was smoking. A boy passed; stopped, and
sticking his nose through the railings, called: "Hi, mister, will you
give me a light?"
Loftus made no answer. The boy called again. "Will you? And a cigar
with it?"
Then he laughed and passed on. The silence increased. In the air was a
fragrance, the clinging odor of the honeysuckle, the clean smell of
fresh turf. Beyond, the great dim houses that front the park gave the
place and the hour an accent of their own.
"I like it here," said Marie, "it is so elegant."
"Never let me hear you use that word again. It is provincial, suburban
and, worse, it is shopgirl."
"Yes, dear."
"This evening I saw you eat an ice with a spoon. Never do that. Use a
fork."
"Yes, dear."
Appeased by this docility, Loftus condescended to agree in turn with
her. He, too, liked the park. At night, when the weather was decent,
always he sat there a bit quite by himself. He had done so for years.
He told her this, adding confidentially, "It is a habit."
To Marie the habit seemed most poetic. She said so, explaining that
she was very fond of poetry.
Loftus looked up at the stars. "The only real poetry is there. By the
way, do you believe in God?"
Marie, uncertain of her lover's creeds, hesitatingly glanced at him.
"Yes--in a way. But I won't, if you object."
This self-abnegation pleased Loftus. He twisted his mustache and
smiled. "But no, you little goose, I don't object in the least. On the
contrary. It is right and proper that you should."
Gratified at this encouraging indulgence the girl's hand stole into
his. Then for awhile they sat and talked about nothing whatever,
which, of all subjects, is, perhaps, the least disagreeable. Wearying
at last even of that, they got up to go.
At the gate Marie drew back. A man was passing, swaying uncertainly,
arguing with himself.
"Why! it is Mr. Annandale," the girl in a frightened whisper murmured.
"I wonder where he got all that liquor?" Loftus queried. "Not at
Sylvia Waldron's, I'll wager."
"Sylvia Waldron! What a sweet name," said Marie. "Who is she?"
"The girl he is engaged to."
"Is she pretty?"
"Oh, tall and dark, don't you know. Not at all my style."
But now night had swallowed Annandale. Loftus and Marie passed on.
CHAPTER VI
THE YELLOW FAY
At noon the next day Annandale was not awake nor was he asleep.
Through spaces in which memories met, entangled and sank, he was
groping in search of himself. In these spaces there were things, some
formless, others half-formed, that got between consciousness and
interfered with the search.
These things pulled at him, tripped him, shoved him down to the
memories that were sinking below. The spaces themselves were very
dark. But, in the deeper depths, where memories swooned, the darkness
was punctuated by slender flames the size of pins. They burned him.
Up and away he tried to rise. When he nearly succeeded, the things
above, the things half-formed and formless that were waiting there,
pushed him back. Again he tried. But the darkness was thick, the
depths were thunderous, the things above pounded on his head, the thin
flames lapped at him.
A force took and lifted him high, very high, and suddenly dropped him.
In the abrupt descent he clutched at the things, but he was whirled
through them to receding plains and up again, higher, still higher.
There a ray filtered, in the light of which a memory staggered. He saw
himself drinking in the rooms of that girl of Loftus. From there he
passed into blankness at the end of which stood Sylvia, her face white
and drawn. The vision vanished. Then it seemed to him that he was
drinking with a fat man who had prominent teeth which he took from his
mouth and changed into dice. But where? In hell, perhaps. Annandale
was uncertain. He knew merely that he had been beastly drunk and that
his head was simply splitting.
It continued to split. Hours later, sedatives and his servant aiding,
the splitting ceased. But the blanks did not fill and though behind
them he could not look, yet the subconscious self that registers and
retains everything we do and hear and say prompted him dumbly that
behind the blanks there lurked the dismal and, perhaps, the dire.
This foreboding he attributed to his nerves. As a matter of fact they
were rather shaky. But inaction was intolerable. He tried to write a
note to Sylvia, but his hand was insufficiently steady. Failing in
that he told Harris to get some flowers, take them to Miss Waldron,
and say that he would call that evening. When later the man returned
he brought no answer to the message.
"Was Miss Waldron out?" Annandale asked.
"I could not say, sir. I gave the flowers to the maid, and said as how
you would call this evening, sir. The maid came back and said Miss
Waldron would not be at 'ome."
At this Annandale flushed. It is true he was flushed already. But the
affront was a little more than he could stand. Was he not engaged to
her? What did she mean? Yet, then, too, what had he done? He wished to
the devil he could tell. Try, though, as he might, he could not recall
a thing except a vision of the girl's face, white, drawn and angered.
The rest was not blurred, it was blank. It was extremely unfortunate,
and Annandale decided that he was both unhappy and misused.
These meditations Harris interrupted.
"Mr. Orr, sir."
Annandale, who had been far away, looked up. Then he nodded.
A moment and Orr entered, eying Annandale curiously as he came.
"What a deuce of a chap you are," he began.
"Who? I? Why? Why do you say that?"
Orr looked about the room, contemplated a wide lounge of black
leather, selected a straight-backed chair instead and seated himself,
his hat and stick in his hand.
"You know well enough," he answered. "But there," he added at a
protest from Annandale, "I don't propose to scold you. My visit is
purely official. Sylvia has asked me to inform you that the engagement
is at an end."
Had any little dog which Annandale did not possess run out from
nowhere and bit him fiercely on the leg, he could not have started
more. He stared at Orr, who stared at him.
"But! It is impossible! What have I done?"
"It would be more to the point," Orr cheerfully replied, "to ask what
you have not done. Though just what you did do Sylvia omitted to
state. She said she could not."
"Could not tell you?"
"Could not or would not."
"Then I can't," said Annandale helplessly. "I went there last evening,
I remember that. I remember, too, that she was angry. But why I do
not know. Though, to be candid, she had cause to be. I was drunk."
"You seemed all right at the Arundel," Orr objected.
"At all events, drunk or sober, I cannot recall a thing. I have tried.
I have tried hard. It has gone."
