or the great fogs rolled down from the tule lands 
of the north and in from the sea, making the shivering San Franciscan forget that not ten miles 
away the sun was as prodigal as youth. For a 
few weeks San Francisco had her springtime, 
when the days were warm and the air of a wonderful lightness and brightness, the atmosphere 
so clear that the flowers might be seen on the 
islands, when man walked with wings on his feet 
and a song in his heart ; when the past was done 
with, the future mattered not, the present with its 
ever changing hues on bay and hill, its cool electrical breezes stirring imagination and pulse, was 
all in all. 
And it was in San Francisco's springtime that 
Concha Argiiello made chocolate for the Russian 
to whom she was to give a niche in the history of her land; and sang at her task. She 
whirled the molinillo in each cup as it was 
filled, whipping the fragrant liquid to froth, 
pausing only to scold when her servant 
stained one of the dainty saucers or cups. 
Poor Rosa did not sing, although the spring attuned her broken spirit to a gentler melancholy 
than when the winds howled and the fog was cold 
in her marrow. She had been sentenced by the 
last Governor, the wise Borica, to eight years of 
domestic servitude in the house of Don Jose Argiello for abetting her lover in the murder of his 
wife. Concha, thoughtless in many things, did 
what she could to exorcise the terror and despair 
that stared from the eyes of the Indian, and puzzled her deeply. Rosa adored her young mistress 
and exulted even when Concha's voice rose in 
wrath; for was not she noticed by the loveliest 
senorita in all the Californias, while others, envious, and spiteful to a poor girl no worse than 
themselves, were ignored? 
 
Concha's cheeks were as pink as the Castilian 
roses that grew even before the kitchen door and 
were quivering at the moment under the impassioned carolling of a choir of larks. Her black 
eyes were full of dancing lights, like the imprisoned sun-flecks under the rose bush, and never 
had indolent Spanish hands moved so quickly. 
" Mira ! Mira ! ' ' she cried to the luckless Eosa. 
" That is the third time thou hast spilt the chocolate. Thy hands are of wood when they should 
be of air. A soft bit of linen to clean them, not 
that coarse rag. Dios de mi alma! I shall send 
for Malia." 
" For the love of Mary, senorita, have pity! '' 
wailed Eosa. " There — see — thanks to the Virgin I have poured three cups without spilling a 
drop. And this rag is of soft linen. Look, Dona 
Concha, is it not true? '' 
" Bueno; take care thou leavest not one drop 
on a saucer and I will forgive thee — do not kiss 
my hand now, foolish one ! How can I whirl the 
molinillo? Be always good and I will burn a 
candle for thee every time I go to the Mission. 
The Eussians go to the Mission this morning. 
Hast thou seen the Eussians, Eosa? '' 
" I have seen them, seniorita. Did I not serve 
at table yesterday? " 
 
" True; I liad forgotten. What didst thou 
think of them? '' 
" What matters it to such great folk what a 
poor Indian girl thinks of them? They are very 
fair, which may be the fashion in their country; 
but I am not accustomed to it; and I like not 
beards.'' 
" His excellency wore no beard — he who sat 
on my mother's right and opposite to me." 
' ' He is very grand, senorita ; more grand than 
the Governor, who after all has red hair and is 
old. He is even grander than Don Jose, whom 
may the saints preserve; or than the padres at 
the Mission. Perhaps he is a king, like our King 
and natural lord in Spain. (El rey nuestro y 
sefior natural.) Is he a king, senorita? " 
" No, but he should be. Rosa, thou mayst have 
my red cloak that came from Mexico — last year. 
I have a new one and that is too small. I had intended to give it to Ana Paula, but thou art a 
good girl and should have a gay mantle for Sunday, like the other girls. I have also a red ribbon for thy hair " 
Rosa spilt half the contents of the chocolate 
pot on the floor and Concha gave her a sound box 
on the ear. However, she did not dismiss her, a 
sentence for wliich the trembling girl prepared 
herself. 
" Make more — quickly! " cried the lady of 
caprice. " They come. I hear them. But this is 
enough for the first. Make the rest and beat with 
the molinillo as I have done, and Malia will bring 
all to the corridor. " 
She ran to her room and her mirror. Both 
were small, the former little more luxurious than 
the cell of a nun. But the roses hung over the 
window, the birds had built in the eaves, and over 
the wall the sun shone in. In one corner was an 
altar and a crucifix. If the walls were rough and 
white, they were as spotless as the hands that 
shook out and then twisted high the fine dusky 
masses of hair. When a fold had been drawn 
down over either ear, in the modest fashion of the 
California maid and wife, and the tall shell comb 
had fastened the rest, Concha instead of finishing 
the head-dress with her long Spanish pins, divested 
the stems of two half -blown roses of their thorns 
and thrust them obliquely through the knot. 
Her dress was of simple white linen made with a 
very full skirt and little round jacket, but embroidered by her own deft fingers with the color 
she loved best. She patted her frock, rolled down 
 
her sleeves, and went out to the " corridor '' 
to stand demurely behind her mother as the 
Eussians, escorted by Father Ramon Abella, rode 
into the square. 
Rezanov had intended merely to pay a call of 
ceremony upon the hospitable Argiiellos, but 
after he had dismounted and kissed the hands of 
the smiling seiiora and her beautiful daughter 
he was nothing loath to linger over a cup of 
chocolate. 
It was served out there in the shade of the 
vines. Rezanov and Concha sat on the railing, 
and the man stared over his cup at the girl with 
the roses touching her cheek and ruffling her hair. 
'' Do you like chocolate, senor! " asked 
Concha, who was not in the intellectual mood of 
yesterday. " I made it myself — I and my poor 
Eosa." 
" It is the most delectable foam I have ever 
tasted. I am interested to know that it has the 
solid foundation of a name. What is the matter 
with your Rosa? '' 
" She is an unfortunate. Her lover killed his 
wife, and it is said that she is not innocent herself. The lover serves in chains for eight years, 
and she is with us that we may make her repent 
 
and keep her from further sin. She is very unhappy and will marry the man when his punishment is over. I am very sorry for her.'' 
" Fancy you living close to a woman like that ! 
I find it detestable." 
'' Why? — if I can do her good — and make her 
happy, sometimes! " 
" Does she ever talk about her life — before she 
came here! " 
" Oh, no ; §he is far too sad. Once only, when 
I told her I would pray for her in the Mission, 
she asked me to burn a candle that her lover 
might serve his sentence more quickly and come 
out and marry her. Will you light one for her 
to-day, sehor? " 
" With the greatest pleasure; if you really 
want your maid to marry a man who no doubt 
will murder her for the sake of some other 
woman. ' ' 
" Oh, surely not! He loves her. I know that 
many men love more than once, but when they 
are punished like that, they must remember." 
" Is it true that you are only sixteen? Is that 
an impertinent question? I cannot help it. 
Those years are so few, and so much wisdom has 
gone into that little head." 
" Sixteen is quite old." Concha drew herself 
 
up with an air of offended dignity. " Elena. 
Castro, who lives on the other side, is but eigh- 
teen and she has three little ones. The Virgin 
brought them in the night and left them in the 
big rosebush you see before the door — one at a 
time, of course. Only the old nurse knew; the 
Virgin whispered it while she was saying a prayer 
for Elena; and early in the morning she came 
and found the dear little baby and put it in Elena's 
arms. I am the godmother of the first — Conchitita, 
In Santa Barbara, where we lived for some years, 
Anita Amanda Carillo, the friend of Ana Paula 
is married, although she is but twelve and sits on 
the floor all day and plays with her dolls. She 
prays every night to the Virgin to bring her a 
real baby, but she is not old enough to take care 
of it and must wait. Twelve is too young to 
marry. ' ' Concha shook her head. Her eyes were 
wise, and Eezanov noted anew that her mouth 
alone was as young as her years. " My father 
would not permit such a thing. I am glad he is 
not anxious we should marry soon. I should love 
to have the babies, though; they are so sweet to 
play with and make little dresses for. But my 
mother says the Virgin does not bring the little 
ones to good girls — poor Eosa had one but it died 
— until their parents find them a husband first. I 
have never wanted a husband '' Conclia 
darted a swift glance over her shoulder, but Santiago was in the clutches of the learned doctor 
and wishing that he knew no Latin; ''so I go 
every day and play with Elena's babies, which is 
well enough." 
Eezanov listened to this innocent revelation 
with the utmost gravity, but for the first time in 
many years he was conscious of a novel fascination in a sex to which he had paid no niggard's 
tribute. In his world the married woman 
reigned; it was doubtful if he had ever had ten 
minutes conversation with a young girl before, 
never with one whose face and form were as 
arresting as her crystal purity. He was fascinated, but more than ever on his guard. As he 
rode over the sand hills to the Mission she clung 
fast to his thoughts and he speculated upon the 
woman hidden away in the depths of that lovely 
shell like the deep color within the tight Castilian buds that opened so slowly. He recalled 
the personalities of the young officers that surrounded her. They were charming fellows, gay, 
kindly, honest; but he felt sure that not one of 
them was fit to hold the cup of life to the exquisite 
young lips of Concha Argiiello. The very thought 
disposed him to twist their necks. 
The Mission San Francisco de Assisi stood at 
the head of a great valley about a league from the 
Presidio and facing the eastern hills. Behind it, 
yet not too close, for the priests were ever on 
their guard against Indians more lustful of loot 
than salvation, was a long irregular chain of hills, 
breaking into twin peaks on its highest ridge, 
with a lone mountain outstanding. It was an 
imposing but forbidding mass, as steep and bare 
as the walls of a fortress; but in the distance, 
north and south, as the range curved in a tapering arc that gave the valley the appearance of a 
colossal stadium, the outlines were soft in a 
haze of pale color. The sheltered valley between 
the western heights and the sand hills far down 
by the bay where it turned to the south, was green 
with wheat fields; and a small herd of cattle 
grazed on the lower slopes. The beauty of this 
superbly proportioned valley was further en- 
hanced by groves of oaks and bay trees, and by 
a lagoon, communicating with an arm of the bay, 
which the priests had named for their Lady of 
 
Sorrows — Nuestro Senora de los Dolores. The 
little sheet of water was almost round, very green 
and set in a thicket of willows that were green, 
too, in the springtime, and golden in summer. 
Near its banks, or closer to the protecting Mission — on whose land grant they were built — were 
the comfortable adobe homes of the few Spanish 
pioneers that preferred the bracing north to the 
monotonous warmth of the south. Some of these 
houses were long and rambling, others built about 
a court ; all were surrounded by a high wall, after 
a brief interval of garden where the Castilian 
roses grew even more luxuriantly than at the 
Presidio. The walls, like the houses, were white, 
and on those of Don Juan Moraga, a cousin of 
Doiia Ignacia Argiiello, the roses had been trained 
to form a border along the top in a fashion that 
reminded Rezanov of the pink-edged walls of 
Fiesole. 
The white red-tiled church and the long line 
of rooms adjoining were built of adobe with no 
effort at grandeur, but with a certain noble simplicity of outline that harmonized not only with 
the lofty reserve of the hills but with the innocent 
hope of creating a soul in the lowest of human 
bipeds. The Indians of San Francisco were as 
 
immedicable as they were hideous; but the 
fathers belabored them with sticks and heaven 
with prayer, and had so far succeeded that if as 
yet they had sown piety no higher than the knees 
they had trained some twelve hundred pairs of 
hands to useful service. 
On the right was a graveyard, with little in it as 
yet but rose trees ; behind the church and the many 
spacious rooms built for the consolation of virtue 
in the wilderness was a large building surrounding a court. Girls and young widows occupied the cells on the north side and the work rooms 
on the east, while the youths, under the sharp eye 
of a lay brother, were opposite. All lived a life of 
unwilling industry: cleaning and combing wool, 
spinning, weaving, manufacturing chocolate, 
grinding corn between stones, making shoes, 
fashioning the simple garments worn by priest 
and Indian. Between the main group of buildings 
and the natural rampart of the " San Bruno 
Mountains '' was the Eancheria, where the families lived in eight long rows of isolated huts. 
In spite of vigilance an Indian escaped now 
and again to the mountains, where he could he 
naked in the sun and curse the fetich of civilization. As the Eussians approached, a friar, with 
deer-skin armor over his cassock, was tugging 
at a recalcitrant mule, while a body-guard of four 
Indians stood ready to attend him down the coast 
in search of an enviable brother. The mule, as if 
in sympathy with the fugitive, had planted his 
four feet in the earth and lifted his voice in derision, while the young friar, a recruit at the 
Mission, and far from enamored of his task, 
strained at the rope, and an Indian pelted the 
hindquarters with stones. Suddenly, the mule 
jflung out his heels, the enemy in the rear 
sprawled, the rope flew loose, the beast with a 
loud bray fled toward the willows of Dolores. 
But the young priest was both agile and angry. 
"With a flying leap he reached the heaving back. 
The mule acknowledged himself conquered. The 
body-guard trotted on their own feet, and the 
party disappeared round a bend of the hills. 
Eezanov laughed heartily and even the glum 
visage of Father Abella relaxed. 
" It is a common sight. Excellency,'' he said. 
" We are thankful to have a younger friar for 
such fatiguing work. Many a time have I belabored stubborn mules and bestrode bucking 
mustangs while searching for one of these un- 
grateful but no doubt chosen creatures. It is the 
The white red-tiled church "* built of adobe, with no effort 
at grandeur but with a certain novel simplicity of outline. 
 
will of God, and we make no complaint; but we 
are very willing, Father Landaeta and I, that 
youth should cool its ardor in so certain a fashion 
while we attend to the more reasonable duties at 
home. ' ' 
They dismounted at the door of the church. 
The horses were led off by waiting Indians. The 
soldier on guard saluted and stepped aside, and 
the party entered. Two priests in handsome vestments stood before the altar, but the long dim 
nave was empty. The Eussians had been told 
that a mass would be said in their honor, and they 
marched down the church and bent their knees 
with as much ceremony as had they been of the 
faith of their hosts. When the short mass was 
over, Eezanov bethought himself of Concha's request, and whispering its purport to Father 
Abella was led to a double iron hoop stuck with 
tallow dips in various stages of petition. Eezanov lit a candle and fastened it in an empty 
socket. Then with a whimsical twist of his mouth 
he lit and adjusted another. 
" No doubt she has some fervent wish, like all 
children,'' he thought apologetically. " And 
whether this will help her to realize it or not, at 
least it will be interesting to watch her eyes — 
 
and mouth — when I tell her. Will she melt, or 
flash, or receive my offering at her shrine as a 
matter of course? I'll surprise her to-night in 
the middle of a dance.'' 
He deposited a gold piece among the candles 
on the table and followed Father Abella through 
a side door. A corridor ran behind the long line 
of rooms designed not only for priests but for 
the travellers always sure of a welcome at these 
hospitable Missions. Father Abella shuffled 
ahead, halted on the threshold of a large room, 
ceremoniously invited his guests to enter. Two 
other priests stood before a table set with wine 
and delicate confections, their hands concealed 
in their wide brown sleeves, but their unmatched 
physiognomies — the one lean and jovial, the other 
plump and resigned — alight with the same smile 
of welcome. Father Abella mentioned them as 
his coadjutor Father Martin Landaeta, and their 
guest Father Jose Uria of San Jose; and then 
the three, with the scant rites of genuine hos- 
pitality, applied themselves to the tickling of 
palates long unused to ambrosial living. Responding ingenuously to the glow of their home-made 
wines, they begged Rezanov to accept the Mission, 
burn it, plunder it, above all, to plan his own day. 
 
" I hope that I am to see every detail of your 
great work,' replied the diplomatic guest of 
honor. " But at your own leisure. Meanwhile, I 
beg that you will order one of your Indians to 
bring in the little presents I venture to offer as 
a token of my respect. You may have heard that 
the presents of his Imperial Majesty were re- 
fused by the Mikado of Japan. I reserved many 
of them for possible use in our own possessions, 
particularly a piece of cloth of gold. This I had 
intended for our church at New Archangel, but 
finding the priests there more in need of punishment than reward, I concluded to bring it here 
and offer it as a manifest of my admiration for 
what the great Franciscan Order of the Most 
Holy Church of Eome has accomplished in the 
Calif ornias. Have I been too presumptuous? " 
The priests all wore the eager expressions of 
children. 
" Could we not see them first? " asked Father 
Landaeta of his superior ; and Father Abella sent 
a servant with an order to unload the horse and 
bring in the presents. 
Not a vestige of reserve lingered. Priests and 
guests sat about the table eating and drinking 
and chatting as were they old friends reunited, 
 
and Rezanov extracted much of the information 
he desired. The white population — " gente de 
razon '' — of Alta California, the peculiar province of the Franciscans — the Jesuits having been 
the first to invade Baja California, and with little 
success — numbered about two thousand, the Chris- 
tianized Indians twenty thousand. There were 
nineteen Missions and four Presidial districts — 
San Diego, close to the border of Baja California, 
Santa Barbara, Monterey, and San Francisco. 
Each Mission had an immense grant of land, or 
rancho — generally fifteen miles square — for the 
raising of live stock, agricultural necessities, and 
the grape. At the Presidio of San Francisco 
there were some seventy men, including invalids ; 
and the number varied little at the other military 
centres, Rezanov inferred, although there was a 
natural effort to impress the foreigner with the 
casual inferiority of the armed force within his 
ken. Cattle and horses increased so rapidly that 
every few years there was a wholesale slaughter, 
although the agricultural yield was enormous. 
Wliat the Missions were unable to manufacture 
was sent them from Mexico, and disposed of the 
