Again the steamboat owner interviewed Captain Hadley, and then the pair
called in Randy, to learn what he could tell about the Bangs family in
general. Our hero told all he knew, including the trouble Mr. Bartlett
was having with the iron manufacturer.
"Evidently he is a man to get money in any manner possible," mused
Andrew Shalley. "He will certainly bring suit."
"I don't believe Bob is sick," said Randy. "He must be shamming."
"I wish I knew for sure."
"Perhaps I can find out for you--if you'll give me a day or two off,"
said our hero, struck by a sudden idea.
"A good plan!" cried Captain Hadley. "Let the lad see what he can do,
by all means."
The matter was talked over, and the upshot was that on the next trip of
the steamboat Randy went ashore at Catskill, near which town Bob Bangs
and his mother were spending their vacation.
From some men at the dock our hero was enabled to find out all about
the damaged sloop, which had been returned to Catskill. It was to cost
twenty dollars to put the craft in good condition again.
"Those folks are stopping at a small hotel on the Burnham road," said
one of the dock men. "It's called the Sharon House."
"Thank you," returned our hero.
He was soon on the way to the Sharon House--since demolished by fire.
It did not take him long to cover the distance. As he approached he
looked around for some signs of the Bangs family and presently espied
Mrs. Bangs lounging in a hammock on a side veranda, reading a novel.
"I wonder if it is possible that Bob is really in bed sick?" he mused.
"If he is it's a wonder Mrs. Bangs isn't with him. But then I guess she
is a selfish woman, anyway."
Randy walked around the hotel and down to the stable. Here he met a
colored boy who helped around the horses.
"Say, can you tell me where I can find Bob Bangs?" he asked, boldly.
"Bob Bangs jest went down to the ball grounds," was the answer, which
surprised Randy not a little.
"Where are the grounds?"
"That way," and the colored boy pointed with his hand.
"I thought maybe Bob was sick."
"He ain't sick--he's only pertendin'," answered the colored boy.
Randy said no more but hurried off in the direction of the baseball
grounds. Just as he came in sight of the place, he saw a figure ahead
that looked familiar to him.
"Unless I am mistaken, that is Bob," he told himself, and hurried
closer.
It was indeed Bob Bangs, walking along as if nothing had ever happened
to him. He was smoking a cigarette. He passed into the grounds and
Randy did the same, and took a seat on a bench directly behind the rich
youth.
It was easy to see that Bob Bangs was not suffering physically. He
smoked half a dozen cigarettes, and applauded as loudly as anybody when
a good play was made.
"Fine game," said a man sitting next to Randy.
"It is," said our hero. He looked at the man and saw that he was
evidently a merchant. "Excuse me, are you from Catskill?"
"I am."
"Do you want to do me a favor if I pay you for it?"
"Well, it won't be a favor if you pay me."
"I may want your assistance and I may not. Do you see that boy there?"
"Yes."
"He doesn't look as if he was sick abed, does he?"
"Sick abed? What sort of a game is this?" and the merchant looked Randy
over with much curiosity.
"That boy's father says he is sick in bed. I want to prove that it
isn't so."
"What is the game, anyway?"
"He had an accident on the river and he wants damages from a man I work
for. It is a put-up job."
"Oh! I've heard of such things before. I know a rascal who cut his foot
with an ax and then went down to the railroad and laid the blame on a
train. He got five hundred dollars, but, later on, was found out and
sent to prison for the deception."
"Well, this isn't exactly like that. Didn't you hear about a sloop
running into the Helen Shalley a few days ago?"
"Oh, yes, a friend of mine, a passenger on the boat, told me about it.
He said the boy didn't know how to handle the craft."
"Well, that is the boy."
"Indeed!"
"Does he act as if he was hurt or suffering?"
"Not in the least."
"Would you be willing to testify to that fact, if it came to law?"
"Certainly."
"Will you give me your name and address?"
"Here is my card," and the merchant handed it over. He did not add that
he occasionally sold Captain Hadley some goods and was glad to do the
master of the steamboat a service.
The game was almost at an end when the ball was sent among the
spectators. Seeing it coming towards him, Bob Bangs leaped up and tried
to catch the sphere. It hit the tips of his fingers, stinging them
greatly. Then the ball came towards Randy and he caught it and threw it
back into the field.
"What are you doing here?" demanded Bob Bangs, as he caught sight of
our hero.
"Watching the game," answered Randy, quietly.
"Humph!"
"Pretty nice game, Bob."
"Humph!" muttered the rich boy again.
"I see you are feeling fine again."
"I am not--I am real sick," answered the rich boy, quickly.
"Sick in bed, eh?" went on our hero, with a grin.
"I was in bed."
"Last night, I suppose. So was I."
"I'm sick yet."
"You showed it--by the way you were cheering and yelling."
"When did you come in?"
"Right after you."
"Humph! Have you been watching me?"
"Yes."
"You might be in a better business," sneered the rich boy.
"I don't think so. You need watching. You and your father want to cheat
the steamboat company by pretending that you were hurt in that
collision, and here you are as well and hearty as ever," added Randy in
a loud voice, so that those nearby might hear.
"I ain't well--I'm sick."
"You said that before--but nobody will believe it."
"You're well enough to go to a ball game and yell and smoke cigarettes,
anyway," put in the merchant sitting next to Randy.
A good play brought forth a cheer from the crowd which drowned out
further talk. In the midst of the temporary excitement Bob Bangs
sneaked from the stand and from the ball grounds.
"He feels sick over this," laughed the merchant.
"Well, he can't sue the steamboat company for that sickness," laughed
our hero in return.
CHAPTER XXI
RANDY VISITS HIS HOME
As soon as he returned to the steamboat, Randy acquainted Captain
Hadley with all he had seen and heard and gave the captain the card of
the merchant.
"You have done well, Randy," said the master of the steamboat. "I fancy
this will cook Mr. Amos Bangs's goose."
At Nyack, Mr. Shalley came on board and heard what our hero had to say.
"I am glad you have a witness," said he. "I have heard of Mr. Budmister
before."
"A good business man," said Captain Hadley. "He will make a good
witness--if the case comes to a trial."
But it never did come to a trial. Andrew Shalley received one letter
from a lawyer, threatening the suit, and in return wrote back the
particulars of what Randy had learned, and added that if he heard any
more of the matter he would bring suit against Amos Bangs for
conspiracy to defraud. There the matter ended.
The captain was so pleased that when Randy asked for a three-days'
leave of absence, that he might visit his home, it was readily granted.
The boy was also given some extra pay for his work at Catskill.
Randy's homecoming brought a warm smile to the faces of his father and
his mother. His mother kissed him tenderly and his father shook hands.
"How are you feeling, father?"
"I am almost well, Randy. I expect to go to work next week."
"But not in a cellar," said the son, quickly.
"No, Mr. Jackson is going to build a wing on his house and has given me
the whole contract."
"That is good."
"I will be able to make more money than if I was working for a boss,"
went on Mr. Thompson.
"Well, you won't be sorry for that," said Randy, with a smile.
He found matters on the farm moving along nicely. The late vegetables
were coming in well and their neighbor, Jerry Borden, had given them a
helping hand.
"Say, you're a-gittin' to be a regular sailor, ain't you?" said Sammy
to Randy.
"Hardly a sailor," answered Randy, with a laugh. "I am a steamboat
deckhand."
"It's about the same thing. Wish I was a sailor."
"Maybe if you sailed on the ocean you'd get seasick, Sammy."
"I wouldn't, nuther. I was readin' about Robinson Crusoe onct. I wish I
was cast away on a barren island. It would be lots of fun."
"Especially if you had nothing to eat and to drink."
"Oh, I'd get something from the ship, as Crusoe did."
"If the ship didn't go down in the middle of the ocean."
"When I was on the island I'd sleep every morning as long as I wanted
to."
"What would you do if the savages came after you?"
"I'd fight and kill them all--that is, all but one. I'd want that one
for my man Friday."
"He ain't going to be no sailor," broke in Mrs. Borden, who overheard
the conversation. "He is going out to hunt eggs an' he is a-goin' to do
it right now, or I'll get the whip."
"I'll get the eggs," answered Sammy, and hurried off without further
delay.
"That boy is crazy to go somewhere all the time," said Mrs. Borden. "He
doesn't seem to like the farm a bit."
"Better let him look for work somewhere," said Randy. "Maybe it will
cure him of some of his notions."
"Maybe," sighed the mother.
All too soon Randy's visit had come to an end. He remained at the
little farm over Sunday, going to church with his father and his
mother, and left for the Hudson River early Monday morning.
Several days passed quietly and once more our hero fell into his
routine work. Jones was sick, so the deckhands had a little more to do
than usual. Randy pitched in with vigor, much to the satisfaction of
Malloy and Captain Hadley.
One day, while handling baggage at the dock in New York, Randy was
surprised to see Amos Bangs and a stranger come aboard. He soon lost
sight of the pair and did not see them again until the middle of the
afternoon, when he discovered them in a corner of the cabin, talking
earnestly.
"It is queer Mr. Bangs should use this boat--after his quarrel with
Captain Hadley and Mr. Shalley," said our hero to himself.
He had occasion to pass the pair a little later and was surprised to
hear the name of Mr. Bartlett mentioned.
"Don't worry; we'll down Bartlett easily enough," said the strange man,
a fellow with bushy black whiskers.
"I hope so," answered Amos Bangs.
Curious to know what they could be saying about Jack's father, and
remembering what he had heard in the past, Randy walked outside of the
cabin and close to a window which was wide open. From this point he
could hear what was said without being seen very readily.
"I don't like the way matters are standing," he heard Amos Bangs say.
"We must make our position more secure, Tuller."
"I don't see how we are to do it," answered the man with the heavy
whiskers.
"I wish I could get Bartlett to sell his stock and sign over all his
interest."
"Can you do that without making him suspicious of what is going on?"
"Humph! He is suspicious already, that's the trouble."
"Does he know about the deal with Kastner?"
"I think not."
"It will be a blow, when he hears of it."
"I don't intend he shall hear of it just yet. If I had Robinson where I
wanted him, I'd go ahead."
"Can't you get him?"
"Get him? I don't dare breathe a word to him." Amos Bangs laughed. "And
the funny part of it is, Bartlett thinks Robinson is in with us."
"You are sure of that?"
"Dead certain."
"Then you must keep Bartlett and Robinson apart."
"If I can."
"What did you do with the papers you took from Bartlett's desk?"
"They are in my safe at home."
"Why don't you destroy them?"
"I will, some time."
"It is dangerous to leave them around."
"I am the only person who knows the combination of the house safe. The
papers can't get out without me."
So the talk ran on for a good hour, during which time Randy heard many
things which appeared to be of value to Mr. Philip Bartlett. Then the
two men arose and went to the smoking room, and that was the last our
hero saw of them until they left the boat, half an hour later.
The talk he had heard set Randy to thinking. Plainly Amos Bangs and his
companion were a pair of rascals and were trying to defraud Mr.
Bartlett out of some if not all of his belongings.
"I'll have to call on Mr. Bartlett and tell him what I have heard,"
Randy told himself.
"See here!" called out Peter Polk, striding up as Randy was going to
the lower deck. "What are you loafing around here for?"
"I am going below now," answered our hero.
"You can't shirk your work that way, Thompson." The purser came closer.
"Listen," he whispered. "After this you keep your nose out of my
business."
"I didn't know I had my nose in your business, Mr. Polk."
"Oh, you can't fool me, Thompson. I know it was you went to Captain
Hadley with the story of how I was treating my relatives."
"You mean the Clares?"
"Of course I do. After this you keep your mouth shut," pursued the
purser. "If you don't--well, you'll wish you had, that's all." And
Peter Polk went away in extremely bad humor.
CHAPTER XXII
MR. BARTLETT MAKES A MOVE
As soon as the boat had tied up at Albany, and his work was at an end,
Randy attired himself in his best and took a street car for the
residence of the Bartletts. It was a humble place on a side street,
quite in contrast to the fine residence the family had occupied in
Riverport.
"Hullo, Randy!" cried Jack, as he came to the door to answer our hero's
ring. "This is a surprise. Walk right in. Did you send word that you
were coming?"
"I did not, Jack. Is your father home?"
"Yes, he is just finishing his supper."
"I want to see him."
"Had your supper?"
"Yes, I got a bite before I left the boat."
"All right--otherwise I know mother will welcome you at our table."
Jack went off to tell his father, and presently Mr. Bartlett walked in.
He looked rather care-worn and tired. Evidently his new situation was a
hard one to fill and did not agree with him.
"How do you do, Randy?" said Mr. Bartlett. "Glad to see you. Jack says
you want to see me."
"I do, Mr. Bartlett. Can I talk to you in private?"
"Certainly. Come into the parlor."
Mr. Bartlett led the way and closed the door. Then both sat down.
"I want to tell you something about Mr. Bangs and a man named Tuller,"
began Randy. "They were on the boat to-day and I overheard some of
their talk."
"Tuller, eh?" said Mr. Bartlett, and his brow darkened.
As well as he could Randy repeated the talk he had heard. Jack's father
listened with keen interest. He was astonished when Randy mentioned the
papers which had been abstracted from his desk.
"So Bangs has them in his safe at home, eh?" he cried. "Well, I am
going to get them, be the cost what it may. They belong to me, and I am
going to take them no matter where I find them."
He was equally astonished to hear that a certain Mr. Robinson was not
acting with Amos Bangs and certain other men, Tuller included.
"They gave me to understand that Robinson was with them," said Philip
Bartlett. "If Robinson will only act with me, perhaps I can do a great
deal."
"Then why don't you write to Mr. Robinson and find out?"
"I will go and see him."
"Oh, then he lives here."
"No, in Springfield. But our works are going to shut down for a few
days, so I will have ample time. Randy, I am very thankful to you for
bringing me this news."
"I hope it does you some good, Mr. Bartlett."
"I think it will. Perhaps I'll only be able to scare Bangs, but that
may make him careful, so I can get something out of my stock in the
iron works company."
"If you ever want me as a witness I will do what I can for you."
"Thank you, my lad; you are kind and I will remember what you say."
After that Mrs. Bartlett and Jack came in and learned something of what
had brought our hero to the house.
"Good for you, Randy!" cried Jack. "Father, if I were you, I'd break
into old Bangs's safe."
"Pray do nothing rash," pleaded Mrs. Bartlett. "Remember he is rich and
has many friends."
"He is certainly rich," said Randy, "but I doubt if the family have
many friends. All of them are too overbearing."
"Bangs broke into father's private desk and took the papers," went on
Jack. "It would be only tit for tat to break open the safe and get the
papers back."
"I shall see Robinson first and then make up my mind what to do,"
answered his father.
Randy spent a pleasant evening with Jack, and when it came time to go
to the boat Jack walked half the distance with our hero.
"I wish father could get what is due him," said Jack on the way. "He
can't stand the hard work he is now doing."
The next morning Randy sailed down the river on the steamboat.
Twenty-four hours later Mr. Bartlett crossed the Hudson and took a
train for Springfield. He hoped to find Mr. Robinson at one of the
banks and he was not disappointed.
The bank official--for such Mr. Robinson was--listened with interest to
all Philip Bartlett had to tell. He shook his head when Amos Bangs and
Tuller were mentioned.
"I suspected as much," said he. "I was given to understand that Bangs
had bought you out. I couldn't understand it either, for you once told
me that you did not wish to leave the works. I have just gotten back
from a trip to Europe and have a good deal to attend to here, but I
will take this matter up as soon as I possibly can."
"And you will stand in with me?" asked Mr. Bartlett, anxiously.
"If you wish it."
"I do."
"Then we must act together."
"And what would be your advice regarding those papers in Bangs's
private safe at his house?"
"Get out a search warrant and take a professional safe man along, to
open the strong box," answered the bank official, promptly. "And do not
delay either. He may take it into his head to burn the papers up."
"I will do as you say," answered Mr. Bartlett with decision.
Some of his old-time will power had come back to him and he lost not a
moment in carrying out his plans. He visited a firm dealing in safes
and from them got the address of a man who claimed to be able to open
any ordinary safe made. Then he called on this individual.
"You open safes?" he asked.
"I do--if I have the proper authority," answered the man.
"Can you open a first-class house safe?"
"Yes."
"How long will it take?"
"From five minutes to three hours."
"What are your charges?"
"Ten to fifty dollars. I'll have to see the safe before I can set a
definite figure."
"Will you be at liberty to-morrow?"
"I'll be at your service if you engage me now."
"Very well, you may consider yourself engaged. I wish you to meet me in
Riverport at about noon."
"Your own safe?"
"No."
"You'll have authority to open it?"
"I think so. I've got to go to court to get it, though."
"Ah! a legal case, eh?"
"Yes. You don't object, do you?"
"Oh, no, I have many legal cases. Had to force a safe for some lawyers
in Bridgeport only last week."
"You will not disappoint me?"
"Not at all, Mr. Bartlett."
With this understanding Philip Bartlett left the safe opener and took a
train back to his home. But, as it happened, a certain man saw him
leaving the safe opener's office. This man was none other than Tuller,
the friend to Amos Bangs.
"Bartlett, eh?" murmured Tuller to himself. "What is he doing in
Springfield?"
He chanced to know the safe opener, whose name was Westinghouse, and
presently dropped into the other's office as if by accident.
"How is business, Westinghouse?" he said, indifferently.
"Fair," was the answer. "Had two jobs last week."
"Good enough."
"How is business with you?"
"Booming. I suppose you get jobs ahead, is that it, or do you go out on
the run, so to speak?"
"Sometimes I get orders ahead, but most of the jobs come in on the
run--safe out of order, or something like that. I've got to go to
Riverport to-morrow."
"Is that so? Bank?"
"No, a private party, I reckon. Going to have a safe opened by an order
from the court, I think."
"Is that so! Well, I wish you luck on the job. Good-day."
"Good-day!" answered the safe opener.
Once on the street Tuller's face changed.
"Bartlett must have given that order, and if so he means to either open
up the safe at the iron works or else the safe at Bangs's house. I must
see Bangs and warn him, so that nothing is found which will do us
harm!"
At first he thought to telegraph, but then came to the conclusion that
it would be too risky. A letter might not be received in time.
"I'll go myself," he said, and an hour later was on his way to
Riverport.
