 

" Such a man as you ! " she repeated vaguely ; " you 
mean — " a crimson wave dyed her skin to the temples and 
she leaned toward him in horror-stricken contrition ; 
" I didn't mean that, Mr. Siward ! I — I never thought 
of that ! It had no weight, it was not in my thoughts. 
I meant only that you had assumed what is unwarranted 
— that you — your question humiliated me, knowing that 
I am engaged — knowing me so little — so " 

" Yes, I knew everything. Ask yourself why I risk 
everything to say this to you.? There can be only one 
answer." 

Then after a long silence : " Have I ever — " she be- 
gan tremblingly — " ever by word or look " 

" No." 

" Have I even " 

" No. I've simply discovered how I feel. That's 
what I was dreaming about when you asked me. I 
was afraid I might do this too soon ; but I meant to do 
it anyway before it became too late." 

" It was too late from the very moment we met, Mr. 
Siward." And, as he reddened painfully again, she 
added quickly : " I mean that I had already decided. 
Why will you take what I say so dreadfully different 
rom the way I intend it .f' Listen to me. I — I believe I 
am not very experienced yet ; I was a — astonished — 
quite stunned for a moment. Then it hurt me — and I 
said that I was not sorry for you ... I am sorry, 
now." 

And, as he said nothing : " You were a little rough, 
a little sudden with me, Mr. Siward. Men have asked 
me that question — several times ; but never so soon, so 
unreasonably soon — never without some preliminary 
of some sort, so that I could foresee, be more or less 
prepared. . . . But you gave me no warning. I — if 









you had, I would have known how to be gentle. I — I 
wish to be now. I like you — enough to say this to you, 
enough to be seriously sorry; if I could bring myself 
to really believe this — feeling " 

Still he said nothing; he sat there listlessly study- 
ing the sun spots glowing, waxing, waning on the carpet 
of dead leaves at his feet. 

" As for — what you have said," she added, a little 
smile curving the sensitive mouth, " it is impulsive, un- 
considered, a trifle boyish, Mr. Siward. I pay rnyself 
the compliment of your sincerity ; it is rather nice to be 
a girl who can awaken the romance in a man within a 
day or twe's acquaintance. . . . And that is all it is — 
a romantic impulse with a pretty girl. You see I am 
frank ; I am really glad that you find me attractive. 
Tell me so, if you wish. We shall not misunderstand 
each other again. Shall we? " 

He raised his head, considering her, forcing the smile 
to meet her own. 

" We shall be better friends than ever," she asserted 
confidently. 

" Yes, better than ever." 

" Because what you have done means the nicest 
sort of friendship, you see. You can't escape its duties 
and responsibilities now, Mr. Siward. I shall expect 
you to spend the greater part of your life in devotedly 
doing things for me. Besides, I am now privileged to 
worry you with advice. Oh, you have invested me with 
all sorts of powers now ! " 

He nodded. 

She sprang to her feet, flushed, smiling, a trifle 
excited. 

" Is it all over, and are we the very ideals of 
friends.'' " she asked. 





 

" The very ideals." 

" You are nice ! " she said impulsively, holding out 
both gloveless hands. He held them, she looking at 
him very sweetly, very confidently. 

" Allans! Without malice.'' " she asked. 

" Without malice." 

" Without afterthoughts? " 

'' Without afterthoughts." 

"And — you are content .f'" persuasively. 

" Of course not," he said. 

" Oh, but you must be." 

" I must be," he repeated obediently. 

" And you are ! Say it ! " 

" But it does not make me unhappy not to be con- 
tented " 

" Say it, please ; or — do you desire me to be un- 
happy ? " 

Her small, smooth hands lying between his, they stood 
confronting one another in the golden light. She might 
easily have brought the matter to an end ; and why slie 
did not, she knew no more than a kitten waking to con- 
sciousness under its first caress. 

" Say it," she repeated, laughing uncertainly back 
into his smiling eyes of a boy. 

" Say what.? " 

" That you are contented." 

" I can't." 

" Mr. Siward, it is unkind, it is shameless " 

" I know it ; I am that sort." 

" Then I am sorry for you. Look at that ! " turn- 
ing her left hand in his so that the jewel on the third 
finger caught the light. 

" I see it." 

" And yet—" 









" And yet." 

" That," she observed with composure, " is sheer ob- 
stinacy. . . . Isn't it.'' " 

" It is what I said it'was: a hopeful discontent." 

"How can it be.''" impatiently now, for the long, 
unaccustomed contact was unnerving her — yet she made 
no motion to withdraw her hands. " How can you really 
care for me ? Do you actually believe that — devotion — 
comes like that ? " 

" Exactly like that." 

" So suddenly ? It is impossible ! " with a twist of 
her pretty shoulders. 

" How did it come — to you? " he asked between his 
teeth. 

Then her face grew scarlet and her eyes grew dark, 
and her hands contracted in his — tightened, twisted fin- 
gers entangled, until, with a little sob, she swayed tow- 
ard him and he caught her. An instant, a minute — 
more, perhaps, she did not know— ;-she half lay in his 
arms, her untaught lips cold against his. Lassitude, 
faint consciousness, then tiny shock on shock came the 
burning revulsion ; and her voice came back, too, sound- 
ing strangely to her, a colourless, monotonous voice. 

He had freed her; she remembered that somebody 
had asked him to — perhaps herself. That was well; 
she needed to breathe, to summon strength and common- 
sense, find out what had been done, what reasonless 
madness she had committed in the half-light of the silver- 
stemmed trees clustering in shameful witness on every 
hand. 

Suddenly the hot humiliation of it overwhelmed her, 
and she covered her face with her hands, standing, almost 
swaying, as wave on wave of incredulous shame seemed 
to sweep her from knee to brow. That phase passed 





 

after a while ; out of it she emerged, flushed, outwardly 
composed, into another phase, in full self-possession once 
more, able to understand what had happened without 
the disproportion of emotional exaggeration. After all, 
she had only been kissed. Besides she was a novice, 
which probably accounted, in a measure, for the unreasonable emotion coincident with a caress to which she was 
unaccustomed. Without looking up at him she found 
herself saying coolly enough to surprise herself: " I 
never supposed I was capable of that. It appears that I 
am. I haven't anything to say for myself . . . except 
that I feel fearfully humiliated. . . . Don't say anything now ... I do not blame you, truly I do not. 
It was contemptible of me — to do it — wearing this — " 
she stretched out her slender left hand, not looking at 
him ; " it was contemptible ! " . . . She slowly raised 
her eyes, summoning all her courage to face him. 

But he only saw in the pink confusion of her lovely 
face the dawning challenge of a coquette saluting her 
adversary in gay acknowledgment of his fleeting moment 
of success. And as his face fell, then hardened into 
brightness, instantly she divined how he rated her, and 
in a flash realized her weapons and her security, and 
that the control of the situation was hers, not in the 
control of this irresolute young man who stood so silently 
considering her. Strange that she should be ashamed 
of her own innocence, willing that he believe her accomplished in such arts, enchanted that he no longer perhaps suspected genuine emotion in the swift, confused 
sweetness of her first kiss. If only all that were truly 
hidden from him, if he dare not in his heart convict her 
of anything save perfection in a gay, imprudent role, 
what a weight lifted, what relief, what hot self-contempt 
cooled ! What vengeance, too, she would take on him 









for the agony of her awakening — the dazed chagrin, 
the dread of his wise, amused eyes — eyes that she 
feared had often looked upon such scenes ; eyes no doubt 
familiar with such unimportant details as the shamed demeanour of a novice. 

" Why do you take it so seriously ? " she said, laughing and studying him, certain now of herself in this 
new disguise. 

" Do you take it lightly.'' " he asked, striving to 
smile. 

" I.'' Ah, I must, you know. You don't expect to 
marry me ... do you, Mr. Siward.f' " 

" I — " He choked up at that, grimly for a while. 

Walking slowly forward together she fell into step 
frankly beside him, near him — too near. " Try to be 
sensible," she was saying gaily ; " I like you so much — 
and it would be horrid to have you mope, you know. 
And besides, even if I cared for you, there are reasons, you know — reasons for any girl to marry the man 
I am going to marry. Does my cynicism shock you.'' 
What am I to do.f' " with a shrug. " Such marriages 
are reasonable, and far likelier to be agreeable than 
when fancy is the sole motive — certainly far more 
agreeable than an ill-considered yielding to abstract 
emotion with nothing concrete in view. . . . So, you 
see, I could not marry you even if I — " her voice was 
inclined to tremble, but she controlled it. Would she 
never leara her role .'' " even if I loved you " 

Then her tongue stumbled and was silent; and they 
walked on, side by side, through the fading splendour 
of the year, exchanging no further speech. 

Toward sunset their guide hailed them, standing high 
among the rocks, a silhouette against the sky. And 
beyond him they saw the poles crowned with the huge 





 

nests of the fish-hawks, marking the last rendezvous at 
Osprey Ledge. 

She turned to him as they started up the last incline, 
thanking him in a sweet, natural voice for his care of 
her — quite innocently — until in the questioning, uncon- 
vinced gaze that met hers she found her own eyes soft- 
ening and growing dim ; and she looked away suddenly, 
lest he read her ere she had dared turn the first page in 
the book of self — ere she had studied, pried, probed 
among the pages of a new chapter whose familiar title, 
so long meaningless to her, had taken on a sudden troub- 
ling significance. And for the first time in her life she 
glanced uneasily at the new page in the book of self, 
numbered according to her years with the figures 23, 
and headed with the unconvincing chapter title, " Love." 









The week passed swiftly, day after day echoing 
with the steady fusillade from marsh to covert, from 
valley to ridge. Guns flashed at dawn and dusk along 
the flat tidal reaches haunted of black mallard and teal ; 
the smokeless powder cracked through alder swamp and 
tangled windfall where the brown grouse burst away into 
noisy blundering flight ; where the woodcock, wilder now, 
shrilled skyward like feathered rockets, and the big 
northern hares, not yet flecked with snowy patches of 
fur, loped off" into swamps to the sad undoing of several 
of the younger setters. 

There was a pheasant drive at Black Fells to which 
the Ferralls' guests were bidden by Beverly Plank — a 
curious scene, where ladies and gentlemen stood on a 
lawn, backed by an army of loaders and gun-bearers, 
while another improvised army of beaters drove some 
thousands of frightened, bewildered, homeless foreign 
pheasants at the guns. And the miserable aliens that 
escaped the guns were left to perish in the desolation 
of a coming winter which they were unfitted to with- 
stand. 

So the first week of the season sped gaily, ending 
on Saturday with a heavy flight of northern woodcock 
and an uproarious fusillade among the silver birches. 

Once Ferrall loaded two motor cars with pioneers 
for a day beyond his own boundaries ; and one day was 
spent ingloriously with the beagles ; but othervise the 





 

Shotover estate proved more than sufficient for good 
bags or target practice, as the skill of the sportsmen 
developed. 

Lord Alderdene, good enough on snipe and cock, was 
driven almost frantic by the ruffed grouse ; Voucher did 
better for a day or two, and then lost the knack ; Marion 
Page attended to business in her cool and thorough stare, 
and her average on the gun-room books was excellent, 
and was also adorned with clever pen-and-ink sketches 
by Siward. 

Leroy Mortimer had given up shooting and estab- 
lished himself as a haunter of cushions in sunny corners. 
Tom O'Hara had gone back to Lenox ; Mrs. Vcnden- 
ning to Hot Springs. Beverly Plank, master of Black 
Fells, began to pervade the house after a tentative ap- 
pearance; and he and Major Belwcther pottered about 
the coverts, usually after luncheon — the latter doing 
little damage with his fowling-piece, and nobody knew 
how much with his gossiping tongue. Quarrier ap- 
peared in the field methodically, shot with judgment, 
taking no chances for a brilliant performance which 
might endanger his respectable average. As for the 
Page boys, they kept the river ducks stirring whenever 
Eileen Shannon and Rena Bonnesdel could be per- 
suaded to share the canoes with them. Otherwise they 
haunted the vicinity of those bored maidens, suffering 
snubs sorrowfully, but persistently faithful. They were 
a great nuisance in the evening, especially as their sister 
did not permit them to lose more than ten dollars a day 
at cards. 

Cards — that is Bridge and Preference — ruled as 
usual; and the latter game being faster suited Mortimer and Ferrall, but did not aid Siward toward recouping his Bridge losses. 

