she was at the store before she knew it, went 
in and made her purchases, and started for 
home, watching the same beautiful star until 
she came in sight of the cottage. Then she 
drew a long breath of dismay. Mamma had 
put a little tin pail in the bottom of the basket, 
and told her to leave it at the baker’s going, 
and stop for it coming back. 
‘‘O dear!” sighed Kathie, ‘T ought to have 
a fairy named Memory;” and for an instant 
she felt tempted to cry. Should she go home 
first, or carry the heavy basket back to the 
baker’s?” 
“Back to the baker’s,” said the star, though 
I think it was a fairy inside of the little girl 
called Conscience. 
“It will teach me a lesson, for I am heed- 
less;” and she turned round instantly. Then 
at the baker’s she had to take nearly all of the 
things out of the basket, and afterward she 
hurried home, to make up for lost time. 
“How quick you have been,” her mother 
said, with a smile. Kathie, like other children 
was sometimes given to loitering. “Did you 
see the boys?” 
“Oh! I forgot, mamma; but I did n’t see 
them nor hear them. I ’ll go look for them.” 
Looking for the boys was one of Kathie’s 
hardships. It was n’t pleasant to go out in the 
cold and hunt round for them; the star up in 
the blue sky seemed to challenge her to a race, 
and in a few seconds she had reached the hill 
where the boys coasted. Rob knew it was n’t 
supper-time, and did n’t want to come in. 
She took Freddy by the hand, and then 
Charley Darrell wanted her to try just once on 
his new Christmas sled, but she declined 
cheerfully, though it was something of a 
struggle to put the temptation by. Rob soon 
followed them. 
“I mean to tease mother to let me go out 
again to-night,” he exclaimed. “All the boys 
will be there.” 
“Rob,” Kathie said, with her heart in her 
throat, “I wish you ’d do something partly for 
« 
me instead.” 
“What.” rather crossly. 
“Mamma will have to go to Mrs. Grayson’s 
this evening, and I wish you would go with 
her. It will make the walk seem shorter, and 
it is my fault, for I read in my fairy book this 
afternoon when I should have gone.” 
“Bother! I wish you ’d attend to your own 
business.” 
“I ’m very sorry, Rob,” with an effort. “You 
may have my paint-box on the first rainy 
day.” 
Rob said nothing then, and ate his supper 
rather soberly. Afterward Kathie proposed 
washing the dishes, so that her mother might 
go immediately. Mrs. Alston looked pleased, 
-'and put on her shawl. 
“I ’m going along, so that no one will run 
away with you,” Rob announced, ’with an 
assumption of manliness. 
“Are you? O ! thank you.” 
Then Freddy thought he ought to go, 
though the warm room and the warm tea had 
made him look rather sleepy; besides he was 
too small a boy to take such a tramp after 
supper. 
“I ’ll put you to bed and tell you a story,” 
Kathie whispered as the others went away. 
Kathie hated washing dishes, but she went 
at it cheerfully now. It was surprising how 
soon she seemed to get through. Then she 
brushed up the room, drew Aunt Ruth’s chair 
up to the table — for she was an almost help- 
less invalid — and found all her sewing mate- 
rials. Fred was nodding in the corner by this 
time, and was rather cross when she roused 
him, but by the time she had him snugly 
tucked in bed he remembered the story. She 
wrapped a shawl around her, and commenced 
in a bright, happy voice. 
“Why, you ’re almost a fairy yourself,” Fred 
said presently, and a warm glow came to her 
face as she recalled her mother’s words. 
She could n’t transport them all to an ele- 
gant palace, she could not surround them with 
luxury, not have servants come at her call, but 
she began to think of the real fairies there 
were in the world — love, to begin with, a spirit 
who was tender, patient, self-sacrificing, never 
cross when things went wrong, never indo- 
“ Kathie hated washing dishes” 
lent when others around could be saved any 
toil or burden. 
“Oh!” she said, with a sigh, “I can never be 
such a fairy;” and she felt very humble. “But 
I will try to do a little.” 
“.What are you looking for?” Aunt Ruth 
said, as she entered the sitting-room. 
“Rob told mamma his mittens wanted mend- 
ing, and I thought I could do it;” and so she 
did, darning very well for a little girl ; and she 
was very glad the next morning when she 
heard Rob remind mamma that she had forgotten 
all about his mittens. 
Rob came home in a state of felicity. 
“I had a splendid talk with Dick Grayson,” 
he said, “and he is n’t half so proud as the boys 
make out, although he does go to the Acad- 
emy. He asked me to come over some even- 
ing ; and, oh ! Kathie, he has such lots of books, 
and a little study all by himself, where he reads 
and tries experiments, and his father is so 
pleasant and kind. Mrs. Grayson praised me 
for not letting mamma go out alone, and I 
wanted to tell her that it was your thought, 
not mine. I ought to do it always. And, 
Kathie, I shall not want the paints — at least, 
not for pay.” 
“You can have them to paint your boat/’ 
she rejoined, yielding of her own free will a 
point that she had refused Rob several times. 
“You ’re a darling,” exclaimed Rob, boy 
fashion. 
She took a long look at the star before she 
went to bed. Did it never get tired shining 
steadily on and on? Did n’t it want to go to 
some other place, or do something else — 
become a sun, or moon for instance, as any 
little boy or girl would in its place? God 
wanted it just to shine, and it did its duty. And 
He wanted her to be a helpful little girl, or else 
He would have given her a beautiful house, 
plenty of servants, and plenty of money, and 
nothing to do. There were princesses in the 
fairy stories who had everything they called 
for, but the real fairies ran to and fro, did as 
they were bidden, and never complained of the 
hard work: and a little while ago she was 
wishing to be a fairy. One of the working 
kind it must be. 
 
Kathie did not forget her resolves the next 
morning. I don’t mean you to think that she 
did everything without a bit of trouble, and 
that it was easy for her to give up her own 
wishes and pleasures. Sometimes it seemed 
very hard, and it was difficult to think in time, 
even when she was quite willing to perform a 
good action; but she remembered the star 
going on and on, and prayed for strength, for 
love, instead of wishing for idle things no one 
can ever have. 
But one day, a long while after this, some- 
thing just like a fairy-story did happen to 
Kathie. Coming home from school, she found 
a tall, foreign-looking gentleman in the sitting- 
room, talking very familiarly to her mother 
and Aunt Ruth. Cousin Robert they called 
him ; and then Kathie remembered the stories 
she had heard of Cousin Robert going to China 
years and years ago. He took her up on his 
knee and studied her face. 
‘‘What a charming little fairy you are!” he 
said, kissing her, and the warm color came to 
her cheeks. “I think I shall spirit you away to 
 
a palace I am going to have, and if your 
mother and Aunt Ruth ever want to see you 
again, they must come, too.” 
It was n’t a palace exactly, but a delightful 
home, and Cousin Robert insisted upon their 
sharing it with him, as he was all alone in the 
world. Mrs. Alston grew young and rosy 
again when relieved from the necessity of con- 
stant toil, and Aunt Ruth, always sweet and 
patient, enjoyed many things in the new life. 
But Kathie gave a wonderful charm to the 
household. She did not forget the lessons she 
had learned in adversity, and I think she 
proved a fairy to many outside of her home 
circle. Rob and Fred always thought her the 
dearest little body in the world. 
IT had come to be pretty hard lines with 
us, you see. The gov’ner had never 
held up his head, so to speak, since the 
accident on his train. He had been 
switch-tender at North Lumberton Junction 
for years and years, and I do say he was n’t to 
blame for the accident then; but big ’uns 
always do crowd out little ’uns. The way it 
was — there was an extry, you see, going up, 
a ’xcursion train, and no one had telegraphed 
a sound. The reg’lar train had gone up, the 
down was coming in about ten minutes. Gov- 
’ner went out and fixed the switch, and stood 
there with the flag in his hand looking up, 
when something come a thundering along 
right back of him. 
“‘Switch right?” sung out some one. 
“Gov’ner jumped and was blind confused. 
The train ran right off and smashed into a lot 
of coal cars standing there. It was a mercy 
he was n’t killed. 
‘‘ I would n’t so much minded bein’ killed at 
my post, like that chap you was readin’ about 
t’ other day,’ he said to me, privately after- 
ward. ‘But if I had been killed, I never 
could a’ told the truth ’bout myself, though 
nobody ’ll ever write verses ’bout me.’ 
“If I ’d had a gift that way, and known any 
newspaper man, I ’d a done it myself. 
“ ’T was n’t so bad as it might ha’ been. 
Smoking car was about empty, engineer give 
a spring, but, my! did n’t they go to flinders! 
Four killed, and lots of ’em hurt, and there was 
an awful time ! There was an inquest and tes- 
timony ’bout everything. The real truth was 
— telegram was n’t quite soon enough ; but the 
railroad people would n’t allow that. They 
compared watches and wrangled and talked, 
and smoothed matters over for everybody but 
the gov’ner, and he was marched off to jail. 
“Poor Mammy almost broke her heart. She 
was the gov’ner’s second wife. He had some 
sons, I 've heard him say, who_were well-to-do 
men, but they ’d forgot all about him. 
Mammy ’d had three children — Jack, who was 
“ ‘ Went out and fixed the switch ’ ” 
off at sea ; Kitty, who 'd met with an accident 
and was lame ; and me. My name ’s Benjamin 
Franklin Hewes, but for short they always 
call me Ben. Mammy used to read to me on 
Sundays ’bout Joseph an’ his brethren, and 
how the old gov’ner loved Benjamin, and they 
 
found the king’s cup in his sack o’ corn. But 
he come out all right in the end, and I know it 
give Mammy a good deal of faith ’bout me. 
“Well, my gov’ner had a hard time of it. A 
man come and told Mammy that it would be 
better for him to stay in jail awhile till folks 
forgot; so they kept putting off his trial, and 
bime-by they sort o’ let him go with a lecture, 
but it riled the old man awfully. It was the 
dead of winter, and he could n’t do anything 
more at North Lumberton, because, you see, it 
was n’t made plain, and all hands thought him 
to blame. 
“So we come to the city. We managed 
through the summer, but in the fall the gov- 
’ner was taken to his bed. Mother and Kitty 
sewed, but there was n’t much made by that, 
and I was on the lookout for all the odd jobs 
I could find. When a chap begins to go down 
hill seems as if ’t was always freezin’ weather 
and slippery, an’ he slides and slides with 
nothing to catch hold of, till he gets away 
down to the bottom. I see some good chances 
to get established if I ’d had five dollars or so, 
but I never did. And them that ’s regular and 
fortunate sometimes forget how it was with 
themselves in the beginning. 
‘‘Just after Thanksgiving the chap at Mam- 
my’s shop busted. He was owing her five dol- 
lars, and the loss come mighty hard. There 
would n’t be anything more for weeks and 
weeks, for ’t was a dull winter, and people 
began to talk about soup-houses then. 
“ ‘Maybe I might get a few days’ washing,’ 
said Mammy. ‘I ’ll speak to the neighbors 
’round.’ 
“ ‘I don’t know what we are going to do,’ 
put in Kitty. 
“She was a kind of pretty little thing, with 
big brown eyes and yellow hair that curled in 
a slow way and somehow looked like her pale 
face, not being crisp and kinky like some curly 
hair. Now and then I ’ve seen just such a pic- 
ture in a window, with a hungry look about it 
 
as if the poor soul wanted something that 
was n’t meat nor drink. She kept a hankering 
after the little garden we had at Junction, and 
the green fields all about. But it seemed to me 
that she looked peekeder than ever now. 
“I remember, just as if it was yesterday, 
’bout that Sunday before Christmas. I ’d had 
a streak of luck Sat’day night selling in the 
market. 
‘‘ *There ’s the rent,’ says Mammy, when I 
come home. *We must n’t touch a cent of it 
this week, so as to be sure.’ 
“It was cold and stormy on Sunday. I went 
down to the mission-school after dinner, and 
most of the talk was ’bout Christmas, and the 
Lord being born in a manger, and how poor 
and humble he was; and how that every one 
ought to do some good deed at Christmas, if 
never any other time ; and how the Lord took 
these things as sort of birthday gifts to him- 
self, and remembered every one, no matter 
how small it was. I ’d often thought I ’d like 
to be rich and send poor people tons of coal, 
and blankets, and a turkey perhaps, or some- 
thing good; but I knew I never should be. 
“I was telling them all about it in the even- 
ing, and then Kitty and me began to look over 
the pictures in Mammy’s big Bible, that was — 
I don’t know how old. We stopped at ‘Joseph 
being sold by his brethren,’ and Kitty read 
the story over again, and how Joseph forgave 
them when he came to be a great king, and 
brought his father to Egypt so ’s he might n’t 
starve to death. 
“The gov’ner was a layin’ on his bed, and he 
gave a great sigh. 
“ ‘They don’t do so nowadays,’ he said. 
‘They go off and forget. I ’ve three likely sons 
out in the new countries, with flocks, an’ 
herds, an’ wives, an’ children, but it ’s many a 
long year since any of ’em has asked if I was 
alive. An’ I s’pose bime-by Jack will be like 
’em.’ 
“ ‘But Ben won’t,’ said Kitty, softly. ‘He 
will be like this one; won’t you, Ben?’ 
“'You may bet your life on that/ says I. 
'Gov’ner, you cheer up a bit. I 've got a good 
name, and I won’t go back on it. Maybe I ’ll 
see an opening ’tween this and spring, and 
you ’ll come out like a lark some warm day. 
Somehow it seems to me as if this Christmas 
was going to do something for us.’ 
“ 'O,’ said Kitty, with a great glow in her 
eyes, 'if there only was a real Santa Claus ! Or 
if we could have three wishes!’ 
''And then we planned what we would wish 
for, and afterward Mammy asked us to sing. 
Kitty knew some carols, she was a master 
hand to remember, and the gov’ner said he 
did n’t believe it was much better out on the 
plains of Judee where the shepherds kept 
watch. But it was, you know, though it was 
just as well for him to think he had some of 
the very best. 
''On Tuesday, it was, I see one of them 
lucky chances for a little speculation, and I run 
home to Mammy for a few dollars. 
“ ‘O, Ben," she said, ‘I 've just paid it away. 
Mr. McCann came in this morning and asked 
if I had the rent handy. He wanted to use 
some money, and was hard up.’ 
‘It ’s a mean shame !’ and I was mad as a 
hen in a brush fence. ‘He could n’t collect it 
anyhow until the first, and here it ’s only the 
23d. And if I only had two dollars I know I 
could double it to-day and again to-morrow.’ 
“ ‘I ’m so sorry, Ben. But then you might 
a’ lost it, and we ’ve a roof over our heads for 
all January.’ 
“ ‘Well, it can’t be helped,’ and I started off 
again. There was another fellow standing by 
to take the chance. What could I do? The 
ground was frozen up as dry as a chip, and 
there was no boots to black except for the 
reg’lars. I put in a ton of coal, and that was 
every living thing I found to do that day. 
“I ’d had my eye on a paper route for ever so 
long, but it did just seem as if I never could 
get money enough together again for any- 
 
thing. And all the streets were looking gay 
and the stores and markets trimmed up with 
evergreens. How jolly every one seemed! 
“Next day luck was dead against me again. 
Seventy-five cents was all I made. Not a 
stiver for Christmas ! I ’d seen so many things 
I wanted to buy Kitty, and I wanted a chicken 
to make some broth for the gov’ner. I began 
to wonder if it was all true what the man said 
on Sunday. Was there a great Lord up in 
heaven who knew all about cold, and hunger, 
and had no place to lay his head, and was at 
last given up to the cruel Jews to be put to 
death? 
“ ‘That ’s a sight worse than you, Ben 
Hewes,’ I said. And then I ran round looking 
at the gay shop-windows, and listening to the 
fun and laughs, and now and then a church 
bell ringing. If Kitty had been strong enough 
to go with me it would have been quite a little 
Christmas feast. But it was a awful cold 
night. I had an armful of evergreens, for you 
see I did n’t dare spend any of my money 
buying Christmas. I was turning round a cor- 
