gether, and now two years, think of it! Oh, 
you must come to love me just as well as you 
did that Trevor girl, though I’ll promise not 
to demand so much of you ! Why so serious ? 
Did she take all your heart?” and Lorraine 
studied Helen’s countenance eagerly, as a 
gentle sort of gravity shadowed it. 
“ I liked her because she seemed to need me. 
That sounds egotistical, doesn’t it? But I 
could help her. She was homesick and long- 
ing for her own, and I had no very own. She 
interested me because she had so much love 
 
in her life, — parents, brothers, and sisters, — - 
and I seemed to understand how sad it was to 
be away from it all.” 
“ You’re a very generous girl, Helen, if you 
did that without love.” 
“ It seems to me there must be a kind of 
election in love, even in schoolgirl love. I 
have been trying to analyze it. I suppose it 
is the warm, vagrant fancy — it isn't friend- 
ship. That certainly is founded on esteem, on 
the pleasure of companionship, on traits in an- 
other that are satisfying. I am afraid I am 
not an enthusiastic girl. I don’t want to wear 
trinkets or wraps or ribbons for the love of the 
girl who possesses them. I could lend out 
mine when they were needed, but it would not 
intensify my regard for the girl. Perhaps I 
have not the nature to fall wildly in love. 
But I do like a good, honest, steady, depend- 
able friendship. Am I too commonplace ? 
And, Lorraine, I like you very much indeed. I 
am glad to be your next neighbor.” 
Lorraine flushed with pleasure. 
“ If I had been a freshman I should have 
felt jealous of Miss Trevor. We older girls 
wondered a little — we thought you were so 
dissimilar. Leslie fancied she would be a great 
drain on you, but you were always so fresh 
and strong. I like strong people. I’m rather 
weak, myself. I have a longing to play ivy 
but I think it so silly. Oh, take off your hat 
and let us consider your room, and then hunt 
up your trunk! After that we will discourse 
learnedly on the difference between love and 
friendship.” 
Lorraine’s room was very pretty, and had 
an individuality; she had not overloaded it 
with trumpery. There were a few fine en- 
gravings and photographs; her other pictures 
were in portfolios. The tea-table had some 
elegant china, the book-shelves a number of 
choice books, and there were two willow rock- 
ers, also two or three folding-chairs, in a 
corner. The window curtains were ruffled 
Swiss, but the floor rug was undeniably costly. 
It was a young girl’s cosy room. 
Helen laid her hat and wrap on the couch, 
feeling very much at home, for most of these 
adornments had been in Lorraine’s other room. 
A pleasurable emotion seemed to stir her pulse 
 
in a gentle manner; it was like coming to an 
old friend. 
“You see we are on the easterly side, 
a trifle to the south. I like the morning 
sun.” 
“ I had the sunset before.” 
“ Oh, do you remember what Longfellow 
says : ‘ The setting of the sun is like the set- 
ting of a great hope.’ I like to be out-of- 
doors where you can take in all its glory. 
There is nothing sad then. But when you 
watch it slowly creeping out of a room, you 
can’t help thinking of the dying day, and it 
brings a sort of sad feeling.” 
“ I never looked at it in quite that fashion,” 
returned Helen, thoughtfully. “ After all, it 
only goes round on the other side; some one 
else has it.” 
“ But I have to say good-by to it. And the 
sunrise is joyous.” Lorraine studied her a 
moment. “If you shouldn’t care — ” 
“ I shall like it. It will bring you to mind 
the first thing.” 
“ I am so glad that we are real friends! ” 
They walked through to the other room. It 
 
had the ordinary belongings, the study-table, 
the small set of book-shelves. 
“ I will help you arrange it. Let us send 
word about your trunk," and she touched the 
electric button. “ Then come and have a cup 
of tea, and we will talk over vacation,’ 
Helen watched the pretty deftness; Lor- 
raine was a very graceful girl. She had de- 
veloped a good deal in a year, grown taller, 
Helen thought, though she was still slim, but 
with a lithe sort of roundness. 
“Well, about the vacation?” Helen asked. 
“ We had a seaside cottage on the Jersey 
shore with several friends near by. Just above 
us was a very stylish settlement. Mother 
wouldn’t hear to real society, but there were 
girls enough to have a good, gay time in the 
usual fashion. Then father had to take a busi- 
ness journey out in Pennsylvania, and I went 
with him — and inspected two mining towns. 
It was queer and weird and quite dreadful in 
some respects. I was really afraid to go down 
in a mine; you get so full of black dust. I’d 
like to write a novel about it, if I had genius 
enough. Then he took me up to Niagara, 
which was splendid, of course, but look at 
photographs and read descriptions; I won’t 
bore you. Next summer, if all is well, he will 
take me to Canada, if I go into the seniors.” 
“ As you will, of course.” 
“ Oh, I couldn’t disappoint the dearest of 
fathers! And my brother Austin enters Yale. 
Father is great on education, and he has bound 
over Austin not to get engaged until he is 
through.” 
“ Did he exact the same promise of you? ” 
laughed Helen. 
“ Well — in a way. Mother looks out that 
I don't have any lovers. I’m not anxious. 
Oh, do you know that splendid Miss Brad- 
shaw was married in Paris? ” 
A quick color mounted to the edge of 
Helen’s hair. 
“ I had known her before at Aldred House, 
and just at the last she told me. It was all 
delightful. She came to college to escape 
another lover, and this one was truly of her 
election.” 
“ Dear me! I wonder when we will be con- 
fiding our engagement to each other! I sup- 
pose most girls hope to be married. That 
Miss Coultas — you remember the antiquarian 
— thought marriage spoiled a woman’s career. " 
But what if the woman doesn’t want a career? 
I don't believe I do. I want a lot of happiness, 
and I suppose the best and sweetest comes 
through love. Victor Hugo says, ‘ Were there 
not some who loved, the sun would be ex- 
tinguished.’ But I do not think it will be in 
our time,” laughing. “Does the tea suit? 
And those are delicious wafers. I have some 
bonbons that I haven't exhumed.” 
“ I am not a great candy girl,” remarked 
Helen. 
“ Are you not ? Then there is a point of 
agreement. I couldn’t eat fudge and caramels 
every night, and I don’t like messing over 
them. What about your vacation?” 
“ I first visited my friend, Miss Craven, 
who was here at Commencement. She has a 
lovely country home. I studied mornings, and 
then we drove about, walked, made calls, had 
some guests, and went up to West Point, which 
was most entertaining.” 
“ I do adore young military men. I wish 
my brother had chosen that career, but he is 
wild on chemistry. And then where?” 
“ To Newburgh to see the curiosities and 
the historic old town, then a week spent in 
the Catskills, and afterward a fortnight spent 
in study. I am to have two examinations to- 
morrow. Suppose I shouldn't pass! What a 
fraud I'd be! Perhaps I'd better wait before 
putting the room in order. Oh, and I came 
near leaving out a week spent in the home of 
my childhood among friends and the only 
relatives I have left ! ” 
“ Why, it sounds — crowded full.” 
“ It was,” and a smile played about Helen’s 
lips. 
“ And I've hosts of aunts and cousins. A 
number came down to visit us. Oh, you 
haven't any fear that you will not pass?” 
“ I am quite sure. You see, Professor Blake 
made me out a list, and a tough one at that. 
Unless I should get rattled — " 
“ But you seem a cool-headed girl. It was 
an immense compliment, let me tell you.” 
“ I think I owe a good deal of it to Miss 
Morse, and to my father’s reputation,” re- 
 
plied Helen, coloring with a variety of emo- 
tions. “ But I have studied in strenuous ear- 
nest. I did not dream of skipping a year, but 
I will say last year was easy.” 
“ And I know half a dozen girls who were 
eager for the prize. I wonder who will get 
it this year. There is a host of new fresh- 
men.” 
The trunk came up. There was a bevy of 
girls in the hall congratulating her. It seemed 
indeed like going among old friends, although 
there had been few real approaches to friend- 
ship. But with true class esprit they were 
proud of her. 
Helen unlocked her trunk and suit-case. 
There were pretty gowns to be shaken out and 
hung in the closet, dainty articles to be laid 
in the drawers, and a few pictures and flower 
vases to be put in place. 
“ This is my contribution,” said Lorraine, 
unwrapping a picture. “ You are so fond of 
Madonnas. And this is one of the modern 
ones, — the Sichel. I stood between that and 
the Gabriel Max. In one I like the mother’s 
face, in the other, the child. But this is un- 
 
deniably a young Jewish girl, and she looks 
as if she might have a presentiment of the 
coming years, and the child is just sweet, un- 
conscious babyhood. I have one in my room 
at home.” 
“ It is most gracious and lovely of you, and 
I hardly know how to thank you. Shall I 
tell you the story of my first Madonna?” 
“ Oh, do please! ” Lorraine entreated. “ I 
like to hear stories of happenings in people’s 
lives, and you seem to have had no end of 
romances.” 
A flush and a smile wavered over Helen’s 
face. After all, they were romances. Was 
not life full of them, only some seemed prosaic 
in the passing? And she related the incident 
of being sent over to Hope Centre to do er- 
rands for Aunt Jane when she was a little girl 
and she had first seen the Bodenhausen Ma- 
donna in a window. “ And then I really knew 
nothing about pictures. I was an ignorant 
little country girl,” she added. 
“ I can’t believe you were ever very igno- 
rant — of yourself. Is that a paradox?” 
laughing. “ There are people who understand 
intuitively, and do not have to go to books for 
everything. The books are the helpers, of 
course. Then there are people, girls, who do 
not seem to take in anything until they have 
found it in a book. I’m just glad through 
and through that you are my neighbor. We 
shall have some nice talks this winter, and we 
shall be studying the same things. Two years ! 
Think of it!” 
Lorraine’s face was alight with enthusiasm. 
Helen wondered how she had come to be 
so well liked. 
They presently had the room in order, and it 
looked quite cosy, though Helen admitted she 
would like a pile of cushions in the corner, 
but she strictly forbade Lorraine to give her 
any. 
“You are a proud girl, Helen Grant, but 
some one says there is as much virtue in ac- 
cepting a favor gracefully as in bestowing one. 
Write that down in Memory’s copy-book.” 
There was a mischievous glint in her eyes, as 
she turned them on Helen in a little triumph. 
“ Now let us go out for a walk before we get 
into a dispute.” 
There was a crowd of girls around the en- 
trance and on the steps of Garth Hall. Some 
of them rushed out and captured Helen. And 
there was Betty Gamier, her frock not quite 
long, and her hair still in a big braid behind, 
tied with a black ribbon, the girl who had won 
glory for the freshmen in the basket-ball con- 
test. 
“ I think we sophs are going to beat the 
juniors next time,” she laughed. “ My 
brother gives me great credit for playing a 
fine game, and he has been putting me 
through such a course of study that I may skip 
a class. But it was an awful experience,” and 
she made a wry face. “ I'm really afraid much 
learning will make me mad, spoil my temper 
completely. Oh, why must we be continually 
scrambling up the tree of knowledge? Well, 
— a happy year to everybody," and she flashed 
off. ** 
There, too, was complacent Bessie Cochran, 
bowing and smiling to everybody, and also 
numerous freshmen getting acquainted. All 
was stir and bustle, and there was much 
laughter among the older students, while some 
girls stood solitary and uncertain. Helen felt 
moved to go to them, but just then she espied 
Miss Morse. 
“ Let us cross over and speak to her,” said 
Helen. “ She wrote me such a delightful 
letter ! ” 
“ You must not feel compelled to drag me 
everywhere, just because we are going to be 
neighbors,” said Lorraine, mirthfully. “ Only, 
I like Miss Morse, and shall be in some of her 
classes, as well.” 
Miss Morse saw then, and turned with a 
cordial greeting. Her eyes questioned Helen. 
“ Oh, Lve been wrestling like a good sol- 
dier ! ” said Helen. “ I do believe I am ready 
to go into battle to-morrow morning, hoping 
to keep my credit up, thanks to your interest. 
And Professor Blake was so good. He gave 
me the very hardest problems.” 
“ That’s a new way of putting goodness to 
the fore. I haven't had any doubt of you. 
And did you see your old friend, Mr. Wal- 
ters?” 
“ I spent a delightful half-day with him, 
and he is so interested in your brother, and 
longs to see him. And he hopes to make your 
acquaintance, also. I can’t make that old 
time seem real — it appears as if it must have 
been in some other life. ’ 
“ Old time! What will you say at thirty? ” 
and a gleam of amusement crossed Miss 
Morse’s rather grave face. 
“ So much has happened since then.” 
“ And much more to come. We look as if 
there would be a big freshman class this year, 
but it will have some left-overs in it. Every 
year girls seem more desirous to enter col- 
lege. If they were only as ambitious to 
study! Still, a year of discipline has some 
results. What a glorious day it has been! 
Are you in the mood for a walk? I have 
been unpacking and settling until I feel abso- 
lutely stuffy, and long for a draught of this 
invigorating west wind. 
They had a delightful ramble just in the 
edge of the wood, and left college lore quite 
behind them. Miss Morse’s vacation had been 
very entertaining. “ Only,” she explained, 
“ my brother and I wished for some young 
people. Oddly enough, we have no nieces or 
 
nephews nearer than Colorado. One sister, 
older than either of us, married, and went out 
there. She died and left three children, and 
her husband married again a very nice woman, 
who has none of her own, and is not willing 
to give any of them up. And my brother is 
very fond of children. When we come to live 
together we shall open an orphan asylum.” 
Helen told of Miss Craven’s proteges, and 
interested Miss Morse very much. 
“ Your friend must have a very fine char- 
acter,” she said with enthusiasm. “ I am 
glad she is one of the women who know how 
to use money wisely, and — yes — I am proud 
of her being a single woman and having her 
heart set on a home. Every year, enjoyable 
homes seem falling more into disuse. Even 
the rich have three or four that they only 
stay in a certain length of time, and can have 
no real home affection or delight. We have 
come largely to have mere staying-places. So 
I am glad to hear of some real home-makers 
in the world.” 
“ You would like her, I am sure,” said 
Helen, eagerly. 
 
“ I shall be glad to see her again, and I 
rejoice that you have such a friend. ” 
Helen went to her examinations the next 
morning. Lorraine was waiting for her. 
“Oh, it is all right!” she cried with joy. 
“ I can tell it by your face.” 
Helen gave a gay little laugh. 
“ So you read faces easily. I shall have to 
be on the watch. There is one more, but if 
I had a condition, I could soon make it up.” 
“ Let us go out and see the girls ; Leslie is 
not here to welcome them. There have been 
several new appointments. I know well 
enough how to approach some girls, but I'm 
really awkward with others. And then I won- 
der if they will like me. That’s self-seeking, 
I suppose,” said Lorraine, with a half-smile. 
“ I believe it is nobler to rise superior to 
that, and think only of the duty. But it is 
inspiriting to be met half-way.” 
“ And many girls are willing to come all 
the way and bestow themselves upon you in 
a wholesome fashion. Mother is always cau- 
tioning me against hasty friendships, but I 
liked you at once.” 
 
“ Thank you.” Helen squeezed her hand. 
Girls were still coming in, many of them 
with a confident look, sure of their present 
standing. There were eager greetings; there 
were girls who stood apart, lonely ; there were 
