one weep. No heart have I harmed."
The assessors listen. "I have not been anxious. I made no one weep. No
heart have I harmed." These abstentions, graces now, were virtues
then, and so efficacious that they perhaps sufficed, as rightly they
should, for absolution.
But while the assessors listen and Osiris looks gravely on, no one
accuses. It is conscience in its nakedness, conscience exposed there
where all may see it, where for the first time perhaps it truly sees
itself, and seeing realizes what there is in it of evil and what of
good, it is that which protests.
Still the assessors listen. Orthodoxy on the part of the respondent is
to them a minor thing. What they require is that he shall have been
merciful to his fellow creatures, true to himself. Only when it is
proven that he has done his duty to man, is he permitted to show that
he has done his duty to gods.
The appeal continues: "I fed the hungry, clothed the naked, I gave
water to them that thirsted. O ye that dwell in Amenti! I am
unpolluted, I am pure."
But is it true? The scales decide. The heart of the respondent is
weighed. If heavy, out it is cast to pass with him again through
life's infernal circles. But, if light as the feather in the balance
and therefore equal with truth, it is restored to the body, which then
resurrects and, in the bark of the Sun, sails the celestial Nile to Râ
and the Land of Light.
That singer gone out of Amenti, actually, like Osiris, rose from the
dead. The picture which a papyrus forty centuries old presents, is the
dream of a vision that Michel Angelo displayed, a sketch for a papal
fresco. Such indeed was the conformity between the underlying
conceptions, that, at almost the first monition, Isis, whose veil no
mortal had raised, lifted it from her black breast and suckled there
the infant Jesus. Then, presently, in temples that had teemed, the
silence of the desert brooded. The tide of life retreated, an entire
theogony vanished, exorcised, both of them, by the sign of the cross.
At sight of the unimagined emblem, a priesthood who in secret
sanctuaries had evolved nearly all but that, flung themselves into
crypts beneath, pulled the walls down after them, burying unembalmed
the arcana of a creed whose spirit still is immortal.
In Egypt, then, only tombs and necropoles survived. But it is
legendary that, in the solitudes of the Thebaïd, dispossessed eidolons
of Râ, appearing in the shape of chimeras, terrified anchorites, to
whom, with vengeful eyes, they indicated their ruined altars.
IV
BEL-MARDUK
The inscriptions of Assyrian kings have, many of them, the monotony of
hell. Made of boasts and shrieks, they recite the capture and sack of
cities; the torrents of blood with which, like wool, the streets were
dyed; the flaming pyramids of prisoners; the groans of men impaled;
the cries of ravished women.
The inscriptions are not all infernal. Those that relate to
Assurbanipal--vulgarly, Sandanapallos,--are even ornate. But
Assurbanipal, while probably fiendish and certainly crapulous, was
clearly literary besides. From the spoil of sacked cities this
bibliofilou took libraries, the myths and epics of creation, sacred
texts from Eridu and Ur, volumes in the extinct tongues of Akkad and
Sumer, first editions of the Book of God.
These, re-edited in cuneiform and kept conveniently on the second
floor of his palace, fell with Nineveh, where, until recently
recovered, for millennia they lay. Additionally, from shelves set up
in the days of Khammurabi--the Amraphel of Genesis--Nippur has yielded
ghostly tablets and Borsippa treasuries of Babylonian ken.
These, the eldest revelations of the divine, are the last that man has
deciphered. The altars and people that heard them first, the marble
temples, the ivory palaces, the murderous throngs, are dust. The
entire civilization from which they came has vanished. Yet, traced
with a wooden reed on squares of clay, are flights of little arrows,
from which, magically, it all returns. Miraculously with these books a
world revives. Fashioned, some of them, at an epoch that in biblical
chronology is anterior to man, they tell of creation, of the serpent,
the fall and the deluge. At the gates of paradise you see man dying,
poisoned by the tree of life. Before Genesis was, already it had been
written.
In the Chaldean Book of the Beginnings creation was effected in
successive acts. According to the epic of it, humanity's primal home
was a paradise where ten impressive persons--the models, it may be, of
antediluvian patriarchs--reigned interminably, agreeably also, finally
sinfully as well. In punishment a deluge swept them away. From the
flood there escaped one man who separated a mythical from an heroic
age. In the latter epoch, beings descended from demons built Nineveh
and Babylon; organized human existence; invented arithmetic, geometry,
astronomy and the calendar; counted the planets; numbered the days of
the year, divided them into months and weeks; established the Sabbath;
decorated the skies with the signs of the zodiac, instituting, in the
interim, colleges of savants and priests. These speculated on the
origin of things, attributed it to spontaneous generation, the descent
of man to evolution, entertaining the vulgar meanwhile with tales of
gods and ghosts.[18]
[Footnote 18: Lenormant: Les Origines. Schrader: Die Keilenschriften.
Smith: Chaldean Genesis.]
The cosmological texts now available were not written then. They are
drawn from others that were. But there is a vignette that probably is
of that age. It represents a man and a woman stretching their hands to
a tree. Behind the woman writhes a snake. The tree, known as the holy
cedar of Eridu, the fruit of which stimulated desire, is described in
an epic that recites the adventures of Gilgames.
Gilgames was the national hero of Chaldea. The story of his loves with
Ishtar is repeated in the Samson and Delilah myth. Ishtar, described
in an Assyrian inscription as Our Lady of Girdles, was the original
Venus, as Gilgames was perhaps the prototype of Hercules. The legend
of his labours is represented on a seal of Sargon of Akkad, a king who
ruled fifty-seven hundred years ago.
In the epic, Gilgames, betrayed by Ishtar, tried to find out how not
to die. In trying he reached a garden, guarded by cherubim, where the
holy cedar was. There he learned that one being only could teach him
to be immortal, and that being, Adra-Khasis, had been translated to
the Land of the Silver Sky. Adra-Khasis, was the Chaldean Noah.
Gilgames sought him and the story of the deluge follows. But with a
difference. On the seventh day, Adra-Khasis released from his ark a
dove that returned, finally a raven that did not. Then he looked out,
and looking, shrieked. Every one had perished.
Noah was less emotional, or, if equally compassionate, the fact is not
recited. Apart from that detail and one other, the story of the flood
is common to all folklore. Even the Aztecs knew of it. Probably it
originated in the matrix of nations which the table-land of Asia was.
But only in Chaldean myth, and subsequently in Hebrew legend, was the
flood ascribed to sin.
Gilgames' quest, meanwhile, could not have been wholly vain. In an
archaic inscription it is stated that the city of Erech was built in
olden times by the deified Gilgames.[19]
[Footnote 19: Proc. S. B. A. xvi. 13-15.]
How old the olden times may have been is conjectural. Modern science
has put the advent of man sixty million years ago. Chaldean chronology
is less spacious. But its traditions stretched back a hundred thousand
years. The traditions were probably imaginary. Even so, in the morning
of the world, already there were ancient cities. There was Nippur, one
of whose gods, El Lil, was lord of ghosts. There was Eridu, where Ea
was lord of man. There was Ur, where Sin was lord of the moon. There
were other divinities. There was Enmesara, lord of the land whence
none return, and Makhir, god of dreams.
There were many more like the latter, so many that their sanctuaries
made the realm a holy land, but one which, administratively, was an
aggregate of principalities that Sargon, nearly six thousand years
ago, combined. Ultimately, from sheer age, the empire tottered. It
would have fallen had not Khammurabi surged. What Sargon made,
Khammurabi solidified. Between their colossal figures two millennia
stretch. These giants are distinct. None the less, across the ages
they seem to fuse, suggestively, not together, but into another
person.
Sargon has descended through time clothed in a little of the poetry
which garments nation builders. But the poetry is not a mantle for the
imaginary. In the British Museum is a marble ball that he dedicated to
a god. Paris has the seal of his librarian.[20] Copies of his annals
are extant.[21] In these it is related that, when a child, his mother
put him in a basket of rushes and set him adrift on the Euphrates.
Presently he was rescued. Afterward he became a leader of men.
[Footnote 20: Collection de Clerq. pl. 5, no. 46.]
[Footnote 21: Cuneiform Insc. W. A. iv. 34.]
Khammurabi was also a leader. He was a legislator as well. Sargon
united principalities, Khammurabi their shrines. From one came the
nation, from the other the god. It is in this way that they fuse. To
the composite, if it be one, history added a heightening touch.
The Khammurabi legislation came from Bel, who, originally, was a local
sun-god of Nippur. There he was regarded as the possessor of the
Chaldean Urim and Thummin, the tablets of destiny with which he cast
the fates of men. In the mythology of Babylonia these tablets were
stolen by the god of storms, who kept them in his thunder fastness.
Among the forked flames of the lightning there they were recovered by
Bel, who revealed the law to Khammurabi.
The theophany is perhaps similar to that of Sinai. But perhaps, too,
it is better attested. A diorite block, found at Susa in 1902, has the
law engraved on it. On the summit, a bas-relief displays the god
disclosing the statutes to the king.
There are other analogies. Sinai was named after Sin, who, though but
a moon-god, was previously held supreme for the reason that, in
primitive Babylonia, the lunar year preceded the solar. The sanctuary
of the moon-god was Ur, of which Abraham was emir. He was more,
perhaps. Sarratu, from which Sarai comes, was the title of the
moon-goddess. In Genesis, Sarai is Abraham's wife. Abraham is a
derivative of Aburamu, which was one of the moon's many names.[22]
[Footnote 22: Sayce: Guifford Lectures.]
Among these, one in particular has since been identified with Jahveh.
In addition, a clay tablet of the age of Khammurabi, now in the
British Museum, has on it:
[Illustration]
That flight of arrows, being interpreted, means: Jave ilu, Jahveh is
god.[23]
[Footnote 23: Delitzch: Babel und Bibel.]
Other texts show that a title of Bel was Mâsu, a word that letter for
letter is the same as the Hebrew Mosheh or Moses.[24]
[Footnote 24: Records of the Past, i. 91.]
It is in this way that Sargon and Khammurabi fuse. Meanwhile the title
Mâsu, or hero, was not confined to Bel. It was given also to Marduk,
the tutelary god of Babylon, from whom local monotheism proceeded.
That monotheism, in appearance relatively modern, actually was
archaic. The Chaldean savants knew of but one really existing god. To
them, all others were his emanations. The deus exsuperantissimus was
represented by a single stroke of the reed, a sign that in its
vagueness left him formless and incommunicable, therefore
unworshipable, hence without a temple, unless Bab-ili, Babylon, the
Gate of God, may be so construed.
The name of the deity, fastidiously concealed from the vulgar, was, in
English, One. Not after, or beneath, or above, but before him, a
trinity swung like a screen. From it, for pendant, another trinity
dangled. From the latter fell a third. Below these glories were the
coruscations of an entire nation of inferior gods. The latter, as well
as the former, all of them, were but the fireworks of One. He alone
was. The rest, like Makhir, were gods of dream. To the savants, that
is; to the magi and seers. To the people the sidereal triads and
planetary divinities throned in the Silver Sky augustly real, equally
august, and in that celestial equality remained, until Khammurabi gave
precedence to Bel, who as Marduk, Bel or Baal Marduk, Lord Marduk,
became supreme.
Before Bel, then, the other gods faded as the Elohim did before
Jahveh, with the possible difference that there were more to
fade--sixty-five thousand, Assurnatsipal, in an inscription, declared.
Over that army Bel-Marduk acquired the title, perhaps significant, of
Bel-Kissat, Lord of Hosts. Yet it was less as a usurper than as an
absorber that the ascension was achieved. Bel but mounted above his
former peers and from the superior height drew their attributes to
himself. It was sacrilege none the less. As such it alienated the
clergy and enraged the plebs. Begun under Khammurabi and completed
under Nabonidos, it was the reason why, during the latter's reign,
orthodox Babylon received Cyrus not as a foe but a friend.
From the spoliation, meanwhile, no nebulousness resulted. Bel was
distinctly anthropomorphic. His earthly plaisance was the Home of the
Height, a seven-floored mountain of masonry, a rainbow pyramid of
enamelled brick. At the top was a dome. There, in a glittering
chamber, on a dazzling couch, he appeared. Elsewhere, in the
vermillion recesses of a neighbouring chapel, that winged bulls
guarded and frescoed monsters adorned, once a year he also appeared,
and, above the mercy seat, on an alabaster throne, sat, or was
supposed to sit, contemplating the tablets of destiny, determining
when men should die.
To the Greeks, the future lay in the lap of the gods. To the
Babylonians the gods alone possessed it, as alone also they possessed
the present and the past. They had all time as all men have their day.
That day was here and it was brief. Death was a descent to Aralû, the
land whence none return, a region of the underworld, called also
Shualû, where the departed were nourished on dust. Dust they were and
to dust they returned.
Extinction was not a punishment or even a reward, it was a law.
Punishment was visited on the transgressor here, as here also the
piety of the righteous was rewarded. When death came, just and unjust
fared alike. The Aryan and Egyptian belief in immortality had no place
in this creed, and consequently it had none either in Israel, where
Sheol was a replica of Shualû. To the Semites of Babylonia and Kanaan,
the gods alone were immortal, and immortal beings would be gods. Man
could not become divine while his deities were still human.
Exceptionally, exceptional beings such as Gilgames and Adra-Khasis
might be translated to the land of the Silver Sky, as Elijah was
translated to heaven, but otherwise the only mortals that could reach
it were kings, for a king, in becoming sovereign, became, ipso
facto, celestial. As such, ages later, Alexander had himself
worshipped, and it was in imitation of his apotheosis that the
subsequent Cæsars declared themselves gods. Yet precisely as the
latter were man-made deities, so the Babylonian Baalim were very
similar to human kings.
For their hunger was cream, oil, dates, the flesh of ewe lambs. For
their nostrils was the perfume of prayers and of psalms; for their
passions the virginity of girls. Originally the first born of men were
also given them, but while, with higher culture, that sacrifice was
abolished, the sacred harlotry, over which Ishtar presided, remained.
Judaism omitted to incorporate that, but in Kanaan, which Babylonia
profoundly influenced, it was general and, though reviled by Israel,
was tempting even, and perhaps particularly, to Solomon.[25]
[Footnote 25: 1 Kings xi. 5. "Solomon went after Ashtoreth."]
The latter's temple was similar to Bel's, from which the Hebraic
ritual, terms of the Law, the Torah itself, may have proceeded, as, it
may be, the Sabbath did also. On a tablet recovered from the library
of Assurbanipal it is written: "The seventh day is a fast day, a lucky
day, a sabbatuv"--literally, a day of rest for the heart.[26]
[Footnote 26: Cuneiform Insc. W. A. ii. 32.]
In Aralû that day never ceased; the dead there, buried, Herodotos
said, in honey, were unresurrectably dead, dead to the earth, dead to
the Silver Sky. Yet though that was an article of faith, through a
paradox profoundly poetic, there was a belief equally general, in
ghosts, in hobgoblins, in men with the faces of ravens, in others with
the bodies of scorpions, and in the post-mortem persistence of girls
that died pure.
These latter, in searching for someone whom they might seduce, must
have afterward wandered into the presence of St. Anthony. Perhaps,
too, it was they who, as succubi, emotionalized the dreams of monks.
Yet, in view of Ishtar, they could not have been very numerous in
Babylon where, however, they had a queen, Lilît, the Lilith of the
Talmud, Adam's vampire wife, who conceived with him shapes of sin.
In these also the Babylonians believed, and naïvely they represented
them in forms so revolting that the sight of their own image alarmed
them away.
From these shapes or, more exactly, from sin itself, it was very
properly held that all diseases came. Medicine consequently was a
branch of religion. The physician was a priest. He asked the patient:
Have you shed your neighbour's blood? Have you approached your
neighbour's wife? Have you stolen your neighbour's garment? Or is it
that you have failed to clothe the naked? According to the responses
he prescribed.[27]
[Footnote 27: IV. R. 50-53. Cf. Delitzch: op. cit.]
But the priest who was a physician was also a wizard. He peeped and
muttered, or, more subtly, provided enchanted philters in which
simples had been dissolved. These devices failing, there was a series
of incantations, the Ritual of the Whispered Charm, in which the
most potent conjuration was the incommunicable name. To that all
things yielded, even the gods.[28] But like the Shem of the Jews, it
was probably never wholly uttered, because, save to the magi, not
wholly known. In the formulæ of the necromancers it is omitted, though
in practice it may have been pronounced.
[Footnote 28: Lenormant: La Magie chez les Chaldéens.]
Even that is doubtful. A knowledge of it conferred powers similar to
those that have been attributed to the Christ, and which the Sadducees
ascribed to his knowledge of the tetragrammation. A knowledge of the
Babylonian Shem was as potent. It served not only men but gods.
Ishtar, for purposes of her own, wanted to get into Aralû. In the
recovered epic of her descent, imperiously she demanded entrance:
  Porter, open thy door.
  Open thy door that I may enter.
  If thou dost not open thy door,
  I will attack it, I will break down the bars,
  I will cause the dead to rise and devour the living.[29]
[Footnote 29: Records of the Past.]
Ishtar was admitted. But Aralû was the land whence none return. Once
in, she could not get out until, ultimately, the incommunicable name
was uttered. The epic says that, in the interim, there was on earth
neither love nor loving. In possible connection with which
incantations have been found, deprecating "the consecrated harlots
with rebellious hearts that have abandoned the holy places."[30]
[Footnote 30: Lenormant: op. cit.]
In addition to the Ritual of the Whispered Charm, there was the
Illumination of Bel, an encyclopædia of astrology in seventy-two
volumes which the suburban library of Borsippa contained. During the
captivity many Jews must have gone there. In the large light halls
they were free to read whatever they liked, religion, history,
science, the romance of all three. The books, catalogued and numbered,
were ranged on shelves. One had but to ask. The service was gratis.
Babylon, then, prismatic and learned, was the most respectable place
on earth. For ten thousand years man had there consulted the stars.
But though respectable, it was also equivocal. During a period equally
long--or brief--the girls of the city had loosed their girdles for
Ishtar and yielded themselves to anyone, stranger or neighbour, that
asked. In the service of the goddess their brothers occasionally
feigned that they too were girls. Meanwhile, from the summit of a
seven-floored pyramid, mortals contemplated the divine.
Beneath was cosmopolis, the golden cup that, in the words of Jeremiah,
made the whole world drunk. Seated immensely on the twin banks of the
Euphrates--banks that bridges above and tunnels beneath
interjoined--Babylon more nearly resembled a walled nation than a
fortified town. Within the gates, in an enclosure ample and noble, a
space that exceeded a hundred square miles, an area sufficient for
Paris quintupled, observatories and palaces rose above the roar of
human tides that swept in waves through the wide boulevards, surged
over the quays, flooded the gardens, eddied through the open-air
lupanar, circled among statues of gods and bulls, poured out of the
hundred gates, or broke against the polychrome walls and seethed back
in the avenues, along which, to the high flourishes of military bands,
passed armed hoplites, merchants in long robes, cloaked bedouins,
Kelts in bearskins, priests in spangled dresses, tiara'd princes,
burdened slaves, kings discrowned, furtive forms--prostitutes,
pederasts, human wolves, vermin, sheep--the flux and reflux of the
gigantic city.
In that ocean, the captive Jews, if captive they were, rolled, lost as
a handful of salt spilt in the sea. Yet, from the depths, a few had
swum up and, filtering adroitly, had reached the dignity of high
place. One was pontiff. Others were viceroys. In addition to being
pontiff, Daniel was chancellor of the realm. Ezra was rector of the
university. As pontiff of a college of wizards, Daniel may have known
the future. As Minister of Wisdom, Ezra may have known, what is quite
as difficult, the past. For the moment there was but the present. Over
it ruled Belshazzar.
Yet, ruler though he was, there were powers potenter than his own:
Baalim, outraged at the elevation of a parvenu god; a priesthood
consequently disaffected; and, without, at the gates, the foe.
It would have been interesting to have assisted at the final festival
when, beneath cyclopean arches, in the sunlight of clustered
candelabra, amid the glitter of gold and white teeth, among the fair
sultanas that were strewn like flowers through the throne-room of the
imperial court, Belshazzar lay, smiling, amused rather than annoyed at
the impudent menace of Cyrus.
Babylon was impregnable. He knew it. But the subtle Jews, the
indignant gods, the alienated priests to whom the Persian was a
redeemer, of these he did not think. Daniel had indeed warned him and,
vaguely, he had promised something which he had since forgot.
Beyond, an orchestra was playing. Further yet, columns upheld a
ceiling so lofty that it was lost. On the adjacent wall was a frieze
of curious and chimerical beasts. Belshazzar was looking at them. In
their dumb stupidity was a suggestion of the foe. The suggestion
amused. Smiling still he raised a cup. Abruptly, before it could reach
his lips, it fell with a clatter on the lapis lazuli of the floor
beneath. Before him, on that wall, beneath those beasts, the
necromancy of the priesthood had projected an armless, fluidic hand
that mounted, descended, tracing with a forefinger the three luminous
hierograms of his doom.
The story, a little drama, was, with the tale concerning
Nebuchadnezzar, that of Daniel, and other novels quite as strange,
evolved long later in the wide leisures of Jerusalem. The fluidic hand
did not appear. Even had it zigzagged there was no Belshazzar to
frighten.
Only the doom was real. Cyrus was clothed with it. To the trumpetings
of heralds and the sheen of angels' wings, triumphantly he came. Then,
presently, by royal decree, the Jews, manumitted and released,
retraced their steps, burdened with spoil; with the lore of two
distinct civilizations, which, fusing in the great square letters of
the Pentateuch, was to become the poetry of all mankind.
Babylon, ultimately, with her goblin gods and harlot goddess, sank
into her own Aralû. Nourished there on dust, Lilît, with the sister
vampires of eternal night, fed on her.
V
JEHOVAH
A camel's-hair tent set in the desert was the first cathedral, the
earliest cloister of latest ideals. Set not in one desert merely but
in two, in the infinite of time as well as in that of space, there was
about it a limitlessness in which the past could sleep, the future
awake, and into which all things, the human, the divine, gods and
romance, could enter.
