
The rector got up and smiled at Caroline, who returned the smile. In the
matter of appreciating humor, she and the rector stood upon common
ground.

Presently the novelist and his guest entered. Both he and Mr. Sullivan
appeared to be in the best of spirits, for their mouths were twisted in
grins.

"My dear," began Cathewe, "this is Mr. Sullivan; Mr. Sullivan, Miss
Boderick and the Reverend Richard Allen, of St. Paul's."

"I am delighted," said Mr. Sullivan, bowing.

There was not a wrinkle in Mr. Sullivan's dress suit; there were no
diamond studs in his shirt bosom, no watch-chain; just the rims of his
cuffs appeared, and these were of immaculate linen. His hair was black
and thick and soft as hair always is that is frequently subjected to
soap and water. In fact, there was only one sign which betrayed Mr.
Sullivan's profitable but equivocal business in life, and this was an
ear which somewhat resembled a withered mushroom.

Caroline was disconcerted; she was even embarrassed. This pleasant-faced
gentleman bowing to her was as far removed from her preconceived idea of
a pugilist as the earth is removed from the sun. She did not know--as
the wise writer knows--that it is only pugilists who can not fight who
are all scarred and battered. She saw the rector shake Mr. Sullivan's
hand. From him her gaze roved to Mrs. Cathewe, and the look of
perplexity on that young matron's face caused her to smother the sudden
wild desire to laugh.

"My dear, I shall leave you to entertain Mr. Sullivan while I change my
clothes;" and Cathewe rushed from the room. He was a man who could not
hold in laughter very successfully.

"Come over to the fire and warm yourself," said the rector pleasantly.
The look of entreaty in Mrs. Cathewe's eyes could not possibly be
ignored.

Mr. Sullivan crossed the room, gazing about curiously.

"I haven't th' slightest idea, ma'am," said the famed pugilist,
addressing his hostess, "what your husband's graft is; but I understand
he's a literary fellow that writes books, an' I suppose he knows why he
ast me here t' eat."

Caroline sighed with relief; his voice was very nearly what she expected
it would be.

"An' besides," continued Mr. Sullivan, "I'm kind o' curious myself t'
see you swells get outside your feed. I ain't stuck on these togs,
generally; a man's afraid t' breathe hearty."

Mrs. Cathewe shuddered slightly; Mr. Sullivan was rubbing the cold from
his fungus-like ear. What should she do to entertain this man? she
wondered. She glanced despairingly at Caroline; but Caroline was looking
at the rector, who in turn seemed absorbed in Mr. Sullivan. She was
without help; telegraphic communication was cut off, as it were.

"Do you think it will snow to-night?" she asked.

"It looks like it would," answered Mr. Sullivan, with a polite but
furtive glance at the window. "Though there'll be a bigger push out
to-morrer if it's clear. It's goin' t' be a good fight. D' you ever see
a scrap, sir?" he asked, turning to the rector.

Caroline wondered if it was the fire or the rector's own blood which
darkened his cheek.

"I belong to the clergy," said the rector softly; "it is our duty not to
witness fights, but to prevent them."

"Now, I say!" remonstrated Mr. Sullivan, "you folks run around in your
autos, knock down people an' frighten horses, so's they run away; you go
out an' kill thousands of birds an' deer an' fish, an' all that; an' yet
you're th' first t' holler when two healthy men pummel each other for a
livin'. You ain't consistent. Why, th' hardest punch I ever got never
pained me more'n an hour, an' I took th' fat end of th' purse at that.
When you're a kid, ain't you always quarrelin' an' scrappin'? Sure.
Sometimes it was with reason an' cause, an' again jus' plain love of
fightin'. Well, that's me. I fight because I like it, an' because it
pays. Sure. It's on'y natural for some of us t' fight all th' time; an'
honest, I'm dead weary of th' way th' papers yell about th' brutal
prize-fight. If I want t' get my block punched off, that's my affair;
an' I don't see what business some old fussies have in interferin'."

"It isn't really the fighting, Mr. Sullivan," replied the rector, who
felt compelled to defend his point of view; "it's the rough element
which is always brought to the surface during these engagements. Men
drink and use profane language and wager money."

"As t' that, I don't say;" and Mr. Sullivan moved his hands in a manner
which explained his inability to account for the transgressions of the
common race.

"What's a block?" whispered Mrs. Cathewe into Caroline's ear.

Caroline raised her eyebrows; she had almost surrendered to the first
natural impulse, that of raising her hands above her head, as she had
often seen her brother do when faced by an unanswerable question.

The trend of conversation veered. Mr. Sullivan declared that he would
never go upon the stage, and all laughed. Occasionally the women
ventured timidly to offer an observation which invariably caused Mr.
Sullivan to loose an expansive grin. And when he learned that the rector
was to witness the fight in the capacity of a reporter, he enjoyed the
knowledge hugely.

Presently Cathewe appeared, and dinner was announced. Mr. Sullivan sat
between his host and hostess. No, he would not have a cocktail nor a
highball; he never drank. Mrs. Cathewe straightway marked him down as a
rank impostor. Didn't prize-fighters always drink and carouse and get
locked up by the police officers?

"Well, this is a new one on me," Mr. Sullivan admitted, as he tasted of
his caviar and quietly dropped his fork. "May I ask what it is?"

"It's Russian caviar. It is like Russian literature; one has to
cultivate a taste for it." The novelist glanced amusedly at the rector.

"It reminds me of what happened t' me at White Plains a couple of years
ago. I was in trainin' that fall at Mulligan's. You've heard of
Mulligan; greatest man on th' mat in his time. Well, I bucked up against
French spinach. Says he: 'Eat it.' Says I, 'I don't like it.' Says he,
'I don't care whether you like it or not. I don't like your mug, but I
have t' put up with it. Eat that spinach.' Says I, 'I don't see how I
can eat it if I don't like it.' An' an hour after he gives me th' bill,
an' I'd have had on'y thirty minutes t' get out but for th' housekeeper,
who patched it up. Those were great times. Sure. Well, no spinach or
caviar in mine. Now say, what's th' game? Do you want my history, or
jus' a scrap or two?"

"Describe how you won the championship from McGonegal," said Cathewe
eagerly, nodding to the butler to serve the oysters.

Mr. Sullivan toyed with the filigree butter-knife, mentally deciding
that its use was for cutting pie. He cast an oblique glance at the
immobile countenance of the English butler, and ahemmed.

"Well," he began, "it was like this...."

As Mr. Sullivan went on, a series of whispered questions and answers was
started between Caroline and the rector.

Caroline: What does he mean by "block"?

The Rector: His head, I believe.

Caroline: Oh!

Mr. Sullivan: There wasn't much doin' in th' third round. We fiddled a
while. On'y once did either of us get t' th' ropes ... an' th' bell
rang. Th' fourth was a hot one; hammer an' tongs from th' start off. He
hooked me twice on th' wind, and I handed him out a jolt on th' jaw that
put him t' th' mat.... I had th' best of th' round.

Caroline: In mercy's sake, what does he mean by "slats"?

The Rector (seized with a slight coughing): Possibly his ribs.

Caroline: Good gracious! (Whether this ejaculation was caused by
surprise or by the oyster on which she had put more horse-radish than
was suited to her palate, will always remain a mystery.)

Mr. Sullivan: We were out for gore th' fift' round. He was gettin'
strong on his hooks.

Mrs. Cathewe (interrupting him with great timidity): What do you mean
by "hooks"?

Mr. Sullivan: It's a blow like this. (Illustrates and knocks over the
centerpiece. Water and flowers spread over the table.) I say, now, look
at that. Ain't I a Mike now, t' knock over th' flower-pot like that?

Cathewe: Never mind that, Mr. Sullivan. Go on with the fight.

Mr. Sullivan: Where was I? Oh, yes; he put it all over me that
round.... They had counted eight when th' bell rang an' saved me.

Caroline: Hit him on the phonograph!

The Rector (reddening): It is possible that he refers to Mr.
McGonegal's mouth.

Caroline: Well, I never! And I've got a slangy brother, too, at
Harvard.

(The rector looks gravely at his empty oyster-shells.)

Mr. Sullivan: Things went along about even till th' tenth, when I
blacked his lamps.

Caroline: Lamps?

The Rector: Eyes, doubtless.

Caroline: It's getting too deep for me.

Mr. Sullivan: The last round I saw that I had him goin' all right. In
two seconds I had burgundy flowin' from his trombone.

(Cathewe leans back in his chair and laughs.)

Mrs. Cathewe (bewilderingly): Burgundy?

Mr. Sullivan (rather impatiently): A jolt on th' nose. Well, there was
some more waltzin', and then a hook an' a swing, an' him on th' mat,
down an' out. I made six thousand, an' on'y got this tin ear t' show for
my trouble.

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was fully ten o'clock when the coffee was served. Mr. Sullivan may
have lost not a few "e's" and "g's" in the passing, but for all that he
proved no small entertainment; and when he arose with the remark that he
was "for th' tall pines," both ladies experienced an amused regret.

"Which way do you go?" asked Mr. Sullivan, laying his hand on the
rector's arm.

"I pass your hotel. I shall be pleased to walk with you."

"I say," suddenly exclaimed Mr. Sullivan, pressing his pudgy fingers
into the rector's arm, "where did you get this arm? Why, it is as tough
as a railroad tie."

"A course of physical culture," said the rector, visibly embarrassed.

"Physical culture? All right. But don't ever get mad at me," laughed Mr.
Sullivan. "It's as big as a pile-driver."

The novelist told Mr. Sullivan that he was very much obliged for his
company.

"Don't mention it. Drop int' th' fight to-morrer night. You'll get more
ideas there'n you will hearin' me shoot hot air."

Cathewe looked slyly at his wife. He was a man, and more than once he
had slipped away from the club and taken in the last few rounds, and
then had returned home to say what a dull night he had had at the club.

Mrs. Cathewe had her arm lovingly around Caroline's waist. All at once
she felt Caroline start.

"What is it?" she whispered.

"Nothing, nothing!" Caroline declared quickly.

But on the way home in her carriage Caroline wondered where the Reverend
Richard Allen, rector of St. Paul's, had acquired his tin ear.




                                   II


    "DEAR SIS--Yours received. Have hunted up the name, and have
    found that your Reverend Richard Allen is an '89 man, one of the
    best all-round men we ever had on the track. He was a terror,
    too, so an old grad tells me. Got kicked out in his senior year.
    It seems that his chum and roommate was very deeply in the hole,
    not extravagantly, like yours truly, but by a series of hard
    knocks. Allen had no cash himself. And you know when you haven't
    any money in sight, you can't borrow any. One night at the
    Museum (there was a cheap show on) a prize-fighter offered $300
    to any one who would stand up before him for five rounds. Allen
    jumped up on the stage and licked the pug to a standstill. He
    got a bad swipe on the ear, however; and if your Allen has what
    they call a tin ear, an ear that looks as if my best bullpup had
    tried to make his dinner off it, ecce homo! He paid his mate's
    debts, and then was requested to call on the fac. The old ladies
    told him to pack up. He did. He has never returned to college
    since. But why do you want to know all about him? They say he
    was a handsome duffer. You know I haven't seen him yet, not
    having been home since last Easter time. Now, for Heaven's sake,
    Sis, don't go and get daffy on his Riverince. I've got a man in
    tow for you, the best fellow that ever lived.

                            Affectionately,                 JACK."

    "P.S.--Can't you shove a couple of 50's in your next letter to
    me? The governor's liver wasn't in good shape the first of the
    month."

Caroline dropped the letter into her lap and stared out of the window.
It was snowing great, soft, melting flakes. She did not know whether to
laugh or to cry, nor what occasioned this impulse to do either. So he
was a Cambridge man, and had been expelled for prize-fighting; for
certainly it had been prize-fighting, even though the motive had been a
good and manly one.

"A milksop!" There was no doubt, no hesitancy; her laughter rang out
fresh and clear. What would her father say when he learned the truth?
Her next thought was, why should the rector pose as a lamb, patient and
unspeaking, when all the time he was a lion? She alone had solved the
mystery. It was self-control, it was power. This discovery filled her
with a quiet exultation. She was a woman, and to unravel a secret was as
joyful a task for her as to invent a fashionable hat.

The bygone rectors had interested her little; they had been either
pedants, fanatics, or social drones; while this man had gone about his
work quietly and modestly. He never said: "I visited the poor to-day."
It was the poor who said: "The rector was here to-day with money and
clothes." But his past he let remain nebulous; not even the trustees
themselves had peered far into it, at least not as far back as the
Cambridge days. Thus, the element of mystery surrounding him first
attracted her; the man's personality added to this. The knowledge that
he was a college man seemed to place him nearer her social level, though
she was not a person to particularize so long as a man proved himself;
and the rector had, beyond a doubt, proved himself.

There were dozens of brilliant young men following eagerly in her train.
They rode with her, drove with her, and fought for the privilege of
playing caddy to her game. Yet, while she liked them all, she cared
particularly for none. The rector, being a new species of man, became a
study. Time and time again she had invited him to the Country Club; he
always excused himself on the ground that he was taking a course of
reading such as to demand all his spare time in the day. One morning she
had been riding alone, and had seen him tramping across country. In the
spirit of fun she took a couple of fences and caught up with him. He had
appeared greatly surprised, even embarrassed, for her woman's eye had
been quick to read. She had rallied him upon his stride. He had become
silent. And this man had "jumped upon the stage and licked the pug to a
standstill!"

"Carol, are you there?"

Caroline started and hid the letter. She arose and admitted her father.

"James says that you received a letter this afternoon. Was it from the
boy? Begging for money? Well, don't you dare to send it to him. The
ragamuffin has overdrawn seven hundred dollars this month. What's he
think I am, a United States Steel Corporation?"

"He has asked me for one hundred dollars, and I am going to send it to
the poor boy to-night."

"Oh, you are, are you? Who's bringing up the scalawag, you or I?"

"You are trying to, daddy, but I believe he's bent on bringing himself
up." She ran her fingers through his hair. "I know the weather's bad,
daddy, but don't be cross. Come over to the piano and I'll play for
you."

"I don't want any music," gruffly.

"Come," dragging him.

"That's the way; I have no authority in this house. But, seriously,
Carol, the boy's spending it pretty fast, and it will not do him a bit
of good. I want to make a man out of him, not a spendthrift. Play that
what-d'you-call-it from Chopin."

"The Berceuse?" seating herself at the piano.

The twilight of winter was fast settling down. The house across the way
began to glow at various windows. Still she played. From Chopin she
turned to Schumann, from Schumann to Rubinstein, back to Chopin's
polonaise and the nocturne in E flat major.

"You play those with a livelier spirit than usual," was the general's
only comment. How these haunting melodies took him back to the past,
when the girl's mother played them in the golden courting days! He could
not see the blush his comment had brought to his daughter's cheek. "My
dear, my dear!" he said, with great tenderness, sliding his arm around
her waist, "I know that I'm cross at times, but I'm only an old barking
dog; don't do any harm. I'll tell you what, if my leg's all right next
Saturday I'll ride out to the Country Club with you, and we'll have tea
together."

She leaned toward him and kissed him. "Daddy, what makes you think so
meanly of the rector? I was thinking of him when you came in."

"I don't think meanly of him; but, hang it, Carol, he always says 'Yes'
when I want him to say 'No,' and vise versa. He's too complacent. I
like a man who's a human being to kick once in a while, a man who's got
some fight in him.... What are you laughing at, you torment?"

"At something which just occurred to me. There goes the gong for dinner.
I am ravenous."

"By the way, I forgot to tell you what I saw in the evening edition of
the Post. Your parson is going to report the prize-fight to-night.
He'll be frightened out of his shoes. I'm going up to the club; going to
play a few rubbers. It'll make me forget my grumbling leg. You run over
to Cathewe's or telephone Mrs. Cathewe to run over here."

"Can't you stay in to-night? I don't want anybody but you."

"But I've half promised; besides, I'm sort of blue. I need the
excitement."

"Very well; I'll telephone Nan. Mr. Cathewe will probably go to that
awful fight in the interests of his new book. She'll come."

"Cathewe's going to the fight, you say? Humph!" The general scratched
his ear thoughtfully.


