she only says that the amount greatly troubled her. I think it means
that the price was suggested from above, “led” being a theological term
identical with our commercial phrase “personally conducted.” She “shrank
from asking it, but was finally led, by a strange providence, to accept
this fee.” “Providence” is another theological term. Two leds and
a providence, taken together, make a pretty strong argument for
inspiration. I think that these statistics make it clear that the price
was arranged above. This view is constructively supported by the fact,
already quoted, that God afterwards approved, “in multitudinous
ways,” her wisdom in accepting the mentioned fee. “Multitudinous
ways”--multitudinous encoring--suggests enthusiasm. Business enthusiasm.
And it suggests nearness. God’s nearness to his “little one.” Nearness,
and a watchful personal interest. A warm, palpitating, Standard-Oil
interest, so to speak. All this indicates inspiration. We may assume,
then, two inspirations: one for the book, the other for the business.
The evidence for inspiration is further augmented by the testimony of
Rev. George Tomkins, D.D., already quoted, that Mrs. Eddy and her book
were foretold in Revelation, and that Mrs. Eddy “is God’s brightest
thought to this age, giving us the spiritual interpretation of the Bible
in the ‘little book’” of the Angel.
I am aware that it is not Mr. Tomkins that is speaking, but Mrs. Eddy.
The commissioned lecturers of the Christian Science Church have to be
members of the Board of Lectureship. (By-laws Sec. 2, p. 70.) The Board
of Lectureship is selected by the Board of Directors of the Church.
(By-laws, Sec. 3, p. 70.) The Board of Directors of the Church is the
property of Mrs. Eddy. (By-laws, p. 22.) Mr. Tomkins did not make that
statement without authorization from headquarters. He necessarily got it
from the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors from Mrs. Eddy, Mrs.
Eddy from the Deity. Mr. Tomkins would have been turned down by that
procession if his remarks had been unsatisfactory to it.
It may be that there is evidence somewhere--as has been claimed--that
Mrs. Eddy has charged upon the Deity the verbal authorship of Science
and Health. But if she ever made the charge, she has withdrawn it (as it
seems to me), and in the most formal and unqualified; of all ways. See
Autobiography, page 57:
“When the demand for this book increased... the copyright was infringed.
I entered a suit at Law, and my copyright was protected.”
Thus it is plain that she did not plead that the Deity was the (verbal)
Author; for if she had done that, she would have lost her case--and with
rude promptness. It was in the old days before the Berne Convention and
before the passage of our amended law of 1891, and the court would have
quoted the following stern clause from the existing statute and frowned
her out of the place:
“No Foreigner can acquire copyright in the United States.”
To sum up. The evidence before me indicates three things:
1. That Mrs. Eddy claims the verbal author ship for herself. 2. That she
denies it to the Deity. 3. That--in her belief--she wrote the book under
the inspiration of the Deity, but furnished the language herself.
In one place in the Autobiography she claims both the language and
the ideas; but when this witness is testifying, one must draw the line
somewhere, or she will prove both sides of her case-nine sides, if
desired.
It is too true. Much too true. Many, many times too true. She is a most
trying witness--the most trying witness that ever kissed the Book, I am
sure. There is no keeping up with her erratic testimony. As soon as you
have got her share of the authorship nailed where you half hope and half
believe it will stay and cannot be joggled loose any more, she joggles
it loose again--or seems to; you cannot be sure, for her habit of
dealing in meaningless metaphors instead of in plain, straightforward
statistics, makes it nearly always impossible to tell just what it
is she is trying to say. She was definite when she claimed both the
language and the ideas of the book. That seemed to settle the matter.
It seemed to distribute the percentages of credit with precision between
the collaborators: ninety-two per cent. to Mrs. Eddy, who did all the
work, and eight per cent. to the Deity, who furnished the inspiration
not enough of it to damage the copyright in a country closed against
Foreigners, and yet plenty to advertise the book and market it at famine
rates. Then Mrs. Eddy does not keep still, but fetches around and comes
forward and testifies again. It is most injudicious. For she resorts to
metaphor this time, and it makes trouble, for she seems to reverse the
percentages and claim only the eight per cent. for her self. I quote
from Mr. Peabody’s book (Eddyism, or Christian Science. Boston: 15 Court
Square, price twenty-five cents):
“Speaking of this book, Mrs. Eddy, in January last (1901) said: ‘I
should blush to write of Science and Health, with Key to the Scriptures,
as I have, were it of human origin, and I, apart from God, its author;
but as I was only a scribe echoing the harmonies of Heaven in
divine metaphysics, I cannot be supermodest of the Christian Science
text-book.”’
Mr. Peabody’s comment:
“Nothing could be plainer than that. Here is a distinct avowal that the
book entitled Science and Health was the work of Almighty God.”
It does seem to amount to that. She was only a “scribe.” Confound the
word, it is just a confusion, it has no determinable meaning there, it
leaves us in the air. A scribe is merely a person who writes. He may be
a copyist, he may be an amanuensis, he may be a writer of originals, and
furnish both the language and the ideas. As usual with Mrs. Eddy, the
connection affords no help--“echoing” throws no light upon “scribe.” A
rock can reflect an echo, a wall can do it, a mountain can do it, many
things can do it, but a scribe can’t. A scribe that could reflect
an echo could get over thirty dollars a week in a side-show. Many
impresarios would rather have him than a cow with four tails. If we
allow that this present scribe was setting down the “harmonies of
Heaven”--and certainly that seems to have been the case then there was
only one way to do it that I can think of: listen to the music and put
down the notes one after another as they fell. In that case Mrs.
Eddy did not invent the tune, she only entered it on paper. Therefore
dropping the metaphor--she was merely an amanuensis, and furnished
neither the language of Science and Health nor the ideas. It reduces her
to eight per cent. (and the dividends on that and the rest).
Is that it? We shall never know. For Mrs. Eddy is liable to testify
again at any time. But until she does it, I think we must conclude
that the Deity was Author of the whole book, and Mrs. Eddy merely His
telephone and stenographer. Granting this, her claim as the Voice of God
stands-for the present--justified and established.
POSTSCRIPT
I overlooked something. It appears that there was more of that utterance
than Mr. Peabody has quoted in the above paragraph. It will be found
in Mrs. Eddy’s organ, the Christian Science Journal (January, 1901) and
reads as follows:
“It was not myself... which dictated Science and Health, with Key to the
Scriptures.”
That is certainly clear enough. The words which I have removed from that
important sentence explain Who it was that did the dictating. It was
done by
“the divine power of Truth and Love, infinitely above me.”
Certainly that is definite. At last, through her personal testimony,
we have a sure grip upon the following vital facts, and they settle the
authorship of Science and Health beyond peradventure:
1. Mrs. Eddy furnished “the ideas and the language.” 2. God furnished
the ideas and the language.
It is a great comfort to have the matter authoritatively settled.
CHAPTER V
It is hard to locate her, she shifts about so much. She is a shining
drop of quicksilver which you put your finger on and it isn’t there.
There is a paragraph in the Autobiography (page 96) which places in
seemingly darkly significant procession three Personages:
1. The Virgin Mary 2. Jesus of Nazareth. 3. Mrs. Eddy.
This is the paragraph referred to:
“No person can take the individual place of the Virgin Mary. No person
can compass or fulfil the individual mission of Jesus of Nazareth.
No person can take the place of the author of Science and Health, the
discoverer and founder of Christian Science. Each individual must fill
his own niche in time and eternity.”
I have read it many times, but I still cannot be sure that I rightly
understand it. If the Saviour’s name had been placed first and the
Virgin Mary’s second and Mrs. Eddy’s third, I should draw the inference
that a descending scale from First Importance to Second Importance and
then to Small Importance was indicated; but to place the Virgin first,
the Saviour second, and Mrs. Eddy third, seems to turn the scale the
other way and make it an ascending scale of Importances, with Mrs. Eddy
ranking the other two and holding first place.
I think that that was perhaps the intention, but none but a seasoned
Christian Scientist can examine a literary animal of Mrs. Eddy’s
creation and tell which end of it the tail is on. She is easily the most
baffling and bewildering writer in the literary trade.
Eddy is a commonplace name, and would have an unimpressive aspect in the
list of the reformed Holy Family. She has thought of that. In the book
of By-laws written by her--“impelled by a power not one’s own”--there is
a paragraph which explains how and when her disciples came to confer a
title upon her; and this explanation is followed by a warning as to what
will happen to any female Scientist who shall desecrate it:
“The title of Mother. Therefore if a student of Christian Science shall
apply this title, either to herself or to others, except as the term for
kinship according to the flesh, it shall be regarded by the Church as an
indication of disrespect for their Pastor Emeritus, and unfitness to be
a member of the Mother-Church.”
She is the Pastor Emeritus.
While the quoted paragraph about the Procession seems to indicate that
Mrs. Eddy is expecting to occupy the First Place in it, that expectation
is not definitely avowed. In an earlier utterance of hers she is
clearer--clearer, and does not claim the first place all to herself, but
only the half of it. I quote from Mr. Peabody’s book again:
“In the Christian Science Journal for April, 1889, when it was her
property, and published by her, it was claimed for her, and with her
sanction, that she was equal with Jesus, and elaborate effort was made
to establish the claim.
“Mrs. Eddy has distinctly authorized the claim in her behalf that she
herself was the chosen successor to and equal of Jesus.”
In her Miscellaneous Writings (using her once favorite “We” for “I”) she
says that “While we entertain decided views... and shall express them as
duty demands, we shall claim no especial gift from our divine origin,”
 etc.
Our divine origin. It suggests Equal again. It is inferable, then,
that in the near by-and-by the new Church will officially rank the Holy
Family in the following order:
1. Jesus of Nazareth.--1. Our Mother. 2. The Virgin Mary.
SUMMARY
I am not playing with Christian Science and its founder, I am examining
them; and I am doing it because of the interest I feel in the inquiry.
My results may seem inadequate to the reader, but they have for me
clarified a muddle and brought a sort of order out of a chaos, and so I
value them.
My readings of Mrs. Eddy’s uninspired miscellaneous literary efforts
have convinced me of several things:
1. That she did not write Science and Health. 2. That the Deity did (or
did not) write it. 3. That She thinks She wrote it. 4. That She believes
She wrote it under the Deity’s inspiration. 5. That She believes She is
a Member of the Holy Family. 6. That She believes She is the equal of
the Head of it.
Finally, I think She is now entitled to the capital S--on her own
evidence.
CHAPTER VI
Thus far we have a part of Mrs. Eddy’s portrait. Not made of fictions,
surmises, reports, rumors, innuendoes, dropped by her enemies; no, she
has furnished all of the materials herself, and laid them on the canvas,
under my general superintendence and direction. As far as she has gone
with it, it is the presentation of a complacent, commonplace, illiterate
New England woman who “forgot everything she knew” when she discovered
her discovery, then wrote a Bible in good English under the inspiration
of God, and climbed up it to the supremest summit of earthly grandeur
attainable by man--where she sits serene to-day, beloved and worshiped
by a multitude of human beings of as good average intelligence as is
possessed by those that march under the banner of any competing cult.
This is not intended to flatter the competing cults, it is merely a
statement of cold fact.
That a commonplace person should go climbing aloft and become a god or
a half-god or a quarter-god and be worshiped by men and women of average
intelligence, is nothing. It has happened a million times, it will
happen a hundred million more. It has been millions of years since the
first of these supernaturals appeared, and by the time the last one in
that inconceivably remote future shall have performed his solemn little
high-jinks on the stage and closed the business, there will be enough
of them accumulated in the museum on the Other Side to start a heaven of
their own-and jam it.
Each in his turn those little supernaturals of our by-gone ages and
aeons joined the monster procession of his predecessors and marched
horizonward, disappeared, and was forgotten. They changed nothing,
they built nothing, they left nothing behind them to remember them by,
nothing to hold their disciples together, nothing to solidify their work
and enable it to defy the assaults of time and the weather. They passed,
and left a vacancy. They made one fatal mistake; they all made it,
each in his turn: they failed to organize their forces, they failed to
centralize their strength, they failed to provide a fresh Bible and a
sure and perpetual cash income for business, and often they failed to
provide a new and accepted Divine Personage to worship.
Mrs. Eddy is not of that small fry. The materials that go to the
making of the rest of her portrait will prove it. She will furnish them
herself:
She published her book. She copyrighted it. She copyrights everything.
If she should say, “Good-morning; how do you do?” she would copyright
it; for she is a careful person, and knows the value of small things.
She began to teach her Science, she began to heal, she began to gather
converts to her new religion--fervent, sincere, devoted, grateful
people. A year or two later she organized her first Christian Science
“Association,” with six of her disciples on the roster.
She continued to teach and heal. She was charging nothing, she says,
although she was very poor. She taught and healed gratis four years
altogether, she says.
Then, in 1879-81 she was become strong enough, and well enough
established, to venture a couple of impressively important moves. The
first of these moves was to aggrandize the “Association” to a “Church.”
 Brave? It is the right name for it, I think. The former name suggests
nothing, invited no remark, no criticism, no inquiry, no hostility; the
new name invited them all. She must have made this intrepid venture on
her own motion. She could have had no important advisers at that early
day. If we accept it as her own idea and her own act--and I think we
must--we have one key to her character. And it will explain subsequent
acts of hers that would merely stun us and stupefy us without it. Shall
we call it courage? Or shall we call it recklessness? Courage observes;
reflects; calculates; surveys the whole situation; counts the cost,
estimates the odds, makes up its mind; then goes at the enterprise
resolute to win or perish. Recklessness does not reflect, it plunges
fearlessly in with a hurrah, and takes the risks, whatever they may be,
regardless of expense. Recklessness often fails, Mrs. Eddy has never
failed--from the point of view of her followers. The point of view of
other people is naturally not a matter of weighty importance to her.
The new Church was not born loose-jointed and featureless, but had a
defined plan, a definite character, definite aims, and a name which was
a challenge, and defied all comers. It was “a Mind-healing Church.” It
was “without a creed.” Its name, “The Church of Christ, Scientist.”
Mrs. Eddy could not copyright her Church, but she chartered it, which
was the same thing and relieved the pain. It had twenty-six charter
members. Mrs. Eddy was at once installed as its pastor.
The other venture, above referred to, was Mrs. Eddy’s Massachusetts
Metaphysical College, in which was taught “the pathology of spiritual
power.” She could not copyright it, but she got it chartered. For
faculty it had herself, her husband of the period (Dr. Eddy), and her
adopted son, Dr. Foster-Eddy. The college term was “barely three
weeks,” she says. Again she was bold, brave, rash, reckless--choose for
yourself--for she not only began to charge the student, but charged him
a hundred dollars a week for the enlightenments. And got it? some may
ask. Easily. Pupils flocked from far and near. They came by the hundred.
Presently the term was cut down nearly half, but the price remained as
before. To be exact, the term-cut was to seven lessons--price,
three hundred dollars. The college “yielded a large income.” This is
believable. In seven years Mrs. Eddy taught, as she avers, over four
thousand students in it. (Preface to 1902 edition of Science and
Health.) Three hundred times four thousand is--but perhaps you can
cipher it yourself. I could do it ordinarily, but I fell down yesterday
and hurt my leg. Cipher it; you will see that it is a grand sum for a
woman to earn in seven years. Yet that was not all she got out of her
college in the seven.
At the time that she was charging the primary student three hundred
dollars for twelve lessons she was not content with this tidy
assessment, but had other ways of plundering him. By advertisement she
offered him privileges whereby he could add eighteen lessons to his
store for five hundred dollars more. That is to say, he could get a
total of thirty lessons in her college for eight hundred dollars.
Four thousand times eight hundred is--but it is a difficult sum for a
cripple who has not been “demonstrated over” to cipher; let it go.
She taught “over” four thousand students in seven years. “Over” is not
definite, but it probably represents a non-paying surplus of learners
over and above the paying four thousand. Charity students, doubtless. I
think that as interesting an advertisement as has been printed since the
romantic old days of the other buccaneers is this one from the Christian
Science Journal for September, 1886:
“MASSACHUSETTS METAPHYSICAL COLLEGE
“Rev. MARY BAKER G. EDDY, PRESIDENT
“571 Columbus Avenue, Boston
“The collegiate course in Christian Science metaphysical healing
includes twelve lessons. Tuition, three hundred dollars.
“Course in metaphysical obstetrics includes six daily lectures, and is
open only to students from this college. Tuition, one hundred dollars.
“Class in theology, open (like the above) to graduates, receives six
additional lectures on the Scriptures, and summary of the principle and
practice of Christian Science, two hundred dollars.
“Normal class is open to those who have taken the first course at this
college; six daily lectures complete the Normal course. Tuition, two
hundred dollars.
“No invalids, and only persons of good moral character, are accepted
as students. All students are subject to examination and rejection; and
they are liable to leave the class if found unfit to remain in it.
“A limited number of clergymen received free of charge.
“Largest discount to indigent students, one hundred dollars on the first
course.
“No deduction on the others.
“Husband and wife, entered together, three hundred dollars.
“Tuition for all strictly in advance.”
There it is--the horse-leech’s daughter alive again, after a
three-century vacation. Fifty or sixty hours’ lecturing for eight
hundred dollars.
I was in error as to one matter: there are no charity students.
Gratis-taught clergymen must not be placed under that head; they are
merely an advertisement. Pauper students can get into the infant class
on a two-third rate (cash in advance), but not even an archangel can get
into the rest of the game at anything short of par, cash down. For it is
“in the spirit of Christ’s charity, as one who is joyful to hear healing
to the sick” that Mrs. Eddy is working the game. She sends the healing
to them outside. She cannot bear it to them inside the college, for the
reason that she does not allow a sick candidate to get in. It is true
that this smells of inconsistency, but that is nothing; Mrs. Eddy
would not be Mrs. Eddy if she should ever chance to be consistent about
anything two days running.
Except in the matter of the Dollar. The Dollar, and appetite for power
and notoriety. English must also be added; she is always consistent,
she is always Mrs. Eddy, in her English: it is always and consistently
confused and crippled and poor. She wrote the Advertisement; her
literary trade-marks are there. When she says all “students” are subject
to examination, she does not mean students, she means candidates for
that lofty place When she says students are “liable” to leave the class
if found unfit to remain in it, she does not mean that if they find
themselves unfit, or be found unfit by others, they will be likely to
ask permission to leave the class; she means that if she finds them
unfit she will be “liable” to fire them out. When she nobly offers
“tuition for all strictly in advance,” she does not mean “instruction
for all in advance-payment for it later.” No, that is only what she
says, it is not what she means. If she had written Science and Health,
the oldest man in the world would not be able to tell with certainty
what any passage in it was intended to mean.
Her Church was on its legs.
She was its pastor. It was prospering.
She was appointed one of a committee to draught By-laws for its
government. It may be observed, without overplus of irreverence, that
this was larks for her. She did all of the draughting herself. From the
very beginning she was always in the front seat when there was business
to be done; in the front seat, with both eyes open, and looking sharply
out for Number One; in the front seat, working Mortal Mind with fine
effectiveness and giving Immortal Mind a rest for Sunday. When her
Church was reorganized, by-and-by, the By-laws were retained. She saw
to that. In these Laws for the government of her Church, her empire, her
despotism, Mrs. Eddy’s character is embalmed for good and all. I think
a particularized examination of these Church-laws will be found
interesting. And not the less so if we keep in mind that they were
“impelled by a power not one’s own,” as she says--Anglice--the
inspiration of God.
It is a Church “without a creed.” Still, it has one. Mrs. Eddy draughted
it--and copyrighted it. In her own name. You cannot become a member of
the Mother-Church (nor of any Christian Science Church) without signing
it. It forms the first chapter of the By-laws, and is called “Tenets.”
 “Tenets of The Mother Church, The First Church of Christ, Scientist.” It
has no hell in it--it throws it overboard.
THE PASTOR EMERITUS
About the time of the reorganization, Mrs. Eddy retired from her
position of pastor of her Church, abolished the office of pastor in
all branch Churches, and appointed her book, Science and Health, to be
pastor-universal. Mrs. Eddy did not disconnect herself from the office
entirely, when she retired, but appointed herself Pastor Emeritus. It is
a misleading title, and belongs to the family of that phrase “without
a creed.” It advertises her as being a merely honorary official, with
nothing to do, and no authority. The Czar of Russia is Emperor Emeritus
on the same terms. Mrs. Eddy was Autocrat of the Church before, with
limitless authority, and she kept her grip on that limitless authority
when she took that fictitious title.
It is curious and interesting to note with what an unerring instinct the
Pastor Emeritus has thought out and forecast all possible encroachments
upon her planned autocracy, and barred the way against them, in the
By-laws which she framed and copyrighted--under the guidance of the
Supreme Being.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
For instance, when Article I. speaks of a President and Board of
Directors, you think you have discovered a formidable check upon the
powers and ambitions of the honorary pastor, the ornamental pastor, the
functionless pastor, the Pastor Emeritus, but it is a mistake. These
great officials are of the phrase--family of the Church-Without-a-Creed
and the Pastor-With-Nothing-to-Do; that is to say, of the family of
Large-Names-Which-Mean-Nothing. The Board is of so little consequence
that the By-laws do not state how it is chosen, nor who does it; but
they do state, most definitely, that the Board cannot fill a vacancy in
its number “except the candidate is approved by the Pastor Emeritus.”
