friend, and he wished to make a good impression. He was therefore not
prepared to hear her speak again before he did, much less for the
subject of conversation she introduced at once.
'You know our friend Monsieur Logotheti, I believe?' she inquired
suddenly.
'Why, certainly,' answered Van Torp, brightening at once at the
mention of his rival, and at once also putting on his moral armour of
caution. 'I know him quite well.'
'Indeed? Have you known many Greeks, may I ask?'
'I've met one or two in business, Mrs. Rushmore, but I can't say I've
known any as well as Mr. Logotheti.'
'You may think it strange that I should ask you about him at our first
meeting,' said the good lady, 'but I'm an American, and I cannot help
feeling that a fellow-countryman's opinion of a foreigner is very
valuable. You are, I understand, an old friend of Miss Donne's, though
I have not had the pleasure of meeting you before, and you have
probably heard that she has made up her mind to marry Monsieur
Logotheti. I am bound to confess, as her dear mother's oldest friend,
that I am very apprehensive of the consequences. I have the gravest
apprehensions, Mr. Van Torp.'
'Have you really?' asked the millionaire with caution, but
sympathetically. 'I wonder why!'
'A Greek!' said Mrs. Rushmore sadly. 'Think of a Greek!'
Mr. Van Torp, who was not without a sense of humour, was inclined to
answer that, in fact, he was thinking of a Greek at that very moment.
But he abstained.
'There are Greeks and Greeks, Mrs. Rushmore,' he answered wisely.
'That is true,' answered the lady, 'but I should like your opinion, as
one of our most prominent men of business--as one who, if I may say
so, has of late triumphantly established his claim to respect.' Mr.
Van Torp bowed and waved his hand in acknowledgment of this high
praise. 'I should like your opinion about this--er--this Greek
gentleman whom my young friend insists upon marrying.'
'Really, Mrs. Rushmore----'
'Because if I thought there was unhappiness in store for her I would
save her, if I had to marry the man myself!'
Mr. Van Torp wondered how she would accomplish such a feat.
'Indeed?' he said very gravely.
'I mean it,' answered Mrs. Rushmore.
There was a moment's silence, during which Mr. Van Torp revolved
something in his always active brain, while Mrs. Rushmore looked at
him as if she expected that he would doubt her determination to drag
Logotheti to the matrimonial altar and marry him by sheer strength,
rather than let Margaret be his unhappy bride. But Mr. Van Torp said
something quite different.
'May I speak quite frankly, though we hardly know each other?' he
asked.
'We are both Americans,' answered the good lady, with a grand national
air. 'I should not expect anything but perfect frankness of you.'
'The truth is, Mrs. Rushmore, that ever since I had the pleasure of
knowing Miss Donne, I have wanted to marry her myself.'
'You!' cried the lady, surprised beyond measure, but greatly pleased.
'Yes,' said Mr. Van Torp quietly, 'and therefore, in my position, I
can't give you an unbiassed opinion about Mr. Logotheti. I really
can't.'
'Well,' said Mrs. Rushmore, 'I am surprised!'
While she was still surprised Mr. Van Torp tried to make some running,
and asked an important question.
'May I ask whether, as Miss Donne's oldest friend, you would look
favourably on my proposal, supposing she were free?'
Before Mrs. Rushmore could answer, the door opened suddenly, and she
could only answer by an energetic nod and a look which meant that she
wished Mr. Van Torp success with all her excellent heart.
'It's quite settled!' Margaret cried as she entered. 'I've brought the
director to his senses, and you are to have the rooms they were
keeping for a Russian prince who has not turned up!'
CHAPTER VI
In the sanctuary of Wagnerians the famous lyric Diva was a somewhat
less important personage than in any of those other places which are
called 'musical centres.' Before the glories of the great Brunhilde,
or the supreme Kundry of the day, the fame of the 'nightingale
soprano' paled a little, at least in the eyes of more than half the
people who filled the Bayreuth theatre. But she did not pass unnoticed
by any means. There were distinguished conductors of Wagner's music
who led the orchestra for other operas too; there were Kundrys and
Brunhildes who condescended to be Toscas sometimes, as a pure matter
of business and livelihood, and there were numberless people in the
audience who preferred Cavalleria Rusticana to the Meistersinger
or the Götterdämmerung, but would not dare to say so till they were
at a safe distance; and all these admired the celebrated Cordova,
except the few that were envious of her, and who were not many.
Indeed, for once it was the other way. When Margaret had come back to
her own room after hearing Parsifal the first time, she had sat down
and hidden her face in her hands for a few moments, asking herself
what all her parts were worth in the end compared with Kundry, and
what comparison was possible between the most beautiful of Italian or
French operas and that one immortal masterpiece; for she thought, and
rightly perhaps, that all the rest of Wagner's work had been but a
preparation for that, and that Parsifal, and Parsifal alone, had
set the genius of music beside the genius of poetry, an equal, at
last, upon a throne as high. On that night the sound of her own voice
would have given her no pleasure, for she longed for another tone in
it; if by some impossible circumstance she had been engaged to sing as
Juliet that night, she would have broken down and burst into tears.
She knew it, and the knowledge made her angry with herself, yet for
nothing she could think of would she have foregone the second hearing
of Parsifal, and the third after that; for she was a musician first,
and then a great singer, and, like all true musicians, she was swayed
by music that touched her, and never merely pleased by it. For her no
intermediate condition of the musical sense was possible between
criticism and delight; but beyond that she had found rapture now, and
ever afterwards she would long to feel it again. Whether, if her voice
had made it possible to sing the part of Kundry, she could have lifted
herself to that seventh heaven by her own singing, only the great
Kundrys and Parsifals can tell. In lyric opera she knew the keen joy
of being both the instrument and the enthralled listener; perhaps a
still higher state beyond that was out of any one's reach, but she
could at least dream of it.
She took Van Torp with her to the performance the next day, after
impressing upon him that he was not to speak, not to whisper, not to
applaud, not to make any sound, from the moment he entered the theatre
till he left it for the dinner interval. He was far too happy with her
to question anything she said, and he obeyed her most scrupulously.
Twenty-four hours earlier she would have laughed at the idea that his
presence beside her at such a time could be not only bearable, but
sympathetic, yet that seemed natural now. The Diva and the ex-cowboy,
the accomplished musician and the Californian miner, the sensitive,
gifted, capricious woman and the iron-jawed money-wolf had found that
they had something in common. Wagner's last music affected them in the
same way.
Such things are not to be explained, and could not be believed if they
did not happen again and again before the eyes of those who know how
to see, which is quite a different thing from merely seeing.
Margaret's sudden liking for the man she had once so thoroughly
disliked had begun when he had whistled to her. It grew while he sat
beside her in the darkened theatre. She was absorbed by the music, the
action, and the scene, and at this second hearing she could follow the
noble poem itself; but she was subconscious of what her neighbour
felt. He was not so motionless merely because she had told him that he
must sit very still; he was not so intent on what he heard and saw,
merely to please her; it was not mere interest that held him, still
less was it curiosity. The spell was upon him; he was entranced, and
Margaret knew it.
Even when they left the theatre and drove back to the hotel, he was
silent, and she was the first to speak. Margaret hated the noise and
confusion of the restaurant near the Festival Theatre.
'You have enjoyed it,' she said. 'I'm glad I brought you.'
'I've felt something I don't understand,' Van Torp answered gravely.
She liked the reply for its simplicity. She had perhaps expected that
he would summon up his most picturesque language to tell her how much
pleasure the music had given him, or that he would perhaps laugh at
himself for having been moved; but instead, he only told her that he
did not understand what he had felt; and they walked on without
another word.
'Go and get something to eat,' she said when they reached the hotel,
'and I'll meet you here in half an hour. I don't care to talk either.'
He only nodded, and lifted his hat as she went up the steps; but
instead of going to eat, he sat down on a bench outside, and waited
for her there, reflecting on the nature of his new experience.
Like most successful men, he looked on all theories as trash, good
enough to amuse clever idlers, but never to be taken into
consideration in real life. He never asked about the principle on
which any invention was founded; his first and only question was,
'Will it work?'
Considering himself as the raw material, and the theatre he had just
left as the mill, he was forced to admit that Parsifal 'worked.'
'It works all right,' he inwardly soliloquised. 'If that's what it
claims to do, it does it.'
When he had reached this business-like conclusion, his large lips
parted a little, and as his breath passed between his closed teeth, it
made soft little hissing sounds that had a suggestion of music in
them, though they were not really whistled notes; his sandy lashes
half veiled his eyes and he saw again what he had lately seen: the
King borne down to the bath that would never heal his wound, and the
dead swan, and the wondering Maiden-Man brought to answer for his
bow-shot, the wild Witch-Girl crouching by the giant trees, and the
long way that led upward through the forest, and upward ever, to the
Hall of the Knights, and last of all, the mysterious Sangreal itself,
glowing divinely in the midst.
He did not really understand what he had seen and saw again as he half
closed his eyes. That was the reason why he accepted it passively, as
he accepted elemental things. If he could by any means have told
himself what illusion it was all intended to produce upon his sight
and hearing, he would have pulled the trick to pieces, mentally, in a
moment, and what remained would have been the merely pleasant
recollection of something very well done, but not in itself different
from other operas or plays he had heard and seen elsewhere, nothing
more than an 'improvement on Lohengrin,' as he would probably have
called it.
But this was something not 'more,' but quite of another kind, and it
affected him as the play of nature's forces sometimes did; it was
like the brooding of the sea, the rising gale, the fury of the storm,
like the leaden stillness before the earthquake, the awful heave of
the earth, the stupendous crash of the doomed city, the long rolling
rumble of falling walls and tumbling houses, big with sudden death; or
again, it was like sad gleams of autumn sunshine, and the cold
cathedral light of primeval forests in winter, and then it was the
spring stirring in all things, the rising pulse of mating nature, the
burst of May-bloom, the huge glow of the earth basking in the full
summer sun.
He did not know, and no one knew, what nature meant by those things.
How could nature's meaning be put into words? And so he did not
understand what he had felt, nor could he see that it might have
significance. What was the 'interpretation' of a storm, of an
earthquake, or of winter and summer? God, perhaps; perhaps just
'nature.' He did not know. Margaret had told him the story of the
opera in the evening; he had followed it easily enough and could not
forget it. It was a sort of religious fairy-tale, he thought, and he
was ready to believe that Wagner had made a good poem of it, even a
great poem. But it was not the story that could be told, which had
moved him; it was nothing so easily defined as a poem, or a drama, or
a piece of music. A far more cultivated man than he could ever become
might sit through the performance and feel little or nothing, of that
he was sure; just as he could have carried beautiful Lady Maud in his
arms without feeling that she was a woman for him, whereas the
slightest touch of Margaret Donne, the mere fact of being near her,
made the blood beat in his throat.
That was only a way of putting it, for there was no sex in the music
he had just heard. He had sat so close to Margaret that their arms
constantly touched, yet he had forgotten that she was there. If the
music had been Tristan and Isolde he could not have been unaware of
her, for a moment, for that is the supreme sex-music of Wagner's art.
But this was different, altogether different, though it was even
stronger than that.
He forgot to look at his watch. Margaret came out of the hotel,
expecting to find him waiting for her within the hall, and prepared to
be annoyed with him for taking so long over a meal. She stood on the
step and looked about, and saw him sitting on the bench at a little
distance. He raised his eyes as she came towards him and then rose
quickly.
'Is it time?' he asked.
'Yes,' she said. 'Did you get anything decent to eat?'
'Yes,' he answered vaguely. 'That is, now I think of it, I forgot
about dinner. It doesn't matter.'
She looked at his hard face curiously and saw a dead blank, the blank
that had sometimes frightened her by its possibilities, when the eyes
alone came suddenly to life.
'Won't you go in and get a biscuit, or a sandwich?' she asked after a
moment.
'Oh, no, thanks. I'm used to skipping meals when I'm interested in
things. Let's go, if you're ready.'
'I believe you are one of nature's Wagnerites,' Margaret said, as
they drove up the hill again, and she smiled at the idea.
'Well,' he answered slowly, 'there's one thing, if you don't mind my
telling you. It's rather personal. Perhaps I'd better not.'
The Primadonna was silent for a few moments, and did not look at him.
'Tell me,' she said suddenly.
'It's this. I don't know how long the performance lasted, but while it
was going on I forgot you were close beside me. You might just as well
not have been there. It's the first time since I ever knew you that
I've been near you without thinking about you all the time, and I
hadn't realised it till I was sitting here by myself. I hope you don't
mind my telling you?'
'It only makes me more glad that I brought you,' Margaret said
quietly.
'Thank you,' he answered; but he was quite sure that the same thing
could not happen again during the Second Part.
Nevertheless, it happened. For a little while, they were man and
woman, sitting side by side and very near, two in a silent multitude
of other men and women; but before long he was quite motionless, his
eyes were fixed again and he had forgotten her. She saw it and
wondered, for she knew how her presence moved him, and as his hands
lay folded on his knee, a mischievous girlish impulse almost made her,
the great artist, forget that she was listening to the greatest music
in the world and nearly made her lay her hand on his, just to see
what he would do. She was ashamed of it, and a little disgusted with
herself. The part of her that was Margaret Donne felt the disgust; the
part that was Cordova felt the shame, and each side of her nature was
restrained at a critical moment. Yet when the 'Good Friday' music
began, she was thinking of Van Torp and he was unconscious of her
presence.
It could not last, and soon she, too, was taken up into the artificial
paradise of the master-musician and borne along in the gale of golden
wings, and there was no passing of time till the very end; and the
people rose in silence and went out under the summer stars; and all
those whom nature had gifted to hear rightly, took with them memories
that years would scarcely dim.
The two walked slowly back to the town as the crowd scattered on foot
and in carriages. It was warm, and there was no moon, and one could
smell the dust, for many people were moving in the same direction,
though some stopped at almost every house and went in, and most of
them were beginning to talk in quiet tones.
Margaret stepped aside from the road and entered a narrow lane, and
Van Torp followed her in silence.
'This leads out to the fields,' she said. 'I must breathe the fresh
air. Do you mind?'
'On the contrary.'
  [Illustration: "She was aware of his slight change of position without
   turning her eyes."]
He said nothing more, and she did not speak, but walked on without
haste, dilating her nostrils to the sweet smell of grass that reached
her already. In a little while they had left the houses behind them,
and they came to a gate that led into a field.
Van Torp was going to undo the fastening, for there was no lock.
'No,' she said, 'we won't go through. I love to lean on a gate.'
She rested her crossed arms on the upper rail and Van Torp did the
same, careful that his elbow should not touch hers, and they both
stared into the dim, sweet-scented meadow. He felt her presence now
and it almost hurt him; he could hear his slow pulse in his ears, hard
and regular. She did not speak, but the night was so still that he
could hear her breathing, and at last he could not bear the warm
silence any longer.
'What are you thinking about?' he asked, trying to speak lightly.
She waited, or hesitated, before she answered him.
'You,' she said, after a time.
He moved involuntarily, and then drew a little further away from her,
as he might have withdrawn a foot from the edge of a precipice, out of
common caution. She was aware of his slight change of position without
turning her eyes.
'What made you say what you did to Mrs. Rushmore yesterday afternoon?'
she asked.
'About you?'
'Yes.'
'She asked me, point-blank, what I thought of Logotheti,' Van Torp
answered. 'I told her that I couldn't give her an unbiassed opinion of
the man you meant to marry, because I had always hoped to marry you
myself.'
'Oh--was that the way it happened?'
'Mrs. Rushmore could hardly have misunderstood me,' said Van Torp,
gathering the reins of himself, so to say, for anything that might
happen.
'No. But it sounds differently when you say it yourself.'
'That was just what I said, anyhow,' answered Van Torp. 'I didn't
think she'd go and tell you right away, but since she has, I don't
regret having said that much.'
'It was straightforward, at all events--if it was all true!' There was
the faintest laugh in her tone as she spoke the last words.
'It's true, right enough, though I didn't expect that I should be
talking to you about this sort of thing to-night.'
'The effect on Mrs. Rushmore was extraordinary, positively
fulminating,' Margaret said more lightly. 'She says I ought to break
off my engagement at once, and marry you! Fancy!'
'That's very kind of her, I'm sure,' observed Mr. Van Torp.
'I don't think so. I like it less and less, the more I think of it.'
'Well, I'm sorry, but I suppose it's natural, since you've concluded
to marry him, and it can't be helped. I wasn't going to say anything
against him, and I wouldn't say anything for him, so there was nothing
to do but to explain, which I did. I'm sorry you think I did wrong,
but I should give the same answer again.'
'Mrs. Rushmore thinks that Konstantin is a designing foreigner because
he's a Greek man of business, and that you are perfection because you
are an American business man.'
'If I'm perfection, that's not the real reason,' said Van Torp,
snatching at his first chance to steer out of the serious current; but
Margaret did not laugh.
'You are not perfection, nor I either,' she answered gravely. 'You are
famous in your way, and people call me celebrated in mine; but so far
as the rest is concerned we are just two ordinary human beings, and if
we are going to be friends we must understand each other from the
first, as far as we can.'
'I'll try to do my share,' said Van Torp, taking her tone.
'Very well. I'll do mine. I began by thinking you were amusing, when I
first met you. Then you frightened me last winter, and I hated you.
Not only that, I loathed you--there's no word strong enough for what I
felt. When I saw you in the audience, you almost paralysed my voice.'
'I didn't know it had been as bad as that,' said Mr. Van Torp quietly.
'Yes. It was worse than I can make you understand. And last spring,
when you were in so much trouble, I believed every word that was said
against you, even that you had murdered your partner's daughter in
cold blood to get rid of her, though that looked as incredible to
sensible people as it really was. It was only when I saw how Lady Maud
believed in you that I began to waver, and then I understood.'
'I'm glad you did.'
'So am I. But she is such a good woman herself that nobody can be
really bad in whom she believes. And now I'm changed still more. I
like you, and I'm sure that we shall be friends, if you will make me
one promise and keep it.'
'What is it?'
'That you will give up all idea of ever marrying me, no matter what
happens, even if I broke----'
'It's no use to go on,' interrupted Van Torp, 'for I can't promise
anything like that. Maybe you don't realise what you're asking, but
it's the impossible. That's all.'
'Oh, nonsense!' Margaret tried to laugh lightly, but it was a failure.
'No, it's very far from nonsense,' he replied, almost sternly. 'Since
you've spoken first, I'm going to tell you several things. One is,
that I accepted the syndicate's offer for the Nickel Trust so as to be
free to take any chance that might turn up. It had been open some
time, but I accepted it on the day I heard of your engagement. That's
a big thing. Another is, that I played a regular trick on Logotheti so
as to come and see you here. I deliberately asked him to dine with me
last night in London. I went right home, wrote a note to him,
antedated for yesterday afternoon, to put him off, and I left it to be
sent at the right hour. Then I drove to the station, and here I am.
You may call that pretty sharp practice, but I believe all's fair in
love and war, and I want you to understand that I think so. There's
one thing more. I won't give up the hope of making you marry me while
you're alive and I am, not if you're an old woman, and I'll put up all
I have in the game, including my own life and other people's, if it
comes to that. Amen.'
Margaret bent her head a little and was silent.
'Now you know why I won't promise what you asked,' said Van Torp in
conclusion.
He had not raised his voice; he had not laid a heavy stress on half
his words, as he often did in common conversation; there had been
nothing dramatic in his tone; but Margaret had understood well enough
that it was the plain statement of a man who meant to succeed, and
whose strength and resources were far beyond those of ordinary
suitors. She was not exactly frightened; indeed, since her dislike for
him had melted away, it was impossible not to feel a womanly
satisfaction in the magnitude of her conquest; but she also felt
instinctively that serious trouble and danger were not far off.
'You have no right to speak like that,' she said rather weakly, after
a moment.
'Perhaps not. I don't know. But I consider that you have a right to
know the truth, and that's enough for me. It's not as if I'd made up
my mind to steal your ewe-lamb from you and put myself in its place.
Logotheti is not any sort of a ewe-lamb. He's a man, he's got plenty
of strength and determination, he's got plenty of money--even what I
choose to call plenty. He says he cares for you. All right. So do I.
