the head. After a little delay he was brought home, 
and a grave in the country churchyard of Balsam 
Groves received him, for Carolyn had wished this 
to be so. Thus it befell that Dane did not lie in 
the burial-place of his wife's family, and for 
himself, he slept, as he had waked, disconnected from 
the traditions, an unrelated man. It might almost 
be said that he was a non-conformer to the end. 
In death, as in life, he did not seem to belong dis- 
tinctly anywhere, or he did not find the place where 
he belonged. 
Sterling Hart read the burial service over the 
shattered and disfigured dead, and himself gave 
over to the wife the last sign and the only comfort 
left to her, — a handful of bright, black hair ; upon 
it lay the gray lock which had crossed Dane's 
young head. 
Sterling Hart thought of everything. Nothing 
was overlooked or undone. All the chances of 
war which one does not discuss with the be- 
reaved, Cara's kinsman had considered thoroughly. 
Against every freak of fate, which it was neither 
 
in her nature nor experience to imagine, he had 
protected her. He sheltered her from every shock, 
from every care ; he spared her all the pangs he 
could. If, when he buried Chanceford Dane, he 
believed in his great, honest heart that she was re- 
moved from the surest and the most incurable pain 
of all, Carolyn will never know. 
Against the preacher's mighty tenderness she 
leaned without knowing it, as unconsciously, as 
inevitably, as upon the everlasting arms of the 
sacred metaphor. Her mind and heart were not 
occupied with her cousin. She mourned her husband, 
and reared her child, and began to turn the 
unread pages of widowhood slowly. On Sundays 
her sad feet, like those of other desolate women, 
carried her to the country churchyard. She re- 
mained in the nasturtium cottage as the climbing 
blossoms clung to the white walls. She had set her 
tendrils there. 
For a time such methods of presenting her pe- 
cuniary circumstances to her mind as it was possi- 
ble for a truthful man to pursue sufficed her ; but 
Sterling Hart knew that this could not last long. 
He stood between her and the facts, ingeniously 
averting the time when her grief would yield to her 
practical sense, and her pride and intelligence unite 
against him. 
Soon after her husband's death, her maid Kath- 
 
leen returned and attached herself to Mrs. Dane. 
Whether Kathleen had left her waiter, or he her, 
no one asked ; but that he drank madly everybody 
knew. The procession of cheap cooks filed 
out of the nasturtium cottage ; the affectionate 
face of the loyal family servant slipped in, and 
Carolyn reassumed that measure of domestic comfort 
which after all goes so much farther to make 
life endurable than a bereaved person is willing 
to admit. 
To her at this time came, on one excuse or an- 
other, her country neighbor, Nannie Hops. Nan- 
nie in a way cherished a genuine attachment for 
Mrs. Dane. This dated back to the era of art 
portfolios, and the gown of gray and white which 
Miss Sterling had honored Nannie by wearing 
on her betrothal day. But that was not the whole 
story. 
Against the brutal scandal which had well-nigh 
swept the " native " belle of Balsam Groves off her 
pretty feet, Mrs. Dane had set herself with the 
quiet force of her still powerful social influence. 
She had fought for Nannie persistently, with the 
indifference to popular opinion which was the 
privilege of her caste. She had trampled on the 
slander with a scorn equaled only by her determination. 
Nannie thought that she would have given 
her saddened life for Mrs. Dane. 
 
It was more than a year by several months after 
the death of Chanceford Dane when there befell 
in late October one of the most memorable storms 
that the East Shore has known in recent days. 
It set in slowly, having threatened for forty-eight 
hours, and reached its climax with the ferocity of 
the deliberate. The sun had not been visible for 
two days, and the sky presented a mask like gray 
felt. The sense of a dying year was everywhere. 
The sumac and ivy which embellished the boul- 
ders left by a fine taste undisturbed in the great 
places of the summer people, burned dully, and 
the yellow maples that bordered the village roads 
stood in rows, like torches half extinguished; many 
of them were bared before the storm came on, and 
all day the air had been thick with the ruins of the 
remainder. Driving, dizzy leaves slapped one in 
the face if one turned against the wind, and piled 
under foot on sidewalks and over the long avenues, 
— chiefly deserted and closed, but still open here 
and there for a few lingerers on the coast that is 
earliest sought, latest left, and most beloved of 
all our pleasure shores. 
The temper of the storm was gloomy in the ex- 
treme, and there was, from the first, something sin- 
ister about it. In the afternoon the blow mounted 
to an ominous gale. The offshore fishermen (for 
there were a few who still pursued their natural 
calling in this land of luxury, where the " native " 
fattened on the city strangers) flapped down in 
oilskins and rubber boots beyond the life-saving 
station and below the great cliffs of the Sterling 
place to see to their dories. These picturesque 
figures hauled on their mooring lines to tauten 
them, and yelled to one another — a fisherman 
shouts, but does not speak — through the roar of 
wind and surf : — 
"There's goin' to be a breeze o' wind." 
By three o'clock the telephone wires began to 
go down. Before dusk it was raining wildly. All 
the afternoon the cliffs were black with people 
watching the sea. This raged with an infuriated 
will, which was as if it were heavy with an unac- 
complished purpose, malign and unthwarted; or if 
benign, too inscrutable for human intelligence. All 
day the water line trembled with scudding schoon- 
ers and sloops, reefed to the last possible stitch, 
and laboring painfully. Everything caught out, 
got in, if it could; and nothing that was in went 
out. Every harbor from Boston to Portland was 
full; after two o'clock no steamer left her dock. 
The staggering sails on the horizon grew fewer. 
One white sloop, that ventured too much canvas, 
drove before the wind for a while, and suddenly 
went down, bow first. She sank as a stone sinks 
that a boy has tossed off a wharf; and it was a week 
 
before anything was known of her. One of the 
fishermen in Balsam Cove pushed back his drip- 
ping sou'wester, and said to his mate: — 
"Nawthin' but one o' them dum furriners or 
blarsted coasters will monkey 'round in this here 
to-night, you bet." 
The houses, like the ships, were reefed. Every 
blind was fastened, every door locked. Nothing 
that could give the wind a chance to slap was left 
carelessly at its mercy. Carolyn had done every- 
thing that she could think of to keep the cottage 
dry and fast. She was sitting in her husband's 
office, where there was a fire. Now and then she 
spoke cheerfully to Kathleen in the kitchen through 
half-opened doors. 
The little boy had been given his supper, and 
his mother was beginning to undress him before 
the fire, for there was none in the bedrooms, and 
the night was cold. The collie was asleep upon 
the rug beside the child. Joyce, in his little white 
nightgown, with his yellow curls, made Murillo 
cherubs of himself against the birch light, pass- 
ing from one round warm pose to another, each 
charming, and all happy. 
Joyce had the maturity of only children who 
are shut in to the society of sensitive mothers. 
For a little fellow he was a large talker, and he had 
the curious, interrogative temper frequent in boys 
 
of alert intelligence, and unbearable to every one 
but parents. He pelted his mother with questions 
as he would have pelted her with pebbles or
nasturtiums. 
"Mum — mumma? Is God a zhentleman?" 
"Joyce, I told you before. You must not talk 
too much about God. It isn't nice for little boys 
to joke about him." 
" No, but Mumma, is God a zhentleman?" 
" Mamma can't answer such silly questions. She 
doesn't know much more about God than you do, 
Joyce." 
" Oh, I know all about him," insisted the child. 
" I say my pwayers to him, don't I ? Boys don't 
talk to people he don't know. Say, Mumma, isn't 
God a zhentleman?" 
"Listen to the storm, Joyce. There! Hark! 
Aren't you glad we're not out there in one of 
those ships? Kneel down and say your prayers 
and tell God so." 
" Clyde gotta say his pwayers 'f I do," objected 
Joyce. 
" Very well. Clyde may say his prayers, too. 
Come, Clyde." 
The boy and the dog dropped obediently to 
knees and haunches. Joyce rolled his curls upon his 
mother's lap. With eyes wide open, and one fire- 
painted cheek upon her hand, he began: — 
 
"Now I lay me down to sleep — "but there 
stopped short. 
"I raver sing 'em. Mayn't I sing 'em? I like 
song pwayers better 'n talk pwayers. Mumma, 
is God a zhentleman?" 
" I don't know," said Carolyn, boldly. 
The child whisked over on her lap and stared 
into the fire. In a pretty plaintive soprano he be- 
gan to sing: — 
" Now I lay me down to sleep, 
All vose ships sail on 'e deep — " 
At this point his devotions came to an abrupt 
end. With solemn eyes and flaming cheeks he 
stamped his bare foot upon the rug. 
"Mumma? Mumma! I don't b'lieve God is a 
zhentleman — sending such a norful storm on all 
vose ships!" 
The nasturtium cottage shook in the blast, and 
the boy began to tremble. Carolyn cuddled and 
comforted him; she was one of the women who 
are born to cuddle and comfort, — a gift by no 
means bestowed on all mothers, — and as soon as 
he was asleep she wrapped him and carried him 
upstairs to bed. When she came down and re- 
sumed her solitary chair by the office fire, she found 
the collie tramping the room restlessly, and whin- 
ing at the uncurtained windows. 
 
" There 's rockets ! " cried Kathleen, running in 
from the kitchen. " It's a ship! She 's struck 
somewhere! What an awful night to be droonin' in!" 
The dog stood up like a person, with his fore 
paws on the window sill, and gazed seaward anx- 
iously. He looked curiously tall, and unnatural ; 
his sable hair bristled, and his ears went down. 
Angered because he could see nothing through the 
darkness, or possibly for some other reason, he 
began to growl. 
"Oh, the poor min! The poor, poor min!" 
sobbed Kathleen, wringing her sympathetic Irish 
hands. At this moment the old brass knocker hit 
the front door hurriedly, and a familiar voice 
cried : — 
"Mrs. Dane! Mrs. Dane! Let me in!" The vis- 
itor was Nannie, who pushed in, dripping and 
excited, in her long raincoat, with the hood over 
her head. 
" There 's a schooner ashore ! She 's struck just 
off your father's place! The whole town is on the 
cliffs. I can't stay still. Nobody can. I 'm going. 
Leave the baby with Kathleen, and come, too. 
Come!" 
On the impulse of the moment Carolyn caught 
on her own raincoat, and followed Nannie into 
the storm. It was not raining as heavily as it had 
been, but the gale was approaching a hurricane, 
 
and it now appeared that fog was added to the 
perils of the night. This is not common with a 
gale of that character, but it sometimes happens. 
The two women ran over the Sterling avenue, 
and out upon the cliffs. Each in her own way, both 
were sea girls, and the passion of the sea was on 
them. They held each other's hands as they ran, 
and pushed silently against the wall of the wind. 
Carolyn noticed, after a time, that the collie had 
followed her. Clyde was a sea dog, and could no 
more be kept away from a wreck than other people. 
As Nannie had said, the whole town was out, 
and the cliffs were alive with moving human figures. 
Some one had built a bonfire, and patches of glare 
contended with blocks of gloom. From the life- 
saving station below the cove a wagon was
rushing with apparatus. Fishermen were bellowing 
wildly: — 
" It's one o'them yellow-pine coasters! Blowed 
clean outen her course — God help her!" 
Then another answered : — 
"Look at her! Look at her! Look! She's 
struck bows on Sterling's reef! See! See! 
They 've stopped sending rockets. They 've used 
'em all up!" 
"God A'mighty!" said a very old fisherman, 
slowly. "Hear 'em! Hear 'em! What's the good 
o' yellin' like that? Ain't we doin' all we ken?" 
 
Mrs. Dane and Nannie got out upon the cliff's 
edge, and clung together silently. The dog stood 
trembling with excitement beside them, and the 
three watched the tremendous scene which had 
brought the village to the spot. 
Upon the forked tongue of the rock known as 
Sterling's reef, a hundred feet below the piazza of 
the summer people, the toiler of the sea lay 
pounding in the breakers. She was a yellow-pine coaster, 
as the omnivoyant eye of the fisherman had dis- 
cerned, bringing her cargo from some Southern 
port — in Florida, it might be. The gale had 
beaten her out of her course; the fog had blinded 
her out of her reckonings, and she had struck just 
off the great chasm — as cruel a spot as could be 
found upon the East Shore for a boat to batter her 
brains out. The cliff was not sheer, but ragged, 
and now slippery with spray, and its slope could 
hardly be said to hold a fighting chance for a 
climbing life. 
It lacked but a little of full tide, and the shock 
of the breakers on the granite was something 
hardly to be imagined by softer shores. The 
schooner rocked like a chip, and her lights looked 
as small as candles, seen through spray and fog. 
She hammered on the reef desperately, as if she 
had a mind of her own, and were trying to hew a 
footing for herself, on which to hold like a thing 
 
of the land. Cries came up, but they were
inarticulate. Cries went down, but the throat of the 
gale swallowed them. No vocabulary was possible 
between rescuers and perishing but that contained 
in the signals of the life-saving service. 
The apparatus had now come up, piled upon a 
wagon, dashed by road and avenue, and tearing over 
the beautiful Sterling lawns. The schooner seemed 
to roll and stretch her hands to snatch the slender 
line that carried the first strand of rescue to her. 
The breakers smote her so that one would have 
said : " She is swamping." 
Carolyn clutched at Nannie's shoulder, and sud- 
denly sank down upon the cliff. 
" It makes me faint ! " she gasped. " There is a 
man washed over ! I don't think anybody has seen 
him. He will be dashed to death in the ravine. I 
cannot — I cannot look any longer." 
" I didn't see any man," soothed Nannie. " I am 
sure you must be mistaken. I don't believe any- 
body is drowned. I don't believe anybody is going 
to be drowned. I think she struck and wedged 
herself somehow. I will go and ask." 
Nannie ran, and Mrs. Dane sat still. She hid her 
face on the collie's neck, and sobbed a little from 
sheer weakness and excitement. She thought, 
" He is some other woman's husband ; and she 
will never see him again." 
 
The wreck and the setting of the scene had un- 
nerved her. She sat shivering by the closed and 
deserted house of her old home ; in fact, she had 
crawled up against the foot of the eastern piazza 
— the piazza where she had sat with Dane, and 
watched the sun rise on the night when the young 
doctor had saved her father; she in her long pearl 
cloak with its rose lining, and furred edge trembling 
with every breath; he with his lowered voice, his 
wooing eyes; and both hidden from one another in 
the shelter of that silence which precedes acknow- 
ledged love. Her mind worked as that of a very 
young person will when one is overborne by sor- 
row or care too early in life; she experienced as 
much perplexity as pain. 
She naively said to herself, " Why, I used to 
think this was a pleasant world! " Her little boy's 
question seemed to her to have been let loose on 
the brutal gale, and to come thundering in on 
every death-dealing wave: " Is God a gentleman? 
Is God a gentleman? " She did not look again at 
the breakers where she had seen the man washed 
down from the schooner. She said, "He must be 
beaten to death by this time." 
While she sat, for the moment sunken in her 
own sensitiveness, the crew or a part of them were 
got ashore upon the life line. She did not watch 
the thrilling scene, but covered her face from the 
 
sight of it, and wished that she might never look 
upon the sea again. 
"Don't take it so, Mrs. Dane! Don't!" said 
Nannie, suddenly appearing in her long, wet coat. 
" I 'm sure there was no man washed over. Nobody 
thinks so but you. And, dear — listen! It's just 
as I told you. There won't be anybody drowned. 
Three have come over on the lines already. Cap'n 
and the mate won't leave the ship, and they say 
the cap'n's son 's aboard, too. But they expect every 
minute she will — Oh, there ! Look! Look! See 
that!" 
Nannie cried out, and Carolyn, quivering, got 
to her feet. The two women clung together, sob- 
bing as women will, in tense moments, while the 
wrecked schooner yawed in the breakers, rose like 
a rearing horse, and went headlong, far upon the 
reef. A tremendous comber dashed her high and 
dry, and fixed her there. 
Now, above the cannonade of the sea, the voice 
of the very old fisherman uprose shrilly: — 
"What did I tell yer? She's run her nose in 
tight. To blazes with the breeches buoy ! Every 
mother's son of 'em can walk ashore. I bet my dory 
she 'll hold till ebb." 
" 'T ain't a big crew," he added ; " just a handful. 
If every soul of 'em ain't walkin' Balsam streets 
come mornin', I 'll eat my sou'wester." 
 
" There!" cried Nannie. " What did I tell you ? 
Now they 'll walk ashore on the bowsprit. Mr. Hart 
