Miss Macroyd was not going to let him off like that. 
" You don't know how she came, or you don't know 
whether she was coming ?" 

" I didn't say." 

Her laugh resounded again. " Now you are trying 
to be wicked, and that is very wrong for a novelist." 

" But what object could I have in concealing the fact 
from you, Miss Macroyd?" he entreated, with mock 
earnestness. 

" That is what I want to find out." 

" What are you two laughing so about ?" the voice 
of Mrs. Westangle twittered at Verrian's elbow, and, 
looking down, he found her almost touching it. She 
had a very long, narrow neck, and, since it was long and 
narrow, she had the good sense not to palliate the fact 
or try to dress the effect of it out of sight. She took 
her neck in both hands, as it were, and put it more on 
show, so that you had really to like it. Now it lifted 
her face, though she was not a tall person, well towards 
the level of his ; to be sure, he was himself only of the 
middle height of men, though an aquiline profile helped 
him up. 

He stirred the tea which he had ceased to drink, and 
said, " I wasn't ' laughing so about,' Mrs. Westangle. 
It was Miss Macroyd." 

" And I was laughing so about a mysterious stranger 
that came up on the train with us and got out at your 
station." 

" And I was trying to make out what was so funny 
in a mysterious stranger, or even in her getting out at 
your station." 

Mrs. Westangle was not interested in the case, or 
else she failed to seize the joke. At any rate, she turned 

 

from them without further question and went away to 
another part of the room, where she semi-attached her- 
self in like manner to another couple, and again left it 
for still another. This was possibly her idea of look- 
ing after her guests; but when she had looked after 
them a little longer in that way she left the room and 
let them look after themselves till dinner. 

" Come, Mr. Verrian," Miss Macroyd resumed, 
" what is the secret ? I'll never tell if you tell me." 

" You won't if I don't." 

" Now you are becoming merely trivial. You are 
ceasing even to be provoking." Miss Macroyd, in token 
of her displeasure, laughed no longer. 

" Am I ?" he qiiestioned, thoughtfully. " Well, then, 
I am tempted to act upon impulse." 

" Oh, do act upon impulse for once," she urged. I'm 
sure you'll enjoy it." 

" Do you mean that I'm never impulsive ?" 

" I don't think you look it." 

" If you had seen me an hour ago you would have 
said I was very impulsive. I think I may have ex- 
hausted myself in that direction, however. I feel the 
impulse failing me now." 



XI 



His impulse really had failed him. It had been to 
tell Miss Macroyd about his adventure and frankly 
trust her with it. He had liked her at several former 
meetings rather increasingly, because she had seemed 
open and honest beyond the most of women, but her pig- 
gish behavior at the station had been rather too open and 
honest, and the sense of this now opportunely inter- 
vened between him and the folly he was about to com- 
mit. Besides, he had no right to give Miss Shirley's 
part in his adventure away, and, since the affair was 
more vitally hers than his, to take it at all out of her 
hands. The early - falling dusk had favored an un- 
noticed advent for them, and there were other chances 
that had helped keep unknown their arrival together at 
Mrs. Westangle's in that squalid carryall, such as 
Miss Shirley's having managed instantly to slip in-doors 
before the man came out for Verrian's suit-case, and of 
her having got to her own appointed place long before 
there was any descent of the company to the after- 
noon tea. 

It was not for him now to undo all that and begin 
the laughing at the affair, which she had pathetically 
intimated that she would rather some one else should 
begin. He recoiled from his imprudence with a shock, 
but he had the pleasure of having mystified Miss 
Macroyd. He felt dismissal in the roving eye which 
she cast from him round the room, and he willingly 
let another young man replace him at her side. 

 

Yet he was not altogether satisfied. A certain meaner 
self that there was in him was not pleased with his 
relegation even merely in his own consciousness to the 
championship of a girl who was going to make her 
living in a sort of menial way. It had better be owned 
for him that, in his visions of literary glory, he had 
figured in social triumphs which, though vague, were 
resplendent with the glitter of smart circles. He had 
been so ignorant of such circles as to suppose they would 
have some use for him as a brilliant young author; 
and though he was outwearing this illusion, he still 
would not have liked a girl like Julia Macroyd, whose 
family, if not smart, was at least chic, to know that he 
had come to the house with a professional mistress of 
the revels, until Miss Shirley should have approved 
herself chic, too. The notion of such an employment as 
hers was in itself chic, but the girl was merely a paid 
part of the entertainment, as yet, and had not risen 
above the hireling status. If she had sunk to that level 
from a higher rank it would be all right, but there was 
no evidence that she had ever been smart. Verrian 
would, therefore, rather not be mixed up with her — at 
any rate, in the imagination of a girl like Julia Mac- 
royd; and as he left her side he drew a long breath of 
relief and went and put down his teacup where he had 
got it. 

By this time the girl who was " pouring " had ex- 
hausted one of the two original guards on whom she had 
been dividing her vision, and Verrian made a pre- 
tence, which she favored, that he had come up to push 
the man away. The man gracefully submitted to be 
dislodged, and Verrian remained in the enjoyment 
of one of the girl's distorted eyes till, yet another man 
coming up, she abruptly got rid of Verrian by pre- 
senting him to yet another girl. In such manoeuvres 

 

the hour of afternoon tea will pass ; and the time really 
wore on till it was time to dress for dinner. 

By the time that the guests came down to dinner they 
were all able to participate in the exchange of the 
discovery which each had made, that it was snowing out- 
doors, and they kept this going till one girl had the 
good-luck to say, " I don't see anything so astonishing 
in that at this time of year. Now, if it was snowing in- 
doors, it would be different." 

This relieved the tension in a general laugh, and a 
young man tried to contribute further to the gayety 
by declaring that it would not be surprising to have it 
snow in-doors. He had once seen the thing done in 
a crowded hall, one night, when somebody put up a 
window, and the freezing current of air congealed the 
respiration of the crowd, which came down in a light 
fall of snow-flakes. He owned that it was in Boston. 

" Oh, that excuses it, then," Miss Macroyd said. But 
she lost the laugh which was her due in the rush which 
some of the others made to open a window and see 
whether it could be made to snow in-doors there. 

" Oh, it isn't crowded enough here," the young man 
explained who had alleged the scientific marvel. 

" And it isn't Boston," Miss Macroyd tried again on 
the same string, and this time she got her laugh. 

The girl who had first spoken remained, at the risk 
of pneumonia, with her arm prettily lifted against the 
open sash, for a moment peering out, and then reported, 
in dashing it down with a shiver, " It seems to be a 
very soft snow." 

" Then it will be rain by morning," another pre- 
dicted, and the girl tried hard to think of something 
to say in support of the hit she had made already. But 
she could not, and was silent almost through the whole 
first course at dinner. 



In spite of its being a soft snow, it continued to fall 
as snow and not as rain. It lent the charm of stormy 
cold without to the brightness and warmth within. 
Much later, when between waltzes some of the dancers 
went out on the verandas for a breath of air, they came 
back reporting that the wind was rising and the snow 
was drifting. 

Upon the whole, the snow was a great success, and her 
guests congratulated Mrs. Westangle on having thought 
to have it. The felicitations included recognition of the 
originality of her whole scheme. She had downed the 
hoary superstition that people had too much of a good 
time on Christmas to want any good time at all in the 
week following ; and in acting upon the well-known fact 
that you never wanted a holiday so much as the day 
after you had one, she had made a movement of the 
highest social importance. These were the ideas which 
Verrian and the young man of the in-doors snow-storm 
urged upon her; his name was Bushwick, and he and 
Verrian found that they were very good-fellows after 
they had rather supposed the contrary. 

Mrs. Westangle received their ideas with the twit- 
tering reticence that deceived so many people when they 
supposed she knew what they were talking about. 



XII 

At breakfast, where the guests were reasonably 
punctual, they were all able to observe, in the rapid 
succession in which they descended from their rooms, 
that it had stopped snowing and the sun was shining 
brilliantly. 

" There isn't enough for sleighing," Mrs. Westangle 
proclaimed from the head of the table in her high twit- 
ter, " and there isn't any coasting here in this flat coun- 
try for miles." 

" Then what are we going to do with it ?" one of the 
young ladies humorously pouted. 

" That's what I was going to suggest," Mrs. West- 
angle replied. She pronounced it sujjest, but no one 
felt that it mattered. " And, of course," she con- 
tinued, " you needn't any of you do it if you don't 
like." 

" We'll all do it, Mrs. Westangle," Bushwick said. 
" We are unanimous in that." 

" Perhaps you'll think it rather funny — odd," she 
said. 

" The odder the better, I think," Verrian ventured, 
and another man declared that nothing Mrs. Westangle 
would do was odd, though everything was original. 

" Well, there is such a thing as being too original," 
she returned. Then she turned her head aside and 
looked down at something beside her plate and said, 
without lifting her eyes, " You know that in the Middle 
Ages there used to be flower-fights among the young 

 

nobility in Italy. The women held a tower, and the 
men attacked it with roses and flowers generally." 

" Why, is this a speech ?" Miss Macroyd interrupted. 

" A speech from the throne, yes," Bushwick solemnly 
corrected her. " And she's got it written down, like a 
queen — haven't you, Mrs. Westangle ?" 

" Yes, I thought it would be more respectful." 

" She coming out," Bushwick said to Verrian across 
the table. 

" And if I got mixed up I could go back and straight- 
en it," the hostess declared, with a good - humored 
candor that took the general fancy, " and you could 
understand without so much explaining. We haven't 
got flowers enough at this season," she went on, looking 
down again at the paper beside her plate, " but we hap- 
pen to have plenty of snowballs, and the notion is to 
have the women occupy a snow tower and the men at- 
tack them with snowballs." 

" Why," Bushwick said, " this is the snow-fort busi- 
ness of our boyhood! Let's go out and fortify the 
ladies at once." He appealed to Verrian and made a 
feint of pushing his chair back. " May we use water- 
soaked snowballs, or must they all be soft and harm- 
less?" he asked of Mrs. Westangle, who was now the 
centre of a storm of applause and question from the 
whole table. 

She kept her head and referred again to her paper. 
" The missiles of the assailants are to be very soft 
snowballs, hardly more than mere clots, so that nobody 
can be hurt in the assault, but the defenders may repel 
the assailants with harder snowballs." 

" Oh," Miss Macroyd protested, " this is consulting 
the weakness of our sex." 

" In the fury of the onset we'll forget it," Verrian 
reassured her. 



" Do you think you really will, Mr. Yerrian ?" she 
asked. " What is all our athletic training to go for if 
you do V 

Mrs. Westangle read on : 

" The terms of capitulation can he arranged on the 
ground, whether the castle is carried or the assailing 
party are made prisoners by its defenders." 

" Hopeless captivity in either case !" Bushwick la- 
mented. 

" Isn't it rather academic ?" Miss Macroyd asked of 
Verrian, in a low voice. 

" I'm afraid, rather," he owned. 

" But why are you so serious ?" she pursued. 

" Am I serious ?" he retorted, with a trace of exas- 
peration ; and she laughed. 

Their parley was quite lost in the clamor which raged 
up and down the table till Mrs. Westangle ended it 
by saying, " There's no obligation on any one to take 
part in the hostilities. There won't be any conscrip- 
tion ; it's a free fight that will be open to everybody." 
She folded the paper she had been reading from and 
put it in her lap, in default of a pocket. She went on 
impromptu : 

" You needn't trouble about building the fort, Mr. 
Bushwick. I've had the farmer and his men working 
at the castle since daybreak, and the ladies will find 
it all ready for them, when they're ready to defend 
it, down in the meadow beyond the edge of the birch- 
lot. The battle won't begin till eleven o'clock." 

She rose, and the clamor rose again with her, and her 
guests crushed about her, demanding to be allowed at 
least to go and look at the castle immediately. 

One of the men's voices asked, " May I be one of the 
defenders, Mrs. Westangle ? I want to be on the win- 
ning side, sure." 

 

" Oh, is this going to be a circus chariot-race ?" an- 
other lamented. 

" No, indeed," a girl cried, " it's to be the real thing." 

It fell to Verrian, in the assortment of couples in 
which Mrs. Westangle's guests sallied out to view the 
proposed scene of action, to find himself, not too willing- 
ly, at Miss Macroyd's side. In his heart and in his 
mind he was defending the amusement which he instant- 
ly divined as no invention of Mrs. Westangle's, and 
both his heart and his mind misgave him about this 
first essay of Miss Shirley in her new enterprise. It 
was, as Miss Macroyd had suggested, academic, and 
at the same time it had a danger in it of being tom- 
boyish. Golf, tennis, riding, boating, swimming — all 
the vigorous sports in which women now excel — were 
boldly athletic, and yet you could not feel quite that 
they were tomboyish. Was it because the bent of 
Miss Shirley was so academic that she was perilling 
upon tomboyishness without knowing it in this primal 
inspiration of hers ? Inwardly he resented the word 
academic, although outwardly he had assented to it 
when Miss Macroyd proposed it. To be academic would 
be even more fatal to Miss Shirley's ambition than to 
be tomboyish, and he thought with pathos of that touch 
about the Italian nobility in the Middle Ages, and how 
little it could have moved the tough fancies of that 
crowd of well-groomed young people at the breakfast- 
table when Mrs. Westangle brought it out with her 
ignorant acceptance of it as a social force. After all, 
Miss Macroyd was about the only one who could have 
felt it in the way it was meant, and she had chosen to 
smile at it. He wondered if possibly she could feel the 
secondary pathos of it as he did. But to make talk 
with her he merely asked : 
