existed. Men and women were doing these things--actual flesh-and-blood
human beings.
Montague wondered, in an awestricken sort of way, what kind of human
being it could be who had flourished the cane and made the grimaces in
that play. Later on, when he came to know the "Tenderloin," he met this
same actor, and he found that he had begun life as a little Irish
"mick" who lived in a tenement, and whose mother stood at the head of
the stairway and defended him with a rolling-pin against a policeman
who was chasing him. He had discovered that he could make a living by
his comical antics; but when he came home and told his mother that he
had been offered twenty dollars a week by a show manager, she gave him
a licking for lying to her. Now he was making three thousand dollars a
week--more than the President of the United States and his Cabinet; but
he was not happy, as he confided to Montague, because he did not know
how to read, and this was a cause of perpetual humiliation. The secret
desire of this little actor's heart was to play Shakespeare; he had
"Hamlet" read to him, and pondered how to act it--all the time that he
was flourishing his little cane and making his grimaces! He had chanced
to be on the stage when a fire had broken out, and five or six hundred
victims of greed were roasted to death. The actor had pleaded with the
people to keep their seats, but all in vain; and all his life
thereafter he went about with this vision of horror in his mind, and
haunted by the passionate conviction that he had failed because of his
lack of education--that if only he had been a man of culture, he would
have been able to think of something to say to hold those
terror-stricken people!
At three o'clock in the morning the performance came to an end, and
then there were more refreshments; and Mrs. Vivie Patton came and sat
by him, and they had a nice comfortable gossip. When Mrs. Vivie once
got started at talking about people, her tongue ran on like a windmill.
There was Reggie Mann, meandering about and simpering at people. Reggie
was in his glory at Mrs. de Graffenried's affairs. Reggie had arranged
all this-he did the designing and the ordering, and contracted for the
shows with the agents. You could bet that he had got his commission on
them, too--though sometimes Mrs. de Graffenried got the shows to come
for nothing, because of the advertising her name would bring.
Commissions were Reggie's speciality--he had begun life as an auto
agent. Montague didn't know what that was? An auto agent was a man who
was for ever begging his friends to use a certain kind of car, so that
he might make a living; and Reggie had made about thirty thousand a
year in that way. He had come from Boston, where his reputation had
been made by the fact that early one morning, as they were driving home
from a celebration, he had dared a young society matron to take off her
shoes and stockings, and get out and wade in the public fountain; and
she had done it, and he had followed her. On the strength of the eclat
of this he had been taken up by Mrs. Devon; and one day Mrs. Devon had
worn a white gown, and asked him what he thought of it. "It needs but
one thing to make it perfect," said Reggie, and taking a red rose, he
pinned it upon her corsage. The effect was magical; every one exclaimed
with delight, and so Reggie's reputation as an authority upon dress was
made for ever. Now he was Mrs. de Graffenried's right-hand man, and
they made up their pranks together. Once they had walked down the
street in Newport with a big rag doll between them. And Reggie had
given a dinner at which the guest of honour had been a monkey--surely
Montague had heard of that, for it had been the sensation of the
season. It was really the funniest thing imaginable; the monkey wore a
suit of broad-cloth with collar and cuffs, and he shook hands with all
the guests, and behaved himself exactly like a gentleman--except that
he did not get drunk.
And then Mrs. Vivie pointed out the great Mrs. Ridgley-Clieveden, who
was sitting with one of her favourites, a grave, black-bearded
gentleman who had leaped into fame by inheriting fifty million dollars.
"Mrs. R.-C." had taken him up, and ordered his engagement book for him,
and he was solemnly playing the part of a social light. He had
purchased an old New York mansion, upon the decoration of which three
million dollars had been spent; and when he came down to business from
Tuxedo, his private train waited all day for him with steam up. Mrs.
Vivie told an amusing tale of a woman who had announced her engagement
to him, and borrowed large sums of money upon the strength of it,
before his denial came out. That had been a source of great delight to
Mrs. de Graffenried, who was furiously jealous of "Mrs. R. C."
From the anecdotes that people told, Montague judged that Mrs. de
Graffenried must be one of those new leaders of Society, who, as Mrs.
Alden said, were inclined to the bizarre and fantastic. Mrs. de
Graffenried spent half a million dollars every season to hold the
position of leader of the Newport set, and you could always count upon
her for new and striking ideas. Once she had given away as cotillion
favours tiny globes with goldfish in them; again she had given a dance
at which everybody got themselves up as different vegetables. She was
fond of going about at Newport and inviting people haphazard to
lunch--thirty or forty at a time--and then surprising them with a
splendid banquet. Again she would give a big formal dinner, and perplex
people by offering them something which they really cared to eat. "You
see," explained Mrs. Vivie, "at these dinners we generally get thick
green turtle soup, and omelettes with some sort of Florida water poured
over them, and mushrooms cooked under glass, and real hand-made
desserts; but Mrs. de Graffenried dares to have baked ham and sweet
potatoes, or even real roast beef. You saw to-night that she had green
corn; she must have arranged for that months ahead--we can never get it
from Porto Rico until January. And you see this little dish of wild
strawberries--they were probably transplanted and raised in a hothouse,
and every single one wrapped separately before they were shipped."
All these labours had made Mrs. de Graffenried a tremendous power in
the social world. She had a savage tongue, said Mrs. Vivie, and every
one lived in terror of her; but once in a while she met her match. Once
she had invited a comic opera star to sing for her guests, and all the
men had crowded round this actress, and Mrs. de Graffenried had flown
into a passion and tried to drive them away; and the actress, lolling
back in her chair, and gazing up idly at Mrs. de Graffenried, had
drawled, "Ten years older than God!" Poor Mrs. de Graffenried would
carry that saying with her until she died.
Something reminiscent of this came under Montague's notice that same
evening. At about four o'clock Mrs. Vivie wished to go home, and asked
him to find her escort, the Count St. Elmo de Champignon--the man, by
the way, for whom her husband was gunning. Montague roamed all about
the house, and finally went downstairs, where a room had been set apart
for the theatrical company to partake of refreshments. Mrs. de
Graffenried's secretary was on guard at the door; but some of the boys
had got into the room, and were drinking champagne and "making dates"
with the chorus-girls. And here was Mrs. de Graffenried herself,
pushing them bodily out of the room, a score and more of them--and
among them Mrs. Vivie's Count!
Montague delivered his message, and then went upstairs to wait until
his own party should be ready to leave. In the smoking-room were a
number of men, also waiting; and among them he noticed Major Venable,
in conversation with a man whom he did not know. "Come over here," the
Major called; and Montague obeyed, at the same time noticing the
stranger.
He was a tall, loose-jointed, powerfully built man, a small head and a
very striking face: a grim mouth with drooping corners tightly set, and
a hawk-like nose, and deep-set, peering eyes. "Have you met Mr. Hegan?"
said the Major. "Hegan, this is Mr. Allan Montague." Jim Hegan!
Montague repressed a stare and took the chair which they offered him.
"Have a cigar," said Hegan, holding out his case.
"Mr. Montague has just come to New York," said the Major. "He is a
Southerner, too."
"Indeed?" said Hegan, and inquired what State he came from. Montague
replied, and added, "I had the pleasure of meeting your daughter last
week, at the Horse Show."
That served to start a conversation; for Hegan came from Texas, and
when he found that Montague knew about horses--real horses--he warmed
to him. Then the Major's party called him away, and the other two were
left to carry on the conversation.
It was very easy to chat with Hegan; and yet underneath, in the other's
mind, there lurked a vague feeling of trepidation, as he realized that
he was chatting with a hundred millions of dollars. Montague was new
enough at the game to imagine that there ought to be something strange,
some atmosphere of awe and mystery, about a man who was master of a
dozen railroads and of the politics of half a dozen States. He was
simple and very kindly in his manner, a plain man, interested in plain
things. There was about him, as he talked, a trace of timidity, almost
of apology, which Montague noticed and wondered at. It was only later,
when he had time to think about it, that he realized that Hegan had
begun as a farmer's boy in Texas, a "poor white"; and could it be that
after all these years an instinct remained in him, so that whenever he
met a gentleman of the old South he stood by with a little deference,
seeming to beg pardon for his hundred millions of dollars?
And yet there was the power of the man. Even chatting about horses, you
felt it; you felt that there was a part of him which did not chat, but
which sat behind and watched. And strangest of all, Montague found
himself fancying that behind the face that smiled was another face,
that did not smile, but that was grim and set. It was a strange face,
with its broad, sweeping eyebrows and its drooping mouth; it haunted
Montague and made him feel ill at ease.
There came Laura Hegan, who greeted them in her stately way; and Mrs.
Hegan, bustling and vivacious, costumed en grande dame. "Come and see
me some time," said the man. "You won't be apt to meet me otherwise,
for I don't go about much." And so they took their departure; and
Montague sat alone and smoked and thought. The face still stayed with
him; and now suddenly, in a burst of light, it came to him what it was:
the face of a bird of prey--of the great wild, lonely eagle! You have
seen it, perhaps, in a menagerie; sitting high up, submitting
patiently, biding its time. But all the while the soul of the eagle is
far away, ranging the wide spaces, ready for the lightning swoop, and
the clutch with the cruel talons!
CHAPTER X
The next week was a busy one for the Montagues. The Robbie Wallings had
come to town and opened their house, and the time drew near for the
wonderful débutante dance at which Alice was to be formally presented
to Society. And of course Alice must have a new dress for the occasion,
and it must be absolutely the most beautiful dress ever known. In an
idle moment her cousin figured out that it was to cost her about five
dollars a minute to be entertained by the Wallings!
What it would cost the Wallings, one scarcely dared to think. Their
ballroom would be turned into a flower-garden; and there would be a
supper for a hundred guests, and still another supper after the dance,
and costly favours for every figure. The purchasing of these latter had
been entrusted to Oliver, and Montague heard with dismay what they were
to cost. "Robbie couldn't afford to do anything second-rate," was the
younger brother's only reply to his exclamations.
Alice divided her time between the Wallings and her costumiers, and
every evening she came home with a new tale of important developments.
Alice was new at the game, and could afford to be excited; and Mrs.
Robbie liked to see her bright face, and to smile indulgently at her
eager inquiries. Mrs. Robbie herself had given her orders to her
steward and her florist and her secretary, and went on her way and
thought no more about it. That was the way of the great ladies--or, at
any rate, it was their pose.
The town-house of the Robbies was a stately palace occupying a block
upon Fifth Avenue--one of the half-dozen mansions of the Walling family
which were among the show places of the city. It would take a catalogue
to list the establishments maintained by the Wallings--there was an
estate in North Carolina, and another in the Adirondacks, and others on
Long Island and in New Jersey. Also there were several in Newport--one
which was almost never occupied, and which Mrs. Billy Alden
sarcastically described as "a three-million-dollar castle on a desert."
Montague accompanied Alice once or twice, and had an opportunity to
study Mrs. Robbie at home. There were thirty-eight servants in her
establishment; it was a little state all in itself, with Mrs. Robbie as
queen, and her housekeeper as prime minister, and under them as many
different ranks and classes and castes as in a feudal principality.
There had to be six separate dining-rooms for the various kinds of
servants who scorned each other; there were servants' servants and
servants of servants' servants. There were only three to whom the
mistress was supposed to give orders--the butler, the steward, and the
housekeeper; she did not even know the names of many of them, and they
were changed so often, that, as she declared, she had to leave it to
her detective to distinguish between employees and burglars.
Mrs. Robbie was quite a young woman, but it pleased her to pose as a
care-worn matron, weary of the responsibilities of her exalted station.
The ignorant looked on and pictured her as living in the lap of ease,
endowed with every opportunity: in reality the meanest kitchen-maid was
freer--she was quite worn thin with the burdens that fell upon her. The
huge machine was for ever threatening to fall to pieces, and required
the wisdom of Solomon and the patience of Job to keep it running. One
paid one's steward a fortune, and yet he robbed right and left, and
quarrelled with the chef besides. The butler was suspected of getting
drunk upon rare and costly vintages, and the new parlour-maid had
turned out to be a Sunday reporter in disguise. The man who had come
every day for ten years to wind the clocks of the establishment was
dead, and the one who took care of the bric-a-brac was sick, and the
housekeeper was in a panic over the prospect of having to train another.
And even suppose that you escaped from these things, the real problems
of your life had still to be faced. It was not enough to keep alive;
you had your career--your duties as a leader of Society. There was the
daily mail, with all the pitiful letters from people begging
money--actually in one single week there were demands for two million
dollars. There were geniuses with patent incubators and stove-lifters,
and every time you gave a ball you stirred up swarms of anarchists and
cranks. And then there were the letters you really had to answer, and
the calls that had to be paid. These latter were so many that people in
the same neighbourhood had arranged to have the same day at home; thus,
if you lived on Madison Avenue you had Thursday; but even then it took
a whole afternoon to leave your cards. And then there were invitations
to be sent and accepted; and one was always making mistakes and
offending somebody--people would become mortal enemies overnight, and
expect all the world to know it the next morning. And now there were so
many divorces and remarryings, with consequent changing of names; and
some men knew about their wives' lovers and didn't care, and some did
care, but didn't know--altogether it was like carrying a dozen chess
games in your head. And then there was the hairdresser and the
manicurist and the masseuse, and the tailor and the bootmaker and the
jeweller; and then one absolutely had to glance through a newspaper,
and to see one's children now and then.
All this Mrs. Robbie explained at luncheon; it was the rich man's
burden, about which common people had no conception whatever. A person
with a lot of money was like a barrel of molasses--all the flies in the
neighbourhood came buzzing about. It was perfectly incredible, the
lengths to which people would go to get invited to your house; not only
would they write and beg you, they might attack your business
interests, and even bribe your friends. And on the other hand, when
people thought you needed them, the time you had to get them to come!
"Fancy," said Mrs. Robbie, "offering to give a dinner to an English
countess, and having her try to charge you for coming!" And incredible
as it might seem, some people had actually yielded to her, and the
disgusting creature had played the social celebrity for a whole season,
and made quite a handsome income out of it. There seemed to be no limit
to the abjectness of some of the tuft-hunters in Society.
It was instructive to hear Mrs. Robbie denounce such evils; and
yet--alas for human frailty--the next time that Montague called, the
great lady was blazing with wrath over the tidings that a new foreign
prince was coming to America, and that Mrs. Ridgely-Clieveden had
stolen a march upon her and grabbed him. He was to be under her
tutelage the entire time, and all the effulgence of his magnificence
would be radiated upon that upstart house. Mrs. Robbie revenged herself
by saying as many disagreeable things about Mrs. Ridgley-Clieveden as
she could think of; winding up with the declaration that if she behaved
with this prince as she had with the Russian grand duke, Mrs. Robbie
Walling, for one, would cut her dead. And truly the details which Mrs.
Robbie cited were calculated to suggest that her rival's hospitality
was a reversion to the customs of primitive savagery.
The above is a fair sample of the kind of conversation that one heard
whenever one visited any of the Wallings. Perhaps, as Mrs. Robbie said,
it may have been their millions that made necessary their attitude
toward other people; certain it was, at any rate, that Montague found
them all most disagreeable people to know. There was always some
tempest in a teapot over the latest machinations of their enemies. And
then there was the whole dead mass of people who sponged upon them and
toadied to them; and finally the barbarian hordes outside the magic
circle of their acquaintance--some specimens of whom came up every day
for ridicule. They had big feet and false teeth; they ate mush and
molasses; they wore ready-made ties; they said: "Do you wish that I
should do it?" Their grandfathers had been butchers and pedlars and
other abhorrent things. Montague tried his best to like the Wallings,
because of what they were doing for Alice; but after he had sat at
their lunch-table and listened to a conversation such as this, he found
himself in need of fresh air.
And then he would begin to wonder about his own relation to these
people. If they talked about every one else behind their backs,
certainly they must talk about him behind his. And why did they go out
of their way to make him at home, and why were they spending their
money to launch Alice in Society? In the beginning he had assumed that
they did it out of the goodness of their hearts; but now that he had
looked into their hearts, he rejected the explanation. It was not their
way to shower princely gifts upon strangers; in general, the attitude
of all the Wallings toward a stranger was that of the London
hooligan--"'Eave a 'arf a brick at 'im!" They considered themselves
especially appointed by Providence to protect Society from the vulgar
newly rich who poured into the city, seeking for notoriety and
recognition. They prided themselves upon this attitude--they called it
their "exclusiveness"; and the exclusiveness of the younger generations
of Wallings had become a kind of insanity.
Nor could the reason be that Alice was beautiful and attractive. One
could have imagined it if Mrs. Robbie had been like--say, Mrs. Winnie
Duval. It was easy to think of Mrs. Winnie taking a fancy to a girl,
and spending half her fortune upon her. But from a hundred little
things that he had seen, Montague had come to realize that the Robbie
Wallings, with all their wealth and power and grandeur, were actually
quite stingy. While all the world saw them scattering fortunes in their
pathway, in reality they were keeping track of every dollar. And Robbie
himself was liable to panic fits of economy, in which he went to the
most absurd excesses--Montague once heard him haggling over fifty cents
with a cabman. Lavish hosts though they both were, it was the literal
truth that they never spent money upon anyone but themselves--the end
and aim of their every action was the power and prestige of the Robbie
Wallings.
"They do it because they are friends of mine," said Oliver, and
evidently wished that to satisfy his brother. But it only shifted the
problem and set him to watching Robbie and Oliver, and trying to make
out the basis of their relationship. There was a very grave question
concerned in this. Oliver had come to New York comparatively poor, and
now he was rich--or, at any rate, he lived like a rich man. And his
brother, whose scent was growing keener with every day of his stay in
New York, had about made up his mind that Oliver got his money from
Robbie Walling.
Here, again, the problem would have been simple, if it had been another
person than Robbie; Montague would have concluded that his brother was
a "hanger-on." There were many great families whose establishments were
infested with such parasites. Siegfried Harvey, for instance, was a man
who had always half a dozen young chaps hanging about him; good-looking
and lively fellows, who hunted and played bridge, and amused the
married women while their husbands were at work, and who, if ever they
dropped a hint that they were hard up, might be reasonably certain of
being offered a cheque. But if the Robbie Wallings were to write
cheques, it must be for value received. And what could the value be?
"Ollie" was rather a little god among the ultra-swagger; his taste was
a kind of inspiration. And yet his brother noticed that in such
questions he always deferred instantly to the Wallings; and surely the
Wallings were not people to be persuaded that they needed anyone to
guide them in matters of taste. Again, Ollie was the very devil of a
wit, and people were heartily afraid of him; and Montague had noticed
that he never by any chance made fun of Robbie--that the fetiches of
the house of Walling were always treated with respect. So he had
wondered if by any chance Robbie was maintaining his brother in
princely state for the sake of his ability to make other people
uncomfortable. But he realized that the Robbies, in their own view of
it, could have no more need of wit than a battleship has need of
popguns. Oliver's position, when they were about, was rather that of
the man who hardly ever dared to be as clever as he might, because of
the restless jealousy of his friend.
It was a mystery; and it made the elder brother very uncomfortable.
Alice was young and guileless, and a pleasant person to patronize; but
he was a man of the world, and it was his business to protect her. He
had always paid his own way through life, and he was very loath to put
himself under obligations to people like the Wallings, whom he did not
like, and who, he felt instinctively, could not like him.
But of course there was nothing he could do about it. The date for the
great festivity was set; and the Wallings were affable and friendly,
and Alice all a-tremble with excitement. The evening arrived, and with
it came the enemies of the Wallings, dressed in their jewels and fine
raiment. They had been asked because they were too important to be
skipped, and they had come because the Wallings were too powerful to be
ignored. They revenged themselves by consuming many courses of
elaborate and costly viands; and they shook hands with Alice and beamed
upon her, and then discussed her behind her back as if she were a
French doll in a show-case. They decided unanimously that her elder
cousin was a "stick," and that the whole family were interlopers and
shameless adventurers; but it was understood that since the Robbie
Wallings had seen fit to take them up, it would be necessary to invite
them about.
At any rate, that was the way it all seemed to Montague, who had been
brooding. To Alice it was a splendid festivity, to which exquisite
people came to take delight in each other's society. There were
gorgeous costumes and sparkling gems; there was a symphony of perfumes,
intoxicating the senses, and a golden flood of music streaming by;
there were laughing voices and admiring glances, and handsome partners
with whom one might dance through the portals of fairyland.--And then,
next morning, there were accounts in all the newspapers, with
descriptions of one's costume and then some of those present, and even
the complete menus of the supper, to assist in preserving the memories
of the wonderful occasion.
Now they were really in Society. A reporter called to get Alice's photo
for the Sunday supplement; and floods of invitations came--and with
them all the cares and perplexities about which Mrs. Robbie had told.
Some of these invitations had to be declined, and one must know whom it
was safe to offend. Also, there was a long letter from a destitute
widow, and a proposal from a foreign count. Mrs. Robbie's secretary had
a list of many hundreds of these professional beggars and blackmailers.
Conspicuous at the dance was Mrs. Winnie, in a glorious electric-blue
silk gown. And she shook her fan at Montague, exclaiming, "You wretched
man--you promised to come and see me!"
"I've been out of town," Montague protested.
"Well, come to dinner to-morrow night," said Mrs. Winnie. "There'll be
some bridge fiends."
"You forget I haven't learned to play," he objected.
"Well, come anyhow," she replied. "We'll teach you. I'm no player
myself, and my husband will be there, and he's good-natured; and my
brother Dan--he'll have to be whether he likes it or not."
So Montague visited the Snow Palace again, and met Winton Duval, the
banker,--a tall, military-looking man of about fifty, with a big grey
