though confused. Malcourt bent forward saying something to her, but she
rose while he was speaking, as though she had not heard him; and Hamil
walked through the circle to where she stood. A number of very young men
looked around at him with hostile eyes; Malcourt's brows lifted a
trifle; then he shot an ironical glance at Shiela and, as the circle
about her disintegrated, sauntered up, bland, debonair, to accept his
congé.
His bow, a shade exaggerated, and the narrowed mockery of his eyes
escaped her; and even what he said made no impression as she stood,
brightly inattentive, looking across the little throng at Hamil. And
Malcourt's smile became flickering and uncertain when she left the
terrace with Hamil, moving very slowly side by side across the lawn.
"Such lots of pretty women," commented Shiela. "Have you been passably
amused?"
"Passably," he replied in a slightly sullen tone.
"Oh, only passably? I rather hoped that unawakened heart of yours might
be aroused to-day."
"It has been."
"Not Mrs. Ascott!" she exclaimed, halting.
"Not Mrs. Ascott."
"Mrs. Tom O'Hara! Is it? Every man promptly goes to smash when Mrs. Tom
looks sideways."
"O Lord!" he said with a shrug.
"That is not nice of you, Mr. Hamil. If it is not with her you have
fallen in love there is a more civil way of denying it."
"Did you take what I said seriously?" he asked--"about falling in love?"
"Were you not serious?"
"I could be if you were," he said in a tone which slightly startled
her. She looked up at him questioningly; he said:
"I've had a stupid time without you. The little I've seen of you has
spoiled other women for me. And I've just found it out. Do you mind my
saying so?"
"Are you not a little over-emphatic in your loyalty to me? I like it,
but not at the expense of others, please."
They moved on together, slowly and in step. His head was bent, face
sullen and uncomfortably flushed. Again she felt the curiously
unaccountable glow in her own cheeks responding in pink fire once more;
and annoyed and confused she halted and looked up at him with that frank
confidence characteristic of her.
"Something has gone wrong," she said. "Tell me."
"I will. I'm telling myself now." She laughed, stole a glance at him,
then her face fell.
"I certainly don't know what you mean, and I'm not very sure that you
know."
She was right; he did not yet know. Strange, swift pulses were beating
in temple and throat; strange tumults and confusion were threatening his
common sense, paralyzing will-power. A slow, resistless intoxication had
enveloped him, through which instinctively persisted one warning ray of
reason. In the light of that single ray he strove to think clearly. They
walked to the pavilion together, he silent, sombre-eyed, taking a
mechanical leave of his hostess, fulfilling conventions while scarcely
aware of the routine or of the people around him; she composed, sweet,
conventionally faultless--and a trifle pale as they turned away together
across the lawn.
When they took their places side by side in the chair she was saying
something perfunctory concerning the fête and Mrs. Ascott. And as he
offered no comment: "Don't you think her very charming and sincere....
Are you listening to me, Mr. Hamil?"
"Yes," he said. "Everybody was very jolly. Yes, indeed."
"And--the girl who adores the purple perfume of petunias?" she asked
mischievously. "I think that same purple perfume has made you drowsy, my
uncivil friend."
He turned. "Oh, you heard that?"
"Yes; I thought it best to keep a sisterly eye on you."
He forced a smile.
"You were very much amused, I suppose--to see me sitting
bras-dessus-bras-dessous with the high-browed and precious."
"Not amused; no. I was worried; you appeared to be so hopelessly
captivated by her of the purple perfumery. Still, knowing you to be a
man normally innocent of sentiment, I hoped for Mrs. Ascott and the
best."
"Did I once tell you that there was no sentiment in me, Calypso? I
believe I did."
"You certainly did, brother," she replied with cheerful satisfaction.
"Well, I--"
"--And," she interrupted calmly, "I believed you. I am particularly
happy now in believing you." A pause--and she glanced at him. "In fact,
speaking seriously, it is the nicest thing about you--the most
attractive to me, I think." She looked sideways at him, "Because, there
is no more sentiment in me than there is in you.... Which is, of course,
very agreeable--to us both."
He said nothing more; the chair sped on homeward. Above them the sky was
salmon-colour; patches of late sunlight burned red on the tree trunks;
over the lagoon against the slowly kindling west clouds of wild-fowl
whirled, swung, and spread out into endless lengthening streaks like
drifting bands of smoke.
From time to time the girl cast a furtive glance toward him; but he was
looking straight ahead with a darkly set face; and an ache, dull,
scarcely perceptible, grew in her heart as they flew on along the
glimmering road.
"Of what are you thinking, brother?" she asked persuasively.
"Of something I am going to do; as soon as I reach home; I mean your
home."
"I wish it were yours, too," she said, smiling frankly; "you are such a
safe, sound, satisfactory substitute for another brother." ... And as he
made no response: "What is this thing which you are going to do when you
reach home?"
"I am going to ask your mother a question."
Unquiet she turned toward him, but his face was doggedly set forward as
the chair circled through the gates and swept up to the terrace.
He sprang out; and as he aided her to descend she felt his hand
trembling under hers. A blind thrill of premonition halted her; then she
bit her lip, turned, and mounted the steps with him. At the door he
stood aside for her to pass; but again she paused and turned to Hamil,
irresolute, confused, not even daring to analyse what sheer instinct was
clamouring; what intuition was reading even now in his face, what her
ears divined in his unsteady voice uttering some commonplace to thank
her for the day spent with him.
"What is it that you are going to say to my mother?" she asked again.
And at the same instant she knew from his eyes--gazing into them in
dread and dismay.
"Don't!" she said breathlessly; "I cannot let--" The mounting wave of
colour swept her: "Don't go to her!--don't ask such a--a thing. I am--"
She faltered, looking up at him with terrified eyes, and laid one hand
on his arm.
The frightened wordless appeal stunned him as they stood there,
confronting one another. Suddenly hope came surging up within her; her
hand fell from his arm; she lifted her eyes in flushed silence--only to
find hopeless confirmation of all she dreaded in his set and colourless
face.
"Mr. Hamil," she said tremulously, "I never dreamed--"
"No, you didn't. I did. It is all right, Shiela."
"Oh--I--I never, never dreamed of it!"--shocked and pitifully
incredulous still.
"I know you didn't. Don't worry." His voice was very gentle, but he was
not looking at her.
"Is it my--fault, Mr. Hamil?"
"Your fault?" he repeated, surprised. "What have you done?"
"I--don't know."
He stood gazing absently out into the flaming west; and, speaking as
though unaware: "From the first--I realise it now--even from the first
moment when you sprang into my life out of the fog and the sea--Shiela!
Shiela!--I--"
"Don't!" she whispered, "don't say it." She swayed back against the
wall; her hand covered her eyes an instant--and dropped helpless,
hopeless.
They faced each other.
"Believe that I am--sorry," she whispered. "Will you believe it? I did
not know; I did not dream of it."
His face changed as though something within him was being darkly
aroused.
"After all," he said, "no man ever lived who could kill hope."
"There is no hope to kill--"
"No chance, Shiela?"
"There has never been any chance--" She was trembling; he took both her
hands. They were ice cold.
He straightened up, squaring his shoulders. "This won't do," he said.
"I'm not going to distress you--frighten you again." The smile he forced
was certainly a credit to him.
"Shiela, you'd love me if you could, wouldn't you?"
"Y-yes," with a shiver.
"Then it's all right and you mustn't worry.... Can't we get back to the
old footing again?"
"N-no; it's gone."
"Then we'll find even firmer ground."
"Yes--firmer ground, Mr. Hamil."
He released her chilled hands, swung around, and took a thoughtful step
or two.
"Firmer, safer ground," he repeated. "Once you said to me, 'Let us each
enjoy our own griefs unmolested.'" He laughed. "Didn't you say
that--years ago?"
"Yes."
"And I replied--years ago--that I had no griefs to enjoy. Didn't I?
Well, then, if this is grief, Shiela, I wouldn't exchange it for another
man's happiness. So, if you please, I'll follow your advice and enjoy
it in my own fashion.... Shiela, you don't smile very often, but I wish
you would now."
But the ghost of a smile left her pallor unchanged. She moved toward the
stairs, wearily, stopped and turned.
"It cannot end this way," she said; "I want you to know how--to know--to
know that I--am--sensible of w-what honour you have done me. Wait! I--I
can't let you think that I--do not--care, Mr. Hamil. Believe that I
do!--oh, deeply. And forgive me--" She stretched out one hand. He took
it, holding it between both of his for a moment, lightly.
"Is all clear between us, Calypso dear?"
"It will be--when I have courage to tell you."
"Then all's well with the world--if it's still under-foot--or somewhere
in the vicinity. I'll find it again; you'll be good enough to point it
out to me, Shiela.... I've an engagement to improve a few square miles
of it.... That's what I need--plenty of work--don't I, Shiela?"
The clear mellow horn of a motor sounded from the twilit lawn; the
others were arriving. He dropped her hand; she gathered her filmy skirts
and swiftly mounted the great stairs, leaving him to greet her father
and Gray on the terrace.
"Hello, Hamil!" called out Cardross, senior, from the lawn, "are you
game for a crack at the ducks to-morrow? My men report Ruffle Lake full
of coots and blue-bills, and there'll be bigger duck in the West
Lagoons."
"I'm going too," said Gray, "also Shiela if she wants to--and four
guides and that Seminole, Little Tiger."
Hamil glanced restlessly at the forest where his work lay. And he needed
it now. But he said pleasantly, "I'll go if you say so."
"Of course I say so," exclaimed Cardross heartily. "Gray, does Louis
Malcourt still wish to go?"
"He spoke of it last week."
"Well, if he hasn't changed his rather volatile mind telephone for
Adams, We'll require a guide apiece. And he can have that buckskin
horse; and tell him to pick out his own gun." And to Hamil, cordially:
"Shiela and Louis and Gray will probably wander about together and you
and I will do the real shooting. But Shiela is a shot--if she chooses.
Gray would rather capture a scarce jungle butterfly. Hello, here's Louis
now! Are you glad we're going at last?"
"Very," replied Hamil as Malcourt strolled up and airily signified his
intention of making one of the party. But as soon as he learned that
they might remain away three days or more he laughingly demurred.
The four men lingered for a few minutes in the hall discussing guns,
dogs, and guides; then Hamil mounted the stairs, and Malcourt went with
him, talking all the while in that easy, fluent, amusing manner which,
if he chose, could be as agreeably graceful as every attitude and
movement of his lithe body. His voice, too, had that engagingly
caressing quality characteristic of him when in good-humour; he really
had little to say to Hamil, but being on such excellent terms with
himself he said a great deal about nothing in particular; and as he
persistently lingered by Hamil's door the latter invited him in.
There Malcourt lit a cigarette, seated lazily astride a chair, arms
folded across the back, aimlessly humourous in recounting his adventures
at the Ascott function, while Hamil stood with his back to the
darkening window, twisting his unlighted cigarette into minute shreds
and waiting for him to go.
"Rather jolly to meet Miss Suydam again," observed Malcourt. "We were
great friends at Portlaw's camp together two years ago. I believe that
you and Miss Suydam are cousins after a fashion."
"After a fashion, I believe."
"She's tremendously attractive, Hamil."
"What? Oh, yes, very."
"Evidently no sentiment lost between you," laughed the other.
"No, of course not; no sentiment."
Malcourt said carelessly: "I'm riding with Miss Suydam to-morrow. That's
one reason I'm not going on this duck-hunt."
Hamil nodded.
"Another reason," he continued, intent on the glowing end of his
cigarette, "is that I'm rather fortunate at the Club just now--and I
don't care to disturb any run of luck that seems inclined to drift my
way. Would you give your luck the double cross?"
"I suppose not," said Hamil vaguely--"if I ever had any."
"That's the way I feel. And it's all kinds of luck that's chasing me.
All kinds, Hamil. One kind, for example, wears hair that matches my
cuff-links. Odd, isn't it?" he added, examining the golden links with a
smile.
Hamil nodded inattentively.
"I am about seven thousand dollars ahead on the other sort of luck,"
observed Malcourt. "If it holds to-night I'll inaugurate a killing that
will astonish the brothers B. yonder. By the way, now that you have
your club ticket why don't you use it?--one way or another."
"Perhaps," replied Hamil listlessly.
A few minutes later Malcourt, becoming bored, genially took his leave;
and Hamil turned on an electric jet and began to undo his collar and
tie.
He was in no hurry; at times he suspended operations to pace aimlessly
to and fro; and after a while, half undressed, he dropped into an
arm-chair, clinched hands supporting his temples.
Presently he said aloud to himself: "It's absolutely impossible. It
can't happen this way. How can it?"
His heavy pulse answered the question; a tense strain, irksome as an
ache, dragged steadily at something within him which resisted; dulling
reason and thought.
For a long time he sat there inert, listening for the sound of her voice
which echoed at moments through the stunned silence within him. And at
last he stumbled to his feet like a stricken man on the firing line,
stupefied that the thing had happened to him; and stood unsteadily,
looking around. Then he went heavily about his dressing.
Later, when he was ready to leave his room, he heard Malcourt walking
through the corridor outside--a leisurely and lightly stepping Malcourt,
whistling a lively air. And, when Malcourt had passed came Cecile
rustling from the western corridor, gay, quick-stepping, her enchanting
laughter passing through the corridor like a fresh breeze as she joined
Mrs. Carrick on the stairs. Then silence; and he opened his door. And
Shiela Cardross, passing noiselessly, turned at the sound.
His face must have been easy to read for her own promptly lost its
colour, and with an involuntary recoil she stepped back against the
wall, staring at him in pallid silence.
"What is the matter?" he asked, scarcely recognising his own voice. And
striving to shake off the unreality of it all with a laugh: "You look
like some pretty ghost from dreamland--with your white gown and arms and
face. Shall we descend into the waking world together?"
They stood for a moment motionless, looking straight at one another;
then the smile died out on his face, but he still strove to speak
lightly, using effort, like a man with a dream dark upon him: "I am
waiting for your pretty ghostship."
Her lips moved in reply; no sound came from them.
"Are you afraid of me?" he said.
"Yes."
"Of me, Shiela?"
"Of us both. You don't know--you don't know!"
"Know what, Shiela?"
"What I am--what I have done. And I've got to tell you." Her mouth
quivered suddenly, and she faced him fighting for self-control. "I've
got to tell you. Things cannot be left in this way between us. I thought
they could, but they can't."
He crossed the corridor, slowly; she straightened up at his approach,
white, rigid, breathless.
"What is it that has frightened you?" he said.
"What you--said--to me."
"That I love you?"
"Yes; that."
"Why should it frighten you?"
"Must I tell you?"
"If it will help you."
"I am past help. But it will end you're caring for me. And from making
me--care--for you. I must do it; this cannot go on--"
"Shiela!"
She faced him, white as death, looking at him blindly.
"I am trying to think of you--because you love me--"
Fright chilled her blood, killing pulse and colour. "I am trying to be
kind--because I care for you--and we must end this before it ends us....
Listen to my miserable, pitiful, little secret, Mr. Hamil. I--I have--I
am not--free."
"Not free!"
"I was married two years ago--when I was eighteen years old. Three
people in the world know it: you, I, and--the man I married."
"Married!" he repeated, stupefied.
She looked at him steadily a moment.
"I think your love has been done to death, Mr. Hamil. My own danger was
greater than you knew; but it was for your sake--because you loved me.
Good night."
Stunned, he saw her pass him and descend the stairs, stood for a space
alone, then scarce knowing what he did he went down into the great
living-room to take his leave of the family gathered there before dinner
had been announced. They all seemed to be there; he was indifferently
conscious of hearing his own words like a man who listens to an
unfamiliar voice in a distant room.
The rapid soundless night ride to the hotel seemed unreal; the lights in
the café, the noise and movement, the pretty face of his aunt with the
pink reflection from the candle shades on her cheeks--all seemed as
unconvincing as himself and this thing that he could not grasp--could
not understand--could not realise had befallen him--and her.
If Miss Palliser was sensible of any change in him or his voice or
manner she did not betray it. Wayward came over to speak to them,
limping very slightly, tall, straight, ruddy, the gray silvering his
temples and edging his moustache.
And after a while Hamil found himself sitting silent, a partly burnt
cigar between his fingers, watching Wayward and his youthful aunt in
half-intimate, half-formal badinage, elbow to elbow on the cloth. For
they had known one another a long time, and through many phases of Fate
and Destiny.
"That little Cardross girl is playing the devil with the callow
hereabout," Wayward said; "Malcourt, house-broken, runs to heel with the
rest. And when I see her I feel like joining the pack. Only--I was never
broken, you know--"
"She is a real beauty," said Miss Palliser warmly; "I don't see why you
don't enlist, James."
"I may at that. Garry, are you also involved?"
Hamil said, "Yes--yes, of course," and smiled meaninglessly at Wayward.
For a fraction of a second his aunt hesitated, then said: "Garry is
naturally among the devoted--when he's not dog-tired from a day in the
cypress-swamps. Have you been out to see the work, James? Oh, you should
go; everybody goes; it's one of the things to do here. And I'm very
proud when I hear people say, 'There's that brilliant young fellow,
Hamil,' or, in a tone which expresses profound respect, 'Hamil designed
it, you know'; and I smile and think, 'That's my boy Garry!' James, it
is a very comfortable sensation for an old lady to experience." And she
looked at Wayward out of her lovely golden eyes, sweet as a maid of
twenty.
Wayward smiled, then absently bent his gaze on his wine-glass, lying
back in his chair. Through his spectacles his eyes seemed very intent on
the frail crystal stem of his glass.
"What are you going to do for the rest of the winter?" she asked,
watching him.
"What I am doing," he replied with smiling bitterness. "The Ariani is
yonder when I can't stand the shore.... What else is there for me to
do--until I snuff out!"
"Build that house you were going to build--when we were rather younger,
Jim."
"I did; and it fell," he said quietly; but, as though she had not heard.
"--Build that house," she repeated, "and line it with books--the kind of
books that were written and read before the machine-made sort supplanted
them. One picture to a room--do you remember, Jim?--or two if you find
it better; the kind men painted before Rembrandt died.... Do you
remember your plan?--the plans you drew for me to look at in our front
parlour--when New York houses had parlours? You were twenty and I
fourteen.... Garry, yonder, was not.... And the rugs, you
recollect?--one or two in a room, Shiraz, Ispahan--nothing as obvious as
Sehna and Saraband--nothing but Moresque and pure Persian--and one
agedly perfect gem of Asia Minor, and one Tekke, so old and flawless
that only the pigeon-blood fire remained under the violet bloom.... Do
you remember?"
Wayward's shoulders straightened with a jerk. For twenty years he had
not remembered these things; and she had not only remembered but was now
reciting the strange, quaint, resurrected words in their forgotten
sequence; the words he had uttered as he--or what he had once been--sat
in the old-time parlour in the mellow half light of faded brocades and
rosewood, repeating to a child the programme of his future. Lofty aim
and high ideal, the cultivated endeavour of good citizenship, loyalty to
aspiration, courage, self-respect, and the noble living of life; they
had also spoken of these things together--there in the golden gloom of
the old-time parlour when she was fourteen and he master of his fate and
twenty.
But there came into his life a brilliant woman who stayed a year and
left his name a mockery: Malcourt's only sister, now Lady Tressilvain,
doubtfully conspicuous with her loutish British husband, among those
continentals where titles serve rather to obscure than enlighten
inquiry.
The wretched affair dragged its full offensive length through the
international press; leaving him with his divorce signed and a future
endurable only when his senses had been sufficiently drugged. In sober
intervals he now had neuritis and a limp to distract his mind; also his
former brother-in-law with professions of esteem and respect and a
tendency to borrow. And drunk or sober he had the Ariani. But the
house that Youth had built in the tinted obscurity of an old New York
parlour--no, he didn't have that; and even memory of it were wellnigh
