she had three in different stages. Miss Hetty 
had a blue one with small brocaded figures. 
They looked just a little out of date, and 
carried it off with a sort of picturesque in- 
dividuality. 

Lilian had invited them into the parlor. 
Helen liked the sitting-room much better. 
The shutters were open, there was no sun to 
shine in the afternoon, but a bed of yellow 
marigolds of all tints and sizes stretched up 
enough to be seen from the windows. 

“ We try to give new neighbors a friendly 
welcome,” began Miss Gould. “ And we 


 

thought we’d like to know you. It’s some- 
thing to have come fresh from a college that 
we used to think was just for men alone. But 
that was a long while ago. You look fresh 
and rosy, as if you hadn’t burned much mid- 
night oil, but I suppose it was all gas there. I 
think gas a great invention, it saves a lot of 
work. I was mortally afraid of it at first, but 
there isn’t as much danger as with kerosene. 
I’m not so set against inventions if I have 
lived three-quarters of a century.” 

She was well preserved and her snowy hair 
was abundant, with just a little waviness. 
She had never spared herself about work 
though she did not look at all worn, and was 
straight and vigorous, with a most cheerful 
demeanor. 

“ How do you like Westfield, Miss Grant, 
and the school that really is imposing enough 
for a church ? And where do you go to 
church ? ” 

Helen said her leanings had alway been to- 
ward the Episcopal. 

“Yes, Eliza said she saw you there. Peo- 
ple think it’s queer that we all go to different 




churches. But it was this way. Mother was 
’Piscopal, father Presbyterian. And they 
agreed when they had children that the boys 
should go with their father and the girls with 
their mother. Well, I was born and father 
said, ‘ Wife, the Lord’s on your side this time.’ 
Then, when Eliza was born, mother couldn’t 
go out and father took me to church with him. 
I believe I always went to sleep, but he didn’t 
mind. Eliza went with mother, and when 
Hetty was big enough she went first with one 
and then with the other. There never was 
any disputing, but I think father wished there 
had been one boy. I know mother did. We 
were happy as we could be. Then mother 
died, and father just wasted away year by year 
and then went to join her. It took us a good 
while to get over it and I suppose we did get 
a little queer, reading books and thinking over 
things by ourselves.” 

“ And you have two Episcopalians?” 
Helen asked with kindly interest. 

Hetty started as if she had been suddenly 
galvanized. Helen had begun to wonder if 
she was not going to say anything. 





“Oh! I’m a Methodist. I hadn’t joined 
either place when I went to a camp meeting, 
and that’s thirty years ago. I was clear 
carried away with the singing and praying, and 
I just kept at it until I was converted. The 
old-fashioned ones have most dropped out, and 
I’m sorry for it, but there’s camp meeting 
every summer and you get grace enough to 
take you over. People think it’s queer we 
can’t agree to go to one church, but there’s no 
disagreeing in the case.” 

“ And didn’t the Saviour say — ‘ In my 
Father’s house are many mansions ’ ? I 
never could see why people should quarrel 
and fight over the best thing in the world 
when there’s plenty to go round,” said Miss 
Mary. 

“ Why, sometimes we have quite experience 
meetings at home,” said Miss Hetty in a jubi- 
lant sort of tone. “ There’s three sermons to 
talk over. There’s sick people to hear about 
and do good to. There’s so much in the world, 
and books and papers to read. Why, we really 
wouldn’t have any time for disputing. As for 
everybody thinking alike and wanting the same 



thing — wouldn’t it make a queer, narrow 
world ? ” 

She laughed gleefully, like a child. She 
was quite pretty, Helen thought, noticeably 
smaller than her sister, and she had very dainty 
hands, — she was carrying one glove. 

They asked if she found any time for read- 
ing. The library was quite an institution. 
They wouldn’t know how to do without it now. 
Strange how soon one got used to improve- 
ments ! Miss Eliza did a great deal of beauti- 
ful needlework. They would be so glad to 
have her see it. Wouldn’t she surely come to 
tea some time? They had some odd china 
cups and saucers that were great-great-grand- 
mother’s, a queer blue, and full of funny 
figures. Then there were grandmother’s and 
mother’s, and a set of knives and forks made 
of a deer’s antlers, that grandfather killed. 
They sometimes said they had enough to start 
a museum. Maybe Miss Grant would like to 
see the old things. 

Helen declared enthusiastically that she just 
should. 

“ We’ll have a nice tea-drinking then, a good 



old-fashioned time. Would you like Mr. Un- 
derwood and his wife? And Mrs. Stirling?” 
This lady had said to Helen — “ Don’t call 
me until just at the last. The call is principally 
to you, and they will like it better.” 

Helen summoned her now and they had a 
little chat, when the ladies said they must go. 

“ Now come before real cold weather. We 
have some splendid dahlias and artemisias in 
almost every color. I can’t endure to hear peo- 
ple call them ‘ mums.’ Next week, perhaps. 
You set the day and let us know.” 

Helen promised and they said very proper 
adieus. 

“ What do they do with company if each 
keeps house separately ? ” asked Helen in a 
mirthful tone. 

“ Oh, they have it in the regular dining- 
room and all come together. They are good 
cooks, too. They are not as queer as you 
might think and are the best neighbors in the 
town; the happiest people, too.” 

“ So to be friends we need not agree in 
everything,” Helen said in a soft, reverent 
tone. 




That evening she sat in the brilliant moon- 
light as it flooded the room. Ah ! it would be 
worth a good deal to be back there at college, 
she and Leslie talking and half-listening to 
the patter of steps up and down the corridor, 
the half-smothered laughs. Did girls and 
women get cloistered fancies during those 
years of study and friendships? She would 
like to teach there, she thought. Perhaps next 
year, when Leslie was married, she might 
apply. 

But was that the sole purpose of her four 
years’ training? Was it not that she should 
be better fitted to wield an influence in some 
other sphere? To deal with the ever-increasing 
problems of the little world right about her, 
wherever her lines might be cast? “ Oh, let 
me take them up bravely! ” she cried from her 
inmost heart. 


CHAPTER VI 


BETTER DAYS 

Sunday was a day of days to Helen 
Grant. A peerless October day with a golden 
glory all about, shimmering in the air like 
translucent waves, tinting the ripening leaves. 
An almost spring softness prevailed but the 
fragrance was not that of new growth, it was 
the richness of a summer harvest. There had 
been no frost as yet and the gardens were still 
abloom with gorgeous colors. It was inspira- 
tion to breathe the fragrant air. 

The church service had a deep significance 
to her. “ Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do.” 
That presupposed a certain looking, not for 
the mere gratification of the senses, but the 
things that came in one’s way, the everyday 
duties, the little demands that might even 
bother and oppress. No evadings, no shuf- 
fling, no weak excuses, no longing for pleasant 
fields of the past. 


 

She wondered a little as she wended her 
way to the school. Some of the younger 
scholars overtook her with joyous greetings. 
There was a cluster of boys in their own court 
talking earnestly. What would this month’s 
record show? Any improvement? 

She found a great bowl of flowers on her 
desk and gave a winsome smile about the 
room, hoping it might meet the donor. A 
note lay there, too. “ I will attend to the first 
recitations this morning.” There was no need 
of initials even, she knew the hand, and her 
heart gave a quick throb of relief. Not that 
she felt unable to cope with whatever might 
come, though she did not quite like the furtive 
look in Eastman’s eyes, and the exchange of 
glances with the other boys. 

Richard Eastman was very angry with Miss 
Grant. He would be amiable, but the three 
had settled to perplex her with some questions, 
pretending not to understand. 

“ The class in Latin and physics,” she 
called. 

They wended their way to the recitation 
room. Four girls and ten of the older boys. 


 

The next form was so far behind that she pre- 
ferred to have them by themselves. 

They entered the room with meaning smiles 
that fell to gravity. For there at the table sat 
Mr. Underwood, who nodded politely as they 
filed in. 

The fun was suddenly quenched. Each 
scholar tried his or her best, and some did 
well. 

“ Eastman, your exercise is simply atro- 
cious. You and Lang and Dinsmore will re- 
main in after school and rewrite. I shall no 
longer excuse this slipshod work. You have 
been here long enough to understand the re- 
quirements.” 

The boys flushed at being publicly repri- 
manded. So in physics they tried their best 
and needed no explanation. There was ex- 
cellent order all the morning. 

“ Dang it ! ” exclaimed Lang at recess. “ A 
fellow had no chance to ask a single explana- 
tion. Do you suppose she complained to 
Woody? After all, what’s the good of this 
skirmishing if he is going to take a hand in 
it?” 




“ You can’t get her out,” exclaimed Dins- 
more. “ And I was going over the river this 
afternoon.” 

Eastman was angry all the way through. 
He had gone to a ball game Saturday after- 
noon, and found a new and exciting book in 
the library that he was reading by odd spells 
on Sunday. It was almost bedtime. Mr. 
Eastman wound the French clock, sauntered 
about the room, then said — 

“ It’s near bedtime.” 

“ I’ve almost finished this book,” and Mrs. 
Eastman held up the few remaining pages. 
“ And it isn’t worth reading.” 

“ Why do you take up such trash ? Dick, is 
yours of the same sort?” his father asked. 

“ Oh, mine is a rousing good story,” with- 
out glancing up. 

“ Dick ! ” suddenly — “ did you bring home 
your report on Friday? ” 

Richard was tempted to lie, but his mother 
had seen it and sometimes she made a fuss 
about such things. She would have excused 
him now, but he did not know that. 

“ Yes,” rather impatiently. 





“ Get it and let me sign it. I suppose you 
made a pretty good showing? It is said that 
Miss Grant is fine.” 

“ Oh, she’s good enough for kids,” disdain- 
fully 

“ Get the report. I may go off to-morrow 
morning without signing it.” 

That was what the boy had hoped. Then 
his mother would have done it. 

“ I don’t — know. It’s in your room, 

mother.” 

“ Why do you want to fuss about it now, 
James? I really don’t know what I did with 
it. Wait until to-morrow,” said Mrs. East- 
man rather pettishly. 

“ I want to see how the boy stands under the 
new regime.” 

“ You can’t tell much about it. Everything 
is so different. Classes are changed ” 

“ Well — get it,” rather peremptorily. 

“ Mother, what did you do with it ? ” 

“ Really I don’t know. I would have to go 
over the things myself, and I hate to have you 
messing them up. I’ll have it in the morn- 




Mr. Eastman went upstairs. There was a 
little sewing-room off the sleeping apartment 
where the machine stood, his wife’s writing 
desk, and a bamboo case of books. The desk 
lay open. He tumbled the things about and 
turned up the report. As he looked it over a 
flash of anger lighted his eyes. No wonder 
they did not want him to see it! And the 
boy’s mother could connive at this. 

He went down with it in his hand. He was 
not often ruffled in temper, Mrs. Eastman had 
a way of smoothing over infelicities and cover- 
ing them up. 

“ I do not wonder you were ashamed of 
it ! ” he exclaimed indignantly. “ Dick, was 
that the best you could do ? ” 

“ Everything is so different, marks and all. 
And before we knew the regulations — and 
there has been so much confusion that a fellow 
didn’t know where he stood.” 

