Bernard dropped into grandfather's chair and considered. He had been
about the world enough to know the place would look rather rough to a
person from one of the chief cities. Somehow, they were a little
different. There were pieces of fine old furniture that had come from
France, then their ways were rather more refined. It would be the
proper thing to take him in. And he would be here in about a week.
Mrs. Bradin agreed on that point. Truth to tell, she was anxious to
see this M. de Ronville, whose father had been her father's boyhood's
companion.
"Why, you could give him Dilly's room, and she could go over to
Norry's," she said as they were discussing the next day what was to be
done. "It is a good thing we brought down that old bedstead, though
Dilly hated it so."
Dilly had outgrown her little pallet, though at first she declared the
high posts were the little brown men grown into giants, who would
carry her away. But when grandmere exhumed some faded silk hangings
where the roses were of a creamy pink, and cupids with wings were
flying about, she was soon reconciled. Then Grandfather Bradin had
made her a chest of drawers and two chairs that looked as though they
might have been imported.
"And I can fix a bed in the attic for the man, so we will have it all
running smoothly."
"You are a great comfort," said Bernard to his mother-in-law.
The post now came every week. Even the busy folks went to meet it for
the sake of the newspapers and the occasional letters, though those
mostly went to the Fort. Sometimes a few emigrants had joined the
train. For now there seemed to have broken out a fever for adventure,
for founding new settlements, although in some places the Indians were
still troublesome.
Bernard Carrick went to meet his guest. He could have picked him from
the group at once by his decidedly foreign air, the French aspect. He
was past sixty, rather tall, and very erect, almost soldierly, with a
beautiful white beard, though his hair was only half sprinkled with
snow. Clear, rather soft dark eyes, and a high-bred air that gave a
grave, yet kindly, expression to his countenance. He had his horse, as
well as his servant, who was a rather small, shrewd-eyed Frenchman.
Carrick introduced himself, and welcomed his guest cordially,
explaining to him that they had not arrived at the dignity of hotels,
and that the taverns were but poor affairs, so he would be pleased to
offer him the hospitality of his own house.
"Thank you," he returned. "You are the father of my ward, I presume."
"Yes, she is my little girl;" with a smile.
"An odd sort of charge. Though I suppose it was because I was of his
country. Nations are clannish."
"We shall get so mixed up that we shall hardly be able to trace our
forbears. On her mother's side my little girl is mostly French."
"A little girl!" He seemed surprised.
"She will always be that to me. Only heaven knows my joy and gratitude
at coming home from the long struggle, and finding her and her mother
alive; indeed, the whole household. I have had a son born since."
"Yes. You were in the war. You may be proud of that. It will be an
honor to hand down to your son. But your town----"
With a vague glance around, and an expression that was clearly not
admiration.
"It has not had your advantages, nor your people, and is much younger.
It seems to me on the verge of civilization."
Bernard Carrick laughed good humoredly.
"That is true," he returned. "Except for the confluence of the rivers
there seems no special advantage, though the land is thought to be
rich in minerals. And the Fort being built here--the French planned a
long chain of them."
"It seems a just return to France for her indifference to her splendid
Colonies. And I have lived long enough to see if there are no fatal
mistakes made, that this will be a grand country. From the depths of
my heart I pray for her welfare."
"And I fought for it," was the younger man's proud reply.
De Ronville had hardly expected to see such a house as this. The
aspect was undeniably French, heightened by the old furniture that he
had been used to in his boyhood. His room was delightful. Barbe had
taken out most of the girl's fancy touches, and odd things her
grandfather Bradin had made, and left a grave aspect. Outside,
everything was a-bloom, and a rose climbed up a trellis at the side
of the window, shaking its nodding fragrant blossoms against the
window-pane, and, when it was open, showering in its sweet silky
leaves.
They made friends readily. Great-grandfather Duvernay was the link
between, and the women were more French than of any other race. It was
almost supper time when Daffodil came in, leading her little brother
by the hand. In him again the mother's type predominated; he was a
fine, robust child, with a fearless, upright expression, and a voice
that had none of the rougher tones of so many of the early settlers.
But Daffodil! He studied her with a little wonder.
For her abundant hair had not yet shaken off its gold, and lay in
loose thick curls about her neck. Her complexion was of that rare
texture that neither sun nor wind roughened, and all the care it had
was cleanliness and the big bonnets of those days. Her features were
quite regular, the nose straight, rather defiant, but the beautiful
mouth, full of the most tantalizing curves, fun, laughter, sweetness,
and the something termed coquetry in older women, that is not always
experience either. She was slender and full of grace, tall for her
age, but most girls grew up quickly, though she had not left the
fairyland of childhood.
"I am glad to see the darling of my old friend," smiling as he took
her soft, dimpled hand. "I have always thought of her as a very
little girl, sitting on the arm of her grandfather's chair----"
"Oh, did he tell you that!" in her bright, eager tone. "Yes, and we
used to talk--he told me so much about France and--it was your
father--was it not? I thought you must be quite young;" and a faint
touch of surprise passed over her face.
"We were both set back in memory, it seems. And even I am getting to
be quite an old man."
"But I like old men," she said, with charming frankness, and a tint of
color deepened in her cheek. "They are all old except father, and the
men who come in to play games are wrinkled up, and some of them have
white hair. I've had such a lot of grandfathers, and only one
grandmother."
"How did you get more than two?"
"It was great-grandfather Duvernay," explained Barbe, "that made the
third."
"And this is his chair. Mother wanted to take it away, but I could not
bear to have it leave this corner. I could see him in it. Strange how
you can see one who is not really there, or do they come back for a
moment? Here is the arm where I sat, and I used to put my arm round
his neck. I am going to let you sit in his chair. Father won't mind;"
glancing inquiringly at her mother.
"Dilly, you are too forward," and Barbe colored. Felix was climbing in
her lap and almost upset her.
"No, no; her prattle is the most cordial welcome. And I hope you will
soon like me well enough to come and sit on the arm and hear my
stories."
"Oh, have you what Norry calls a bag of stories, that the little brown
men carry about? They're queer, and they drop them over you while you
are asleep, and that makes dreams, and you see people, and have good
times with them."
M. de Ronville laughed. Bernard came in; he had been settling the man,
and the luggage, and now repeated his hearty welcome.
When M. de Ronville settled himself in the corner and the chair you
could almost fancy grandfather had come back. They had a strong
likeness of race of the higher type, those who had been pure livers
and held strongly to their religion. He was very tired with the
journey and looked pale as he sat there, relaxed.
Barbe and her mother spread the table. They had a sort of outdoor
kitchen they used for cooking in the warm weather. Felix was asking
questions of his sister, who answered them with a sort of teasing
gayety. Why was this so and that, and did she ever see a panther.
Jimmy Servy's father killed a wolf out by the Fort, and Jimmy said a
wolf would eat you up. Would it truly? "Then when I am big enough to
fire a gun I'll go out and shoot all I can find."
The supper was most appetizing if it did not have the style of his own
house. He was really pleased with the simplicity of the two women, and
Mr. Bradin and his son-in-law certainly were intelligent if they had
not the range of the greater world. Daffodil was quiet and
well-mannered he observed. In truth he was agreeably surprised with
these people who were not held in high esteem by the culture of the
large city.
Dilly came to him afterward.
"I am going over to grandad's," she announced. "I stay all night with
them sometimes. Oh, I hope you will like Norry. I love her dearly and
you mustn't mind if grandad is a little queer."
"No, I will not," amused at her frankness.
"He is just a splendid old man!" she announced to Norah. "And he looks
like great-grandfather. I'm going to like him ever so much, and I want
you to."
"Oh, yes, I'll like him," responded Norah readily. "I fancied he was
one of the high and mighty dukes like that Colonel Leavitt, and I'm
glad for your mother's sake that he's comfortable to get along with.
It never would have done for him to go to a tavern."
They talked a little at the other house and then retired for the
night. And the next day was a busy one. Bernard Carrick took him about
and they inspected the blast furnace on which high hopes were built,
but the knowledge in those times was rather limited. It struggled
along for some years and then better things came in its stead.
The river front was quite a busy place. Yes, de Ronville admitted
there was great promise of a thriving city. And over opposite might be
another. He knew how the cities on the eastern coast had improved and
grown in power. One had only to wait. And his ward was young. Though
he wondered a little at the faith of his friend Duvernay. But the old
man, not so old then, had in his mind the beautiful estates in the
land of his birth, and this land commanding the river and what would
sometime be a thriving town attracted his fancy. He had hoped so that
Barbe's child would be a son, but he had loved Daffodil with the
passion of declining years. Felix had come too late.
M. de Ronville found much to interest him. The eastern shore would not
be all of the country. Explorers were sending back glowing tales of
western possibilities. Towns were springing up and this was the key to
them all. There were large tracts of fertile lands that seemed to have
been deserted by the Indians and that were of amazing fertility. After
all Felix Duvernay had made no mistake.
And Daffodil found her way to the guest's heart with very little
effort. It might have been her beauty, that no one around seemed
aware of, or her pretty, winsome manner. She accompanied him and her
father on their rides about. She was a graceful and well-trained
horsewoman. She had so many dainty legends of out-of-the-way nooks;
most of them Norah had grafted on old country tales.
And the evenings at home came to be quite a delight for them all,
listening to the glories of his city and the strides it had made. Of
the famous men, of the many incidents in the great struggle, its
churches and various entertainments as well as the social aspect.
Daffodil listened enchanted.
They had come to be such friends that she sat on the broad arm of the
chair, but he noted her wonderful delicacy in never dropping into
familiarities, while they were so common with her father, and grandad
was almost rough with her. True, Barbe had an innate refinement and it
was the child's birth-right as well.
She sat there one afternoon. Mother and grandmother were busy
preserving fruit for winter use, it grew so plentifully, but they had
not mastered the art of keeping some of the choicest through the
winter uncooked.
"Daffodil," he began gravely, "your parents have entertained me most
delightfully. You have a charming home and I shall hate to leave it.
But on Thursday there is a return post and I have overstayed the time
I thought would be ample to transact the business I came about. And
now I must return."
"Oh!" she exclaimed. "Oh, I do not want you to go."
What pleading, beautiful eyes she raised to him.
Old as he was it thrilled through his pulses.
"But, my child, I cannot live here. And I shall miss you so much. Why
I have half a mind to run away with you. I wonder if you would like a
visit to my beautiful city."
"Oh, it would be splendid! But--is there any one----"
"To take care of you? There is a housekeeper and a maid, and a jolly,
good-natured black woman, who cooks in the kitchen. There are two
carriages and horses, and there will be so much to see. It is so
different from this."
She seemed to consider. "Yes," rather irresolutely, "if I could go.
They would miss me so much here."
"And would you be homesick?"
"Not in a good long while, with you;" she returned with a child's
innocence. "And you would surely let me come back?"
"Yes, my dear; even if it broke my heart to do it. I wish you were my
little granddaughter."
"Then I would have another grandfather," and she gave a soft, musical
ripple. After an instant she caught his hand in hers so plump and
warm, and exclaimed--"Oh, I should like to go."
"Dilly; Dilly!" exclaimed the fresh boyish voice; "come and see what I
have. Grandad and I have been fishing."
There was a string of shining plump fish that as Felix said still
wiggled in their freshness. "Oh, Dilly, if you only were a boy!
Grandad says you are not worth a button at fishing."
"They're fine, little brother. No, I don't love to fish. And baiting!"
She shuddered as she spoke.
"But you can eat them afterward."
"I couldn't if I caught them myself."
"I wanted a nice lot before the gentleman went away. And Katy and Peg
Boyle were out and they are great. It was a fine afternoon for fishing
I tell you!"
She went through to the kitchen with him. He was a boy for all kinds
of sport, but he abhorred school and was glad when it closed early in
the summer, for the boys and girls were needed at home. Sandy Carrick
inducted his grandson into all boyish pursuits. His heart was bound up
in Felix.
He began to prepare the fish for cooking. Dilly looked out over the
wide expanse where trees were thick with leaves and laden with fruit.
But she did not truly see anything for her eyes were following her
thoughts. To go to a great and wonderful city where they had rung the
first bell for independence, to see the splendid houses and the
ladies in fine array and to hear beautiful music. But of course she
could not go. They would miss her so much. Yet it seemed as if she did
very little now.
They had not the strenuous methods of to-day. If those old settlers of
Pittsburg with their simple living could come back they would lose
their senses at the luxury and striving for gain, the magnificence,
the continual hurry and restlessness, the whirl of business undreamed
of then. No one was striving to outshine his neighbor. House
furnishing lasted through generations. Fashions in gowns and hats went
on year after year, and it left time for many other things. Barbe
Carrick found hours for lace-making; as was the custom of that time
she was laying by in the old oaken chest articles and napery for the
time when Daffodil would go to a home of her own. For then it was a
great disappointment to the mother if a girl did not marry.
In the old chair Gaspard de Ronville sat dreaming. He should have
married long ago and had children and grandchildren. Would there have
been one pretty, golden-haired girl among them with a sweet voice and
such eyes as were sure to find the way to one's heart, such rosy,
laughing lips, sweet for lovers to kiss when the time came? And
then--oh, if it could be!
That evening he laid his plan before the household. Might he take
Daffodil for a few months' visit, and thereby return their cordial
hospitality that had given him a most unexpected pleasure. She would
be well taken care of, that he could assure them. And in event of her
losing her natural protectors he as her trustee and guardian would be
only too happy to take charge of her. He would have her best interests
at heart always. And it might be well for her to see a little of the
world. She might desire more education than the place could afford.
They were all too much amazed to reply at once.
"Pittsburg is good enough!" flung out grandad. "Her interests will be
here. She'll marry here, she'll die and be buried here, and she'll
know enough to get to heaven at the last without all the folderols of
a great city, as those folks think it because they rung their bell
when they cut loose from the mother country!"
"Oh, we couldn't spare her," said the mother. "And, Dilly, you
wouldn't want to go away among strangers."
"Oh, no," returned the little girl, and she knew then she had two
sides to her nature, and one was longing for the new and untried, and
the other clung to what was familiar. There were tears in her eyes,
but she could not have told which chord of her soul of all the many
was touched.
"I should just die without you!" protested Norah. "I couldn't love a
colleen of my own better."
Grandmere said but little. She saw there was an unquiet longing in the
child's heart. She could not quite approve of trusting her to
strangers, but she knew girls had come from the old world to Virginia
and married men they had never seen before, and made good wives and
mothers. Daffodil was too young to think of lovers, two years hence
there might be danger.
"I'd go!" declared Felix in his most manly fashion. "Why, Tim Byerly
has been out to Ohio, which is a real country, not all a river. And
Joe Avery went over to the Mes'sipy and down to New Orleans."
"Mississippi," corrected his mother.
"That's what Joe calls it. And men haven't time for such long names.
Yes, I mean to go about when I'm big and have some money. Father 'n'
I'll set out and discover some new state and take possession of it in
the name of the President. Of course girls can't set out to discover
things. And Philadelphia has been discovered already."
They had not long to think about it. And as if to make it the more
possible an old neighbor, Mrs. Craig, who was going to spend the
winter in the distant city with a married daughter, offered to give
her a mother's care on the journey. Girl friends came in and envied
her the wonderful luck. Most of the neighbors took it for granted that
she would go.
As for the little girl she changed her mind about every hour. She had
come to care a great deal about M. de Ronville. In youth one responds
so readily to affection and he had learned to love her as he had never
loved anything in his life. He was charmed with her frankness and
simplicity, her utter unworldliness. She seemed to care no more for
the great estate over the river than if it had been a mere garden
patch. And he thought her too lovely to be wasted upon any of these
rather rough, commonplace young men. She must be taught to know and
appreciate her own value.
It was only settled the night before. There was no need of much making
ready, they could get what she wanted in the great city. And they must
allow him the pleasure of providing for her. No one would be wronged
by whatever he might do for her.
Grandad had been very grumpy about it, and Norah cried and scolded and
then admitted it was the most splendid thing, like a fairy story.
Felix was full of delight. And the good-by's were so crowded at the
last that her head was in a whirl. She felt as if she should come back
that same night and talk over her day's journey.
And so the little girl went out of Pittsburg with good wishes, and
perhaps a little envy from those who would like to have been in her
place.
CHAPTER VII
DAFFODIL'S NEW WORLD
Their first stage was in the coach. There was really quite a caravan
for the weather was very pleasant for such a trip. Mrs. Craig fussed a
little in a motherly way, and M. de Ronville watched her attentively,
fearful she might give way to tears. But she had a stunned,
incredulous feeling. Two men in the coach were arguing about the
feasibility of Philadelphia becoming the capital of the Nation. It
should never have gone to New York, which, after all, had been a nest
of Tories.
One of the men recalled grandad to her mind and she could not forbear
a vague little smile. It roused her to an amused interest and she
asked M. de Ronville in a low tone which was right.
"The stout man is right, but he might be less dogmatic about it. I
wondered at its going so far North."
Mrs. Craig was quite chatty and a very sensible body who saw several
amusing things outside of the coach. All the passengers had brought
luncheons along and they stopped by a wayside spring for a refreshing
drink and to water the horses. Most of the travellers took a little
walk around to rest their limbs. And then on again. The afternoon
seemed long to Daffodil, though M. de Ronville entertained her with
some reminiscences of the war and before that time, and how queer and
unpromising the first beginnings were, and about William Penn, whose
dream and desire had been "A fair roomy city with houses set in
gardens of greenery," and Benjamin Franklin, who had done so much
brave work for the country.
The post road had been made very tolerable. The darkness dropped down
and the woods seemed full of strange things that made her shiver. Then
they stopped at an inn--taverns they were called in those days--and
had a good supper.
"Are you very tired?" asked M. de Ronville with much solicitude.
"Not so much tired as stiff. I think I never sat still so long even at
school," and she smiled.
"It's a rather long journey, and I hope," he was going to say, "you
will not be homesick," but checked himself and added, "that you will
not get clear tired out. I will see if we cannot get some horses for
to-morrow. That will make a change."
"Oh, I shall like that," her face in a glow of pleasure.
The supper was very good and she was healthily hungry. Mrs. Craig
found some amusement to keep up the little girl's spirits, and she
fared very well until she was safe in bed beside her kind companion.
Then she turned her face to the wall and her mind went back to all the
nights in her short life when she had been kissed and cuddled by
mother or grandmere, or for the last ten days by Norry, and now she
suddenly realized what the separation meant.
The glamour was gone. She could not go back. Oh, why had she come! She
wanted to fly to the dear ones. She wiped her eyes with the sleeve of
her nightdress, and sighed very softly, but she need not have minded,
for Mrs. Craig was gently snoring.
The next morning was bright and clear, but she wondered where she was
when Mrs. Craig spoke to her. What a little bit of a room and a tin
basin to wash in!
"I hope you slept well. And I never dreamed a word! What a shame, when
your dreams in a strange place come true--but you wouldn't want a bad
dream to come true."
"No," in a very sober tone.
There was noise enough, but it was not the familiar home tones and
Felix bustling about. Daffodil made a great effort to restrain her
feelings and laughed a little at some of the sallies.
M. de Ronville was pacing up and down the hall, and he held out both
hands, but his eyes wore an anxious expression.
"My dear little girl, I could not help thinking last night that it was
very selfish of me to want to take you away from your home and those
who love you so dearly just for a bit of pleasure to myself. Did you
go to sleep thinking hard thoughts of me?"
She raised her lovely eyes, but the face was sweet and grave.
"Oh, you know I need not have come unless I had wanted to. I didn't
think it would be so--so hard," and there was a little quiver in her
voice.
