“Don’t be frightened!” he said, soothingly. “Nothing has happened. But,
is it true that you are so ill as Mrs. B. would have me believe? And
have I been blind?”
The energetic little lady had, as she confessed to me when I charged
her with it, freed her burdened mind without reserve or fear:
“It was time somebody opened his eyes, and I felt myself called to do
it.”
Within twenty-four hours a consultation of physicians was held.
They, too, made no secret of their verdict. The apex of the right lung
was gone, and it was doubtful whether anything could prevent the rapid
waste of both. When Doctor Terhune, ever a stanch believer in the
efficacy of change of air and place, declared his determination to take
me abroad, without the delay of a month, two of the Galens affirmed
that it would be of no use. I “had not three months of life left to me,
under the most favorable circumstances.”
The ghastly truth was withheld from me at the time. I was told that
I must not spend another winter in Newark, and that we would, if
possible, go to the south of Europe for the winter. “To go abroad” had
been the dream of my life. Yet, under the anticipation of the labor and
bustle of closing the house, perhaps breaking up our home for good,
and going forth into a new world, my strength failed utterly. Now
that my husband knew the worst, there was no more need of keeping up
appearances. I became aware that I had, all along, been holding on to
life with will-power that had no physical underpinning. Each day found
me weaker and more spiritless. The idea that I was clinging to a shred
of existence by a thinning thread, seized upon me like a nightmare. And
I was tired! tired! TIRED!
There came a day when I resolved to let go and drift out.
That was the way I put it to my husband when he approached my bed, from
which I never arose until nine or ten o’clock, and inquired how I felt.
“I am worn out, holding on!” I informed him. “I shall not get up
to-day. All that is needed to end the useless fight is to let go and
drift out. I shall drift!”
He sat down on the side of the bed and looked at me. Not gloomily, but
thoughtfully. There was not a suspicion of sentimentality in the gaze,
or in the tone in which he remarked, reflectively:
“I appreciate fully what you mean, and how hard it is for you to keep
on living. And I say nothing of the inconvenience it would cause your
girls and myself were you to die. It is asking a great deal of you—”
(bringing out the words slowly and with seeming reluctance). “But if
you could bring yourself to live until Bert is through college, it
would be a great kindness all around. The boy will go to the devil
without his mother. Think of it—won’t you? Just hold on until your boy
is safely launched in life.”
With that he left me to “think of it.”
My boy! My baby! Just four years old, on my last birthday! The
man-child, of whom I was wont to say proudly that he was the handsomest
birthday gift I ever had, and that no young man could ever pay his
mother a more delicate and gracious compliment than he had paid me
in timing his advent upon December 21st. The baby that had Alice’s
eyes and brunette coloring! I lay still, staring up at the ceiling,
and doing the fastest thinking I had ever accomplished. I saw the
motherless boy, sensitive and high-spirited, affectionate and clever,
the butt of rude lads, and misinterpreted by brutish teachers; exposed
to fiery temptations at school and in college, and yielding to them for
the lack of a mother’s training and the ægis of a mother’s love.
“The boy will go to the devil without his mother!”
Hard words those, and curtly uttered, but they struck home as coaxings
and arguments and pettings could not have done.
In half an hour my husband looked in upon me again. I intercepted
remark or query by saying:
“Will you ring the bell for Rose to help me dress? I have made up my
mind to hold on for a while longer.”
The tactful ruse had given me a new lease of life.
One more circumstance connected with our first foreign trip may be
worth mentioning here.
During the summer of 1855, which I spent in Boston and the vicinity,
I consulted Ossian Ashley with regard to a project that had engaged
my mind for some months—viz., indulging my long-cherished desire to
visit Europe, and to spend a year there. There was no reason, that I
could see, why I should wait longer to put the plan into execution.
My parents were living, and were in the prime of healthy maturity;
I had plenty of money of my own, and, if I had not, my father would
cheerfully defray the expenses of the trip. We discussed the scheme at
length, and with growing zest. Then he made the proposition that his
wife should accompany me, taking her boy and girl along (she had but
two children then), and that he would join us in time to journey with
us for a few months, and bring us home.
With this well-digested scheme in my mind, I returned to Richmond.
There I met with strenuous opposition from an unexpected quarter:
“If you will stay at home and marry me, I guarantee to take you abroad
within seven years,” was one of the few promises the speaker ever broke
to me.
Just twenty-one years from the day in which Ossian Ashley and I
blocked out the route his wife and I would take on the other side, I
looked into his New York office to say that we had engaged passage for
Liverpool for October 15th, and that we expected to be absent for two
years at the least.
His look was something to be remembered. His son was in a Berlin
University, and Mrs. Ashley and her two young daughters would sail on
September 15th for Liverpool, intending to go thence to Germany. They
would remain there for two years.
On the morrow, we had a letter from him, notifying us that they had
exchanged the date of sailing for October 15th, and the boat for the
City of Berlin, in which we were to sail.
“A trifling delay of twenty-one years!” observed my husband,
philosophically. “If all human projects came as near prompt fulfilment
as that, there would be fewer grumblers.”
We took with us our three children and my maid, who had been the boy’s
nurse. In Loiterings in Pleasant Paths, written in part while we
sojourned abroad, she figures as “The Invaluable.” Never was title
more justly earned. In that book the events of the next two years are
recorded at greater length than they could be set down here.
I made no note there of the pain that seemed to pluck out our
heartstrings, consequent upon our parting with our Newark parish and
fellow-citizens. We had grown with the place, which was a mere village,
eighteen years ago, by comparison with the large city we left. Her
interests were ours. Doctor Terhune was identified with her public and
private enterprises, and known by sight and by reputation throughout
the town and its environs. His church stubbornly refused to consider
his resignation as final. He might have an indefinite leave of
absence—two, four, six years—provided he would engage to come to them
when he could bring me back well. He wisely refused to listen to the
proposal. The business quarter of the thriving city was encroaching
upon the neighborhood of the church. It was likely to be abandoned
as “a residential locality” within a few years. In which event, the
removal of building and congregation would be a necessity. The history
of such changes in the character of sections of fast-enlarging cities
is familiar to all urbanites. It was essential, in the opinion of
the retiring incumbent, that the church should select another pastor
speedily, if it would retain its integrity and identity.
The love and loyalty that had enveloped us, like a vitalizing
atmosphere, for almost a score of winters and summers, wrapped
us warmly to the last. There were public receptions and private
house-parties, by the dozen, and
                  “Partings such as press
    The life from out the heart,”—
and a gathering on the steamer on sailing-day that made us homesick in
anticipation of the actual rending of ties that were living flesh and
blood—and we were afloat.
As one of the leading men in the church shook my husband’s hand, in
leaving the deck, he pressed into it an envelope. We were well down the
bay when it was opened. It contained a supplementary letter of credit
of three thousand dollars—the farewell gift of a few men whose names
accompanied the token.
“Faithful to the end!” murmured the recipient, reading the short list
through mists that thickened between his eyes and the paper. “Had ever
another man such a parish?”
I answered “No!” then, emphatically.
My response would be the same to-day.
XLIV
TWO YEARS OVERSEAS—LIFE IN ROME AND GENEVA
THE main events of the two years spent abroad by our small family,
including “The Invaluable,” as we soon came to call Rose O’Neill, are
set down in Loiterings in Pleasant Paths, a chatty volume of travel
and sojourn, published soon after our return to America. The private
record of those two dozen months would far surpass the book in bulk. It
will never be written except as it is stamped upon “the fleshly tables
of the hearts” of those who lived and loved, studied, and revelled with
us.
We had meant to pass the first winter in Paris, but the most beautiful
city of the world was unfriendly to my sore and aching lung. After an
experiment of six weeks, we broke camp and sped southward. Ten days in
the fair Florence I was to learn in after years to love as a second
home, repeated the doleful tale of fog, rain, and chill that pierced
our bones.
An old Richmond friend, with whom I had had many a jolly frolic in my
early girlhood, was now Reverend Doctor Taylor, a resident of Rome.
After the exchange of several letters, we adopted his friendly advice
that we should give the Eternal City a trial as the refuge we sought—so
much less hopefully than at first, that I entreated my husband, on the
rainy evening of our arrival in Rome, not to push inquiries further,
but to let me go home, and die in comfort there.
Doctor Taylor had ordered rooms for us in a family hotel well spoken
of by Americans, and was at the station to conduct us to our quarters.
I was deposited upon a sofa, when my wraps were removed, and lay there,
fairly wearied out by the railway journey. The room was fireless and
carpetless. I could feel the chill of the stone flooring and the bare
walls through the blankets in which I was swathed by distressful Rose,
who “guessed these Eyetalians hadn’t the first notion of what American
comfort is!” Three long French casements afforded a full view of
leaden, low-stooping skies and straight sheets of rain. When a fire
of sticks, besmeared with resin, was coaxed into a spiteful flare,
the smoke puffed as spitefully into the room, and drifted up to the
ceiling twenty feet overhead. Invited by my ever-hospitable husband
to seat himself near an apology for a cheery hearthstone—less pitiful
to him after his ten years’ residence in Italy than to us, the new
arrivals—our friend fell into social chat of ways and means. The carpet
would be down to-morrow; the sun would shine to-morrow; I would be
rested to-morrow.
He broke off with a genial laugh there, to impart a bit of information
we were to prove true to the utmost during the next year:
“Everything is ‘domano’ with Italians. I think the babies are born
with it in their mouths. One falls into the habit with mortifying ease.”
I am afraid I dozed for a few minutes, lulled by the patter of rain
and the low-toned talk going on at the far (literally) side of the
apartment. A lively visitor used to wonder if we “could see across it
on cloudy days without an opera-glass.”
This was the next sentence that reached me:
“Thus far, we have met with discouragement. March is the most trying
month to weak lungs in America. And ever since we landed in Liverpool
we have had nothing but March weather. I think now we shall push on
to Algiers”—glancing ruefully at the murky windows. “Upon one thing
I am determined—to find a land where there is no March, as we know
the month. For one year I want to secure that for my wife’s breathing
apparatus.”
“I know of but one such region.” The answer was in the slight drawl
natural to the George Taylor I used to know; the speaker stared
sombrely into the peevish fire.
“And that?” interrogated the other, eagerly.
The drawl had now a nasal touch befitting the question:
    “‘No chilling winds, no poisonous breath
       Can reach that healthful shore!’”
“Heavens and earth, man! That is just where I don’t want her to go
yet! Nor for many a long year!”
The laugh I could not suppress helped to warm and brighten us all. Do
any of us suspect how much we owe to the funny side of life?
Thus began my Roman winter. With “domano” came the sunshine and the
carpet, and the first of the hundred drives in and about the storied
city, that were to bring healing and vigor, such as even my optimistic
husband had scarcely dared to anticipate. That I am alive upon this
wonderful, beautiful earth at this good hour, I owe, under God, to
those divine four months among the Seven Hills. Doctor Terhune had
received the appointment to the Chaplaincy of the American Chapel in
Rome before we left Paris. He decided to accept it within a week after
our arrival in the Eternal City. It was a cosey corner for pastor
and flock—that little church in Piazza Poli, belonging to an Italian
Protestant corporation, and occupied by them for half of each Sunday,
by American tourists and transient residents of Rome for the other
half. All my memories of the wonderful and bewitching winter are happy.
None have a gentler charm than those which renew the scenes of quiet
Sunday forenoons when visitors from the dear home-land, who had never
before looked upon the faces of their fellow-worshippers, gathered by
common consent in the place “where prayer was wont to be made” in their
own tongue. There were no strangers in the assembly that lingered in
the tiny vestibule and blocked the aisle when the service was over. The
spirit of mutual helpfulness spoke in eye and speech. It should not
have been considered singular that those thus convened were, almost
without exception, refined and educated, and so unlike the commonly
accepted type of travelling American, that we often commented upon the
fact in conferences with familiar friends. We felicitated ourselves
that we caught the cream of the flow of tourists, that season.
“It is a breath of the dear old home-life!” said more than one
attendant upon the simple services, where the congregation was
kaleidoscopic in outward seeming, the same in spirit.
I cannot pass over this period of our foreign life without a tribute to
one whose friendship and able co-operation in the work laid to Doctor
Terhune’s hand, did more than any other one influence to make for him a
home in Rome. Dr. Leroy M. Vernon, who subsequently became Dean of the
University of Syracuse, in New York State, was the rarest combination
of strength and gentleness I have ever seen. He had been for some years
resident in Rome; was an enthusiastic archæologist and art-student,
speaking Italian with fluency and grace, and thoroughly au fait
to the best literature of that tongue. From the beginning of their
acquaintanceship, the two men fraternized heartily. In the ripening of
liking into intimacy, they walked, rode, talked, and studied together.
What the association was to the younger of the two, may be imagined
by one who has had the privilege of close communion with a beloved
comrade who held the key to the treasure-house one has longed all his
life to enter.
“The winter in Italy with Vernon was worth more to me than a course
in the Academy of Fine Arts, combined with ten years of archæological
lectures from experts,” was the testimony of the survivor, twenty years
later, when the news of the dean’s death was brought to us.
They loved each other tenderly to the end of mortal companionship.
Who can doubt that it has been renewed in the City where eager minds
are never checked by physical weakness, and aspiration is identical
with fulfilment?
In mid-May, when the Pincio put on its beautiful garments in the purple
flowering of the Judas-trees, and the tawny Tiber rolled between hills
of living green, we turned our backs upon what those marvellous months
had wrought into our own familiar dwelling-place, and took our sad,
reluctant way to Florence. Five weeks there were varied by excursions
to Fiesole, Bologna, and Venice. Our next move was to Lucerne. Leaving
the children in care of “The Invaluable,” we ran up to Heidelberg,
joining there our kinspeople, the Ashleys, and travelling with them
leisurely over mountain and through pass, until we brought up in Geneva.
We were hardly settled, as we supposed for the season, in the bright
little town of Calvin and Voltaire, when a summons came from the
American Chapel in Paris for Doctor Terhune’s services, pending the
absence of the regular incumbent in America, whither he had been
summoned by the illness of his mother. We had no thought that the
separation of the head from our transplanted family would be a matter
of even a few weeks, whereas it lasted for four months. There was
visiting back and fro; a reunion at Christmas under the massive crowns
of mistletoe, such as grow nowhere else—not even in the Britain of
the Druids—and a memorable New-Year’s dinner at the Hôtel Metropole,
arranged under American auspices, the chief pride of the feast being
mince-pies, concocted by Yankee housewives, and misspelled among the
French dishes on the gorgeously illuminated menus. In February, my
eldest daughter and myself went to Paris for a fortnight—a tentative
trip which proved beyond a question that the air of the city on the
Seine was rank poison to the healing lungs. We hurried back to jolly,
friendly Geneva, where I could walk five miles per diem in air that
was the very elixir of life to my system, physical, mental, and moral.
Even the lusty winds from Mont Blanc, and the rough gales that lashed
Lake Leman into yeasty ridges for a week at a time, wrought strength,
instead of harm. That bodily strength grew apace was but one element
in the fulness of content in which we basked throughout the eight
months we spent in the lakeside city, behind which the Alps stood in
sublime calmness that was in itself tonic and inspiration. We had a
pleasant appartement in the Pension Magnenat, directly upon the
quay. From our drawing-room windows we looked across the lake upon the
Juras, capped with snow, and made beautiful exceedingly all day long,
by changeful lights and shadows, reflected in the waters in opaline,
prismatic hues we had never seen surpassed, even in Italy.
The American colony in Geneva has a stable reputation for intelligence
and good-breeding. One expects to find these in university towns
abroad, as at home. It may not have been unusually delightful that
winter. Perhaps climate and health combined with our peaceful domestic
life, to incline us to be more than satisfied with our social
environment. Certain it is that the circle of congenial associates,
that had widened to take us in, as a part of a harmonious corporate
whole, was, to our apprehension, ideally charming. Everybody had some
specific work or pursuit to explain his, or her residence in Geneva.
The younger men were in the university, or in preparation for it,
with “coaches”; the girls were studying French, German, and Italian,
or painting from nature under such instructors as Madame Vouga, whose
renown as a painter of wild flowers was international. We matrons had
a reading-class, enlivened by the membership of our daughters, that
met weekly at the house of some one of the party. To it we brought our
easels, boards, and paint-boxes, our embroidery, or other fancy-work.
One of the girls read aloud for two hours—history, biography, or
essay—and at five o’clock what had been read was discussed freely
over afternoon tea. A club of young people of both sexes read German,
alternately with Italian and French plays, on Wednesday night, in my
salon, I playing chaperon at my embroidery-frame at a side-table, and
admitted to the merry chat that went around with coffee and cake, when
the reading was concluded. Some of the members of that informal “Club”
have made their mark in the large outer world since that care-free,
all-satisfying sojourn in what we forgot to call an alien land, so
happily did we blend with the classic influences, lapping us about so
softly that we were never conscious of the acclimating process.
The tall youth, who submitted meekly (or gallantly) to correction
of lingual lapses in his rendering of Molière or Wallenstein or
Ariosto, from the girl at his elbow—revenging himself by a brisk
fire of badinage in honest English after the books were closed—is an
eminent metropolitan lawyer, whose income runs up well into the tens
of thousands; another, a Berlin graduate, is the dignified dean of a
law school attached to an American university; another is a college
professor; another, a Genevan graduate, is rising in fame and fortune
in an English city; one, beloved by all, completed a brilliant course
at Harvard, and when hope and life were in their prime, laid his noble
head down for his last sleep in Mount Auburn. The gay girls are staid
matrons and mothers now, with sons and daughters of their own, as old
as themselves were in that far-off, care-free time.
I have written “care-free” twice upon one page, and because I can
conjure up no other phrase that so aptly describes what that veritable
arbor on the Hill Difficulty we call “Life,” was to me. Household cares
were an unknown quantity in the well-conducted pension. Our breakfast
of French rolls, coffee, tea, boiled eggs, honey, and, for the younger
children, creamy milk, was brought to our salon every morning. A
substantial luncheon (the déjeuner à la fourchette) was served in the
pension salle à manger at one, and a dinner of six or seven courses,
at seven. Our fellow-guests were, for the most part, unobjectionable;
a fair proportion were agreeable and desirable acquaintances. About
one-third were Americans; another third were English; the rest were
Italians, Germans, Russians, and French. A table at one end of the
room was assigned to English-speaking boarders, and we soon made up a
pleasant clique that did not, however, exclude several foreigners. Thus
we persisted in calling them to ourselves. There were excursions every
few days to places of interest within easy reach. Coppet, the home
and burial-place of Madame de Staël; the Villa Diodati, where Byron
and Shelley lived and wrote; Ferney the château from which Voltaire
wrote letters to the magnates of the world, and within the walls of
which he entertained all the famous wits and many of the beauties of
his stirring times; Chillon, immortalized by Bonnivard and the poem
founded upon his captivity—were some of the memorable haunts with which
frequent visits made us familiar.
Exercise was a luxury in the ozone-fraught air, fresh every morning,
and work was the natural result of the abounding vitality thus
engendered. In no other quarter of the globe have I found such
sustained vigor of mental and physical forces as during our residence
in Switzerland. I record the fact gratefully, and as a possible helpful
suggestion to other sufferers from the overstimulating climate and
prevalent energy of American life. Rome was a gracious rest; Geneva was
upbuilding.
It was a positive wrench to the heartstrings to leave her in May, and
take our course leisurely northward.
The summer was given, and happily, to England, our headquarters being,
successively, the Isle of Wight, Leamington, and Brighton.
Late in September, we sailed for New York.
XLV
SUNNYBANK—A NEW ENGLAND PARISH—“MY BOYS”—TWO “STARRED” NAMES
WITH no more idea as to our permanent abiding-place than had the Father
of the Faithful, when he turned his back upon Ur of the Chaldees, and
his face toward a land he knew not of, “still journeying toward the
south,” in obedience to daily marching orders—we sought, upon reaching
our native shores, the one pied-à-terre left to us on the continent.
Sunnybank had been left in charge of the gardener, who, with his comely
English wife and four children, had now occupied the lodge at the gate
of our domain for ten years. He was Pompton-born and bred, and so
unromantic in sentiment and undemonstrative in demeanor, that we were
not prepared to behold a triumphal wreath on the gate when we drove
into the grounds. No human creature was visible until, winding through
the grove that hides the house from the highway, we saw the whole
family collected about the door. All were in holiday garb; wreaths of
goldenrod hung in the windows, and above the porch was tacked a scroll
with the word “WELCOME” wrought upon it in the same flowers. Yet more
amazed were we when, as Doctor Terhune stepped from the carriage,
Conrad knelt suddenly and embraced the knees of his employer, with an
inarticulate shout of joy, tears raining down his tanned cheeks.
“Just like a scene in an English play!” commented Christine,
afterward. “But not a bit like what one would expect in Pompton, New
Jersey, U. S. A.”
The unexpectedness of it all, especially the involuntary outbreak in a
man who had never seen a play in his life, and despised “foolishness”
of whatsoever description, moved us to answering softness, and brought
the first rush of home-gladness we had felt since landing. For, to be
honest, I confess that none of us were as yet reconciled to exchanging
