exigency like this arises, how precious money is. Take the 
individual, the scholar, — he can scorn it. James Trenton 
Lovell could receive a legacy and cast it behind him — " 
Tim stood up straight, as if the words had given him a 
shock. 
« Cast it behind him ? " he asked. " Where 'd he cast it ?" 
She shook her head. 
" We none of us know," she responded. " We only know 
James was given a legacy, and that he refused it." 
" The ass ! " Tim contributed. " The old moth-eaten 
hermit of an ass. What'd he do that for?" 
" Perhaps he didn't do it." Mrs. Ramsay rose and stood 
closer to the fire, looking at it lovingly. She would have 
said, if her mental photograph had been demanded, that she 
was of an ascetic habit, but warmth and food and right in- 
dulgences had a soft appealing for her, not to be recognized, 
but ascribed to the general beneficence of the universe and 
its effect on her spiritual state. " Don't speak uncharitably, 
dear. If James did refuse it, it was from the highest mo- 
tives. We can be sure of that." 
Tim had forgotten her. He stood on his side of the fire- 
place, looking at the coals and wondering how he should 
have allowed himself to pass over Lovell's reputed fortune. 
He had heard about it. Talk had buzzed vaguely all round 
 
it, but nobody had found out what it was, and after the first 
wonder, the town had gone to sleep again, according to its 
wont, 
" I 'm going over to see him." 
Mrs. Ramsay was turning away to her chamber. 
" To see James Lovell ? " she repeated, with her uncon- 
sidered mildness. " Not to-night, dear. It 's very late." 
" He sits up till all hours." Tim was seeking out his hat 
from a pile of unassorted headgear on the hall table. " Don't 
fasten up, mum. I'll be in some time." 
He banged the front door after him, and she heard him 
plunging away. She stopped to put out the hall lamp. 
" Mother," said a little voice above her, and she looked 
up. 
Tonty stood in the hall, looking over the rail. She was 
in her nightgown, and sleep still creased and flushed her 
little anxious face. 
" What is it, dear ? " inquired Mrs. Ramsay, ascending 
heavily. 
" I heard something," said Tonty, in a voice subdued to 
the hour. 
The three others, younger than she, would wake pre- 
sently to a less controlled alarm, and it would be her task 
to comfort them. 
" It was only your brother going out to make a call," said 
Mrs. Ramsay. 
She was proceeding to her own room and Tonty followed 
after, in a perfect self-possession, yet trembling with her 
fear and the cool of the night air. 
" Then it 's daytime, isn't it ? " she inquired, with an in- 
credulous hope. " No, it must be evening. Do you think 
he 's going to see Jackie ? " 
Who Jackie was, Mrs. Ramsay had never learned, but 
 
it was one of her tenets that childhood must not be de- 
ceived. No chimney in her house had ever warmed to the 
descent of Santa Claus, no brownie had ever swept her 
floor, nor fairy godmother brought gifts. None of these 
things had happened with her knowledge, though unknown 
worlds thrilled about her and beat at the doors of her sleep- 
ing apprehension. And children must be told the truth 
exactly. 
" He has gone to call on James Lovell," she replied. 
" Run along now and get into bed. Don't wake the others." 
Tonty went obediently, and was over her sill ; but at the 
dusky cavern of the room she hesitated and fled back again, 
with a soft thud of feet. Her hands almost laid hold of her 
mother's dress, but not quite. 
" Mother," she said, " mother." 
" Well, dear? " asked her mother, looking benignly down 
at her. " What is it ? Mother 's waiting for you to go back to 
bed." 
"You couldn't — " Tonty's breath seemed to fail her, 
and she added weakly — " you couldn't stand here and talk 
a minute, could you ? " 
" No, indeed," said Mrs. Ramsay kindly. " It 's very late 
for little girls. It 's late for mother, too. Run along now, 
and let mother see you shut the door." 
Tonty went quickly, because that was the easiest way to 
do it. She got inside the chamber, and pulled the door softly 
to. That shut her inside the blackness. She felt her way to 
the bed, and put her hand by chance on Tiny's face, and 
then she might have screamed if that would not have waked 
three sleeping creatures who would all have wanted water. 
But how did she know it was Tiny's face ? She had left 
Tiny in the bed when she heard the noise downstairs, but 
that was a long time ago, and many things in the history of 
 
so dark a chamber might have happened since. She knelt 
by the bed, and prayed : " Please let it be Tiny." It seemed 
to her that she prayed a long time, and it did no good be- 
cause there was no sign that it was Tiny, and it was impossi- 
ble to get into bed until she had assurance. But she put her 
head on the bedside and then in an instant found she was 
saying, " Dear Jackie, let it be Tiny " ; and immediately she 
was so sure it was, that she could get up and slip into bed 
and seek Tiny's little curled-up hand. 
 
XIII 
TIM made haste to LovelFs door because, although 
Lovell was accustomed to sit up to all hours, this 
was midnight and beyond. The light was burning 
in his little house, and Tim, before making himself known, 
stepped up to the window with no attempt at caution, and 
looked in. There was a fire across the shining andirons, and 
a man sat on the straight old-fashioned sofa along the wall 
opposite, watching the blaze. Tim frowned at the sight, be- 
cause this, seeming to be a visitor, made his coming futile ; 
but he paused and looked again, and when the man stirred, 
with a familiar motion, Tim laughed out. At that the sitting 
figure started and turned to face him there unseen. Tim went 
to the door now, opened it, and walked in. It was Lovell 
himself sitting on the sofa and regarding him with a stead- 
fast, unwelcoming look, apparently demanding why his soli- 
tude should be disturbed, — Lovell in fine new clothes. Tim 
went gravely to the mantel, took down a candle, lighted it, 
and walked over to the sofa. There, holding the candle at 
convenient points, he eyed Lovell up and down from the top 
of his clipped head to his obviously new shoes. Lovell met 
his gaze in an unmoved calm, as if it might prove a small 
relief to be pronounced upon. Tim returned the candle to 
its place, and took his host's own accustomed chair at the 
hearth. 
" Behold," said he, in a pleasant tone, '' the bridegroom 
Cometh." 
Lovell got up, threw a log on the fire, and wiped his hands 
from the powdery dust of the bark ; he wiped them on his 
 
impeccable trousers. There was a freedom of motion in the 
act, indicating a purpose. He might possibly, it seemed, find 
more familiarity in the clothes which he was now regarding 
with a mixture of rage and anxiety when they looked as if 
they had been worn. Tim, with an elfin intelligence, read 
him clearly. 
" Your trousers, Jim," he said, from an admiring solem- 
nity, " are a dream, simply a dream." 
Lovell seemed to glance at them, but a dogged something 
within him told of relief He would need all the dreamlike 
garments he could get to drag him back to life long enough 
to accomplish one foolish but inevitable purpose. 
" You ain't dressed for the part," Tim vouchsafed. 
" What part ? " 
" Hermit." 
" Don't be a fool. I never called myself a hermit." 
" Nor poet," said Tim slyly. 
" Nor poet, either." 
" Well, you 're all right, all right. You 're just the same 
kind of a Johnnie everybody else is — except me. I couldn't 
sport such a cravat nor such a coat at one o'clock in the 
morning nor any old time, not if you were to draw me on a 
jury and tell me this was the uniform. You 're elegant, Jim, 
just elegant." 
" I 'm a fool," said Lovell, going back to his position on 
the sofa. " Take it from me — a fool." 
But he looked a very handsome fellow sitting there at his 
frowning ease, and Tim, while he conquered an inclination 
to laugh, generously conceded it. Again his impish intelli- 
gence told him Lovell was forswearing his old lounging-chair 
and taking to the sofa to practise sitting on sofas at afternoon 
calls. He had a deliriously happy vision of a " Book of 
Beauty " he had seen in his mother's attic, where a young 
 
lady of the early sixties sat winding wool from the hands of 
a slim-waisted gentleman of the same period; and a wild im« 
pulse assailed him to ask Lovell if they should practise wind- 
ing yarn. But this unconsidered tableau, he thought, spoke 
ill for his own hopes. It was a simple matter to mulct a her- 
mit of despised gold, but not a man equipped for conquest 
" Going to book, Jim ? " he inquired. 
"Book?" 
" For the race. Play the game, vote, call on girls — " 
Lovell frowned at that, and then settled into his obstinate 
calm. Timothy knew then. The two girls at the Winter- 
bournes' were at the bottom of it. If he were ever to find any 
trace of the old Lovell; the poet, the student, the scorner of 
pomps, it was time to do it now. 
"Got any money, Jim?" he asked. 
"How much do you want?" Lovell made an instinctive 
dive into his empty pockets. 
" I can put you on to a good thing." 
" Oh, is that all ? I 'm going to bed," said Lovell. The 
warmth of his first hour alone there opposite the fire with 
that new energy assailing him had gone. " Sit here as long 
as you like, only see the door 's tight when you go." 
" I 'm not fooling," Tim asserted. " I know of a company 
that's going to be formed, and dad hasn't a nickel to put 
into it. Say, you 'vc got money ! " 
Lovell turned upon him. 
" Have I, indeed?" he demanded. " Who says so ?" 
"All of 'em. They say you've got it, or had it. If you 
haven't made ducks and drakes with it, chucked it down a 
hollow tree or something, you give it to me. I don't mean 
give it to me. Put it into the company — many shares as you 
want." 
" I don't want any shares," said Lovell. 
 
He was standing, looking absently into the fire. How 
should he tell his paper and pencil that night what he saw 
there — what flaring winds of passion, what castles and the 
shapes of leaves ? " What's your company ? " 
"I won't tell you — not unless you promise you'll think 
of going in with me. If you'll do that, maybe I will." 
Lovell shook his head. 
" No," he said, " no. I don't know anything about your 
companies and your shares. Come, let 's get to bed. I don't 
want to turn you out — " 
Tim picked up his hat and went, begging to the last, and 
Lovell, shutting the door on him with small ceremony, took 
the lamp and went into his bedroom. It had a good-sized 
mirror, taken from the big house because the poet side of 
him loved sumptuous things and the gilt scroll-work on it 
pleased him. He stood before it, lamp in hand, and looked 
at himself, frowning a little with the intentness of the scru- 
tiny. What he saw pleased him but moderately, — a man of 
good size and bearing, with a square forehead, very direct 
gray-blue eyes, and a firm enough mouth with diversifying 
curves in it. The mouth was odious to him because his mem- 
ories of what his mother and sister used to say of it were 
still so disconcerting. "James has a beautiful mouth," he 
heard his mother remark, fondly contemplating his photo- 
graph, which she insisted on keeping on the centre table 
propped against the astral lamp. She never looked at him 
when she said it, and James, with a sense that the mouth was 
something that was his and yet not his, used to writhe in 
his chair under the feeling that the idea had become so im- 
personal to her that she might offer it at any time, in any 
company. 
" Beautiful ! " his sister would dutifully respond, because 
the rule of the house was that mother, because she was mother 
 
and had a stiff knee, m\ist be indulged. Lovell thought that 
had got him into his habit of biting his lips, a vice he pursued 
until his mother noted it and watched him for its recurrence, 
saying at each downfall, " Don't do that, my son. You have 
a beautiful mouth." 
Well, he thought, the mouth was there. It was sufficiently 
firm, even after all it had gone through. It was well enough. 
The chin was finely cut, and he elected to pay no attention 
to the dimple in it. What he chiefly wished to see was whether 
he looked in the main no worse, if no better, than other fel- 
lows who might not have had his own tawdry experience. The 
lamp gave him no ecstatic assurance, but it offered no facers, 
and he went to bed, to forget himself and what he was pretty 
sure was going to be the morrow's foolish deed. 
But the next afternoon it was without thinking much about 
it, except as an act already determined upon, that, in all the 
austerity of his conventional gear, he went up to the Win- 
terbournes' and knocked. He had been used to walking in, 
after the familiar custom of the town, for his lost evenings 
with Wintcrbourne and the Greeks; but those were behind 
him. He never hoped for them again, and saw before him 
the exacting call of a new relation miserably veiled, as yet, in 
doubt. 
Lyddy came limping to the door, and stared at him with 
a frank surprise. Perhaps if he had not looked her in the 
eye and asked somewhat more severely than anything save a 
wavering will, giving itself even the advantage of a truculent 
port, might have counselled, she would have frankly told him 
how he seemed to her in his new clothes. But she informed 
him in detail where all the family might be found. Mr. Win- 
terbourne and Bess — she made no halt at her familiar name 
— were studying in the sitting-room, Mrs. Wintcrbourne 
had gone to town with that Mrs. Ramsay, and Miss Celia was 
 
in the garden. Lovell hesitated before her, and she divined 
him. 
" You can go out this way, if you want," she said, her 
gleaming eye on his. " She 's the only one that ain't busy.'' 
So Lovell went through the kitchen and down the steps 
of the back door and came upon Celia pacing dreamily in the 
spring air, between rows of budding green. The garden, like 
all the Winterbourne estate, had suffered in the desertion of 
the owner, and he had not yet haled this flowery patch back 
to an assured prosperity. Bess had been digging about some 
of the perennials, and Hunter, seeing her, had brought his 
hoe and gone into the business of liberation, to please her. 
Finding him at work, she had given no sign of gratitude or 
even interest, but he was pleased to note that her own frag- 
mentary toil went on there in early mornings before he came. 
She it was who had decreed the sowing of lawn-grass near the 
house, where Winterbourne had elected to raise carrots. Win- 
terbourne had come out one morning and found Hunter sow- 
ing grass. 
" You told me the carrots were all in," the master said, 
with dark suspicion. 
Hunter kept on with his accurate wave and toss of the seed. 
"Yes," he said. "This is grass-seed." 
Winterbourne felt one of his rages coming on, but at that 
moment Bess walked around the corner of the house. He 
appealed to her : — 
"Will you listen to this? I tell this fellow to put in car- 
rots—" 
But Bess came up to him. Her hair was blowing, and the 
light of day was in her eyes. 
"Why, yes," said she, " course you 've got to have grass- 
seed up here by the house. I told him so. You can't plant 
carrots round your rock-o'-door." 
 
That was an old term for the doorstep. Lyddy made a 
commonplace of it, and Winterbourne loved the girl for us- 
ing it in the manner of the soil. He looked at her a moment, 
broadly smiling, and she smiled bade, in no community of 
understanding mirth, but because she approved of him. 
So the lawn was sown, and Winterbourne rejoiced in his 
defeat. 
Celia had no inborn taste for gardens : but this one, en- 
closed in its high fence, gave space for solitary musing, and 
she wandered up and down, looking the sweetest of lone 
maidens, but brooding practically on ways and means. Lov- 
ell, a little dashed because she did not know him, went to- 
ward her fast, and suddenly she did place him, and held out 
her hand. 
" How good of you to find me," she said. " I might have 
missed you." 
Lovell had perhaps not himself realized how deeply in 
earnest he was. He kept her hand a moment and threw it 
away from him with a little fling, as if he abjured all the helps 
to courage. But after all, what had he to say to her ? Could 
he begin, " I have chosen to confess to you, because you arc 
a beautiful young woman and I am afraid you will not be 
pleased"? 
" It is so warm," Celia was saying, in a clear voice tuned 
to his insufficient hearing. 
She looked at him with large and reflective eyes, thinking, 
in the undercurrent that went on in her now all the time, that 
here was a unit of the millions more fortunate than she and 
bound to serve her if she could but combine them rightly, 
knowing he was predisposed toward her and wondering how 
she might take the best advantage of the moment. The be- 
ginning was to talk to him. '' Come down into the grape 
arbor," she said. " I 'vc been sitdng there." 
 
He followed her, his throat dry with indignation against 
himself for walking into a corner where he must needs ap- 
pear like a fool to get out again. In the arbor she sank into 
one of the wicker chairs, looked at him with her pleasant 
smile, which was yet not warm, and waited. He took in her 
look, like a picture hung before him, the slenderness of her, 
the pretty dress with its light green stripe and the green rib- 
bon at her waist, the warmth of her hair, and the pure out- 
line of her cheek. He felt dizzily for a moment that he did 
not know whether he had spoken or not, and then said, in 
what instantly sounded to him like a voice too rough, — 
. " You don't know me." 
Celia was still looking at him with that cool, clear smile. 
" I know you are a poet," she said in a low voice, and 
asked herself inwardly, in that unconscious way she had of 
referring all her words ahd acts to a standard of aesthetic mean- 
ing, whether the tone had been thrilling enough to fit that 
word. 
He made a slight outward motion of the hands, as if all 
that he cast to the abyss of unconsidered things where tal- 
ents, genius even, might lie while he sought the mere basis 
for human living. 
"Don't say that," he adjured her. "Has anybody told 
you anything about me?" 
Immediately that seemed to him asinine, because there 
was no reason why anybody should have spoken of him. 
But she was smiling at him in a bewildering way and assur- 
ing him that they had. All the time she was wondering, in 
a disengaged inner chamber of her brain, what he had done 
with the money they said he threw away. It seemed the 
height of folly or the top of splendor to throw away money 
Bess could use to such advantage. 
" I could understand," she told him. " I understand pcr- 
 
fcctly. That 's exactly how a poet would feel. I 'm awfully 
proud of myself because I could partly understand." 
He stared at her in an unbelieving gratitude. She must 
mean, he knew, that old plague spot in his life, the young 
folly that had helped bewilder his mother's days, and had 
bound his sister to him in a passionate desire to make up 
to him for the world's odium. The money he was said to 
have abjured was as far from his thought as any other in- 
considerable thing that might have plagued him, for a mo- 
ment, to be forgotten. But here, it seemed, was the most 
delicate spirit of the spring bringing its own gentlest fra- 
grant air to blow about his past and make all well. 
" That 's not all," he said. " Those things — that thing — 
is past and gone. It 's an infernal folly I came to talk to 
you about — about my being deaf I 'm not deaf." 
She was staring at him in a sweet confusion. It was 
Celia's endowment that, whatever seemed desirable to feel, 
she could really compass for the moment. 
" Oh ! " she said, in a maiden shame that implied the 
memory of the admiring comment she had thrown out that 
other day. 
He did not make the least pretence at not remembering, 
" I heard it," he said. He was rather pale now, and 
looking directly at her. " That 's why I came. When you 
said it, I felt like a fool. But I thought I 'd better tell you. 
I wanted to be an honest fool, at least." 
She sat looking at him with her air of restrained emotion, 
really wondering what he would like her to say. She had 
divined the spring of humor in him, and suddenly her face 
