life: especially now that he’s got to make a speech in connection with
the founding of this Missionary College. He may think that any hint of
internecine strife will weaken his prestige. Mightn’t you have waited a
little longer?”
“How could I, when I might have been expected to take a part in this
performance? To talk, and say things I didn’t mean? That was exactly
what made me decide not to wait.”
The door opened and Mr. Spence re-entered the room. As he did so his son
rose abruptly as if to leave it.
“Where are you off to, Draper?” the banker asked.
“I’m in rather a hurry, sir--”
Mr. Spence looked at his watch. “You can’t be in more of a hurry than I
am; and I’ve got seven minutes and a half.” He seated himself behind the
coffee--tray, lit a cigar, laid his watch on the table, and signed
to Draper to resume his place. “No, Millner, don’t you go; I want you
both.” He turned to the secretary. “You know that Draper’s given up his
Bible Class? I understand it’s not from the pressure of engagements--”
 Mr. Spence’s narrow lips took an ironic curve under the straight-clipped
stubble of his moustache--“it’s on principle, he tells me. He’s
principled against doing good!”
Draper lifted a protesting hand. “It’s not exactly that, father--”
“I know: you’ll tell me it’s some scientific quibble that I
don’t understand. I’ve never had time to go in for intellectual
hair-splitting. I’ve found too many people down in the mire who needed a
hand to pull them out. A busy man has to take his choice between helping
his fellow-men and theorizing about them. I’ve preferred to help. (You
might take that down for the Investigator, Millner.) And I thank
God I’ve never stopped to ask what made me want to do good. I’ve just
yielded to the impulse--that’s all.” Mr. Spence turned back to his son.
“Better men than either of us have been satisfied with that creed, my
son.”
Draper was silent, and Mr. Spence once more addressed himself to his
secretary. “Millner, you’re a reader: I’ve caught you at it. And I know
this boy talks to you. What have you got to say? Do you suppose a Bible
Class ever hurt anybody?”
Millner paused a moment, feeling all through his nervous system the
fateful tremor of the balance. “That’s what I was just trying to tell
him, sir--”
“Ah; you were? That’s good. Then I’ll only say one thing more. Your
doing what you’ve done at this particular moment hurts me more, Draper,
than your teaching the gospel of Jesus could possibly have hurt those
young men over in Tenth Avenue.” Mr. Spence arose and restored his watch
to his pocket. “I shall want you in twenty minutes, Millner.”
The door closed on him, and for a while the two young men sat silent
behind their cigar fumes. Then Draper Spence broke out, with a catch
in his throat: “That’s what I can’t bear, Millner, what I simply
can’t bear: to hurt him, to hurt his faith in me! It’s an awful
responsibility, isn’t it, to tamper with anybody’s faith in anything?”
III
THE twenty minutes prolonged themselves to forty, the forty to fifty,
and the fifty to an hour; and still Millner waited for Mr. Spence’s
summons.
During the two years of his secretaryship the young man had learned the
significance of such postponements. Mr. Spence’s days were organized
like a railway time-table, and a delay of an hour implied a casualty
as far-reaching as the breaking down of an express. Of the cause of the
present derangement Hugh Millner was ignorant; and the experience of the
last months allowed him to fluctuate between conflicting conjectures.
All were based on the indisputable fact that Mr. Spence was
“bothered”--had for some time past been “bothered.” And it was one of
Millner’s discoveries that an extremely parsimonious use of the emotions
underlay Mr. Spence’s expansive manner and fraternal phraseology, and
that he did not throw away his feelings any more than (for all his
philanthropy) he threw away his money. If he was bothered, then, it
could be only because a careful survey of his situation had forced on
him some unpleasant fact with which he was not immediately prepared to
deal; and any unpreparedness on Mr. Spence’s part was also a significant
symptom.
Obviously, Millner’s original conception of his employer’s character had
suffered extensive modification; but no final outline had replaced the
first conjectural image. The two years spent in Mr. Spence’s service
had produced too many contradictory impressions to be fitted into any
definite pattern; and the chief lesson Millner had learned from them
was that life was less of an exact science, and character a more
incalculable element, than he had been taught in the schools. In the
light of this revised impression, his own footing seemed less secure
than he had imagined, and the rungs of the ladder he was climbing
more slippery than they had looked from below. He was not without
the reassuring sense of having made himself, in certain small ways,
necessary to Mr. Spence; and this conviction was confirmed by Draper’s
reiterated assurance of his father’s appreciation. But Millner had begun
to suspect that one might be necessary to Mr. Spence one day, and
a superfluity, if not an obstacle, the next; and that it would take
superhuman astuteness to foresee how and when the change would occur.
Every fluctuation of the great man’s mood was therefore anxiously noted
by the young meteorologist in his service; and this observer’s vigilance
was now strained to the utmost by the little cloud, no bigger than a
man’s hand, adumbrated by the banker’s unpunctuality.
When Mr. Spence finally appeared, his aspect did not tend to dissipate
the cloud. He wore what Millner had learned to call his “back-door
face”: a blank barred countenance, in which only an occasional twitch of
the lids behind his glasses suggested that some one was on the watch.
In this mood Mr. Spence usually seemed unconscious of his secretary’s
presence, or aware of it only as an arm terminating in a pen. Millner,
accustomed on such occasions to exist merely as a function, sat waiting
for the click of the spring that should set him in action; but the
pressure not being applied, he finally hazarded: “Are we to go on with
the Investigator, sir?”
Mr. Spence, who had been pacing up and down between the desk and the
fireplace, threw himself into his usual seat at Millner’s elbow.
“I don’t understand this new notion of Draper’s,” he said abruptly.
“Where’s he got it from? No one ever learned irreligion in my
household.”
He turned his eyes on Millner, who had the sense of being scrutinized
through a ground-glass window which left him visible while it concealed
his observer. The young man let his pen describe two or three vague
patterns on the blank sheet before him.
“Draper has ideas--” he risked at last.
Mr. Spence looked hard at him. “That’s all right,” he said. “I want
my son to have everything. But what’s the point of mixing up ideas and
principles? I’ve seen fellows who did that, and they were generally
trying to borrow five dollars to get away from the sheriff. What’s all
this talk about goodness? Goodness isn’t an idea. It’s a fact. It’s as
solid as a business proposition. And it’s Draper’s duty, as the son of a
wealthy man, and the prospective steward of a great fortune, to elevate
the standards of other young men--of young men who haven’t had his
opportunities. The rich ought to preach contentment, and to set the
example themselves. We have our cares, but we ought to conceal them. We
ought to be cheerful, and accept things as they are--not go about sowing
dissent and restlessness. What has Draper got to give these boys in his
Bible Class, that’s so much better than what he wants to take from them?
That’s the question I’d like to have answered?”
Mr. Spence, carried away by his own eloquence, had removed his
pince-nez and was twirling it about his extended fore-finger with the
gesture habitual to him when he spoke in public. After a pause, he went
on, with a drop to the level of private intercourse: “I tell you this
because I know you have a good deal of influence with Draper. He has a
high opinion of your brains. But you’re a practical fellow, and you must
see what I mean. Try to make Draper see it. Make him understand how it
looks to have him drop his Bible Class just at this particular time.
It was his own choice to take up religious teaching among young men. He
began with our office-boys, and then the work spread and was blessed.
I was almost alarmed, at one time, at the way it took hold of him: when
the papers began to talk about him as a formative influence I was afraid
he’d lose his head and go into the church. Luckily he tried University
Settlement first; but just as I thought he was settling down to that, he
took to worrying about the Higher Criticism, and saying he couldn’t go
on teaching fairy-tales as history. I can’t see that any good ever came
of criticizing what our parents believed, and it’s a queer time for
Draper to criticize my belief just as I’m backing it to the extent of
five millions.”
Millner remained silent; and, as though his silence were an argument,
Mr. Spence continued combatively: “Draper’s always talking about some
distinction between religion and morality. I don’t understand what he
means. I got my morals out of the Bible, and I guess there’s enough left
in it for Draper. If religion won’t make a man moral, I don’t see why
irreligion should. And he talks about using his mind--well, can’t he use
that in Wall Street? A man can get a good deal farther in life watching
the market than picking holes in Genesis; and he can do more good too.
There’s a time for everything; and Draper seems to me to have mixed up
week-days with Sunday.”
Mr. Spence replaced his eye-glasses, and stretching his hand to the
silver box at his elbow, extracted from it one of the long cigars
sheathed in gold-leaf which were reserved for his private consumption.
The secretary hastened to tender him a match, and for a moment he puffed
in silence. When he spoke again it was in a different note.
“I’ve got about all the bother I can handle just now, without this
nonsense of Draper’s. That was one of the Trustees of the College with
me. It seems the Flashlight has been trying to stir up a fuss--” Mr.
Spence paused, and turned his pince-nez on his secretary. “You haven’t
heard from them?” he asked.
“From the Flashlight? No.” Millner’s surprise was genuine.
He detected a gleam of relief behind Mr. Spence’s glasses. “It may be
just malicious talk. That’s the worst of good works; they bring out all
the meanness in human nature. And then there are always women mixed up
in them, and there never was a woman yet who understood the difference
between philanthropy and business.” He drew again at his cigar, and
then, with an unwonted movement, leaned forward and mechanically pushed
the box toward Millner. “Help yourself,” he said.
Millner, as mechanically, took one of the virginally cinctured cigars,
and began to undo its wrappings. It was the first time he had ever been
privileged to detach that golden girdle, and nothing could have given
him a better measure of the importance of the situation, and of the
degree to which he was apparently involved in it. “You remember that
San Pablo rubber business? That’s what they’ve been raking up,” said Mr.
Spence abruptly.
Millner paused in the act of striking a match. Then, with an appreciable
effort of the will, he completed the gesture, applied the flame to his
cigar, and took a long inhalation. The cigar was certainly delicious.
Mr. Spence, drawing a little closer, leaned forward and touched him on
the arm. The touch caused Millner to turn his head, and for an instant
the glance of the two men crossed at short range. Millner was conscious,
first, of a nearer view than he had ever had of his employer’s face,
and of its vaguely suggesting a seamed sandstone head, the kind of thing
that lies in a corner in the court of a museum, and in which only the
round enamelled eyes have resisted the wear of time. His next feeling
was that he had now reached the moment to which the offer of the cigar
had been a prelude. He had always known that, sooner or later, such a
moment would come; all his life, in a sense, had been a preparation for
it. But in entering Mr. Spence’s service he had not foreseen that it
would present itself in this form. He had seen himself consciously
guiding that gentleman up to the moment, rather than being thrust into
it by a stronger hand. And his first act of reflection was the resolve
that, in the end, his hand should prove the stronger of the two. This
was followed, almost immediately, by the idea that to be stronger than
Mr. Spence’s it would have to be very strong indeed. It was odd that he
should feel this, since--as far as verbal communication went--it was Mr.
Spence who was asking for his support. In a theoretical statement of the
case the banker would have figured as being at Millner’s mercy; but one
of the queerest things about experience was the way it made light
of theory. Millner felt now as though he were being crushed by some
inexorable engine of which he had been playing with the lever. ...
He had always been intensely interested in observing his own reactions,
and had regarded this faculty of self-detachment as of immense advantage
in such a career as he had planned. He felt this still, even in the act
of noting his own bewilderment--felt it the more in contrast to the odd
unconsciousness of Mr. Spence’s attitude, of the incredible candour of
his self-abasement and self-abandonment. It was clear that Mr. Spence
was not troubled by the repercussion of his actions in the consciousness
of others; and this looked like a weakness--unless it were, instead, a
great strength. ...
Through the hum of these swarming thoughts Mr. Spence’s voice was going
on. “That’s the only rag of proof they’ve got; and they got it by one
of those nasty accidents that nobody can guard against. I don’t care
how conscientiously a man attends to business, he can’t always protect
himself against meddlesome people. I don’t pretend to know how the
letter came into their hands; but they’ve got it; and they mean to use
it--and they mean to say that you wrote it for me, and that you knew
what it was about when you wrote it. ... They’ll probably be after you
tomorrow--”
Mr. Spence, restoring his cigar to his lips, puffed at it slowly. In
the pause that followed there was an instant during which the universe
seemed to Hugh Millner like a sounding-board bent above his single
consciousness. If he spoke, what thunders would be sent back to him from
that intently listening vastness?
“You see?” said Mr. Spence.
The universal ear bent closer, as if to catch the least articulation
of Millner’s narrowed lips; but when he opened them it was merely to
re-insert his cigar, and for a short space nothing passed between the
two men but an exchange of smoke-rings.
“What do you mean to do? There’s the point,” Mr. Spence at length sent
through the rings.
Oh, yes, the point was there, as distinctly before Millner as the tip of
his expensive cigar: he had seen it coming quite as soon as Mr. Spence.
He knew that fate was handing him an ultimatum; but the sense of the
formidable echo which his least answer would rouse kept him doggedly,
and almost helplessly, silent. To let Mr. Spence talk on as long as
possible was no doubt the best way of gaining time; but Millner knew
that his silence was really due to his dread of the echo. Suddenly,
however, in a reaction of impatience at his own indecision, he began to
speak.
The sound of his voice cleared his mind and strengthened his resolve.
It was odd how the word seemed to shape the act, though one knew how
ancillary it really was. As he talked, it was as if the globe had
swung around, and he himself were upright on its axis, with Mr. Spence
underneath, on his head. Through the ensuing interchange of concise and
rapid speech there sounded in Millner’s ears the refrain to which he had
walked down Fifth Avenue after his first talk with Mr. Spence: “It’s too
easy--it’s too easy--it’s too easy.” Yes, it was even easier than he
had expected. His sensation was that of the skilful carver who feels his
good blade sink into a tender joint.
As he went on talking, this surprised sense of mastery was like wine in
his veins. Mr. Spence was at his mercy, after all--that was what it came
to; but this new view of the case did not lessen Millner’s sense of Mr.
Spence’s strength, it merely revealed to him his own superiority. Mr.
Spence was even stronger than he had suspected. There could be no better
proof of that than his faith in Millner’s power to grasp the situation,
and his tacit recognition of the young man’s right to make the most of
it. Millner felt that Mr. Spence would have despised him even more for
not using his advantage than for not seeing it; and this homage to
his capacity nerved him to greater alertness, and made the concluding
moments of their talk as physically exhilarating as some hotly contested
game.
When the conclusion was reached, and Millner stood at the goal, the
golden trophy in his grasp, his first conscious thought was one of
regret that the struggle was over. He would have liked to prolong their
talk for the purely aesthetic pleasure of making Mr. Spence lose time,
and, better still, of making him forget that he was losing it. The sense
of advantage that the situation conferred was so great that when Mr.
Spence rose it was as if Millner were dismissing him, and when he
reached his hand toward the cigar-box it seemed to be one of Millner’s
cigars that he was taking.
IV
THERE had been only one condition attached to the transaction: Millner
was to speak to Draper about the Bible Class.
The condition was easy to fulfil. Millner was confident of his power to
deflect his young friend’s purpose; and he knew the opportunity would be
given him before the day was over. His professional duties despatched,
he had only to go up to his room to wait. Draper nearly always looked
in on him for a moment before dinner: it was the hour most propitious to
their elliptic interchange of words and silences.
Meanwhile, the waiting was an occupation in itself. Millner looked about
his room with new eyes. Since the first thrill of initiation into its
complicated comforts--the shower-bath, the telephone, the many-jointed
reading-lamp and the vast mirrored presses through which he was always
hunting his scant outfit--Millner’s room had interested him no more than
a railway-carriage in which he might have been travelling. But now
it had acquired a sort of historic significance as the witness of the
astounding change in his fate. It was Corsica, it was Brienne--it was
the kind of spot that posterity might yet mark with a tablet. Then
he reflected that he should soon be leaving it, and the lustre of its
monumental mahogany was veiled in pathos. Why indeed should he linger on
in bondage? He perceived with a certain surprise that the only thing he
should regret would be leaving Draper. ...
It was odd, it was inconsequent, it was almost exasperating, that such
a regret should obscure his triumph. Why in the world should he suddenly
take to regretting Draper? If there were any logic in human likings,
it should be to Mr. Spence that he inclined. Draper, dear lad, had the
illusion of an “intellectual sympathy” between them; but that, Millner
knew, was an affair of reading and not of character. Draper’s temerities
would always be of that kind; whereas his own--well, his own, put to the
proof, had now definitely classed him with Mr. Spence rather than with
Mr. Spence’s son. It was a consequence of this new condition--of his
having thus distinctly and irrevocably classed himself--that, when
Draper at length brought upon the scene his shy shamble and his wistful
smile, Millner, for the first time, had to steel himself against them
instead of yielding to their charm.
In the new order upon which he had entered, one principle of the old
survived: the point of honour between allies. And Millner had promised
Mr. Spence to speak to Draper about his Bible Class. ...
Draper, thrown back in his chair, and swinging a loose leg across a
meagre knee, listened with his habitual gravity. His downcast eyes
seemed to pursue the vision which Millner’s words evoked; and the words,
to their speaker, took on a new sound as that candid consciousness
refracted them.
“You know, dear boy, I perfectly see your father’s point. It’s naturally
distressing to him, at this particular time, to have any hint of civil
war leak out--”
Draper sat upright, laying his lank legs knee to knee.
“That’s it, then? I thought that was it!”
Millner raised a surprised glance. “ What’s it?”
“That it should be at this particular time--”
“Why, naturally, as I say! Just as he’s making, as it were, his public
profession of faith. You know, to men like your father convictions are
irreducible elements--they can’t be split up, and differently combined.
And your exegetical scruples seem to him to strike at the very root of
his convictions.”
Draper pulled himself to his feet and shuffled across the room. Then he
turned about, and stood before his friend.
“Is it that--or is it this?” he said; and with the word he drew a letter
from his pocket and proffered it silently to Millner.
The latter, as he unfolded it, was first aware of an intense surprise at
the young man’s abruptness of tone and gesture. Usually Draper fluttered
long about his point before making it; and his sudden movement seemed as
mechanical as the impulsion conveyed by some strong spring. The spring,
of course, was in the letter; and to it Millner turned his startled
glance, feeling the while that, by some curious cleavage of perception,
he was continuing to watch Draper while he read.
“Oh, the beasts!” he cried.
He and Draper were face to face across the sheet which had dropped
between them. The youth’s features were tightened by a smile that was
like the ligature of a wound. He looked white and withered.
“Ah--you knew, then?”
Millner sat still, and after a moment Draper turned from him, walked
to the hearth, and leaned against the chimney, propping his chin on his
hands. Millner, his head thrown back, stared up at the ceiling, which
had suddenly become to him the image of the universal sounding-board
hanging over his consciousness.
“You knew, then?” Draper repeated.
Millner remained silent. He had perceived, with the surprise of a
mathematician working out a new problem, that the lie which Mr. Spence
had just bought of him was exactly the one gift he could give of his own
free will to Mr. Spence’s son. This discovery gave the world a strange
new topsy-turvyness, and set Millner’s theories spinning about his brain
like the cabin furniture of a tossing ship.
“You knew,” said Draper, in a tone of quiet affirmation.
Millner righted himself, and grasped the arms of his chair as if that
too were reeling. “About this blackguardly charge?”
Draper was studying him intently. “What does it matter if it’s
blackguardly?”
“Matter--?” Millner stammered.
“It’s that, of course, in any case. But the point is whether it’s true
or not.” Draper bent down, and picking up the crumpled letter, smoothed
it out between his fingers. “The point, is, whether my father, when he
was publicly denouncing the peonage abuses on the San Pablo plantations
over a year ago, had actually sold out his stock, as he announced at the
time; or whether, as they say here--how do they put it?--he had simply
transferred it to a dummy till the scandal should blow over, and has
meanwhile gone on drawing his forty per cent interest on five thousand
shares? There’s the point.”
Millner had never before heard his young friend put a case with such
unadorned precision. His language was like that of Mr. Spence making
a statement to a committee meeting; and the resemblance to his father
flashed out with ironic incongruity.
“You see why I’ve brought this letter to you--I couldn’t go to him
with it!” Draper’s voice faltered, and the resemblance vanished as
suddenly as it had appeared.
“No; you couldn’t go to him with it,” said Millner slowly.
“And since they say here that you know: that they’ve got your letter
proving it--” The muscles of Draper’s face quivered as if a blinding
light had been swept over it. “For God’s sake, Millner--it’s all right?”
“It’s all right,” said Millner, rising to his feet.
Draper caught him by the wrist. “You’re sure--you’re absolutely sure?”
“Sure. They know they’ve got nothing to go on.”
Draper fell back a step and looked almost sternly at his friend. “You
know that’s not what I mean. I don’t care a straw what they think
they’ve got to go on. I want to know if my father’s all right. If he is,
they can say what they please.”
Millner, again, felt himself under the concentrated scrutiny of the
ceiling. “Of course, of course. I understand.”
“You understand? Then why don’t you answer?”
Millner looked compassionately at the boy’s struggling face. Decidedly,
the battle was to the strong, and he was not sorry to be on the side of
the legions. But Draper’s pain was as awkward as a material obstacle, as
something that one stumbled over in a race.
“You know what I’m driving at, Millner.” Again Mr. Spence’s
committee-meeting tone sounded oddly through his son’s strained voice.
“If my father’s so awfully upset about my giving up my Bible Class, and
letting it be known that I do so on conscientious grounds, is it because
he’s afraid it may be considered a criticism on something he has done
