When one has journeyed for days on the unquiet sea, a touch of land
underfoot renews, Antaeus-wise, one's strength and mental activity; so
a festive spirit presided at the dinner table.  The admiral determined
to vault the enforced repression of his secret.  Inasmuch as it must be
told, the present seemed a propitious moment.  He signed for the
attendants to leave the salon, and then rapped on the table for
silence.  He obtained it easily enough.

"My friends," he began, "where do you think this boat is really going?"

"Marseilles," answered Coldfield.

"Where else?" cried M. Ferraud, as if diversion from that course was
something of an improbability.

"Corsica.  We can leave you at Marseilles, Mr. Ferraud, if you wish;
but I advise you to remain with us.  It will be something to tell in
your old age."

Cathewe glanced across to Fitzgerald, as if to ask: "Do you know
anything about this?"  Fitzgerald, catching the sense of this mute
inquiry, nodded affirmatively.

"Corsica is a beautiful place," said Hildegarde.  "I spent a spring in
Ajaccio."

"Well, that is our port," confessed the admiral, laying his precious
documents on the table.  "The fact is, we are going to dig up a
treasure," with a flourish.

Laughter and incredulous exclamations followed this statement.

"Pirates?" cried Coldfield, with a good-natured jeer.  He had cruised
with the admiral before.  "Where's the cutlass and jolly-roger?  Yo-ho!
and a bottle o' rum!"

"Yes.  And where's the other ship following at our heels, as they
always do in treasure hunts, the rival pirates who will cut our throats
when we have dug up the treasure?"--from Cathewe.

"Treasures!" mumbled M. Ferraud from behind his pineapple.  Carefully
he avoided Fitzgerald's gaze, but he noted the expression on
Breitmann's face.  It was not pleasant.

"Just a moment," the admiral requested patiently.  "I know it smells
fishy.  Laura, go ahead and read the documents to the unbelieving
giaours.  Mr. Fitzgerald knows and so does Mr. Breitmann."

"Tell us about it, Laura.  No joking, now," said Coldfield,
surrendering his incredulity with some hesitance.  "And if the treasure
involves no fighting or diplomatic tangle, count me in.  Think of it,
Jane," turning to his wife; "two old church-goers like you and me,
a-going after a pirate's treasure!  Doesn't it make you laugh?"

Laura unfolded the story, and when she came to the end, the excitement
was hot and Babylonic.  Napoleon!  What a word!  A treasure put
together to rescue him from St. Helena!  Gold, French gold, English
gold, Spanish and Austrian gold, all mildewing in a rotting chest
somewhere back of Ajaccio!  It was unbelievable, fantastic as one of
those cinematograph pictures, running backward.

"But what are you going to do with it when you find it?"

"Findings is keepings," quoted the admiral.  "Perhaps divide it,
perhaps turn it over to France, providing France agrees to use it for
charitable purposes."

"A fine plan, is it not, Mr. Breitmann?" said M. Ferraud.

"Findings is keepings," repeated Breitmann, with a pale smile.

The eyes of Hildegarde von Mitter burned and burned.  Could she but
read what lay behind that impassive face!  And he took it all with a
smile!  What would he do? what would he do now? kept recurring in her
mind.  She knew the man, or at least she thought she did; and she was
aware that there existed in his soul dark caverns which she had never
dared to explore.  Yes, what would he do now?  How would he put his
hand upon this gold?  She trembled with apprehension.

And later, when she found the courage to put the question boldly, he
answered with a laugh, so low and yet so wild with fury that she drew
away from him in dumb terror.




CHAPTER XIX

BREITMANN MAKES HIS FIRST BLUNDER

The secretary nerved himself and waited; and yet he knew what her reply
would be, even before she framed it, knew it with that indescribable
certainty which prescience occasionally grants in the space of a
moment.  Before he had spoken there had been hope to stand upon, for
she had always been gentle and kindly toward him, not a whit less than
she had been to the others.

"Mr. Breitmann, I am sorry.  I never dreamed of this;" nor had she.
She had forgotten Europeans seldom understand the American girl as she
is or believe that the natural buoyancy of spirit is as free from
purpose or intent as the play of a child.  But in this moment she
remembered her little and perfectly inconsequent attentions toward this
man, and seeing them from his viewpoint she readily forgave him.
Abroad, she was always on guard; but here, among her own compatriots
who accepted her as she was, she had excusably forgotten.  "I am sorry
if you have misunderstood me in any way."

"I could no more help loving you than that those stars should cease to
shine to-night," his voice heavy with emotion.

"I am sorry," she could only repeat.  Men had spoken to her like this
before, and always had the speech been new to her and always had a
great and tender pity charged her heart.  And perhaps her pity for this
one was greater than any she had previously known; he seemed so lonely.

"Sorry, sorry!  Does that mean there is no hope?"

"None, Mr. Breitmann, none."

"Is there another?" his throat swelling.  But before she could answer:
"Pardon me; I did not mean that.  I have no right to ask such a
question."

"And I should not have answered it to any but my father, Mr.
Breitmann."  She extended her hand.  "Let us forget that you have
spoken.  I should like you for a friend."

Without a word he took the hand and kissed it.  He made no effort to
hold it, and it slipped from his clasp easily.

"Goodnight."

"Good night."  And he never lost sight of her till she entered the
salon-cabin.  He saw a star fall out of nothing into nothing.  She was
sorry!  The moment brewed a thousand wild suggestions.  To abduct her,
to carry her away into the mountains, to cast his dream to the four
winds, to take her in spite of herself.  He laid his hand on the teak
railing, wondering at the sudden wracking pain, a pain which unlinked
coherent thought and left his mind stagnant and inert.  For the first
time he realized that his pain was a recurrence of former ones similar.
Why?  He did not know.  He only remembered that he had had the pain at
the back of his head and that it was generally followed by a burning
fury, a rage to rend and destroy things.  What was the matter?

The damp rail was cool and refreshing, and after a spell the pain
diminished.  He shook himself free and stood straight, his jaws hard
and his eyes, absorbing what light there was from the stars, chatoyant.
Sorry!  So be it.  To have humbled himself before this American girl
and to be snubbed for his pains!  But, patience!  Two million francs
and his friends awaiting the word from him.  She was sorry!  He
laughed, and the laughter was not unlike that which a few nights gone
had startled the ears of the other woman to whom he had once appealed
in passionate tones and not without success.

"Karl!"

The sight of Hildegarde at this moment neither angered nor pleased him.
He permitted her hand to lay upon his arm.

"My head aches," he said, as if replying to the unspoken question in
her eyes.

"Karl, why not give it up?" she pleaded.

"Give it up?  What! when I have come this far, when I have gone through
what I have?  Oh, no!  Do not think so little of me as that."

"But it is a dream!"

He shook off her hand angrily.  "If there is to be any reckoning I
shall pay, never fear.  But it will not, shall not fail!"

She would have liked to weep for him.  "I would gladly give you my
eyes, Karl, if you might see it all as I see it.  Ruin, ruin!  Can you
touch this money without violence?  Ah, my God, what has blinded you to
the real issues?"

"I have not asked you to share the difficulties."

"No.  You have not been that kind to me."

To-night there were no places in his armor for any sentiment but his
own.  "I want nothing but revenge."

"I think I can read," her own bitterness getting the better of her
tongue.  "Miss Killigrew has declined."

"You have been listening?" with a snarl.

"It has not been necessary to listen; I needed only to watch."

"Well, what is it to you?"

"Take care, Karl!  You can not talk to me like that."

"Don't drive me, then.  Oh," with a sudden turn of mind, "I am sorry
that you can not understand."

"If I hadn't I should never have given you my promise not to speak.
There was a time when you had right on your side, but that time ceased
to be when you lied to me.  How little you understood me!  Had you
spoken frankly and generously at the start, God knows I shouldn't have
refused you.  But you set out to walk over my heart to get that
miserable slip of paper.  Ah! had I but known!  I say to you, you will
fail utterly and miserably.  You are either blind or mad!"

Without a word in reply to this prophecy he turned and left her; and as
soon as he had vanished she kissed the spot on the rail where his hand
had rested and laid her own there.  When at last she raised it, the
rail was no longer merely damp, it was wet.


"Now there," began Fitzgerald, taking M. Ferraud firmly by the sleeve,
"I have come to the end of my patience.  What has Breitmann to do with
all this business?"

"Will you permit me to polish my spectacles?" mildly asked M. Ferraud.

"It's the deuce of a job to get you into a corner," Fitzgerald
declared.  "But I have your promise, and you should recollect that I
know things which might interest Mr. Breitmann."

"Croyez-vous qu'il pleuve?  Il fait bien du vent," adjusting his
spectacles and viewing the clear sky and the serene bosom of the
Mediterranean.  Then M. Ferraud turned round with: "Ah, Mr. Fitzgerald,
this man Breitmann is what you call 'poor devil,' is it not?  At dinner
to-night I shall tell a story, at once marvelous past belief and
pathetic.  I shall tell this story against my best convictions because
I wish him no harm, because I should like to save him from black ruin.
But, attend me; my efforts shall be as wind blowing upon stone; and I
shall not save him.  An alienist would tell you better than I can.
Listen.  You have watched him, have you not?  To you he seems like any
other man?  Yes?  Keen-witted, gifted, a bit of a musician, a good deal
of a scholar?  Well, had I found that paper first, there would have
been no treasure hunt.  I should have torn it into one thousand pieces;
I should have saved him in spite of himself and have done my duty also.
He is mad, mad as a whirlwind, as a tempest, as a fire, as a sandstorm."

"About what?"

"To-night, to-night!"

And the wiry little man released himself and bustled away to his chair
where he became buried in rugs and magazines.




CHAPTER XX

AN OLD SCANDAL

"Corsica to-morrow," said the admiral.

"Napoleon," said Laura.

"Romance," said Cathewe.

"Treasures," said M. Ferraud.

Hildegarde felt uneasy.  Breitmann toyed with the bread crumbs.  He was
inattentive besides.

"Napoleon.  There is an old scandal," mused M. Ferraud.  "I don't think
that any of you have heard it."

"That will interest me," Fitzgerald cried.  "Tell it."

M. Ferraud cleared his throat with a sharp ahem and proceeded to
burnish his crystals.  Specks and motes were ever adhering to them.  He
held them up to the light and pretended to look through them: he saw
nothing but the secretary's abstraction.

"We were talking about treasures the other night," began the Frenchman,
"and I came near telling it then.  It is a story of Napoleon."

"Never a better moment to tell it," said the admiral, rubbing his hands
in pleasurable anticipation.

"I say to you at once that the tale is known to few, and has never had
any publicity, and must never have any.  Remember that, if you please,
Mr. Fitzgerald, and you also, Mr. Breitmann."

"I beg your pardon," said Breitmann.  "I was not listening."

M. Ferraud repeated his request clearly.

"I am no longer a newspaper writer," Breitmann affirmed, clearing the
fog out of his head.  "A story about Napoleon; will it be true?"

"Every word of it."  M. Ferraud folded his arms and sat back.

During the pause Hildegarde shivered.  Something made her desire madly
to thrust a hand out and cover M. Ferraud's mouth.

"We have all read much about Napoleon.  I can not recall how many lives
range shoulder to shoulder on the booksellers' shelves.  There have
been letters and memoirs, anecdotes by celebrated men and women who
were his contemporaries.  But there is one thing upon which we shall
all agree, and that is that the emperor was in private life something
of a beast.  As a soldier he was the peer of all the Caesars; as a
husband he was vastly inferior to any of them.  This story does not
concern him as emperor.  If in my narrative there occurs anything
offensive, correct me instantly.  I speak English fluently, but there
are still some idioms I trip on."

"I'll trust you to steer straight enough," said the admiral.

"Thank you.  Well, then, once upon a time Napoleon was in Bavaria.  The
country was at that time his ablest ally.  There was a pretty peasant
girl."

A knife clattered to the floor.  "Pardon!" whispered Hildegarde to
Cathewe.  "I am clumsy."  She was as white as the linen.

Breitmann went on with his crumbs.

"I believe," continued M. Ferraud, "that it was in the year 1813 that
the emperor received a peculiar letter.  It begged that a title be
conferred upon a pretty little peasant boy.  The emperor was a grim
humorist, I may say in passing; and for this infant he created a
baronetcy, threw in a parcel of land, and a purse.  That was the end of
it, as far as it related to the emperor.  Waterloo came and with it
vanished the empire; and it would be a long time before a baron of the
empire returned to any degree of popularity.  For years the matter was
forgotten.  The documents in the case, the letters of patent, the deeds
and titles to the land, and a single Napoleonic scrawl, these gathered
dust in the loft.  When I heard this tale the thing which appealed to
me most keenly was the thought that over in Bavaria there exists the
only real direct strain of Napoleonic blood: a Teuton, one of those who
had brought about the downfall of the empire."

"You say exists?" interjected Cathewe.

"Exists," laconically.

"You have proofs?" demanded Fitzgerald.

"The very best in the world.  I have not only seen those patents, but I
have seen the man."

"Very interesting," agreed Breitmann, brushing the crumbs into his hand
and dropping them on his plate.  "But, go on."

"What a man!" breathed Fitzgerald, who began to see the drift of things.

"I proceed, then.  Two generations passed.  I doubt if the third
generation of this family has ever heard of the affair.  One day the
last of his race, in clearing up the salable things in his house--for
he had decided to lease it--stumbled on the scant history of his
forebears.  He was at school then; a promising youngster, brave,
cheerful, full of adventure and curiosity.  Contrary to the natural
sequence of events, he chose the navy, where he did very well.  But in
some way Germany found out what France already knew.  Here was a fine
chance for a stroke of politics.  France had always watched; without
fear, however, but with half-formed wonder.  Germany considered the
case: why not turn this young fellow loose on France, to worry and to
harry her?  So, quietly Germany bore on the youth in that cold-blooded,
Teutonic way she has, and forced him out of the navy.

"He was poor, and poverty among German officers, in either branch, is a
bad thing.  Our young friend did not penetrate the cause of this at
first; for he had no intention of utilizing his papers, save to dream
over them.  The blood of his great forebear refused to let him bow
under this unjust stroke.  He sought a craft, an interesting one.  The
net again closed in on him.  He began to grow desperate, and
desperation was what Germany desired.  Desperation would make a tool of
the young fellow.  But our young Napoleon was not without wit.  He
plotted, but so cleverly and secretly that never a hand could reach out
to stay him.  Germany finally offered him an immense bribe.  He threw
it back, for now he hated Germany more than he hated France.  You
wonder why he hated France?  If France had not discarded her empire--I
do not refer to the second empire--he would have been a great personage
to-day.  At least this must be one of his ideas.

"And there you are," abruptly.  "Here we have a Napoleon, indeed with
all the patience of his great forebear.  If Germany had left him alone
he would to-day have been a good citizen, who would never have
permitted futile dreams to enter his head, and who would have
contemplated his greatness with the smile of a philosopher.  And who
can say where this will end?  It is pitiful."

"Pitiful?" repeated Breitmann.  "Why that?" calmly.

M. Ferraud repressed the admiration in his eyes.  It was a singular
duel.  "When we see a madman rushing blindly over a precipice it is a
human instinct to reach out a hand to save him."

"But how do you know he is rushing blindly?"  Breitmann smiled this
question.

Hildegarde sent him a terrified glance.  But for the stiff back of her
chair she must have fallen.

M. Ferraud demolished an olive before he answered the question.  "He
has allied himself with some of the noblest houses in France; that is
to say, with the most heartless spendthrifts in Europe.  Napoleon IV?
They are laughing behind his back this very minute.  They are making a
cat's-paw of his really magnificent fight for their own ignoble ends,
the Orleanist party.  To wreak petty vengeance on France, for which
