exclaimed, " wouldn't Miss Gladys be the one to 
ask? " 
Samuel gave a start. " The very thing ! " he 
said. 
And Dr. Vince, after pondering for a moment, 
admitted that it might be a good idea. 
" You will come to church with me to-mor- 
row," said Ethel. " And if she is there we'll ask 
her." 
And so Samuel was on hand, trembling with 
excitement, and painfuEy conscious of his green 
and purple necktie. He sat in the Vince's pew, 
at Ethel's invitation; and directly across the aisle 
was Miss Wygant, miraculously resplendent in a 
spriogtime costume, yet with a touch of primness, 
becoming to the Sabbath. She did not see her 
adorer until after the service, when they met face 
to face. 
" Why, Samuel! " she exclaimed. " You are 
here? " 
" Yes, Miss Gladys," he said. " I'm to work 
in the church now." 
" You don't tell me! " she responded. 
" I'm to help the sexton," he added. 
" And he belongs to the church, too," put in 
little Ethel. " And oh. Miss Gladys, won't you 
please let him tell you about Sophie! " 
" About Sophie? " said the other. 
" She's a little girl who works in your papa's 
mill, Miss Gladys. And her family's very poor, 
and she is sick, and Samuel says she may die." 
"Why, that's too bad!" exclaimed Miss 
Gladys. " Tell me about her, Samuel." 
And Samuel told the story. At the end a sud- 
den inspiration came to him, and he mentioned 
how Sophie had received her Christmas present 
from Miss Gladys, and how she had kept her pic- 
tures in her room. 
And, of course. Miss Wygant was touched. 
" I will see what I can do for her," she said. 
" What would you suggest? " 
" I thought," said he boldly, " that maybe 
there might be some place for her at your home. 
That would make her so happy, you know." 
" I will see," said the other. " Will you bring 
her to see me to-morrow, Samuel? " 
" I will," said he; and then he chanced to look 
into her face, and he caught again that piercing 
gaze which made the blood leap into his cheeks, 
and the strange and terrible emotions to stir in 
him. He turned his eyes away again, and his 
knees were trembling as he passed on down the 
aisle. 
He stood and watched Miss Gladys enter her 
motor. Then he bade good-by to Ethel and her 
mother, and hurried back into the vestry room to 
tell Dr. Vince of his good fortune. 
The good doctor had just slipped out of his 
vestments, and was putting on his cuffs. " I am 
so glad to hear it ! " he said. " It was the very 
thing to do !" 
" Yes," said Samuel. " And, doctor, I've 
thought of something else." 
" What is that, Samuel? " 
" I'll have to have a minute or two to tell you 
about it." 
" I'm just going to dinner now " — began the 
doctor. 
" I'll walk with you, if I may," said Samuel. 
" It's really very important." 
" All right," responded the doctor in some 
trepidation. 
" I thought of this in the middle of the night," 
explained the boy, when they had started down 
the street. " It kept me awake for hours. Dr. 
Vince, I think we ought to convert Master Al- 
bert Lockman! " 
" Convert him? " echoed the other perplexed. 
" Yes, sir," said the boy. " He is leading a 
wild life, and he's in a very bad way." 
" Yes, Samuel," said the clergyman. " It is 
terrible, I know " 
" We must labor with him! " exclaimed Sam- 
uel. " He must not be allowed to go on like 
that!" 
" Unfortunately," said Dr. Vince hastily, " it 
wouldn't do for me to try it. You see, the Lock- 
mans have always been Presbyterians, and so 
Bertie is imder Dr. Handy's care." 
" But is Dr. Handy doing anything about it? " 
persisted the other. 
" I really don't know, Samuel." 
" Because if he isn't, we ought to. Dr. Vincel 
Something must be done." 
" My boy," said the doctor, " perhaps it 
wouldn't be easy for you to understand it. But 
there is a feeling — would it be quite good taste 
for me to try to take away a very rich parish- 
ioner from another church? " 
" But what have his riches to do with it? " 
asked the boy. 
" Unfortunately, Samuel, it costs money to 
build chiu-ches; and most clergymen are depend- 
ent upon their salaries, you know." 
The good doctor was trying to make a jest of 
it; but Samuel was in deadly earnest. " I hope," 
he said, " that you are not dependent upon the 
money of anyone like Master Albert." 
" Um — no," said the doctor quickly. 
" Understand me, please," went on the other. 
" It's not simply that Master Albert is wrecking 
his own life. I suppose that's his right, if he 
wants to. But it's what he can do to other people ! 
It's his money, Dr. Vince! Just think of it, he 
has seven hundred thousand dollars a year I And 
he never earned a cent of it; and he doesn't know 
what to do with it ! Doctor, you know that isn't 
right I" 
" No," said the clergyman, " it's very wrong 
indeed. But what can you do about it? " 
" I don't know, doctor. I haven't had time to 
think about it — I've only just begun to reahze 
it. But I thought if somebody hke yourself — 
some one he respects — could point it out to him, 
he might use his money to some good purpose. 
If he won't, why then he ought to give it up." 
The other smiled. " I'm afraid, Samuel, he'd 
hardly do that!" 
" But, doctor, things can't go on as they are! 
Right here in this town are people dying of 
starvation. And he has seven hundred thousand 
dollars a year! Can that continue? " 
" No, I trust not, my boy. It will be better 
some day. But it must be left to evolution " 
" Evolution! " echoed Samuel perplexed. " Do 
you believe in evolution? " 
" Why," said the other embarrassed — " what 
I mean is, that there are vast social forces at work 
— great changes taking place. But they move 
very slowly " 
" But why do they move so slowly? " objected 
the boy. " Isn't it just because so many people 
don't care? " 
" Why, Samuel " 
" If everyone would take an interest in them 
— then they would happen quickly ! " 
The two walked on for a minute in silence. 
Finally, the clergyman remarked, " Samuel, you 
take a great interest in social questions." 
" Yes, sir," said the hoy. " You see, I have 
been down at the bottom, and I know how it feels. 
Nobody else can possibly imderstand — not even 
you, sir, with all your kind heart. You don't 
know what it means, sir — you don't know what 
it means! " 
" Perhaps not, my boy," said the other. " But 
my conscience is far from easy, I assure you. 
The only thing is, we must not be too impatient 
— we must learn to wait " 
" But, doctor! " exclaimed Samuel. " Will the 
people wait to starve? " 
That question was a poser; and perhaps it was 
just as well that Dr. Vince was nearing the steps 
of his home. " I must go in now, Samuel," he 
said. " But we will talk about these questions 
another time." 
" Yes, sir," said Samuel, " we will." 
And the other glanced at him quickly. But 
the boy's face wore its old look of guileless eager- 
ness. 
CHAPTER XVII 
SAMUEL walked away, still pondering at 
the problem. Something must be done about 
Master Albert, that was certain. Before he went 
in to his dinner he had thought of yet another 
plan. He would appeal to Miss Gladys about it! 
He would get her to labor with the prodigal! 
At eight o'clock the next morning, he and So- 
phie called at Miss Wygant's home. They went 
to the servants' entrance, and the maid who 
opened the door sent them away, saying that Miss 
Gladys never arose until ten o'clock and would 
not see anyone until eleven. 
So they went home again and came at eleven; 
and they were taken to a sitting room upon the 
second floor, and there Miss Gladys met them, 
clad in a morning gown of crimson silk. 
"And so this is Sophie!" she exclaimed. 
"Why you poor, poor child! " And she gazed 
a* the little mill girl with her stimted figure and 
pinched cheeks, and her patched and threadbare 
dress ; and Sophie, in her turn, gazed at the won- 
derful princess, tall and stately, glowing with 
health and voluptuous beauty. 
" And you work in our cotton mill! " she cried. 
" How perfectly terrible ! And do you mean to 
tell me that this child is thirteen years old, Sam- 
uel? " 
" Yes, Miss Gladys," said he. 
She turned quickly and pressed a button on 
the wall, " Send Mrs. Harris here," she said to 
the man who answered. 
" Mrs. Harris is our housekeeper," she added 
to Samuel. " I will consult her about it." 
The " consulting " was very brief. " Mrs. 
Harris, this is Sophie Stedman, a little girl I want 
to help. I don't know what she can do, but you 
will find out. I want her to have soime sort of a 
place in the house — and it mustn't be hard work." 
" But, Miss Gladys," said the other in perplex- 
ity, " I don't know of anything at all! " 
" You can find something," was the yoimg 
lady's reply. " I want her to have a chance to 
learn. Takfe her downstairs and have a talk with 
her about it." 
" Yes, Miss Gladys," said Mrs. Harris; and 
so Samuel was left alone with his goddessi 
He sat with his eyes upon the floor. He was 
just about to open the great subject he had in 
his mind, when suddenly Miss Gladys herself 
brought it up. " Samuel," she asked, " why did 
you leave my cousin's? " 
Samuel hesitated. " I — I don't like to say. 
Miss Gladys." 
" Please tell me," she insisted. 
" I left it," he replied in a low voice, " because 
I found that he got drunk." 
" Ohl " said the girl, " when was this? " 
" It was last Wednesday night. Miss Gla- 
dys." 
" Tell me all about it, Samuel." 
" I — I don't like to," he stammered. " It's not' 
a story to tell to a lady." 
" I already know something about it from my 
maid," said she. "Jack Holliday was there, 
wasn't he? " 
" Yes, ma'am." 
" And some women? " 
" Yes, ma'am." 
" How many, Samuel? " 
" Four, Miss Gladys." 
" Tell me about them, Samuel. What sort of 
women were they? " 
It was very hard for Samuel to answer these 
questions. He blushed as he talked; but Miss 
Gladys appeared not at all disconcerted — in fact 
she was greedy for the details. 
" You say her name was Belle. I wonder if 
it was that girl from ' The Maids of Mandelay.' 
Was she a dancer, Samuel? " 
" I don't know. Miss Gladys." 
" Anji what became of her? " 
" I took her to a hotel, Miss Gladys,'* 
" And what then? " 
Samuel stopped short. " I really couldn't tell 
you," he said. 
" But why not? " 
" Because I promised." 
" Whom did you promise? " 
" I promised the sergeant, Miss Gladys." 
" The sergeant! A policeman, you mean? " 
" Yes, ma'am." 
" But what — what did the police have to do 
with it? " 
" They took me to jail, Miss Gladys. They 
thought that I did it." 
" Did what? " 
And again the hoy shut his lips. 
" Listen, Samuel," pleaded the other. " You 
know that I am Bertie's cousin. And he's all 
alone. And I'm responsible for him " 
" Oh, Miss Gladys! " cried the boy. " If you 
only would try to help him! I meant to ask 
you—" 
" But how can I help him if you keep me in 
ignorance? " 
And so Samuel blurted out the whole story. 
And Miss Gladys sat dumb with horror. " She 
killed herself! She killed herself!" she gasped 
again and again. 
" Yes, Miss Gladys," said Samuel. " And it 
was awful! You can't imagine it! " 
" I read of the suicide in the paper. But I 
never dreamed of Bertie!" 
There was a moment's pause. " It must be 
a dreadful thing for him to have on his con- 
science " — began the boy. 
"He must have been frightened to death!" 
said she. And then she added quickly, " Samuel, 
you haven't told anyone about this! " 
" Not a soul, Miss Gladys." 
" You are siu-e? " 
" I'm sure, ma'am." 
" You didn't tell Dr. Vince? " 
" I just told him that I had left because Master 
Albert got drunk, Miss Gladys. That was the 
truth." 
" Yes," said she; and then, " You always tell 
the truth, don't you, Samuel? " 
" I try to," he replied. 
" You are very good, aren't you? " she added. 
Samuel blushed. " No," he said gravely. 
" I'm not good at all." 
The other looked at him for a moment, and 
then a smile crossed her face. " I've heard 
a saying," she remarked — " ' Be good and 
you'll be happy, but you'll miss a lot of 
fun.' " 
Samuel pondered. " I think that is a very ter- 
rible saying," he declared earnestly. 
Miss Gladys laughed. And she went on to 
cross-question him as to the suicide — satisfying 
her curiosity as to the last hideous detail. 
Then she looked at Samuel and asked suddenly, 
" Why do you wear that hideous thing? " 
Samuel started. " What thing? " he asked. 
"That tie!" 
" Why I " he said—" I got that specially " 
He stopped, embarrassed; and the other's 
peal of laughter rang through the room. " Take 
it off!" she said. 
She got up and came to him, saying, " I 
coxildn't stand it." 
With trembling fingers he removed the tie. 
And she took off the beautiful red ribbon that 
was tied about her waist, and cut it to the right 
length. " Put that on," she said, " and I'll show 
you how to tie it." 
And Samuel stood there, rapt in a sudden 
nightmare ecstasy. She was close to him, her 
qiiick fingers were playing about his throat. Her 
breath was upon his face, and the intoxicating 
perfume of her filled his nostrils. The blood 
mounted into his face, and the veins stood out 
upon his forehead, and strange and monstrous 
things stirred in the depths of him. 
"There," she said, "that's better"— and 
stepped back to admire the result. She smiled 
upon him radiantly. " You have no taste, Sam- 
uel," she said. " I shall have to educate you." 
"Yes, Miss Gladys," he responded in a low 
voice. 
" And listen," she went on, " you will come to 
see Sophie now and then, won't you? " 
" Yes, yes," he said quickly. 
" And come some time when I am here." 
He caught his breath and gripped his hands 
and answered yet again, " Yes! " 
" Don't be afraid of me," added the girl gently. 
" You don't appreciate yourself half enough, 
Samuel." 
Then there came voices in the hall, and Miss 
Gladys turned, and the housekeeper and Sophie 
came in. " Well? " she asked. 
" She doesn't know anything at all," said Mrs. 
Harris. " But if you want her taught — I sup- 
pose she could run errands and do sewing " 
" Very good," said the other. " And pay her 
well. Will you like that, Sophie? " 
" Yes, Miss," whispered the child in a faint 
voice. She was gazing in awe and rapture at this 
peerless being, and she could hardly find utter- 
ance for two words. 
" All right, then," said Miss Gladys, " that will 
do very well. You come to-morrow, Sophie. And 
good-by, Samuel, I must go for my ride now." 
" Good-by, Miss Gladys," said Samuel. " And 
please don't forget what you were going to say 
to Master Albert!" 
CHAPTER XVIII 
SAMUEL went home walking upon air. He 
had found a place for himself and a place 
for Sophie. And he had got the reforming of 
Bertie Lockman under way! Truly, the church 
was a great institution — the solution of all the 
puzzles and problems of life. And fortunate was 
Samuel to be so close to the inner life of things !
Then suddenly, on a street corner, he stopped 
short. A sign had caught his eye — " John Calla- 
han, Wines and Liquors — Bernheimer Beer." 
" Do you know what that place is? " he said to 
Sophie. " That's where my friend Finnegan 
works." 
" Who's Finnegan? " asked the child. 
" He's the barkeeper who gave me somethiog 
to eat when I first came to town. He's a good 
man, even if he is a barkeeper." 
Samuel had often found himself thinking of 
Finnegan; for it had been altogether against his 
idea of things that a man so obviously well mean- 
ing should be selling liquor. And now suddenly 
a brilliant idea flashed across his mind. Why 
should he continue selling liquor? And instantly 
Samuel saw a new duty before him. He must 
help Finnegan. 
And forgetting that it was time for his dinner, 
he bade good-by to Sophie and went into the 
saloon. 
"Well, young feller!" exclaimed the Irish- 
man, his face lighting up with pleasure; and then, 
