"Utterly.  Isn't it too bad."
She sat there very silent, very white.  Stephen bit into another
cake, angrily.
"It's the company he keeps," he said--"a lot of fast men--fast
enough to be talked about, fashionable enough to be tolerated--Jack
Casson is one of them, and that little ass, Arthur Wye.  That's
the crowd--a horse-racing, hard-drinking, hard-gambling crew."
"But--he is--Mr. Berkley's circumstances--how can he do such
things----"
"Some idiot--even Berkley doesn't know who--took all those dead
stocks off his hands.  Wasn't it the devil's own luck for Berkley
to find a market in times like these?"
"But it ended him. . . .  Oh, I was fond of him, I tell you, Ailsa!
I hate like thunder to see him this way----"
"What way!"
"Oh, not caring for anybody or anything.  He's never sober.  I
don't mean that I ever saw him otherwise--he doesn't get drunk like
an ordinary man: he just turns deathly white and polite.  I've met
him--and his friends--several times.  They're too fast a string of
colts for me.  But isn't it a shame that a man like Berkley should
go to the devil--and for no reason at all?"
"Yes," she said.
When Stephen, swinging his crimson fez by the tassel, stood ready
to take his leave, she put her arms around his neck and kissed him.
After he departed Colonel Arran came, and sat, as usual, silent,
listening.
Ailsa was very animated; she told him about Stephen's enlistment,
asked scores of questions about military life, the chances in
battle, the proportion of those who went through war unscathed.
And at length Colonel Arran arose to take his departure; and she
had not told what was hammering for utterance in every heart beat;
she did not know how to tell, what to ask.
Hat in hand Colonel Arran bent over her hot little hand where it
lay in his own.
"I have been offered the colonelcy of a volunteer regiment now
forming," he said without apparent interest.
"You!"
"Cavalry," he explained wearily.
"But--you have not accepted!"
He gave her an absent glance.  "Yes, I have accepted. . . .  I am
going to Washington to-night."
"Oh!" she breathed, "but you are coming back before--before----"
"Yes, child.  Cavalry is not made in a hurry.  I am to see General
Scott--perhaps Mr. Cameron and the President. . . .  If, in my
absence--" he hesitated, looked down, shook his head.  And somehow
she seemed to know that what he had not said concerned Berkley.
Neither of them mentioned him.  But after Colonel Arran had gone
she went slowly to her room, sat down at her desk, sat there a
long, long while thinking.  But it was after midnight before she
wrote to Berkley:
"Have you quite forgotten me?  I have had to swallow a little pride
to write you again.  But perhaps I think our pleasant friendship
worth it.
"Stephen has been here.  He has enlisted as a private in his
father's regiment of zouaves.  I learned by accident from him that
you are no longer associated with Craig & Son in business.  I trust
this means at least a partial recovery of your fortune.  If it
does, with fortune recovered responsibilities increase, and I
choose to believe that it is these new and exacting duties which
have prevented me from seeing you or from hearing from you for more
than three weeks.
"But surely you could find a moment to write a line to a friend who
is truly your very sincere well-wisher, and who would be the first
to express her pleasure in any good fortune which might concern you.
  "AILSA PAIGE."
Two days passed, and her answer came:
"Ailsa Paige, dearest and most respected, I have not forgotten you
for one moment.  And I have tried very hard.
"God knows what my pen is trying to say to you, and not hurt you,
and yet kill utterly in you the last kindly and charitable memory
of the man who is writing to you.
"Ailsa, if I had known you even one single day before that night I
met you, you would have had of me, in that single day, all that a
man dare lay at the feet of the truest and best of women.
"But on that night I came to you a man utterly and hopelessly
ruined--morally dead of a blow dealt me an hour before I saw you
for the first time.
"I had not lived an orderly life, but at worst it was only a
heedless life.  I had been a fool, but not a damned one.  There was
in me something loftier than a desire for pleasure, something
worthier than material ambition.  What else lay latent--if
anything--I may only surmise.  It is all dead.
"The blow dealt me that evening--an hour before I first laid eyes
on you--utterly changed me; and if there was anything spiritual in
my character it died then.  And left what you had a glimpse
of--just a man, pagan, material, unmoral, unsafe; unmoved by
anything except by what appeals to the material senses.
"Is that the kind of man you suppose me?  That is the man I am.
And you know it now.  And you know, now, what it was in me that
left you perplexed, silent, troubled, not comprehending--why it was
you would not dance with me again, nor suffer my touch, nor endure
me too near you.
"It was the less noble in me--all that the blow had not
killed--only a lesser part of a finer and perfect passion that
might perhaps have moved you to noble response in time.
"Because I should have given you all at the first meeting; I could
no more have helped it than I could have silenced my heart and
lived.  But what was left to give could awake in you no echo, no
response, no comprehension.  In plainer, uglier words, I meant to
make you love me; and I was ready to carry you with me to that hell
where souls are lost through love--and where we might lose our
souls together.
"And now you will never write to me again."
All the afternoon she bent at her desk, poring over his letter.  In
her frightened heart she knew that something within her, not
spiritual, had responded to what, in him, had evoked it; that her
indefinable dread was dread of herself, of her physical
responsiveness to his nearness, of her conscious inclination for it.
Could this be she--herself--who still bent here over his written
words--this tense, hot-cheeked, tremulous creature, staring
dry-eyed at the blurring lines which cut her for ever asunder from
this self-outlawed man!
Was this letter still unburned.  Had she not her fill of its
brutality, its wickedness?
But she was very tired, and she laid her arms on the desk and her
head between them.  And against her hot face she felt the cool
letter-paper.
All that she had dreamed and fancied and believed and cared for in
man passed dully through her mind.  Her own aspirations toward
ideal womanhood followed--visions of lofty desire, high ideals,
innocent passions, the happiness of renunciation, the glory of
forgiveness----
She sat erect, breathing unevenly; then her eyes fell on the
letter, and she covered it with her hands, as hands cover the shame
on a stricken face.  And after a long time her lips moved,
repeating:
"The glory of forgiveness--the glory of forgiveness----"
Her heart was beating very hard and fast as her thoughts ran on.
"To  forgive--help  him--teach truth--nobler ideals----"
She could not rest; sleep, if it really came, was a ghostly thing
that mocked her.  And all the next day she roamed about the house,
haunted with the consciousness of where his letter lay locked in
her desk.  And that day she would not read it again; but the next
day she read it.  And the next.
And if it were her desire to see him once again before all ended
irrevocably for ever--or if it was what her heart was striving to
tell her, that he was in need of aid against himself, she could not
tell.  But she wrote him:
"It is not you who have written this injury for my eyes to read,
but another man, demoralised by the world's cruelty--not knowing
what he is saying--hurt to the soul, not mortally.  When he
recovers he will be you.  And this letter is my forgiveness."
Berkley received it when he was not particularly sober; and
lighting the end of it at a candle let it burn until the last ashes
scorched his fingers.
"Burgess," he said, "did you ever notice how hard it is for the
frailer things to die?  Those wild doves we used to shoot in
Georgia--by God! it took quail shot to kill them clean."
"Yes, sir?"
"Exactly.  Then, that being the case, you may give me a
particularly vigorous shampoo.  Because, Burgess, I woo my volatile
goddess to-night--the Goddess Chance, Burgess, whose wanton and
naughty eyes never miss the fall of a card.  And I desire that all
my senses work like lightning, Burgess, because it is a fast
company and a faster game, and that's why I want an unusually
muscular shampoo!"
"Yes, sir.  Poker, sir?"
"I--ah--believe so," said Berkley, lying back in his chair and
closing his eyes.  "Go ahead and rub hell into me--if I'll hold any
more."
The pallor, the shadows under eyes and cheeks, the nervous lines at
the corners of the nose, had almost disappeared when Burgess
finished.  And when he stood in his evening clothes pulling a
rose-bud stem through the button-hole of his lapel, he seemed very
fresh and young and graceful in the gas-light.
"Am I very fine, Burgess?  Because I go where youth and beauty
chase the shining hours with flying feet.  Oh yes, Burgess, the
fair and frail will be present, also the dashing and
self-satisfied.  And we'll try to make it agreeable all around,
won't we? . . .  And don't smoke all my most expensive cigars,
Burgess.  I may want one when I return.  I hate to ask too much of
you, but you won't mind leaving one swallow of brandy in that
decanter, will you?  Thanks.  Good night, Burgess."
"Thank you, sir.  Good night, sir."
As he walked out into the evening air he swung his cane in
glittering circles.
"Nevertheless," he said under his breath, "she'd better be careful.
If she writes again I might lose my head and go to her.  You can
never tell about some men; and the road to hell is a lonely
one--damned lonely.  Better let a man travel it like a gentleman if
he can.  It's more dignified than sliding into it on your back,
clutching a handful of lace petticoat."
He added: "There's only one hell; and it's hell, perhaps, because
there are no women there."
CHAPTER VIII
Berkley, hollow-eyed, ghastly white, but smiling, glanced at the
clock.
"Only one more hand after this," he said.  "I open it for the
limit."
"All in," said Cortlandt briefly.  "What are you going to do now?"
"Scindere glaciem," observed Berkley, "you may give me three
cards, Cortlandt."  He took them, scanned his hand, tossed the
discards into the centre of the table, and bet ten dollars.
Through the tobacco smoke drifting in level bands, the crystal
chandeliers in Cortlandt's house glimmered murkily; the cigar haze
even stretched away into the farther room, where, under brilliantly
lighted side brackets, a young girl sat playing at the piano, a
glass of champagne, gone flat, at her dimpled elbow.  Another girl,
in a shrimp-pink evening gown, one silken knee drooping over the
other, lay half buried among the cushions, singing the air which
the player at the piano picked out by ear.  A third girl,
velvet-eyed and dark of hair, listened pensively, turning the gems
on her fingers.
The pretty musician at the piano was playing an old song, once much
admired by the sentimental; the singer, reclining amid her
cushions, sang the words, absently:
  "Why did I give my heart away--
  Give it so lightly, give it to pay
  For a pleasant dream on a summer's day?
  "Why did I give?  I do not know.
  Surely the passing years will show.
  "Why did I give my love away--
  Give it in April, give it in May,
  For a young man's smile on a summer's day?
  "Why did I love?  I do not know.
  Perhaps the passing years will show.
  "Why did I give my soul away--
  Give it so gaily, give it to pay
  For a sigh and a kiss on a summer's day?
  "Perhaps the passing years may show;
  My heart and I, we do not know."
She broke off short, swung on the revolving chair, and called: "Mr.
Berkley, are you going to see me home?"
"Last jack, Miss Carew," said Berkley, "I'm opening it for the
limit.  Give me one round of fixed ammunition, Arthur."
"There's no use drawing," observed another man, laying down his
hand, "Berkley cleans us up as usual."
He was right; everything went to Berkley, as usual, who laughed and
turned a dissipated face to Casson.
"Cold decks?" he suggested politely.  "Your revenge at your
convenience, Jack."
Casson declined.  Cortlandt, in his brilliant zouave uniform, stood
up and stretched his arms until the scarlet chevrons on the blue
sleeves wrinkled into jagged lightning.
"It's been very kind of you all to come to my last 'good-bye
party,'" he yawned, looking sleepily around him through the smoke
at his belongings.
For a week he had been giving a "good-bye party" every evening in
his handsome house on Twenty-third Street.  The four men and the
three young girls in the other room were the residue of this party,
which was to be the last.
Arthur Wye, wearing the brand-new uniform, red stripes and facings,
of flying artillery, rose also; John Casson buttoned his cavalry
jacket, grumbling, and stood heavily erect, a colossus in blue and
yellow.
"You have the devil's luck, Berkley," he said without bitterness.
"I need it."
"So you do, poor old boy.  But--God! you play like a professional."
Wye yawned, thrust his strong, thin hands into his trousers
pockets, and looked stupidly at the ceiling.
"I wish to heaven they'd start our battery," he said vacantly.
"I'm that sick of Hamilton!"
Casson grumbled again, settling his debts with Berkley.
"Everybody has the devil's own luck except the poor God-forsaken
cavalry.  Billy Cortlandt goes tomorrow, your battery is under
orders, but nobody cares what happens to the cavalry.  And they're
the eyes and ears of an army----"
"They're the heels and tail of it," observed Berkley, "and the
artillery is the rump."
"Shut up, you sneering civilian!"
"I'm shutting up--shop--unless anybody cares to try one last cold
hand--" He caught the eye of the girl at the piano and smiled
pallidly.  "'Quid non mortalia pectora cogis, auri sacra fames!'
Also I have them all scared to death, Miss Carew--the volunteer
army of our country is taking water."
"It doesn't taste like water," said the pretty singer on the sofa,
stretching out her bubbling glass, "try it yourself, Mr. Berkley."
They went toward the music room; Cortlandt seated himself on top of
the piano.  He looked rather odd there in his zouave jacket, red
trousers, white-gaitered legs hanging.
  "Oh the Zou-zou-zou!
  Oh the Zou-zou-zou!
  Oh the boys of the bully Zouaves!"
he hummed, swinging his legs vigorously.  "Ladies and gentlemen,
it's all over but the shooting.  Arthur, I saw your battery horses;
they belong in a glue factory.  How arc you going to save your guns
when the rebs come after you?"
"God knows, especially if the Zouaves support us," replied Wye,
yawning again.  Then, rising:
"I've got to get back to that cursed fort.  I'll escort anybody
who'll let me."
"One more glass, then," said Cortlandt.  "Berkley, fill the parting
cup!  Ladies of the Canterbury, fair sharers of our hospitality who
have left the triumphs of the drama to cheer the unfortunate
soldier on his war-ward way, I raise my glass and drink to each
Terpsichorean toe which, erstwhile, was pointed skyward amid the
thunder of metropolitan plaudits, and which now demurely taps my
flattered carpet.  Gentlemen--soldiers and civilians--I give you
three toasts!  Miss Carew, Miss Lynden, Miss Trent!  Long may they
dance!  Hurrah!"
"Get on the table," said Casson amid the cheering, and climbed up,
spurs jingling, glass on high.
"Will it hold us all?" inquired Letty Lynden, giving her hands to
Berkley, who shrugged and swung her up beside him.  "Hurrah for the
Zouaves!" she cried; "Hurrah for Billy Cortlandt!--Oh, somebody
spilled champagne all over me!"
"Hurrah for the artillery!" shouted Arthur Wye, vigorously cheering
himself and waving his glass, to the terror of Ione Carew, who
attempted to dodge the sparkling rain in vain.
"Arthur, you look like a troop of trained mice," observed Berkley
gravely.  "Has anybody a toy cannon and a little flag?"
Wye descended with a hop, sprang astride a chair, and clattered
around the room, imitating his drill-master.
"Attention!  By the right of batteries, break into sections, trot.
Mar-r-rch!  Attention-n-n!  By section from the right of
batteries--front into column.  Mar-r-rch!"
"By section from the right, front into column, march!" repeated
Cortlandt, jumping down from the table and seizing another chair.
"Everybody mount a chair!" he shouted.  "This is the last artillery
drill of the season.  Line up there, Letty!  It won't hurt your
gown.  Berkley'll get you another, anyway!  Now, ladies and
gentlemen, sit firmly in your saddles.  Caissons to the
rear--march!  Caissons, left about--pieces forward--march!"
Wye's chair buckled and he came down with a splintering crash;
Casson galloped madly about, pretending his chair had become
unmanageable.  It, also, ultimately collapsed, landed him flat on
his back, whence he surveyed the exercises of the haute ecole in
which three flushed and laughing young girls followed the dashing
lead of Cortlandt, while Berkley played a cavalry canter on the
piano with one hand and waved his cigar in the other.
Later, breathless, they touched glasses to the departing
volunteers, to each other, to the ladies ("God bless them! Hear!
He-ah!"), to the war, to every regiment going, to each separate
battery horse and mule in Arthur's section.  And then began on the
guns,
"I prophesy a quick reunion!" said Berkley.  "Here's to it!  Full
glasses!
"Speech!  Speech--you nimble-witted, limber-legged prophet!" roared
John Casson, throwing a pack of cards at Berkley.  "Read the cards
for us!"
Berkley very gracefully caught a handful, and sorting them, began
impromptu:
  "Diamonds for you,
  Little Miss Carew,
  Strung in a row,
  Tied in a bow--
  What would you do
  If they came true?
  "What can it be?
  Hearts! for Miss Letty--
  Sweethearts and beaux,
  Monarchs in rows,
  Knaves on their knees--
  Choose among these!
  "Clubs now, I see!
  Ace! for Miss Betty--
  Clubman and swell,
  Soldier as well.
  Yes, he's all three;
  Who can he be?
  "Ione, be kind
  To monarch and knave,
  But make up your mind
  To make 'em behave.
  And when a man finds you
  The nicest he's met, he
  Is likely to marry you,
  Letty and Betty!"
Tremendous cheering greeted these sentiments; three more cheers
were proposed and given for the Canterbury.
"Home of the 'ster arts, m-music an' 'r' drama-r-r--" observed
Casson hazily--"I'm going home."
Nobody seemed to hear him.
"Home--ser-weet home," he repeated sentimentally--"home among the
horses--where some Roman-nosed, camel-backed, slant-eared nag is
probably waitin' to kick daylight out'r me!  Ladies, farewell!" he
added, tripping up on his spurs and waving his hand vaguely.
"Cav'lry's eyes 'n' ears 'f army!  'Tain't the hind legs' No--no!
I'm head 'n' ears--army! 'n' I wan' t' go home."
For a while he remained slanting against the piano, thoughtfully
attempting to pry out the strings; then Wye returned from putting
Miss Carew and Miss Trent into a carriage.
"You come to the fort with me," he said.  "That'll sober you.  I
sleep near the magazine."
Berkley's face looked dreadfully battered and white, but he was
master of himself, careful of his equilibrium, and very polite to
everybody.
"You're--hic!--killin' yourself," said Cortlandt, balancing himself
carefully in the doorway.
"Don't put it that way," protested Berkley.  "I'm trying to make
fast time, that's all.  I'm in a hurry."
The other wagged his head: "You won't last long if you keep this
up.  The--hic!--trouble with you is that you can't get decently
drunk.  You just turn blue and white.  That's
what's--matter--you!  And it kills the kind of--hic!--of man you
are.  B-b'lieve me," he added shedding tears, "I'm fon' 'v' you,
Ber--hic!--kley."
He shed a few more scalding tears, waved his hand in resignation,
bowed his head, caught sight of his own feet, regarded them with
surprise.
"Whose?" he inquired naively.
"Yours," said Berkley reassuringly.  "They don't want to go to bed."
"Put 'em to bed!" said Cortlandt in a stem voice.  "No business
wand'ring 'round here this time of night!"
So Berkley escorted Cortlandt to bed, bowed him politely into his
room, and turned out the gas as a precaution.
Returning, he noticed the straggling retreat of cavalry and
artillery, arms fondly interlaced; then, wandering back to the
other room in search of his hat, he became aware of Letty Lynden,
seated at the table.
