body might live on. I know--I know, Valerie. Death--whether it be his
body or his love, ends all for the woman who really loves him. Woman's
loss is eternal. But man's loss is only temporary--he is made that way,
fashioned so. Now I tell you the exchange is not fair--it has never been
fair--never will be, never can be. And I warn you not to give this man
the freshness of your youth, the happy years of your life, your
innocence, the devotion which he will transmute into passion with his
accursed magic! I warn you not to forsake the tranquillity of ignorance,
the blessed immunity from that devil's paradise that you are already
gazing into--"
"Rita! Rita! What are you saying?"
"I scarcely know, child. I am trying to save you from lifelong
unhappiness--trying to tell you that--that men are not worth it--"
"How do you know?"
There was a silence, then Rita, very pale and quiet, leaned forward,
resting her elbows on her knees and framing her face with her hands.
"I had my lesson," she said.
"You! Oh, my darling--forgive me! I did not know--"
Rita suffered herself to be drawn into the younger girl's impulsive
embrace; they both cried a little, arms around each other, faltering out
question and answer in unsteady whispers:
"Were you married, dearest?"
"No."
"Oh--I am so sorry, dear--"
"So am I.... Do you blame me for thinking about men as I do think?"
"Didn't you love--him?"
"I thought I did.... I was too young to know.... It doesn't matter
now--"
"No, no, of course not. You made a ghastly mistake, but it's no more
shame to you than it is to him. Besides, you thought you loved him."
"He could have made me. I was young enough.... But he let me see how
absolutely wicked he was.... And then it was too late to ever love him."
"O Rita, Rita!--then you haven't ever even had the happiness of loving?
Have you?"
Rita did not answer.
"Have you, darling?"
Then Rita broke down and laid her head on Valerie's knees, crying as
though her heart would break.
"That's the terrible part of it," she sobbed--"I really do love a man,
now.... Not that first one ... and there's nothing to do about
it--nothing, Valerie, nothing--because even if he asked me to marry him
I can't, now--"
"Because you--"
"Yes."
"And if you had not--"
"God knows what I would do," sobbed Rita, "I love him so, Valerie--I
love him so!"
The younger girl looked down at the blond head lying on her
knees--looked at the pretty tear-stained face gleaming through the
fingers--looked and wondered over the philosophy broken down beside the
bowed head and breaking heart.
Terrible her plight; with or without benefit of clergy she dared not
give herself. Love was no happiness to her, no confidence, no
sacrifice--only a dreadful mockery--a thing that fettered, paralysed,
terrified.
"Does he love you?" whispered Valerie.
"No--I think not."
"If he did he would forgive."
"Do you think so?"
"Of course. Love pardons everything," said the girl in surprise.
"Yes. But never forgets."
       *       *       *       *       *
That was the first confidence that ever had passed between Valerie West
and Rita Tevis. And after it, Rita, apparently forgetting her own
philosophical collapse, never ceased to urge upon Valerie the wisdom,
the absolute necessity of self-preservation in considering her future
relations with Louis Neville. But, like Neville's logic, Rita's failed
before the innocent simplicity of the creed which Valerie had embraced.
Valerie was willing that their relations should remain indefinitely as
they were if the little gods of convention were to be considered; she
had the courage to sever all relations with the man she loved if anybody
could convince her that it was better for Neville. Marry him she would
not, because she believed it meant inevitable unhappiness for him. But
she was not afraid to lay her ringless hands in his for ever.
Querida called on them and was very agreeable and lively and
fascinating; and when he went away Valerie asked him to come again. He
did; and again after that. She and Rita dined with him once or twice;
and things gradually slipped back to their old footing; and Querida
remained on his best behaviour.
Neville had prolonged the visit to the parental roof. He did not explain
to her why, but the reason was that he had made up his mind to tell his
parents that he wished to marry and to find out once and for all what
their attitudes would be toward such a girl as Valerie West. But he had
not yet found courage to do it, and he was lingering on, trying to find
it and the proper moment to employ it.
His father was a gentleman so utterly devoid of imagination that he had
never even ventured into business, but had been emotionlessly content to
marry and live upon an income sufficient to maintain the material and
intellectual traditions of the house of Neville.
Tall, transparently pale, negative in character, he had made it a life
object to get through life without increasing the number of his
acquaintances--legacies in the second generation left him by his father,
whose father before him had left the grandfathers of these friends as
legacies to his son.
It was a pallid and limited society that Henry Neville and his wife
frequented--a coterie of elderly, intellectual people, and their
prematurely dried-out offspring. And intellectual in-breeding was
thinning it to attenuation--to a bloodless meagreness in which they, who
composed it, conceived a mournful pride.
Old New Yorkers all, knowing no other city, no other bourne north of
Tenth Street or west of Chelsea--silent, serene, drab-toned people,
whose drawing-rooms were musty with what had been fragrance once, whose
science, religion, interests, desires were the beliefs, interests and
emotions of a century ago, their colourless existence and passive
snobbishness affronted nobody who did not come seeking affront.
To them Theodore Thomas had been the last conductor; his orchestra the
last musical expression fit for a cultivated society; the Academy of
Music remained their last symphonic temple, Wallack's the last refuge of
a drama now dead for ever.
Delmonico's had been their northern limit, Stuyvesant Square their
eastern, old Trinity their southern, and their western, Chelsea. Outside
there was nothing. The blatancy and gilt of the million-voiced
metropolis fell on closed eyes, and on ears attuned only to the murmurs
of the past. They lived in their ancient houses and went abroad and
summered in some simple old-time hamlet hallowed by the headstones of
their grandsires, and existed as meaninglessly and blamelessly as the
old catalpa trees spreading above their dooryards.
And into this narrow circle Louis Neville and his sister Lily had been
born.
It had been a shock to her parents when Lily married Gordon Collis, a
mining engineer from Denver. She came to see them with her husband every
year; Collis loved her enough to endure it.
As for Louis' career, his achievements, his work, they regarded it
without approval. Their last great painters had been Bierstadt and Hart,
their last great sculptor, Powers. Blankly they gazed upon the
splendours of the mural symphonies achieved by the son and heir of all
the Nevilles; they could not comprehend the art of the Uitlanders; their
comment was silence and dignity.
To them all had become only shadowy tradition; even affection and human
emotion, and the relationship of kin to kin, of friend to friend, had
become only part of a negative existence which conformed to precedent,
temporal and spiritual, as written in the archives of a worn-out
civilisation.
So, under the circumstances, it was scarcely to be wondered that Neville
hesitated to introduce the subject of Valerie West as he sat in the
parlour at Spindrift House with his father and mother, reading the
Tribune or the Evening Post or poring over some ancient tome of
travels, or looking out across the cliffs at an icy sea splintering and
glittering against a coast of frozen adamant.
At length he could remain no longer; commissions awaited him in town;
hunger for Valerie gnawed ceaselessly, unsubdued by his letters or by
hers to him.
"Mother," he said, the evening before his departure, "would it surprise
you very much if I told you that I wished to marry?"
"No," she said, tranquilly; "you mean Stephanie Swift, I suppose."
His father glanced up over his spectacles, and he hesitated; then, as
his father resumed his reading:
"I don't mean Stephanie, mother."
His father laid aside his book and removed, the thin gold-rimmed
spectacles.
"I understand from Lily that we are to be prepared to receive Stephanie
Swift as your affianced wife," he said. "I shall be gratified. Stephen
Swift was my oldest friend."
"Lily was mistaken, father. Stephanie and I are merely very good
friends. I have no idea of asking her to marry me."
"I had been given to understand otherwise, Louis. I am disappointed."
Louis Neville looked out of the window, considering, yet conscious of
the hopelessness of it all.
"Who is this girl, Louis?" asked his mother, pulling the white-and-lilac
wool shawl closer around her thin shoulders.
"Her name is Valerie West."
"One of the Wests of West Eighth Street?" demanded his father.
The humour of it all twitched for a moment at his son's grimly set jaws,
then a slight flush mantled his face:
"No, father."
"Do you mean the Chelsea Wests, Louis?"
"No."
"Then we--don't know them," concluded his father with a shrug of his
shoulders, which dismissed many, many things from any possibility of
further discussion. But his mother's face grew troubled.
"Who is this Miss West?" she asked in a colourless voice.
"She is a very good, very noble, very cultivated, very beautiful young
girl--an orphan--who is supporting herself by her own endeavours."
"What!" said his father, astonished.
"Mother, I know how it sounds to you, but you and father have only to
meet her to recognise in her every quality that you could possibly wish
for in my wife."
"Who is she, Louis!" demanded his father, casting aside the evening
newspaper and folding up his spectacles.
"I've told you, father."
"I beg to differ with you. Who is this girl? In what description of
business is she actually engaged?"
The young fellow's face grew red:
"She was engaged in--the drama."
"What!"
"She was an actress," he said, realising now the utter absurdity of any
hope from the beginning, yet now committed and determined to see it
through to the bitter end.
"An actress! Louis!" faltered his mother.
There was a silence, cut like a knife by the thin edge of his father's
voice:
"If she was an actress, what is she now?"
"She has helped me with my painting."
"Helped you? How?"
"By--posing."
"Do you desire me to understand that the girl is an artist's model!"
"Yes."
His father stared at him a moment, then:
"And is this the woman you propose to have your mother meet?"
"Father," he said, hopelessly, "there is no use in my saying anything
more. Miss West is a sweet, good, generous young girl, fully my peer in
education, my superior in many things.... You and mother can never
believe that the ideas, standards--even the ideals of civilisation
change--have changed since your youth--are changing every hour. In your
youth the word actress had a dubious significance; to-day it signifies
only what the character of her who wears the title signifies. In your
youth it was immodest, unmaidenly, reprehensible, for a woman to be
anything except timid, easily abashed, ignorant of vital truths, and
submissive to every social convention; to-day women are neither ignorant
nor timid; they are innocent because they choose to be; they are
fearless, intelligent, ambitious, and self-reliant--and lose nothing in
feminine charm by daring to be themselves instead of admitting their
fitness only for the seraglio of some Occidental monogamist--"
"Louis! Your mother is present!"
"Good heavens, father, I know it! Isn't it possible even for a man's own
mother to hear a little truth once in a while--"
His father rose in pallid wrath:
"Be silent!" he said, unsteadily; "the subject is definitely ended."
       *       *       *       *       *
It was ended. His father gave him a thin, chilly hand at parting. But
his mother met him at the outer door and laid her trembling lips to his
forehead.
"You won't bring this shame on us, Louis, I know. Nor on yourself, nor
on the name you bear.... It is an honourable name in the land, Louis....
I pray God to bless you and counsel you, my son--" She turned away,
adding in a whisper--"and--and comfort you."
And so he went away from Spindrift House through a snow-storm, and
arrived in New York late that evening; but not too late to call Valerie
on the telephone and hear again the dear voice with its happy little cry
of greeting--and the promise of to-morrow's meeting before the day of
duty should begin.
       *       *       *       *       *
Love grew as the winter sped glittering toward the far primrose dawn of
spring; work filled their days; evening brought the happiness of a
reunion eternally charming in its surprises, its endless novelty. New,
forever new, love seemed; and youth, too, seemed immortal.
On various occasions when Valerie chanced to be at his studio, pouring
tea for him, friends of his sister came unannounced--agreeable women
more or less fashionable, who pleaded his sister's sanction of an
unceremonious call to see the great painted frieze before it was sent to
the Court House.
He was perfectly nice to them; and Valerie was perfectly at ease; and it
was very plain that these people were interested and charmed with this
lovely Miss West, whom they found pouring tea in the studio of an artist
already celebrated; and every one of them expressed themselves and their
curiosity to his sister, Mrs. Collis, who, never having heard of Valerie
West, prudently conveyed the contrary in smiling but silent
acquiescence, and finally wrote to her brother and told him what was
being said.
Before he determined to reply, another friend--or rather acquaintance of
the Collis family--came in to see the picture--the slim and pretty
Countess d'Enver. And went quite mad over Valerie--so much so that she
remained for an hour talking to her, almost oblivious of Neville and
his picture and of Ogilvy and Annan, who consumed time and cocktails in
the modest background.
When she finally went away, and Neville had returned from putting her
into her over-elaborate carriage, Ogilvy said:
"Gee, Valerie, you sure did make a hit with the lady. What was she
trying to make you do?"
"She asked me to come to a reception of the Five-Minute Club with
Louis," said Valerie, laughing. "What is the Five-Minute Club, Louis?"
"Oh, it's a semi-fashionable, semi-artistic affair--one of the
incarnations of the latest group of revolting painters and sculptors and
literary people, diluted with a little society and a good deal of
near-society."
Later, as they were dining together at Delmonico's, he said:
"Would you care to go, Valerie?"
"Yes--if you think it best for us to accept such invitations together."
"Why not?"
"I don't know.... Considering what we are to become to each other--I
thought--perhaps the prejudices of your friends--"
He turned a dull red, said nothing for a moment, then, looking up at
her, suddenly laid his hand over hers where it rested on the table's
edge.
"The world must take us as it finds us," he said.
"I know; but is it quite fair to seek it?"
"You adorable girl! Didn't the Countess seek us--or rather you?--and
torment you until you promised to go to the up-to-date doings of her
bally club! It's across to her, now. And as half of society has
exchanged husbands and half of the remainder doesn't bother to, I don't
think a girl like you and a man like myself are likely to meet very many
people as innately decent as ourselves."
       *       *       *       *       *
A reception at the Five-Minute Club was anything but an ordinary affair.
It was the ultra-modern school of positivists where realism was on the
cards and romance in the discards; where muscle, biceps, and
thumb-punching replaced technical mastery and delicate skill; where
inspiration was physical, not intellectual; where writers called a spade
a spade, and painters painted all sorts of similar bucolic instruments
with candour and an inadequate knowledge of their art; where composers
thumped their pianos the harder, the less their raucous inspiration
responded, or maundered incapably into interminable incoherency, hunting
for themes in grays and mauves and reds and yellows, determined to find
in music what does not belong there and never did.
In spite of its apparent vigour and uncompromising modernity, one
suspected a sub-stratum of weakness and a perversity slightly vicious.
Colour blindness might account for some of the canvases, strabismus for
some of the draughtmanship; but not for all. There was an ugly
deliberation in the glorification of the raw, the uncouth; there was a
callous hardness in the deadly elaboration of ugliness for its own sake.
And transcendentalism looked on in approval.
A near-sighted study of various masters, brilliant, morbid, or
essentially rotten, was the basis of this cult--not originality. Its
devotees were the devotees of Richard Strauss, of Huysmans, of Manet, of
Degas, Rops, Louis Le Grand, Forain, Monticelli; its painters painted
nakedness in footlight effects with blobs for faces and blue shadows
where they were needed to conceal the defects of impudent drawing; its
composers maundered with both ears spread wide for stray echoes of
Salome; its sculptors, stupefied by Rodin, achieved sections of human
anatomy protruding from lumps of clay and marble; its dramatists,
drugged by Mallarmé and Maeterlinck, dabbled in dullness, platitude and
mediocre psychology; its writers wrote as bloodily, as squalidly, and as
immodestly as they dared; its poets blubbered with Verlaine, spat with
Aristide Bruant, or leered with the alcoholic muses of the Dead Rat.
They were all young, all in deadly earnest, all imperfectly educated,
all hard workers, brave workers, blind, incapable workers sweating and
twisting and hammering in their impotence against the changeless laws of
truth and beauty. With them it was not a case of a loose screw; all
screws had been tightened so brutally that the machinery became
deadlocked. They were neither lazy, languid, nor precious; they only
thought they knew how and they didn't. All their vigour was sterile; all
their courage vain.
Several attractive women exquisitely gowned were receiving; there was
just a little something unusual in their prettiness, in their toilets;
and also a little something lacking; and its absence was as noticeable
in them as it was in the majority of arriving or departing guests.
It could not have been self-possession and breeding which an outsider
missed. For the slim Countess d'Enver possessed both, inherited from
her Pittsburgh parents; and Mrs. Hind-Willet was born to a social
security indisputable; and Latimer Varyck had been in the diplomatic
service before he wrote "Unclothed," and the handsome, dark-eyed Mrs.
Atherstane divided social Manhattan with a blonder and lovelier rival.
Valerie entering with Neville, slender, self-possessed, a hint of
inquiry in her level eyes, heard the man at the door announce them, and
was conscious of many people turning as they passed into the big
reception room. A woman near her murmured, "What a beauty!" Another
added, "How intelligently gowned!" The slim Countess Hélène d'Enver, née
Nellie Jackson, held out a perfectly gloved hand and nodded amiably to
Neville. Then, smiling fixedly at Valerie:
"My dear, how nice of you," she said. "And you, too, Louis; it is very
amusing of you to come. José Querida has just departed. He gave us such
a delightful five-minute talk on modernity. Quoting Huneker, he spoke of
it as a 'quality'--and 'that nervous, naked vibration'--"
She ended with a capricious gesture which might have meant anything
ineffable, or an order for a Bronx cocktail.
"What's a nervous, naked vibration?" demanded Neville, with an impatient
shrug. "It sounds like a massage parlour--not," he added with respect,
"that Huneker doesn't know what he's talking about. Nobody doubts that.
Only art is one delicious bouillabaisse to him."
The Countess d'Enver laughed, still retaining Valerie's hand:
"Your gown is charming--may I add that you are disturbingly beautiful,
Miss West? When they have given you some tea, will you find me if I
can't find you?"
"Yes, I will," said Valerie.
At the tea table Neville brought her a glass of sherry and a bite of
something squashy; a number of people spoke to him and asked to be
presented to Valerie. Her poise, her unconsciousness, the winning
simplicity of her manner were noticed everywhere, and everywhere
commented on. People betrayed a tendency to form groups around her;
women, prepared by her unusual beauty for anything between mediocrity
and inanity, were a little perplexed at her intelligence and candour.
To Mrs, Hind-Willet's question she replied innocently: "To me there is
no modern painter comparable to Mr. Neville, though I dearly love
Wilson, Sorella and Querida."
To Latimer Varyck's whimsical insistence she finally was obliged to
admit that her reasons for not liking Richard Strauss were because she
thought him ugly, uninspired, and disreputable, which unexpected truism
practically stunned that harmless dilettante and so delighted Neville
that he was obliged to disguise his mirth with a scowl directed at the
ceiling.
"Did I say anything very dreadful, Kelly?" she whispered, when
opportunity offered.
"No, you darling. I couldn't keep a civil face when you told the truth
about Richard Strauss to that rickety old sensualist."
[Illustration: "Her poise, her unconsciousness, the winning simplicity
of her manner were noticed everywhere."]
"I don't really know enough to criticise anything. But Mr. Varyck
would make me answer; and one must say something."
Olaf Dennison, without preliminary, sat down at the piano, tossed aside
his heavy hair, and gave a five-minute prelude to the second act of his
new opera, "Yvonne of Bannalec." The opera might as well have been
called Mamie of Hoboken, for all the music signified to Neville.
Mrs. Hind-Willet, leaning over the chair where Valerie was seated,
whispered fervently:
"Isn't it graphic! The music describes an old Breton peasant going to
market. You can hear the very click of his sabots and the gurgle of the
cider in his jug. And that queer little slap-stick noise is where he's
striking palms with another peasant bargaining for his cider."
"But where does Yvonne come in?" inquired Valerie in soft bewilderment.
"He's Yvonne's father," whispered Mrs. Hind-Willet. "The girl doesn't
appear during the entire opera. It's a marvellously important advance
beyond the tonal and graphic subtleties of Richard Strauss."
Other earnest and worthy people consumed intervals of five minutes now
and then; a "discuse,"--whom Neville insisted on calling a
"disease,"--said a coy and rather dirty little French poem directly at
her audience, leeringly assisted by an over-sophisticated piano
accompaniment.
"If that's modernity it's certainly naked and nervous enough," commented
Neville, drily.
"It's--it's perfectly horrid," murmured Valerie, the blush still
