wonderful thing as it is and so just in its right place there.”
“You call it,” Mr. Bender impartially inquired, “a very wonderful
thing?”
“Well, as a Lawrence, it has quite bowled me over”--Hugh spoke as for
the strictly aesthetic awkwardness of that. “But you know I take my
pictures hard.” He gave a punch to his hat, pressed for time in this
connection as he was glad truly to appear to his friend. “I must make my
little rapport.” Yet before it he did seek briefly to explain. “We’re
a band of young men who care--and we watch the great things. Also--for I
must give you the real truth about myself--we watch the great people.”
“Well, I guess I’m used to being watched--if that’s the worst you can
do.” To which Mr. Bender added in his homely way: “But you know, Mr.
Crimble, what I’m really after.”
Hugh’s strategy on this would again have peeped out for us. “The man in
this morning’s ‘Journal’ appears at least to have discovered.”
“Yes, the man in this morning’s ‘Journal’ has discovered three or four
weeks--as it appears to take you here for everything--after my beginning
to talk. Why, they knew I was talking that time ago on the other
side.”
“Oh, they know things in the States,” Hugh cheerfully agreed, “so
independently of their happening! But you must have talked loud.”
“Well, I haven’t so much talked as raved,” Mr. Bender conceded--“for I’m
afraid that when I do want a thing I rave till I get it. You heard me
at Ded-borough, and your enterprising daily press has at last caught the
echo.”
“Then they’ll make up for lost time! But have you done it,” Hugh asked,
“to prepare an alibi?”
“An alibi?”
“By ‘raving,’ as you say, the saddle on the wrong horse. I don’t think
you at all believe you’ll get the Sir Joshua--but meanwhile we shall
have cleared up the question of the Moretto.”
Mr. Bender, imperturbable, didn’t speak till he had done justice to this
picture of his subtlety. “Then, why on earth do you want to boom the
Moretto?”
“You ask that,” said Hugh, “because it’s the boomed thing that’s most in
peril.”
“Well, it’s the big, the bigger, the biggest things, and if you drag
their value to the light why shouldn’t we want to grab them and carry
them off--the same as all of you originally did?”
“Ah, not quite the same,” Hugh smiled--“that I will say for you!”
“Yes, you stick it on now--you have got an eye for the rise in values.
But I grant you your unearned increment, and you ought to be mighty glad
that, to such a time, I’ll pay it you.”
Our young man kept, during a moment’s thought, his eyes on his
companion, and then resumed with all intensity and candour: “You may
easily, Mr. Bender, be too much for me--as you appear too much for far
greater people. But may I ask you, very earnestly, for your word on
this, as to any case in which that happens--that when precious things,
things we are to lose here, are knocked down to you, you’ll let us at
least take leave of them, let us have a sight of them in London, before
they’re borne off?”
Mr. Bender’s big face fell almost with a crash. “Hand them over, you
mean, to the sandwich men on Bond Street?”
“To one or other of the placard and poster men--I don’t insist on the
inserted human slice! Let the great values, as a compensation to us, be
on view for three or four weeks.”
“You ask me,” Mr. Bender returned, “for a general assurance to that
effect?”
“Well, a particular one--so it be particular enough,” Hugh said--“will
do just for now. Let me put in my plea for the issue--well, of the value
that’s actually in the scales.”
“The Mantovano-Moretto?”
“The Moretto-Mantovano!”
Mr. Bender carnivorously smiled. “Hadn’t we better know which it is
first?”
Hugh had a motion of practical indifference for this. “The public
interest--playing so straight on the question--may help to settle it.
By which I mean that it will profit enormously--the question of
probability, of identity itself will--by the discussion it will create.
The discussion will promote certainty----”
“And certainty,” Mr. Bender massively mused, “will kick up a row.”
“Of course it will kick up a row!”--Hugh thoroughly guaranteed that.
“You’ll be, for the month, the best-abused man in England--if you
venture to remain here at all; except, naturally, poor Lord Theign.”
“Whom it won’t be my interest, at the same time, to worry into backing
down.”
“But whom it will be exceedingly mine to practise on”--and Hugh
laughed as at the fun before them--“if I may entertain the sweet hope
of success. The only thing is--from my point of view,” he went on--“that
backing down before what he will call vulgar clamour isn’t in the least
in his traditions, nothing less so; and that if there should be really
too much of it for his taste or his nerves he’ll set his handsome face
as a stone and never budge an inch. But at least again what I appeal to
you for will have taken place--the picture will have been seen by a lot
of people who’ll care.”
“It will have been seen,” Mr. Bender amended--“on the mere contingency
of my acquisition of it--only if its present owner consents.”
“‘Consents’?” Hugh almost derisively echoed; “why, he’ll propose it
himself, he’ll insist on it, he’ll put it through, once he’s angry
enough--as angry, I mean, as almost any public criticism of a personal
act of his will be sure to make him; and I’m afraid the striking
criticism, or at least animadversion, of this morning, will have blown
on his flame of bravado.”
Inevitably a student of character, Mr. Bender rose to the occasion.
“Yes, I guess he’s pretty mad.”
“They’ve imputed to him”--Hugh but wanted to abound in that sense--“an
intention of which after all he isn’t guilty.”
“So that”--his listener glowed with interested optimism--“if they don’t
look out, if they impute it to him again, I guess he’ll just go and be
guilty!”
Hugh might at this moment have shown to an initiated eye as fairly
elated by the sense of producing something of the effect he had hoped.
“You entertain the fond vision of lashing them up to that mistake, oh
fisher in troubled waters?” And then with a finer art, as his companion,
expansively bright but crudely acute, eyed him in turn as if to sound
him: “The strongest thing in such a type--one does make out--is his
resentment of a liberty taken; and the most natural furthermore is
quite that he should feel almost anything you do take uninvited from the
groaning board of his banquet of life to be such a liberty.”
Mr. Bender participated thus at his perceptive ease in the exposed
aristocratic illusion. “Yes, I guess he has always lived as he likes,
the way those of you who have got things fixed for them do, over here;
and to have to quit it on account of unpleasant remark--”
But he gave up thoughtfully trying to express what this must be; reduced
to the mere synthetic interjection “My!”
“That’s it, Mr. Bender,” Hugh said for the consecration of such a moral;
“he won’t quit it without a hard struggle.”
Mr. Bender hereupon at last gave himself quite gaily away as to his high
calculation of impunity. “Well, I guess he won’t struggle too hard for
me to hold on to him if I want to!”
“In the thick of the conflict then, however that may be,” Hugh returned,
“don’t forget what I’ve urged on you--the claim of our desolate
country.”
But his friend had an answer to this. “My natural interest, Mr.
Crimble--considering what I do for it--is in the claim of ours. But I
wish you were on my side!”
“Not so much,” Hugh hungrily and truthfully laughed, “as I wish you were
on mine!” Decidedly, none the less, he had to go. “Good-bye--for another
look here!”
He reached the doorway of the second room, where, however, his
companion, freshly alert at this, stayed him by a gesture. “How much is
she really worth?”
“‘She’?” Hugh, staring a moment, was miles at sea. “Lady Sandgate?”
“Her great-grandmother.”
A responsible answer was prevented--the butler was again with them; he
had opened wide the other door and he named to Mr. Bender the personage
under his convoy. “Lord John!”
Hugh caught this from the inner threshold, and it gave him his escape.
“Oh, ask that friend!” With which he sought the further passage to the
staircase and street, while Lord John arrived in charge of Mr. Gotch,
who, having remarked to the two occupants of the front drawing-room that
her ladyship would come, left them together.
IV
“Then Theign’s not yet here!” Lord John had to resign himself as he
greeted his American ally. “But he told me I should find you.”
“He has kept me waiting,” that gentleman returned--“but what’s the
matter with him anyway?”
“The matter with him”--Lord John treated such ignorance as
irritating--“must of course be this beastly thing in the ‘Journal.’”
Mr. Bender proclaimed, on the other hand, his incapacity to seize such
connections. “What’s the matter with the beastly thing?”
“Why, aren’t you aware that the stiffest bit of it is a regular dig at
you?”
“If you call that a regular dig you can’t have had much experience of
the Papers. I’ve known them to dig much deeper.”
“I’ve had no experience of such horrid attacks, thank goodness; but do
you mean to say,” asked Lord John with the surprise of his own delicacy,
“that you don’t unpleasantly feel it?”
“Feel it where, my dear sir?”
“Why, God bless me, such impertinence, everywhere!”
“All over me at once?”--Mr. Bender took refuge in easy humour. “Well,
I’m a large man--so when I want to feel so much I look out for something
good. But what, if he suffers from the blot on his ermine--ain’t that
what you wear?--does our friend propose to do about it?”
Lord John had a demur, which was immediately followed by the
apprehension of support in his uncertainty. Lady Sandgate was before
them, having reached them through the other room, and to her he at once
referred the question. “What will Theign propose, do you think, Lady
Sandgate, to do about it?”
She breathed both her hospitality and her vagueness. “To ‘do’----?”
“Don’t you know about the thing in the ‘Journal’--awfully offensive all
round?”
“There’d be even a little pinch for you in it,” Mr. Bender said to
her--“if you were bent on fitting the shoe!”
Well, she met it all as gaily as was compatible with a firm look at her
elder guest while she took her place with them. “Oh, the shoes of such
monsters as that are much too big for poor me!” But she was more
specific for Lord John. “I know only what Grace has just told me; but
since it’s a question of footgear dear Theign will certainly--what you
may call--take his stand!”
Lord John welcomed this assurance. “If I know him he’ll take it
splendidly!”
Mr. Bender’s attention was genial, though rather more detached. “And
what--while he’s about it--will he take it particularly on?”
“Oh, we’ve plenty of things, thank heaven,” said Lady Sandgate, “for a
man in Theign’s position to hold fast by!”
Lord John freely confirmed it. “Scores and scores--rather! And I will
say for us that, with the rotten way things seem going, the fact may
soon become a real convenience.”
Mr. Bender seemed struck--and not unsympathetic. “I see that your system
would be rather a fraud if you hadn’t pretty well fixed that!”
Lady Sandgate spoke as one at present none the less substantially warned
and convinced. “It doesn’t, however, alter the fact that we’ve thus in
our ears the first growl of an outcry.”
“Ah,” Lord John concurred, “we’ve unmistakably the first growl of an
outcry!”
Mr. Bender’s judgment on the matter paused at sight of Lord Theign,
introduced and announced, as Lord John spoke, by Gotch; but with the
result of his addressing directly the person so presenting himself.
“Why, they tell me that what this means, Lord Theign, is the first growl
of an outcry!”
The appearance of the most eminent figure in the group might have been
held in itself to testify to some such truth; in the sense at least
that a certain conscious radiance, a gathered light of battle in his
lordship’s aspect would have been explained by his having taken the
full measure--an inner success with which he glowed--of some high
provocation. He was flushed, but he bore it as the ensign of his house;
he was so admirably, vividly dressed, for the morning hour and for his
journey, that he shone as with the armour of a knight; and the whole
effect of him, from head to foot, with every jerk of his unconcern and
every flash of his ease, was to call attention to his being utterly
unshaken and knowing perfectly what he was about. It was at this happy
pitch that he replied to the prime upsetter of his peace.
“I’m afraid I don’t know what anything means to you, Mr. Bender--but
it’s exactly to find out that I’ve asked you, with our friend John,
kindly to meet me here. For a very brief conference, dear lady, by your
good leave,” he went on to Lady Sandgate; “at which I’m only too pleased
that you yourself should assist. The ‘first growl’ of any outcry, I may
mention to you all, affects me no more than the last will----!”
“So I’m delighted to gather”--Lady Sandgate took him straight up--“that
you don’t let go your inestimable Cure.”
He at first quite stared superior--“‘Let go’?”--but then treated it with
a lighter touch. “Upon my honour I might, you know--that dose of the
daily press has made me feel so fit! I arrive at any rate,” he pursued
to the others and in particular to Mr. Bender, “I arrive with my
decision taken--which I’ve thought may perhaps interest you. If that
tuppeny rot is an attempt at an outcry I simply nip it in the bud.”
Lord John rejoicingly approved. “Absolutely the only way--with the least
self-respect--to treat it!”
Lady Sandgate, on the other hand, sounded a sceptical note. “But are you
sure it’s so easy, Theign, to hush up a real noise?”
“It ain’t what I’d call a real one, Lady Sandgate,” Mr. Bender said;
“you can generally distinguish a real one from the squeak of two
or three mice! But granted mice do affect you, Lord Theign, it will
interest me to hear what sort of a trap--by what you say--you propose to
set for them.”
“You must allow me to measure, myself, Mr. Bender,” his lordship
replied, “the importance of a gross freedom publicly used with my
absolutely personal proceedings and affairs; to the cause and origin
of any definite report of which--in such circles!--I’m afraid I rather
wonder if you yourself can’t give me a clue.”
It took Mr. Bender a minute to do justice to these stately remarks. “You
rather wonder if I’ve talked of how I feel about your detaining in your
hands my Beautiful Duchess----?”
“Oh, if you’ve already published her as ‘yours’--with your power
of publication!” Lord Theign coldly laughed,--“of course I trace the
connection!”
Mr. Benders acceptance of responsibility clearly cost him no shade of
a pang. “Why, I haven’t for quite a while talked of a blessed other
thing--and I’m capable of growing more profane over my not getting her
than I guess any one would dare to be if I did.”
“Well, you’ll certainly not ‘get’ her, Mr. Bender,” Lady Sandgate, as
for reasons of her own, bravely trumpeted; “and even if there were a
chance of it don’t you see that your way wouldn’t be publicly to abuse
our noble friend?”
Mr. Bender but beamed, in reply, upon that personage. “Oh, I guess
our noble friend knows I have to talk big about big things. You
understand, sir, the scream of the eagle!”
“I’ll forgive you,” Lord Theign civilly returned, “all the big talk
you like if you’ll now understand me. My retort to that hireling pack
shall be at once to dispose of a picture.”
Mr. Bender rather failed to follow. “But that’s what you wanted to do
before.”
“Pardon me,” said his lordship--“I make a difference. It’s what you
wanted me to do.”
The mystification, however, continued. “And you were not--as you
seemed then--willing?”
Lord Theign waived cross-questions. “Well, I’m willing now--that’s all
that need concern us. Only, once more and for the last time,” he added
with all authority, “you can’t have our Duchess!”
“You can’t have our Duchess!”--and Lord John, as before the altar of
patriotism, wrapped it in sacrificial sighs.
“You can’t have our Duchess!” Lady Sandgate repeated, but with a grace
that took the sting from her triumph. And she seemed still all sweet
sociability as she added: “I wish he’d tell you too, you dreadful rich
thing, that you can’t have anything at all!”
Lord Theign, however, in the interest of harmony, deprecated that
rigour. “Ah, what then would become of my happy retort?”
“And what--as it is,” Mr. Bender asked--“becomes of my unhappy
grievance?”
“Wouldn’t a really great capture make up to you for that?”
“Well, I take more interest in what I want than in what I have--and it
depends, don’t you see, on how you measure the size.”
Lord John had at once in this connection a bright idea. “Shouldn’t you
like to go back there and take the measure yourself?”
Mr. Bender considered him as through narrowed eyelids. “Look again at
that tottering Moretto?”
“Well, its size--as you say--isn’t in any light a negligible
quantity.”
“You mean that--big as it is--it hasn’t yet stopped growing?”
The question, however, as he immediately showed, resided in what Lord
Theign himself meant “It’s more to the purpose,” he said to Mr. Bender,
“that I should mention to you the leading feature, or in other words
the very essence, of my plan of campaign--which is to put the picture at
once on view.” He marked his idea with a broad but elegant gesture. “On
view as a thing definitely disposed of.”
“I say, I say, I say!” cried Lord John, moved by this bold stroke to
high admiration.
Lady Sandgate’s approval was more qualified. “But on view, dear Theign,
how?”
“With one of those pushing people in Bond Street.” And then as for the
crushing climax of his policy: “As a Mantovano pure and simple.”
“But my dear man,” she quavered, “if it isn’t one?”
Mr. Bender at once anticipated; the wind had suddenly risen for him
and he let out sail. “Lady Sand-gate, it’s going, by all that’s--well,
interesting, to be one!”
Lord Theign took him up with pleasure. “You seize me? We treat it as
one!”
Lord John eagerly borrowed the emphasis. “We treat it as one!”
Mr. Bender meanwhile fed with an opened appetite on the thought--he even
gave it back larger. “As the long-lost Number Eight!”
Lord Theign happily seized him. “That will be it--to a charm!”
“It will make them,” Mr. Bender asked, “madder than anything?”
His patron--if not his client--put it more nobly. “It will markedly
affirm my attitude.”
“Which will in turn the more markedly create discussion.”
“It may create all it will!”
“Well, if you don’t mind it, I don’t!” Mr. Bender concluded. But
though bathed in this high serenity he was all for the rapid application
of it elsewhere. “You’ll put the thing on view right off?”
“As soon as the proper arrangement----”
“You put off your journey to make it?” Lady Sand-gate at once broke in.
Lord Theign bethought himself--with the effect of a gracious confidence
in the others. “Not if these friends will act.”
“Oh, I guess we’ll act!” Mr. Bender declared.
“Ah, won’t we though!” Lord John re-echoed.
“You understand then I have an interest?” Mr. Bender went on to Lord
Theign.
His lordship’s irony met it. “I accept that complication--which so much
simplifies!”
“And yet also have a liberty?”
“Where else would be those you’ve taken? The point is,” said Lord
Theign, “that I have a show.”
It settled Mr. Bender. “Then I’ll fix your show.” He snatched up his
hat. “Lord John, come right round!”
Lord John had of himself reached the door, which he opened to let the
whirlwind tremendously figured by his friend pass out first. Taking
leave of the others he gave it even his applause. “The fellow can do
anything anywhere!” And he hastily followed.
V
Lady Sandgate, left alone with Lord Theign, drew the line at their
companion’s enthusiasm. “That may be true of Mr. Bender--for it’s
dreadful how he bears one down. But I simply find him a terror.”
“Well,” said her friend, who seemed disposed not to fatigue the
question, “I dare say a terror will help me.” He had other business to
which he at once gave himself. “And now, if you please, for that girl.”
“I’ll send her to you,” she replied, “if you can’t stay to luncheon.”
“I’ve three or four things to do,” he pleaded, “and I lunch with Kitty
at one.”
She submitted in that case--but disappointedly. “With Berkeley
Square then you’ve time. But I confess I don’t quite grasp the so odd
inspiration that you’ve set those men to carry out.”
He showed surprise and regret, but even greater decision. “Then it
needn’t trouble you, dear--it’s enough that I myself go straight.”
“Are you so very convinced it’s straight?”--she wouldn’t be a bore to
him, but she couldn’t not be a blessing.
“What in the world else is it,” he asked, “when, having good reasons,
one acts on ‘em?”
“You must have an immense array,” she sighed, “to fly so in the face of
Opinion!”
“‘Opinion’?” he commented--“I fly in its face? Why, the vulgar thing,
as I’m taking my quiet walk, flies in mine! I give it a whack with my
umbrella and send it about its business.” To which he added with more
reproach: “It’s enough to have been dished by Grace--without your
falling away!”
Sadly and sweetly she defended herself. “It’s only my great
affection--and all that these years have been for us: they it is that
make me wish you weren’t so proud.”
“I’ve a perfect sense, my dear, of what these years have been for us--a
very charming matter. But ‘proud’ is it you find me of the daughter who
does her best to ruin me, or of the one who does her best to humiliate?”
Lady Sandgate, not undiscernibly, took her choice of ignoring the point
of this. “Your surrenders to Kitty are your own affair--but are you sure
you can really bear to see Grace?”
“I seem expected indeed to bear much,” he said with more and more of his
parental bitterness, “but I don’t know that I’m yet in a funk before
my child. Doesn’t she want to see me, with any contrition, after the
trick she has played me?” And then as his companion’s answer failed: “In
spite of which trick you suggest that I should leave the country with no
sign of her explaining--?”
His hostess raised her head. “She does want to see you, I know; but you
must recall the sequel to that bad hour at Dedborough--when it was you
who declined to see her.”
“Before she left the house with you, the next day, for this?”--he
was entirely reminiscent. “What I recall is that even if I had
condoned--that evening--her deception of me in my folly, I still
loathed, for my friend’s sake, her practical joke on poor John.”
Lady Sandgate indulged in the shrug conciliatory. “It was your very
complaint that your own appeal to her became an appeal from herself.”
“Yes,” he returned, so well he remembered, “she was about as civil to
me then--picking a quarrel with me on such a trumped-up ground!--as that
devil of a fellow in the newspaper; the taste of whose elegant remarks,
for that matter, she must now altogether enjoy!”
His good friend showily balanced and might have been about to reply with
weight; but what she in fact brought out was only: “I see you’re right
about it: I must let her speak for herself.”
“That I shall greatly prefer to her speaking--as she did so
extraordinarily, out of the blue, at Dedborough, upon my honour--for the
wonderful friends she picks up: the picture-man introduced by her (what
was his name?) who regularly ‘cheeked’ me, as I suppose he’d call it,
