cause she had not gratified it, the baby when born had 
cried for five weeks until they had fed it a banana ! 
These strange experiences lent new interest to their 
intimacy. They went through all the journey of ma- 
ternity together. Pretty soon the changes in her body 
began to be noticeable; and day by day they would 
watch these. How wonderful it all was, how incredible ! 
Thyrsis would sink upon his knees before her, and 
clasp his arms about her and laugh "She's going to have 
a little baby !" And Corydon would blush and protest ; 
she did not like to be teased about it she was still only 
half reconciled to it. "I'm only a child myself!" she 
would cry. "I've no education nothing! And I'm 
not fit for it!" Then he would have to comfort her, 
telling her that life was long, and that the child would 
be something to study. 
They discussed the weighty question of the name 
which they should give the child. In this, as in other 
matters, they were without precedents and limitations, 
and they found that excess of freedom is sometimes 
an embarrassment. They were impelled towards lit- 
erary reminiscence ; and Thyrsis soon realized tfcat this 
was a matter in which the sensuous temperament would 
have to have its way. "After all," argued Corydon, "to 
you a name is a name. If you can call the baby and 
have it answer, isn't that all you care about?" 
"Yes," he assented, "I suppose so ; if the name's too 
unhandy for calling, I can have a nickname." 
To Corydon, on the other hand, a name was a vital 
thing; a child that was lovely under one name might 
be unendurable under another. She had been reading 
Ossian, and the poems of the neo-Celtic enthusiasts ; 
so after much pondering and consultation she an- 
nounced that Cedric and Eileen were the two names 
from which they would choose. 
9. MANY moods of tenderness came to them. He 
loved to fondle her, to exchange endearments with 
her. They gave each other foolish names, after the 
fashion of lovers the world over ; and they would go on 
to modify these names, and add prefixes and suffixes, 
until the most ingenious philologist could not have fig- 
ured out where the names had started. They made new 
words, also ; they invented a whole language for use in 
these times of illumination, and which Thyrsis denoted 
by the name of "dam-fool talk". 
One was always discovering new qualities in Corydon. 
She had as many moods as the lake by which they lived, 
and it seemed to him that with each mood her whole 
personality changed she would even look like another
being. There was the every-day Corydon, demure, and 
rather silent ; and then there was the Corydon who lived 
in the arms of Nature who swam in the water, a sister 
of the mermaids, and made herself drunken with the 
sunlight ; and then would come a mood of mischief, and 
laughter would break from her, and her wit would be 
 
such that Thyrsis would sigh for a stenographer. She 
would make herself a Grecian costume out of a sheet, 
and dance to music of her own making; or she would 
put trinkets upon her forehead, and be a gypsy-queen 
-she could be anything that was wild and exotic and 
unpremeditated. She had dances for that mood also 
she would laugh and caper as merrily as any young 
witch. But then, again, there would come the Cory don 
of melancholy and despair ; her features would shrink 
up, her face would become peaked and pitiful, she would 
seem like a child of ten. Sometimes Thyrsis could 
laugh her out of such a mood by telling her of her 
"beady black eyes" ; and she did not like to desecrate 
her eyes. 
And now there was a new Corydon the Corydon 
who had been chosen of the Lord, the worker of a 
miracle. This gave new awe to her presence, it set 
a crown upon her forehead. One morning, in mid- 
summer, they had come out from their bath, and she 
stood upon the rock in the sunshine ; and suddenly he 
saw her give a start, and stand transfixed, staring in 
front of her. 
"What is it?" he asked. 
Her voice thrilled as she whispered, "Thyrsis ! It 
moved !" 
"Moved?" he echoed. 
"I felt the child move !" she cried. 
And so he came and put his hands upon her body, 
and together they stood waiting, breathless, as if listen- 
ing for a far-off sound. 
"There ! There !" she cried. "Did you feel it?" 
Yes, he had felt it. And in all his life had he ever 
felt anything stranger? The first sign of the new life 
that was to be the first hail out of the darkness of 
nonentity ! And truly, to hear that hail was to be rapt 
into regions of wonder unspeakable ! 
It was to be a new human soul ; a creature like them- 
selves, with a mind of its own, and a sense of responsi- 
bility. It would be a man or a woman, independent, 
self-creating, and knowing naught about this strange 
inception. And yet, it would be their life also ; they had 
caused it but for them it would never have been ! 
Blindly, unwittingly, following the guidance of some 
power greater than themselves, they had called it into 
being. And in some mysterious and incredible way it 
would share their qualities ; it would be a blending of 
their natures, a symbol of their union, of the strange 
fire that had blazed up in them and fused them together. 
Truly, had they not come here to the essence of love, 
that great blind force which had ruled and guided all 
things from Time's beginning? 
They had come to the very making of life, it seemed. 
And yet, they wondered were they reaily there? This 
new soul that was to be had they in truth created it? 
Or had it existed before this? And whence did it come? 
If it was really the dignified and divine thing that it 
would someday imagine itself to be, was it not uncanny 
that it should have come thus a nameless, half-human, 
half-animal thing, kicking inside the body of a woman? 
It was Being, in all its ineffable mystery, its mon- 
strous and unendurable strangeness. They lived face to 
face with it, they saw a thousand aspects of it. Some- 
times Corydon would be obsessed with the sense of the 
sheer weight she carried ; a burden fastened upon her 
and not to be got rid of an imposition and torment to 
her. Then again, she would see herself in grotesque 
and even comical lights as akin to all the animals, a 
cousin of the patient cow. And then would come a 
 
moment of sudden wonder, when she would be trans- 
figured, a being divine, conferring the boon of life upon 
another. 
It was in this last way that Thyrsis thought of her. 
There was about her a sense of brooding mystery, as 
of one who walks in the midst of supernatural presences. 
She would sit for hours gazing before her, like Joan 
of Arc listening to her voices ; and he would be touched 
with awe, and would kiss her tenderly and with rever- 
ence. 
This brought new meanings into their love, new mean- 
ings into his life ; he would clench his hands and vow 
afresh his battle with the world. How hideous a thing 
it was that at this time she should be tormented by fears 
of want and failure ! That she should have to go with- 
out comforts, that she should even fear to ask for ne- 
cessities because she knew how fast his little store of 
money was going ! Other women had children, and they 
did not have to be haunted by the doubt if it was right 
to have them, if there would be any place for them in 
the world. And some of these were selfish and idle 
women, too and yet they had everything they needed ! 
And here was Corydon, beautiful and noble, the very 
soul of devotion Corydon must be harrowed and tor- 
tured! He did not really mind the world's treatment 
of himself, but for this treatment of her ah, some- 
day the world should pay for that ! Someday it should 
do penance for its mockery and its blindness, that had 
been a blasphemy against the holy spirit itself! 
At such times as this he would put his arms about 
her, and try to whisper something of the pity and grief 
that filled his heart. He would try to tell her how much 
he really loved her, how utterly he was devoted to her. 
Some day she should have her rights, some day he would 
repay her for all that she had dared for him. And 
then the tears would come into Corydon's eyes, and she 
would answer that she feared nothing and cared about 
nothing, so long as she had his love. 
10. AFTER these things, Thyrsis would go at his 
book again. He would go at it doggedly, desperately. 
He had scarcely taken time to get settled in the tent 
and to get their housekeeping regime under way, before 
he had heard the call of the book and wandered away 
to wrestle with it. The writing of it was a matter of 
life and death with him now of life and death, not 
only for himself, and for Cory don, but for the unborn 
soul as well. His money would last him only six or 
eight weeks, and then he would have to take to pot-boil- 
ing again. So every hour was precious ; this time there 
could be no blundering permitted. 
Thyrsis was not writing now about minstrels and 
princesses ; he was not painting enraptured pictures 
of joy and love. The pain of life had become too real 
to him. His six months of contact with the world had 
filled him with bitterness ; and he was forging a sharp 
spear, that he could drive into the heart of folly and 
stupidity. 
It was the story of Hathawi, the dreamer, which he 
had come upon in a Hindoo legend. "The Hearer of 
Truth," was to be the title of the book; and for it 
Thyrsis was working out a new style. In the original 
it had been a fanciful tale ; but he meant to take it 
over to the world of everyday reality, to give it the 
atmosphere of utter verihood. He meant to use a style 
of biblical simplicity, bare of all ornament, dealing with 
the most elemental things. And this might seem easy, 
but in reality it was the hardest thing in the world- 
 
it was like blank verse. One might toil all day for a 
single phrase into which to pack one's meaning. 
He wished to show Hathawi from the beginning ; the 
solitary child, the seer of life's mystery, who went away 
into a lonely place to brood. He dwelt in the high 
mountains, where the lightning played and the storm- 
winds shook him; he disciplined his will by fasting and 
prayer, so that the self in him died, and he could per- 
ceive eternal things, and aspects of being that are 
hidden. He went into the forests and dwelt with the 
wild things, and learned to understand their language 
not only their beauty and their power, which are plain ; 
not only their fears and their hatreds, which are pain- 
ful to discover ; but also their love, which is deepest of 
all. He learned to know the life which is in lifeless 
things in water and air and fire; the joys and sorrows 
of the flowers, and the venerable wisdom of great trees, 
and the worship which is in the floods of sunlight. And 
having learned these tilings, Hathawi came back into 
the world. 
He found that he was able to read the souls of men , 
but at first he could not believe what he read it was 
so terrible, and so far from nature. He preferred to 
stay among the poor, because they were closer to the 
heart of things, and their falsehoods were simple. But 
he discovered that the evil and misery of men's life 
came from above, and so he went into the "great 
world" to dwell. 
And everywhere he went, men's innermost thoughts 
were revealed to him, and to themselves through him. 
He acted upon men and women like wine an impulse 
seized them to speak the truth, the truth that they had 
hidden even from their own hearts. Afterwards, when 
they realized what they had done, they hated Hathawi 
and feared him ; but they said nothing, because each 
thought that the secret was his own. 
But then, as his power grew, Hathawi began to reveal 
men in more public ways, and a scandal arose. There 
was whispered a story of a great statesman who had 
declared at a banquet what was his real work in the 
world ; and one day a bishop arose in his cathedral and 
said that he taught the dogmas of his church, because 
they were necessary to keep the people in subjection. 
Then came the famous episode of a policeman who bade 
the prisoner go free and arrested the judge instead. 
Other policemen were called upon to hinder their com- 
rade, but they declared that he was right ; and then news- 
paper reporters, when ordered to write about it, avowed 
that they would write only what they believed. After 
which came a convention of one of the great political 
parties ; and the presidential candidate made a speech, 
outlining his actual beliefs, and so destroyed his party. 
This, of course, was a national calamity, for all states- 
men declared that the people could not be deceived by 
one party ; and then, too, it was reported that Hathawi 
meant to attend the convention of the other party ! 
Because of this they shut him up in jail, charging 
him with being a vagrant, which he undoubtedly was. 
But he won over all the jailers and the prisoners to his 
doctrine, and so the jail was emptied. Moreover, it 
was found that some of those who loved him most truly 
had come to share his power of hearing truth. The 
madness was spreading everywhere ; agitators were busy 
among the people, and public safety was threatened. 
So a certain very rich man, who in Hathawi's presence 
had vowed himself a wolf, engaged an assassin to strike 
him down in broad daylight upon the street. 
Then in order to suppress the disturbance, they 
 
spirited the body away and burned it, and scattered the 
ashes. But this was a bad thing for them to do, for 
the ashes became seeds of the new contagion, and all 
through the great city, in the strangest and most un- 
accountable way, men would suddenly begin to speak 
the truth. And, of course this made business impossible 
the merchants and traders had to move away ; and 
how was it possible to preserve authority, when sooner 
or later all the lawyers and the judges and the poli- 
ticians would speak truth? So the people arose and 
declared that they were weary of lies, and they erected 
a statue of Hathawi at one of the places where his ashes 
had fallen, and declared that every candidate for office 
must make his speeches there. After that it was a long 
time before there were any officials elected because no 
man could be found to whom prominence and power were 
not more precious than public welfare. But meanwhile 
the people thrived exceedingly. 
Finally, however the climax of the story the news 
of all this had spread to other nations, and the rulers 
of these nations perceived that it was anarchy, and 
could by no means be permitted their own people were 
threatening to rise. It must be clearly shown that a 
state without a government would be plundered by 
enemies ; and so they prepared to plunder it. And so 
arose a great agitation in Hathawi's home-state, and 
men called for a dictator, and for preparations of de- 
fence. But the followers of Hathawi cried out, saying, 
"Let us submit ! Let us open our city to these men, and 
let them do their will for the power of the truth is 
greater than even they." And so it was decided. 
When the hostile rulers heard of this a great fear 
took possession of them. They remembered the fate of 
certain famous diplomatists they had already sent over ; 
and they dared not trust themselves near the statue of 
the Hearer of Truth. So their plans of invasion came 
to naught ; and among their own people there was 
laughter and bitter mockery ; and behold, one morning, 
a statue of Hathawi which some one had set up in a 
public-square ! Here the lovers of truth gathered by 
thousands, and the soldiers who were sent to shoot them 
laid down their arms and joined them; and so, all over 
the world, was the end of the dominion of the lie. 
11. SUCH was the outline of Thyrsis' story. He 
judged that it might be a very great story, or a com- 
paratively commonplace one it all depended upon the 
power with which it was visioned. He must get into 
himself and wrestle the thing out. This was to be his 
act of creation his baby ! 
It was the first time since his marriage that Thyrsis 
had tried really to do what he called work. All things 
else had been mere echoes of the work he had done the 
previous summer ; but now he had to do something new, 
something that was an echo of nothing else. Every day 
that he faced the task, his agony and despair of soul 
grew greater ; for he found that he could not do the 
work. He could not even begin to do it he could not 
even try to do it ! He was helpless, bound hand and 
foot! 
It was not his fault, it was not Corydon's fault ; it 
was a tragedy inherent in the very nature of things 
in the two natures that were in himself. There was 
the man, who loved a woman, and hungered to see her 
happy; and there was the artist, to whom solitude was 
the very breath of life. To write this book to write 
it really he would have to spend weeks of brooding 
over it, thinking about nothing else day and night; 
he would have to shape his whole existence to that end, 
to be free from every distracting circumstance, from 
everything that called him out of himself. And how 
could he hope for such a thing, while he was living in 
a tent with another person? 
Thyrsis had his artist's standard of perfection. Of 
course, he could never actually be satisfied with what 
he did; but at least he could feel that it was the best 
he was equal to he could get a real and honest sense 
of exhaustion for himself. But now, the moment that 
he faced the problem fairly, he saw he could never get 
that real and honest sense of exhaustion again. He 
was dragged up to the issue and forced to face it in- 
stantty. The pressure of circumstances upon him was 
overwhelming; and he had to make up his mind to do 
something he had never done before instead of really 
writing his books, to do the best he could with them ! 
Yet, inevitable as this was, and clearly as he saw 
it, he could not make up his mind to it. In reality, he 
never did make up his mind to it. He did it, and in 
his inmost heart he knew that he was doing it ; but all 
the time he was trying to deny it, was wrestling with 
agony and despair in his soul in the effort to do some- 
thing else. 
He would go away in the morning and try to think 
about the book; and just when he would get started, 
it would be time for dinner, and there would be the 
image of Corydon waiting for him. And so he would 
go home, and go back in the afternoon and when he 
had got started again, it would be dark. The next 
day, having explained his trouble, he would take his 
lunch away with him ; but in the forenoon there would 
come a drenching thunder-storm, and he would have to 
go back again. Or he would try to work in the tent 
at night ; and the wind would howl and blow the lamp 
so that he could not put his mind on anything. Nor 
did it avail him to rail at himself, to tell himself that 
he was a fool for being at the mercy of such mishaps. 
It was none the less a fact that he was at the mercy 
of them, and that he could no longer give himself up 
to the sway of his imagination. 
And always there was Corydon, yearning for his com- 
panionship. It had always been their idea that they 
should do the work together ; so completely would they 
be fused in the fire of love, that she would share his 
soul states and write parts of his books. But now that 
idea had to be abandoned ; and this was her tragedy. 
"I have to sit and think of my health!" she would 
exclaim. 
"It isn't your health, dear," he would plead; "it's 
the health of the child !" 
"I know that. But then, am I always to sit at home 
and be placid, while you go away to wrestle with the 
angels?" 
"Not always, Corydon," he said. "This will 
pass- 
;< If I do," she cried, "I only stay to wrestle with the 
demons. And is that so very good for a pregnant 
woman ?" 
"My dear !" he protested. 
"It's just as I said!" she went on. "I ought not to 
have had the child! I'm only a school-girl, with a 
school-girl's tasks. And I try and try, but I can't help 
it everything within me rebels at the cares of mother- 
hood." 
"That's one mood, dear," he said. "But you know 
that's not true always." 
"It's all the clearer to me," she insisted, "since we've 
had to give up our music. I can't work at the piano 
any more I may never be able to." 
"But even if you could, Corydon, I couldn't afford 
