 
and any man may be proud of them, and I love 
the mother. Then I’ve money enough to care for 
them all. It will be the making of eight nice 
men and women I hope. It will be as good as 
leaving some money to an orphan asylum.” 
‘‘ Well — if you are suited.” But it was only 
half-heartedly. She was so surprised. 
“ Yes, and you are about the only real woman 
friend I have. I want you to stand by me and 
help me out a little, and to come up. I’ve planned 
to be married Wednesday afternoon so the chil- 
dren can have a real Christmas. It will be at my 
house where there is plenty of room. And I 
don’t want her bothered with anything — besides I 
don’t believe she’d really know. I’m going to do 
the shopping, wedding gown and all, and I want 
your help.” 
Mrs. Ross did not like it at all, and she was 
disappointed for her friend. But on the other 
hand he had been such a good friend to them, and 
truly the author of their prosperity. Then he did 
need some woman’s counsel. How could he get 
along alone? Then, too, she, like most women, 
was interested in wedding gear. 
“ At your house,” she said, with cool delibera- 
tion, in the evening?” 
No, about four, I think, and then a little wed- 
 
ding feast. We’ll give the men a half-holiday, and 
you and Mr. Ross will come up ” 
“ We are going to mother’s,” hesitatingly. 
“ She is to come in and take the children with 
her on Tuesday, and they are to spend the whole 
vacation. We were to go Wednesday evening.” 
Wait until Thursday morning. Mr. Ross is 
willing. Then you can come up at noon, or you 
might come in the morning and he at noon.” 
The face and voice were alike persuasive. 
And the shopping, what about that?” she 
asked. 
“ Oh, when you can spare the time. Some 
things for the little girls, and — a pretty, soft 
wedding gown.” 
“ Silk? ” at a venture. 
No, I think I do not care for that. I saw 
some a few days ago. You know, if I gave her 
two or three diamonds and a handsome necklace 
and so on, that would be all right. We’ll save the 
diamonds until some other occasion,” and he gave 
a short laugh. ‘‘ Something soft and white and 
clinging ” 
White ? ” raising her eyebrows. 
Yes, I want it nice for the children to re- 
member. I want to think myself of some one 
in bridal fairness. Before, we went to a parson- 
 
age in everyday gear. It was sordid, joyless, not 
a friend to wish us Godspeed. It need not have 
been so, but I had not the courage to make a 
protest. It was all work and parsimony. It does 
not make the best kind of men and women, if 
it makes money. And now I am going to have 
it all different. We have no friends to annoy 
by our lack of conventionalism. It is just for 
ourselves. We shall live for each other and the 
children, going back to a certain youthfulness of 
gladness. I've been learning the pleasure it 
affords one’s self to give joy to others. And so 
if you will help me out a little — it is asking a 
good deal. She couldn’t do any of this even if 
we waited until spring without the neighborhood’s 
knowing and wanting to discuss and advise.” 
Mrs. Ross felt that she did not quite approve, 
but it was his life and his happiness. So she 
yielded and they did the shopping, she tempering 
the man’s ideas. An outfit for the little girls, and 
he found among what the magnificent saleslady 
called simple evening dresses something quite to 
his liking. 
“ That is nun’s-veiling,” said Mrs. Ross. It 
was soft and fine and prettily made, but not very 
grand. 
“ I didn’t want anything stiff or glossy, but to 
 
fall around like a cloud. Yes, that will do. And 
a pretty dress to wear to breakfast. I believe I 
should like pink.” 
She talked him out of that. There was a deli- 
cate gray with pink pipings and pale pink bows, 
so the order was made out. No, she would not 
take anything for herself — she was truly glad to 
be of service to him. 
“ Dan,” he said on reaching the station, drive 
round to the little old house.” 
The children had just reached home, having 
snowballed and sledded on the way. 
I want Chan to come over and stay all night,” 
he announced, and go to the city to-morrow. 
Nurse Jane wants to see him, and we’ll have a 
little lark by ourselves. Everything is all right,” 
he said with joyous, meaning eyes to the 
mother. 
So Chan put on his best suit and felt there was 
something gay and unusual in the air. 
There was his room that had been put in order 
as a surprise. The corner room had been newly 
furnished. It had a big bay window in it, and 
just off it, over the hall, was this with dainty 
papering, a little white bed, a handsome combina- 
tion bookcase and desk, a table, and some chairs. 
“ Dan may bring your books over some day. 
 
and you can arrange them. Any other things that 
have grown dear to you ’’ 
Chan tried to wink the tears away, then he hid 
his face on the capacious breast. 
I mean you to be very happy here, little lad. 
This is my room, so you will be near by. And 
now we’ll go down and sit by the fire. I have 
something else to tell you.” 
There was not the great Thanksgiving blaze, 
but just a cozy little one with red and blue and 
yellow gnomes chasing each other about. He took 
the big “ Morris ” chair and lifted Chan up on 
his lap, let him snuggle down with the caressing 
arm about him. 
“ Chan, I’m going to trust you with a secret and 
you must keep it sacredly until — let me see — next 
Wednesday. Then your mother and all the chil- 
dren are coming over for a good long visit and 
the merriest sort of a Christmas. And to-morrow 
we are going to buy Santa Claus gifts for Linn 
and Tip, and have a gay little run about, and go 
up to the hospital. I really ought to have taken 
you before. They all want to see you.” 
Oh, I think there ought to be fairy godfathers, 
but in the stories they are always fairy god- 
mothers. And you are just one.” He reached 
up and kissed him. '' You do so many beautiful 
 
things. And I almost didn’t want to come and 
live here, because, you see. I’d grown so used to 
them at home, and mother is so sweet, but I’ll come 
and stay, and be your little boy always ” and 
the soft, child’s voice had a little break in it. 
Yes, dear. Thank you. We are not going 
to lose sight of them, you know, and I hope you 
will go on loving them. We are going to have 
a fine Christmas as you will see.” 
Then they talked over the hospital days and 
poor little Arthur, and presently Chan went to 
bed in his room, and Mr. Mann in the other. Yes, 
it would be very nice, and he was quite reconciled 
to leaving the little old red house. 
It was a nice day, and the big boy and the little 
boy did have a jolly time shopping. Suits all the 
way through and stylish shoes and a box of white 
silk neckties. And Chan must have a handsome, 
light gray suit 
“ But mine is so nice,” he protested. Mother’s 
so careful of it, and I only wear it on Sundays 
and when I come here. It seems as if — as if there 
was going to be a great party.” 
There is, a Christmas party. And now you 
must choose some toys. What would Tip like?” 
There were so many splendid things. He went 
from one to another. But the train of cars with 
the engine and the man at the helm, and the 
stoker with his shovel, and the brakeman standing 
on the platform took his fancy altogether, only 
he was afraid it would cost too much. 
Santa Claus has a long purse,” laughed Mr. 
Mann. 
But I know Linn would like books best, be- 
cause he was wishing he had some like mine. 
And you see if I take mine away he can’t read 
them.” 
So books it was. Then they had luncheon, and 
afterward went to the office for Mr. Mann to look 
over his mail. There was a foreign one with a 
Russian stamp. 
“ Chan,” he exclaimed, “ I must get you a book 
for postage stamps. I have some quite rare for- 
eign ones, ” and he cut around this and laid it in a 
small box. How odd a letter should come from 
St. Petersburg. He cut open the end — glanced 
down the page to the signature Howard 
Gwynne.” 
It concerned Chan. But then the boy was his. 
He would never leave him for any other friend. 
It was certainly complimentary to the child. 
Mr. Gwynne recalled himself to Mr. Mann’s mind 
by the interest he had taken in Chandler Firth’s 
unusual musical ability. He had intended to be 
 
back by the beginning of the new year, but it 
would be April instead. Would Mr. Mann keep 
watch over the child and see that he was well 
cared for physically, and if his parents were in 
poor circumstances, as he believed he had heard, 
he would cheerfully advance any sum to keep him 
in good condition, as he was most anxious to see 
him again, and he referred him to his banker. 
The child was too promising to be allowed to slip 
out of sight. 
Chan was looking over some curious little dies, 
and did not remark the eyes turned upon him with 
such tenderness. “ You are my little lad,” Mr. 
Mann whispered to himself, “ and it isn’t at all 
likely you will have to go round the world singing 
for a living. I shall have the best right ” 
Still Mr. Gwynne must have thought him some- 
thing unusual to take all that interest in him. 
He put the note into a private drawer, and looked 
over the others. Then after a talk with Mr. Ross 
he said: 
Come, Chan, now for the hospital and Nurse 
Jane.” 
The child’s eyes were alight with the expected 
pleasure. 
It looked strange and yet curiously familiar, 
like the remembrance of a dream, as Chandler 
Firth went through the wide hall. Dr. Richards 
was not in, but the surgeon came to take a look 
at his patient so fair and rosy and straight now. 
And here were the matron and the nurses and the 
sun parlor and the little ones, some who would 
never be any better, and some who would be dis- 
charged in a few weeks, and dear Nurse Jane who 
took both his hands in hers and kissed him. 
Why, you have grown,” she exclaimed, and 
how well you look! I’m glad to see you again, 
for we really did miss you. I suppose you had 
your legacy all right. Mr. Collamore came here, 
and he was quite touched with your attention to 
Arthur and the will which pleased the poor dying 
boy so much.” 
“ Oh, the books were beautiful,” returned Chan, 
“ and he sent me Arthur’s pretty gold watch, and 
wrote such a sweet letter that mother and Rilla 
and I cried over it.” 
I liked him better than I supposed I should, 
and Arthur was much better oif here than left at 
home. Wasn’t your mother surprised and 
happy? ” 
“ She just was. They were all so glad. I’m 
going to school now, and it’s a good long walk, 
but I don’t get a bit tired. You were all so kind 
to me.” 
 
“ And you were such a lovely patient.’’ 
He glanced up with smiling eyes. 
Here was the little bed where he had lain in 
the plaster cast and been fed like a baby. There 
wa? a bigger boy in it whose head was held in a 
sort of a frame and whose face wore a most dis- 
tressed expression, not even lighting up at the 
nurse’s tender tones. And just over there little 
Arthur had taken his journey from pain and hope- 
lessness to the better country, where the glorified 
body would be straight and perfect. It all seemed 
like a pathetic dream, but he was glad he had 
come, and had seen dear Nurse Jane. 
Then to the train and home again. 
“ It’s been a splendid day, only it doesn’t seem 
as if you ought to have bought me so much, and 
all the pleasure and the luncheon ” 
Well, you are my little boy. The first little 
boy I ever owned, at least, I own as much as half 
of you,” laughingly. And you can tell them 
about the hospital and the Christmas sights in the 
stores and how your room looks, but the other will 
be our Christmas secret.” 
“ And doesn’t mother know ” 
Mr. Mann flushed. '' Yes. You know I had 
to ask her first. But we don’t want the children 
to get it whispered about. Why, it’s only five 
 
days now,” and a happy light went over his face 
as if the pleasure to him was going to be great 
indeed. Chan felt as if there was something he 
did not quite understand, but he was going to keep 
his part of the secret loyally. 
So they said good-by. Dan would take the little 
boy over home. 
The neighbors wondered at the many boxes and 
packages they watched going into the Mann house. 
Mrs. Greer, who lived on the lower side, ran in 
to Mrs. Chedister’s. 
“ What do you suppose is going on? ” she asked 
in a sort of fever heat. Can it be that Mr. 
Mann is planning to be married, yet it does seem 
like it. I wonder if it is to his housekeeper. 
She’s a very nice-appearing person, but it would 
make it quite awkward. Of course we are not 
expected to be on calling terms with house- 
keepers.” 
It is embarrassing when a man does that, and 
I think it a very ill-judged step. The woman 
hasn’t any real social position. It seems to me 
Mr. Mann might look higher. He has a nice 
business standing and is a man of means, and the 
men like him, and he doesn’t seem afraid of spend- 
ing his money.” 
That’s a beautiful team of his'” 
 
“ Yes. Now if we kept a man I’d put him 
up to finding out something by that Dan. But 
I suppose we’ll learn by and by. Only one 
wouldn’t know just how to receive the new Mrs. 
Mann.” 
So they gossiped up and down the avenue. 
Over at the little red house they talked about 
Christmas. It seemed to Marigold that her 
mother acted quite indifferent. They had very 
little money, to be sure, for she had not been 
doing much. She went over to Mrs. Townsend’s 
on Monday and helped make mince pies and put 
up curtains, and do various odds and ends as they 
were going to have a Christmas eve party for the 
young folks. Marigold made over Laurel’s rag 
doll, put in blue eyes and black eyebrows, and 
begged a little red ink for the lips. She and Rilla 
had been knitting the twins new hoods. Prim 
made a picture-book, cutting flowers out of old 
garden calendars her father had laid away, and 
pasting them into an old blank-book. 
“ Oh dear, if we could only have a real rich 
Christmas for once,” and she sighed. Mother, 
aren’t you going to make anything?” 
I’m going to the store to-morrow to get a 
few things. Oh, yes. I’ll make some crullers ” 
“ And gingerbread men ! It wouldn’t be Christ- 
 
mas without them. We’ll hang up our stockings 
anyhow. And maybe ” 
She didn’t hardly dare let the maybe ” fly. 
If she had she would have said, “ Maybe Mr. 
Mann will bring us something,” but she thought 
her mother acted rather queer when his name was 
mentioned. 
Amaryllis was making various little things. 
New white aprons for the twins out of some old 
white dimity she had found in the rummage heap. 
If she could have spent a little money. Well, they 
would go to the Sunday-school room on Christmas 
afternoon and get a cornucopia of candy, an 
orange, and a book. That would be something. 
Chan was very quiet, too, somehow. But then 
the children were in school all day and stopped 
coming home to have a little fun. So there was 
only the evening. School was dismissed Tuesday 
afternoon, and they could have all day Wednesday. 
If Dan would come and take us out in the 
big sleigh wouldn’t it be splendid ! ” cried Primrose, 
and they all gave a long, deep sigh. 
Mother came home with quite a big parcel, 
and of course no one would peep into it. Then 
she made crullers and a hot johnny-cake for sup- 
per, and before they were through Linn came in 
whistling. 
 
‘‘ Why, Linn, what sent you home? To-morrow 
isn’t Christmas ! ” said Rilla. 
It’s first cousin to it, though.” Then he looked 
at his mother and laughed. She flushed up, and 
then rose and went to the stove as something there 
needed her. 
And I have a Santa Claus dollar,” went on 
Linn. “ I think it is a real Santa Claus when it 
is something you don’t expect. And it was funny, 
but Mr. Beers always says on Saturday, ' Now 
you’ll be down bright and early Monday morning,’ 
and he never said a word about Friday. But he 
did say, ' Linn, you’ve been a good, faithful boy 
and I wish you the best Christmas you ever had.’ 
Mother, you don’t think he means to let me go, do 
you? I’ve been doing my very best. You had a 
long talk with him,” and the boy’s bright face was 
very anxious. 
‘‘ No, Linn, dear. He said to me you gave good 
satisfaction and he should be very sorry to have 
you go.” 
“ Then I’m not going. You may bet your bot- 
tom dollar on that.” 
Come and have some supper.” 
They stuffed me down there. A chunk of 
raisin cake, lickin’ good, too, two doughnuts, and 
a great piece of mince pie. Next Christmas I 
mean to be rich enough to have mince pies — and 
a turkey.” 
May I be there, here, or wherever it is to 
share them,” appended Marigold. 
It was enough like other nights, except Linn’s 
being home, yet there seemed something different 
in the atmosphere. The twins were put to bed, 
Lai begging that her stocking should be hung up. 
Tip got his arms around Chandler and insisted 
upon hearing over again the wonderful things that 
