as the pretty room sprang into light--"Now never mind your instructions
but go and say to Mrs. Ledwith that I must see her."
He calmly unfolded a flat packet of fresh bank-notes, selected one,
changed it on reflection for another of higher denomination, and handed
it to her. The girl hesitated, still irresolute until he lifted his
narrow head and stared at her. Then she went away hurriedly.
When she returned to say that Mrs. Ledwith was not at home to Mr. Sprowl
he shrugged and bade her inform her mistress that their meeting was not
a matter of choice but of necessity, and that he would remain where he
was until she received him.
Again the maid went away, evidently frightened, and Sprowl lighted a
cigarette and began to saunter about. When he had examined everything in
the room he strolled into the farther room. It was unlighted and suited
him to sit in; and he installed himself in a comfortable chair and,
throwing his cigarette into the fire-place, lighted a cigar.
This was a game he understood--a waiting game. The game was traditional
with his forefathers; every one of them had played it; their endless
patience had made a fortune to which each in turn had added before he
died. Patience and courage--courage of the sort known as personal
bravery--had distinguished all his race. He himself had inherited
patience, and had used it wisely except in that one inexplicable
case!--and personal courage in him had never been lacking, nor had what
often accompanies it, coolness, obstinacy, and effrontery.
He had decided to wait until his cigar had been leisurely finished.
Then, other measures--perhaps walking upstairs, unannounced, perhaps an
unresentful withdrawal, a note by messenger, and another attempt to see
her to-morrow--he did not yet know--had arrived at no conclusion--but
would make up his mind when he finished his cigar and then do whatever
caution dictated.
Once a servant came to the door to look around for him, and when she
discovered him in the half-light of the music-room she departed hastily
for regions above. This amused Sprowl.
As he lounged there, thoroughly comfortable, he could hear an occasional
stir in distant regions of the house, servants moving perhaps, a door
opened or closed, faint creaks from the stairs. Once the distant sounds
indicated that somebody was using a telephone; once, as he neared the
end of his cigar, a gray cat stole in, caught sight of him, halted, her
startled eyes fixed on him, then turned and scuttled out into the hall.
Finally he rose, flicked his cigar ashes into the fireplace, stretched
his powerful frame, yawned, and glanced at his watch.
And at the same instant somebody entered the front door with a
latch-key.
Sprowl stood perfectly still, interested, waiting: and two men,
bare-headed and in evening dress, came swiftly but silently into the
drawing-room. One was Quarren, the other Chester Ledwith. Quarren took
hold of Ledwith's arm and tried to draw him out of the room. Then
Ledwith caught sight of Sprowl and started toward him, but Quarren again
seized his companion by the shoulder and dragged him back.
"I tell you to keep quiet," he said in a low voice--"Keep out of
this!--go out of the house!"
"I can't, Quarren! I----"
"You promised not to come in until that man had left----"
"I know it. I meant to--but, good God! Quarren! I can't stand there----"
He was struggling toward Sprowl and Quarren was trying to push him back
into the hall.
"You said that you had given up any idea of personal vengeance!" he
panted. "Let me deal with him quietly----"
"I didn't know what I was saying," retorted Ledwith, straining away from
the man who held him, his eyes fixed on Sprowl. "I tell you I can't
remain quiet and see that blackguard in this house----"
"But he's going I tell you! He's going without a row--without any noise.
Can't you let me manage it----"
He could not drag Ledwith to the door, so he forced him into a chair and
stood guard, glancing back across his shoulder at Sprowl.
"You'd better go," he said in a low but perfectly distinct voice.
Sprowl, still holding his cigar, sauntered forward into the
drawing-room.
"I suppose you are armed," he said contemptuously. "If you threaten me
I'll take away your guns and slap both your faces--ask the other pup how
it feels, Quarren."
Ledwith struggled to rise but Quarren had him fast.
"Get out of here, Sprowl," he said. "You'll have a bad time of it if he
gets away from me."
Sprowl stared, hands in his pockets, puffing his cigar.
"I've a notion to kick you both out," he drawled.
"It would be a mistake," panted Quarren. "Can't you go while there's
time, Sprowl! I tell you he'll kill you in this room if you don't."
"I won't--kill him!--Let go of me, Quarren," gasped Ledwith. "I--I
won't do murder; I've promised you that--for her sake----"
"Let him loose, Quarren," said Sprowl.
He waited for a full minute, watching the struggling men in silent
contempt. Then with a shrug he went out into the hall, leisurely put on
his hat, picked up his stick, opened the door, and sauntered out into
the darkness.
"Now," breathed Quarren fiercely, "you play the man or I'm through with
you! He's gone and he won't come back--I'll see to that! And it's up to
you to show what you're made of!"
Ledwith, freed, stood white and breathing hard for a few moments. Then a
dull flush suffused his thin face; he looked down, stood with hanging
head, until Quarren laid a hand on his shoulder.
"It's up to you, Ledwith," he said quietly. "I don't blame you for
losing your head a moment, but if you mean what you said, I should say
that this is your chance.... And if I were you I'd simply go upstairs
and speak to her.... She's been through hell.... She's in it still. But
you're out; and you can stay out if you choose. There's no need to
wallow if you don't want to. You're not in very good shape yet, but
you're a man. And now, if you do care for her, I really believe it's up
to you.... Will you go upstairs?"
Ledwith turned and went out into the familiar hall. Then, as though
dazed, resting one thin hand on the rail, he mounted the stairway, head
hanging, feeling his way blindly back toward all that life had ever
held for him, but which he had been too weak to keep or even to defend.
Quarren waited for a while; Ledwith did not return. After a few minutes
an excited maid came down, stared at him, then, reassured, opened the
door for him with a smile. And he went out into the starlight.
He had been walking for only a few moments when he overtook Sprowl
sauntering down a lane; and the latter glanced around and, recognising
him, halted.
"Where's the other hero?" he asked.
"Probably discussing you with the woman he is likely to remarry."
Sprowl shrugged:
"That's what that kind of a man is made for--to marry what others don't
have to marry."
"You lie," said Quarren quietly.
Sprowl stared at him: then the long-pent fury overwhelmed his common
sense again, and again it was in regard to the woman he had lost by his
violence.
"You know," he said, measuring his words, "that you're the same kind of
a man, too. And some day, if you're good, you can marry what I don't
have to marry----"
He reeled under Quarren's blow, then struck at him blindly with his
walking-stick, leaping at him savagely but recoiling, dizzy, half
senseless under another blow so terrific that it almost nauseated him.
He stood for a time, supporting himself against a tree; then as his wits
returned he lifted his bruised face and stared murderously about him.
Quarren was walking toward Witch-Hollow--half way there already and out
of earshot as well as sight.
Against the stars something moved on a near hill-top, and Sprowl reeled
forward in pursuit, breaking into a heavy and steady run as the thing
disappeared in the darkness. But he had seen it move, just beyond that
fence, and he seized the top rail and got over and ran forward in the
darkness, clutching his stick and calling to Quarren by name.
Where had he gone? He halted to listen, peering around with swollen
eyes. Blood dripped from his lips and cheek; he passed his hand over
them, glaring, listening. Suddenly he heard a dull sound close behind
him in the night; whirled to confront what was coming with an unseen
rush, thundering down on him, shaking the very ground.
He made no outcry; there was no escape, nothing to do but to strike; and
he struck with every atom of his strength; and went crashing down into
darkness. And over his battered body bellowed and raged the bull.
       *       *       *       *       *
Even the men who found them there in the morning could scarcely drive
away the half-crazed brute. And the little daughter of the gardener, who
had discovered what was there in the pasture, cowered in the fence
corner, crying her heart out for her father's dead master who had spoken
kindly to her since she had grown up and who had even taken her into his
arms and kissed her the day before when she had brought him a rare
orchid from the greenhouse.
       *       *       *       *       *
Every newspaper in America gave up the right-hand columns to huge
headlines and an account of the tragedy at South Linden. Every paper in
the world chronicled it. There were few richer men in the world than
Langly Sprowl. The tragedy moved everybody in various ways; stocks,
however, did not move either way to the surprise of everybody. On second
thoughts, however, the world realised that his wealth had been too
solidly invested to cause a flurry. Besides he had a younger brother
financing something or other for the Emperor of China. Now he would
return. The great race would not become extinct.
       *       *       *       *       *
That night Quarren went back to the Wycherlys and found Molly waiting
for him in the library.
"What on earth did Mary Ledwith want of Jim this evening?" she asked.
"Sprowl was in the house."
"What!"
"That's why the poor child telephoned. She was probably afraid of him,
and wanted Jim there."
Molly's teeth clicked:
"Jim would have half-killed him. It's probably a good thing he was in
town. What did you do?"
"Nothing. Sprowl went all right."
"What did Mary say to you?"
"I didn't see her."
"You didn't see her?"
"No."
Molly's eyes grew rounder:
"Where is Chester Ledwith? He didn't go with you into the house, did
he?"
"Yes, he did."
"But where is he? You--you don't mean to say----"
"Yes, I do. He went upstairs and didn't return.... So I waited for a
while and then--came back."
They sat silent for a while, then Molly lifted her eyes to his and they
were brimming with curiosity.
"If they become reconciled," she said, "how are people going to take it,
Rix?"
"Characteristically I suppose."
"You mean that some will be nasty about it?"
"Some."
"But then----"
"Oh, Molly, Molly," he said, smiling, "there are more important things
than what a few people are likely to think or say. The girl made a fool
of herself, and the man weakened and nearly went to pieces. He's found
himself again; he's disposed to help her find herself. It was only one
of those messes that the papers report every day. Few get out of such
pickles, but I believe these two are going to.... And somehow, do you
know--from something Sprowl said to-night, I don't believe that she went
the entire limit--took the last ditch."
Molly reddened: "Why?"
"Because, although they do it in popular fiction, men like Sprowl never
really boast of their successes. His sort keep silent--when there's
anything to conceal."
"Did he boast?"
"He did. I was sure he was lying, and I--" he shrugged.
"Told him so?"
"Well, something of that sort."
"I believe he was lying, too.... It was just like that romantic little
fool to run off to Reno after nothing worse than the imprudence of
infatuation. I've known her a long while, Rix. She's too shallow for
real passion, too selfish to indulge it anyway. His name and fortune did
the business for her--little idiot. Really she annoys me."
Quarren smiled: "Her late husband seems to like her. Fools feminine have
made many a man happy. You'll be nice to her I'm sure."
"Of course.... Everybody will on Mrs. Sprowl's account."
Quarren laughed again, then:
"Meanwhile this Ledwith business has prevented my talking to Strelsa
over the telephone," he said.
"Oh, Rix! You said you were going to surprise her in the morning!"
"But I want to see her, Molly. I don't want to wait----"
"It's after ten and Strelsa has probably retired. She's a perfect
farmer, I tell you--yawns horribly every evening at nine. Why, I can't
keep her awake long enough to play a hand at Chinese Khan! Be
reasonable, Rix. You had planned to surprise her in the morning....
And--I'm lonely without Jim.... Besides, if you are clever enough to
burst upon Strelsa's view in the morning when the day is young and all
before her, and when she's looking her very best, nobody can tell what
might happen.... And I'll whisper in your ear that the child has really
missed you.... But don't be in a hurry with her, will you, Rix?"
"No," he said absently.
Molly picked up her knitting.
"If Chester Ledwith doesn't return by twelve I'm going to have the house
locked," she said, stifling a yawn.
At twelve o'clock the house was accordingly locked for the night.
"It's enough to compromise her," said Molly, crossly. "What a pair of
fools they are."
CHAPTER XVII
Strelsa, a pink apron pinned about her, a trowel in her gloved hand,
stood superintending the transplanting of some purple asters which not
very difficult exploit was being attempted by a local yokel acting as
her "hired man."
The garden, a big one with a wall fronting the road, ran back all the
way to the terrace in the rear of the house beyond which stretched the
western veranda.
And it was out on this veranda that Quarren stepped in the wake of
Strelsa's maid, and from there he caught his first view of Strelsa's
garden, and of Strelsa herself, fully armed and caparisoned for the
perennial fray with old Dame Nature.
"You need not go down there to announce me," he said; "I'll speak to
Mrs. Leeds myself."
But before he could move, Strelsa, happening to turn around, saw him on
the veranda, gazed at him incredulously for a moment, then brandished
her trowel with a clear, distant cry of greeting, and came toward him,
laughing in her excitement and surprise. They met midway, and she
whipped off her glove and gave him her hand in a firm, cool clasp.
"Why the dickens didn't you wire!" she said. "You're a fraud, Rix! I
might easily have been away!--You might have missed me--we might have
missed each other.... Is that all you care about seeing me?--after all
these weeks!"
"I wanted to surprise you," he explained feebly.
"Well, you didn't! That is--not much. I'd been thinking of you--and I
glanced up and saw you. You're stopping at Molly's I suppose."
"Yes."
"When did you arrive?"
"L-last night," he admitted.
"What! And didn't call me up! I refuse to believe it of you!"
She really seemed indignant, and he followed her into the pretty house
where presently she became slightly mollified by his exuberant
admiration of the place.
"Are you in earnest?" she said. "Do you really think it so pretty? If
you do I'll take you upstairs and show you my room, and the three
beautiful spick and span guest rooms. But you'll never occupy one!"
she added, still wrathful at his apparent neglect of her. "I don't want
anybody here who isn't perfectly devoted to me. And it's very plain that
you are not."
He mildly insisted that he was but she denied it, hotly.
"And I shall never get over it," she added. "But you may come upstairs
and see what you have missed."
They went over the renovated house thoroughly; she, secretly enchanted
at his admiration and praise of everything, pointed out any object that
seemed to have escaped his attention merely to hear him approve it.
Finally she relented.
"You are satisfactory," she said as they returned to the front veranda
and seated themselves. "And really, Rix, I'm so terribly glad to see you
that I forgive your neglect.... Are you well? You don't look very
well," she added earnestly. "Why are you so white?"
"I'm in fine shape, thank you."
"I didn't mean your figure," she laughed--"Oh, that was a common kind
of a joke, wasn't it? But I'm only a farmer, Rix. You must expect the
ruder and simpler forms of speech from a lady of the woodshed!... Why
are you so pale?"
"Do I seem particularly underdone?"
"That's horrid, too. Are you and I going to degenerate just because you
work for a living? You are unusually thin, anyway; and the New York
pallor is very noticeable. Will you stay and get sun-burnt?"
"I could stay a few days."
"How many?"
"How many do you want me? Two whole days, Strelsa?"
She laughed at him, then looked at him a trifle shyly, but laughed again
as she answered:
"I want you to stay always, of course. Don't pretend that you don't know
it, because you are perfectly aware that I never tire of you. But if you
can stay only two days don't let us waste any time----"
"We're not wasting it here together, are we?"
"Don't you want to walk? I haven't a horse yet, except for agricultural
purposes. I'll rinse my hands and take off this apron--" She stood
unpinning and untying it, her gray eyes never leaving him in their
unabashed delight in him.
Then she disappeared for a few minutes only to reappear wearing a pair
of stout little shoes and carrying a walking-stick which she said she
used in rough country.
And first they visited her garden where all the old-fashioned autumn
flowers were in riotous bloom--scarlet sage, rockets, thickets of
gladiolus, heavy borders of asters, marigolds, and coreopsis; and here
she gave a few verbal directions to the yokel who gaped toothlessly in
reply.
After that, side by side, they swung off together across the hill, she,
lithe and slender, setting the springy pace and twirling her
walking-stick, he, less accustomed to the open and more so to the smooth
hot streets of the city, slackening pace first.
She chided and derided him and bantered him scornfully, then with sudden
sweet concern halted, reproaching herself for setting too hot a pace for
a city-worn and work-worn man.
But the cool shadows of the woods were near, and she made him rest on
the little footbridge--the same bridge where he had encountered Ledwith
for the first time in years. He recognised the spot.
After they had seated themselves and Strelsa, resting on the back of the
bridge seat, was contentedly dabbling in the stream with her cane,
Quarren said, slowly:
"Shall I tell you why I did not disturb you last night, Strelsa?"
"You can't excuse it----"
"You shall be judge and jury. It's rather a long story, though----"
"I am listening."
"Then, it has to do with Ledwith. He's not very well but he's better
than he was. You see he wanted to take a course of treatment to regain
his health, and there seemed to be nobody else, so--I offered to see
him through."
"That's like you, Rix," she said, looking at him.
"Oh, it wasn't anything--I had nothing to do----"
"That's like you, too. Did you pull him through?"
"He pulled himself through.... It was strenuous for two or three
days--and hot as the devil in that sanitarium." ... He laughed. "We both
were wrecks when we came out two weeks later--oh, a bit groggy, that's
really all.... And he had no place to go--and seemed to be inclined to
keep hold of my sleeve--so I telephoned Molly. And she said to bring him
up. That was nice of her, wasn't it?"
"Everybody is wonderful except you," she said.
"Nonsense," he said, "it wasn't I who went through a modified hell. He's
got a lot of backbone, Ledwith.... And so we came up last night....
And--now here's the interesting part, Strelsa! We strolled over to call
on Mrs. Ledwith----"
"What!"
"Certainly. I myself didn't see her but--" he laughed--"she seemed to be
at home to her ex-husband."
"Rix!"
"It's a fact. He went back there for breakfast this morning after he'd
changed his clothes."
"After--what?"
"Yes. It seems that they started out in a canoe about midnight and he
didn't turn up at Witch-Hollow until just before breakfast--and then he
only stayed long enough to change to boating flannels.... You should see
him; he's twenty years younger.... I fancy they'll get along together in
future."
"Oh, Rix!" she said, "that was darling of you! You are wonderful even
if you don't seem to know it!... And to think--to think that Mary
Ledwith is going to be happy again!... Oh, you don't know how it has
been with her--the silly, unhappy little thing!
"Why, after Mrs. Sprowl left, the girl went all to pieces. Molly and I
did what we could--but Molly isn't strong and Mrs. Ledwith was at my
house almost all the time--Oh, it was quite dreadful, and I'm sure she
was really losing her senses--because--I think I'll tell you--I tell you
everything--" She hesitated, and then, lowering her voice:
"She had come to see me, and she was lying on the lounge in my
dressing-room, crying; and I was doing my hair. And first I knew she
sobbed out that she had killed her husband and wanted to die, and she
caught up that pistol that Sir Charles gave me at the Bazaar last
winter--it looked like a real one--and the next thing I knew she had
fired a charge of Japanese perfume at her temple, and it was all over
her face and hair!... Don't laugh, Rix; she thought she had killed
herself, and I had a horrid, messy time of it reviving her."
"You poor child," he exclaimed trying not to laugh--"she had no brains
to blow out anyway.... That's a low thing to say. Ledwith likes her....
I really believe she's been scared into life-long good behaviour."
"She wasn't--really--horrid," said Strelsa in a low voice. "She told me
so."
"I don't doubt it," he said. "But one way or the other you might as well
reproach a humming-bird for its morals. There are such people."
After a short silence she said:
"Tell me about people in town."
"There are few there. Besides," he added smilingly, "I don't see much of
your sort of people."
"My sort?" she repeated, lifting her gray eyes. "Am I not your sort,
Rix?"
"Are you? You should see me in my overalls and shirt-sleeves, stained
with solvents and varnish, sticky with glue and reeking turpentine,
ironing out a canvas with a warm flat-iron!... Am I your kind, Strelsa?"
"Yes.... Am I your kind?"
"You always were. You know that."
"Yes, I do know it, now." She sat very still, hands folded, considering
him with gray and speculative eyes.
"From the very beginning," she said, "you have never once disappointed
me."
