came the answering thunder of artillery. Thirteen times did the distant
cannon bellow their salute, announcing Clinton's advance, our camp
swarmed like an excited hive, mounted officers galloping, foot officers
running, troops tumbling out as the drums rattled the "general" in
every regimental bivouac.
Colonel Proctor's artillery band marched out toward the landing place
as I entered No. 2 Block-House and ran up the ladder, and I heard the
ford-guard hurrahing and the garrison troops on the unfinished parapets
answering them with cheer after cheer.
At my loud rapping on the flooring, Lois opened the trap for me, her
lovely, youthful features flushed with excitement; Lana, behind her,
beckoned me; and I sprang up into the loft and paid my duty to them
both.
"What a noble earthquake of artillery up the river!" said Lois. "Butler
has no cannon, has he?"
"Not even a grasshopper!" said I gaily. "Those cannon shot are
Clinton's how d'ye do!"
"Poor's guns, were they not?" asked Lana, striving to smile. "And that
means you march away and leave us with 'The World Turned Upside Down!'"
And she shrugged her shoulders and whistled a bar of the old-time
British air.
"Come to the parapet!" said Lois impatiently. "For the last few minutes
there has been a sound in the woods--very far away, Euan--yet, if one
could hear so far I would swear that I heard the conch-horn of your
rifles!"
"Did I not tell you she knew it well?" said Lana with her pallid smile,
as we opened the massive guard-door, squeezed through the covered way,
and came out along the rifle-platform among our noisy soldiers.
"Listen!" murmured Lois, close at my elbow. "There! It comes again! Do
you not hear it, Euan! That low, long, sustained and heart-thrilling
undertone droning in the air through all this tumult!"
And presently I heard the sound--the wondrous melancholy, yet seductive
music of our conch-horn. Its magic call set my every pulse a-throbbing.
All the alluring mystery and solitude, all the sorrow of the wilderness
were in those long-drawn blasts; all the enchantment of the woodland,
too, calling, calling to the sons of the forest, riflemen, hunter,
Coureur-de-Bois.
For its elfin monotone was the very voice of the forest itself--the
deep, sweet whisper of virgin wilds, sacred, impenetrable, undefiled,
tempting forever the sons of men.
And now, across the misty river, there was a great tumult of shouting
as the first Otsego batteaux came into view; louder boomed our jolly
cohorn, leaping high in its sulphurous powder-cloud; and the artillery
band at the landing began to play "Iunadilla," which so deeply
pleasured me that I forgot and caught Lois's hands between my own and
pressed them there while her shoulder trembled against mine, and her
breath came faster as the music swung into "The Huron" with a barbaric
clash of cymbals.
It was a wondrous spectacle to see the navy of our Right Wing coming
on, the waves slapping on bow and quarter--two hundred and ten loaded
batteaux in line falling grandly down with the smooth and sunlit
current, three men to every boat. Then, opposite, a wild flurry of
bugle-horns announced our light infantry; and on they came, our merry
General Hand riding ahead. And we saw him dismount, fling his bridle to
an orderly, and lifting his sword and belt above his head, wade
straight into the ford. And Asa Chapman and Justus Gaylord guided him.
After these came the light troops in their cocked hats, guided by
Frederick Eveland; then a dun-coloured and dusty column emerged from
the brilliant green of the woods, a mass of tossing fringes and ringed
coon-tails and flashing rifle-barrels.
"The Rifles! hurrah for Morgan's men! Ha-i! The Eleventh Virginia!"
roared the soldiery all about us, while Lois tightened her arm around
mine and almost crushed my fingers with her own.
"There is Major Parr--and Captain Simpson--oh, and yonder minces my
macaroni Ensign!" cried Lois, as the brown column swung straight into
the ford, every rifle lifted, powder-horn and cartouche-box high
swinging and glittering in the sun.
I turned to look for Lana; and first caught sight of the handsome
wench, Dolly Glenn. And, following her restless gaze, I saw that Boyd
had come up to the rifle-platform to join Lana, and that they stood
together at a little distance from us. Also, I noticed that Lana's hand
was resting on his arm. In sharp contrast to the excited, cheering
soldiery thronging the platform, the attitude of these two seemed dull
and spiritless; and Boyd looked more frequently at her than on the
stirring pageant below; and once, under cover of the movement and
tumult, I saw her pale cheek press for a moment against his green
fringed shoulder cape--lightly--only for one brief moment. Yonder was
no coquetry, no caprice of audacity. There was a heart there as heavy
as the cheek was pale. It was love and nothing less--the pitiful
devotion of a lass in love whose lover marches on the morrow.
Lord--Lord! Had we but known!
As I stood beside Lois, I could not refrain from glancing toward them
at moments, not meaning to spy, yet somehow held fascinated and
troubled by what I had seen; for it seemed plain to me that if there
was love there, little of happiness flavored it. Also, whenever I
looked at them always I saw Dolly Glenn watching Boyd out of her darkly
beautiful and hostile eyes.
And afterward, when our big riflemen marched on to the parade below,
and we all hastened down, and the whole fort was a hubbub of cries and
cheers and the jolly voices of friends greeting friends--even then I
could scarce keep my eyes from these two and from the Glenn girl. And I
was glad when a large, fat dame came a-waddling, who proved to be Mrs.
Sabin; and she had a cold and baleful eye for Boyd, which his gay
spirits and airy blandishments neither softened nor abated.
Lois made me known to her very innocently and discreetly, and I made
her my best manners; but to my mortification, the disdain in her gaze
increased, as did her stiffness with Boyd and her chilling hauteur.
Lord! Here was no friend to men--at least, no friend to young men! That
I comprehended in a trice; and my chagrin was nothing mended as I
caught a sly glance from the merry and slightly malicious eyes of Boyd.
"Her husband is a fussy fat-head and she's a basalisk," he whispered.
"I thought she'd bite my head of when the ladies came on under my
protection."
She was more square and heavily solid than fat, like a squat
block-house; and as I stole another glance at her I wondered how she
was to mount the ladder and get her through the trap above. And by
heaven! When the moment came to try it, she could not. She attempted it
thrice; and the third effort hung her there, wedged in, squeaking like
a fat doe-rabbit--and Boyd and I, stifling with laughter, now pushing,
now tugging at her fat ankles. And finally got her out upon the ladder
platform, crimson and speechless in her fury; and we lingered not, but
fled together, not daring to face the lady at whose pudgy and nether
limbs we had pulled so heartily.
"Lord!" said Boyd. "If she complains of us to her Commissary husband,
there'll be a new issue not included in his department!"
And it doubled us with laughter to think on't, so that for lack o'
breath I sat down upon a log to hold my aching sides.
"Now, she'll be ever on their heels," muttered Boyd, "hen-like,
malevolent, and unaccountable. No man dare face and flout that lady,
whose husband also is utterly subjected. It was Betty Bleecker who set
her on me. Well, so no more of yonder ladies save in her bristling
presence."
Yet, as it happened, one thing barred Mistress Sabin from a perpetual
domination and sleepless supervision of her charges, and that was the
trap-door. Through it she could not force herself, nor could she come
around by the guard-door, for the covered way would not admit her ample
proportions. She could but mount her guard at the ladder's foot. And
there were two exits to that garret room.
That day I would have messed with my own people, Major Parr inviting
me, but that our General had all the Otsego officers to dine with him
at headquarters, and a huge punch afterward, from which I begged to be
excused, as it was best that I look to my Indians when any rum was
served in camp.
Boyd came later to the bush-hut, overflushed with punch, saying that he
had drawn sixty pair of shoes for his men, to spite old Sabin, and
meant to distribute them with music playing; and that afterward I was
to join him at the fort as he had orders for himself and for me from
the General, and desired to confer with me concerning them.
Later came word from him that he had a headache and would confer with
me on the morrow. Neither did I see Lois again that evening, a gill of
rum having been issued to every man, and I sticking close as a
wood-tick to my red comrades--indeed, I had them out after sunset to
watch the cattle-guard, who were in a sorry pickle, sixty head having
strayed and two soldiers missing. And the manoeuvres of that same guard
did ever sicken me.
It proved another bloody story, too, for first we found an ox with
throat cut; and, it being good meat, we ordered it taken in. And then,
in the bushes ahead, a soldier begins a-bawling that the devil is in
his horses, and that they have run back into the woods.
I heard him chasing them, and shouted for him to wait, but the poor
fool pays no heed, but runs on after his three horses; and soon he
screams out:
"God a'mighty!" And, "Christ have mercy!"
With that I blow my ranger's whistle, and my Indians pass me like
phantoms in the dusk, and I hot-foot after them; but it was too late to
save young Elliott, who lay there dead and already scalped, doubled up
in the bed of a little brook, his clenched hand across his eyes and a
Seneca knife in his smooth, boyish throat.
Late that night the Sagamore started, chased, and quickly cornered
something in a clump of laurel close to the river bank; and my Indians
gathered around like fiercely-whining hounds. It was starlight, but too
dark to see, except what was shadowed against the river; so we all lay
flat, waiting, listening for whatever it was, deer or bear or man.
Then the Night Hawk, who stood guard at the river, uttered the shrill
Oneida view-halloo; and into the thicket we all sprang crashing, and
strove to catch the creature alive; but the Sagamore had to strike to
save his own skull; and out of the bushes we dragged one of Amochol's
greasy-skinned assassins, still writhing, twisting, and clawing as we
flung him heavily and like a scotched snake upon the river sand, where
the Mohican struck him lifeless and ripped the scalp from his oiled and
shaven head.
The Erie's lifeless fist still clutched the painted casse-tete with
which he had aimed a silently murderous blow at the Sagamore.
Grey-Feather drew the death-maul from the dead warrior's grasp, and
handed it to the Siwanois.
Then Tahoontowhee, straightening his slim, naked figure to its full and
graceful height, raised himself on tiptoe and, placing his hollowed
hands to his cheeks, raised the shuddering echoes with the most
terrific note an Indian can utter.
As the forest rang with the fierce Oneida scalp-yell, very far away
along the low-browed mountain flank we could hear the far tinkle of
hoof and pebble, where the stolen horses moved; and out of the intense
blackness of the hills came faintly the answering defiance of the
Senecas, and the hideous miauling of the Eries, quavering, shuddering,
dying into the tremendous stillness of the Dark Empire which we had
insulted, challenged, and which we were now about to brave.
Once more Tahoontowhee's piercing defiance split the quivering silence;
once more the whining panther cry of the Cat-People floated back
through the far darkness.
Then we turned away toward our pickets; and, as we filed into our
lines, I could smell the paint and oil on the scalp that the Siwanois
had taken. And it smelled rank enough, God wot!
About nine on Monday morning the entire camp was alarmed by irregular
and heavy firing along the river; but it proved to be my riflemen
clearing their pieces; which did mortify General Clinton, and was the
subject of a blunt order from headquarters, and a blunter rebuke from
Major Parr to Boyd, who, I am inclined to think, did do this out of
sheer deviltry. For that schoolboy delight of mischief which never,
while he lived, was entirely quenched, was ever sparkling in those
handsome and roving eyes of his. For which our riflemen adored him,
being by every instinct reckless and irresponsible themselves, and only
held to discipline by their worship of Daniel Morgan, and the upright
character and the iron rigour of Major Parr.
Not that the 11th Virginia ever shrank from duty. No regiment in the
Continental army had a prouder record. But the men of that corps were
drawn mostly from those free-limbed, free-thinking, powerful, headlong,
and sometimes ruthless backwoodsmen who carried law into regions where
none but Nature's had ever before existed. And the law they carried was
their own.
It was a reproach to us that we scalped our red enemies. No officer in
the corps could prevent these men from answering an Indian's insult
with another of the same kind. And there remained always men in that
command who took their scalps as carelessly as they clipped a catamount
of ears and pads.
As for my special detail, I understood perfectly that I could no more
prevent my Indians from scalping enemies of their own race than I could
whistle a wolf-pack up wind. But I could stop their lifting the hair
from a dead man of my own race, and had made them understand very
plainly that any such attempt would be instantly punished as a personal
insult to myself. Which every warrior understood. And I have often
wondered why other officers commanding Indians, and who were ever
complaining that they could not prevent scalping of white enemies, did
not employ this argument, and enforce it, too. For had one of my men,
no matter which one, disobeyed, I would have had him triced up in a
twinkling and given a hundred lashes.
Which meant, also, that I would have had to kill him sooner or later.
There was a stink of rum in camp that morning and it is a quaffing
beverage which while I like to drink it in punch, the smell of it
abhors me. And ever and anon my Indians lifted their noses, sniffling
the tainted air; so that I was glad when a note was handed me from Boyd
saying that we were to take a forest stroll with my Indians around the
herd-guard, during which time he would unfold to me his plans.
So I started for the fort, my little party carrying rifles and sidearms
but no packs; and there waited across the ditch in the sunshine my
Indians, cross-legged in a row on the grass, and gravely cracking and
munching the sweet, green hazelnuts with which these woods abound.
On the parade inside the fort, and out o' the tail of my eye, I saw
Mistress Sabin knitting on a rustic settle at the base of Block-house
No. 2, and Captain Sabin beside her writing fussily in a large,
leather-bound book.
She did not know that the dovecote overhead was now empty, and that the
pigeons had flown; nor did I myself suspect such a business, even when
from the woods behind me came the low sound of a ranger's whistle blown
very softly. I turned my head and saw Boyd beckoning; and arose and
went thither, my Indians trotting at my heels.
Then, as I came up and stood to offer the officer's salute, Lois
stepped from behind a tree, laughing and laying her finger across her
lips, but extending her other hand to me.
And there was Lana, too, paler it seemed to me than ever, yet sweet and
simple in her greeting.
"The ladies desire to see our cattle," said Boyd, "The herd-guard is
doubled, our pickets trebled, and the rounds pass every half hour. So
it is safe enough, I think."
"Yet, scarce the country for a picnic," I said, looking uneasily at
Lois.
"Oh, Broad-brim, Broad-brim!" quoth she. "Is there any spice in life to
compare to a little dash o' danger?"
Whereat I smiled at her heartily, and said to Boyd:
"We pass not outside our lines, of course."
"Oh, no!" he answered carelessly. Which left me still reluctant and
unconvinced. But he walked forward with Lana through the open forest,
and I followed beside Lois; and, without any signal from me my Indians
quietly glided out ahead, silently extending as flankers on either side.
"Do you notice what they are about?" said I sourly. "Even here within
whisper of the fort?"
"Are you not happy to see me, Euan?" she cooed close to my ear.
"Not here; inside that log curtain yonder."
"But there is a dragon yonder," she whispered, with mischief adorable
in her sparkling eyes; then slipped hastily beyond my reach, saying:
"Oh, Euan! Forget not our vows, but let our conduct remain seemly
still, else I return."
I had no choice, for we were now passing our inner pickets, where a
line of bush-huts, widely set, circled the main camp. There were some
few people wandering along this line--officers, servants, boatmen,
soldiers off duty, one or two women.
Just within the lines there was a group of people from which a fiddle
sounded; and I saw Boyd and Lana turn thither; and we followed them.
Coming up to see who was making such scare-crow music, Lana said in a
low voice to us:
"It's an old, old man--more than a hundred years old, he tells us--who
has lived on the Ouleout undisturbed among the Indians until yesterday,
when we burnt the village. And now he has come to us for food and
protection. Is it not pitiful?"
I had a hard dollar in my pouch, and went to him and offered it. Boyd
had Continental money, and gave him a handful.
He was not very feeble, this ancient creature, yet, except among
Indians who live sometimes for more than a hundred years, I think I
never before saw such an aged visage, all cracked into a thousand
wrinkles, and his little, bluish eyes peering out at us through a sort
of film.
To smile, he displayed his shrivelled gums, then picked up his fiddle
with an agility somewhat surprising, and drew the bow harshly, saying
in his cracked voice that he would, to oblige us, sing for us a ballad
made in 1690; and that he himself had ridden in the company of horse
therein described, being at that time thirteen years of age.
And Lord! But it was a doleful ballad, yet our soldiers listened,
fascinated, to his squeaking voice and fiddle; and I saw the tears
standing in Lois's eyes, and Lana's lips a-quiver. As for Boyd, he
yawned, and I most devoutly wished us all elsewhere, yet lost no word
of his distressing tale:
  "God prosper long our King and Queen,
    Our lives and safeties all;
  A sad misfortune once there did
    Schenectady befall.
  "From forth the woods of Canady
    The Frenchmen tooke their way,
  The people of Schenectady
    To captivate and slay.
  "They march for two and twenty daies,
    All thro' ye deepest snow;
  And on a dismal winter night
    They strucke ye cruel blow.
  "The lightsome sunne that rules the day
    Had gone down in the West;
  And eke the drowsie villagers
    Had sought and found their reste.
  "They thought they were in safetie all,
    Nor dreamt not of the foe;
  But att midnight they all swoke
    In wonderment and woe.
  "For they were in their pleasant beddes,
    And soundlie sleeping, when
  Each door was sudden open broke
    By six or seven menne!
  "The menne and women, younge and olde,
    And eke the girls and boys,
  All started up in great affright
    Att the alarming noise.
  "They then were murthered in their beddes
    Without shame or remorse;
  And soon the floors and streets were strew'd
    With many a bleeding corse.
  "The village soon began to blaze,
    Which shew'd the horrid sight;
  But, O, I scarce can beare to tell
    The mis'ries of that night.
  "They threw the infants in the fire,
    The menne they did not spare;
  But killed all which they could find,
    Tho' aged or tho' fair.
  .  .  .  .  .  .
  .  .  .  .  .  .
  "But some run off to Albany
    And told the doleful tale;
  Yett, tho' we gave our chearful aid,
    It did not much avail.
  "And we were horribly afraid,
    And shook with terror, when
  They gave account the Frenchmen were
    More than a thousand menne.
  "The news came on a Sabbath morn,
    Just att ye break o' day;
  And with my companie of horse
    I galloped away.
  "Our soldiers fell upon their reare,
    And killed twenty-five;
  Our young menne were so much enrag'd
    They took scarce one alive.
  "D'Aillebout them did command,
    Which were but thievish rogues,
  Else why did they consent to goe
    With bloodye Indian dogges?
  "And here I end my long ballad,
    The which you just heard said;
  And wish that it may stay on earth
    Long after I be dead."
The old man bowed his palsied head over his fiddle, struck with his
wrinkled thumb a string or two; and I saw tears falling from his almost
sightless eyes.
Around him, under the giant trees, his homely audience stood silent and
spellbound. Many of his hearers had seen with their own eyes horrors
that compared with the infamous butchery at Schenectady almost a
hundred years ago. Doubtless that was what fascinated us all.
But Boyd, on whom nothing doleful made anything except an irritable
impression, drew us away, saying that it was tiresome enough to fight
battles without being forced to listen to the account of 'em afterward;
at which, it being true enough, I laughed. And Lois looked up winking
away her tears with a quick smile. As for Lana, her face was tragic and
colourless as death itself. Seeing which, Boyd said cheerfully:
"What is there in all the world to sigh about, Lanette? Death is far
away and the woods are green."
"The woods are green," repeated Lana under her breath, "yet, there are
many within call who shall not live to see one leaf fall."
"Why, what a very dirge you sing this sunny morning!" he protested,
still laughing; and I, too, was surprised and disturbed, for never had
I heard Lana Helmer speak in such a manner.
"'Twas that dreary old fiddler," he added with a shrug. "Now, God save
us all, from croaking birds of every plumage, and give us to live for
the golden moment."
"And for the future," said Lois.
"The devil take the future," said Boyd, his quick, careless laugh
ringing out again. "Today I am lieutenant, and Loskiel, here, is
ensign. Tomorrow we may be captains or corpses. But is that a reason
for pulling a long face and confessing every sin?"
"Have you, then, aught to confess?" asked Lois, in pretense of surprise.
"I? Not a peccadillo, my pretty maid--not a single one. What I do, I
do; and ask no leniency for the doing. Therefore, I have nothing to
confess."
Lana stopped, bent low over a forest blossom, and touched her face to
it. Her cheeks were burning. All about us these frail, snowy blossoms
