lord. Marguerite!” she interrupted herself to exclaim. “The costume of
madame!”
Then, as the assistant also assisted Leilah, reflectively the première
resumed:
“I hear that every New York young lady loves a lord. But----”
She hesitated. Visibly the vision evoked, confused. Yet, after a
second’s pause, rallying, she continued.
“Perhaps it is not every New York young lady who has a lord to love.
Perhaps many of them love the same lord.”
Discreetly she smiled. “And that must be so nice for him!”
Considering Leilah, she concluded:
“But another day----”
Of it all, Leilah heard but that. “Yes,” she answered, “another day.”
Then, presently, after more attentions, the première accompanied her to
the door.
“Rue François Premier,” Leilah told the groom.
The machine shot ahead. Arrested shortly by a congestion of traffic, it
halted before a window behind which Verplank and Silverstairs sat.
Leilah, unconscious of their presence, gazed at the murky cinematograph
of the street, filled at this hour with faces sordid, petulant,
indifferent, or frankly gay; with the passing forms of workmen, idlers,
shopgirls, vagabonds; the swarming Parisian crowd which did not, she
believed, contain one soul as miserable as her own.
The congestion relieved, the motor shot on. Leilah leaned back. It was
not so long ago that she was on her way from New York to Coronado. She
was happy then, happy with a happiness so perfect that it lifted her
into the ultimate ecstasies which love and life comport. It was not so
long ago, only six short months, only that brief eternity of sorrow
which, unended yet, had been the damning penalty of that joy.
“In this life ye shall have tribulation,” the Christ had said, and
truly said, and as she rememorated the significant menace, she wondered
whether for such as she, tribulation ended here. But her creed assured
her. From the Vidyâ she had acquired faith in fate, the belief rather
that we make our own destiny, that it is by our own hands that our
lives are cast in places pleasant or the reverse, that our conduct
in one life creates the conditions of our existence in another, that
anything experienced now is the effect of a cause set going in the
past, that happiness is the recompense of beneficence, deformity the
result of cruelty, melancholy the penalty of evil thoughts. But whether
retribution pursued its victim into future planes or abandoned them
when they died, depended, she also believed, on how they faced it here,
and it was in this idea that, during the unended sorrow, she had found
the strength to bear its coils.
The motor stopped. She told the groom to wait. Presently she was among
the subdued tints and harmonised furnishings of the drawing room of her
friend.
At once, clearly in her limpid voice, considering her with brilliant
eyes, Violet Silverstairs aimed and fired.
“You’re a liar!”
At the shot Leilah attempted to smile, and though she failed, it was
not because she fancied there could be any reproach in the term, but
because latterly she had been unable to smile at all.
“You’re a liar,” Violet repeated. “Also, you are late.”
“I know I am late and I am sorry,” Leilah withdrawing her gloves,
replied. “But how am I a liar?”
“Come to luncheon and you will precious soon find out. I had some eggs
for you, eggs à l’Aurore Boréale. I had a sweetbread. I had--I have
forgotten what else. Now I have nothing. Everything is spoiled.”
Violet Silverstairs was perhaps imaginative. There were eggs, very good
eggs too, though whether prepared in the Aurora Borealis fashion is
perhaps beside the issue. Moreover there was a sweetbread, one that had
been germinated on salt meadows and which was not spoiled in the least.
In addition there were the other things which she had forgotten and
all of them appetising in the extreme. It was an excellent luncheon,
perfectly served in a beautiful room. But it was a luncheon for
Sybarites, not for the suffering. After the first morsel Leilah was
unable to eat.
“Where is Silverstairs?” she asked when that morsel had been consumed.
“With your ex.”
Leilah put down her fork. “With Gulian?”
Violet laughed. “Have you more than one? But it was just through him
that your lie cropped out. Last night he swore by bell, book and candle
that you had never told him why you cut and ran.”
It was at this juncture that Leilah found herself unable to eat.
Instantly her mind shot back. She was at Coronado again, in the
sunshine and frippery of her sitting room. She could see Verplank as
he left it, see the letters that had been brought, see herself as
she opened one of them, that one which with its enclosures she had
redirected and left for him. The possibility never before conjectured,
that he had not received it girdled her with a zone of ice. For a
moment she looked fixedly at one of the windows through which the
pale daylight fell. In the beautiful room, companioned by her nearest
friend, she felt that sense of utter loneliness which in the great
crises of life is experienced by all. Yet was it true?
“Violet!” she cried. “You are jesting.”
But the lady, determined then or never to learn the truth, cocked an
eye at her. “I am not, nor was he.”
At that, Leilah felt the girdle of ice sending its shivers through her.
The plan she had made must, she saw, be foregone. If Verplank did not
know why she had separated from him, never would he leave Paris until
he did. But what must he have thought, she agonisedly reflected, and
what must he think!
Violet, who had been watching her, said:
“Why don’t you tell me?”
Leilah taking up her fork again, tried for countenance sake, to affect
to eat. The effort was beyond her. She put it down.
“I can’t,” she at last replied.
Violet, her brilliant eye still cocked, almost winked.
“Yes, you said that before. But you see, don’t you know, that whether
you can or cannot tell me, you will have to tell him and, in the
circumstances, would it not be best to have me do it for you? To be
sure, if you had taken my advice and omitted to marry Barouffski, I
would say, have it out with him yourself. But your marriage does not
seem to have simplified matters, which, so far as I can make out, are
now pretty thoroughly mixed.”
The lady spoke better than she knew. Matters were complicated
though how profoundly she had no idea, nor was Leilah aware that the
situation, already tortuous, was to become even more intricately
labyrinthine.
“Of course,” Violet, in her bell-like voice, threw out, “after running
away, getting a divorce and marrying another man, I can fancy that you
don’t much want to see him. But, really, you owe it to yourself to give
the reason, particularly as it is he who is to blame.”
At this, Leilah, who had been looking down into her prison, looked up.
“I never said so.”
“No, but was it necessary? Even nowadays, even in the States, a woman
does not cut and run because butter won’t melt in her husband’s mouth.
She does so because she has, or thinks she has, a grievance and the
man, if he is a man, ought to be given an opportunity to apologise,
however imaginary the grievance may be.”
Leilah shook her head. “There can be no apology here.”
Violet laughed. “That is just what I would say if I had gone and done
it. Then it would be for Silverstairs to try on his knees to get me to
listen to one--provided, of course, that in the interim I had not taken
over another man, for in that case I verily believe he would wring my
neck. But you need fear nothing of the sort from Verplank. He seemed
anxious only to wring Barouffski’s.”
Leilah made another futile effort with her fork. Absently she answered:
“I don’t believe he knew who he was.”
“You don’t! After his telling him! But, apropos, what became of d’Arcy?
I thought you and he were safely tucked away in a corner, otherwise
never in the world would I have marched your Number One up to your
Number Two.”
“D’Arcy!” Leilah repeated. She had barely heard. She scarcely knew what
she was saying, still less what was being said.
“Yes, le beau d’Arcy. Marie de Fresnoy told me that the other day at
the races he was about to pay a ragamuffin of a girl for a flower, when
she said: ‘I’d rather you kissed me.’ Fancy that! She told me too that
a man who had a husband’s reasons for wanting to kill him, was afraid
to say a word. It appears he is a dead shot. But it appears also that
your lovely Barouffski is one of the best swordsmen here. Verplank had
better look out. To return though to our Chablis Moutonne. What will
you do?”
Leilah, her thoughts afar, made no reply.
“What will you do?” Violet repeated.
From afar the question floated, descended, trod among the tender
places of Leilah’s soul. At the pain of it she winced. “God help me, I
do not know.”
Violet, cocking an eye again, insinuated: “Let me take a hand.” She
paused, then, for clincher, threw out: “He dines here to-morrow.”
“Here!” Leilah exclaimed, half rising, fearful now that at any moment
he might appear. “Here! With you?”
Violet nodded. “Why yes. Why not? If I can’t confess you, perhaps I can
him. At any rate I can try. You can’t blame me for wanting to, either.
You abandoned him on your honeymoon. You won’t tell me why and he says
he don’t know. But he must suspect. He must have concluded that you
left him for this, that or the other. I want to find out what his this,
that and the other are and then make my own selection. It is true he
did say that it was because of Barouffski. But that’s all gammon. You
never saw Barouffski until you got here. There is something else and
what that is I want to find out. No, you can’t blame me. It is the
instinct of self-preservation. If I don’t get at the bottom of it soon,
I shall simply go mad.”
A laugh, clear and musical, wound up the lady’s chatter. She had no
more idea of going mad than she had of jumping out of the window. But
she wanted to know and that was only human.
But now, Leilah, who a moment before had half risen, stood up. “Violet,
I am not well, you must let me go. Yes,” she added as the lady remarked
that on the morrow she might appear in the rue de la Pompe. “Yes, yes.”
She would have said yes to anything. Hurriedly she got away.
Without the motor waited.
“Home,” she told the groom.
A little before she had thought herself the most miserable of
beings. But however deep the hell, there is always a deeper one. Add
uncertainty to distress and the sum of it is sorrow multiplied by the
infinite. That hell, that sorrow was or seemed to be, hers. She did not
know where to go, what to do, to whom to turn.
The pitiable plan of flight returned to her. Again she put it aside.
She could not adopt it now. Besides, though she owed a duty to herself,
she owed another to Verplank. In what manner he had failed to receive
the letter, it was impossible for her to imagine, but the fact that he
had not received it, hurt her doubly, hurt her for herself, hurt her
for him. Had it reached him, both would have been spared this pass.
But it had not reached him and since then what must he have thought of
her? What!
The query, which kept repeating itself, tortured her and on that
torture was superposed the precarious problem of his enlightenment.
See him she could not. To write was beyond her ability. For there are
things no pen should write as there are others no tongue should tell.
None the less the truth she knew must reach him and would do so best,
she thought, through some channel similar to that from which the letter
had proceeded, from a source either indifferent or inimical to them
both.
At the auto-suggestion, her thoughts fluttered, scattered, grouped,
then suddenly regrouping, produced a name. Beneath her breath she
uttered it.
“Barouffski!”
It was not in provision of this that she had married him. At the
time no such possibility had even impossibly loomed. But she had
married him precisely as she had obtained a divorce, in order to
barricade the future from the past; in order also for the fleshpots
which she craved--peace and security. She had not had much of either.
None the less, the primary object which she had sought had, in its
accomplishment, persisted. He was a barricade. He was her official and
paid protector.
For the task therefore which she could not perform, he seemed naturally
indicated. What alone gave her pause was the certainty that he would
enjoy it. She could see him, see his ambiguous smile, see his green
eyes aglow, his cruel and sensual mouth distended.
From the picture she turned. Beyond was a church, the frontal draped
with black. The motor had stopped. It had reached the house in the rue
de la Pompe and pending the opening of the doors, whirred as it blocked
the sidewalk.
It was then that she turned. Beside her, arrested by the car, stood
Verplank.
After walking up from Voisin’s with Silverstairs he had left him a
moment earlier at Tempest’s.
But the great doors had opened. Before Verplank could speak, the
machine slid in. As it entered the court, the doors closed noisily.
VIII
On alighting at the perron, Leilah had as always to endure the
ceremonial of two footmen assiduously assisting her.
“Emmanuel,” she said to one of them. “Is Monsieur Barouffski at home?”
“No, madame la comtesse.”
Leilah passed on and up. For a moment, in the hall above, she
hesitated. Then, pushing a portière aside, she entered a salon, went to
the window, and looked out. Crossing the court was Verplank.
Fear and the fear of it, the throttling sensation which children know
when pursued, enveloped her. With an idea of telling the servants that
she was out, that she was ill, that she could see no one, she turned.
On a table near the entrance was a service of Sevrès. Its tender hues
were repeated on the ceiling. Beneath was the mirror of a waxed and
polished floor. On the glistening wood work her foot slipped. She
staggered, recovered herself, got to the door.
Already Verplank had entered. She could hear him. He was not asking,
he was demanding to see her. The form of the order mounted violently.
“Tell your mistress that I am here.”
Even then, with the idea that she might still deny herself, Leilah drew
back into the room. Mentally she was framing a phrase when Emmanuel
entered.
With that air domestics have when tidying something objectionable, the
footman reconstructed Verplank’s command:
“There is a monsieur who inquires whether madame la comtesse receives?”
“Tell him----”
But the injunction, as yet not wholly formed, was never completed.
Verplank, brushing the man aside, strode in.
Leilah, retreating before him, motioned at Emmanuel, and the servant,
with an affronted air of personal grievance, vacated this room that was
charged now with the vibrations of hostilities begun.
Retreating yet farther, her eyes on the foe, Leilah stared at him, and,
as she retreated, Verplank, staring, too, advanced. In his stare were
threats so voluble that she thought: “He will kill me.” At the thought,
there appeared before her Death’s liberating face, the mysteriously
consoling visage which it reveals to those alone who have reached the
depth of human woe.
Beyond, from the church, came the music of an organ. A requiem was
being held. Leilah felt as though it were her own.
Verplank, his hands clenched, the look of an executioner about him,
threw at her:
“For six months I have been looking for you. I am come to have you tell
me why I have had to look at all.”
“Dies irae, dies illa,” admirably, in a clear contralto, a woman’s
voice rang out.
Neither heard it. At the menace of the man, Leilah shrank, and in an
effort at defense cried pitiably:
“Gulian! I left a letter for you.”
Angrily he tossed his head.
“I received none, nor did I need any to tell me that there are women on
the street, others in jail, that are less vile than you.”
“Teste David cum Sibylla,” clearly and beautifully the voice resumed.
“Gulian!” Leilah cried again.
With whips in his words, he added:
“No harlot could have acted more infamously than you.”
At the lash of the outrage, Leilah, joining her hands, held them to
him. “Gulian! You are killing me!”
“It is what you deserve. There are no penalties now for such turpitudes
as yours. But, when there were, women like you were beaten with rods,
they were lapidated, stoned to death, and death was too good for them;
they should have been made to go about, as they afterward were, as you
should be, in a yellow wig, in a yellow gown, that even children might
point and cry: ‘Shame!’”
The words, which he tore from his mouth, he hurled at her. She cowered
before them. On a chair near by she had put her bag. Her wrap had
fallen from her. In the church now the hymn had ceased. The ringing of
the Elevation was beginning.
“Gulian! As if shame had not cried at me! Gulian, I have been scourged,
I have been stoned. If I live, it is to implore of you mercy.”
Her hands, still joined, were still extended, and in her face was an
expression of absolute despair. But this martyr attitude seemed to him
the most abominable of hypocrisies, and it was with anger refreshed
that he lashed her again.
“Mercy? Yes, you want mercy, you, who were merciless in your treachery
to me. A sweep would have had more decency, a scullion more heart. I
put in your hands my trust, my love, my honour, and you who want mercy
dragged them in dirt.”
“Gulian!” Within her now was that invincible need of justice which
impels the weakest to protest against the savagery of wrong. “Gulian!
When you know!”
“I do know. I know you and your lies, and the infamy of them too well.
At Coronado----”
“Gulian! You are not killing me merely, you torture my very soul.”
He sneered.
“Do I? Do I, indeed! No, you compliment yourself. It is what I want to
do, but you cheat me even there. No woman with a soul could have done
this soulless thing.”
The brutality of the arraignment shook her. She leaned against the
chair for support. She felt hopeless, helpless, defenseless, and it was
because the need for justice still impelled her, that she protested
anew.
“Gulian, if only you knew! If only you had had that letter! Had it
reached you, you would know that there was no deceit, that I left you
for your sake as well as my own. Gulian, if I had not gone you would
have seen and made me tell you, and then it may be you would have taken
me and thrown me with you from the yacht.”
There were tears in her words. With one hand she held to the chair,
the other she raised to her head. It pained her. She felt bruised and
looked it.
    “Ecce panis Angelorum
     Factus cibus viatorum----”
Beyond, sustained by the arpeggios of the organ, the voice of a singer
mounted sheerly like a thread of gold. It lowered and heightened.
Presently, on a note, as if abruptly snapped, it ceased. The organ
continued. It renewed the canticle. It projected a scale that ascended
slowly, as though upward and onward, over the limitless steps of
eternity, it were lifting the soul of the dead.
Leilah wished it were her own. Sadly she added:
“God knows it would have been better. Anything would be better than
that you should speak to me as you do.”
There is an innocence that appeals, a sincerity that disarms, a
candour that outfaces every proof, and Verplank, who had been bent on
overwhelming this woman with a contempt which he felt wholly deserved,
was impressed, in spite of himself, by the evident ingenuousness, by
the evident wretchedness, too, of her words.
He moved back.
“You say I would have made you tell me?”
“Yes. Yes. You would have.”
“But made you tell me what?”
Leilah, still holding one hand to her head, raised the other from the
chair, and with it made a gesture slight, yet desolate.
“What was it?” he asked.
Before replying, she looked away.
“What I hid from you rather than repeat.”
“But repeat what?”
Her face still turned from him, she answered:
“Something, my--something Mr. Ogston sent me.”
“Mr. Ogston!” Verplank exclaimed. The formality of the statement
astounded him. “Do you mean your father? What did he send you?”
But Leilah would not or could not speak. Her mouth contracted as though
she were choking, and she put a hand to her throat.
“Tell me,” he insisted.
She turned, and beseechingly she looked at him.
“Gulian, I cannot.”
At that Verplank moved nearer, and so dominatingly that again she
extended her hands.
“Gulian, I will get some one else to tell you. I had intended to.
Believe me, it is better so.”
“It concerns me?”
“Yes, you.”
“And you?”
“Yes, both of us.”
“Then you shall tell me, and tell me now. Do you hear?”
“Gulian!” she cried. She raised her clasped hands to him. “Gulian!”
But Verplank, his jaw ominously square, confronted her.
“I say you shall.”
“Don’t look at me then,” she pleaded. “Bend your head, bend it lower.
One second, then I will. One second--one. Ah, God! I cannot.”
Verplank, who at her bidding had stooped, straightened himself, and
caught at her.
“I say you shall.”
“Gulian, a moment. Give me a moment. Now bend your head again. One
moment, Gulian; your father, your father---- My mother loved him.”
“Your mother loved my father!”
“Gulian, I am his daughter.”
“You are what?”
“I am your sister.”
As she whispered it, she covered her face. Verplank started,
straightened again, raised his arm, and, with a gesture wide,
elemental, absurd, and human, struck at the empty air.
Savagely he turned to her.
“And you believe this?”
Leilah, her head bowed, her face covered, shook with sobs.
“You believe it?” he repeated.
“There were letters,” she stammered. “Three letters. No one could read
them and not--and not----”
“And it was for this you left me?”
A fresh access seized her. He could not see her tears, he heard them.
“And it was for this you got a divorce?”
On the chair beside her was her bag. She felt in it, and got out a
handkerchief.
“And it was for this you took that cad?”
Slowly, with infinite hesitations, the bit of cambric held to a face
that was wet and white, she turned to him.
“I thought you would forget. I thought you would marry. I thought
you would be happy. I hoped so that you would. But my leaving you,
the divorce, the marriage, these things were done with no idea of
happiness. They were to serve as barriers between us.”
Impotently he stamped a foot. He was furious still. But his anger had
deflected. He was enraged less at her than at circumstances.
“Rubbish! That’s what your barriers are.”
Leilah, wiping her eyes, turned from him. The barriers, however
