marriage is a matter of business, to be 
considered and decided by her parents 
and those of the young man. Now, 
whatever we may think right, it is hu- 
manly certain that where marriages are 
made in that way, the need of men and 
women for sympathy and for passionate 
interest will often lead to the forming of 
irregular relationships after marriage. It 
is not possible to present statistics as to 
the number of such irregular relationships in 
Parisian society; but in the books which 
he read and in the plays which he saw, 
 
George found everything to encourage 
him to think that it was a romantic and 
delightful thing to keep up a secret intrigue 
with the wife of his best friend. 
It should also, perhaps, be pointed out 
that we are here telling the truth, and 
the whole truth, about George Dupont; 
and that it is not customary to tell this 
about men, either in real life or in novels. 
There is a great deal of concealment 
in the world about matters of sex; and 
in such matters the truth-telling man is 
apt to suffer in reputation in comparison 
with the truth-concealing one. 
Nor had George really been altogether 
callous about the thing. It had happened 
that his best friend had died in his arms; 
and this had so affected the guilty pair 
that they had felt their relationship was 
no longer possible. She had withdrawn 
to nurse her grief alone, and George had 
been so deeply affected that he had avoided 
affairs and entanglements with women 
until his meeting with Lizette. 
All this was now in the far distant 
past, but it had made a deeper impres- 
 
sion upon George than he perhaps reaHzed, 
and it was now working in his mind and 
marring his happiness. Here was a girl 
who loved him with a noble and unselfish 
and whole-hearted love — and yet he would 
never be able to trust her as she deserved, 
but would always have suspicions lurking 
in the back of his mind. He would be 
unable to have his friends intimate in his 
home, because of the memory of what he 
had once done to a friend. It was a subtle 
kind of punishment. But so it is that 
Nature often finds ways of punishing us, 
without our even being aware of it. 
That was all for the future, however. 
At present, George was happy. He put 
his black sin behind him, feeling that he 
had obtained absolution by his confession 
to Henriette. Day by day, as he realized 
his good fortune, his round face beamed 
with more and yet more joy. 
He went for a little trip to Henriette 's 
home in the country. It was a simple 
village, and they took walks in the country, 
and stopped to refresh themselves at a 
farmhouse occupied by one of M. Loches' 
 
tenants. Here was a rosy and buxom 
peasant woman, with a nursing child in 
her arms. She was destined a couple of 
years later to be the foster-mother of 
Henriette's little girl and to play an impor- 
tant part in her Hfe. But the pair had no 
idea of that at present. They simply saw 
a proud and happy mother, and Henriette 
played with the baby, giving vent to 
childish delight. Then suddenly she looked 
up and saw that George was watching her, 
and as she read his thoughts a beautiful 
blush suffused her cheeks. 
As for George, he turned away and 
went out under the blue sky in a kind of 
ecstasy. Life seemed very wonderful to 
him just then; he had found its supreme 
happiness, which was love. He was really 
getting quite mad about Henriette, he 
told himself. He could hardly beheve 
that the day was coming when he would 
be able to clasp her in his arms. 
But in the blue sky of George's happi- 
ness there was one httle cloud of storm. 
As often happens with storm-clouds, it was 
 
so small that at first he paid no attention 
to it at all. 
He noted upon his body one day a tiny 
ulcer. At first he treated it with salve pur- 
chased from an apothecary. Then after 
a week or two, when this had no effect, he 
began to feel imcomfortable. He remem- 
bered suddenly something he had heard 
about the symptoms of an unmentionable, 
dreadful disease, and a vague terror took 
possession of him. 
For days he tried to put it to one side. 
The idea was nonsense, it was absurd 
in connection with a woman so respecta- 
ble! But the thought would not be put 
away, and finally he went to a school 
friend, who was a man of the world, and 
got him to talk on the subject. Of 
course, George had to be careful, so that 
his friend should not suspect that he had 
any special purpose in mind. 
The friend was willing to talk. It was 
a vile disease, he said; but one was fool- 
ish to bother about it, because it was so 
rare. There were other diseases which 
fellows got, which nearly ever'' fellow 
had, and to which none of them paid any 
attention. But one seldom met anyone 
who had the red plague that George dreaded. 
''And yet' he added, '' according to the 
books, it isn't so uncommon. I suppose 
the truth is that people hide it. A chap 
naturally wouldn't tell, when he knew it 
would damn him for life.'' 
George had a sick sensation inside of 
him. "Is it as bad as that?" he asked. 
"Of course," said the other. "Should 
you want to have anything to do with a 
person who had it? Should you be willing 
to room with him or travel with him? 
You wouldn't even want to shake hands 
with him!" 
"No, I suppose not," said George, feebly. 
"I remember," continued the other, 
"an old fellow who used to live out in the 
country near me. He was not so very 
old, either, but he looked it. He had to 
be pushed around in a wheel-chair. People 
said he had locomotor ataxia, but that 
really meant syphilis. We boys used 
to poke all kinds of fun at him because 
one windy day his hat and his wig were 
 
blown off together, and we discovered 
that he was as bald as an egg. We used 
to make jokes about his automobile, as 
we called it. It had a httle handle in 
front, instead of a steering-wheel, and a 
man behind to push, instead of an engine," 
''How horrible!" remarked George with 
genuine feeling. 
''I remember the poor devil had a 
stroke of paralysis soon after," continued 
the friend, quite carelessly. ''He could 
not steer any more, and also he lost his 
voice. When you met him he would 
look at you as if he thought he was talk- 
ing, but all he could say was 'Ga-ga-ga." 
George went away from this conversa- 
tion in a cold sweat. He told himself 
over and over again that he was a fool, 
but still he could not get the hellish idea 
out of his mind. He found himself brood- 
ing over it all day and lying awake at night, 
haunted by images of himself in a wheel- 
chair, and without any hair on his head. 
He realized that the sensible thing would 
be for him to go to a doctor and make 
certain about his condition; but he could 
 
not bring himself to face the ordeal — 'he 
was ashamed to admit to a doctor that he 
had laid himself open to such a taint. 
He began to lose the radiant ex- 
pression from his romid and rosy face. 
He had less appetite, and his moods of 
depression became so frequent that he 
could not hide them even from Henriette. 
She asked him once or twice if there were 
not something the matter wath him, and 
he laughed — a forced and hurried laugh — 
and told her that he had sat up too late 
the night before, worrying over the mat- 
ter of his examinations. Oh, what a 
cruel thing it was that a man who stood 
in the very gateway of such a garden of 
dehght should be tormented and made 
miserable by this loathsome idea! 
The disturbing symptom still continued, 
and so at last George purchased a medical 
book, dealing with the subject of the 
disease. Then, indeed, he opened up a 
chamber of horrors; he made his mind an 
abiding place of ghastly images. In the 
book there were pictures of things so 
awful that he turned white, and trembled 
 
like a leaf, and had to close the volume 
and hide it in the bottom of his trunk. 
But he could not banish the pictures from 
his mind. Worst of all, he could not forget 
the description of the first symptom of 
the disease, which seemed to correspond 
exactly with his own. So at last he made 
up his mind he must ascertain definitely 
the truth about his condition. 
He began to think over plans for seeing 
a doctor. He had heard somewhere a 
story about a young fellow who had fallen 
into the hands of a quack, and been ruined 
forever. So he decided that he would 
consult only the best authority. 
He got the names of the best-known 
works on the subject from a bookstore, 
and found that the author of one of these 
books was practicing in Paris as a specialist. 
Two or three days elapsed before he 
was able to get up the courage to call on 
this doctor. And oh, the shame and 
horror of sitting in his waiting-room with 
the other people, none of whom dared to 
look each other in the eyes! They must 
all be afflicted, George thought, and he 
 
glanced at them furtively, looking for the 
various symptoms of which he had read. 
Or were there, perhaps, some like himself — 
merely victims of a foolish error, coming 
to have the hag of dread pulled from off 
their backs? 
And then suddenly, while he was specu- 
lating, there stood the doctor, signaling 
to him. His turn had come! 
CHAPTER II 
THE doctor was a man about forty 
years of age, robust, with every 
appearance of a strong character. 
In the buttonhole of the frock coat he wore 
was a red rosette, the decoration of some 
order. Confused and nervous as George 
was, he got a vague impression of the 
physician's richly furnished office, with its 
bronzes, marbles and tapestries. 
The doctor signaled to the young man 
to be seated in the chair before his desk. 
George complied, and then, as he wiped 
away the perspiration from his forehead, 
stammered out a few words, explaining his 
errand. Of course, he said, it could not 
be true, but it was a man's duty not to 
take any chances in such a matter. "I 
have not been a man of loose life," he 
added; ''I have not taken so many chances 
as other men." 
 
The doctor cut him short with the brief 
remark that one chance was all that was 
necessary. Instead of discussing such ques- 
tions, he would make an examination. 
''We do not say positively in these cases 
until we have made a blood test. That is 
the one way to avoid the possibility of 
mistake." 
A drop of blood was squeezed out of 
George's finger on to a little glass plate. 
The doctor retired to an adjoining room, 
and the victim sat alone in the office, deriv- 
ing no enjoyment from the works of art 
which surrounded him, but feeling like a 
prisoner who sits in the dock with his life 
at stake while the jury deliberates. 
The doctor returned, calm and impas- 
sive, and seated himself in his office-chair. 
"Well, doctor?'' asked George. He was 
trembling with terror. 
''Well," was the reply, "there is no 
doubt whatever." 
George wiped his forehead. He could 
not credit the words. "No doubt what- 
ever? In what sense?" 
"In the bad sense," said the other. 
 
He began to write a prescription, with- 
out seeming to notice how George turned 
pale with terror. "Come' he said, after 
a silence, ''you must have known the truth 
pretty well' 
''No, no, sir!'' exclaimed George. 
''Well," said the other, "you have 
syphihs." 
George was utterly stunned. "My 
God!" he exclaimed. 
The doctor, having finished his pre- 
scription, looked up and observed his 
condition. "Don't trouble yourseK, sir. 
Out of every seven men you meet upon the 
street, in society, or at the theater, there 
is at least one who has been in your condi- 
tion. One out of seven — fifteen per cent!" 
George was staring before him. He 
spoke low, as if to himself. "I know what 
I am going to do!" 
"And I know also," said the doctor, 
with a smile. "There is your prescrip- 
tion. You are going to take it to the drug- 
store and have it put up." 
George took the prescription, mechani- 
cally, but whispered, "No, sir." 
 
''Yes, sir, you are going to do as every- 
body else does." 
"No, because my situation is not that 
of everybody else. I know what I am 
going to do." 
Said the doctor: "Five times out of 
ten, in the chair where you are sitting, 
people talk like that, perfectly sincerely. 
Each one believes himself more unhappy 
than all the others; but after thinking it 
over, and listening to me, they understand 
that this disease is a companion with 
whom one can live. Just as in every 
household, one gets along at the cost of 
mutual concessions, that's all. Come, sir, 
I tell you again, there is nothing about it 
that is not perfectly ordinary, perfectly 
natural, perfectly common; it is an accident 
which can happen to any one. It is a 
great mistake that people speak of this as 
the 'French disease,' for there is none 
which is more universal. Under the pic- 
ture of this disease, addressing myself to 
those who follow the oldest profession in 
the world, I would write the famous 
phrase: 'Here is your master. It is, it 
was, or it must be.' " 
 
George was putting the prescription into 
the outside pocket of his coat, stupidly, 
as if he did not know what he was doing. 
''But, sir,'' he exclaimed, "I should have 
been spared!'' 
''Why?" inquired the other. "Because 
you are a man of position, because you are 
rich? Look around you, sir. See these 
works of art in my room. Do you imagine 
that such things have been presented to 
me by chimney-sweeps?" 
"But, Doctor," cried George, with a 
moan, "I have never been a libertine. 
There was never any one, you understand 
me, never any one could have been more 
careful in his pleasures. If I were to tell 
you that in all my life I have only had 
two mistresses, what would you answer to 
that?" 
"I would answer, that a single one would 
have been sufficient to bring you to me." 
"No, sir!" cried George. "It could not 
have been either of those women." He 
went on to tell the doctor about his first 
mistress, and then about Lizette. Finally 
he told about Henriette, how much he 
 
adored her. He could really use such a 
word — 'he loved her most tenderly. She 
was so good — 'and he had thought himself 
so lucky! 
As he went on, he could hardly keep 
from going to pieces. ''I had everything' 
he exclaimed, "everything a man needed! 
All who knew me envied me. And then I 
had to let those fellows drag me off to that 
miserable supper-party! And now here I 
am! My future is ruined, my whole exist- 
ence poisoned! What is to become of me? 
Everybody will avoid me — 'I shall be a 
pariah, a leper!'' 
He paused, and then in sudden wild 
grief exclaimed, "Come now! Would it 
not be better that I should take myself 
out of the way? At least, I should not 
suffer any more. You see that there could 
not be any one more unhappy than my- 
self — not any one, I tell you, sir, not any 
one!'' Completely overcome, he began to 
weep in his handkerchief. 
The doctor got up, and went to him. 
"You must be a man," he said, "and not 
cry like a child." 
 
"But sir' cried the young man, with 
tears riuming down his cheeks, ''if I had 
led a wild life, if I had passed my time 
in dissipation with chorus girls, then I 
could understand it. Then I would say 
