an aunt or something and she was afraid of 
bad spells, she did have some, and she’d 
ring her bell for Marilla an’ it would be up- 
stairs an’ down, sometimes way down to my 
kitchen, and lugging those two fat babies 
up and down the street ” 

"Did she have to carry them any?” 

"Oh, no. The mistress didn’t want her to 
lift them. She was afraid of a fall and their 
backs would get broken. So when they were 
big enough they sat on the floor and she talked 
to them and told them funny things and 
acted ’em off and laughed, and they’d laugh 
too. It was like a play to see ’em. And they’d 
jabber back and she’d make b’lieve she un- 
derstood it all. She was a wonderful child’s 
nurse an’ there’ll be trouble enough without 
her. But the babies went to bed early an’ then 
she’d come down an’ wipe the dishes for me 
an’ they made no call on her. But Jack was 
a holy terror, he was that bad, but he went 
to school in the spring. If he was mine I’d 
skin him alive. But it was hard dragging them 
fat, heavy things around. Will you tell me 
just how you come to find her? They’ve 



missed her so. They screech enough to raise 
the dead, an’ I know it’s for her.” 

Miss Armitage told the incident over. 

"The saints bless and protect you ma’am 
for not lettin’ her be sent to a hospital! But 
do you think she can get well? And if that 
other maid suits, couldn’t you keep her here 
all summer and let her get good and strong? 
I’m going out to my cousin at Fairfield to 
stay until next Monday. The boss will be 
down with his folks until then, and all the 
vallerbles have been sent out of the house so 
we can leave it alone. And when I come back 
we may have a plan for the poor dear that 
isn’t baby tendin’. O the little darlin’I Don’t 
let her die, ma’am, she’s so nice and sweet!” 

She caught the little hand and kissed it, 
and winked away the tears that glistened in 
her eyes. 

'I'll do my best, you may be sure. And when 
you come back, I shall be glad to have a call 
from you. And by that time she may know 
us all. Thank you for your sympathy.” 

Bridget nodded and turned away. Miss 
Armitage studied the little girl with a new 
interest. She had seen beautiful children 





among the very poor, in the slums, with 
no ancestry back of them. There was some- 
thing about this child — not beauty either, that 
set one to thinking. She must learn some- 
thing about her. 

And then she smiled over the fancy of 
being Cinderella and dancing with the Prince 
at the ball. What a happy dream it must 
have been for the child! She was glad to hear 
that she had not been badly treated or ill 
fed. She could trust the kindly Bridget for 
that. 

When the doctor came in Sunday morning 
a smile lighted up his face. 

real improvement," he exclaimed. "No 
fever and a normal temperature. Pulse 
stronger. Now, with nourishing diet and some 
salt in the baths we shall have her about 
again, though I 've had several patients lie 
weeks in this state in the hot weather.” 

Marilla glanced up and smiled back. 

' Why, I feel all well,’ she began. "Couldn’t 
I get up.” 

"Yes,” said Miss Armitage. "Jane will you 
bring that small pink kimona and put it on.” 

She took the doctor over in the bay window. 


"The Borden’s cook came in to see the 
child. She seemed very fond of her and said 
she was the sweetest little thing. And that 
she was wonderful with the babies. I was glad 
she had not been 'put upon’ as they say 
over to the house. And that she always 
had enough to eat. And she wasn’t allowed 
to lift the babies ” 

"But dragged them about in the carriage. 
Such children are not strong enough for nurse- 
maids. She was pretty well used up, and she’ll 
be sometime getting over it.” 

‘I’ve taken a curious fancy to the child. 
Jane thinks she must have belonged to what 
we call nice people.’ She flattered me by 
asking, the first coherent words she uttered if 
I was not a fairy godmother?’ Think of 
that!” smiling. 

'Well, I think you have been that many a 
time. I wonder you haven’t filled the house 
with children. 

'I’m always full of pity for them. But 
when they are cured and put in some place 
where they can do their best, and have a 
little love and care, I go on to the next. I 
do not believe I am a real missionary, and I 




have a theory — it may not be a very noble 
one,' and a soft color suffused her fine face, 
"that people who bring children into the world 
ought to be made to feel the responsibility 
of them and not shift them on society at large, 
trusting Providence to take care of them.'' 

"That is what ought to be taught — the 
responsibility of children. Women as well as 
men sin in this respect. The woman who for- 
gives the drunken husband and takes him 
back until tired of working he goes off again 
leaving another child to add to the poorly- 
fed throng she can hardly take care of. I 
think the man who goes off the second time, 
or who does not take care of the children he 
has, should be put in some institution and 
made to earn their support. And the girls 
ought to be educated up to better ideas of 
marriage. It doesn't near always conduce to 
morality. I preach sermons to you — don’t I?” 
and he gave a short laugh. "And we can never 
set the world straight. But these Homes and 
Republics are doing a good work in training 
children to self reliance.” 

Jane wrapped the little girl in the kimona and 
lifted her up in the reclining chair. 



"Oh, that's so nice. How good you are! 
And everything is so lovely. Oh, I'll soon be 
well." 

Then the little face clouded over. Oh, she 
truly would not mind being ill if she could 
stay in this beautiful house where everything 
was so quiet. Jane went in and out, and pres- 
ently she brought a cup of broth. How good 
it tasted! 

'Would you mind if I went back to bed? 
I'm so sleepy." 

"Oh, no," returned Jane, and she put her 
gently back on the cot where she soon fell 
asleep. 

There was slight rise of fever and restless- 
ness about noon. She talked in broken 
snatches imploring Jack not to do this or that 
and not to pinch the babies. Then she was 
so tired, so tired! But about midafternoon, 
she seemed to rouse and come to herself and 
said she was hungry. There was broth and 
hot milk and some stewed fruit, and Jane 
brushed her hair that fell in a bed of rings 
and asked if she didn't want to sit up. She 
brought her over by the window so she could 





look out, but the back yard was very pretty 
for it was gay with blooming flowers. 

Miss Armitage had been to church, and at 
two she had a class of young girls who were 
clerks in stores. Half of them were going away 
on Monday to the Rest House for a week, and 
they were full of that. Two of them had never 
been before. Was it like Coney Island? 

'It is not far from the shore, the broad Sound 
that leads out to the ocean. But there are 
not side shows. Just rowing and bathing, and 
a ride every day in a big omnibus. And plenty 
of girls. Oh, you won't be lonseome;’ and 
Miss Armitage smiled. 

"Another girl and I went away last sum- 
mer to a house that wasn’t country but a 
beautiful street with lawns in front. There 
were three ladies, and oh, they were so par- 
ticular. They did not have any story papers 
and the books were all dull and religious and 
if you took up one you must put it back in 
the same place. They didn’t like us to talk 
store’ nor sing any street songs and one lady 
only played hymns on the piano. Oh, we were 
so homesick.” 

The Rest House has a big farm and chick- 



ens and two cows, and a tennis court and cro- 
quet. And there are lovely walks. And 
hammocks and swings. 

"That's the ticket!’ said one of the girls. 
‘You want some fun.’ 

Miss Armitage did not check her. She 
thought of the amusements and pleasures of 
her youth. Then she came home to her 
little girl whose face lighted up with gladness, 
and who put out her thin hand. 

"You look lovely," Marilla said. "And 
I'm getting almost well." 

"That is good news,'’ and the lady smiled. 
"Only it seems so queer when I try to think. 
It is such a long while. I seem to have been 
lost and couldn't find my way out. Do you 
know where the babies are?" 

"They all went down to Long Island. I 
sent them a new girl. And Bridget was here 
to inquire about you." 

"Oh, she was so good to me. I was a little 
afraid of her at first, especially when she said 
she'd skin me alive.' Don't you think it 
would hurt dreadfully? She used to threaten 
Jack, but she never did it. And she said that 
about the fairy, godmother and the King's 





ball was a dream. What is it that goes to 
strange places when you are asleep? And 
how can you enjoy and remember all, and 
hear the music for days afterward? If there 
are two lives, one for day and one for night, 
why doesn't the night one go straight on?” 

‘You'll have to ask the doctor these 
curious puzzles. They are beyond me.” 

'Is Bridget at the house?” she inquired 
after a moment's thought. 

"She was going away to some cousin to 
stay a week as Mr. Borden will be down to — 
Bayside, I think it is, all the week.” 

"When I get well I suppose I shall have to go 
back to the babies. You know I am a bound 
out girl — until I am eighteen. But they’ll 
be growing bigger all the time. I wish they 
were as pretty as Jack. Don’t you think all 
babies ought to be pretty? And have curly 
hair?” 

“I think the curly hair quite an addition.” 

"There’s another puzzle. Why should 
some hair curl and some hair keep straight?” 
don’t know. But your’s is curly,” 
smiling. 

"Yes, I like it. At the Home there were 


two other girls with curly hair. And the 
nurse said it made us vain, so she cut it close 
to the skin and she said it wouldn't curl 
any more. That was last summer. But it 
did when it grew out, and I was glad. I tried 
to make the babies curl, and Mrs. Borden 
said she'd give me a silver dollar if I could. 
But it was so straight and there wasn't much 
of it. Do you remember the fat little girl of 
the Campbell’s Soups? The babies look a 
good deal like her. They have high fore- 
heads and round eyes full of wonder, and 
such chubby cheeks. But Aunt Florence 
said Mr. Borden was just such a baby and 
he isn’t at all chubby now and has dark 
eyes. Jack’s are dark. Maybe they’ll grow 
prettier. But they’re good and — funny. 
They laugh over everything, and they seem 
to understand everything I say or read to 
them. I wonder if they will like the new 
girl.” 

"She is very pleased and, I think, patient — 
four years older than you.” 

'Oh, suppose they didn’t want me back?” 
and the child drew a long breath of half 
fear. 




'There will be something else,' in an as- 
suring tone. 

Marilla leaned her head back on the pillow. 
She had talked herself tired. How queer 
that was, too, when she had talked for hours 
to the babies. 

Would you like me to read to you?" 
inquired Miss Armitage. 

"Oh, yes, if it's verses. There's a curious 
music in verses that goes all through you, 
keeping time to something in your brain. I 
just love them.’’ 

The lady found "Songs of Seven” with its 
musical lilt and the child listened wide-eyed 
as if it made pictures to her. Then the doctor 
came in and was very much pleased over her 
improvement. 

But the next day she was quite languid 
again. She took a few steps when suddenly 
everything swam before her eyes and she 
would have fallen but for Jane’s strong arm.'

"Oh, you don’t suppose I can never walk 
any more?” she cried in affright. Tor 
there was a nurse at the Home who fell down 
that way and she had been very well, too. 
But something happened to her hips. I can’t 



think what they called it, and she never could 
walk again. They had to send her to the 
hospital and she could get about just a little 
on crutches. Oh, dear'' and Marilla began to 
cry. 

"There don't think of such a thing. It was 
only weakness,'' comforted Miss Armitage. 
"Once when I was ill I fainted a great many 
times for just nothing at all. You have 
not had a chance to get strong yet.'’ 

Marilla recalled seeing the nurse brought 
down stairs on a stretcher, they called it. And 
the doctor said she could never walk again. 
Oh, how dreadful that would be. She turned 
her face over on the pillow and let the tears 
drop silently, and she could not swallow any 
supper, something lay so heavy on her breast. 
Miss Armitage kissed her, and Marilla twined 
her arms around the soft white neck hardly 
hidden by the lace. There had never been 
any one to love during the later years. And 
her mother had been busy and away in a store. 

"Don't worry, dear," said the soothing voice. 
"God takes care of us all." 

