"What's the matter?" she asked; and I noticed 
that her voice had become sharp. 
"You really mean what you've just implied?" 
"That Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver may have to 
pay something for what she has done to me? Well, 
what of it?" And suddenly Claire flew into a 
passion — as she always did when our talk came to 
her rival. "Why shouldn't she take chances, 
the same as the rest of us? Why should I have it, 
and she get off?" 
I fought for my composiu-e. After a pause, I 
said, "It's not a thing we want anybody to have, 
Claire. We don't want anybody to take such a 
chance. The girl ought to have been told." 
"Told? Do you imagine she would have given 
up her great catch?" 
"She might have — how can you be sure? Any- 
how, she should have had the chance." 
There was a long silence. I was so shaken that 
it was hard for me to find words. "As a matter 
of fact," said Claire, grimly, "I thought of warning 
her myself. There'd have been some excitement 
at least! You remember — when they came out 
of the church? You helped to stop me." 
"It would have been too late then," I heard 
myself saying. 
"Well," she exclaimed, with fresh excitement, 
"it's Miss Sylvia's turn now! We'll see if she's 
such a grand lady that she can't get my diseases!" 
I could no longer contain myself. "Claire," 
I cried, "you are talking like a devil!" 
 
She picked up a powder-puff, and began to use 
it diligently. "I know," she said — and I saw 
her burning eyes in the glass — "you can't fool me. 
You've tried to be kind, but you despise me in 
your heart. You think I'm as bad as any woman 
of the street. Very well, then, I speak for my 
class. And I tell you, this is where we prove 
our humanity. They throw us out — but you see, 
we get back in!" 
"My dear woman," I said, "you don't under- 
stand. You'd not feel as you do, if you knew that 
the person to pay the penalty might be an innocent 
little child." 
" Their child ! Yes, it's too bad if there has to be 
anything the matter with the little prince! But 
I might as well tell you the truth — I've had that 
in mind all along. I didn't know just what would 
happen, or how — I don't believe anybody does, 
the doctors who pretend to are just faking you. 
But I knew Douglas was rotten, and maybe his 
children would be rotten, and they'd all of them 
suffer. That was one of the things that kept me 
from interfering and smashing him up." 
I was speechless now, and Claire, watching me, 
laughed. "You look as if you'd had no idea of 
it. Don't you know that I told you — at the time?" 
"You told me at the time!" 
"I suppose you didn't understand. I'm apt 
to talk French when I'm excited. We have a 
saying, 'The wedding present which the mistress 
leaves in the basket of the bride.' That was 
pretty near telling, wasn't it? " 
 
"Yes," I said, in a low voice. 
And the other, after watching me for a moment 
more, went on: "You think I'm revengeful, 
don't you? Well, I used to reproach myself with 
this, and I tried to fight it down; but the time 
comes when you want people to pay for what 
they take from you. Let me Jell you something 
that I never told to any one, that I never expected 
to tell. You see me drinking and going to the 
devil; you hear me talking the care-free talk of 
my world. But in the beginning I was really in 
love with Douglas van Tuiver, and I wanted his 
child. I wanted it so that it was an ache to me. 
And yet, what chance did I have? I'd have been 
the joke of his set forever if I'd breathed it; I'd 
have been laughed out of town. I even tried at 
one time to trap him — to get his child ia spite of 
him. But I found that the surgeons had cut me 
up, and I could never have a child. So I have 
to make the best of it — I have to agree with my 
friends, that it's a good thing, it saves me trouble! 
But she comes along, and she has what I wanted, 
and all the world thinks it's wonderful and sub- 
lime. She's a beautiful young mother! What's 
she ever done ia her hfe, that she has everything, 
and I go without? You may spend your time 
shedding tears over her, and what may happen 
to her; but for my part, I say this — let her take 
her chances! Let her take her chances with the 
other women in the world — the women she's too 
good and too pure to know anything about!" 
 
I CAME out of Claire's house, sick with horror. 
Not since the time when I had read my poor 
nephew's letter had I been so shaken. "Why had 
I not thout long ago of questioning Claire about 
these matters? How could I have left Sylvia all 
this time exp(»ed to peril? 
The greatest danger was to her child at the time 
of birth. I figured up, acc(miing to the last letter 
I had received; there was about ten days yet, 
and so I felt some relief. I thought first of send- 
ing a tel-am, but reflected that it would be 
difficult, not merely to tell her what to do in a 
teliram, but to explain to her afterwards why 
I had chosen this extraordinary method. I 
recollected that in her last letter she had men- 
tioned the name of the surgeon who was coming 
from New York to attend her during her confine- 
ment. Obviously the thing for me to do was to 
see this surgeon. 
"Well, madam?" he said, when I was seated 
in his inner office. He was a tall, elderly man, 
immaculately groomed, and formal and precise 
in his manner. 
"Dr. Overton," I began, "my friend Mrs. 
Douglas van Tuiver writes me that you are going 
to Florida shortly." 
"That is correct," he said. 
" I have come to see you about a delicate matter. 
 
I presume I need hardly say that I am relying 
upon the seal of professional secrecy." 
I saw his gaze become suddenly fixed. "Cer- 
tainly, madam," he said. 
"I am taking this course because Mrs. van 
Tuiver is a very dear friend of mine, and I am 
concerned about her welfare. It has recently 
come to my knowledge that she has been exposed 
to infection by a venereal disease." 
He would hardly have started more if I had 
struck him. "Hey?" he cried, forgetting his 
manners. 
"It would not help you any," I said, "if I were 
to go into details about this imfortimate matter. 
Suffice it to say that my information is positive 
and precise — that it coiild hardly be more so." 
There was a long silence. He sat with eyes 
riveted upon me. "What is this disease?" he 
demanded, at last. 
I named it; and then again there was a paiise. 
"How long has this — this possibihty of infection 
existed?" 
"Ever since her marriage, nearly eighteen 
months ago." 
That told him a good part of the story. I felt 
his look boring me through. Was I a mad- 
woman? Or some new kind of blackmailer? 
Or was I, possibly, a Claire? I was grateful 
for my forty-cent bonnet and my forty-seven 
years. 
"Naturally," he said, at length, "this informa- 
tion startles me." 
 
"When you have thought it over," I responded, 
"you will realize that no iMjssible motive could 
bring me here but concern for the welfare of my 
friend." 
He took a few moments to consider. "That 
may be true, madam; but let me add that when 
you say you know this " 
He stopped. "I mean that I know it," I said, 
and stopped in tmn. 
"Has Mrs. van Tuiver herself any idea of this 
situation? " 
"None whatever. On the contrary, she was 
assured before her marriage that no such possi- 
billty existed." 
Again I felt him looking through me. But I 
left him to make what he could of my information. 
"Doctor," I continued, "I presume there is no 
need to point out to a man in your position the 
seriousness of this matter, both to the mother and 
to the child." 
"Certainly there is not." 
"I assume that you are famillar with the pre- 
cautions that have to be taken with regard to the 
eyes of the child?" 
"Certainly, madam." This with just a touch 
of hauteur. And then, suddenly, "Are you by 
any chance a nurse?" 
"No," I replied, "but many years ago I was 
forced by a tragedy in my own family to realize 
the seriousness of the venereal peril. So when 
I learned this fact about my friend, my first 
thought was that you should be informed of it. 
I trust that you will appreciate my position." 
 
"Certainly, madam, certainly," he made haste 
to say — "you are quite right, and you may rest 
assured that everything will be done that our best 
knowledge directs. I only regret that the infor- 
mation did not come to me sooner." 
"It only came to me about an hour ago," I 
said, as I rose to leave. "The blame, therefore, 
must rest upon another person." 
I needed to say no more. He bowed me poUtely 
out, and I walked down the street — and reahzed 
that I was restless and wretched. I wandered 
at random for a while, tryiug to think what else 
I could do — for my own peace of mind, if not for 
Sylvia's welfare. I found myself inventing one 
worry after another. Dr. Overton had not said 
just when he was going; and suppose she were 
to need some one at once? Or suppose something 
were to happen to him — if he were to be killed 
upon the long train-journey? I was like a mother 
who has had a terrible dream about her child — 
she must rush and fling her arms about the child. 
I realized that I wanted to see Sylvia! 
She had begged me to come; and I was worn 
out, and had been urged by the office to take a 
rest. Suddenly I bolted into a store, and tele- 
phoned the railroad station about trains to South- 
em Florida. I hailed a taxi-cab, rode to my 
home post-haste; flung a few of my belongings 
into a bag, and the waiting cab sped with me to 
the ferry. In little more than two hours after 
Claire had told me the dreadful tidings, I was 
speeding on my way to Sylvia. 
 
 
Feom a train-window I had once beheld a cross- 
section of America from west to east; now I 
beheld another from north to south. In the 
afternoon were the farms and country-homes of 
New Jersey; and then in the morning endless 
wastes of wilderness, and straggling fields of yoimg 
com and tobacco; turpentine-forests, with half- 
stripped negroes working, and a procession of 
"depots", with lanky men chewing tobacco, 
and negroes basking in the blazing sun. Then 
another night, and there was the pageant of 
Florida: palmettos, and other trees of which one 
had seen pictures in the geography-books; 
stretches of vine-tangled swamps, where one 
looked for alligators; orange-groves in blossom, 
and gardens full of flowers beyond imaguiing. 
Every hour, of course, it got hotter; I was not, 
like Sylvia, used to it, and whenever the train 
stopped I sat by the open window, mopping the 
perspiration from my face. 
We were due at Miami in the afternoon; but 
there was a freight-train off the track ahead of us, 
and so for three hours I sat chafing with impa- 
tience, worrjdng the conductor with futile ques- 
tions. I had to make connections at Miami 
with a train which ran to the last point on the 
mainland, where the construction-work over the 
keys was going forward. And if I missed that 
 
last train, I would have to wait in Miami till 
morning. I had better wait there, anyhow, the 
conductor argued ; but I insisted that my friends, 
to whom I had telegraphed two days before, 
would meet me with a launch and take me to their 
place that night. 
We got in half an hour late for the other train ; 
but this was the South, I discovered, and they 
had waited for us. I shifted my bag and myself 
across the platform, and we moved on. But 
then another problem arose; we were running 
into a storm. It came with great suddenness; 
one minute all was still, with a golden sunset, 
and the next it was so dark that I could barely 
see the palm-trees, bent over, swaying madly — 
like people with arms stretched out, crying in 
distress. I could hear the roaring of the wind 
above that of the train, and I asked the con- 
ductor in consternation if this could be a hurri- 
cane. It was not the season for hurricanes, he 
replied; but it was "some storm, all right," and 
I would not find any boat to take me to the keys 
until it was over. 
It was absurd of me to be nervous, I kept telling 
myself; but there was something in me that cried 
out to be there, to be there! I got out of the 
train, facing what I refrain from calling a hurri- 
cane out of deference to local authority. It was 
all I could do to keep from beiag blown across the 
station-platform, and I was drenched with the 
spray and bewildered by the roaring of the waves 
that beat against the pier beyond. Inside the 
 
station, I questioned the agent. The launch 
of the van Tuivers had not been in that day; if 
it had been on the way, it must have sought shel- 
ter somewhere. My telegram to Mrs. van Tuiver 
had been received two days before, and delivered 
by a boatman whom they employed for that 
purpose. Presumably, therefore, I would be met. 
I asked how long this gale was apt to last; the 
answer was from one to three days. 
Then I asked about shelter for the night. This 
was a "jimiping-off place", said the agent, with 
barracks and shanties for a construction-gang; 
there were saloons, and what was called a hotel, 
but it wouldn't do for a lady. I pleaded that I 
was not fastidious — being anxious to nullify the 
efifect which the name van Tuiver had produced. 
But the agent would have it that the place was 
unfit for even a Western farmer's wife; and as 
I was not anxious to take the chance of being 
blown overboard in the darkness, I spent the 
night on one of the benches in the station. I 
lay, listening to the incredible clamor of wind and 
waves, feeling the building quiver, and wonder- 
ing if each gust might not blow it away. 
I was out at dawn, the force of the wind having 
abated somewhat by that time. I saw before 
me a waste of angry, foam-strewn water, with no 
sign of any craft upon it. Late in the morning 
came the big steamer which ran to Key West, 
in connection with the railroad; it made a difficult 
landing, and I interviewed the captain, with the 
idea of bribing him to take me to my destination. 
 
But he had his schedule, which neither storms nor 
the name of van Tuiver could alter. Besides, 
he pointed out, he could not land me at their place, 
as his vessel drew too much water to get anjrwhere 
near; and if he landed me elsewhere, I should be 
no better off. "If your friends are expecting you, 
they'll come here," he said, "and their launch can 
travel when nothing else can." 
To pass the time I went to inspect the viaduct 
of the railway-to-be. The first stretch was 
completed, a long series of concrete arches, run- 
ning out, apparently into the open sea. It was 
one of the engineering wonders of the world, but 
I fear I did not appreciate it. Towards mid- 
afternoon I made out a speck of a boat over the 
water, and my friend the station-agent remarked 
"There's your launch." 
I expressed my amazement that they should 
have ventured out in such weather. I had had 
ui mind the kind of tiny open craft that one hears 
making day and night hideous at summer-resorts; 
but when the "Merman" drew near, I realized 
afresh what it was to be the guest of a multi- 
millionaire. She was about fifty feet long, a 
vision of polished brass and shinkig, new- varnished 
cedar. She rammed her shoiilder kito the waves 
and flung them contemptuously to one side; her 
cabin was tight, dry as the saloon of a liner. 
Three men emerged on deck to assist in the 
difficult process of making a landing. One of 
them sprang to the dock, and confronting me, 
inquired if I was Mrs. Abbott. He explained 
 
that they had set out to meet me the previous 
afternoon, but had had to take refuge behind one 
of the keys. 
"How is Mrs. van Tuiver?" I asked, quickly. 
"She is  well." 
"I don't suppose — the baby " I hinted. 
"No, ma'am, not yet," said the man; and after 
that I felt interested in what he had to say about 
the storm and its effects. We could return at 
once, it seemed, if I did not mind being pitched 
about. 
"How long does it take?" I asked. 
"Three hours, in weather like this. It's about 
fifty miles." 
"But then it will be dark," I objected. 
"That won't matter, ma'am — we have plenty 
of Ught of our own. We shan't have trouble, 
unless the wind rises, and there's a chain of keys 
all the way, where we can get shelter if it does. 
The worst you have to fear is spending a night 
on board." 
I reflected that I could not well be more uncom- 
fortable than I had been the previous night, so 
I voted for a start. There was mail and some 
supplies to be put on board; then I made a spring 
for the deck, as it surged up towards me on a 
rising wave, and in a moment more the cabin- 
door had shut behind me, and I was safe and snug, 
in the midst of leather and mahogany and electric- 
lighted magnificence. Through the heavy double 
windows I saw the dock swing round behind us, 
and saw the torrents of green spray sweep over 
 
us and past. I grasped at the seat to keep myself 
from being thrown forward, and then grasped 
behind, to keep from going in that direction. 
I had a series of sensations as of an elevator 
stopping suddenly — and then I draw the curtains 
of the "Merman's" cabin, and invite the reader 
to pass by. This is Sylvia's story, and not mine, 
and it is of no interest what happened to me 
during that trip. I will only remind the reader 
that I had lived my life in the far West, and there 
were some things I could not have foreseen. 
IS 
