"Tut, tut, Tommy; don't be a bally ass and lose your temper."
"Temper?  Lose my temper?  I'm not losing it, but I'm jolly well tired
of this rotten business."
"It was you who suggested the wager; I only accepted it."
"I know it."
"And once booked, no Englishman will welch, if he isn't a cad."
"I'm not thinking of welching.  But I don't see what you get out of it."
"Sport.  And a good hand at bridge."
"Remarkably good."
"I say, you don't mean to insinuate . . ."
"I'm not insinuating.  I'm just damnably tired.  Why the devil did you
take up that monocle business?  You never wore one; and Miss Killigrew
found out this morning that it was an ordinary glass."
"She did?"  Lord Monckton chuckled.
"And she laughed over it, too."
"Keen of her.  But, what the devil!  Stick a monocle in your eye, and
you don't need any letters of introduction.  Lucky idea, your
telephoning me that you were here.  What a frolic, all around!"
So that was why her coup had fallen flat? thought Kitty.
"I'll tell you this much," said Thomas.  (Kitty heard him tap his pipe
against the veranda railing.)  "Play fair or, by the lord, I'll smash
you!  I'm going to stick to my end of the bargain, and see that you
walk straight with yours."
"I see what's worrying you.  Clear your mind.  I would not marry the
richest, handsomest woman in all the world, Thomas.  There's a dead
heart inside of me."
"There's another thing.  I'd get rid of that valet."
"Why?"--quickly.
"He's too bally soft on his feet to my liking.  I don't like him."
"Neither do I, Thomas!" murmured Kitty, forgetting all about her
hunger.  Not a word about her sapphires, though.  Did she see but the
surface of things?  Was there something deeper?
She stole back up-stairs.  As she reached the upper landing, some one
brushed past her, swiftly, noiselessly.  With the rush of air which
followed the prowler's wake came a peculiar sickish odor.  She waited
for a while.  But there was no sound in all the great house.
CHAPTER XX
"The Carew cottage was entered last night," said Killigrew, "and twenty
thousand in diamonds are gone.  Getting uncomfortably close.  You and
your mother, Kitty, had better let me take your jewels into town
to-day."
"We have nothing out here but trinkets."
"Trinkets!  Do you call that fire-opal a trinket?  Better let me take
it into town, anyway.  I'm Irish enough to be superstitious about
opals."
"That's nonsense."
"Maybe."
"Oh, well; if the thought of having it around makes you nervous, I'll
give it to you.  The Crawfords and Mr. Forbes are coming down this
afternoon.  You must be home again before dinner.  Here's the opal."
She took it from around her neck.
"Crawfords?  Fine!"  Killigrew slipped the gem into his wallet.  "I'll
bring them back on the yacht if you'll take the trouble to phone them
to meet me at the club pier."
"I'll do so at once.  Good-by!  Mind the street-crossing," she added,
mimicking her mother's voice.
"I'll be careful," he laughed, stepping into the launch which
immediately swung away toward the beautiful yacht, dazzling white in
the early morning sunshine.
Kitty waved her handkerchief, turned and walked slowly back to the
villa.  Who had passed her in the upper hall?  And on what errand?
Neither Thomas nor Lord Monckton, for she had left them on the veranda.
Perhaps she was worrying unnecessarily.  It might have been one of her
guests, going down to the library for a book to read.
She met Lord Monckton coming out.
"Fine morning!" he greeted.  He made a gesture, palm upward.
A slight shiver touched the nape of Kitty's neck.  She had never
noticed before how frightfully scarred his thumbs and finger-tips were.
He saw the glance.
"Ah!  You notice my fingers?  Not at all sensitive about them, really.
Hunting a few years ago and clumsily fell on the camp-stove.  Scar on
my shoulder where I struck as I rolled off.  Stupid.  Tripped over a
case of canned corn.  I have fingers now as sensitive as a blind man's."
"I am sorry," she said perfunctorily.  "You must tell me of your
adventures."
"Had a raft of 'em.  Mr. Killigrew gone to New York?"
"For a part of the day.  Had your breakfast?"
"No.  Nothing to do; thought I'd wait for the rest of them.  Read a
little.  Swim this morning, just about dawn.  Refreshing."
"Then I'll see you at breakfast."
He smiled and stepped aside for her to pass.  She proved rather a
puzzle to him.
Kitty spent several minutes in the telephone booth.
She began to realize that the solution of the Webb-Monckton wager was
as far away as ever.  Lord Monckton was leaving on the morrow.  She
must play her cards quickly or throw them away.  The fact that neither
had in any way referred to the character of the wager left her in a
haze.  Sometime during the day or evening she must maneuver to get them
together and tell them frankly that she knew everything.  She wanted
her sapphires; more, she wanted the incubus removed from Thomas'
shoulders.  Mad as March hares, both of them; for they had not the
least idea that the sapphires were hers!
Later, she stole to the library door and peered in.  Thomas was at his
desk.  For a long time she watched him.  He appeared restless, uneasy.
He nibbled the penholder, rumpled his hair, picked up the ivory
elephant and balanced it, plunged furiously into work again, paused,
stared at the Persian carpet, turned the inkwell around, worked,
paused, sighed.  Thomas was very unhappy.  This state of mind was quite
evident to Kitty.  Kissed her and hadn't wanted to.  He was unlike any
young man she knew.
Presently he began to scribble aimlessly on the blotter.  All at once
he flung down the pen, rose and walked out through the casement-doors,
down toward the sea.  Kitty's curiosity was irresistible.  She ran over
to the blotter.
Fool!
Blighter!
Rotter!
Double-dyed ass!
Blockhead!
Kitty Killigrew--(scratched out)!
Nincompoop!
Haberdasher!
Ass!
All of which indicated to the investigator that Thomas for the present
had not a high opinion of himself.  An ordinary young woman would have
laughed herself into hysterics.  Kitty tore off the scribbles, not the
least sign of laughter in her eyes, and sought the window-seat in the
living-room.  There was one word which stood out strangely alien:
haberdasher.  Why that word?  Was it a corner of the curtain she had
been striving to look behind?  Had Thomas been a haberdasher prior to
his stewardship?  And was he ashamed of the fact?
Haberdasher.
What's the matter with that word?  If it irked Thomas it irked Kitty no
less.  It is a part of youth to crave for high-sounding names and
occupations.  It is in the mother's milk they feed on.  Mothers dream
of their babes growing up into presidents or at least ambassadors, if
sons; titles and brilliant literary salons, if daughters.  What living
mother would harbor a dream of a clerkship in a haberdasher's shop?
Perish the thought!  Myself for years was told that I had as good a
chance as anybody of being president of the United States; a far better
chance than many, being as I was my mother's son.
Irish blood and romance will always be mysteriously intertwined.
Haberdasher did not fit in anywhere with Kitty's projects; it was
off-key, a jarring note.  Whoever heard of a haberdasher's clerk
reading Morte d'Arthur and writing sonnets?  She was reasonably
certain that while Thomas had jotted it down in scornful
self-flagellation, it occupied a place somewhere in his past.
  "They turne out ther trashe
  And shew ther haberdashe,
  Ther pylde pedlarye."
There's no romance in collars and cuffs and ties and suspenders.
CHAPTER XXI
Meanwhile Killigrew arrived in New York, went to the bank and deposited
Kitty's opal, and sought his office.
"There's a Mr. Haggerty in your office, Mr. Killigrew.  I told him to
wait."
"Haggerty, the detective?"
"Yes.  He said you'd be glad to see him.  Has news of some sort."
Killigrew hurried into his private office.  "Hello, Haggerty!  What's
the trouble this morning?"
"Got some news for you."  Haggerty accepted a cigar.  "I've a hunch
that I can find Miss Killigrew's sapphires."
"No!  I thought they had been sold over the other side."
"Seems not."
"Got your man?"
"Nope.  Funny kind of a job, though.  Fooled th' customs inspectors.
Sapphires 'r here in New York, somewheres."
"A thousand to you, Haggerty, if you recover them."
"A row between two stewards on th' Celtic gave me th' clue."
"Why, that's the boat I came over on."
"Sure thing."
"And the thief was on board all the time?"
"Don't think he was when you crossed.  I've got t' wait till th' boat
docks before I can get particulars.  It's like this.  Th' chap who took
th' sapphires engaged passage as a steward.  His cabin-mate saw him
lookin' over th' stones.  He'd taken 'em out o' their settings.  This
man Jameson pinches 'em, but his mate follows him up an' has it out
with him in a waterfront groggery.  Got 'em back.  Cool customer.  I
went on board th' next morning an' quizzed him.  An' say, he done me up
brown.  As unblinkin' a liar 's I ever met.  Took me t' his cabin an'
showed me what he professed Jameson had swiped.  Nothing but a pearl
an' coral brooch.  He did it so natural that I swallowed th' bull,
horns an' hoofs.  I've had every pawnshop in New York looked over, but
they ain't there.  I've been busy on the maharajah's emeralds.  There's
a case.  Cleverest ever.  Some drug, atomized through a keyhole, which
puts y' t' by-by."
"A drug?  Why, say, two of my neighbors have been robbed within the
past three days, and they all complained of violent headaches."
"Well, what y' know about that!  Say, Mr. Killigrew, any place where I
could hang out down there for a couple o' days?"
"Come as my guest, Haggerty.  I can tell the folks that you're from the
office."
"Fumes!  I'll bet a hat it's my maharajah's man.  When do you go back?"
"About half-past two, on my yacht.  You'll find it at the New York
Yacht Club pier.  Some old friends of yours will be on board.
Crawford, his wife, and Forbes, the artist."
"Fine an' dandy!  Forbes is clever at guessing, an' we'll work
t'gether.  All right I'll hike up t' Bronx an' get some duds.  Tell th'
chef that corn-beef an' cabbage is my speed-limit," jested the
detective as he reached the door.
"By the way, what's the name of that steward who took my daughter's
sapphires?"
"His monacker is Webb," said Haggerty; "Thomas Webb, Esquire; an'
believe me, he's some smooth guy.  Thomas Webb."
CHAPTER XXII
For a moment Killigrew sat stiffly upright in his chair; then gradually
his body grew limp, his chin sank, his shoulders drooped.  "Webb?" he
said dully.  "Are you sure, Haggerty?"
"No question about it.  Y' see, this Jameson chap writes me a sassy
letter from Liverpool.  Spite.  Thomas Webb was th' name.  What's th'
matter?"
"Haggerty, the very devil is the matter.  Thomas Webb, recently a
steward on the Celtic, has been my wife's private secretary for
nearly two months."
"Say that again!" gasped Haggerty, bracing himself against the jamb of
the door.
"But I'll wager my right hand that there's some mistake."
"Of all th' gall I ever heard of!  Private secretary, an' Miss
Killigrew's sapphires stowed away in his trunk, if he ain't sold 'em
outside th' pawnshops!  Will y' gimme a free hand, Mr. Killigrew?"
"I suppose I'll have to."
"All right.  On board you draw me a map o' th' rooms an' where Thomas
Webb holds out.  I shan't come t' th' house an' meet anybody.  While
you folks 'r at supper I'll sneak up t' his room an' see what's in his
trunk.  If I don't find 'em, why, I'll come back t' town an' start a
news stand, Forty-second an' Broadway.  I'll be on th' yacht at
half-past two.  I'm on m' way."
The door behind him closed with a bang.  It startled every clerk on the
huge floor.  The door to the boss' office did not bang more than once a
year, and that was immediately after the annual meeting of the
directors of the Combined Brazilian Coffees.  Who was this potentate
who dared desecrate the honored quiet of this loft?
Haggerty's news hit Killigrew hard.  Thomas.  There must be a mistake.
He had not studied men all these years without learning to read young
and old with creditable accuracy.  Thomas was as easy to read as an
amateur's scorecard; runs were runs, hits were hits, outs were outs.
Why, Thomas wouldn't have stolen an apple from a farmer's
orchard--without permission.  What, enter a carriage in a fog, steal a
necklace, and carry it around with him for months?  Never in this
world.  And private secretary to the very person he had robbed?  Of all
the fool situations, this was the cap!  Imbecility was written all over
the face of it.  It was simply a coincidence in the matter of names.
Yet, steward on the Celtic; there was no getting away from that.
There could not have been two Thomas Webbs on board.  I'm afraid
Killigrew swore; distant thunder, off behind the hills there.  He
struck the desk with his balled fist.  He knew it; it was that infernal
opal of Kitty's getting in its deadly work.  And what would Kitty say?
What would she do?
He stood up and pulled down the roller-top violently.  The crash of it
sent every clerk, bookkeeper and stenographer huddling over his or her
work.  Two bangs all in one morning?  What had happened to the coffee
market?  As a matter of fact, coffee fell off a quarter point between
then and closing; which goes to prove that the stock-market depends
upon its business less in the matter of supply and demand than in
"signs."
On board the yacht Killigrew laid the affair before Crawford.
"What do you believe?"
"I've reached the point," said Crawford, "where I believe in nothing
except this young lady," and he laid his hand over his wife's.  "For
ten years I had a valet named Mason.  I would have staked my life on
his integrity, his honesty.  He turned out to be an accomplished rogue.
Went with me into the wilds of Africa and Persia, through deserts,
swamps, over mountains; tireless, resourceful, dependable; and saved my
life twice.  Its knocked a hole in my faith in mankind."
"Listen here," said Haggerty.  "Without your knowing it, he always
carried a bunch o' first-class skeleton keys.  I'm dead sure he was
working his game all th' time.  He came back for them keys, but he
didn't get 'em.  He's in New York somewheres.  D' y' think y' could
recognize him if y' saw him?"
"Instantly."
"A man can change his looks in two years," said Forbes.  "Remember File
Number 113?"
"This is real life, Mort; not a detective story."
"How would you recognise him?"
"That I'm unable to explain.  It's what Haggerty here calls a hunch."
Haggerty nodded.  "An' if y' depend on 'em y' generally land.  I've
made some mistakes in my time, not believing in my hunches.  This Webb
business goes t' show.  I had a hunch that something was wrong, but
your Webb had such a kid face, th' hunch pulled for him.  Well, if y'
ever see Mason again, what'll y' do?"
"I don't know.  It's a tough proposition.  Somehow or other, I want to
be quits with Mason.  I want to wipe out those obligations.  If I could
do that, the next time I saw him I'd hand him over."
"You're a sentimental duffer, Crawffy," said the artist, smiling.
"And I shouldn't love him at all if he wasn't," the wife defended.
"But this Webb affair doesn't add up right," said Killigrew morosely.
"There's th' hull game," declared Haggerty.  "It's nothing but adding
an' subtracting, this gum-shoe work.  Y've got t' keep at it till it
adds right.  Y' don't realize, Mr. Crawford, how many times I almost
put my hand on your shoulder; but y' didn't add up right.  I shan't go
at Webb like a load o' bricks.  I'll nose around first.  Take a peek
int' his belongings while you folks keep him busy downstairs.  No
sapphires, no Thomas; I'll let it go at that.  But how was this man
Jameson t' know anything about sapphires if they wasn't any?"
"I've known Kitty Killigrew ever since she was born," said Killigrew
dryly.  "I've yet to see her make a mistake in sizing up a man.  She
picks 'em out the way I do, right off the bat.  The minute you dodder
about a man or a woman, there's sure to be something' to dodder about.
Good lord! you don't suppose he had a hand in these other burglaries?"
"Can't say 's I do," answered Haggerty, reaching for his lemonade.
"You wait.  I'll have it all cleared up by midnight, 'r they'll be a
shake-up at Central t'-morrow.  Something's going t' happen; feel it
like a sailor feels a storm when they ain't a cloud anywheres.  Now,
let's see what y' know about auction pinochle, Mr. Killigrew.  No use
moping."
The yacht dropped anchor off shore at five.  The beach was deserted.
Doubtless the guests were catnapping or reading.  At the Killigrew
villa one did as one pleased.  Mr. and Mrs. Crawford were shown to
their rooms at once, and Haggerty prowled about the stables and garage.
Kitty knocked at Mrs. Crawford's door half an hour later.
Introductions were made at dinner.  The Crawfords knew most of Kitty's
guests and so did Forbes, who was very much interested in Lord
Monckton.  Here was a romance, if there was any truth at all in the
newspapers.  What adventures here and there across the world before the
title fell to him!  He looked like one of R. Caton Woodville's drawings
of Indian mutiny officers, with that flowing black beard; very
conspicuous among all these smooth chins.  Forbes determined to sketch
him.
He was rather sorry not to see Thomas at the table.  Was Haggerty after
him with the third degree?  Poor devil!  It did not seem possible; yet
all the evidence pointed to Thomas.  Why should Jameson say that he had
seen sapphires if he had not?  Still, the thing that did not add up was
the position with which Thomas had allied himself to the Killigrews.
Hang it, there was a figure missing.  Haggerty was right.  A man with
any sympathy had no business man-hunting.
After dinner Crawford sought Forbes.  "Have you any fire-arms with you,
Mort?" he whispered.
"A pair of automatics.  Why . . ."
"Sh!  Please hustle and get them and ask no questions.  Hurry!"
CHAPTER XXIII
"Mr. Killigrew," whispered Haggerty, "will you get Miss Kitty an'
Thomas int' th' study-end o' th' library?"
"Found anything?"
"Th' sapphires were in his trunk, all right.  Tucked away in th' toes
of a pair o' shoes.  Webb is in th' library now.  Jus' get Miss Kitty."
"Very well," replied Killigrew, leaden-hearted.
Thomas had been busy all day.  He was growing very tired, and often now
the point of his pen sputtered.  The second man had brought in his
dinner and set it on a small stand which stood at the right of the
desk.  It was growing cold on the tray.  A sound.  He glanced up
wearily.  He saw Kitty and Killigrew, and behind them the sardonic
visage of Haggerty.  Thomas got up slowly.
"Take it easy, Mr. Webb," warned Haggerty.  "Go on, Miss Killigrew, an'
we'll see first if you've hit it."
Thomas stared, wide-eyed, from face to face.  What in heaven's name had
happened?  What was this blighter of a detective doing at the villa?
And why was Kitty so white?
"Mr. Webb," began Kitty, striving hard to maintain even tones, "on the
night of May 13, you and Lord Henry Monckton stood on the curb outside
my carriage, near the Garden, where I was blockaded in the fog.  I
heard your voices.  There was talk about a wager.  The time imposed
upon the fulfilment of this wager was six months.  Shortly after, Lord
Monckton entered my carriage under the pretense of getting into his own
and took my necklace of sapphires.  He did it very cleverly.  Then they
were turned over to you.  You were to carry them for six months, find
out to whom they belonged, and return them."
"Thousands of miles away," said Haggerty confidently.  "Nothing ever
happened like that."
"Is it not true?" asked Kitty, ignoring Haggerty's interpolation.
"Miss Killigrew, either I'm dreaming or you are.  I haven't the
slightest idea what you are talking about."  Thomas was now whiter than
Kitty.  "The talk about a wager is true; but I never knew you had lost
any sapphires."
"How about this little chamois-bag which I found in your trunk, Mr.
Webb?" asked Haggerty ironically.  He tossed the bag on the desk.
The bag hypnotized Thomas.  Suddenly he came to life.  He snatched up
the bag and thrust it into his pocket.
"Those are mine," he said quite calmly.  "Mine, by every legal and
moral right in the world.  Mine!"
Kitty breathed hard and closed her eyes.
"Some brass!" jeered Haggerty, stepping forward.
"Can you prove it, Thomas?" asked Killigrew, hoping against hope.
"Yes, Mr. Killigrew, to your satisfaction, to Miss Killigrew's, and
even to Mr. Haggerty's."
Tableau.
Broken by the entrance of Crawford and Forbes, who were also pale and
disturbed.  Crawford flung a packet of papers on the desk.
"Webb, I fancy that these papers are yours," said Crawford, smiling.
One glance was enough for Thomas.
"Tell them the truth," went on Crawford; "tell them who you are."
"I have wagered . . ."
"Never mind about the wager," put in Forbes.  "Crawford and I have just
canceled it."
"What has happened?" asked Thomas.  The whole world seemed tumbling
about his unhappy head.
"Tell Mr. Killigrew here how you have imposed on him and his family,"
urged Crawford, serious now.  "Tell them your name, your full name."
Thomas hesitated a moment.  "My name is Henry Thomas Webb-Monckton."
"Ninth Baron of Dimbledon," added Forbes, "and as crazy as a loon!"
CHAPTER XXIV
Meanwhile the whirligig had gone about violently after this fashion.
Forbes, wondering mightily, procured his automatics and gave one to his
impatient friend.
"What's the row, Crawffy?"
"Be as silent as you can," said Crawford.  "Follow me.  We may be too
late."
"Anywhere you say."
"The door will be locked.  We'll creep around the upper veranda and
enter by opposite windows.  You keep your eye on the valet.  Don't be
afraid to shoot if it's necessary."
"What the deuce . . . !"
"Come!"
"But where?"
"Lord Monckton's room."
Blindly and confidently Forbes went out the rear window of the
corridor, while Crawford made for the front.  They crept soundlessly
forward.  Lord Monckton?  What was up?  Shoot the valet if necessary!
All right; Crawford knew what he was doing.  He generally did.  Through
his window Forbes saw two men packing suit-cases furiously.  The moment
Crawford entered the room, Forbes did likewise, without the least idea
