"Because--well, because I seem to think so."
I said coldly:
"Because she happened to faint away in your arms last night is no symptom
that she prefers you. Is it?"
"No."
"Then why do you seem to think that tactful, delicate, and assiduous
attentions on my part may prove not entirely unwelcome to this unusually
intelligent--"
"Smith!"
"What?"
"Miss White is not only a trained nurse, but she also is about to receive
her diploma as a physician."
"How do you know?"
"She told me."
"When?"
"When you were building the fire last night. Also, she informed me that
she had relentlessly dedicated herself to a eugenic marriage."
"When did she tell you that?"
"While you were bringing in a bucket of water from the lake last night.
And furthermore, she told me that I was perfectly suited for a eugenic
marriage."
"When did she tell you that?" I demanded.
"When she had--fainted--in my arms."
"How the devil did she come to say a thing like that?"
He became conspicuously red about the ears:
"Well, I had just told her that I had fallen in love with her--"
"Damn!" I said. And that's all I said; and seizing a paddle I made
furiously for shore. Behind me I heard the whirr of the piano wire as
Brown started the electric reel. Later I heard him clamping the hood on
the hydroscope; but I was too disgusted for any further words, and I dug
away at the water with my paddle.
In various and weird stages of morning déshabillé the heavy artillery
came down to the shore for morning ablutions, all a-row like a file of
ducks.
They glared at me as I leaped ashore:
"I want my breakfast!" snapped Mrs. Batt. "Do you hear what I say, guide?
And I don't wish to be kept waiting for it either! I desire to get out of
this place as soon as possible."
"I'm sorry," I said, "but I intend to stay here for some time."
"What!" bawled the heavy artillery in booming unison.
But my temper had been sorely tried, and I was in a mood to tell the
truth and make short work of it, too.
"Ladies," I said, "I'll not mince matters. Mr. Brown and I are not
guides; we are scientists from Bronx Park, and we don't know a bally
thing about this wilderness we're in!"
"Swindler!" shouted Mrs. Batt, in an enraged voice. "I knew very well
that the United States Government would never have named that puddle of
water after me!"
"Don't worry, madam! I've named it after Mr. Brown. And the new species
of gigantic fish which I discovered in this lake I have named after
myself. As for leaving this spot until I have concluded my scientific
study of these fish, I simply won't. I intend to observe their habits and
to capture one of them if it requires the remainder of my natural life to
do so. I shall be sorry to detain you here during such a period, but it
can't be helped. And now you know what the situation is, and you are at
liberty to think it over after you have washed your countenances in Lake
Kitten Brown."
Rage possessed the heavy artillery, and a fury indescribable seized them
when they discovered that Indians had raided their half ton of feminine
perquisites. I went up a tree.
When the tumult had calmed sufficiently for them to distinguish what I
said, I made a speech to them. From the higher branches of a neighboring
tree Kitten Brown applauded and cried, "Hear! Hear!"
"Ladies," I said, "you know the worst, now. If you keep me up this tree
and starve me to death it will be murder. Also, you don't know enough to
get out of these forests, but I can guide you back the way you came. I'll
do it if you cease your dangerous demonstrations and permit Mr. Brown and
myself to remain here and study these giant fish for a week or two."
[Illustration: "'If you keep me up this tree and starve me to death
it will be murder.'"]
They now seemed disposed to consider the idea. There was nothing else for
them to do. So after an hour or two, Brown and I ventured to descend from
our trees, and we went among them to placate them and ingratiate
ourselves as best we might.
"Think," I argued, "what a matchless opportunity for you to be among the
first discoverers of a totally new and undescribed species of giant fish!
Think what a legacy it will be to leave such a record to posterity! Think
how proud and happy your descendants will be to know that their ancestors
assisted at the discovery of Minnius Smithii!"
"Why can't they be named after me?" demanded Mrs. Batt.
"Because," I explained patiently, "they have already been named after
me!"
"Couldn't something be named after me?" inquired that fearsome lady.
"The bats," suggested Brown politely, "we could name a bat after you with
pleasure--"
I thought for a moment she meant to swing on him. He thought so, too, and
ducked.
"A bat!" she shouted. "Name a bat after me!"
"Many a celebrated scientist has been honoured by having his name
conferred upon humbler fauna," I explained.
But she remained dangerous, so I went and built the fire, and squatted
there, frying bacon, while on the other side of the fire, sitting side
by side, Kitten Brown and Angelica White gazed upon each other with
enraptured eyes. It was slightly sickening--but let that pass. I was
beginning to understand that science is a jealous mistress and that any
contemplated infidelity of mine stood every chance of being squelched.
No; evidently I had not been fashioned for the joys of legal domesticity.
Science, the wanton jade, had not yet finished her dance with me.
Apparently my maxixe with her was to be external. Fides servanda est.
       
That afternoon the heavy artillery held a council of war, and evidently
came to a conclusion to make the best of the situation, for toward
sundown they accosted me with a request for the raft, explaining that
they desired to picnic aboard and afterward row about the lake and
indulge in song.
So Brown and I put aboard the craft a substantial cold supper; and the
heavy artillery embarked, taking aboard a guitar to be worked by Miss
Dingleheimer, and knitting for the others.
It was a lovely evening. Brown and I had been discussing a plan to
dynamite the lake and stun the fish, that method appealing to us as the
only possible way to secure a specimen of the stupendous minnows which
inhabited the depths. In fact, it was our only hope of possessing one of
these creatures--fishing with a donkey engine, steel cable, and a hook
baited with a bat being too uncertain and far more laborious and
expensive.
I was still smoking my pipe, seated at the foot of the big pine-tree,
watching the water turn from gold to pink: Brown sat higher up the slope,
his arm around Angelica White. I carefully kept my back toward them.
On the lake the heavy artillery were revelling loudly, banqueting,
singing, strumming the guitar, and trailing their hands overboard across
the sunset-tinted water.
I was thinking of nothing in particular as I now remember, except that I
noticed the bats beginning to flit over the lake; when Brown called to me
from the slope above, asking whether it was perfectly safe for the heavy
artillery to remain out so late.
"Why?" I demanded.
"Suppose," he shouted, "that those fish should begin to jump and feed on
the bats again?"
I had never thought of that.
I rose and hurried nervously down to the shore, and, making a megaphone
of my hands, I shouted:
"Come in! It isn't safe to remain out any longer!"
Scornful laughter from the artillery answered my appeal.
"You'd better come in!" I called. "You can't tell what might happen if
any of those fish should jump."
"Mind your business!" retorted Mrs. Batt. "We've had enough of your
prevarications--"
Then, suddenly, without the faintest shadow of warning, from the centre
of the lake a vast geyser of water towered a hundred feet in the air.
For one dreadful second I saw the raft hurled skyward, balanced on the
crest of the stupendous fountain, spilling ladies, supper, guitars, and
knitting in every direction.
Then a horrible thing occurred; fish after fish shot up out of the storm
of water and foam, seizing, as they fell, ladies, luncheon, and knitting
in mid-air, falling back with a crashing shock which seemed to rock the
very mountains.
"Help!" I screamed. And fainted dead away.
       
Is it necessary to proceed? Literature nods; Science shakes her head. No,
nothing but literature lies beyond the ripples which splashed musically
upon the shore, terminating forever the last vibration from that
immeasurable catastrophe.
Why should I go on? The newspapers of the nation have recorded the last
scenes of the tragedy.
We know that tons of dynamite are being forwarded to that solitary lake.
We know that it is the determination of the Government to rid the world
of those gigantic minnows.
And yet, somehow, it seems to me as I sit writing here in my office, amid
the verdure of Bronx Park, that the destruction of these enormous fish is
a mistake.
What more splendid sarcophagus could the ladies of the lake desire than
these huge, silvery, itinerant and living tombs?
What reward more sumptuous could anybody wish for than to rest at last
within the interior dimness of an absolutely new species of anything?
For me, such a final repose as this would represent the highest pinnacle
of sublimity, the uttermost zenith of mortal dignity.
       
So what more is there for me to say?
As for Angelica--but no matter. I hope she may be comparatively happy
with Kitten Brown. Yet, as I have said before, handsome men never last.
But she should have thought of that in time.
I absolve myself of all responsibility. She had her chance.
ONE OVER
I
Professor Farrago had remarked to me that morning:
"The city of New York always reminds me of a slovenly, fat woman with her
dress unbuttoned behind."
I nodded.
"New York's architecture," said I, "--or what popularly passes for
it--is all in front. The minute you get to the rear a pitiable condition
is exposed."
He said: "Professor Jane Bottomly is all façade; the remainder of her is
merely an occiputal backyard full of theoretical tin cans and broken
bottles. I think we all had better resign."
It was a fearsome description. I trembled as I lighted an inexpensive
cigar.
The sentimental feminist movement in America was clearly at the bottom of
the Bottomly affair.
Long ago, in a reactionary burst of hysteria, the North enfranchised the
Ethiopian. In a similar sentimental explosion of dementia, some sixty
years later, the United States wept violently over the immemorial wrongs
perpetrated upon the restless sex, opened the front and back doors of
opportunity, and sobbed out, "Go to it, ladies!"
They are still going.
Professor Jane Bottomly was wished on us out of a pleasant April sky. She
fell like a meteoric mass of molten metal upon the Bronx Park Zoölogical
Society splashing her excoriating personality over everybody until
everybody writhed.
I had not yet seen the lady. I did not care to. Sooner or later I'd be
obliged to meet her but I was not impatient.
Now the Field Expeditionary Force of the Bronx Park Zoölogical Society
is, perhaps, the most important arm of the service. Professor Bottomly
had just been appointed official head of all field work. Why? Nobody
knew. It is true that she had written several combination nature and love
romances. In these popular volumes trees, flowers, butterflies, birds,
animals, dialect, sobs, and sun-bonnets were stirred up together into a
saccharine mess eagerly gulped down by a provincial reading public, which
immediately protruded its tongue for more.
The news of her impending arrival among us was an awful blow to everybody
at the Bronx. Professor Farrago fainted in the arms of his pretty
stenographer; Professor Cornelius Lezard of the Batrachian Department ran
around his desk all day long in narrowing circles and was discovered on
his stomach still feebly squirming like an expiring top; Dr. Hans Fooss,
our beloved Professor of Pachydermatology sat for hours weeping into his
noodle soup. As for me, I was both furious and frightened, for, within
the hearing of several people, Professor Bottomly had remarked in a very
clear voice to her new assistant, Dr. Daisy Delmour, that she intended to
get rid of me for the good of the Bronx because of my reputation for
indiscreet gallantry among the feminine employees of the Bronx Society.
Professor Lezard overhead that outrageous remark and he hastened to
repeat it to me.
I was lunching at the time in my private office in the Administration
Building with Dr. Hans Fooss--he and I being too busy dissecting an
unusually fine specimen of Dingue to go to the Rolling Stone Inn for
luncheon--when Professor Lezard rushed in with the scandalous libel still
sizzling in his ears.
"Everybody heard her say it!" he went on, wringing his hands. "It was a
most unfortunate thing for anybody to say about you before all those
young ladies. Every stenographer and typewriter there turned pale and
then red."
"What!" I exclaimed, conscious that my own ears were growing large and
hot. "Did that outrageous woman have the bad taste to say such a thing
before all those sensitive girls!"
"She did. She glared at them when she said it. Several blondes and one
brunette began to cry."
"I hope," said I, a trifle tremulously, "that no typewriter so far forgot
herself as to admit noticing playfulness on my part."
"They all were tearfully unanimous in declaring you to be a perfect
gentleman!"
"I am," I said. "I am also a married man--irrevocably wedded to science.
I desire no other spouse. I am ineligible; and everybody knows it. If at
times a purely scientific curiosity leads me into a detached and
impersonally psychological investigation of certain--ah--feminine
idiosyncrasies--"
"Certainly," said Lezard. "To investigate the feminine is more than a
science; it is a duty!"
"Of a surety!" nodded Dr. Fooss.
I looked proudly upon my two loyal friends and bit into my cheese
sandwich. Only men know men. A jury of my peers had exonerated me. What
did I care for Professor Bottomly!
"All the same," added Lezard, "you'd better be careful or Professor
Bottomly will put one over on you yet."
"I am always careful," I said with dignity.
"All men should be. It is the only protection of a defenseless coast
line," nodded Lezard.
"Und neffer, neffer commid nodding to paper," added Dr. Fooss. "Don'd
neffer write it, 'I lofe you like I was going to blow up alretty!' Ach,
nein! Don'd you write down somedings. Effery man he iss entitled to
protection; und so iss it he iss protected."
Stein in hand he beamed upon us benevolently over his knifeful of
sauerfisch, then he fed himself and rammed it down with a hearty draught
of Pilsner. We gazed with reverence upon Kultur as embodied in this great
Teuton.
"That woman," remarked Lezard to me, "certainly means to get rid of you.
It seems to me that there are only two possible ways for you to hold down
your job at the Bronx. You know it, don't you?"
I nodded. "Yes," I said; "either I must pay marked masculine attention to
Professor Bottomly or I must manage to put one over on her."
"Of course," said Lezard, "the first method is the easier for you--"
"Not for a minute!" I said, hastily; "I simply couldn't become frolicsome
with her. You say she's got a voice like a drill-sergeant and she
goose-steps when she walks; and I don't mind admitting she has me badly
scared already. No; she must be scientifically ruined. It is the only
method which makes her elimination certain."
"But if her popular nature books didn't ruin her scientifically, how can
we hope to lead her astray?" inquired Lezard.
"There is," I said, thoughtfully, "only one thing that can really ruin a
scientist. Ridicule! I have braved it many a time, taking my scientific
life in my hands in pursuit of unknown specimens which might have proved
only imaginary. Public ridicule would have ended my scientific career in
such an event. I know of no better way to end Professor Bottomly's
scientific career and capability for mischief than to start her out after
something which doesn't exist, inform the newspapers, and let her suffer
the agonising consequences."
Dr. Fooss began to shout:
"The idea iss schön! colossal! prachtvol! ausgezeichnet! wunderbar!
wunderschön! gemütlich--" A large, tough noodle checked him. While he
labored with Teutonic imperturbability to master it Lezard and I
exchanged suggestions regarding the proposed annihilation of this
fearsome woman who had come ravening among us amid the peaceful and
soporific environment of Bronx Park.
It was a dreadful thing for us to have our balmy Lotus-eaters' paradise
so startlingly invaded by a large, loquacious, loud-voiced lady who had
already stirred us all out of our agreeable, traditional and leisurely
inertia. Inertia begets cogitation, and cogitation begets ideas, and
ideas beget reflexion, and profound reflexion is the fundamental
cornerstone of that immortal temple in which the goddess Science sits
asleep between her dozing sisters, Custom and Religion.
This thought seemed to me so unusually beautiful that I wrote it with a
pencil upon my cuff.
While I was writing it, quietly happy in the deep pleasure that my
intellectual allegory afforded me, Dr. Fooss swabbed the last morsel of
nourishment from his plate with a wad of rye bread, then bolting the
bread and wiping his beard with his fingers and his fingers on his
waistcoat, he made several guttural observations too profoundly German
to be immediately intelligible, and lighted his porcelain pipe.
"Ach wass!" he remarked in ruminative fashion. "Dot Frauenzimmer she iss
to raise hell alretty determined. Von Pachydermatology she knows nodding.
Maybe she leaves me alone, maybe it is to be 'raus mit me. I' weis' ni'!
It iss aber besser one over on dat lady to put, yess?"
"It certainly is advisable," replied Lezard.
"Let us try to think of something sufficiently disastrous to terminate
her scientific career," said I. And I bowed my rather striking head and
rested the point of my forefinger upon my forehead. Thought crystallises
more quickly for me when I assume this attitude.
Out of the corner of my eye I saw Lezard fold his arms and sit frowning
at infinity.
Dr. Fooss lay back in a big, deeply padded armchair and closed his
prominent eyes. His pipe went out presently, and now and then he made
long-drawn nasal remarks, in German, too complicated for either Lezard or
for me to entirely comprehend.
"We must try to get her as far away from here as possible," mused Lezard.
"Is Oyster Bay too far and too cruel?"
I pondered darkly upon the suggestion. But it seemed unpleasantly like
murder.
"Lezard," said I, "come, let us reason together. Now what is woman's
besetting emotion?"
"Curiosity?"
"Very well; assuming that to be true, what--ah--quality particularly
characterizes woman when so beset."
"Ruthless determination."
"Then," said I, "we ought to begin my exciting the curiosity of Professor
Bottomly; and her ruthless determination to satisfy that curiosity should
logically follow."
"How," he asked, "are we to arouse her curiosity?"
"By pretending that we have knowledge of something hitherto undiscovered,
the discovery of which would redound to our scientific glory."
"I see. She'd want the glory for herself. She'd swipe it."
"She would," said I.
"Tee--hee!" he giggled; "Wouldn't it be funny to plant something phony on
her--"
I waved my arms rather gracefully in my excitement:
"That is the germ of an idea!" I said. "If we could plant
something--something--far away from here--very far away--if we could
bury something--like the Cardiff Giant--"
"Hundreds and hundreds of miles away!"
"Thousands!" I insisted, enthusiastically.
"Tee-hee! In Tasmania, for example! Maybe a Tasmanian Devil might acquire
her!"
"There exists a gnat," said I, "in Borneo--Gnatus soporificus--and
when this tiny gnat stings people they never entirely wake up. It's
really rather a pleasurable catastrophe, I understand. Life becomes
one endless cat-nap--one delightful siesta, with intervals for light
nourishment.... She--ah--could sit very comfortably in some pleasant
retreat and rock in a rocking-chair and doze quite happily through the
years to come.... And from your description of her I should say that
the Soldiers' Home might receive her."
"It won't do," he said, gloomily.
"Why? Is it too much like crime?"
"Oh not at all. Only if she went to Borneo she'd be sure to take a
mosquito-bar with her."
In the depressed silence which ensued Dr. Fooss suddenly made several
Futurist observations through his nose with monotonous but authoritative
regularity. I tried to catch his meaning and his eye. The one remained
cryptic, the other shut.
Lezard sat thinking very hard. And as I fidgetted in my chair, fiddling
nervously with various objects lying on my desk I chanced to pick up a
letter from the pile of still unopened mail at my elbow.
Still pondering on Professor Bottomly's proposed destruction, I turned
the letter over idly and my preoccupied gaze rested on the postmark.
After a moment I leaned forward and examined it more attentively. The
letter directed to me was postmarked Fort Carcajou, Cook's Peninsula,
Baffin Land; and now I recalled the handwriting, having already seen it
three or four times within the last month or so.
"Lezard," I said, "that lunatic trapper from Baffin Land has written to
me again. What do you suppose is the matter with him? Is he just plain
crazy or does he think he can be funny with me?"
Lezard gazed at me absently. Then, all at once a gleam of savage interest
lighted his somewhat solemn features.
"Read the letter to me," he said, with an evil smile which instantly
animated my own latent imagination. And immediately it occurred to me
that perhaps, in the humble letter from the wilds of Baffin Land, which I
was now opening with eager and unsteady fingers, might lie concealed the
professional undoing of Professor Jane Bottomly, and the only hope of my
own ultimate and scientific salvation.
The room became hideously still as I unfolded the pencil-scrawled sheets
of cheap, ruled letter paper.
Dr. Fooss opened his eyes, looked at me, made porcine sounds indicative
of personal well-being, relighted his pipe, and disposed himself to
listen. But just as I was about to begin, Lezard suddenly laid his
forefinger across his lips conjuring us to densest silence.
For a moment or two I heard nothing except the buzzing of flies. Then
I stole a startled glance at my door. It was opening slowly, almost
imperceptibly.
But it did not open very far--just a crack remained. Then, listening with
all our might, we heard the cautiously suppressed breathing of somebody
in the hallway just outside of my door.
Lezard turned and cast at me a glance of horrified intelligence. In dumb
pantomime he outlined in the air, with one hand, the large and feminine
amplification of his own person, conveying to us the certainty of his
