touched the automatic, but did not take it up.  She left the drawer
open, however.
Earlier, at the newspaper office that night, Jim went into the managing
editor's office and laid a bulky manuscript on that gentleman's desk.
"Is this it?"
"It is," said Jim.
"You have captured them?"
"No; but there is a net about them from which not one shall escape.
There's the story of my adventures, of the adventures of Miss Hargreave
and the butler, Jones.  You'll find it exciting enough.  You might just
as well send it up to the composing room.  At midnight I'll telephone
the introduction.  It's a scoop.  Don't worry about that."
The editor riffled the pages.
"A hundred and twelve pages, three hundred words to the page; man, it's
a novel!"
"It'll read like one."
"Sit down for a moment and let me skim through the first story."
At the end of ten minutes the editor laid down the copy.  He opened a
drawer and took out two envelopes.  The blue one he tore up and dropped
into the waste basket.  Norton understood and smiled.  They had meant
to discharge him if he fell down.  The other envelope was a fat one.
"Open it," said the editor, smiling a little to himself.
This envelope contained a check for two thousand five hundred dollars,
two round-trip first-class tickets to Liverpool, together with
innumerable continental tickets such as are issued to tourists.
"Why two?" asked Jim innocently.
"Forget it, my boy, forget it.  You ought to know that in this office
we don't employ blind men.  The whole staff is on.  There you are, a
fat check and three months' vacation.  Go and get married; and if you
return before the three months are up I'll fire you myself on general
principles."
Jim laughed happily and the two men shook hands.  Then Jim went forth
to complete the big assignment.  Five minutes later Florence called him
up to learn that he had gone.
What should she do?  Jones had told her to stay in the house and not to
leave it.  But where was he?  Why did he not come?  What was the
meaning of this desertion by the servants?  She wandered about
aimlessly, looking out of windows, imagining forms in the shadows.  Her
imagination had not deceived her; she had heard doors close softly.
"Susan, Susan!" she murmured, but Susan was in the hospital.
Oliver Twist!  What had possessed her to start reading that old tale
again?  She should have read something of a light and joyous character.
After half an hour's wandering about the lonely house she returned to
the library, feeling that she would be safer where both telephone and
revolver were.
And while she sat waiting for she knew not what, her swiftly beating
heart sending the blood into her throat so that it almost suffocated
her, a man turned into the street and walked noiselessly toward the
Hargreave place.  He passed a man leaning against a lamp-post, but he
never turned to look at him.
This man, however, threw away his cigar and hot-footed it to the
nearest pay station.  He knew in his soul that he had just seen the man
for whom they had been hunting all these weary but strenuous
weeks--Stanley Hargreave in the flesh!  Half an hour after his
telephone message the chief of the Black Hundred and many lesser lights
were on their way to the house of mystery.  Had they but known!
Now, the man who had created this tremendous agitation went serenely
on.  He proceeded directly and fearlessly to the front door, produced a
latchkey and entered.  He passed through the hall and reception room to
the library and paused on the threshold dramatically.  Florence stepped
back with a sharp cry of alarm.  She had heard the hall door open and
close and had taken it for granted that Jones had entered.
There was a tableau of short duration.
"Don't you know me?" asked the stranger in a singularly pleasant voice.
Florence had been imposed upon too many times.  She shook her head
defiantly, though her knees shook so that she was certain that the
least touch would send her over.
"I am your father, child!"
Florence slipped unsteadily behind the desk and seized the revolver
which lay in the drawer.  The man by the curtains smiled sadly.  It was
a smile that caused Florence to waver a bit.  Still she extended her
arm.
"You do not believe me?" said the man, advancing slowly.
"No.  I have been deceived too many times, sir.  Stay where you are.
You will wait here till my butler returns.  Oh, if I were only sure!"
she burst out suddenly and passionately.  "What proof have you that you
are what you say?"
He came toward her, holding out his hands.  "This, that you can not
shoot me.  Ah, the damnable wretches!  What have they done to you, my
child, to make you suspicious of every one?  How I have watched over
you in the street!  I will tell you what only Jones and the reporter
know, that the aviator died, that I alone was rescued, that I gave
Norton the five thousand; that I watched the windows of the Russian
woman, and overheard nearly every plot that was hatched in the council
chamber of the Black Hundred; that I was shot in the arm while crossing
the lawn one night.  And now we have the scoundrels just where we want
them.  They will be in this house for me within half an hour, and not
one of them will leave it in freedom.  I am your father, Florence.  I
am the lonely father who has spent the best years of his life away from
you in order to secure your safety.  Can't you feel the truth of all
this?"
"No, no!  Please do not approach any nearer; stay where you are!"
At that moment the telephone rang.  With the revolver still leveled she
picked up the receiver.
"Hello, hello!  Who is it? ... Oh, Jim, Jim, come at once!  I am
holding at bay a man who says he is my father.  Hold him where he is,
you say?  All right, I will.  Come quick!"
"Jim!" murmured the man, still advancing.  He must have that revolver.
The poor child might spoil the whole affair.  "So what Jones tells me
is true; that you are going to marry this reporter chap?"
She did not answer.
"With or without my consent?"
If only he would drop that fearless smile! she thought.  "With or
without anybody's consent," she said.
"What in the world can I say to you to convince you?" he cried.  "The
trap is set; but if Braine and his men come and find us like this, good
heaven, child, we are both lost!  Come, come!"
"Stay where you are!"
At that moment she heard a sound at the door.  Her gaze roved; and it
was enough for the man.  He reached out and caught her arm.  She tried
to tear herself loose.
"My child, in God's name, listen to reason!  They are entering the hall
and they will have us both."
Suddenly Florence knew.  She could not have told you why; but there was
an appeal in the man's voice that went to her heart.
"You are my father!"
"Yes, yes!  But you've found it out just a trifle too late, my dear.
Quick; this side of the desk!"
Braine and his men dashed into the library.  Olga entered leisurely.
"Both of them!" yelled Braine exultantly.  "Both of them together; what
luck!"
There was a sharp, fierce struggle; and when it came to an end
Hargreave was trussed to a chair.
"Ah, so we meet again, Hargreave!" said Braine.
Hargreave shrugged.  What he wanted was time.
"A million!  We have you.  Where is it, or I'll twist your heart before
your eyes."
"Father, forgive me!"
"I understand, my child."
"Where is it?"  Braine seized Florence by the wrist and swung her
toward him.
"Don't tell him, father; don't mind me," said the girl bravely.
Braine, smiling his old evil smile, drew the girl close.  It was the
last time he ever touched her.
"Look!" screamed Olga.
Every one turned, to see Jones' face peering between the curtains.
There was an ironic smile on the butler's lips.  The face vanished.
"After him!" cried Braine, releasing Florence.
"After him!" mimicked a voice from the hall.
The curtains were thrown back suddenly.  Jones appeared, and Jim and
the Russian agent and a dozen policemen.  Tableau!
Braine sprang at Florence savagely, and Norton tore him back, and they
went tumbling through the library and the living room.  It was a death
struggle; make no mistake about that.  The others dared not shoot for
fear of hitting Norton.  But the Countess Olga, in the hallway, dared
the risk.  As Norton's back came into view she fired.  Almost at the
same instant Norton had swung Braine about.  A shudder ran through the
arch-scoundrel, his hands slipped off Norton's shoulders, a surprised
expression swept over his face, then he sank inertly to the floor, dead.
Olga ran up-stairs wildly, followed by a determined policeman.  She
dashed into Florence's room and locked the door.  Instantly she crossed
over to the window, and paused.
Down-stairs the police were marching off the leaders of the Black
Hundred.
"Well," said Norton, "I guess it's all over.  And, my word for it, Mr.
Jedson, you've played your end consummately."
"Jedson!" exclaimed Jones, starting back.
"Yes, Jedson, formerly of Scotland Yard," went on the reporter.  "I
recognized him long ago."
"It is true," said Hargreave, taking Jones' hand in his own.  "Fifteen
years ago I employed him to watch my affairs, and very well has he done
so."
Presently, Hargreave, Jones, Florence and Jim were alone.  That smile
which had revealed to Florence her father's identity stole over his
face again.  He put his hand on Jim's shoulder and beckoned to Florence.
"Are you really anxious to marry this young man?"
Florence nodded.
"Well, then, do so.  And go to Europe with him on your honeymoon; and
as a wedding present to you both, for every dollar that he has I will
add a hundred; and when you get tired of travel you will both come hack
here to live.  The Black Hundred has ceased to exist."
"And now," said Jones, shaking his shoulders.
"Well?" said Hargreave.
"My business is done.  Still--"  Jones paused.
"Go on," said Hargreave soberly.
"Well, the truth is, sir, I've grown used to you.  And if you'll let me
play the butler till the end I shall be most happy."
"I was going to suggest it."
Norton took Florence by the hand and drew her away.
"Where are you taking me?" she asked.
"I'm going to take this pretty hand of yours and put it flat upon one
million dollars.  And if you don't believe it, follow me."
She followed.
CHAPTER XXIII
It will be remembered that the Countess Olga had darted up the stairs
during the struggle between Braine and his captors.  The police who had
followed her were recalled to pursue one of the lesser rogues.  This
left Olga free for a moment.  She stole out and down as far as the
landing.
Servan, the Russian agent, stood waiting for the taxi-cab to roll up to
the porte-cochère for himself, Braine and Vroon.  Norton had taken
Florence by the hand, ostensibly to conduct her to the million.
Suddenly Braine made a dash for liberty.  Norton rushed after him.
Just as he reached Braine, a shot rang out.  Braine whirled upon his
heels and crashed to the floor.
Olga, intent upon giving injury to Norton, who she regarded equally
with Hargreave as having brought about the downfall, had hit her lover
instead.  With a cry of despair she dashed back into Florence's room,
quite ready to end it all.  She raised the revolver to her temple,
shuddered, and lowered the weapon: so tenaciously do we cling to life!
Below, they were all quite stunned by the suddenness of the shot.
Instantly they sought the fallen man's side, and a hasty examination
gave them the opinion that the man was dead.  Happily a doctor was on
the way, Servan having given the call, as one of the Black Hundred had
been wounded badly.
But what to do with that mad woman up-stairs?  Hargreave advised them
to wait.  The house was surrounded; she could not possibly escape save
by one method, and perhaps that would be the best for her.  Hargreave
looked gravely at Norton as he offered this suggestion.  The reporter
understood: the millionaire was willing to give the woman a chance.
"And you are my father?" said Florence, still bewildered by the amazing
events.  "But I don't understand yet!" her gaze roving from the real
Jones to her father.
"I don't doubt it, child," said Hargreave.  "I'll explain.  When I
hired Jones here, who is really Jedson of the Scotland Yard, I did so
because we looked alike when shaven.  It was Jedson here who escaped by
the balloon; it was Jedson who returned the five thousand to Norton,
who watched the countess' apartment; it was Jedson who was wounded in
the arm.  I myself guarded you, my child.  Last night, unbeknown to
you, I left and the real Jones--for it is easier to call him
that!--took my place."
"And I never saw the difference!" exclaimed Florence.
"That is natural," smiled her father.  "You were thinking of Norton
here instead of me.  Eh?"
Florence blushed.
"Well, why not?  Here, Norton!"  The millionaire took Florence's hand
and placed it in the reporter's.  "It seems that I've got to lose her
after all.  Kiss her, man; in heaven's name, kiss her!"
And Norton threw his arms around the girl and kissed her soundly,
careless of the fact that he was observed by both enemies and friends.
Suddenly the policeman who had been standing by the side of Braine ran
into the living-room.
"He's alive!  Braine's alive; he just stirred."
"What?" exclaimed Norton and Hargreave in a single breath.
"Yes, sir!  I saw his hands move.  It's a good thing we sent for a
doctor.  He ought to be along about now."
Even as he spoke the bell rang: and they all surged out into the hall,
forgetting for the moment all about the million.  Olga hadn't killed
the man, then?  The doctor knelt beside the stricken man and examined
him.  He shrugged.
"Will he live?"
"Certainly.  A scalp wound, that laid him out for a few moments.  He'll
be all right in a few days.  He was lucky.  A quarter of an inch lower,
and he'd have passed in his checks."
"Good!" murmured Servan.  "So our friend will accompany me back to good
Russia?  Oh, we'll be kind to him during the journey.  Have him taken
to the hospital ward at the Tombs.  Now, for the little lady up-stairs."
A moment later Braine opened his eyes, and the policeman assisted him
to his feet.  Servan, with a nod, ordered the police to help the
wounded man to the taxicab which had just arrived.  Braine, now wholly
conscious, flung back one look of supreme hatred toward Hargreave; and
that was the last either Florence or her father ever saw of Braine of
the Black Hundred--a fine specimen of a man gone wrong through greed
and an inordinate lust for revenge.
The policeman returned to Hargreave.
"It's pretty quiet up-stairs," he suggested.  "Don't you think, sir,
that I'd better try that bedroom door again?"
"Well, if you must," assented Hargreave reluctantly.  "But don't be
rough with her if you can help it."
For Braine he had no sympathy.  When he recalled all the misery that
devil's emissary had caused him, the years of hiding and pursuit, the
loss of the happiness that had rightfully been his, his heart became
adamant.  For eighteen years to have ridden and driven and sailed up
and down the world, always confident that sooner or later that demon
would find him!  He had lost the childhood of his daughter; and now he
was to lose her in her womanhood.  And because of this implacable
hatred the child's mother had died in the Petrograd prison-fortress.
But what an enemy the man had been!  He, Hargreave, had needed all his
wits constantly; he had never dared to go to sleep except with one eye
open.  But in employing ordinary crooks, Braine had at length
overreached himself; and now he must pay the penalty.  The way of the
transgressor is hard; and though this ancient saying looks dingy with
the wear and tear of centuries, it still holds good.
But he felt sorry for the woman up above.  She had loved not wisely but
too well.  Far better for her if she put an end to life.  She would not
live a year in the God-forsaken snows of Siberia.
"My kind father!" said Florence, as if she could read his thoughts.
"I had a hard time of it, child.  It was difficult to play the butler
with you about.  The times that I fought down the desire to sweep you
up in my arms!  But I kept an iron grip on that impulse.  It would have
imperiled you.  In some manner it would have leaked out; and your life
and mine wouldn't have been worth a button."
Florence threw her arms around him and held him tightly.
"That poor woman up-stairs!" she murmured.  "Can't they let her go?"
"No, dear.  She has lost, and losers pay the stakes.  That's life.
Norton, you knew who I was all the time, didn't you?"
"I did; Mr. Hargreave.  There was a scar on the lobe of your ear; and
secretly I often wondered at the likeness between you and the real
Jones.  When I caught a glimpse of that ear, then I knew what the game
was.  And I'll add that you played it amazingly well.  The one flaw in
Braine's campaign was his hurry.  He started the ball rolling before
getting all the phases clearly established in his mind.  He was a brave
man, anyhow; and more than once he had me where I believed that prayers
only were necessary."
"And do you think that you can lead Florence to the million?" asked
Hargreave, smiling.
"For one thing, it is in her room, and has always been there.  It never
was in the chest."
"Not bad, not bad," mused the father.
"But perhaps after all it will be better if you show it to her
yourself."
"Just a little uncertain?" jibed the millionaire.
"Absolutely certain.  I will whisper in your ear where it is hidden."
Norton leaned forward as Hargreave bent attentively.
"You've hit it!  But how in the world did you guess it?"
"Because it was the last place any one would look for it.  I judged at
the start that you'd hide it in just such a spot, in some place where
you could always guard it, and lay your hands on it quickly if needs
said must."
"I'm mighty glad you were on my side," said Hargreave.  "In a few
minutes we'll go up and take a look at those packets of bills.  There's
a very unhappy young woman there at present."
"It is in my room?" cried Florence.
Hargreave nodded.
Meantime the Countess Olga hovered between two courses: a brave attempt
to escape by the window or to turn the revolver against her heart.  In
either case there was nothing left in life for her.  The man she loved
was dead below, killed by her hand.  She felt as though she was
treading air in some fantastical nightmare.  She could not go forward
or backward, and her heels were always within reach of her pursuers.
So this was the end of things?  The dreams she had had of going away
with Braine to other climes, the happiness she had pictured, all mere
chimeras!  A sudden rage swept over her.  She would escape, she would
continue to play the game to the end.  She would show them that she had
been the man's mate, not his pliant tool.  She raised the window and
stepped out onto the balcony .... into the hands of the policeman who
had patiently been waiting for her to do so!  Instantly she placed the
revolver at her temple.  A quick clutch, and the policeman had her by
the wrist.  She made one tigerish effort to free herself, shrugged, and
signified that she surrendered.
"I don't want to hurt you, Miss," said the policeman; "but if you make
any attempt to escape, I'll have to put the handcuffs on you."
"I'll go quietly.  What are you going to do with me?"
"Turn you over to the Russian agent.  He has extradition papers; and I
guess it's Siberia."
"For me?" She laughed scornfully.  "Do I look like a woman who would go
to Siberia?"
"Be careful, Miss.  As I said, I don't want to put the cuffs on unless
I have to."
She laughed again.  It did not have a pleasant sound in the officer's
ears.  He had heard women, suicidal bent, laugh like that.
"I'll ask you for that ring on your finger."
"Do you think there is poison in it?"
"I shouldn't be surprised," he admitted.
She slipped the ring from her finger and gave it to him.
"There is poison in it; so be careful how you handle it," she said.
The policeman accepted it gingerly and dropped it into his capacious
pocket.  It tinkled as it fell against the handcuffs.
At that moment the other policeman broke in the door.
"All right, Dolan; she's given up the game."
"She didn't kill the man after all," said Dolan.
"He's alive?" she screamed.
"Yes; and they've taken him off to the Tombs.  Just a scalp wound.
He'll be all right in a day or two."
"Alive!" murmured Olga.  She had not killed the man she loved, then?
And if they were indeed taken to Siberia, she would be with him until
the end of things.
With her handsome head proudly erect, she walked toward the door.  She
paused for a moment to look at the portrait of Hargreave.  Somehow it
seemed to smile at her ironically.  Then on, down the stairs, between
the two officers, she went.  Her glance traveled coolly from face to
face, and stopped at Florence's.  There she saw pity.
"You are sorry for me?" she asked skeptically.
"Oh, yes!  I forgive you," said the generous Florence.
"Thanks!  Officers, I am ready."
So the Countess Olga passed through that hall door forever.  How many
times had she entered it, with guile and treachery in her heart?  It
was the game.  She had played it and lost, and she must pay her debts
to Fate the fiddler.  Siberia!  The tin or lead mines, the
ankle-chains, the knout, and many things that were far worse to a
beautiful woman!  Well, so long as Braine was at her side, she would
suffer all these things without a murmur.  And always there would be a
chance, a chance!
When they heard the taxicab rumble down the driveway to the street,
Hargreave turned to Florence.
"Come along, now, and we'll have the bad taste taken off our tongues.
To win out is the true principle of life.  It takes off some of the
tinsel and glamour, but the end is worth while."
They all trooped up-stairs to Florence's room.  So wonderful is the
power and attraction of money that they forgot the humiliation of their
late enemies.
Hargreave approached the portrait of himself, took it from the wall,
pressed a button on the back, which fell outward.  Behold!  There, in
neat packages of a hundred thousand each, lay the mystic million!  The
spectators were awed into silence for a moment.  Perhaps the thought of
each was identical--the long struggle, the terrible hazards, the
deaths, that had taken place because of this enormous sum of money.
A million, sometimes called cool; why, nobody knows.  There it lay,
without feeling, without emotion; yellow notes payable to bearer on
demand.  Presently Florence gasped, Norton sighed, and Hargreave
smiled.  The face of Jones (or Jedson) alone remained impassive.
A million dollars is a marvelous sight.  Very few people have ever seen
it, not even millionaires themselves.  I dare say you never saw it; and
I'm tolerably certain I never have, or will!  A million, ready for
eager, careless fingers to spend, or thrifty fingers to multiply!  What
Correggio, what Rubens, what Titian, could stand beside it?  None that
I wot of.
"Florence, that is all yours, to do with as you please, to spend when
and how you will.  Share it with your husband-to-be.  He is a brave and
gallant young man, and is fortunate in finding a young woman equally
