all day by the latticed window there all day 
long, day after day and when one is young 
and when there is nobody nothing to look 
at except the curlew flying nothing to hear 
except the vanneaux, and the clocks striking 
the hour " 
Her voice had altered subtly, but she lifted 
her proud little head and smiled, and her tone 
grew firm again: 
"You see, Monsieur, I am truly becoming 
a trifle morbid. It is entirely physical; my 
heart is quite undaunted." 
"You heart, Madame, is but a part of the 
great, undaunted heart of France." 
"Yes . . . therefore there could be no fear 
no doubt of God. . . . Affairs go well with 
France, Monsieur! may I ask without military impropriety?" 
"France, as always, faces her destiny, Madame. And her destiny is victory and light." 
"Surely ... I knew ; only I had heard noth 
ing for so long. . . . Thank you, Monsieur." 
He said quietly: "The Light shall break. 
We must not doubt it, we English. Nor can 
you doubt the ultimate end of this vast and 
hellish Darkness which has been let loose upon 
the world to assail it. You shall live to see 
light, Madame and I also shall see it perhaps " 
She looked up at the young man, met his 
eyes, and looked elsewhere, gravely. A slight 
flush lingered on her cheeks. 
On the doorstep of the house they paused. 
"Is it possible," she asked, "that an enemy 
aeroplane could land in the Aulnes Etang? 
L Etang aux Vanneaux?" 
"In the Etang I" he repeated, a little startled. 
"How large is it, this Etang aux Vanneaux?" 
"It is a lake. It is perhaps a mile long and 
three-quarters of a mile across. My old servant, Anne, had seen the werewolf in the 
reeds like a man without a face and only 
two great eyes " She forced a pale smile. 
"Of course, if it were anything she saw, it 
was a real man. . . . And, airmen dress that 
way. ... I wondered " 
He stood looking at her absently, worrying 
his short mustache. 
"One of the rumours we have heard," he 
began, "concerns a supposed invasion by a huge 
fleet of German battle-planes of enormous dimensions a new biplane type which is steered 
from the bridge like an ocean steamer. 
"It is supposed to be three or four times 
as large as their usual Albatross type, with 
a vast cruising radius, immense capacity for 
lifting, and powerful enough to carry a great 
weight of armour, equipment, munitions, and 
a very large crew. 
"And the most disturbing thing about it is 
that it is said to be as noiseless as a high-class 
automobile." 
"Has such an one been seen in Brittany?" 
"Such a machine has been reported many, 
many times as though not one but hundreds 
were in Finistere. And, what is very disquieting to us a report has arrived from a distant 
and totally independent source from Sweden 
that air-crafts of this general type have been 
secretly built in Germany by the hundreds." 
After a moment's silence she stepped into 
the house ; he followed. 
The great, bare, grey rooms were in keeping with the grey exterior; age had more than 
softened and coordinated the ancient furnishings, it had rendered them colourless, without 
accent, making the place empty and monoto 
nous. 
Her chair and workbasket stood by a latticed window; she seated herself and took 
up her sewing, watching him where he stood 
before the fireplace fussing over a little mantel 
clock a gilt and ebony affair of the consulate, 
shaped like a lyre, the pendulum being also the 
clock itself and containing the works, bell and 
dial. 
When he had adjusted it to his satisfaction 
he tested it. It still struck five. He continued 
to fuss over it for half an hour, testing it at 
intervals, but it always struck five times, and 
finally he gave up his attempts with a shrug 
of annoyance. 
"I can't do anything with it," he admitted, 
smiling cheerfully across the room at her; "is 
there another clock on this floor?" 
She directed him; he went into an adjoining room where, on the mantel, a modern enamelled clock was ticking busily. But after a 
little while he gave up his tinkering; he could 
do nothing with it; the bell persistently struck 
five. He returned to where she sat sewing, ad 
mitting failure with a perplexed and uneasy 
smile; and she rose and accompanied him 
through the house, where he tried, in turn, 
every one of the other clocks. 
When, at length, he realized that he could 
accomplish nothing by altering their striking 
mechanism that every clock in the house per 
sisted in striking five times no matter where 
the hands were pointing, a sudden, odd, and 
inward rage possessed him to hurl the clocks 
at the wall and stamp the last vestiges of 
mechanism out of them. 
As they returned together through the 
hushed and dusky house, he caught glimpses 
of faded and depressing tapestries; of vast, 
tarnished mirrors, through the dim depths of 
which their passing figures moved like ghosts ; 
of rusted stands of arms, and armoured lay 
figures where cobwebs clotted the slitted visors 
and the frail tatters of ancient faded banners 
drooped. 
And he understood why any woman might 
believe in strange inexplicable things here in 
the haunting stillness of this house where splendour had turned to mould where form had be 
come effaced and colour dimmed; where only 
the shadowy film of texture still remained, 
and where even that was slowly yielding 
under the attacks of Time's relentless mercenaries, moth and dust and rust. 
CHAPTER X 
They dined by the latticed window; two 
candles lighted them; old Anne served them 
old Anne of Faouette in her wide white 
coiffe and collarette, her velvet bodice and her 
chaussons broidered with the rose. 
Always she talked as she moved about with 
dish and salver garrulous, deaf, and aged, 
and perhaps flushed with the gentle afterglow 
of that second infancy which comes before 
the night. 
"Ouidame! It is I, Anne Le Bihan, who tell 
you this, my pretty gentleman. I have lived 
through eighty years and I have seen life 
begin and end in the Woods of Aulnes alas! 
in the Woods and the House of Aulnes " 
"The red wine, Anne," said her mistress, 
gently. 
"Madame the Countess is served. . . . These 
grapes grew when I was young, Monsieur 
and the world was young, too, mon Capitaine lielas! but the Woods of Aulnes were 
old, old as the headland yonder. Only the 
sea is older, beau jeune homme only the sea 
is older the sea which always was and will 
be." 
"Madame," he said, turning toward the 
young girl beside him, " to France! I have 
the honour " She touched her glass to his 
and they saluted France with the ancient 
wine of France a sip, a faint smile, and silence through which their eyes still lingered 
for a moment. 
"This year is yielding a bitter vintage," he 
said. "Light is lacking. But but there will 
be sun enough another year." 
"Yes." 
"B en oui! The sun must shine again," 
muttered old Anne, "but not in the Woods 
of Aulnes. Non pas. There is no sunlight 
in the Woods of Aulnes where all is dim and 
still; where the Blessed walk at dawn with 
Our Lady of Aulnes in shining vestments 
all " 
"She has seen thin mists rising there," 
whispered the Countess in his ear. 
"In shining robes of grace oui-da! the 
martyrs and the acolytes of God. It is I who 
tell you, beau jeune homme I, Anne of Faouette. I saw them pass where, on my two 
knees, I gathered orange mushrooms by the 
brook ! I heard them singing prettily and loud, 
hymns of our blessed Lady " 
"She heard a throstle singing by the brook," 
whispered the chatelaine of Aulnes. Her 
breath was delicately fragrant on his cheek. 
Against the grey dusk at the window she 
looked to him like a slim spirit returned to 
haunt the halls of Aulnes some graceful 
shade come back out of the hazy and for 
gotten years of gallantry and courts and battles the exquisite apparation of that golden 
time before the Vendee drowned and washed 
it out in blood. 
"I am so glad you came," she said. "I 
have not felt so calm, so confident, in months." 
Old Anne of Faouette laid them fresh nap- 
kins and set two crystal bowls beside them 
and filled the bowls with fresh water from the 
moat. 
"Ho fois!" she said, "love and the heart 
may change, but not the Woods of Aulnes; 
they never change they never change. . . . 
The golden people of Ker-Ys come out of the 
sea to walk among the trees." 
The Countess whispered: "She has seen 
the sunbeams slanting through the trees." 
"Vrai, c est moi, Anne Le Bihan, qui vous 
dites cela, mon Capitaine/ And, in the Woods 
of Aulnes the werewolf prowls. I have seen 
him, gallant gentleman. He walks upright, and, 
in his head, he has only eyss; no mouth, no 
teeth, no nostrils, and no hair the Loup- 
Garou ! Lady of Aulnes, adored and blessed, 
protect us from the Loup-Barou!" 
The Countess said again to him: "I have not 
felt so confident, so content, so full of faith 
in months " 
A far faint clamour came to their ears ; 
high in the fading sky above the forest 
vast clouds of wild fowl rose like smoke, whirling, circling, swinging wide, drifting against 
the dying light of day, southward toward the 
sea. 
"There is something wrong there," he said, 
under his breath. 
Minute after minute they watched in silence. 
The last misty shred of wild fowl floated sea 
ward and was lost against the clouds. 
"Is there a path to the Etang?" he asked 
quietly. 
"Yes. I will go with you " 
"No." 
"Why?" 
"No. Show me the path." 
His shotgun stood by the door; he took 
it with him as he left the house beside her. 
In the moat, close by the bridge, and point 
ing toward the house, L Ombre lay motionless. 
They saw it as they passed, but did not speak of 
it to each other. At the forest's edge he 
halted: "Is this the path!" 
"Yes. . . . May; I not go?" 
"No please." 
"Is there danger!" 
"No. ... I don't know if there is any danger." 
"Will you be cautious, then!" 
He turned and looked at her in the dim 
light. Standing so for a little while they 
remained silent. Then he drew a deep, quiet 
breath. She held out one hand, slowly; half 
way he bent and touched her fingers with 
his lips; released them. Her arm fell list 
lessly at her side. 
After he had been gone a long while, she 
turned away, moving with head lowered. At 
the bridge she waited for him. 
A red moon rose low in the east. It be 
came golden above the trees, paler higher, 
and deathly white in mid-heaven. 
It was long after midnight when she went 
into the house to light fresh candles. In the 
intense darkness before dawn she lighted two 
more and set them in an upper window on 
the chance that they might guide him back. 
At five in the morning every clock struck 
five. 
She was not asleep; she was lying on a 
lounge beside the burning candles, listening, 
when the door below burst open and there 
came the trampling rush of feet, the sound 
of blows, a fall 
A loud voice cried : "Because you are armed 
and not in uniform! you British swine!" 
And the pistol shots crashed through the 
house. 
On the stairs she swayed for an instant, 
grasped blindly at the rail. Through the floating smoke below the dead man lay there by 
the latticed window where they had sat to 
gether he and she 
Spectres were flitting to and fro grey 
shapes without faces things with eyes. A 
loud voice dinned in her ears, beat savagely 
upon her shrinking brain: 
"You there on the stairs! do you hear? 
What are those candles? Signals?" 
She looked down at the dead man. 
"Yes," she said. 
Through the crackling racket of the fusillade, down, down into roaring darkness she 
fell. 
After a few moments her slim hand moved, 
closed over the dead man s. And moved no 
more. 
In the moat L Ombre still remained, unstirring; old Anne lay in the kitchen dying; 
and the Wood of Aulnes was swarming with 
ghastly shapes which had no faces, only 
eyes. 
CHAPTER XI 
It was Dr. Vail whose identification secured 
burial for Neeland, not in the American cemetery, but in Aulnes Wood. 
When the raid into Finistere ended, and 
the unclean birds took flight, Vail, at Quimper, 
ordered north with his unit, heard of the 
tragedy, and went to Aulnes. And so Neeland 
was properly buried beside the youthful chatelaine. Which was, no doubt, what his severed 
soul desired. And perhaps hers desired it, too. 
Vail continued on to Paris, to Flanders, 
got gassed, and came back to New York. 
He had aged ten years in as many months. 
Gray, the younger surgeon, kept glancing 
from time to time at Vail's pallid face, and 
the latter understood the professional interest of the younger man. 
"You think I look ill?" he asked, finally. 
"You don't look very fit, Doctor." 
"No. . . . I'm going West." 
"You mean it?" 
"Yes." 
"Why do you think that you are going 
Westl" 
"There's a thing over there, born of gas. 
It's a living thing, animal or vegetable. I don't 
know which. It's only recently been recognized. We call it the Seed of Death. " 
Gray gazed at the haggard face of the older 
man in silence. 
Vail went on, slowly: "It's properly named. 
It is always fatal. A man may live for a 
few months. But, once gassed, even in the 
slightest degree, if that germ is inhaled, death 
is certain." 
After a silence Gray began: "Do you have 
any apprehension " And did not finish the 
sentence. 
Vail shrugged. "It's interesting, isn't it?" 
he said with pleasant impersonality. 
After a silence Gray said: "Are you doing 
anything about it?" 
"Oh, yes. It's working in the dark, of course. 
I'm feeling rottener every day." 
He rested his handsome head on one thin 
hand: 
"I don't want to die, Gray, but I don't know 
how to keep alive. It's odd, isn't it? I don't 
wish to die. It's an interesting world. I want 
to see how the local elections turn out in New 
York." 
"What!" 
"Certainly. That is what worries me more 
than anything. We Allies are sure to win. 
I'm not worrying about that. But I'd like to 
live to see Tammany a dead cock in the pit!" 
Gray forced a laugh; Vail laughed unfeignedly, and then, solemn again, said: 
"I'd like to live to see this country aspire 
to something really noble." 
"After all," said Gray, "there is really nothing to stifle aspiration." 
It was not only because Vail had been gazing upon death in every phase, every degree- 
on brutal destruction wholesale and in detail; 
but also he had been standing on the outer 
escarpment of Civilization and had watched 
the mounting sea of barbarism battering, thundering, undermining, gradually engulfing the 
world itself and all its ancient liberties. 
He and the young surgeon, Gray, who was to 
ail to France next day were alone together 
on the loggia of the club; dusk mitigated the 
infernal heat of a summer day in town. 
On the avenue below motor cars moved 
north and south, hansoms crept slowly along 
the curb, and on the hot sidewalks people 
passed listlessly under the electric lights the 
nine and seventy sweating tribes. 
For, on such summer nights, under the red 
moon, an exodus from the East Side peoples 
the noble avenue with dingy spectres who shuffle along the gilded grilles and still facades of 
stone, up and down, to and fro, in quest of 
God knows what of air perhaps, perhaps of 
happiness, or of something even valuer. But 
whatever it may be that starts them into painful motion, one thing seems certain: aspiration is a part of their unrest. 
"There is liberty here," replied Dr. Vail 
"also her inevitable shadow, tyranny." 
"We need more light; that's all," said Gray. 
"When light streams in from every angle no 
shadow is possible." 
"The millennium? I get you. ... In this 
country the main thing is that there is some 
light. A single ray, however feeble, and even 
coming from one fixed angle only, means aspiration, life. . . ." 
He lighted a cigar. 
"As you know," he remarked, "there is a 
flower called Aconitum. It is also known by 
the ominous names of Monks-Hood and Helmet-Flower. Direct sunlight kills it. It flour 
ishes only in shadow. Like the Kaiser-Flower 
it also is blue; and," he added, "it is deadly 
poison. ... As you say, the necessary thing 
in this world is light from every angle." 
His cigar glimmered dully through the silence. Presently he went on; "Speaking of 
tyranny, I think it may be classed as a recognized and tolerated business carried on suc 
cessfully by those born with a genius for it. 
It flourishes in the shade like the Helmet- 
Flower. . . . But the sun in this Western 
Hemisphere of ours is devilish hot. It's gradually killing off our local tyrants slowly, al- 
most imperceptiby but inexorably, killing em 
off. ... Of course, there are plenty still alive 
tyrants of every degree born to the business 
of tyranny and making a success at it." 
He smoked tranquilly for a while, then: 
"There are our tyrants of industry," he said ; 
"tyrants of politics, tyrants of religion great 
and small we still harbor plenty of tyrants, 
all scheming to keep their roots from shriveling under this fierce western sun of ours 
He laughed without mirth, turning his worn 
and saddened eyes on Gray: 
"Tyranny is a business," he repeated; "also 
it is a state of mind a delusion, a ruling 
passion strong even in death. . . . The odd 
part of it is that a tyrant never knows he's 
one. . . . He invariably mistakes himself for 
a local Moses. I can tell you a sort of story 
if you care to listen. . . . Or, we can go to 
