in the olive-wood box have. Then I can tell you more intelligently
what happened to me since I went to Brookhollow to find them."
"They are the German plans for the fortification of the mainland
commanding the Dardanelles, and for the forts dominating the Gallipoli
peninsula."
"Yes, I know that. But of what interest to England or France or
Russia----"
"If there is to be war, can't you understand the importance to us of
those plans?" asked the Princess in a low, quiet voice.
"To--'us'?" he repeated.
"Yes, to us. I am Russian, am I not?"
"Yes. I now understand how very Russian you are, Princess. But what
has Turkey----"
"What is Turkey?"
"An empire----"
"No. A German province."
"I did not know----"
"That is what the Ottoman Empire is today," continued the Princess
Mistchenka, "a Turkish province fortified by Berlin, governed from
Berlin through a Germanised Turk, Enver Pasha; the army organised,
drilled, equipped, officered, and paid by the Kaiser Wilhelm; every
internal resource and revenue and development and projected
development mortgaged to Germany and under German control; and the
Sultan a nobody!"
"I did not know it," repeated Neeland.
"It is the truth, mon ami. It is inevitable that Turkey fights if
Germany goes to war. England, France, Russia know it. Ask yourself,
then, how enormous to us the value of those plans--tentative, sketchy,
perhaps, yet the inception and foundation of those German-made and
German-armed fortifications which today line the Dardanelles and the
adjacent waters within the sphere of Ottoman influence!"
"So that is why you wanted them," he said with an unhappy glance at
Rue. "What idiotic impulse prompted me to put them back in the box I
can't imagine. You saw me do it, there in the taxicab."
Ruhannah said:
"The chauffeur saw you, too. He was looking at you in his steering
mirror; I saw his face. But it never entered my mind that anything
except idle curiosity possessed him."
"Perhaps," said the Princess to Neeland, "what you did with the papers
saved your life. Had that chauffeur not seen you place them in the
box, he might have shot and robbed you as you left the cab, merely on
the chance of your having them on your person."
There was a silence; then Neeland said:
"This is a fine business! As far as I can see murder seems to be the
essence of the contract."
"It is often incidental to it," said the Princess Mistchenka serenely.
"But you and Ruhannah will soon be out of this affair."
"I?" said the girl, surprised.
"I think so."
"Why, dear?"
"I think there is going to be war. And if there is, France will be
concerned. And that means that you and Ruhannah, too, will have to
leave France."
"But you?" asked the girl, anxiously.
"I expect to remain. How long can you stay here, Jim?"
Neeland cast an involuntary glance at Rue as he replied:
"I intended to take the next steamer. Why? Can I be of any service to
you, Princess Naïa?"
The Princess Mistchenka let her dark eyes rest on him for a second,
then on Rue Carew.
"I was thinking," she said, "that you might take Ruhannah back with
you if war is declared."
"Back to America!" exclaimed the girl. "But where am I to go in
America? What am I to do there? I--I didn't think I was quite ready to
earn my own living"--looking anxiously at the Princess Naïa--"do you
think so, dear?"
The Princess said:
"I wanted you to remain. And you must not worry, darling. Some day I
shall want you back---- But if there is to be war in Europe you cannot
remain here."
"Why not?"
"In the first place, only useful people would be wanted in Paris----"
"But, Naïa, darling! Couldn't I be useful to you?" The girl jumped up
from the sofa and came and knelt down by the Princess Mistchenka,
looking up into her face.
The Princess laid aside her cigarette and put both hands on Rue's
shoulders, looking her gravely, tenderly in the eyes.
"Dear," she said, "I want James Neeland to hear this, too. For it is
partly a confession.
"When I first saw you, Rue, I was merely sorry for you, and willing to
oblige Jim Neeland by keeping an eye on you until you were settled
somewhere here in Paris.
"Before we landed I liked you. And, because I saw wonderful
possibilities in the little country girl who shared my stateroom, I
deliberately made up my mind to develop you, make use of your
excellent mind, your quick intelligence, your amazing capacity for
absorbing everything that is best, and your very unusual attractions
for my own purposes. I meant--to train you--educate you--to aid me."
There was a silence; the girl looked up at her, flushed, intent,
perplexed; the Princess Mistchenka, her hands on the girl's shoulders,
looked back at her out of grave and beautiful dark eyes.
"That is the truth," said the Princess. "My intention was to develop
you along the lines which I follow as a--profession; teach you to
extract desirable information through your wit, intelligence, and
beauty--using your youth as a mask. But I--I can't do it----" She
shook her head slightly. "Because I've lost my heart to you.... And
the business I follow is a--a rotten game."
Again silence fell among those three; Rue, kneeling at the elder
woman's feet, looked up into her face in silence; Neeland, his elbows
resting on his knees, leaned slightly forward from the sofa, watching
them.
"I'll help you, if you wish," said Rue Carew.
"Thank you, dear. No."
"Let me. I owe you everything since I have been here----"
"No, dear. What I said to you--and to James--is true. It's a
merciless, stealthy, treacherous business; it's dangerous to a woman,
body and soul. It is one long lifetime of experience with treachery,
with greed, with baser passions, with all that is ignoble in mankind.
"There is no reason for you to enter such a circle; no excuse for it;
no duty urges you; no patriotism incites you to such self-sacrifice;
no memory of wrong done to your nearest and dearest inspires you to
dedicate your life to aiding--if only a little, in the downfall and
destruction of the nation and the people who encompassed it!"
The Princess Mistchenka's dark eyes began to gleam, and her beautiful
face lost its colour; and she took Rue's little hands in both of hers
and held them tightly against her breast.
"Had I not lost my heart to you, perhaps I should not have hesitated
to develop and make use of you.
"You are fitted for the rôle I might wish you to play. Men are
fascinated by you; your intelligence charms; your youth and innocence,
worn as a mask, might make you invaluable to the Chancellerie which is
interested in the information I provide for it.
"But, Rue, I have come to understand that I cannot do this thing. No.
Go back to your painting and your clever drawing and your music; any
one of these is certain to give you a living in time. And in that
direction alone your happiness lies."
She leaned forward and kissed the girl's hair where it was fine and
blond, close to the snowy forehead.
"If war comes," she said, "you and James will have to go home, like
two good children when the curfew rings."
She laughed, pushed Rue away, lighted another cigarette, and, casting
a glance partly ironical, partly provocative, at the good-looking
young man on the sofa, said:
"As for you, James, I don't worry about you. Impudence will always
carry you through where diplomacy fails you. Now, tell me all about
these three unpleasant sporting characters who occupied the train with
you."
Neeland laughed.
"It seems that a well-known gambler in New York, called Captain Quint,
is backing them; and somebody higher up is backing Quint----"
"Probably the Turkish Embassy at Washington," interposed the Princess,
coolly. "I'm sorry, Jim; pray go on."
"The Turkish Embassy?" he repeated, surprised that she should guess.
"Yes; and the German Embassy is backing that. There you are, Jim. That
is the sequence as far as your friend, Captain Quint. Now, who comes
next in the scale?"
"This man--Brandes--and the little chalk-faced creature, Stull; and
the other one, with the fox face--Doc Curfoot."
"I see. And then?"
"Then, as I gathered, there are several gentlemen wearing Teutonic
names--who are to go into partnership with them--one named Kestner,
one called Theodore Weishelm, and an exceedingly oily Eurasian
gentleman with whom I became acquainted on the Volhynia--one Karl
Breslau----"
"Breslau!" exclaimed the Princess. "Now I understand."
"Who is he, Princess?"
"He is the most notorious international spy in the world--a protean
individual with aliases, professions, and experiences sufficient for
an entire jail full of criminals. His father was a German Jew; his
mother a Circassian girl; he was educated in Germany, France, Italy,
and England. He has been a member of the socialist group in the
Reichstag under one name, a member of the British Parliament under
another; he did dirty work for Abdul Hamid; dirtier for Enver Bey.
"He is here, there, everywhere; he turns up in Brazil one day, and is
next in evidence in Moscow. What he is so eternally about God only
knows: what Chancellery he serves, which he betrays, is a question
that occupies many uneasy minds this very hour, I fancy.
"But of this I, personally, am now satisfied; Karl Breslau is
responsible for the robbery of your papers today, and the entire
affair was accomplished under his direction!"
"And yet I know," said Neeland, "that after he and Kestner tried to
blow up the captain's cabin and the bridge aboard the Volhynia
yesterday morning at a little after two o'clock, he and Kestner must
have jumped overboard in the Mersey River off Liverpool."
"Without doubt a boat was watching your ship."
"Yes; Weishelm had a fishing smack to pick them up. Ilse Dumont must
have gone with them, too."
"All they had to do was to touch at some dock, go ashore, and
telegraph to their men here," said the Princess.
"That, evidently, is what they did," admitted Neeland ruefully.
"Certainly. And by this time they may be here, too. They could do
it. I haven't any doubt that Breslau, Kestner, and Ilse Dumont are
here in Paris at this moment."
"Then I'll wager I know where they are!"
"Where?"
"In the Hôtel des Bulgars, rue Vilna. That's where they are to operate
a gaming house. That is where they expect to pluck and fleece the
callow and the aged who may have anything of political importance
about them worth stealing. That is their plan. Agents, officials,
employees of all consulates, legations, and embassies are what they're
really after. I heard them discussing it there in the train today."
The Princess had fallen very silent, musing, watching Neeland's
animated face as he detailed his knowledge of what had occurred.
"Why not notify the police?" he added. "There might be a chance to
recover the box and the papers."
The Princess shook her pretty head.
"We have to be very careful how we use the police, James. It seems
simple, but it is not. I can't explain the reasons, but we usually pit
spy against spy, and keep very clear of the police. Otherwise," she
added, smiling, "there would be the deuce to pay among the embassies
and legations." She added: "It's a most depressing situation; I don't
exactly know what to do.... I have letters to write, anyway----"
She rose, turned to Rue and took both her hands:
"No; you must go back to New York and to your painting and music if
there is to be war in Europe. But you have had a taste of what goes on
in certain circles here; you have seen what a chain of consequences
ensue from a chance remark of a young girl at a dinner table."
"Yes."
"It's amusing, isn't it? A careless and innocent word to that old
busybody, Ahmed Mirka Pasha, at my table--that began it. Then another
word to Izzet Bey. And I had scarcely time to realise what had
happened--barely time to telegraph James in New York--before their
entire underground machinery was set in motion to seize those wretched
papers in Brookhollow!"
Neeland said:
"You don't know even yet, Princess, how amazingly fast that machinery
worked."
"Tell me now, James. I have time enough to write my warning since it
is already too late." And she seated herself on the sofa and drew
Ruhannah down beside her.
"Listen, dear," she said with pretty mockery, "here is a most worthy
young man who is simply dying to let us know how picturesque a man can
be when he tries to."
Neeland laughed:
"The only trouble with me," he retorted, "is that I've a rather
hopeless habit of telling the truth. Otherwise there'd be some chance
for me as a hero in what I'm going to tell you."
And he began with his first encounter with Ilse Dumont in Rue Carew's
house at Brookhollow. After he had been speaking for less than a
minute, Rue Carew's hands tightened in the clasp of the Princess Naïa,
who glanced at the girl and noticed that she had lost her colour.
And Neeland continued his partly playful, partly serious narrative of
"moving accidents by flood and field," aware of the girl's deep,
breathless interest, moved by it, and, conscious of it, the more
inclined to avoid the picturesque and heroic, and almost ashamed to
talk of himself at all under the serious beauty of the girl's clear
eyes.
But he could scarcely tell his tale and avoid mentioning himself; he
was the centre of it all, the focus of the darts of Fate, and there
was no getting away from what happened to himself.
So he made the melodrama a comedy, and the moments of deadly peril he
treated lightly. And one thing he avoided altogether, and that was
how he had kissed Ilse Dumont.
When he finished his account of his dreadful situation in the
stateroom of Ilse Dumont, and how at the last second her unerring
shots had shattered the bomb clock, cut the guy-rope, and smashed the
water-jug which deluged the burning fuses, he added with a very
genuine laugh:
"If only some photographer had taken a few hundred feet of film for me
I could retire on an income in a year and never do another stroke of
honest work!"
The Princess smiled, mechanically, but Rue Carew dropped her white
face on the Princess Naïa's shoulder as though suddenly fatigued.
CHAPTER XXVII
FROM FOUR TO FIVE
The Princess Mistchenka and Rue Carew had retired to their respective
rooms for that hour between four and five in the afternoon, which the
average woman devotes to cat-naps or to that aimless feminine fussing
which must ever remain a mystery to man.
The afternoon had turned very warm; Neeland, in his room, lay on the
lounge in his undershirt and trousers, having arrived so far toward
bathing and changing his attire.
No breeze stirred the lattice blinds hanging over both open windows;
the semi-dusk of the room was pierced here and there by slender shafts
of sunlight which lay almost white across the carpet and striped the
opposite wall; the rue Soleil d'Or was very silent in the July
afternoon.
And Neeland lay there thinking about all that had happened to him and
trying to bring it home to himself and make it seem plausible and
real; and could not.
For even now the last ten days of his life seemed like a story he had
read concerning someone else. Nor did it seem to him that he
personally had known all those people concerned in this wild,
exaggerated, grotesque story. They, too, took their places on the
printed page, appearing, lingering, disappearing, reappearing, as
chapter succeeded chapter in a romance too obvious, too palpably
sensational to win the confidence and credulity of a young man of
today.
Fed to repletion on noisy contemporary fiction, his finer perception
blunted by the daily and raucous yell of the New York press, his
imagination too long over-strained by Broadway drama and now flaccid
and incapable of further response to its leering or shrieking appeal,
the din of twentieth-century art fell on nerveless ears and on a brain
benumbed and sceptical.
And so when everything that he had found grotesque, illogical,
laboured, obvious, and clamorously redundant in literature and the
drama began to happen and continued to happen in real life to him--and
went on happening and involving himself and others all around him in
the pleasant July sunshine of 1914, this young man, made
intellectually blasé, found himself without sufficient capacity to
comprehend it.
There was another matter with which his mind was struggling as he lay
there, his head cradled on one elbow, watching the thin blue spirals
from his cigarette mount straight to the ceiling, and that was the
metamorphosis of Rue Carew.
Where was the thin girl he remembered--with her untidy chestnut hair
and freckles, and a rather sweet mouth--dressed in garments the only
mission of which was to cover a flat chest and frail body and limbs
whose too rapid growth had outstripped maturity?
To search for her he went back to the beginning, where a little girl
in a pink print dress, bare-legged and hatless, loitered along an
ancient rail fence and looked up shyly at him as he warned her to keep
out of range of the fusillade from the bushes across the pasture.
He thought of her again at the noisy party in Gayfield on that white
night in winter; visualised the tall, shy, overgrown girl who danced
with him and made no complaint when her slim foot was trodden on. And
again he remembered the sleigh and the sleighbells clashing and
tinkling under the moon; the light from her doorway, and how she stood
looking back at him; and how, on the mischievous impulse of the
moment, he had gone back and kissed her----
At the memory an odd sensation came over him, scaring him a little.
How on earth had he ever had the temerity to do such a thing to her!
And, as he thought of this exquisite, slender, clear-eyed young girl
who had greeted him at the Paris terminal--this charming embodiment of
all that is fresh and sweet and fearless--in her perfect hat and gown
of mondaine youth and fashion, the memory of his temerity appalled
him.
Imagine his taking an unencouraged liberty now!
Nor could he dare imagine encouragement from the Rue Carew so
amazingly revealed to him.
Out of what, in heaven's name, had this lovely girl developed? Out of
a shy, ragged, bare-legged child, haunting the wild blackberry tangles
in Brookhollow?
Out of the frail, charmingly awkward, pathetic, freckled mill-hand in
her home-made party clothes, the rather sweet expression of whose
mouth once led him to impudent indiscretion?
Out of what had she been evolved--this young girl whom he had left
just now standing beside her boudoir door with the Princess Naïa's arm
around her waist? Out of the frightened, white-lipped, shabby girl who
had come dragging her trembling limbs and her suitcase up the dark
stairway outside his studio? Out of the young thing with sagging hair,
crouched in an armchair beside his desk, where her cheap hat lay with
two cheap hatpins sticking in the crown? Out of the fragile figure
buried in the bedclothes of a stateroom berth, holding out to him a
thin, bare arm in voiceless adieu?
And Neeland lay there thinking, his head on his elbow, the other arm
extended--from the fingers of which the burnt-out cigarette presently
fell to the floor.
He thought to himself:
"She is absolutely beautiful; there's no denying that. It's not her
clothes or the way she does her hair, or her voice, or the way she
moves, or how she looks at a man; it's the whole business. And the
whole bally business is a miracle, that's all. Good Lord! And to think
I ever had the nerve--the nerve!"
He swung himself to a sitting posture, sat gazing into space for a few
moments, then continued to undress by pulling off one shoe, lighting a
cigarette, and regarding his other foot fixedly.
That is the manner in which the vast majority of young men do their
deepest thinking.
However, before five o'clock he had scrubbed himself and arrayed his
well constructed person in fresh linen and outer clothing; and now he
sauntered out through the hallway and down the stairs to the rear
drawing-room, where a tea-table had been brought in and tea
paraphernalia arranged. Although the lamp under the kettle had been
lighted, nobody was in the room except a West Highland terrier curled
up on a lounge, who, without lifting his snow-white head, regarded
Neeland out of the wisest and most penetrating eyes the young man had
ever encountered.
Here was a personality! Here was a dog not to be approached lightly or
with flippant familiarity. No! That small, long, short-legged body
with its thatch of wiry white hair was fairly instinct with dignity,
wisdom, and uncompromising self-respect.
"That dog," thought Neeland, venturing to seat himself on a chair
opposite, "is a Presbyterian if ever there was one. And I, for one,
haven't the courage to address him until he deigns to speak to me."
He looked respectfully at the dog, glanced at the kettle which had
begun to sizzle a little, then looked out of the long windows into the
little walled garden where a few slender fruit trees grew along the
walls in the rear of well-kept flower beds, now gay with phlox,
larkspur, poppies, and heliotrope, and edged with the biggest and
bluest pansies he had ever beheld.
On the wall a Peacock butterfly spread its brown velvet and gorgeously
eyed wings to the sun's warmth; a blackbird with brilliant yellow bill
stood astride a peach twig and poured out a bubbling and incessant
melody full of fluted grace notes. And on the grass oval a kitten
frisked with the ghosts of last month's dandelions, racing after the
drifting fluff and occasionally keeling over to attack its own tail,
after the enchanting manner of all kittens.
A step behind him and Neeland turned. It was Marotte, the butler, who
presented a thick, sealed envelope to him on his salver, bent to turn
down the flame under the singing silver kettle, and withdrew without a
sound.
Neeland glanced at the letter in perplexity, opened the envelope and
the twice-folded sheets of letter paper inside, and read this odd
communication:
                 
Have I been fair to you? Did I keep my word? Surely you must now, in
your heart, acquit me of treachery--of any premeditated violence
toward you.
I never dreamed that those men would come to my stateroom. That plan
had been discussed, but was abandoned because it appeared impossible
to get hold of you.
And also--may I admit it without being misunderstood?--I absolutely
refused to permit any attempt involving your death.
When the trap shut on you, there in my stateroom, it shut also on me.
I was totally unprepared; I was averse to murder; and also I had given
you my word of honour.
Judge, then, of my shame and desperation--my anger at being entrapped
in a false position involving the loss in your eyes of my personal
honour!
