his offer. But though he let the knocker fall with a 
clang that terrified Tabitha, above there in her chamber, 
a hand on her heart and her eyes starting, she did not 
answer, and he went away, hating the duplicity of woman 
with a fierceness that was like a curse. Tabitha, behind 
her curtain, watched his back and muttered her relief. 
" My soul ! " she said. " My soul ! " 
It was all a haze to her, the desire she had to sell, her 
fear of Brother Thomas if she did sell, her wonder at the 
tremendous sum the squire offered her and her sheer phys- 
ical panic at the squire himself. 
vin 
The neighborhoods, little settlements that made up 
the township of Bromley, were separated by acres of 
wood and meadow land that fed the fires of the home- 
steads and their stock. The neighborhoods were much 
alike, all farming except for the small industrial interests 
of a sawmill or a blacksmith's forge; but they were dif- 
ferent in atmosphere, a little unsympathetic on some 
points, somewhat jealous, it may be, if one got a bigger 
road appropriation than another or new maps . for the 
school-house or the repair of a bridge. They were ex- 
actly like families, these neighborhoods: they hung to- 
gether against other townships, in time of stress, but they 
knew one another's foibles too well to be over civil among 
themselves. In the upper district, where our two houses 
stood, most of the people were from what could be called 
old stock. Somebody of their name had been there for 
a long course of years. The family might have begun in 
dignity and ended in the dishonor of acquiescent pov- 
erty ; but still the name had been carried on. Whatever 
happiness lies in stability, in opening your eyes to the 
trees and the sky-line your grandfathers looked their last 
on, this was theirs abundantly. Besides the Neales and 
the Brocks and the Greenes there was Sally Wheeler, a 
spinster near seventy now, oddest, most consistent of New 
England survivals, who lived alone in her great house, a 
nobly built Georgian structure, with a man and a maid 
to work for her. They, like Trueman and Hannah, were 
 
bright cloud and her eyes flaming. She was the cleverest 
of them, in a wild, erratic fashion, biting into a book 
when she liked it and sucking it dry and then smilingly 
impenetrable for weeks to the simplest kind of fact. 
Hugh and Ellen were the students. They dreamed over 
books and dug their way into them and wondered at the 
amazing things so freely told. But Ben took it all like 
a game. He had only, his mother told Aunt Tab, to read 
over his lesson and he had it by heart. But when he 
had it, it was only a lesson, something that might be re- 
quired of him for examination and not for actualities. 
This Mary Neale and Aunt Tab vaguely guessed: for 
while they exulted over his touch-and-go intelligence, they 
smiled at each other, remembering Hugh. He, they told 
each other, was not so quick, but they guessed he knew 
full as much in the end. 
School began early this year, a hot day in the first week 
of September. Hugh had waited for it in an agony of 
impatience, always with that dull pain because Ellen 
would not speak. The first morning of starting out to- 
gether in the old companionship must, he knew, break the 
dreadful spell. It would be, his heart declared, always 
running ahead of his tongue or pen, like the breaking of 
a drought and the coming of rains. He could fed the 
cooling of the drops on his forehead and his lips. The 
night before, he piled his books and bound them in a 
strap, and in the morning he was combed and scrubbed an 
hour before the time of starting and got into nervous 
shivers for fear he should be late: this at the last minute 
when his father sent him to bring in wood. Grissie came 
from " down the road," her books in an untidy bundle 
under her arm, and called, in a shrill salute. Then she 
went on to summon Ellen, and when Ben and Hugh fol- 
lowed they overtook the two girls walking fast along the 
 
dusty road. Ellen wore her last year's dress of blue 
gingham, but her collars and cuffs were exquisitely washed 
and ironed. She looked like the modest little sister of a 
benevolent order* But Grissie outwantoned the flaming 
day in her bright purple dress and a rose-pink ribbon at 
her neck. You couldn't say whether she was striking or 
simply outrageous* She was only inexplicably exciting 
and made you, if you were her age, want to do things as 
wild as she looked. She had instantly that effect on Ben. 
So she might have had on Hugh if he had seen her at all ; 
but his eyes were on Ellen, the good little sister who looked 
too mild and equable to keep up a cruel feud to punish 
a boy. Ben ran up behind Grissie and first twitched her 
hair and then the rose-pink "ribbon, and snatched her 
books away from her. It was all in the way of chivalrous 
attention. He was merely offering to carry the books as 
a perfect gentleman ought, and Grissie understood. She 
received his tribute with an answering cuff and then re- 
linquished the books blithely, and they went on together, 
booting and laughing. Hugh came up to Ellen and laid 
a hand on her load. He wanted to carry it. He always 
had done it. But Ellen, not as if she knew he had 
touched the books with that inviting gesture, but as if 
their position irked her, shifted them to the other arm, 
and, without looking at him, walked quietly along. His 
heart fell in his breast, like a stone. It was going to last, 
then, her dreadful silence. Nothing would be of any 
use after this, not his fiddle oi: anything he could learn 
at the Academy or all the money he might make to take 
his mother away from his father and Ellen from her 
poverty. They walked on together in silence, his heavy 
heart harder and harder to carry, through the little town 
and up the steps of the Academy, among the greeting 
groups. But there was one bitterest pang to come. As 
 
they entered the door, Grissie left Ben and fell back to 
Ellen's side. She spoke with caution, but Hugh caught 
the words: 
" Say, you and Hugh mad? Don't you speak? " 
He didn't know whether it was an added pain or a slight 
comfort that Ellen did not answer. She walked to her 
desk as if she had not heard. 
And every day it was the same. Hugh went beside her 
with the step of a soldier forced to march and the des- 
perate look of the soldier who knows himself foredoomed. 
Every morning he woke with the heaviness that lies wait- 
ing from a lasting misery, and whatever he did, even when 
he went to Larry's for his lesson, the nausea of grief was 
in the inmost part of him, Larry began to watch him
and decided, before the trees were bare, that he was fret- 
ting over his fiddle, and one night he said to him, when 
Hugh came in at the early dusk to ask a question about 
fingering: 
" Why don't you run away and have it over? " 
"Run away?" repeated Hugh. He looked at Larry 
in a brief surprise. " I don't want to run away." 
How could he run away and leave the question of his 
life unanswered, leave a silent Ellen too angry even to say 
good-by? 
" Well ! " said Larry. That was evidently not the way 
out. What other way was there? " I wish you'd go into 
Ardelia's," he said, at random, " and ask Ellen to fetch 
my bread." 
Hugh had risen to go. He stood there holding the top 
rail of a straight-backed chair and Larry saw his knuc- 
kles whiten and, needing to know the whole, ruthlessly 
lifted his gaze to the boy's face. It was as pale as if 
all the blood in him had been summoned to keep up his 
sick heart. Yet Hugh answered without emotion. 
" I can " said he. 
Then Larry knew, and answered cheerfully : 
" All right. I'll go up myself, this evening." 
Larry did go up, and, entering the yard softly, looked 
in at the window. Often, he knew, Ardelia left Ellen at 
her books and went neighboring at the Gleasons'. If 
Ardelia were here, he could not ask his question. Ellen 
was alone, sitting at the table, a pile of books before her 
and her pretty forehead tied into a studious frown. 
Larry called to her and then walked in, and she took his 
coming as a delightful happening and drew up another 
chair and told him to begin at once to scan her Latin. 
So he did, and they fell together into the rhythm, and 
sang it together and were most particularly happy, and 
Ellen's cheeks grew red with the fun of it and, for the min- 
ute, she forgot her father was not there. David hadn't 
known how to scan, but she always felt everything used 
to be easy when he was in the room, and this night, what 
with the snags she tripped over in her task, she had been 
minding his loss overwhelmingly. Larry raced through 
their pretty game in a scamper, for fear Ardelia would 
come before he did the deed he came for, and when they 
ended, he shut the book and asked : 
" Ellen, don't you speak to Hugh? " 
All the enchanting shine and life faded out of her face, 
and she answered with dignity, yet, Larry saw, sul- 
lenly : 
" No." 
" Why not? " asked Larry. 
And Ellen was as silent as she had been to Hugh. 
Larry leaned back in his chair and, while he looked at her, 
he drummed on the table with his hand, a distinctively 
handsome hand that played the violin. 
" Now," said he, " my lady, you needn't get sulky with 
 
me, because if you do, I'll take you up in my two hands 
and throw you over the moon." 
Ellen didn't look at him ; but he saw a little quirk of a 
smile trying to untie the muscles about her mouth, and 
he felt he had her. Besides, Ellen knew she was quite 
safe with him. He wouldn't touch her high mightiness 
with his two beautiful violin-playing hands. 
" Ellen," said Larry, drumming on the table, " you are 
a little prig." 
" What's a prig? " asked Ellen. 
" It's something with two feet and two hands and nice 
brown hair tied with a red ribbon." (Ellen had stopped 
doing up her hair when school began, because the girls 
laughed at her.) " It's something that gets mad and 
self-righteous if a boy wants to kiss 'em — " 
" I hate such things," flashed Ellen. 
" Well, but, my child," said Larry, gently, just as her 
father would have spoken, and Ellen thought of that, 
and choked, "if it's a decent chap like Hugh it only 
means your hair is so pretty and your eyes are so bright 
and you're such a dear — like a kitten, you know, or one 
of Smilie's puppies — he can't help it." 
Ellen did, in spite of her anchorite heart, like to be 
thought pretty, and was sure she never could be because 
her clothes were so plain. 
" You'd like to kiss Smilie's puppies. I've seen you do 
it. How would you like if it Smilie and I wouldn't speak 
to you? " 
"I suppose you want me to act like — " Here she 
stopped, not intending to be hateful about another girl. 
But he knew. 
" Like Grissie Gleason? " he asked. " No, I don't want 
you to be like her. Though there's no harm in Grissie. 
She's a butterfly in the sun. She'd go fluttering round 
 
with any kind of a butterfly, if his wings were pretty. 
But that wouldn't mean she was a bad Grissie. Don't 
you get to despising people, Ellen, because they're not so 
good as you." 
Ellen was looking at him woefully, and startled in a 
way that made him ask her: 
"What is it now?" 
" If it's all — like that," faltered Ellen, " it's dread- 
ful." 
He saw what he had done. He had opened to her a 
way of the world. Why hadn't she the kind of mother, 
his mind despairingly lamented, that would take her hand 
firmly and lead her out of this ambuscade of ignorance? 
He went at it with a run. " Ellen," he said, " first and 
last there's no such glorious ajid dreadful thing as falling 
in love, and wanting to marry, or diaybe not marrying 
because sometimes you don't love the right one. But 
there's a side of us that makes us go uneasily seeking 
about after our mate, if we haven't got one, and we make 
awful fools of ourselves. Boys and girls don't know they 
want a mate — mostly — but they do silly things. Like 
Grissie. And mostly the things aren't big enough to de- 
spise bhem for and stop speaking. Sometimes, I know, 
they are and then you have to knock 'em down with a 
cordwood stick and never, never speak to 'em till they're 
well punished. But Hugh, Ellen! Hugh's only a big, 
blundering boy, and you're behaving like the deuce." 
Ellen wasn't thinking of Hugh. Her brows were heavy 
with an unhappy fear. It looked to him like jealousy. 
" You said everybody goes round hunting after his 
mate," she said. " I suppose you mean men. You 
haven't any mate." 
" Good God, no ! " said Larry. He would lay that 
jealous imp to rest. " I don't want any mate. I just 
 
want your mother to make my bread and you to fetch it 
to me. But I did want a mate, Ellen, once, and if I told 
you how old and fat she is now and how I love one of 
Smilie's wags better than the lost dream of her, you'd be 
terribly shocked at the whole business. But you speak to 
Hugh. He's worked out his sentence, don't you see? 
Tell him he's discharged." 
He got up and took his cap, but Ellen did not stir. 
Her eyes followed him to the door. 
" I suppose he's been tattling to you," she said, but not 
until his hand was on the latch. 
" No, you don't suppose any such thing," said Larry. 
"You know he hasn't. I saw him that day in the 
woods, and he didn't even want to kiss you, poor devil! 
and he wasn't fighting you. He was fighting himself and 
nature. That's the old girl he was fighting, and you 
weren't in it at all, little Miss Vanity — or only so far as 
you were nature's understudy. Good-night." 
He shut the door and went whistling along the path to 
the gate, and Ellen sat as still as the still house about her, 
and thought. And first she was angry with him because 
he could abuse her so and make nothing of it, and then she 
soberly concluded life was a diflScult business and that it 
had got to include many strange things, if Larry said so. 
And when Ardelia came home, flushed with her walk and 
the good cheer at the Gleasons', Ellen looked at her in a 
new wonder. This, her mind told her, was her father's 
mate. He had gone seeking round and he had found 
Ardelia. She got up and packed her books together and 
hurried to bed, and there Ardelia found her curled up like 
a little creature in a cocoon, the clothes tucked in at her 
back and her arms tight about her body. Ardelia 
put a hand on the rigid arms and gently tried to loose 
them. 
" You better get straightened out," said she, " 'fore 
you go to sleep.'' 
But Ellen only moaned a little and the tense body kept 
its rigor. Usually they talked awhile before they slept, 
but to-night she breathed regularly and did not answer, 
and Ardelia concluded she had studied too late, and went 
placidly off into her own estate of dreams. Ellen, too, 
dreamed that night. It was the first of what she learned 
to call love dreams, and they shook her with a terror and 
expectation new to her. Always they were of an unknown 
person, a man, young and inexplicably comprehending 
and tender, somebody she had waited for a long time and 
who came at last. He was kind, like her father and 
Larry, and he knew at once what you meant, even if you 
hadn't time to say it, and there was a boundless relief 
because he had come. And always before they had a 
chance to say any of the things they had to say to each 
other, she woke. And she longed for and yet dreaded 
the night that might bring him again. 
The next morning she waited until the boys and Grissie 
had got by her gate, calling as they went and lingering 
for her; and when she came out Ben and Grissie, seeing 
her, went on, at their old game of cheerful quarreling; 
but Hugh dropped behind, because, though she would not 
speak to him, it was a part of his dogged acceptance to 
fall into step with her and march it through. 
« Hullo, Hugh," said Ellen. 
Hugh stopped short and stood there staring down at 
his feet and Ellen, looking at him for the first time in the 
weeks of his punishment, thought with surprise only, and 
no compimction, that he looked sick and strange. But 
she felt as if she had only just come from her dream about 
the beautiful person who made everything well, and she 
meant to be good for the sake of him. 
 
" Hullo, Hugh," she said again. 
« Hullo," said Hugh. 
He looked up now, and she saw how bright his eyes 
were, and that, for an instant, his face quivered. He put 
out his hand for her books and she gave them to him, and 
they went on, Hugh now overwhelmed, with a rush, by all 
the things he had ceased remembering in the arid waste 
of his silent marches at her side. It was a cold day, but 
he remembered spring with the trembling of leaves and 
the sound of the risen brooks. There was music every- 
where — not birds, but just music — and the feel of light 
and motion. He thought he should burst with it all until 
he could turn the sweeping flood of it into his violin. 
But Ellen, walking lightly with him, thought only of the 
unknown stranger. 
That afternoon, Neale, who had business in town, came 
to the Academy for the boys. Ben ran out, calling over 
his shoulder to Grissie, to " Come along." Then Hugh 
appeared, and Ellen, and he, remembering his father's 
anger against the " Brock girl," forestalled its completest 
triumph. 
" I'll walk, father. I've got to put something on the 
board." 
It was true, though he could have done it in the morn- 
ing, as he had meant. Neale drove away without a look 
at him or at Ellen, and she followed, rather proudly, in- 
deed, her head up and her feet stepping delicately. She 
knew why Thomas Neale hated her: it was because she 
was in the way of his buying the little house. When she 
had got beyond the town limit, Hugh overtook her, walk- 
ing fast and showing, in the redness of his face and his 
quickened breath, that he had only just been running. 
So they sauntered home together in a decent peace, talk- 
ing of classes and promotions. Ellen was rather glad 
 
hostilities were ended, it was so silly to keep wondering 
if she were going to meet him, and preparing to look 
away ; but Hugh was in a heaven of delight. He left her 
at her gate, with the old call, " To-morrow ! " and ran on 
home where he found his mother in the kitchen, at the 
stove, watching the apple sauce that, made out of early 
fruit, exquisitely scented the air. 
" Well," said Mary, looking up and feeling her heart 
quicken because he looked so happy, in a natural, boyish 
way, " how's it begin? " 
Hugh went up to her and looked in her face, his seeking 
eyes, his fair young color and the sweet youngness of 
him a charm to her. 
" Mum," said he, " don't you hate to have him act 
so?" 
" Who? " asked Mary perversely, though she knew. 
" Father. He won't ask Ellen to ride, he's so set 
against her. It didn't make so much difference to-night ; 
but if 'twas a pouring rain — it makes me mad as thun- 
der." 
" Yes," said Mary, adding, before she could recall her- 
self to her defensive dignity, "I'll see to it." 
And then Ben came clamoring in for supper, and no 
more was said. 
That night when Mary lay watching her husband 
throwing off his clothes in the pelting haste that made his 
bedward journey a wild erratic progress toward the sleep 
he seemed to assault and drag toward him, in the im- 
patient recognition that it was a means toward " a hard 
day to-morrow," she spoke, from inward apprehension but 
an outer calm. 
" Thomas, we shall have to remember to ask Ellen and 
Grissie to ride whenever we fetch the boys or carry them. 
It's a long walk for 'em, little girls so." 
 
" They ain't so terrible* little,'' returned Neale gruffly. 
" The Brock girl ain't." 
" She's been kept kind o' babyish," said Mary softly. 
Now she was praying for him, in an inarticulate way she 
had: always that he might be softened, that he might 
" come to a realizing sense." " Same's we've kept our 
boys. I guess we don't any of us want our boys and girls 
to grow up. I've wished a good many times," she added, 
this in no wily desire to move him, but as she sought wist- 
fully for kind intimacies of talk, " we'd had a little girl 
of our own." 
Neale did not answer this. She was not sure he heard. 
