is, as my wrist gets well." 
And so Hal went on his way. Such " joshing " on the 
part of a " buddy " was of course absurdly presumptuous ; 
the superintendent stood looking after him with a puzzled 
frown upon his face. 
 Hal did not look back, but turned into the com- 
pany-store. " North Valley Trading Company " read the 
sign over the door ; within was a Serbian woman pointing 
out what she wanted to buy, and two little Lithuanian 
girls watching the weighing of a pound of sugar. Hal 
strolled up to the person who was doing the weighing, a 
middle-aged man with a yellow moustache stained with 
tobacco-juice. " Morning, Judge." 
" Huh ! " was the reply from Silas Adams, justice of 
the peace in the town of North Valley. 
 
" Judge," said Hal, " what do you think about the elec- 
tion ? " 
"I don't think about it," said the other. "Busy 
weighin' sugar." 
" Anybody round here going to vote for MacDougall ? " 
" They better not tell me if they are ! " 
"What?" smiled Hal. "In this free American re- 
public ? " 
" In this part of the free American republic a man is 
free to dig coal, but not to vote for a skunk like Mac- 
Dougall." Then, having tied up the sugar, the " J. P." 
whittled off a fresh chew from his plug, and turned to 
Hal. " What'll you have ? " 
Hal purchased half a pound of dried peaches, so that 
he might have an excuse to loiter, and be able to keep time 
with the jaws of the Judge. While the order was being 
filled, he seated himself upon the counter. " You know," 
said he, " I used to work in a grocery." 
" That so ? Where at ? " 
"Peterson & Co., in American City." Hal had told 
this so often that he had begun to believe it. 
" Pay pretty good up there ? " 
"Yes, pretty fair." Then, realising that he had no 
idea what would constitute good pay in a grocery, Hal 
added, quickly, " Got a bad wrist here ! " 
" That so ? " said the other. 
He did not show much sociability; but Hal persisted, 
refusing to believe that any one in a country store would 
miss an opening to discuss politics, even with a miner's 
.helper. "Tell me," said he, "just what is, the matter 
with MacDougall ? " 
" The matter with him," said the Judge, " is that the 
company's against him." He looked hard at the young 
miner. "You meddlin' in politics?" he growled. But 
the young miner's gay brown eyes showed only appreci- 
ation of the earlier response ; so the " J. P." was tempted 
 
into specifying the would-be congressman's vices. Thus 
conversation started; and pretty soon the others in the 
store joined in — "Bob" Johnson, bookkeeper and 
post-master, and "Jake" Predovich, the Galician Jew 
who was a member of the local school-board, and knew the 
words for staple groceries in fifteen languages. 
Hal listened to an exposition of the crimes of the politi- 
cal opposition in Pedro County. Their candidate, Mac- 
Dougall, had come to the state as a " tin-horn gambler," 
yet now he was going around making speeches in churches, 
and talking about the moral sentiment of the community. 
" And him with a district chairman keeping three families 
in Pedro ! " declared Si Adams. 
" Well," ventured Hal, " if what I hear is true, the 
Republican chairman isn't a plaster saint. They say he 
was drunk at the convention — " 
" Maybe so," said the " J. P." " But we ain't playin' 
for the prohibition vote; and we ain't playin' for the 
labour vote — tryin' to stir up the riff-raff in these coal- 
camps, promisin' 'em high wages an' short hours. Don't 
he know he can't get it for 'em ? But he figgers he'll go 
off to Washington and leave us here to deal with the mess 
he's stirred up ! " 
" Don't you fret," put in Bob Johnson — " he ain't goin' 
to no Washin'ton." 
The other two agreed, and Hal ventured again, "He 
says you stuff the ballot-boxes." 
" What do you suppose his crowd is doin' in the cities ? 
We got to meet 'em some way, ain't we ? " 
"Oh, I see," said Hal, naively. "You stuff them 
worse ! " 
" Sometimes we stuff the boxes, and sometimes we stuff 
the voters." There was an appreciative titter from the 
others, and the "J. P." was moved to reminiscence. 
" Two years ago I was election clerk, over to Sheridan, 
and we found we'd let 'em get ahead of us — they had 
carried the whole state, i By God  said Alf . Raymond, 
' we'll show 'em a trick from the coal-counties ! And 
there won't be no recount business either ! ' So we held 
back our returns till the rest had come in, and when we 
seen how many votes we needed, we wrote 'em down. And 
that settled it." 
" That seems a simple method," remarked Hal. 
" They'll have to get up early to beat Alf." 
" You bet you ! " said Si, with the complacency of one 
of the gang. "They call this county the ' Empire of 
Raymond.' " 
" It must be a cinch," said Hal — " being the sheriff, 
and having the naming of so many deputies as they need 
in these coal-camps ! " 
" Yes," agreed the other. " And there's his wholesale 
liquor business, too. If you want a license in Pedro 
county, you not only vote for Alf, but you pay your bills 
on time ! " 
" Must be a fortune in that ! " remarked Hal ; and the 
Judge, the Post-master and the School-commissioner ap- 
peared like children listening to a story of a feast. " You 
bet you ! " 
" I suppose it takes money to run politics in this county," 
Hal added. 
"Well, Alf don't put none of it up, you can bet! 
That's the company's job." 
This from tie Judge; and the School-commissioner 
added, " De coin in dese camps is beer." 
" Oh, I see ! " laughed Hal. " The companies buy 
Alf 's beer, and use it to get him votes ! " 
" Sure thing ! " said the Post-master. 
At this moment he happened to reach into his pocket 
for a cigar, and Hal observed a silver shield on the breast 
of his waistcoat. " That a deputy's badge ? " he in- 
quired, and then turned to examine the School-commis- 
sioner's costume. " Where's yours ? " 
 
" I git mine yen election comes," said Jake, with a grin. 
" And yours, Judge ? " 
" I'm a justice of the peace, young feller," said Silas, 
with dignity. 
Leaning round, and observing a bulge on the right hip 
of the School-commissioner, Hal put out his hand towards 
it. Instinctively the other moved his hand to the spot. 
Hal turned to the Post-master. " Yours ? " he asked. 
" Mine's under the counter," grinned Bob. 
" And yours, Judge ? " 
" Mine's in the desk," said the Judge. 
Hal drew a breath. "Gee!" said he. "It's like a 
steel trap ! " He managed to keep the laugh on his face, 
but within he was conscious of other feelings than those 
of amusement. He was losing that "first fine careless 
rapture " with which he had set out to run with the hare 
and the hounds in North Valley ! 
 Two days after this beginning of Hal's political 
career, it was arranged that the workers who were to make 
a demand for a check-weighman should meet in the home 
of Mrs. David. When Mike Sikoria came up from the 
pit that day, Hal took him aside and told him of the gath- 
ering. A look of delight came upon the old Slovak's face 
as he listened; he grabbed his buddy by the shoulders, 
crying, " You mean it ? " 
" Sure meant it," said Hal. " You want to be on the 
committee to go and see the boss ? " 
" Pluha hiedna!" cried Mike — which is something 
dreadful in his own language. " By Judas, I pack up my 
old box again ! " 
Hal felt a guilty pang. Should he let this old man into 
the thing? "You think you'll have to move out of 
camp ? " he asked. 
"Move out of state this time ! Move back to old coun- 
 .M> 
...», i» 
 
try, maybe! " And Hal realised that he could not stop 
fiim now, even if he wanted to. The old fellow was so 
much excited that he hardly ate any supper, and his buddy 
was afraid to leave him alone, for fear he might blurt out 
the news. 
It had been agreed that those who attended the meeting 
should come one by one, and by different routes. Hal was 
one of the first to arrive, and he saw that the shades of 
the house had been drawn, and the lamps turned low. He 
entered by the back door, where " Big Jack " David stood 
on guard. " Big Jack," who had been a member of the 
South Wales Federation at home, made sure of Hal's 
identity, and then passed him in without a word. 
Inside was Mike — the first on hand. Mrs. David, a 
little black-eyed woman with a never-ceasing tongue, was 
bustling about, putting things in order ; she was so nervous 
that she could not sit still. This couple had come from 
their birth-place only a year or so ago, and had brought 
all their wedding presents to their new home — pictures 
and bric-a-brac and linen. It was the prettiest home Hal 
had so far been in, and Mrs. David was risking it delib- 
erately, because of her indignation that her husband had 
had to foreswear his union in order to get work in America. 
The young Italian, Rovetta, came, then old John 
Edstrom. There being not chairs enough in the house, 
Mrs. David had set some boxes against the wall, covering 
them with cloth; and Hal noticed that each person. took 
one of these boxes, leaving the chairs for the later comers. 
Each one as he came in would nod to the others, and then 
silence would fall again. 
When Mary Burke entered, Hal divined from her aspect 
and manner that she had sunk back into her old mood of 
pessimism. He felt a momentary resentment. He was 
so thrilled with this adventure ; he wanted everybody else 
to be thrilled — especially Mary! Like every one who 
has not suffered much, he was repelled by a condition of 
perpetual suffering in another. Of course Mary had good 
reasons for her black moods — but she herself considered 
it necessary to apologise for what she called her " com- 
plainin' "  She knew that he wanted her to help en- 
courage the others ; but here she was, putting herself in a 
corner and watching this wonderful proceeding, as if she 
had said: "I'm an ant, and I stay in line — but I'll 
not pretend I have any hope in it ! " 
Rosa and Jerry had insisted on coming, in spite of 
Hal's offer to spare them. After them came the Bul- 
garian, Wresmak ; then the Polacks, Klowoski and Zamie- 
rowski. Hal found these difficult names to remember, but 
the Polacks were not at all sensitive about this ; they would 
grin good-naturedly while he practised, nor would they 
mind if he gave it up and called them Tony and Pete. 
They were humble men, accustomed all their lives to being 
driven about. Hal looked from one to another of their 
bowed forms and toil-worn faces, appearing more than 
ever sombre and mournful in the dim light ; he wondered 
if the cruel persecution which had driven them to protest 
would suffice to hold them in line. 
Once a newcomer, having misunderstood the orders, 
came to the front door and knocked ; and Hal noted that 
every one started, and some rose to their feet in alarm. 
Again he recognised the atmosphere of novels of Russian 
revolutionary life. He had to remind himself that these 
men and women, gathered here like criminals, were merely 
planning to ask for a right guaranteed them by the law ! f 
' The last to come was an Austrian miner named Huszar, 
with whom Olson had got into touch. Then, it being time 
to begin, everybody looked uneasily at everybody else. 
Few of them had conspired before, and they did not know 
quite how to set about it. Olson, the one who would natu« 
rally have been their leader, had deliberately stayed away. 
They must run this check-weighman affair for themselves ! 
" Somebody talk," said Mrs. David at last ; and then, 
 
as the silence continued, she turned to Hal. "You're 
going to be the check-weighman. You talk." 
" Fm the youngest man here ' said Hal, with a smile. 
" Some older fellow talk." 
But nobody else smiled. " Go on ! " exclaimed old 
Mike ; and so at last Hal stood up. It was something he 
was to experience many times in the future; because he 
was an American, and educated, he was forced into a posi- 
tion of leadership. 
"As I understand it, you people want a check-weigh- 
man. Now, they tell me the pay for a check-weighman 
should be three dollars a day, but we've got only seven 
miners among us, and that's not enough. I will offer to 
take the job for twenty-five cents a day from each man, 
which will make a dollar-seventy-five, less than what I'm 
getting now as a buddy. If we get thirty men to come in, 
then I'll take ten cents a day from each, and make the 
full three dollars. Does that seem fair ? " 
" Sure ! " said Mike ; and the others added their assent 
by word or nod. 
"All right. Now, there's nobody that works in this 
mine but knows the men don't get their weight. It would 
cost the company several hundred dollars a day to give us 
our weight, and nobody should be so foolish as to imagine 
they'll do it without a struggle. We've got to make up 
our minds to stand together." 
" Sure, stand together ! " cried Mike. 
" No get check-weighman ! " exclaimed Jerry, pessimis- 
tically. 
" Not unless we try, Jerry," said Hal. 
And Mike thumped his knee. " Sure try ! And get 
him too ! " 
" Eight ! " cried " Big Jack." But his little wife was 
not satisfied with the response of the others. She gave 
Hal his first lesson in the drilling of these polyglot masses. 
" Talk to them. Make them understand you ! " And she 
pointed them out one by one with her finger : " You ! 
You ! Wresmak, here, and you, Klowoski, and you, Zam 
— you other Polish fellow. Want check-weighman. 
Want to get all weight. Get all our money. Under- 
stand?" 
"Yes, yes !" 
" Get committee, go see super ! Want check-weighman. 
Understand? Got to have check-weighman! No back 
down, no scare." 
" No — no scare ! " Klowoski, who understood some 
English, explained rapidly to Zamierowski; and Zamie- 
rowski, whose head was still plastered where Jeff Cotton's 
revolver had hit it, nodded eagerly in assent. In spite 
of his bruises, he would stand by the others, and face the 
boss. 
This suggested another question. " Who's going to do 
the talking to the boss ? " 
" You do that," said Mrs. David, to Hal. 
" But I'm the one that's to be paid. It's not for me 
to talk." 
" No one else can do it right," declared the woman. 
" Sure — got to be American feller ! " said Mike. 
But Hal insisted. If he did the talking, it would look 
as if the check-weighman had been the source of the move- 
ment, and was engaged in making a good paying job for 
himself. 
There was discussion back and forth, until finally John 
Edstrom spoke up. " Put me on the committee." 
" You ? " said Hal. " But you'll be thrown out ! And 
what will your wife do ? " 
" I think my wife is going to die to-night," said Ed- 
strom, simply. 
He sat with his lips set tightly, looking straight before 
him. After a pause he went on : " If it isn't to-night, it 
will be to-morrow, the doctor says ; and after that, nothing 
will matter. I shall have to go down to Pedro to bury 
 
her, and if I have to stay, it will make little difference to 
me, so I might as well do what I can for the rest of you. 
I've been a miner all my life, and Mr. Cartwright knows 
it ; that might have some weight with him. Let Joe Smith 
and Sikoria and myself be the ones to go and see him, and 
the rest of you wait, and don't give up your jobs unless 
you have to." 
 Having settled the matter of the committee, Hal 
told the assembly how Alec Stone had asked him to spy 
upon the men. He thought they should know about it; 
the bosses might try to use it against him, as Olson had 
warned. " They may tell you I'm a traitor," he said. 
" You must trust me." 
" We trust you ! " exclaimed Mike, with fervour ; and 
the others nodded their agreement. 
"All right," Hal answered. "You can rest sure of 
this one thing — if I get onto that tipple, you're going to 
get your weights ! " 
" Hear, hear ! " cried " Big Jack," in English fashion. 
And a murmur ran about Hie room. They did not dare 
make much noise, but they made clear that that was what 
they wanted. 
Hal sat down, and began to unroll the bandage from 
his wrist. " I guess I'm through with this," he said, and 
explained how he had come to wear it. 
" What ? " cried Old Mike. " You fool me like that ? " 
And he caught the wrist, and when he had made sure there 
was no sign of swelling upon it, he shook it so that he 
almost sprained it really, laughing until the tears ran 
down his cheeks. " You old son-of-a-gun ! " he exclaimed. 
Meantime Klowoski was telling the story to Zamierowski, 
and Jerry Minetti was explaining it to Wresmak, in the 
sort of pidgin-English which does duty in the camps. Hal 
 
had never seen such real laughter since coming to North 
Valley. 
But conspirators cannot lend themselves long to merri- 
ment. They came back to business again. It was agreed 
that the hour for the committee's visit to the superintend- 
ent should be quitting-time on the morrow. And then 
John Edstrom spoke, suggesting that they should agree 
upon their course of action in case they were offered vio- 
lence. 
" You think there's much chance of that ? " said some 
one. 
" Sure there be ! " cried Mike Sikoria. " One time in 
Cedar Mountain we go see boss, say air-course blocked. 
What you think he do them fellers? He hit them one 
lick in nose, he kick them three times in behind, he run 
them out ! " 
" Well," said Hal, " if there's going to be anything like 
that, we must be ready." 
" What you do ? " demanded Jerry. 
It was time for Hal's leadership. " If he hits me one 
lick in the nose," he declared, " I'll hit him one lick in 
the nose, that's all." 
There was a bit of applause at this. That was the way 
to talk ! Hal tasted the joys of his leadership. But then 
his fine self-confidence met with a sudden check — a " lick 
in the nose" of his pride, so to speak. There came a 
woman's voice from the corner, low and grim : " Yes ! 
And get ye'self killed for all your trouble ! " 
He looked towards Mary Burke, and saw her vivid face, 
flushed and frowning. " What do you mean ? " he asked. 
" Would you have us turn and run away ? " 
" I would that ! " said she. " Rather than have ye 
killed, I would! What'll ye do if he pulls his gun on 
ye?" 
" Would he pull his gun on a committee ? " 
Old Mike broke in again. " One time in Barela — 
 
ain't I told you how I lose my oars? I tell weigh-boss 
somebody steal my cars, and he pull gun on me, and he 
say, ' Get the hell off that tipple, you old billy-goat, I 
shoot you full of holes ! ' " 
Among his class-mates at college, Hal had been wont to 
argue that the proper way to handle a burglar was to call 
out to him, saying, " Go ahead, old chap, and help your- 
self ; there's nothing here I'm willing to get shot for." 
What was the value of anything a burglar could steal, in 
comparison with a man's own life? And surely, one 
would have thought, this was a good time to apply the 
plausible theory. But for some reason Hal failed even to 
remember it. He was going ahead, precisely as if a ton 
of coal per day was the one thing of consequence in life ! 
" What shall we do ? " he asked. " We don't want to 
back out." 
But even while he asked the question, Hal was realising 
that Mary was right. His was the attitude of the leisure- 
class person, used to having his own way; but Mary, 
though she had a temper too, was pointing the lesson of 
