her awakening mind : "How fortunate I am ! I have 
no one to lose in this terrible war!" (Her brother was 
too delicate for service.) "These tears I see every 
day after news has come that a father, a brother, at 



husband, a son, has fallen on the battlefield or died of 
horrible agony in hospital, I shall never shed. Almost alone of the many I know, and the millions of 
women in France, I am mercifully exempt from an 
agony that has no end. If I were married, and were 
older and had sons, I should be suffering unendurably now. I am fortunate indeed and feel an ingrate 
that I have ever repined." 

Then naturally enough followed the thought that it 
behooved her to do something for her country, not 
only as a manifest of thanksgiving but also because it 
was her duty as a young woman of wealth and 
leisure. 

Oddly enough considering the delicate health in 
which she firmly believed, she tried to be a nurse. 
There were many amateurs in the hospitals in those 
days when France was as short of nurses as of every- 
thing else except men, and she was accepted. 

But nursing then involved standing all day on one's 
feet and sometimes all night as well, and her pampered 
body was far from strong enough for such a tax in 
spite of her now glowing spirit. While she was casting about for some work in which she might really 
play a useful and beneficent role a friend invited her 
to drive out to the environs of Paris and visit the 
wretched eclopes, to whom several charitable ladies 
occasionally took little gifts of cigarettes and chocolate. 

Then, at last, Mile. Javal found herself; and from 
a halting apprehensive seeker, still weary in mind and 



 

limb, she became almost abruptly one of the most 
original and executive women in France — incidentally 
one of the healthiest. When I met her, some twenty 
months later, she had red cheeks and was the only 
one of all those women of all classes slaving for 
France who told me she never felt tired; in fact felt 
stronger every day. 



The eclopes, in the new adaptation of the word, are 
men who are not ill enough for the military hospitals 
and not well enough to fight. They may have slight 
wounds, or temporary affections of the sight or hearing, the effect of heavy colds; or rheumatism, debilitating sore throat, or furiously aching teeth; or they 
may be suffering too severely from shock to be of 
any use in the trenches. 

There are between six and seven thousand hospi- 
tals in France to-day (possibly more: the French 
never will give you any exact military figures; but 
certainly not less) ; but their beds are for the severely 
wounded or for those suffering from dysentery, fevers, 
pneumonia, bronchitis, tuberculosis. In those first days 
of war before France, caught unprepared in so many 
ways, had found herself and settled down to the business of war; in that trying interval while she was ill 
equipped to care for men brought in hourly to the base 
hospitals, shattered by new and hideous wounds ; there 
was no place for the merely ailing. Men with organic 
affections, suddenly developed under the terrific strain, 



 

were dismissed as Reformes Numero II — unmutilated 
in the service of their country; in other words, dismissed from the army and, for nearly two years, without pension. But the large number of those tempor- 
arily out of condition were sent back of the lines, or 
to a sort of camp outside of Paris, to rest until they 
were in a condition to fight again. 

If it had not been for Mile. Javal it is possible that 
more men than one cares to estimate would never have 
fought again. The eclopes at that time were the most 
abject victims of the war. They remained together 
under military discipline, either behind the lines or on 
the outskirts of Paris, herded in barns, empty factories, thousands sleeping without shelter of any sort. 
Straw for the most part composed their beds, food 
was coarse and scanty; they were so wretched and un- 
comfortable, so exposed to the elements, and without 
care of any sort, that their slight ailments developed 
not infrequently into serious and sometimes fatal cases 
of bronchitis, pneumonia, and even tuberculosis. 

This was a state of affairs well known to General 
Joffre and none caused him more distress and anxiety. 
But — this was between August and November, 1914, 
it must be remembered, when France was anything 
but the magnificent machine she is to-day — it was 
quite impossible for the authorities to devote a cell 
of their harassed brains to the temporarily inept. 
Every executive mind in power was absorbed in pin- 
ning the enemy down, since he could not be driven 
out, feeding the vast numbers of men at the Front, 



 

reorganizing the munition factories, planning for the 
vast supplies of ammunition suddenly demanded, 
equipping the hospitals — when the war broke out there 
were no installations in the hospitals near the Front 
except beds — obtaining the necessary amount of surgical supplies, taking care of the refugees that poured 
into the larger cities by every train not only from 
Belgium but from the French towns invaded or 
bombarded — to mention but a few of the problems that 
beset France suddenly forced to rally and fight for 
her life, and, owing to the Socialist majority in the 
Chamber of Deputies, criminally unprepared. 

There were plenty of able minds in France that 
knew what was coming; months before the war broke 
out (a year, one of the infirmiere majors told me; but, 
as I have said, it is difficult to pin a French official 
down to exact statements) the Service de Sante 
(Health Department of the Ministry of War) asked 
the Countess d'Haussonville, President of the Red 
Cross, to train as many nurses as quickly as possible, 
for there was not an extra nurse in a military hospital 
of France — in many there was none at all. But these 
patriotic and far-sighted men were powerless. The 
three years' service bill was the utmost result of their 
endeavors, and for six months after the war began 
they had not a gun larger than the famous Seventy- 
fives but those captured at the Battle of the Marne. 

As for the poor eclopes, there never was a clearer 
example of the weaker going to the wall and the devil 
taking the hindmost. They had been turned out to 



 

grass mildly afflicted, but in a short time they were 
progressing rapidly toward the grave or that detestable status known as Reformes Numero II. And 
every man counts in France. Quite apart from 
humanity it was a terribly serious question for the 
Grand Quartier General, where Joffre and his staff 
had their minds on the rack. 



IV 

The Cure of St. Honore d'Eylau was the first to 
discover the eclopes, and not only sent stores to certain of the depots where they were herded, but per- 
suaded several ladies of Paris to visit and take them 
little presents. But practically every energetic and pa- 
triotic woman in France was already mobilized in the 
service of her country. As I have explained elsewhere, 
they had opened ouvroirs, where working girls suddenly deprived of the means of livelihood could fend 
off starvation by making underclothing and other 
necessaries for the men at the Front. Upon these de- 
voted women, assisted by nearly all the American 
women resident in Paris, fell to a great extent the care 
of the refugees; and many were giving out rations 
three times a day, not only to refugees but to the poor 
of Paris, suddenly deprived of their wage earners. It 
was some time before the Government got round to 
paying the daily allowance of one-franc-twenty-five to 
the wives and seventy-five centimes (fifty outside of 
Paris) for each child, known as the allocation. Moreover, in those dread days when the Germans were driv- 
ing straight for Paris, many fled with the Government to Bordeaux (not a few Americans ignominiously scampered off to England) and did not return 
for three weeks or more; during which time those 
brave enough to remain did ten times as much work 
as should be expected even of the nine-lived female. 

They knew at this critical time as well as later when 
they were breathing normally again that the poor 
eclopes beyond the barrier were without shelter in the 
autumn rains and altogether in desperate plight; but 
it was only now and again that a few found time to 
pay them a hasty visit and cheer them with those little 
gifts so dear to the imaginative heart of the French 
soldier. Sooner or later, of course, the Government 
would have taken them in hand and organized them as 
meticulously as they have organized every conceivable 
angle of this great struggle; but meanwhile thousands 
would have died or shambled home to" litter the villages 
as hopeless invalids. Perhaps hundreds of thousands 
is a safer computation, and these hundreds of thousands Mile. Javal saved for France. 



Today there are over one hundred and thirty 
ficlope Depots in France; two or three are near Paris, 
the rest in the towns and villages of the War Zone. 
The long baraques are well built, rain-proof and 
draught-proof, but with many windows which are open 



 

when possible, and furnished with comfortable beds. 
In each depot there is a hospital baraque for those that 
need that sort of rest or care, a diet kitchen, and a 
fine large kitchen for those that can eat anything and 
have appetites of daily increasing vigor. 

These depots are laid out like little towns, the streets 
of the large ones named after famous generals and 
battles. Down one side is a row of low buildings 
in which the officers, doctors and nurses sleep; a 
chemist shop; a well-fitted bathroom; storerooms for 
supplies ; and consulting offices. There is also, almost 
invariably, a cantine set up by young women — Eng- 
lish, American, French — where the men are supplied 
at any time With cocoa, coffee, milk, lemonade, cakes ; 
and the little building itself is gaily decorated to please 
the color-loving French eye. 

Mile. Javal took me out to the environs of Paris 
to visit one of the largest of these depots, and there 
the men in hospital were nursed by Sisters of Charity. 
There was a set of well-filled bookshelves and a stage 
in the great refectory, where the men could sit on 
rainy days, read, write letters, sing, smoke, recite, and 
get up little plays. I saw a group of very contented 
looking poilus in the yard playing cards and smoking 
under a large tree. 

The surroundings were hideous — a railroad yard if 
I am not mistaken — but the little "town" itself was 
very pleasing to the eye, and certainly a haven of 
refuge for soldiers whose bodies and minds needed 
only repose, care, and kind words to send them back 



 

to the Front sounder by far than they had been in 
their unsanitary days before the war. 

Here they are forced to sleep with their windows 
open, to bathe, eat good food, instead of mortifying 
the body for the sake of filling the family stocking; 
and they are doctored intelligently, their teeth filled, 
their tonsils and adenoids taken out, their chronic indigestion cured. Those who survive the war will 
never forget the lesson and will do missionary work 
when they are at home once more. 

All that was dormant in Mile. Javal's fine brain 
seemed to awake under the horrifying stimulus of that 
first visit to the wretches herded like animals outside 
of Paris, where every man thought he was drafted for 
death and did not care whether he was or not ; where, 
in short, morale, so precious an asset to any nation in 
time of war, was practically nil. 

1 The first step was to get a powerful committee together. Mile. Javal, although wealthy, could not carry 
through this gigantic task alone. The moratorium had 
stopped the payment of rents, factories were closed, 
tenants mobilized. Besides, she had already given 
right and left, as everybody else had done who had 
anything to give. It was growing increasingly difficult to raise money. 

But nothing could daunt Mile. Javal. She managed 
to get together with the least possible delay a com- 
mittee of three hundred, and she obtained subscriptions 
in money from one thousand five hundred firms, besides donations of food and clothing from eight 

hundred others, headed by the King of Spain. 
f Her subscription list was opened by President 
Poincare with a gift of one thousand francs; the 
American War Relief Clearing House gave her four 
thousand three hundred francs, Madame Viviani contributed four thousand francs; the Comedie Fran- 
chise one thousand, and Raphael Weill of San Francisco seven thousand seven hundred and fifty; Alex- 
ander Phillips of New York three thousand ; and capitalists, banks, bank clerks, civil servants, colonials, 
school children, contributed sums great and small. 

Concerts were given, bazaars hastily but successfully 
organized, collections taken up. There was no end to 
Mile. Javal's resource, and the result was an almost 
immediate capital of several hundred thousand francs. 
When public interest was fairly roused, les pauvres 
eclopes became one of the abiding concerns of the 
French people, and they have responded as generously 
as they did to the needs of the more picturesque 
refugee or the starving within their gates. 

This great organization, known as "U Assistance 
aux Depots d'ficlopes, Petits Blesses et Petites Malades, et aux Cantonments de Repos," was formally in- 
augurated on November 14, 1914, with Madame Jules 
Ferry as President, and Madame Viviani as Vice- 
President. Mile. Javal shows modestly on the official 
list as Secretaire Generate. 

The Government agreed to put up the baraques, and 
did so with the least possible delay. Mile. Javal and 



 

her Committee furnish the beds (there were seven 
hundred in one of the depots she showed me), support 
the dietary kitchen and the hospital baraques, and supply the bathrooms, libraries, and all the little luxuries. 
The Government supports the central kitchen (grand 
regime), the doctors, and, when necessary, the surgeons. 

VI 

Mile. Javal took me twice through the immense 
establishment on the Champs filysees, where she has 
not only her offices but workrooms and storerooms. 
In one room a number of ladies — in almost all of 
these ceuvres women give their services, remaining all 
day or a part of every day — were doing nothing but 
rolling cigarettes. I looked at them with a good deal 
of interest. They belonged to that class of French 
life I have tried to describe, in which the family is the 
all important unit; where children rarely play with 
other children, sometimes never; where the mother is 
a sovereign who is content to remain within the 
boundaries of her own small domain for months at a 
time, particularly if she lives not in an apartment, 
but in an hotel with a garden behind it. Thousands 
of these exemplary women of the bourgeoisie — hundreds of thousands — care little or nothing for "so- 
ciety." They call at stated intervals, upon which ceremonious occasion they drink coffee and eat pastry; 
give their young people dances when the exact conventional moment has arrived for putting them on the 



 

market, and turn out in force at the great periodicities 
of life, but otherwise to live and die in the bosom 
of The Family is the measure of their ambition. 

I shall have a good deal to say later of the possible 
results of the vast upheaval of home life caused by 
this war; but of these women sitting for hours on end 
in a back room of Mile. Javal's central establishment 
in Paris it is only necessary to state that they looked 
as intent upon making cigarettes in a professional 
manner, beyond cavil by the canny poilu, as if they 
were counting the family linen or superintending one 
of the stupendous facts of existence, a daughter's 
trousseau. Only the one to whom I was introduced 
raised her eyes, and I should not have been expected 
to distract her attention for a moment had not she 
told Mile. Javal that she had read my books (in the 
Tauchnitz edition) and would like to meet me when 
I called. 

It seemed to me that everything conceivable was in 
those large storerooms. I had grown used to seeing 
piles of sleeping-suits, sleeping-bags, trench slippers, 
warm underclothes, sabots, all that is comprised in the 
word vetement; but here were also immense boxes of 
books and magazines, donated by different firms and 
editors, about to be shipped to the depots; games of 
every sort; charming photogravures, sketches, prints, 
pictures, that would make the baraques gay and beloved — all to be interspersed, however, with mottoes 
from famous writers calculated to elevate not only the 
morale but the morals of the idle. 



Then there were cases of handkerchiefs, of pens 
and paper, pencils, songs with and without music, 
knives, pipes, post-cards, razors, parasiticides, chocolate, vaseline, perfumes (many of these articles are 
donations from manufacturers), soap in vast quantities ; books serious and diverting ; pamphlets purposed 
to keep patriotism at fever pitch, or to give the often 
ignorant peasant soldier a clear idea of the designs of 
the enemy. 

In small compartments at one end of the largest 
of the rooms were exhibited the complete installations 
of the baraques, the portable beds, kitchen and dining- 
room utensils and dishes, all extraordinarily neat and 
compact. In another room was a staff engaged in 
correspondence with officers, doctors and surgeons at 
the Front, poilus, or the hundred and one sources that 
contribute to the great ceuvre. Girls, young widows, 
young and middle-aged married women whose husbands and sons were fighting, all give their days freely 
and work far harder and more conscientiously than 
most women do for hire. 

All of these presents, when they arrive at the 
depots, are given out personally by the officers, and 
this as much as the genuine democracy of the men in 
command has served to break down the suspicious or 
surly spirit of the French peasant on his first service, 
to win over the bumptious industrial, and even to 
