about her, even to the point of recognising to 
R. that she doesn't care for his suit and has much 
incurred her mother's, sister's and even brother's 
reprobation by that attitude. Vividness to R. 
of the reign of authority at that time, the much 
harder rule and discipline; and how half terrified 
at what she is doing by hanging back, by resist 
ing, the poor girl herself is all the while. Her 
first relation to him is that of her appealing ex- 
jactly from this rigour; her first impression of 
him and emotion about him, he sees, he gives 
us to see, is that of a sudden this fine young Amer 
ican relation is a person who may side with her, 
may help her, may intervene and back her up 
in not accepting addresses from a person she 
can't get over her dislike of. Yes, that's their 
first basis, and for this appeal Ralph must have 
been prepared by his own sense of the kind of 
uncanny, to put it in a simplified way, little per 
sonage her aspirant is. They come nearer to 
gether on that, they meet on that, they talk, 
they begin to understand each other on that 
very great though Ralph's responsibility in the 
matter, the matter of backing up her refusal, 
may be. It's at any rate the way the real rela 
tion with them, with him his sense of the an 
cient brutality of the others to her, her mother, 
her brother, her sister, stirring finely within him. 
She hasn't dreamed herself, he sees, of any real 
equality of transaction, of relation with him at 
  
all; for if the others are under the dazzle, so much 
the more under it is she. She sees that is he 
sees that she sees; he likes her to like him; 
which is what gives her the sense of a privilege 
she trembles up into the enjoyment of, astonished 
at herself in her exquisite humility (this so touch 
ing to R.) even while doing so. The great thing 
is that he gets into relation with them, and that 
by the time he has done so the sense of how he 
needs it, the dim vagueness as yet of how she 
may perhaps help him, has begun to work in 
him. He sees, he feels, I make out, that she, as 
it were, understands him though how and why 
she does demands full specification; that in fine 
what affects the others as his secret, as his queer- 
ness, as what they don't know what to make of 
in him, does the reverse of putting her off it 
makes her somehow feel that beneath or within 
all his dazzle he is an object for pity, for pity 
"about which" she could perhaps do something. 
The ideal thing for dramatic interest and sharp 
ness would be that there is just one matter in 
which, just one point at which, just one link with 
his other identity by which, he betrays himself, 
gives himself away, testifies supremely to his 
alienism, abnormalism, the nature of his identity 
in fine; the ideal thing would be that, I say, 
and that it should be definite and visible, ab 
solutely catchable-in-the-act, enough for her to 
seize it, come into possession of it, and yet not 
  
merely terrify or horrify her: affect her in short, 
on the contrary, with but a finer yearningness of 
interest. The ideal, as I say, would be that this 
fact or circumstance should be tremendously 
right from the tone of the "Screw" point of view, 
should be intensely in the note of that tone, 
should be a concrete and definite thing. Find 
it find it; get it right and it will be the making 
of the story. It must consist of something he 
"Has to do, some condition he has to execute, 
some moment he has to traverse, or rite or sacrifice 
he has to perform say even some liability he 
has to face and the occurrence of which depends 
somehow on the state in which he keeps himself. 
I seem to see it, it glimmers upon me; though I 
didn't think of it at first I hadn't originally 
got as far as it it hovers before me though in 
the form of the only thing it can be. When I 
call it a liability I seem to catch it by the tip 
of the tail; seem to get a sort of sense of what 
it may in a manner be. Let me figure it out a 
bit, and under gentle, or rather patiently firm, di 
rect pressure it will come out. He is liable then 
say to glimpses of vision of the other man, the 
one portrayed in the picture and whom he had 
had the portentous passage with before going to 
the Ambassador; he is liable, put it, to recur 
rences of a sense of that presence which thus, 
instead of being off in the boundless vast of the 
modern, that is of the Future, as he has described 
3" 
  
its being to the Ambassador, does seem to him at 
times to hover and to menace: only not to the 
appearance or effect of reassuring or relieving 
him, but only to that of really quite mocking 
and not pitying him, of showing him to himself 
as "sold," horribly sold. Say it's as if the man 
of 1820, the Pendrel of that age, is having so 
much better a time in the modern, that is in 
the Future, than he is having in the present, his 
Present, which is the Past, that a chill and a 
fear, the growth of a despair and a terror, drop 
upon him from it and signify somehow that he 
must begin to feel himself lost. That's it, that's 
it, that may be admirable, if I can get the right 
hinge or play for it which of course I can. He 
hasn't expected it, I think unless I represent 
something of it as coming back to him, while he 
wonders, from that passage between him and 
the other fellow which we know, so far as we do 
know, only by his projection of it to the Am 
bassador after our having seen the other fellow 
approach, that is, at the climax of the first, or 
the critical, night spent by Ralph in the house. 
We have come to know something of this later 
on by our sight of his own mental references to 
it; so that these relations may quite sufficiently 
hang together for us. Well, what I want is that 
once he has the extraordinary experience (the 
experience within the experience) of his being 
under observation by his alter ego, once he has 
  
had it in an acute form and connected it won- 
deringly with some cause, he feels liable to it 
again if the same kind of cause shall recur; which 
by the time the phenomenon takes place has 
for him much more, as I have said above, a sug 
gestion of menace than a suggestion of relief. 
That's it it's as if the other fellow feels, knows, 
has some incalculable divination, of his, Ralph's 
weakening, while nothing is further from himself 
than to weaken; whereby Ralph connects, as 
I quite grasp, the consequence with the cause. 
There must be sequences here of the strongest, 
I make out the successive driving in of the 
successive silver-headed nails at the very points 
and under the very taps that I reserve for them. 
That's it, the silver nail, the recurrence of it in 
the right place, the perfection and salience of 
each, and the trick is played. I seem to see it 
thus a silver nail that my young man recognises 
well what he does recognise when the younger 
girl (for whom, as for them all, I should do well 
to provide a name without more delay) swims 
into his ken, and it's another one, another clou 
d'argent, when the wave of his confidence seems 
tcTTiave begun to spend itself, doing this, how 
ever, in face of something that has taken place. 
Just what this thing is must constitute another 
silver nail, and I see it thereby as some symptom 
given, on the part of the others, of a change of 
attitude, a change of sensibility, as I must call 
  
it, or at least may, for want of a better word. 
I think it of superior force that they, the others, 
all except my young heroine, shall begin on their 
side the betrayal of malaise, which Ralph is then 
affected by; rather than that he should begin it, 
making it thus that they are by the operation, 
the outward betrayal, of that condition of his 
own. Here I have the action of the little H.W., 
who, moved thereto (I express myself thus 
roughly) by the situation determined for his own 
interest through the terms appearing destined 
to develop between R. and the girl, and this 
though R. isn't at all free for the girl, opens him 
self on the subject to the three others and so 
calls their attention to certain things that they 
before long find themselves, and confess it to 
him and to each other, affected too in the sense 
he communicates. To be perfectly definite it 
seems to me I must have it that the marriage of 
Ralph and the elder daughter is definitely ar 
ranged and fixed for a tolerably near date; since 
I want the elder girl, "under the effect," to break 
off something, and there is nothing so good for 
her to break off as their engagement. The rup 
ture of that, with R's apprehension of how and 
why it is coming and has come, is of course a 
silver nail of perfect salience; just as it is an 
other, I see, that this catastrophe, or whatever 
one may call it, places Ralph and the younger 
girl face to face as they have not yet been placed. 
3  4 
  
Their recognition of that, his at least, which is 
also a perception and a comprehension of hers, 
what has this, in its concreteness, but one more 
silver nail ? What I see myself, at the same time, 
here concerned with is the question of the out 
ward footing Ralph remains on, finds or makes 
possible, with the two other women etc. when 
the rupture develops and after it has occurred. 
I can't have it end the relation, everything so 
collapsing so that there must be still grounds 
for the relation, and they must be strong and 
positive, or at least definite and presentable. I 
get something by the provision that the engage 
ment has not been given out nor the marriage 
announced as to take place; which, meanwhile, 
is not at all natural unless some advantage not 
to be too lightly sacrificed is involved with their 
still superficially keeping on. This requires 
thinking of, but doesn't in the least defy han 
dling; and indeed I think I get it at a stroke by 
the fact that they all cling to him, in a sort, even 
in spite of the malaise, by reason of the con 
venience proceeding from his means. Decidedly, 
yes, they must be, through disorders, extrava 
gances, turpitudes or whatever, of the late head 
of the family, and vraisemblablement through 
like actualities on the part of the son who has 
succeeded him in the proprietorship of Drydown, 
they must be on a hollow and quaking pecuniary 
basis which makes Ralph have to have money, 
  
even though this wasn't in the least a common 
felicity or luxury in the American world of that 
period. None the less were there some fortunes, 
without overstrain of the point, and in short I 
have only to make Ralph all disposed, very pecu 
liarly disposed indeed and very particularly in 
spired and inwardly needing and wanting, to 
pay his way handsomely, to be the free-handed- 
from-over-the-sea relative of the house, in order 
to pick up whatever link might have seemed 
missing here, and make it serve my turn. He 
pays his way, he regales and "treats," right and 
left; and nothing can be more in the note of the 
time I give him the sense of than the extraor 
dinary readiness he finds in everyone to profit 
(1 by this, the want of delicacy and dignity, by our 
modern measure, in the general attitude toward 
pecuniary favours. The smaller still lives on the 
greater, the minor folk on the great, and Ralph 
literally sees himself, feels himself, enjoys in a 
manner feeling himself, figure verily as one of 
the great by his taste of this play of money- 
patronage that is open to him. There it is: if 
I get a clou d'argent by the rupture, in short, I 
get another, still another, by some "dramatic" 
demonstration of the fashion after which they 
are going in spite of their malaise to hold on to 
him as beneficiaries of a sort. Yes, yes, yes, I 
have it, I have it: the brother has borrowed 
money, borrowed it of him bravely, from the 
  
first; and the brother opposes the rupture of 
the marriage for fear that, a complete rupture 
thus also involved, he will have to pay up to his 
creditor, his so probably indignant creditor, in 
consequence of the changed situation. The other 
two women know this, and what it means for 
him; and then thereafter see that it needn't 
mean what they fear, what he fears, and isn't 
going to for here I just get a sublime little silver 
nail in the fact that Ralph, comprehending this, 
beautifully seeing the way it may help him, quite 
seems to show on the contrary that he won't 
push his hand, won't expose their private gene; 
seeing what he can get for himself by not doing 
so. Doesn't he in fact even "lend" the brother 
more money, lend it after the very rupture, in 
order to reassure them and keep on with them 
and show he doesn't "mind" the breach on the 
part of the elder girl ? this all because it keeps 
him along and on the footing of his still possible 
relation with the younger. In plain terms mayn't 
one put it that he buys, pays for, in hard cash, 
the pursuance of his opportunity ? as well as 
put it that his "dramatic" assurance of this, 
with its readjustment of his footing, constitutes 
again a silver nail. (There's nothing, I think, 
that one must so keep before one as that at first 
he is made ever so much of much more of than 
he could at all have hoped.) 
Well then, there he is with the question of the 
  
marriage ended as to which, let me catch my 
self up to remember, I shall have to give her a 
motive, a presentable ground, since it's ended 
by her act, which won't make it too anomalous 
on his part that relations with the house are 
kept up. I must have him, by the way, not 
"stay" with them I see advantages and natural 
nesses, facilitations of several sorts, in his not 
doing that, but, much rather, putting up at one 
of the inns of the day, or better still in a lodging 
in one of the old West-end streets. Why not let 
the young woman make it quite frank and out 
spoken happy thought ! and say in so many 
words that she can't marry him because, heaven 
help her, she's afraid of him; just that, simply 
afraid of him, even if he (with his own malaise 
at this note) can't get out of her any why, when 
he challenges her, as in dignity and decency he 
must, for a reason. This much affects and im 
presses him for there isn't in it, mind, the smallest 
hint or implication of its being through any 
jealousy of her sister, whom she doesn't so much 
as honour with a suspicion. (The sort of Cin 
derella quality, so to call it, of the younger one, 
to be shown as more or less felt by him.) The 
position thus taken with practical suddenness by 
his prospective bride is the first definite note, 
at all really sharp one, that he has to reckon with 
on the subject of the queerness that hangs, that } 
may so well hang, about him; and its sets up 
  
thereby the beginnings of the great feeling that 
I want to impute to him. He thinks all the same, 
at first, he expects and apprehends, not with 
pleasure, however, that this attitude of hers 
won't be supported by her mother and her brother: 
the thing having taken place between themselves 
only, and quite abruptly; she striking him as 
acting by her own sudden impulse alone, and in 
a manner not at all to suit the others. They 
will overbear her, he imagines; her mother in 
particular will bring her round again and into 
line. He positively fears this even so that his 
surprise is great, and his malaise even greater, 
when the mother, with a full opportunity, by 
this time, doesn't so much as speak to him on 
the subject. There must be a passage between 
them, him and the Mother, in which he won- 
deringly and observantly, watching now all symp 
toms and portents, as it were, waits for Mrs. 
So-and-So to speak, to broach the matter herself, 
to show him her knowledge of what her daughter 
has done. He must know, or must believe, that 
she has now the knowledge this point having 
been treated between him and the daughter, as 
it were, in the scene of the rupture. He has of 
course to ask her if she throws him over with her 
mother's privity and approval, to which she re 
plies that she doesn't, up to then, that she has 
broken down but then and there, but that now 
at once of course she will report herself, so to 
  
speak, to her mother. I see it must be the case 
that she is plain and honest, not at all tortuous 
or perfidious, and so far as calculating, why cal 
culating quite boldly and confessedly, as to the 
material advantages accruing; and thereby the 
more eloquent as to the inward feeling she can't 
surmount when she renounces these advantages 
so flatly. Well, the point is, from all this, that 
our young man is waiting for the mother to ex 
press to him that he mustn't on his side take ad 
vantage of the girl's backing out, but insistently 
claim his right not to be so trifled with (the atti 
tude of the family being that they are, for all 
their straitened means, great people themselves, 
greater truly than he, and with a greatness for 
him in the connection,) and is going on as if nothing 
has happened. He has expected from her, as in 
character, the information that she has dealt 
herself, and with the high maternal rigour that 
then prevailed, with the ridiculous child, whom 
she has thus reduced again to reason and docility. 
But nothing of that sort comes the lady of Dry- 
down not only doesn't break ground to him her 
self in that sense, but betrays to his now con 
siderably excited imagination a fear that he will: 
which will be, truly, awkward, embarrassing and 
even "scaring" to her; so that what I seem to 
see happening is verily that when he thus watches 
her not speak, notes her as forbearing to for 
reasons of her own, he doesn't take her up on 
  
it, decides in fact not to, decides that the question 
is really had out between them without either of 
them so speaking, and only by his looking her 
very hard in the eye, and her so looking at him, 
and his keeping it up on this and her keeping it 
up on that. It simply drops thus, by its own 
force, the question of the marriage, and the fact 
that he doesn't have it out, and that she allows 
him, as by taking care, no opportunity to, con 
stitutes another silver nail, likewise, of as good a 
salience as I could desire. There it is then, so 
far as that goes; and after I have dealt for an in 
stant now with the question of what the brother's 
attitude also is in the connection, I see I shall 
have got what I was reaching out for considerably 
above, the particular thing taking, or having taken, 
place which must serve for me as the determinant 
of the phenomenon, the factor, I have settled to 
tackle. The "other fellow" "appears" to Ralph, 
and makes him ask himself why, contrary to all 
consistency or logic, the laws of the game, this 
extraordinary occurrence should take place. He 
feels it as portentous feels it, I see, in a way 
altogether different from the way in which he 
felt it on the first great occasion; when it only 
uplifted and thrilled him, making him conscious 
