his dead wife had fussed over their only baby!——
"Steve?"
"Sir?"
"You are sure you will be quite happy here?"
"Yes, sir."
"Would you——" A pause; and again he looked up into the child’s face, and
again she smiled.
"Steve, I never had a little girl.  It’s funny, isn’t it?"
"Yes, sir."
A silence.
"Would you like to—to go to a private school?"
The child did not understand.  So he told her about such schools and the
little girls who went to them. She seemed deeply interested; her grey
eyes were clear and seriously intelligent, and very, very intently fixed
on him in the effort to follow and understand what he was saying.
He told her about other children who lived amid happy surroundings; what
they did, how they were cared for, schooled, brought up; what was
expected of them by the world—what was required by the world from those
who had had advantages of a home, of training, of friends, and of an
education.  He was committing himself with every word, and refused to
believe it.
At times he paused to question her, and she always nodded seriously that
she understood.
"But this," he added smilingly, "you may not entirely comprehend, Steve;
that such children, brought up as I have explained to you, owe the human
race a debt which is never cancelled."  He was talking to himself now,
more than to her; voicing his thoughts; feeling his way toward the
expression of a philosophy which he had heretofore only vaguely
entertained.
"The hope of the world lies in such children, Steve," he said.  "The
world has a right to expect service from them.  You don’t understand, do
you?"
Her wonderfully clear eyes were almost beautiful with intelligence as
they looked straight into his. Perhaps the child understood more than
she herself realized, more than he believed she understood.
"Shall I come to see you again, Steve?"
"Yes, sir, please."
There was a pause.  Very gently the slight pressure of his arm, which
had crept around her, conveyed to her its wistful meaning; and when she
understood she leaned slowly toward him in winning response, and offered
her lips with a gravity that captivated him.
"Good-bye, Steve, dear," he said unsteadily.  "I’ll come to see you
again very soon.  I surely, surely will come back again to see you,
Steve."
Then he put on his hat and went out abruptly—not down town to
Christensen’s, but back to the United Charities, and, after an hour,
from there he went down town to his attorney’s, where he spent the
entire day under suppressed excitement.
For there were many steps to take and much detail to be attended to
before this new and momentous deal could be put through—a transaction
concerning a human soul and the measures to be taken to insure its
salvage.
                             *CHAPTER III*
During the next few weeks John William Cleland’s instinct fought a
continuous series of combats with his reason.
Instinct, with her powerful allies, loneliness and love, urged the
solitary man to rash experiment; reason ridiculed impulse and made it
very clear to Cleland that he was a fool.
But instinct had this advantage; she was always awake, whispering to his
mind and heart; and reason often fell asleep on guard over his brain.
But when awake, reason laughed at the conspirators, always in ambush to
slay him; and carried matters with a high hand, rebuking instinct and
frowning upon her allies.
And John Cleland hesitated.  He wrote to his only son every day.  He
strove to find occupation for every minute between the morning awakening
in his silent chamber and the melancholy lying down at night.
But always the battle between reason and instinct continued.
Reason had always appealed to Cleland Senior.  His parents and later his
wife and son had known the only sentimental phenomena which had ever
characterized him in his career.  Outside of these exceptions, reason
had always ruled him.  This is usually the case among those who inherit
money from forebears who, in turn, have been accustomed to inherit and
hand down a moderate but unimpaired fortune through sober generations.
Such people are born logical when not born fools. And now Cleland
Senior, mortified and irritated by the increasing longing which obsessed
him, asked himself frequently which of these he really was.
Every atom of logic in him counselled him to abstain from what every
instinct in him was desiring and demanding—a little child to fill the
loneliness of his heart and house—something to mitigate the absence of
his son, whose absences must, in the natural course of events, become
more frequent and of longer duration with the years of college imminent,
and the demands of new interests, new friends increasing year by year.
He told himself that to take another child into his home would be unfair
to Jim; to take her into his heart was disloyal; that the dear past
belonged to his wife alone, the present and the future to his only son.
And all the while the man was starving for what he wanted.
Well, the arrangements took some time to complete; but they were fairly
complete when finished.  She kept her own name; she was to have six
thousand dollars a year for life after she became twenty-one.  He
charged himself with her mental, moral, spiritual, physical, and general
education.
It came about in the following manner:
First of all, he went to see a gentleman whom he had known for many
years, but whose status with himself had always remained a trifle
indefinite in his mind—somewhere betwixt indifferent friendship and
informal acquaintanceship.
The gentleman’s name was Chiltern Grismer; his business, charity and
religion.  He did not dispense either of these, however; he made a
living for himself out of both.  Cleland had learned at the United
Charities that Grismer was an important personage in the Manhattan
Charities Concern, a separate sectarian affair with a big office
building, and a book bindery in Brooklyn for the immense tonnage of
sectarian books and pamphlets published and sold by the "Concern," as it
called itself.  The profits were said to be enormous.
Grismer, tall, bony, sandy and with a pair of unusually light yellowish
eyes behind eye-glasses, appeared the classical philanthropist of the
stage.  With his white, bushy side-whiskers, his frock coat, and his
little ready-made black bow-tie, slightly askew under a high choker, he
certainly dressed the part.  In fact, any dramatic producer would have
welcomed him in the rôle, for he had no "business" to learn; it was
perfectly natural for him to join his finger tips together while
conversing; and his voice and manner left nothing whatever to criticize.
"Ah!  My friend of many years!" he exclaimed as Cleland was ushered into
his office in the building of the Manhattan Charities Concern.  "And
how, I pray, can I be of service to my old friend, John Cleland?
M-m-m’yes—my friend of many years!"
Cleland told his story very simply, adding:
"I understand that your Concern is handling Case 119, Grismer—acting, I
believe, for a child-placing agency."
"Which case?" demanded Grismer, almost sharply.
"Case 119.  The case of Stephanie Quest," repeated Cleland.
Grismer looked at him with odd intentness for a moment, then his eyes
shifted, as though something were disturbing his suave mental
tranquillity:
"M-m-m’yes.  Oh, yes.  I believe we have this case to handle among many
others.  M-m-m!  Quite so; quite so.  Case 119?  Quite so."
"May I have the child?" asked Cleland bluntly.
"Bless me!  Do you really wish to take such chances, Cleland?"
"Why not?  Others take them, don’t they?"
"M-m-m’yes.  Oh, yes.  Certainly.  But it is usually people of
the—ah—middle and lower classes who adopt children.  M-m-m’yes; the
middle and lower classes.  And, naturally, they would not be very much
disappointed in a foundling or waif who failed to—ah—develop the finer,
subtler, more delicate Christian qualities that a gentleman in your
position might reasonably expect—m-m-m’yes!—might, as it were, demand in
an adopted child."
"I’ll take those chances in the case in question," said Cleland,
quietly.
"M-m-m’yes, the case in question.  Case 119.  Quite so....  I am
wondering——" he passed a large, dry hand over his chin and mouth,
reflectively, while his light-coloured eyes remained alertly on duty.
"I have been wondering whether you have looked about before deciding on
this particular child.  There are a great many other deserving cases,
m-m-m’yes—a great many deserving cases——"
"I want this particular child, Grismer."
"Quite so.  M-m-m’yes."  He looked up almost furtively.  "You—ah—have
some previous knowledge, perhaps, of this little girl’s antecedents?"
Mr. Grismer’s voice grew soft and persuasive; his finger tips were
gently joined.  Cleland, looking up at him, caught a glimmer resembling
suspicion in those curiously light-coloured eyes.
"Yes, I have learned certain things about her," he said shortly.  "I
know enough!  I want that child for mine and I’m going to have her."
"May I ask—ah—just what facts you have learned about this unfortunate
infant?"
Cleland, bored to the verge of irritation, told him what he had learned.
There was a silence during which Grismer came to the conclusion that he
had better tell Cleland another fact which necessary legal investigation
of the child’s antecedents might more bluntly reveal.  Yes, certainly
Grismer felt that he ought to place himself on record at once and
explain this embarrassing fact in his own way before others cruelly
misinterpreted it to Cleland. For John Cleland’s position in New York
among men of wealth, of affairs, of influence, and of culture made this
sudden and unfortunate whim of his for Stephanie Quest a matter of
awkward importance to Chiltern Grismer, who had not cared to figure in
the case at all.
Grismer’s large, dry hand continued to massage his jaw.  Now and then
the bony fingers wandered caressingly toward the white side-whiskers,
but always returned to screen the thin lips with a gentle, incessant
massage.
"Cleland," he began in a solemn voice, "have you ever heard that this
child is—ah—is a very distant connection of my family?—m-m-m’yes—my
immediate family. Have you ever heard any ill-natured gossip of this
nature?"
Cleland, too astonished to reply, merely gazed at him.  And Grismer
wrongly concluded that he had heard about it, somewhere or other.
"M-m-m’yes—a connection—very distant, of course. In the event that you
have heard of this unfortunate affair from sources perhaps unfriendly to
myself and family—m-m-m’yes, unfriendly—possibly it were judicious to
explain the matter to you—in justice to myself."
"I never heard of it," said Cleland, "—never dreamed of such a
connection."
But to Grismer all men were liars.
"Oh, I did not know.  I thought you might have heard malicious rumours.
But it is just as well that you should be correctly informed....  Do you
recollect ever reading anything concerning my—ah—late sister?"
"Do you mean something that happened many, many years ago?"
"That is what I refer to.  Did you read of it in the newspapers?"
"Yes," said Cleland.  "I read that she ran away with a married man."
"Doubtless," continued Grismer with a sigh, "you recollect the dreadful
disgrace she brought upon my family?  The cruel scandal exploited by a
pitiless and malicious press?"
Cleland said nothing.
"Let me tell you the actual facts," continued Grismer gently.  "The
unfortunate woman became infatuated with a common Pullman conductor—an
Irishman named Conway—a very ordinary man who already was married.
"His religion forbade divorce; my wretched sister ran away with him.  We
have always striven to bear the disgrace with resignation—m-m-m’yes,
with patience and resignation.  That is the story."
Cleland, visibly embarrassed, sat twisting the handle of his
walking-stick, looking persistently away from Grismer.  The latter
sighed heavily.
"And so," he murmured, "our door was forever closed to her and hers.
She became as one ignobly dead to us—as a soul damned for all eternity."
"Oh, come, Grismer——"
"Damned—hopelessly, and for all eternity," repeated Grismer with a
slight snap of his jaw; "—she and her children, and her children’s
children——"
"What!"
"—The sins of the parents that are borne through generations!"
"Nonsense!  That is Old Testament bosh——"
"Pardon!" said Grismer, with a pained forbearance. "It is the creed of
those who worship and believe the truth as taught in the church of which
I am a member."
"Oh, I beg your pardon."
"Granted," said Grismer sadly.
He sat caressing his jaw in silence for a while, then:
"Her name was Jessie Grismer.  She—ah—assumed the name of Conway....
God did not bless the unholy union.  There was a daughter, Laura.  A
certain Harry Quest, the profligate, wasted son of that good man, the
Reverend Anthony Quest, married this girl, Laura Conway....  God,
mindful of His wrath, still punished the seed of my sinful sister, even
until the second generation....  Stephanie Quest is their daughter."
"Good heavens, Grismer!  I can’t understand that you, knowing this, have
not done something——"
"Why?  Am I to presume to interfere with God’s purpose?  Am I to
question the righteousness of His wrath?"
"But—she is the little grandchild of your own sister!——"
"A sister utterly cut off from among us!  A sister dead to us—a soul
eternally lost and to be eternally forgotten."
"Is that your—creed—Grismer?"
"It is."
"Oh.  I thought that sort of—I mean, I thought such creeds were out of
date—old-fashioned——"
"God," said Chiltern Grismer patiently, "is old-fashioned, I
believe—m-m-m’yes—very old fashioned, Cleland. But His purposes are
terrible, and His wrath is a living thing to those who have the fear of
God within their hearts."
"Oh.  Well, I’m sorry, but I really can’t be afraid of God.  If I were,
I’d doubt Him, Grismer.... Come; may I have the little girl?"
"Do you desire her to abide under your roof after what you have
learned?"
"Why, Grismer, I’d travel all the way to hell to get her now, if any of
your creed had managed to send her there.  Come; I’ve seen the child.
It may be a risk, as you say.  In fact, it can’t help being a risk,
Grismer. But—I want her.  May I have her?"
"M-m-m——" he touched a bell and a clerk appeared. Then he turned to
Cleland.  "Would you be good enough to see our Mr. Bunce?  I thank you.
Good afternoon!  I am happy to have conversed again with my old friend,
John Cleland,—m-m-m’yes, my friend of many years."
An hour later John Cleland left "our" Mr. Bunce, armed with proper
authority to begin necessary legal proceedings.
Talking it over with Brinton, his attorney, that evening, he related the
amazing conversation between himself and Chiltern Grismer.
Brinton laughed:
"It isn’t religious bigotry; it’s just stinginess. Grismer is the
meanest man on Manhattan Island.  Didn’t you know it?"
"No.  I don’t know him well—though I’ve been acquainted with him for a
long while.  But I don’t see how he can be stingy."
"Why?"
"Well, he’s interested in charity——"
"He’s paid a thumping big salary!  He makes money out of charity.  Why
shouldn’t he be interested?"
"But he publishes religious books——"
"Of course.  They sell.  It’s a great graft, Cleland. Don’t publish
novels if you want to make money; print Bibles!"
"Is that a fact?"
"You bet!  There are more parasites in pulpit, publishing house and
charity concerns, who live exclusively by exploiting God, than there
were unpleasant afflictions upon the epidermis of our late friend, Job.
And Chiltern Grismer is one of them—the old skinflint!—hogging his only
sister’s share of the Grismer money and scared stiff for fear some
descendant might reopen the claim and fight the verdict which beggared
his own sister!"
"By Gad!" exclaimed Cleland, very red; "I’ve a mind to look into it and
start proceedings again if there is any ground——"
"You can’t."
"Why?"
"Not if you adopt this child."
"Not in her behalf?"
"Your motives would be uncharitably suspected, Cleland.  You can give
her enough.  Besides, you don’t want to stir up anything—rattle any
skeletons—for this little girl’s sake."
"No, of course not.  You’re quite right, Brinton. No money could
compensate her.  And, as you say, I am able to provide for her amply."
"Besides," said Brinton, "there’s the paternal aunt, Miss Rosalinda
Quest.  She’s as rich as mud.  It may be that she’ll do something for
the child."
"I don’t want her to," exclaimed Cleland angrily. "If she’ll make no
objection to my taking the girl, she can keep her money and leave it to
the niggers of Senegambia when she dies, for all I care!  Fix it for me,
Brinton."
"You’d better go down to Bayport and interview her yourself," said the
lawyer.  "And, by the way, I hear she’s a queer one—something of a bird,
in fact."
"Bird?"
"Well, a vixen.  They say so.  All the same, she’s doing a lot of real
good with her money."
"How do you mean?"
"She’s established a sort of home for the offspring of vicious and
degenerate parents.  It’s really quite a wonderful combination of clinic
and training school where suspected or plainly defective children are
brought to be taught and to remain under observation—really a finely
conceived charity, I understand.  Why not call on her?"
"Very well," said Cleland, reluctantly, not caring very much about
encountering "vixens" and "birds" of the female persuasion.
Except for this paternal aunt and the Grismers, there turned out to be
no living human being related to the child Stephanie.
Once assured of this, John Cleland undertook the journey to Bayport,
running down in his car one morning, and determined that a combination
of mild dignity and gallant urbanity should conquer any untoward
symptoms which this "bird" might develop.
When he arrived at the entrance to the place, a nurse on duty gave him
proper directions how to find Miss Quest, who was out about the grounds
somewhere.
He found her at last, in nurse’s garb, marching up and down the gravel
paths of the "Common Sense Home for Defectives," as the institution was
called.
She was pruning privet hedges.  She had a grim face, a belligerent eye,
and she stood clicking her pruning shears aggressively as he approached,
hat in hand.
"Miss Quest, I presume?" he inquired.
"I’m called Sister Rose," she answered shortly.
"By any other name——" began Cleland, gallantly, but checked himself,
silenced by the hostility in her snapping black eyes.
"What do you wish?" she demanded impatiently.
Cleland, very red, swallowed his irritation:
"I came here in regard to your niece——"
"Niece?  I haven’t any!"
"I beg your pardon; I mean your great-niece——"
"What do you mean?  I haven’t any that I know of."
"Her name is Stephanie Quest."
"Harry Quest’s child?  Has he really got a baby? I thought he was lying!
He’s such a liar—how was I to know that he has a baby?"
"You didn’t know it, then?"
"No.  He wrote about a child.  Of course, I supposed he was lying.  That
was before I went abroad."
"You’ve been abroad?"
"I have."
"Long?"
"Several years."
"How long since you’ve heard from Harry Quest?"
"Several years—a dozen, maybe.  I suppose he’s living on what I settled
on him.  If he needed money I’d hear from him soon enough."
"He doesn’t need money, now.  He doesn’t need anything more from
anybody.  But his little daughter does."
"Is Harry dead?" she asked sharply.
"Very."
"And—that hussy he married——"
"Equally defunct.  I believe it was suicide."
"How very nasty!"
"Or," continued Cleland, "it may have been suicide and murder."
"Nastier still!"  She turned sharply aside and stood clicking her shears
furiously.  After a silence: "I’ll take the baby," she said in an
altered voice.
"She’s eleven years old."
"I forgot.  I’ll take her anyway.  She’s probably a defective——"
"She is not!" retorted Cleland so sharply that Sister Rose turned on
him in astonishment.
"Madame," he said, "I want a little child to bring up.  I have chosen
this one.  I possess a comfortable fortune.  I offer to bring her up
with every advantage, educate her, consider her as my own child, and
settle upon her for life a sum adequate for her maintenance. I have the
leisure, the inclination, the means to do these things.  But you,
Madame, are too busy to give this child the intimate personal attention
that all children require——"
"How do you know I am?"
"Because your time is already dedicated, in a larger sense, to those
unhappy children who need you more than she does.
"Because your life is already consecrated to this noble charity of which
you are founder and director. A world of unfortunates is dependent on
you.  If, therefore, I offer to lighten your burden by relieving you of
one responsibility, you could not logically decline or disregard my
appeal to your reason——"  His voice altered and became lower: "And,
Madame, I already love the child, as though she were my own."
After a long silence Sister Rose said:
"It isn’t anything you’ve advanced that influences me.  It’s
my—failure—with Harry.  Do you think it hasn’t cut me to the—the soul?"
she demanded fiercely, flinging the handful of clipped twigs onto the
gravel.  "Do you think I am heartless because I said his end was a nasty
one!  It was!  Let God judge me. I did my best."
Cleland remained silent.
"As a matter of fact, I don’t care what you think," she added.  "What
concerns me is that, possibly—probably, this child would be better off
with you.... You’re the John Cleland, I presume."
He seemed embarrassed.
"You collect prints and things?"
"Yes, Madame."
"Then you are the John Cleland.  Why not say so?"
He bowed.
"Very well, then!  What you’ve said has in it a certain amount of common
sense.  I have, in a way, dedicated my life to all unfortunate children;
I might not be able to do justice to Harry’s child—give her the intimate
personal care necessary—without impairing this work which I have
undertaken, and to which I am devoting my fortune."
There was another silence, during which Sister Rose snapped her shears
viciously and incessantly.  Finally, she looked up at Cleland:
"Does the child care for you?"
"I—think so."
"Very well.  But I sha’n’t permit you to adopt her."
"Why not?"
