serving Haughty's retreat. "I should like to 
think for him of a catafalque and great draped 
hangings — I should like to think for him of tall 
flambeaux in the darkened room, and of relays 
of watchers, sisters of charity or suchlike, sur- 
rounding the grand affair and counting their 
beads." 
Davey's rich patience had a shrug. "The 
grand affair, my dear child, is their affair, over 
there, and not mine; though when you indulge 
 
in such fancies 'for him,' I can't but wonder who 
it is you mean." 
"Who it is ?" She mightn't have under- 
stood his difficulty. 
"Why the dead man or the living!" 
They had gone on again; Horton had, with a 
quickened pace, disappeared; and she had be- 
fore answering cast about over the fair face of 
the great house, paler now in the ebb of day, 
yet with dressing-time glimmers from upper 
windows flushing it here and there like touches 
of pink paint in an elegant evening complexion. 
"Oh I care for the dead man, I'm afraid, only 
because it's the living who appeals. I don't 
want him to like it." 
"To like ?" Davey was again at a loss. 
"What on earth ?" 
"Why all that ugliness and bareness, that 
poverty of form." 
He had nothing but derision for her here. "It 
didn't occur to me at all to associate him with the 
idea of poverty." 
"The place must all the same be hideous," she 
said, " and the conditions mean — for him to prowl 
about in alone. It comes to me," she further 
risked, "that if Rosanna isn't there, as you say, 
she quite ought to be — and that in her place I 
should feel it no more than decent to go over and 
sit with him." 
This appeared to strike Davey in a splendid 
 
number of lights — which, however, though col- 
lectively dazzling, allowed discriminations. "It 
perhaps bears a little on the point that she has 
herself just sustained a grave bereavement — with 
her offices to her own dead to think of first. That 
was present to me in your talk a moment since 
of Haughty's finding her." 
"Very true" — it was Cissy's practice, once 
struck, ever amusedly to play with the missile: 
"it is of course extraordinary that those bloated 
old richards, at one time so associated, should 
have flickered out almost at the same hour. 
What it comes to then," she went on, "is that 
Mr. Gray might be, or perhaps even ought to 
be, condoling over at the other house with her. 
However, it's their own business, and all I really 
care for is that he should be so keen as you say 
about seeing Haughty. I just delight," she said, 
"in his being keen about Haughty." 
"I'm glad it satisfies you then," Davey re- 
turned — "for I was on the point of suggesting 
that with the sense of his desolation you just 
expressed you might judge your own place to 
be at once at his side." 
"That would have been helpful of you — -but 
I'm content, dear Davey," she smiled. "We're 
all devoted to Haughty — but," she added after 
an instant, "there's just this. Did Mr. Graham 
while you were there say by chance a word about 
the likes ofmeV 
 
"Well, really, no — our short talk didn't take 
your direction. That would have been for me, I 
confess," Davey frankly made bold to add, "a 
trifle unexpected." 
"I see" — Cissy did him the justice. "But 
that's a little, I think, because you don't know 
!" It was more, however, than with her 
sigh she could tell him. 
"Don't know by this time, my dear, and after 
all I've been through," he nevertheless supplied, 
"what the American girl always so sublimely 
takes for granted ? " 
She looked at him on this with intensity — but 
that of compassion rather than of the conscious 
wound. "Dear old Davey, il n'y a que vous for 
not knowing, by this time, as you say, that I've 
notoriously nothing in common with the creature 
you mention. I loathe," she said with her purest 
gentleness, "the American girl." 
He faced her an instant more as for a view of 
the whole incongruity; then he fetched, on his 
side, a sigh which might have signified, at her- 
choice, either that he was wrong or that he was 
finally bored. "Well, you do of course brilliantly 
misrepresent her. But we're all" — he hastened 
to patch it up — "unspeakably corrupt." 
"That would be a fine lookout for Mr. Fielder 
if it were true," she judiciously threw off. 
"But as you're a judge you know it isn't?" 
'It's not as a judge I know it, but as a vic- 
«i 
 
tim. I don't say we don't do our best," she add- 
ed; "but we're still of an innocence, an inno- 
cence !" 
"Then perhaps," Davey offered, "Mr. Fielder 
will help us; unless he proves, by your measure, 
worse than ourselves ! " 
"The worse he may be the better; for it's not 
possible, as I see him," she said, "that he doesn't 
know." 
"Know, you mean," Davey blandly wondered, 
"how wrong we are — to be so right ?" 
"Know more on every subject than all of us 
put together!" she called back at him as she 
now hurried off to dress. 
IV 
Horton Vint, on being admitted that evening 
at the late Mr. Betterman's, walked about the 
room to which he had been directed and awaited 
there the friend of his younger time very much 
as we have seen that friend himself wait under 
stress of an extraordinary crisis. Horton's sense 
of a crisis might have been almost equally sharp; 
he was alone for some minutes during which he 
shifted his place and circled, indulged in wide 
vague movements and vacuous stares at incon- 
gruous objects — the place being at once so spacious 
and so thickly provided — quite after the fashion 
in which Gray Fielder's nerves and imagination 
had on the same general scene sought and found 
relief at the hour of the finest suspense up to that 
moment possessing him. Haughty too, it would 
thus have appeared for the furtherance of our 
interest, had imagination and nerves — had in 
his way as much to reflect upon as we have al- 
lowed ourselves to impute to the dying Mr. Bet- 
terman's nephew. No one was dying now, all 
that was ended, or would be after the funeral, 
and the nephew himself was surely to be sup- 
posed alive, in face of great sequels, including 
preparations for those obsequies, with an intensity 
beyond all former experience. This in fact Hor- 
 
ton had all the air of recognising under proof as 
soon as Gray advanced upon him with both 
hands out; he couldn't not have taken in the 
highly quickened state of the young black-clad 
figure so presented, even though soon and un- 
mistakably invited to note that his own yisit 
and his own presence had much to do with the 
quickening. Gray was in complete mourning, 
which had the effect of making his face show, 
pale, as compared with old aspects of it remem- 
bered by his friend-r-who was, it may be men- 
tioned, afterwards to describe him to Cissy Foy 
as looking, in the conditions, these including the 
air of the big bedimmed palace room, for all the 
world like a sort of "happy Hamlet." For so 
happy indeed our young man at once proclaimed 
himself at sight of his visitor, for so much the 
most interesting thing that had befallen or been 
offered him within the week did he take, by his 
immediate testimony, his reunion with this char- 
acter and every element of the latter's aspect 
and tone, that the pitch of his acclamation clearly 
had, with no small delay, to drop a little under 
some unavoidable reminder that they met almost 
in the nearest presence of death. Was the re- 
minder Horton's own, some pull, for decorum, 
of a longer face, some expression of his having 
feared to act in undue haste on the message 
brought him by Davey? — which might have 
been, we may say, in view of the appearance 
 
after a little that it was Horton rather than Gray 
who began to suggest a shyness, momentary, 
without doubt, and determined by the very 
plenitude of his friend's welcome, yet so far in- 
congruous as that it was not his adoption of a 
manner and betrayal of a cheer that ran the risk 
of seeming a trifle gross, but quite these indica- 
tions on the part of the fortunate heir of the old 
person awaiting interment somewhere above. 
He could only have seen with the lapse of the 
moments that Gray was going to be simple — ad- 
mirably, splendidly simple, one would probably 
have pronounced it, in estimating and comparing 
the various possible dangers; but the simplicity 
of subjects tremendously educated, tremendously 
"cultivated" and cosmopolitised, as Horton would 
have called it, especially when such persons were 
naturally rather extra-refined and ultra-percep- 
tive, was a different affair from the crude can- 
dour of the common sort; the consequence of 
which apprehensions and reflections must have 
been, in fine, that he presently recognised in the 
product of "exceptional advantages" now already 
more and more revealed to him such a pliability 
of accent as would easily keep judgment, or at 
least observation, suspended. Gray wasn't going 
to be at a loss for any shade of decency that didn't 
depend, to its inconvenience, on some uncertainty 
about a guest's prejudice; so that once the air 
was cleared of awkwardness by that perception, 
 
exactly, in Horton's ready mind that he and his 
traditions, his susceptibilities, in fact (of all the 
queer things!) his own very simplicities and, 
practically, stupidities were being superfluously 
allowed for and deferred to, and that this, only 
this, was the matter, he should have been able to 
surrender without a reserve to the proposed 
measure of their common rejoicing. Beautiful 
might it have been to him to find his friend so 
considerately glad of him that the spirit of it 
could consort to the last point with any, with 
every, other felt weight in the consciousness so 
attested; in accordance with which we may re- 
mark that continued embarrassment for our 
gallant caller would have implied on his own side, 
or in other words deep within his own spirit, 
some obscure source of confusion. 
What distinguishably happened was thus that 
he first took Graham for exuberant and then for 
repentant, with the reflection accompanying this 
that he mustn't, to increase of subsequent shame, 
have been too open an accomplice in mere jubila- 
tion. Then the simple sense of his restored com- 
rade's holding at his disposal a general confidence 
in which they might absolutely breathe together 
would have superseded everything else hadn't his 
individual self-consciousness been perhaps a trifle 
worried by the very pitch of so much openness. 
Open, not less generously so, was what he could 
himself have but wanted to be — in proof of which 
 
we may conceive him insist to the happy utmost, 
for promotion of his comfort, on those sides of 
their relation the working of which would cast 
no shadow. They had within five minutes got 
over much ground — all of which, however, must 
be said to have represented, and only in part, 
the extent of Gray's requisition of what he called 
just elementary human help. He was in a situa- 
tion at which, as he assured his friend, he had 
found himself able, those several days, but blankly 
and inanely to stare. He didn't suppose it had 
been his uncle's definite design to make an idiot 
of him, but that seemed to threaten as the prac- 
tical effect of the dear man's extraordinary course. 
"You see," he explained, bringing it almost piti- 
fully out, "he appears to have left me a most 
monstrous fortune. I mean"— for under his ap- 
peal Haughty had still waited a little — " a really 
tremendous lot of money." 
The effect of the tone of it was to determine 
in Haughty a peal of laughter quickly repressed 
— or reduced at least to the intention of decent 
cheer. "He 'appears,' my dear man? Do you 
mean there's an ambiguity about his will ? " 
Gray  justified his claim of vagueness by hav- 
ing, with his animated eyes on his visitor's, to 
take an instant or two to grasp so technical an 
expression. "No — not an ambiguity. Mr. Crick 
tells me that he has never in all his experience 
seen such an amount of property disposed of in 
 
terms so few and simple and clear. It would 
seem a kind of masterpiece of a will." 
"Then what's the matter with it?" Horton 
smiled. "Or at least what's the matter with 
you ? — who are so remarkably intelligent and 
clever ? " 
"Oh no, I'm not the least little bit clever!" 
Gray in his earnestness quite excitedly protested. 
"I haven't a single ray of the intelligence that 
among you all here clearly passes for rudimen- 
tary. But the luxury of you, Haughty," he broke 
out on a still higher note, "the luxury, the pure 
luxury of you!" 
Something of beauty in the very tone of which, 
some confounding force in the very clearness, 
might it have been that made Horton himself 
gape for a moment even as Gray had just de- 
scribed his own wit as gaping. They had first 
sat down, for hospitality offered and accepted 
— though with no production of the smokable or 
the drinkable to profane the general reference; 
but the agitation of all that was latent in this 
itself had presently broken through, and by the 
end of a few moments we might perhaps scarce 
have been able to say whether the host had more 
set the guest or the guest more the host in mo- 
tion. Horton Vint had everywhere so the air 
of a prime social element that it took in any case, 
and above all in any case of the spacious provision 
or the sumptuous setting, a good deal of practically 
 
combative proof to reduce the implications of his 
presence to the minor right. He might inveterately 
have been master or, in quantitative terms, owner 
— so could he have been taken for the most part 
as offering you the enjoyment of anything fine 
that surrounded him: this in proportion to the 
scale of such matters and to any glimpse of that 
sense of them in you which was what came nearest 
to putting you on his level. All of which sprang 
doubtless but from the fact that his relation to 
things of expensive interest was so much at the 
mercy of his appearance; representing as it might 
be said to do a contradiction of the law under 
which it is mostly to be observed, in our mod- 
ernest conditions, that the figure least congruous 
with scenic splendour is the figure awaiting the 
reference. More references than may here be 
detailed, at any rate, would Horton have seemed 
ready to gather up during the turns he had re- 
sumed his indulgence in after the original arrest 
and the measurements of the whole place prac- 
tically determined for him by Gray's own so 
suggestive revolutions. It was positively now as 
if these last had all met, in their imperfect ex- 
pression, what that young man's emotion was in 
the act of more sharply attaining to — the plain 
conveyance that if Horton had in his friendliness, 
not to say his fidelity, presumed to care to know, 
this disposition was as naught beside the knowl- 
edge apparently about to drench him. They 
 
were there, the companions, in their second brief 
arrest, with everything good in the world that 
he might have conceived or coveted just taking 
for him the radiant form of precious knowledges 
that he must be so obliging as to submit to. Let 
it be fairly inspiring to us to imagine the acute- 
ness of his perception during these minutes of 
the possibilities of good involved; the refinement 
of pleasure in his seeing how the advantage thrust 
upon him would wear the dignity and grace of 
his consenting unselfishly to learn — inasmuch as, 
quite evidently, the more he learnt, and though 
it should be ostensibly and exclusively about Mr. 
Betterman's heir, the more vividly it all would 
stare at him as a marked course of his own. Won- 
derful thus the little space of his feeling the great 
wave set in motion by that quiet worthy break 
upon him out of Gray's face, Gray's voice, Gray's 
contact of hands laid all appealingly and affirm- 
ingly on his shoulders, and then as it retreated, 
washing him warmly down, expose to him, off 
in the intenser light and the uncovered prospect, 
something like his entire personal future. Some- 
thing extraordinarily like, yes, could he but keep 
steady to recognise it through a deepening con- 
sciousness, at the same time, of how he was more 
than matching the growth of his friend's need 
of him by growing there at once, and to rankness, 
under the friend's nose, all the values to which 
this need supplied a soil. 
 
"Well, I won't pretend Fm not glad you don't 
adopt me as pure ornament — glad you see, I 
mean, a few connections in which one may per- 
haps be able, as well as certainly desirous, to be 
of service to you. Only one should honestly tell 
you," Horton went on, "that people wanting to 
help you will spring up round you like mush- 
rooms, and that you'll be able to pick and choose 
as even a king on his throne can't. Therefore, 
my boy,", Haughty said, "don't exaggerate my 
modest worth." 
Gray, though releasing him, still looked at him 
hard — so hard perhaps that, having imagination, 
he might in an instant more have felt it go down 
too deep. It hadn't done that, however, when 
"What I want of you above all is exactly that 
you shall pick and choose" was merely what at 
first came of it. And the case was still all of the 
rightest as Graham at once added: "You see 
'people' are exactly my difficulty — I'm so mor- 
tally afraid of them, and so equally sure that 
it's the last thing you are. If I want you for my- 
self I want you still more for others — by which 
you may judge," said Gray, "that I've cut you 
out work." 
"That you're mortally afraid of people is, I 
confess," Haughty answered, "news to me. I 
seem to remember you, on the contrary, as so 
remarkably and — what was it we used to call it ? 
— so critico-analytically interested in 'em." 
 
"That's just it — I am so beastly interested ! 
Don't you therefore see," Gray asked, "how I 
may dread the complication?" 
"Dread it so that you seek to work it off on 
another?" — and Haughty looked about as if he 
