went out.
                                 *XXI*
                              *SUS SCROFA*
For two exasperating weeks, now, the Schwindlewald pass had remained
hermetically sealed with snow, utterly isolating the valley. It is true
that a Swiss airplane had appeared overhead and had dropped several tons
of bread which we did not require, and a message couched in hysterical
language reminding us that God would protect us while several score of
sweating Swiss dug us out.
Personally I didn’t care except for the highly objectionable colony of
boches with whom I was obliged to share an imprisonment which otherwise
would never have bored me.
But the royal circus was a dreadful visitation—kings, queen, lesser fry,
and Bolsheviki became almost unendurable, even when, during the first
week of our captivity, they flocked by themselves and conspired to their
hearts’ content.
Had this condition endured, the situation might have been borne with a
certain philosophy.  But the inevitable, of course, happened: one week
of exclusive gregariousness was enough for these people: they began to
bore one another.
It showed first, characteristically, at table.  Tino and spouse, always
engaged in continual bickering to the vast discomfort of everybody, now
had it out in star-chamber proceedings; and the King, badly battered but
jaunty, appeared at table with one eye partly closed and a mouth so
swollen that he could not comfortably manipulate a cigarette.  He
explained that he had bumped his head in the dark. But it was perfectly
understood who had bumped it.
King Ferdinand became moody, and his cunning, furtive features often
bore a white, scared expression. He developed, too, a morbid mania for a
most depressing line of conversation—celebrated assassinations being his
theme,—and he ransacked the history of all times in search of examples,
Eddin Bey slyly assisting him.
Sluggish livers and piggish feeding probably accounted for the sullen
lethargy of Von Dungheim and Bummelzug.  Their ever latent and brutal
tempers blazed at absurd trifles, involving usually the bad manners and
lack of respect shown them by the Bolsheviki, who chattered back at them
like enraged monkeys, terrifying the Princess Pudelstoff who had never
forgotten her "dream."
Admiral Lauterlaus, whose personal habits were always impossible, now
spent most of his time bullying the wretched Secretary Gizzler or, with
a telescope such as chamois-hunters carry, squatted on the veranda steps
and swept the Bec de l’Empereur for "gamps," and heaven knows what else.
Only the Countess Manntrapp and Eddin Bey appeared to retain their good
humor.  The Turk, a handsome fellow of distinguished manners and gay
address, evidently possessed a lively eye for pulchritude. He lost no
time at all in paying his sly court to my servants, beginning with
Thusis, progressing to Clelia, and ending with Josephine Vannis in the
kitchen: and he accepted defeat with such cheerful and humorous alacrity
that they all forgave him, I think, and his perfectly frank suggestions
that they return to Adrianople with him and honor him by becoming the
nucleus for a zenana.
He found, however, a pretty bird of his own vivacious and volatile
temperament in the exceedingly bored Countess Manntrapp.  And they were
often together and apparently having a jolly flirtation, being cleverly
aware of each other’s character and entertaining no delusions.
Except for these two at table and on the veranda, and except for the
companionship of Smith, and now and then an opportunity for a few
cautious words with Thusis, those days would have been insupportable for
me.  A hungry hun is bad enough; an ill-tempered one is worse; but a
bored boche!—imagine a penful of them with time heavy on their hoofs!
The old story—"What’s time to a hawg!"—has no significance among the
Sus scrofa or the "Bosch Vark."  Bored, the embers of that dull,
slumbering rage glow hotter; the sulky silence is broken by grumbling,
then by quarrels; the blind, senseless instinct to brutalize and rend
obsesses.  Small wonder the boche desires a place in the sun where his
herds can spread out from the constricted and common wallow!
Tino had again appeared at luncheon with the other eye done in
thunderous tints of purple, taupe, and an exquisite mauve.  Parallel
scratches adorned his nose; some of his mustache was missing.  But I
must admit he took it jauntily enough, and his bland
explanation—something about tripping over a rock in the woods—was
accepted by all and believed by none.
The queen, still somewhat pasty and pinched from the effects of this
ritual in camera, ate haughtily, disdainful of what anybody might
really think, and calm in her conviction that the Hohenzollern is
responsible to Gott alone for whatever a Hohenzollern may choose to do.
That she had done plenty to Tino was painfully visible: but he was in a
jocose and waggish humor, and his barrack-room quips and jests were
plainer than usual.  In fact, they became so coarse that even the
Admiral bristled his beard and eyebrows, sniffing lack of respect for
himself in the loud-mouthed levity of the King.
And I was getting madder and madder, Thusis and Clelia being present to
wait on table as usual, and I was on the point of making a sharp
observation to King Tino, when a sudden burst of applause from the other
end of the table checked me.  The Countess Manntrapp was speaking.  She
continued:
"This enforced imprisonment is becoming exceedingly dull for everybody.
Why not divert ourselves? Has anybody any suggestions to offer?"
"A mountain party," rumbled Admiral Lauterlaus. "I, in my time, a famous
hunter of ’gamps’ have been."
"We don’t wish to break our necks to divert ourselves," sneered the
queen.
"A fishing party!" exclaimed Von Dungheim.  "If there is a good big net
we can all help draw it and clean out every trout in the stream!"
"Droly," expostulated Tino, "you have such wholesale ideas!  Our host
might possibly object, you know."
At the very idea of anybody objecting to the destructive wishes of a
Prussian officer, General Count von Dungheim glared at me.
"Why not give a baby-party?" inquired Smith, blandly.
"A—a baby-party!" repeated Baron Bummelzug vacantly, in English; "what
perhaps iss it a baby-party?"
Thusis, serving me, bent over and whispered in my ear: "Not the sort of
baby-parties they gave in Belgium; there are no babies."  And she moved
serenely to serve the queen, her beautiful face placid and inscrutable.
The Princess Pudelstoff began to clap her pudgy hands excitedly:
"A baby-party!  A baby-party!  That’ll be fun! That’ll be great!  And
we’ll have a feed and a spiel——"
"Ach wass!" shouted the Admiral exasperated. "Tell us once what it iss a
baby-party, und stop your noises yet!"
But the excited Princess had become uncontrollable, and she began to
hammer on the table with her fat fists, shouting:
"A feed and a spiel!  For God’s sake somebody start something in this
hellofa hole!"
Amid her clamor and the ominous roaring of the infuriated Admiral, I
tinkled my goblet with my fork and presently secured comparative silence
for Smith.
In a few pleasant phrases he explained to them the simple intricacies of
the American baby-party.
"I’ll come!" cried the Countess Manntrapp, delighted.
"I also!" echoed Eddin Bey.
Tino was visibly enchanted at the prospect, and he clapped King
Ferdinand on his elephantine back exultingly:
"We’ll go as twins!" he cried.  "This is most agreeable to me!  Eh,
Sophy?  I’m half dead for a bit of a frolic!  Everybody must come.
Nobody is to be excused.  Desperate cases require desperate remedies.
Ennui is what is killing us; diversion is what we need!"
He was pounding the breath out of King Ferdinand who began to cough and
dodge and blink wildly at everybody out of his little wild-pig’s eyes,
when I stood up giving the signal.
"The party," announced Smith, "is for to-night! There will be games, a
dance, and a supper.  All are politely invited!"
"My God," said Secretary Gizzler to me, rubbing his bony hands together,
"to what foolishness does noble company resort in order that ennui may
be escaped."
The Princess Pudelstoff overheard him:
"Crape-hanger!" she said, giving him a vigorous dig in the ribs which
almost disarticulated his entire and bony frame.
The majority, however, trooping out to the veranda where they could
teutonically enjoy their coffee and cognac "im grünen," appeared
desirous of engaging in the proposed diversion.
Even the queen deigned to inquire of me whether there was, in the house,
material with which to construct a pair of ruffled panties for her
husband.
Only the Bolsheviki remained aloof, chattering and mouthing together and
waving their soiled fingers at each other and, presumably, at the
bourgeois world in general.
Later, Smith came into my room whither I had retired to resume my series
of poems to Thusis,—a rather melancholy occupation yet oddly comforting,
too.
"Why the devil," said I, "did you suggest such a party?"
"I don’t know.  It occurred to me.  I’m rather tired of their
wrangling."
"But a baby-party!"
He laughed: "You see how they take to the idea. Anything to dissipate
this sullen, ugly atmosphere. It gets on my nerves."
"Are you going?"
"Certainly."
"In costume?"
"Of course."
"Good heavens, Smith!  I didn’t think you had it in you to frivol."
"Why—I don’t know," he said, smilingly.  "I’m intensely happy."
I eyed him gloomily: "Yes," said I, "no doubt you are—winning the
affections of the girl you wish to marry.  By the way, has she been
civil enough to tell you who she really is?"
"No," he replied cheerfully.
"Do you mean to tell me you are engaged to marry a girl who refuses to
disclose her identity?"
"Exactly."
"How the devil is she going to marry you?  Under an assumed name?"
"That is for Clelia to decide."
"That," said I, "is a most remarkable view to take of the situation."
"Why?  I am in love.  I dare believe she cares for me.  It makes no
difference to me who Clelia may be.  That she is Clelia is enough—enough
that she will be my wife.  And when a man stands for the first time
inside the gates of happiness with the girl he loves—what an ass he’d be
to bother her about details!"
This was a totally new and unexpected Smith, to me.  I never dreamed it
was in him.
"Don’t you agree with me?" he inquired.
I nodded doubtfully.
"Wouldn’t you accept Thusis as she chose to offer herself?" he insisted.
A pang shot through me:
"Good Lord, yes!" I said.  "I’d marry her if she were a beggar or a
convict or the least creature of her sex.  I’d never ask a question; I’d
take thankfully and happily what she offered.  You are right,
Smith—wonderfully right.  If you love, love!  If you don’t, worry!"
"Quite right," he said; "it’s either love or worry; the genuine article
doesn’t admit of both.  If you really love you are satisfied; if you
worry it isn’t love—it’s merely something resembling it.  Love is
specific; there are sub-species and varieties, none the real thing.  The
acid test of love is contentment; baser metal dissolves in trouble, and
the sediment is worry.  I——"
"Oh, shut up!" I burst out, nervously; "you’re too darned eloquent on
the subject.  Besides," I added with a perfectly new and instinctive
suspicion, "you’re so confoundedly contented with yourself that I
believe you have begun to guess the identity of Clelia, and that it
pleases you enormously!"
He reddened.
"Have you any idea who she is?" I insisted.
"A vague idea."
"And that vague idea pleases you?"
"It does," he said with a shy sort of grin.
That was too much for me.  "Go to Guinea!" said I, resuming my pen and
paper and paying him no further attention.
Clelia came for orders, sweet and serious in her garb of service.  Again
I laid aside my poem to Thusis.
"I am glad," said I, camouflaging my melancholy with a sprightly allure,
"that you have renounced kidnaping kings and have decided to kidnap Mr.
Smith instead."
She didn’t seem to think it was funny.  The newly engaged lack humor.
"Josephine," she said with dignity, "suggests this supper-card."  And
she handed me the written sheet.
"Fine!" said I.  "Stuff ’em till they’re unconscious and we’ll have
peace."
At that she laughed.
"Josephine desires to know what time the party is to begin," she said.
"It begins with dinner, Clelia.  They all come in costume.  After dinner
they play games.  Supper at midnight.  Then they dance—God help them."
"The Bolsheviki, too?"
"That’s another breed of cat," said I.  "I haven’t the faintest idea
what they intend to do.  All I know is that they’re not coming to the
party.  So give them a table by themselves in their rooms half an hour
before we dine.  Otherwise those chattering apes are likely to spoil the
party."
She agreed with me.
After she had departed I began again on my poem called "Nobody Home":
    "She who, risen from the sea,—
    Body fashioned from its foam,—
    Once appeared to favor me,
    Now has left me all alone:—
    When I call she’s not at home;
    Silent are the Temple closes
    Where her priestess used to roam
    Smiling at me, crowned with roses
    Underneath the Temple’s dome;
    So I stand outside alone.
    From the dead fire on her altar
    Now I turn away and falter:
    Aphrodite’s not at home.
      Goddess born of sun and sea,
    Goddess born of sea and sun,
      Blue-eyed Venus pity me,
    I would wed my Dearest One:—
    She denies; and I’m undone!"—
Just here I found myself in difficulties: the verse called for two more
words to rhyme with "sun," and the available ones already unused
included such words as bun, dun, fun, gun, hun, nun, pun, run, shun,
ton, and won—at least these were all I could think of—none among them
available for classical purposes.
Much disturbed I sat consulting my Rhyming Dictionary and smoking a
cigarette without relish, when a terrific screaming from the Princess
Pudelstoff’s apartment brought me to my feet and out into the corridor.
The Princess stood in the hallway wringing her hands and almost dancing
with rage and fright while, from their doorway across the hall, Puppsky
and Wildkatz jabbered at her in apparent fury.
"What the dickens is all this!" I demanded angrily.
"They’ve got cooties!" she screamed.  "I suspected it!  I knew it!  All
Bolsheviki have ’em! Don’t let ’em near me!  Lock ’em up and turn the
gas on!  Make ’em take baths!  They don’t want to, but make ’em!"
"What do you mean?" said I, feeling suddenly ill and pale.
"I mean what I say!" she cried, wringing her jeweled hands.  "They’ve
got ’em but we don’t have to have ’em!  We ain’t in the trenches, thank
God! No, nor we ain’t in Rooshia where them things is family pets!  I
d-don’t want any!  I don’t want any even from my own brother——"
I strode over to Puppsky and Wildkatz.
"Get into that room or I’ll knock your heads off!" I whispered in an
ungovernable rage.
They began to chatter at me but thought better of it and fled; and I
tore the key from their door and locked it on the outside.  Then I went
downstairs and out to the stable where I found Raoul and gave him the
key.
"You will take a couple of gallons of sheep-dip," said I, still in a
cold fury, "and you will go up and fill their bathtub with it, and then
you may call me."
"Oh," said Raoul, coolly comprehending, "I can souse them myself,
Monsieur."
"Tell them I’ll beat them to death if they stir until I permit it," I
added.  "Also be good enough to burn their clothing and bedding, and
fumigate their rooms."
"Give yourself no anxiety, Monsieur," he said, amused.
                                 *XXII*
                          *PARTICEPS CRIMINIS*
Toward the dinner hour excitement in the house became intense as the
royal circus fussed and pinned and basted and struggled with its
impromptu costumes.
Bells jangled to summon Thusis and Clelia; the Princess Pudelstoff was
too fat to braid her own hair; the Countess Manntrapp required basting
into her boy’s breeches; the Queen, desiring to go as the infant
Germania, had pasted tin-foil all over her high Austrian corset, but
still it didn’t resemble armor, nor did the oval boiler-lid furnished by
Josephine Vannis particularly resemble a shield.
Otherwise a blonde wig of tow in two obese braids and a shiny fireman’s
helmet of 1840 which I discovered in the garret, consoled the queen.  To
these properties I rashly added an eel-spear; and then, remembering her
quick temper, I feared for King Constantine, wondering whether, if
fatally prodded, he would name me as accessory after the fact.
As for the men, they continually rang for Raoul who acted as dresser and
as messenger between them and Josephine Vannis who had constructed their
costumes from odd scraps and from such of their own garments as would
serve.
Admiral Lauterlaus was monstrous as a sailor-boy of six; Von Bummelzug,
Eddin Bey, Von Dungheim, and Secretary Gizzler were school-lads in
socks, bare knees, and denim blouses.  King Constantine who, it
appeared, rather fancied his own legs, went as a smirking doll in a
costume principally constructed out of his wife’s underclothes.
But the most gruesome sight of all was Ferdinand as a youthful
ballet-girl; and he most horridly resembled an elephant on his hind legs
in a stick-out tulle skirt, and his enormous feet, cross-ribboned, went
shuffling and flapping to and fro as he waddled about busy with powder
and rouge.
Raoul laced his stays and tugged in vain to indent his bulk.  It was
useless, but we got him into his corsage and left him before a mirror
ponderously prancing in imitation of the pony ballet, and singing
la-la-la! furtively peeping the while at his own proportions with the
unfeigned pleasure of perfect approval.
Really, except for the characters of these impossible individuals, the
jolly noise and confusion they made with their preparations and the
lively excitement that pervaded hall, corridor and stair, resembled the
same sort of delightful uproar one hears at a week-end party in a big
country house under similar circumstances.
The queen’s bell had been jangling persistently for some minutes when,
stepping from my room into the hallway to see whether anybody was
answering it, I came face to face with Thusis.
Warm, and delicately flushed with her exertions, she was half vexed,
half laughing now as she cast a prudent glance right and left along the
corridor before slipping through the door into my room.  I followed,
locking the door.
"Michael," she began, "the queen says there are not enough women in the
party and she insists that Clelia and I find costumes and join.  I was
furious—and she’s making a violent row about it now, insisting,
bullying, ordering Clelia about——"
"What!  Ordering my servants about!" I interrupted angrily.
"Yes—your servants, Michael," dropping me an ironical curtsey which
brought me back to my senses. We both laughed.  And suddenly it occurred
to me how adorable Thusis would be at a baby-party.
"Why not?" I exclaimed.  "Why not drop hostilities for an hour and enjoy
the ridiculous? Absurdity always appeals to you, anyway, Thusis," I
added, "and the entire situation is so impossible that it ought to
attract you!"
"It does," she admitted with that engaging and reckless little laugh I
had come to know so well. "Besides, you are my host, Michael, and I am
under your roof.  So who your ragamuffin-bobtail guests may be does not
concern me.  Clelia and I are not responsible, are we?"
"Not at all," said I.  "The ignominy of this royal riff-raff rests upon
my shoulders.  Anyway, you do not need to dance except with me," I added
reassuringly.
"Eddin Bey is rather attractive," she mused, letting her glance rest on
me sideways while the innocent pleasure of this discovery parted her
lips in a honeyed smile.
"All right," said I shortly, "dance with him!"
"Michael——"
"Go ahead and dance with him," I repeated, stabbed by the most ignoble
of emotions.
"What an absolute boy you can be," she said.  "If I do this thing at all
it is because the tension of months is becoming unendurable.  Reaction
from the tragic usually lands one on the edges of the grotesque....  If
you had been a girl, Michael, always sheltered, secure, living a
colorless restricted life, and if you suddenly were cast upon your own
feet with the accumulated responsibility of your race on your
shoulders,—and if, in the very middle of your first years of liberty and
opportunity you suddenly found this wonderful world flaming like hell
all about you, and all its inhabitants at each other’s throats, and all
delight in living turned to hate and fear—and if you concluded to take
your fate into your own hands and run away from authority, and, in your
own way, fight the good fight for God and King and Country,—and if the
strain became, for an hour, too great—wouldn’t you react—perhaps to the
verge of folly?"
"You bet I would, sweetness," said I, taking her lovely hands in mine.
"I was a school-girl," she said, "when—it devolved upon me, and upon
Clelia, to determine our own futures....  The loss of parents is
a—bewildering thing....  Our mania was travel and education to fit us
for—for what we considered to be our rightful future positions in the
world....  We have been in your country,—I don’t mean Chile. We know
England and France—God bless them both.  Then, owing deference anyway if
not perhaps blind obedience to the—to a—gentleman in Italy——"
"The King," I said soberly.
"Yes, the King of Italy.  We were expected to return to Rome and defer
to him all questions concerning our future....  And we ran away."
"Why, Thusis?"
"Because we happen to have minds of our own, Michael."
"And you immediately employed them by concocting a plot to kidnap some
kings!" I said.  "Oh, Thusis, you are the limit!"
"I know I am," she said naïvely.  "A mind that does not range to its
extremest limits is a rather dull one, isn’t it?"
"It is," I admitted, laughing and crushing her hands between my own.
"You are delightfully right, Thusis; you are always deliciously right.
I don’t know who you are except that you’re the lovely and mysterious
Laughing Girl.  What else you may be I don’t know, dearest, but you are
doubtless somebody or the King of Italy wouldn’t bother his clever head
about you and your sister."
"He does bother, I am afraid," admitted Thusis, smiling.  "I’m sorry
we’ve been obliged to annoy him.  But it couldn’t be helped, because we
differed, politically, with the King of Italy.  And we ran away from
Rome to prove to him that our conception of world-politics was right and
his was wrong. And we expect him, some day, to be very grateful to
us—because we really are, Clelia and I, two of his most loyal subjects."
She spoke so frankly, so earnestly, that I dared make no jest of what
she said.
However, I think she saw a glimmer in my eyes, for she flushed.
"Nothing," she said, "is sacred to a Yankee.  Let me go."
