"Ve got to vin this var, see? Ve got to beat them Yunkers! 
I vould have make up my mind to that, even if I don't go in 
the army I vould have make it up ven I see vat they do vit 
Russia." 
"But the revolution " 
"The revolution kin vait maybe vun year, maybe two years 
already. It don't do us no good to have a revolution if the 
Yunkers walk over it ! No, sir I vant them Germans put out 
of Roumania und out of Russia und out of Poland und I tell 
you, in this American army you got plenty Roumanian Social- 
ists, plenty Polish Socialists, und the Kaiser vill be sorry ven 
he meets them in France, you bet your money !" 
So Jimmie got another dose of patriotism, a heavy dose this 
time; for Stankewitz was all on fire with his new conviction, 
as full of the propaganda impulse as he had been when he 
called himself an "anti-nationalist." He could not permit you 
to differ with him became irritated at the bare mention of 
those formula-ridden members of the local who were still against 
the war. They were fools or else they were Germans; and 
Comrade Stankewitz was as ready to fight the Germans in 
Leesville as in France. He got so excited arguing that he 
almost forgot the cigars and the show-cases which he had to 
get rid of in two days. To Jimmie it was an amazing thing to 
see this transformation not merely the new uniform and the 
new muscles of his Roumanian Jewish friend, but his sense of 
certainty about the war, his loyalty to the President for the bold 
deed he had done in pledging the good faith of America to 
securing the freedom and the peaceful future of the harassed 
and tormented subject-races of Eastern Europe. 
II 
Jimmie got a sheet of letter paper, and borrowed a scratchy 
pen and a little bottle of ink from Mrs. Meissner, and wrote 
a painfully misspelled letter to Comrade Evelyn Gerrity, nee 
Baskerville, to assure her of his sympathy and undying friend- 
ship. He did not tell her that he was beginning to wabble 
on the war; in fact, when he thought of Jack Gerrity, chained 
up to the bars of a cell-window, he un-wabbled he wanted 
the social revolution right away. But then as he went to drop 
the letter into the post-office, so that it might go more quickly, 
he bought a paper and read the story of what was happening 
in France. And again the war-fervour tempted him. 
By desperate, frenzied fighting the British had succeeded in 
holding up for a few days the colossal German drive. But help 
was needed instant help, if civilisation was to be saved. The 
cry came across the seas America must send assistance guns, 
shells, food, and above all else men. JimimV s blood was stirred ; 
he had an impulse to answer the call, to rush to the rescue of 
those desperate men, crouching in shell-holes and fighting day 
and night for a week without rest. If only Jimmie could have 
gone right to them ! If only it had not been necessary for him 
to go to a training-camp and submit himself to a military mar- 
tinet! If only it had not been for war-profiteers, and crooked 
politicians, and lying, predatory newspapers, and all the other 
enemies of democracy at home ! 
Jimmie dropped his letter in the slot, and turned to leave 
the post-office, when his eye was caught by a sign on the wall 
a large sign, in bold, black letters: "YOUR COUNTRY NEEDS 
YOU!" Jimmie thought it was more "Liberty Bond" busi- 
ness; they had been after him several times, trying to separate 
him from his earnings, but needless to say they hadn't succeeded. 
However, he stopped out of curiosity, and read that men were 
needed to go to France skilled men of all sorts. There was a 
long list of the trades, everything you could think of carpenters, 
E lumbers, electricians, lumbermen, stevedores, railwaymen, 
lundrymen, cooks, warehousemen so on for several columns. 
Jimmie came to "machinists," and gave a guilty start; then 
he came to "motor-cycle drivers" and "motor-cycle repairers" 
and suddenly he clenched his hands. A wild idea flashed 
over him, causing such excitement that he could hardly read 
on. Why should he not go to France he, Jimmie Higgins! 
He was a man without a tie in the world as free as the winds 
that blew across the ocean! And he was looking for a job 
why not take one of these? 
It was a way he might share all the adventures, see the 
marvellous sights of which he had been reading and hearing, and 
without the long delay in a training-camp, without waiting to 
be bossed about by a military martinet! Jimmie looked to see 
what pay was offered ; fifty-one dollars a month and an "allow- 
ance" for board and expenses. At the bottom of the sign he 
read the words : "Why not work for your Uncle Sam?" Jimmie 
as it happened was in a fairly friendly mood towards his 
Uncle Sam at that moment ; so he thought, why not give him a 
chance as a boss? After all, wasn't that what every Socialist 
was aiming at to be an employe of the community, a servant 
of the public, rather than of some private profiteer? 
Jimmie went to the window to inquire, and the clerk told 
him that the "war-labour recruiting office" was at the corner 
of Main and Jefferson. He came to the corner designated, and 
there in a vacant store was a big recruiting sign, "War Labour 
Wanted," and a soldier in khaki walking up and down. A 
week ago Jimmie could not have been bribed to enter a place 
presided over by a soldier; but he had learned from Emil and 
Stankewitz that a soldier might be a human being, so he went, 
up and said, "Hello." 
"Hello, yourself", said the soldier, looking him over with, 
an appraising eye. 
"If I was to hire here, when would I start for France?" 
"To-night," said the soldier. 
"Youkiddin'rne?" 
"They ain't payin' me to kid people," said the other; and 
then, "What's your hurry?" 
"Well, I don't want to be stalled in a trainin' camp." 
"You won't be stalled if you know your business. What 
are you?" 
"I'm a machinist; I've repaired bicycles, and I know a bit 
about motor-cycles." 
"Walk in," said the soldier, and led the way, and presented 
Jimmie to a sergeant at the desk. "Here's a machinist," he- 
said, "and he's in a hurry to get to work. Kunnin' away from 
his wife, may be." 
"There's a bunch of men starting for the training-camp 
to-night," said the sergeant. 
"Trainin'-camp ?" echoed Jimmie. "I want to go to France." 
The other smiled. "You wouldn't expect us to send you 
till we'd tried you out, would you?" 
"No, I suppose not," replied Jimmie, dubiously. He was 
on his guard against tricks. Suppose they were to enlist him as 
a worker, and then make him fight! 
The other went on. "If you're competent, you'll get to 
France all right. We need men over there in a hurry, and we 
won't waste your time." 
"Well now," said Jimmie, "I dunno's you'll want me at 
all when you hear about me. I'm a Socialist." 
"Thought you was a machinist," countered the ser- 
geant. 
"I'm a Socialist, too. I was in the strike at the Empire a 
coupla years ago, and they blacklisted me. I can't get no work 
in the big places here." 
"Well," said the sergeant, "it's a good town for you to quit, 
I should say." 
"You want a man like that?" persisted Jimmie. 
"What we want is men that know machinery, and'll dig in 
and work like hell to beat the Kaiser. If you're that sort, 
we don't ask your religion. We've got a bunch that start to- 
night." 
"Holy smoke !" said Jimmie. He had thought he would have 
time to ask questions and to think matters over, time to see his 
friends and say good-bye. But the sergeant was so efficient 
and business-like; he took it so completely for granted that any 
man who was worth his salt must be anxious to help wallop the 
Hun ! Jimmie, who had come in full of hurry, was now ashamed 
to back water, to hem and haw, to say, "I dunno; I ain't so 
sure." And so the trap snapped on him the monster of Mili- 
tarism grabbed him! 
IV 
"Sit down," said the sergeant, and the anxious little Socialist 
took the chair beside the desk. 
"What's your name?" 
"James Higgins." 
"Your address?" 
"I'm just stayin' with a friend." 
"The friend's address ?" and so on : where had Jimmie worked 
last, what work had he done, what references had he to offer. 
Jimmie could not help grinning as he realised how his record 
must sound to a military martinet. He had been fired and 
blacklisted at the motor-truck factory in Ironton, his last job; 
he had been fired and blacklisted at the Empire Shops ; he had 
 
been arrested and sent to jail for soap-boxing on the streets of 
Leesville ; he had been arrested in the bomb-conspiracy of Kumme 
and Heinrich von Hoist. The sergeant entered each of these 
items without comment,, but when he came to the last, he stared 
up at the applicant. 
"I didn't have nothin' to do with it," declared Jimmie. 
"You got to prove that to "me," said the sergeant. 
"I proved it once," replied Jimmie. 
"Who to?" 
"Mr. Harrod, the agent of the Department of Justice here." 
The other took up the telephone and called the post office 
building, Jimmie listened to one half of the conversation 
would Mr. Harrod look up the record of James Higgins, who 
was applying for enlistment in the Mechanical Department of 
the Motor Corps? There was some delay Mr. Harrod was 
talking while Jimmie sat, decidedly nervous; but it was all 
right apparently the sergeant hung up the receiver, and re- 
marked reassuringly, "He says you're just a dub. He told 
me to congratulate you on having got some sense." 
Jimmie made the most of this more than dubious statement, 
and proceeded to answer questions as to his competence. Was 
there anybody at the Empire who could certify as to this ? The 
sergeant was about to call up the Empire Shops, but recon- 
sidered; if Jimmie had actually worked in a machine-shop and 
in a bicycle-shop, they would surely be able to find something 
for him in the army. In an hour of such desperate need they 
took most every one. "How tall are you?" demanded the ser- 
geant, and added, "Weight don't matter so much, because we'll 
feed you." 
The office of the medical examiner was upstairs in the same 
building, and Jimmie was escorted upstairs, and invited to re- 
move his coat and shirt, and have his chest measured, and his 
heart and lungs listened to, and his teeth counted, and his nose 
peered into, and a score of such like stunts. He had things 
wrong with him, of course, but not too many for army purposes, 
it appeared. The doctor jotted down the figures on a sheet 
and signed it, after which Jimmie and the soldier went back to 
the recruiting-office. 
And now suddenly the little Socialist found himself with 
an enlistment-paper before him, and a wet pen in his hand. 
He had never once been asked: "Is your mind made up? Do 
you really mean to take this irrevocable step ?" No, the sergeant 
had taken it for granted that Jimmie meant business. He had 
done all this inquiring and writing down of information, this 
weighing and measuring and what not, and now he sat with a 
stern, compelling eye fixed on his victim, as much as to say: 
"Do you mean to tell me that I've done all that for nothing?" 
If Jimmie had actually refused to sign his name, what a blast 
of scorn would have withered him ! 
So Jimmie did not even stop to read all the paper; he 
signed. "And now," said the sergeant, "the train leaves at 
nine-seventeen this evening. I'll be there to give you your 
ticket. Don't fail to be on hand. You understand you're under 
military discipline now." There was a new tone in these last 
words, and Jimmie quaked inwardly, and went out with a sort 
of hollow feeling in the pit of his stomach. 
He rushed away to tell Comrade Stankewitz, who hugged 
him with delight, and shouted that they would meet in France ! 
Then he went to tell Emil Forster, who was equally glad. He 
found himself with an impulse to hunt up Comrade Schneider 
and tell him. Jimmie discovered in himself a sudden and 
curious antagonism to Schneider; he wanted to have matters 
out with him, to say to him : "Wake up, you mutt forget that 
fool dream of yours that the Kaiser's gojn' to win the war!" 
There were others Jimmie thought of, upon whom he would 
not call. Comrade Mary Allen, for example he would let her 
get the news after he was out of the reach of her sharp tongue ! 
Also he thought of Comrade Evelyn; he might never see her 
again ; if he did see her, she might refuse to speak to him ! 
But Jimmie repressed the pang of dismay which this realisation 
brought him. He was going to war, and the longings and de- 
lights of love must be put to one side! 
He went to the Meissners for supper, and broke the news to 
them. He had expected protests and arguments, and was sur- 
prised by the lack of them. Had the little bottler-packer been 
impressed by the experiences of Comrade Stankewitz ? Or could 
it be that he was afraid to voice his full mind to Jimmie just 
as Jimmie had been afraid in the case of Emil Forster ? 
Jimmie had some commissions to entrust to the Meissners; 
he would leave with them the diary of "Wild Bill' which he 
had hung on to, but which seemed hardly the sort of literature 
to take on a transport. 
"Sure," assented Meissner. "Besides, the subs might get it." 
And Jimmie gave a sudden start. By heck! It was the 
first time the idea had occurred to him. He would have to pass 
through the barred zone! He might be in some fighting after 
all! He might never get to France! "Say!" he exclaimed. 
"That ocean must be cold this time of year!" 
For a moment he wavered. Surely it would have been more 
sensible to wait till later in the season, when the consequences 
of a plunge overboard would be less distressing! But Jimmie 
remembered the armies, locked in their grip of death; never 
would despatch-riders need their motor-cycles more urgently 
than now ! Also Jimmie remembered the sergeant at the recruit- 
ing-office. "You understand, you're under military discipline 
now " He set his jaw in a grim resolve. The "subs" be damned, 
he would go and do his part ! Already he felt the thrill of his 
responsibility in this mighty hour of history; he was a military 
man, with a stern duty to do, with the destinies of nations de- 
pending upon his behaviour! 
HP HERE were seven fellows who boarded the train that eve- 
 ning, under the temporary charge of a blacksmith from the 
nearby country. At seven o'clock next morning they presented 
their papers at the entrance-gate of the training-camp, and 
under the escort of a soldier were marched down the main street, 
hanging on to their bundles and suit-cases, and staring about 
them at the sights. 
It was a city, inhabited by some forty thousand men, on a 
site which a year ago had been waste scrub-land. Long rows 
of wooden buildings stretched in every direction barracks, 
dining-rooms, study-rooms, offices, store-houses with great 
stretches of exercise and training grounds between. Just to see 
this city, with its swarming population of young men, all in 
uniform, erect, eager, well set-up and vivid with health, every 
man of them busy, and every man seemingly absorbed in his 
job that alone was a worth-while experience. It was a new 
kind of city a city without a loafer, without a drunkard, 
without a parasite. The seven workingmen from Leesville felt 
suddenly slouchy and disgraced, with their ill-fitting civilian 
clothes and their miscellaneous bundles and suit-cases. 
The first thing they did with the new arrivals was to make 
them clean, to fumigate and vaccinate them. In a Socialist 
local one meets all sorts of eccentrics, the lunatic-fringe of the 
movement, and so it happened that Jimmie had listened to a 
tirade against the diabolical practice of inoculation, which 
caused more deadly diseases than it was supposed to prevent. 
But the medical officers of this camp did not stop to ask Jim- 
mied conclusions on that vital subject; they just told him to 
roll up the sleeve of his left arm, and proceeded to wipe his 
skin clean and scratch it with a needle. 
 
And then came the tailor, to do him up in khaki. This also 
was something the little machinist had not bargained for; he 
had taken it as a matter of course that he would be allowed to 
work for Uncle Sam in any old clothes, just as he had done for 
Abel Granitch. But no he must have an outfit, complete even 
to a tooth-brush, which they would show him how to use. Hav- 
ing been done up neat and tight in khaki, with a motor-wheel on 
his sleeve to show his branch of the service, he stood and 
looked at himself in the glass, experiencing a demoralising and 
unworthy excitement. He was every bit as handsome as Com- 
rade Stankewitz! When he walked down the street, would the 
girls giggle, and turn to look at him, as they did at the sedate 
and proper Comrade Emil? So the meshes of Militarism were 
being woven about the soul of Jimmie Higgins. 
II 
Jimmie was in quarantine, not allowed to go out of camp on 
account of his typhoid and other vaccinations. There was 
enough about the place to have interested him; but, alas, he be- 
came suddenly very sick, and was terrified to realise that the 
opponent of inoculation must have been right. His health had 
been undermined forever, he would suffer from a dozen obscure 
diseases ! He went to the hospital, miserable in body and still 
more miserable in mind; but in a couple of days he began to 
feel better, and listened to the nurses, who told him cheerfully 
that everybody felt that way for a bit. Then he got up, and had 
several free days in which to complete his recovery days which 
he spent wandering about the camp, watching the fascinating 
sights. 
It was like a circus with hundreds of rings. The drilling 
and marching he had seen in the Leesville square were here 
going on wholesale. Hundreds of groups were being put through 
squad-drill and the manual, while other groups were having 
special kinds of exercises climbing up walls, digging trenches, 
making roads, shooting at targets. . It rained every other day, 
and the ground was a morass, but no one paid the least attention 
to that; the men came in plastered with mud, and steaming 
like lard- vats. They seemed to enjoy it; nothing ever inter- 
fered with their bantering and jokes. 
Jimmie- watched them with alternating moods of curiosity 
and horror ; for the things that were done here brought the war, 
with its infinite and multiform wickedness, before his very eyes. 
Here was a group of men being taught to advance under fire; 
crawling on their bellies on the ground, jumping from one hum- 
mock to another, flinging themselves down and pretending to 
fire. A man in front, supposed to have a machine-gun, was 
shouting when he had "got" them. Now they unslung their little 
trenching-tools, and began to burrow themselves like wood- 
chucks into the ground. "Dig, you sons o' guns, dig!" the 
officer would shout. "Keep your head down, Smith! Make 
the dirt fly ! Put the jazz into it ! That's the stuff !" 
Jimmie had never watched football practice, so he had no con- 
ception of the efforts to which men could be goaded by "coach- 
ing." It was abhorrent yet also it was fascinating, the spell 
of it got hold of him. He saw what these men were doing; 
they were learning to act in masses, to act with paralysing and 
terrific force. Whatever it was they did, they did with the 
smash of a battering-ram. You saw the fire in their eyes, the 
grim, set look on their faces; you knew that they were not 
going to war with any hesitations or divided minds. 
You would move over a rise in the ground, and come upon 
a bunch of them at bayonet-practice. You didn't require imagi- 
nation to get the hang of this; they had dummies made of 
leather, and they rushed at these figures, hacking, stabbing 
and here was the most amazing part of it, shouting with rage. 
Actually, the officers taught them to yell, to snarl, to work up 
their feelings to a fury ! It was blood-curdling Jimmie turned 
away from it sick. It was just what he had been arguing for 
three years and a half you had to make yourself into a wild 
beast in order to go to war! 
Also Jimmie watched the target-ranges, from which came 
all day a rattle of shots, like the whir of many typewriters. 
Companies of men came marching, and spread themselves out 
along the firing-steps, and under the direction of instructors 
proceeded to contribute their quota to the noise. Over by the 
targets were others who kept score and telephoned the results ; so 
all day long, winter or summer, rain or shine, men were learning 
to kill their fellows, mechanically, as if it were a matter of 
factory routine. At other ranges were moving targets, where 
sharp-shooters were acquiring skill; you noticed that their tar- 
gets were never birds and deer, as at the shooting-galleries 
 
which Jimmie had seen at the beaches and at Socialist picnics. 
No, they were the heads or bodies of men, and each body painted 
a greenish grey, matching the uniforms of the enemy. 
So day by day Jimmie lived with the idea of killing, con- 
fronting the grim and ferocious face of war. He had thought 
that repairing motor-cycles would be pretty much the same 
anywhere you did it; but he found that it was one thing to 
repair motor-cycles to be ridden by errand-boys and working- 
men out for a holiday with their sweethearts, and another and 
entirely different thing to repair them for fighting-men and 
despatch-couriers. Jimmie was driven more insistently than 
ever to make up his mind about this war. It was every day 
less easy for him to hold two contradictory sets of opinions. 
All the men he now met were of one opinion, and by no 
possibility to be persuaded to consider any other. Jimmie found 
that he could get them to agree that after this war for democracy 
there would be vast changes in this world, the people would 
nevermore let themselves be hoodwinked and exploited as they 
had ; he found that he could interest them in the idea of having 
the government run the great industries, producing food and 
clothing for the people as it was now producing them for the 
troops. But when he tried to give this programme the name of 
Socialism, then the trouble began. Weren't Socialists the loons 
who wanted to have America "lay down" like Russia? The 
premise from which all discussion started with these men was 
that America was going to win the war; if you tried to hint 
that this matter could so much as be hesitated over, you met, 
first sharp mockery, and then angry looks, and advice to go 
and take a pill and get the Hun poison out of your system. 
Nor was there any use trying to talk about the dangers of 
