it to him! And see if he talks about firing us!"
"Say," demanded Skidder, astonished, "do you fellows think you got any
drag with Angy Puma?"
"Go back and ask him!" growled Bromberg. "And don't try to come around
here and get fresh again. Listen! You go buy what benches you say we
broke and send the bill to me, and keep your mouth shut and mind your
fool business!"
"I'll mind my own and yours too!" screamed Skidder, seized by an
ungovernable access of fury. "Say, you poor nut!--you sick mink!--you
stale hunk of cheese!--if you come down my way again I'll kick your
shirttail for you! Get that?" And he slammed the door and strode out
in a flaming rage.
But when, still furiously excited, he arrived once more at the
office,--and when Puma, who had just entered, had listened in sullen
consternation to his story, he received another amazing and most
unpleasant shock. For Puma told him flatly that the tenancy of the Red
Flag Club suited him; that no lease could be broken, except by mutual
consent of partners; and that he, Skidder, had had no business to go
to Sondheim with any such threat of eviction unless he had first
consulted his partner's wishes.
"Well, what--what--" stammered Skidder--"what the hell drag have those
guys got with you?"
"Why is it you talk foolish?" retorted Puma sharply. "Drag? Did
Sondheim say----"
"No! I say it. I ask you what have those crazy nuts got on you that
you stand for all this rumpus?"
Puma's lustrous eyes, battered but still magnificent, fixed themselves
on Skidder.
"Go out," he said briefly to his stenographer. Then, when the girl had
gone, and the glass door closed behind her, he turned heavily and
gazed at Skidder some more. And, after a few moments' silence: "Go
on," he said. "What did Sondheim say about me?"
Skidder's small, shifty eyes were blinking furiously and his
essentially suspicious mind was also operating at full speed. When he
had calculated what to say he took the chance, and said:
"Sondheim gave me to understand that he's got such a hell of a pull
with you that I can't kick him out of my property. What do you know
about that, Angelo?"
"Go on," said Puma impatiently, "what else did he say about me?"
"Ain't I telling you?"
"Tell more."
Skidder had no more to tell, so he manufactured more.
"Well," he continued craftily, "I didn't exactly get what that kike
said." But his grin and his manner gave his words the lie, as he
intended they should. "Something about your being in dutch--" He
checked himself as Puma's black eyes lighted with a momentary glare.
"What? He tells you I am in with Germans!"
"Naw;--in dutch!"
Puma's sanguinary skin reddened; his puffy fingers fished for a cigar
in the pocket of his fancy waistcoat; he found one and lighted it, not
looking at his partner. Then he picked up the morning paper.
Skidder shrugged; stood up, pretending to yawn; started to open the
door.
"Elmer?"
"Yeh? What y'want?"
"I want to know exactly what Max Sondheim said to you about me."
"Well, you better go ask Sondheim."
"No. I ask you--my friend--my associate in business----"
"A fine associate!--when I can't kick in when I want to kick out a
bunch of nuts that's wrecking the hall, just because they got a drag
with you----"
"Listen. I am frank like there never was a----"
"Sure. Go on!"
"I say it! Yes! I am frank like hell. From my friend and partner I
conceal nothing----"
"Not even the books," grinned Skidder.
"Elmer. You pain me. I who am all heart! Elmer, I ask it of you if you
will so kindly tell me what it is that Sondheim has said to you about
this 'drag.'"
"He said," replied the other viciously, "that he had you cinched. He
said you'd hand me the ha-ha when I saw you. And you've done it."
"Pardon. I did not say to you a ha-ha, Elmer. I was surprised when you
have told me how you have gone to Sondheim so roughly, without one
word to me----"
"You was soused to the gills last night. I didn't know when you'd show
up at the studio----"
"It was not just to me that you go to Sondheim in this so surprising
manner, without informing me." He looked at his cigar; the wrapper was
broken and he licked the place with a fat tongue. "Elmer?"
"That's me," replied the other, who had been slyly watching him. "Spit
it out, Angy. What's on your mind?"
"I tell you, Elmer!"
Puma's face became suddenly wreathed in guileless smiles: "Me, I am
frank like there never--but no matter," he added; "listen attentively
to what I shall say to you secretly, that I also desire to be rid of
this Red Flag Club."
"Well, then----"
"A moment! I am embarrass. Yes. You ask why? I shall tell you. It is
this. Formerly I have reside in Mexico. My business has been in Mexico
City. I have there a little cinema theatre. In 1913 I arrive in New
York. You ask me why I came? And I am frank like--" his full smile
burst on Skidder--"like a heaven angel! But it is God's truth I came
here to make of the cinema a monument to Art."
"And make your little pile too, eh, Angy?"
"As you please. But this I affirm to you, Elmer; of politics I am
innocent like there never was a cherubim! Yes! And yet your Government
has question me. Why? you ask so naturally. My God! I know no one in
New York. I arrive. I repair to a recommended hotel. I make
acquaintance--unhappily--with people who are under a suspicion of
German sympathy!"
"What the devil did you do that for?" demanded Skidder.
Puma spread his jewelled fingers helplessly.
"How am I to know? I encounter people. I seek capital for my art. Me,
I am all heart: I suspect nobody. I say: 'Gentlemen, my art is my
life. Without it I cease to exist. I desire capital; I desire
sympathy; I desire intelligent recognition and practical aid.' Yes. In
time some gentlemen evince confidence. I am offered funds. I produce,
with joy, my first picture. Ha! The success is extravagant!
But--alas!"
"What tripped you?"
"Alas," repeated Puma, "your Government arrests some gentlemen who
have lend to me much funds. Why? Imagine my grief, my mortification!
They are suspect of German propaganda! Oh, my God!"
"How is it they didn't pinch you?" asked Skidder coldly, and
beginning to feel very uneasy.
"Me? No! They investigate. They discover only Art!"
Skidder squinted at him nervously. If he had heard anything of that
sort in connection with Puma he never would have flirted with him
financially.
"Well, then, what's this drag they got with you?--Sondheim and the
other nuts?"
"I tell you. Letters quite innocent but polite they have in
possession----"
"Blackmail, by heck!"
"I must be considerate of Sondheim."
"Or he'll squeal on you. Is that it?"
Puma's black eyes were flaring up again; the heavy colour stained his
face.
"Me, I am----"
"All right. Sondheim's got something on you, then. Has he?"
"It is nothing. Yet, it has embarrass me----"
"That ratty kike! I get you, Angy. You were played. Or maybe you did
some playing too. Aw! wait!"--as Puma protested--"I'm getting you, by
gobs. Sure. And you're rich, now, and business is pretty good, and you
wish Sondheim would let you alone."
"Yes, surely."
"How much hush-cash d'yeh pay him?"
"I?"
"Yaas, you! Come on, now, Angy. What does he stick you up for per
month?"
Puma's face became empurpled: "He is a scoundrel," he said thickly.
"Me--I wish to God and Jesus Christ I saw the last of him!" He got up,
and his step was lithe as a leopard's as he paced the room, ranging
the four walls as though caged. And, for the first time, then Skidder
realised that this velvet-eyed, velvet-footed man might possibly be
rather dangerous--dangerous to antagonise, dangerous to be associated
with in business.
"Say," he blurted out, "what else did you let me in for when I put my
money into your business? Think I'm going to be held up by any game
like that? Think I'm going to stand for any shake-down from that
gang? Watch me."
Puma stopped and looked at him stealthily: "What is it you would do,
Elmer?"
But Skidder offered no suggestion. He remained, however, extremely
uneasy. For it was plain enough that Puma had been involved in
dealings sufficiently suspicious to warrant Government surveillance.
All Skidder's money and real estate were now invested in Super-Pictures.
No wonder he was anxious. No wonder Puma, also, seemed worried.
For, whatever he might have done in the past of a shady nature, now he
had become prosperous and financially respectable and, if let alone,
would doubtless continue to make a great deal of money for Skidder as
well as for himself. And Skidder, profoundly troubled, wondered
whether his partner had ever been guiltily involved in German
propaganda, and had escaped Government detection only to fall a
victim, in his dawning prosperity, to blackmailing associates of
earlier days.
"That mutt Sondheim looks like a bad one to me, and the other
guy--Kastner," he observed gloomily.
"It is better that we should not offend them."
"Just as you say, brother."
"I say it. Yes. We shall be wise to turn to them a pleasing face."
"Sure. The best thing to do for a while is to stall along," nodded
Skidder, "--but always be ready for a chance to hand it to them.
That's safest; wait till we get the goods on them. Then slam it to 'em
plenty!"
"If they annoy me too much," purred Puma, displaying every dazzling
tooth, "it may not be so agreeable for them. I am bad man to
crowd.... Meanwhile----"
"Sure; we'll stall along, Angy!"
They opened the glass door and went out into the studio. And Puma
began again on his favourite theme, the acquiring of Broadway property
and the erection of a cinema theatre. And Skidder, with his limited
imagination of a cross-roads storekeeper, listened cautiously, yet
always conscious of agreeable thrills whenever the subject was
mentioned.
And, although he knew that capital was shy and that conditions were
not favourable, his thoughts always reverted to a man he might be
willing to go into such a scheme with--the president of the Shadow
Hill Trust Company, Alonzo Pawling.
                  *       *       *       *       *
At that very moment, too, it chanced that Mr. Pawling's business had
brought him to New York--in fact, his business was partly with Palla
Dumont, and they were now lunching together at the Ritz.
Alonzo Pawling stood well over six feet. He still had all his
hair--which was dyed black--and also an inky pair of old-fashioned
side whiskers. For the beauty of his remaining features less could be
said, because his eyes were a melancholy and faded blue, his nose very
large and red, and his small, loose mouth seemed inclined to sag, as
though saturated with moisture.
Many years a widower he had, when convenient opportunity presented
itself, never failed to offer marriage to Palla Dumont. And when, as
always, she refused him in her frank, amused fashion, they returned
without embarrassment to their amiable footing of many years--she as
child of his old friend and neighbour, Judge Dumont, he as her
financial adviser, and banker.
As usual, Mr. Pawling had offered Palla his large, knotty hand in
wedlock that morning. And now that this inevitable preliminary was
safely over, they were approaching the end of a business luncheon on
entirely amiable terms with each other.
Financial questions had been argued, investments decided upon, news of
the town discussed, and Palla was now telling him about Elmer Skidder
and his new and apparently prosperous venture into moving pictures.
"He came to see me last evening," she said, smiling at the recollection,
"and he arrived in a handsome limousine with an extra man on the
front--oh, very gorgeous, Mr. Pawling!--and we had tea and he told me
how prosperous he had become in the moving picture business."
"I guess," said Mr. Pawling, "that there's a lot of money in moving
pictures. But nobody ever seems to get any of it except the officials
of the corporation and their favourite stars."
"It seems to be an exceedingly unattractive business," said Palla,
recollecting her unpleasant impressions at the Super-Picture studios.
"The right end of it," said Mr. Pawling, "is to own a big theatre."
She smiled: "You wouldn't advise me to make such an investment, would
you?"
Mr. Pawling's watery eyes rested on her reflectively and he sucked in
his lower lips as though trying to extract the omnipresent moisture.
"I dunno," he said absently.
"Mr. Skidder told me that he would double his invested capital in a
year," she said.
"I guess he was bragging."
"Perhaps," she rejoined, laughing, "but I should not care to make such
an investment."
"Did he ask you?"
"No. But it seemed to me that he hinted at something of that nature.
And I was not at all interested because I am contented with my little
investments and my income as it is. I don't really need much money."
Mr. Pawling's pendulous lip, released, sagged wetly and his jet-black
eyebrows were lifted in a surprised arch.
"You're the first person I ever heard say they had enough money," he
remarked.
"But I have!" she insisted gaily.
Mr. Pawling's sad horse-face regarded her with faded surprise. He
passed for a rich man in Shadow Hill.
"Where is Elmer's place of business?" he inquired finally, producing a
worn note-book and a gold pencil. And he wrote down the address.
There was in all the world only one thing that seriously worried Mr.
Pawling, and that was this worn note-book. Almost every day of his
life he concluded to burn it. He lived in a vague and daily fear that
it might be found on him if he died suddenly. Such things could
happen--automobile or railroad accidents--any one of numberless
mischances.
And still he carried it, and had carried it for years--always in a
sort of terror while the recent Mrs. Pawling was still alive--and in
dull but perpetual anxiety ever since.
There were in it pages devoted to figures. There were, also, memoranda
of stock transactions. There were many addresses, too, mostly
feminine.
Now he replaced it in the breast pocket of his frock-coat, and took
out a large wallet strapped with a rubber band.
While he was paying the check, Palla drew on her gloves; and, at the
Madison Avenue door, stood chatting with him a moment longer before
leaving for the canteen.
Then, smilingly declining his taxi and offering her slender hand in
adieu, she went westward on foot as usual. And Mr. Pawling's
directions to the chauffeur were whispered ones as though he did not
care to have the world at large share in his knowledge of his own
occult destination.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Palla's duty at the canteen lasted until six o'clock that afternoon,
and she hurried on her way home because people were dining there at
seven-thirty.
With the happy recollection that Jim, also, was dining with her, she
ran lightly up the steps and into the house; examined the flowers
which stood in jars of water in the pantry, called for vases, arranged
a centre-piece for the table, and carried other clusters of blossoms
into the little drawing-room, and others still upstairs.
Then she returned to criticise the table and arrange the name-cards.
And, this accomplished, she ran upstairs again to her own room, where
her maid was waiting.
Two or three times in a year--not oftener--Palla yielded to a rare
inclination which assailed her only when unusually excited and happy.
That inclination was to whistle.
She whistled, now, while preparing for the bath; whistled like a
blackbird as she stood before the pier-glass before the maid hooked
her into a filmy, rosy evening gown--her first touch of colour since
assuming mourning.
The bell rang, and the waitress brought an elaborate florist's box.
There were pink orchids in it and Jim's card;--perfection.
How could he have known! She wondered rapturously, realising all the
while that they'd have gone quite as well with her usual black.
Would he come early? She had forgotten to ask it. Would he? For, in
that event--and considering his inclination to take her into his
arms--she decided to leave off the orchids until the more strenuous
rites of friendship had been accomplished.
She was carrying the orchids and the long pin attached, in her left
hand, when the sound of the doorbell filled her with abrupt and
delightful premonitions. She ventured a glance over the banisters,
then returned hastily to the living room, where he discovered her and
did exactly what she had feared.
Her left hand, full of orchids, rested on his shoulder; her cool,
fresh lips rested on his. Then she retreated, inviting inspection of
the rosy dinner gown; and fastened her orchids while he was admiring
it.
Her guests began to arrive before either was quite ready, so engrossed
were they in happy gossip. And Palla looked up in blank surprise that
almost amounted to vexation when the bell announced that their
tête-à-tête was ended.
Shotwell had met the majority of Palla's dinner guests. Seated on her
right, he received from his hostess information concerning some of
those he did not know.
"That rather talkative boy with red hair is Larry Rideout," she said
in a low voice. "He edits a weekly called The Coming Race. The Post
Office authorities have refused to pass it through the mails. It's
rather advanced, you know."
"Who is the girl on his right--the one with the chalky map?"
"Questa Terrett. Don't you think her pallor is fascinating?"
"No. What particular stunt does she perform?"
"Don't be flippant. She writes."
"Ads?"
"Jim! She writes poems. Haven't you seen any of them?"
"I don't think so."
"They're rather modern poems. The lines don't rhyme and there's no
metrical form," explained Palla.
"Are they any good?"
"They're a little difficult to understand. She leaves out so many
verbs and nouns----"
"I know. It's a part of her disease----"
"Jim, please be careful. She is taken seriously----"
"Taken seriously ill? There, dear, I won't guy your guests. What an
absolutely deathly face she has!"
"She is considered beautiful."
"She has the profile of an Egyptian. She's as dead-white as an
Egyptian leper----"
"Hush!"
"Hush it is, sweetness! Who's the good-looking chap over by Ilse?"
"Stanley Wardner."
"And his star trick?"
"He's a secessionist sculptor."
"What's that?"
"He is one of the ultra-modern men who has seceded from the Society
of American Sculptors to form, with a few others, a new group."
"Is he any good?"
"Well, Jim, I don't know," she said candidly. "I don't think I am
quite in sympathy with his work."
"What sort is it?"
"If I understand him, he is what is termed, I believe, a concentrationist.
For instance, in a nude figure which he is exhibiting in his studio, it's
all a rough block of marble except, in the middle of the upper part,
there is a nose."
"A nose!"
"Really, it is beautifully sculptured," insisted Palla.
"But--good heavens!--isn't there any other anatomical feature to that
block of marble?"
"I explained that he is a concentrationist. His school believes in
concentrating on a single feature only, and in rendering that feature
as minutely and perfectly as possible."
Jim said: "He looks as sane as a broker, too. You never can tell, can
you, sweetness?"
He glanced at several other people whose features were not familiar,
but Palla's explanations of her friends had slightly discouraged him
and he made no further inquiries.
Vanya Tchernov was there, dreamy and sweet-mannered; Estridge sat by
Ilse, looking a trifle careworn, as though hospital work were taking
it out of him. Marya Lanois was there, too, with her slightly slanting
green eyes and her tiger-red hair--attracting from him a curious sort
of stealthy admiration, inexplicable to him because he knew he was so
entirely in love with Palla.
A woman of forty sat on his right--he promptly forgot her name each
time he heard it--who ate fastidiously and chose birth-control as the
subject for conversation. And he dodged it in vain, for her
conversation had become a monologue, and he sat fiddling with his
food, very red, while the silky voice, so agreeable in pitch and
intonation, slid smoothly on.
Afterward Palla explained that she was a celebrated sociologist, but
Jim remained shy of her.
Other people came in after dinner. Vanya seated himself at the piano
and played from one of his unpublished scores. Ilse sang two
Scandinavian songs in her fresh, wholesome, melodious voice--the song
called Ygdrasil, and the Song of Thokk. Wardner had brought a
violin, and he and Vanya accompanied Marya's Asiatic songs, but with
some difficulty on the sculptor's part, as modern instruments are
scarcely adapted to the sort of Russian music she chose to sing.
Marya had a way, when singing, which appeared almost insolent. Seated,
or carelessly erect, her supple figure fell into lines of indolently
provocative grace; and the warm, golden notes welling from her throat
seemed to be flung broadcast and indifferently to her listeners, as
alms are often flung, without interest, toward abstract poverty and
not to the poor breathing thing at one's elbow.
She sang, in her preoccupied way, one of her savage, pentatonic songs,
more Mongol than Cossack; then she sang an impudent burlatskiya
lazily defiant of her listeners; then a so-called "dancing song," in
which there was little restraint in word or air.
The subtly infernal enchantment of girl and music was felt by everybody;
but several among the illuminati and the fair ultra-modernettes had
now reached their limit of breadth and tolerance, and were becoming
bored and self-conscious, when abruptly Marya's figure straightened
to a lovely severity, her mouth opened sweetly as a cherub's, and,
looking up like a little, ruddy bird, she sang one of the ancient
Kolyadki, Vanya alone understanding as his long, thin fingers
wandered instinctively into an improvised accompaniment:
