with war marching in on us. Not with everybody hard up."
Cassy had been about to order a chocolate éclair. The new note stayed
her. But though new, it was not novel. She had heard it before. It rang
true. Absently she shoved at her plate.
In theory she knew her way about. The migratory systems of domestic
experience said nothing to her, nor, thus far, had the charts of
matrimony either. In the sphere of life to which a walk-up leads, the
charts were dotted with but the postman and the corner druggist. Men and
plenty of them she had met, but they too said nothing and not at all
because they were dumb, but because, as the phrase is, they did not talk
her language. But for every exception there is perhaps a rule. The one
man who did speak her language, had held his tongue.
Now, as she shoved at her plate, she saw him, saw the tea-caddy, saw his
rooms and saw too, as she left them, the girl to whom he was engaged. In
the memory of that she lingered and looked down.
"Why, he could lead an orchestra of his own, your papa could."
Cassy looked up. She had been far away, too far, in a land where dreams
do not come true. Impatiently she twisted. "What?"
"Didn't you hear me, dearie? I was talking about money--bushels of it."
About the bushels the woman rolled her tongue. They tasted better than
the fritters.
A waiter approached. The room was long, dark, narrow, slovenly, spaced
with tables on which were maculate cloths and lamps with faded shades.
Greasily the waiter produced the bill.
"Bushels!" she appetisingly repeated.
Cassy paid. The waiter slouched away.
"You will drive through life in a hundred horsepower car and be fined
for speeding. The papers will say: 'Mrs. Pal----'"
"What did he pay you to tell me that?" Cassy exploded at her.
Unruffled by the shot, which was part and parcel of the job, and
realising that any denial would only confirm what at most could be but a
suspicion, the former diva fingered her pearls and assumed an air of
innocence.
But already Cassy had covered her with her blotting-paper look. "As if I
cared!"
"Dearie, he did pay me. He paid me the compliment of supposing that I
take an interest in you. But he said nothing except what I said he said.
He said if he got down on his knees you would turn your back on him."
"Then he is cleverer than he looks."
"Well, anyway, he is clever enough to have bushels of money and that is
the greatest cleverness there is."
"In New York," retorted Cassy, who had never been anywhere else,
physically at least, though mentally her little feet had trod the
streets of Milan, the boards of the Scala.
"It can't be much different in Patagonia," replied this lady, who, to
save her life, could not have told whether the land was Asiatic or
African, nor who, to save her soul--if the latter were still
salvable--could not have told that it was neither. "Besides," she added,
"I was only thinking of your poor, dear papa."
Cassy said nothing. She stood up. She was making for the door and the
charm of the scented streets.
Ma Tamby sighed, rose and followed. It was the devil's own job.
Housebreaking must be easier!
XIV
Cassy's department-store investments reached her the next day. Her
father, who opened the door to them, fell back before the sum total of
the C. O. D. With an arm in a sling, he could not hold the packages,
much less pay for them, and he gasped as he called for aid.
The money that Cassy then produced seemed to him darkly mysterious and
although he believed as firmly in her virtue, as, before the break, he
had believed in the maestria of his own right hand, none the less, in
addition to aid, he exacted light.
Cassy, dumping the packages on her bed, occupied herself in verifying
the change which amounted to one cent. Then she sketched it.
His surprise fell away. The mythical catamount, the imaginary concert,
the ponderable subsidy--two hundred and fifty, less ten per
cent.--seemed to him natural and an unnatural world.
"And there's about ten dollars remaining," Cassy resumed. "Ten dollars
and a penny. You can have the penny and I will keep the ten, or I'll
keep the ten and you can have the penny."
That also seemed natural. But the addition or subtraction disclosed a
deficit and he exclaimed at it. "You said two hundred and fifty!"
Cassy too saw the hole, but she could not lie out of it. "Well, I owed
the difference."
In speaking she turned. Before her was a mirror in which she glanced
at her hair that had been superiorly tralala'd. She turned again,
reflecting that Lennox must have already received the postal-order,
which she had mailed the night before, and wondering whether he had
liked her little scrawl of indignant thanks.
"I'll tell you about it later," she added. "Now I must get your dinner.
How would you like a tenderloin, a salad, and a box of Camembert?"
He shuffled. "There is no Camembert any more." The tragedy of that
seemed to overwhelm him. "I wish I were dead."
Cassy laughed. "Now it's the cheese. On Saturday it was the violin.
Well, you got it back. What will you say if I find some Camembert? Do
stop meowing. Any one might think you didn't have me."
At her young laughter, he groaned. "Formerly if I let a day go without
practising, I noticed it. If I let two days go, Toscanini noticed it.
Now it's weeks and weeks. It's killing me."
To cheer him, Cassy said gaily: "The artist never dies."
But it did not cheer him. Besides, though Cassy had laughed, there had
been a tugging at her heartstrings. Shabby, unkempt, in a frayed
dressing-gown, his arm in a dismal sling, he looked so out of it, so
forlorn, so old.
He had shuffled away. She bit her lip. Later, when he had had his
tenderloin and she had department-stored herself, a pint of grocer's
burgundy had reduced him to tears.
The day before it had seemed to her that the frock would do. But her
judgment had been hurried. Shops, crowds, the vibrations of both,
devitalised and confused her. In choosing the frock she had not
therefore given it the consideration which it perhaps did not merit, and
now her mirror shrieked it. The frock was not suited to her. Nothing was
suited to her, except the produce of baronial halls, where the simplest
thing exceeded the dreams of avarice, or else the harlequinades which
she herself devised. None the less she would have liked to have had her
father exclaim and tell her how smart she looked. He omitted it.
"Where are you going?"
"I told you. Dinner and the opera."
"Opera! There is no opera to-night. What do you mean? What did you tell
me?"
On the table were dishes and the lamentable bottle. Cassy, in doubt
whether to clear them then or later, hesitated. The hesitation he
misconstrued.
"You told me nothing. You tell me nothing. I am kept in the dark."
Cassy, adjusting the wrap which she had left open that he might admire
the unadmirable, moved to where he sat and touched him. "You're the
silliest kind of a silly. I told you yesterday. Perhaps the opera was
last night. But how could I go? Except that old black rag I had nothing
to wear. If there is no opera to-night, there will be a concert or
something. Don't you remember now? I was at the telephone."
He did remember, but apparently the recollection displeased. He growled.
"Yes. It was that Paliser."
"Well, why not? If it had not been for him, I would not have got the
catamount's money and you would not have had the burgundy."
But he was not to be mollified. The growl sharpened into a snarl.
"Paliser! I don't like the breed. By God, if----"
The peradventure of that Cassy got before he could utter it. Paliser! Of
all men! The absurdity convulsed her. Her laughter ran up and down the
scale.
"You're the dearest old duck of a goose I ever heard of." She turned.
Her wrap swished. "I only wish you were going too."
Below, in the street, a man, precipitatingly vacating the box of a
machine, touched his cap at her. "Beg pardon, mem. Miss Cara? Mr.
Paliser's compliments and he's sent a car."
Cassy glanced at the man, who looked like a Roman emperor. From the man
she turned to the car. Superiorly and soberly finished, it beckoned.
Now, though, the Cæsar was holding open the door. Cassy got in. The
emperor hopped up. The car leaped.
On the front seat was a box with her name on it. In it was a handful of
orchids. The luxury of the car, the beauty of the demon-flowers, the
flight from the walk-up, yet more, perhaps, the caresses and surrenders
of spring, affected her. If, she thought, if only the things that might
be could be the things that are! If only----
On the pale cushions she leaned back. Before her a curtain parted. In a
wide, marble-flagged hall she was looking at a girl who was looking at
her. A moment before he had said: "That is Miss Austen to whom I am
engaged." A moment before she had seen her picture. The girl was good to
look at, so good that, without further acquaintance, you knew she was
good through and through. There was no mistaking that. But was she good
enough? Was any girl good enough for him? And who was that with her?
Probably her mother who probably too was the catamount's sister. They
had a family likeness. Then at once the scene shifted. Cassy was in a
room floored with thick rugs, hung with heavy draperies, and in that
room the catamount had hired her to sing! But the disgust of it passed.
The curtain fell. Cassy turned to the window, through which a breath of
lilac blew.
She sniffed and stared. Where was she? Where was the Riverside? Where,
for that matter, was the roar of the glittering precinct in which the
Splendor tossed its turrets to the sky? Here were dirty and reeling
goblins; budding trees that bowed and fainted; a stretch of empty road
that the scudding car devoured. Afar was a house that instantly
approached and as suddenly vanished. Dimly beyond was another.
Cassy, leaning forward, poked at the emperor. "I will thank you to tell
me where you are going. Don't you know where the Splendor is?"
Back at her he mumbled, but what she could not hear.
"Stop at once," she called.
Easily, without a quiver, almost within its own length, the car drew in
and the Cæsar, touching his cap, was looking at her. "Beg pardon, mem.
There was a note for you in the box. Mr. Paliser said----"
But now Cassy had it.
     Chère demoiselle--though I do not know why I call you that, except
     that it sounds less perfunctory than dear Miss Cara, who, I hope
     will do me the honour of dining in the country, if for no better
     reason than because there is no opera to-night and I am her
     obedient servant.
     M. P., Jr.
Cassy looked up from it. "Country! He says country. What country? What
does this mean?"
"The Place, mem. Paliser Place. It's not far now."
Cassy had not bargained for that. Stories of girls decoyed, drugged,
spirited away, never heard of again, sprang at her. Quite as quickly she
dismissed them. But, being human, she had to find fault.
"You should have told me before. That will do. Drive on."
She sank back. The car leaped and she smiled. Paliser in the rôle of
white-slaver! Her momentary alarm was now a mile behind her. But would
they be alone? Though, after all, what did it matter? Yet in Harlem
there was a broken old man who would not like it. And the basilica
investments! If she had known she would have worn the black rag. But
they would do for that tiresome Mrs. Beamish. As yet she had not decided
what she would sing. The Caro nome occurred to her. Under her breath
she began it and abruptly desisted. The Dear Name suggested another.
For it she substituted the Ombra leggiera. In its scatter of trills
that mount, as birds mount, there were no evocations, though she did
begin wondering again about Mrs. Beamish's music-room. If it were not
too impossible she might give the Ernani involame. But at that and
very unintentionally she thought of Lennox again.
She made a face and looked through the window. As usual she was hungry.
The car now was bellowing through opening gates which, as she looked
back, a man in brown was closing. On either side was a high stone wall,
but beyond, as she looked again, was an avenue bordered with trees and
farther on a white house with projecting wings in which was a court, an
entrance and, above and about the latter, a pillared perron.
From the entrance she could see a man in livery hastening. Behind him, a
man in black appeared. The car stopped. The first man opened the door.
Cassy got out. The other man additionally assisted by looking on and
moving aside. Cassy went into a hall where a young person who did not
resemble the Belle Chocolatière but whose costume suggested her,
diligently approached.
"Would madame care to go upstairs?"
No, madame would not. But Cassy, instinctively insolent to
pretentiousness, was very simple with the simple. "Thank you. Will you
mind taking my wrap? Thank you again."
She looked about the hall. Before she could inventory it, here was
another man. "A nice trick you played on me," Cassy threw at him. "I was
half-way before I discovered it. The orchids reconciled me. Thank you
for them. Who is here?"
Smiling, deferential, apparently modest, perfectly sent out in perfectly
cut evening clothes, Paliser took her hand. "You are and, incidentally,
I am."
Cassy withdrew her hand. "I suppose you think you are a host in
yourself."
"Merely the most fortunate of mortals," replied Paliser, who could be
eighteenth-century when he liked, but who seldom bothered to keep it up.
Already he had been doing a little inventorying on his own account. The
basilica frock did not say much and what it did say was not to his
taste. The Sunday night fantasy he much preferred. It was rowdy, but it
was artistic. But beauty may be dishonoured, it cannot be vulgarised.
Even in pseudo-Parisianisms Cassy was a gem. A doubt though, one that
had already visited him, returned. Was the game worth the possible
scandal?
But now Cassy was getting back at him. "To stand about with the most
fortunate of mortals ought to be a shape of bliss. As it happens, I
would rather sit."
"Naturally. Only, worse luck, there is no throne."
Cassy gave it to him again: "There is a court fool, though. Where are
your cap and bells?"
"Not on you at any rate."
He motioned and Cassy passed on into a room beyond which other rooms
extended, each different, but all in the same key, a monotone attenuated
by lustres and the atmosphere, infinitely relaxing, which wealth
exhales.
Cassy's thin nostrils quivered. Since childhood, it was her first breath
of anything similar. It appeased and disarmed this anarchist who was
also an autocrat.
"Will you sit here?"
Paliser was drawing a chair. The table before it lacked the adjacent
severity. On it were dishes of Sèvres and of gold. Adjacently were three
men. Their faces were white and sensual. They moved as forms move in a
dream.
The stories of girls decoyed, spirited away, never heard of again,
returned to Cassy. She had put the orchids beside her. Her flexible
mouth framed a smile.
"You know, for a moment, I had the rare emotion of feeling and fearing
that I was being eloped with."
A pop interrupted. She turned to a man at her elbow. "Only half a glass,
please, and fill it with water." She returned to Paliser, who was
opposite. "I had been thinking of something. I had not noticed where the
car was going; and all of a sudden, I found myself I did not know where.
Then, houp! It got me."
Paliser helped himself to a clam. "The charm of elopements passed with
the post-chaise. Then they had the dignity of danger and pistol shots
through the windows. Nowadays you go off in a Pullman and return as
prosaic as you started."
"Sometimes even more so," Cassy put in.
Paliser helped himself to another clam. "You speak feelingly and that is
only right. This is a very important matter. It is a shame that romance
should have passed with the post-chaise. Why should it not revisit us in
the motor?"
Cassy sipped and considered it. "There ought to be a law on the
subject."
"There is one. You may be summoned for speeding and get your name in the
papers."
"Then the dignity of danger remains."
"But not in clams. Aren't you going to eat any?"
Cassy laughed. "I had some yesterday with Ma Tamby. They did not seem to
agree with her. She became very noisy about a Mrs. Beamish. Who is she?"
"Mrs. Beamish?" Paliser repeated. He also had forgotten. But, with a
click, memory raised a latch. From behind it the lady emerged. "Oh,
she's a cousin of mine."
"Rather distant, I should fancy," said Cassy, who was conscious of the
delay, though not of the click. The delay she had noticed without,
however, divining the cause. But how could she possibly imagine that
Mrs. Beamish had been evolved for the sole purpose of providing her with
basilica opportunities? Yet the fault, if fault there were, resided in
her education. She had never read Eliphas Levi. She did not know that
genii can be evoked.
"Well, she is more my sister's cousin than mine," Paliser anxious to get
out of it, threw in. "I mean my sister has a more cousinly nature."
"I did not know you had a sister," said Cassy, who not only did not know
but did not care. "Though, come to think of it, a sister with a cousinly
nature must be so gratifying. Another distant relative, isn't she?"
"Very. She is in Petrograd."
That too was evocative. Cassy began talking about the biggest cropper
that history has beheld--a tsar tossed from the saddle to Siberia!
Paliser, glad to be rid of Mrs. Beamish, took it up. The sordid story of
the Russian chief of staff, bought by Hindenburg and shot by the
Grand-Duke Nicholas, whom the tsar then exiled, was told once more.
"What else could you expect of that Hun?" Paliser concluded.
"A Hun!" Cassy exclaimed. "Why he is a Romanov."
"No more than you are," Paliser replied. "The last of the Romanovs
married Catherine the Greater. There the breed ended. Paul, who followed
and who married a German drab, was Catherine's son but not her
husband's. The rest of the litter, down to the father of the recent
incumbent, all married German drabs. The father of the ex-tsar married a
Dane. The fellow is therefore one-eighth Dane and seven-eighths Hun.
Totally apart from which, a grocer who knew his business would not have
had him for clerk. His family knew that and, before he had time to be
tsar, tried to poison him. To the misfortune, not of Russia merely, but
of Christendom, they failed. If they had succeeded the eastern front
would be secure. As for his wife, I saw her once. It was in the Winter
Palace which, before it was sacked, was a palace. Since the palace of
the Caliphs of Cordova crumbled, there has never been a palace like it.
It outshone them all. Well, that woman tarnished it."
Meanwhile dishes were brought and removed by servants, wooden-faced, yet
with ears alert. The subject of elopements had seemed promising, but it
led to nothing. At their own table, talk was gayer.
Cassy enjoyed the food, the diluted wine, Paliser's facile touch. He
appeared to know a lot and she surprised herself by so telling him. "I
wish I did," she added. "I am ignorant as a carp."
"You know how to charm," he replied. But, seeing her stiffen, he
resumed, "With your voice. That is enough. It would be a mistake for you
to be versatile. Versatility is for the amateur. The artist is a flower,
never a bouquet."
It was decently said. In the decency of it, the agreeable insult which a
compliment usually is was so chastened that Cassy flushed and felt that
she had. It annoyed her, and she attributed it to the wine.
It was not the wine. Other influences were at work on this girl, born to
a forsaken purple and whose soul was homesick for it. But purple is
perhaps picturesque. It was not that for which her soul sighed, but the
dream that hides behind it, the dream of going about and giving money
away. To her the dream had been the dream of a dream, realisable only on
the top rungs of the operatic ladder, which, later, she felt she was not
destined to scale. None the less there are dreams that do come true,
though usually, beforehand, there is a desert to cross.
"I wonder if I might have a cavatina?" Paliser asked, rising and moving
to her.
Cassy shrugged. I have to pay for my dinner, she thought, but she too
got up.
Preceding her, he led the way to a room of which the floor, inlaid and
waxed, was rugless. The windows were not curtained, they were shuttered.
In the centre was a grand and a bench. Afar, at the other end, masking a
door, was a portière, the colour of hyacinth. Near it, were two
unupholstered chairs; one, white; the other, black. Save for these, save
too for a succession of mirrors and of lights, the room was bare. In
addition, it was spacious, a long oblong, ceiled high with light
frescoes, the proper aviary for a song-bird.
Cassy curtsied to it. At table she had not wanted to sing. The mere
sight of this room inspired.
Paliser opened the piano and, seating himself, ran his long thin fingers
over the keys. He was heating them, preluding a score, passing from it
to another. Presently he looked up; she nodded and the Ah, non giunge
floated from her.
"Brava!" Paliser muttered as the final trill drifted away. Again he
looked up. "You will be a very great artist."
He did not mean it. He judged her voice colourful but lacking in
carriage.
Cassy, leaning forward, struck the keys, giving him the note and again
she sang, this time the Libiamo, which, old as the hills, claptrap,
utterly detestable, none the less served to display the bravura quality
of her voice.
When it passed, Paliser sprang up, faced her. "Open your mouth! There!
Wide!"
Cassy, familiar with the ritual, obeyed. Paliser peered into the
strawberry of her throat. It was deep as a well and he moved back.
"You have the organ but you do not know how to use it. You don't know
how to breathe."
Cassy forgot that he was young, that she was, that in the great room in
the great house they were alone. Through the shutters came the smell of
lilacs, the sorceries of spring. In the sexlessness of art these things
were unnoticed. For the first time she liked him. It was his frankness
that drew her, though if he had been a frank old woman she would have
liked him as well.
"My father says that. He says it is Ma Tamby's fault. He can't bear
her."
For a while they discussed it. Paliser maintaining that were it not for
the war she ought to go to Paris and Cassy asserting, though without
conviction, that the specialty of the Conservatoire consisted in dried
fruit.
Finally she said: "It must be late. I have a wrap somewhere and oh! my
orchids."
The young person was summoned. The wrap was recovered, the orchids
reappeared.
Paliser, helping Cassy with the wrap, said: "Shall I see it here again?"
He knew he would but he thought it civil to ask.
Cassy too had her thoughts. The freedom with which, during the
ham-and-eggs episode, his eyes had investigated her, where was it? On
Sunday he had bored her to tears. That also had gone. During the past
hour or two he had shown himself reasonably intelligent, unpresuming,
without offensiveness of any kind. With a movement of the hand she
lifted the wrap at her neck. "Here?"
It occurred to her that she did not know where the polished and inlaid
floor on which she stood was located. Nor did she particularly care.
Besides if her geography were vague, the floor was pleasant, a bit
slippery perhaps, though just how slippery she was yet to learn.
"Yes. The day after to-morrow. Why not? I would like to run over a score
or two with you."
"Good heavens! You are not composing an opera, are you?"
Paliser laughed. "I want to lead you away from painted mush into the
arms of----"
"Not Strauss?" Cassy interrupted. "Art does not recognise frontiers but
