the coffee hastily, handed the cup to Alexina and burst 
into tears. 
"Mother!" Alexina was really terrified for the first 
time that morning. Mrs. Groome practiced the severe 
code, the repressions of her class, and what tears she had 
shed in her life, even over the deaths of those almost 
forgotten children, had been in the sanctity of her bedroom. Alexina, who had grown up under her wing, after 
many sorrows and trials had given her a serenity that 
was one secret of her power over this impulsive child 
 
of her old age, could hardly have been more appalled if 
her mother had been stricken with paralysis. 
"You cannot understand," sobbed Mrs. Groome. 
"This is my city! The city of my youth; the city 
my father helped to make the great and wonderful 
city it is. Even your father — he may not have been a 
good husband Oh, no ! Not he ! — but he was a good 
citizen; he helped to drag San Francisco out of the political mire more than once. And now it is going! It 
has always been prophesied that San Francisco would 
burn to the ground some time, and now the time has 
come. I feel it in my bones. ' ' 
This was the first reference other than perfunctory, 
that Alexina had ever heard her mother make to her 
father, who had died when she was ten. The girl realized abruptly that this elderly parent who, while uniformly kind, had appeared to be far above the ordinary 
weaknesses of her sex, had an inner life which bound her 
to the plane of mere mortals. She had a sudden vision 
of an unhappy married life, silently borne, a life of suppressions, bitter disappointments. Her chief compensa- 
tion had been the unwavering pride which had made the 
world forget to pity her. 
And it was the threatened destruction of her city that 
had beaten down the defenses and given her youngest 
child a brief glimpse of that haughty but shivering spirit. 
VI 
Alexina 's mind, in spite of a great deal of worldly 
garnering with an industrious and investigating scythe, 
was as immature as her years, for she had felt little and 
lived not at all. But she had swift and deep intuitions, 
and in spite of the natural volatility of youth, free of 
care, she was fundamentally emotional and intense. 
Swept from her poor little girlish moorings in the sophisticated sea of the twentieth-century maiden, she had 
a sudden wild access of conscience ; she flung herself into 
her mother's arms and poured out the tale of her nocturnal transgressions, her frequent excursions into the 
forbidden realm of modern San Francisco, of her immense acquaintance with people whose very names were 
unknown to Mrs. Groome, bom Ballinger. 
Then she scrambled to her feet and stood twisting her 
hands together, expecting a burst of wrath that would 
further reveal the pent-up fires in this long-sealed volcano; for Alexina was inclined to the exaggerations of 
her sex and years and would not have been surprised if 
her mother, masterpiece of a lost art, had suddenly become as elementary as the forces that had devastated 
San Francisco. 
But there was only dismay in Mrs. Groome 's eyes as 
she stared at her repentant daughter. Her heart sank 
still lower. She had never been a vain woman, but she 
had prided herself upon not feeling old. Suddenly, she 
felt very old, and helpless. 
"Well," she said in a moment. "Well — I suppose I 
have been wrong. There are almost two generations 
between us. I haven't kept up. And you are naturally 
a truthful child — I should have " 
' ' Oh, mother, you are not blaming yourself ! ' ' Alexina 
felt as if the earth once more were dancing beneath her 
unsteady feet. " Don 't say that ! ' ' 
The sharpness of her tone dispelled the confusion in 
Mrs. Groome 's mind. She hastily buckled on her armor. 
"Let us say no more about it. I fancy it will be a 
long time before there are any more parties in San Francisco, but when there are — well, I shall consult Maria. 
I want your youth to be happy — as happy as mine was. 
I suppose you young people can only be happy in the 
new way, but I wish conditions had not changed so lamentably in San Francisco. . . . Who is this?" 
CHAPTBE III 
A S Alexina followed her mother's eyes she flushed 
 scarlet and turned away her head. A young man 
was coming up the avenue. He was a very gallant figure, 
 
moderately tall and very straight ; he held his head high, 
his features were strong in outline. But the noticeable 
thing about him at this early hour of the morning and 
in the wake of a great disaster weis his consummate 
grooming. 
"That — that " stammered Alexina, "is Mr. 
Dwight. I met him last night at the Hofers'." 
The young man raised his hat and came forward 
quickly. "I hope you will forgive me," he said with a 
charming deference, "but I couldn't resist coming to 
see if you were all right. So many people are frightened 
of fire — in their own houses. ' ' 
"Mr. Dwight — my mother " 
He lifted his hat again. Mrs. Groome in her chastened 
mood regarded him favorably, and for the moment without suspicion. At least he was a gentleman; but who 
could he be? 
' ' Dwight, ' ' she murmured. " I do not know the name. 
Were you born here?" 
"I was born in Utica, New York. My parents came 
here when I was quite young. "We — always lived rather 
quietly. ' ' 
' ' But you go about now ? To all these parties ? ' ' 
"Oh, yes. I like to dance after the day's work. But 
I am not what you would call a society man. I haven't 
the time." 
Mrs. Groofaie was not usually blunt, but she suddenly 
scented danger and she had not fully recovered her 
poise. 
"You are in business?" She disliked business intensely. All gentlemen of her day had followed one of 
the professions. 
"I am in a wholesale commission house. But I hope 
to be in business for myself one day." 
"Ah." 
Still, all young men in this terrible twentieth century could not be lawyers. Mrs. Groome knew enough 
of the march of time to be aware of the increasing difficulties in gaining a bare livelihood. Tom Abbott was a 
lawyer, like his father before him, and his grandfather 
in the fifties. It was one of the oldest firms in San 
 
Francisco, but she recalled his frequent and bitter allusions to the necessity of sitting up nights these days if a 
man wanted to keep out of the poorhouse. 
And at least this young man did not look like an idler 
or a wastrel. No man could have so clear a skin and be 
so well-groomed at six in the morning if he drank or 
gambled. Alexander Groome had done both and she 
knew the external seals. 
"Is Aileen Lawton a friend of yours?" she asked 
sharply. 
"I have met Miss Lawton at a number of dances but 
she has not done me the honor to ask me to call." 
"I think the more highly of you. Judge Lawton is 
an old friend of mine. His wife, who was much younger 
than the Judge, was an intimate friend of my daughter, 
Mrs. Abbott. Alexina and Aileen have grown up together. I find it impossible to forbid her the house. 
But I disapprove of her in every way. She paints her 
lips, smokes cigarettes, boasts that she drinks cocktails, 
and uses the most abominable slang. I kept my daughter in New York for two years as much to break up the 
intimacy as to finish her education, but the moment we 
returned the intimacy was renewed, and for my old 
friend 's sake I have been forced to submit. He worships 
that — that — really ill-conditioned child. ' ' 
"Oh — Miss Lawton is a good sort, and — well — I suppose her position is so strong that she feels she can do 
as she pleases. But she is all right, and not so different " 
"Do you mean to tell me that you approve of girls — 
nice girls — ladies — painting themselves, smoking, drinking cocktails?" 
"I do not." His tones were emphatic and his good 
American gray eyes wandered to the fresh innocent face 
of the girl who had captivated him last night. 
"I should hope not. You look like an exceptionally 
decent young man. Have you had breakfast 1 Alexina, 
go and ask Maggie, if she has recovered herself, to make 
another cup of coffee." 
 
Alexina disappeared, repressing a desire to sing; and 
young Dwight, receiving permission, seated himself on 
the grass at Mrs. Groome's feet. He was lithe and graceful and as he threw back his head and looked up at his 
hostess with his straight honest glance the good impression he had made was visibly enhanced. Mrs. Groome 
gave him the warm and gracious smile that only her 
intimate friends and paid inferiors had ever seen. 
' ' The young men of to-day are a great disappointment 
to me, ' ' she observed. 
' ' Oh, they are all right, I guess. Most of the men that 
go about have rich fathers — or near-rich ones. I wish I 
had one myself. ' ' 
"And you would be as dissipated as the rest, I presume. ' ' 
"No, I have no inclinations that way. But a man gets 
a better start in life. And a man's a nonentity without 
money. ' ' 
"Not if he has family." 
' ' My family is good — in Utica. But that is of no use 
to me here." 
"But your family is good?" 
' ' Oh, yes, it goes 'way back. There is a family mansion in Utica that is over two hundred years old. But 
when the business district swamped that part of the old 
town it was sold, and what it brought was divided among 
six. My father came out here but did not make much 
of a success of himself, so that he and my mother might 
as well have been on the Fiji Islands for all the notice 
society took of them. ' ' 
He spoke with some bitterness, and Mrs. Groome, to 
whom dwelling beyond the outer gates of San Francisco 's 
elect was the ultimate tragedy, responded sympathet- 
ically. 
' ' Society here is not what it used to be, and no doubt 
is only too glad to welcome presentable young men. I 
infer that you have not found it difficult. ' 
"Oh, I dance well, and my employer's son. Bob 
Cheever, took me in. But I'm only tolerated. I don't 
count." 
 
The old lady looked at him keenly. "You are ambitious?" 
lie threw back his head. "Well, yes, I am, Mrs. 
Groome. As far as society goes it is a matter of self- 
respect. I feel that I have the right to go in the best 
society anywhere — that I am as good as anybody when 
it comes to blood. And I 'd like to get to the top in every 
way. I don't mean that I would or could do the least 
thing dishonest to get there, as so many men have done, 
but — well, I see no crime in being ambitious and using 
every chance to get to the top. I'd like not only to be 
one of the rich and important men of San Francisco, 
but to take a part in the big civic movements." 
Mrs. Groome was charmed. She was by no means an 
impulsive woman, but she had suddenly realized her age, 
and if she must soon leave her youngest child, who, 
heaven knew, needed a guardian, this young man might 
be a son-in-law sent direct from heaven — via the earthquake. If he had real ability the influential men she 
knew would see that he had a proper start. But she 
had no intention of committing herself. 
"And what do you think of what is now called San 
Francisco society?" she demanded. 
He was quite aware of Mrs. Groome 's attitude. Who 
in San Francisco was not? It was one of the standing 
jokes, although few of the younger or newer set had ever 
heard of her until her naughty little daughter danced 
upon the scene. 
"Oh, it is mixed, of course. There are many houses 
where I do not care to go. But, well, after all, the rich 
people are rather simple for all their luxury, and as for 
the old families there are no more real aristocrats in 
England itself." 
Mrs. Groome was still more charmed. "But you were 
at Mrs. Hofer 's last night. I never heard of her before. ' ' 
"Her husband is one of the most important of the 
younger men. His father made a fortune in lumber and 
sent his son to Tale and all the rest of it. He is really 
a gentleman — it only takes one generation out here — and 
at present he's bent upon delivering the city from this 
abominable ring of grafters . . . There is no water to 
put out the fires because the City Administration pocketed the money appropriated for a new system; the 
pipes leading from Spring Valley were broken by the 
earthquake." 
"And who was she?" 
Mrs. Groome asked this question with an inimitable 
inflection inherited from her mother and grandmother, 
both of whom had been guardians of San Francisco 
society in their day. The accent was on the ' ' who. ' ' Bob 
Cheever, whose grandmother had asked or answered the 
same question in dark old double parlors filled with black 
walnut and carved oak, would have -muttered, "Oh, 
hell!" but Mr. Dwight replied sympathetically: "Some- 
thing very common, I believe — south of Market Street. 
But her father was very clever, rose to be a foreman of 
the iron works, and finally went into business and prospered in a small way. He sent his daughter to Europe 
to be educated . . . and even you could hardly tell her 
from the real thing." 
"And you go down to Burlingame, I suppose? That 
is a very nest of these new people, and I am told they 
spend their time drinking and gambling." 
He set his large rather hard lips. "No, I have never 
been asked down to Burlingame — nor down the Peninsula anywhere. You see, I am only asked out in town 
because an unmarried dancing man is always welcome if 
there is nothing wrong with his manners. To be asked 
for intimate week-ends is another matter. But I don't 
fancy Burlingame is half as bad as it is represented to be. 
They go in tremendously for sport, you know, and that is 
healthy and takes up a good deal of time. After all 
when people are very rich and have more leisure than 
they know what to do with " 
"Many of the old set in Alta, San Mateo, Atherton 
and Menlo Park have wealth and leisure — not vulgar 
fortunes, but enough — and for the most part they live 
quite as they did in the old days. ' ' 
His eyes lit up. "Ah, San Mateo, Alta, Atherton, 
Menlo Park. There you have a real landed aristocracy. 
The Burlingame set must realize that they would be no- 
bodies for all their wealth if they could not call at all 
those old communities down the Peninsula. ' ' 
 
' ' Not so very many of them do. But I see you have no 
false values. You must go down with us some Sunday 
to Alta. I am sure you would like my oldest daughter. 
She is very smart, as they call it now, but distinctly of 
the old regime." 
"There is nothing I should like better. Thank you so 
much. ' ' And there was no doubting the sincerity of his 
voice, a rather deep and manly voice which harmonized 
with the admirable mold of his ancestors. 
Alexina appeared. ' ' Breakfast is ready for all of us, ' ' 
she announced. "We cooked it on the old stove in the 
woodhouse. I helped, for Maggie is a wreck. Martha 
has swept the plaster out of the dining-room. Come 
along. I 'm starved. ' ' 
Young Dwight sprang to his feet and stood over Mrs. 
Crroome with his charming deferential manner, but he 
had far too much tact to offer assistance as she rose 
heavily from her chair. 
"Are you really going to give me breakfast? I am 
sure I could not get any elsewhere." 
"We are only too happy. Your coming has been a 
real God-send. Will you give me your arm ? This morning — not the earthquake but those dreadful fires — has 
quite upset me." 
He escorted her into the dark old house with glowing 
eyes. He had seen so little of the world that he was 
still very young at thirty and his nature was sanguine, 
but he had never dared to dream of even difSeult access 
to this most exclusive home in San Francisco. Its gloom, 
its tastelessness, relieved only by the splendid Italian 
pieces, but served to accentuate its aristocratic aloofness 
from those superb but too recently furnished mansions 
of which he knew so little outside of their ballrooms. 
And he was breakfasting with the sequestered Mrs. 
Oroome and the loveliest girl he had ever seen, at seven 
o 'clock in the morning. 
He looked about eagerly as they entered the dining- 
room. It was long and narrow with a bow window at 
 
the end. The furniture was black walnut ; twa immense 
sideboards were built into the walls. It looked Ballinger, 
and it was. 
It was heavily paneled ; the walls above were tinted a 
pale buff and set with cracked oil paintings of men in 
the uniforms of several generations. The ceiling was 
frescoed with fish and fowl. There had been a massive 
bronze chandelier over the table. It now lay on the 
floor, but as James had turned off the gas in the meter 
while the earthquake was still in progress the air of the 
large sunny room was untainted, and the vdndows were 
open. 
The breakfast was smoked but not uneatable and the 
strong coffee raised even Mrs. Groome 's wavering spirits. 
They were all talking gayly when James entered ab- 
ruptly. He was very pale. 
"City's doomed, ma'am. Thirty fires broke out simultaneous, and the wind blowing from the southeast. A 
chimney fell on the fire-chief's bed and he can't live. 
People runnin' round like their heads was cut off and 
thousands pouring out of the city — over to Oakland and 
Berkeley. Lootin' was awful and General Funston has 
ordered out the troops. Pipes broken and not a drop of 
water. They're goin' to dynamite, but only the 
fire-chief knew how. Everybody says the whole city'll go. 
Doomed, that's what it is. Better let me tell Mike to 
harness up and drive you down to San Mateo. ' ' 
Mrs. Groome had also turned pale, but she cut a piece 
of bacon with resolution in every finger of her large-veined hands. 
"I do not believe it, and I shall not run— like those 
people south of Market Street. I shall stay until the last 
minute at all events. The roads at least cannot bum." 
"This house ought to be safe enough, ma'am, standin' 
quite alone on this hill as it does; but it's a question of 
food. We never keep much of anything in the house, 
beyond what's needed for the week, and the California 
Market's right in the fire zone. And the smoke will be 
something terrible when the fire gets closer. ' ' 
"I shall stay in my own house. There are grocery 
stores and butcher shops in Fillmore Street. Go and 
 
buy all you can." She handed him a buneh of keys. 
"You will find money in my escritoire. Tell the maids 
to fill the bathtubs while there is any water left in the 
mains. You may go if you are frightened, but I stay 
here." 
"Very well, and you needn't have said that, ma'am. 
I've been in this family, man and boy, Ballinger and 
Groome, for fifty -two years, and you know I'd never 
desert you. But no doubt those hussies in the kitchen 
will, with a lot of others. A lot of stoves have already 
been set up in the streets out here and ladies are cookin' 
their own breakfasts. ' ' 
' ' Forgive me, James. I know you will never leave me. 
And if the others do we shall get along. Miss Alexina 
is not a bad cook." And she heroically swallowed the 
bacon. 
IV 
James departed and she turned to Dwight, who was on 
his feet. 
"You are not going?" 
"I think I must, Mrs. Groome. There may be something I can do down there. AU able-bodied men will be 
needed, I fancy." 
"But you'll come back and see us?" cried Alexina. 
"Indeed I will. I'll report regularly." 
He thanked Mrs. Groome for her hospitality and she 
invited him to take pot luck with her at dinner time. 
After he had gone Alexina exclaimed rapturously : 
"Oh, you do like him, don't you, mommy dear?" 
And Mrs. Groome was pleased to reply, "He has perfect manners and certainly has the right ideas about 
things. I could do no less than ask him to dinner if he 
is going to take the trouble to bring us the news." 
 
THAT was a uniqae and vivid day for young Alexina 
Groome, whose disposition was to look upon life as 
drama and asked only that it shift its scenes often and 
be consistently entertaining and picturesque. 
Never, so James told her, since her Grandmother Ballinger's reign, had there been such life and movement in 
the old house. AU Mrs. Groome 's intimate friends and 
many of Alexina 's came to it, some to make kindly inquiries, others to beg them to leave the city, many to 
gossip and exchange experiences of that fateful morning; 
a few from Rincon Hill and the old ladies' fashionable 
boarding-house district to claim shelter until they could 
make their way to relatives out of town. 
Mrs. Groome welcomed her friends not only with the 
more spontaneous hospitality of an older time but in that 
spirit of brotherhood that every disaster seems to release, however temporarily. Brotherhood is unquestion- 
ably an instinct of the soul, an inheritance from that 
sunrise era when mutual interdependence was as imperative as it was automatic. The complexities of civilization have overlaid it, and almost but not wholly replaced 
it by national and individual selfishness. But the world 
as yet is only about one-third civilized. Centuries hence 
a unified civilization may complete the circle, but human nature and progress must act and react a thousand 
times before the earthly millenium ; and it cannot be hastened by dreamers and fanatics. 
All Mrs. Groome 's spare rooms were placed at the 
service of her friends, and cots were bought in the humble 
Fillmore Street shops and put up iu the billiard room, 
the double parlors, the library and the upper hall. Some 
forty people would sleep under the old Ballinger roof 
that night — dynamite permitting. Mrs. Groome was 
firm in her determination not to flee, and as James and 
Mike were there to watch, she had graciously given a 
