dimly visible bride.  
''What a wonderful colour!" she exclaimed. 
'' Kingfisher feathers," said Ah Cum. "It is an 
ordinary wedding," he added; "some shopkeeper's 
daughter. Probably she was married years ago and 
is now merely on the way to her husband's house. 
The palanquin is hired and so is the procession. 
Quite ordinary." 
The air in the narrow street, which was not eight 
feet wide, swarmed with smells impossible to define; 
but all at once the pleasantly pungent odour of 
Chinese incense drifted across the girl's face, and 
gratefully she quickened her inhalations. 
In her ears there was a medley of sound: wailing 
music, rumbling tom-toms and sputtering fire- 
crackers. She had never before heard the noise of 
firecrackers, and in the beginning the sputtering 
racket caused her to wince. Presently the odour of 
burnt powder mingled agreeably with that of the 
incense. 
She was conscious of a ceaseless undercurrent of 
sound — the guttural Chinese tongue. She foraged 
about in her mind for some satisfying equivalent 
which would express in English this gurgling drone 
the Chinese called a language. At length she hit 
upon it : bubbling water. Her eyebrows, pulled down 
by the stress of thought, now resumed their normal 
arches; and pleased with her discovery, she smiled. 
To Ah Cum, who was watching her covertly, the 
smile was like a bit of unexpected sunshine. What 
with these converging roofs that shut out all but a 
hand's breadth of the sky, sunshine was rare at this 
point. If it came at all, it was as fleeting as the 
girl's smile. 
The weddmg procession passed on, and the cynical 
rabble poured in behind. The pole-chair caravan 
resumed its journey. 
The girl wished that she had come afoot, despite 
the knowledge that she would have suflfered many 
inconveniences, accidental and intentional jostling, 
insolence and ribald jest. The Cantonese, excepting 
in the shops where he expects profit, always resents 
the intrusion of the fan-quei —  foreign devil. The 
chair was torture. It hung from the centre of a 
stout pole, each end of which rested upon the calloused shoulder of a coolie; an ordinary Occidental 
chair with a foot-rest. The coolies proceeded at a 
swinging, mincing trot, which gave to the suspended 
seat a dancing action similar to that of a suddenly 
agitated hanging-spring of a birdcage. It was impossible to meet the motion bodily. 
Her shoulders began to ache. Her head felt 
absurdly like one of those noddling manikins in 
the Hong-Kong curio-shops. Jiggle-joggle, jiggle- 
joggle. . . ! For each pause she was grateful. 
Whenever Ah Cum (whose normal stride was suf- 
ficient to keep him at the side of her chair) pointed 
out something of interest, she had to strain the cords 
in her neck to focus her glance upon the object 
Supposing the wire should break and her head 
tumble oflf her shoulders into the street? The whimsey caused another smile to ripple across her lips. 
This amazing world she had set forth to discover! 
Yesterday at this time she had had no thought in her 
head about Canton. America, the land of rosy 
apples and snowstorms, beckoned, and she wanted 
to fly thitherward. Yet, here she was, in the ancient 
Chinese city, weaving in and out of the narrow streets 
some scarcely wide enough for two men to walk 
abreast, streets that boiled and eddied with yellow 
human beings, who worshipped strange gods, ate 
strange foods, and diffused strange suffocating smells. 
These were less like streets than labyrinths, hewn 
through an eternal twilight. It was only when they 
came into a square that daylight had a positive 
quality. 
So many things she saw that her interest stumbled 
rather than leaped from object to object. Rows of 
roasted duck, brilliantly varnished; lucious vegetables, which she had been warned against; baskets 
of melon seed and water-chestnuts; men working in 
teak and blackwood; fan makers and jade cutters; 
c gs preserved in what appeared to her as petrified 
muck; bird's nests and shark fins. She glimpsed 
Chinese penury when she entered a square given over 
to the fishmongers. Carp, tench, and roach were so 
divided that even the fins, heads and fleshless spines 
were sold. There were doorways to peer into, dim 
cluttered holes with shadowy forms movmg about, 
potters and rug-weavers. 
Through one doorway she saw a grave Chinaman 
standing on a stage-like platform. He wore a long 
coat, beautifully flowered, and a hat with a turned up 
brim. Balanced on his nose were enormous tortoise- 
shell spectacles. A ragged gray moustache drooped 
from the comers of his mouth and a ragged wisp of 
whisker hung from his chin. She was informed by 
Ah Cum that the Chinaman was one of the literati 
and that he was expoimding the deathless philosophy 
of Confucius, which, summed up, signified that the 
end of all philosophy is Nothing. 
Through yet another doorway she observed an 
ancient silk brocade loom. Ah Cum halted the 
caravan and indicated that they might step within 
and watch. On a stool eight feet high sat a small 
boy in a faded blue cotton, his face like that of young 
Buddha. He held in his hands many threads. 
From time to time the man below would shout, and 
the boy would let the threads go with the snap of a 
harpist, only to recover them instantly. There was 
a strip of old rose brocade in the making that set an 
ache in the girl's heart for the want of it. 
The girl wondered what effect the information 
would have upon Ah Cum if she told him that until 
a month ago she had never seen a city, she had never 
seen a telephone, a railway train, an automobile, a 
lift, a paved street. She was almost tempted to tell 
him, if only to see the cracks of surprise and in- 
credulity break the immobility of his yellow counte- 
nance. 
But no; she must step warily. Curiosity held her 
by one hand, urging her to recklessness, and caution 
held her by the other. Her safety lay in pretense — 
that what she saw was as a tale twice told. 
A phase of mental activity that men called 
courage : to summon at will this energy which barred 
the ingress of the long cold fingers of fear, which 
cleared the throat of stuffiness and kept the glance 
level and ever forward. She possessed it, astonishing 
fact ! She had summoned this energy so continuously 
during the past four weeks that now it was abiding; 
she knew that it would always be with her, on guard. 
And immeasurable was the calm evolved from this 
knowledge. 
The light touch of Ah Cum's hand upon her arm 
broke the thread of retrospective thought; and her 
gray eyes began to register again the things she saw. 
"Jade," said Ah Cum. 
She turned away from the doorway of the silk 
loom to observe. Pole coolies came joggling along 
with bobbing blocks of jade —  white jade, splashed 
and veined with translucent emerald green. 
"On the way to the cutters," said Ah Cum. "But 
we must be getting along if we are to limch in the 
tower of the water-clock." 
As if an order had come to her somewhere out of 
space, the girl glanced sideways at the other young 
fool. 
So far she had not heard the sound of his voice 
The tail-ender of this little caravan, he had been 
rather out of it. But he had shown no desire for 
information, no curiosity. Whenever they stepped 
from the chairs, he stepped down. If they entered a 
shop, he paused by the doorway, as if waiting for the 
journey to be resumed. 
Young, not much older than she was: she was 
twenty and he was possibly twenty-four. She liked 
his face; it had on it the suggestion of gentleness, 
of fineness. She was lamentably without comparisons; such few young men as she had seen —  white 
men —  had been on the beach, pitiful and terrible 
objects. 
The word handsome was a little beyond her grasp. 
She could not apply it in this instance because she 
was not sure the application would be correct. 
Perhaps what urged her interest in the young man's 
direction was the dead whiteness of his face, the 
puffed eyelids and the bloodshot whites. She knew 
the significance: the red corpuscle was being burnt 
out by the fires of alcohol. Was he, too, on the way . 
to the beach? What a pity! All alone, and none 
to warn him of the abject wretchedness at the end of 
Drink. 
Only the night before, in the dining room of the 
Hong-Kong Hotel, she had watched him empty glass 
after glass of whisky, and shudder and shudder. 
He did not like it. Why, then, did he touch it? 
As he climbed heavily into his chair, she was able 
to note the little beads of sweat under the cracked 
nether lip. He was in misery; he was paying for last 
night's debauch. His clothes were smartly pressed, 
his linen white, his jaws cleanly shaven; but the day 
would come when he would grow indifferent to bodily 
cleanliness. What a pity ! 
For all her ignorance of material things —  the human inventions which served the physical comforts of 
man —  how much she knew about man himself! She 
had seen him bereft of all those spiritual props which 
permit man to walk on two feet instead of four — 
broken, without resilience. And now she was 
witnessing or observing the complicated machinery 
of civilization through which they had come, at 
length to land on the beach of her island. She knew 
now the. supreme human energy which sent men to 
hell or carried them to their earthly heights. Selfishness. 
Supposing she saw the yoimg man at dinner that 
night, emptying his bottle? She could not go to him, 
sit down and draw the sordid pictures she had seen so 
often. In her case the barrier was not selfishness but 
the perception that her interest would be misinter- 
preted, naturally. What right had a young woman 
to possess the scarring and intimate knowledge of 
that dreg of human society, the beachcomber? 
 HCUM lived at No. 6 Chiu Ping le, Chiu 
Yam Street. He was a Canton guide, highly 
educated, having been graduated from Yale 
University. If he took a fancy to you, he invited 
you to the house for tea, bitter and yellow and served 
in little cups without handles. If you knew anything 
about Canton ware, you were, as like as not, sorely 
tempted to stuff a teacup into your pocket. 
He was tall, slender, and suave. He spoke English 
with astonishing facility and with a purity which 
often embarrassed his tourists. He made his head- 
quarters at the Victoria on the Sha-mien, and 
generally met the Hong-Kong packet in the morning. 
You left Hong-Kong at night, by way of the Pearl 
River, and arrived in Canton the next morning. 
Ah Cum presented his black-bordered card to such 
individuals as seemed Hkely to require his services. 
This morning his entourage (as he jestingly called 
it) consisted of the girl, two spinsters (Prudence and 
Angelina Jedson), prim and doubtful of the world, 
and the young man who appeared to be considerably 
the worse for the alcohol he had consumed. 
In the beginning Ah Cum would run his glance 
speculatively over the assortment and select that 
individual who promised to be the most companionable. He was a philosopher. Usually his charges 
bored him with their interrogative chatter, for he 
knew that his information more often than not went 
into one ear and out of the other. To-day he selected 
the girl, and gave her the lead-chair. He motioned 
the young man to the rear chair, because at that hour 
the youth appeared to be a quantity close to zero. 
Being a Chinaman in blood and instinct, he despised 
all spinsters; they were parasites. A woman was 
bom to have children, particularly male children. 
Half a day had turned the comer of the hours; and 
Ah Cum admitted that this girl puzzled him. He 
dug about in his mind for a term to fit her, and he 
came upon the word new. She was new, unlike any 
other woman he had met in all his wide travel. He 
could not tell whether she was English or American. 
From long experience with both races he had acquired definitions, but none snugly applied to this 
girl. Her roving eagerness was at all times shaded 
with shyness, reserve, repression. Her voice was 
soft and singularly musical; but from time to time 
she uttered old-fashioned words which forced him 
to grope mentally. She had neither the semi- 
boisterousness of the average American girl nor the 
chilling insolence of the English. 
Ah, these English! They travelled all over, up 
and down the world, not to aiiquire information but 
rather to leave the impress of their superiority as a 
race. It was most amusing. They would suffer 
amazing hardships to hunt the snow-leopard; but in 
the Temple of Five Hundred Gods they would not 
take the trouble to ask the name of one! 
But this girl, she was alone. That added to his 
puzzle. At this moment she was staring ahead; and 
again came the opportunity to study her. Fine but 
strong lines marked the profile: that would speak for 
courage and resolution. She was as fair as the lily 
of the lotus. That suggested delicacy; and yet her 
young body was strong and vital. Whence had she 
come: whither was she bound? 
A temporary congestion in the street held up the 
caravan for a spell; and Ah Cum looked backward to 
note if any of the party had become separated. It 
was then that the young man entered his thought 
with some permanency: because there was no 
apparent reason for his joining the tour, since from 
the beginning he had shown no interest in anything. 
He never asked questions; he never addressed his 
companions; and frequently he took off his cap and 
wiped his forehead. For the first time it occurred 
to Ah Cum that the young man might not be quite 
conscious of his surroundings, that he might be mov- 
ing in that comatose state which is the aftermath of a 
long debauch. For all that. Ah Cum was forced 
to admit that his charge did not look dissipated. 
Ah Cum was more or less familiar with alcoholic 
types. In the genuinely dissipated face there was 
always a suggestion of slyness in ambush, peeping 
out of the wrinkles around the eyes and the lips. 
Upon this young fellow's face there were no wrinkles, 
only shadows, in the hollows of the cheeks and under 
the eyes. He was more like a man who had left his 
bed in the middle of convalescence. 
Ah Cum's glance returned to the girl. Of course, 
it really signified nothing in this careless part of the 
world that she was travelling alone. What gave the 
puzzling twist to an ordinary situation was her manner : she was guileless. She reminded him of his Imnet, when he gave the bird the freedom of the house : 
it became filled with a wild gaiety which bordered 
on madness. All that was needed to complete 
the simile was that the girl should burst into song. 
But, alas! Ah Cum shrugged philosophically. 
His commissions this day would not fill his metal 
pipe with one wad of tobacco. The spinsters had 
purchased one grass-linen tablecloth; the girl and the 
young man had purchased nothing. That she had 
not bought one piece of linen subtly established in 
Ah Cum's mind the fact that she had no home, that 
the instinct was not there, or she would have made 
some purchase against the future. 
Between his lectures — and primarily he was an itinerant lecturer —  he manoeuvred in vain to acquire 
some facts regarding the girl, who she was, whence she 
had come; but always she countered with: "What is 
that?'' Guileless she might be; simple, never. 
It was noon when the caravan reached the tower 
of the water-clock. Here they would be having 
lunch. Ah Cum said that it was customary to give 
the chair boys small money for rice. The four 
tourists contributed varied sums: the spinsters ten 
cents each, the girl a shilling, the young man a 
Mexican dollar. The lunches were individual affairs : 
sandwiches, bottled olives and jam commandeered 
from the Victoria. 
"You are alone?'' said one of the spinsters — 
Prudence Jedson. 
"Yes," answered the girl. 
"Aren't you afraid?" 
"Of what?"— serenely. 
"The men." 
They know.' 
"They know what? 
When and when not to speak. You have only 
to look resolute and proceed upon your way.' 
Ah Cum lent an ear covertly. 
"How old are you?" demanded Miss Prudence. 
The spinsters oflfered a good example of how 
singular each human being is, despite the fact that in 
sisters the basic corpuscle is the same. Prudence 
was the substance and Angelina the shadow; for 
Angelina never oflfered opinions, she only agreed 
with those advanced by Prudence. 
"I am twenty," said the girl. 
Prudence shook her head. "You must have 
 
travelled a good deal to know so much about 
men." 
The girl smiled and began to munch a sandwich. 
Secretly she was gratified to be assigned to the role 
of an old traveller. Still, it was true about men. 
Seldom they molested a woman who appeared to 
know where she was going and who kept her glance 
resolutely to the fore. 
Said Prudence, with commendable human kind- 
ness : '  My sister and I are going on to Shanghai and 
Peking. If you are going that way, why not join us." 
The girl's blood ran warmly for a minute. "That 
is very kind of you, but I am on my way to America. 
Up to dinner yesterday I did not expect to come to 
Canton. I was the last on board. Wasn't the 
river beautiful under the moonlight?" 
"We did not leave our cabins. Did you bring any 
luggage?" 
"All I own. In this part of the world it is wise 
never to be separated from your luggage." 
The girl fished into the bottle for an olive. How 
clever she was, to fool everybody so easily ! Not yet 
had any one suspected the truth: that she was, in a 
certain worldly sense, only four weeks old, that her 
every act had been written down on paper before- 
hand, and that her success lay in rigidly observing the 
rules which she herself had drafted to govern her 
conduct. 
She finished the olive and looked up. Directly in 
range stood the strange young man» although lie was 
at the far side of the loft. He was leaning against a 
window frame, his hat in his hand. She noted the 
dank hair on his forehead, the sweat of revolting 
nature. What a pity! But why? 
There was no way over this puzzle, nor under it, 
nor around it: that men should drink, knowing the 
inevitable payment. This young man did not drink 
because he sought the false happiness that lured men 
to the bottle. To her mind, recalling the picture of 
him the night before, there had been something 
tragic in the grim silent manner of his tippling. Peg 
after peg had gone down his blistered throat, but 
never had a smile touched his lips, never had his 
gaze roved inquisitively. Apparently he had pro- 
jected beyond his table some hypnotic thought, for 
it had held him all through the dining hour. 
Evidently he was gazing at the dull red roofs of 
the dty : but was he registering what he saw? Never 
glance sideways at man, the old Kanaka woman had 
said. Yes, yes; that was all very well in ordinary 
cases; but yonder was a soul in travail, if ever she 
had seen one. Here was not the individual against 
whom she had been warned. He had not addressed 
to her even the most ordinary courtesy of fellow 
travellers; she doubted that he was even aware of her 
existence. She went further: she doubted that he 
was fully conscious of where he was. 
Suddenly she became aware of the fact that he had 
 
brought no lunch. A little kindness would not 
bring the world tumbling about her ears. So she 
approached him with sandwiches. 
"You forgot your lunch," she said. "Won't you 
take these?" 
For a space he merely stared at her, perhaps 
wondering if she were real. Then a bit of colour 
flowed into his sunken white cheeks. 
