of the higher class and rarely a book. I believe you have done as much to wake them up 
as even the march of time. They read news- 
papers if they won't read their own poor little 
Overland. And you are popular personally 
and inspire a sort of uneasy emulation. You 
are a sort of illuminated bridge. Now tell 
me what your new paper is about.'' 
AWHILE later they came to the old Mission Dolores, long ago the center of a 
flourishing colony of native Indians, who, under the driving energy of the padres, manufac- 
tured practically every simple necessity known 
to Spain. There was nothing left but the crumbling church and its neglected graveyard, alone 
in a waste of sand. The graves of the priests 
and grandees were overrun with periwinkle, and 
the only other flower was the indestructible 
Gistilian rose. The heavy dvdl green bushes 
with their fluted dull pink blooms surrounded 
by tight little buds, were as dusty as the memory of the Spaniard in California. 
They went into the church to rest. Madeleine 
had never taken any interest in the history of 
her adopted state, and as they sat in a pew at 
the back, surrounded by silence and a deep twilight gloom. Masters told her the tragic story 
of Rezanov and Concha Arguello, who would 
have married before that humble altar and 
the history of California changed if the ironic 
fates had permitted. The story had been told 
him by Mrs. Hathaway, who was the daughter 
of one of the last of the grandees, and whose 
mother had lived in the Presidio when 
Rezanov sailed in through the Golden Gate 
and Concha Arguello had been La Favorita of 
Alta California. 
The little church was very quiet. The rest 
of the world seemed far away. Madeleine's 
fervid yielding imagination swept her back to 
that long-forgotten past when a woman to 
whom the earlier fates had been as kind as to 
herself had scaled all but the highest peaks of 
happiness and descended into the prof oundest 
depths of despair. Her sympathies, enhanced 
by her own haunting premonition of disaster, 
shattered her guard. She dropped her head 
into her hands and wept hopelessly. Masters 
felt his own moorings shake. He half rose 
to flee. But he too had been living in the 
romantic and passionate past and he too had 
been visited by moments of black forebodings. 
Love had tormented him to the breaking point 
before this and his ambition had often been 
submerged in his impatience for the excess of 
 
work which his newspaper would demand, exhausting to body and imagination alike. He 
had long ceased to doubt that she loved him, 
but her self-command had protected them 
both. He had believed it would never desert 
her and when it did his pulses had their way. 
He took her in his arms and strained her to 
him as if with the strength of his muscles and 
his will he would defy the blundering fates. 
Madeleine made no resistance. She was 
oblivious of everything but the ecstasy of the 
moment. When he kissed her she clung to 
him as ardently, and felt as mortals may, when, 
in dissolution, they have the vision of immortal bliss. She had the genius for completion and neither the past nor the future intruded upon the perfect moment when love 
was all. 
But the moment was brief. A priest entered and knelt before the altar. She disengaged herself and adjusted her hat with hands 
that trembled violently, then almost ran out 
of the church. Masters followed her. As they 
descended the steps Travers and his companion 
passed again, after their short canter down the 
peninsula. He stared so hard at Madeleine's 
 
revealing face that he almost forgot to take 
off his hat, and half reined in as if he would 
pause and gratify his curiosity} but thought 
better o£ it and rode on. 
Masters and Madeleine did not exchange a 
word until they had walked nearly a mile. 
But his brain was working as clearly as if passion had never clouded it, and although he 
could see no hope for the future he was determined to gain time and sacrifice anything 
rather than lose what little he might still 
have of her. He said finally, in a matter-of-fact voice: 
" I want you to use your will and imagination and forget that we ever entered that 
church.''
" Forget ! The memory of it will scourge 
me as long as I live. I have been unfaithful 
to my husband! '' 
" Oh, not quite as bad as that! " 
" What difference? I had surrendered completely and forgotten my vows, my religion, 
every principle that has guided my life. If 
— if — circumstances had been different that 
would not have been the end. I am a bad 
wicked woman.^ 
 
"Oh, no, you are not. You are a terribly 
good one. If you were not you would take 
your life in your hands and make it over." 
He did not dare mention the word divorce, 
and lest it travel from his mind to hers and 
cause his immediate repudiation, he added 
hastily: 
" You were immortal for a moment and it 
should be your glory, not a whip to scourge 
you. The time will come when you will remember it with gratitude and without a blush. 
You know now what you could be and feel. 
If we part at least you will have been saved 
from the complete aridity — '' 
" Part? " She looked at him for the first 
time, and although she had believed she never 
could look at him again without turning scarlet, 
there was only terror in her eyes. 
" I have been afraid of banishment." 
" It was my fault as much as yours." 
"I am not so sure. We won't argue that 
point. Is anything perfect arguable? But if 
I am to stay in San Francisco I must see you." 
" I'll never see you alone again." 
" I have no intention of pressing that point ! 
But the open is safe and you must walk with 
me every day." 
 
" I don't know! Oh — I don't know! And 
I think that I should tell Howard." 
" You will not tell Howard because you are 
neither cowardly nor cruel. Nor will you ruin 
a perfect memory that belongs to us alone. 
You do love me and that is the end of it — or 
the beginning of God knows what! " 
" Love ! " She shivered. " Yes, I love 
you. Why do poets waste so many beautiful 
words over love? It is the most terrible thing 
in the world." 
"Let us try to forget it for the present," 
he said harshly. " Forget everything we can- 
not have — " 
"You have your work. You have only to 
work harder than ever. What have I? " 
" We will walk together every day. We can 
take a book out on the beach and sit on the 
rocks. Read more fiction. That is its mission 
— to translate one for a time from the terrible 
realities of life. Your religion should be of 
some use to you. It is almost a pity there is 
no poverty out here. Sink your prejudices and 
seek out poor Sibyl Forbes. Every woman in 
town has cut her. In healing her wounds you 
could forget your own. Above all, use your 
 
"will. We are neither of us weaklings, and it 
could be a thousand times worse. Nothing 
shall take from us what we have, and there 
may be a way out." 
" There is none," she said sadly. " But I 
will do as you tell me. And PU forget — not 
remember — if I can." 
XXII 
THE END came swiftly. The next day 
Ben Travers drove down to Rincona. 
Mrs. Abbott listened to his garnished tale with 
bulging eyes and her three chins quivering with 
excitement. She had heard no gossip worth 
mentioning since she left town, and privately 
she hated the summer and Alta. 
" You should have seen her face when she 
came out of that church," cried Travers for the 
third timej he was falling into the senile habit 
of repeating himself. " It was fairly distorted 
and she looked as if she had been crying for a 
week. Mark my words, Masters had been 
making the hottest kind of love to her — he 
was little more composed than she. Bet you an 
eagle to a dime they elope within a week." 
" Serve Howard Talbot right for marrying 
a woman twenty years younger than himself 
and a Northerner to boot. Do you think he 
suspects? " 
"Not he. Now, I must be off. If I didn't 
 
call on the Hathaways and Montgomerys while 
I'm down here they'd never forgive me.'' 
" Both have house parties," said Mrs. Abbott 
enviously. " Just like you to get it first! I'd 
go with you but I must write to Antoinette 
McLane. She'll have to believe that her paragon is headed for the rocks this time." 
Mrs. McLane was having an attack of the 
blues when the letter arrived and did not open 
her mail until two days later. Then she drove 
at once to San Francisco. She was too wise in 
women to remonstrate with Madeleine, but she 
went directly to Dr. Talbot's office. It was the 
most unpleasant duty she had ever undertaken, 
but she knew that Talbot would not doubt his 
wife's fidelity, and she was determined to save 
Madeleine. She had considered the alternative of going to Masters, but even her strong 
spirit quailed before the prospect of that interview. Besides, if he were as deeply in love 
with Madeleine as she believed him to be, it 
would do no good. She had little faith in 
the self-abnegation of men where their passions were concerned. 
Dr. Talbot was in his office and saw her at 
once, and they talked for an hour. His face 
 
was purple and she feared a stroke. But he 
heard her quietly, and told her she had proved 
her friendship by coming to him before it was 
too late. When she left him he sat for another 
hour, alone. 
XXIII 
IT WAS six o'clock. San Francisco was enjoying one of its rare heat waves and 
Madeleine had put on a frock of white lawn 
made with a low neck and short sleeves, and 
tied a soft blue sash round her waist. As the 
hour of her husband's reasonably prompt homing approached she seated herself at the piano. 
She could not trust herself to sing, and played 
the " Adelaide." The past three days had not 
been as unhappy as she had expected. She had 
visited Sibyl Forbes, living in lonely splendor, 
and listened enthralled to that rebellious young 
woman (who had received her with passionate 
gratitude) as she poured out humiliations, bitter resentment, and matrimonial felicity. 
Madeleine had consoled and rejoiced and 
promised to talk to the all-powerful Mrs. McLane. 
Twice she had gone to hear John Mc- 
Cullough at his new California Theatre, with 
another dutiful doctor's wife who lived in the 
 
hotel, and she had walked for three hours with 
Masters every afternoon. He had always 
found it easy to turn her mind into any channel he chose, and he had never exerted himself 
to be more entertaining even with her. 
Today he had been jubilant and had swept 
her with him on his high tide of anticipation 
and triumph. Another patriotic San Franciscan had come to the rescue and the himdred 
thousand dollars lay to Masters* credit in the 
Bank of California. He had taken his 
offices an hour after the deposit was made; his 
business manager was engaged, and every 
writer of ability on the other newspapers was 
his to command. " Masters' Newspaper '' had 
been the talk of the journalistic world for 
months. He had picked his staff and he now 
awaited only the presses he had ordered that 
morning from New York. 
Madeleine had sighed as she listened to him 
dilate upon an active brilliant future in which 
she had no place, but she was in tune with him 
always and she could only be happy with him 
now. Moreover, it was an additional safe- 
guard. He would be too busy for dreams and 
human longings. As for herself she would go 
 
along somehow. Tears, after all, were a wonderful solace. Fear had driven her down a 
light romantic by-way of her nature. Even if 
days passed without a glimpse of him she could 
dwell on the pleasant thought that he was not 
far away, and now and then they would take 
a long walk together. 
The door opened and Dr. Talbot entered. 
His face was no longer purple. It was sallow 
and drawn. Her hands trailed off the keys, 
her arms fell limply. Not even during an epidemic, when he found little time for sleep, 
had his roimd face lost its ruddy brightness, 
his black eyes their look of jovial good-fellow- 
ship, his mouth its amiable cynicism. 
" Something has happened," she said faintly. 
" What is it? " 
" Would you mind sitting here? " He fell 
heavily into a chair and motioned to one opposite. She left the shelter of the piano with 
dragging feet, her own face drained of its 
color. Ben Travers! She knew what was 
coming. 
His arms lay limply along the arms of his 
chain As she gazed at him fascinated it 
seemed to her that he grew older every minute. 
And she had never seen any one look as sad. 
 
" I have been a bad husband to you," he said. 
And the life had gone out of even his voice. 
" Oh! No! No! you have been the best, the 
kindest and most indulgent of husbands." 
" I have been worse than a bad husband," 
he went on in the same monotonous voice. " I 
have been a failure. I never tried to 
understand you. I didn't want to understand 
what might interfere with my own selfish life. 
You have a mind and I ordered you to feed it 
husks. You asked me for the companionship 
that was your right and I told you to go and 
amuse yourself as best you could. I fooled 
myself with the excuse that you were perfect 
as you were, but the bald truth was that I liked 
the society of men better, and hated any form 
of mental exertion unconnected with my profession. I plucked the rarest flower a good-for- 
nothing man ever found and I didn't even re- 
member to give it fresh water. It is a wonder 
you didn't wilt before you did. You were wilting — dying mentally — when Masters came 
along. You f oimd in him all that I had denied you. And now I have the punishment I 
deserve. You no longer love me. You love 
him." 
 
"Oh — Oh — " Madeleine twisted her 
hands in her lap and stared at them. " You — 
you — cannot help being what you are. I long 
since ceased to find fault with you — " 
" Yes, when you ceased to love me! When 
you found that we were hopelessly mismated. 
When you gave up." 
"I — I'm very fond of you still. How 
could I help it when you are so good to me? " 
" I have no doubt of your friendship — or 
of your fidelity. But you love Masters. Can 
you deny it? " 
« No." 
" Are you preparing to elope with him? " 
"Oh! No! No! How could you dream 
of such a thing? " 
" I am told that every one is expecting it." 
" I would no more elope than I would ask 
for a divorce. I may be sinful enough to love 
a man who is not my husband, but I am not 
bad enough for that. And people are very 
stupid. They know that Langdon Masters' 
future lies here. If I were as wicked a woman 
as that, at least he is not a fool. Why, only 
today he received the capital for his news- 
paper." 
 
"And do you know so little of men ana 
women as to imagine that you two could go on 
indefinitely content with the mere fact that you 
love each other? I may not have known my own 
wife because I chose to be blind, but a doctor 
knows as much about women in general as a 
father confessor. Men and women are not 
made like that! It seems that every one but 
myself has known for months that Masters is 
in love with youj and Masters is a man of 
strong passions and relentless will. He has 
used his will so far to curb his passions, principally, no doubt, on my account; he is my 
friend and a man of honor. But there are 
moments in life when honor as well as virtue 
goes overboard." 
" But — but — we have agreed never to see 
each other alone again — except out of doors.'' 
" That is all very well, but there are always 
imexpected moments of isolation. The devil 
sees to that. And while I have every confidence in your virtue — under normal conditions — I know the helpless yielding of women 
and. the ruthless passions of men. It would 
be only a question of time. I may have been a 
bad husband but I am mercifully permitted to 
save you, and I shall do so." 
 
He rose heavily from his chain " Do you 
know where I can find Masters? '' 
She sprang to her feet and for the first time 
in her life her voice was shrill. 
" You are not going to kill him? " 
" Oh, no. I am not going to kill him. There 
has been scandal enough already. And I have 
no desire to kill him. He has behaved very 
well, all things considered. I am almost as 
sorry for him as I am for you — and myself! 
Do you know where he is? '' 
" He is probably dining at the Union Club 
— or he may be at his new oflices. They are 
somewhere on Commercial Street." 
He went out and Madeleine sat staring at 
the door with wide eyes and parted lips. She 
felt no inclination to tears, nor even to faint, 
although her body could hardly have been 
colder in death. She felt suspended in a 
vacuum, awaiting something more dreadful 
than even this interview with her husband had 
 been. 
XXIV 
DR. TALBOT turned towaixl the stairs, 
but it occurred to him that Masters 
might still be in his rooms and he walked to 
the other end of the hall. A ringing voice 
answered his knock. He entered. Masters 
grasped him by the hand, exclaiming, " I was 
going to look you up tonight and tell you the 
good news. Has Madeleine told you? I have 
my capital! And I have just received a telegram from New York saying that my presses 
will start by freight tomorrow. That means 
we^U have our newspaper in threie weeks at 
the outside — But what is the matter, old 
chap? I never saw you look seedy before. 
Suppose we take a week off and go on a bear 
hunt? It's the last vacation I can have in a 
month of Sundays." 
" I have come to tell you that you must leave 
San Francisco." 
"Oh! " Masters' exuberance dropped like 
a shining cloak from a figure of steel. He 
 
walked to his dtadel, the hearth rug, and lit a 
cigarette. 
" I suppose you have been listening to the 
chatter of that infernal old gossip, Ben 
Travers." 
" Ben Travers knows me too well to bring 
