smile; its effect somewhat abridged by the fact that the small turban of
bright blue feathers topping her large face had slipped to one side.
Mrs. Goodrich looked startled and gazed deprecatingly at her friends.
Mrs. Lawrence's eyes snapped, and Mrs. de Lacey looked thoughtful.  Only
Mrs. Tracy spoke.
"Wonderful!  I feel more like Methuselah than ever.  But it certainly is
a relief to know what is the matter with me.  Do go on, Mary--I may call
you Mary?  I only came out the year you were married--and you cannot
imagine what a satisfaction it is to know that I am younger than
you--were once.  I've never done any of those things one reads about to
keep looking young except cold cream my face at night, but I've often
felt as if I'd like to----"
"Do stop babbling, Lily Tracy!" exclaimed Mrs. Vane, who, however
disgusted, was quite as curious as the others to hear the rest of the
tale.  And Mrs. Goodrich said softly:
"Yes, go on, Mary, darling.  I am sure the most thrilling part is yet to
come.  You see how interested your old friends all are."
Madame Zattiany moved her cool insolent eyes to Mrs. Vane's set visage.
"The time came when I knew that youth was returning to my face as well as
to the hidden processes of my body; and I can assure you that it excited
me far more than the renewed functioning of my brain.  The treatment
induces flesh, and as I had been excessively thin, my skin, as flesh
accumulated, grew taut and lines disappeared.  My eyes, which had long
been dull, had regained something of their old brilliancy under the
renaissance of brain and blood, and that was accentuated.  My hair----"
"Do you mean to say that it restores hair to its natural color?" demanded
Mrs. Tracy, who had been plucking out bleached hairs for the past year.
"That would----"
"It does not.  But my hair is the shade that never turns gray; and of
course my teeth had always been kept in perfect order.  I should never in
any circumstances be a fat woman, but the active functioning of the
glands gave me just enough flesh to complete the outer renovation.  My
complexion, after so many years of neglect, naturally needed scientific
treatment of another sort, but that was still to be had in Vienna."
"Ah!"  The exclamation was sharp.  Here, at least, was something they
knew all about and systematically discountenanced.  "Do you mean that you
had your skin ripped off?" asked Mrs. Ruyler.
"Certainly not.  The skin was simply softened and reinvigorated by
massage and the proper applications."
They were too proud to ask for details, and Mrs. de Lacey, who was stout,
glanced triumphantly at Mrs. Ruyler, who was stouter.  "You mean, Mary,
that one has to be thin for this treatment to be a success?"
"That I cannot say.  I really do not know what the treatment would do to
a stout woman of middle or old age.  The internal change would be the
same, but, although additional flesh can be kept down by medicaments and
diet, I doubt if there would be a complete restoration of the outlines of
face and neck.  A woman of sixty, with sagging flesh and distended skin,
might once more look forty, if the treatment were successful, but hardly
as young as I do.  I was particularly fortunate in having withered.
Still, I cannot say.  As I told you, many women of all ages and sizes
took the treatment while I was in Vienna.  But they are too scattered for
me at least to obtain any data on the results.  I knew none of them
personally and I was too busy to seek them out and compare notes. . . .
But with me----"  She leaned back and lit a cigarette, looking over her
audience with mischievous eyes.  "With me it has been a complete
success--mentally, physically----"
"Yes, and how long will it last?" shot out Mrs. Ruyler.  She was as
strong as a horse and as alert mentally as she had ever been, and her
complete indifference to rejuvenation in any of its forms gave her a
feeling of superior contempt for all those European women who had swarmed
to Vienna like greedy flies at the scent of molasses--no doubt to undergo
terrible torments that Mary Zattiany would not admit.  But her objective
curiosity on the subject of youth was insatiable and she read everything
that appeared in the newspapers and magazines about it, not neglecting
the advertisements.  If she had sent for a facial masseuse she would have
felt that she had planted a worm at the root of the family tree, but the
subject was unaccountably interesting.
Mary Zattiany, who understood her complex perfectly, shrugged her
graceful shoulders.  "It is too soon to reply with assurance.  The method
was only discovered some six years ago.  But the eminent biologists who
have given profound study to the subject estimate that it will last for
ten years at least, when it can be renewed once at all events.  Of course
the end must come.  It was not intended that man should live for ever.
And who would wish it?"
"Not I, certainly," said Mrs. Ruyler sententiously.  "Well, I must admit
it has been a complete success in your case.  That is not saying I
approve of what you have done.  You know how we have always regarded such
things.  If you had lived your life in New York instead of in
Europe--notoriously loose in such matters--I feel convinced that you
would never have done such a thing--exhausted or not.  Moreover, I am a
religious woman and I do not believe in interfering with the will of the
Almighty."
"Then why have a doctor when you are ill?  Are not illnesses the act of
God?  They certainly are processes of nature."
"I have always believed in letting nature take her course," said Mrs.
Ruyler firmly.  "But of course when one is ill, that is another
matter----"
"Is it?"  Madame Zattiany's eye showed a militant spark.  "Or is it
merely that you are so accustomed to the convention of calling in a
doctor that you have never wasted thought on the subject?  But is not
medicine a science?  When you are ill you invoke the aid of science in
the old way precisely as I did in the new one.  The time will come when
this treatment I have undergone will be so much a matter of course that
it will cause no more discussion than going under the knife for
cancer--or for far less serious ailments.  I understand that you, Polly,
had an operation two years ago for gastric ulcer, an operation called by
the very long and very unfamiliar name, gastroenterostomy.  Did you
feel--for I assume that you agree with Isabel in most things--that you
were flying in the face of the Almighty?  Or were you only too glad to
take advantage of the progress of science?"
Mrs. Vane merely grunted.  Mrs. Ruyler exclaimed crossly, "Oh, no one
ever could argue with you, Mary Ogden.  The truth is," she added, in a
sudden burst of enlightenment that astonished herself, "I don't suppose
any of us would mind if you didn't look younger than our daughters.  That
sticks in our craw.  Why not admit it?"
Mrs. Oglethorpe chuckled.  She and Isabel Ruyler snapped at each other
like two belligerent old cats every time they crossed each other's path,
but, with the exception of Mary Ogden, whom she loved, she liked her
better than any of her old friends.
But once more Mrs. Vane drew herself up (figuratively).  "Speak for
yourself.  It may be that I am too old to accept new ideas, but this one
certainly seems to me downright immoral and indecent.  This is not
intended to reflect on you personally, Mary, and of course you were more
or less demoralized by your close contact with the war.  I mean the
idea--the thing--itself.  We may call in doctors and surgeons when we are
in bodily discomfort, and be thankful that they are more advanced than in
our mothers' time, when people died of appendicitis every day in the week
and called it inflammation of the bowels.  But no one can tell me that
rejuvenation is not against the laws of nature.  What are you going to do
with this new youth--I never saw any one look less indifferent to
life!--make fools of men again--of our sons?"
"Who can tell?" asked Mary maliciously.  "Could anything be more amusing
than to come back to New York after thirty-four years and be a belle
again, with the sons and grandsons of my old friends proposing to me?"
"Do you really mean that?"  Mrs. Vane almost rose.  She recalled that her
youngest son had met Madame Zattiany in Mrs. Oglethorpe's box on Monday
night and had been mooning about the house ever since.  "If I thought
that----"
"Well, what would you do, Polly?" Mary laughed outright.  "Your
son--Harry is his name, is it not?--is remarkably good-looking and very
charming.  After all, where could you find a safer and more understanding
wife for him than a woman who has had not only the opportunity to know
the world and men like the primer, but looks--is--so young that he is
bound to forget it and be led like a lamb?  Girls, those uncharted seas,
are always a risk----"
"Stop tormenting Polly," exclaimed Mrs. Oglethorpe.  "Mary has no
intention of marrying any one.  She's only waiting for her estate to be
settled in order to return to Europe and devote herself to certain plans
of reconstruction----"
"Is that true?"
"Quite true," said Madame Zattiany, smiling.  "Don't worry, Polly.  If I
marry it will be some one you are not interested in too personally, and
it is doubtful if I ever marry at all.  There's a tremendous work to be
done in Europe, and so far as lies in my power I shall do my share.  If I
marry it will be some one who can help me.  I can assure you I long since
ceased to be susceptible, particularly to young men.  Remember that while
my brain has been rejuvenated with the rest of my physical structure,
my mind is as old as it was before the treatment."  She gave a slight
unnoticed shiver.  "My memory, that for years before the war was dull and
inactive, is now as vigorous as ever."
Several of the women recalled those old stories of Countess Zattiany's
youth, and looked at her sharply.  There was a general atmosphere of
uneasiness in the large respectable room.  But whether or not they gave
her the benefit of the doubt, they had always given her due credit for
neither being found out nor embarrassing her virtuous friends with
confidences.
Mrs. Tracy was the first to break the silence.  "But you will come to all
of us as long as you do stay, will you not?  I do so want to give you a
dinner next week."
"Yes, yes, indeed."  The chorus was eager, and sincere enough.  After
all, nothing could alter the fact that she was one of them.
"Oh, I have enjoyed meeting you all again, and I am hoping to see more of
you."  Madame Zattiany felt that she could do no less than be gracious.
"I have become a very quiet person, but I will go with pleasure."
"You must let us see you daily while you are with us," cried Mrs.
Goodrich, her spirits soaring at the prospect.  As Mary stood up and
adjusted her hat before the mirror she felt that she had successfully
distracted their attention from a quick sigh of utter boredom.  "You are
too kind, Nelly," she murmured, "but then you always were."
"Yes, go, Mary," said Mrs. Oglethorpe peremptorily, and rising also.
"Clear out and let them talk you over.  They'll burst if you don't.
Human nature can stand just so much and no more."
Madame Zattiany took her leave amid much laughter, more or less
perfunctory, and one and all, whatever their reactions, insisted that she
must give her old friends the pleasure of entertaining her, and of seeing
her as often as possible as long as she remained in New York.
She escaped at last.  That was over.  But tomorrow night!  Tomorrow
night.  Every wheel and tire seemed to be revolving out the words.  Well,
if he were repelled and revolted, no doubt it would be for the best.  She
had made up her mind to spare him nothing.  He would hear far more than
she had told those women.  Certainly he should be given full opportunity
to come to his senses.  If he refused to take it, on his head be the
consequences.  She would have done her part.
XXVII
On Saturday afternoon as Clavering was walking up Forty-fourth Street
he met Anne Goodrich coming out of the Belasco Theatre.  He saw her
first and tried to avoid her, for her family and the Oglethorpes were
as one, but she caught sight of him and held out her hand.
"I shouldn't speak to you after your base desertion the other night,"
she said, smiling.  "But you do look rather seedy and I prefer to
flatter myself that you really were ill."
"Was sure I was coming down with the flu," Clavering mumbled.  "Of
course you know that nothing else----"
"Oh, hostesses are too canny these days to take offence.  All we are
still haughty enough to demand is a decent excuse.  But you really owe
me something, and besides I've been wanting to talk to you.  Take me to
Pierre's for tea."
She spoke in a light tone of command.  There had been a time when
issuing commands to Clavering had been her habit and he had responded
with a certain palpitation, convinced for nearly a month that Anne
Goodrich was the Clavering woman.  He had known her as an awkward
schoolgirl and then as one of the prettiest and most light-hearted of
the season's débutantes, but she had never interested him until after
her return from France, where she had done admirable work in the
canteens.  Then, sitting next to her at a dinner, and later for two
hours in the conservatory, he had thought her the finest girl he had
ever met.  He thought so still; but although she stimulated his mind
and they had many tastes in common, he had soon realized that when
apart he forgot her and that only novelty had inspired his brief
desire.  She might have everything for another man as exacting as
himself, but that unanalyzable something his own peculiar essence
demanded no woman had ever possessed until he met Mary Zattiany.
He had begun too ardently to cease his visits abruptly and, moreover,
he still found her more companionable than any woman he knew; he
continued to show her a frank and friendly devotion until an attack of
influenza sent him to the hospital for a month; when he accepted the
friendly intervention of fate and thereafter timed his occasional calls
to coincide with the hour of tea, when she was never alone.  There were
no more long morning walks, no more long rides in her car, no more
hastily arranged luncheons at the Bohemian restaurants that interested
her, no more "dropping in" and long telephone conversations.  He still
enjoyed a talk with her at a dinner, and she was always a pleasure to
the eye with her calm and regular features softened by a cloud of
bright chestnut hair that matched her eyes to a shade, her serene brow
and her exquisite clothes.  She did not carry herself well according to
his standard; "well" when she came out six years ago had meant laxity
of shoulders and pride of stomach, and in spite of her devotion to
outdoor sports she had fallen a prey to fashion.  She so far
disapproved of the new fashion in girls, however, that she was making
an effort to stand erect and she had even banished powder from her
clear warm skin.  Today she was becomingly dressed in taupe velvet,
with stole and muff and turban of sable; but Clavering had fancied that
her fine face wore a weary discontented expression until she saw him,
when it changed swiftly to a sort of imperious gladness.  It made him
vaguely uncomfortable.  He had never flattered himself that she loved
him, but he had believed in the possibility of winning her.  He had
later chosen to believe that she had grown as indifferent as himself,
and he wondered, as he stood plunging about in his mind for an excuse
to avoid a tête-à-tête, why she had not married.
"Well--you see----"
"Come now!  You don't go to teas, men never call these days, and you
surely have done your column for tomorrow.  Here is the car.  You can
spare me an hour."
He had always avoided any appearance of rudeness and in his mind at
least he had treated her badly; he followed her without further
hesitation, trusting to his agile mind to keep her off the subject of
Madame Zattiany.  This he would do at the cost of rudeness itself, for
he would not permit fiasco at the last moment.
The street was packed with automobiles and taxis, and after a slow
progress toward Fifth Avenue they arrived in time to see the traffic
towers flash on the yellow light and were forced to halt for another
three minutes.  He had started an immediate discussion of the play she
had just witnessed, knowing her love of argument, but she suddenly
broke off and laid her hand on his arm.
"Look!" she exclaimed.  "The famous Countess Zattiany in that car with
mother.  Of course you know her; you were with her at the opera on the
historic night, weren't you?  Tell me!  What is she like?  Did you ever
hear of anything so extraordinary?"
"Never.  I really know her very slightly.  But as I had met her and she
had kindly asked me to dinner, I was glad to return the compliment when
Mrs. Oglethorpe sent me her box, as she always does once or twice
during the season, you know.  But go on.  What you said interested me
immensely, although I don't agree with you.  I have certain fixed
standards when it comes to the drama."
She picked him up and the argument lasted until they were seated in
Pierre's and had ordered tea.
"I might have taken you home," she said then.  "We could have had tea
in my den.  No doubt Countess Zattiany was returning with mother, who,
it seems, has always adored her----"
"This is ever so much nicer, for we are far less likely to be
interrupted.  I haven't had a real talk with you for months."
And he gave her a look of boyish pleasure, wholly insincere, but so
well done that she flushed slightly.
"Is that my fault?  There was a time when you came almost every day.
And then you never came in the same way again."  It evidently cost her
something to say this, for her flush deepened, but she managed a glance
of dignified archness.
"Oh, remember I had a villainous attack of the flu, and after that
there were arrears of work to make up.  Moreover, the dramatic critic
came down with an even longer attack and they piled his work on me.  I
don't know what it is to 'drop in' these days."
"Well--are you always to be driven to death?  I read your column
religiously and it runs so smoothly and spontaneously that it doesn't
seem possible it can take you more than an hour to write it."
"An hour!  Little you know.  And subjects don't drop out of the clouds,
dear Anne.  I have to go through all the newspapers, read an endless
number of books--not all fiction by a long sight--glance through the
magazines, reviews, weekly publications and foreign newspapers, read my
rivals' columns, go about among the Sophisticates, attend first-nights,
prize-fights, and even see the best of the movies.  I assure you it's a
dog's life."
"It sounds tremendously interesting.  Far, far more so than my own.  I
am so tired of that!  I--that is one thing I wanted to talk to you
about--I meant to bring it up at my dinner--I wish you would introduce
me to some of your Sophisticates.  Uncle Din says they are the most
interesting people in New York and that he always feels young again
when he is at one of their parties.  Will you take me to one?"
"Of course I will.  The novelty might amuse you----"
"It's not only novelty I want.  I want really to know people whose
minds are constantly at work, who are doing the things we get the
benefit of when we are intelligent enough to appreciate them.  I cannot
go on in the old way any longer.  I paint more or less and read a great
deal--still on the lines you laid down.  But one cannot paint and read
and walk and motor and dance all the time.  Even if I had not gone to
France I should have become as bored and disgusted as I am now.  You
know that I have a mind.  What has it to feed on?  I don't mean, of
course, that all the women I know are fools.  Some of them no doubt are
cleverer than I am.  But all the girls of my set--except Marian
Lawrence, and we don't get on very well--are married; and some have
babies, some have lovers, some are mad about bridge, a few have gone in
for politics, which don't interest me, and those that the war made
permanently serious devote themselves to charities and reform
movements.  The war spoilt me for mere charity work--although I give a
charity I founded one afternoon a week--and mother does enough for one
family anyhow.  I see no prospect of marrying--I don't know a young man
who wants to talk anything but sport and prohibition--you are an oasis.
There you are!  The Sophisticates are an inspiration.  I am sure they
will save my life."
"But have you reflected----"  Clavering was embarrassed.  She had
controlled her tones and spoken with her usual crisp deliberateness,
but he knew that the words came from some profound emotional reaction.
For Anne Goodrich it was an outburst.  "You see--it is quite possible
that when the novelty wore thin you would not be much better off than
you are now.  All these people are intensely interested in their
particular jobs.  They are specialists.  You----"
"You mean, what have I to give them?"
"Not exactly.  You could give them a good deal.  To say nothing of your
own high intelligence, they are by no means averse from taking an
occasional flyer into the realm of fashion.  Curiosity partly, natural
human snobbishness, perhaps.  They will go to your house if you invite
them, no doubt of that; and they may conceive an enthusiastic liking
for you.  But after all, you would not be one of them.  Even though
they genuinely appreciated your accomplishments, still you would be
little more than an interesting incident.  They are workers, engaged in
doing the things they think most worth while--which are worth while
because they furnish what the intelligent public is demanding just now,
and upon which the current market places a high value.  And you are
merely an intellectual young woman of leisure.  They might think it a
pity you didn't have to work, but secretly, no matter what their
regard, they'd consider you negligible because you belong to a class
that is content to be, not to do.  I assure you they consider
themselves the most important group in New York--in America--at
present: the life-giving group of suns round which far-off planets
humbly revolve."
"I see.  You mean that my novelty would wear thin long before theirs.
Heaven knows I have little to give them.  I should feel rather ashamed
sitting at the head of my table offering nothing but terrapin and
Gobelins.  But don't you think I could make real friends of some of
them?  Surely we would find much in common to talk about--and they
certainly take time to play, according to Uncle Din."
"I think there would always be a barrier. . . .  Ah!  I have an idea.
Why don't you set up a studio and take your painting seriously?  Cut
yourself off from the old life and join the ranks of the real workers?
Then, by degrees, they would accept you as a matter of course.  You
could return their hospitality in your studio, which could be one of
the largest--there is no danger of overwhelming them; they are too
successful themselves.  Think it over."
Miss Goodrich's face, which had looked melancholy, almost hopeless, lit
up again.  Her red mouth lifted at the corners, light seemed to pour
into her hazel eyes.  "I'll do it!" she exclaimed.  "I did a portrait
of father last month and it really is good.  He is delighted with it,
and you know how easy he is to please!  I wonder I never thought of it
before.  You certainly are the most resourceful man in the world,
Lee--by the way, I hear there is a party at that wonderful Gora
Dwight's tonight.  Do take me."
"Oh! . . .  I'm so sorry . . . it's quite impossible, Anne.  I wish I
could. . . .  I'll take you to one next week.  And meanwhile get to
work.  Be ready to meet them in the outer court at least.  You'll find
it an immense advantage--rob your advent of any suggestion of
curiosity."
"I'll look for a studio tomorrow.  That is the way I do things--my
father's daughter, you see."
She spoke with gay determination, but her face had fallen again.  In a
moment she began to draw on her gloves.  "Now I'll have to run if I'm
to dress and get over to Old Westbury for dinner at eight.  Thank you
so much, Lee; you've been a godsend.  If I were a writer instead of a
mere dabbler in paints I'd dedicate my first book to you.  I'm so sorry
I haven't time to drive you down to Madison Square."
Clavering, drawing a long breath as if he had escaped from imminent
danger, saw her into her car and then walked briskly home.  He intended
to dine alone tonight.  And in a moment he had forgotten Anne Goodrich
as completely as he had forgotten Janet Oglethorpe.
XXVIII
He called for Madame Zattiany at ten o'clock.  This time she was
standing in the hall as the man opened the door, and she came out
immediately.  A lace scarf almost concealed her face.
"I didn't order the car," she said.  "It is such a fine night, and she
lives so near.  Do you mind?"
"I much prefer to walk, but your slippers----"
"They are dark and the heels not too high."
"I'm not going to make the slightest preliminary attempt at
indifference tonight, nor wait for one of your leads.  How long do you
intend to stay at this party?"
"Oh, an hour, possibly.  One must not be rude."  Her own tones were not
even, but he could not see her face.
"But you'll keep your word and tell me everything tonight?"
She gave a deep sigh.  "Yes, I'll keep my word.  No more
now--please! . . .  Tell me, what do they do at these parties besides
talk--dance?"
"Not always.  They have charades, spelling matches, pick a word out of
