Where the wren made its nest, and the pet flowers grew— 
Of the trees that she loved for their scent and their shade, 
Where the robin, and wild-bee, and humming-bird play'd. 
  And she spoke of the greenwood which bordered the 
farm. 
Where her glad moments glided unmix'd with alarm; 
  By Thomas G. Spear. 
 
Of tlie well by the wicket whose waters were free, 
And the lake with its white margin travers'd in glee. 
'And she pondered, delighted, the joys to retrace 
Of the family scenes of that ruralized place, — 
Of its parties and bridals, its loves and its spells — 
Its heart-clinging ties and its sadden'd farewells. 
  She pictured the meeting-house, where, with the throng 
She heard the good pastor and sang the sweet song — 
Of the call from the pulpit — the feast at the shrine. 
And the haliow'd communings with feelings divine. 
'"And listen, my son," she did smilingly say, 
"If 'tis pleasant to sing, it is sweeter to pray — 
If the future is bright in the day of thy prime, 
That britjhtness mav grow with the fading of time. 
' "Look up to thy laker, my son. and rejoice !" 
Was the last gentle whisper that came from her voice, 
While its soft soothing tones on my dreaming ear fell, 
As she glided away with a smiling farewell. 
' There are dreams of the heavens, and dreams of the 
earth. 
And dreams of disease that to phantoms give birth, 
But the hearer of angels, awake or asleep. 
Has a vision of love to remember and keep. 
'I awoke from the spell of that vision of night, 
And inly communed with a quiet delight, 
And the past, and the present, and future survey'd, 
In the darkness presented by fancy, array'd. 
 I thought of the scenes when that mother was nigh, 
In a soft sunny land, and beneath a mild sky. 
When at matins we walked to the heahli-giving spring, 
With the dew on the grass, and the birds on the wing. 
« Of the draughts at the fount as the white sun arose, 
And the views from the bluifs where the broad river 
flows — 
Of the sound from the shore of the fisherman's train, 
And the sight of the ship as it sailed to the main. 
  Of the wild-flowers pluck'd from the glen and the field, 
And the beauties the meadows and gardens revealed — 
Of all that she paused to explain or explore, 
'Till I learned, in my wonder, to think and adore. 
'And of joys that attended the fireside scene, 
When woodlands and meadows no longer were green— 
Of the sports, and the tales, and the holiday glee. 
That ever were rife at the fond mother's knee. 
' Of the duties of home, and the studies of school, 
With the many delights that divided their rule, 
'Till the sunshine of boyhood had ended, and brought 
The cares and the shadows of manhood and thought. 
  And I sighed for the scenes that had faded away, 
For the forms that had fallen from age to decay — 
For the friends who had vanished, while looking before, 
To paths that their feet were forbid to explore. 
  And glancing beyond, through the vista of time, 
With a soul full of hope, and with life in its prime, 
Though flowers by memory cherished had died 
Life's garden was still with some blossoms supplied. 
'And oft as that dream to my spirit comes back, 
A newness of thought re-illumines my track, — ' " 
" Pure and tender. The mother who called 
forth that heart-warm tribute was, doubtless, a good 
motlier," said Anna. 
" You remember Cowper's lines, written on re- 
ceiving his mother's picture ." remarked her hus- 
band, after musing for a short time. 
" O, yes. Very well. They have often affected 
me to tears. 
' O that those lips had language ! Life has passed 
But roughly with me since I heard thee last. 
Those lips are thine — thy own sweet smile I see, 
The same that oft in childhood solaced me ; 
Voice only fails, else how distinct they say 
  Grieve not. my child, chase all thy fears away.' ' 
"To him, how great was the loss he sustained 
in the death of his mother. Had she lived, the 
deep melancholy that seized him in after life might 
never have occurred. With what simple eloquence 
he describes his loss." And Mr. Hartley repeated 
a passage of the poem. 
"' My mother ! when I learned that thou wast dead, 
Say, wast thou conscious of the tears I shed? 
Hovered thy spirit o'er thy sorrowing son, 
Wretched, een then, life's journey just begun? 
Perhaps thou gavest me, though unfelt, a kiss : 
Perhaps a tear, if souls can weep in bliss 
Ah, that maternal smile ! it answers — Yes. 
I heard the bell toll on thy burial day, 
I saw the hearse that bore thee slow away, 
And turning from my nursery window, drew 
A long, long sigh, and wept a last adieu ! 
But was it such ? — It was. — Where thou art gone 
Adieus and farewells are a sound unknown. 
May I but meet thee on that peaceful shore. 
Thy parting word shall pass my lips no more ! 
Thy maidens grieved themselves at my concern, 
Oft gave me promise of thy quick return. 
What ardently I wished, I long believed, 
And disappointed still, was still deceived. 
By expectation every day beguiled. 
Dupe of to-morrow even from a child. 
Thus many a sad to-morrow came and went, 
'Till all my stock of infant sorrow spent, 
I learned at last submission to my lot. 
But, though I less deplored thee, ne'er forgot.' " 
Mrs. Hartley leaned her head upon her hus- 
band's shoulder, unable to restrain the tears that 
were springing to her eye. 
"If Heaven only spares me to my children, it is 
all J ask," she murmured. " I will be patient with 
 
[and forbearing towards them. I will discharge my 
'duties with unwearied diligence. Who can fill a 
mother's place ? Alas ! no one. If any voice had 
been as full of love for him when a child, if any 
hand had ministered to him as tenderly, this touch- 
ing remembrance of his mother would never have 
been recorded by Cowper. 
" ' Thy nightly visits to my chamber made, 
That thou might'st find me safe and warmly laid; 
Thy morning bounties ere I left my home, 
The biscuit or confectionary plum ; 
The fragrant waters on my cheek bestow'd 
By thy own hand, 'till fiesh they shone and glowed: 
All this, and more endearing still than all. 
Thy constant flow of love, that knew no fall, 
Ne'er roughened by those cataracts and breaks 
That humor interposed too often makes. 
Could Time, his flight reversed, restore the hours 
When, playing with thy vesture's tissued flowers, 
The violet, the pink, and jessamine, 
I prick'd them into paper with a pin, 
(And thou wast happier than myself the while, 
Would'st softly speak, and stroke my head and smile) 
