mamma ! if I could lay my head in your lap for a minute l" 
Then came thoughts of her Bible and hymn-book, and the 
friend who had given it ; sorrowful thoughts they were ; and 
at last, humbled and sad, poor Ellen sought that great friend 
she knew she had displeased, and prayed earnestly to be 
made a good child ; she felt and owned she was not one 
now. 
It was long after mid-day when Ellen rose from her 
knees. Her passion was all gone ; she felt more gentle and 
pleasant than she had done for days ; but at the bottom of 
her heart resentment was not all gone. She still thought 
she had cause to be angry, and she could not think of her 
aunt's look and tone without a thrill of painful feeling. In 
a very different mood, however, from that in which she had 
flown up stairs two or three hours before, she now came softly 
down, and went out by the front door, to avoid meeting her 
aunt. She had visited that morning a little brook which ran 
through the meadow on the other side of the road. It had 
great charms for her ; and now crossing the lane and creeping 
under the fence, she made her way again to its banks. At 
a particular spot, where the brook made one of its sudden 
turns, Ellen sat down upon the grass, and watched the dark 
water, — whirling, brawling over the stones, hurrying past her, 
with ever the same soft pleasant sound, and she was never tired 
of it. She did not hear footsteps drawing near, and it was not 
till some one was close beside her, and a voice spoke almost 
in her ears, that she raised her startled eyes and saw the little 
girl who had come the evening before for a pitcher of milk. 
" What are you doing?" said the latter. 
" I'm watching for fish," said Ellen. 
" Watching for fish !" said the other, rather disdainfully. 
" Yes," said Ellen, — " there, in that little quiet place they 
come sometimes ; I've seen two.'' 
" You can look for fish another time. Come now and take 
a walk with me." 
" Where ?" said Ellen. 
" 0, you shall see. Come ! I'll take you all about and 
show you where people live ; you ha'n't been anywhere yet, 
have you ?" 
No," said Ellen, — " and I should like dearly to go, but " — 
She hesitated. Her aunt's words came to mind, that this 
was not a good girl, and that she must have nothing to do 
with her ; but she had not more than half believed them, and 
she could not possibly bring herself now to go in and ask 
Miss Fortune's leave to take this walk. " I am sure," 
thought Ellen, " she would refuse me if there was no reason 
in the world." And then the delight of rambling through 
the beautiful country, and being for awhile in other company 
than that of her aunt Fortune and the old grandmother ! 
The temptation was too great to be withstood. 
" Well, what are you thinking about ?" said the girl ; 
" what's the matter? won't you come ? " 
"Yes," said Ellen, "I'm ready. Which way shall we 
go?" 
With the assurance from the other that she would show 
her plenty of ways, they set off down the lane ; Ellen with a 
secret fear of being seen and called back, till they had gone 
some distance, and the house was hid from view. Then her 
pleasure became great. The afternoon was fair and mild, the 
footing pleasant, and Ellen felt like a bird out of a cage. 
She was ready to be delighted with every trifle ; her companion could not by any means understand or enter into 
her bursts of pleasure at many a little thing which she of the 
black eyes thought not worthy of notice. She tried to bring 
Ellen back to higher subjects of conversation. 
" How long have you been here ?" she asked. 
" 0, a good while," said Ellen, — " I don't know exactly ; 
it's a week, I believe." 
* Why do you call that a good while ?" said the other. 
" Well, it seems a good while to me,'' said Ellen, sighing ; 
" it seems as long as four, I am sure." 
" Then you don't like to live here much, do you ?" 
" I had rather be at home, of course." 
" How do you like your aunt Fortune ?" 
" How do I like her ?" said Ellen, hesitating, — " I think 
she's good-looking, and very smart." 
" Yes, you needn't tell me she's smart, — everybody knows 
that ; that aint what I ask you ; — how do you like her ?" 
" How do I like her ?" said Ellen, again ; " how can I tell 
how I shall like her ? I haven't lived with her but a week 
" You might just as well ha' spoke out," said the other, 
somewhat scornfully ; — " do you think I don't know you half 
hate her already ? and it'll be whole hating in another week 
more. When I first heard you'd come, I guessed you'd have 
a sweet time with her." 
" Why ?" said Ellen, 
" don't ask me why," said the other, impatiently, 
" when you know as well as I do. Every soul that speaks 
of you says ' poor child !' and ' I'm glad I aint her.' You 
needn't try to come cunning over me. I shall be too much 
for you, I tell you." 
" I don't know what you mean," said Ellen. 
" no, I suppose you don't," said the other, in the same 
tone, — " of course you don't ; I suppose you don't know 
whether your tongue is your own or somebody's else. You 
think Miss Fortune is an angel, and so do I ; to be sure she 
is !" 
Not very well pleased with this kind of talk, Ellen walked 
on for a while in grave silence. Her companion meantime 
recollected herself ; when she spoke again it was with an 
altered tone. 
" How do you like Mr. Van Brunt ?" 
" I don't like him at all," said Ellen, reddening. 
" Don't you !" said the other surprised, — " why everybody likes him. What don't you like him for ?" 
" I don't like him," repeated Ellen. 
" Aint Miss Fortune queer to live in the way she does ?" 
" What way ?" said Ellen. 
"Why, without any help, — doing all her own work, and 
living all alone, when she's so rich as she is." 
"Is she rich ?" asked Ellen. 
" Rich ! I guess she is ? she's one of the very best farms 
in the country, and money enough to have a dozen help, if 
she wanted 'em. Van Brunt takes care of the farm, you 
know ? " 
'Does he?" said Ellen. 
" Why yes, of course he does ; didn't you know that ? 
what did you think he was at your house all the time for ?" 
" I am sure I don't know," said Ellen. " And are those 
aunt Fortune's oxen that he drives ?" 
" To be sure they are. Well, I do think you are green, to 
have been there all this time, and not found that out. Mr. 
Van Brunt does just what he pleases over the whole farm 
though ; hires what help he wants, manages everything ; 
and then lie has his share of all that comes off it. I 
tell you what — you'd better make friends with Van Brunt, 
for if anybody can help you when your aunt gets one of her 
ugly fits, it's him ; she don't care to meddle with him much." 
Leaving the lane, the two girls took a foot-path leading 
across the fields. The stranger was greatly amused here 
with Ellen's awkwardness in climbing fences. Where it was 
a possible thing, she was fain to crawl under ; but .once or 
twice that could not be done, and having with infinite diffi- 
culty mounted to the top rail, poor Ellen sat there in a most 
tottering condition, uncertain on which side of the fence she 
should tumble over, but seeing no other possible way of getting down. The more she trembled the more her companion laughed, standing aloof meanwhile, and insisting she 
should get down by herself. Necessity enabled her to do 
this at last, and each time the task became easier ; but Ellen 
secretly made up her mind that her new friend was not likely 
to prove a very good one. 
As they went along, she pointed out to Ellen two or three 
houses in the distance, and gave her not a little gossip about 
