If he do not, he will probably soon be called somewhere — 
Mr. Marshman wants him to come to Randolph. I don't 
know how it will be." 

" Well !" said Ellen, with a kind of acquiescing sigh, — " at 
any rate now we must wait until next Christmas." 







The winter passed with little to mark it except the usual 
visits to Ventnor ; which, however, by common consent AHco 
and Ellen had agreed should not be when John was at home. 
At all other times they were much prized and enjoyed. Every 
two or three months Mr. Marshman was sure to come for 
them, or Mr. Howard, or perhaps the carriage only with a 
letter ; and it was bargained for that Mr. Humphreys should 
follow to see them home. It was not always that Ellen 
could go, but the disappointments were seldom ; she too had 
become quite domesticated at Ventnor, and was sincerely 
loved by the whole family. Many as were the times she had 
been there, it had oddly happened that she had never met 
her old friend of the boat again ; but she was very much attached to old Mr. and Mrs. Marshman, and Mrs. Chauncey 
and her daughter ; the latter of whom reckoned all the rest 
of her young friends as nothing compared with Ellen Montgomery. Ellen, in her opinion, did everything better than 
anyone else of her age. 

" She has good teachers," said Mrs. Chauncey. 

" Yes indeed ! I should think she had. Alice, — I should 
think anybody would learn well with her ; — and Mr. John — I 
suppose he's as good, though I don't know so much about 
him ; but he must be a great deal better teacher than Mr. 
Sandford, mamma, for Ellen draws ten times as well as I do !" 

" Perhaps that is your fault and not Mr. Sandford's," said her 
mother, — " though I rather think you overrate the difference." 

" I am sure I take pains enough, if that's all," said the little girl ; — " what more can I do, mamma ? But Ellen is so 
pleasant about it always ; she never seems to think she does 
better than I ; and she is always ready to help me and take 
ever so much time to show me how to do things ; — she is so 
pleasant ; isn't she, mamma ? I know I have heard you say
she is very polite." 

" She is certainly that," said Mrs. Gillespie, — " and there 
is a grace in her politeness that can only proceed from great 
natural delicacy and refinement of character ; — how she can 
have such manners, living and working in the way you say 
she does, I confess is beyond my comprehension." 

" One would not readily forget the notion of good -breeding in 
the society of Alice and John Humphreys,' said Miss Sophia. 







*< And Mr. Humphreys," said Mrs. Chauncey. 

" There is no society about him," said Miss Sophia ; — " he 
don't say two dozen 'svords a day." 

" But she is not with them," said Mrs. Gillespie. 

" She is with them a great deal, aunt Matilda," said Ellen 
Chauncey, — " and they teach her everything, and she does 
learn ! She must be very clever ; don't you think she is, 
mamma? Mamma, she beats me entirely in speaking French, 
and she knows all about English history ; and arithmetic ! — 
and did you ever hear her sing, mamma ? ' 

" I do not beheve she beats you, as you call it, in generous 
estimation of others," said Mrs. Chauncey, smiling, and bendins; forward to kiss her dauohter ; — " but what is the reason 
Ellen is so much better read in history than you ?" 

" I don't know, mamma, unless — I wish I wasn't so fond of 
reading stories." 

" Ellen Montgomery is just as fond of them, I'll warrant," 
said Miss Sophia. 

" Yes, — I know she is fond of them ; but then Alice and 
Mr. John don't let her read them, except nuw and then 
one." 

I fancy she does it though when their backs are turned," 
said Mrs. Gillespie. 

" She ! O, aunt Matilda ! she wouldn't do the least thing 
they don't like for the whole world. I know she never reads 
a story when she is here, unless it is my Sunday books, without 
asking Alice first." 

" She is a most extraordinary child !" said Mrs. Gillespie. 

" She is a good child ! ' said Mrs. Chauncey. 

" Yes, mamma, and that is what I wanted to say ; — I do 
not think Ellen is so pohte because she is so much with Alice 
and Mr. John, but because she is so sweet and good. I don't 
think she could help being pohte. 

" It is not that," said Mrs. Gillespie ; — " mere sweetness 
and goodness would never give so much elegance of manner. 
As far as I have seen, Ellen Montgomery is a perfectly well- 
behaved child." 

" That she is," said Mrs. Chauncey ; — " but neither would 
any cultivation or example be sufficient for it without Ellen's 
thorough good principle and great sweetness of temper." 







"That's exactly what I think, mamma," said Ellen Chauncey. 

Ellen's sweetness of temper was not entirely born with 
her ; it was one of the blessed fruits of religion and discipline. 
Discipline had not done with it yet. When the winter came 
on, and the house-work grew less, and with renewed vigor 
she was bending herself to improvement in all sorts of ways, 
it unluckily came into Miss P'ortune's head that some of 
Ellen's spare time might be turned to account in a new line. 
With this lady, to propose and to do were two things always 
very near together. The very next day Ellen was summoned 
to help her down stairs with the big spinning-wheel. Most 
unsuspiciously, and with her accustomed pleasantness, Ellen 
did it. But when she was sent up again for the rolls of wool ; 
and Miss Fortune after setting up the wheel, put one of them 
into her hand and instructed her how to draw out and twist 
the thread of yarn, she saw all that was coming. She saw it 
