
"Precisely," said Mr. Stackpole.

"That might do very well if the world were in a state of
perfection," said Fleda. "As it is, commend me to discontent
and getting on. And the uppishness, I am afraid, is a national
fault, Sir; you know our state motto is 'Excelsior.' "

"We are at liberty to suppose," said Thorn, "that Miss Ringgan
has followed the example of her friends, the farmers'
daughters?  or led them in it?"

"It is dangerous to make surmises," said Fleda, colouring.

"It is a pleasant way of running into danger," said Mr. Thorn,
who was leisurely pruning the prickles from the stem of a
rose.

"I was talking to a gentleman once," said Fleda, "about the
birds and flowers we find in our wilds; and he told me
afterwards gravely, that he was afraid I was studying too many
things at once!  when I was innocent of all ornithology but
what my eyes and ears had picked up in the wood, except some
childish reminiscences of Audubon."

"That is just the right sort of learning for a lady," said Mr.
Stackpole, smiling at her, however; "women have nothing to do
with books."

"What do you say to that, Miss Fleda?" said Thorn.

"Nothing, Sir; it is one of those positions that are
unanswerable."

"But, Mr. Stackpole," said Mrs. Evelyn, "I don't like that
doctrine, Sir. I do not believe in it at all."

"That is unfortunate  for my doctrine," said the gentleman.

"But I do not believe it is yours. Why must women have nothing
to do with books? what harm do they do, Mr. Stackpole?"

"Not needed, Ma'am; a woman, as somebody says, knows
intuitively all that is really worth knowing."

"Of what use is a mine that is never worked?" said Mr.
Carleton.

"It is worked," said Mr. Stackpole. "Domestic life is the true
training for the female mind. One woman will learn more wisdom
from the child on her breast than another will learn from ten
thousand volumes."

"It is very doubtful how much wisdom the child will ever learn
from her," said Mr. Carleton, smiling.

"A woman who never saw a book," pursued Mr. Stackpole,
unconsciously quoting his author, "may be infinitely superior,
even in all those matters of which books treat, to the woman
who has read, and read intelligently, a whole library."

"Unquestionably; and it is, likewise, beyond question, that a
silver sixpence may be worth more than a washed guinea."

"But a woman's true sphere is in her family  in her home
duties, which furnish the best and most appropriate training
for her faculties  pointed out by nature itself."

"Yes!" said Mr. Carleton  "and for those duties, some of the
very highest and noblest that are entrusted to human agency,
the fine machinery that is to perform them should be wrought
to its last point of perfectness. The wealth of a woman's
mind, instead of lying in the rough, should be richly brought
out and fashioned for its various ends, while yet those ends
are in the future, or it will never meet the demand. And, for
her own happiness, all the more because her sphere is at home,
her home stores should be exhaustless  the stores she cannot
go abroad to seek. I would add to strength beauty, and to
beauty grace, in the intellectual proportions, so far as
possible. It were ungenerous in man to condemn the best half
of human intellect to insignificance, merely because it is not
his own."

Mrs. Evelyn wore a smile of admiration that nobody saw, but
Fleda's face was a study while Mr. Carleton was saying this.
Her look was fixed upon him with such intent satisfaction and
eagerness, that it was not till he had finished that she
became aware that those dark eyes were going very deep into
hers, and suddenly put a stop to the inquisition.

"Very pleasant doctrine to the ears that have an interest in
it," said Mr. Stackpole, rather discontentedly.

"The man knows little of his own interest," said Mr. Carleton,
"who would leave that ground waste, or would cultivate it only
in the narrow spirit of a utilitarian. He needs an influence
in his family not more refreshing than rectifying; and no man
will seek that in one greatly his inferior. He is to be pitied
who cannot fall back upon his home with the assurance that he
has there something better than himself."

"Why, Mr. Carleton, Sir," said Mrs. Evelyn, with every line of
her mouth saying funny things  "I am afraid you have sadly
neglected your own interest  have you anything at Carleton
better than yourself?"

Suddenly cool again, he laughed, and said, "You were there,
Mrs. Evelyn."

"But, Mr. Carleton," pursued the lady, with a mixture of
insinuation and fun  "why were you never married?"

"Circumstances have always forbade it," he answered, with a
smile, which Constance declared was the most fascinating thing
she ever saw in her life.

Fleda was arranging her flowers, with the help of some very
unnecessary suggestions from the donor.

"Mr. Lewis," said Constance, with a kind of insinuation very
different from her mother's, made up of fun and dating,  "Mr.
Carleton has been giving me a long lecture on botany, while my
attention was distracted by listening to your spirituel
conversation."

"Well, Miss Constance?"

"And I am morally certain I sha'n't recollect a word of it if
I don't carry away some specimens to refresh my memory, and in
that case he would never give me another."

It was impossible to help laughing at the distressful position
of the young lady's eyebrows, and, with at least some measure
of outward grace, Mr. Thorn set about complying with her
request. Fleda again stood tapping her left hand with her
flowers, wondering a little that somebody else did not come
and speak to her, but he was talking to Mrs. Evelyn and Mr.
Stackpole. Fleda did not wish to join them, and nothing better
occurred to her than to arrange her flowers over again; so,
throwing them all down before her on a marble slab, she began
