him and King.

"I don't believe," said Hugh, "you would have loved that dog
near so well if anybody else had given him to you."

"I don't believe I should!  not a quarter," said Fleda, with
sufficient distinctness.

"I never liked that Mr. Carleton as well as you did."

"That is because you did not know him," said Fleda, quietly.

"Do you think he was a good man, Fleda?"

"He was very good to me," said Fleda, "always. What rides I
did have on that great black horse of his!" 

"A black horse?"

"Yes, a great black horse, strong, but so gentle, and he went
so delightfully. His name was Harold. Oh, I should like to see
that horse! When I wasn't with him, Mr. Carleton used to ride
another, the greatest beauty of a horse, Hugh  a brown
Arabian  so slender and delicate  her name was Zephyr, and
she used to go like the wind, to be sure. Mr. Carleton said he
wouldn't trust me on such a fly-away thing."

"But you didn't use to ride alone?" said Hugh.

"O no!  and I wouldn't have been afraid if he had chosen to
take me on any one."

"But do you think, Fleda, he was a good man  as I mean?"

"I am sure he was better than a great many others," answered
Fleda, evasively  "the worst of him was infinitely better
than the best of half the people down stairs  Mr. Sweden
included."

"Sweden!  you don't call his name right."

"The worse it is called the better, in my opinion," said
Fleda.

"Well, I don't like him; but what makes you dislike him so
much?"

"I don't know  partly because Uncle Rolf and Marion like him
so much, I believe  I don't think there is any moral
expression in his face."

"I wonder why they like him," said Hugh.

It was a somewhat irregular and desultory education that the
two children gathered under this system of things. The masters
they had were rather for accomplishments and languages than
for anything solid  the rest they worked out for themselves.
Fortunately they both loved books, and rational books; and
hours and hours, when Mrs. Rossitur and her daughter were
paying or receiving visits, they, always together, were stowed
away behind the book-cases or in the library window, poring
patiently over pages of various complexion  the soft turning
of the leaves, or Fleda's frequent attentions to King, the
only sound in the room. They walked together, talking of what
they had read, though, indeed, they ranged beyond that into
nameless and numberless fields of speculation, where, if they
sometimes found fruit, they as often lost their way. However,
the habit of ranging was something. Then when they joined the
rest of the family at the dinner-table, especially if others
were present, and most especially if a certain German
gentleman happened to be there, who, the second winter after
their return, Fleda thought came very often, she and Hugh
would be sure to find the strange talk of the world that was
going on unsuited and wearisome to them, and they would make
their escape up-stairs again to handle the pencil, and to play
the flute, and to read, and to draw plans for the future,
while King crept upon the skirts of his mistress's gown, and
laid his little head on her feet. Nobody ever thought of
sending them to school. Hugh was a child of frail health, and
though not often very ill, was often near it; and as for
Fleda, she and Hugh were inseparable, and besides, by this
time her uncle and aunt would almost as soon have thought of
taking the mats off their delicate shrubs in winter, as of
exposing her to any atmosphere less genial than that of home.

For Fleda, this doubtful course of mental training wrought
singularly well. An uncommonly quick eye, and strong memory,
and clear head, which she had even in childhood, passed over
no field of truth or fancy without making their quiet
gleanings; and the stores thus gathered, though somewhat
miscellaneous and unarranged, were both rich and uncommon, and
more than any one or she herself knew. Perhaps such a mind
thus left to itself knew a more free and luxuriant growth than
could ever have flourished within the confinement of rules 
perhaps a plant at once so strong and so delicate was safest
without the hand of the dresser  at all events it was
permitted to spring and to put forth all its native
gracefulness alike unhindered and unknown. Cherished as little
Fleda dearly was, her mind kept company with no one but
herself  and Hugh. As to externals; music was uncommonly
loved by both the children, and by both cultivated with great
success. So much came under Mrs. Rossitur's knowledge; also
every foreign Signor and Madame that came into the house to
teach them spoke with enthusiasm of the apt minds and flexible
tongues that honoured their instructions. In private and in
public, the gentle, docile, and affectionate children answered
every wish, both of taste and judgment. And perhaps, in a
world where education is not understood, their guardians might
be pardoned for taking it for granted that all was right where
nothing appeared that was wrong  certainly they took no pains
to make sure of the fact. In this case, one of a thousand,
their neglect was not punished with disappointment. They never
found out that Hugh's mind wanted the strengthening that early
skilful training might have given it. His intellectual tastes
were not so strong as Fleda's  his reading was more
superficial  his gleanings not so sound, and in far fewer
fields, and they went rather to nourish sentiment and fancy
than to stimulate thought, or lay up food for it. But his
parents saw nothing of this.

The third winter had not passed, when Fleda's discernment saw
that Mr. Sweden, as she called him, the German gentleman,
would not cease coming to the house till he had carried off
Marion with him. Her opinion on the subject was delivered to
no one but Hugh.

That winter introduced them to a better acquaintance. One
evening Dr. Gregory, an uncle of Mrs. Rossitur's, had been
dining with her, and was in the drawing-room. Mr. Schwiden had
been there too, and he and Marion, and one or two other young
people, had gone out to some popular entertainment. The
children knew little of Dr. Gregory, but that he was a very
respectable-looking elderly gentleman, a little rough in his
manners. The doctor had not long been returned from a stay of
some years in Europe, where he had been collecting rare books
for a fine public library, the charge of which was now
entrusted to him. After talking some time with Mr. and Mrs.
Rossitur, the doctor pushed round his chair to take a look at
the children.

