"Pretty close cutting, that, friend Claire. It wouldn't do to talk
that right out at all times and in all places."
"Why not?"
"I rather think it would make some people feel bad; and others regard
themselves as insulted."
"I can believe so. But we are only talking this between ourselves.
And now I come back to my rather abrupt question--Do you approve of
stealing? No, you say, as a matter of course. And yet, you but just
now were inclined to justify sharp dealing, on the ground that all
were sharpers--quoting the saying of some, that no honest man could
trade successfully in the present time. For the direct stealing of
a few articles of trifling value, you hand a poor, ignorant domestic
over to the police, yet feel no righteous indignation against the
better-taught man of business, who daily robs his customers in some
one form or another."
"You are too serious by far, Edward," returned his companion, forcing
a laugh. "Your mind has fallen into a morbid state. But you will get
over this one of these times. Good evening! Our ways part here. Good
evening!"
And the young man turned off abruptly.
"A morbid state," mused Claire to himself, as he continued on alone.
"So thousands would say. But is it so? Is honesty or dishonesty the
morbid state? How direct a question! How plain the answer! Honesty is
health--dishonesty the soul's sickness. To be honest, is to live in
obedience to social and divine laws; dishonesty is the violation of
these. Is it possible for a diseased body to give physical enjoyment?
No! Nor can a diseased mind give true mental enjoyment. To seek
happiness in the possession of wealth obtained through wrong to
the neighbour, is as fruitless as to seek bodily pleasure in those
practices which inevitably destroy the health. To me, this is
self-evident, and may God give me strength to live according to my
clear convictions!"
The very earnestness with which Claire mentally confirmed himself in
his honest convictions, and especially his upward looking for strength
in conscious weakness, showed that his mind was in temptation. He
had felt somewhat depressed during the day, in view of his external
relation to the world; and this feeling was increased by his
observation of the fact that Parker had been advanced to the position
of a partner to his old employer. It seemed like a reward for unfair
dealing, while honesty was suffered to remain poor. The young man's
enlightened reason--enlightened during five years' earnest search
after and practice of higher truths than govern in the world's
practice--strongly combated all the false arguments that were
presented to his mind, during this season of his overshadowing. The
combat was severe, and still continued on his arrival at home--causing
his mind to be in a measure depressed.
CHAPTER X.
The increase of Claire's family had caused him, some time before, to
remove from the two comfortable rooms in which were passed the first
pleasant years of his married life. He now occupied a small house in
a retired street, the rent of which, though moderate, drew pretty
heavily on his income. But he had managed, through the prudent
co-operation of his wife, not only to keep even with the world, but to
lay by a small sum of money.
Few homes, in the large city wherein dwelt this obscure family, were
so full of all the elements of happiness. If, sometimes, the spirit of
Claire was overshadowed by passing clouds--as would unavoidably happen
from his contact with the world, and his own variant states--the
evening's return to the bosom of his family, generally made all bright
again.
Little Fanny Elder, now ten years of age, had been steadily growing
into his affections from the first. It is questionable whether his
love for his own children was a purer passion. Older, by several
years, than Edith, she had been to him more companionable; and had
ever greeted his return at evening with warmer expressions of pleasure
than were manifested by Edith, or the two younger children who had
been added to the number of his household treasures.
On this evening, as Claire drew nearer and nearer to his home, and
his thoughts began to make pictures of the scene within, its light
and warmth penetrated his feelings, and when he opened, at length, the
door, he was himself again.
First to bound into his arms was Fanny Elder. What a beautiful,
fairy-like creature she was! How more than fulfilled the promise of
her early childhood! Next came Edith, now six years of age, side by
side with her brother Harry, a wild little rogue, and were only a few
seconds behind Fanny in throwing themselves upon their father; while
little baby Mary, as she sat on the carpet, fluttered her tiny arms,
and crowed out her joyous welcome.
What a merry romp they all had for the next two or three minutes.
When quiet came back again, baby was sitting on one knee, Harry on the
other, and Fanny leaning her face on the shoulder of her "father"--for
so she called him with the rest--while her glossy curls were resting
in sunny clusters upon his bosom. The memory of the child's former
home and parents seemed to have faded almost entirely. If the past
ever came back to her, like a dream, with its mingled web of sunshine
and tears, she never spoke of it. Fully had she been taken into the
hearts and home of her now parents; and she rested there as one having
a right to her position.
And the pure spirit who presided over this little Paradise, where was
she? Present--observing all, and sharing in the delight her husband's
return had occasioned. The expected kiss had not long been kept from
her loving lips.
Happy household! What have its inmates to envy in those around
them? Within the circle of many squares were none so rich in all the
elements of happiness.
Soon after the evening meal was over, the children, after another
merry romp with their father, went off to bed. When Mrs. Claire
returned from the chamber, whither she had accompanied them, she held
a letter in her hand.
"I had forgotten all about this letter, Edward," said she. "It was
left here for you, this afternoon."
Claire took the letter and broke the seal, running his eye down to the
signature as he unfolded it.
"Leonard Jasper! What is this?"
His brow contracted instantly, as he commenced reading the letter. It
was brief, and in these words--
"MR. EDWARD CLAIRE--Sir: From this time I relieve you of the burden
of my ward, Fanny Elder. Mrs. Jasper and myself have determined to
take her into our own family, in order that we may give the needful
care to her education. Call around and see me to-morrow, and we will
arrange this matter. Yours, &c. LEONARD JASPER."
The face of the young man had become pale by the time he had finished
reading this letter; but that of his wife, who did not yet know a word
of its contents, was almost white--the effect produced on her husband
filling her with a vague alarm.
"What is it, Edward?" she asked, in a low, eager whisper.
"Jasper wants us to give up Fanny."
Edith sank into a chair, exclaiming--
"Oh, Edward!"
"But she is only ten years of age," said the husband, "and our
contract is to keep her until she is twelve."
"We cannot give her up," murmured Edith, tears already beginning to
flow over her cheeks. "I never thought of this. What can it mean?"
"Some sudden determination on the part of Jasper, and based on nothing
good," was the reply. "But, as I said, our contract is binding until
Fanny is twelve years of age, and I will never consent to its being
broken. He was over anxious to hold me in writing. He did not value
his own word, and would not trust mine. It was well. The dear child
shall remain where she is."
"But, after she is twelve, Edward? What then? Oh, I can never part
with her," said Mrs. Claire, now weeping freely.
"Two years will pass ere that time. Jasper may have other purposes in
view when our present contract expires."
"You will see him in the morning?"
"O yes. I must understand all about this matter. What can it mean?
'Needful care to her education!' A mere hypocritical pretence. What
does he care for her, or her education? What, in fact, does he know of
her? Nothing at all. Has he ever called to see her? Has he ever made
the first inquiry after her? No. There is something wrong, without
doubt. This movement bodes no good to our dear child. But she has one
