great variety of colours, attached to it, which, in the ardour 
of conversation, he was in the habit of flourishing and jingling 
with evident satisfaction. His conversation was in free and 
easy defiance of " Murray's Grammar," and was garnished at 
convenient intervals with various profane expressions, which 
not even the desire to be graphic in our account shall induce 
us to transcribe. 
His companion, Mr. Shelby, had the appearance of a 
gentleman; and the arrangements of the house, and the 
general air of the housekeeping, indicated easy and even 
opulent circumstances. As we before stated, the two were 
in the midst of an earnest conversation. 
" That is the way I should arrange the matter," said Mr. 
Shelby. 
" I can't make trade that way I positively can't, Mr. 
Shelby," said the other, holding up a glass of wine between 
his eye and the light. 
" Why, the fact is, Haley, Tom is an uncommon fellow ; 
he is certainly worth that sum anywhere, steady, honest, 
capable, manages my whole farm like a clock." 
" You mean honest, as niggers go," said Haley, helping 
himself to a glass of brandy. 
" No ; I mean, really, Tom is a good, steady, sensible, 
pious fellow. He got religion at a camp-meeting, four years 
ago ; and I believe he really did get it. I've trusted him, 
since then, with everything I have, money, house, horses, 
and let him come and go round the country ; and I always 
found him true and square in everything." 
" Some folks don't believe there is pious niggers, Shelby," 
said Haley, with a candid nourish of his hand ; " but I do. 
I had a fellow, now, in this yer last lot I took to Orleans 
'twas as good as a meetin' now, really, to hear that critter 
pray, and he was quite gentle and quiet like. He fetched 
me a good sum, too ; for I bought him cheap of a man that 
was 'bliged to sell out ; so I realised six hundred on him. 
Yes, I consider religion a valeyable thing in a nigger, when 
it's the genuine article, and no mistake." 
"Well, Tom's got the real article, if ever a fellow had," 
rejoined the other. " Why, last fall, I let him go to Cincinnati 
alone, to do business for me, and bring home five hundred 
dollars. { Tom,' says I to him, ' I trust you, because I think 
you're a Christian I know you wouldn't cheat.' Tom comes 
back sure enough I knew he would. Some low fellows, 
they say, said to him : * Tom, why don't you make tracks for 
Canada ?' 'Ah, master trusted me, and I couldn't !' They 
told me about it. I am sorry to part with Tom, I must say. 
You ought to let him cover the whole balance of the debt ; 
and you would, Haley, if you had any conscience." 
" Well, I've got just as much conscience as any man in 
business can afford to keep, just a little, you know, to 
swear by, as 'twere," said .the trader, jocularly ; " and then 
I'm ready to do anything* in reason, to 'blige friends ; but 
this yer, you see, is a leetle too hard on a fellow a leetle 
too hard." 
The trader sighed contemplatively, and poured out some 
more brandy. 
" Well, then, Haley, how will you trade ?" said Mr. Shelby, 
after an uneasy interval of silence. 
" Well, haven't you a boy or gal that you could throw in 
with Tom?" 
" Hum ! none that I could well spare. To tell the truth, 
it's only hard necessity makes me willing to sell at all. I 
don't like parting with any of my hands, that's a fact." 
Here the door opened, and a small quadroon boy, between 
four and five years of age, entered the room. There was 
something in his appearance remarkably beautiful and engaging. His black hair, fine as floss silk, hung in glossy 
curls about his round, dimpled face, while a pair of large dark 
eyes, full of fire and softness, looked out from beneath the 
rich long lashes, as he peered curiously into the apartment. 
A gay robe of scarlet and yellow plaid, carefully made ' and 
neatly fitted, set off to advantage the dark and rich style of 
his beauty ; and a certain comic air of assurance, blended 
with bashfulness, showed that he had been not unused to 
being petted and noticed by his master. 
"Halloa, Jim Crow!" said Mr. Shelby, whistling, and 
snapping a bunch of raisins towards him ; " pick that up, 
now !" 
The child scampered, with all his little strength, after the 
prize, while his master laughed. 
" Come here, Jim Crow," said he. 
The child came up, and the master patted the curly head 
and chucked him under the chin. 
" Now, Jim, show this gentleman how you can dance and 
sing." 
The boy commenced one of those wild, grotesque songs 
common among the negroes, in a rich, clear voice, accompanying his singing with many comic evolutions of the hands, 
feet, and whole body, all in perfect time to the music. 
"Bravo!" said Haley, throwing him a quarter of an 
orange. 
" Now, Jim, walk like old Uncle Cudjoe when he has the 
rheumatism," said his master. 
Instantly the flexible limbs of the child assumed the 
appearance of deformity and distortion, as with his back 
humped up, and his master's stick in his hand, he hobbled 
about the room, his childish face drawn into a doleful pucker, 
and spitting from right to left, in imitation of an old man. 
Both gentlemen laughed uproariously. 
" Now, Jim," said his master, " show us how old Elder 
Bobbins leads the psalm." 
The boy drew his chubby face down to a formidable length, 
and commenced toning a psalm-tune through his nose with 
imperturbable gravity. 
"Hurrah! bravo! what a young 'un!" said Haley; 
" that chap's a case, I'll promise. Tell you what," said he, 
suddenly clapping his hand on Mr. Shelby's shoulder, 
" fling in that chap, and I'll settle the business I will. 
Come, now, if that ain't doing the thing up about the 
Tightest!" 
At this moment the door was pushed gently open, and a 
young quadroon woman, apparently about twenty-five, entered 
the room. 
There needed only a glance from the child to her, to identify her as its mother. There was the same rich, full, dark 
eye, with its long lashes; the same ripples of silky black hair. 
The brown of her complexion gave way on the cheek to a 
perceptible flush, which deepened as she saw the gaze of the 
strange man fixed upon her in bold and undisguised admiration. Her dress was of the neatest possible fit, and set off 
to advantage her finely-moulded shape. A delicately-formed 
hand, and a trim foot and ankle, were items of appearance 
that did not escape the quick eye of the trader, well used to 
run up at a glance the points of a fine female article. 
"Well, Eliza?" said her master, as she stopped and 
looked hesitatingly at him. 
"I was looking for Harry, please, sir;" and the boy 
bounded toward her, showing his spoils, which he had 
gathered in the skirt of his robe. 
"Well, take him away,- then," said Mr. Shelby; and 
hastily she withdrew, carrying the child on her arm. 
" By Jupiter," said the trader, turning to him in admiration ; " there's an article now ! You might make your 
fortune on that ar gal in Orleans, any day. I've seen over a 
thousand, in my day, paid down for gals not a bit handsomer." 
"I don't want to make my fortune on her," said Mr. 
Shelby, dryly; and, seeking to turn the conversation, he 
uncorked a bottle of fresh wine, and asked his companion's 
opinion of it. 
" Capital, sir first chop ! " said the trader ; then turning, 
and slapping his hand familiarly on Shelby's shoulder, he 
added : " Come, how will you trade about the girl ? what 
shall I say for her ? what' 11 you take ? " 
" Mr. Haley, she is not to be sold," said Shelby ; " my 
wife would not part with her for her weight in gold." 
