  whether you are willing or not. But your murmuring and grumbling is
  against God, who hath placed you in that service, who will punish
  you severely in the next world for despising his commands.
A very awful query here occurs to the mind. If the poor, ignorant slave,
who wastes his master’s temporal goods to answer some of his own present
purposes, be exposed to this heavy retribution, what will become of
those educated men, who, for their temporal convenience, make and hold
in force laws which rob generation after generation of men, not only of
their daily earnings, but of all their rights and privileges as immortal
beings?
The Rev. Mr. Glennie, in one of his sermons, as quoted by Mr. Bowditch,
p. 137, assures his hearers that none of them will be able to say, in
the day of judgment, “I had no way of hearing about my God and Saviour.”
Bishop Meade, as quoted by Brooke, pp. 34, 35, thus expatiates to slaves
on the advantages of their condition. One would really think, from
reading this account, that every one ought to make haste and get himself
sold into slavery, as the nearest road to heaven.
  Take care that you do not fret or murmur, grumble or repine at your
  condition; for this will not only make your life uneasy, but will
  greatly offend Almighty God. Consider that it is not yourselves, it
  is not the people that you belong to, it is not the men that have
  brought you to it, but it is the will of God, who hath by his
  providence made you servants, because, no doubt, he knew that
  condition would be best for you in this world, and help you the
  better towards heaven, if you would but do your duty in it. So that
  any discontent at your not being free, or rich, or great, as you see
  some others, is quarrelling with your heavenly Master, and finding
  fault with God himself, who hath made you what you are, and hath
  promised you as large a share in the kingdom of heaven as the
  greatest man alive, if you will but behave yourself aright, and do
  the business he hath set you about in this world honestly and
  cheerfully. Riches and power have proved the ruin of many an unhappy
  soul, by drawing away the heart and affections from God, and fixing
  them on mean and sinful enjoyments; so that, when God, who knows our
  hearts better than we know them ourselves, sees that they would be
  hurtful to us, and therefore keeps them from us, it is the greatest
  mercy and kindness he could show us.
  You may perhaps fancy that, if you had riches and freedom, you could
  do your duty to God and man with greater pleasure than you can now.
  But, pray, consider that, if you can but save your souls, through
  the mercy of God, you will have spent your time to the best of
  purposes in this world; and he that at last can get to heaven has
  performed a noble journey, let the road be ever so rugged and
  difficult. Besides, you really have a great advantage over most
  white people, who have not only the care of their daily labor upon
  their hands, but the care of looking forward and providing
  necessaries for to-morrow and next day, and of clothing and bringing
  up their children, and of getting food and raiment for as many of
  you as belong to their families, which often puts them to great
  difficulties, and distracts their minds so as to break their rest,
  and take off their thoughts from the affairs of another world.
  Whereas, you are quite eased from all these cares, and have nothing
  but your daily labor to look after and, when that is done, take your
  needful rest Neither is it necessary for you to think of laying up
  anything against old age, as white people are obliged to do; for the
  laws of the country have provided that you shall not be turned off
  when you are past labor, but shall be maintained, while you live, by
  those you belong to, whether you are able to work or not.
Bishop Meade further consoles slaves thus for certain incidents of their
lot, for which they may think they have more reason to find fault than
for most others. The reader must admit that he takes a very
philosophical view of the subject.
  There is only one circumstance which may appear grievous, that I
  shall now take notice of, and that is correction.
  Now, when correction is given you, you either deserve it, or you do
  not deserve it. But, whether you really deserve it or not, it is
  your duty, and Almighty God requires, that you bear it patiently You
  may perhaps think that this is hard doctrine; but if you consider it
  right, you must needs think otherwise of it. Suppose, then, that you
  deserve correction; you cannot but say that it is just and right you
  should meet with it. Suppose you do not, or at least you do not
  deserve so much, or so severe a correction, for the fault you have
  committed; you perhaps have escaped a great many more, and at last
  paid for all. Or, suppose you are quite innocent of what is laid to
  your charge, and suffer wrongfully in that particular thing; is it
  not possible you may have done some other bad thing which was never
  discovered, and that Almighty God, who saw you doing it, would not
  let you escape without punishment, one time or another? And ought
  you not, in such a case, to give glory to him, and be thankful that
  he would rather punish you in this life for your wickedness, than
  destroy your souls for it in the next life? But, suppose even this
  was not the case (a case hardly to be imagined), and that you have
  by no means, known or unknown, deserved the correction you suffered;
  there is this great comfort in it, that, if you bear it patiently,
  and leave your cause in the hands of God, he will reward you for it
  in heaven, and the punishment you suffer unjustly here shall turn to
  your exceeding great glory hereafter.
That Bishop Meade has no high opinion of the present comforts of a life
of slavery, may be fairly inferred from the following remarks which he
makes to slaves:
  Your own poor circumstances in this life ought to put you
  particularly upon this, and taking care of your souls; for you
  cannot have the pleasures and enjoyments of this life like rich free
  people, who have estates and money to lay out as they think fit. If
  others will run the hazard of their souls, they have a chance of
  getting wealth and power, of heaping up riches, and enjoying all the
  ease, luxury and pleasure their hearts should long after. But you
  can have none of these things; so that, if you sell your souls, for
  the sake of what poor matters you can get in this world, you have
  made a very foolish bargain indeed.
This information is certainly very explicit and to the point. He
continues:
  Almighty God hath been pleased to make you slaves here, and to give
  you nothing but labor and poverty in this world, which you are
  obliged to submit to, as it is his will that it should be so. And
  think within yourselves, what a terrible thing it would be, after
  all your labors and sufferings in this life, to be turned into hell
  in the next life, and, after wearing out your bodies in service
  here, to go into a far worse slavery when this is over, and your
  poor souls be delivered over into the possession of the devil, to
  become his slaves forever in hell, without any hope of ever getting
  free from it! If, therefore, you would be God’s freemen in heaven,
  you must strive to be good, and serve him here on earth. Your
  bodies, you know, are not your own; they are at the disposal of
  those you belong to; but your precious souls are still your own,
  which nothing can take from you, if it be not your own fault.
  Consider well, then, that if you lose your souls by leading idle,
  wicked lives here, you have got nothing by it in this world, and you
  have lost your all in the next. For your idleness and wickedness is
  generally found out, and your bodies suffer for it here; and, what
  is far worse, if you do not repent and amend, your unhappy souls
  will suffer for it hereafter.
Mr. Jones, in that part of the work where he is obviating the objections
of masters to the Christian instruction of their slaves, supposes the
master to object thus:
  You teach them that “God is no respecter of persons;” that “He hath
  made of one blood, all nations of men;” “Thou shalt love thy
  neighbor as thyself;” “All things whatsoever ye would that men
  should do to you, do ye even so to them;” what use, let me ask,
  would they make of these sentences from the gospel?
Mr. Jones says:
  Let it be replied, that the effect urged in the objection might
  result from imperfect and injudicious religious instruction;
  indeed, religious instruction may be communicated with the express
  design, on the part of the instructor, to produce the effect
  referred to, instances of which have occurred.
  But who will say that neglect of duty and insubordination are the
  legitimate effects of the gospel, purely and sincerely imparted to
  servants? Has it not in all ages been viewed as the greatest
  civilizer of the human race?
