"Do you love him?" inquired the lady, lifting her face, and gazing
piercingly into it.
"I pity him," said Ida.
"Do you hate him?" she asked, more energetically.
"No, I hate no one."
"Yet you have cause."
"I try to forgive."
"You do not hate him!" repeated Mrs. Read; and again to herself, she
added, "I do!"
Ida let her go. "I pity him!" she said, with mournful earnestness, "but
I pity you more! doomed to a life of falsehood and misery! Heaven pity
you as I do."
"Stay!" said Mrs. Read, as she would have gone back to the chamber. "Do
you despise me utterly? Am I lost?"
"'Lost!' no--while life and reason last, there may be room for
repentance."
Repentance! what had she, so queenly in her pride and beauty, to
do with repentance? yet the words seemed to strike her. Mr. Read's
querulous tones called "Ida!" "I must go," she said. "Will you come?"
"Not now--presently."
The patient was slumbering heavily under the influence of the
medicine Dr. Ballard prescribed, when his wife rejoined her assistant
nurse--lofty and unimpressible. She regarded the sleeper long and
fixedly. His hair was nearly white, and his features pinched by
sickness, but there was no softening of compassion in the rigid lines
of her face. Setting her chair into the shade, she was speechless and
motionless for hours. They watched him together all night; exchanging
only brief remarks as to his situation, and the remedies to be
employed. He rallied from this seizure, and Ida was as far from the
brilliant worldling as before.
An unexpected event attracted her from the retirement in which her
charitable functions had secluded her. Celestia Pratt was married!
and to Ellen's chagrin, to a cousin of the Morris family. He was
good-looking, ambitious and poor;--she susceptible a "Representative's"
daughter, and rich. He wrote to his aunt that they would take
Richmond in the wedding-tour; and she was obliged, nolens volens,
to give them a party. Ida was disinclined to attend; but Ellen's
solicitations conquered her reluctance. Mr. Cranleigh, the groom, was
gentlemanly, even handsome, and accepted the customary greetings with
as much complacency, as though his wife were not, as Ellen groaned to
Ida--"Celestia, unmitigated Celestia!"
"A penny for your thoughts!" said Ida, tapping Charley's arm with her
fan.
"I was thinking what falsehoods geologists tell us about the thickness
of the crust of the earth, and how many years the mines of Peru have
been worked."
"A profound subject for deep meditation, but I am at a loss--"
"Why, allowing a thousand brides a week in the civilized world, (and
there are quadruple that number,) according to my rough computation,
the miners ought to be within hail of the Chinese, or whatever nation
is the antipodes of the Peruvians, by this time."
"Their kindred craft, the jewellers, have been called upon by the
Celestia-ls," said Mr. Thornton.
"'Pon my word!" remarked Pemberton to Josephine, "I have heard of men
who married 'for pretty,' but it's my opinion, Cranleigh married for
ugly."
Josephine laughed, but her attention was absorbed by some object in
another part of the room. "You know everybody," said she; "who is that
gentleman talking with the bride?"
He knew everybody, and this must be nobody. He had certainly seen him
somewhere before--it might have been at Newport--or perhaps in New
Orleans, yet he could not call his name. Why did she inquire?
"A question by the way--she was not curious. He had a foreign air, and
she fancied might be one of Mr. Pemberton's friends--he had so many
abroad."
He had, and it would be awkward not to recollect him, if he should
speak.
"There's Cranleigh! he knows!"
The stranger's name was Ashlin, an early acquaintance of Mrs.
Cranleigh's, and later from the West Indies.
"Had he resided there long?" Miss Read asked.
"Two years--nearly three, indeed."
Mr. Ashlin was graceful and distingue, and Ida was attacked by an
unaccountable curiosity. She interrogated the bride.
"What handsome man was that, you were conversing with, awhile ago,
Celestia?"
Her face was broad with smiles. "Law! why Mr. Cranleigh, my husband, to
be sure! Haven't you been introduced? Here! Mr. Cran--"
"Oh! don't!" said Ida. "I know him--don't interrupt him! I alluded to
that tall gentleman by the folding-doors."
"That's Mr. Ashlin. He used to live close by Pa's; and then his uncle
died out in Cuba or West India, I forget which--and he went off there,
where he's been three years, rolling in money they say. He's mighty
smart too--I'm 'most afraid of him. Don't he look like a-a-cannibal!"
said Mrs. Cranleigh, some reminiscence of New Zealand history coming to
her help.
"His is a dark beauty, certainly," replied Ida, hiding a smile. "I
should say if he had not lived abroad, that I had seen his face
somewhere else."
"You needn't be setting your cap!" retorted the bride, spitefully,
"He won't be so easy caught as that Mr. Euston, you all think such an
Adolphus. He's engaged."
"Ah! who is the fortunate lady?"
"A Miss Courtland,--or some such name;--that is--he was engaged once,
but, seems to me, I've heard that he jilted her, and she married a rich
old man for his 'tin.'"
"What did you call her? Speak lower!" said Ida.
"Law! you're scared! what ails you?"
"Nothing--nothing!" laughing. "You had as well be silent about this
Mr. Ashlin,--he has quick ears, and gentleman do not admire gossiping
ladies. You have a splendid bouquet--is this Mr. Cranleigh's taste?"
And while the history of the courtship, from their meeting at the
"Sulphur Springs" to the present glorification, was pouring upon her
tympanum, she was arguing away her unjustifiable suspicions. His
general appearance was that of the gentleman she had a glimpse of
in Mr. Read's parlor; and Mrs. Read's behaviour that evening was so
extraordinary as to give colour to the story;--But Celestia always
garbled the simplest narrations, murdering names and jumbling facts,
until it was next to impossible to arrive at the truth. A three years'
absence, too! How nonsensical she was! Her fears returned, however,
with reinforcements, when he attached himself to Mrs. Read's cordon of
admirers. These were not all young men. Elderly gentlemen, who had not
lost their eye for fair faces, and taste for repartee, were recipients
of as gracious welcomes as were apportioned to their youthful rivals;
and sagacious damsels, of doubtful belleship and charms, crept beneath
the wings of her popularity, large enough to shelter a female favorite
or so. Mr. Ashlin entered the outmost precincts of this circle, and by
imperceptible advances penetrated to the centre of attraction. Mrs.
Read flushed slightly, with surprise or displeasure, as he established
himself by her side; but nothing intimidated, he presently usurped
the management of the conversation; holding up some to ridicule so
cleverly that they had only themselves to blame, and did not suspect
his agency; flattering others, until they dropped off like surfeited
leeches; and angering some so openly, that Ida, who was near enough
to get an inkling of what was transpiring, was assured that he was
playing for a rich stake. His purpose was effected; he had a clear
field; and with no alteration of manner, unless a shade of respect
moderated his gay insouciance, he continued his attentions. No place
is better for a confidential confabulation than a crowded room, if the
parties understand how to conduct it. The initiated would have surmised
from an occasional gleam of the eye, and the varying expression of
that most uncontrollable of features, the mouth, that something more
important than sugared nothings was upon the tapis; but to the purblind
merrymakers, as a body, Mrs. Read was examining a portfolio of prints,
and her companion, a travelled gentleman, descanting upon "High Art"
in "the States," as contrasted with the love for poetry, painting and
music, which, it was said, prevailed in gay, pleasure-loving Havana.
Ida was surprised that Mr. Ashlin requested a presentation to
herself, and still more at the pertinacity with which he cultivated
the acquaintance he must see she did not desire. He triumphed over
