Dear Father : — 
To-day we are to go out to visit your Quaker friend, Mr. 
Alexander, at Stoke Newington, where you passed so many 
pleasant hours during your sojourn in England. At half past 
nine we went into the Congregational Union, which is now in 
session. I had a seat upon the platform, where I could com- 
mand a view of the house. It was a most interesting assem- 
blage to me, recalling forcibly our New England associations, 
and impressing more than ever on my mind how much of one 
blood the two countries are. These earnest, thoughtful, intelligent-looking men seemed to transport me back to my own 
country. They received us with most gratifying cordiality 
and kindness. Most naturally Congregationalism in England 
must turn with deep interest and sympathy to Congregationalism in America. In several very cordial addresses they testified their pleasure at seeing us among them, speaking most 
affectionately of you and your labors, and your former visit to 
England. The wives and daughters of many of them present 
expressed in their countenances the deepest and most affectionate feeling. It is cheering to feel that an ocean does 
not divide our hearts, and that the Christians of America and 
England are one. 
In the afternoon we drove out to Mr. Alexander's. His 
place is called Paradise, and very justly, being one more of 
those home Edens in which England abounds, where, without 
ostentation or display, every appliance of rational enjoyment 
surrounds one. 
We were ushered into a cheerful room, opening by one 
glass door upon a brilliant conservatory of flowers, and by 
another upon a neatly-kept garden. The air was fresh and 
sweet with the perfume of blossoming trees, and every thing 
seemed doubly refreshing from the contrast with the din and 
smoke of London. Our chamber looked out upon a beautiful 
park, shaded with fine old trees. While contemplating the 
white draperies of our windows, and the snowy robings of the 
bed, we could not but call to mind the fact, of which we were 
before aware, that not an article was the result of the unpaid 
oil of the slave ; neither did this restriction, voluntarily assumed, fetter at all the bountifulness of the table, where free- 
grown sugar, coifee, rice, and spices seemed to derive a double 
value to our friends from this consideration. 
Some of the Quakers carry the principle so far as to re- 
fuse money in a business transaction which they have reason 
to believe has been gained by the unpaid toil of the slave. A 
Friend in Edinburgh told me of a brother of his in the city 
of Carlisle, who kept a celebrated biscuit bakery, who received 
an order from New Orleans for a thousand dollars worth of 
biscuit. Before closing the bargain he took the buyer into 
his counting room, and told him that he had conscientious 
objections about receiving money from slaveholders, and that 
in case he were one he should prefer not to trade with him. 
Fortunately, in this case, consistency and interest were both 
on one side. 
Things like these cannot but excite reflection in one's mind, 
and the query must arise, if all who really believe slavery to 
be a wrong should pursue this course, -what would be the 
result ? There are great practical difficulties in the way of 
such a course, particularly in America, where the subject has 
received comparatively little attention. Yet since I have been 
in England, I am informed by the Friends here, that there 
has been for many years an association of Friends in Philadelphia, who have sent their agents through the entire Southern States, entering by them into communication with quite a 
considerable number scattered through the states, who, either 
from poverty or principle, raise their cotton by free labor ; 
that they have established a depot in Philadelphia, and also 
a manufactory, where the cotton thus received is made into 
various household articles ; and thus, by dint of some care and 
self-sacrifice, many of them are enabled to abstain entirely 
from any participation with the results of this crime. 
As soon as I heard this fact, it flashed upon my mind immediately, that the beautiful cotton lands of Texas are as yet 
unoccupied to a great extent ; that no law compels cotton to be 
raised there by slave labor, and that it is beginning to be raised 
there to some extent by the labor of free German emigrants.
Will not something eventually grow out of this ? I trust so. 
Even the smallest chink of light is welcome in a prison, if it 
speak of a possible door which courage and zeal may open. 
I cannot as yet admit the justness of the general proposition, 
that it is an actual sin to eat, drink, or wear any thing which 
has been the result of slave labor, because it seems to me to 
be based upon a principle altogether too wide in extent. To 
be consistent in it, we must extend it to the results of all labor 
which is not conducted on just and equitable principles ; and 
One small town in Texas made eight hundred bales last year by free 
labor. 
in order to do this consistently we must needs, as St. Paul 
says, go out of the world. But if two systems, one founded 
on wrong and robbery, and the other on right and justice, are 
competing with each other, should we not patronize the right ? 
I am the more inclined to think that some course of this 
kind is indicated to the Christian world, from the reproaches 
and taunts which proslavery papers are casting upon us, for 
patronizing their cotton. At all events, the Quakers escape 
the awkwardness of this dilemma. 
In the evening quite a large circle of friends came to meet 
us. We were particularly interested in the conversation of 
Mr. and Mrs. Wesby, missionaries from Antigua. Antigua is 
the only one of the islands in which emancipation was immediate, without any previous apprenticeship system ; and it is the 
one in which the results of emancipation have been altogether 
the most happy. They gave us a very interesting account of 
their schools, and showed us some beautiful specimens of plain 
needlework, which had been wrought by young girls in them. 
They confirmed all the accounts which I have heard from 
other sources of the peaceableness, docility, and good character of the negroes ; of their kindly disposition and willingness 
to receive instruction. 
After tea Mr. S. and I walked out a little while, first to a 
large cemetery, where repose the ashes of Dr. Watts. This 
burying ground occupies the site of the dwelling and grounds 
formerly covered by the residence of Sir T. Abney, with 
whom Dr. Watts spent many of the last years of his life. It 
has always seemed to me that Dr. Watts's rank as a poet has 
never been properly appreciated. If ever there was a poet 
born, he was that man ; he attained without study a smoothness of versification, which, with Pope, was the result of the 
intensest analysis and most artistic care. Nor do the most 
majestic and resounding lines of Dryden equal some of his in 
majesty of volume. The most harmonious lines of Dryden, 
that I know of, are these : — 
" When Jubal struck the chorded shell, 
His listening brethren stood around, 
And wondering, on their faces fell, 
To worship that celestial sound. 
Less than a God they thought there could not dwell 
Within the hollow of that shell, 
That spoke so sweetly and so well." 
The first four lines of this always seem to me magnificently 
harmonious. But almost any verse at random in Dr. Watts's 
paraphrase of the one hundred and forty-eighth Psalm ex- 
ceeds them, both in melody and majesty. For instance, take 
these lines : — 
"Wide as his vast dominion lies, 
Let the Creator's name be known ; 
Loud as his thunder shout his praise, 
And sound it lofty as his throne. 
Speak of the wonders of that love 
Which Gabriel plays on every chord : 
From all below and all above, 
Loud hallelujahs to the Lord." 
Simply as a specimen of harmonious versification, I would 
place this paraphrase by Dr. Watts above every thing in the 
English language, not even excepting Pope's Messiah. But 
in hymns, where the ideas are supplied by his own soul, we 
hare examples in which lire, fervor, imagery, roll from the soul 
of the poet in a stream of versification, evidently spontaneous. 
Si icli are all those hymns in which he describes the glories of 
the heavenly state, and the advent of the great events foretold 
in prophecy ; for instance, this verse from the opening of 
one of his judgment hymns : — 
