to keep you, it were wrong to bring such sorrow to your loving earthly
friends; therefore we will guide you to the brook-side, and there say
farewell till you come again to visit us.  Nay, do not weep, dear
Rose-Leaf; you shall watch over little Eva's flowers, and when she
looks at them she will think of you.  Come now and lead her to the
Fairy garden, and show her what we think our fairest sight.  Weep
no more, but strive to make her last hours with us happy as you can."
With gentle caresses and most tender words the loving Elves gathered
about the child, and, with Rose-Leaf by her side, they led her through
the palace, and along green, winding paths, till Eva saw what seemed
a wall of flowers rising before her, while the air was filled with the
most fragrant odors, and the low, sweet music as of singing blossoms.
"Where have you brought me, and what mean these lovely sounds?"
asked Eva.
"Look here, and you shall see," said Rose-Leaf, as she bent aside
the vines, "but listen silently or you cannot hear."
Then Eva, looking through the drooping vines, beheld a garden filled
with the loveliest flowers; fair as were all the blossoms she had seen
in Fairy-Land, none were so beautiful as these.  The rose glowed
with a deeper crimson, the lily's soft leaves were more purely white,
the crocus and humble cowslip shone like sunlight, and the violet
was blue as the sky that smiled above it.
"How beautiful they are," whispered Eva, "but, dear Rose-Leaf, why
do you keep them here, and why call you this your fairest sight?"
"Look again, and I will tell you," answered the Fairy.
Eva looked, and saw from every flower a tiny form come forth to
welcome the Elves, who all, save Rose-Leaf, had flown above the wall,
and were now scattering dew upon the flowers' bright leaves and
talking gayly with the Spirits, who gathered around them, and seemed
full of joy that they had come.  The child saw that each one wore the
colors of the flower that was its home.  Delicate and graceful were
the little forms, bright the silken hair that fell about each lovely
face; and Eva heard the low, sweet murmur of their silvery voices and
the rustle of their wings.  She gazed in silent wonder, forgetting she
knew not who they were, till the Fairy said,--
"These are the spirits of the flowers, and this the Fairy Home where
those whose hearts were pure and loving on the earth come to bloom in
fadeless beauty here, when their earthly life is past.  The humblest
flower that blooms has a home with us, for outward beauty is a
worthless thing if all be not fair and sweet within.  Do you see
yonder lovely spirit singing with my sister Moonlight?  a clover
blossom was her home, and she dwelt unknown, unloved; yet patient and
content, bearing cheerfully the sorrows sent her.  We watched and saw
how fair and sweet the humble flower grew, and then gladly bore her
here, to blossom with the lily and the rose.  The flowers' lives
are often short, for cruel hands destroy them; therefore is it our
greatest joy to bring them hither, where no careless foot or wintry
wind can harm them, where they bloom in quiet beauty, repaying our
care by their love and sweetest perfumes."
"I will never break another flower," cried Eva; "but let me go
to them, dear Fairy; I would gladly know the lovely spirits, and ask
forgiveness for the sorrow I have caused.  May I not go in?"
"Nay, dear Eva, you are a mortal child, and cannot enter here; but I
will tell them of the kind little maiden who has learned to love them,
and they will remember you when you are gone.  Come now, for you have
seen enough, and we must be away."
On a rosy morning cloud, surrounded by the loving Elves, went Eva
through the sunny sky.  The fresh wind bore them gently on, and soon
they stood again beside the brook, whose waves danced brightly as if
to welcome them.
"Now, ere we say farewell," said the Queen, as they gathered nearer
to the child, "tell me, dear Eva, what among all our Fairy gifts
will make you happiest, and it shall be yours."
"You good little Fairies," said Eva, folding them in her arms, for
she was no longer the tiny child she had been in Fairy-Land, "you dear
good little Elves, what can I ask of you, who have done so much
to make me happy, and taught me so many good and gentle lessons,
the memory of which will never pass away?  I can only ask of you the
power to be as pure and gentle as yourselves, as tender and loving
to the weak and sorrowing, as untiring in kindly deeds to all.  Grant
me this gift, and you shall see that little Eva has not forgotten
what you have taught her."
"The power shall be yours," said the Elves, and laid their soft hands
on her head; "we will watch over you in dreams, and when you would have
tidings of us, ask the flowers in your garden, and they will tell you
all you would know.  Farewell.  Remember Fairy-Land and all your
loving friends."
They clung about her tenderly, and little Rose-Leaf placed a flower
crown on her head, whispering softly, "When you would come to us
again, stand by the brook-side and wave this in the air, and we will
gladly take you to our home again.  Farewell, dear Eva.  Think of your
little Rose-Leaf when among the flowers."
Long Eva watched their shining wings, and listened to the music of
their voices as they flew singing home, and when at length the last
little form had vanished among the clouds, she saw that all around her
where the Elves had been, the fairest flowers had sprung up, and the
lonely brook-side was a blooming garden.
Thus she stood among the waving blossoms, with the Fairy garland in
her hair, and happy feelings in her heart, better and wiser for her
visit to Fairy-Land.
"Now, Star-Twinkle, what have you to teach?" asked the Queen.
"Nothing but a little song I heard the hare-bells singing," replied
the Fairy, and, taking her harp, sang, in a low, sweet voice:--
THE FLOWER'S LESSON.
  THERE grew a fragrant rose-tree where the brook flows,
  With two little tender buds, and one full rose;
  When the sun went down to his bed in the west,
  The little buds leaned on the rose-mother's breast,
  While the bright eyed stars their long watch kept,
  And the flowers of the valley in their green cradles slept;
  Then silently in odors they communed with each other,
  The two little buds on the bosom of their mother.
  "O sister," said the little one, as she gazed at the sky,
  "I wish that the Dew Elves, as they wander lightly by,
  Would bring me a star; for they never grow dim,
  And the Father does not need them to burn round him.
  The shining drops of dew the Elves bring each day
  And place in my bosom, so soon pass away;
  But a star would glitter brightly through the long summer hours,
  And I should be fairer than all my sister flowers.
  That were better far than the dew-drops that fall
  On the high and the low, and come alike to all.
  I would be fair and stately, with a bright star to shine
  And give a queenly air to this crimson robe of mine."
  And proudly she cried, "These fire-flies shall be
  My jewels, since the stars can never come to me."
  Just then a tiny dew-drop that hung o'er the dell
  On the breast of the bud like a soft star fell;
  But impatiently she flung it away from her leaf,
  And it fell on her mother like a tear of grief,
  While she folded to her breast, with wilful pride,
  A glittering fire-fly that hung by her side.
  "Heed," said the mother rose, "daughter mine,
  Why shouldst thou seek for beauty not thine?
  The Father hath made thee what thou now art;
  And what he most loveth is a sweet, pure heart.
  Then why dost thou take with such discontent
  The loving gift which he to thee hath sent?
  For the cool fresh dew will render thee far
  More lovely and sweet than the brightest star;
  They were made for Heaven, and can never come to shine
  Like the fire-fly thou hast in that foolish breast of thine.
  O my foolish little bud, do listen to thy mother;
  Care only for true beauty, and seek for no other.
  There will be grief and trouble in that wilful little heart;
  Unfold thy leaves, my daughter, and let the fly depart."
  But the proud little bud would have her own will,
  And folded the fire-fly more closely still;
  Till the struggling insect tore open the vest
  Of purple and green, that covered her breast.
