times were cut and tied so evenly, could hardly have felt the keen
touch of the pruning-knife for months.

As I paused to note the change, a lady, somewhat beyond the middle age,
came from the house. I was struck by the deep gloom that overshadowed
her countenance. Ah! said I to myself, as I passed on, how many dear
hopes, that once lived in that heart, must have been scattered to the
winds. As I conjectured, this was Mrs. Harrison, and I was not
unprepared to hear, as I did a few hours afterward, that her two sons
had fallen into drinking habits; and, not only this, had been enticed
to the gaming-table. Unhappy mother! What a life-time of wretchedness
was compressed for thee into a few short years!

I walked on, noting, here and there, changes even more marked than
appeared about the residence of Mr. Harrison. Judge Lyman's beautiful
place showed utter neglect; and so did one or two others that, on my
first visit to Cedarville, charmed me with their order, neatness, and
cultivation. In every instance, I learned, on inquiring, that the
owners of these, or some members of their families, were, or had been,
visitors at the "Sickle and Sheaf"; and that the ruin, in progress or
completed, began after the establishment of that point of attraction in
the village.

Something of a morbid curiosity, excited by what I saw, led me on to
take a closer view of the residence of Judge Hammond than I had
obtained on the day before. The first thing that I noticed, on
approaching the old, decaying mansion, were handbills, posted on the
gate, the front-door, and on one of the windows. A nearer inspection
revealed their import. The property had been seized, and was now
offered at sheriff's sale!

Ten years before, Judge Hammond was known as the richest man in
Cedarville; and now, the homestead which he had once so loved to
beautify--where all that was dearest to him in life once
gathered--worn, disfigured, and in ruins, was about to be wrested from
him. I paused at the gate, and leaning over it, looked in with saddened
feelings upon the dreary waste within. No sign of life was visible. The
door was shut--the windows closed--not the faintest wreath of smoke was
seen above the blackened chimney-tops. How vividly did imagination
restore the life, and beauty, and happiness, that made their home there
only a few years before,--the mother and her noble boy, one looking
with trembling hope, the other with joyous confidence, into the
future,--the father, proud of his household treasures, but not their
wise and jealous guardian.

Ah! that his hands should have unbarred the door, and thrown it wide,
for the wolf to enter that precious fold! I saw them all in their sunny
life before me; yet, even as I looked upon them, their sky began to
darken. I heard the distant mutterings of the storm, and soon the
desolating tempest swept down fearfully upon them. I shuddered as it
passed away, to look upon the wrecks left scattered around. What a
change!

"And all this," said I, "that one man, tired of being useful, and eager
to get gain, might gather in accursed gold!"

Pushing open the gate, I entered the yard, and walked around the
dwelling, my footsteps echoing in the hushed solitude of the deserted
place. Hark! was that a human voice?

I paused to listen.

The sound came, once more, distinctly to my ears, I looked around,
above, everywhere, but perceived no living sign. For nearly a minute I
stood still, listening. Yes; there it was again--a low, moaning voice,
as of one in pain or grief. I stepped onward a few paces; and now saw
one of the doors standing ajar. As I pushed this door wide open, the
moan was repeated. Following the direction from which the sound came, I
entered one of the large drawing-rooms. The atmosphere was stifling,
and all as dark as if it were midnight. Groping my way to a window, I
drew back the bolt and threw open the shutter. Broadly the light fell
across the dusty, uncarpeted floor, and on the dingy furniture of the
room. As it did so, the moaning voice which had drawn me thither
swelled on the air again; and now I saw, lying upon an old sofa, the
form of a man. It needed no second glance to tell me that this was
Judge Hammond. I put my hand upon him, and uttered his name; but he
answered not. I spoke more firmly, and slightly shook him; but only a
piteous moan was returned.

"Judge Hammond!" I now called aloud, and somewhat imperatively.

But it availed nothing. The poor old man aroused not from the stupor in
which mind and body were enshrouded.

"He is dying!" thought I; and instantly left the house in search of
some friends to take charge of him in his last, sad extremity. The
first person to whom I made known the fact shrugged his shoulders, and
said it was no affair of his, and that I must find somebody whose
business it was to attend to him. My next application was met in the
same spirit; and no better success attended my reference of the matter
to a third party. No one to whom I spoke seemed to have any sympathy
for the broken-down old man. Shocked by this indifference, I went to
one of the county officers, who, on learning the condition of Judge
Hammond, took immediate steps to have him removed to the Alms-house,
some miles distant.

"But why to the Alms-house?" I inquired, on learning his purpose. "He
has property."

"Everything has been seized for debt," was the reply.

"Will there be nothing left after his creditors are satisfied?"

"Very few, if any, will be satisfied," he answered. "There will not be
enough to pay half the judgments against him."

"And is there no friend to take him in,--no one, of all who moved by
his side in the days of prosperity, to give a few hours' shelter, and
soothe the last moments of his unhappy life?"

"Why did you make application here?" was the officer's significant
question.

I was silent.

"Your earnest appeals for the poor old man met with no words of
sympathy?"

"None."

"He has, indeed, fallen low. In the days of his prosperity, he had many
friends, so called. Adversity has shaken them all like dead leaves from
sapless branches."

"But why? This is not always so."

"Judge Hammond was a selfish, worldly man. People never liked him much.
His favoring, so strongly, the tavern of Slade, and his distillery
operations, turned from him some of his best friends. The corruption
and terrible fate of his son--and the insanity and death of his
wife--all were charged upon him in people's minds, and every one seemed
to turn from him instinctively after the fearful tragedy was completed.
He never held tip his head afterward. Neighbors shunned him as they
would a criminal. And here has come the end at last. He will be taken
to the poorhouse, to die there--a pauper!"

"And all," said I, partly speaking to myself, "because a man, too lazy
to work at an honest calling, must needs go to rum-selling."

"The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth," remarked the
