matter, and was very earnest in showing Ellen why she ought not to
distress herself about it, still felt a shivering sense of the hardness
and unkindness of the world coming over her. The bitter tears would
spring to her eyes, in spite of every effort to suppress them, as she
sat mournfully gazing on the little faded miniature before mentioned.
"When he was alive, I never knew what poverty or trouble was," was the
thought that often passed through her mind. And how many a poor forlorn
one has thought the same!
Poor Mrs. Ames was confined to her bed for most of that week. The doctor
gave absolute directions that she should do nothing, and keep entirely
quiet--a direction very sensible indeed in the chamber of ease and
competence, but hard to be observed in poverty and want.
What pains the kind and dutiful Ellen took that week to make her mother
feel easy! How often she replied to her anxious questions, "that she was
quite well," or "that her head did not ache much!" and by various
other evasive expedients the child tried to persuade herself that she
was speaking the truth. And during the times her mother slept, in the
day or evening, she accomplished one or two pieces of plain work, with
the price of which she expected to surprise her mother.
It was towards evening when Ellen took her finished work to the elegant
dwelling of Mrs. Page. "I shall get a dollar for this," said she;
"enough to pay for mother's wine and medicine."
"This work is done very neatly," said Mrs. Page, "and here is some more
I should like to have finished in the same way."
Ellen looked up wistfully, hoping Mrs. Page was going to pay her for the
last work. But Mrs. Page was only searching a drawer for a pattern,
which she put into Ellen's hands, and after explaining how she wanted
her work done, dismissed her without saying a word about the expected
dollar.
Poor Ellen tried two or three times, as she was going out, to turn round
and ask for it; but before she could decide what to say, she found
herself in the street.
Mrs. Page was an amiable, kind-hearted woman, but one who was so used to
large sums of money that she did not realize how great an affair a
single dollar might seem to other persons. For this reason, when Ellen
had worked incessantly at the new work put into her hands, that she
might get the money for all together, she again disappointed her in the
payment.
"I'll send the money round to-morrow," said she, when Ellen at last
found courage to ask for it. But to-morrow came, and Ellen was
forgotten; and it was not till after one or two applications more that
the small sum was paid.
But these sketches are already long enough, and let us hasten to close
them. Mrs. Ames found liberal friends, who could appreciate and honor
her integrity of principle and loveliness of character, and by their
assistance she was raised to see more prosperous days; and she, and the
delicate Ellen, and warm-hearted Mary were enabled to have a home and
fireside of their own, and to enjoy something like the return of their
former prosperity.
We have given these sketches, drawn from real life, because we think
there is in general too little consideration on the part of those who
give employment to those in situations like the widow here described.
The giving of employment is a very important branch of charity, inasmuch
as it assists that class of the poor who are the most deserving. It
should be looked on in this light, and the arrangements of a family be
so made that a suitable compensation can be given, and prompt and
cheerful payment be made, without the dread of transgressing the rules
of economy.
It is better to teach our daughters to do without expensive ornaments or
fashionable elegances; better even to deny ourselves the pleasure of
large donations or direct subscriptions to public charities, rather than
to curtail the small stipend of her whose "candle goeth not out by
night," and who labors with her needle for herself and the helpless dear
ones dependent on her exertions.
OLD FATHER MORRIS.
A SKETCH FROM NATURE.
Of all the marvels that astonished my childhood, there is none I
remember to this day with so much interest as the old man whose name
forms my caption. When I knew him, he was an aged clergyman, settled
over an obscure village in New England. He had enjoyed the advantages of
a liberal education, had a strong, original power of thought, an
omnipotent imagination, and much general information; but so early and
so deeply had the habits and associations of the plough, the farm, and
country life wrought themselves into his mind, that his after
acquirements could only mingle with them, forming an unexampled amalgam
like unto nothing but itself.
He was an ingrain New Englander, and whatever might have been the source
of his information, it came out in Yankee form, with the strong
provinciality of Yankee dialect.
It is in vain to attempt to give a full picture of such a genuine
unique; but some slight and imperfect dashes may help the imagination
to a faint idea of what none can fully conceive but those who have seen
and heard old Father Morris.
Suppose yourself one of half a dozen children, and you hear the cry,
"Father Morris is coming!" You run to the window or door, and you see a
tall, bulky old man, with a pair of saddle bags on one arm, hitching his
old horse with a fumbling carefulness, and then deliberately stumping
towards the house. You notice his tranquil, florid, full-moon face,
enlightened by a pair of great round blue eyes, that roll with dreamy
inattentiveness on all the objects around; and as he takes off his hat,
you see the white curling wig that sets off his round head. He comes
towards you, and as you stand staring, with all the children around, he
deliberately puts his great hand on your head, and, with deep, rumbling
voice, inquires,--
"How d'ye do, my darter? is your daddy at home?" "My darter" usually
makes off as fast as possible, in an unconquerable giggle. Father Morris
goes into the house, and we watch him at every turn, as, with the most
liberal simplicity, he makes himself at home, takes off his wig, wipes
down his great face with a checked pocket handkerchief, helps himself
hither and thither to whatever he wants, and asks for such things as he
cannot lay his hands on, with all the comfortable easiness of childhood.
I remember to this day how we used to peep through the crack of the
door, or hold it half ajar and peer in, to watch his motions; and how
mightily diverted we were with his deep, slow manner of speaking, his
heavy, cumbrous walk, but, above all, with the wonderful faculty of
"hemming" which he possessed.
His deep, thundering, protracted "A-hem-em" was like nothing else that
ever I heard; and when once, as he was in the midst of one of these
performances, the parlor door suddenly happened to swing open, I heard
one of my roguish brothers calling, in a suppressed tone, "Charles!
Charles! Father Morris has hemmed the door open!"--and then followed
the signs of a long and desperate titter, in which I sincerely
sympathized.
But the morrow is Sunday. The old man rises in the pulpit. He is not now
in his own humble little parish, preaching simply to the hoers of corn
and planters of potatoes, but there sits Governor D., and there is Judge
R., and Counsellor P., and Judge G. In short, he is before a refined and
literary audience. But Father Morris rises; he thinks nothing of this;
he cares nothing; he knows nothing, as he himself would say, but "Jesus
Christ, and him crucified." He takes a passage of Scripture to explain;
perhaps it is the walk to Emmaus, and the conversation of Jesus with his
disciples. Immediately the whole start out before you, living and
picturesque: the road to Emmaus is a New England turnpike; you can see
its mile stones, its mullein stalks, its toll gates. Next the disciples
rise, and you have before you all their anguish, and hesitation, and
dismay talked out to you in the language of your own fireside. You
smile; you are amused; yet you are touched, and the illusion grows every
moment. You see the approaching stranger, and the mysterious
conversation grows more and more interesting. Emmaus rises in the
distance, in the likeness of a New England village, with a white meeting
house and spire. You follow the travellers; you enter the house with
them; nor do you wake from your trance until, with streaming eyes, the
preacher tells you that "they saw it was the Lord Jesus--and what a
pity it was they could not have known it before!"
It was after a sermon on this very chapter of Scripture history that
Governor Griswold, in passing out of the house, laid hold on the sleeve
of his first acquaintance: "Pray tell me," said he, "who is this
minister?"
"Why, it is old Father Morris."
"Well, he is an oddity--and a genius too, I declare!" he continued. "I
