" Squire Lee ? Does he know about it ? ' 
" He does ; and you may depend upon it, he thinks 
more highly of you than ever before. He and I im- 
mediately went down to Augusta to inquire into the 
matter. V\ T e called upon the governor of the state, 
who said that he had seen you, and bought a book 
of you." 
" Of me ! " exclaimed Bobby, startled to think he 
had sold a book to a governor. 
" Yes ; you called at his house ; probably you did 
not know that he was the chief magistrate of the 
state. At any rate, he was very much pleased with 
you, and sorry to hear of your misfortune. Well, we 
followed your route to Brunswick, where we ascer- 
tained how Tom had conducted. In a week he es- 
tablished a very bad reputation there ; but nothing 
could be found to implicate you. The squire testified 
to your uniform good behavior, and especially to your 
devotion to your mother. In short, we procured 
your pardon, and hastened with it to the State Re- 
form School. 
" On our arrival, we learned, to our surprise and 
regret, that you had escaped from the institution on 
the preceding evening. Every effort was made to 
retake you, but without success. Ah, Bobby, you 
managed that well." 
" They didn't look in the right place," replied 
Bobby, with a smile, for he began to feel happy 
again. 
By the permission of the superintendent, Squire 
Lee and myself examined Tom Spicer. He is a great 
rascal. Perhaps he thought we would get him out ; 
so he made a clean breast of it, and confessed that 
you had no hand in the robbery, and that you knew 
nothing about it. He gave you the two bills on pur- 
pose to implicate you in the crime. We wrote down 
his statement, and had it sworn to before a justice of 
the peace. You shall read it by and by." 
" May Heaven reward you for your kindness to a 
poor boy ! " exclaimed Bobby, the tears flowing down 
his cheeks again. " I did not deserve so much from 
you, Mr. Bayard." 
" Yes, you did, and a thousand times more. I 
was very sorry you had left the institution, and I 
waited in the vicinity till they said there was no 
probability that you would be captured. The most 
extraordinary efforts were used to find you ; but there 
was not a person to be found who had seen or heard 
of you. I was very much alarmed about you, and 
offered a hundred dollars for any information concerning you. 
" I am sorry you had so much trouble. I wish I 
had known you were there." 
" How did you get off? ' 
Bobby briefly related the story of his escape, and 
Mr. Bayard pronounced his skill worthy of his 
genius. 
" Sam Ray is a good fellow ; we will remem- 
ber him," added the bookseller, when he had fin- 
ished. 
" I shall remember him ; and only that I shall be 
afraid to go into the State of Maine after what has 
happened, I should pay him a visit cue of these 
days." 
" There you are wrong. Those who know your 
story would sooner think of giving you a public re- 
ception, than of saying or doing any thing to injure 
your feelings. Those who have suffered unjustly are 
always lionized." 
" But no one will know my story, only that I was 
sent to prison for stealing." 
" There you are mistaken again. We put articles 
in all the principal papers, stating the facts in the 
case, and establishing your innocence beyond a per- 
adventure. Go to Augusta now, Bobby, and you 
will be a lion." 
 
" I am sure I had no idea of getting out of the 
scrape so easily as this." 
" Innocence shall triumph, my young friend."' 
" What does mother say ? " asked Bobby, his coun- 
tenance growing sad. 
" I do not know. We returned from Maine only 
yesterday ; but Squire Lee will satisfy her. All that 
can worry her, as it has worried me, will be her fears 
 
for your safety when she hears of your escape." 
" I will soon set her mind at ease upon that point. 
I will take the noon train home." 
"A word about business before you go. I dis- 
charged Timmins about a week ago, and I have kept 
his place for you." 
" By gracious ! ' exclaimed Bobby, thrown com- 
pletely out of his propriety by this announcement. 
" I think you will do better, in the long run, than 
you would to travel about tije country. I was talk- 
ing with Ellen about it, and she says it shall be so. 
Timmins' s salary was five hundred dollars a year, and 
you shall have the same." 
" Five hundred dollars a year ! " ejaculated Bobby 
amazed at the vastness of the sum. 
 
" Very well for a boy of thirteen, Bobby." 
" I was fourteen last Sunday, sir ." 
" I would not give any other boy so much ; but you 
are worth it, and you shall have it." 
Probably Mr. Bayard's gratitude had something to 
do with this munificent offer ; but he knew that our 
hero possessed abilities and energy far beyond his 
years. He further informed Bobby that he should 
have a room at his house, and that Ellen was de- 
lighted with the arrangement he proposed. 
The gloomy, threatening clouds were all rolled 
back, and floods of sunshine streamed in upon the 
soul of the little merchant ; but in the midst of his 
rejoicing he remembered that his own integrity had 
carried him safely through the night of sorrow and 
doubt. He had been true to himself, and now, in the 
hour of his great triumph, he realized that, if he had 
been faithless to the light within him, his laurel would 
have been a crown of thorns. 
He was happy very happy. What made him 
so ? Not his dawning prosperity ; not the favor of 
Mr. Bayard; not the handsome salary he was to re- 
ceive ; for all these things would have been but dross. 
if he had sacrificed his integrity, his love of truth and 
uprightness. He had been true to himself, and 
unseen angels had held him up. He had been faith- 
ful, and the consciousness of his fidelity to principle 
made a heaven within his heart. 
It was arranged that he should enter upon the du- 
ties of his new situation on the following week. Af- 
ter settling with Mr. Bayard, he found he had nearly 
seventy dollars in his possession ; so that in a pecu- 
niary point of view, if in no other, his eastern excur- 
sion was perfectly satisfactory. 
By the noon train he departed for Riverdale, and 
in two hours more he was folded to his mother's 
heart. Mrs. Bright wept for joy now, as she had 
before wept in misery when she heard of her son's 
misfortune. It took him all the afternoon to tell 
