
"Nowheres."

The gathered storm came down at this point with great fury.
The rain fell, whole water; little streams even made their way
under the walls of the shanty and ran across the floor. The
darkness asked no help from black walls and smoky roof.

"Isn't this better than to be out?" said Winthrop, after his
eyes had been for a moment drawn without by the tremendous
pouring of the rain. But the little black girl looked at it
and said doggedly,

"I don't care."

"Where have you been with that basket?"

"Down yonder -- where all the folks goes," she said with a
slight motion of her head towards the built-up quarter of the
country.

"Do you bring wood all the way from there on your back?"

"When I get some."

"Aren't you tired?"

The child looked at him steadily, and then in a strange
somewhat softened manner which belied her words, answered,

"No."

"You don't bring that big basket full, do you?"

She kept her bright eyes on him and nodded.

"I should think it would break your back."

"If I don't break my back I get a lickin'."

"Was that what you were crying for as you went by?"

"I wa'n't a cryin'!" said the girl. "Nobody never see me a
cryin' for nothin'!"

"You haven't filled your basket to-day."

She gave an askant look into it, and was silent.

"How came that?"

"'Cause! -- I was tired, and I hadn't had no dinner; and I
don't care! That's why I wished the thunder would kill me. I
can't live without eatin'."

"Have you had nothing since morning?"

"I don't get no mornin' -- I have to get my dinner."

"And you could get none to-day?"

"No. Everything was eat up."

"Everything isn't quite eaten up," said Winthrop, rummaging in
his coat pocket; and he brought forth thence a paper of figs
which he gave the girl. "He isn't so short of means as I
feared, after all," thought Elizabeth, "since he can afford to
carry figs about in his pocket." But she did not know that the
young gentleman had made his own dinner off that paper of
figs; and she could not guess it, ever when from his other
coat pocket he produced some biscuits which were likewise
given to eke out the figs in the little black girl's dinner.
She was presently roused to very great marvelling again by
seeing him apply his foot to another box, one without a clean
side, and roll it over half the length of the shed for the
child to sit upon.

"What do you think of life now, Miss Elizabeth?" he said,
leaving his charge to eat her figs and coming again to the
young lady's side.

"That isn't life," said Elizabeth.

"It seems without the one quarter of agreeableness," he said.

"But it's horrible, Mr. Winthrop! --"

He was silent, and looked at the girl, who sitting on her coal
box was eating figs and biscuits with intense satisfaction.

"She is not a bad-looking child," said Elizabeth.

"She is a very good-looking child," said Winthrop; "at least
her face has a great deal of intelligence; and I think,
something more."

"What more?"

"Feeling, or capacity of feeling."

"I wish you had a seat, Mr. Landholm," said Elizabeth, looking
round.

"Thank you -- I don't wish for one."

"It was very vexatious in Rose to go and leave me!"

"There isn't another box for her if she had stayed," said
Winthrop.

"She would have me go out with her this afternoon to see her
dressmaker, who lives just beyond here a little; and father
had the horses. It was so pleasant an afternoon, I had no
notion of a storm."

"There's a pretty good notion of a storm now," said Winthrop.

So there was, beyond a doubt; the rain was falling in floods,
and the lightning and thunder, though not very near, were very
unceasing. Elizabeth still felt awkward and uneasy, and did
not know what to talk about. She never had talked much to Mr.
Landholm; and his cool matter-of-fact way of answering her
remarks, puzzled or baffled her.

"That child sitting there makes me very uncomfortable," she
said presently.

"Why, Miss Elizabeth?"

Elizabeth hesitated, and then said she did not know.

"You don't like the verification of my setting forth of life,"
he said smiling.

"But that is not life, Mr. Winthrop."

"What is it?"

"It is the experience of one here and there -- not of people in
general."
