drew from him all the incidents of his past history. 
He seemed to feel an interest in the fortunes of hia 
companion, and gave him much good advice on prac- 
tical matters, including an insight into life in the city. 
" I suppose Squire Walker would give me fits, if 
he knew I carried you off. He was over to Rockville 
yesterday looking for you." 
" He won't find me." 
" I hope not, my boy ; though I don't know as I 
should have meddled in the matter, if Julia hadn't 
teased me. I couldn't resist her. She is the best 
lit Lie girl in the world ; and you are a lucky fellow 
to have such a friend." 
" I am ; she is an angel ; " and when Harry began 
to think of Julia, he could not think of any thing 
else, and the conversation was suspended. 
It was a long while before either of them spokfl 
gain, and then John advised Harry to crawl into the 
wagon, and lie down on the load. Notwithstanding 
his agreeable thoughts, our hero yawned now and 
then, and concluded to adopt the suggestion of the 
driver. He found a very comfortable bed on the 
bales, softened by heaps of mattings, which were to 
be used in packing the miscellaneous articles of the 
return freight. 
John Lane took things very easily ; and as the 
horses jogged slowly along, he relieved the monotony 
of the journey by singing sundry old-fashioned psalm 
tunes, which had not then gone out of use. He was 
a good singer ; and Harry was so pleased with the 
music, and so unaccustomed to the heavy jolt of the 
wagon, that he could not go to sleep at once. 
" While shepherds watched their Hocks by night, 
All seated on the ground, 
The angel of the Lord came down, 
And glory shone around." 
Again Mid again John's full and sonorous voice rolled 
out these familiar lines, till Harry was fairly lulled 
to sleep by the harmonious measures. The angel o« 
 
the Lord had come down for the fortieth time, after 
the manner of the ancient psalmody, and for the 
fortieth time Harry had thought of his angel, when 
he dropped off to dream of the "glory that shone 
around." 
Harry slept soundly after he got a little used to 
the rough motion of the wagon, and it was sunrise 
before he woke. 
" Well, Harry, how do you feel now ? " asked 
John, as he emerged from his lodging apartment. 
" Better ; I feel as bright as a new pin. Where 
are we ? " 
" We have come about twelve miles. Pretty soon 
we shall stop to bait the team and get some break- 
fast." 
" I have got some breakfast in my basket. Julia 
gave me enough to last a week. I shan't starve, at 
any rate." 
" No one would ever be hungry in this world, : i 
every body were like Julia. But you shall break fat 
with me at the tavern." 
" It won't be safe — will it ? " 
" O, yes ; nobody will know you here." 
" Well, I have got some money to pay for anj 
Ibing I have." 
" Keep your money, Harry ; you will want it all 
when you get to Boston." 
After going a few miles farther, they stopped at 
a tavern, where the horses were fed, and Harry ate 
such a breakfast as pauper never ate before. John 
would not let him pay for it, declaring that Julia's 
friends were his friends. 
The remaining portion of the journey was effected 
without any incident worthy of narrating, and they 
reached the city about noon. Of course the first 
sight of Boston astonished Harry. His conceptions 
of a city were entirely at fault ; and though it was 
not a very large city twenty-five years ago, it ftj 
exceeded his expectations. 
Harry had a mission before him, and he did not 
permit his curiosity to interfere with that. John 
drove down town to deliver his load ; and Harry 
went with him, improving every opportunity to ob- 
tain work. When the wagon stopped, he went boldly 
into the stores in the vicinity to inquire if thej 
"wanted to hire a hand." 
 
Now, Harry was not exactly in a .ondition to pTO 
iuce a very favorable impression upon those to whorr 
he applied for work. His clothes were never very 
((enteal, nor very artistically cut aud made ; and they 
were threadbare, and patched at the knees and el- 
bows. A patch is no disgrace to a man or boy, it is 
true ; but if a little more care had been taken > 
e.dapt the color and kind of fabric in Harry's patches 
to the original garment, his general appearance would 
undoubtedly have been much improved. Whether 
these patches really affected his ultimate success I 
cannot say — only that they were an inconvenience 
at the outset. 
£t was late in the afternoon before John Lane had 
nnloaded his merchandise and picked up his return 
freight. Thus far Harry had been unsuccessful ; no 
one wanted a boy ; or if they did, they did not want 
such a boy as Harry appeared to be. His country 
garb, with the five broad patches, seemed to interfere 
with the working out of his manifest destii y. Yet 
he was not disheartened. Spruce clerks and ill-man- 
nered boys laughed at him ; but he did not despond. 
" Try again," exclaimed he, as often as he was toi<» 
hat his services were not required. 
When the wagon reached "Washington Street^ 
Harry wanted to walk, for the better prosecution of 
his object ; and John gave him directions so that he 
could find Major Phillips's stable, where he intended 
eo put up for the night. 
Harry trotted along among the gay and gentee. 
people that thronged the sidewalk ; but he was bo 
earnest about his mission, that he could not stop to 
look at their fine clothes, nor even at the pictures, 
the gewgaws, and gimcracks that tempted him from 
the windows. 
" ' Boy wanted ' " Harry read on a paper in the 
window of a jeweller's shop. " Now's my time ; " 
and, without pausing to consider the chances that 
were against him, he entered the store. 
" You want a boy — don't you ? " asked he of a 
young man behind the counter. 
" We do," replied the person addressed, looking 
at the applicant with a broad grin on his face. 
" I should like to hire out," continued Harry, with 
an earnestness that would have secured the attention 
T>f any man but an idiot. 
" Do you ? Your name is Joseph — isn't it ? " 
" No, sir ; my name is Harry West." 
" O, I thought it was Joseph. The Book vys tn 
oad a coat of many colors, though I bel ; evo it don't 
Bay any thing about the trousers," sneered the shop- 
keeper. 
" Never mind the coat or the trousers. If ycu 
