she hasn't got it very bad; but she has been very sick, I think."
"Who takes care of her?"
"I do, ma'am."
"You! She must need a great deal of attention. But who takes care of
her at night?"
"I do, ma'am. I have been up a great deal every night."
"Poor child! It is enough to wear you out."
"I wouldn't mind it at all, if I had nothing else to trouble me."
"What other troubles have you?"
"I can't make any candy now, and haven't made any for nearly a
fortnight; so that we have no money coming in. We spent nearly all we
had in buying our winter clothing and fuel. It worries me very much,
for we had plenty of money before mother was taken sick."
"I hope you haven't wanted for anything."
"No, ma'am; for when my purse was empty, I came up here, only
yesterday, to borrow some of you, if you would please to lend it me."
"Certainly, I will, my child. I am very glad you came."
"Michael would make me tell what I wanted, and then he let me have
three dollars, and offered to let me have as much as I wanted. I didn't
know as you would like it if I borrowed money of your servant."
"You did just right: and I am glad that Michael has a kind heart. Now,
how much money do you want?"
"I thought I would ask you to lend me twenty dollars; and just as soon,
after mother gets well, as I can gather the money together, I will pay
you--and the interest," she added, glancing at Grace.
"Now, Katy, that is too bad!" exclaimed Grace, catching her by the
hand, while a tear started from her eye. "You know I didn't mean that."
"I know you didn't; but I don't know much about such things, and
thought likely it was right for us to pay interest, if we borrowed
money."
"I should be very glad to give you twenty dollars, Katy, if you would
only let me; for I am rich, as well as mother, and I certainly should
not think of taking interest."
"We will say no more about that," interrupted Mrs. Gordon. "I will let
you have the money with the greatest pleasure, for I know you will make
good use of it."
"I will, indeed."
"And you must promise me that you will not distress yourself to pay it
again," continued the kind lady, as she took out her purse.
"I will not distress myself, but I will pay it as soon as I can."
"You must not be too proud."
"No, ma'am; but just proud enough."
"Yes, that's it," replied Mrs. Gordon, smiling. "Pride is a very good
thing in its place. It keeps people from being mean and wicked
sometimes."
"That's true pride," added Katy.
"Yes; for there is a false pride, which makes people very silly and
vain; which keeps them from doing their duty very often. You have none
of this kind of pride."
"I hope not."
"Your friend Simon Sneed, whom the mayor spoke to me about, affords us
a very good example of the folly of cherishing false pride. Where is
Simon now?"
"He keeps a store in Washington Street. He is a salesman now, and I
don't think he is so foolish as he was."
"Perhaps the lesson he learned did him good. But I am keeping you away
from your mother, Katy. Who stays with her while you are away?"
"Mrs. Sneed--Simon's mother."
"Then she is a good woman."
"And Simon is very kind; he has done a great many things for me, and I
hope I shall be able to do something for him one of these days."
"That's right, Katy. Think well of your friends, though others speak
ill of them," said Grace. "Ah, there comes the carriage. I am going
home with you, Katy, to see your mother."
"You are very kind, Miss Grace."
"Here is the money," added Mrs. Gordon, handing her a little roll of
bills.
"Thank you, ma'am," replied Katy, as she placed the money in her
porte-monnaie. "But----"
Here she came to a full stop, and her face was as crimson as a blush
rose, but she took out the silver watch, and approached Mrs. Gordon.
"What were you going to say, Katy?"
"I brought this watch up," stammered she.
"What for?"
"You know I am a poor girl, my mother is a poor woman, and we didn't
want you to think you were giving us the money, for we are very proud;
that is, my mother is very proud, and so am I; and----"
Here Katy drew a long breath, and came to a full stop again, unable to
say what she wanted to say.
"If you want anything else, Katy, don't hesitate to mention it; for I
will not do anything to mortify your pride, even if it is
unreasonable," said Mrs. Gordon. "I understand you perfectly; the
twenty dollars is not a gift, but a loan."
"Yes, ma'am; but if we should never be able to pay it, then it would be
a gift."
"No, it wouldn't."
"I think so; and so I brought this watch, which you will please to take
as security for the payment of the loan," said Katy, much confused, as
she offered the watch to Mrs. Gordon.
"My dear child, I do not want any security. Your word is just as good
as your bond."
"But I would rather you would take it. My mother is prouder than I am,
for she wasn't always as poor as she is now."
Katy suddenly clapped her hand over her mouth, when she recollected
that this was a forbidden topic.
"Some time you may tell me all about your mother; and I will call and
see her to-morrow, and help you take care of her."
"Please to take the watch, ma'am."
"If you very much desire it, I shall do so, though I cannot take it as
security. Is this the watch you carried to the pawnbroker?" said Mrs.
Gordon as she took the treasure.
"Yes, ma'am. It belonged to my father."
Mrs. Gordon turned over the watch, and looked at it with considerable
interest, as she thought of it as a memento of the dead, and how highly
it must be prized by the poor woman.
"Mercy, what's this!" exclaimed she, starting back, and staggering
towards her chair.
"What is the matter, mother?" cried Grace, running to her side. "Are
you ill?"
"No, Grace; that inscription!" replied Mrs. Gordon, faintly, for she
seemed very deeply moved, and on the point of swooning. "Bring me a
glass of water."
There was no water in the room, but Michael was in the entry, and was
dispatched to procure it. He returned in a moment, and when Mrs. Gordon
had in some measure recovered from the sudden shock she pointed to the
inscription on the back of the watch:--
                  "M. G.
                    to
                   J. R.
              All for the Best."
"What does, it mean, mother? I do not see anything very strange about
that."
"I have seen this watch before," she replied, stopping to think. "Where
did your mother get this watch, Katy?" she asked, as it occurred to her
that she might be arriving at a conclusion too suddenly.
"It was my father's."
"Where did your father get it? Did you ever hear your mother say?"
"Yes, ma'am; her father, who was a rich Liverpool merchant, gave it to
her husband, my father," replied Katy, who felt justified in revealing
what her mother had told her to keep secret.
"Mercy!" gasped Mrs. Gordon, almost overcome by her emotions.
"What is the matter, mother? What has all this to do with you?" asked
Grace, anxiously.
"Come here, Katy, my child," continued Mrs. Gordon, as she drew the
little candy merchant to her side, and warmly embraced her. "Your
mother, Katy, is my sister, I have scarcely a doubt."
"Why, mother! Is it possible?" exclaimed Grace.
"It is even so. Mrs. Redburn, whose name we have often heard mentioned
without thinking it might be the wife of John Redburn, my father's
clerk, is my sister. I had given her up, and have regarded her as dead
