The two young ladies ascended to Helen's chamber in the third story.
But the book of prints was not to be found there. "It is in the
parlor, I recollect now," said Helen, ringing the bell as she spoke,
with a quick, strong jerk.
In about three or four minutes, and just as the young lady's
patience was exhausted and her fingers were beginning to itch for
another pull at the bell rope, the tardy waiting women appeared.
"Hannah--Go down into the parlor, and bring me off of the piano a
book you will find there. It is a broad flat book, with loose sheets
in it."
This was said in a tone of authority. The domestic turned away
without speaking and went down stairs. In a little while she came
back, and handed Helen a book, answering the description given. But
it was a portfolio of music.
"O no! Not this!" said she, with a curl of the lip, and an impatient
tossing of her head. "How stupid you are, Hannah! The book I want,
contains prints, and this is only a music book! There! Take it back,
and bring me the book of prints."
Hannah took the book, and muttering as she went out, returned to the
parlor, down two long flights of stairs, and laid it upon the piano.
"If you want the pictures, you may get them yourself, Miss; you've
got more time to run up and down stairs than I have."
As she said this Hannah left the parlor, and the book of prints
lying upon the piano, and went back to the chamber she had been
engaged in cleaning up when called away by Helen's bell. It was not
long after she had resumed her occupation, before the bell sounded
loudly through the passages. Hannah smiled bitterly, and with an air
of resolution, as she listened to the iron summons.
"Pull away to your heart's content, Miss!" she said, half audibly.
"When you call me again take care and know what you want me for.
I've got something else to do besides running up and down stairs to
bring you pictures. Why didn't you look at them while you were in
the parlor, or, take them up with you, if you wanted them in your
chamber?"
"Did you ever see the like!" ejaculated Helen, deeply disturbed at
finding both her direction and her subsequent summons unattended to.
"That's just the way we are constantly served by these abominable
creatures."
Two or three heavy jerks at the bell rope followed these remarks.
"Pull away! It's good exercise for you!" muttered Hannah to herself.
And this was all the notice she took of the incensed young lady, who
was finally compelled to go down stairs and get the prints herself.
But she was so much disturbed and caused Fanny to feel so
unpleasantly that neither of them had any real enjoyment in
examining the beautiful pictures. After these had been turned over
and remarked upon for some time, and they had spent an hour in
conversation, the bell was again rung. Hannah, who came with her
usual reluctance, was directed to prepare some lemonade, and bring
it up with cake. This she did, after a good deal of delay, for which
she was grumbled at by Helen. After the cake bad been eaten, and the
lemonade drank, Hannah was again summoned to remove the waiter. This
was performed with the same ill grace that every other service had
been rendered.
"I declare! these servants worry me almost to death!" Helen again
broke forth. "This is just the way I am served whenever I have a
visiter. It is always the time Hannah takes to be ill-natured and
show off her disobliging, ugly temper."
Fanny made no reply to this. But she had her own thoughts. It was
plain enough to her mind, that her friend had only herself to blame,
for the annoyance she suffered. After witnessing one or two mote
petty contentions with the domestic, Fanny went away, her friend
promising, at her particular request, to come and spend a day with
her early in the ensuing week.
It can do no harm, and may do good, for us to draw aside for an
instant the veil that screened from general observation the domestic
economy of the Armitage family. They were well enough off in the
world as regards wealth, but rather poorly off in respect to
self-government and that domestic wisdom which arranges all parts of
a household in just subordination, and thus prevents collisions, or
encroachments of one portion upon another. With them, a servant was
looked upon as a machine who had nothing to do but to obey all
commands. As to the rights of servants in a household, that was
something of which they had never dreamed. Of course, constant
rebellion, or the most unwillingly preformed duties, was the
undeviating attendant upon their domestic economy. It was a maxim,
with Mrs. Armitage, never to indulge or favor one of her people in
the smallest matter. She had never done so in her life, she said,
that she had got any thanks for it. It always made them presumptuous
and dissatisfied. The more you did for them, the more they expected,
and soon came to demand as a right what had been at first granted as
a favor. Mrs. Armitage was, in a word, one of those petty domestic
tyrants, who rule with the rod of apparent authority. Perfect
submission she deemed the only true order in a household. Of course,
true order she never could gain, for such a thing as perfect
submission to arbitrary rule among domestics in this country never
has and never will be yielded. The law of kindness and consideration
is the only true law, and where this is not efficient, none other
will or can be.
As for Mrs. Armitage and her daughters, each one of whom bore
herself towards the domestics with an air of imperiousness and
dictation, they never reflected before requiring a service whether
such a service would not be felt as burdensome in the extreme, and
therefore, whether it might not be dispensed with at the time.
Without regard to what might be going on in the kitchen, the parlor
or chamber, bells were rung, and servants required to leave their
half finished meals, or to break away in the midst of important
duties that had to be done by a certain time, to attend to some
trifling matter which, in fact, should never have been assigned to a
domestic at all. Under this system, it was no wonder that a constant
succession of complaints against servants should be made by the
Armitages. How could it be otherwise? Flesh and blood could not
patiently bear the trials to which these people were subjected. Nor
was it any wonder, that frequent changes took place, or that they
were only able to retain the most inferior class of servants, and
then only for short periods.
There are few, perhaps, who cannot refer, among their acquaintances,
to a family like the Armitages. They may ordinarily be known by
their constant complaints about servants, and their dictatorial way
of speaking whenever they happen to call upon them for the
performance of any duty.
In pleasing contrast to them were the Milnors.
Let us go with Helen in her visit to Fanny. When the day came which
she had promised to spend with her young friend, Helen, after
getting out of patience with the chambermaid for her tardy
attendance upon her, and indulging her daily murmurs against
servants, at last emerged into the street, and took her way towards
the dwelling of Mr. Milnor. It was a bright day, and her spirits
soon rose superior to the little annoyances that had fretted her for
the past hour. When she met Fanny she was in the best possible
humor; and so seemed the tidy domestic who had admitted her, for she
looked very cheerful, and smiled as she opened the door.
"How different from our grumbling, slovenly set!" Helen could not
help remarking to herself, as she passed in. Fanny welcomed her with
genuine cordiality, and the two young ladies were soon engaged in
pleasant conversation. After exhausting various themes, they turned
to music, and played, and sang together for half an hour.
"I believe I have some new prints that you have never seen," said
Fanny on their leaving the piano, and she looked around for the
portfolio of engravings, but could not find it.
"Oh! now I remember--it is up stairs. Excuse me for a minute and I
will run and get it." As Fanny said this, she glided from the room.
In a few minutes she returned with the book of prints.
"Pardon me, Fanny--but why didn't you call a servant to get the
port-folio for you? You have them in the house to wait upon you."
"Oh, as to that," returned Fanny, "I always prefer to wait upon
myself when I can, and so remain independent. And besides, the girls
are all busy ironing, and I would not call them off from their work
for any thing that I could do myself. Ironing day is a pretty hard
day for all of them, for our family is large, and mother always
likes her work done well."
