most exquisite piece of involution. The doctor could not very well see
the face with which her words were spoken and had to make up his mind
upon them alone.

"It is so!" was his settled conclusion. "She has only a child's
friendly liking for him--nothing more--or she never, simple as she is,
would have said that to me with that frankness!"

Moodiness returned to the doctor's brow no more. He left Quapaw creek
in the distance and talked of all manner of pleasant things. And so,
with no second break of the order of march, they went on and went home.

"Mr. Linden," said Faith when she was lighting the lamp for study in
the evening,--"you'll never ask anything of me so hard to do as that
was to-day."

"Hard?" he replied. "Why?"

"To keep in front, where I could not see you and that horse."

"Miss Faith! I am very sorry!--But you know I had you in charge--I felt
bound to keep you in sight."

"I know,"--she said; and sat down to her work.



CHAPTER XXXIV.



There was no more riding after that--the weather grew too cold, and
Mattabeeset was put off till spring; but with walks and talks and
reading aloud, Göthe's maxim was well carried out. For there is music
that needs no composer but Peace, and fireside groups that are not bad
pictures in stormy weather. And so December began to check off its
short days with busy fingers.

There came a sudden interruption to all this, except December's part of
it. For a letter arrived from Miss Delia Danforth, at Pequot, begging
that Faith would come and spend a little time with her. Miss Delia was
very unwell, and suffering and alone, with the exception of her
brother's French wife; and she wrote with longing desire to see Faith.
Mr. Danforth had been some years dead, and the widow and the sister who
had lived so long together with him, since his death had kept their old
household life, in a very quiet way, without him. But now Miss Danforth
longed for some of her own kindred, or had a special liking or desire
for Faith's company, for she prayed her to come. And it was not a call
that Faith herself a moment doubted about answering. Mrs. Derrick's
willingness lingered, for various natural reasons; but that too
followed. It was clear that Faith ought not to refuse.

The day before she was to go, Mrs. Derrick made her self unusually busy
and tired, so as to spare Faith's study-time; and thus it fell out,
that when night came and prayers were over, Mrs. Derrick went straight
to bed; partly from fatigue, partly to be ready for an early start next
day; for she was to drive Faith over to Pequot. No such need or
inducements sent Faith to bed; and the two students planned a longer
evening of work than common, to anticipate lost time. But when the
hours were about half spent, Cindy came to the door and called out,
"Miss Faith!"--Faith left her book and went to the door, which she held
open.

"There was a boy come to-night," said Cindy, "from that old starvation
creatur' down by Barley point, and he says she's more in a box than
ever. Haint a crumb of bread for breakfast--nor supper neither, for
that."

"Is the boy here now?"

"Why sakes no!" said Cindy. "He come while you was to supper. I s'pose
I might ha' telled ye before, but then again I was busy bakin'
cakes--and I'm free to confess I forgot. And prayers always does turn
everything out of ray head. I can't guess how I thought of it now. Mr.
Skip's away to-night, too," said Cindy in conclusion. Faith shut the
door behind her.

"It's too far for you to go alone. Can you find somebody to go with
you, Cindy? I'll put up a basket of things for her."

"Aint a soul in sight--" said Cindy. "I'd as lieves go the hull way
alone as to snoop round, hunting folks."

"Then Cindy, if you'll get ready I'll go with you. She must have
something."

Cindy looked at her. "Guess you better get fixed first, Miss Faith.
'Taint hardly worth my while, I reckon. Who shouldn't we have after us!"

"Just have your shawl and bonnet ready, Cindy, will you?" said Faith
gravely,--"and I'll be ready in a very few minutes."

She went with business speed to pantry and cellar, and soon had a
sizeable basket properly filled. Leaving that in Cindy's charge, Faith
went back to the sitting-room, and came and stood by the table, and
said quietly, "I can't do any more to-night, Mr. Linden. I must be busy
in another way. I am going out for a little while."

"May I ask--not from curiosity--with whom?" he said looking up at her.

"With Cindy--to attend to some business she didn't tell me of in proper
time." Faith had laid her books together and was going off. Mr. Linden
rose from the table.

"With me, if you please, Miss Faith. I will not intrude upon your
business."

"It's no business to be intruded upon!" she said with her simple look
into his face. "But Cindy and I can do it. Please do not let me take
you away! I am not afraid--much."

"Miss Faith, you want a great many lessons yet!--and I do not deserve
this. Don't you know that in Mrs. Derrick's absence I am guardian of
her house--and of you? I will go with you, or without you--just as you
choose," he added smiling. "If you would rather study than walk, you
shall. Is the business too intricate for me to manage?"

"It's only to carry some things to an old woman who is in great want of
them. They can't wait till to-morrow. If you will go, Mr. Linden,--I'll
be ready in a minute. I'd like to go."

She ran to get ready, and Mr. Linden went to the kitchen and took the
basket from Cindy, and then waited at the front door till Faith came,
and they went out into the moonlight together. A very bright moonlight,
and dark shadows--dark and still; only one of them seemed to move; but
that one made Faith glad of her change of companions. Perhaps it made
the same suggestion to Mr. Linden, for his first words looked that way.

"Miss Faith, you did not do quite right, to-night. Don't you know--"
with a gentle half smiling tone--"you must not let anything make you
do wrong?"

Her look and tone were both very confiding, and touched with timidity.

"Did I, Mr. Linden? I didn't mean it."

"I know that--but you must remember for another time." And he went off
to other subjects, giving her talk and information that were perhaps
better than books. The walk was good, too; the air bracing, and the
village sights and sounds in a subsiding glimmer and murmur. The
