to study Pet's letters, or some lesson that Pet's brother had set her.
From the sapphires Faith turned to her Bible. She was not, or would not
be interrupted, till it was time to attend to business.
The first business was presented for her attention by Miss Linden, who
came in, basket in hand. There was no need to ask what it was, such a
breath of orange flowers and roses filled the room. She found Faith
ready; her hair dressed as it always was; her mind too, to judge by
appearances. Only Faith was a little more quiet than usual. With the
very quietness of love and sympathy, Pet did her part; with the
swiftest fingers, the most noiseless steps. Silent as Mrs. Derrick or
Faith herself, only a sparkle of the eyes, a pretty flush on the
cheeks, said that she viewed the matter from a greater distance. And
yet hardly that, so far as one of the parties was concerned. Never
putting her hand forward where Mrs. Derrick's liked to be, it was most
efficient in other places. Both used their skill to put the soft muslin
safely over Faith's smooth hair, but then Mrs. Derrick was left to
fasten and adjust it--Pet applied herself to adjusting the flowers. How
dainty they were: those tiny bunches! sprays of myrtle and orange
flowers, or a white rose-bud and a more trailing stem of ivy geranium;
the breast-knot just touched with purple heliotrope and one blush rose.
Kneeling at her feet to put on the rosetted slippers, Pet looked up at
her new sister with all her heart in her eyes. And Faith looked down at
her--like a child.
She had been dressed in Pet's room--her own, as being larger and more
commodious than the one where Faith had stowed herself lately; and when
the dressing was done she sat down by the open window, and with the odd
capriciousness of the mind at certain times, thought of the day when
Mr. Linden had thrown her up the cowslip ball,--and in the same breath
wondered who was going to take her down stairs!
But she sat quiet, looking as fair in her soft robe with its orange
flowers as if they and she had been made for each other. Faith's hair,
in its rich colour, was only dark enough to set off the tender tints of
her flowers and dress; it wanted neither veil nor adornment. The very
outlines of her figure betokened, as outlines are somewhat apt to do,
the spirit within; without a harsh angle or line. And nothing could be
too soft, or strong, or pure, to go with those eyes. She sat looking
out into the orchard, where now the noonday of summer held its still
reign--nothing there but the grass and the trees and the insects. The
cowslips were gone; and Mr. Linden----
Pet finished all that had been left unfinished of her own dress, then
in her rose-coloured summer silk, white gloves in her hand, white
flowers on her breast, she came and stood by Faith. Mrs. Derrick had
gone down stairs. It was close upon one o'clock now; the shadows were
losing their directness and taking a slant line, the labourers were
coming back to their work, standing about and taking off their coats,
waiting for the clock to strike. Miss Linden stood drawing on her
gloves. Faith gave her one swift glance, which rested for a second on
her face with a look of loving gratitude. A flush rose to her cheek, as
if it might have been the reflection of Miss Linden's dress; but it was
not that, for it paled again.
One o'clock!
It would have seemed a less weird sort of thing if the clock had made a
little more fuss,--twelve strokes, or even eleven, would have been
something tangible; but that one clang--scarce heard before it was
gone, dying away on the June breeze,--what a point of time it seemed!
The waves of air were but just at rest, when Mrs. Derrick opened the
door and came in; her black dress and white cap setting off a face and
demeanour which, with all their wonted sweet placidness, and amid all
the tender influences of the day, kept too their wonted energy.
"Come, pretty child!" she said.
Faith was ready, and followed her mother without a question. In the
hall Mr. Linden stood waiting for her, and she was given into his care;
though again Faith lost the look which passed between the two,--she saw
only the startling white of Mr. Linden's gloves. He handed her down
stairs, then gave her his arm and took her in; Mrs. Derrick going
first, and Pet following.
There were but six or eight people there. On one side sat Mrs. Iredell
in her rich dress; the rest were standing, except little Ency Stephens,
who was in one of her perched-up positions by the window. Mr. Somers
was lingering about his position, his wife and Mr. and Mrs.
Stoutenburgh were opposite to Mrs. Iredell. Reuben Taylor furthest back
of all, in the shadow of Ency's window. Her little cry was the only
sound as they came in, and that hardly louder than a sigh of delight.
Faith did not hear it nor look at anybody. Yet she did not look
dismayed at all nor abashed. A piece of very timid gravity the person
nearest her knew her to be; but hardly any person further off. A very
lovely mingling of shy dignity and humility was in her face and air as
she stood before Mr. Somers; those who saw it never forgot.
Except I must that same Mr. Somers! He saw only a pretty bride, whose
orange flowers and roses were very sweet. He had seen many pretty
brides before, and orange flowers were not new to him. And he
pronounced his part of the service which followed, with gratification,
certainly. Mr. Somers was always gracious, and to-day he was admiring;
but yet with no more sense of what he was about than when a hundred
times before he had pronounced it for--very different people!
However, there is a great system of compensations in this world; and on
this occasion there was in other members of the party so much sense of
what was doing, that it mattered little about Mr. Somers' want of it.
It mattered nothing to Faith, how his words were spoken; nobody that
heard them forgot how hers were--the sweet clear sounds of every
syllable; only that once or twice she said "yes" where by established
formula she should have said the more dignified "I do." Perhaps "yes"
meant as much. Those who heard it thought it did.
For Mr. Linden, his senses not being troubled by shyness, just because
his own heart was so thoroughly in what he was about he did perceive
the want of heart in Mr. Somers. And, in the abstract, it did not suit
his notions that even a man who had married five hundred other people
should put such questions to Mignonette, or to him, in a commonplace
way. So far his senses perceived, but Mr. Somers could reach no
further. One touch of Faith's hand had banished the officiate to
another planet; and the vow to love, cherish, and honour, was taken,
word for word, deep in his own heart; the grave, deliberate accents of
assent seeming to dwell upon each specification. Yes, he took her "for
better for worse, in sickness or health, for richer for poorer," every
word was like the counting over of gold to him, it was all "richer."
Even the last words, the limit fixed, shone with light from another
world. "Till death shall you part;" yes, but to them death would be but
a short parting. And standing side by side there with the blessing of
his earthly life, Mr. Linden thanked God in his heart for the future
"life and immortality" to which He had called them both.
Mysterious is the way in which events are telegraphed from the inside
of a house to the exterior thereof. Hardly were Mr. Somers' last words
spoken, Faith was not yet out of Mr. Linden's hands, when there came a
peal from the little white church as if the bell-ringing of two or
three Sundays were concentrated in one. Much to the surprise of Mr.
Somers; who, to speak truth, rather thought the bells were his personal
property, and as such playing truant. But in two seconds the other bell
chimed in; and all that could ever be known, was, that Phil Davids and
Joe Deacon had been seen in closer attendance on the two churches than
they were wont to be week days. Meantime the bells rang.
It was done; and those downcast eyes must be lifted up, if they could.
But Faith was not unlike her usual manner. The slight air of timidity
which sat with such grace upon her was not so very unusual; and that
besides touched only or mainly one person. With blushing quietness she
let her friends kiss and congratulate her. It was rather kiss and
caress her; for they came about her, that little bevy of friends, with
a warmth that might have thawed Mr. Somers. Mrs. Derrick and Pet glad
and silent, Reuben Taylor very shy, the Stoutenburghs in a little furor
of interest which yet did not break pretty bounds. And then Faith went
up to Ency where she sat by the window, and gave her two kisses, very
grave and sweet.
"How beautiful you are, ma'am!" was the child's truthful comment.
"Do you know who 'Miss Faith' is now, Ency?"--"Yes sir," the child
said, then shy of speaking it out, "Stoop down and I'll tell you."
Mr. Linden bent his head to hear the whisper, giving her a kiss in
return, and then carried Faith off to the next room; where presently
too the little lame girl was perched up at such a table as she had
never dreamed of before.
It was a pretty gathering, both on the table and around it. The party
of friends, few enough to be choice, were good and different enough to
