“Not in all.”
“So he can be independent of you in any special case if he deems it
desirable.”
“Yes.”
“And this is also true as regards yourself?”
“Yes.”
“Then, Mr. Wallingford, I shall consult you, individually, in future.”
He bowed low in acquiescence.
“And let me say to you, once for all, that I want only my rights, if I
have any, protected. I do not wish any impediments thrown in the way
of a proper search for the heirs of Mrs. Allen; but desire to see the
fullest notice given, and in channels by which it is most likely to
reach them. At the same time, it is but just to me and mine that all
right steps should be taken to protect my interests, in case no heirs
should be found. And I have faith in you, Mr. Wallingford.”
“You shall never have cause to regret your confidence, madam,” he
replied, in a tone so full of manly integrity, that I could not but gaze
upon his fine countenance with a feeling of admiration.
“Will you place this will in the hands of Judge Bigelow?” asked Mrs.
Montgomery.
“It will be best for you to do that yourself, madam,” replied
Wallingford.
“I will be guided by your judgment in the case, sir. This very day I
will send him a note asking an interview.”
“After that, madam,” said Wallingford, rising, “I will be at your
service.”
We retired together.
CHAPTER XV.
Both Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd were discreet men, and did not, at
the outset of their executorship, do more in the way of giving publicity
to the fact, than probating the will, and entering into bonds for the
faithful performance of the trust. For the present they decided to let
Mrs. Montgomery remain in occupancy of the old mansion, and she accepted
this concession in her favor.
The property left by Captain Allen was large. The grounds upon which the
old house stood, embraced nearly twenty acres, and as the town had grown
in that direction, its value might now be estimated by the foot, instead
of the acre, as houses had grown up on all sides. Moreover, the stream
of water upon which the mill of Squire Floyd stood, ran through these
grounds, in a series of picturesque rapids, giving a fall of over twenty
feet. The value of this property, including a mill site, was estimated
at sixty thousand dollars. Then there were twenty thousand dollars in
stock of the County Bank, the interest of which Mrs. Allen had drawn
since the death of her husband, regularly, as administratrix of the
estate. Besides this property, there were several pieces of unimproved
land in and around the town, the value of which could not fall much
below twenty thousand dollars. In addition to all this, was a coffee
estate on the island of Porto Rico. But as to its extent, or value, no
evidence appeared. It might now be richly productive, or a mere tropical
wilderness. If productive, no evidence of any return since Captain
Allen’s death appeared.
The winter passed without any apparent movement on the part of the
executors looking to the discovery of Mrs. Allen’s heirs. Young Dewey
came up from New York every few weeks, to hold business interviews with
his uncle and Squire Floyd, touching the mill-extension which was
fully determined upon; Judge Bigelow agreeing to invest twenty thousand
dollars, and the nephew ten thousand. All these matters were talked of
in the beginning, freely, before Wallingford, who still had his office
with his old preceptor, and shared in his business. After a while, he
noticed a growing reserve on the part of Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd,
when he was by, touching their private affairs; and then they ceased
entirely all reference thereto.
Dewey came up as frequently as usual, but avoided any remark in relation
to business while in the presence of Wallingford. During his stay in
S----, the Judge spent but little time at the office; being, for the
most part, at the mill with his nephew and the Squire.
In the spring, a large force of men was set to work on the extension of
Squire Floyd’s mill; and as Judge Bigelow had become largely interested
in the new enterprise, he gave a great deal more attention to what was
going on in that direction, than to the business of his office, the
heaviest part of which devolved upon Mr. Wallingford. Still, no steps
were taken to discover the heirs of Mrs. Allen. Once or twice Mr.
Wallingford had approached the subject, but the Judge made no response.
At last, he put the question direct, as to what had been done. The Judge
seemed a little annoyed; but said, in a hurried way that was unusual
with him,
“I must, and will attend to this matter immediately. I have had so much
on my mind that it has been neglected.”
But the spring months passed--summer glided by--and still there was
no advertisement for heirs, nor any steps taken, so far as Wallingford
could learn, to ascertain their existence.
Mrs. Montgomery still occupied the old mansion, waiting patiently the
issue whatever it might be. Her health, I regretted to find, was not
firm. She suffered a great deal from nervous debility; and I saw,
plainly, that she had failed considerably during the past few months.
Blanche, on the contrary, after recovering from the illness which
followed immediately on her arrival in S----, had continued in excellent
health; and was growing daily more matured and womanly both as to mental
development and personal bearing.
The mill improvements went on all summer, exciting no little interest
in our town, and occasioning no small amount of talk and speculation.
It was some time in the fall of that year, that I was permitted to hear
this brief conversation between a couple of townsmen. Mr. A----had made
some query as to the source of all the money expended on the new mill of
Squire Floyd, which was now standing forth, under roof, in most
imposing proportions, compared with the old works. Mr. B----shrugged his
shoulders, and replied,
“Floyd and the Judge are joint executors of old Allen’s estate, you
know.”
“What does that signify?” inquired Mr. A----.
“It may signify a great deal. They have trust funds in their possession
to a large amount, I am told.”
“They are both honorable men, and would not violate their trust,” said
A----.
“I will not gainsay that,” answered Mr. B----. “Still, they may use
these funds temporarily, and wrong no one.”
Nothing more was said in my presence, but I turned their remarks over
and over again, feeling less satisfied the more I pondered them. A day
or two afterwards I met Mr. Wallingford, and said to him,
“How comes on the search for the heirs of the Allen estate?”
The question caused him to look grave.
“No progress has been made, so far as I can learn,” he answered.
“Isn’t this indifference on the part of the executors a little
extraordinary?” I remarked.
“I must confess that I do not understand it,” said the young lawyer.
“There is personal, as well as real estate?”
“Yes. Stocks worth twenty thousand dollars.”
“I have heard it suggested, that trust funds in the case are going into
Squire Floyd’s mill.”
Wallingford started at the suggestion, and looked for some moments
intently in my face; then dropped his eyes, and stood lost in thought a
good while.
“Where did you hear the suggestion?” he at length inquired.
I repeated the conversation just mentioned, and named the individuals
with whom it had occurred.
“And now, Henry,” said I, “put this hint, and the singular neglect of
the executors to search for the heirs to the Allen property, together,
and tell me how the matter shapes itself in your mind. We speak
confidentially with each other, of course.”
“I don’t just like the appearance of it, that is all I can say, Doctor,”
 he replied in a half absent manner.
“As you represent the interests of Mrs. Montgomery,” said I, “is it not
your duty to look a little closer into this matter?”
“It is; and I shall give it immediate attention.”
He did so, and to his surprise, found that all the bank stock had been
sold, and transferred. It was now plain to him where at least a part
of the funds being so liberally expended on the mill property of Squire
Floyd came from. On venturing to make some inquiries of Judge Bigelow
bearing on the subject, that individual showed an unusual degree of
irritation, and intimated, in terms not to be misunderstood, that he
