



the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, 
that publisheth peace ; that bringeth good 
tidings of good, that publisheth salvation !’ ” 

“The good tidings,” said Debby : “ that’s 
the news that Jesus came to save people. 
Because when he was born the angels 
called it good tidings of great joy.” 

“Yes: you remember very well,” said 
her mother. “Now, the Bible says that 
every one that abide th in Jesus ought himself also so to walk even as he walked. 
How was that ?” 

“He went about doing good,” said 
Debby. “I learned that.” 

“Yes; and it was his meat and drink 
to do the will of God. And when we 
walk like him, Debby, then are our ‘feet 
shod with the preparation of the gospel of 
peace and there is no shoe like that for 
going over all rough places.” 


 


“And do all the little travellers Zion- 
ward walk so?” said Debby. 

“Ah,” said her mother, “they are all 
trying to walk so; for every one who follows Jesus will try to walk worthy of the 
Lord, unto all well-pleasing.’ When you 
tried to cross the brook once on a log, 
Debby, how did you contrive to do it?” 
“Why, you told me not to look about, 
mother,” said Debby; “and so I just 
looked at you and walked straight across. 
And I held out my hand, you know, and 
you took hold of it.” 

“Well,” said her mother, “in walking 
through this world, Debby, unless you 
want to make crooked paths for your feet, 
you must not look hither and thither to 
see how other people do, or to show what 
a steady head you have. Look only to 
Jesus; hold out your hand to him: then 
you will be a traveller Zionward.” 



“And they go to the kingdom of the Lord, 
and the mansions of the blest,” said Debby. 

“Yes/’ said her mother. “And where 
are those mansions?” 

“Oh, I know,” said Debby: “it’s in 
that chapter where I learned my verses 
last Sunday, where the Lord Jesus says, 
‘In my Father’s house are many mansions ; 
I go to prepare a place for you. ” 

“Now listen,” said her mother, “and I 
will read you a little hit about that, Debby. 
It tells of Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem: — 
“ ‘And the city had no need of the sun, 
neither of the moon to shine in it ; for the 
glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb 
is the light thereof. And the nations of 
them which are saved shall walk in the 
light of it.’ 

“First they walk with God on earth, 
and then in the full light of his countenance in heaven.” 




CHAPTER III. 

The Sunday-school children at the village were going to have a strawberry feast 
over on Church Hill: there was nice 

green grass there, and great trees to give 
shade. And the children were to meet 
just where the brook runs out of the Hollow, and then walk together to the Hill. 
So, when it drew near four o’clock, Debby 
set out to walk to the place of meeting, 
red shoes and all. I really think that 
black ones would have looked better, for 
such a walk ; but Debby wished very 
much to wear the red; and her mother 
consented. They made quite a show in 
the green grass as she went along, Debby 
thought; and she was so busy watching 




for them, as one after the other stepped 
forward, that she actually forgot all about 
the strawberry feast till she came in sight 
of the rest of the children. There was 
Sarah Dasher, and the Singletons, and Tom 
Lane, and many others, — some of the poor 
village children, too, and all the teachers. 

When all had arrived, the teachers began to arrange them two-and-two, that 
they might walk in nice order. First 
went Ellen Singleton and Sarah Dasher, 
and then the two next oldest ; and so on. 
Now, Debby hoped very much that she 
might have one of her particular friends 
to walk with; but, instead of that, Mrs. 
Singleton brought up one of the village 
children for her companion. 

“This is Jane King, Debby,” she said. 
“I want you to walk. with her.” 

So Debby and Jane King walked off 
after the other children, and Debby held 



her head down and peeped at Jane round 
the* edge of her sunbonnet. She wife a 
nice-looking child, with good, plump 
cheeks and brown hair, and quiet, pleasant 
little face. But she was a poor child : that 
was plain. Her dress was clean, but very 
old and faded and patched up, and she had 
no shoes at all ! To be sure, her bare feet 
