own."
Agnes trembled in an agony of real belief, and with a vivid terror of
the world to come such as belonged to the almost physical certainty
with which the religious teaching of her time presented it to the
popular mind. Was she, indeed, the cause of such awful danger to his
soul? Might a false step now, a faltering human weakness, indeed plunge
that soul, so dear, into a fiery abyss without bottom or shore? Should
she forever hear his shrieks of torture and despair, his curses on
the hour he had first known her? Her very blood curdled, her nerves
froze, as she thought of it, and she threw herself on her knees and
prayed with an anguish that brought the sweat in beaded drops to her
forehead,--strange dew for so frail a lily!--and her prayer rose
above all intercession of saints, above the seat even of the Virgin
Mother herself, to the heart of her Redeemer, to Him who some divine
instinct told her was alone mighty to save. We of the present day may
look on her distress as unreal, as the result of a misguided sense
of religious obligation; but the great Hearer of Prayer regards each
heart in its own scope of vision, and helps not less the mistaken than
the enlightened distress. And for that matter, who is enlightened? who
carries to God's throne a trouble or a temptation in which there is not
somewhere a misconception or a mistake?
And so it came to pass. Agnes rose from prayer with an experience
which has been common to the members of the True Invisible Church,
whether Catholic, Greek, or Protestant. "In the day when I cried Thou
answeredst me, and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul." She
had that vivid sense of the sustaining presence and sympathy of an
Almighty Saviour which is the substance of which all religious forms
and appliances are the shadows; her soul was stayed on God, and was at
peace, as truly as if she had been the veriest Puritan maiden that ever
worshiped in a New England meeting-house. She felt a calm superiority
to all things earthly,--a profound reliance on that invisible aid which
comes from God alone.
She was standing at her window, deep in thought, when Giulietta
entered, fresh and blooming, bearing the breakfast-tray.
"Come, my little princess, here I am," she said, "with your breakfast!
How do you find yourself, this morning?"
Agnes came towards her.
"Bless us, how grave we are!" said Giulietta. "What has come over us?"
"Giulietta, have you seen poor grandmamma this morning?"
"Poor grandmamma!" said Giulietta, mimicking the sad tone in which
Agnes spoke, "to be sure I have. I left her making a hearty breakfast.
So fall to, and do the same, for you don't know who may come to see you
this morning."
"Giulietta, is he here?"
"He!" said Giulietta, laughing. "Do hear the little bird! It begins to
chirp already! No, he is not here yet; but Pietro says he will come
soon, and Pietro knows all his movements."
"Pietro is your husband?" said Agnes, inquiringly.
"Yes, to be sure,--and a pretty good one, too, as men go," said
Giulietta. "They are sorry bargains, the best of them. But you'll get a
prize, if you play your cards well. Do you know that the King of Naples
and the King of France have both sent messages to our captain? Our men
hold all the passes between Rome and Naples, and so every one sees the
sense of gaining our captain's favor. But eat your breakfast, little
one, while I go and see to Pietro and the men."
So saying, she bustled out of the room, locking the door behind her.
Agnes took a little bread and water, resolved to fast and pray, as the
only defense against the danger in which she stood.
After breakfasting, she retired into the inner room, and opening the
window, sat down and looked out on the prospect, and then, in a low
voice, began singing a hymn of Savonarola's, which had been taught
her by her uncle. It was entitled "Christ's Call to the Soul." The
words were conceived in that tender spirit of mystical devotion which
characterizes all this class of productions.
        "Fair soul, created in the primal hour,
              Once pure and grand,
        And for whose sake I left my throne and power
              At God's right hand,
        By this sad heart pierced through because I loved thee,
        Let love and mercy to contrition move thee!
        "Cast off the sins thy holy beauty veiling,
              Spirit divine!
        Vain against thee the hosts of hell assailing:
              My strength is thine!
        Drink from my side the cup of life immortal,
        And love will lead thee back to heaven's portal!
        "I, for thy sake, was pierced with many sorrows,
              And bore the cross,
        Yet heeded not the galling of the arrows,
              The shame and loss.
        So faint not thou, whate'er the burden be:
        But bear it bravely, even to Calvary!"
While Agnes was singing, the door of the outer room was slowly opened,
and Agostino Sarelli entered. He had just returned from Florence,
having ridden day and night to meet her whom he expected to find within
the walls of his fastness.
He entered so softly that Agnes did not hear his approach, and he
stood listening to her singing. He had come back with his mind burning
with indignation against the Pope and the whole hierarchy then ruling
in Rome; but conversation with Father Antonio and the scenes he had
witnessed at San Marco had converted the blind sense of personal wrong
into a fixed principle of moral indignation and opposition. He no
longer found himself checked by the pleading of his early religious
recollections; for now he had a leader who realized in his own person
all his conceptions of those primitive apostles and holy bishops who
first fed the flock of the Lord in Italy. He had heard from his lips
the fearless declaration, "If Rome is against me, know that it is
not contrary to me, but to Christ, and its controversy is with God:
doubt not that God will conquer;" and he embraced the cause with all
the enthusiasm of patriotism and knighthood. In his view, the most
holy place of his religion had been taken by a robber, who reigned in
the name of Christ only to disgrace it; and he felt called to pledge
his sword, his life, his knightly honor to do battle against him.
He had urged his uncle in Milan to make interest for the cause of
Savonarola with the King of France; and his uncle, with that crafty
diplomacy which in those days formed the staple of what was called
statesmanship, had seemed to listen favorably to his views, intending,
however, no more by his apparent assent than to withdraw his nephew
from the dangers in which he stood in Italy, and bring him under his
own influence and guardianship in the court of France. But the wily
diplomate had sent Agostino Sarelli from his presence with the highest
possible expectations of his influence both with the King of France and
the Emperor of Germany in the present religious crisis in Italy.
And now the time was come, Agostino thought, to break the spell under
which Agnes was held,--to show her the true character of the men
whom she was beholding through a mist of veneration arising entirely
from the dewy freshness of ignorant innocence. All the way home from
Florence he had urged his horse onward, burning to meet her, to tell
her all that he knew and felt, to claim her as his own, and to take her
into the sphere of light and liberty in which he himself moved. He did
not doubt his power, when she should once be where he could speak with
her freely, without fear of interruption. Hers was a soul too good and
pure, he said, to be kept in chains of slavish ignorance any longer.
When she ceased singing, he spoke from the outer apartment, "Agnes!"
The name was uttered in the softest tone, but it sent the blood to her
heart, as if it were the summons of doom. Everything seemed to swim
before her, and grow dark for a moment; but by a strong effort she
lifted her heart in prayer, and, rising, came towards him.
Agostino had figured her to himself in all that soft and sacred
innocence and freshness of bloom in which he had left her, a fair angel
child, looking through sad, innocent eyes on a life whose sins and
sorrows, and deeper loves and hates, she scarcely comprehended,--one
that he might fold in his arms with protecting tenderness, while he
gently reasoned with her fears and prejudices; but the figure that
stood there in the curtained arch, with its solemn, calm, transparent
paleness of face, its large, intense dark eyes, now vivid with some
mysterious and concentrated resolve, struck a strange chill over him.
Was it Agnes or a disembodied spirit that stood before him? For a few
moments there fell such a pause between them as the intensity of some
unexpressed feeling often brings with it, and which seems like a spell.
