dancing black eyes upon it.
"Here it is," said Mrs. Kittridge, taking it from a drawer.
It was a bracelet of hair, of some curious foreign workmanship. A green
enameled serpent, studded thickly with emeralds and with eyes of ruby,
was curled around the clasp. A crystal plate covered a wide flat braid
of hair, on which the letters "D.M." were curiously embroidered in a
cipher of seed pearls. The whole was in style and workmanship quite
different from any jewelry which ordinarily meets one's eye.
But what was remarkable was the expression in Mr. Sewell's face when
this bracelet was put into his hand. Miss Emily had risen from table and
brought it to him, leaning over him as she did so, and he turned his
head a little to hold it in the light from the window, so that only she
remarked the sudden expression of blank surprise and startled
recognition which fell upon it. He seemed like a man who chokes down an
exclamation; and rising hastily, he took the bracelet to the window, and
standing with his back to the company, seemed to examine it with the
minutest interest. After a few moments he turned and said, in a very
composed tone, as if the subject were of no particular interest,--
"It is a singular article, so far as workmanship is concerned. The value
of the gems in themselves is not great enough to make it worth while to
sell it. It will be worth more as a curiosity than anything else. It
will doubtless be an interesting relic to keep for the boy when he grows
up."
"Well, Mr. Sewell, you keep it," said Mrs. Kittridge; "the Pennels told
me to give it into your care."
"I shall commit it to Emily here; women have a native sympathy with
anything in the jewelry line. She'll be sure to lay it up so securely
that she won't even know where it is herself."
"Brother!"
"Come, Emily," said Mr. Sewell, "your hens will all go to roost on the
wrong perch if you are not at home to see to them; so, if the Captain
will set us across to Harpswell, I think we may as well be going."
"Why, what's your hurry?" said Mrs. Kittridge.
"Well," said Mr. Sewell, "firstly, there's the hens; secondly, the pigs;
and lastly, the cow. Besides I shouldn't wonder if some of Emily's
admirers should call on her this evening,--never any saying when Captain
Broad may come in."
"Now, brother, you are too bad," said Miss Emily, as she bustled about
her bonnet and shawl. "Now, that's all made up out of whole cloth.
Captain Broad called last week a Monday, to talk to you about the pews,
and hardly spoke a word to me. You oughtn't to say such things, 'cause
it raises reports."
"Ah, well, then, I won't again," said her brother. "I believe, after
all, it was Captain Badger that called twice."
"Brother!"
"And left you a basket of apples the second time."
"Brother, you know he only called to get some of my hoarhound for
Mehitable's cough."
"Oh, yes, I remember."
"If you don't take care," said Miss Emily, "I'll tell where you call."
"Come, Miss Emily, you must not mind him," said Miss Roxy; "we all know
his ways."
And now took place the grand leave-taking, which consisted first of the
three women's standing in a knot and all talking at once, as if their
very lives depended upon saying everything they could possibly think of
before they separated, while Mr. Sewell and Captain Kittridge stood
patiently waiting with the resigned air which the male sex commonly
assume on such occasions; and when, after two or three "Come, Emily's,"
the group broke up only to form again on the door-step, where they were
at it harder than ever, and a third occasion of the same sort took place
at the bottom of the steps, Mr. Sewell was at last obliged by main force
to drag his sister away in the middle of a sentence.
Miss Emily watched her brother shrewdly all the way home, but all traces
of any uncommon feeling had passed away; and yet, with the restlessness
of female curiosity, she felt quite sure that she had laid hold of the
end of some skein of mystery, could she only find skill enough to unwind
it.
She took up the bracelet, and held it in the fading evening light, and
broke into various observations with regard to the singularity of the
workmanship. Her brother seemed entirely absorbed in talking with
Captain Kittridge about the brig Anna Maria, which was going to be
launched from Pennel's wharf next Wednesday. But she, therefore,
internally resolved to lie in wait for the secret in that confidential
hour which usually preceded going to bed. Therefore, as soon as she had
arrived at their quiet dwelling, she put in operation the most seducing
little fire that ever crackled and snapped in a chimney, well knowing
that nothing was more calculated to throw light into any hidden or
concealed chamber of the soul than that enlivening blaze, which danced
so merrily on her well-polished andirons, and made the old chintz sofa
and the time-worn furniture so rich in remembrances of family comfort.
She then proceeded to divest her brother of his wig and his dress-coat,
and to induct him into the flowing ease of a study-gown, crowning his
well-shaven head with a black cap, and placing his slippers before the
corner of a sofa nearest the fire. She observed him with satisfaction
sliding into his seat, and then she trotted to a closet with a glass
door in the corner of the room, and took down an old, quaintly-shaped
silver cup, which had been an heirloom in their family, and was the only
piece of plate which their modern domestic establishment could boast;
and with this, down cellar she tripped, her little heels tapping lightly
on each stair, and the hum of a song coming back after her as she sought
the cider-barrel. Up again she came, and set the silver cup, with its
clear amber contents, down by the fire, and then busied herself in
making just the crispest, nicest square of toast to be eaten with it;
for Miss Emily had conceived the idea that some little ceremony of this
sort was absolutely necessary to do away all possible ill effects from a
day's labor, and secure an uninterrupted night's repose. Having done
all this, she took her knitting-work, and stationed herself just
opposite to her brother.
It was fortunate for Miss Emily that the era of daily journals had not
yet arisen upon the earth, because if it had, after all her care and
pains, her brother would probably have taken up the evening paper, and
holding it between his face and her, have read an hour or so in silence;
but Mr. Sewell had not this resort. He knew perfectly well that he had
excited his sister's curiosity on a subject where he could not gratify
it, and therefore he took refuge in a kind of mild, abstracted air of
quietude which bid defiance to all her little suggestions.
After in vain trying every indirect form, Miss Emily approached the
subject more pointedly. "I thought that you looked very much interested
in that poor woman to-day."
"She had an interesting face," said her brother, dryly.
"Was it like anybody that you ever saw?" said Miss Emily.
Her brother did not seem to hear her, but, taking the tongs, picked up
the two ends of a stick that had just fallen apart, and arranged them so
as to make a new blaze.
Miss Emily was obliged to repeat her question, whereat he started as one
awakened out of a dream, and said,--
"Why, yes, he didn't know but she did; there were a good many women with
black eyes and black hair,--Mrs. Kittridge, for instance."
"Why, I don't think that she looked like Mrs. Kittridge in the least,"
said Miss Emily, warmly.
"Oh, well! I didn't say she did," said her brother, looking drowsily at
his watch; "why, Emily, it's getting rather late."
"What made you look so when I showed you that bracelet?" said Miss
Emily, determined now to push the war to the heart of the enemy's
country.
"Look how?" said her brother, leisurely moistening a bit of toast in his
cider.
"Why, I never saw anybody look more wild and astonished than you did for
a minute or two."
"I did, did I?" said her brother, in the same indifferent tone. "My dear
child, what an active imagination you have. Did you ever look through a
prism, Emily?"
"Why, no, Theophilus; what do you mean?"
"Well, if you should, you would see everybody and everything with a nice
little bordering of rainbow around them; now the rainbow isn't on the
things, but in the prism."
"Well, what's that to the purpose?" said Miss Emily, rather bewildered.
"Why, just this: you women are so nervous and excitable, that you are
very apt to see your friends and the world in general with some coloring
just as unreal. I am sorry for you, childie, but really I can't help you
