position.
The officer of the day passed on with his attendants, and as soon as
the ceremony had been repeated with the next sentinel, Kennedy threw
the musket upon the ground, and followed his companions into the
forest. Taking a road which led into the wood, he soon overtook the
rest of the party.
Richard was very curious to find out what his captors intended to do
with him; for he could not even yet believe that any thing more serious
than a practical joke was intended. He was not conscious that he had an
enemy in the battalion, with the exception of Nevers, who, though he
had bestowed a great many sneers and looks of hatred upon him during
the week that had elapsed since the fight, had betrayed no intention to
seek revenge for his defeat in fair fight. He knew that Nevers hated
him, but he could not believe that he would resort to such underhand
measures as the conspirators had adopted.
"What are you going to do?" asked he, after Kennedy had joined them.
"Shut up! You will find out soon enough."
Richard tried to open a conversation with them, but they were too wary
to talk, and no one spoke except Dobbin and Kennedy. They conducted
their prisoner half a mile, as he judged, from the camp, when they
halted, and fastened Richard to a tree, seating themselves upon logs
and stumps. The captive waited impatiently for the proceedings to
commence.
CHAPTER XV.
RICHARD FINDS HIMSELF IN THE HANDS OF THE REGULATORS.
"Come, fellows, we have no time to spare," said Kennedy, when the party
were seated, and Richard fastened to the tree. "We must finish this
business at once."
"We are all ready," replied Dobbin.
"Ready for what?" demanded Richard.
"Ready to settle your case. We are going to give you the biggest
licking you ever had in your life."
The prisoner thought this was rather doubtful; but as they could not be
supposed to have any knowledge of the thrashing inflicted upon him by
"Old Batterbones," he was willing to excuse any exaggerations of which
they might be guilty. When the young ruffian spoke of flogging him,
Richard could not help recalling the incident at the barn of the farmer
on the Hudson. Then he was guilty, now he was innocent; and his
feelings on the present occasion were as different from those of the
former one as light is from darkness.
He had been captured while in the discharge of his duty, and was not
conscious that he had given his assailants any cause of offence. He
could not explain how it happened that he was not angry. He did not
chafe in the bonds that confined him. The consciousness of being
innocent of all offence before his comrades, sustained and supported
him; and he felt a kind of proud superiority over his captors, which
placed him out of the reach of fear, and even out of the reach of
malice and revenge.
Richard was a courageous boy; he had been so in his foolish and vicious
enterprises; but he was doubly so now, when his soul was free from the
stain of transgression. He did not borrow any trouble about what his
persecutors intended to do, though he felt a very natural curiosity to
see the end of the adventure.
"Go on," replied Richard, calmly, as the spokesman of the party
announced their intentions.
"Shall we tell him what for? Shall we try him?" asked Kennedy.
"Yes; let us give him a drum-head court martial. The licking won't do
him any good if he don't know what it is for," replied Dobbin.
"Grant," said Kennedy, with the solemnity of a judge, "you have ruined
the best fellow in Company D."
"He ruined himself," replied Richard.
"No, he didn't. Of what you did in fair fight in the grove, we haven't
a word to say. But you have prejudiced the colonel against him, and
caused him to be deprived of his warrant, which will prevent him from
obtaining his commission at the next election. You set yourself up as a
leader among the fellows before you had been a week in the school. Have
you any thing to say?"
"Nothing, except that all your charges are false," answered Richard;
and if there had been light enough to see it, a smile would have been
discovered upon his countenance.
"In the interview with the principal, you pretended to be a saint, and
to be sorry for what you had done. You did not stand up like a man, and
take the consequences of your acts."
"Go on; I have nothing to say," added Richard, when the speaker paused.
"You are a dangerous fellow in the school. You intend to climb up
yourself by pushing others down. We won't submit to it."
"What are you going to do?" coolly asked the prisoner.
"We are going to thrash you, as you deserve."
"You are brave fellows!" sneered Richard. "What you are afraid to do in
the daylight, with fair play, you do by stealth and trickery in the
night. You are a set of cowards, and if you will untie my hands I will
whip the whole of you."
"That is very fine talk, Grant," said Kennedy, "but it don't amount to
any thing."
"No talk is necessary to prove your cowardly meanness. Go on, and do
your best. I am not afraid of the whole of you, even with my hands tied
behind me. I despise the whole of you."
"We will give you a chance to escape."
"I don't ask any chance to escape."
"Grant, you talk like a fool."
"Better be a fool than a knave and a coward."
"We don't want to hurt you. There are fellows enough in our crowd to
make Tunbrook Institute too hot to hold you. We advise you to write to
your father, advising him to send you to some other school. Will you do
so?"
"I will not," replied Richard, promptly.
"Then you must take the consequences. We are organized, and we are
determined that you shall leave. If you ask your father, and insist
upon it, no doubt he will take you away."
"Very likely he would," added Richard, "but I shall not ask him to do
so."
"You plainly don't understand what is in store for you. Our plans are
well laid, and we have been through the same mill once before. A fellow
about your size, and one who could fight as well as you do, had to
leave about a year ago. He undertook to be a leader before his time
came. We hunted him out, as we shall you."
"When you hunt me out, I will go, but not till then."
"Grant, this is all idle talk on your part. You don't understand your
situation. We can count up fifty fellows belonging to our association.
We can drive out any fellow who makes himself obnoxious. We mean to be
fair, and we are willing that any fellow who works his way up should
have all the honors he wins. But do you suppose we fellows, who have
been here two or three years, and who have worked ourselves up, are
going to step one side for a fellow who has been here only a week or
two?"
"Who asks you to step aside?" demanded Richard, indignantly, for this
show of fair play had touched him in a tender spot, and in spite of
himself he began to be interested in the argument.
"You do; you have licked the best fellow in the school, and then you
begin to play saint, and curry favor with the colonel. You mean to
lead, and not follow."
"I mean to be and do just what circumstances require."
"Grant, there is no such thing as misunderstanding your position. What
your looks indicate is more than all you may say with your mouth, or do
with your hands. You are a dangerous fellow, and you must leave, or
compromise."
"What do you mean by compromise?"
"We'll let you stay if you will keep in your proper position."
"What is my proper position?"
"At the foot of the ladder, of course, till the fellows above you have
got out of the way."
"You mean Nevers?"
"Nevers and others."
"I will agree to no such compromise. All the officers, I am informed,
are chosen by ballot."
"They are."
"Then, of course, the fellows can choose whom they please."
"They can; and since you have whipped Nevers, they will elect you; and
those who have done their duty for two or three years must go into the
shade. If you will agree to step one side, we will promise to let you
