linquish him so easily. While he repeated to himself his 
congratulations that his friendly and gallant attentions had 
not been misconstrued, had not awakened any inconvenient, 
because futile " expectations," he wondered if it were a pos 
sibility for a girl of so much sense and feeling, such genuine 
appreciation of his talents and tastes, to know him well 
even intimately without experiencing a warmer sentiment 
than mere approval of an agreeable associate's mind and 
manners, and Platonic liking for him on these accounts. 
With the respectful familiarity of a privileged acquaintance, he drew her hand within his arm, as they arose at the 
conclusion of the collation. 
" We have yet two hours and more to spend here, before 
we set out for home. We can have one more walk and talk 
together." 
They took but one turn on the beach, and returning to 
their morning's seat beside the half-buried keel, tried to talk 
as they had done then. It was hard work, even to the man 
of the world, the heart-free student of human nature. 
Gradually the conversation languished and died away, and, 
for a while, both sat silent, looking out upon the sea. Then 
Philip's gaze came back to his companion stealthily at first, 
and, as she remained unconscious of his scrutiny, it lingered 
long and searchingly upon features, form, and attire. 
There were white, tight lines about her mouth, and a 
slight knitting of the brow, that imparted a care-worn look 
to the young face, it pained him to see. Her hands were 
clasped upon her knee, and the fingers were bloodless where 
they interlaced one another. Was she suffering ? Was the 
threatened parting the cause of her disquiet ? If this were 
so, what was his duty as a man of honor of common hu 
manity ? And if he were forced to admit that he held her 
happiness in his power, and to accept the consequences that 
must ensue from his idle gallantry and her mistaken read 
ing of the same, was the thought really repulsive ? Would 
it be a total sacrifice of feeling to a sense of right ? It was 
a repetition, grave and careful, of the r every of that July 
night, two weeks ago. 
Sarah's hat a broad-brimmed "flat" of brown straw had 
fallen back upon her shoulders, and the sea-breeze played in 
her hair, raising the short and loose strands, and giving to 
the whole a rough, "frowzy" look. Her plain linen collar 
and undersleeves showed her complexion and hands to the 
worst possible advantage. Upon her cheeks, this same un 
friendly wind had bestowed a coat of tan and a few freckles, that were all the more conspicuous from her pallor, while 
her fingers were as brown as a gypsy s. Her gray poplin 
dress had lost most of its original gloss, and being one of 
Mrs. Hunt's bargains " a cheap thing, but plenty good for 
that outlandish Shrewsbury" already betrayed its cotton 
warp by creases that would not be smoothed, and an aspect 
of general limpness a prophecy of speedy, irremediable 
shabbiness. Cast loosely about her shoulders was a light 
shawl, green, with black sprigs another bargain ; and be 
yond the skirt of her robe appeared the toe and instep of a 
thick-soled gaiter, very suitable for a tramp through damp 
sand, yet any thing but becoming to the foot it protected. 
With an impatient shake of the head, involuntary and 
positive, Philip closed his final observation. And cutting off a large splinter from the weather-beaten timber, against 
which he leaned, set about trimming it, wearing a serious, 
settled face, that said his mind was fully made up. 
What had Sarah seen all this while ? 
 
Heavens, over which the films of the forenoon had thickened into dun cloud-curtains, stretching above, and enwrapping the world ; a wild, dreary expanse of troubled waters, 
whose horizon line was lost in the misty blending of sea 
and sky, ever hurrying and heaving to moan out their unrest 
upon the barren beach. In the distance was a solitary sail ; 
nearer to the land, a large sea-bird flew heavily against the 
wind. In such mateless, weary flight, must her life be passed ; 
that lone, frail craft was not so hopelessly forlorn upon a 
gloomy sea, beneath a sky that gloomed yet more darkly 
as was her heart, torn suddenly from its moorings anchor, 
and rudder, and compass gone ! Yet who could syllable 
the mighty sorrow of the complaining sea? And were 
there words in human language, that could tell the anguish 
of the swelling flood beating within her breast ? 
" Going away ! To-morrow !" For a little space this 
was all the lament she kept repeating over to herself. 
Pregnant with woe she knew it to be, yet it was not until 
she was allowed to meditate in silence upon the meaning of 
the words that she realized what had truly come upon her. 
She had thrown away all her hope of earthly happiness 
risked it as madly, lost it as surely, as if she had tossed it 
a tangible pearl into the yawning ocean. Her instinct 
assured her that, were it otherwise, the tidings of Philip's 
intended departure, his suddenly formed resolution to leave 
her, would have been conveyed to her in a far different 
manner. Her keen backward glance penetrated Aunt 
Sarah's simple wiles ; his obvious annoyance thereat ; his 
determination to save himself from suspicion ; his honorable 
fear lest she, too, should imagine him loving, where he was 
only civil and kind. Yes, it was all over ! The best thing 
she could hope to do, the brightest prospect life had now 
for her, was that her secret should remain hers alone, until 
the troubled heart moaned itself into the rest which knows 
 
no waking. She was used to concealment. All her existence, excepting the sweet delusive dream of the past three 
weeks, had been a stern preparation for this trial. But she 
was already weary and faint fit to lie down and die, so 
intense had been the throe of this one struggle. 
" How long is this to last ? How long ?" 
The exclamation actually broke, in an inarticulate murmur, 
from her lips. 
" Did you speak?" inquired Philip. 
" I think not. I am not sure. I did not intend to do 
so!" 
" Grant me credit for my forbearance in not obtruding 
my prosaic talk upon your musings," he went on, playfully. 
" It was a powerful temptation for I remember, constantly, 
that this is our last opportunity for a genuine heart and 
head confabulation, such as I shall often linger for, after I 
leave you and sinceuity ! You have done me good, Miss 
Sarah ; taught me Faith, Hope, Charity a blessed sisterhood !" 
" May they ever attend you !" 
" Amen ! and thank you ! And what wish shall I make 
in return for your beautiful benediction ?" 
" Whatever you like. My desires are not many or ex 
travagant." 
" You are wrong. You have a craving heart and a crav 
ing mind. May both be fed to the full, with food convenient 
for them in measures pressed down, shaken together, and 
running over." 
"Of what? Husks?" was Sarah's unspoken and bitter 
reply. She could not thank him, as he had done her. She 
only bowed, and, bending forward, took up a handful of the 
fine white sand that formed the shore. Slowly sifting it 
through her fingers, she waited for him to speak again. 
Was this careless equanimity real or feigned ? The 
judge of character, the harpist upon heart-chords, made the 
next move not the candid manly friend. 
" I am going to ask a favor of you a bold one." 
" Say on." 
"By the time I am ready to retrace my steps southward, 
you will be again settled in New York. Will you think me 
presumptuous, if I call at your father's house to continue an 
acquaintance which has been, to me, at once agreeable and 
profitable ?" 
The fingers were still, suddenly. A warm glow, like 
sunrise, swept over cheek and forehead. A smile, slight 
but sweet, quivered upon her lips. Drowning in the depths, 
she heard across the billow a hail that spoke of hope, life, 
happiness. 
