Eleanor's head drooped, as well as her heart. She wondered at herself;
but there was a spell of power upon her, and she could by no means lift
up either. It was not only that his words were true, but that he knew
them to be so.
"Do you know what you want?" her friend went on, in tons that were
tender, along with that deliberate utterance that carried so much force
with it. "You know yourself an offender before the Lord--and you want
the sense of forgiveness in your heart. You know yourself inclined to
be an offender again--and you want the renewing grace of God to make
your heart clean, and set it free from the power of sin. Then you want
also something to make you happy; and the love of Jesus alone can do
that."
"What is the use of telling over the things one has not got?"--said
Eleanor in somewhat smothered tones. The words of her companion came
again clear as a bell--
"Because you may have them if you want them."
Eleanor struggled with herself, for her self-possession was endangered,
and she was angry at herself for being such a fool; but she could not
help it; yet she would not let her agitation come any more to the
surface. She waited for clearness of voice, and then could not forbear
the question,
"How, Mr. Rhys?"
"Jesus said, 'If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink.' There
is all fulness in him. Go to him for light--go to him for strength--go
to him for forgiveness, for healing, for sanctification. 'Whosoever
will, let him take of the water of life freely.'"
"'Go to him?'" repeated Eleanor vaguely.
"Ask him."
Ask Him! It was such a far-off, strange idea to her a heart, there
seemed such a universe of distance between, Eleanor's face grew visibly
shadowed with the thought. She? She could not. She did not know how.
She was silent a little while. The subject was getting unmanageable.
"I never had anybody talk to me so before, Mr. Rhys," she said,
thinking to let it pass.
"Perhaps you never will again," he said. "Hear it now. The Lord Jesus
is not far off--as you think--he is very near; he can hear the faintest
whisper of a petition that you send to him. It is his message I bring
you to-day--a message to you. I am his servant, and he has given me
this charge for you to-day--to tell you that he loves you--that he has
given his life for yours--and that he calls Eleanor Powle to give him
her heart, and then to give him her life, in all the obedience his
service may require."
Eleanor felt her heart strangely bowed, subdued, bent to his words. "I
will"--was the secret language of her thoughts--"but I must not let
this man see all I am feeling, if I can help it." She held herself
still, looking out of the window, where the rain fell in torrents yet,
though the thunder and the lightning were no longer near. So did he; he
added no more to his last words, and a silence lasted in the old ruined
window as if its chance occupants were gone again. As the silence
lasted, Eleanor felt it grow awkward. She was at a loss how to break
it. It was broken for her then.
"What will you do, Miss Powle?"
"I will think about it"--she answered, startled and hesitating.
"How long, before you decide?"
"How can I tell?" she said.
"You are shrinking from a decision already formed. The answer is given
in your secret thoughts, and something is rising up in the midst of
them to thwart it. Shall I tell my Master that his message is refused?"
"Mr. Rhys!" said Eleanor looking up, "I never heard any one talk so in
all my life! You speak as if--"
"As if, what?"
"You speak as if--I never heard any one speak as you do."
"I speak as if I were in the habit of telling my Master how his message
is received? I often do that."
"But it seems superfluous to tell what is known already," said Eleanor,
wondering secretly much more than she dared to say at her companion's
talk.
"Do you never, in speaking to those you love, tell them what is no
information?"
Eleanor was now dumb. There was too great a gulf of difference between
her companion and herself, to try to frame any words or thoughts that
might bridge it over. She must remain on one side and he on the other;
yet she went on wondering.
"Are you a clergyman, Mr. Rhys?" she said after a pause.
"I am not what you would call such."
"Do you not think the rain is over?"
"Nearly, for the present; but the grass is as wet as possible."
"O, I don't mind that. There is somebody now in the shrubbery yonder,
looking for me."
"He will not find you here," said Mr. Rhys. "I have this window all to
myself. But we will find him."
The rain-drops fell now but scatteringly, the last of the shower; the
sun was breaking out, and the green world was all in a glitter of wet
leaves. Wet as they were, Eleanor and Mr. Rhys pushed through the thick
bramble and holly bushes, which with honeysuckles, eglantine, and
broom, and bryony, made a sweet wild wilderness. They got plentifully
besprinkled in their way, shook that off as well as they could, and
with quick steps sought to rejoin their companions. The person Eleanor
had seen in the shrubbery was the first one found, as Mr. Rhys had
said. It was Mr. Carlisle. He at once took charge of Eleanor.
"What has become of you?"
"What has become of you, Mr. Carlisle?" Eleanor's gleaming smile was
as bright as ever.
"Despair, nearly," said he; "for I feared business would hold me all
day; but I broke away. Not time enough to protect you from this shower."
"Water will wet," said Eleanor, laughing; for the politeness of this
speech was more evident than its plausibility. She was on the point of
speaking of the protection that had been actually found for her, but
thought better of it. Meantime they were joined by a little girl,
bright and rather wild looking, who addressed Eleanor as her sister.
"O come!" she said,--"where have you been? We can't go on till you
come. We are going to lunch at Barton's Tower--and mamma says she will
make Mr. Carlisle build a fire, so that we may all dry ourselves."
"Julia!--how you speak!"
"She did say so," repeated the child. "Come--make haste."
Eleanor glanced at her companion, who met the glance with a smile. "I
hope Mrs. Powle will always command me," he said, somewhat meaningly;
and Eleanor hurried on.
She was destined to long tête-à-têtes that day; for as soon as her
little party was seen in the distance, the larger company took up their
line of march again. Julia and Mr. Rhys had fallen behind; and the long
walk to Barton's Tower was made with Mr. Carlisle alone, who was in no
haste to abridge it, and seemed to enjoy himself very well. Eleanor
once or twice looked back, and saw her little sister, hand in hand with
her companion of the old window, walking and talking in very eager and
gay style; to judge by Julia's lively movements.
"Who is that Mr. Rhys?" said Eleanor.
"I have hardly the honour to know him. May I ask, why you ask?"
"He is peculiar," said Eleanor.
"He can hardly be worthy your study." And the question was dismissed
with a coolness which reminded Eleanor of Mr. Rhys's own words, that he
was not what she would call a clergyman. She would have asked another
question, but the slight disdain which spoke in Mr. Carlisle's eye and
voice deterred her. She only noticed how well the object of it and her
sister were getting along. However, Eleanor's own walk was pleasant
enough to drive Mr. Rhys out of her head. Mr. Carlisle was polished,
educated, spirited, and had the great additional advantage of being a
known and ascertained somebody; as he was in fact the heir of all the
fine domain whose beauties they were admiring. And a beautiful heirdom
it was. The way taken by the party led up the course of a valley which
followed the windings of a small stream; its sides most romantic and
woody in some places; in others taking the very mould of gentle beauty,
and covered with rich grass, and sweet with broom; in others again,
drawing near together, and assuming a picturesque wildness, rocky and
broken. Sweet flowers grew by the way in profusion, on the banks and
along the sides of the stream; and the birds were very jocund in their
solitudes. Through all this it was very pleasant wandering with the
heir of the land; and neither wet shoes nor wet shoulders were much
remembered by Eleanor till they reached Barton's Tower.
This was a ruin of a different character; one of the old strongholds of
