Tom had discovered the catastrophe when he waked up in the hospital, for
his last thought at night, and his first in the morning, had been the
beautiful Lilian Ashford. He was sad when he first beheld the wreck; but
when he thought what a glorious assurance this would be of his conduct on
the field, he was pleased with the idea; and while in his heart he thanked
the rebel marksman for not putting the bullet any nearer to the vital
organ beneath the envelope, he was not ungrateful for the splendid
testimonial he had given him of his position during the battle.
"Of course she'll give you another. Won't she be proud of that picture
when she gets it back?"
"If I had been a coward, I couldn't have run away with those socks on my
feet."
Tom remained with the regiment several hours, and then, in obedience to
the surgeon's orders, returned to the hospital, where he wrote a letter to
his father, containing a short account of the battle, and another to
Lilian Ashford, setting forth the accident which had happened to the
picture, and begging her to send him another.
I am afraid in this last letter Tom indulged in some moonshiny nonsense;
but we are willing to excuse him for saying that the thought of the
beautiful original of the photograph and the beautiful author of his socks
had inspired him with courage on the battle field, and enabled him
faithfully to perform his duty, to the honor and glory of the flag beneath
whose starry folds he had fought, bled, and conquered, and so forth. It
would not be unnatural in a young man of eighteen to express as much as
this, and, we are not sure that he said any more.
The next day Tom was down with a slow fever, induced by fatigue and
over-exertion. He lay upon his cot for a fortnight, before he was able to
go out again; but he was frequently visited by Hapgood and other friends
in the regiment. About the middle of the month, the brigade moved on, and
Tom was sad at the thought of lying idle, while the glorious work of the
army was waiting for true and tried men.
Tom received "honorable mention" in the report of the colonel, and his
recommendation, supported by that of the general of the division, brought
to the hospital his commission as second lieutenant.
"Here's medicine for you," said the chaplain, as he handed the patient a
ponderous envelope.
"What is it, sir?"
"I don't know, but it has an official look."
The sergeant opened it, and read the commission, duly signed by the
governor of Massachusetts, and countersigned and sealed in proper form.
Tom was astounded at the purport of the document. He could hardly believe
his senses; but it read all right, and dated from the day of the battle in
which he had distinguished himself. This was glory enough, and it took Tom
forty-eight hours thoroughly to digest the contents of the envelope.
Lieutenant Somers! The words had a queer sound, and he could not realize
that he was a commissioned officer. But he came to a better understanding
of the subject the next day, when a letter from Lilian Ashford was placed
in his hands. It was actually addressed to "Lieutenant Thomas Somers." She
had read of his gallant conduct and of his promotion on the battle field
in the newspapers. She sent him two photographs of herself, and a sweet
little letter, begging him to return the photograph which had been damaged
by a rebel bullet.
Of course Tom complied with this natural request; but, as the surgeon
thought his patient would improve faster at home than in the hospital, he
had procured a furlough of thirty days for him, and the lieutenant decided
to present the photograph in person.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
LIEUTENANT SOMERS AND OTHERS.
Tom Somers had been absent from home nearly a year; and much as his heart
was in the work of putting down the rebellion, he was delighted with the
thought of visiting, even for a brief period, the loved ones who thought
of and prayed for him in the little cottage in Pinchbrook. I am not quite
sure that the well-merited promotion he had just received did not have
some influence upon him, for it would not have been unnatural for a young
man of eighteen, who had won his shoulder-straps by hard fighting on a
bloody field, to feel some pride in the laurels he had earned. Not that
Tom was proud or vain; but he was moved by a lofty and noble ambition. It
is quite likely he wondered what the people of Pinchbrook would say when
he appeared there with the straps upon his shoulders.
Of course he thought what his father would say, what his mother would say,
and he could see the wrinkled face of gran'ther Greene expand into a
genial smile of commendation. It is quite possible that he had even more
interest in his reception at No ---- Rutland Street, when he should
present himself to the author and finisher of those marvellous socks,
which had wielded such an immense influence upon their wearer in camp and
on the field. Perhaps it was a weakness on the part of the soldier boy,
but we are compelled to record the fact that he had faithfully conned his
speech for that interesting occasion. He had supposed every thing she
would say, and carefully prepared a suitable reply to each remark, adorned
with all the graces of rhetoric within his reach.
With the furlough in his pocket, Tom obtained his order for
transportation, and with a light heart, full of pleasant anticipations,
started for home. As he was still dressed in the faded and shattered
uniform of a non-commissioned officer, he did not attract any particular
notice on the way. He was enabled to pass through Baltimore, Philadelphia,
and New York, without being bored by a public reception, which some less
deserving heroes have not been permitted to escape. But the people did not
understand that Tom had a second lieutenant's commission in his pocket,
and he was too modest to proclaim the fact, which may be the reason why he
was suffered to pass through these great emporiums of trade without an
escort, or other demonstration of respect and admiration.
Tom's heart jumped with strange emotions when he arrived at Boston,
perhaps because he was within a few miles of home; possibly because he was
in the city that contained Lilian Ashford, for boys will be silly in spite
of all the exertions of parents, guardians, and teachers, to make them
sober and sensible. Such absurdities as "the air she breathes," and other
rhapsodies of that sort, may have flitted through his mind; but we are
positive that Tom did not give voice to any such nonsense, for every body
in the city was a total stranger to him, so far as he knew. Besides, Tom
had no notion of appearing before the original of the photograph in the
rusty uniform he wore; and as he had to wait an hour for the Pinchbrook
train, he hastened to a tailor's to order a suit of clothes which would be
appropriate to his new dignity.
He ordered them, was duly measured and had given the tailor his promise to
call for the garments at the expiration of five days, when the man of
shears disturbed the serene current of his meditations by suggesting that
the lieutenant should pay one half of the price of the suit in advance.
"It is a custom we adopt in all our dealings with strangers," politely
added the tailor.
"But I don't propose to take the uniform away until it is paid for," said
Tom, blushing with mortification; for it so happened that he had not money
enough to meet the demand of the tailor.
"Certainly not," blandly replied Shears; "but we cannot make up the goods
with the risk of not disposing of them. They may not fit the next man who
wants such a suit."
"I have not the money, sir;" and Tom felt that the confession was an awful
sacrifice of dignity on the part of an officer in the army of the Potomac,
who had fought gallantly for his country on the bloody fields of
Williamsburg and Bull Run.
"I am very sorry, sir. I should be happy to make up the goods, but you
will see that our rule is a reasonable one."
Tom wanted to tell him that this lack of confidence was not a suitable
return of a stay-at-home for the peril and privation he had endured for
him; but he left in disgust, hardly replying to the flattering request of
the tailor that he would call again. With his pride touched, he walked
down to the railroad station to await the departure of the train. He had
hardly entered the building before he discovered the familiar form of
Captain Barney, to whom he hastened to present himself.
"Why, Tom, my hearty!" roared the old sea captain, as he grasped and wrung
his hand. "I'm glad to see you. Shiver my mainmast, but you've grown a
foot since you went away. But you don't look well, Tom."
"I'm not very well, sir; but I'm improving very rapidly."
"How's your wound?"
"O, that's almost well."
"Sit down, Tom. I want to talk with you," said Captain Barney, as he led
the soldier boy to a seat.
In half an hour Tom had told all he knew about the battle of Williamsburg,
and the old sailor had communicated all the news from Pinchbrook.
"Tom, you're a lieutenant now, but you haven't got on your uniform,"
continued Captain Barney.
