table and in the family, might demand from a gentleman and Mrs.
Caxton's friend and guest. The hills and the valleys around Plassy were
very beautiful that summer.
So was Mrs. Caxton's garden. The roses flushed out into bloom, with all
their contemporaries; the terraces down to the river were aglow with
richness and profusion of blossoms, and sweet with many fragrances. The
old farmhouse itself had become an object of admiration to Eleanor.
Long and low, built of dark red stone and roofed with slate, it was now
in different parts wreathed and draped in climbing roses and
honeysuckle as well as in the ivy which did duty all winter. To stand
under these roses at the back of the house, and look down over the
gorgeous terraces, to the river and the bridge and the outspread
meadows on the other side, stretching away down and up the valley and
reaching to the foot of the hills which rose beyond them; to see all
this, was to see a combination of natural features rare even in
England, though words may not make it seem so.
Mrs. Caxton and Eleanor were there one evening. It was towards the end
of the season of "June roses," though indeed it was later than the
month of June. Mr. Rhys had been called away to some distance by
business, and been detained a week; and this evening he might be
expected home. They had missed him very much, Mrs. Caxton and Eleanor.
They had missed him exceedingly at prayer-time; they had missed him
desolately at meals. To-night the tea-table was spread where he loved
to have it; on the tiled floor under the projecting roof before
mentioned. A dish was crowned with red and white strawberries in the
middle of the table, and Eleanor stood decorating it slowly with ivy
leaves and blossoms of white heath.
"It is not certain, my dear, he will come home to-night," Mrs. Caxton
said as she watched her.
"No, aunty,"--said Eleanor with a slight start, but then going on with
her occupation. "What about it?"
"Nothing. We will enjoy the flowers ourselves."
"But he thought he would be at home to-night, aunt Caxton?"
"He could not be sure. He might easily be detained. You have got over
your fear of Mr. Rhys, Eleanor?"
"Aunt Caxton, I don't think I ever feared him!"
"He used to have a 'quieting influence' upon you," Mrs. Caxton said
smiling.
"Well,--he does now, ma'am. At least I am sure Mr. Rhys is one of the
persons I should never care to contradict."
"I should think not," said Mrs. Caxton quietly. Eleanor had coloured a
little.
"But that is not because, merely, I do not think myself wise; because
there are other persons before whom I think myself no wiser, whom I
would contradict--I mean, in a polite way--if it came into my head."
"We shall miss him when he goes," said Mrs. Caxton with a little bit of
a sigh. Eleanor wanted to ask a question, but the words did not come.
The ornamenting of the strawberry dish was finished. She turned from
it, and looked down where the long train of cows came winding through
the meadows and over the bridge. Pretty, peaceful, lovely, was this
gentle rural scene; what was the connection that made but a step in
Eleanor's thoughts between the meadows of Plassy and some far-off
islands in distant Polynesia? Eleanor had changed since some time ago.
She could understand now why Mr. Rhys wanted to go there; she could
comprehend it; she could understand how it was that he was not afraid
to go and did not shrink from leaving all this loveliness at her feet.
All that was no mystery now; but her thoughts fastened on her aunt's
words--how they would "miss him." She was very still, and so was Mrs.
Caxton; till a step brought both heads round to the door.
It was only a servant that came out, bringing letters; one for Eleanor,
one for Mrs. Caxton. Standing where she was, Eleanor broke hers open.
It was from her mother, and it contained something both new and
unexpected; an urgent injunction on her to return immediately home. The
family were going at once to Brighton, the letter said; Mrs. Powle
wished Eleanor to lose no time, in order that her wardrobe might be
properly cared for. Thomas was sent with the letter, and her mother
desired that Eleanor would immediately on the receipt of it, "without
an hour's delay," set off to come home with him. Reasons for this
sudden proceeding there were none given; and it came with the
suddenness of a hurricane upon Eleanor. Up to this time there had been
no intimation of her mother's wish to have her at home again ever; an
interval of several weeks had elapsed since any letters; now Mrs. Powle
said "she had been gone long enough," and they all wanted her, and must
have her at once to go to Brighton. So suddenly affectionate?
Eleanor stood looking at her letter some time after she had ceased to
read it, with a face that shewed turmoil. Mrs. Caxton came up to her.
Eleanor dropped the letter in her hand, but her eye avoided her aunt's.
"What is all this haste, Eleanor?" Mrs. Caxton said gravely.
"I don't know, ma'am."
"At any rate, my child, you cannot leave me to-night. It is too late."
"Yes, ma'am."
"Does your mother assign no reason for this sudden demand of you? She
gives me none."
"She gives me none, ma'am."
"Eleanor--"
It brought Eleanor's eye up, and that brought her head down on Mrs.
Caxton's shoulder. Her aunt clasped her tenderly for a moment, and then
said,
"Had you not better see your mother's servant, my dear, and give your
orders?--and then we will have tea."
Eleanor steadied herself immediately; went out and had an interview
with old Thomas, which however brought her no enlightenment; made her
arrangements with him, and returned to her aunt. Mrs. Caxton ordered
tea; they would not wait for Mr. Rhys any longer. The aunt and niece
sat down to the table behind the honeysuckle drapery of the pillars;
the sunlight had left the landscape; the breath of the flowers floated
up cool and sweet from the terraced garden and waved about them with
every stir of the long rose and honeysuckle sprays. Eleanor sat by the
table and looked out. Mrs. Caxton poured out the tea and looked at her.
"Aren't you going to take some strawberries, my love?"
"Shall I give you some, aunt Caxton?"
"And yourself, my dear."
She watched while Eleanor slowly broke up the heath and ivy adornment
of the strawberry dish, and carefully afterwards replaced the sprays
and leaves she had dislodged. It is no harm for a lady's hand to be
white; but travelling from the hand to the face, Mrs. Caxton's eye
found too little colour there. Eleanor's cheeks were not generally
wanting in a fine healthy tinge. The tinge was fainter than usual
to-night. Nevertheless she was eating strawberries with apparent
regularity.
"Eleanor, I do not understand this sudden recall. Have you any clue?"
"No ma'am, not the least."
"What arrangements have you made, my dear?"
"For to-morrow morning, ma'am. I had no choice."
"No, my dear, you had not; and I have not a word to say. I hope Mr.
Rhys will come back before you go."
Absolute silence on Eleanor's part.
"You would like to bid him good bye before you leave Plassy."
There was a cessation of any attention to the strawberries, and
Eleanor's hand took a position which rather hindered observations of
her face. You might have heard a slight little sigh come from behind
Mrs. Caxton's tea-pot.
"Eleanor, have you learned that the steps of a good man are ordered by
the Lord? My love, they are not left to our own disposal, and we should
not know how to manage it. You are going to do the Lord's work, are you
not, wherever you may be?"
"I hope so."
"Then trust him to place you where he wants the work to be done. Can
you, Eleanor?"
Eleanor left her seat, came round and knelt down by Mrs. Caxton's side,
putting her face in her lap.
"It is not like a good soldier, dear, to wish to play general. You have
something now to do at home--perhaps not more for others than for
yourself. Are you willing to do it?"
"Don't ask me if I am willing, aunt Caxton! I have been too happy--But
I shall be willing."
"That is all we live for, my dear--to do the Lord's work; and I am sure
that in service as in everything else, God loves a cheerful giver. Let
us give him that now, Eleanor; and trust him for the rest. My child,
you are not the only one who has to give up something."
