can't play hide and seek."
He jumped up and caught Daisy's willing hand, with the other hand caught
up her shawl, and drew her along swiftly under cover of the trees and
shrubbery towards the river, and away from the voice they heard calling.
Daisy half ran, half flew, it seemed to her; so fast the strong hand of
her friend pulled her over the ground. At the edge of the bank that
faced the river, at the top of a very steep descent of a hundred feet or
near that, under a thick shelter of trees, Capt. Drummond called a halt
and stood listening. Far off, faint in the distance, they could still
hear the shout.
"Drummond!--where are you? Hallo!"
"We'll go down to the river," said the Captain; "and he is too lazy to
look for us there. We shall be safe. Daisy, this is a retreat--but it is
not a hardship, is it?"
Daisy looked up delighted. The little face so soberly thoughtful a few
minutes ago was all bright and flushed. The Captain was charmed too.
"But we can't get down there,"--said Daisy, casting her eye down the
very steep pitch of the bank.
"That is something," said the Captain, "with which as a soldier you have
nothing to do. All you have to do is to obey orders; and the orders are
that we charge down hill."
"I shall go head first, then," said Daisy, "or over and over. I couldn't
keep my feet one minute."
"Now you are arguing," said the Captain; "and that shews
insubordination, or want of discipline. But we have got to charge, all
the same; and we'll see about putting you under arrest afterwards."
Daisy laughed at him, but she could not conceive how they should get to
the bottom. It was very steep and strewn with dead leaves from the trees
which grew thick all the way. Rolling down was out of the question, for
the stems of the trees would catch them; and to keep on their feet
seemed impossible. Daisy found however that Capt. Drummond could manage
what she could not. He took hold of her hand again; and then--Daisy
hardly believed it while she was doing it,--but there she was, going
down that bank in an upright position; not falling nor stumbling, though
it is true she was not walking neither. The Captain did not let her
fall, and his strong hand seemed to take her like a feather over the
stones and among the trees, giving her flying leaps and bounds down, the
hill along with him. How he went and kept his feet remained always a
marvel to Daisy; but down they went, and at the bottom they were in a
trifle of time.
"Do you think he will come down there after us?" said the Captain.
"I am sure he won't," said Daisy.
"So am I sure. We are safe, Daisy. Now I am your prisoner and you are my
prisoner; and we will set each other at any work we please. This is a
nice place."
Behind them, was the high, steep, wooded bank, rising right up. Before
them was a little strip of pebbly beach, and little wavelets of the
river washing past it. Beyond lay the broad stream, all bright in the
summer sunshine, with the great blue hills rising up misty and blue in
the distance. Nothing else; a little curve in the shore on each side
shut them in from all that was above or below near at hand.
"Why this is a fine place," repeated the Captain. "Were you ever here
before?"
"Not in a long time," said Daisy. "I have been here with June."
"June! Aren't we here with June now?"
"Now!--O I don't mean the month--I mean mamma's black June," said
Daisy laughing.
"Well that is the first time I ever heard of a black June!" muttered the
Captain. "Does she resemble her name or her colour?"
"She isn't much like the month of June," said Daisy. "I don't think she
is a very cheerful person."
"Then I wouldn't come here any more with her--or anywhere else."
"I don't," said Daisy. "I don't go with her, or with anybody else--much.
Only I go with Sam and the pony."
"Where's Ransom? Don't he go with you?"
"O Ransom's older, you know; and he's a boy."
"Ransom don't know his advantages. This is pleasant, Daisy. Now let us
see. What were you and I about?"
"You were telling me something, Capt. Drummond."
"What was it? O I know. Daisy, you are under arrest, you know, and
sentenced to extra duty. The work you are to perform, is to gather as
many of these little pebbles together--these white ones--as you can in
five minutes."
Daisy went to work; so did the Captain; and very busy they were, for the
Captain gathered as many pebbles as she did. He made her fetch them to a
place where the little beach was clean and smooth, and in the shadow of
an overhanging tree they both sat down. Then the Captain throwing off
his cap, began arranging the white pebbles on the sand in some
mysterious manner--lines of them hero and lines of them there--whistling
as he worked. Daisy waited with curious patience; watched him closely,
but never asked what he was doing. At last he stopped, looked up at her,
and smiled.
"Well!--" he said.
"What is it all, Capt. Drummond?"
"This is your story, Daisy."
"My story!"
"Yes. Look here--these rows of white stones are the Russians;--these
brown stones are the English," said he, beginning to marshal another set
into mysterious order some distance from the white stones. "Now what
shall I do for some guns?"
Daisy in a very great state of delight began to make search for
something that would do to stand for artillery; but Capt. Drummond
presently solved the question by breaking some twigs from the tree
overhead and cutting them up into inch lengths. These little mock guns
he distributed liberally among the white stones, pointing their muzzles
in various directions; and finally drew some lines in the sand which he
informed Daisy were fortifications. Daisy looked on; it was better than
a fairy tale.
"Now Daisy, we are ready for action. This is the battle of Balaklava;
and these are part of the lines. An order was brought to an officer
commanding a body of cavalry stationed up here--you know what cavalry
is?"
"Yes, I know."
"The order was brought to him to charge upon the enemy down there,--in
a place where he could do no good and must be cut to pieces;--the enemy
had so many guns in that place and he had so few men to attack them
with. The order was a mistake. He knew it was a mistake, but his General
had sent it--there was nothing for him to do but to obey. So he
charged."
"And his men?"
"Every one. They knew they were going to their death--and everybody else
knew it that saw them go--but they charged!"
"Did you see it, Capt. Drummond?"
"I saw it."
"And did they go to their death?" said Daisy, awe-stricken, for Captain
Drummond's look said that he was thinking of something it had been grave
to see.
"Why yes. Look here, Daisy--here were cannon; there were cannon; there
were more cannon; cannon on every side of them but one. They went into
death they knew, when they went in there."
"How many of them went there?"
"Six hundred."
"Six hundred!--were they all killed?"
"No. There were a part of them that escaped and lived to come back."
Daisy looked at the pebbles and the guns in profound silence.
"But if the officer knew the order was a mistake, why must he obey it?"
"That's a soldier's duty, Daisy. He can do nothing but follow orders. A
soldier can't know, very often, what an order is given for; he cannot
judge; he does not know what his General means to accomplish. All he has
to think of is to obey orders; and if every soldier does that, all is
right."
What was little Daisy thinking of? She sat looking at her friend the
Captain. He was amused.
"Well, Daisy--what do you think? will it do? Do you think you will stand
it and be a soldier?"
Daisy hesitated a good deal, and looked off and on at the Captain's
face. Then she said very quietly, "Yes."
"You will!" he said. "I wish you would join my branch of the service.
Suppose you come into my company?"
"Suppose you join mine?"
