But his life was rich in noble aims and charitable deeds, and with
his strong nature softened by the sharp discipline of sorrow, and
sweetened by the presence of a generous love, he was content to
dwell alone with the memory of little Jamie, in the shadow of “the
cross upon the tower.”
THE DEATH OF JOHN.
This is not a tale, but a true history.--ED.
FROM “HOSPITAL SKETCHES.”
HARDLY was I settled again, when the inevitable bowl appeared, and
its bearer delivered a message I had expected, yet dreaded to
receive:--
“John is going, ma’am, and wants to see you, if you can come.”
“The moment this boy is asleep; tell him so, and let me know if I am
in danger of being too late.”
My Ganymede departed, and while I quieted poor Shaw, I thought of
John. He came in a day or two after the others; and, one evening,
when I entered my “pathetic room,” I found a lately emptied bed
occupied by a large, fair man, with a fine face, and the serenest
eyes I ever met. One of the earlier comers had often spoken of a
friend, who had remained behind, that those apparently worse wounded
than himself might reach a shelter first. It seemed a David and
Jonathan sort of friendship. The man fretted for his mate, and was
never tired of praising John,--his courage, sobriety, self-denial,
and unfailing kindliness of heart; always winding up with, “He’s an
out an’ out fine feller, ma’am; you see if he ain’t.”
I had some curiosity to behold this piece of excellence, and when he
came, watched him for a night or two, before I made friends with
him; for, to tell the truth, I was a little afraid of the stately
looking man, whose bed had to be lengthened to accommodate his
commanding stature; who seldom spoke, uttered no complaint, asked no
sympathy, but tranquilly observed what went on about him; and, as he
lay high upon his pillows, no picture of dying statesman or warrior
was ever fuller of real dignity than this Virginia blacksmith. A
most attractive face he had, framed in brown hair and beard, comely
featured and full of vigor, as yet unsubdued by pain; thoughtful and
often beautifully mild while watching the afflictions of others, as
if entirely forgetful of his own. His mouth was grave and firm, with
plenty of will and courage in its lines, but a smile could make it
as sweet as any woman’s; and his eyes were child’s eyes, looking one
fairly in the face with a clear, straightforward glance, which
promised well for such as placed their faith in him. He seemed to
cling to life, as if it were rich in duties and delights, and he had
learned the secret of content. The only time I saw his composure
disturbed was when my surgeon brought another to examine John, who
scrutinized their faces with an anxious look, asking of the
elder,--“Do you think I shall pull through, sir?” “I hope so, my
man.” And, as the two passed on, John’s eye still followed them,
with an intentness which would have won a clearer answer from them,
had they seen it. A momentary shadow flitted over his face; then
came the usual serenity, as if, in that brief eclipse, he had
acknowledged the existence of some hard possibility, and, asking
nothing, yet hoping all things, left the issue in God’s hands, with
that submission which is true piety.
The next night, as I went my rounds with Dr. P., I happened to ask
which man in the room probably suffered most; and, to my great
surprise, he glanced at John:--
“Every breath he draws is like a stab; for the ball pierced the left
lung, broke a rib, and did no end of damage here and there; so the
poor lad can find neither forgetfulness nor ease, because he must
lie on his wounded back or suffocate. It will be a hard struggle and
a long one, for he possesses great vitality; but even his temperate
life can’t save him; I wish it could.”
“You don’t mean he must die, Doctor?”
“Bless you, there’s not the slightest hope for him; and you’d better
tell him so before long; women have a way of doing such things
comfortably, so I leave it to you. He won’t last more than a day or
two, at furthest.”
I could have sat down on the spot and cried heartily, if I had not
learned the wisdom of bottling up one’s tears for leisure moments.
Such an end seemed very hard for such a man, when half a dozen
worn-out, worthless bodies round him were gathering up the remnants
of wasted lives, to linger on for years perhaps, burdens to others,
daily reproaches to themselves. The army needed men like
John,--earnest, brave, and faithful; fighting for liberty and
justice with both heart and hand, true soldiers of the Lord. I could
not give him up so soon, or think with any patience of so excellent
a nature robbed of its fulfilment, and blundered into eternity by
the rashness or stupidity of those at whose hands so many lives may
be required. It was an easy thing for Dr. P. to say, “Tell him he
must die,” but a cruelly hard thing to do, and by no means as
“comfortable” as he politely suggested. I had not the heart to do it
then, and privately indulged the hope that some change for the
better might take place, in spite of gloomy prophecies, so,
rendering my task unnecessary. A few minutes later, as I came in
again with fresh rollers, I saw John sitting erect, with no one to
support him, while the surgeon dressed his back. I had never
hitherto seen it done; for, having simpler wounds to attend to, and
knowing the fidelity of the attendant, I had left John to him,
thinking it might be more agreeable and safe; for both strength and
experience were needed in his case. I had forgotten that the strong
man might long for the gentler tendance of a woman’s hands, the
sympathetic magnetism of a woman’s presence, as well as the feebler
souls about him. The Doctor’s words caused me to reproach myself
with neglect, not of any real duty perhaps, but of those little
cares and kindnesses that solace homesick spirits, and make the
heavy hours pass easier. John looked lonely and forsaken just then,
as he sat with bent head, hands folded on his knee, and no outward
sign of suffering, till, looking nearer, I saw great tears roll down
and drop upon the floor. It was a new sight there; for though I had
seen many suffer, some swore, some groaned, most endured silently,
but none wept. Yet it did not seem weak, only very touching, and
straightway my fear vanished, my heart opened wide and took him in,
as, gathering the bent head in my arms, as freely as if he had been
a little child, I said,--“Let me help you bear it, John.”
Never, on any human countenance, have I seen so swift and beautiful
a look of gratitude, surprise, and comfort, as that which answered
me more eloquently than the whispered,--
“Thank you ma’am; this is right good! this is what I wanted!”
“Then why not ask for it before?”
“I didn’t like to be a trouble; you seemed so busy, and I could
manage to get on alone.”
“You shall not want it any more, John.”
Nor did he; for now I understood the wistful look that sometimes
followed me, as I went out, after a brief pause beside his bed, or
merely a passing nod, while busied with those who seemed to need me
more than he, because more urgent in their demands; now I knew that
to him, as to so many, I was the poor substitute for mother, wife,
or sister, and in his eyes no stranger, but a friend who hitherto
had seemed neglectful; for, in his modesty, he had never guessed the
truth. This was changed now; and, through the tedious operation of
probing, bathing, and dressing his wounds, he leaned against me,
holding my hand fast, and, if pain wrung further tears from him, no
one saw them fall but me. When he was laid down again, I hovered
about him, in a remorseful state of mind that would not let me rest,
till I had bathed his face, brushed his “bonny brown hair,” set all
things smooth about him, and laid a knot of heath and heliotrope on
his clean pillow. While doing this, he watched me with the satisfied
expression I so linked to see; and when I offered the little
nosegay, held it carefully in his great hand, smoothed a ruffled
leaf or two, surveyed and smelt it with an air of genuine delight,
and lay contentedly regarding the glimmer of the sunshine on the
green. Although the manliest man among my forty, he said, “Yes,
ma’am,” like a little boy; received suggestions for his comfort with
the quick smile that brightened his whole face; and now and then, as
I stood tidying the table by his bed, I felt him softly touch my
gown, as if to assure himself that I was there. Anything more
natural and frank I never saw, and found this brave John as bashful
as brave, yet full of excellences and fine aspirations, which,
having no power to express themselves in words, seemed to have
bloomed into his character and made him what he was.
