off in the direction in which Noddy had retreated. The boatman and
others were sent off in the boats; and the prospect was, that the
fugitive would be captured within a few hours. As our story relates more
especially to the runaway himself, we shall follow him, and leave the
well-meaning people of Woodville to pursue their investigations alone.
When Noddy discovered Mr. Grant, he was satisfied that the gentleman saw
him, for he quickened his pace, and walked towards the place where he
stood holding Bertha's hand. He ran with all his might by the familiar
paths till he reached the Glen. There were, at present, no signs of a
pursuit; but he was confident that it would not be delayed, and he did
not even stop to take breath. Rushing down to the water, he embarked in
the skiff, and rowed up the river, taking care to keep in shore, where
he could not be seen from below.
Above Van Alstine's Island, he crossed the river, and began to work his
way down; but the white sails of the Greyhound were seen, with all the
boats belonging to the estate, headed up stream. They were chasing him
in earnest, and he saw that it was not safe to remain on the river.
"Do you know where Mr. Grover lives?" he asked of a ragged boy who was
fishing on the bank of the river.
"Below Whitestone?"
"Yes."
"Will you take this boat down there?"
"I will," replied the boy, glad of the job, and willing to do it without
any compensation.
Noddy had taken off the tights belonging to the circus company, and
rolled them up in a bundle. In order to be as honest as Bertha had
taught him to be,--though he was not always so particular,--he engaged
the boy to leave them at the circus tent.
The boy got into the boat, and began his trip down the river. Noddy felt
that he had been honest, and he was rather proud of the record he was to
leave behind him; for it did not once occur to him that borrowing the
boat without leave was only a little better than stealing it, even if he
did return it.
The servants at Woodville and the constables at Whitestone were on his
track, and he had no time to spare. Taking a road leading from the
river, he walked away from it as fast as he could. About three miles
distant, he found a road leading to the northward; and thinking it
better to suffer by excess of prudence than by the want of it, he took
this direction, and pursued his journey till he was so tired he could go
no farther.
A farmer on the road gave him some dinner; and when he had rested
himself, he resumed his walk. At sunset he reached a large town on the
river, where he felt safe from pursuit until he saw the flaming
hand-bills of the Great Olympian Circus, which was almost as bad as
meeting one of the constables, for these worthies would expect to find
him at the tent, and probably were on the watch for him.
Noddy was too tired to walk any farther that day. He wanted to reach
some large seaport, like New York or Boston, where he could find a
vessel bound on a foreign voyage. He was almost afraid to go to the
former city, for he had heard about the smart detectives they have
there, who catch any person guilty of crime, though they never saw him
before. He had told Bertha that he intended to go to sea; and he was
afraid that Mr. Grant would be on the watch for him, or set some of
these detectives to catch him, if he went there.
It was almost time for the steamers for Albany, which went up in the
night, to reach the town, and he determined to go on board of one, and
proceed as far up the river as he could with the small sum of money in
his possession. He soon found the landing-place, and presently a steamer
came along.
"Where do you want to go, boy?" asked one of the officers of the boat.
"I want to go to Albany; but I haven't money enough to pay my fare."
"How much money have you got?"
"Thirty-five cents. I will go as far as that will pay my fare."
"That will only be to the next landing-place."
"Couldn't you give me some work to do, to pay my fare up to Albany?"
The officer happened to be rather pleased with Noddy, and told him he
might stand by and help land the baggage at the stopping-places. He gave
the little wanderer some supper in the mess-room, after the boat got
off, and Noddy was as grateful as though the man had given him a gold
mine. When the steamer made another landing, he worked with all his
might, and was highly commended for his skill and activity.
And so he passed the night, sleeping between the stoppages, and working
like a mule at every landing. In the morning the boat reached Albany,
and the officer gave him his breakfast with the engineers. Noddy felt
safe from pursuit now; he went on shore, and walked about the city,
thinking what he should do next.
CHAPTER IX.
AN ATTEMPT TO WORK AND WIN.
Boston was two hundred miles distant, and Noddy was principally excited
to know how he should get there, for he had decided to ship in that
city. It would take him a week to go on foot, and his funds were now
completely exhausted, so that he could not pay his fare by railroad. If
he could neither ride nor walk, the question was narrowed down to a
point where it needed no further consideration.
"Here, boy, do you want a job?" said a gentleman, coming out of a
dwelling with a valise and a large bundle in his hands.
"Yes, sir; thank you, sir," replied Noddy, springing forward, and taking
the heavier articles, without giving the gentleman the trouble to state
what he wanted of him.
This incident seemed to solve the problem for him. He could remain in
Albany long enough to earn a sufficient sum of money to pay his fare to
Boston. He followed the gentleman to the railroad station, and handed
the valise to the baggage-master. The gentleman gave him a quarter of a
dollar for his services. It was a liberal return for the short time he
had been employed, and a few more such jobs as that would soon put him
in funds.
Noddy was sanguine now that he could earn money with entire ease, and
all the difficulties which had beset him began to disappear. There was
something exceedingly pleasant in the idea of being independent; of
putting his hand into his pocket and always finding some money there
which had been earned by his own labor. It was a novel sensation to him.
"Work and win!" exclaimed he, as he walked out of the railroad station.
"I understand it all now, and I may thank Miss Bertha for the idea."
In the enthusiasm of the moment, he began to consider whether it would
not be better to remain on shore and amass a fortune, which he believed
could be done in a short time. He could carry bundles and valises till
he got money enough to buy a horse and wagon, when he could go into the
business on a more extensive scale. The road to fortune was open to him;
all his trials and difficulties had suddenly vanished, and he had only
to reach out his hand to pluck the golden harvest.
The rattling of a train which had just arrived disturbed this pleasant
dream, and Noddy hastened back to secure the fruit of his brilliant
resolution. There were plenty of gentlemen with bags and valises in
their hands, but not a single one of them wanted any assistance; and
some of them answered his civil salutation with insult and harshness.
The experiment did not work so well as he had anticipated, for Noddy's
great expectations led him to believe that he should make about half a
dollar out of the arrival of this train, instead of which he did not
make a single cent.
"Work and win; but where are you going to get your work?" said Noddy to
himself.
No more trains were to arrive for some hours, and he posted himself in
the street, asking for a job whenever there was the least prospect of
obtaining one. At noon, Noddy was hungry, and was obliged to spend half
his morning's earnings for a coarse dinner, for his circumstances did
not permit him to indulge in the luxury of roast beef and plum pudding.
During the afternoon he lay in wait for a job at the railroad stations,
and in the most public places of the city. But the sum of his earnings
was only five cents.
"Work and win!" said he. "Sum total of day's work, thirty cents; not
enough to buy what I want to eat. It don't pay."
If work did not pay, stealing certainly would not; and we are happy to
say, Bertha Grant had done her duty by him so faithfully, that he did
not feel tempted to resort to any irregular means of obtaining a
subsistence. If work did not pay, it was only because he could not
obtain it. He had not yet struck a productive vein. He had been a
fishing a great many times; but when he had no success, he neither
concluded that fish were not good, nor that there were no fish in the
river.
There was a train to arrive, after dark, from New York city, and he
