shall be able to do so at no distant day, though it doesn't 
look much like it just now. He gave me an apartment 
next to his office, for the night ; where, of course, he 
expected to find me in the morning. In the night, I got 
up, and went into his office to transact a little business 
on my own account. 
" After I saw you at the depot, my dear fellow, I 
couldn't forget your sad look. You seemed /-> be as 
 
hopeless as a stray chicken in the wet grass, and I was 
trying to think what I could do for you. I couldn't have 
gone back to Harrison's Landing without you : it would 
have broken my heart. And what could I have said to 
the general, when he asked for you ? How could I have 
made my peace with the officers of the regiment, if I 
had gone back without you ? ' 
" It was very kind of you, after the shabby manner in 
which I had treated you," added Somers 
" That was the very reason why I was bound to help 
you out of the scrape, if I could. I wanted to set myself 
right with you. I wanted to convince you I wasn't the 
man you took me to be." 
" You have convinced me in the fullest manner ; and 
I owe you a debt of gratitude which I shall never be 
able to pay." 
" Steady, my boy : we are not out of the scrape." 
" No matter whether we get out of the scrape or not, 
my feelings towards you will be just the same." 
Thank you, Somers : I am satisfied." 
But where did you get the pass you gave the cor- 
poral of the guard at the depot?" asked Somers. 
" I found the provost-marshal's signature on certain 
papers, one of which I filled out to suit myself. But 
there was a sentinel at the door of the office, put there, 
I suppose, for my benefit ; though I was sorry to trouble 
the; poor fellow to stand there on my account. My friend, 
 
the provost, had done this little act in the most delicate 
way in the world. He did not tell me that I was under 
guard ; but I happened to find it out before I put my foot 
in the trap. 
"In a word, not wishing to disturb the sentinel, I took 
the liberty of leaving by the way of the window of my 
chamber, instead of the door. Luckily there was a one- 
story shop next to the office ; and, with the aid of a 
blanket from my bed, I dropped down upon it, without 
disturbing the meditations of the sentinel or the slum- 
bers of the provost. I got into the street, and went to 
the depot. There I told the corporal of the guard a 
very interesting story about the prisoner who had been 
brought up in the afternoon, meaning myself; and that 
the man I wanted was needed immediately as a witness. 
You know the rest, my dear fellow ; and here we are." 
"And here we are likely to remain, I'm afraid, " added 
Somers. 
" Not a bit of it. I haven't exhausted half my expe- 
dients yet. On the night before the attack on the Redan, 
at Sebastopol, I went all over that city, and spent the 
evening at the house of one of the most distinguished 
citizens, a gentleman who had a government contract 
) O c 
for rations. Of course, he didn't know me." 
" Hush ! There is some one coming into the stable 
below," said Somers, as he heard a door opened on the 
floor below. 
 
It was impossible to move then without making noise 
enough to excite the attention of the person who had en- 
tered ; tor the stable was old and rickety, and the boards 
creaked at every step they took. The fugitives listened 
with breathless interest to the movements of the unwel- 
come visitor. The horse whinnied again ; and the person 
entered the stall, and spoke to him. The sound of his 
voice filled the occupants of the loft with consternation ; 
for evidently the speaker was not a negro servant, as 
they had hoped and expected to find him, but a white 
man, and one who used the English language well. 
"Come, Jenny, there is a job on hand for us ; and you 
must postpone your breakfast till we catch the Yankee 
prisoners," said the person, who, the fugitives were now 
satisfied, was an officer of the cavalry service. 
While De Banyan was telling his story, they had heard 
some noise at the house ; and they now concluded that 
the party which had ridden up the street had come to 
call this officer for duty. They hoped that nothing 
would require him to pay a visit to the loft, and that, 
like a good officer, he would be as expeditious as possi- 
ble in his preparations. 
" You are my prisoner, if he comes up stairs," whis- 
pered De Banyan. 
Somers pressed the hand of his companion to assure 
him that he understood his plan ; and they hell their 
breath, in the intense anxiety of the moment, for further 
 
developments. The .present seemed to be the turning- 
point in the career of the adventurers ; and, if they could 
once escape from the horns of this dilemma, skill and 
prudence would conduct them in safety to the Union 
lines. 
The officer below, after he had politely informed 
" Jenny ' : of the early movement, seemed to be in no 
hurry to get into the saddle. He went out at the door of 
the stable, and all was silence again, except the voice of 
Jenny, who seemed to be protesting against any move- 
ment before she had received her customary feed of corn. 
"Peters ! " shouted the officer from the door, " hurry 
up ! The Yankees will get to the James River before you 
get the saddle on my horse. Where have you been?" 
" I was looking for my boots." 
" An orderly ought to wear his boots to bed with him, 
if he can't put them where he can find them," replied 
the officer, as the heavy step of another man was heard 
in the stable below. 
" What news did you hear? " asked the officer, as the 
orderly led the horse from the stall. 
" The sergeant said some officer that had been took as 
a deserter done rimned away," replied Peters, as the fugi> 
tives heard the rattle of the saddle-gear. 
" Hurry up, then ! " 
" He done took a Yankee prisoner from the depot with 
him," added Peters, who, if he had not been called an 
orderly, the listeners would have taken for a negro. 
 
" You may take a peck of corn in a bag for Jenny, 
Peters. We may have a long ride of it," added the 
officer, as he left the stable. 
A peck of corn ! De Banyan and Somers were sitting 
on the grain chest ! It was impossible to avoid dis- 
covery ; and De Banyan threw off his cloak, ready for 
the emergency. 
" Somers, my boy, we must change our tactics. 
They have heard the whole story, and we can't blind 
them. We must make the best of it. Have you a 
pistol ? " whispered the captain. 
" No : all I had was taken from me," replied Somers. 
" I have only one. No matter : it would never do to 
fire up here," added De Banyan, as he picked up a short 
pitch-fork which lay near him. 
Are you going to kill him?" asked Somers. 
It's life or death for you and me ! We can't stop 
