I thing by his falsehood. He might as well have trusted the 
Lord at first. In a dream, Abimelech was warned that the 
man whom he had wronged was under the particular care of 
Heaven ; and that it would be at the peril of his life if he did 
not undo all the wrong he had done." 

"And then Abimelech gave him presents," said Priscilla; 
" ' sheep and oxen, and men-servants, and women-servants ; ' 
just aa> Pharaoh had done. He grew great every way." 

"How was Abraham a prophet, uncle Sam? The Bible 
says he was a prophet ; what did he tell ? " 

"Nothing of future events. Tiny. The first meaning of 
prophet was not a foreteller, but an interpreter. One who 
made known the ways of God to men ; that is what it meant, 
and means still 

" Now Abraham had full leave to dwell in the land of the 
Philistines, wherever he pleased; and in the rich country 
south of Gaza I suppose he made his home, at Gerar ; and 
there, it is likely, the next year Isaac was born. The fulfilment of part of God's promise to Abraham, and a pledge 
of the rest." 

"A pledge of what, uncle Sam?" 

" Of all good things. Tiny. In this way. Isaac was the 
promised seed, you know. God had told Abraham he should 
have a son in his old age ; and besides, had told him that 
in this son the blessing should come. With him God would 
establish the covenant He had made with Abraham ; and that 
covenant was, you remember, that He would be a God to 
him and to his seed after him ; that He would give them 
the land of Canaan ; and that all the nations of the earth 
should be blessed in him. Abraham knew what that meant ; 
that the promised Deliverer should come by and by in the 
line of Isaac's children. And so Sarah understood it ; for 
she said, ' God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear 
will laugh with me.' It was not a joy for her alone. One 
was coming, some tinie, among the descendants of Isaac's 
family, who would be the Desire of all nations. And so. 



 

when at last the birth of Jesus was promised to Mary, she 
said, ' He hath holpen His servant Israel, in remembrance 
of His mercy ; as He spake to ourfathersy to Abraham, and to 
his seed for ever.' ' To perform the mercy promised to our 
fathers, and to remember His holy covenant ; the oath which 
He sware to our father Abraham.' Isaac was well named. 
His name is daughter/" 

"There were so many people bom, in whose family the 
Lord Jesus was to come," I said. " I cannot remember them 
all." 

"First there was Seth," said uncle Sam. "He was the 
appointed one of all Adam's sons." 

" And among the sons of Seth, Noah was the one," said 
Daniel. " And Shem was chosen among Noah's three sons." 

"And of all the sons of Shem, Abraham was the called 
and blessed; and of Abraham's children, only Isaac In 
Isaac shall thy seed be called.' But here came what looked 
like a difficulty. Abraham had another son, older, and a 
bright fine fellow. How were these two to live together, 
and yet Isaac be the only heir? The Lord had promised 
His covenant and blessing and the land of Canaan to Isaac's 
children ; but here was Ishmael, twelve or thirteen years old 
already, and his father Abraham exceedingly fond of him." 

" What makes you think he was a bright, fine fellow, sir ?" 

"Well, Liph, that is a fair question, but I think I can 
give a fair answer. All the race of Ishmael's children are 
such a noble race ; bodily and mentally they are so well 
gifted, that the conclusion is natural, their father must have 
been well gifted himself. No doubt he was. I dare say he 
had his mother's Egyptian beauty, and a fine bodily frame 
like his father, and the bright, quick, fiery black eye which 
has descended to all his race. Fiery, and proud, and active, 
and his father's delight, you can imagine how the boy of 
twelve looked upon the pretensions of his little baby brother. 
No doubt he heard enough about them, and his mother 
taught him to scoff at them. By his birthright lie was the 
heir, and he might think, by his father's affection too ; what 
was this threat that Sarah held over him, that Isaac only 





had any rights at all ? It is easy to see how a feeling of 
hatred towards his brother might grow up ; and when the 
baby heir had readied the age of two or three years, and was 
old enough to be weaned, and Abraham made a great feast 
on the occasion, IshmaeFs feeling broke out. He mocked 
at the dignity of his weak Httle rival, and very likely amused 
his spite by teasing or plaguing him. Sarah saw it ; and the 
destiny of the two boys was decided." 

"Ishmael was full young, to take such a view of the 
matter," said my grandmother. 

" Not a bit, mother. In those lands, and in those Eastern 
nations, a boy of twelve is equal, in grave capacity, to many 
a man of thirty or forty among us. I have seen them act 
for their elders, conduct affairs of ceremony or of business, 
carry on a civil negotiation, with as much dignified bearing 
and cool and clear understanding of what they were about, 
as you could meet with in many a man of mature age and 
experience among us. Yes, Liph, you may look ; but I have 
no doubt that where you would have only looked, Ishmael 
would have acted, and with prompt executive ability too ; 
so long at least as the spirit of pride and place upheld him. 
But toward Isaac his spirit of pride had carried him too far. 
Sarah went with her complaint once more to Abraham, 
Cast out this bondwoman and her son." 

" Why, she could send away Hagar herself if she liked," 
said Priscilla. " Abraham had given her leave." 

" Ay, but Ishmael was another affair. And Abraham was 
not so easily persuaded this time. He loved Sarah and had 
respect to her words, no doubt; and perhaps to her argument ; but ' the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight 
because of his son.' He did not yield at once ; that is certain. When the feast was over and the guests were departed, perhaps he went away alone somewhere to ask counsel 
of God; and there, or in a dream by night, what he sought 
was given.  Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of 
the lad and because of thy bondwoman ; in all that Sarah 
hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac 
shall thy seed be called. And also of the son of the bond- 



 

woman will I make a nation, because he is thy seed.' Abraham was satisfied then, and probably understood in part 
