in his soft beard, she murmured, " Dick, I love you 
dearly ! dearly ! Do you think God will ever make you 
die ? " 

For answer he held her tightly, and kissed lip, cheek, and 
golden hair ; then carried her up stairs, where he said good 
night to the rest. They all looked up to him now as the 
head of the family. 


CHAPTER IV. 

The lines of our life may be smooth and strong, 

And our pleasant path may lie 
Where the stream of affection flows along, 

In the light of a summer sky; 
But woe for the lights that early wane, 

And the shades that early fall, 
And the prayer that speaks f the secret pain, 

Though its voice be still and small. 

FRANCES BROWN. 

THE head of the family ! This was what Richard Bertrand 
thought, as he sat in his room, weary, and yet wakeful. 
What a change a week had wrought ! Then he had been 
musing over such visions as young men are wont to dream 
of; a girlish wife and baby faces growing up in his house- 
hold, whose helpless, clinging touches give to parents wisdom 
and patience. Instead, ties not his very own sprang up to 
fetter him with a double chain of love and duty. It was not 
such a care-free path as those rambles over the old world, 
with his chosen wife beside him. What wonder if he 
glanced at that lost way with sorrowful tenderness ? Already 
cares and sacrifices began to stare him in the face. Could 
he make his position harmonize with his affection ? The lit- 
tle scene with Robert told him he had not a parent's author- 
ity, and that his rule must be one of love. A fine sense of 
honor ran like a silver chord through his nature, and he felt 
it would be right for him to pay off this mortgage with his 
own fortune, no matter how overstrained the action might 
appear to others. His father had behaved with scrupulous 
generosity and delicacy in never mentioning the fact of his 
having indorsed for Richard's uncle, and it touched him tc 



 

the heart. Yes, be would clear the house from debt, and 
then some provision must be made for the family. His 
father's practice was extensive ; he would doubtless succeed 
to a large share of it. If he could keep them all together 
for a few years ! And then thoughts of Ada arose. Would 
she be happy here ? 

I think it was well Sunday came in the midst of their grief. 
It sanctified it, and added a tender solemnity to the memory 
of the dead, and gave Richard his true position at once the 
place he was to fill through years of mingled joy and sorrow. 
He took his father's seat in the church with a feeling of grave 
awe, and those who looked upon his manly figure and truth- 
ful face, prophesied it would be worthily filled. 

He hesitated a little whether he should go to Ada that 
night, then decided to remain at home. They could not 
sing, as was their usual custom ; but Richard read to them : 
afterwards they fell into a sweet, sorrowful talk of him who 
had gone from their midst, and was keeping the eternal rest 
that remained for the people of God. 

" ' A day which shall be known unto the Lord, not day, nor 
night ; but it shall come to pass that at evening time it shall 
be light,' " Mabel said, with her lingering good-night kiss. 

" At evening time," Richard repeated. He did not dream 
then how often he should have need to comfort himself with 
the words. 

Monday morning brought the stir of busy life. Robert 
was called into conference with his brother, and all immedi- 
ate plans laid before him. There was a sad parting with the 
girls, and Richard drove him to the depot, offering a few 
brotherly suggestions that were received with an attentive 
air. But a feeling of intense relief came in his face when he 
found himself alone ; and he said, almost audibly, 

" Dick is a good fellow, and I must be careful. Wasn't I 
lucky to make my peace with the learned and reverend fac- 
ulty ? Suspension just now would have been well, it 
didn't come, thanks to fortune ; so there's no use of borrow- 
ing trouble." 





Then followed aunt Sophia's departure. It was natural 
she should feel anxious for the children's welfare, as their 
mother had been her only sister ; and she offered to take the 
two younger ones, in case they decided to break up the 
household. 

" You are to be married soon, I believe ? " she said to 
Richard. 

" Not until fall, and I may remain here then. It is 
my wish to keep the family together. I think father de- 
sired it." 

She could not object to this ; but as Mrs. Hall helped her 
put on her wrappings, the subject was re-discussed. 

" I'm afraid it Avill not work," she said, slowly. " Mabel 
is growing up, and may want to te mistress in her own house, 
and Miss Townley won't fe.el disposed to accept of the second 
position. Then, he is only their half-brother, and we can- 
not expect him to give up all to them. Poor things, they 
will never find another friend like their father ! " 

Mrs. Hall sighed and hoped it would end rightly, but was 
a little doubtful of two families living in perfect peace, when 
both would have such a strong claim on "Mr. Richard." 

The next event in order was the mortgage. Mr. Grailford 
was a little surprised at Richard's proposal, but simply said, 
"I hope you have considered the matter well;" and then 
went about the business in his ordinary manner. Some days 
elapsed before it could be finally settled ; but when Richard 
had freed the house from its encumbrance, and placed a 
thousand dollars in the lawyer's hands to Robert's credit, a 
great weight seemed to have fallen from him. Now the 
question of retrenchment must be seriously considered. 

This was a difficult subject for a young man. The house 
was large, to be sure, yet it was all needed ; and it was not 
