things there which you never see in the cabin; a great many things which
Mr. Lowington and the professors know nothing about."
"Why, what do you mean, Shuffles?" demanded Paul, astonished at this
revelation.
"I ought not to say anything about it; but I believe these things will
break up the Academy Ship one of these days, for the boys are growing
worse instead of better in her, and their folks will find it out sooner
or later."
"You surprise me!" exclaimed Paul, sadly, for he held the honor of the
ship and her crew as the apple of his eye. "If there is anything wrong
there, you ought to make it known."
"I suppose I ought; but you know I'm not a tell-tale."
"You have told me, and I'm an officer."
"Well, I blundered into saying what I have. What you said about going
into the steerage made me let it out. I am sorry I said anything."
"You have raised my curiosity."
"I will tell you; or rather I will put you in the way of seeing for
yourself, if you will not mention my name in connection with the
matter, even to Mr. Lowington, and certainly not to any one else."
"I will not, Shuffles."
"The fellows are gambling in the steerage at this very moment," added
Shuffles, in a low tone. "Don't betray me."
"I will not. Gambling!" exclaimed Paul, with natural horror.
"You will find them in No. 8," continued Shuffles, walking away, and
leaving the astonished officer to wonder how boys could gamble.
CHAPTER XII.
THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL.
Paul Kendall, who had not occupied a berth in the steerage since the
first organization of the ship, was greatly surprised and grieved to
learn that some of the crew were addicted to vicious practices. Gambling
was an enormous offence, and he was not quite willing to believe that
such a terrible evil had obtained a foothold in the ship. He could
hardly conceive of such a thing as boys engaging in games of chance;
only the vilest of men, in his estimation, would do so. Shuffles had
told him so, apparently without malice or design, and there was no
reason to doubt the truth of his statement, especially as he had given
the particulars by which it could be verified.
The second lieutenant went down into the steerage. Classes were reciting
to the professors, and studying their lessons at the mess tables. There
was certainly no appearance of evil, for the place was still, and no
sound of angry altercation or ribald jest, which his fancy connected
with the vice of gambling, saluted his ears. He cautiously entered
Gangway D, and paused where he could hear what was said in mess room No.
8.
"I'm five shillings into your half sovereign," said one of the
gamblers; and then Paul distinctly heard the rattling of the props.
"There's the half sovereign," added another, whose voice the officer
recognized as that of Wilton. "You own five shillings in it, and I own
five shillings."
"That's so," replied Sanborn, who appeared to be the lucky one.
"Let us shake for the coin," added Wilton. "It's my throw."
"That's rather steep."
"We get along faster--that's all. If I throw a nick, or a browner, it's
mine; if an out, it's yours."
"I am agreed--throw away," replied Sanborn, without perceiving that the
one who held the props had two chances to his one.
The props rattled, and dropped on the bed.
"A browner!" exclaimed Wilton, thereby winning all he had lost at one
throw.
"Hush! don't talk so loud," interposed Adler. "You'll have the profs
down upon us."
"I'll go you another five shillings on one throw," said Sanborn,
chagrined at his loss.
"Put down your money."
The reckless young gambler put two half crowns, or five shillings, upon
the bed, and Wilton shook again.
"A nick!" said he, seizing the two half crowns.
"Try it again," demanded Sanborn.
Paul Kendall was filled with horror as he listened to this conversation.
When he had heard enough to satisfy him that the speakers were actually
gambling, he hastened to inform Mr. Lowington of the fact. Paul was an
officer of the ship, and this was so plainly his duty that he could not
avoid it, disagreeable as it was to give testimony against his
shipmates. It seemed to him that the ship could not float much longer if
such iniquity were carried on within her walls of wood; she must be
purged of such enormities, or some fearful retribution would overtake
her. There was no malice or revenge in the bosom of the second
lieutenant; he was acting solely and unselfishly for the good of the
institution and the students.
He went on deck again. Shuffles was still there, and they met in the
waist.
"You told me the truth," said Paul.
"You did not think I was joking about so serious a matter--did you?"
replied Shuffles.
"No; but I hoped you might be mistaken."
"How could I be mistaken, when I have seen, at one time and another, a
dozen fellows engaged in gambling? Of course such things as these will
ruin the boys, and bring the ship into disrepute."
"You are right. My father, for one, wouldn't let me stay on board a
single day, if he knew any of the boys were gamblers."
"It can be easily stopped, now you know about it," added Shuffles.
"Perhaps it can. I will inform Mr. Lowington at once."
"Remember, if you please, what I said, Mr. Kendall. I am willing to do a
good thing for the ship; but you know how much I should have to suffer,
if it were known that I gave the information. I didn't mean to blow on
my shipmates; but you and I have been so intimate in the after cabin,
that I spoke before I was aware what I was about," continued Shuffles.
"I shall not willingly betray you."
"Willingly! What do you mean by that?" demanded the conspirator,
startled by the words of the officer.
"Suppose Mr. Lowington should ask me where I obtained my information,"
suggested Paul.
"Didn't you see for yourself in No. 8?"
"He might ask what led me to examine the matter so particularly. But,
Shuffles, I will tell him honestly that I do not wish to inform him who
gave me the hint; and I am quite sure he will not press the matter, when
he finds that the facts are correct."
"Don't mention my name on any account," added Shuffles. "It was mean of
me to say anything; but the ship was going to ruin, and I'm rather glad
I spoke, though I didn't intend to do so."
"I will make it all right, Shuffles," replied Paul, as he descended the
cabin steps.
Mr. Lowington was in the main cabin, and the second lieutenant knocked
at the door. He was readily admitted, and invited to take a seat, for
the principal was as polite to the young gentlemen as though they had
been his equals in age and rank.
"I would like to speak with you alone, if you please, sir," Paul began,
glancing at the cabin steward, who was at work in the pantry.
"Come into my state room," said the principal, leading the way.
"I hope your business does not relate to the discipline of the ship,"
continued Mr. Lowington, when they were seated, and the door of the
room was closed. "If it does, you should have applied to the captain."
"This is a peculiar case, sir, and I obtained my information while off
duty," replied Paul, with some embarrassment; for he had thought of
communicating his startling discovery to Captain Gordon, and had only
been deterred from doing so by the fear of betraying Shuffles.
"I will hear what you have to say."
"There is something very bad going on in the steerage," said Paul,
seriously.
"Indeed! What is it?" asked the principal, full of interest and anxiety.
"Gambling, sir."
"Gambling!" repeated Mr. Lowington, his brow contracting.
Paul made no reply; and he expected to be asked how he had obtained the
startling information.
"Are you quite sure of what you say, Mr. Kendall?"
"Yes, sir, I am. In mess room No. 8, there are three or four students
now engaged in gambling. I stood at the door long enough to find out
what they were doing."
"This is serious, Mr. Kendall."
"If you have any doubt about the fact, sir, I hope you will take
