“O yes,” said the child, joyfully.
This was so much better than she had been led to fear, that the prospect
of returning home, even after a year, gave her fresh courage.
“What shall I do?” she asked, anxious to conciliate Peg.
“You may take the broom,--you will find it just behind the door,--and
sweep the room.”
“Yes, Aunt Peg.”
“And after that you may wash the dishes. Or, rather, you may wash the
dishes first.”
“Yes, Aunt Peg.”
“And after that I will find something for you to do.”
The next morning Ida was asked if she would like to go out into the
street.
This was a welcome proposition, as the sun was shining brightly, and
there was little to please a child’s fancy in Peg’s shabby apartment.
“I am going to let you do a little shopping,” said Peg. “There are
various things that we want. Go and get your bonnet.”
“It’s in the closet,” said Ida.
“O yes, where I put it. That was before I could trust you.”
She went to the closet, and came back bringing the bonnet and shawl. As
soon as they were ready, they emerged into the street. Ida was glad to
be in the open air once more.
“This is a little better than being shut up in the closet, isn’t it?”
 said Peg.
Ida owned that it was.
“You see you’ll have a very good time of it, if you do as I bid you. I
don’t want to do you any harm. I want you to be happy.”
So they walked along together, until Peg, suddenly pausing, laid her
hand on Ida’s arm, and pointing to a shop near by, said to her, “Do you
see that shop?”
“Yes,” said Ida.
“Well, that is a baker’s shop. And now I’ll tell you what to do. I want
you to go in, and ask for a couple of rolls. They come at three cents
apiece. Here’s some money to pay for them. It is a silver dollar, as you
see. You will give this to them, and they will give you back ninety-four
cents in change. Do you understand’?”
“Yes,” said Ida; “I think I do.”
“And if they ask if you haven’t anything smaller, you will say no.”
“Yes, Aunt Peg.”
“I will stay just outside. I want you to go in alone, so that you will
get used to doing without me.”
Ida entered the shop. The baker, a pleasant-looking man, stood behind
the counter.
“Well, my dear, what is it?” he asked.
“I should like a couple of rolls.”
“For your mother, I suppose,” said the baker, sociably.
“No,” said Ida; “for the woman I board with.”
“Ha! a silver dollar, and a new one, too,” said the baker, receiving
the coin tendered in payment. “I shall have to save that for my little
girl.”
Ida left the shop with the two rolls and the silver change.
“Did he say anything about the money?” asked Peg, a little anxiously.
“He said he should save it for his little girl.”
“Good,” said the woman, approvingly; “you’ve done well.”
Ida could not help wondering what the baker’s disposal of the dollar had
to do with her doing well, but she was soon thinking of other things.
CHAPTER XIII. BAD COIN.
THE baker introduced to the reader’s notice in the last chapter was
named Crump. Singularly enough Abel Crump, for this was his name, was a
brother of Timothy Crump, the cooper. In many respects he resembled
his brother. He was an excellent man, exemplary in all the relations of
life, and had a good heart. He was in very comfortable circumstances,
having accumulated a little property by diligent attention to his
business. Like his brother, Abel Crump had married, and had one child,
now about the size of Ida, that is, nine years old. She had received the
name of Ellen.
When the baker closed his shop for the night he did not forget the
silver dollar which he had received, or the disposal which he told Ida
he should make of it.
He selected it carefully from the other coins, and slipped it into his
vest pocket.
Ellen ran to meet him as he entered the house.
“What do you think I have brought you, Ellen?” said her father, smiling.
“Do tell me quick,” said the child, eagerly.
“What if I should tell you it was a silver dollar?”
“Oh, father, thank you,” and Ellen ran to show it to her mother.
“You got it at the shop?” asked his wife.
“Yes,” said the baker; “I received it from a little girl about the size
of Ellen, and I suppose it was that gave me the idea of bringing it home
to her.”
“Was she a pretty little girl?” asked Ellen, interested.
“Yes, she was very attractive. I could not help feeling interested in
her. I hope she will come again.”
This was all that passed concerning Ida at that time. The thought of her
would have passed from the baker’s mind, if it had not been recalled by
circumstances.
Ellen, like most girls of her age, when in possession of money, could
not be easy until she had spent it. Her mother advised her to lay it
away, or perhaps deposit it in some Savings Bank; but Ellen preferred
present gratification.
Accordingly one afternoon, when walking out with her mother, she
persuaded her to go into a toy shop, and price a doll which she saw in
the window. The price was sixty-two cents. Ellen concluded to take it,
and tendered the silver dollar in payment.
The shopman took it into his hand, glancing at it carelessly at first,
then scrutinizing it with considerable attention.
“What is the matter?” inquired Mrs. Crump. “It is good, isn’t it?”
“That is what I am doubtful of,” was the reply.
“It is new.”
“And that is against it. If it were old, it would be more likely to be
genuine.”
“But you wouldn’t (sic) comdemn a piece because it was new?”
“Certainly not; but the fact is, there have been lately many cases where
spurious dollars have been circulated, and I suspect this is one of
them. However, I can soon test it.”
“I wish you, would,” said Mrs. Crump. “My husband took it at his shop,
and will be likely to take more unless he is placed on his guard.”
The shopman retired a moment, and then reappeared.
“It is as I thought,” he said. “The coin is not good.”
“And can’t I pass it, then?” said Ellen, disappointed.
“I am afraid not.”
“Then I don’t see, Ellen,” said her mother, “but you will have to give
up your purchase for to-day. We must tell your father of this.”
Mr. Crump was exceedingly surprised at his wife’s account.
“Really,” he said, “I had no suspicion of this. Can it be possible that
such a beautiful child could be guilty of such a crime?”
“Perhaps not,” said his wife. “She may be as innocent in the matter as
Ellen or myself.”
“I hope so,” said the baker; “it would be a pity that such a child
should be given to wickedness. However, I shall find out before long.”
“How?”
“She will undoubtedly come again some time, and if she offers me one of
the same coins I shall know what to think.”
Mr. Crump watched daily for the coming of Ida. He waited some days in
vain. It was not the policy of Peg to send the child too often to the
same place, as that would increase the chances of detection.
One day, however, Ida entered the shop as before.
“Good morning,” said the baker. “What will you have to-day?”
“You may give me a sheet of gingerbread, sir.”
The baker placed it in her hands.
“How much will it be?”
“Twelve cents.”
Ida offered him another silver dollar.
As if to make change, he stepped from behind the counter, and managed to
place himself between Ida and the door.
“What is your name, my child?” he asked.
“Ida, sir.”
“Ida? A very pretty name; but what is your other name?”
Ida hesitated a moment, because Peg had forbidden her to use the name
of Crump, and told her if the inquiry was ever made, she must answer
