" Put on your jacket, my lad," said Bill. " Fm older 
and tougher than you, and I can bear it better." 
  And the stout seaman pulled off his  hirt, and displayed his brawny shoulders, and a chest whose breadth 
and depth betokend a strength which could not be styled 
less than Herculean. 
Antonio looked on, his eye blazing with vindictive 
joy. Whichever was flogged, his satisfaction would be 
equal. 
''Hark you!" exclaimed Captain Brace, interfering 
at this juncture. " I think that I shall choose to have a 
voice in this matter. So you wish," turning to Sturdy, 
" to' relieve this boy of his punishment, do you? " 
" I do," said the old seaman. 
" I don't want him to," interrupted Charlie. " It is 
mine, and I will bear, it." 
 
 
 ' It seems the parties are not agreed' said the captain, sardonically. 
'' Spare him," said Bill Sturdy, his eyes resting affectionately on Charlie. " He is so young." 
" Perhaps the best way in which I can please you 
both is to divide ihe punishment between you. I had 
sentenced this lad to receive twelve lashes. Since you 
wish to do him a service, you shall receive six, and he 
the other six." 
" I do not consent," said Sturdy, comprehending the 
captain's purpose to humiliate both.  ' If his back is to 
receive a single lash, my offer will not save him from the 
disgrace, and that is worse than the p£un." 
At this juncture the mate whispered something in the 
captain's ear. 
The face of the latter lighted up with satisfaction, and 
his next words revealed.the nature of the mate's sugges- 
tion. 
 'I consent to the substitution," he said, and then 
paused. 
Bill Sturdy's face glowed with generous satisfaction, 
and with heroic forgetfulness of self, he began to strip 
for punishment. 
A moment, and his back, broad and ample, was bared, 
and ihe thick, corded muscles could be seen. 
" Antonio, come forward," said Captain Brace. 
Antonio advanced amid the general surprise of the 
crew, and somewhat to his own, and stood still, await- 
ing orders. 
' Now," said Captain Brace, his tone showing his 
malignant satisfaction, " I appoint you as my deputy to 
admimster twelve lashes to this man; mind that you 
don't spare hiuL" 
Antonio did not need this injunction. His eyes were 
fhll of fiendish triumph, as he seized the instrument of 
torture, and flourished it above his head. 
As for Bill Sturdy, when he knew that Antonio was 
to be employed to inflict punishment upon him, this refinement of torture shook his resolution for a moment. 
It was, indeed, the bitterest drop in the cup. But not 
for an instant did his resolution falter. He would save 
Charlie at all hazards. He quickly recovered himself, 
and said, in a firm voice, " I am ready." 
Instantly the lash was whirled aloft, and buried itself 
in his fiesh. 
There was a quiver, and that was all. 
One — two — three — four — 
In fast succession the blows fall upon his flesh, he 
meanwhile standing firmly braced, though his cheek was 
paler than its wont. 
Charlie's heart sickened, and he closed his eyes to 
shut out the fearfhl spectacle. 
As for Antonio, he seemed to revel in the task which 
had been assigned him. His eyes fairly danced with 
baleful light, and he seemed almost beside himself. ' It 
was this, perhaps, that led him to exceed by one the 
strokes which he had been ordered to administer. 
' A moment after, and the lash was wrested from him 
by Bill Sturdy, who threw him to the deck, with one 
powerful grasp tore the covering from his back, and 
buried the lash which had seared his own back in the 
flesh of his late executioner who with face distorted 
with fright and pain roared for mercy. 
 
 
" That is to pay for the blow you strnck on your own 
account, you scoundrel," exclaimed Sturdy. "And 
now," as the lash descended once more with prodigious 
force, and the victim fairly writhed under it, " you are 
one in my debt." 
 
So strongly were the sympathies of the crew with 
Sturdy, more especially since he had shown himself 
capable of such disinterested and heroic self-sacrifice, 
and so decidedly were their feelings enlisted against 
Antonio, who acted like a fiend rather than a man in 
the execution of the welcome duty assigned him by the 
captain, that this sudden turning of the tables, the summary revenge taken by Bill Sturdy in return for the 
additional blow Antonio had inflicted, was greeted with 
a' triumphant shout from the sailors, which seemed to 
spring from them spontaneously. 
Captain Brace bit his lip, and Randall's face darkened 
with rage. They felt that the humiliation which they 
had intended for Bill Sturdy had recoiled upon the head 
of their own agent. 
The worst of it was they could not prudently resent 
it. Antonio had in the eyes of all been guilty of a 
glaring offence in exceeding his orders, and had justly 
brought upon himself the punishment he had received. 
However, the justice or injustice of the matter would 
have weighed little with Captain Brace if he had not 
been assured that it would not be' safe for him to go 
 
fhrther. The law, at the time of which I am speaking, 
' gave almost unlimited power to the commander of a  
vessel over the lives and liberties of those who were 
placed under him, yet most were aware that there was a 
point at which it was wise to pause. At the commence- 
ment of the scene, there had been audible murmurs 
among the crew, the significance of which the captain 
and mate would understand. The habit of subordi- 
nation, and the knowledge that this was in a certain 
sense a voluntary act on the part of Bill Sturdy, had 
prevented anjrthing more, but if the captain had gone to 
greater extremities, the consequences might have been 
serious. 
Meanwhile Antonio picked himself up, smarting 
under the terrible wounds which had been inflicted by 
the lash wielded with the whole of Bill Sturdy's enormous strength. Indeed, although he had received but 
two stripes, and his enemy thirteen, it may be doubted 
whether the pain inflicted by those two  re not equal 
to that of the greater number. 
Antonio had slunk down into the forecastle to bathe 
his back and obtain fresh clothes, for his shirt had been 
rent asunder. Bill Sturdy, on the other hand, proceeded to attire himself on deck and went about his 
work, without showing outwardly the pain which he 
must have been sufiering. 
Captain Brace took no public notice of the retribution 
which had followed the punishment. He didn't dare to 
act as he wished, and therefore chose to pass it un- 
noticed. But an hour aiterwards, as he sat in confer- 
ence with- the mate, his fury burst the bounds he had 
imposed upon it. 
" Curse that fellowl " he exclaimed. " Is he forever 
» destined to thwart my designs? I felt that I could' 
willingly have flogged him myself till the last breath 
