“ Well, I knew you ’d feel badly for me ; you 
always do. I wish I’d told you before. It 
helps me to have you sorry for me somehow; 
it goes all over me. One little kiss? — there! 
Now I ’m going to tell you about it. It won’t 
bother you to death? Well, then, you see. 
Peace Maythorne, I lay awake till two o’clock 
that night, I felt so. I wouldn’t live that night 
over again, — why, not for anything in this 
world. Well, the next morning he felt sick, 
but he said he had a headache, which was true, 
and he lay in bed till after breakfast and then 
got up, so that father shouldn’t suspect. You 
see that would be so dreadful. Father loves 
Tom, and he ’s real good, but he never knows 
how to go at him. He makes Tom angry 
and never understands, and then Tom is disrespectful,
and mother looks, and I cry, and 
we have an awful time. So Tom and I weren’t 
either of us going to tell him. But mother 
knows, I know, for she ’s been up in her room 
crying ever so much, and she and Tom had a 
long talk before he went back. I guess he told 
her, — he thinks the world of mother, and was 
so sorry, and hates to cheat so. Oh, he was 
so sorry ! He didn’t look any more like Tom 
the next day, and kept by himself, and his eyes, 
— you know he has such beautiful eyes, Peace, 
and so bright, — well, his eyes were so ashamed, 
I thought I should cry right out to look at 
them. I can’t bear to have Tom ashamed. 
Well, then it came night, and he had been 
alone all day, and I went up into his room, 
and that’s what I started to tell you about. 
You ’re not tired of me yet?,” 
‘Not a bit, dear.” 
“Well, I went up, and there he sat alone in 
the dark and cold ; there was a little red sparkle 
of light through the damper, but the fire was 
almost out. So said I, ‘ Tom,’ softly. He had 
his elbows on the table and his head down. 
‘What do you want?’ said he, and never looked 
up. ‘ I want to see you, Tom. I haven’t seen 
you all day hardly.’ Then he said something 
that I can ’t bear to think about. Peace May- 
thorne, — not even to think about. ‘ I shouldn’t 
think you ’d ever want to see me again. I wish 
I were out of the world and out of your way ; ’ 
that ’s what he said. I wouldn’t have you 
think I’m crying, though, — where’s my hand- 
kerchief, for pity’s sake? And what do you 
suppose I did ? — like a little goose ! Why, 
I just jumped into his lap. I did, I jumped 
into his lap right off, and I had come up expecting 
to talk soberly at him and scold him, 
and I had to go and do that, and that was the 
end of me ! ” 
“What did he do? ’’said Peace, smiling, but. 
strangely enough, hunting for her handker- 
chief, too. 
“Do? Well, he had to lift up his head, any- 
way; he couldn’t help himself So I saw his face in 
the red sparkle from the 
damper, and it was just as 
white, and I threw my arms 
straight around his neck, — 
I know I choked him dread- 
fully ! — and said he, ‘ Gypsy, 
weren’t you ashamed of me, 
— ashamed to have me for a 
brother? ’ 
“‘Yes, Tom,’ said I, ‘I 
was ashamed of you last 
night,’ — for I couldn’t tell a 
lie you see, anyway. Down 
went his head again on the 
table, — only my arms were in the way, and it 
hurt, and I squealed, and so he had to take it 
up again. ‘ Why don’t you take your arms off, 
Gypsy? I ’m not fit to have them there. Why 
don’t you take them off? ' I said I was very 
comfortable, and I was going to keep them 
there. ‘ But you ’re ashamed of me,’ said he, 
‘ and you ought to be ! ’ 
“‘No, Tom, I’m not ashamed of you now. 
I was last night. I ’m not a bit ashamed now, 
because you are sorry.’ And what do you 
suppose he said?” 
“ I couldn’t guess.” 
“ He held up his head and looked into my 
eyes. ‘You don’t mean to say that you’re 
going to love me as much as you did before?’ 
And, Peace, I did ; I couldn’t help it if I 
could let you know, only don’t you ever tell, 
but said I, ‘ Tom Breynton, I love you a great 
deal more.’ That ’s what I said, like a little 
simpleton.” 
“What did he say? ” 
“ Say? He didn’t say a word for so long I 
was frightened half out of my wits. He just 
hid his face up against my hair (my net was 
coming off, — you know it always is), and. 
Peace Maythorne, I do believe he was crying. 
I don’t knovv. I never saw Toni cry. He 
didn’t make any noise about it, the way girls 
do, though. At last, said he, all of a sudden, 
‘ Gypsy, I am sorry. I never got drunk but 
once before ; that was one night when I went 
out with Hall. I don’t see how I ever came to 
do it, but Rowe kept filling up my tumbler. 
The worst of it is, mother and you. I wish 
you wouldn’t be so good to a fellow.’ And 
then, Peace, he coughed so, that I thought he 
was going to have a consumption. So by-and- 
by I began to pat him on the back (he always 
says I treat him as if he were a great Maltese 
cat), and I said I was going to be good to him ; 
as good as I could be ; terribly good ; a cherub ; 
a pretty pink cherub with wings ; would he give 
me a kiss? So he gave me a kiss, and I snug- 
gled up in his arms just as if nothing had 
happened, and we had the nicest little talk, and 
he told me ever so much, Peace, that I can’t 
tell you, about college, and how hard it was 
to do right, and how sorry he felt afterwards, 
and how he did things and didn’t think, — just 
like me, for all the world, and I don’t suppose 
I should be half as good as he if I went to col- 
lege, — and how sometimes he thought about 
me, and didn’t go off with Hall because I should 
be sorry. Now, Peace Maythorne, I wonder 
if you know how that made me feel.” 
“ I think I do.” 
“ Well, I hope you do, for I couldn’t tell 
you possibly. Anyway, it made up for that 
dreadful night out on the stairs, and for going 
to East Yorkbury, and for doing things when I 
wanted to do something else, and for all the 
worry and trouble. And I guess I shall write 
him a few more letters this term than I did last, 
