show that love when ways seem closed. In your heart, too, away down in
its darkest corner, all forgotten, perhaps, by you, crouches something
with face too black to look upon, something that likewise watches and
waits with horrible patience, if perhaps the angel, with folded wing and
drooping head, may be driven out. It is never empty, this curious,
fickle heart. One or the other must stand there, king of it. One or the
other—and in the twinkling of an eye the change is made, from angel to
fiend, from fiend to angel; just which you choose.
Joy broke away from her cousin in a passion. Gypsy flew into the door of
the miserable house, up the stairs two steps at a time, to the door of a
low room in the second story, and rushed in without knocking.
"Oh, Peace Maythorne!"
The cripple lying on the bed turned her pale face to the door, her
large, quiet eyes blue with wonder.
"Why, Gypsy! What is the matter?"
Gypsy's face was white still, very white. She shut the door loudly, and
sat down on the bed with a jar that shook it all over. A faint
expression of pain crossed the face of Peace.
"Oh, I didn't mean to—it was cruel in me! How could I? Have I hurt
you very badly, Peace?" Gypsy slipped down upon the floor, the color
coming into her face now, from shame and sorrow. Peace gently motioned
her back to her place upon the bed, smiling.
"Oh, no. It was nothing. Sit up here; I like to have you. Now, what is
it, Gypsy?"
The tone of this "What is it, Gypsy?" told a great deal. It told that it
was no new thing for Gypsy to come there just so, with her troubles and
her joys, her sins and her well-doings, her plans and hopes and fears,
all the little stories of the fresh, young life from which the cripple
was forever shut out. It told, too, what Gypsy found in this quiet room,
and took away from it—all the help and the comfort, and the sweet, sad
lessons. It told, besides, much of what Peace and Gypsy were to each
other, that only they two should ever exactly understand. It was a tone
that always softened Gypsy, in her gayest frolics, in her wildest moods.
For the first time since she had known Peace, it failed to soften her
now.
She began in her impetuous way, her face angry and flushed, her voice
trembling yet:—
"I can't tell you what it is, and that's the thing of it! It's about
that horrid old Joy."
"Gypsy!"
"I can't help it—I hate her!"
"Gypsy."
Gypsy's eyes fell at the gentle word.
"Well, I felt just as if I did, down there on the steps, anyway. You
don't know what Joy said. It's something about you, and that's what
makes me so mad. If she ever says it again!"
"About me?" interrupted Peace.
"Yes," said Gypsy, with great, flashing eyes. "I wouldn't tell it to you
for all the world; it's so bad as that, Peace. How she dared to call
you a beg——"
Gypsy stopped short. But she had let the cat out of the bag. Peace
smiled again.
"A beggar! Well, it doesn't hurt me any, does it? Joy has never seen me,
doesn't know me, you must remember, Gypsy. Besides, nobody else thinks
as much of me as you do."
"I didn't mean to say that; I'm always saying the wrong thing! Anyway,
that isn't all of it, and I did think I should strike her when she said
it. I can't bear Joy. You don't know what she is, Peace. She grows worse
and worse. She does things I wouldn't do for anything, and I wish she'd
never come here!"
"Is Joy always wrong?" asked Peace, gently. Peace rarely gave to any
one as much of a reproof as that. Gypsy felt it.
"No," said she, honestly, "she isn't. I'm real horrid and wicked, and do
ugly things. But I can't help it; Joy makes me—she acts so."
"I know what's the matter with you and Joy, I guess," said Peace.
"The matter? Well, I don't; I wish I did. We're always fight—fighting,
day in and day out, and I'm tired to death of it. I'm just crazy for the
time for Joy to go home, and I'm dreadfully unhappy having her round,
now I am, Peace."
Gypsy drew down her merry, red lips, and looked very serious. To tell
the truth, however, do the best she would, she could not look altogether
as if her heart were breaking from the amount of "unhappiness" that fell
to her lot. A little smile quivered around the lips of Peace.
"Well," said Gypsy, laughing in spite of herself, "I am. I never can
make anybody believe it, though. What is the matter with Joy and me? You
didn't say."
"You've forgotten something, I think."
"Forgotten something?"
"Yes—something you read me once out of an old Book."
"Book? Oh!" said Gypsy, beginning to understand.
"In honor preferring one another," said Peace, softly. Gypsy did not say
anything. Peace took up her Bible that lay on the bed beside her—it
always lay on the bed—and turned the leaves, and laid her finger on
the verse. Gypsy read it through before she spoke. Then she said slowly:
"Why, Peace Maythorne. I—never could—in this world—never."
Just then there came a knock at the door. Gypsy went to open it, and
stood struck dumb for amazement. It was Joy.
"Auntie said it was supper-time, and you were to come home," began Joy,
somewhat embarrassed. "She was going to send Winnie, but I thought I'd
come."
"Why, I never!" said Gypsy, still standing with the door-knob in her
hand.
"Is this your cousin?" spoke up Peace.
"Oh, yes, I forgot. This is Peace Maythorne, Joy."
"I am glad to see you," said Peace in her pleasant way; "won't you come
in?"
"Well, perhaps I will, a minute," said Joy, awkwardly, taking a chair by
the window, and wondering if Gypsy had told Peace what she said. But
Peace was so cordial, her voice so quiet, and her eyes so kind, that she
concluded she knew nothing about it, and soon felt quite at her ease.
Everybody was at ease with Peace Maythorne.
"How pleasant it is here!" said Joy, looking about the room in unfeigned
astonishment. And indeed it was. The furniture was poor enough, but
everything was as neat as fresh wax, and the sunlight, that somehow or
other always sought that room the earliest, and left it the latest—the
warm, shimmering sunlight that Peace so loved—was yellow on the old,
faded carpet, on the paperless, pictureless wall, on the bed where the
hands of Peace lay, patient and folded.
"It is pleasant," said Peace, heartily. "You don't know how thankful
it makes me. Aunt came very near taking a room on the north side.
Sometimes I really don't know what I should have done. But then I guess
I should have found something else to like."
I should have found something else. A sudden thought came to the two
girls then, in a dim, childish way—a thought they could by no means
have explained; they wondered if in those few words did not lie the key
to Peace Maythorne's beautiful, sorrowful life. They would not have
expressed it so, but that was what they meant.
"See here," broke out Gypsy all at once, "Peace Maythorne wants you and
me to make up, Joy."
"Your cousin will think I'm interfering with what's none of my
business," said Peace, laughing. "I didn't say exactly that, you know; I
was only talking to you."
"Oh, I'd just as lief make up now, but I wouldn't this morning,"
wondering for the second time if Peace could know what she said, and
be so gentle and good to her; "I will if Gypsy will."
"And I will if Joy will," said Gypsy, "so it's a bargain."
"Do you have a great deal of pain?" asked Joy, as they rose to go, with
real sympathy in her puzzled eyes.
"Oh, yes; but then I get along."
"Peace Maythorne!" put in Gypsy just then, "is that all the dinner you
ate?" Gypsy was standing by the table on which was a plate containing a
cold potato, a broken piece of bread, and a bit of beefsteak. Evidently
from the looks of the food, only a few mouthfuls had been eaten.
"I didn't feel hungry," said Peace, evasively.
"But you like meat, for you told me so."
"I didn't care about this," said Peace, looking somewhat restless.
Gypsy looked at her sharply, then stooped and whispered a few words in
her ear.
"No," said Peace, her white cheek flushing crimson. "Oh, no, she never
told me not to. She means to be very kind. I cost her a great deal."
