but just at that time the storms predicted on the 
Adriatic and Mediterranean coasts, by Mathieu de la 
Drome, had been raging all over Italy, and the rail- 
way communications were broken in every direction. 
The magnificent work through and under the Apen- 
nines, between Bologna and Florence, had been 
washed away by the mountain torrents in a dozen 
places, and the roads over the plains of the Romagna 
had been sapped by the flood, and rendered useless, 
where not actually laid under water. 
On the day of our intended departure we left the 
hotel, with other travellers, gayly incredulous of the 
landlord's fear that no train would start for Bologna. 
At the station we found a crowd of people waiting 
and hoping, but there was a sickly cast of doubt in 
some faces, and the labeled employe's of the railway 
wore looks of ominous importance. Of course the 
crowd did not lose its temper. It sought information 
of the officials running to and fro with telegrams, in 
a spirit of national sweetness, and consoled itself 
 
with saying, as Italy has said under all circumstances 
of difficulty for centuries : Ci vuol pazienza ! At last 
a blank silence fell upon it, as the Capo-Stazione 
advanced toward a well-dressed man in the crowd, 
and spoke to him quietly. The well-dressed man 
lifted his forefinger and waved it back and forth before 
his face : 
The Well-dressed Man. Dunque, non si parte 
piu ? (No departures, then ?) 
The Capo-Stazione (waving his forefinger in like 
manner.) Non si parte piu. (Like a mournful 
echo.) 
We knew quite as well from this pantomime of 
negation as from the dialogue our sad fate, and sub- 
mitted to it. Some adventurous spirit demanded 
whether any trains would go on the morrow. The 
Capo-Stazione, with an air of one who would not 
presume to fathom the designs of Providence, re- 
sponded: "Who, knows? To-day, certainly not. 
To-morrow, perhaps. But " and vanished. 
It may give an idea of the Italian way of doing 
things to say that, as we understood, this break in 
the line was only a few miles in extent, that trains 
could have approached both to and from Bologna, 
and that a little enterprise on the part of the company 
could have passed travellers from one side to the 
other with very small trouble or delay. But the 
railway company was as much daunted by the in- 
undation as a peasant going to market, and for two 
months after the accident no trains carried passengers 
from one city to the- other. No doubt, however, the 
 
line was under process of very solid repair mean- 
while. 
For the present the only means of getting to 
Bologna was by carriage on the old highway, and 
accordingly we took passage thither in the omnibus 
of the Stella d'Oro. 
There was little to interest us in the country over 
which we rode. It is perfectly flat, and I suppose 
the reader knows what quantities of hemp and flax 
are raised there. The land seems poorer than in 
Lombardy, and the farm-houses and peasants' cottages 
are small and mean, though the peasants themselves, 
when we met them, looked well fed, and were cer- 
tainly well clad. The landscape lay soaking in a 
dreary drizzle the whole way, and the town of Cento, 
when we reached it, seemed miserably conscious of 
being too wet and dirty to go in-doors, and was 
loitering about in the rain. Our arrival gave the 
poor little place a sensation, for I think such a thing 
s an omnibus had not been seen there since the 
railway of Bologna and Ferrara was built. We went 
into the principal caffd to lunch, a caffe much too 
large for Cento, with immense red-leather cushioned 
sofas, and a cold, forlorn air of half-starved gentility, 
a clean, high-roofed caffe and a breezy, and thither 
the youthful nobility and gentry of the place followed 
us, and ordered a cup of coffee, that they might sit 
down and give us the pleasure of their distinguished 
company. They put on their very finest manners, 
and took their most captivating attitudes for the 
ladies' sake ; and the gentlemen of our party fancied 
 
that it was for them these young men began to dis- 
cuss the Roman question. How loud they were, 
and how earnest! And how often they consulted 
the newspapers of the caffS ! (Older newspapers I 
never saw off a canal-boat.) I may tire some time 
of the artless vanity of the young Italians, so in- 
nocent, so amiable, so transparent, but I think I 
never shall. 
The great painter Guercino was born at Cento, 
and they have a noble and beautiful statue of him 
in the piazza, which the town caused to be erected 
from contributions by all the citizens. Formerly his 
house was kept for a show to the public ; it was full 
of the pictures of the painter and many mementos 
of him ; but recently the paintings have been taken 
to the gallery, and the house is now closed. The 
gallery is, consequently, one of the richest second- 
rate galleries in Italy, and one may spend much 
longer time in it than we gave, with great profit. 
There are some most interesting heads of Christ',' 
painted, as Guercino always painted the Saviour, with 
a great degree of humanity in the face. It is an 
excellent countenance, and full of sweet dignity, but 
quite different from the conventional face of Christ. 
AT night we were again in Bologna, of which we 
had not seen the gloomy arcades for two years. It 
must be a dreary town at all times : in a rain it is 
horrible ; and I think the whole race of arcaded cities, 
 
Treviso, Padua, and Bologna, are dull, blind, and 
comfortless. The effect of the buildings vaulted 
above the sidewalks is that of a continuous cellar- 
way ; your view of the street is constantly interrupted 
by the heavy brick pillars that support the arches ; the 
arcades are not even picturesque. Liking always to 
leave Bologna as quickly as possible, and, on this 
occasion, learning that there was no hope of crossing 
the Apennines to Florence, we made haste to take 
the first train for Genoa, meaning to proceed thence 
directly to Naples by steamer. 
It was a motley company that sat down in Hotel 
Brun the morning after our arrival in Bologna to a 
breakfast of murky coffee and furry beefsteaks, as- 
sociated with sleek, greasy, lukewarm fried potatoes. 
I am sure that if each of our weather-bound pilgrims 
had told his story, we had been as well entertained 
as those at Canterbury. However, no one thought 
fit to give his narrative but a garrulous old Hebrew 
from London, who told us how he had been made 
to pay fifteen guineas for a carriage to cross the 
Apennines, and had been obliged to walk part of the 
way at that price. He was evidently proud, now 
the money was gone, of having been cheated of so 
much; and in him we saw that there was at least 
one human being more odious than a purse-proud 
