turn in dusting the room; she would kindly 
volunteer to read magazine stories aloud to 
one while one was studying Virgil, and of her 
taffy one had invariably the lion 's share. 
But good company is not always the best 
If, the more Gypsy saw of her, the more she 
liked her for her kind heart, the more hei 
rough nature grated. 
Jo was loud of laughter and noisy of speech , 
she shouted on the street ; she sung at the 
window when boys were going by; she would 
carelessly break a rule, and carelessly be im 
pertinent to a teacher; she was not of nice 
culture in matters of etiquette or personal 
habit ; she would jest wittily, sometimes blas 
phemously, at things of sacred name. 
Now, none of this could hurt Gypsy. Im 
pulsive and unceremonious though she was, 
from roughness, from open breaches of the 
laws of courtesy and refinement, nature and 
training led her to revolt ; and she believed 
with simple and confiding reverence in the God 
to whom she " talked " every night after that 
other talk with her mother. 
But there was one respect in which Josephine 
Courtis did her positive harm ; and as I be 
lieve that there are few merry, mimicking 
girls like Gypsy who do not fall at some 
time or other into the same trap, I shall men 
tion it, at risk of being accused of delaying, 
by an interminable sermon, that masquerade 
with which I so inappropriately headed this 
chapter. 
Jo inclined to " being a boy." She liked to 
be called Jo. She liked better to be called! 
Courtis. She was sorry that she was made a 
woman. She wished she were a man. She 
liked to wear noisy boots and round turbans. 
She affected paper collars and broad neckties, 
and turned back the lappets of her sacque. 
She always walked with her hands in her 
pockets. She whistled well, and whistled a 
great deal. She talked slang. 
When Gypsy had roomed with her about a 
week, it was observed that she had cut over her 
hat into a turban; that she was whistling a 
good deal ; that she had a mannish little way of 
opening and shutting doors, splashing through 
mud-puddles, giving her orders at the stores. 
She learned to touch her hat to the girls when 
she met them in the street, and she liked to 
offer them her arm at a concert. In fact, it 
was the little hoyden of a few years ago, com 
ing out in new and more dignified shape. 
And as for slang, she scarcely talked any* 
thing else. Josephine was Courtis, invariably. 
The absent Jane was appropriately referred to 
as Bruce. McMunn and the Amiable Ayre 
were the established cognomens of her teach 
ers, while poor Mr. Goss, whose Christian name 
the girls had discovered on a card in one of 
Miss Ayre 's books, was designated respectfully 
as the Lovely Leonard. 
A bad lesson was a " flunk," or a " fizzle," 
or a " slump." A fine recitation was a " rush." 
The meetings of The Evergreen Sisters were 
" bums." A party was a " spree." A little 
difficulty with a teacher was a " row." A 
room-mate was a " chum." Pleasant girls 
were " good fellows," &c., &c., &c., in variety 
without end. 
Now, as Mrs. Breynton knew from week to 
week just about what Gypsy was living, she 
very soon noticed the growth of this doubtful 
accomplishment, and when at last she received 
a letter written from beginning to end in this 
style, 
Chum and I got into a regular row eating 
dates in one of McMunn 's classes, and I think 
it 's a bothering bore to have to cram so on 
Roman History. I don't like to be scolded 
better than the next man, and wouldn't it be 
jolly if vacation were here? " 
Gypsy had by the next mail the following : - 
MY DEAR DAUGHTER, I return your 
letter, which, owing to my long habit of corre 
sponding in English, I am unable to translate. 
A vocabulary perhaps would be of service, if 
you have one to spare. 
If you have given up all intention &gt;f becom 
ing a young lady, I can undoubtedly find a 
school where they will make a boy of you to 
order; perhaps you would enjoy yourself at 
Andover or Exeter; or shall it be Harvard at 
once? Please give me early notice of yout 
preference, that I may have time to look 
about. 
There might, to be sure, be some little incoiv 
venience to me in the arrangement, as you hap 
pen to be my only daughter, and three sons 
would be a good many, but still 
Affectionately, 
MOTHER 
To which Gypsy made answer: 
"Why, mother! Why, Mother Breynton! 
Why, I wouldn't be a boy for anything in the 
world. I think they re horrid ! " 
And quickly back came the reply, 
" Well then, my dear, don't try to be a 
boy. You remember the poor little swan who 
couldn't be a duck? Everybody laughed at 
her, you know. 
" If you decide to be a woman, be a woman. 
It may be as brave and strong and bright 
and learned and independent a woman as it 
chooses, but it must not degrade itself by aping 
something which it was never destined to be, 
and never can be, try as hard as it may. 
" Furthermore, my dear, I really don't see 
how I could have a daughter of mine grow uji 
other than a lady. 
"A lady never talks slang. And these habits 
which you are forming just now, will cling to 
you like burs, long after school-days are over. 
So, shall this be the end of my refractory duck 
ling 's career? " 
I believe that it was. 
Lou Armstrong was talking about a masquer 
ade, in these days. These masquerades held 
on holiday evenings, in which the girls were 
their own hostesses and cavaliers, and to which 
the lady teachers were invited as spectators 
were hereditary amusements at the Golden 
Crescent, handed down from class to class. It 
should be observed, however, that the term 
" masquerade " was a title more honorary than 
appropriate. Nobody masked but the homely 
girls. It was not becoming. 
" We can go into the Music Room," said 
Lou, " and let me see ; who will play for 
