the poor fellow.”
Mrs. Snowdon bowed silently, and Sir Jasper called out in his hearty,
blunt way, as if nothing was amiss with his cousin, “Maurice, I’ve an
honor for you. Come and receive it.”
Divining what it was, Treherne noiselessly crossed the room, and with no
sign of self-consciousness or embarrassment, was presented to the
handsome woman. Thinking his presence might be a restraint, Sir Jasper
went away. The instant his back was turned, a change came over both: an
almost grim expression replaced the suavity of Treherne’s face, and Mrs.
Snowdon’s smile faded suddenly, while a deep flush rose to her brow, as
her eyes questioned his beseechingly.
“How dared you come?” he asked below his breath.
“The general insisted.”
“And you could not change his purpose; poor woman!”
“You will not be pitied, neither will I,” and her eyes flashed; then the
fire was quenched in tears, and her voice lost all its pride in a
pleading tone.
“Forgive me, I longed to see you since your illness, and so I
‘dared’ to come.”
“You shall be gratified; look, quite helpless, crippled for life,
perhaps.”
The chair was turned from the groups about the fire, and as he spoke,
with a bitter laugh Treherne threw back the skin which covered his
knees, and showed her the useless limbs once so strong and fleet. She
shrank and paled, put out her hand to arrest him, and cried in an
indignant whisper, “No, no, not that! You know I never meant such cruel
curiosity, such useless pain to both--”
“Be still, someone is coming,” he returned inaudibly; adding aloud,
as he adjusted the skin and smoothed the rich fur as if speaking of
it, “Yes, it is a very fine one, Jasper gave it to me. He spoils me,
like a dear, generous-hearted fellow as he is. Ah, Octavia, what can
I do for you?”
“Nothing, thank you. I want to recall myself to Mrs. Snowdon’s memory,
if she will let me.”
“No need of that; I never forget happy faces and pretty pictures. Two
years ago I saw you at your first ball, and longed to be a girl again.”
As she spoke, Mrs. Snowdon pressed the hand shyly offered, and smiled at
the spirited face before her, though the shadow in her own eyes deepened
as she met the bright glance of the girl.
“How kind you were that night! I remember you let me chatter away about
my family, my cousin, and my foolish little affairs with the sweetest
patience, and made me very happy by your interest. I was homesick, and
Aunt could never bear to hear of those things. It was before your
marriage, and all the kinder, for you were the queen of the night, yet
had a word for poor little me.”
Mrs. Snowdon was pale to the lips, and Maurice impatiently tapped the
arm of his chair, while the girl innocently chatted on.
“I am sorry the general is such an invalid; yet I dare say you find
great happiness in taking care of him. It is so pleasant to be of use to
those we love.” And as she spoke, Octavia leaned over her cousin to hand
him the glove he had dropped.
The affectionate smile that accompanied the act made the color deepen
again in Mrs. Snowdon’s cheek, and lit a spark in her softened eyes. Her
lips curled and her voice was sweetly sarcastic as she answered, “Yes,
it is charming to devote one’s life to these dear invalids, and find
one’s reward in their gratitude. Youth, beauty, health, and happiness
are small sacrifices if one wins a little comfort for the poor
sufferers.”
The girl felt the sarcasm under the soft words and drew back with a
troubled face.
Maurice smiled, and glanced from one to the other, saying significantly,
“Well for me that my little nurse loves her labor, and finds no
sacrifice in it. I am fortunate in my choice.”
“I trust it may prove so--” Mrs. Snowdon got no further, for at that
moment dinner was announced, and Sir Jasper took her away. Annon
approached with him and offered his arm to Miss Treherne, but with an
air of surprise, and a little gesture of refusal, she said coldly:
“My cousin always takes me in to dinner. Be good enough to escort the
major.” And with her hand on the arm of the chair, she walked away with
a mischievous glitter in her eyes.
Annon frowned and fell back, saying sharply, “Come, Major, what are you
doing there?”
“Making discoveries.”
Chapter II
BYPLAY
A right splendid old dowager was Lady Treherne, in her black velvet and
point lace, as she sat erect and stately on a couch by the drawing-room
fire, a couch which no one dare occupy in her absence, or share
uninvited. The gentlemen were still over their wine, and the three
ladies were alone. My lady never dozed in public, Mrs. Snowdon never
gossiped, and Octavia never troubled herself to entertain any guests but
those of her own age, so long pauses fell, and conversation languished,
till Mrs. Snowdon roamed away into the library. As she disappeared, Lady
Treherne beckoned to her daughter, who was idly making chords at the
grand piano. Seating herself on the ottoman at her mother’s feet, the
girl took the still handsome hand in her own and amused herself with
examining the old-fashioned jewels that covered it, a pretext for
occupying her telltale eyes, as she suspected what was coming.
“My dear, I’m not pleased with you, and I tell you so at once, that you
may amend your fault,” began Madame Mère in a tender tone, for though a
haughty, imperious woman, she idolized her children.
“What have I done, Mamma?” asked the girl.
“Say rather, what have you left undone. You have been very rude to Mr.
Annon. It must not occur again; not only because he is a guest, but
because he is your--brother’s friend.”
My lady hesitated over the word “lover,” and changed it, for to her
Octavia still seemed a child, and though anxious for the alliance, she
forbore to speak openly, lest the girl should turn willful, as she
inherited her mother’s high spirit.
“I’m sorry, Mamma. But how can I help it, when he teases me so that I
detest him?” said Octavia, petulantly.
“How tease, my love?”
“Why, he follows me about like a dog, puts on a sentimental look when I
appear; blushes, and beams, and bows at everything I say, if I am
polite; frowns and sighs if I’m not; and glowers tragically at every man
I speak to, even poor Maurice. Oh, Mamma, what foolish creatures men
are!” And the girl laughed blithely, as she looked up for the first time
into her mother’s face.
My lady smiled, as she stroked the bright head at her knee, but asked
quickly, “Why say ‘even poor Maurice,’ as if it were impossible for
anyone to be jealous of him?”
“But isn’t it, Mamma? I thought strong, well men regarded him as one set
apart and done with, since his sad misfortune.”
“Not entirely; while women pity and pet the poor fellow, his comrades
will be jealous, absurd as it is.”
“No one pets him but me, and I have a right to do it, for he is my
cousin,” said the girl, feeling a touch of jealousy herself.
“Rose and Blanche Talbot outdo you, my dear, and there is no cousinship
to excuse them.”
“Then let Frank Annon be jealous of them, and leave me in peace. They
promised to come today; I’m afraid something has happened to prevent
them.” And Octavia gladly seized upon the new subject. But my lady was
not to be eluded.
“They said they could not come till after dinner. They will soon arrive.
Before they do so, I must say a few words, Tavia, and I beg you to give
heed to them. I desire you to be courteous and amiable to Mr. Annon, and
before strangers to be less attentive and affectionate to Maurice. You
mean it kindly, but it looks ill, and causes disagreeable remarks.”
“Who blames me for being devoted to my cousin? Can I ever do enough to
repay him for his devotion? Mamma, you forget he saved your son’s life.”
Indignant tears filled the girl’s eyes, and she spoke passionately,
forgetting that Mrs. Snowdon was within earshot of her raised voice.
With a frown my lady laid her hand on her daughter’s lips, saying
coldly, “I do not forget, and I religiously discharge my every
obligation by every care and comfort it is in my power to bestow. You
are young, romantic, and tender-hearted. You think you must give your
time and health, must sacrifice your future happiness to this duty. You
are wrong, and unless you learn wisdom in season, you will find that you
have done harm, not good.”
“God forbid! How can I do that? Tell me, and I will be wise in time.”
