turned away from him to Darry, who now held two horses,
Preston having just dismounted; and I thanked him for my
pleasure, throwing into my manner all the studied courtesy I
could. Then I walked up the dell beside Preston, without
looking at him.
Preston scolded. He had prepared a surprise for me, and was
excited by his disappointment at my mounting without him. Of
course I had not known that; and Darry, who was in the secret,
had not known how to refuse me. I gave Preston no answer to
his charges and reproaches. At last I said I was tired and I
wished he would not talk.
"Tired! you are something besides tired," he said.
"I suppose I am," I answered with great deliberation.
He was eager to know what it was; but then we came out upon
the avenue and were met flush by my aunt and Miss Pinshon. My
aunt inquired, and Preston, who was by no means cool yet,
accused me about the doings of the afternoon. I scarcely
heeded one or the other; but I did feel Miss Pinshon's taking
my I hand and leading me home all the rest of the way. It was
not that I wanted to talk to Preston, for I was not ready to
talk to him; but this holding me like a little child was
excessively distasteful to my habit of freedom. My governess
would not loose her clasp when we got to the house; but kept
fast hold and led me up stairs to my own room.
CHAPTER IV.
SEVEN HUNDRED PEOPLE.
"Do you think that was a proper thing to do, Daisy?" my
governess asked when she released me.
"What thing, ma'am?" I asked.
"To tear about alone on that great grey pony."
"Yes, ma'am," I said.
"You think it was proper?" said Miss Pinshon, coolly. "Whom
had you with you?"
"Nobody was riding with me."
"Your cousin was there?"
"No, ma'am."
"Who then?"
"I had Uncle Darry. I was only riding up and down the dell."
"The coachman! And were you riding up and down through the
quarters all the afternoon?"
"No, ma'am."
"What were you doing the rest of the time?"
"I was going about " I hesitated.
"About where?"
"Through the place there."
"The quarters? Well, you think it proper amusement for your
mother's daughter? You are not to make companions of the
servants, Daisy. You are not to go to the quarters without my
permission, and I shall not give it frequently. Now get
yourself ready for tea."
I did feel as if Preston's prophecy were coming true and I in
a way to be gradually petrified; some slow, chill work of that
kind seemed already to be going on. But a little thing soon
stirred all the life there was in me. Miss Pinshon stepped to
the door which led from her room into mine, unlocked it, took
out the key, and put it on her own side of the door. I sprang
forward at that, with a word, I do not know what; and my
governess turned her lustrous, unmoved eyes calmly upon me. I
remember now how deadening their look was, in their very
lustre and moveless calm. I begged, however, for a reversal of
her last proceeding; I wanted my door locked sometimes, I
said.
"You can lock the other door."
"But I want both locked."
"I do not. This door remains open, Daisy. I must come in here
when I please. Now make haste and get ready."
I had no time for anything but to obey. I went down stairs, I
think, like a machine; my body obeying certain laws, while my
mind and spirit were scarcely present. I suppose I behaved
myself as usual; save that I would have nothing to do with
Preston, nor would I receive anything whatever at the table
from his hand. This, however, was known only to him and me. I
said nothing; not the less every word that others said
fastened itself in my memory. I was like a person dreaming.
"You have just tired yourself with mounting that wild thing,
Daisy," said my aunt Gary.
"Wild!" said Preston. "About as wild as a tame sloth."
"I always heard that was very wild indeed," said Miss Pinshon.
"The sloth cannot be tamed, can it?"
"Being stupid already, I suppose not," said Preston.
"Daisy looks pale at any rate," said my aunt.
"A little overdone," said Miss Pinshon. "She wants regular
exercise; but irregular exercise is very trying to any but a
strong person. I think Daisy will be stronger in a few weeks."
"What sort of exercise do you think will be good for her,
ma'am?" Preston said, with an expression out of all keeping
with his words, it was so fierce.
"I shall try different sorts," my governess answered,
composedly. "Exercise of patience is a very good thing, Master
Gary. I think gymnastics will be useful for Daisy, too. I
shall try them."
"That is what I have often said to my sister," said aunt Gary.
"I have no doubt that sort of training would establish Daisy's
strength more than anything in the world. She just wants that,
to develop her and bring out the muscles."
Preston almost groaned; pushed his chair from the table, and I
knew sat watching me. I would give him no opportunity, for my
opportunity I could not have then. I kept quiet till the
ladies moved; I moved with them; and sat all the evening
abstracted in my own meditations, without paying Preston any
attention; feeling indeed very old and grey, as no doubt I
looked. When I was ordered to bed, Miss Pinshon desired I
would hold no conversation with anybody. Whereupon Preston
took my candle and boldly marched out of the room with me.
When we were upstairs, he tried to make me disobey my orders.
He declared I was turning to stone already; he said a great
many hard words against my governess; threatened he would
write to my father; and when he could not prevail to make me
talk, dashed off passionately and left me. I went trembling
into my room. But my refuge there was gone. I had fallen upon
evil times. My door must not be locked, and Miss Pinshon might
come in any minute. I could not pray. I undressed and went to
bed; and lay there, waiting, all things in order, till my
governess looked in. Then the door was closed, and I hear her
steps moving about in her room. I lay and listened. At last
the door was softly set open again; and then after a few
minutes the sound of regular slow breathing proclaimed that
those wide-open black eyes were really closed for the night. I
got up, went to my governess's door and listened. She was
sleeping profoundly. I laid hold of the handle of the door and
drew it towards me; pulled out the key softly, put it in my
own side of the lock and shut the door. And after all I was
afraid to turn the key. The wicked sound of the lock might
enter those sleeping ears. But the door was closed; and I went
to my old place, the open window. It was not my window at
Melbourne, with balmy summer air, and the dewy scent of the
honeysuckle coming up, and the moonlight flooding all the
world beneath me. But neither was it in the regions of the
North. The night was still and mild, if not balmy; and the
stars were brilliant; and the evergreen oaks were masses of
dark shadow all over the lawn. I do not think I saw them at
first; for my look was up to the sky, where the stars shone
down to greet me, and where it was furthest from all the
troubles on the surface of the earth; and with one thought of
the Friend up there, who does not forget the troubles of even
His little children, the barrier in my heart gave way, my
tears gushed forth; my head lay on the windowsill at Magnolia,
more hopelessly than in my childish sorrow it had ever lain at
Melbourne. I kept my sobs quiet; I must; but they were deep,
heart-breaking sobs, for a long time.
