intercourse with the ladies of the party, I got from them some
useful hints and details which were of great service to me
afterwards. I had always wished to go through Palestine living
in our own tents; papa had been a little uncertain how he
would do. Now it was settled. I had my maid, of course; but
she was the greatest trouble I had, all the way.
The morning of our setting out from Joppa is never to be
forgotten. It was clear and balmy. For miles we rode through
the orange gardens, getting ready fast for their superb
harvest, which would be ripe a month later. Then through a
pleasant open country; - cornfields and meadows interspersed
with trees in patches. It was easy riding, and I liked my
pony, and my heart was full of exhilaration.
"Well?" said papa, as my eye met his one time in the course of
its wanderings.
"Papa, it is the plain of Sharon!"
"You speak as if it were a place where you had played, when
you were a child."
"Papa, in some measure it is like that; so often I have read
about the old things that were done here."
Papa smiled at me? and asked what? But I could not tell him
while we were going at a canter.
"It would be pretty in spring," he said. "Where are we to stop
to-night, Daisy? I have left all that to you. I do not know
the country as you do."
"Papa, we set off so late, we shall not be able to get further
than Latron to-night."
"What place is that? is it any place?"
"Supposed to be the Modin of the Maccabees."
"Have you brought any books, Daisy?" was papa's next question.
"No, papa, except 'Murray' and the Bible."
"We ought to have more," he said. "We must see if we cannot
supply that want at Jerusalem."
Papa's interest in the subject was thoroughly waking up. We
lunched at Ramleh. How present it is to me, those hours we
spent there. The olive groves and orchards and cornfields, the
palms and figs, the prickly-pear hedges, the sweet breath of
the air. And after our luncheon we stayed to examine the ruins
and the minaret. Our master of ceremonies, Suleiman, was a
little impatient. But we got off in good time and reached our
camping ground just before sunset. Tiere too, the sunlight
flashing on those rocks of ruin comes back to me, and the wide
plain and sea view which the little hill commands. Papa and I
climbed it to look at the ruins and see the view while dinner
was getting ready.
"What is it, Daisy?" he said. "You must be my gazetteer and
interpreter for the land; Suleiman will do for the people."
"It is an old Crusaders' fortress, papa; built to command the
pass to Jerusalem."
That was enough for papa. He pored over the rough remains and
their associations; while I sat down on a stone and looked
over the Philistine plain; scarce able to convince myself that
I was so happy as to see it in reality. Papa and I had a most
enjoyable dinner afterwards; he enjoyed it, I knew; and our
night's rest was sweet, with a faint echo of the war storms of
the ages breaking upon my ear.
To my great joy, there was no storm of the elements the next
morning, and we were able to take up our march for Jerusalem.
The road soon was among the hills; rough, thickety, wild; from
one glen into another, down and up steep ridge sides, always
mounting of course by degrees. Rough as it all was, there were
olives and vineyards sometimes to be seen; often terraced
hillsides which spoke of what had been. At last we came up out
of a deep glen and saw at a distance the white line of wall
which tells of Jerusalem. I believe it was a dreary piece of
country which lay between, but I could hardly know what it
was. My thoughts were fixed on that white wall. I forgot even
papa.
We had pouring rains again soon after we got to Jerusalem. I
was half glad. So much to see and think of at once, it was
almost a relief to be obliged to take things gradually. I had
been given numerous good bits of counsel by the kind English
ladies we had seen at Jaffa; and according to their advice, I
persuaded papa that we should go down at once to Jericho and
the Dead Sea, without waiting till the weather should grow too
hot for it; then Jerusalem and the Mount of Olives and all the
neighbourhood would be delightful. Now, they were very gray
and forlorn to a stranger's eye. I wanted papa to be pleased.
I could have enjoyed Jerusalem at any time. But I knew that by
and by Jericho would be insupportable.
So papa and Suleiman made their arrangements. All that we
wanted was a guard of Arabs; everything else we had already.
The rain ceased after the third day; and early in the morning
we went out of the eastern gate of the city and moved slowly
down the slope of the Kedron valley and up the side of Mount
Olivet.
It was my first ride in the environs of Jerusalem; and I could
hardly bear the thoughts it brought up. Yet there was scant
time for thoughts; eyes had to be so busy. The valley of the
Kedron! I searched its depths, only to find tombs everywhere,
with olive trees sprinkled about among them. Life and death;
for if anything is an emblem of life in Palestine, I suppose
it is the olive. They looked sad to me at first, the olives;
their blue-gray foliage had so little of the fresh cheer of
our green woods. Afterwards I thought differently. But
certainly the valley of the Kedron was desolate and mournful
in the extreme, as we first saw it. Nor was Olivet less so.
The echo of forfeited promises seemed to fill my ear; the
shades of lost glory seemed to tenant all those ways and
hillsides. I could but think what feet had trod those paths;
what hands of blessing had been held out on these hills;
turned back and rejected, to the utter ruin of those who
rejected them. The places of Solomon's splendour and David's
honour, in the hands of the Moslem; or buried beneath the
ruins of twenty desolations. And in the midst of such thoughts
which possessed me constantly, came thrills of joy that I was
there. So we mounted over the shoulder of the Mount of Olives,
and the day cleared and brightened as we went on. Then came
the ruins of Bethany. I would have liked to linger there; but
this was not the time. I left it for the present.
"We must dismount here, Daisy," said papa the next minute. And
he set me the example. "Our own feet will do this next piece
of road most satisfactorily."
We scrambled down, over the loose stones and rock, the very
steep pitch just below Bethany. I do not know how deep, but
hundreds of feet certainly. Our mules and horses came on as
they could.
"Is this to be taken as a specimen of Palestine roads, Daisy?"
"I believe they are pretty bad, papa."
"How do you like it?"
"Oh, papa," said I, stopping, "I like it. Look - look yonder -
do you see that glimmer? do you know what that is, papa?"
"It is water -"
"It is the Dead Sea."
"Thirty-six hundred feet below. We have a sharp ride before
us, Daisy."
"Not quite so much below us - we have come down some way.
Papa, don't you enjoy it?"
"I enjoy you," he said, smiling. "Yes, child, I enjoy it; only
I don't enjoy such villainous roads."
"But then, papa, you know it is the only possible way the road
can go, and always has been; and so we are sure that Christ
was here many a time. Here, papa, where our feet are
treading."
Papa looked at me and said nothing.
The way was so pleasant, that we walked on ahead of our mules,
till we came to the spring about a mile from Bethany. It was
strange to look at the water pouring out its never failing
stream, and to remember it had been doing just so ever since
nineteen hundred years ago.
