took our way through the crowd. 
General Graham, stout, rosy, and undeniably Scotch 
without his strong accent, pleased me at once. Mrs. 
Graham, fair, round, and motherly, with a sweet face and 
silvery voice, and beside them a petite fairy, with soft 
brown curls, and eyes like the starry flax flower. 
"My cousin Miss Keith," Hugh Graham said. 
I ventured another look. It seemed to me as if I must 
have seen her somewhere before one of those dim im- 
pressions that affect the brain so singularly. 
Mr. St. John came in sight. u I believe there is an in- 
quiry for you in the hall," he remarked. 
" I'm to have another quadrille," Mr. Graham said, in a 
whisper. 
Miss Keith was dancing opposite this time. What a 
tender, loving little face! what entreating eyes! I won- 
dered if she was fond of her cousin. Somehow, it wasn't 
a marriage at all to my fancy. Were people continually 
misplaced ? 
There was not much time for speculation, however. The 
 
gay scene was delightful, and appealed to every sense. I 
danced, chatted, and promenaded the rooms and hall, lis- 
tened to flatteries that were delicate, and some that were 
distasteful ; and as a ball, I fancy it was a brilliant success. 
People strayed away in little groups, and lingered in shady 
corners, laughed and talked, looked at the pictures, and 
examined the curious articles of foreign virtu in that in- 
formal manner, as if they felt entirely at ease. The supper 
passed off delightfully. I had never seen anything so 
beautiful as the table. The china, brilliant and thin, 
glasses ground and cut until they caught the light at 
every point, an epergne of frosted silver, in which flowers 
and fruit were one tangled mass of color and beauty, and 
two vases of malachite, festooned around the edges with 
hanging clusters of luscious purple grapes, forming a glows 
ing contrast. I absolutely wondered how any one could 
eat in that dazzle of loveliness. 
It had not palled upon me when it ended. Indeed, I 
had been in unusual spirits all the evening. The gayety 
seemed less frivolous here, where there was no gossip of 
lovers and good marriages. At least, if there was I did 
not hear it. 
The Grahams were among those who remained all night; 
and we had a cosy breakfast late the next morning, with 
the dining-room quite in its usual trim, and no faded frag- 
ments of our night's dissipation visible. I found Miss 
Keith very shy, but with an odd charm, I might say quaint- 
ness, that gave me a desire to know more about her. 
General Graham gave us a most cordial invitation to 
visit Mont Argyle, his residence, some distance from 
Laurel wood. A kind, courtly old gentleman, that I confess 
I admired exceedingly. Hugh seconded his father, with 
an entreating glance. 
" I wish you would come real soon, Miss Adriance," Miss 
 
Keith saul, shyly raising her eyes from the glimmer of their 
long lashes. "We are quiet people, and cannot promise 
you so much magnificence, but out of doors the country 
around us is grand. There are some splendid rides." 
"And of course you ride, Miss Adriance," Hugh ex- 
claimed. " It is one of my passions. We have some mag- 
nificent horses, at any rate;" and he laughed. 
Miss Keith evidently was not given to jealousy. I ex- 
perienced a strong inclination to take her in my arms and 
kiss the sweet face; but I was a little afraid of Mr. St. 
John's distant eyes, and so behaved discreetly. 
After that episode, or rather plunge, into society, I 
floated upon the topmost wave. I am ashamed to chron- 
icle the little progress I made in more solid matters. I 
found no time for study, very little for reading, and the 
jm'ivst point for reflection, though so much gayety does 
not tend to sharpen one's faculties, unless it may be in the 
matter of dress. The lazy languor of mornings abed, 
when the brain still lingers in cloudy dreamland, even- 
ings filled with music, conversation, and the pleasant noth- 
ings that pass between well-brad and genial people. One 
thing gave me a secret little pain ; I am almost ashamed 
to confess it; but Mr. St. John and I drifted apart; I 
seemed to lose the little hold I had once gained. We did 
not quarrel ; indeed, he was considerate and polite, solicit- 
ous for my enjoyments, and left me at the fullest liberty ; 
as if he did not seem to care, or thought my pleasures 
quite too frivolous for him. 
I believe Mrs. Lawrence took unbounded satisfaction in 
my dawning career. The house was thronged with vis- 
itors, and we were besieged by invitations. I did try to 
hold myself aloof from more meaning attentions, for the 
triumph in such cases would not pay me for the pain, I 
well knew. 
 
We met Hugh Graham frequently, sometimes with his 
cousin, oftener without. I had a consciousness that he 
took especial pleasure in these encounters. To dance 
with me, take me to supper, or any attention where he 
could clasp my fingers for a moment, was a delight which 
he did not care to conceal. It made me nervous, for I 
knew he had no right thus to display fondness for another 
woman, and I feared it was but working unhappiness for 
himself. He could never awaken within me the friendship 
that had been given to Philip so spontaneously, and no 
warmer sentiment would ever have been possible. There 
were many pleasant traits in his character, but it possessed 
no vital attraction for me. I was learning to make some 
fine distinctions. 
Mrs. Lawrence saw no danger. Perhaps she had too 
much faith in her own creed to believe heresy possible. 
One morning when we were alone, I said, 
" When does Mr. Graham expect to marry his cousin ?" 
" O, I suppose there's no hurry. Although she is past 
twenty-one, she still looks a very child, and he seems fond 
of his liberty. As they have always known each other, 
there is no extravagant romance about the engagement." 
"I wonder if they love each other!" 
"As much as is necessary, I suppose; "and the placid 
eyes just lifted themselves from a dainty bit of crochet- 
ing. 
" My dear Mrs. Lawrence, how much is necessary ? " I 
said, with some impatience. 
" Not as much as you think. They are very well matched 
indeed, and having been brought up together, their re- 
gard is a matter of gradual growth. She will make a quiet 
little wife, and never annoy him by any foolish officious- 
oess. He will keep up his house in the style of his father, 
and lead a happy, easy, social life." 
 
" But there seems no heart in it," I said, warmly. " I 
should like him better if he evinced a decided preference 
for her. She is a pretty, dainty little thing, and a man 
might well be proud of her." 
" It is questionable taste to display much fondness in 
society." 
" He need not be silly about it. But I have seen hia 
eyes light up and his whole face in a glow at some other 
woman's coming," and then I paused, half frightened, for I 
seemed upon the verge of an unwise confession. 
" Most young men are somewhat given to flirting," she 
said, with superb indifference. " In a case like this it 
does no harm, for their engagement is settled, and I think 
Mr. Graham has too much sense to give up his cousin and 
