the glory of the cause he had espoused, failed to shake his inflexible
will. The army was marched and ferried from Milliken's Bend to De
Shroons' Landing, three or four miles below Grand Gulf. The gunboats,
with a fleet of barges laden with provisions for the troops, ran the
gantlet of the Vicksburg batteries with comparatively slight loss.
Such a bold movement appalled the crews of the transports, and only a
few of them were willing to undergo the exposure. But Grant appealed
to the army, wherein were to be found the representatives of every
trade and profession. And engineers, firemen, pilots, and deck hands
were superabundantly supplied. Through the rain of shot and shell they
passed, and the army and the navy were gathered together again in the
enemy's country. A new era in the campaign had been inaugurated.

Porter bombarded Grand Gulf without success, but he ran by its
batteries, and was in readiness to protect the transports, in which
the army was to be conveyed across the river. The troops were embarked,
and it was intended to proceed down the river until high ground should
be found for the landing. A negro gave information that a good road led
from Bruinsburg, ten miles below Grand Gulf, to the interior. At this
point, therefore, the troops were landed April 30. The army was in the
State of Mississippi, with only very scanty means of obtaining supplies
from above Vicksburg. Three days' rations were served out to the men,
upon which they were required to subsist for five days.

The movement was intended in the beginning as a surprise to the enemy,
and was fully proved to be such. There were two rebel armies to be
dealt with--that of Pemberton, in and around Vicksburg, and that of Joe
Johnston, at Jackson, the capital of the state, fifty miles distant.
The object was to get between these two forces, and prevent them from
effecting a junction. The national army was in hot haste, and Grant's
struggles to gain a moment of time are full of interest. Red tape was
cut, forms were dispensed with, and the meagre supplies of the army
were hurried forward with the utmost despatch.

On the 1st of May, Grant attacked and defeated the enemy at Port
Gibson, the first point which disputed his passage to the interior,
before reënforcements could be sent from Grand Gulf, capturing six guns
and six hundred and fifty prisoners.

While these operations were in progress, General Grant had organized
the celebrated raid of Grierson, which passed through the rebel country
from La Grange to Baton Rouge, spreading consternation on every side.
Sherman, who had not yet come down from Milliken's Bend, also made
a demonstration in favor of the movement at Haines's Bluff, which
prevented troops from being sent down to Grand Gulf.

In this desperate enterprise, hardly more than wagons enough to
transport the ammunition could be allowed. No tents or baggage could be
carried, but the men submitted without a murmur to the hardships and
privations incident to a hurried march in an enemy's country. Grant
stood on the same level in this respect as the humblest soldier. His
entire baggage for six days was a tooth-brush! He had neither a clean
shirt, an overcoat, nor a blanket; no horse, orderly, or camp chest. He
slept upon the ground, with no covering but the sky and the stars, and
lived on soldier's rations.

The battle for Grand Gulf and the base of supplies was fought at Port
Gibson. The place was evacuated, and Porter took possession of it. The
rebels were pursued to the Big Black River. The position was secure,
and Grant had time to breathe for a moment. He visited Grand Gulf,
went on board of a gunboat, borrowed a shirt, and sat up till midnight
writing despatches. He attended personally to all the details of the
campaign. He ordered Sherman to come forward, giving him the minutiæ of
rations to be brought.

It had been his purpose, up to this time, as it had been the
expectation of the government, that he would secure a position below
Vicksburg, open the river to Port Hudson, and coöperate with General
Banks in the reduction of that important point. After its capture,
with the Mississippi open to supply the two armies, they were to unite
and besiege Vicksburg. But he had made some progress, and was ready to
fight the battle on which the safety of the stronghold would depend. He
knew that Johnston was on his way to Jackson, and that reënforcements
were pouring into that place from the south. But Banks could not reach
Port Hudson till the 10th of May, and the delay would weaken the
national force while it strengthened that of the rebels. He decided
finally to pursue his own plan, and without any hesitation he pushed on
towards Jackson.

Cutting loose from his base of supplies, he marched into the interior,
subsisting his army on the country. Sherman, with his corps, had joined
him, but this veteran was fearful of the result of the audacious
movement. Grant did not inform the general-in-chief of his plan, and
the government was appalled at his boldness. Grant was alone, but he
was self-possessed and sanguine.

The governor of Mississippi was howling with rage, and begging the
"glorious patriots" to hurry to the defence of the state. Steadily the
grand army marched in two columns towards the capital. At Raymond a
sharp battle was fought, but the enemy was routed, and the victorious
column pursued them to Jackson, where the rebels were again defeated.
The capital was captured, the railroad destroyed, bridges, factories,
arsenals, everything which could be of service to the foe in the war
was blown up or burned. Grant, with his staff, rode into the town; his
son, then thirteen years old, galloped ahead of the column into the
capital.




CHAPTER XXI.

    Wherein Captain Galligasken follows the illustrious Soldier
    through the Campaign in Mississippi to the Siege and Surrender of
    Vicksburg.


I am continually prompted to pause in my narrative, and dilate upon
the splendid conceptions of Grant, as I see him marching triumphantly
over the strongholds of the Rebellion; but the grand facts themselves
are enough to overwhelm the imagination. Never was so bold a scheme
conceived on a scale so grand; never was one more brilliantly executed.
Behold the conqueror issuing his mandates from the State House of
the rebel capital of Mississippi! Sternly and resolutely he cuts
away the veins and arteries of the Rebellion itself, as he tears up
railroads and demolishes mills and public buildings. He is in the
very midst of the powers of treason, but he is not dismayed. Far away
from his supplies, the rebel stores feed the loyal troops. Dismay and
demoralization radiated from his headquarters; and, astounded as the
leaders of the Rebellion were, they failed to realize the full extent
of the disaster which had befallen them.

Grant had struck the heavy blow in this direction, and, gathering up
his forces, he retraced his steps, leaving ruin and desolation behind
him. He did not carry on the war on peace principles. Months before he
had solved the problem of subjugation. He had gone into the conflict
as others did, with an inadequate idea of the work to be accomplished,
believing that a few national victories would settle all the questions
at issue. But the war was to be a death-struggle. The rebels manifested
their hate and spite to a degree never before exhibited by any people.
They declared that they never would submit, and their deeds did not
belie their words. The question was not to be considered as settled
when the national government had demonstrated that it was the stronger
party of the two. The "last ditch," and a grave in the Gulf of Mexico,
was the howl of the Confederacy. The contest was to be continued not
only while large armies could be held together and subsisted, but by
guerrillas and partisans burrowing in the mountains after all hope and
all other resources had failed.

It was necessary to meet this view with one of corresponding severity.
