things by discriminating names. Thus in the Liberator every agent of
the United States who helped to catch and return a slave was always
spoken of as a kidnapper--all defences of the fugitive slave law were
familiarly denominated defences of kidnapping. Theodore Parker, in his
sermons about the time of the fugitive slave law, makes very effective
use of these terms, and it is not to be denied that the habit of thus
constantly using language which in a word makes a moral discrimination
is a very powerful influence in forming popular opinion.
People will boggle a great while about fulfilling constitutional
obligation when catching a slave is put in those terms, but when it is
put as "kidnapping," the question becomes far more direct and simple.
The Garrisonians doubtless were philosophical in the precision of the
moral nomenclature they adopted, and their success in stimulating
drugged and paralyzed moral sentiment was largely owing to it.
To be sure, in the application of wholesale moral syllogism to
particular individual cases, there was often something that appeared
extremely hard and unjust to the individual. When an amiable northern
Doctor of Divinity, who never owned a slave in his life and never
expected to, found himself cited in the Liberator by the familiar
designation of a man-thief, because he had been in the General
Assembly, good naturedly uniting with a large body of southern
slaveholders in suppressing all inquiry into their great systematic
robbery, the northern Doctor was naturally indignant and so were all
his friends and adherents.
To be sure it was only a skillful turning of that syllogistic crank
by which New England theology demonstrated that every individual not
conscious of a certain moral change of heart, was a malignant enemy of
God, and had not a spark of moral excellence of any kind, no matter
what sort of a man he might be, or what moral virtues he might practice.
Garrison simply reversed the crank and turned this unsparing kind of
logic back on the church and clergy, who felt some of the surprise
and pain of the eagle in the fable who found himself shot through by
an arrow feathered from his own wing; and in both cases it may be
doubted whether great moral syllogisms do not involve many instances of
individual and personal injustice.
But it is best to let Garrison state his own case as he did in the
Liberator:
"I am accused of using hard language. I admit the charge. I have not
been able to find a soft word to describe villainy, or to identify the
perpetrator of it. The man who makes a chattel of his brother--what is
he? The man who keeps back the hire of his laborers by fraud--what is
he? They who prohibit the circulation of the Bible--what are they? They
who compel three millions of men and women to herd together, like brute
beasts--what are they? They who sell mothers by the pound, and children
in lots to suit purchasers--what are they? I care not what terms are
applied to them, provided they do apply. If they are not thieves, if
they are not tyrants, if they are not men-stealers, I should like
to know what is their true character, and by what names they may be
called. It is as mild an epithet to say that a thief is a thief, as it
is to say that a spade is a spade.
"The anti-slavery cause is beset with many dangers; but there is one
which we have special reason to apprehend. It is that this hollow cant
about hard language will insensibly check the free utterance of thought
and close application of truth which have characterized abolitionists
from the beginning. As that cause is becoming popular, and many may be
induced to espouse it from motives of policy rather than from reverence
for principle, let us beware how we soften our just severity of speech,
or emasculate a single epithet. The whole scope of the English language
is inadequate to describe the horrors and impurities of slavery.
Instead therefore, of repudiating any of its strong terms, we rather
need a new and stronger dialect.
       *       *       *       *       *
"The cry of hard language has become stale in my ears. The faithful
utterance of that language has, by the blessing of God, made the
anti-slavery cause what it is, ample in resources, strong in numbers,
victorious in conflict. * * * Soft phrases and honeyed accents
were tried in vain for many a year;--they had no adaptation to the
subject. 'Canst thou draw out the leviathan, Slavery, with a hook?
or his tongue with a cord which thou lettest down? Canst thou put a
hook into his nose? or bore his jaw through with a thorn? Will he
make many supplications unto thee? wilt thou take him for a servant
forever? Shall not one be cast down at the sight of him? Out of his
nostrils goeth smoke, as out of a seething pot or caldron. His breath
kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth. His heart is as
firm as a stone; yea, as hard as a piece of the nether mill-stone.
When he raiseth up himself, even the mighty are afraid. He esteemeth
iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood.' O, the surpassing folly
of those 'wise and prudent' men, who think he may be coaxed into a
willingness to be destroyed, and who regard him as the gentlest of all
fish--provided he be let alone! They say it will irritate him to charge
him with being a leviathan; he will cause the deep to boil like a pot.
Call him a dolphin, and he will not get angry! If I should call these
sage advisers by their proper names, no doubt they would be irritated
too."
The era of mob violence, which swept over the country in consequence of
the anti-slavery agitation, led to a discussion of the peace question,
in which Garrison took an earnest part as a champion of the principles
of non-resistance, and in 1838 he led the way in organizing the New
England Non-Resistance Society, whose declaration of sentiments was
prepared by him. The active part taken by the women of the country in
these moral changes, led to a discussion of the rights of women. Mr.
Garrison was at once an advocate for the principle that women should
be allowed liberty to do whatever God and nature qualified them to
do--to vote, to serve on committees, and to take part in discussions
on equal terms with the other sex. Upon this principle there was
a division in the Anti-Slavery Society in 1840; and in the World's
Anti-Slavery Convention, held that year in London, Mr. Garrison, being
delegate from that society, refused to take his seat because the female
delegates from the United States were excluded. Probably no act of Mr.
Garrison's eventful life was a more difficult and triumphant exercise
of consistent principle than this.
He had come over to England for sympathy, for at home he was despised,
and rejected, and hated, and Exeter Hall was filled with an applauding,
tumultuous crowd, ready to make him the lion of the hour, but not ready
to receive his female coadjutors.
As usual, Mr. Garrison conferred not with flesh and blood for a moment,
but rose, bade farewell to the society, and leaving his protest, walked
out serenely through the crowd, and thus sealed his protest in favor of
the equal rights of woman.
The consideration that he thus renounced an overwhelming public
sympathy, and cut himself loose from the patronage of all good society
in England, could not weigh a moment with him in comparison with a
principle, and the doctrine of the moral, social and political equality
of woman may be said to have found in Garrison its first public
champion.
The question now arises: If Garrison and his little band were indeed
morally right in their position--No union with slaveholders, on what
ground did the whole valiant anti-slavery corps proceed who did not
come out from the church or the state, but saw their way clear to
remain in existing organizations, and fight in and by them.
The free soil party of the political abolitionists generally were
headed by men of pure and vital moral sense, who believed just as
sincerely as Mr. Garrison that slavery was a wrong and an injustice.
How then could they avoid the inference that they could have no union
with slaveholders? The statement of this ground properly belongs to the
biographical sketches of Charles Sumner and Henry Wilson, which will
immediately follow this.
The Garrisonians, and Mr. Garrison at their head, had so perfect an
instinct in their cause that they always could feel when a party
was at heart morally sincere and in earnest. So, though they always
most freely and most profusely criticised the works and ways of the
political abolitionists, they were on the whole on excellent terms with
them.
They had gotten up such a name for speaking just their minds of every
body and thing, that their privilege of criticism came to be allowed
freely, and on the whole the little band was thought by the larger
one to do good political work by their more strictly and purely moral
appeals to the conscience of the community. Where there had been pretty
active Garrisonian labor in lecturing, came in the largest political
vote.
