
"The government, according to the charter of 1831, is a constitutional,
representative, and hereditary monarchy; that is, it has a constitution,
a parliament, and the oldest son of the king is his successor. The
king's person is declared to be sacred, and his ministers, instead of
himself, are held responsible for the government acts. The legislative
branch consists of a senate and a chamber of representatives; but the
king must sign their acts before they can become laws.

"The members of both houses of the legislature are chosen by the people,
and are called deputies. Only citizens who pay a certain amount of
direct taxes can vote. The deputies who live out of the town in which
the session is held are paid sixty-two dollars a month. They are elected
for four years, half every two years. The political privileges of the
people are only less than those of our own country.

"The present king is Leopold I.[A] He is seventy-four years old, and for
the last fifty years has been a man of mark in Europe. He was for some
time in the service of the Emperor of Russia, and went to England with
the allied sovereigns, in 1814, where he became acquainted with, and
afterwards married, the Princess Charlotte, daughter of George IV.; but
she died within two years. In 1830 Leopold was elected King of Greece;
but he finally refused the crown, because the conditions he made were
not complied with. In 1831 he was elected King of the Belgians, and was
crowned the same year. The next year he married Louise, the daughter of
Louis Philippe, King of France. Leopold, Duke of Brabant, will succeed
him. He has several other sons and daughters, among them Marie
Charlotte, wife of Maximilian, Archduke of Austria, who has been elected
Emperor of Mexico. Leopold is one of the richest men in Europe.

[Footnote A: Leopold I. died Dec. 10, 1865, and was succeeded by his
son, Leopold II.]

"Nearly all the people of Belgium are Roman Catholics, there being but
about thirteen thousand Protestants and two thousand Jews; but the
largest religious liberty is allowed to all sects. A portion of the
salary of ministers of all denominations is paid from the national
treasury. While the Catholics receive seven hundred thousand dollars
from the state, the Protestants obtain eleven thousand, and the Jews two
thousand dollars. The salary paid by the state to the archbishop is four
thousand two hundred dollars, and to a bishop about three thousand.

"The history of Flanders is substantially the early history of Belgium.
Many changes were made in the territorial limit of the country from time
to time, in the hands of its different owners. The first mention of
this country in history is in the time of Julius Cæsar, who conquered
the Low Countries, and the Romans held them till the year 400, when they
were joined to the empire of the Franks. They formed part of the vast
realm of Charlemagne.

"After the Romans had abandoned the territory, several independent
nobles established themselves in the southern part of the Netherlands.
Among them were the Counts of Flanders, who became very powerful and
influential men. They are to be regarded as the founders of the Flemish
provinces. Having no male heirs, their possessions went to the house of
Burgundy. Philip, Duke of Burgundy, married Margaret, Countess of
Flanders, and, upon the death of her father, she brought to him the
country of Flanders and other valuable possessions.

"During the succeeding hundred years, Namur, Brabant, Limbourg,
Hainault, Holland, Zealand, Friesland, and Luxembourg, all of which now
belong to Holland and Belgium, were added to the territories of the
Dukes of Burgundy. At this period appears the powerful but rash and
cruel Charles the Bold. His life was spent in open or secret strife with
Louis XI., king of France, whose suzerain, or nominal vassal, he was.
The king was instrumental in stirring up rebellion in several cities of
the Low Countries, which the duke put down with his accustomed severity.

"Charles, in revenge, having leagued with some discontented French
princes, Louis secretly fomented an insurrection in Liége. When the blow
was first struck, the crafty king was paying a visit to his cousin of
Burgundy, as he called the duke, who, on hearing the news, retained his
sovereign as a prisoner, threatening to kill him for his perfidy. The
cunning prince tried to pacify his enraged host. He was but partially
successful, and could only obtain his liberty by submitting to the most
humiliating terms. The duke compelled his royal guest to march in person
with him to the revolted city, and assist his vassal in putting down the
rebellion he had himself instigated.

"Charles the Bold was slain in battle, and his death ending his line of
dukes, Louis seized upon several of the provinces. Mary, the daughter of
Charles, was married to the Archduke of Austria, who claimed the
Burgundian provinces in right of his wife. He obtained possession,
however, of only Franche-comté and the Low Countries. The conflicting
claims for these territories kept Austria and France at war for a long
time.

"The Archduke Maximilian, who married Mary of Burgundy, became Emperor
of Germany on the death of his father. He had two children by her,
Philip and Margaret, the former of whom married Joanna, daughter of
Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain. They were the parents of Charles V.,
Emperor of Germany and King of all Spain. During this period the Low
Countries were governed by Maximilian, Philip, and Charles, deriving
their right from Charles the Bold.

"Charles V. was succeeded as King of Spain by Philip II., his son, who
also inherited the Flemish provinces. Mr. Motley's incomparable History
of the Rise of the Dutch Republic, commences at this point, with the
abdication of Charles V., and the accession of Philip II. I hope all who
have not read this work will do so, as many of you can, here in the
midst of the scenes described in its glowing pages.

"Philip was a bigot and a tyrant, and his despotism, which included the
establishment of the Inquisition, drove the people to madness, and
provoked them to rebellion. During the reign of Charles V. the
Reformation had made considerable progress in Germany, and its
principles were firmly planted in the Low Countries. Philip imposed upon
himself the duty of rooting out the obnoxious doctrines, and of
restoring the supremacy of the Catholic church.

"After his accession to the Netherlands, the king remained four years in
the country, and then departed for Spain, from which he did not again
return. He made his sister regent, and she was to be assisted by
Granvelle, Bishop of Arras. William, Prince of Orange, and the Counts
Egmont and Horn, were associated with the bishop as councillors, but
they had no real power or influence.

"The despotic conduct of Granvelle, and the attempt on his part to
introduce the Inquisition, by order of his royal master, excited the
most desperate opposition. The people organized under the lead of the
Prince of Orange, and Egmont and Horn, and an insurrection broke out in
Flanders, in 1566. These Protestant rebels have been styled iconoclasts,
or image-breakers, for they broke into the churches, overturned the
images, defaced the valuable paintings, and otherwise injured the church
property.

"The famous Cathedral of Notre Dame, which you can see from the deck of
the ship, was ravaged by the mob. The statues of Christ, the Virgin, and
the Saints were hurled from their pedestals; the rich paintings, the
choicest works of Flemish art, were cut to pieces; the organs were torn
down, the altars overturned, and the gold and silver vessels used in the
mass were carried off. For three days these tumultuous proceedings
continued, and were suppressed only when the fury of the mob had ceased,
by the Knights of the Golden Fleece, of which the Prince of Orange was a
member. The career of this remarkable man is closely identified with the
history of the Netherlands during this period. He was opposed to the
violence of the mob, not only from prudential motives, but because his
own religious views were not yet in sympathy with the Protestant
reformers, though he afterwards fully embraced their doctrines.

