business, and the vessel would not sail till his return. Certainly Dock
was not on board, and it was ascertained at the depot that he had taken
the train for Boston.
CHAPTER XVIII.
MAT MOGMORE.
Mr. Gayles watched the Caribbee night and day; but he saw nothing of
Dock Vincent. Mr. Fairfield said his neighbor and friend had informed
him, several days before, of his intention to go to New York. The
constable was forced to believe that the people on board his vessel had
told the truth, and he could only wait for his return. Of course the
Caribbee would not sail on her long voyage without him, and there
seemed to be but little danger of losing his man.
The only strange circumstance was, that Dock had sent his family on
board of the vessel; but he had not much consideration for his wife and
children, and would not scruple to add a week of confinement to the
three or four months' duration of the proposed voyage. The man on
board, who was said to be a passenger, and was a stranger in Rockport,
appeared to take a lively interest in the affairs of the vessel and her
owner. It was surmised that, as Dock was not a skilful navigator, he
had been employed to furnish the science for the vessel. Neither he nor
any one on board professed to know when Dock would return, or when the
Caribbee would sail.
On Monday evening, when Dock had been gone three days, Levi had taken
tea at Mr. Watson's, and was reading the daily paper, which the
merchant had brought from Boston.
"That's too bad!" suddenly exclaimed the young skipper, dropping the
paper, and looking at Bessie.
"What's too bad, Levi?" she asked.
"There's to be a yacht race in Portland harbor to-morrow, at eleven
o'clock, to sail for a silver pitcher."
"I do not see anything wicked in that," laughed Bessie.
"Nor I; but it is wicked that I did not know of it before. I am sure
The Starry Flag will beat anything of her size this side of New York;
and I am provoked to think I did not know of this race sooner, for a
silver pitcher would be a very handsome ornament for our cabin."
"Is it too late now?" asked Mr. Watson.
"The race comes off at eleven, to-morrow forenoon, and five yachts have
already entered," answered Levi, glancing at the paper again.
"Well, haven't you time to sail down there before the race?"
"If we sail to-night we have time enough. We can get there in ten hours
with a good breeze; with a stiff one, in six," replied Levi, beginning
to be excited.
"How is the wind now?"
"About west--a six-knot breeze."
"Let us start at once, then. I had as lief sleep on board the yacht as
on shore," said Mr. Watson.
"O, do go!" exclaimed Bessie.
"Do go!" repeated Mr. Watson, laughing. "Do you expect to sail in a
regatta, Bessie?"
"To be sure I do! I must go, father! I have been longing, ever since we
had the yacht, to sail in a real live race."
"But, Bessie, we must make a night run to Portland."
"So much the better! I shall enjoy it above all things. My state-room
on board is just as good as my chamber up stairs, and I like it
better."
"Your aunt Mary is sick, and cannot go with you," suggested her father,
alluding to Mrs. McGilvery.
"But you are going, father," persisted Bessie.
"True, I am; but----"
"Do let me go, father."
"I suppose you must go if you insist upon it."
"I do insist with all my might!" exclaimed Bessie, delighted with the
prospect.
"It will take us a couple of hours to get ready," said Levi, as he
looked at his watch; "but we can get off by ten o'clock. The only
difficulty I can see is, that yachts must be entered on the day before
the race;" and he picked up the newspaper again.
"We must get over that somehow," replied Mr. Watson, who seemed to be
quite as much interested as Levi and his daughter.
"How? With the best breeze we can expect, we can hardly reach Portland
before six in the morning."
"While you are getting the yacht ready, I will ride over to Gloucester,
and telegraph to a friend of mine in Portland, who will have The Starry
Flag entered to-night."
"That will do it splendidly!" exclaimed Bessie, delighted to have the
obstacle removed.
"The cook and steward are on board, but the hands are all at home,"
said Levi. "I will go and find them."
Mr. Watson rang the bell, and ordered the horse and buggy. Bessie went
to her room to prepare for the cruise, and Levi hastened over to Mr.
Mogmore's house, where he found Mat, whom he sent to look up the other
three hands. The young skipper pulled off to the yacht. The water tanks
were examined, and found to contain a week's supply at least. The
steward was sent on shore, with directions to bring off the men, and a
stock of ice and fresh provisions, after he had put the two state-rooms
in order.
By the time Augustus had procured his steak, chops, butter, milk, and
ice, the four hands had assembled at the landing-place, in readiness to
go on board.
"Hurry up, now!" said the steward. "Captain Fairfield is waiting for
us."
"There!" exclaimed Mat Mogmore, "I have forgotten one thing. The
captain told me to see Mr. Gayles, and tell him the yacht was going to
Portland; and I did not think of it till this minute."
"We can't wait for you," replied the steward, impatiently.
"You needn't wait. I will get some one to put me on board. Go ahead!"
And Mat ran up the rocks, and hastened towards Mr. Gayles's house.
But he hurried only a moment, till the darkness concealed his form from
his shipmates. Instead of going up to the town, he returned to the
landing-place as soon as the boat had left. While he stood on the
rocks, the clock struck nine. A few moments later, a boat, containing
one man, pulled up to the Point.
"Is it all right?" asked the person in the boat.
"All right," answered Mat Mogmore, as he stepped into the boat. "We
have no time to lose; Mr. Watson will return soon."
Mat took one of the oars, and they rowed over to the landing-place, in
the rear of Mr. Watson's house. Mat went up to the side door and rang
the bell. He was admitted to the entry, and told the servant he wished
to see Miss Watson. Bessie, who was now all ready, came down stairs
with her travelling bag in her hand.
"Captain Fairfield sent me on shore for you," said Mat.
"Where is my father?" asked Bessie.
"He is on board. He was in a hurry to see the captain, and went on
board with the steward. The yacht is all ready to sail now, as soon as
you go on board."
It was not exactly like Levi to send one of his hands after her; but
the yacht was going off in a hurry, and he must be very busy. It was
strange that her father did not come home before he went on board; but
perhaps he had learned something more about the race, and was in haste
to inform Levi of it. She was only afraid that the trip would be
abandoned. Her mother came to the entry, told her to "wrap up warm," be
careful not to take cold, and then kissed her with an affectionate
adieu. Mat Mogmore led the way down to the boat, and assisted her to a
seat in the stern-sheets.
The night was clear; but it was quite dark, and the darkness on the
water is deeper, and more dense, to a person unaccustomed to the sea,
than on the land. Bessie was not afraid; but after the boat had gone a
few rods from the shore, she had no idea where she was, for the gloom
of night breeds confusion in the mind on the sea.
Bessie did not recognize Mat's companion in the boat; but she supposed
he was one of the crew of the yacht. He did not speak, and she had no
reason to suspect that anything was wrong. Mat Mogmore was well known
to her, and had been long before the yacht was built. He was one of
Levi's hands, and his presence, if she had had any suspicions, would
have been enough to satisfy her.
"How dark it is!" said Bessie to Mat, who pulled the after oar.
"Not very dark, miss," replied Mat. "The stars are out, and we don't
call it very dark when we can see them."
"But I cannot see anything, or tell where I am. I can see the lights in
the town, but I can't make out anything else."
