"You have come for poor Leo!" exclaimed she, in terror, when she opened
the door.
"Don't be alarmed, Maggie," said Mr. Checkynshaw, in a tone which was
gentle for him. "We come to inquire about those papers you found."
"I knew you did!" gasped Maggie in despair, as the two gentlemen
followed her into the rear room.
"Where did you find them?" asked Mr. Clapp, in a gentler tone than the
banker could speak.
"In Leo's room," stammered she. "I must tell the truth; but I hope you
won't harm poor Leo."
"Will you show us just where you found them?"
"I will, if you will come up stairs," she added, leading the way. "You
won't put poor Leo in jail--will you? I'm sure he didn't intend to do
any wrong."
"I don't think he did," replied the officer, moved by the distress of
the poor girl.
"I found them at the bottom of Leo's chest," said Maggie, as she
pointed to the place where she had discovered them. "I was cleaning
house, and I cleared out all the closets and drawers. I took all Leo's
things out of his chest, and I found those papers under his summer
clothes."
"Did Leo know they were there?"
"I'm sure I don't know whether he did or not. I don't believe he did.
He never stays in his room only when he is asleep. All the clothes he
wears in the winter are in the top of the chest."
"I looked into that chest when I searched the room on the day the safe
was robbed," added the officer. "I put my hand down into the clothing;
but I suppose I didn't reach the bottom. Where is Leo now?"
"He is at school."
"Can you send for him?"
"You won't take him up--will you? It would break his heart," pleaded
Maggie.
"I don't think it will be necessary to arrest him," replied the
constable, rather cautiously. "The man that stole the papers came to
this room, and I have no doubt he put them there to get rid of them."
"Send for Leo; I will promise you he shall not be taken up," added Mr.
Checkynshaw, taking the responsibility upon himself.
Maggie wrote a note, and sent Tom Casey to the school with it, the
gentlemen having taken seats in the front parlor. In a short time Leo
appeared, trembling lest his father had had another attack of
paralysis. He was not a little surprised to find the banker and the
constable awaiting his arrival.
"Leo, what do you keep in that chest of yours, up in your room?" asked
the officer.
"My clothes, sir," replied Leo, astonished at the strange question.
"What else?"
"Nothing else."
"Don't you keep any white mice in it?" said the constable, smiling.
"No, sir."
"Don't your mice get out of their houses down stairs, and come up?"
"I have seen two or three of them in the kitchen."
"But don't they go up in your chamber?"
"I never saw any up there," answered Leo, puzzled by these singular
inquiries.
"What would you say if I told you that a couple of them had made a nest
in your chest up stairs, and had a litter of little ones there?"
"I don't know what I should say. I don't know that it would be very
strange."
"Should you deny it?"
"If you saw them there I should not, though I don't see how they could
get into the chest. The lid is always closed."
"But you might have left the lid up some morning, and the mice might
have crawled down to the very bottom of the chest, and had a family
there. Could this have happened?"
"It could; but I don't think it is very likely it did happen."
"Why not?"
"I should have smelt them," laughed Leo.
"Shouldn't you have seen them?"
"I don't think I should. Maggie puts my shirts and stockings at the top
of the chest, and I hardly know what there is at the bottom. She takes
care of my things."
"Is there anything in that chest besides your clothes?"
"Yes; I believe there is a piece of brass chain, a ball, some marbles,
and a top in the till."
"Anything else?"
"There may be some other things of that sort in the till. I don't
remember; if you want to know, I will go up and show you."
"Are there any papers there?" demanded the constable, sharply.
"Yes, sir, there are two or three newspapers."
"Any written papers?"
"Not a paper."
"Have you had any papers there at any time?"
"No, sir; I don't remember that I ever did. I keep my papers in the
table drawer in the kitchen."
"Didn't you know there was a package of papers in the chest--such as
bonds, deeds, and notes?"
"No, sir, I didn't know it. I never saw anything of the kind there,"
replied Leo, still puzzled, but satisfied now that something serious
had happened.
"Have you overhauled the contents of your chest lately?"
"No, sir; not since last summer, that I remember."
"Leo, in your chest were found the papers which Mr. Checkynshaw lost."
"Then that Mr. Hart, or whatever his name was, put them there!"
exclaimed Leo, his face turning red. "I never saw them, and didn't know
they were there."
"I am satisfied," interposed Mr. Checkynshaw.
"So am I," added Mr. Clapp.
The truth as it was had been correctly discerned.
"Maggie, I offered a reward of five hundred dollars for those papers,"
continued the banker. "I would have given five thousand rather than not
have had them."
"Then I am very glad you have found them," replied the fair girl, now
entirely relieved of all her fears on account of her brother.
"But you found them, Maggie, and you are entitled to the reward. Here
is my check for the amount. Your father can draw the money for you."
"I don't deserve the reward!" exclaimed Maggie, blushing deeply, as she
took the check. "It is reward enough for me to find that Leo is as good
as I always believed him to be."
"You found the papers, and I am indebted to you for their preservation.
Another might have destroyed them."
"But I only took them out of the chest. I didn't know what they were. I
almost made up my mind that they were good for nothing, and that Leo
had saved them from the dirt barrels to learn how to write such papers
from. I didn't know what to do, and I sent for Mr. Wittleworth to tell
me whether they were good for anything or not. He said they were very
valuable, and told me it was fortunate I sent for him, and then kindly
undertook to return them to you."
"Very kindly!" sneered the banker. "He claimed this reward."
"He did?"
"Yes; but I am very glad it goes to you, instead of to him."
Maggie objected to taking such a vast sum of money for so slight a
service; but Mr. Checkynshaw's mandate was imperative, and he departed,
leaving her bewildered at the sudden fortune which had come down like
an avalanche upon her. Leo went back to school, as delighted at her
good luck as his own in finding himself entirely freed from the charge
of being concerned in the robbery.
As usual, Mr. Wittleworth was the only person who was not satisfied. He
had again been "left out in the cold." He wanted to know what had
happened at the house of André, and after dinner he called there; but
Maggie had gone to the barber's shop with her father's noonday meal,
and he found the door locked. In the evening he went again, when both
André and Leo were at home.
CHAPTER XXI.
MR. WITTLEWORTH's WRONGS.
Maggie, fluttering with delight, had taken Mr. Checkynshaw's check to
her father when she carried his dinner. The barber was astonished as
well as pleased with the gift, and, having drawn the check, deposited
the money in the Savings Bank, as a provision for dark days, like those
through which they had passed at the beginning of André's illness.
After supper the family gathered around the cooking-stove in the
