
"No," said Dick. "Didn't I tell you them were papers of no valoo to
anybody but the owner? If the lady'd like to borrow, I won't charge
no interest."

"Where is my money, then?" said the lady, in some discomfiture. "I
shouldn't wonder if one of the young scamps had thrown it out of the
window."

"You'd better search your pocket once more," said the gentleman
opposite. "I don't believe either of the boys is in fault. They
don't look to me as if they would steal."

"Thank you, sir," said Frank.

The lady followed out the suggestion, and, plunging her hand once
more into her pocket, drew out a small porte-monnaie. She hardly
knew whether to be glad or sorry at this discovery. It placed her
in rather an awkward position after the fuss she had made, and the
detention to which she had subjected the passengers, now, as it
proved, for nothing.

"Is that the pocket-book you thought stolen?" asked the conductor.

"Yes," said she, rather confusedly.

"Then you've been keeping me waiting all this time for nothing," he
said, sharply. "I wish you'd take care to be sure next time before
you make such a disturbance for nothing. I've lost five minutes, and
shall not be on time."

"I can't help it," was the cross reply; "I didn't know it was in my
pocket."

"It seems to me you owe an apology to the boys you accused of a
theft which they have not committed," said the gentleman opposite.

"I shan't apologize to anybody," said the lady, whose temper was not
of the best; "least of all to such whipper-snappers as they are."

"Thank you, ma'am," said Dick, comically; "your handsome apology is
accepted. It aint of no consequence, only I didn't like to expose
the contents of my valooable pocket-book, for fear it might excite
the envy of some of my poor neighbors."

"You're a character," said the gentleman who had already spoken,
with a smile.

"A bad character!" muttered the lady.

But it was quite evident that the sympathies of those present were
against the lady, and on the side of the boys who had been falsely
accused, while Dick's drollery had created considerable amusement.

The cars had now reached Fifty-ninth Street, the southern boundary
of the Park, and here our hero and his companion got off.

"You'd better look out for pickpockets, my lad," said the conductor,
pleasantly. "That big wallet of yours might prove a great
temptation."

"That's so," said Dick. "That's the misfortin' of being rich. Astor
and me don't sleep much for fear of burglars breakin' in and robbin'
us of our valooable treasures. Sometimes I think I'll give all my
money to an Orphan Asylum, and take it out in board. I guess I'd
make money by the operation."

While Dick was speaking, the car rolled away, and the boys turned
up Fifty-ninth Street, for two long blocks yet separated them from
the Park.



CHAPTER X

INTRODUCES A VICTIM OF MISPLACED CONFIDENCE


"What a queer chap you are, Dick!" said Frank, laughing. "You always
seem to be in good spirits."

"No, I aint always. Sometimes I have the blues."

"When?"

"Well, once last winter it was awful cold, and there was big holes
in my shoes, and my gloves and all my warm clothes was at the
tailor's. I felt as if life was sort of tough, and I'd like it if
some rich man would adopt me, and give me plenty to eat and drink
and wear, without my havin' to look so sharp after it. Then agin'
when I've seen boys with good homes, and fathers, and mothers, I've
thought I'd like to have somebody to care for me."

Dick's tone changed as he said this, from his usual levity, and
there was a touch of sadness in it. Frank, blessed with a good home
and indulgent parents, could not help pitying the friendless boy who
had found life such up-hill work.

"Don't say you have no one to care for you, Dick," he said, lightly
laying his hand on Dick's shoulder. "I will care for you."

"Will you?"

"If you will let me."

"I wish you would," said Dick, earnestly. "I'd like to feel that I
have one friend who cares for me."

Central Park was now before them, but it was far from presenting
the appearance which it now exhibits. It had not been long since
work had been commenced upon it, and it was still very rough and
unfinished. A rough tract of land, two miles and a half from north
to south, and a half a mile broad, very rocky in parts, was the
material from which the Park Commissioners have made the present
beautiful enclosure. There were no houses of good appearance near
it, buildings being limited mainly to rude temporary huts used by
the workmen who were employed in improving it. The time will
undoubtedly come when the Park will be surrounded by elegant
residences, and compare favorably in this respect with the most
attractive parts of any city in the world. But at the time when
Frank and Dick visited it, not much could be said in favor either
of the Park or its neighborhood.

"If this is Central Park," said Frank, who naturally felt
disappointed, "I don't think much of it. My father's got a large
pasture that is much nicer."

"It'll look better some time," said Dick. "There aint much to see
now but rocks. We will take a walk over it if you want to."

"No," said Frank, "I've seen as much of it as I want to. Besides, I
feel tired."

"Then we'll go back. We can take the Sixth Avenue cars. They will
bring us out at Vesey Street just beside the Astor House."

"All right," said Frank. "That will be the best course. I hope," he
added, laughing, "our agreeable lady friend won't be there. I don't
care about being accused of stealing again."

