"We will. Now, Laurie."
"After I'd seen as much of the world as I want to, I'd like to settle in
Germany, and have just as much music as I choose. I'm to be a famous
musician myself, and all creation is to rush to hear me; and I'm never
to be bothered about money or business, but just enjoy myself, and live
for what I like. That's my favorite castle. What's yours, Meg?"
Margaret seemed to find it a little hard to tell hers, and waved a brake
before her face, as if to disperse imaginary gnats, while she said
slowly, "I should like a lovely house, full of all sorts of luxurious
things,--nice food, pretty clothes, handsome furniture, pleasant people,
and heaps of money. I am to be mistress of it, and manage it as I like,
with plenty of servants, so I never need work a bit. How I should enjoy
it! for I wouldn't be idle, but do good, and make every one love me
dearly."
             [Illustration: Waved a brake before her face]
"Wouldn't you have a master for your castle in the air?" asked Laurie
slyly.
"I said 'pleasant people,' you know;" and Meg carefully tied up her shoe
as she spoke, so that no one saw her face.
"Why don't you say you'd have a splendid, wise, good husband, and some
angelic little children? You know your castle wouldn't be perfect
without," said blunt Jo, who had no tender fancies yet, and rather
scorned romance, except in books.
"You'd have nothing but horses, inkstands, and novels in yours,"
answered Meg petulantly.
"Wouldn't I, though? I'd have a stable full of Arabian steeds, rooms
piled with books, and I'd write out of a magic inkstand, so that my
works should be as famous as Laurie's music. I want to do something
splendid before I go into my castle,--something heroic or wonderful,
that won't be forgotten after I'm dead. I don't know what, but I'm on
the watch for it, and mean to astonish you all, some day. I think I
shall write books, and get rich and famous: that would suit me, so that
is my favorite dream."
"Mine is to stay at home safe with father and mother, and help take care
of the family," said Beth contentedly.
"Don't you wish for anything else?" asked Laurie.
"Since I had my little piano, I am perfectly satisfied. I only wish we
may all keep well and be together; nothing else."
"I have ever so many wishes; but the pet one is to be an artist, and go
to Rome, and do fine pictures, and be the best artist in the whole
world," was Amy's modest desire.
"We're an ambitious set, aren't we? Every one of us, but Beth, wants to
be rich and famous, and gorgeous in every respect. I do wonder if any of
us will ever get our wishes," said Laurie, chewing grass, like a
meditative calf.
"I've got the key to my castle in the air; but whether I can unlock the
door remains to be seen," observed Jo mysteriously.
"I've got the key to mine, but I'm not allowed to try it. Hang college!"
muttered Laurie, with an impatient sigh.
"Here's mine!" and Amy waved her pencil.
"I haven't got any," said Meg forlornly.
"Yes, you have," said Laurie at once.
"Where?"
"In your face."
"Nonsense; that's of no use."
"Wait and see if it doesn't bring you something worth having," replied
the boy, laughing at the thought of a charming little secret which he
fancied he knew.
Meg colored behind the brake, but asked no questions, and looked across
the river with the same expectant expression which Mr. Brooke had worn
when he told the story of the knight.
"If we are all alive ten years hence, let's meet, and see how many of us
have got our wishes, or how much nearer we are then than now," said Jo,
always ready with a plan.
"Bless me! how old I shall be,--twenty-seven!" exclaimed Meg who felt
grown up already, having just reached seventeen.
"You and I shall be twenty-six, Teddy, Beth twenty-four, and Amy
twenty-two. What a venerable party!" said Jo.
"I hope I shall have done something to be proud of by that time; but I'm
such a lazy dog, I'm afraid I shall 'dawdle,' Jo."
"You need a motive, mother says; and when you get it, she is sure you'll
work splendidly."
"Is she? By Jupiter I will, if I only get the chance!" cried Laurie,
sitting up with sudden energy. "I ought to be satisfied to please
grandfather, and I do try, but it's working against the grain, you see,
and comes hard. He wants me to be an India merchant, as he was, and I'd
rather be shot. I hate tea and silk and spices, and every sort of
rubbish his old ships bring, and I don't care how soon they go to the
bottom when I own them. Going to college ought to satisfy him, for if I
give him four years he ought to let me off from the business; but he's
set, and I 've got to do just as he did, unless I break away and please
myself, as my father did. If there was any one left to stay with the old
gentleman, I'd do it to-morrow."
Laurie spoke excitedly, and looked ready to carry his threat into
execution on the slightest provocation; for he was growing up very fast,
and, in spite of his indolent ways, had a young man's hatred of
subjection, a young man's restless longing to try the world for himself.
"I advise you to sail away in one of your ships, and never come home
again till you have tried your own way," said Jo, whose imagination was
fired by the thought of such a daring exploit, and whose sympathy was
excited by what she called "Teddy's wrongs."
"That's not right, Jo; you mustn't talk in that way, and Laurie mustn't
take your bad advice. You should do just what your grandfather wishes,
my dear boy," said Meg, in her most maternal tone. "Do your best at
college, and, when he sees that you try to please him, I'm sure he won't
be hard or unjust to you. As you say, there is no one else to stay with
and love him, and you'd never forgive yourself if you left him without
his permission. Don't be dismal or fret, but do your duty; and you'll
get your reward, as good Mr. Brooke has, by being respected and loved."
"What do you know about him?" asked Laurie, grateful for the good
advice, but objecting to the lecture, and glad to turn the conversation
from himself, after his unusual outbreak.
"Only what your grandpa told us about him,--how he took good care of his
own mother till she died, and wouldn't go abroad as tutor to some nice
person, because he wouldn't leave her; and how he provides now for an
old woman who nursed his mother; and never tells any one, but is just as
generous and patient and good as he can be."
"So he is, dear old fellow!" said Laurie heartily, as Meg paused,
looking flushed and earnest with her story. "It's like grandpa to find
out all about him, without letting him know, and to tell all his
goodness to others, so that they might like him. Brooke couldn't
understand why your mother was so kind to him, asking him over with me,
and treating him in her beautiful friendly way. He thought she was just
perfect, and talked about it for days and days, and went on about you
all in flaming style. If ever I do get my wish, you see what I'll do for
Brooke."
"Begin to do something now, by not plaguing his life out," said Meg
sharply.
"How do you know I do, miss?"
"I can always tell by his face, when he goes away. If you have been
good, he looks satisfied and walks briskly; if you have plagued him,
he's sober and walks slowly, as if he wanted to go back and do his work
better."
"Well, I like that! So you keep an account of my good and bad marks in
Brooke's face, do you? I see him bow and smile as he passes your window,
but I didn't know you'd got up a telegraph."
                [Illustration: I see him bow and smile]
"We haven't; don't be angry, and oh, don't tell him I said anything! It
was only to show that I cared how you get on, and what is said here is
said in confidence, you know," cried Meg, much alarmed at the thought of
what might follow from her careless speech.
"I don't tell tales," replied Laurie, with his "high and mighty" air,
as Jo called a certain expression which he occasionally wore. "Only if
Brooke is going to be a thermometer, I must mind and have fair weather
for him to report."
"Please don't be offended. I didn't mean to preach or tell tales or be
silly; I only thought Jo was encouraging you in a feeling which you'd be
sorry for, by and by. You are so kind to us, we feel as if you were our
brother, and say just what we think. Forgive me, I meant it kindly." And
Meg offered her hand with a gesture both affectionate and timid.
