"Very well," said his employer, showing a little surprise; "be quick
about it, for I want to get through."
"I want to know if you will not be willing to raise my wages," said
Roswell, rather awkwardly.
"On what ground do you ask for it?" said Mr. Turner, looking up.
"I thought I might be worth more," said Roswell.
"How long have you been in my employment,--do you remember?"
"About four months," said Roswell.
"Do you think you have learned enough in that time to make you worth
more?"
"Yes, sir," said Roswell, with a little hesitation.
"How much more would satisfy you?"
"Two dollars more,--for the present," said Roswell, beginning to feel a
little hopeful.
"That is six dollars a week."
"Yes, sir."
"And how soon would you expect another advance?" asked Mr. Turner,
quietly.
"In about six months."
"You are quite moderate in your demands, certainly."
There was something in Mr. Turner's tone which struck Roswell as
unfavorable, and he hastily said in his own justification:--
"There's a friend of mine, no older than I am, who gets ten dollars a
week."
Certainly Roswell must have spoken inadvertently, or he would hardly
have referred to Dick as his friend; but his main idea at present was to
produce an impression upon the mind of Mr. Turner.
"Is your friend in a dry goods store?" asked Mr. Turner.
"No, sir."
"Then I don't see that his wages have any bearing upon your case. There
may be some special circumstances that affect his compensation. How long
has he been in the service of his present employer?"
"Only a week or two."
"Is this his first place?"
"Yes, sir."
"It may be that he is some relative of his employer."
"That isn't very likely," said Roswell, his lip curling. "He used to be
a boot-black about the streets."
"Indeed!" said Mr. Turner, keenly. "I think you said he was a friend of
yours."
"No, sir," said Roswell, proudly; "I haven't the honor."
"You certainly said 'There's a friend of mine, no older than I am, who
gets ten dollars a week.'"
"I didn't mean to speak of him as my friend," said Roswell; "I'm a
gentleman's son."
"If you are, his friendship might do you no harm. If he receives the
wages you state, he must be a smart fellow. If he didn't earn as much,
probably he would not receive it."
"I don't believe he'll keep his place long," muttered Roswell, his wish
being father to the thought.
"If he doesn't, you may be able to succeed him," said Mr. Turner. "I
shall be compelled to refuse your request. Indeed, so far from
increasing your compensation, I have been considering during the last
week whether it would not be for my interest to get another boy in your
place."
"Sir!" exclaimed Roswell, in dismay.
"I will give you my reasons. You appear to think yourself of too great
consequence to discharge properly the duties of your position."
"I don't understand you, sir," stammered Roswell.
"I believe you claim to be a gentleman's son."
"Yes, sir," said Roswell. "My father used to keep a store on Broadway."
"And I am led to suppose you think it incompatible with your dignity to
carry bundles to different parts of the city."
"I would rather stand behind the counter and sell goods," said Roswell.
"Of course you will be a salesman in time, if you stick to business
faithfully. But it so happens that we didn't hire you as a salesman, but
as a boy, whose chief business it should be to carry bundles. But we
don't want to impose a disagreeable duty upon you. Therefore, if you
think upon reflection that you would prefer not to continue in your
situation, we will hire somebody else."
"That won't be necessary, sir," said Roswell, considerably crest-fallen.
"You are content, then, to remain?"
"Yes, sir."
"And upon four dollars a week?"
"Yes, sir. I suppose I may hope to have my wages increased some time?"
"When we find your services worth more, you shall receive more," said
Mr. Turner. "That is fair,--isn't it?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then here is your money. I didn't mean to talk so long; but it's as
well to come to an understanding."
Roswell left the store considerably crest-fallen. He found that, instead
of regarding him worth an advance of wages, Mr. Turner had had it in his
mind to discharge him; and that hurt his pride. It was certainly very
singular that people shouldn't be more impressed with the fact that he
was a gentleman's son. He could not have received less deference if he
had been an ex-boot-black, like Dick himself. He certainly was no more
contented than before, nor was his self-appreciation materially
diminished. If the world did not recognize his claims, there was one
comfort, his mother appreciated him, and he appreciated himself. As to
his cousin, he did not feel quite so certain.
"Why are you so late, Roswell?" asked his mother, looking up from her
work as he entered. "It seems to me they kept you later than usual at
the store, even for Saturday evening."
"I'm sick of the store," said Roswell, impatiently.
"What's the matter?"
"I asked old Turner to-night if he wouldn't raise my wages," said
Roswell.
"Well, what did he say?"
"He said he wouldn't do it."
"Did he give any reason?"
"He said I didn't earn any more. He's a stingy old hunks, any way, and I
wish I was in another place."
"So do I; but it isn't so easy to get a new position. You had better
stay in this till another offers."
"I hate carrying bundles through the streets. It isn't fit work for a
gentleman's son."
"Ah, if your poor father had lived, things would have been very
different with us all!" said Mrs. Crawford, with a sigh. She chose to
forget that previous to his death her late husband's habits had been
such that he contributed very little to the comfort or support of the
family.
"I wouldn't care if I were a salesman," continued Roswell; "but I don't
like being an errand boy. I'd just as lives go to the post-office for
letters, or to the bank with money, but, as for carrying big bundles of
calico under my arm, I don't like it. I was walking on Madison Avenue
the other day with a ten-pound bundle, when the boot-black came up,
dressed handsomely, with a gold watch and chain, and exulted over me for
carrying such a big bundle."
There was a little exaggeration about this, for Dick was very far from
exulting over Roswell, otherwise he certainly would not have volunteered
to carry the bundle himself. But it often happens that older persons
than Roswell are not above a little misrepresentation now and then.
"He's an impudent fellow, then!" said Mrs. Crawford, indignantly. "Then
Mr. Hall won't raise your wages?"
"It wasn't Mr. Hall I asked. It was Mr. Turner," said Roswell.
"Didn't he hold out any hopes of raising your wages hereafter?"
"He said he would raise them when I deserve it. He don't amount to much.
He's no gentleman," said Roswell, scornfully.
"Who's no gentleman?" inquired James Gilbert, who chanced just then to
enter the room.
"Mr. Turner."
"Who's Mr. Turner?"
"My employer,--Hall & Turner, you know."
"What's amiss with him?"
"I asked him to raise my wages to-night, and he wouldn't."
"Umph! How much did you ask for?"
"Two dollars more a week."
"You're a fool!"
"What!" said Roswell, astonished.
"WHAT!" exclaimed Mrs. Crawford, angrily.
