furious rage.
CHAPTER V.
BEN IS COMFORTED.
"What have you been doing to my son, you young reprobate?" demanded
Mrs. Oakley of John. Her hands trembled convulsively with passion, as
if she would like to get hold of our hero, and avenge Ben's wrongs by
inflicting punishment on the spot.
John was silent.
"Why don't you speak, you young rascal?" demanded Mrs. Oakley,
furiously.
"I am neither a reprobate nor a rascal, Mrs. Oakley," said John,
calmly, "and I do not choose to answer when addressed in that way."
"Ben," said Mrs. Oakley, turning to her son, "what has he done to you?
How happens it that you come home in such a plight?"
"I was thrown over the horse's head into a mud-puddle," said Ben.
"Didn't he have anything to do with it?" asked Mrs. Oakley,
determined to connect John with Ben's misfortune, if possible.
"He spoke to the horse," said Ben.
"And then he threw you?"
"Yes."
Ben answered thus, being perfectly willing that his mother should
charge his fall upon John, as this would create additional prejudice
between them. It was contemptible meanness on his part, but meanness
was characteristic of him, and he had no hesitation in stooping to
falsehood, direct or indirect, if by so doing he could compass his
object.
"It is as I thought," said Mrs. Oakley, thinking it unnecessary to
inquire further. "Of course, as soon as you were thrown, he jumped on
the horse and rode home. You're carrying matters with a high hand,
young man; but you'll find that I'm your match. Get off that horse,
directly."
"That was my intention," said John. "I am sorry, Mrs. Oakley," he
continued, "that Ben has not seen fit to give you a correct account of
what has happened. If he had, it would have been unnecessary for me to
speak."
"It is unnecessary for you to speak now, John Oakley," said his
stepmother, sharply. "Do you mean to charge my son with telling a
falsehood? If that is the case, take care what you say."
"Ben has not told a falsehood, but he is trying to make you believe
that I caused his fall."
"I have no doubt you did."
"Then you are mistaken. Why didn't he tell you that when I first saw
the horse he was running at great speed, in consequence of Ben's having
imprudently struck him severely with the whip? He is a spirited horse,
and won't stand the whip."
"He is like you in that, I suppose," said Mrs. Oakley, sneering.
"He is like me in that," said John, quietly.
"You would both be better if you had to stand it," said his stepmother,
angrily.
John did not see fit to reply to this.
"Is this true, Ben?" she asked.
"Yes," said Ben, reluctantly. "I struck the horse; but it was not till
John spoke to him that he threw me off."
"So I supposed," said Mrs. Oakley, significantly.
"I see, Mrs. Oakley," said John, "you are determined to find me guilty
of causing Ben's fall. If I could be mean enough to do such a thing,
and so risk his life, I should despise myself. Prince was rushing up
the street with tremendous speed, and I was frightened at Ben's danger;
I called out to Prince, but he stopped so suddenly that Ben was thrown
into the puddle, or he might have been seriously hurt."
There was so much sincerity in what John said, that Mrs. Oakley,
though very much against her will, could hardly help believing him.
Determined, however, to make out a case against him, she said:--
"As soon as you saw him off, you jumped on the horse and rode home,
leaving him to get home as he could. That was a very generous and noble
thing to do!"
"Ask Ben if I did not ask him to ride home," said John.
Ben, in answer to his mother's glance, said, rather unwillingly:--
"Yes, he asked me to ride home, but he knew I wouldn't after being
thrown once. I won't get on the brute's back again, I promise you."
Mrs. Oakley was disappointed to find that the case she was trying to
make out against John had failed at all points, and that he was cleared
even by the testimony of her principal witness.
"You had better come in and change your clothes, Ben," she said. "I
am afraid you will take cold. And do you"--turning to John--"take the
horse round to the stable. He's an ugly brute, and I'll take care that
he doesn't endanger your life any more."
John led Prince round to the stable, and delivered him into the hands
of Mike.
"Where's Master Ben?" inquired Mike.
"He got thrown off."
"I thought how it would be," said Mike. "He can't ride no more'n a
stick. I told him not to take the whip, but he wouldn't heed a word I
said."
"That's how he got thrown. He struck the horse violently, and he was
running away with him when he heard my voice and stopped."
"Did Master Ben get hurt?"
"Not much. He fell into a puddle, and dirtied his clothes."
"Maybe he'll be wiser next time."
"He says he won't ride Prince again."
"All the better for you, Master John."
"I don't know, Mike," said John, soberly. "I'm afraid Mrs. Oakley will
sell him. She says he is an ugly brute, and she won't have any more
lives endangered."
"Ugly brute!" repeated Mike, indignantly. "There's not a bit of
ugliness about him. He wants to be treated well, and I'd like to know
who don't. And he's so attached to you, Master John!"
"Yes, Mike, it'll be hard to part with him." And John's lips quivered
as he looked with affection at the noble horse, to which he had
become much attached. Besides, it was his father's gift, and as such
had an additional value for him, as, owing to his disinheritance, he
had nothing else of value by which he could remember the parent whose
loss he was made to feel more and more, as his stepmother's injustice
and harsh treatment, and Ben's meanness and hostility served daily to
increase. It almost seemed to him as if Prince was the only friend he
had left, and that he must be parted even from him.
Meanwhile Ben was changing his clothes in his room. The adventure which
had just happened to him did not make him feel very pleasant. In the
first place, it is rather disagreeable to be thrown violently into a
puddle of dirty water, and Ben might be excused for not liking that.
Ben's pride was touched, since it had been demonstrated in the most
public manner that he could not manage Prince, while it was well known
that John could. Ben knew boys well enough to feel sure that he would
be reminded from time to time of his adventure, and he did not like to
be laughed at. Why was it that John always seemed to get the better
of him? He went out expressly to triumph over John in presence of his
schoolmates, and this had been the humiliating result.
"Why was I such a fool as to use the whip?" thought Ben, vexed with
himself. "If it had not been for that, it would have been all right."
But he had used the whip, and it was all wrong. As to using the horse
any more, he did not care to do it. To tell the truth, Ben, who, as
we know, was not very courageous, was afraid of Prince. He suspected
that the horse would remember the blow he had given him, and would be
likely to serve him the same trick the next time he mounted him. So
he resolved that he would never ride out on Prince again; but he was
equally anxious that John should also be prevented from using him. The
words that his mother had last used led him to hope that she would
agree to sell him, and, what was still more important in his eyes,
give him the money resulting from the sale. Under these circumstances
the triumph would still be his, and he would enjoy John's grief for the
loss of his horse.
When Ben descended from his chamber, in a clean suit, he found that his
mother had taken measures to console him for his mortifying adventure.
The tea-table was spread, and two or three delicacies such as he
particularly liked were set before his plate. Ben surveyed this with
satisfaction, for he was something of a gourmand.
"I thought you might be hungry, Ben," said his mother; "so I got
some of that marmalade that you like so well, and here is some hot
mince-pie."
"That's just what I like, mother."
