things that may happen. I 'll leave you a text to 
meditate upon at such times : ' Commit thy ways 
unto the Lord, and he will bring it to pass.' 
" Yes, that is the best," returned Kathie, cheerily. 
Mrs. Alston felt quite anxious about leaving the 
children, but Hannah was so trustworthy, and Uncle 
Robert expected to be going backwards and forwards, 
so she thought that nothing very alarming could 
happen without their hearing of it soon. Still she 
gave Kathie many charges, and begged Eob to be 
as careful as he could, and not increase Kathie's 
cares. * 
Then the packing commenced. There was an 
abundance of easy wrappers, and a good warm double- 
gown, a pair of slippers that Kathie had embroidered, 
and rolls of old linen for bandages. Freddy was very 
anxious that she should take something of his, and 
even generously proposed his locomotive and his 
small music-box that regaled one with Hail Columbia 
and Yankee Doodle. 
" I am very much obliged," Aunt Euth replied, 
"but you know that I shall have to keep very quiet, 
so you had better enjoy these things yourself. And 
if you will be a good boy while I am away ! ' 
" I 'll be just as good as I can hold," said Freddy, 
swelling up and turning red in the face with his re- 
solve. 
The trunk was strapped and taken out on the 
porch. Mrs. Alston was dressed in a pretty brown 
travelling suit, and Uncle Eobert was up in Aunt 
Euth's room, ready to assist her down stairs. 
Kathie couldn't help thinking how lonesome it 
would be in this pleasant place after they were gone, 
and most of all in the evening, the time of quiet, 
comforting talks. She tried hard to wink away the 
tearg that would come, and keep her voice steady. 
" I shall be back on Saturday," Uncle Eobert, an- 
nounced, in his cheery fashion, "and I shall expect you 
to have a grand supper for me. Now, Aunt Euth, 
think how frisky you will be this time next year. 
Why, we shall have you dancing out on the lawn ! ' 
Kathie smiled at that, though, after all, no one 
 
beside the ponies seemed in very gay spirits. Mrs. 
Alston kissed the children silently, but Aunt Euth 
realized the most truly what the parting was to 
Kathie. Ever since she could remember, Aunt Euth 
had been such a dear friend. 
Uncle Eobert deposited her in the carriage : then 
mamma was put in. 
" Hurrah ! " shouted Eob. " Three wishes for suc- 
cess ! Here, we ought to have a slipper to throw 
for good luck ! " 
" Take mine " ; and Hannah pulled off hers. 
Eob threw it ahead of the carriage. " Better 
than we expect," he declared, running after it. 
Aunt Euth leaned out and smiled. That made 
Kathie quite light-hearted. 
" And now we must hurry off to school," said 
Eob to Freddy, who was sitting on the door-step, 
hardly knowing whether to cry or not. 
CHAPTER IV. 
KATHIE'S HOUSEKEEPING. 
KATHIE found the morning unusually long, it 
must "be confessed. She took care of the articles 
that had been left around in the hurry of depart- 
ure, put her own room in order, and looked out 
her books, as she meant to study her lessons just 
the same. But somehow she found it dull music, 
and her thoughts would wander to the travellers. 
So presently she took up her drawing. She was 
making a copy of a picture for Lucy Gardiner's 
birthday. 
The sun shone very brightly, and the air was so 
warm that she had her window open. Now and 
then a bird twittered on a tree near by, and she 
glanced up, her eyes lingering long over the lovely 
landscape. If she were only a bird! 
" This will never do," she said at length, and 
went to work in good earnest. The factory bell 
in the village rang for twelve. In a little more than 
 
two hours Bob would be home. Freddy took his 
lunch to school, as he did not return until three. 
But Kathie grew tired and went down to the 
kitchen. Hannah was canning some tomatoes, and 
this interested her a good deal. 
" I should think it would be lonesome for you, 
Miss Kathie," said Hannah. "I don't know how 
in the world we shall get along without your 
mamma." 
Kathie sighed. There was a ring at the door-bell, 
and Hannali was holding a ladleful of tomato in 
one hand, and a can in the other. 
" I'll go," the child said. 
To her great surprise as she opened the door, there 
stood Miss Jessie. 
" Oh," she exclaimed, " I am so glad to see you ! 
I was so lonesome that I had to go down to the 
kitchen. Will you come to my room and take off 
your hat ? " 
" Yes, I came to stay awhile. I promised your 
mamma that I would look in upon you. What 
have you been doing, drawing ? ' : 
" I was trying, but I didn't get along very well." 
" Your foliage is rather stiff, but otherwise I think 
it quite fair. I did not know that you had such a 
taste for drawing." 
"Uncle Eobert has been giving me lessons." 
" Well, suppose I give you one ? ' 
" Oh, if you will, Miss Jessie." 
Kathie took her seat and Miss Jessie overlooked 
her, making a suggestion pleasantly, here a little 
deeper shading, there more graceful and flowing lines, 
and soft touches that were such an improvement that 
Kathie was delighted. She was going on bravely 
when Eob came home. 
" What a short hour ! " she said, with a smile ; " and 
the rest have been so long." 
"And what a house without mother and Aunt 
Euth ! " Eob exclaimed. " As you have Miss Jessie, 
I think I 'll go off to the woods with the boys. Dun- 
can set a squirrel-trap this morning." 
" Eob, I hope they will not catch any. Don't 
you think it cruel, Miss Jessie ? " 
Eob laughed and called her chicken-hearted. It 
didn't hurt the squirrels a bit. 
" Boys seem to be very fond of the amusement," 
Miss Jessie replied. f " Charlie's pet squirrel was 
caught in the woods." 
 
" I don't see how he ever became so tame." 
"He was very shy and wild at first, but we all 
petted him a good deal. And yet it never appeared 
quite right to me to shut up such things in a cage." 
" But you let Dick run all over ! " 
" We do now. I hardly believe he would stay in 
the woods. He starts when he hears any of our 
voices." 
" I think I should like to have a pet," said Kathie, 
