 refuse her old mistress's request. Accordingly, she returned to Seaham
 Hall some days before the wedding, was present at the ceremony, and
 then preceded Lord and Lady Byron to Halnaby Hall, near Croft, in the
 North Riding of Yorkshire, one of Sir Ralph Milbanke's seats, where
 the newly married couple were to spend the honeymoon. Mrs. Mimms
 remained with Lord and Lady Byron during the three weeks they spent at
 Halnaby Hall, and then accompanied them to Seaham, where they spent
 the next six weeks. It was during the latter period that she finally
 quitted Lady Byron's service; but she remained in the most friendly
 communication with her ladyship till the death of the latter, and for
 some time was living in the neighbourhood of Lady Byron's residence
 in Leicestershire, where she had frequent opportunities of seeing her
 former mistress. It may be added that Lady Byron was not unmindful of
 the faithful services of her friend and attendant in the instructions
 to her executors contained in her will. Such was the position of Mrs.
 Mimms towards Lady Byron; and we think no one will question that
 it was of a nature to entitle all that Mrs. Mimms may say on the
 subject of the relations of Lord and Lady Byron to the most respectful
 consideration and credit.'

Such is the chronicler's account of the faithful creature whom nothing
but intense indignation and disgust at Mrs. Beecher Stowe would lead
to speak on her mistress's affairs; but Mrs. Beecher Stowe feels none
the less sincere respect for her, and is none the less obliged to her
for having spoken. Much of Mrs. Mimms's testimony will be referred to
in another place; we only extract one passage, to show that while Lord
Byron spent his time in setting afloat slanders against his wife, she
spent hers in sealing the mouths of witnesses against him.

Of the period of the honeymoon Mrs. Mimms says:--

 'The happiness of Lady Byron, however, was of brief duration; even
 during the short three weeks they spent at Halnaby, the irregularities
 of Lord Byron occasioned her the greatest distress, and she even
 contemplated returning to her father. Mrs. Mimms was her constant
 companion and confidante through this painful period, and she does not
 believe that her ladyship concealed a thought from her. With laudable
 reticence, the old lady absolutely refuses to disclose the particulars
 of Lord Byron's misconduct at this time; she gave Lady Byron a solemn
 promise not to do so.

        *       *       *       *       *

 'So serious did Mrs. Mimms consider the conduct of Lord Byron, that
 she recommended her mistress to confide all the circumstances to her
 father, Sir Ralph Milbanke, a calm, kind, and most excellent parent,
 and take his advice as to her future course. At one time Mrs. Mimms
 thinks Lady Byron had resolved to follow her counsel and impart her
 wrongs to Sir Ralph; but on arriving at Seaham Hall her ladyship
 strictly enjoined Mrs. Mimms to preserve absolute silence on the
 subject--a course which she followed herself;--so that when, six weeks
 later, she and Lord Byron left Seaham for London, not a word had
 escaped her to disturb her parents' tranquility as to their daughter's
 domestic happiness. As might be expected, Mrs. Mimms bears the
 warmest testimony to the noble and lovable qualities of her departed
 mistress. She also declares that Lady Byron was by no means of a cold
 temperament, but that the affectionate impulses of her nature were
 checked by the unkind treatment she experienced from her husband.'

We have already shown that Lord Byron had been, ever since his
separation, engaged in a systematic attempt to reverse the judgment of
the world against himself, by making converts of all his friends to a
most odious view of his wife's character, and inspiring them with the
zeal of propagandists to spread these views through society. We have
seen how he prepared partisans to interpret the Fourth Canto of 'Childe
Harold.'

This plan of solemn and heroic accusation was the first public attack
on his wife. Next we see him commencing a scurrilous attempt to turn
her to ridicule in the First Canto of 'Don Juan.'

It is to our point now to show how carefully and cautiously this Don
Juan campaign was planned.

Vol. IV. p. 138, we find Letter 325 to Mr. Murray:--

  'VENICE: January 25, 1819.

 'You will do me the favour to print privately, for private
 distribution, fifty copies of "Don Juan." The list of the men to whom
 I wish it presented I will send hereafter.'

The poem, as will be remembered, begins with the meanest and foulest
attack on his wife that ever ribald wrote, and puts it in close
neighbourhood with scenes which every pure man or woman must feel
to be the beastly utterances of a man who had lost all sense of
decency. Such a potion was too strong to be administered even in a
time when great license was allowed, and men were not over-nice. But
Byron chooses fifty armour-bearers of that class of men who would
find indecent ribaldry about a wife a good joke, and talk about the
'artistic merits' of things which we hope would make an honest boy
blush.

At this time he acknowledges that his vices had brought him to a state
of great exhaustion, attended by such debility of the stomach that
nothing remained on it; and adds, 'I was obliged to reform my way of
life, which was conducting me from the yellow leaf to the ground with
all deliberate speed.'[13] But as his health is a little better he
employs it in making the way to death and hell elegantly easy for other
young men, by breaking down the remaining scruples of a society not
over-scrupulous.

[Footnote 13: Vol. iv. p 143.]

Society revolted, however, and fought stoutly against the nauseous
dose. His sister wrote to him that she heard such things said of it
that she never would read it; and the outcry against it on the part
of all women of his acquaintance was such that for a time he was quite
overborne; and the Countess Guiccioli finally extorted a promise from
him to cease writing it. Nevertheless, there came a time when England
accepted 'Don Juan,'--when Wilson, in the 'Noctes Ambrosianæ,' praised
it as a classic, and took every opportunity to reprobate Lady Byron's
conduct. When first it appeared the 'Blackwood' came out with that
indignant denunciation of which we have spoken, and to which Byron
replied in the extracts we have already quoted. He did something more
than reply. He marked out Wilson as one of the strongest literary men
of the day, and set his 'initiated' with their documents to work upon
him.

One of these documents to which he requested Wilson's attention was the
private autobiography, written expressly to give his own story of all
the facts of the marriage and separation.

In the indignant letter he writes Murray on the 'Blackwood' article,
Vol. IV., Letter 350--under date December 10, 1819--he says:--

 'I sent home for Moore, and for Moore only (who has my journal also),
 my memoir written up to 1816, and I gave him leave to show it to
 whom he pleased, but not to publish on any account. You may read
 it, and you may let Wilson read it if he likes--not for his public
 opinion, but his private, for I like the man, and care very little
 about the magazine. And I could wish Lady Byron herself to read
 it, that she may have it in her power to mark anything mistaken or
 misstated. As it will never appear till after my extinction, it would
 be but fair she should see it; that is to say, herself willing. Your
 "Blackwood" accuses me of treating women harshly; but I have been
 their martyr; my whole life has been sacrificed to them and by them.'

It was a part of Byron's policy to place Lady Byron in positions before
the world where she could not speak, and where her silence would be
