evening. Her room was lighted, as usual; and when I retired, as the
light seemed to assure me she was there, I thought I would not disturb
her. The steamer stopped at the fort. She did not appear at breakfast,
and I went to her room. I was frightened when I saw that it had not
been occupied, and I ran to the captain. Inquiry proved that she had
not been seen since we left this landing. I was told that people lived
here, and that she would not suffer. As soon as the freight was
unloaded, the steamer returned."
While I was talking with her, the shrill screaming of a steamboat
whistle assured me I had another customer for wood. Slinging my rifle
over my shoulder,--for in these troublous times it was not safe to go
unarmed,--I rode old Firefly down to the landing. I sold twenty cords
of cotton-wood, and put eighty dollars into my pocket. I told the
captain all the news, while the hands were loading the fuel; and the
steamer went on her winding way up the river. In a short time she
disappeared beyond the bend. I was about to mount my horse, and return
to the Castle, when I discovered a dugout in the distance cautiously
stealing down the great river, under the shadow of the bank. It
contained two Indians; but I was thrilled with excitement when I
discovered a young lady seated between them.
It was Ella Gracewood.
I was in a clump of trees, where I had fastened Firefly, and the
savages could not see me. I unslung my rifle, and satisfied myself that
it was in condition for use. Breathless with interest and anxiety, I
watched the dugout. I realized that the Indians had doubled on the
soldiers in pursuit of them by returning to their boats, and coming
down Crooked River. They evidently intended to ascend the Fish River.
Aware that the troops were in hot pursuit of them, I could understand
that their only solicitude was to escape with their prisoner, whose
presence was a sort of guarantee of their own safety.
I hardly dared to breathe, lest the savages should discover me. I
crouched behind a bush, and watched the progress of the enemy, as they
rounded the point, and paddled up the Fish River. I could not make up
my mind what to do. If I went up to the camp to inform the soldiers of
what I had seen, I should lose sight of the dugout. I expected every
moment to see the other two Indians come round the point in the second
dugout, but they did not appear.
As the savages ascended the stream, I crawled out of my hiding-place.
Mr. Gracewood's barge had been left at the lauding by the steamer, and
I launched it as the dugout disappeared beyond a bend in the creek. I
rowed with the utmost caution up the stream, fearful that the quick ear
of the Indians might detect the sound of the oars. I took the
precaution to muffle the oars, using an old coat I found in the boat
for the purpose. At the bend where I had lost sight of the enemy, I
held the barge by an overhanging branch, until I had satisfied myself
that it was safe to proceed. The dugout was not in sight, and I
continued to pull up the stream, pausing at every turn to take an
observation.
As it was not safe for me to go forward while the dugout could be seen,
I had not obtained another view of it when I reached the junction of
the Big and Little Fish Creeks. As the soldiers were between the former
and Crooked River, I knew the fugitives would not take that branch, and
I confidently pulled up the Little Fish. Two miles above the junction
the rapids commenced, and boats could go no farther in this direction.
Unfortunately the stream was too straight to suit my purpose, and
seeing the dugout half a mile ahead of me, I landed, and determined to
walk in the path on the bank of the creek.
The trees enabled me to keep out of sight, and I quickened my pace, so
as to lessen the distance between myself and the enemy. As they made
but slow progress against the current, I was soon as near them as I
dared to go. In this manner I crept along the path till the dugout
arrived at the rapids. The Indians landed, and compelled Ella to do so.
I could not see her face, but I judged that she had in some degree
become reconciled to her situation.
The place where the fugitives landed was at the mouth of the little
brook up which Mr. Gracewood and I had followed the horse thieves. The
rapids were just above the mouth of this stream, and the locality was
my favorite fishing-ground. I supposed the savages would follow the
path on the bank of the creek, which led to the Indian village; but
instead of doing so, they struck into the woods by the route the horse
thieves had taken. I walked up to the mouth of the brook; but I knew
the Indians could go but a short distance in the direction they had
chosen. It was nearly sundown, and I concluded that they intended to
encamp for the night. I had about decided to return to the Castle, and
procure the assistance of the soldiers, when I heard one of the Indians
approaching. Concealing myself behind a tree, I waited to observe his
movements.
He went to the river, embarked in the dugout, and pushing out into the
middle of the stream, commenced fishing, not fifty yards from me. I
could not resist the temptation to open the battle, and taking
deliberate aim at the Indian with my rifle, I fired.
CHAPTER XIII.
IN WHICH PHIL AND HIS COMPANION ARRIVE AT THE CABIN OF KIT CRUNCHER.
If I had considered the matter a moment longer, probably I should not
have had the courage to open the battle; for, if I failed to hit the
Indian, my situation would become desperate, and with an empty rifle in
my hand, I could only depend upon my legs for safety, while the savages
would be able to escape with their prize before the soldiers could be
brought up.
Fortunately for me, I did not miss my aim. My bullet evidently passed
through the brain of the savage, for he threw up his arms, and dropped
over into the bottom of the dugout. His fall disturbed the boat, and
detached it from the overhanging branch by which he had secured it, to
enable him to fish. The current whirled it around, and carried it down
the river.
Though I could not rid myself of a certain sensation of horror, when I
found that I had actually taken a human life, I was well satisfied with
what I had done. My frame trembled with emotion and excitement as I
hastened to load my rifle again. I expected that the sound of the shot
would bring the other Indian to the spot, and I nervously awaited his
approach; but he did not appear. As the first Indian had come to the
creek to obtain food, his companion doubtless supposed he had fired at
some game. The wind wafted the smell of smoke to me, and I surmised
that the savage at the camp was preparing to cook the fish or game
which the other was to obtain.
The sun went down, and it began to be dark in the shades of the forest.
I had become composed and resolute again, after waiting half an hour
for the coming of the other redskin. I had arrived at the conclusion
that it was not worth while to return to the Castle for the soldiers. I
was sure that the Indian at the camp fire would soon come down to the
creek to ascertain what had become of his companion. To prevent him
from stumbling upon me, I retreated a little farther from the stream
into the forest. I could not be mistaken in my calculation, which was
soon verified by the sound of footsteps in the direction of the Indian
camp.
I found my heart beating violently again, and I dreaded the necessity
of shooting the savage almost as much as I did the consequences if I
failed to do so. It was still light enough for me to see him distinctly
when he made his appearance on the bank of the brook. I raised my rifle
with the intention of firing the instant he stopped long enough to
enable me to insure my aim, for I had not confidence enough to shoot
while he was in motion. But I was so agitated that I was not in
condition to do justice to my own skill. The savage walked rapidly to
the bank of the creek, and halted, looking up and down in search of the
dugout and his companion.
"Ugh!" grunted he, in order to express his dissatisfaction at the long
absence of his associate, I suppose.
Then he shouted, and waited for a response from his absent friend; but
he did not hold still long enough to enable me to cover his head with
the muzzle of my piece. I was so excited by the consideration of the
fatal consequences to me, and perhaps to Ella, if I failed to bring him
down, that I had not pluck enough to fire. I had slain one man, and it
was awful to think of killing another. I would have given all the gold
in my pocket if Kit Cruncher had stood by my side at that instant, and
relieved me of the fearful responsibility of the occasion.
Of course there was no response to the call of the Indian; and, after
glancing all around him, he walked rapidly down the path on the bank of
the creek in search of his lost mate. This movement on his part
afforded me a new hope. As Ella had not come to the stream with her
surviving captor, it was evident enough that he had left her at the
