Mr. Chilton declines explaining the ugly story relative to his earlier
career of dissipation and deceit, which I forwarded to you. He indulges,
instead, in a tirade of personal abuse touching my right to control you,
declaring his purpose to pursue you with letters and attentions until
he shall be discarded by yourself. We will not stay to discuss the
gentlemanliness and delicacy of his behavior in this regard. I merely
declare, that, having had a fair opportunity of honest confession or
denial of statements detrimental to his principles and pursuits,
and having shirked both, he has placed himself outside the pale of
respectful consideration. Has he written to you since his receipt of my
letter?”
“No!”
Mabel was staring at a figure in the carpet, on a line with her feet.
Had she regarded her brother never so attentively, she would have
detected no change in his countenance. He did not prepare questions
without also studying how to deliver them.
“I am glad he has the moral decency to forbear carrying out his threat
of persecution.”
He could say it with the greater hardihood in the remembrance that the
“persecution” had been attempted.
“I wish he had written!” rejoined Mabel, abruptly, but without passion.
“He was right to protest against accepting his dismissal from any other
than myself.”
She had not removed her eyes from the spot on the carpet, or lowered the
paper screen. She looked like a statue and spoke like an automaton.
Mr. Aylett’s nostrils quivered ominously.
“Is it your wish to recommence the correspondence I have ended?”
“You know that I would strike off my right hand sooner than do it. But
if he had written to me, I should have answered his letter, if it had
been only to bid him farewell. Since he has not chosen to do this, I
cannot take the initiative.”
If Winston had never entertained a favorable opinion of his own sagacity
prior to hearing this avowal, it would have forced itself upon him now.
How timely was the thought, how felicitous the accident, that had aided
him to ward off the disaster of renewed intercourse!
Involuntarily his fingers crept nearer to the closed portfolio.
“No good could have come of that!” returned he coldly. “When an
amputation is to be performed, wise people submit to it without
useless preliminaries. The exchange of farewells in this case would
be inexpedient in the highest degree. You would compromise yourself by
continued acknowledgment of this fellow’s acquaintance. My will is that
you and the world should forget, as soon as it can be done, that you
ever saw or heard of him. The connection was degrading.”
“Don’t abuse him, brother! Let the knowledge that we are parted forever,
satisfy your resentment. Since he has not appealed to me from your
verdict, I am left to suppose that, upon second thoughts, he has
resolved to acquiesce in your will. I do not blame him for the change
of purpose.” Still impassive in feature and voice, still not withdrawing
her fixed gaze from that one point upon the floor. “He, too, has pride,
and it matches yours. I do not say mine. I question, sometimes, if I
have any.”
“If your conjecture be correct, you cannot object to return the letters
you have already received from him,” said Winston, pressing on to the
conclusion of a disagreeable business. “Since you are not likely to
add to your stock of these valuables, you do not care to retain them,
I suppose? I believe the rule is total surrender of souvenirs when a
rupture is pronounced hopeless.”
“I shall keep them a week longer!”
She assigned no reason for the resolution, and her manner, without being
sullen, aggravated her brother into wrath, the effusion of which was a
withering sneer.
“Your hope in his repentance is creditable to the strength--or
weakness--of woman’s love. But have your way. The illustrious record of
his former life is a powerful argument in favor of clemency. In a week,
then!”
He nodded dismissal, wheeled his chair around to the table, dipped a pen
in the standish, and pulled an account-book toward him.
He was surprised and not pleased, nevertheless, that Mabel retired
without other reply than a simple “Good-night,” said without temper,
or any evidence of excitement. A month before, a milder sarcasm, the
lightest breath of reproof, would have brought her to his feet in a
paroxysm of tears, to implore pardon for her contumacy, and to promise
obedience for all time to come. She was getting beyond his control the
while she offered no open resistance to his government. Was sorrowful
shame, or her infatuation for the adventurer he cursed in his heart
by his gods, the influence that was petrifying her into this unlovely
caricature of her once bright and affectionate self?
She presented herself, unsummoned, in his study at the expiration of
the period she had designated, a pacquet in her hand, neatly done up and
sealed.
“I will trouble you to direct it,” was all she said, as she laid it
before him.
“This is done of your own free will--remember!” he said, impressively.
“In after years, should you be so unreasonable as to regret it, there
must be no misconception on the subject between us. If you wish, at
this, the eleventh hour, to draw back, I shall not oppose you.”
“You will write the address, then, if you please!” was Mabel’s reply,
showing him the surface intended for it.
Then she left him.
“A sensible girl, after all! a genuine Aylett, in will and stoicism!”
 commented the master of the situation, beginning in his round, legible
characters, the inscription he hoped never to trace again. “So endeth
her first lesson in Cupid’s manual!”
He never knew that Mrs. Sutton had bolstered the Aylett will and
stoicism into stanchness at this closing scene. In a fit of despondency,
she had that morning imparted to Mabel the fact that she had written to
Frederic, ten days before, and had no answer, although she had besought
an immediate one.
“I have expected him confidently every day for a week,” she lamented. “I
didn’t suppose he would stay at Ridgeley, after what has happened;
but there’s the hotel in the village, and, as I told him, he could
accomplish more by an hour’s talk with you than by fifty letters. It is
very mysterious--his continued silence! He always appeared so frank and
reasonable. Nothing else like it has ever occurred in my experience--and
I have had a great deal, my dear!”
“I am sorry you wrote, aunt,” replied Mabel, sorrowfully dignified.
“Sorry you have subjected yourself to unnecessary mortification. I am
past feeling it for myself. We cannot longer doubt that Mr. Chilton
desires to hold no further communication with any of us.”
Within the hour she made up the pacquet and carried it to her brother.
CHAPTER VII. -- WASSAIL.
ALMOST sixteen months had passed since the dewless September morning,
when Mabel had gathered roses in the garden walks, and her brother’s
return had shaken the dew with the bloom from her young heart. It was
the evening of Christmas-day, and the tide of wassail, the blaze
of yule, were high at Ridgeley. Without, the fall of snow that had
commenced at sundown, was waxing heavier and the wind fiercer. In-doors,
fires roared and crackled upon every hearth; there was a stir of busy
or merry life in every room. About the spacious fire-place in the
“baronial” hall was a wide semicircle of young people, and before that
in the parlor, a cluster of elders, whose graver talk was enlivened,
from time to time, by the peals of laughter that tossed into jubilant
surf the stream of the juniors’ converse.
Nearest the mantel, on the left wing of the line, sat the three months’
bride, Imogene Barksdale, placid, dove-eyed, and smiling as of yore,
very comely with her expression of satisfied prettiness nobody called
vanity, and bedecked in her “second day’s dress” of azure silk and her
bridal ornaments. Her husband hovered on the outside of the ring, now
pulling the floating curls of a girl-cousin (every third girl in
the country was his cousin, once, twice, or thrice-removed, and none
resented the liberties he, as a married man, was pleased to take), anon
whispering in the ear of a bashful maiden interrogatories as to her
latest admirer or rumored engagement; oftenest leaning upon the back
of his wife’s chair, a listener to what was going on, his hand lightly
touching her lace-veiled shoulders, until her head gradually inclined
against his arm. They were a loving couple, and not shy of testifying
their consent to the world.
“They remind me irresistibly of a pair of plump babies sucking at
opposite ends of a stick of sugar candy!” Rosa Tazewell said aside to
the hostess, as the latter paused beside her on her way through the hall
