will take a walk in the grounds. Uncle Edward said 
I was to entertain you.” 
“ Don’t go ’way,” pleaded Willie, holding fast her 
dress. 
“ Ask Miss Kathie if she will not call on us again,” 
prompted the nurse. 
“Ada won’t let her,” George appended, rather crossly. 
“ Hush, Georgie ; that isn’t nice.” 
They had a great time kissing Kathie, and begging 
her to come again. Then Ada took her down stairs 
and played for her quite a while. The music inter- 
ested Kathie very much, still she could not help 
thinking of the little children in the nursery. Pres- 
ently they were summoned to lunch, and afterwards 
the whole party rambled through the grounds. Mrs, 
Meredith then proposed a drive, as they would have 
just about time before the boat returned. 
Mr. Meredith came down stairs just as the girls 
were putting on their hats. “ Kathie,” he exclaimed, 
" those little rogues in the nursery insist upon saying 
another good by to you ; will you come ? ” 
 
She was delighted to comply ; and the children 
would have almost devoured her if Uncle Edward 
had not interfered. 
“ She will never dare venture in this lion’s den 
again,” he said, with a laugh. 
The drive was delightful. Mrs. Meredith was 
very cordial in her invitation for them to come again, 
and Ada regretted that Kathie’s stay must be so 
short. 
“ I begin to have some wants,” Kathie said that 
night, sitting on Uncle Robert’s knee ; “ I ’d like to 
have a piano and quantities ol nice books, and a 
pony. Ada has such a pretty one. Will my purse 
buy them all ? ” and she looked archly up in his 
face. 
“You don’t know until you test it.” 
“ The visit was very pleasant,” she said to Aunt 
Ruth, when they were alone ; “ but I couldn’t help 
thinking that Miss Jessie makes you happy by doing 
everything your way, just as if she had asked you 
what you liked most, and Ada thinks her way is 
so much better that you ought to be pleased with it 
as a matter of course.” 
Aunt Ruth smiled. “ That is the germ of selfish- 
 
ness, Katliie, and people in Ada’s circumstances have 
many temptations to yield to it. Only by striving 
very hard can it be overcome. And since my dear 
little girl can see it, she must endeavor to strive 
against it.” 
There were several more very busy days, and at 
last Katliie tried her purse. She bought a set of 
books for Rob, he having read stray ones and liked 
them very much ; and she saw a most elegant little 
locomotive with a train of cars, that, being wound up 
like a clock, ran all over the floor. That must he for 
Fred. But then in dismay she found that she had 
not money enough. Just as she laid the last piece 
on the counter there was a glitter before her eyes, 
and sure enough her store was immediately in- 
creased. 
“ But if I should be away from you, Uncle Rob ? ” 
“ Oh, it ’s part of the bargain that you always take 
me along.” 
“ Now I ’d like to buy something for mamma, — a 
gray silk dress, just like Mrs. Darrell’s.” 
After quite a search they found it. Kathie 
laughed each time her purse was replenished. 
“ But you have bought nothing for yourself."
“ I believe I don’t want anything just now.” 
“ Very well,” Uncle Robert said, a merry twinkle 
dancing in his eye a moment. 
Mr. Meredith was very sorry to part with Kathie, 
and promised to come to Brookside as soon as the new 
house was in order. Several of the ladies besides 
Mrs. Havens had taken a great fancy to her, for she 
had proved herself so sweet-tempered and engaging. 
“ I should be real sorry to go home if it wasn’t 
for seeing mamma and Freddy and Rob, but that 
seems so delightful. And I wonder what they have 
done to the house ! Then there ’s Miss J essie and 
Charlie, and all the girls. Yes, I believe I do want 
to go home.” 
It was royal to see them all again. Freddy near- 
ly kissed her to death, until presently Rob said, 
“ Come, Fred, give me a chance. Remember that 
I haven’t seen Kathie for ’most a fortnight.” 
Fred opened his eyes at this, not exactly taking in 
the meaning. 
“ Dear mamma,” Kathie said, “ I ’m so glad to get 
back to you ! It has all been splendid, and I have 
seen ever so many nice people ; but you are the best 
and sweetest of them all.” 
Two trunks came from New York instead of the 
one they had taken. The largest Kathie was to 
unpack herself. 
“ I tried my purse, Rob, and here \s what came out 
of it for you ; and Oh, here is mamma’s share ! ” 
“ You might ha’ brought me something. It ’s real 
mean ” ; and Fred’s face was the picture of woe. 
“ Just wait and see.” 
She took out a large package and began tearing 
off the wrappings. Fred watched with anxious eyes. 
Kathie lifted the cars carefully out one by one, 
linked them together, and wound up the locomotive. 
“ There, Fred, you can go to Boston a dozen times 
a day.” 
He capered around the room in a most delighted 
fashion and declared that Kathie was the best girl 
in the whole world. Then he ran back to give her 
a hug and a dozen kisses. 
“ But what are all the rest, Uncle Robert ? ” 
Kathie asked. 
“ Go on and see.” 
Two flat and nearly square packages, each bearing 
a card containing briefly, “ To Kathie, from E. M.” 
O, that ’s Mr. Meredith. And — what lovely, 
 
lovely pictures ! They are just what I liked so much 
one day when he took me to a store to see Little 
Red Riding-Hood. Did you know it, Uncle Rob ? ” 
He laughed a little. 
“ And here ’s something from Mrs. Havens. Mam- 
ma, she used to know papa, and has seen you. She 
was so sweet and pleasant to me.” 
A very curious Japanese work-box and carved 
sandal- wood fan. Kathie glanced first at these and 
then at her beautiful chromo-lithographs. They 
were all such a great surprise to her. Mr. Mere- 
dith would have enjoyed it very much. 
Then in the bottom of the trunk were several new 
dresses Uncle Robert had bought her, — dainty printed 
pique, and two white ones. 
“ And what did you buy for yourself out of your 
wonderful purse ? ” asked Rob. 
“ O, nothing at all, and I don’t think I needed any- 
thing.” 
As Kathie glanced up she met Uncle Robert’s 
