"I haven't time now."
"Very well. Planters' Hotel--bar-room--seven o'clock. I'll be there if
they don't turn me out before that time. If they do, you will find me
in the street."
Although I was not very confident he would keep his appointment, it
was the best I could do. If he failed to be there, he was evidently
a character so noted, that I could easily find him. I hastened to my
dinner, and reached Mrs. Greenough's rather late. I explained the
reason of my tardiness, which was quite satisfactory. My landlady
hoped that I should recover my money, and I hoped so too--a degree of
unanimity which does not always exist between landlady and boarder.
I was on the work as the clock struck one, but I had to do some running
that noon, in order to protect my reputation. Conant did not drive
business in the afternoon as he had in the forenoon, when I think he
intended to wear me out. We worked steadily, and I kept my end of the
board up. I was not sorry to hear the clock strike six, for I was
tired, though perhaps not more so than Conant himself. I went home, ate
my supper, did my chores in the house, and at seven o'clock I was in
the bar-room of the Planters' Hotel. It was no place for a boy, or a
man either, for that matter. No one was what could be called, in good
society, disreputably drunk, unless it was the seedy gentleman whom I
met by appointment; and even he was able to handle himself tolerably
well. No doubt he would have been more intoxicated if he had not drank
up the dollar he had borrowed; but his wits were not wholly stupefied.
"Well, my lad, you have come, and so have I," said Farringford, when I
entered the room. "Both come, and that makes two of us, all told."
"Yes. I wanted to see you about--"
"Stop a minute, my lad," interposed he, putting his trembling hand upon
my shoulder. "Let us go to work right. When I used to run steamboats,
we had to put in wood and water before we could get up steam."
"When did you run steamboats?" I asked.
"Ten or fifteen years ago. I was a rich man then; but now I'm as poor
as a church mouse with his hair all singed off. I am; but I'm jolly;
yes, I am jolly. Let's proceed to business."
"Did you own a steamboat--"
"Stop, my lad; I owned half a dozen of them. But that's no matter now.
Do you happen to have a dollar in your pocket--one dollar, my lad."
"No, sir; I have not."
"Not a dollar?"
"No, I have not."
"Do you happen to have half a dollar in your pocket, my lad?"
"Not even half a dollar, sir."
"Your name is--somebody told me your name," said he, musing.
"Phil, sir."
"Phil, do you always speak the truth?"
"I always endeavor to do so," I replied.
"I hope so. Truth is mighty, and must prevail. You should always speak
the truth."
"As you did, to-day, when you said you had known me from my babyhood."
"Boys must speak the truth, whether men do or not. Did you speak the
truth when you said you had not even half a dollar?"
"I did."
"Have you any money?"
"I have thirty cents."
"Then lend me a quarter."
"It's all I have."
"We can't do any business till this little matter is attended to," said
he, with tipsy solemnity. "You shall be paid, my lad; you shall be
paid--when I pay the rest of my creditors."
Finding it impossible to proceed any farther without complying with his
request, I reluctantly gave him the quarter; but I felt guilty in doing
so. He went to the bar, drank, and returned to the corner where he had
left me.
  CHAPTER X.
  IN WHICH PHIL LISTENS TO A VERY IMPRESSIVE TEMPERANCE LECTURE.
Farringford was very chipper when he returned to me. He had drank
half a tumbler of whiskey, and appeared to be prepared, to his own
satisfaction, for any business which might be presented to him.
"Now, my lad, I'm ready. I'm refreshed. I'm invigorated. I'm inspired.
In a word, I'm prepared for the consideration of the important matter
you proposed to bring before me," said he.
"I am very glad to hear it, sir; I wish to tell you--"
"Stop a moment, my lad. You have a name, doubtless. Do you happen to
remember what it is?"
"Very distinctly, Mr. Farringford. You may call me Phil."
  [Illustration: PHIL MEETS A SEEDY INDIVIDUAL NAMED FARRINGFORD.
  Page 109.]
"Phil; that is very good as far as it goes. Phil may stand for Philip,
Phillimore, Philippians, Philosophy."
"It stands for Philip with me, sir."
"Philip; I had a brother once of that name, but he is no longer living.
If he were, he would blush to own his brother. But no matter; that is
all past and gone. You can proceed with your business, Philip."
Placing his elbows upon the little table between us, he rested his chin
upon his trembling hands, and fixed his gaze upon me. He was a singular
man, and, tipsy as he was, I was deeply interested in him.
"You know Lynch, the person you met opposite the Planters' Hotel to-day
noon."
"I know him, Philip; but, in a word, I don't know any good of him. Go
on."
"That man robbed me of all the money I had, except thirty cents--nearly
a hundred dollars."
"Philip, you told me you were in the habit of speaking the truth; or
rather that you endeavored to speak the truth."
"Yes, sir; I do endeavor to speak the truth. I am willing to go a
point farther, and say that I have thus far been very successful."
"The statement that Lynch robbed you of nearly a hundred dollars
implies the statement that you had nearly a hundred dollars," said he,
with his tipsy solemnity, which was amusing. "It is self-evident that
he could not have robbed you of this money, if you had not had it."
"Certainly not sir. I did have it."
"Where and by what means should a boy of your tender years obtain
nearly a hundred dollars? In a word, Philip, where did you get your
money?"
"It was a part of what was left me by my foster-father, who died last
spring. I had it with me to pay my expenses till I could get into
business and pay my way. I expect my friends will be in St. Louis in a
few days, and then I shall be able to prove all I say. In the mean time
I refer to Captain Davis, of the steamer Fawn."
"That's all straightforward, Philip, and for the present I accept your
statement as true. You were robbed of nearly a hundred dollars by this
man, Lynch, of whom I know no good thing, except that he lent me a
dollar to-day, which I shall return to him when I pay the rest of my
creditors."
"Could you find this man, Mr. Farringford?" I asked.
"Doubtless I could. He may be seen, almost any night, at the
gambling-houses."
"Will you help me get my money back?"
"Wherefore should I soil the dignity of a gentleman by becoming a
thief-taker?"
"Because you will do me a favor, and promote the ends of justice by
doing so."
"Very true, Philip; you rightly apprehend the character of the
gentleman you address. Whatever I may seem to be, no man can say
that Edward Farringford ever soiled his soul by a dishonorable or a
dishonest act."
"If you can induce Lynch to give me back my money, I will pay you
twenty-five dollars."
"Twenty-five dollars!" exclaimed he. "Two hundred and fifty drinks!
Philip, I will do the best I can for you; not for the sake of the
money, but to subserve the ends of justice, and to save a deserving
young man from want and hardship. The cause is a good one."
"It is, sir. If you do not succeed, I shall call upon the police as
soon as my friends arrive."
"It is well, Philip. Lynch will return the money rather than be driven
from St. Louis."
"You understand that he must pay the money to me," I added, as it
occurred to me that I should never see it if it came into the hands of
the dilapidated gentleman before me.
"Wouldn't it be just as well that he should pay it over to me, and I
