sit, Rufie."
"He will sit next to you, Rose; I spoke to Mrs. Clayton about it. Rufus
will take care of you, and I am to look after Jennie and Carrie."
"That will be very nice."
"How do you like the little girls, Rose?" asked her brother.
"Very much. They have given me some of their dolls."
"And which knows the most,--you or they?"
"Oh, I know ever so much more," said Rose, positively.
"Is that true, Miss Manning, or is Rose boasting?" asked Rufus.
"Rose is farther advanced than either Jennie or Carrie," answered Miss
Manning. "They have studied comparatively little yet, but I find them
docile, and I think they will soon improve."
By the time Rufus had combed his hair, and put on a clean collar, the
dinner-bell rang. He followed Miss Manning down into the dining-room.
"Good-evening, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs. Clayton. "I am glad to see you."
"His name isn't Mr. Rushton," said Rose. "His name is Rufie."
"It is the first time Rose ever heard me called so," said Rufus,
smiling. "She will soon get used to it."
He was rather pleased than otherwise to be called Mr. Rushton. It made
him feel more like a man.
"You may take that seat, Mr. Rushton," said the landlady. "Your little
sister will sit beside you."
Rufus took the chair indicated.
Next to him was seated a lady of thirty or more, whose hair fell in
juvenile ringlets. This was Mrs. Clifton, formerly Miss Peyton, who will
be remembered by the readers of "Fame and Fortune." Rufus was introduced
to her.
"I am very glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs.
Clifton, graciously. "You have a very sweet little sister."
"Yes; she is a very good little girl," said Rufus, better pleased with a
compliment to Rose than he would have been with one to himself.
"I understand you are in business in Wall Street, Mr. Rushton."
"Yes," said Rufus. "I am in the office of Mr. Turner."
"I sometimes tell Mr. Clifton I wish he would go into business in Wall
Street. He keeps a dry-goods store on Eighth Avenue."
"Can't remember ever hearing you mention the idea, Mrs. C----," remarked
her husband, who sat on the other side, in a pause between two
mouthfuls. "There aint much money in dry goods just now, by jove! I'll
open in Wall Street, if you say the word."
Mrs. Clifton slightly frowned, and did not see fit to answer the remark
made to her. Her husband was not very brilliant, either in business,
wit, or in any other way, and she had married him, not from love, but
because she saw no other way of escaping from being an old maid.
"Do you know, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs. Clifton, "you remind me so much of
a very intimate friend of mine, Mr. Hunter?"
"Do I?" added Rufus. "I hope he is good-looking."
"He's very handsome," said Mrs. Clifton, "and so witty."
"Then I'm glad I'm like him," said Rufus.
For some reason he did not feel so bashful as he anticipated,
particularly with Mrs. Clifton.
"He's soon going to be married to a very rich young lady,--Miss Greyson;
perhaps you know her."
"That's where he has the advantage of me," said Rufus.
"Mr. Clifton," said his wife, "don't you think Mr. Rushton looks very
much like Mr. Hunter?"
"Yes," said her husband; "as much as I look like the Emperor Napoleon."
"Don't make a goose of yourself, Mr. Clifton," said his wife, sharply.
"Thank you, I don't intend to. A goose is a female, and I don't care to
make such a change."
"I suppose you think that is witty," said Mrs. Clifton, a little
disdainfully.
It is unnecessary to pursue the conversation. Those who remember Mrs.
Clifton when she was Miss Peyton will easily understand what was its
character. It had the effect, however, of putting Rufus at his ease. On
the whole, considering that he was only used to cheap restaurants, he
acquitted himself very well for the first time, and no one suspected
that he had not always been accustomed to live as well. The dinner he
found excellent. Mrs. Clayton herself superintended the preparation of
dinner, and she was not inclined to undue economy, as is the case with
many landladies.
"I'm glad I came here," thought Rufus. "It's worth the difference in
price."
As they rose from the table, Mrs. Colman asked Miss Manning, "Is that
the brother of your little girl?"
"Yes," answered Miss Manning.
"He has a very good appearance; I should like to have you bring him into
our room a while."
Miss Manning communicated this invitation to Rufus. He would have
excused himself gladly, but he felt that this would have been hardly
polite; therefore he accepted it.
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs. Colman.
"Thank you," said Rufus.
"I hear that you have come to board with us."
"Yes," he answered, wishing that he might think of something more to
say, but not succeeding.
"It is a pleasant boarding-place; I hope you will like it."
"I think I shall."
"You have a very nice little sister; my little girls like her very much.
She will be a great deal of company for them."
"I think she is a very good little girl," said Rufus; "but then I am
her brother, so I suppose it is natural for me to think so."
"You are in an office in Wall Street, I am told," said Mr. Colman.
"Yes, sir," said Rufus.
"Whose, may I ask?"
"Mr. Turner's."
"He is an able business-man, and stands high. You could not learn
business under better auspices."
"I like him very much," said Rufus; "but then I have not been long in
his office."
"I find Miss Manning relieves me of a great deal of care and trouble,"
said Mrs. Colman (her new governess being just then out of the room). "I
feel that I was fortunate in securing her services."
"I think you will like her," said Rufus. "She is very kind to Rose. I
don't know what I should do with little sister, if I did not have her to
look after her."
"Then your mother is not living, Mr. Rushton."
"No," said Rufus; "she has been dead for two years."
"And you are the sole guardian of your little sister?"
"Yes, ma'am."
After half an hour's call, which Rufus found less embarrassing and more
agreeable than he anticipated, he excused himself, and went upstairs.
On Tuesday of the nest week, he decided to reveal his new plans to Miss
Manning. Accordingly, he managed to reach home about half-past four in
the afternoon, and invited her and Rose to take a walk with him.
"Where shall we walk?" she asked.
"Over to Sixth Avenue," said Rufus. "I want to show you a store there."
Miss Manning soon got ready, and the three set out.
It was not far,--scarcely ten minutes' walk. When they arrived opposite
the store, Rufus pointed over to it.
"Do you see that periodical store?" he asked.
"Yes," said Miss Manning.
"How do you like it?"
"Why do you ask?" she inquired, puzzled.
"Look at the sign," he answered.
"RUSHTON & BLACK," read Miss Manning. "Why, that is your name!"
"And I am at the head of the firm," said Rufus complacently.
"What does it all mean?" asked Miss Manning. "How can it be?"
"I'll tell you," said Rufus.
A few words made her understand.
"Now," said Rufus, "let us go over to my store, and look in."
"What, is it your store, Rufie?" asked Rose.
"Yes, little sister, it's part mine."
When they entered, they found George Black behind the counter, waiting
on a customer, who directly went out.
"Well, George, how's business?" asked Rufus.
"It opens well," said his partner, cheerfully. "It's a good stand, and
there's a good run of custom."
"This is my friend, Miss Manning," said Rufus, "and my little sister
Rose."
"I am glad to see you, Miss Manning," said the young man. "I hope," he
