Matilda's hands and her knife went into the 
pan. She thought it was very disagreeable, 
but she did it. After the potatoes and turnips 
were ready for the pot, Maria demanded her 
help about other things; she must clean the 
knives and set the table and prepare the 
celery and rub the apples ; while Maria kept 
up the fire and attended to the cookery. Matilda did one thing after another ; her weary little feet travelled out and in, from one room 
to the other room, aiid got things in order 
for dinner in both places. 
It was a pretty satisfactory dinner, on the 
whole. The mutton was well cooked and the 
vegetables were not bad, Mrs. Candy said ; 
but Matilda thought with dismay of the after 
dinner dishes. However, dinner gives courage 
 
sometimes; and both she and Maria were 
stronger-hearted when they rose from table 
than when they had sat down. Dishes and 
pots and kettles, and knives, and endless details beside, were in course of time got rid of; 
and then Matilda put on her hat and cloak 
and set forth on an errand she had been meditating. 
CHAPTER X. 
IT was a soft pleasant day late in March. 
The snow had all gone for the present. 
Doubtless it might come back again ; no one 
could tell ; in Shadywalk snow was not an 
unknown visiter even in April ; but for the 
present no such reminder of winter was anywhere to be seen. The air was still and gentle ; even the brown tree stems looked softer 
and less bare than a few weeks ago, though 
no bursting buds yet were there to make any 
real change. The note of a bird might be 
heard now and then ; Matilda had twice seen 
the glorious colour of a blue bird's wings as 
they spread themselves in the light. It was 
quite refreshing to get out of the house and 
the kitchen work, and smell the fresh pure air, 
and see the sky, and feel that all the world was 
 
not between four walls anywhere. Matilda 
went softly along, enjoying. At the corner 
she turned, and walked up Butternut street , 
so called probably in honour of some former 
tree of that family; for not a shoot of one was 
known in the street now. On and on she 
went, till her church was passed ; and then 
turned down the little lane which led to the 
parsonage. The snow all gone, it was look- 
ing pretty here. On one side the old church, 
the new lecture room on the other, and between them the avenue of elms, arching their 
branches over the way and making a vista, at 
the end of which was the brown door of the 
parsonage. Always that was a pleasant view 
to Matilda, for she associated the brown door 
with a great many things ; however, this day 
she did not seek the old knocker which hung 
temptingly overhead, but sheered off and went 
round to the back of the house ; and there entered at once, and without knocking, upon 
Miss Redwood's premises. They were in 
order ; nobody ever saw the parsonage kitchen 
otherwise ; and Miss Redwood was sitting in 
front of the stove, knitting. 
" Well, if there ain't Tilly Englefield!" was 
her salutation. 
" May I come in, Miss Redwood ? if you 
are not busy." 
" Suppos'n I was busy; I guess you wouldn't 
do me no harm, child. Corne right in and 
sit down, and tell me how's all goin' on 
at your house. How's your mother, fust 
thing?" 
" Aunt Candy says she's not any better." 
" What does your mother say herself? " 
" I have not seen her to-day. Aunt Candy 
says she is nervous ; and she wants me not to 
go into her room." 
" Who wants you not to go in ? Not your 
mother ? " 
" No ; aunt Candy." 
" I thought so. Well ; how do you get 
along without your sisters, eh? Have you 
got a girl, or are you goin' to do without ? " 
" We are going to do without." 
 
" I don't see how you kin, with your mother 
sick and wantin' somebody to tend her." 
" Maria and I do what's to be done. Mamma 
doesn't want us to get a girl." 
" Maria and you ! " said Miss Redwood 
straightening up. " I want to know! You 
and Maria. Why I didn't reckon Maria was 
a hand at them kind o' things. What can 
she do, eh ? I want to know ! Things is 
curious in this world." 
" Maria can do a good deal," said Matilda. 
" And you can too, can't ye ? " said Miss 
Redwood with a benevolent smile at her little 
visiter, which meant all love and no criticism. 
" I wish I knew how to do more," said Matilda. " I could, if I knew how. That's what 
I came to ask you, Miss Redwood ; won't you 
tell me ? " 
" Tell you anything on arth," said the 
housekeeper. " What do you want to know 
child?" 
" I don't know," said Matilda, knitting her 
brow. " I want to know how to manage." 
 
Miss Redwood's lips twitched and her knit- 
ting needles flew. 
" So there ain't no one but you to manage ?" 
she said at length. 
" Aunt Candy tells what is to be for break- 
fast and dinner. But I want to know how to 
do things. "What can one do with cold beef- 
steak, Miss Redwood ? " 
" 'Tain't good for much," said the house- 
keeper. " Have you got some on hand ? " 
No. We had, though." 
" And what did you do with it ? " 
" Maria and I put it in the oven to warm ; 
and it spoiled the dish and the meat was all 
dried up ; and then I thought I would come 
and ask you. And we tried to fry some 
potatoes this morning, and we didn't know 
how, I think. They were not good." 
" And so your breakfast all fell through, 
and there was a muss, I expect ? " 
" No ; we had eggs ; nobody knew anything 
about the beefsteak and the dish. But I want 
to know how to do." 
 
What ailed your potatoes ? " 
" They were too hard and too brown." 
" I shouldn't wonder ! I declare, I 'most 
think I've got into the middle of a fairy story 
somewhere. Did you ever hear about CinVella, Tilly, and her little glass slipper ? " 
" O yes." 
" Some people's chariots and horses will 
find themselves turned into pun'kins some 
day ; that is what 7 believe." 
