find a woman like my mother, it would be another thing. But times are
altered--the women of this day are all for flash and ambition, and
money. There are no more such as you used to find in the old days."
"Oh, nonsense, Harry; don't come to me with that sort of talk. Bad sort
for a young man--very. What I want to see in a young fellow is a
resolution to have a good wife and a home of his own as quick as he can
find it. The Roman Catholics weren't so far out of the way when they
said marriage was a sacrament. It is the greatest sacrament of life, and
that old church does yeoman service to humanity in the stand she takes
for Christian marriage. I should call that the most prosperous state
when all the young men and women were well mated and helping one another
according to God's ordinances. You may be sure, Harry, that you can
never be a whole man without a wife."
"Well," I said; "there's time enough for that by and by; if I'm
predestinated I suppose it'll come along when I have my fortune made."
"Don't wait to be rich, Harry. Find a faithful, heroic friend that will
strike hands with you, poor, and begin to build up your nest
together,--that's the way your father and mother did, and who enjoyed
more? That's the way your Aunt Polly and I did, and a good time we have
had of it. There has always been the handful of meal in the barrel and
the little oil in the cruse, and if the way we have always lived is
poverty, all I have to say is, poverty is a pretty nice thing."
"But," said I, bitterly, "you talk of golden ages. There are no such
women now as you found, the women now are mere effeminate dolls of
fashion--all they want is ease and show, and luxury, and they care
nothing who gives it--one man is as good as another if he is only rich."
"Tut, tut, boy! Don't you read your Bible? Away back in Solomon's time,
it's written, 'Who can find a virtuous woman? Her price is above
rubies.' Are rubies found without looking for them, and do diamonds lie
about the street? Now, just attend to my words--brave men make noble
women, and noble women make brave men. Be a true man first, and some day
a true woman will be given you. Yes, a woman whose opinion of you will
hold you up if all the world were against you, and whose 'Well done!'
will be a better thing to come home to, than the senseless shouting of
the world who scream for this thing to-day and that to-morrow."
By this time the horse had turned up the lane, and my mother stood
smiling in the door. I marked the soft white hair that shone like a
moonlight glory round her head, and prayed inwardly that the heavens
would spare her yet a little longer.
CHAPTER X
COUSIN CAROLINE.
"You must go and see your cousin Caroline," said my mother, the first
evening after I got home; "you've no idea how pretty she's grown."
"She's what I call a pattern girl," said my uncle Jacob, "a girl that
can make the most of life."
"She is a model housekeeper and manager," said Aunt Polly.
Now if Aunt Polly called a girl a model house-keeper, it was the same
for her that it would be for a man to receive a doctorate from a
college; in fact it would be a good deal more, as Aunt Polly was one who
always measured her words, and never said anything pro forma, or
without having narrowly examined the premises.
Elderly people who live in happy matrimony are in a gentle way disposed
to be match-makers. If they have sense, as my elders did, they do not
show this disposition in any very pronounced way. They never advise a
young man directly to try his fortune with "So and so," knowing that
that would, in nine cases out of ten, be the direct way to defeat their
purpose. So my mother's gentle suggestion, and my uncle Jacob's praise,
and Aunt Polly's endorsement, were simply in the line of the most
natural remarks.
Cousin Caroline was the daughter of Uncle Jacob's brother, the only
daughter in the family. Her father was one of those men most useful and
necessary in society, composed of virtues and properties wholly
masculine. He was strong, energetic, shrewd, acridly conscientious, and
with an intensity of self-will and love of domination. This rugged rock,
all granite, had won a tender woman to nestle and flower in some
crevice of his heart and she had clothed him with a garland of sons and
one flower of a daughter. Within a year or two her death had left this
daughter the mistress of her father's family. I remembered Caroline of
old, as my school companion; the leading scholar, in every study, always
good natured, steady, and clear-headed, ready to help me when I faltered
in a translation, or the solution of an algebraic problem. In those days
I never thought of her as pretty. There were the outlines and rudiments,
which might bloom into beauty, but thin, pale, colorless, and deficient
in roundness and grace.
I had seen very little of Caroline through my college life; we had
exchanged occasionally a cousinly letter, but in my last vacation she
was away upon a visit. I was not, therefore, prepared for the vision
which bloomed out upon me from the singer's seat, when I looked up on
Sunday and saw her, standing in a shaft of sunlight that lit up her
whole form with a kind of glory. I rubbed my eyes with astonishment, as
I saw there a very beautiful woman, and beautiful in quite an uncommon
style, one which promised a more lasting continuance of personal
attraction than is usual with our New England girls. I own, that a head
and bust of the Venus de Milo type; a figure at once graceful, yet ample
in its proportions; a rich, glowing bloom, speaking of health and
vigor,--gave a new radiance to eyes that I had always admired, in days
when I never had thought of even raising the question of Caroline's
beauty. These charms were set off, too, by a native talent for
dress,--that sort of instinctive gift that some women have of arranging
their toilet so as exactly to suit their own peculiar style. There was
nothing fussy, or furbelowed, or gaudy, as one often sees in the dress
of a country beauty, but a grand and severe simplicity, which in her
case was the very perfection of art.
My Uncle Ebenezer Simmons lived at a distance of nearly two miles from
our house, but that evening, after tea, I announced to my mother that I
was going to take a walk over to see cousin Caroline. I perceived that
the movement was extremely popular and satisfactory in the eyes of all
the domestic circle.
Whose thoughts do not travel in this direction, I wonder, in a small
country neighborhood? Here comes Harry Henderson home from college, with
his laurels on his brow, and here is the handsomest girl in the
neighborhood, a pattern of all the virtues. What is there to be done,
except that they should straightway fall in love with each other, and
taking hold of hands walk up the Hill Difficulty together? I presume
that no good gossip in our native village saw any other arrangement of
our destiny as possible or probable.
I may just as well tell my readers first as last, that we did not fall
in love with each other, though we were the very best friends possible,
and I spent nearly half my time at my uncle's house, besetting her at
all hours, and having the best possible time in her society; but our
relations were as frankly and clearly those of brother and sister as if
we had been children of one mother.
For a beautiful woman, Caroline had the least of what one may call
legitimate coquetry, of any person I ever saw. There are some women, and
women of a high class too, who seem to take a natural and innocent
pleasure in the power which their sex enables them to exercise over men,
and who instinctively do a thousand things to captivate and charm one of
the opposite sex, even when they would greatly regret winning his whole
heart. If well principled and instructed they try to keep themselves
under control, but they still do a thousand ensnaring things, for no
other reason, that I can see, than that it is their nature, and they
cannot help it. If they have less principle this faculty becomes then
available power, by which they can take possession of all that a man
has, and use it to carry their own plans and purposes.
Of this power, whatever it may be, Caroline had nothing; nay, more, she
despised it, and received the admiration and attentions which her
beauty drew from the opposite sex, with a coldness, in some instances
amounting to incivility.
With me she had been from the first so frankly, cheerfully and
undisguisedly affectionate and kind, and with such a straightforward air
of comradeship and a literal ignoring of everything sentimental, that
the very ground of anything like love-making did not seem to exist
between us. The last evening before I was to leave for my voyage to
Europe, I spent with her, and she gave me a curiously-wrought
traveling-case, in which there was a pocket for any imaginable thing
that a bachelor might be supposed to want on his travels.
"I wish I could go with you," she said to me, with an energy quite out
of her usual line.
"I am sure I wish you could," said I; and what with the natural softness
of heart that a young man feels, when he is plunging off from the safe
