“No, sir!” answered the pretty young actress with shocking promptness,
“we’re going right over it!”
         “‘Three groans and a guggle,
          And an awful struggle,
          And over we go!’”
At this witless, sweet impudence the Canadian looked very sheepish--for
a beaver; and all the other people laughed; but the noble historical
shades of Basil’s thought vanished in wounded dignity beyond recall, and
left him feeling rather ashamed,--for he had laughed too.
VIII. THE SENTIMENT OF MONTREAL.
The feeling of foreign travel for which our tourists had striven
throughout their journey, and which they had known in some degree at
Kingston and all the way down the river, was intensified from the first
moment in Montreal; and it was so welcome that they were almost glad to
lose money on their greenbacks, which the conductor of the omnibus would
take only at a discount of twenty cents. At breakfast next morning they
could hardly tell on what country they had fallen. The waiters had but a
thin varnish of English speech upon their native French, and they spoke
their own tongue with each other; but most of the meats were cooked to
the English taste, and the whole was a poor imitation of an American
hotel. During their stay the same commingling of usages and races
bewildered them; the shops were English and the clerks were commonly
French; the carriage-drivers were often Irish, and up and down
the streets with their pious old-fashioned names, tinkled American
horse-cars. Everywhere were churches and convents that recalled the
ecclesiastical and feudal origin of the city; the great tubular bridge,
the superb water-front with its long array of docks only surpassed
by those of Liverpool, the solid blocks of business houses, and the
substantial mansions on the quieter streets, proclaimed the succession
of Protestant thrift and energy.
Our friends cared far less for the modern splendor of Montreal than for
the remnants of its past, and for the features that identified it with
another faith and another people than their own. Isabel would almost
have confessed to any one of the black-robed priests upon the street;
Basil could easily have gone down upon his knees to the white-hooded,
pale-faced nuns gliding among the crowd. It was rapture to take a
carriage, and drive, not to the cemetery, not to the public library,
not to the rooms of the Young Men’s Christian Association, or the grain
elevators, or the new park just tricked out with rockwork and sprigs of
evergreen,--not to any of the charming resorts of our own cities, but as
in Europe to the churches, the churches of a pitiless superstition,
the churches with their atrocious pictures and statues, their lingering
smell of the morning’s incense, their confessionals, their fee-taking
sacristans, their worshippers dropped here and there upon their knees
about the aisles and saying their prayers with shut or wandering eyes
according as they were old women or young! I do not defend the feeble
sentimentality,--call it wickedness if you like,--but I understand it,
and I forgive it from my soul.
They went first, of course, to the French cathedral, pausing on their
way to alight and walk through the Bonsecours Market, where the habitans
have all come in their carts, with their various stores of poultry,
fruit, and vegetables, and where every cart is a study. Here is a
simple-faced young peasant-couple with butter and eggs and chickens
ravishingly displayed; here is a smooth-checked, blackeyed, black-haired
young girl, looking as if an infusion of Indian blood had darkened the
red of her cheeks, presiding over a stock of onions, potatoes, beets,
and turnips; there an old woman with a face carven like a walnut,
behind a flattering array of cherries and pears; yonder a whole family
trafficking in loaves of brown-bread and maple-sugar in many shapes of
pious and grotesque device. There are gay shows of bright scarfs and
kerchiefs and vari-colored yarns, and sad shows of old clothes and
second-hand merchandise of other sorts; but above all prevails the
abundance of orchard and garden, while within the fine edifice are the
stalls of the butchers, and in the basement below a world of household
utensils, glass-ware, hard-ware, and wooden-ware. As in other Latin
countries, each peasant has given a personal interest to his wares, but
the bargains are not clamored over as in Latin lands abroad. Whatever
protest and concession and invocation of the saints attend the
transacting of business at Bonsecours Market are in a subdued tone. The
fat huckster-women drowsing beside their wares, scarce send their voices
beyond the borders of their broad-brimmed straw hats, as they softly
haggle with purchasers, or tranquilly gossip together.
At the cathedral there are, perhaps, the worst paintings in the world,
and the massive pine-board pillars are unscrupulously smoked to look
like marble; but our tourists enjoyed it as if it had been St. Peter’s;
in fact it has something of the barnlike immensity and impressiveness of
St. Peter’s. They did not ask it to be beautiful or grand; they desired
it only to recall the beloved ugliness, the fondly cherished hideousness
and incongruity of the average Catholic churches of their remembrance,
and it did this and more: it added an effect of its own; it offered
the spectacle of a swarthy old Indian kneeling before the high altar,
telling his beads, and saying with many sighs and tears the prayers
which it cost so much martyrdom and heroism to teach his race. “O, it is
only a savage man,” said the little French boy who was showing them
the place, impatient of their interest in a thing so unworthy as this
groaning barbarian. He ran swiftly about from object to object, rapidly
lecturing their inattention. “It is now time to go up into the tower,”
 said he, and they gladly made that toilsome ascent, though it is
doubtful if the ascent of towers is not too much like the ascent
of mountains ever to be compensatory. From the top of Notre Dame is
certainly to be had a prospect upon which, but for his fluttered nerves
and trembling muscles and troubled respiration, the traveller might well
look with delight, and as it is must behold with wonder. So far as the
eye reaches it dwells only upon what is magnificent. All the features
of that landscape are grand. Below you spreads the city, which has less
that is merely mean in it than any other city of our continent, and
which is everywhere ennobled by stately civic edifices, adorned by
tasteful churches, and skirted by full foliaged avenues of mansions and
villas. Behind it rises the beautiful mountain, green with woods and
gardens to its crest, and flanked on the east by an endless fertile
plain, and on the west by another expanse, through which the Ottawa
rushes, turbid and dark, to its confluence with the St. Lawrence. Then
these two mighty streams commingled flow past the city, lighting up
the vast Champaign country to the south, while upon the utmost southern
verge, as on the northern, rise the cloudy summits of far-off mountains.
As our travellers gazed upon all this grandeur, their hearts were
humbled to the tacit admission that the colonial metropolis was not only
worthy of its seat, but had traits of a solid prosperity not excelled
by any of the abounding and boastful cities of the Republic. Long before
they quitted Montreal they had rallied from this weakness, but they
delighted still to honor her superb beauty.
The tower is naturally bescribbled to its top with the names of those
who have climbed it, and most of these are Americans, who flock in great
numbers to Canada in summer. They modify its hotel life, and the objects
of interest thrive upon their bounty. Our friends met them at every
turn, and knew them at a glance from the native populations, who are
also easily distinguishable from each other. The French Canadians are
nearly always of a peasant-like commonness, or where they rise above
this have a bourgeois commonness of face and manner, and the English
Canadians are to be known from the many English sojourners by the effort
to look much more English than the latter. The social heart of the
colony clings fast to the mother-country, that is plain, whatever the
political tendency may be; and the public monuments and inscriptions
celebrate this affectionate union.
At the English cathedral the effect is deepened by the epitaphs of those
whose lives were passed in the joint service of England and her loyal
child; and our travellers, whatever their want of sympathy with the
sentiment, had to own to a certain beauty in that attitude of proud
reverence. Here, at least, was a people not cut off from its past, but
holding, unbroken in life and death, the ties which exist for us only in
history. It gave a glamour of olden time to the new land; it touched
the prosaic democratic present with the waning poetic light of the
aristocratic and monarchical tradition. There was here and there a title
on the tablets, and there was everywhere the formal language of loyalty
and of veneration for things we have tumbled into the dust. It is a
beautiful church, of admirable English Gothic; if you are so happy, you
are rather curtly told you may enter by a burly English figure in some
kind of sombre ecclesiastical drapery, and within its quiet precincts
you may feel yourself in England if you like,--which, for my part, I
do not. Neither did our friends enjoy it so much as the Church of the
