that, if I went back to .the Coliseum grounds at any 
ftiture time, I should not behold all that vast machin- 
ery in motion. 
It was curious to see, amid this holiday turmoil, 
 
men pursuing the ordinary business of their lives, 
and one was strangely rescued and consoled by the 
spectacle of the Irish hod-carriers, and the brick- 
layers at work on a first-class swell-front residence 
in the very heart of the city of tents and booths. 
Even the locomotive, being associated with quieter 
days and scenes, appealed, as it whistled to and fro 
upon the Providence Railroad, to some soft bucolic 
sentiment in the listener, and sending its note, 
ordinarily so discordant, across that human uproar, 
seemed to " babble of green fields." And at last 
it wooed us away, and the Jubilee was again swal- 
lowed up by night. 
There was yet another Jubilee Day, on the morn- 
ing of which the thousands of public-school children 
clustered in gauzy pink and white in the place of the 
mighty chorus, while the Coliseum swarmed once 
more with people who listened to those shrill, sweet 
pipes blending in unison ; but I leave the reader to 
imagine what he will about it. A week later, after 
all was over, I was minded to walk down towards the 
Coliseum, and behold it in its desertion. The city 
streets were restored to their wonted summer-after- 
noon tranquillity ; the Public Garden presented its 
customary phases of two people sitting under a tree 
and talking intimately together on some theme of 
commoli interest, — 
" Beei, bees, was it your bydromel? " — 
of the swans sailing in ftill view upon the little lake ; 
of half a dozen idlers hanging upon the bridge to 
look at them ; of children gayly dotting the paths 
 
here and there ; and, to heighten the peacefdhiess 
of the effect, a pretty, pale invalid lady sat, half in 
shade and half in sun, reading in an easy-chair. Far 
down the broad avenue a single horse-car tinkled 
slowly ; on the steps of one of the mansions charm- 
ing little girls stood in a picturesque group full of 
the bright color which abormds in the lovely dresses 
of this time. As I drew near the Coliseum, I could 
perceive the desolation which ha.d fallen upon the 
festival scene ; the white tents were gone ; the place 
where the world-renowned cloggist gave her serio- 
comic dances was as lonely and silent as the site of 
Carthage ; in the middle distance two men were dis- 
mantling a motionless whirligig ; the hut for the sale 
of French soups was closed ; farther away, a solitary 
policeman moved gloomily across the deserted spaces, 
showing his dark-blue figure against the sky. The 
vast fabric of the Coliseum reared itself, hushed and 
deserted within and without ; and a boy in his shirt- 
sleeves pressed his nose against one of the painted 
window-panes in the vain effort to behold the noth- 
ing inside. But sadder than this loneliness sur- 
rounding the CoKseum, sadder than the festooned 
and knotted banners that drooped funereally upon 
its facade, was the fact that some of those luckless 
refreshment-saloons were still open, displaying viands 
as little edible now as carnival confetti. It was as 
if the proprietors, in an unavailing remorse, had con- 
demned themselves to spend the rest of their days 
there, and, slowly consuming their own cake and 
pop-corn, washed down with their own soda-water 
and lemonade, to perish of dyspepsia and despair. 
I WOULD not willingly repose upon the friendship 
of a man whose local attachments are weak. I 
should not demand of my intimate that he have a 
yearning for the homes of his ancestors, or even the 
scenes of his own boyhood ; that is not in American 
nature ; on the contrary, he is but a poor creature who 
does not hate the village where he was bom ; yet a 
sentunent for the place where one has lived two or 
three years, the hotel where one has spent a week, 
the sleeping car in which one has ridden from Al- 
bany to Buffalo, — so much I should think it well to 
exact from my friend in proof of that sensibility and 
constancy without which true friendship does not 
exist. So much I am ready to yield on my own 
part to a friend's demand, and I profess to have all 
the possible regrets for Benicia Street, now I have 
left it. Over its deficiencies I cast a veil of decent 
obHvion, and shall always try to look upon its worthy 
and consoling aspects, which were far the more nu- 
merous. It was never otherwise, I imagine, than an 
ideal region in very great measure ; and if the read- 
er whom I have sometimes seemed to direct thither, 
should seek it out, he would hardly find my Benicia 
Street by the city sign-board. Yet this is not wholly 
because it was an ideal locality, but because much of 
 
its reality has now become merely historical, a portion 
of the tragical poetry of the past. Many of the 
vacant lots abutting upon Benicia and the intersect- 
ing streets flourished up, during the four years we 
knew itj into fresh-painted wooden houses, and the 
time came to be when one might have looked in 
vain for the abandoned hoop-skirts which used to 
decorate the desirable building-sites. The lessening 
pasturage also reduced the herds which formerly fed 
in the vicinity, and at last we caught the tinkle 
of the cow-bells only as the cattle were driven past 
to remoter meadows. And one autumn afternoon 
two laborers, hired by the city, came and threw up 
an earthwork on the opposite side of the street, 
which they said was a sidewalk, and would add to 
the value of property in the neighborhood. Not 
being dressed with coal-ashes, however, during the 
winter, the sidewalk vanished next summer under 
a growth of rag-weed, and hid the increased values 
with it, and it is now an even question whether this 
monument of municipal grandeur will finally be held 
by Art or resumed by Nature, — who indeed has a 
perpetual motherly longing for her own, and may be 
seen in all outlying and suburban places, pathetically 
striving to steal back any neglected bits of ground 
and conceal them under her skirts of tattered and 
shabby verdure. But whatever is the event of this 
contest, and whatever the other changes wrought in 
the locality, it has not yet been quite stripped of 
the characteristic charms which first took our hearts, 
and which have been duly celebrated in these pages. 
 
When the new house was chosen, we made prep- 
arations to leave the old one, but preparations so grad- 
ual, that, if we had cared much more than we did, 
we might have suffered greatly by the prolongation 
of the agony. We proposed to ourselves fo escape 
the miseries of moving by transferring the contents 
of one room at a time, and if we did not laugh incred- 
ulously at people who said we had better have it 
over at once and be done with it, it was because we 
respected their feelings, and not because we believed 
them. We took up one carpet after another ; one 
wall after another we stripped of its pictures ; we 
sent away all the books to begin with ; and by this 
