
"No one understands it. Perhaps he has done something wrong, and is
afraid of being found out."

"Very likely."

"He's just the fellow for us," said Stockwell, in a low tone, after he
had glanced around him, to see that no listeners were near. "He speaks
the lingo of this country. We must buy him up."

"Good!" exclaimed Boyden. "We ought not to have let him go till we had
fixed his flint."

"I didn't think of it before; but there is time enough. If we can get
hold of his story we can manage him without any trouble."

"But he won't tell his story. He wouldn't even let on to the
principal."

"No matter; we must have him, somehow or other. Sanford can handle
him."

"I don't exactly believe in the scrape," said Burchmore, shaking his
head dubiously. "We've heard all about the fellows that used to try to
run away from the ship and from the Josephine. They always got caught,
and always had the worst of it."

"We are not going to run away, and we are not going to make ourselves
liable to any punishment," interposed Sanford, rather petulantly. "We
can have a good time on shore without running away, or anything of
that sort."

"What's the use?" replied Burchmore.

"The principal isn't going to let us see anything at all of Norway. We
are going to put in at Christiansand, and then go to Christiania. We
want to see the interior of Norway, for there's glorious fishing in
the lakes and rivers--salmon as big as whales."

"I like fishing as well as any fellow, but I don't want to get into a
scrape, and have to stay on board when the whole crowd go ashore
afterwards. It won't pay."

"But I tell you again, we are not going to run away."

"I don't see how you can manage it without running away. You are going
into the interior of Norway on your own hook, without the consent or
knowledge of the principal. If you don't call this running away, I
don't know what you can call it."

"No matter what we call it, so long as the principal don't call it
running away," argued Sanford.

"How can you manage it?" inquired Burchmore.

"I don't know yet; and if I did, I wouldn't tell a fellow who has so
many doubts."

"I shall not go into anything till I understand it."

"We don't ask you to do so. As soon as we come to anchor, and see the
lay of the land, we can tell exactly what and how to do it. We have
plenty of money, and we can have a first-rate time if you only think
so. Leave it all to me, and I will bring it out right," continued the
confident Sanford, who appeared to be the leader of the little squad.

The traditions of the various runaways who had, at one time and
another, attempted to escape from the wholesome discipline and
restraint of the Academy, were current on board all the vessels of the
squadron. The capture of the Josephine, and her cruise in the English
Channel, had been repeated to every new student who joined the fleet,
till the story was as familiar to the present students as to those of
five years before. There were just as many wild and reckless boys on
board now as in the earlier days of the institution, and they were as
sorely chafed by the necessary restraints of good order as their
predecessors had been. Perhaps it was natural that, visiting a foreign
country, they should desire to see all they could of its wonders, and
even to look upon some things which it was the policy of the principal
to prevent them from seeing.

Whenever any of the various stories of the runaways were related,
Sanford, Rodman, Stockwell, and others of similar tendencies, were
always ready to point out the defects in the plan of the operators.
They could tell precisely where Wilton, Pelham, and Little had been
weak, as they termed it, and precisely what they should have done to
render the enterprise a success. Still, running away, in the abstract,
was not a popular idea in the squadron at the present time; but
Sanford believed that he and his companions could enjoy all the
benefits of an independent excursion without incurring any of its
perils and penalties. Let him demonstrate his own proposition.

Ole Amundsen walked aft, and was kindly greeted by the officers on
the quarter-deck, who commented freely upon his improved personal
appearance, though they did it in more refined terms than their
shipmates on the forecastle had done. Some of them tried to draw from
him the explanation of his situation in the leaky boat, but without
any better success than had attended the efforts of others. He yielded
an extravagant deference to the gold lace on the uniforms of the
officers, treating them with the utmost respect.

"Well, Ole, you look better than when I saw you last," said Mr.
Lowington.

"Yes, sir; and I feel better," replied Ole, bowing low to the "big
gentleman."

"And you speak English very well, indeed."

"Thank you, sir."

"Can you speak Norwegian as well?"

"Yes, sir; better, I hope."

"Monsieur Badois, will you ask him a question or two in Norwegian,"
added the principal, turning to the professor of modern languages, who
prided himself on being able to speak fourteen different tongues; "I
begin to doubt whether he is a Norwegian."

"I will, sir," replied monsieur, who was always glad of an opportunity
to exhibit his linguistic powers. "Hvor staae det til?" (How do you
do?)

"Jeg takker, meget vel." (Very well, I thank you), replied Ole.

"Forstaaer De mig?" (Do you understand me?)

"Ja, jeg forstaaer Dem meget vel." (Yes, I understand you very
well.)

"That will do," interposed Mr. Lowington.

"He speaks Norsk very well," added the professor.

"So do you, sir," said Ole, with a low bow to Monsieur Badois.

"Meget vel," laughed the professor.

"I am satisfied, Ole. Now, have you concluded to tell me how you
happened to be in that boat, so far from the land."
