she was able to enjoy roast beef and plum pudding and ice cream as well
as anybody, and perhaps more; for to her they were an unusual
combination of luxuries. Now and then she glanced at the other people
around the table. Mrs. Lloyd always seemed to her like a queen; the
head of the house; and the head of such a house was as good as a queen.
Judith looked like a young lady who took, and could take, a great many
liberties in it. David, like a grave, reserved boy who never wanted to
take one. Mrs. Bartholomew seemed a luxurious fine lady; Matilda's
impression was that she cared not much for anybody or anything except
herself and her children. And how rich they all must be! Not Mrs. Lloyd
alone; but all these. Their dress shewed it, and their talk, and their
air still more. It was the air of people who wanted nothing they could
not have, and did not know what it meant to want anything long. Mrs.
Lloyd was drinking one sort of wine, Mrs. Bartholomew another, and Mrs.
Laval another; one had a little clear wineglass, another a yellow
bowl-like goblet, much larger; the third had a larger still. Every
place was provided with the three glasses, Matilda saw. Just as her
observations had got thus far, she was startled to see Norton sign the
servant and hold his claret glass to be filled.

Matilda's thoughts went into a whirl immediately. She had not seen
Norton take wine at home; it brought trooping round her, by contrast,
the recollections of Shadywalk, the Sunday school room, the meetings of
the Commission, and Mr. Richmond, and talk about temperance, and her
pledge to do all she could to help the cause of temperance. Now, here
was a field. Yes, and there was David Bartholomew on the other side of
the table, he also was just filling his glass. But what could Matilda
do here? Would these boys listen to her? And yet, she had promised to
do all she could for the cause of temperance. She could certainly do
something, in the way of trying at least. She must. To try, is in
everybody's power. But now she found as she thought about it, that it
would be very difficult even to try. It is inconceivable how unwilling
she felt to say one word to Norton on the subject; and as for
David!--Well, she need not think of David at present; he was a
stranger. If she could get Norton to listen-- But she could not get
Norton to listen, she was sure; and what was the use of making a fuss
and being laughed at just for nothing? Only, she had promised.

The working of these thoughts pretty well spoiled Matilda's ice cream.
There was a trembling of other thoughts, too, around these, that were
also rather unwelcome. But she could not think them out then. The
company had left the table and gathered in another room, and there a
great deal of talk and discussion of many things went on, including
winter plans for the children and home arrangements, in which Matilda
was interested. Shopping, also, and what stuffs and what colours were
most in favour, and fashions of making and wearing. Matilda had
certainly been used to hear talk on such subjects in the days of her
mother's life-time, when the like points were eagerly debated between
her and her older children. But then it was always with questions.
What is fashionable; and What can we manage to get? Now and here,
that questioning was replaced by calm knowledge and certainty and the
power to do as they pleased. So the subject became doubly interesting.
The two boys had gone off together; and the two girls, mixing with the
group of their elders, listened and formed their own opinions, of each
other at least. For every now and then, the black eyes and the brown
eyes met; glances inquiring, determining, but almost as nearly
repellent as anything else. So passed the evening; and Matilda was very
glad when it was time to go to bed.

Mrs. Laval went with her to her pretty room, and saw with motherly care
that all was in order and everything there which ought to be there. The
room was warm, though no fire was to be seen; the gas was lit; and
complete luxury filled every corner and met every want, even of the
eye. And after a fond good night, Matilda was left to herself. She was
in a very confused state of mind. It was a strange place; she half
wished they were back in Shadywalk; but with that were mixed floating
visions of shopping and her filled wardrobe, visions of driving in the
Park with Norton, fancies of untold wonderful things to be seen in this
new great city, with its streets and its shops and its rich and its
poor people. No, she could not forego the seeing of these; she was glad
to be in New York; were there not the Menagerie and Stewart's awaiting
her to-morrow? But what sort of a life she was to live here, and how
far it would be possible for her to be like the Matilda Englefield of
Shadywalk why, she was not to be Matilda Englefield at all, but
Laval. Could that be the same? Slowly, while she thought all this,
Matilda opened her little trunk and took out her nightdress and her
comb and brush, and her Bible; and then, the habit was as fixed as the
other habit of going to bed, she opened her Bible, brought a pretty
little table that was in the room, put it under the gas light, and
knelt down to read and pray. She opened anywhere, and read without very
well understanding what she read; the thoughts of lions and tigers, and
green poplin, and red cashmere, making a strange web with the lines of
Bible thought, over which her eye travelled. Till her eyes came to a
word so plain, so clear, and touching her so nearly, that she all at
once as it were woke up out of her maze.

"Who mind earthly things."

What is that? Must one not mind earthly things? Then she went back to
the beginning of the sentence, to see better what it meant.

"For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even
weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ: whose end is
destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their
shame, who mind earthly things."

Must one not mind earthly things? thought Matilda. How can one help
minding them? How can I help it? All the people in this house mind
nothing else. Neither did they all at home, when mother was alive, mind
anything else. Mr. Richmond does.--

She went back now to the beginning of the chapter and read it anew. It
was easier to read than to think. The chapter was the third of
Philippians. She did not know who wrote it; she did not exactly
understand a good part of it; nevertheless one thing was clear, a heart
set on something not earthly, and minding nothing that interfered with
or did not help that. So much was clear; and also that the chapter
spoke of certain people not moved by a like spirit, as enemies of the
cross of Christ. It was the hardest reading, Matilda thought, she had
ever done in her Bible. If this is what it is to be a Christian, it was
easier to be a Christian when she was darning lace for Mrs. Candy and
roasting coffee beans in her kitchen for Maria. But she did not wish to
be back there. Some way could be found, surely, of being a Christian
and keeping her pretty room and having her wardrobe filled. And here
Matilda became so sleepy, the fatigue and excitement of this long day
settling down upon her now that the day was over, that she could
neither think nor read any more. She was obliged to go to bed.




CHAPTER VI.


The second of December rose keen and clear, like the first; but inside
Matilda's room there was a state of pleasant summer temperature; she
could hardly understand that it was cold enough outside to make the
pretty frosting on her window panes which hindered the view. She
dressed in royal comfort, and in a delightful stir of expectation and
hope. It was really New York; and she was going to Stewart's to-day.
The cold would not bite her as it used to do in Shadywalk, for they
would be in a carriage.

When she was dressed she contrived to clear a loophole in her frosted
window, and looked out. The sun shone on a long, clean, handsome
street, lined with houses that looked as if all New York were made of
money. Brick and stone fronts rose to stately heights, as far as her
eye could see; windows were filled with beautiful large panes of glass,
like her own window, and lace and drapery behind them testified to the
inside adorning and beautifying. There could not be any one living in
