Cantwell is unpopular in the steerage as well as in the cabin. But
there's a conspiracy against him. Just as soon as he had earned his
rank, the fellows in the cabin put their heads together to cheat him
out of it. I was appointed on the committee, and they called a meeting
in the cabin, where I was not allowed to go, to prevent me from
attending. Was that fair?"
"No, no!" responded the seamen.
"Right! Besides, I want those swells in the cabin to know that we are a
power."
"But they came to us before the meeting on the island," suggested one
of the group.
"Yes; just so. But what did they come for? To know if we approved the
plan? Not a bit of it. The plan was cooked up in the cabin. They came
to us just as the politicians go to the dear people--for votes. They
argued, talked, and begged for our votes at the meeting. By and by
they will get up a plan by which no fellow shall be promoted from the
steerage to the cabin. Cantwell and Victory! That's my motto."
"I say, Scott, don't you think it is absurd for us to vote for the most
unpopular fellow in the ship?" asked Wainwright.
"No, I don't. He's the only fellow in the cabin that is not in the
ring, and therefore the only one we can vote for. Don't you see it?"
"I don't want to vote against Captain Lincoln," another objected. "He
is a first-rate fellow, and a good sailor."
"But Lincoln went in for this plan, was present at the meeting, and
voted in favor of it," replied Scott. "I like Lincoln as well as any
fellow, but I don't like this trying to keep any one out of the place
he has fairly earned."
"That's so," said a dozen of the boys.
This was only a specimen of the electioneering which was going on in
a dozen different places in Åbo at the same time. Only a few of the
students entered the cathedral, and not many of them could tell, when
they returned to the squadron, whether the streets of the town were
broad or narrow, or whether the houses were one or two stories high.
While the seamen were at work for Cantwell, the officers were speaking
a good word for Captain Lincoln, whom they desired to reëlect to his
present position.
At six o'clock most of the students were in the vicinity of the bridge,
ready to repair to the boats when the boatswains gave the signal. Dr.
Winstock and Lincoln were at the hotel on the quay called the Society's
House, which is said to be the most northern one in the world. Students
were arriving in the droskies, which many of them had employed for the
sake of a ride; and when they came to pay their fare there were many
amusing scenes, for neither party understood a word of the language of
the other. Most of the students, too, had changed their Swedish money
into Russian in Stockholm, and were unprovided with Finnish currency,
for they supposed that Russian money was current in Finland. The
drivers would not take the rubles and copecks, and some very cheerful
rows ensued. But the principal, with Professor Badois--who spoke
Swedish--at his elbow, interfered, and paid the fares. The students
embarked, the line of boats was formed, and the squadron moved down the
river, with half of Åbo on the quay, gazing in solemn silence at the
departure of the strange visitors, for as such they certainly regarded
them. In less than an hour the boats were alongside the vessels to
which they belonged, and were soon hoisted up to the davits.
The signal for sailing was shown on board of the Young America, and a
lively scene followed. Anchors were hove short, sails shaken out, and
the Finnish pilots were at their stations. As the breeze was fresh
and fair, the principal desired to take advantage of it; and, after
a stay of only five hours at Åbo, the squadron was under way again,
threading its course through the channels among the numerous islands.
In the watch on deck, and that below, the business of electioneering
was continued with the utmost vigor. Scott and his friends were busy
everywhere, and even the stale expedient of a secret society among the
"anti-De Forresters" was proposed, and enthusiastically adopted. Scott
and Jones were intrusted with the task of furnishing a constitution,
and inventing the necessary dark-lantern machinery for the organization.
Boys have a decided taste for secret associations, though, as the
experience of the present time shows, not more than adults, male
and female. The number of these "orders" among full-grown men is on
the increase, and the boys, in all parts of the United States, have
manifested a strong desire to keep up with the times, and follow the
example of their elders. Secret societies had several times been
formed on board of the Young America, but generally for purposes of
mischief, such as running away, or capturing one of the vessels. The
present association appeared to be for political purposes--to influence
the election of officers. Scott was, in the main, a very sensible
fellow; and his only idea of a secret society was to make some fun out
of it, though he was quite willing to have it used for accomplishing
his purpose, which, in its turn, was little more than a gigantic joke,
so far as he was concerned.
The wind, which had been fresh all day, diminished in force after
the squadron sailed, and at half past eight, while the sun was still
above the horizon, there was a dead calm, and the vessels were obliged
to anchor for the night, for the pilots declined to run during the
darkness in the intricate navigation of these seas. The squadron
anchored near a rocky island, the top of which was covered with trees.
The same "eternal silence" seemed to pervade the region as among the
Aland Islands. When everything was made snug on board, a portion of the
students asked permission to go on shore, which was readily granted to
all who desired to do so. This number was found to include the entire
crew of the ship.
"The Bangwhangers will meet at the farther side of the island,"
whispered Scott. "Pass it along."
"The what?" asked Laybold.
"The Bangwhangers. Don't you belong to the night-bloomers?"
"I don't understand you," replied Laybold.
"You don't? Well, your head is thicker than a quart of molasses.
Didn't you fellows ask me to get up a secret society?"
"Yes."
"Well, I have done it; but you popsquizzles don't seem to know your own
chickens. The new institution is to be called the Bangwhangers, of whom
you are which. Now, don't tell any one who isn't a Bangwhanger anything
at all about it."
"I see."
"I should think you might, if your ears were only half as long as a
donkey's."
The students tumbled into the boats; and, as most of the officers were
busy preparing ballots for the election on the following day, none of
them went on shore, the boats being in charge of the several coxswains.
Ordinarily the seamen would not have been permitted to visit the shore
without at least one officer in each boat; but as it did not seem
possible that any mischief could be done on this uninhabited island,
the rule was waived. The students landed; and in a few moments several
boats from the Josephine and Tritonia brought a majority of the crews
of these vessels. Scott and several of his most intimate friends went
to the highest part of the island.
"Every Cantwell man may join our society; no one else," said Scott,
after he had told them the name.
"All right."
"And we will give them the first degree at once."
"What's that?"
"The first degree is next to nothing; only to get the fellows together
to organize," said Scott, as he leaped upon a rock. "Come up here,
Jones; I'll give you the first degree."
Jones joined the joker on the rock.
"Do you agree to vote for Cantwell, to say nothing to nobody, and never
to eat soup with a darning-needle?" asked Scott, in a low tone.
"Of course I do," laughed Jones.
"Answer in these words:--
  "To all these three
  I do agree."
Jones repeated the words in due form.
"All right. I appoint you R. P. F. pro tem."
"R. P. F.! What does that mean?"
"I can't tell you till you have taken your second degree; only remember
the letters. Now, bring the fellows to me, one at a time."
Wainwright was the next one, who was obligated in the same manner, and
Jones was instructed to tell the candidates what to say in token of
their assent.
  "To all these three,
