Matilda was in a mood as gentle as the 
morning, and almost as cloudless. Her 
morning's work and walk and the meeting 
with Lem Dow had given her an appetite ; 
and the work of the night before had left a 
harmony in her spirit, as if sweet music were 
sounding there. Her little face was thus like 
the very morning itself, shining with the fair 
shining of inward beauty ; in contrast with 
all the other faces at the table. For Clarissa's 
features were coldly handsome and calm ; 
Mrs. Candy's were set and purposeful ; and 
poor Maria's were sadly clouded and out of 
humour. Matilda took little heed of them all ; 
she was thinking of Lemuel Dow. 
" Matilda," said her aunt suddenly, "I 
wish you to come to me every morning to 
read. A person who has taken the step you 
took last night, is no longer a child, but 
deserves to be treated as a woman. It is 
necessary that you should fit yourself for a 
woman's place. Come to me at ten o'clock. 
I will have you read to me some books that 
will make you better understand the things 
you have taken upon you, and the things you 
have done." 
" Why I am a child yet, aunt Candy," 
Matilda answered in some dismay. 
" You think so, do you ? " 
" Yes, ma'am, I feel so ; and I am" 
" I thought you considered yourself more 
than a child. But you have assumed a 
woman's place, and it is now necessary that 
you should be fitted for it. I think the best 
way is to get the preparation first ; but in 
your church, it seems, they prefer the other 
course. You are under my care in the 
house, at any rate, and I shall do my duty by 
you." 
" I do not understand you, aunt Candy," 
Matilda spoke, quite bewildered. 
" No, my dear, I suppose not. That is 
just what I think so objectionable. But we 
will do what we can to remedy it." 
" What do you want to prepare me for, 
aunt Erminia ? " 
" For your position, my dear, as a member 
of the church. That is not a child's position. 
You have placed yourself in it ; and now the 
question is how to enable you to maintain it 
properly. I cannot treat you as a child any 
longer." 
Matilda wondered very much how she was 
to be treated. However, silence seemed the 
wisest plan at present. 
" I suppose I am a child still," remarked 
Maria. 
" I have never observed anything inconsistent with that supposition, my dear," her aunt 
serenely answered. 
" And if I had been baptized last night, 
you would have more respect for me," went 
on poor Maria. 
" My respect is not wholly dependent on 
forms, my dear. If it had been done in a 
 
proper way, of course, things would be different from what they are. I should have 
more respect for you." 
" Clarissa has done it in a proper way, I 
suppose? " 
" When she was of a proper age, yes ; 
certainly." 
" And then, what did she promise ? All 
that they promised last night ? " 
" The vows are much the same." 
" Well, people ought not to make vows 
till they are ready to keep them ought 
they ? " 
" Certainly they should not." 
Well " 
" My dear, it is a very bad habit to begin 
every sentence with a ' well.' You do it 
constantly." 
" Well, aunt Candy " 
"There!" exclaimed Clarissa. " Aain." 
" Well, I don't care," said Maria. " I can't 
help it. I don't know when I do it. I was 
going to ask, and you put everything out 
 
of my head. Aunt Candy, do you think 
Clarissa has given up, really, the pomps and 
vanities and all that, you know ? She spent 
twenty-four dollars, I heard her say, on the 
trimming of that muslin dress ; and she 
bought a parasol the other day for ten dollars, 
when one for three would have done perfectly 
well ; and she pays always twelve dollars for 
her boots, twelve and ten dollars ; when she 
could get nice ones for four and five. Now 
what's that?" 
" It's impertinence," said Clarissa. " And 
untruth ; for the four and five dollar boots 
hurt my feet." 
" They are exactly the same," said Maria ; 
" except the kid and the trimming and the 
beautiful making." 
" Very well," said Clarissa, " I have a right 
to wear comfortable shoes, if I can get 
them." 
" Then you have a right to pomps and 
vanities," returned Maria; "but I say you 
haven't a right, after you have declared and 
 
sworn you would have nothing to do with 
them." 
" Mamma," said Clarissa, but with heightened colour, " Is this a child ? " 
" After the Shadywalk pattern," Mrs. Can 
dy answered. 
" Girls in Shadywalk have a little sense, 
when they get to be as old as sixteen," Maria 
went on. " Where you have ,been, perhaps 
they do not grow up so fast." 
. " People would put weights on their heads 
if they did," said Clarissa. 
" It doesn't matter," said Maria. " You 
can imagine that I am as old as you are ; and 
I say, that it is more respectable not to make 
promises and vows than to make them and 
not keep them." 
" Do not answer her, my dear," said Mrs. 
Candy. 
" And that is the reason why I have not 
been baptized, or whatever you call it " - 
" I never said so, Maria," said her aunt. 
" The two things are not the same." 
" Imagine it! " said Clarissa. 
" Well, you said just now I don't know 
what you said ! but you said at any rate 
that if it had been done in a proper way, you 
would think more of me; and I say, that it 
is better not to make vows till you are ready 
