nor hear the reason of it ; annoyed at the cold 
crawling that it made about her ankles, and 
anxious for Sip to come and explain it. 
She went to the front door and opened that. 
A rush, like a tiny tide, met her. She stooped 
and put her hand out, over the step. It dipped 
into a pool of rising water. 
Catty shrank back and shut the door. The 
noise like wheels was plain to her. It waited for 
her outside of that door. It struck like claws 
upon her locked ears. It frightened her. She 
would not for the world open the door to it. She 
drew the bolt hard, in a childish fright, and sat 
down again in the slow gurgle on the kitchen 
floor. 
Suddenly it occurred to her that she might go 
and find Sip. But Sip would not be in the noise. 
Where would she be .'' 
Catty pushed herself along on the floor,
pushing out of the way of the water as she reflected. 
That was how another thing occurred to her. 
The farther that she pushed herself the thinner 
the gurgle grew. In the closet bedroom it was 
scarcely wet. 
At this side of the house she lost, or thought 
she lost, the noise. It must be at this side of the 
house that she should find Sip. Sip had often 
lost her out of the closet bedroom. She remem- 
bered, with a laugh, how many times she had 
climbed out of that little cupboard window after 
Sip was asleep. She felt her way to it eagerly. 
It was shut and buttoned. She pushed it, 
slamming, back, climbed to the high sill, and let
herself drop. 
Catty might have remained in the closet bed- 
room, had she but known it, high and dry. The 
stone house received a thorough soaking, but not 
a dangerous one. The water sucked in for a 
while at the locked front door, played drearily 
about the empty kitchen, mopped the entry floor, 
set the Irish woman's bread-pan and coal-hod 
afloat, and dawdled away again down the steps ; 
the result, it seemed, of a savage and transient 
shiver on the part of that fitful invalid, the river. 
The county bridge, in fact, was as good as 
gone. The transient shiver in the lower floods 
had been caused by the sinking of a pier. 
It had been a fine sight. Masses of men, women, 
and children hung, chained like galley-slaves, to 
either bank, intent and expectant on it. Foot 
and horse forsook the bridge. Police guarded it. 
A red sunset sprang up and stared at it. An 
avalanche of dead-white spray chewed the 
malachite and umber. Curious, lurid colors bounded 
up where they sank, and bruised and beat
themselves against the fallen and the falling piers. 
The gorgeous peril of the tinted water, and the 
gorgeous safety of the tinted sky, struck against 
each other fancifully. There seemed a rescue in 
the one for the ruin of the other. One was sure 
that the drowned colors held up their arms again, 
secure, inviolate, kindled, living, in the great 
resurrection of the watching heavens. 
It must have been not far from the moment 
when Catty dropped from the cupboard window, 
that, on the beautiful madness of the river, up 
where the baby souls of the cascades had 
transmigrated into camels, a long, low, brown streak 
appeared. 
It appeared at first sight to lie quite still. At 
second sight, it undulated heavily, like a huge 
boa. At the third, it coiled and plunged. 
" The logs ! The logs ! The logs are here ! " 
The cry ran round the banks. Maverick Hayle 
sat down on a stone and looked at his new mill 
stupidly. Passers cleared the railway crossing. 
People ran about and shouted. They climbed 
rocks and trees to look. The guards on the 
bridge disappeared. The smooth outlines of the 
boa grew jagged. The timber leaped and tan- 
gled in sweeping down. All through its wounded 
arches, the heavy bridge creaked and cried. 
The people on the banks cried too, from sheer 
excitement. 
" The logs, the logs, the logs ! The bridge ! " 
" Look on the bridge ! Look there ! Good 
God ! How did she get there ? On the bridge ! 
Woman on the bridge ! " 
Past the frightened guards, past the occupied 
eyes of a thousand people, on the bridge, over 
the bridge, not twelve feet from the sunken piers, 
stood a girl with low forehead, and dropping lip, 
and long, outstretching hands. 
" Catty ! Catty ! O Catty, Catty, Catty ! " 
The uncouth name rang with a terrible cry. 
It cleft the crowd like a knife. They parted 
before it, here and there and everywhere, letting a 
ghastly girl plunge through. 
"O Catty, Catty, Catty! For love's sake, 
stop ! For dear love's sake ! " 
It was too late for dear love to touch her. Its 
piteous call she could not hear. Its wrung face 
she could not see. Her poor, puzzled lips moved 
as if to argue with it, but made no sound. 
Type of the world from which she sprang, — 
the world of exhausted and corrupted body, of 
exhausted and corrupted brain, of exhausted and 
corrupted soul, the world of the laboring poor as 
man has made it, and as Christ has died for it, 
of a world deaf, dumb, blind, doomed, stepping 
confidently to its own destruction before our eyes, 
— Catty stood for a moment still, a little 
perplexed, it seemed, feeling about her patiently in 
the spray-sown, lighted air. 
One beck of a human hand would save her ; 
but she could not see it. One cry would turn 
her ; but her ears were sealed. 
Still, in the great dream of dying, as in the 
long dream of life, this miserable creature listened 
for what she never heard, and spoke that which 
no man understood. 
" She 's making signs to me," groaned Sip ; 
" she 's making signs to call my name ! " 
Then Perley Kelso put both arms about her. 
Then the solid shore staggered suddenly. Then 
a ragged shadow loomed across the dam. Then 
there was a shock, and thunder. 
Then some one covered her eyes, close. 
When she opened them, timber was tearing by. 
Spray was in her face. Dirk was beside her on 
his knees, and men had their hats off. 
On the empty ruin of the sliced bridge, two 
logs had caught and hung, black against the color 
of the water and the color of the sky. They 
had caught transversely, and hung like a cross. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
SWEPT AND GARNISHED. 
IT was Dirk who had covered Sip's eyes when 
the timber struck the bridge. 
She did not think of it at the time, but 
