in anything or anybody. She has no appetite, no 
strength, is despondent and listless. Her father pro- 
posed taking her with him, but she did not want to 
go. They are to board at a quiet little sea-side place, 
but she does not care for that, either. She has wasted 
away to a shadow. I wish something could be done 
to rouse her." 

" Does Dr. Markham think she has any settled 
disease ? ' : 

" He is afraid of her going into consumption. He 
took her out to drive in the spring, but after two or 
three excursions she declared that she would never 
go again with such a cross old bear. He rails so at 
fashionable life and follies, you know, and all the in- 
dolence and nervousness that follow. Still, he does 
take a fatherly interest in the poor child. Isn't it 
odd ? here he comes now." 

" Talk of angels," said Kathie, laughingly. 

Jessie opened the hall door herself. 

" No, I am not an angel, Miss Kathie,' he declared, 
" but much nearer a porcupine. Perhaps it was the 
rustling of my quills you heard." 


" Rob would quote Byron," said Jessie, mirthfully. 
" ' The car rattling o'er the stony street.' : 

" But there is no one to dance," responded the Doc- 
tor. '* I heard that you had just sent your young 
Arabs to the Rocky Mountains." 

" Not quite ^o far as that," said Kathie. 

"We were speaking of Ada," Jessie began, pres- 
ently. " When are they going away ? ' 

" Goodness knows ! Ths*t child has more whims 
than forty old women ! I wish I could be her moth- 
er for a few months. Miss Kathie, suppose you drive 
down there with me ? The sight <,f such a blooming 
face ought to do any one good." 

Kathie glanced at Jessie. 

" We have just begun our visit," the latter an- 
swered. " Will not to-morrow do ? ' 

"You can begin over again," he said brusquely. 
" Beginnings are about the pleasantest events there 
are in life. Maybe Ada will not want her for more 
than ten minutes." 

So Kathie went for her hat, and gave Jessie an 
unobserved kiss. 

It was a warm afternoon, and Kathie missed the 
shady trees and fragrant country air. Mr. Meredith's 



 

house was in a pleasant row, to be sure, and here 
were other quiet squares, but everything looked 
parched and dusty in this midsummer heat. 

" Kathie," the Doctor exclaimed, abruptly, " you are 
a sort of missionary, are you not ? " 

" A missionary ! ' Kathie's face was scarlet. 

" Yes. Don't you suppose there are any this side 
of China ? " and he gave her an odd glance out of his 
shrewd eyes. 

" Why of course." 

" But you haven't taken your degree yet, is 
that it ? " 

Kathie's eyes drooped thoughtfully. 

" There is not the slightest need of Ada's dying. 
It will be a sort of slow, foolish suicide, and yet I 
don't know but she is bent upon it. And she surely 
will unless she is roused in time." 

" But what could I do ? " asked Kathie, perplexed. 

" I cannot tell exactly what ; only seeing you so 
bright and fresh brought the thing into my mind. 
What did you do to keep your Aunt Ruth alive ? " 

" It is so different, though." 

" Yes. She did not need to be taught anything. 
But Ada is like a baby, worse even in her igno- 




ranee. What is her education good for, her accom- 
plishments ? Why, she doesn't understand the com- 
monest principle of life, the commonest duty. She 
ought to be a comfort to both her parents ; instead, 
she is only an anxiety." 

" Dr. Markham," Kathie said, coming bravely to 
confession, " I do not think that Ada and I are 
true friends. There is always some gulf between 
us, and we cannot seem to get over it." 

" Who, you, or she ? ' and a kind of grim smile 
curved his lip. 

" Both, perhaps." 

" Don't you suppose the great Master saw the gulf 
as well ? And yet he went on." 

Kathie was revolving it in her mind. 

" What I mean is," she said, in a slower and lower 
tone, " that we don't quite suit. She doesn't like 
the things that I like, and I am afraid that I could 
not interest her in anything that was real earnest and 
true. If I could I would be very glad to." 

" I guess Ada has taken the lead heretofore. You 
stood a little in awe of her because they were very 
grand and fashionable, and you took her fine ways 
rather meekly. It was only on the outside, though, 



