Mrs. Strong paused, very red in the face.
"No one will think that at Cedarwood," answered Kathie, softly.
So presently the promise was given. In a fortnight Cousin Ellen and
Sarah were to go down to Brookside to do some shopping. Ellen wanted to
call on several of the relatives, but Sarah might go at once to
Cedarwood.
"I expect it will be like a little bit of heaven," the girl whispered.
"I never was in a real elegant house in all my life."
Kathie described her visit to Aunt Ruth in glowing terms. "I think it
is delightful to be rich, after all," she said, contentedly. "You can
make so many people happy."
"And while you study the happiness of others and your duty towards them
the riches will hardly prove a snare," returned Aunt Ruth.
Before another week had ended they had a new joy for which to be very
thankful,--the return of Mr. Morrison. He still looked a little pale and
thin, but had improved wonderfully since the day when General Mackenzie
found him in the forlorn negro quarters. Glad enough he was to get home
to his little Ethel, who hardly let him go out of her sight. Nothing
would do but that the whole family must come down to the cottage and
drink tea.
"I must express my obligations once more to you," said Uncle Robert, in
the evening; "and I am most grateful to God for your return, and that he
did not require so costly a sacrifice at my hands."
"He knows that I am glad enough to come back; but if you'll believe me,
sir, it was a great comfort, when I thought myself dying, that it was in
your stead, and that your life, so much more valuable than mine, had
been spared. I believe you would have sorrowed for me truly,--and Miss
Kathie here,--as well as my own."
Kathie took his hand. "I've been thinking of this ever since the night
you offered to go: 'Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay
down his life for his friends.'"
The sweet voice trembled a little. It would always have a tender strand
in it when it came to that verse.
"Ah, Miss Kathie, those precious words were for the Saviour of us all.
What can we ever do to merit them?" and the soldier drew the back of his
hand across his eyes.
"God gives the grace to weak human nature," Uncle Robert said, with
solemn sweetness.
Walking home, Kathie started from her revery. "Now if Rob could only
come back," she exclaimed, "our soldiers would all be together. You
remember the day he was so elated about the draft?"
"Yes. Dear Rob! I hope he has done good service. I am very anxious to
see him again."
Then Kathie began to count on the promised visit. "It is not because I
am so proud of Cedarwood, or the handsome things in it," she explained
to Uncle Robert, "though I do think them all very lovely; but it will be
such a pleasure to her,--just as my going to Miss Jessie's when we were
so poor."
"I understand"; and he smiled.
There had been quite a discussion about having a second girl. Uncle
Robert fancied that Kathie's further knowledge of household details had
better be postponed until she had less upon her hands. Jane Maybin, who
had been a good deal out of health lately, and unable to work in the
factory, as the dust irritated her lungs and made her cough, was quite
anxious to take the situation. What with company and increasing social
duties, Mrs. Alston found her time much interrupted.
Hannah did all the sweeping on Friday, but it was a heavy tax; so Kathie
only dusted awhile on Saturday morning, cut fresh flowers and arranged
them, and busied herself about little odds and ends. Mrs. Alston decided
to have Jane, and Aunt Ruth took a walk over to the cottage.
Kathie waited in a peculiar state of anxiety, Lucy and Annie Gardiner
had proposed to come over that very afternoon, but she preferred to have
Sarah quite alone, that she might feel free to enjoy everything.
It was almost twelve when she reached Cedarwood. Kathie was haunting the
cottage, where she could have a good look down the street, but she
hardly recognized the figure at first. It seemed as if Sarah grew every
week. She looked quite like a young lady, Kathie thought. Her light gray
dress was trimmed with several rows of blue ribbon, and the sack,
matching it, made a very neat suit. Her white straw hat was trimmed with
blue, and a cluster of crisp, fresh flowers, that looked almost good
enough to be natural. There was nothing in that outfit to be ashamed of.
"O," she exclaimed, with a long breath, "it's like going into the Garden
of Eden! The house and the trees, and that lovely lake! I should want to
be out of doors forever."
"Uncle Robert has promised to row us around the lake this afternoon. A
month later it will be much more beautiful. Did you finish your
shopping?"
"O yes, though we were bothered a good deal, and that made me later.
Nelly wanted me to go to dinner at Cousin Rachel's."
"I am glad that you did not."
Sarah could not be hurried into the house. She wanted to view the
fountain, the groups of evergreens, the broad porch, and fancy just how
the roses and honeysuckle would look. But presently they entered. Kathie
led her up stairs to her room, to lay aside her hat.
"O, I don't wonder Jim said it was a palace!" she exclaimed, with
breathless delight. "What a lovely room! Why, it's pretty enough for any
one's parlor!"
Kathie smiled a little, remembering the day on which she had thought it
wonderful as well.
Sarah was hardly satisfied with her inspection when the bell rang for
dinner. In the hall they met Aunt Ruth, and in the dining-room Kathie
introduced Sarah to her mother.
A girl with less natural adaptation or ambition might have been very
awkward. But Sarah had watched Kathie to some purpose, and now gave
herself courage with the thought that she could not go far astray if she
copied Kathie. To be sure she blushed and hesitated a little, and, as
she afterward confessed at home, "trembled all over"; but she did acquit
herself very creditably.
"I can scarcely realize that it is the same girl who wrote you the
Christmas letter," whispered Mrs. Alston in a soft aside, and Kathie
smiled gratefully at her mother's commendation.
Then the two girls began a regular tour about the house. The pictures,
the statues, the furniture, Aunt Ruth's beautiful bay-window still full
of vines and flowers, and the abundance of books, were so many marvels
to Sarah. And here, in the midst of all this beauty, hung her lichen.
The tears of delight came to her eyes, in spite of her strong effort at
repression.
"Now if you would only play and sing for me," she pleaded, bashfully.
"You're so good that I hate to ask anything."
"With pleasure."
It seemed as if Sarah could never get enough music. She listened as if
she was entranced, the new spiritual light coming into her eyes, showing
the strong and earnest capabilities of her soul.
Uncle Robert looked in upon them.
"I think you had better go out on the lake now," he said. "The air is so
delightfully soft."
Sarah sighed. "I cannot imagine which is the best, everything is such a
pleasure."
"We will have some music when we return. You will like the sail, I
know."
They found their hats and ran down the broad steps. Quite a party were
coming up the drive. Charlie and Dick, Mr. and Mrs. Meredith, and O,
joy! this tall, soldierly man could be no other than General Mackenzie!
"My dear, dear young friend"; and, stooping, he kissed the forehead in
his grave, tender fashion.
"So you see I have surprised you this time," laughed Mr. Meredith.
"Where were you going gypsy fashion?"
"To the lake, but it doesn't matter." There was no Uncle Robert to help
her, so she turned to where Sarah stood blushing and abashed, drew her
kindly forward, and gave her an introduction to each one. Dick connected
her with the party and Belle Hadden at once.
"Kathie was right to stand up for her," was his mental verdict. "There
are plenty of worse-looking and worse-behaved girls in the world."
At this junction Uncle Robert joined them. The whole party entered the
parlor. Kathie seated Sarah by herself, and General Mackenzie joined
them. Mrs. Alston and Aunt Ruth were summoned, and the conversation
became most genial. And when Sarah ventured a remark, frightened half to
death the moment afterward, General Mackenzie smiled and answered her.
Dick Grayson, anxious to see "what kind of stuff she was made of," came
round to the back of the tête-à-tête, and joined the talk.
