ing down the winding way, with a heavy basket on either 
flank ; stout girls are stepping lightly down with loads 
on their heads ; the drivers shoiit, the donkeys bray, the 
people jabber and order each other about; and the 
oranges, in a continual stream, are poured into the long, 
narrow vessel, rolling in with a thud, until there is a yel- 
low mass of them.*. Shouting, scolding, singing, and bray- 
ing, all come up to me a little mellowed. The disorder 
is not so great as on the opera stage of San Carlo in 
Naples ; and the effect is much more pleasing. 
This settlement, the marina, under the cliff, used to 
extend along the shore ; and a good road ran down 
there close by the water. The rock has split off, and 
covered it ; and perhaps the shore has sunk. They tell 
me that those who dig down in the edge of the shallow 
water find sunken walls, and the remains of old founda- 
tions of Koman workmanship. People who wander there 
pick up bits of marble, serpentine, and malachite, — 
remains of the palaces that long ago fell into the sea, and 
have not left even the names of their owners and build- 
ers, — the ancient loafers who idled away their days as 
everybody must in this seductive spot. Not far from 
here, they point out the veritable caves of the Sirens, 
who have now shut up house, and gone away, like the 
rest of the nobility. If I had been a mariner in their day, 
I should have made no effort to sail by and away from 
their soothing shore. 
I went, one day, through a long, sloping arch, near 
the sailors' Chapel of St. Antonino, past a pretty shrine 
of the Virgin, down the zigzag path to this little 
marina; but it is better to be content with looking at 
it from above, and imagining how delightful it would be 
to push off in one of the little tubs of boats. Sometimes, 
at night, I hear the fishermen coming home, singing in 
their lusty fashion ; and I think it is a good haven to 
arrive at. I never go down to search for stones on the 
beach : I like to believe that there are great treasures 
there, which I might find ; and I know that the green 
and brown and spotty appearance of the water is caused 
by the showing through of the pavements of courts, and 
marble floors of palaces, which might vanish if I went 
nearer, such a place of illusion is this. 
The Villa Nardi stands in pleasant relations to Vesu- 
vius, which is just across the bay, and is not so useless 
as it has been represented ; it is our weather-sign and 
prophet. When the white plume on his top floats inland, 
that is one sort of weather ; when it streams out to sea, 
that is another. But I can never tell which is which : 
nor in my experience does it much matter ; for it seems 
impossible for Sorrento to do any thing but woo us with 
gentle weather. But the use of Vesuvius, after all, is to 
furnish us a background for the violet lio;;ht at sundown, 
when the villao;es at its foot gleam like a silver fring-e. 
I have become convinced of one thing : it is always best 
when you build a house to have it front toward a vol- 
cano, if you can. There is just that lazy activity about 
a volcano, ordinarily, that satisfies your demand for 
something that is not exactly dead, and yet does not 
disturb you. 
Sometimes when I wake in the night, — though I 
don't know why one ever wakes in the night, or the 
daytime either here, — I hear the bell of the convent, 
which is in our demesne, — a convent which is sup- 
pressed, and where I hear, when I pass in the morning, 
the hummino; of a school. At first, I tried to count the 
hour ; but, when the bell went on to strike seventeen, 
and even twenty-one o'clock, the absurdity of the thing 
came over me, and I wondered whether it was some 
frequent call to prayer for a feeble band of sisters re- 
maining, some reminder of midnight penance and vigil, 
or whether it was not something more ghostly than that, 
and was not responded to by shades of nuns, who were 
wont to look out from their narrow latticed windows 
upon these same gardens, as long ago as when the beau- 
tiful Queen Joanna used to come down here to repent 
— if she ever did repent — of her wanton ways in Naples. 
On one side of the garden is a suppressed monastery. 
The narrow front towards the sea has a secluded little 
balcony, where I like to fancy the poor, orphaned souls 
used to steal out at night for a breath of fresh air, and 
perhaps to see, as I did one dark evening, Naples with 
its lights like a conflagration on the horizon. Upon the 
tiles of the parapet are cheerful devices, — the crossbones 
tied with a cord, and the like. How many heavy- 
hearted recluses have stood in that secluded nook, and 
been tempted by the sweet, lulling sound of the waves 
below ; how many have paced along this narrow terrace, 
and felt like prisoners who wore paths in the stone floor 
where they tread; and how many stupid louts have 
walked there, insensible to all the charm of it I 
If I pass into the Tramontano garden, it is not to 
escape the presence of history, or to get into the modern 
world, where travellers are arriving, and where there is 
the bustle and the proverbial discontent of those who 
travel to enjoy themselves. In the pretty garden, which 
is a constant surprise of odd nooks and sunny hiding- 
places, with ruins, and most luxuriant ivy, is a little 
cottage where, I am told in confidence, the young king 
of Bavaria slept three nights not very long ago. I hope 
he slept well. But more important than the sleep, or 
even death, of a king, is the birth of a poet, I take it ; 
and within this enclosure, on the eleventh day of March, 
1541, Torquato Tasso, most melancholy of men, first saw 
the light ; and here was born his noble sister Cornelia, 
the descendants of whose union with the cavalier Spa- 
siano still live here, and in a manner keep the memory 
of the poet green with the present generation. I am 
indebted to a gentleman who is of this lineage for many 
favors, and for precise information as to the position in 
the house that stood here of the very room in which 
Tasso was born. It is also minutely given in a memoir 
of Tasso and his family, by Bartolommeo Capasso, whose 
careful researches have disproved the slipshod statements 
of the guide-books, that the poet was born in a house 
  
which is still standing, farther to the west, and that 
the room has fallen into the sea. The descendant of 
the sister pointed out to me the spot on the terrace of the 
Tramontano where the room itself was, when the house 
still stood ; and, of course, seeing is believing. The sun 
shone full upon it, as we stood there ; and the air was 
full of the scent of tropical fruit and just-coming blos- 
soms. One could not desire a more tranquil scene of 
advent into life; and the wandering, broken-hearted 
author of *' Jerusalem Delivered " never found at court 
or palace any retreat so soothing as that offered him 
here by his steadfast sister. 
If I were an antiquarian, I think I should have had 
Tasso born at the Villa Nardi, where I like best to stay, 
and where I find traces of many pilgrims from other 
countries. Here, in a little corner-room on the terrace, 
Mrs. Stowe dreamed and wrote; and I expect, every 
morning, as I take my morning sun here by the gate, 
Agnes of Sorrento will come down the sweet-scented 
path with a basket of oranges on her head. 
 
IT is not always easy, wlien one stands upon the high- 
lands which encircle the Piano di Sorrento, in some 
conditions of the atmosphere, to tell where the sea ends, 
and the sky begins. It seems practicable, at such times, 
