passengers upon himself.
“That boy’s a nuisance; he ought not to be allowed to play on the boat,”
 muttered an old gentleman, looking up from the columns of the Evening
Post.
“Now, papa,” said a young lady at his side, “why need you object to the
poor boy? I am sure he sings very nicely. I like to hear him.”
“I don’t.”
“You know, papa, you have no taste for music. Why, you went to sleep at
the opera the other evening.”
“I tried to,” said her father, in whom musical taste had a very limited
development. “It was all nonsense to me.”
“He is singing the Hymn of Garibaldi. What a sweet voice he has! Such a
handsome little fellow, too!”
“He has a dirty face, and his clothes are quite ragged.”
“But he has beautiful eyes; see how brilliant they are. No wonder he is
dirty and ragged; it isn’t his fault, poor boy. I have no doubt he has a
miserable home. I’m going to give him something.”
“Just as you like, Florence; as I am not a romantic young damsel, I
shall not follow your example.”’
By this time the song was finished, and Phil, taking off his cap, went
the rounds. None of the contributions were larger than five cents,
until he came to the young lady of whom we have spoken above. She drew
a twenty-five-cent piece from her portemonnaie, and put it into Phil’s
hand, with a gracious smile, which pleased the young fiddler as much as
the gift, welcome though that undoubtedly was.
“Thank you, lady,” he said.
“You sing very nicely,” she replied.
Phil smiled, and dirty though his face was, the smile lighted it up with
rare beauty.
“Do you often come on these boats?” asked the young lady.
“Sometimes, but they do not always let me play,” said Phil.
“I hope I shall hear you again. You have a good voice.”
“Thank you, signorina.”
“You can speak English. I tried to speak with one of you the other day,
but he could only speak Italian.”
“I know a few words, signorina.”
“I hope I shall see you again,” and the young lady, prompted by a
natural impulse of kindness, held out her hand to the little musician.
He took it respectfully, and bending over, touched it with his lips.
The young lady, to whom this was quite unexpected, smiled and blushed,
by no means offended, but she glanced round her to see whether it was
observed by others.
“Upon my word, Florence,” said her father, as Phil moved away, “you have
got up quite a scene with this little ragged musician. I am rather
glad he is not ten or twelve years older, or there might be a romantic
elopement.”
“Now, papa, you are too bad,” said Florence. “Just because I choose to
be kind to a poor, neglected child, you fancy all sorts of improbable
things.”
“I don’t know where you get all your foolish romance from--not from me,
I am sure.”
“I should think not,” said Florence, laughing merrily. “Your worst enemy
won’t charge you with being romantic, papa.”
“I hope not,” said her father, shrugging his shoulders. “But the boat
has touched the pier. Shall we go on shore, or have you any further
business with your young Italian friend?”
“Not to-day, papa.”
The passengers vacated the boat, and were replaced by a smaller number,
on their way from Brooklyn to New York.
CHAPTER VI
THE BARROOM
Phil did not leave the boat. He lingered in the cabin until the
passengers were seated, and after the boat was again under way began to
play. This time, however, he was not as fortunate as before. While in
the midst of a tune one of the men employed on the boat entered the
cabin. At times he would not have interfered with him, but he happened
to be in ill humor, and this proved unfortunate for Phil.
“Stop your noise, boy,” he said.
Phil looked up.
“May I not play?”
“No; nobody wants to hear you.”
The young fiddler did not dare to disobey. He saw that for the present
his gains were at an end. However, he had enough to satisfy the rapacity
of the padrone, and could afford to stop. He took a seat, and waited
quietly till the boat landed. One of the lady passengers, as she passed
him on her way out of the cabin, placed ten cents in his hand. This
led him to count up his gains. He found they amounted to precisely two
dollars and fifty cents.
“I need not play any more,” he thought. “I shall not be beaten
to-night.”
He found his seat so comfortable, especially after wandering about the
streets all day, that he remained on the boat for two more trips. Then,
taking his violin under his arm, he went out on the pier.
It was half-past seven o’clock. He would like to have gone to his
lodging, but knew that it would not be permitted. In this respect the
Italian fiddler is not as well off as those who ply other street trades.
Newsboys and bootblacks are their own masters, and, whether their
earnings are little or great, reap the benefit of them themselves. They
can stop work at six if they like, or earlier; but the little Italian
musician must remain in the street till near midnight, and then, after
a long and fatiguing day, he is liable to be beaten and sent to bed
without his supper, unless he brings home a satisfactory sum of money.
Phil walked about here and there in the lower part of the city. As he
was passing a barroom he was called in by the barkeeper.
“Give us a tune, boy,” he said.
It was a low barroom, frequented by sailors and a rough set of customers
of similar character. The red face of the barkeeper showed that he drank
very liberally, and the atmosphere was filled with the fumes of bad
cigars and bad liquor. The men were ready for a good time, as they
called it, and it was at the suggestion of one of them that Phil had
been invited in.
“Play a tune on your fiddle, you little ragamuffin,” said one.
Phil cared little how he was addressed. He was at the service of the
public, and what he chiefly cared for was that he be paid for his
services.
“What shall I play?” he asked.
“Anything,” hiccoughed one. “It’s all the same to me. I don’t know one
tune from another.”
The young fiddler played one of the popular airs of the day. He did not
undertake to sing, for the atmosphere was so bad that he could hardly
avoid coughing. He was anxious to get out into the street, but he did
not wish to refuse playing. When he had finished his tune, one of
those present, a sailor, cried, “That’s good. Step up, boys, and have a
drink.”
The invitation was readily accepted by all except Phil. Noticing that
the boy kept his place, the sailor said, “Step up, boy, and wet your
whistle.”
Phil liked the weak wines of his native land, but he did not care for
the poisonous decoctions of be found in such places.
“I am not thirsty,” he said.
“Yes, you are; here, give this boy a glass of brandy.”
“I do not want it,” said Phil.
“You won’t drink with us,” exclaimed the sailor, who had then enough to
be quarrelsome. “Then I’ll make you;” and he brought down his fist so
heavily upon the counter as to make the glasses rattle. “Then I’ll make
you. Here, give me a glass, and I’ll pour it down his throat.”
The fiddler was frightened at his vehemence, and darted to the door. But
the sailor was too quick for him. Overtaking Phil, he dragged him
back with a rough grasp, and held out his hand for the glass. But an
unexpected friend now turned up.
“Oh, let the boy go, Jack,” said a fellow sailor. “If he don’t want to
drink, don’t force him.”
But his persecutor was made ugly by his potations, and swore that Phil
should drink before he left the barroom.
“That he shall not,” said his new friend.
“Who is to prevent it?” demanded Jack, fiercely.
“I will.”
“Then I’ll pour a glass down your throat, too,” returned Jack,
menacingly.
“No need of that. I am ready enough to drink. But the boy shan’t drink,
