"But, father--"
"I won't argue the matter," interposed the irate old gentleman. "You
know that Medway and I are sworn foes; that he has injured me in my
prospects, in my name, and reputation. I wouldn't forgive him if he
went down on his knees and sued for my pardon. He has injured me in that
manner and to that degree that there is no possibility of
reconciliation."
"But Mr. Medway has no such feelings towards you. He respects you, in
spite of your differences," added Edward Montague, in the gentlest of
tones.
"I don't care what his feelings are towards me. After injuring me as he
has, he can afford to be magnanimous. After robbing me of my hopes and
my reputation, he can talk very flippantly about burying the hatchet. I
tell you again there must be no relations of any kind between his family
and mine. I am astonished and indignant, Edward, to think that you
should allow yourself to be caught in any such trap."
"Trap, father!" exclaimed the young man, a slight flush of indignation
spreading over his handsome face.
"Yes, a trap, Edward," stormed Mr. Montague. "I am a rich man,--all the
world knows it,--and you are my only son. I am worth a million of
dollars, at the least,--not in book accounts and bad debts, but in real
estate, stocks, bonds, and mortgages. You are a prize in the lottery,
Edward."
The old man looked at his son with a sneer on his face, which was called
forth by the thought that any one, least of all his bitter personal
enemy, should aspire to hold any relations with this paragon of wealth.
"I do not think that Sara Medway or her father covets your wealth,"
added Edward, in a very mildly deprecatory tone.
"You are nothing but a boy! you don't know the world. You have been at
your books till you are twenty-one years old, and now you are as
innocent of all knowledge of the ways of men as a child in its cradle."
"But, father, I know that Sara Medway is not an adventurer," added
Edward, who was more anxious to defend the lady implicated than himself.
"You don't know anything about it," raved the old gentleman, angered
anew by the protest of the son.
"She is as gentle as she is beautiful; and I am sure she is not capable
of thinking a mercenary thought."
"Stuff! You talk like a baby, that knows nothing of the world--that's
all."
"But you don't know her," suggested Edward, who was actually so simple
as to believe that this consideration ought to have some influence upon
the sentence of his father.
"I know her father, and that's enough. The chances are, that she is like
him. But, whether she is like him or not, there can be no relations
between his family and mine. Do you understand me, Edward?" demanded the
Honorable Mr. Montague, sternly.
"I think I do, sir."
"You think you do, you puppy!" thundered the old gentleman.
"I was not aware that you were prejudiced against Miss Medway," added
Edward, musing, as though he did not desire to understand his father.
"I hate the whole race of them, and I will have nothing to do or say to
any of them; and you shall not, either."
The young man made no reply; and silence is sometimes more impudent, and
sometimes expresses more firmness, than speech. At any rate, at this
time and under these circumstances, it indicated that Edward Montague
had a mind, a will of his own, and that, though he did not wish to
provoke his father to wrath, he intended to follow his own inclination,
rather than consult the unreasonable prejudices of his father. Whether
this was a correct interpretation of the son's purposes or not, the
father so regarded it, and his wrath increased accordingly.
"If I haven't spoken plainly enough, I will leave you no chance of
misunderstanding me. If you marry the girl, I will disown you. Can you
understand that? If you marry her, I will never see you or speak to you
again. Do you think you can understand that? If you marry her, not a
dollar of my property shall ever be yours. Do you fully comprehend me? I
mean all I say, literally and exactly. I won't leave you even the hope
of breaking my will when I am dead. I will give away every penny before
I die. I will found a hospital, or an insane asylum for just such
lunatics as you are, and every dollar I possess shall be in its coffers
before I am put in the ground. I hope you understand me, Edward."
"I think I do, sir," replied the young man, sadly.
"You think you do!"
"It is not possible to misunderstand you, father; I fully understand
your views."
"Well, what have you to say?" stormed the father.
"I do not see that anything can be said."
"Your intentions?"
"Of course I can only submit."
"You begin to be sensible. You are my son, my only son, Edward," said
the old gentleman, in a milder tone. "All my hopes are in you. I have
never been hard with you."
"You have not, father."
"But I would rather lose every dollar I have in the world to-day, and
begin life anew at the age of sixty, than see you the husband of
Medway's daughter. I mean just what I say, and nothing less. It would
break my heart."
The young man wanted to say that it would break his heart not to be the
husband of Sara Medway; but he had learned to temporize and be insincere
before the unreasonable wrath of his father, and he was silent.
"You are twenty-one now. You have gone through college, and have only to
study your profession. You needn't make hard work of it, for you will
not be obliged to drudge for a living; but you may wish to go into
politics, and as a lawyer you will succeed better. You shall have all
the money you want. I have already decided to give you an allowance of
five thousand a year, and you can check it from the bank as you want it.
Go to Europe for the next year or two, if you wish; travel in your own
country first, if you like. Your health is somewhat shaken by your
confinement in college, and a couple of years' recreation will do you
good. You needn't hurry about your profession. Please yourself, Edward,
in everything except this Medway matter; and don't let me hear another
word about this girl; don't go near her; don't write to her."
The Honorable Mr. Montague, having delivered himself of his harsh
threat, and having smoothed it over in the most gingerly manner he
could, walked out of the library, where the conversation had taken
place. He evidently felt relieved, and, perhaps, thought that he had
bravely met a great responsibility, and had done his whole duty
faithfully to his son. He honestly believed that the Honorable Mr.
Medway was a villain of the blackest dye, not only politically, but
morally and socially; and, this postulate admitted, it followed, by his
narrow reasoning, that Mrs. Medway, Miss Medway, and all that related to
the fountain Medway were, utterly vile and villanous. He hated the
father, and he could not help hating the daughter.
Mr. Montague was a Whig, and Mr. Medway was a Democrat; or, Mr. Montague
was a Democrat, and Mr. Medway was a Whig; we cannot tell just how this
was; it is enough to say that they were on opposite sides in politics.
Mr. Montague was a wealthy man, and Mr. Medway was not; and both of them
were nominated for Congress in the same district, in the State of Maine.
It was a close contest, and party rancor was very bitter. Not only the
public acts, but the private lives of the candidates were criticised in
the severest manner by the opposition; and an unbiassed spectator,
believing all that was said, would have promptly concluded that both of
them were unmitigated scoundrels. Mr. Montague had a skeleton in an
almost forgotten closet, and, somehow, this skeleton stalked out into
the political arena, and perhaps frightened away some of its owner's
adherents. Perhaps it was a forgotten and repented sin; but Mr.
Montague's opponents made the most of it. Now, this gentleman, from
certain circumstances which need not be explained, was satisfied that
Mr. Medway had trotted out this skeleton and held it up as a bugbear to
the people, and he hated his rival with all his mind, heart, and soul.
The election came, and Mr. Montague was defeated by a very small
majority. He had been sure that he should be chosen, and the result
intensified his hatred of his successful opponent to a degree which made
it little short of insanity. Years hardly moderated its fervor, though
it ceased to find frequent expression. The hope of long years was
frustrated; the crown of glory and success was denied him, he firmly
believed, by the villany of his rival in exposing the skeleton in the
closet. He was a defeated candidate. The prestige was against him; and,
in the state of parties, he could not hope to be nominated again. His
enemy had overwhelmed him once and for all.
It is fair to say that Mr. Medway knew nothing about the skeleton, had
