" What 's up ?" asked one of them as he stepped 
across the floor and looked keenly at the group of 
men surrounding the three roughs. 

" Oh, it 's you, Jack !" and he confronted one of 
the fellows. " What 's the row ? Do you want to 
get down below again ?" 

" Not over-anxious," was replied, in a dogged sort 
of growl. 

"Very well; then you 'd better make off with 
yourselves ;" and he nodded his head toward the 
door. " If you can t behave decently, keep out of 
decent places." 

Jack, as he was called, did not hesitate, but left at 
once, his two companions going with him. 

 

"Ugly customers," said the policeman who had 
ordered them out. " What did they do ?" 

" Refused to pay the price of their drinks, and 
then tried to get up a row." 

" Exactly ! The devil himself goes into these 
fellows with whisky, and there 's scarcely a night that 
we don 't  have trouble with some of them. That 
Jack Thompson or Fighting Jack, the name he is 
best known by is one of the worst of them all 
He was in the State 's prison for manslaughter it 
was an out-and-out murder, and he should have been 
hung and served five years. His sentence was for 
ten, but pardoned, you see !" 

" What are we to do ?" I asked, betraying my dis 
turbed state of mind both in voice and countenance. 

" The best you can," answered the policeman, 
rather roughly, I thought. " Every business has its 
customers, and these are some of yours ;" and he 
gave his head a twist and his shoulders a shrug. 

" Exactly, captain !" chimed in old Jacobs " ex 
actly ! You never see em at the bakers and butch 
ers " 

" Not often, I guess. They let other people do 
their marketing," was replied. 

The old man now came forward, ready to talk and 
glad of a new listener. 

" Guess our friends here will see such chaps pretty 
often." 

"Shouldn 't wonder. There 's a large lot of em 
about, and plenty more coming on. Six or seven 





thousand places like this in our city breed such ver 
min fast. They make lots of work for us. If it 
wasn 't for rum, our force might be cut down one- 
half, and even then we 'd have an easy time of it." 

" Don 't doubt it," said Jacobs. 

" Rum don 't  make thieves and housebreakers," 
said one of our company, who felt that this kind of 
talk was rather out of place. 

" It makes poor thoughtless, shiftless, desperate 
men," answered the policeman, " and from this great 
army come most of your criminals. I happen to 
know." 

" And your paupers, too," chimed in Jacobs. " It 's 
a great curse, and you can t make anything else out 
of it." 

The policeman looked at Jacobs curiously, and 
then said, 

" I wonder at your coming here, seeing that you 
understand the case so well." 

" Don 't wonder that you do," was answered, a 
low gurgle in the old man 's throat that was meant 
for a laugh. " But I'm one of the cursed, you see. 
Got a-going, and can t stop. All down hill." 

" Take something," I said now to the policemen, 
recollecting myself. 

" Don 't care if I do," was answered by each. They 
drank like men who were used to it. 

" Take my advice," said one of them as he turned 
to go, "and keep out of a quarrel with these roughs. 
They 'll look in upon you now and then, sure, and 



 

get up a fight if they can. Drink makes them little 
better than devils incarnate. It was only last week 
that a party of them went into a tavern down town, 
and after smashing up things cut the tavern-keeper 
with a knife shockingly. They re a desperate set, 
and think no more of putting a knife into a man 
than they would into a pig." 

I didn 't feel very cheerful after this. We shut up 
at twelve o clock that night, having taken in over 
forty dollars for drinks. It was a good beginning, 
more than coming up to our expectations. I felt 
that our new enterprise was an assured success. 

But I could not get to sleep until near morning. 
I dreamed of being chased by devilish-looking men 
who wanted to murder me, of fighting in the bar 
room and a jumble of other dreadfully disagree 
able things. I awoke as the sun shone into my 
window with a feverish feeling and a dull headache, 
and as the scenes of the previous night rose vividly 
before me I felt a strange depression of spirits. The 
shadow of some great evil seemed upon me. 

It came very distinctly to my mind that from the 
very beginning of this business matters somehow 
or other got at cross purposes both with Lloyd and 
myself. Every day I grew less and less comfortable 
and at ease in my feelings. The death of Perry 
Flint and his wife gave me a shock that it seemed 
