forty blocks of distant buildings all on fire at once, re- 
flected strongly against over-hanging clouds, you can 
form a fair idea of what this looked like. 
A colossal column of cloud towered to a great height in 
the air immediately above 
the crater, and the outer swell of every one of its vast 
folds was dyed with a rich 
crimson luster, which was 
subdued to a pale rose tint 
in the depressions between. 
It glowed like a muflied 
torch and stretched upward 
to a dizzy height toward the 
zenith. I thought it just 
possible that its like had not been seen since the children of 
Israel wandered on their long march through the desert so 
many centuries ago over a path illuminated by the mysterious 
" pillar of fire." And I was sure that I now had a vivid con- 
ception of what the majestic " pillar of fire " was like, which 
almost amounted to a revelation. 
Arrived at the little thatched lookout house, we rested our 
elbows on the railing in front and looked abroad over the wide 
crater and down over the sheer precipice at the seething fires 
beneath us. The view was a startling improvement on my 
daylight experience. I turned to see the effect on the balance 
of the company and found the reddest-faced set of men I almost 
ever saw. In the strong light every countenance glowed like 
red-hot iron, every shoulder was suff'used with crimson and 
shaded rearward into dingy, shapeless obscurity ! The place 
below looked like the infernal regions and these men like 
half-cooled devils just come up on a furlough. 
I turned my eyes upon the volcano again. The "cellar" 
was tolerably well lighted up. For a mile and a half in front 
of us and half a mile on either side, the floor of the abss 
was magnificently illuminated ; beyond these limits the mists 
hung down their gauzy curtains and cast a deceptive gloom 
over all that made the twinkling fires in the remote corners of 
the crater seem countless leagues removed — made them seem 
like the camp-fires of a great army far away. Here was 
room for the imagination to work ! You could imagine 
those lights the width of a continent away — and that hid- 
den under the intervening darkness were hills, and winding 
rivers, and weary wastes of plain and desert — and even then 
the tremendous vista stretched on, and on, and on ! — to the fires 
and far beyond ! Yon could not compass it — it was the idea 
of eternity made tangible — and the longest end of it made vis- 
ible to the naked eye ! 
The greater part of the vast floor of the desert under us was as 
black as ink, and apparently smooth and level ; but over a mile 
square of it was ringed and streaked and striped with a thousand 
branching streams of liquid and gorgeously brilliant fire ! It 
looked like a colossal railroad map of the State of Massachusetts 
done in chain lightning on a midnight sky. Imagine it — imagine 
a coal-black skj shivered into a tangled net-work of snagry 
fire ! 
Here and there were gleaming holes a hundred feet in diam- 
eter, broken in the dark crnst, and in them the melted lava — 
the color a dazzling white just tinged with yellow — was boiling 
and surging fnriously ; and from these holes branched number- 
less bright torrents in many directions, like the spokes of a 
wheel, and kept a tolerably straight course for a while and then 
swept round in huge rainbow curves, or made a long succession 
of sharp worm-fence angles, which looked precisely like the 
fiercest jagged lightning. These streams met other streams, 
and they mingled with and crossed and recrossed each other in 
every conceivable direction, like skate tracks on a popular skating 
ground. Sometimes streams twenty or thirty feet wide 
flowed from the holes to some distance without dividing — and 
through the opera-glasses we could see that they ran down 
small, steep hills and were genuine cataracts of fire, white at 
their source, but soon cooling and turning to the richest red, 
grained with alternate lines of black and gold. Every now 
and then masses of the dark crust broke away and floated slowly 
down these streams like rafts down a river. Occasionally the 
molten lava flowing under the superincumbent crust broke 
through — split a dazzling streak, from five hundred to a thou- 
sand feet long, like a sudden flash of lightning, and then acre 
after acre of the cold lava parted into fragments, turned up 
edgewise like cakes of ice when a great river breaks up, plunged 
downward and were swallowed in the crimson cauldron. Then 
the wide expanse of the " thaw " maintained a ruddy glow for 
a wdiile, but shortly cooled and became black and level again. 
During a " thaw," every dismembered cake was marked by a 
glittering white border which was superbly shaded inward by 
aurora borealis rays, which were a flaming yellow where they 
joined the white border, and from thence toward their points 
tapered into glowing crimson, then into a rich, pale carmine, 
and finally into a faiiit blusli that held its own a moment and 
then dimmed and turned black. Some of the streams preferred 
to mingle together in a tangle of fantastic circles, and then they 
looked something like the confusion of ropes one sees on a 
ship's deck when she has just taken in sail and dropped anchor 
— provided one can imagine those ropes on fire. 
Through the glasses, the little fountains scattered about looked 
very beautiful. They boiled, and coughed, and spluttered, and 
discharged sprays of stringy red fire — of about the consistency 
of mush, for instance — from ten to fifteen feet into the air. 
along with a shower of brilliant white sparks — a quaint and 
unnatural mingling of gouts of blood and snow-flakes ! 
We had circles and serpents and streaks of lightning all 
twined and wreathed and tied together, without a break 
throughout an area more than a mile square (that amount of 
ground was covered, though it was not strictly " square "), and 
it was with a feeling of placid exultation that we reflected that 
many years had elapsed since any visitor had seen such a splen- 
did display — since any visitor had seen anything more than the 
now snubbed and insignificant " North " and " South " lakes 
in action. We ha<l been reading old files of Hawaiian news- 
papers and the " Record Book " at the Volcano House, and 
were posted. 
I could see the North Lake lying out on the black floor 
away oflf in the outer edge of our panorama, and knitted to it 
by a web-M'ork of lava streams. In its individual capacity it 
looked very little more respectable than a schoolhouse on fire- 
True, it was about nine hundred feet long and two or three 
hundred wide, but then, under the present circumstances, it 
necessarily appeared rather insignificant, and besides it was so 
distant from us. 
I forgot to say that the noise made by the bubbling lava is 
not great, heard as we heard it from our lofty perch. It makes 
three distinct sounds — -a rushing, a hissing, and a coughing or 
puffing sound ; and if you stand on the brink and close your 
eyes it is no trick at all to imagine that you are sweeping down 
a river on a large low-pressure steamer, and that you hear the 
hissing of the steam about her boilers, the pufiSng from her 
escape-pipes and the churning rush of the water abaft her 
wheels. The smell of sulphur is strong, but not unpleasant to
a sinner. 
We left the lookout house at ten o'clock in a half cooked 
condition, because of the heat from Pele's furnaces, and wrapping 
up in blankets, for the night was cold, we returned to our 
Hotel. 
CHAPTER LXXV. 
THE next night was appointed for a visit to the bottom of 
the crater, for we desired to traverse its floor and see the 
, ' Xorth Lake " (of fire) which lay two miles away, toward the 
further wall. After dark half a dozen of us. set out, with lan- 
terns and native guides, and climbed down a crazy, thousand- 
foot pathway in a crevice fractured in the crater wall, and 
reached the bottom in safety. 
