ing curves on the isothermal charts, which should 
show at least the leading pie sections. Journey 
ing towards the White Mountains, we concluded 
that a line passing through Bellows Falls, and 
bending a little south on either side, would mark 
northward the region of perpetual pie. In this 
region pie is to be found at all hours and seasons, 
and at every meal. I am not sure, however, that 
pie is not a matter of altitude rather than lati 
tude, as I find that all the hill and country towns 
of New England are full of those excellent wo 
men, the very salt of the housekeeping earth, 
who would feel ready to sink in mortification 
through their scoured kitchen floors, if visitors 
should catch them without a pie in the house. 
The absence of pie would be more noticed than 
a scarcity of Bible even. Without it the house 
keepers are as distracted as the boarding-house 
keeper, who declared that if it were not for 
canned tomato she should have nothing to fly to. 
Well, in all this great agitation I find Herbert 
unmoved, a conservative, even to the under-crust. 
I dare not ask him if he eats pie at breakfast. 
There are some tests that the dearest friendship 
may not apply. 
" Will you smoke ? " I ask. 
" No, I have reformed." 
" Yes, of course." 
" The fact is, that when we consider the corre 
lation of forces, the apparent sympathy of spirit 
manifestations with electric conditions, the al 
most revealed mysteries of what may be called 
the odic force, and the relation of all these phe 
nomena to the nervous system in man, it is not 
safe to do anything to the nervous system that 
will " 
" Hang the nervous system ! Herbert, we can 
agree in one thing : old memories, reveries, friend 
ships, centre about that: isn't an open wood 
fire good ? " 
" Yes," says Herbert, combatively, " if you 
don't sit before it tbo long." 
III. 
THE best talk is that which escapes up the 
open chimney .and cannot be repeated. The 
finest woods make the best fire and pass away 
with the least residuum. I hope the next gener- 
 
ation will not accept the reports of " interviews" 
as specimens of the conversations of these years 
of grace. 
-Cut do we "talk '-as well as our fathers and 
mothers did ? We hear wonderful stories of 
the bright generation that sat about the wide 
fireplaces of New Engtandr Good talk has so 
much short-hand that it cannot be reported, 
the inflection, the change of voice, the shrug, can 
not be caught on paper. The best of it is when 
the subject unexpectedly goes cross-lots, by a 
flash of short-cut, to a conclusion so suddenly 
revealed that it has the effect of wit. It needs 
the highest culture and the finest breeding to 
prevent the conversation from running into mere 
persiflage on the one hand its common fate 
or monologue on the other. Our conversation is 
largely chaff. I am not sure but the former gen 
eration preached a good deal, but it had great 
practice in fireside talk, and must have talked 
well. There were narrators in those days who 
could charm a circle all the evening long with 
stories. When each day brought comparatively 
little new to read, there was leisure for talk, and 
 
the rare book and the infrequent magazine were 
thoroughly discussed. Families now are swamped 
by the printed matter that comes daily upon the 
centre-table. There must be a division of labor, 
one reading this, and another that, to make any 
impression on it. The telegraph brings the only 
common food, and works this daily miracle, that 
every mind in Christendom is excited by one 
topic sTmultaneously with every other mind ; it 
enables a concurrent mental action, a burst of 
sympathy, or a universal prayer to be made, 
which must be, if we have any faith in the imma 
terial left, one of the chief forces in modern life. 
It is fit that an agent so subtle as electricity 
should be the minister of it. 
When there is so much to read, there is little 
time for conversation ; nor is there leisure for 
another pastime of the ancient firesides, called 
reading aloud. The listeners, who heard while 
they looked into the wide chimney-place, saw 
there pass in stately procession the events and 
the grand persons of history, were kindled with 
the delights of travel, touched by the romance of 
true love, or made restless by tales of adventure ; 
the hearth became a sort of magic stone that 
could transport those who sat by it to the most 
distant places and times, as soon as the book was 
opened and the reader began, of a winter's night. 
[Perhaps the Puritan reader read through his 
nose, and all the little Puritans made the most 
dreadful nasal inquiries as the entertainment 
went on. The prominent nose of the intellect 
ual New-Englander is evidence of the constant 
linguistic exercise of the organ for generations. 
It grew by talking through. But I have no 
doubt that practice made good readers in those 
days. /Good reading aloud is almost a lost accom 
plishment now. It is little thought of in the 
schools. It is disused at home. It is rare to find 
any one who can read, even from the newspaper, 
well. Reading is so universal, even with the 
uncultivated, that it is common to hear people 
mispronounce words that you did not suppose 
they had ever seen. In reading to themselves 
they glide over these words, in reading aloud 
they stumble over themj Besides, our every 
day books and newspapers are so larded with 
French that the ordinary reader is obliged mar 
cher a pas de loup, for instance. 
 
The newspaper is probably responsible for 
making current many words with which the 
general reader is familiar, but which he rises 
to in the flow of conversation, and strikes at 
with a splash and an unsuccessful attempt at 
appropriation ; the word, which he perfectly 
knows, hooks him in the gills, and he cannot 
master it. The newspaper is thus widening 
the language in use, and vastly increasing the 
number of words which enter into common 
talk. The Americans of the lowest intellect 
ual class probably use more words to express 
their ideas than the similar class of any other 
people ; but this prodigality is partially bal 
anced by the parsimony of words in some 
higher regions, in which a few phrases of cur 
rent slang are made to do the whole duty of 
