professor by the students, was the most conspicuous ornament; but
scattered here and there were many interesting works of art selected
by him in foreign lands--always with reference to Jessie's tastes
and wishes. The piano was Orrin's bridal gift--a surprise held in
reserve by the fond husband to brighten the coming home of his
household deity. But the sitting-room back of the state apartments,
was the one on which he had expended most care and time. A
bay-window did duty for the more roomy oriel, and the shelf, which
was an extension of the sill, was filled with plants.
"Next Spring we will set a root of jessamine outside," remarked Roy,
when Orrin praised the infant creepers--ivy and passion-flower--on
the inside of the casement.
The carpet was mosses, green, gray, and russet, specked with
red-topped lichens; the walls were flushed with pink. Jessie's
escritoire was in one corner, her work-stand in another. A
reading-lamp, with its alabaster shade, was upon the centre-table,
and a low lounging chair beside it. The picture of Jessie's mother
hung over the mantel; Jessie's books strewed the stands, and were
ranged in rows within a handsome bookcase at the back of the room.
Choice engravings were hung in good lights, and within the fireplace
lay long, well-seasoned logs ready for lighting.
"Beauty's bower!" said Orrin, gazing about him with unqualified
approbation. "Who would have given you credit for such a genius for
furnishing? For the individuality of your appointments shows that
you are not indebted to the upholsterer for the charming effect. But
perhaps you have worked under orders. Did Mrs. Fordham and her
sister give you general directions?"
"None. I am happy to have the approval of a connoisseur," rejoined
Roy, lightly. "I knew, of course, what Jessie would like, and have
tried to please her. Upholsterers and cartes blanches from papa,
and the toils of magnificence are the luxuries (and nuisances) of
men who marry heiresses. As perhaps you have discovered."
"Sagely guessed! I heard little besides millinery, dressmaking, and
upholstery talk while in B----. Ponderous preparations, so it
struck me, for such everyday events as marrying, giving in marriage,
and going to housekeeping. I had come to the conclusion that I was
anti-domestic in my proclivities, but a sight of this idyl of a home
has staggered the belief. I am glad you are married, old fellow!"
clapping him on the shoulder. "I could not tell you in a month how
glad!"
"Don't begin, then!" Roy led the way to the library. "Else, not to
be outdone, I must take at least a year in which to express my
gratification at the event."
Orrin eyed him furtively while he affected to be engrossed in the
delicate operation of lighting the cigar tendered by the host. Roy's
clear, open brow, sunny smile, and the hearty ring of his voice were
indubitable signs of the sincerity of his happiness. It was with a
lighter spirit--I leave conscience out of the question--that his
kinsman threw himself back in his comfortable chair, and prepared to
enjoy the evening.
"The last of my quasi widowerhood!" said Roy. "I wish it were the
last of your bachelor days, Orrin!"
"Ca viendra!" returned the other, his cigar between his teeth.
"Next month is December."
"I hope your wife will take as kindly to me as mine does to you!"
pursued Roy. "And that I may, one day, have the opportunity to prove
by services rendered her, my appreciation of the care you have taken
of my interests in my absence."
"Don't speak of it, my dear boy!" said Orrin, hastily.
Even he colored slightly at the unintentional sarcasm. He coughed to
emit the smoke that had gone down the wrong way, and this gave him
time to rally his ideas. No harm had come of his innocent pastime.
Roy was none the wiser, and his bride had had the advantage of a new
sensation in the development of her latent capacities for loving and
suffering. She would be better and stronger all her life; her
character would gain breadth and fibre for the emotion that had
stirred the depths of her being. It was wholesome, if sharp,
discipline--a sort of spiritual subsoil ploughing, without which she
might never have developed aright. Women were a marvellous and an
entertaining study. Their powers of craft and concealment were
beyond man's ken or imitation. The most imprudently passionate of
them acted sometimes with circumspection that would put a Talleyrand
to the blush. Jessie, mad and desperate as she was at her last
interview with himself, had nevertheless reconsidered her resolution
to reveal her inconstancy to her lawful lover, and judiciously
judging that the Past was gone beyond recall, had taken up with the
old love so soon as the new one was off. She could not have done
better for all parties. "Scenes," except when sentimental and en
tête-à-tête, were a vulgarism to be eschewed by refined people.
    "Jack shall have Gill,
    Nought shall go ill."
he repeated, mentally, thus salving the smart caused by Roy's
thanks. "Jessie and I will be capital friends and neighbors. She
will like me none the less because she knows that, had she been
possessed of the fair and fond Hester's wealth, her destiny would
have been changed. She is too acute of perception not to comprehend
that, in that case, my sense of what was due to her and myself
would not have let me resign her, even to my honored cousin, here.
But what is, is best, I suppose.
"You have never met my Dulcinea, I believe?" he said aloud, both
cigar and windpipe being in good working order by the time he
reached this consolatory sequel.
"I have not had that pleasure. Jessie gave me a slight sketch of
her--a mere outline, which I hope to fill up for myself, shortly,
from life."
"Then," meditated the cool and candid bridegroom-elect, "my
tow-headed divinity lied egregiously about that old affair! I must
cross-examine her in earnest, and if my suspicion is correct, make
her retract certain counts in her indictment against Jessie's
husband. I owe him that much reparation. Since they are a wedded
unit, things should go upon velvet so far as is consistent with the
fact of human imperfection. I'll send the lovely Hester to make
amends to Mrs. Fordham, some time. If I do not forget it."
He was in one of his gracefully indolent moods to-night, and did not
hurry himself in speech.
"She is not handsome. You would not, I fear, consider her even
pretty," he resumed, after a few lulling puffs, such as might be
necessary to temper loverly exaggeration. "But she is a dear,
affectionate, pliant little thing, and will make just the wife a
blasé world citizen like myself needs. I hope--I think you will
like her. But I don't expect you to see in her the peer of your
glorious Jessie, however well she may suit me."
Roy, when left alone again, pondered this speech dissatisfiedly.
"I am not quite content with this match, nor with Orrin's tone. I
had not looked for a lover's rhapsodies, knowing his critical taste
in these matters, but he ought not to acknowledge or feel the need
of apologies for his choice. I am afraid his love does not leave him
as little to wish for and to fear, as mine does me."
He looked up at the portrait with a smile.
"But there is only one Jessie in the world, and she will be here
to-morrow night."
Still standing before the picture, he made an involuntary gesture,
as of folding something in his arms.
"My darling! soon to be my angel in the house! I think it would kill
me to lose you now."
His sudden motion had struck a book from the corner of the table,
exposing a letter that lay beneath. It was a foreign envelope, and
had probably been given to the servant by the postman that
afternoon, and placed there by her with the book on the top, for
safe-keeping. An enclosure fell out as he opened the cover--a letter
that had arrived in Heidelberg after he set out for home, said a
line from a fellow-student in the University. The smile lingered
lovingly about mouth and eyes, while he tore off the inner wrapper.
The superscription was Jessie's; the note the short and cold
farewell she had indited after her parting with Orrin Wyllys, on the
6th of September.
      
"No harm done!" reiterated the affectionate kinsman, walking slowly
along to his lodgings, under the pure moon. "I should have been
sorry had she carried her threat into execution; spoiled her own
