looked into some of their marred and pinched, faces, most of which bore
signs of pain, suffering, want and evil. It moved him to tears when he
heard them sing, led by one of the teachers, a tender hymn expressive of
the Lord’s love for poor neglected children.
“The Lord Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost,” said the
missionary as they came down from the school-room, “and we are trying to
do the same work. And that our labor is not all in vain will be evident
when I show you what this work was in the beginning. You have seen a
little of what it is now.”
They went back to the office of the missionary.
“It is nearly twenty years,” said Mr. Paulding, “since the organization
of our mission. The question of what to do for the children became
at once the absorbing one. The only building in which to open a
Sunday-school that could be obtained was an old dilapidated frame house
used as a receptacle for bones, rags, etc.; but so forbidding was its
aspect, and so noisome the stench arising from the putrefying bones
and rotting rags, that it was feared for the health of those who
might occupy it. However it was agreed to try the effect of scraping,
scrubbing, white-washing and a liberal use of chloride of lime. This
was attended with such good effects that, notwithstanding the place was
still offensive to the olfactories, the managers concluded to open in it
our first Sabbath-school.
“No difficulty was experienced in gathering in a sufficient number of
children to compose a school; for, excited by such a novel spectacle
as a Sabbath-school in that region, they came in crowds. But such a
Sabbath-school as that first one was beyond all doubt the rarest thing
of the kind that any of those interested in its formation had ever
witnessed. The jostling, tumbling, scratching, pinching, pulling of
hair, little ones crying and larger ones punching each other’s heads and
swearing most profanely, altogether formed a scene of confusion and
riot that disheartened the teachers in the start, and made them begin to
think they had undertaken a hopeless task.
“As to the appearance of these young Ishmaelites, it was plain that they
had rarely made the acquaintance of soap and water. Hands, feet and
face exhibited a uniform crust of mud and filth. As it was necessary to
obtain order, the superintendent, remembering that ‘music hath charms
to soothe the savage breast,’ decided to try its effects on the untamed
group before him; and giving out a line of a hymn adapted to the tune of
‘Lily Dale,’ he commenced to sing. The effect was instantaneous. It was
like oil on troubled waters. The delighted youngsters listened to the
first line, and then joined in with such hearty good-will that the old
shanty rang again.
“The attempt to engage and lead them in prayer was, however, a matter of
great difficulty. They seemed to regard the attitude of kneeling as very
amusing, and were reluctant to commit themselves so far to the ridicule
of their companions as to be caught in such a posture. After reading to
them a portion of the Holy Scriptures and telling them of Jesus,
they were dismissed, greatly pleased with their first visit to a
Sabbath-school.
“As for ourselves, we had also received a lesson. We found--what indeed
we had expected--that the poor children were very ignorant, but we also
found what we did not expect--namely, such an acute intelligence and
aptitude to receive instruction as admonished us of the danger of
leaving them to grow up under evil influences to become master-spirits
in crime and pests to society. Many of the faces that we had just seen
were very expressive--indeed, painfully so. Some of them seemed to
exhibit an unnatural and premature development of those passions whose
absence makes childhood so attractive.
“Hunger! ay, its traces were also plainly written there. It is painful
to see the marks of hunger on the human face, but to see the cheeks of
childhood blanched by famine, to behold the attenuated limbs and bright
wolfish eyes, ah! that is a sight.
“The organization of a day-school came next. There were hundreds of
children in the district close about the mission who were wholly without
instruction. They were too dirty, vicious and disorderly to be admitted
into any of the public schools; and unless some special means of
education were provided, they must grow up in ignorance. It was
therefore resolved to open a day-school, but to find a teacher with her
heart in such a work was a difficulty hard to be met; moreover, it was
thought by many unsafe for a lady to remain in this locality alone, even
though a suitable one should offer. But one brave and self-devoted
was found, and one Sunday it was announced to the children in the
Sabbath-school that a day school would be opened in the same building at
nine o’clock on Monday morning.
“About thirty neglected little ones from the lanes and alleys around
the mission were found at the schoolroom door at the appointed hour. But
when admitted, very few of them had any idea of the purpose for which
they were collected. The efforts of the teacher to seat them proved a
failure. The idea among them seemed to be that each should take some
part in amusing the company. One would jump from the back of a bench
upon which he had been seated, while others were creeping about the
floor; another, who deemed himself a proficient in turning somersaults,
would be trying his skill in this way, while his neighbor, equally
ambitious, would show the teacher how he could stand on his head.
Occasionally they would pause and listen to the singing of a hymn or the
reading of a little story; then all would be confusion again; and thus
the morning wore away. The first session having closed, the teacher
retired to her home, feeling that a repetition of the scenes through
which she had passed could scarcely be endured.
“Two o’clock found her again at the door, and the children soon gathered
around her. Upon entering the schoolroom, most of them were induced
to be seated, and a hymn was sung which they had learned in the
Sabbath-school. When it was finished, the question was asked, ‘Shall we
pray?’ With one accord they answered, ‘Yes.’ ‘And will you be quiet?’
They replied in the affirmative. All were then requested to be silent
and cover their faces. In this posture they remained until the prayer
was closed; and after resuming their seats, for some minutes order was
preserved. This was the only encouraging circumstance of the day.
“For many weeks a stranger would scarcely have recognized a school in
this disorderly gathering which day after day met in the old gloomy
building. Very many difficulties which we may not name were met and
conquered. Fights were of common occurrence. A description of one may
give the reader an idea of what came frequently under our notice.
“A rough boy about fourteen years of age, over whom some influence had
been gained, was chosen monitor one morning; and as he was a leader in
all the mischief, it was hoped that putting him upon his honor would
assist in keeping order. Talking aloud was forbidden. For a few minutes
matters went on charmingly, until some one, tired of the restraint,
broke silence. The monitor, feeling the importance of his position, and
knowing of but one mode of redress, instantly struck him a violent blow
upon the ear, causing him to scream with pain. In a moment the school
was a scene of confusion, the friends of each boy taking sides, and
before the cause of trouble could be ascertained most of the boys
were piled upon each other in the middle of the room, creating sounds
altogether indescribable. The teacher, realizing that she was alone, and
not well understanding her influence, feared for a moment to interfere;
but as matters were growing worse, something must be done. She made
an effort to gain the ear of the monitor, and asked why he did so. He,
confident of being in the right, answered,
“‘Teacher, he didn’t mind you; he spoke, and I licked him; and I’ll do
it again if he don’t mind you.’
“His services were of course no longer required, although he had done
his duty according to his understanding of the case.
“Thus it was at the beginning of this work nearly twenty years ago,”
 said the missionary. “Now we have an orderly school of over two hundred
children, who, but for the opportunity here given, would grow up without
even the rudiments of all education. Is not this a gain upon the enemy?
Think of a school like this doing its work daily among these neglected
little ones for nearly a score of years, and you will no longer feel as
if nothing had been done--as if no headway had been gained. Think,
too, of the Sabbath-school work in that time, and of the thousands of
children who have had their memories filled with precious texts from the
Bible, who have been told of the loving Saviour who came into the world
and suffered and died for them, and of his tender love and perpetual
care over his children, no matter how poor and vile and afar off
from him they may be. It is impossible that the good seed of the word
scattered here for so long a time should not have taken root in many
hearts. We know that they have, and can point to scores of blessed
instances--can take you to men and women, now good and virtuous
people, who, but for our day-and Sabbath-schools, would, in all human
