in Hawkeye were decidedly miscellaneous, and largely made up of romances
and fictions which fed her imagination with the most exaggerated notions
of life, and showed her men and women in a very false sort of heroism.
From these stories she learned what a woman of keen intellect and some
culture joined to beauty and fascination of manner, might expect to
accomplish in society as she read of it; and along with these ideas she
imbibed other very crude ones in regard to the emancipation of woman.

There were also other books--histories, biographies of distinguished
people, travels in far lands, poems, especially those of Byron, Scott
and Shelley and Moore, which she eagerly absorbed, and appropriated
therefrom what was to her liking. Nobody in Hawkeye had read so much
or, after a fashion, studied so diligently as Laura. She passed for an
accomplished girl, and no doubt thought herself one, as she was, judged
by any standard near her.

During the war there came to Hawkeye a confederate officer, Col. Selby,
who was stationed there for a time, in command of that district. He was
a handsome, soldierly man of thirty years, a graduate of the University
of Virginia, and of distinguished family, if his story might be
believed, and, it was evident, a man of the world and of extensive
travel and adventure.

To find in such an out of the way country place a woman like Laura was
a piece of good luck upon which Col. Selby congratulated himself. He was
studiously polite to her and treated her with a consideration to which
she was unaccustomed. She had read of such men, but she had never seen
one before, one so high-bred, so noble in sentiment, so entertaining in
conversation, so engaging in manner.

It is a long story; unfortunately it is an old story, and it need not
be dwelt on. Laura loved him, and believed that his love for her was as
pure and deep as her own. She worshipped him and would have counted her
life a little thing to give him, if he would only love her and let her
feed the hunger of her heart upon him.

The passion possessed her whole being, and lifted her up, till she
seemed to walk on air. It was all true, then, the romances she had read,
the bliss of love she had dreamed of. Why had she never noticed before
how blithesome the world was, how jocund with love; the birds sang it,
the trees whispered it to her as she passed, the very flowers beneath
her feet strewed the way as for a bridal march.

When the Colonel went away they were engaged to be married, as soon as
he could make certain arrangements which he represented to be necessary,
and quit the army. He wrote to her from Harding, a small town in the
southwest corner of the state, saying that he should be held in the
service longer than he had expected, but that it would not be more than
a few months, then he should be at liberty to take her to Chicago where
he had property, and should have business, either now or as soon as the
war was over, which he thought could not last long. Meantime why should
they be separated? He was established in comfortable quarters, and if
she could find company and join him, they would be married, and gain so
many more months of happiness.

Was woman ever prudent when she loved? Laura went to Harding, the
neighbors supposed to nurse Washington who had fallen ill there. Her
engagement was, of course, known in Hawkeye, and was indeed a matter
of pride to her family. Mrs. Hawkins would have told the first inquirer
that. Laura had gone to be married; but Laura had cautioned her; she did
not want to be thought of, she said, as going in search of a husband;
let the news come back after she was married.

So she traveled to Harding on the pretence we have mentioned, and was
married. She was married, but something must have happened on that very
day or the next that alarmed her. Washington did not know then or after
what it was, but Laura bound him not to send news of her marriage to
Hawkeye yet, and to enjoin her mother not to speak of it. Whatever cruel
suspicion or nameless dread this was, Laura tried bravely to put it
away, and not let it cloud her happiness.

Communication that summer, as may be imagined, was neither regular nor
frequent between the remote confederate camp at Harding and Hawkeye,
and Laura was in a measure lost sight of--indeed, everyone had troubles
enough of his own without borrowing from his neighbors.

Laura had given herself utterly to her husband, and if he had faults,
if he was selfish, if he was sometimes coarse, if he was dissipated, she
did not or would not see it. It was the passion of her life, the time
when her whole nature went to flood tide and swept away all barriers.
Was her husband ever cold or indifferent? She shut her eyes to
everything but her sense of possession of her idol.

Three months passed. One morning her husband informed her that he had
been ordered South, and must go within two hours.

“I can be ready,” said Laura, cheerfully.

“But I can’t take you. You must go back to Hawkeye.”

“Can’t-take-me?” Laura asked, with wonder in her eyes. “I can’t live
without you. You said-----”

“O bother what I said,”--and the Colonel took up his sword to buckle it
on, and then continued coolly, “the fact is Laura, our romance is played
out.”

Laura heard, but she did not comprehend. She caught his arm and cried,
“George, how can you joke so cruelly? I will go any where with you. I
will wait any where. I can’t go back to Hawkeye.”

“Well, go where you like. Perhaps,” continued he with a sneer, “you
would do as well to wait here, for another colonel.”

Laura’s brain whirled. She did not yet comprehend. “What does this mean?
Where are you going?”

“It means,” said the officer, in measured words, “that you haven’t
anything to show for a legal marriage, and that I am going to New
Orleans.”

“It’s a lie, George, it’s a lie. I am your wife. I shall go. I shall
follow you to New Orleans.”

“Perhaps my wife might not like it!”

Laura raised her head, her eyes flamed with fire, she tried to utter a
cry, and fell senseless on the floor.

When she came to herself the Colonel was gone. Washington Hawkins stood
at her bedside. Did she come to herself? Was there anything left in her
heart but hate and bitterness, a sense of an infamous wrong at the hands
of the only man she had ever loved?

She returned to Hawkeye. With the exception of Washington and his
mother, no one knew what had happened. The neighbors supposed that the
engagement with Col. Selby had fallen through. Laura was ill for a
long time, but she recovered; she had that resolution in her that could
conquer death almost. And with her health came back her beauty, and an
added fascination, a something that might be mistaken for sadness. Is
there a beauty in the knowledge of evil, a beauty that shines out in
the face of a person whose inward life is transformed by some terrible
experience? Is the pathos in the eyes of the Beatrice Cenci from her
guilt or her innocence?

Laura was not much changed. The lovely woman had a devil in her heart.
That was all.



