over his shoulders. The younger ones took their mother 
through the house, displaying each room with no little 
pride. 
" It is quite wonderful," she said, in her sweet fashioa 
" I feel as if we might be very happy here." 
"O, mamma, if we should be!" 
" And why not, Jessie ? " 
There was a look of calm and tender resignation in the 
fair face that it was good to behold a kind of glorified 
endurance. 
"My darlings," Mrs. Ashburton said, "God has left us 
the greatest of all blessings in preserving our little house- 
hold unbroken. We must show our gratitude by not 
repining at what he saw best to take. I believe I could 
spare the fortune more readily than any of you." 
"O, mamma, I begin to think it will not be so 
terrible, after all. And now look at our rooms. Philip 
insisted upon taking this little one. Nelly's will have to 
bo used if we have any company." 
"I do not suppose that we shall be altogether neg- 
lected." 
" Some one will want to see how we look, and if we 
bear our misfortunes well," Madge said, with natirica) 
gayety. 
 
a l hope that we have a few friends actuated by a 
higher motive than curiosity," Mrs. Ashburton rejoined 
with tender gravity. 
"There is a good deal of meanness and selfishness in 
the world," Madge made energetic reply. 
" My darling, it pains me to see you begin life with this 
spirit of railing. Can we not give others credit for as 
much generosity and kindness as we possess?" 
Madge was silent from regard to her mother. Eleanor 
fancied that the careless and light-hearted child was not 
capable of much suffering; but many things during the 
past month had stung her keenly. 
They did not finish their examination a moment too 
soon, for just then the dinner-bell rang. 
" Help me out, Philip," Mr. Ashburton said to his son. 
"I want to take this first meal in our new home with 
you all." 
As he uttered the words " our new home," it touched 
them with a sense of nearness they had not experienced 
before. And though it was an effort to totter out to the 
dining-room and sit through the meal, growing more ex- 
hausted with every second, yet he bore up for his children's 
sakes. 
His illness had told fearfully upon him, and he looked 
like an old man. His eyes were sunken, and the lines had 
deepened in his thin cheeks. His whole frame trembled 
at the slightest motion, and his voice had in it a strangely 
weak quaver. 
Yet, on the whole, it was an enjoyable meal, more cheer- 
ful than they could have imagined. And though Mr. 
Ashburton had to be taken to bed immediately afterwards, 
he begged his wife to spend the evening with the chil- 
dren. 
"I surely can spare you for a little while," he said, 
"after having had all your time of late." 
Mrs. Ashburton found the young folks in quite an 
animated discussion about household affairs. It WIN 
rather warm, and, in some respects, Utopian. Eleanor, 
perhaps, best understood the value of money. 
Philip announced to them that, after all expenses wer 
paid, they would have about seven hundred dollars re- 
maining. This he proposed to place in a bank for a sort 
of reserve-fund. Eleanor had said that they could not 
live on Philip's salary. 
"But I'm thankful that we shall not have to call upon 
Clement this year. It is high time that we heard from him. 
And who will write ? " 
Philip paused, for his voice was a trifle unsteady. 
" I will," said Mrs. Ashburton. " And I believe that we 
shall find him both sympathizing and generous." 
" If he can buy back Home Nook some day ! " 
They all hoped in their hearts that he might possess both 
the desire and the ability. 
"I believe I shall learn to do something," Madge de- 
clared. " I must dream out my splendid possibilities ! " 
"And now let us sing 'Naomi' for our evening hymn," 
said Mrs. Ashburton. 
Eleanor went to the piano. Mrs. Ashburton had a 
purpose in proposing this hymn. It had always been a 
great favorite of hers, for the sweet content breathed in 
every line. And as the young voices blent with Philip's 
rich tenor, she observed with pain that one was silent. 
How they lingered over the last dear line, 
" And crown my journey's end," 
M if it were indeed a prayer. 
"Good night." 
It was their mother's voice and kiss. They had taken 
the first important step in their journey ; but how and 
where would it end ? 
 
CHAPTER VI. 
ROMANCE AND EXPERIENCE. 
A maw life indeed. Its social aspects were so widely 
different that it took the family some time to feel at all 
settled in their new sphere. They would have been more 
than human if they could have submitted to the change 
at once, and kindly. Every day, dozens of trifling wants 
and sacrifices bore down upon them, making in the aggre- 
gate a burden not easily borne as yet. 
Philip accepted his position with a sturdy manliness. 
At eight in the morning he took his place at the desk, with 
piles of correspondence before him, through which he 
waded, answered, and placed on file, vibrating between 
this and the journal-like ledger. He had to endure the 
imperious ways of consequential elders, and a species of 
sneering impertinence from ill-bred and rather jealous 
juniors, who considered him an interloper, promotion being 
generally the rule in this large mercantile house. From 
three till six the seniors finished their work, and dropped 
off slowly, and Philip was thankful when he could close 
the tiresome pages and set his face homeward. 
Hannah had remained a week, and then left reluctantly. 
Jessie insisted upon trying the post of housekeeper first, 
for, as Mr. Ashburton appeared rather poorly again, his 
wife devoted herself chiefly to nursing. Eleanor took the 
supervision of the rooms, and Madge declared, dismally, 
that there was nothing left for her. 
She did not find much time to be idle, however. There 
was the yard to tidy, and the flower-beds to be put in 
order ; errands to do, sweeping, cleaning, and odds and 
ends af all kinds, which generally fell to her lot. 
When they came to the end of May, the monthly account* 
were made out. It seemed that they had given up all the 
luxuries and every needless expense, except a few delica 
cies for their father. And yet the expenses during the 
month had amounted to nearly one hundred dollars ! 
The girls glanced at each other in dismay. 
" Just twice Philip's salary," said Eleanor. " I said that 
we could not live on that. And when we come to buy 
clothes " 
" I'm sure we have studied over every dish and every 
dollar haven't we, Madge?" Jessie began, in great ear- 
nest, as if she felt herself tacitly accused of extravagance. 
"And had the very simplest of lunches and desserts. 
How do poor people live ? " 
