severe with me." 
" Not more severe than he is with himself, my 
dear. He has taken all his little savings for 
Margaret Brown, and I presume those savings 
represent comforts, not luxuries like pearls." 
" Mr. Leslie should not try me by the same 
test he uses for himself; I cannot stand it." 
" That is where he made his mistake, my 
dear. He thought you could." 
Sibyl colored angrily. " Mr. Leslie is an 
enthusiast." she said ; " he expects people to 
throw down all their treasures at his feet." 
" Not at his feet ; at the foot of the cross, 
dear " 
 
" Aunt Faith, do you really believe people can 
be happy in such a life ? " said Sibyl vehemently. 
" Mr. Leslie is happy, my child." 
" He is a single man with few cares. I am 
alluding to married people, burdened with responsibility and anxiety. " 
" If they are so burdened, my dear, so much 
the more reason why they should seek help from 
Him who said ; come unto me all ye that are 
heavy laden, and I will give you rest.' " 
" But in e very-day life there are so many petty 
annoyances, aunt. ,, 
" Will they be any the less annoying without 
His aid, dear ? " 
" They will be less annoying if people are 
rich, Aunt Faith." 
" Some of the most unhappy women I have 
ever known, have been rich, Sibyl." 
" But I would not be one of those, aunt.' I 
would be rich and happy at the same time." 
" If you could, my dear. But wealth brings 
with it its own troubles ; sometimes in the 
 
shape of the donor ; I trust you would not 
marry for money ? " 
"Not for money alone, aunt. But I see no 
reason why a rich man might not be loved for 
himself as well as a poor man. It does not 
follow that because a man is rich he must therefore be selfish or ill-tempered." 
' Certainly not, my dear ; but we will not 
discuss it any longer, at present. You are 
young, and I wish you to understand yourself 
thoroughly. Take no rash steps, and re- 
member that wealth is as nothing compared to a 
true heart, and that this world's best treasures 
are perishable, while religious faith abides with 
us through life and death into eternity." 
In the afternoon Mr. Leslie came again to the 
old stone house, and inquired for Mrs. Sheldon. 
" I have come to ask for your horses," he said, as 
Aunt Faith entered the parlor ; I have secured 
a large carriage that will take all the family, 
and now, if you will send Jonas down with the 
horses, we can hope to have Margaret safely 
established at Mr. Green's before night." 
 
" Certainly, Mr. Leslie. Is there nothing 
more I can do ? " 
" Not to-day, thank you. I shall go out with 
them myself." 
" How are the children ? " 
" Worse, I fear ; but I have large faith in 
country air." 
" I shall be anxious to know how they bear the 
ride." 
" I will stop on my way home as I must come 
back with the carriage," said the young clergy- 
man as he went away. 
" Was not that Mr. Leslie ? " asked Hugh, 
coming in from the dining-room a few moments 
afterward. 
" Yes," replied Aunt Faith ; " he came to see 
me on business." 
" Didn't he ask for Sibyl?" said Hugh. 
" No," replied Aunt Faith, with a warning 
look at her nephew, as Sibyl came in. But Hugh 
was not to be warned. " Sibyl," he said, 4t Mr. 
Leslie has been here and did not ask for you" 
 
" Is that so very surprising ? " said his sister 
coldly ; she had regained all her composure and 
her face was calm and quiet. 
" Of course it is surprising," said Hugh 
bluntly. " He has been in the habit of coming 
here to see you for months, and, let me tell you, 
Sibyl, he is one in a thousand ; he is a hero, 
every inch, and I heartily respect and like him." 
" I have said nothing to the contrary, Hugh." 
" Don't be a hypocrite, Sibyl," said Hugh 
with brotherly frankness. "I am not good at 
splitting hairs, but there is no more comparison 
between Mr. Leslie and Graham Marr, than 
there is between an eagle and a sickly chicken." 
" I have never thought of comparing them, 
Hugh. I do not like comparisons, and yours is 
entirely unjust. But even supposing it was cor- 
rect, /have no taste for standing on a mountain- 
peak, in the icy air of unknown heights, and gaz- 
ing at the sun all day as an eagle does," said 
Sibyl, as she crossed the hall into the parlor. In 
a few moments the Spring-Song sounded forth 
 
from the piano, and under cover of the music, 
Hugh said to Aunt Faith, " there is nothing 
wrong between them I hope ? " 
" There is nothing between them either right 
or wrong," replied Aunt Faith with a sigh. 
" Sibyl is not suited to Mr. Leslie." 
"Then it is her fault," said Hugh warmly. 
" There is no doubt in my mind that John Leslie 
is deeply interested in her, and I should be 
proud and glad to have him for a brother. He 
is the truest, most honest man I know." 
" That is because he is such a sincere^ earnest 
Christian." 
" I know it, aunt. He works hard, and he 
thoroughly believes in his work. He really 
thinks there is nothing in the city so vitally im- 
portant as that little chapel, and those work- 
men." f 
" He is right, Hugh. To him there should be 
nothing so important as their welfare." 
" Yes, I suppose so ; that is, if I could look at 
it with his eyes. But it is rare to see practice so 
consistent with theory in every-day life." 
 
" It is, as you say, rare indeed ; but he is a 
rare man, Hugh." 
" He is, truly. That is the reason why I feel 
Sibyl's manner. Can it be possible that she 
really prefers Graham Marr ? " 
" I do not know, Hugh. Graham will be rich 
some day." 
" That is the worst of it, aunt. Who would 
have thought Sibyl could be so mercenary ! " 
" Do not judge her harshly, dear. She has 
