Leach left the shop a happy man; for most men are cheerful when they
have plenty of money in their pocket. He was more especially happy
because, being an honest man, he was able now to pay the interest on the
mortgage note on the day it was due. He had worked half the night before
in order to finish the sails, so that he might get the money to pay it.
With a light step, therefore, he walked to the elegant mansion of
Captain Patterdale, and rang the bell at the library door. There was a
light in the room, which indicated that the captain was at home. He was
admitted by the nabob himself, who answered his own bell at this door.
"I suppose you thought I wasn't going to pay my interest on the day it
was due," said Leach, with a cheerful smile.
"On the contrary, I didn't think anything at all about it," replied
Captain Patterdale. "I was not even aware that your interest was due
to-day."
"I came pretty near not paying it, for work has been rather slack this
season; but the firm of Ramsay & Son helped me out by paying me promptly
for the sails I made for the Maud."
"Ramsay & Son is a great concern," laughed the nabob.
"It pays promptly; and that's more than all of them do," added Leach,
drawing his wallet from his pocket.
"I haven't your note by me, Mr. Leach," said Captain Patterdale; but he
did not consider it necessary to state that the important document was
at that moment in the tin box, wherever the said tin box might be. "I
will give you a receipt for the amount you pay, and indorse it upon the
note when I have it."
"All right, captain."
"Do you know how much the interest is? I am sure I have forgotten,"
added the rich man.
"I ought to know. I have had to work too hard to get the money in time
to forget how much it was. It is just seventy dollars," answered Leach.
"You needn't pay it now, if you are short."
"I'm not short now. I'm flush, for which I thank Don John," said the
sail-maker, as he placed two of the fifty-dollar bills on the desk, at
which the captain was writing the receipt.
The uppermost of the two bills was the mended one, for Leach thought if
there was any doubt in regard to this, it ought to be known at once. If
the nabob would take it, the matter was settled. Captain Patterdale
wrote the receipt, and did not at once glance at the money.
"There's a hundred, captain," added the sail-maker.
The rich man picked up the bills, and turned over the upper one. If he
did not start, it was not because he was not surprised. He was utterly
confounded when he saw that bill, and his thoughts flashed quickly
through his mind. But he did not betray his thoughts or his emotions,
quick as were the former, and intense as were the latter. He took up the
mended bill, and looked it over several times.
"That's the white cross of Denmark," said he, suppressing his emotions.
"Isn't the bill good?" asked the sail-maker.
"Good as gold for eighty-eight cents on a dollar," replied the captain.
"Then it is not good," added Leach, who did not quite comprehend the
nabob's mathematics.
"Yes, it is."
"But you say it is worth only eighty-eight cents on a dollar."
"That is all any paper dollar is worth when gold is a little rising
fourteen per cent. premium. The bill is perfectly good, in spite of the
white cross upon it. You want thirty dollars change."
The captain counted out this sum, and handed it to the debtor.
"If the bill isn't good, I can give you another," replied Leach, as he
took the money.
"It is a good bill, and I prefer it to any other for certain reasons of
my own. It has the white cross of Denmark upon it; at least, the white
bars on this bill remind me of the flag of that nation."
"It's like a flag--is it?" added the sail-maker, who did not understand
the rich man's allusion.
"Like the flag of Denmark. I made a voyage to Copenhagen once, and this
bill reminds me of the merchant's flag, which has a couple of white bars
across a red ground. Where did you say you got this bill, Mr. Leach?"
"Don John gave it to me, not half an hour ago."
"It has been torn into quarters some time, and the pieces put together
again. Did Don John mend the bill himself?"
"No, sir; he says the bill is just as it was when he received it. I
looked at it pretty sharp when I took it; but he said if it wasn't good,
he would give me another."
"It is perfectly good. Did he tell you where he got the bill?" asked
Captain Patterdale, manifesting none of the emotion which agitated him.
"No, sir; he did not. I didn't ask him. If it makes any difference, I
will do so."
"It makes no difference whatever. It is all right, Mr. Leach."
The sail-maker folded up his receipt, and left the library. He went home
with eighty dollars in his pocket, entirely satisfied with himself, with
the nabob, and especially with the firm of Ramsay & Son. He did not care
a straw about the white cross of Denmark, so long as the bill was good.
Captain Patterdale was deeply interested in the bill which bore this
mark, and possibly he expected to conquer by this sign. He was not so
much interested in the bill because he had made a voyage up the Baltic
and seen the white cross there, as because he had seen it on a bill in
that tin box. He was not only interested, but he was anxious, for the
active member of the firm of Ramsay & Son seemed to be implicated in a
very unfortunate and criminal transaction.
More than once Captain Patterdale had observed the pleasant relations
between Don John and his fair daughter. As Nellie was a very pretty
girl, intelligent, well educated, and agreeable, and in due time would
be the heiress of a quarter or a half million, as the case might be, he
was rather particular in regard to the friendships she contracted with
the young gentlemen of the city. Possibly he did not approve the
intimacy between them. But whatever opinions he may have entertained in
regard to the equality of social relations between his daughter and the
future partner of her joys and sorrows, we must do him the justice to
say that he preferred honor and honesty to wealth and position in the
gentleman whom Nellie might choose for her life companion. The
suspicion, or rather the conviction, forced upon him by "the white cross
of Denmark," that Donald was neither honest nor honorable, was vastly
more painful than the fact that he was poor, and was the son of a mere
ship carpenter.
Certainly Nellie did like the young man, though, as she was hardly more
than a child, it might be a fancy that would pass away when she realized
the difference between the daughter of a nabob and the son of a ship
carpenter. While he was thinking of the subject, Nellie entered the
library, as she generally did when her father was alone there. She was
his only confidant in the house in the matter of the tin box, and he
determined to talk with her about the painful discovery he had just
made.
CHAPTER XII.
DONALD ANSWERS QUESTIONS.
"Well, Nellie, did you have a good time to-day?" asked Captain
Patterdale, as his daughter seated herself near his desk.
"I did; a capital time. Everybody seemed to enjoy it," replied she.
"But some seemed to enjoy it more than others," added the captain, with
a smile.
"Now, father, you have something to say," said she, with a blush. "I
wish you would say it right out, and not torment me for half an hour,
trying to guess what it is."
"Of course, if I hadn't anything to say, I should hold my tongue,"
laughed her father.
"Everybody don't."
"But I do."
"Do you think I enjoyed the occasion more than any one else, father?"
"I thought you were one of the few who enjoyed it most."
"Perhaps I was; but what have I done?"
"Done?"
"What terrible sin have I committed now?"
"None, my child."
"But you are going to tell me that I have sinned against the letter of
the law of propriety, or something of that kind. This is the way you
always begin."
"Then this time is an exception to all other times, for I haven't a word
of fault to find with you."
"I am so glad! I was trying to think what wicked thing I had been
doing."
"Nothing, child. Don John seemed to be supremely happy this afternoon."
"I dare say he was; but the firm of Ramsay & Son had a successful
