finally "wrapt in slumber," as he intended to express himself in the
great composition; and in two hours more he had slept all he could
afford to sleep when number one mackerel were waiting to be caught. At
three o'clock in the morning he awoke and dressed himself, the latter
operation occupying not more than twenty seconds, for his toilet
consisted only in putting on his trousers, shoes and hat. He went down
stairs, and, as boys of his age are always hungry, his first objective
point was the pantry, between the dining-room and kitchen, where he
found and ate an abundance of cold roast beef, biscuits, and apple pie.
Being a provident youth, he transferred a considerable quantity of these
eatables to the large basket in which he had brought home his fish the
day before, so that he could "have a bite" himself, even if the
mackerel failed to favor him in this direction.
Though he stopped to fill himself with cold roast beef, biscuit, and
apple pie, and even to fill his basket after he had filled himself,
Leopold was very much excited in regard to the mackerel catch of that
day. He hoped to find the number ones where he had fallen in with them
the day before; and he could hardly expect to catch more than one more
fare before the fact that the mackerel were in the bay became generally
known. The mackerel fleet itself, consisting of between two and three
hundred sail, might be in the vicinity before the sun set again. He
realized the necessity of making hay while the sun shines. But mackerel
are very uncertain, so far as their location and inclination to bite are
concerned; so that there was not more than an even chance for him to
catch a single fish. The result was doubtful enough to make the game
exciting; and Leopold felt very much as an unprofessional gambler does
when he goes to the table to risk his money. It seemed to be altogether
a question of luck.
But Leopold was hopeful, and felt that the chances were rather in his
favor. He had been saving all the money he could earn for months for a
particular purpose; and he was not excited by the simple prospect of
obtaining the lucre for the purpose of hoarding it, so that he could
feel that he possessed a certain sum. He had been a little afraid that,
when his gains amounted to so large a sum as thirty-two dollars and
forty cents, his father would take possession of his receipts; but the
landlord of the Cliff House adhered to his policy of allowing his son to
retain the proceeds of his own labor. With a pea-jacket on his arm and
the basket in his hand, he left the hotel while the stars were still
shining in the few patches of blue sky that were not hidden by the
clouds. But he did not proceed immediately to the boat. He crossed the
street, and, concealing his basket in the bushes by the side of the path
which led down to the river, he hastened up the next street beyond the
hotel till he came to a small cottage, at the gate of which he halted,
and gave three prolonged whistles.
"Hallo, Le!" shouted a voice from the open window in the gable end of
the cottage.
Of course no sane boy of sixteen would think of pronouncing the three
syllables of the name of one of his cronies; and Leopold, in his
undignified intercourse with his companions, was known only by the
abbreviated name of "Le."
"Come, Stumpy, tumble out," replied Leopold. "Bear a hand, lively, and
don't wait for your breakfast. I have grub enough to keep us for a
week."
"I'm all ready," replied Stumpy; "I was up when you whistled."
Early as it was in the morning, Stumpy seemed to be very cheerful,
perhaps made so by the remark about "grub" which Leopold had used, for
the boy of the cottage knew by experience that the provender which came
from the hotel was superior to that of the larder of his own dwelling.
The two "early birds" walked rapidly towards the river, not because they
were in a hurry, but because they were excited. The excursion upon which
they had now embarked had been duly talked over the night before, and
Stumpy, though his interest in the venture was small compared with that
of his companion, was hardly less hopeful.
They descended the steep path on the bank of the river, and in a few
moments more the dingy old boat with the patched and ragged sail was
standing out towards the open bay. The wind in the river was very light,
and the old craft was a heavy sailor, so that her progress was very
slow; but the tongues of the two boys moved fast enough to make up for
the deficiencies of the boat. Their conversation was about the prospect
of catching a fare of mackerel, though Harvey Barth and his diary came
in for some comments.
Stumpy was Leopold's dearest friend and most intimate companion. The
friendship had commenced in school, which both of them continued to
attend in the winter. It had its origin in no especial event, for
neither had conferred any particular favor on the other. Like many
another intimacy, it grew out of the fancy of the friends. Both of them
were "good fellows," and they liked each other. This is all the
explanation which their friendship requires. Stumpy was the oldest son
of a widow, who managed with his assistance, to support her family of
three children. Socially there was no difference in their standing. If
the landlord of the Cliff House was a person of some consequence, on the
one hand, Stumpy's grandfather, on the other, was one of the wealthiest
and most distinguished citizens of Rockhaven, and the boy would probably
inherit a portion of his property when he died. But it ought to be added
that Stumpy did not hold his head any higher because of his family
connections. In fact, he hardly ever alluded to his relationship to the
wealthy and distinguished man. To use his own words, he, "did not take
much stock in his grandfather;" and in his confidential conversations
with Leopold he did not scruple to say that the old gentleman was the
meanest man in Rockhaven.
This grandfather was Moses Wormbury, Esq.; he was a Justice of the
peace, and had been a member of the legislature. It was said that he had
a mortgage on every other house in Rockhaven; but this was doubtless an
exaggeration, though he loaned out a great deal of money on good
security. Squire Wormbury had had two sons and several daughters, all
the latter being married and settled in Rockhaven or elsewhere. The
elder son, Joel, was the father of Stumpy. The younger son, Ethan, kept
the Island Hotel, a small establishment of not half the size even of the
Cliff House, which had less than twenty rooms. In some respects the two
hotels were rivals, though the Cliff House had all the better business.
Ethan Wormbury did his best to fill up his small house, and was not
always careful to be fair and honorable in his competition; but Mr.
Bennington was good-natured, and only laughed when bad stories about his
house came from the Island Hotel.
Connected with Joel Wormbury, the father of Stumpy, there was a sad leaf
of family history. At the age of twenty-three he had married a poor
girl, who became a most excellent woman. Before this event he had been
to sea, and had made several fishing trips to the Banks. After his
marriage, he worked at "coopering" when he could obtain this employment,
and went a fishing when he could not. When his first boy was born, he
named him after the master of a bark with whom he had made a voyage up
the Mediterranean, and who had been very kind to him during a severe
illness at Palermo. Joel's father, uncles, and brother had all received
Scripture names; and perhaps it would have been better if Joel himself
had been equally scriptural in choosing names for his offspring, for the
master of the bark was Captain Stumpfield, and the boy, Stumpfield
Wormbury, was doomed to be called Stumpy from the day he first went to
school till he lost it in the dignity of manhood, though, even then, the
unfortunate cognomen was applied to him by his old cronies.
Joel Wormbury was an industrious and prudent man, but his usual earnings
were no more than sufficient to enable him to support his family; for,
prudent as he was, it was impossible for him to be as mean as his
father, who always insisted that Joel was extravagant.
Seven years before we introduce his son to the reader, the father made a
trip to George's Bank. The vessel was lucky, and the "high liner's"
share--eight hundred and fifty odd dollars--came to Joel. But he had
been out of work for some time, and was in debt; yet he honestly paid
off every dollar he owed, and had over six hundred dollars left. With
this he felt rich, and his wife thought their home ought to be more
comfortably furnished. It was a hired house; and when two hundred
dollars had been expended in furniture, Squire Moses declared that Joel
had "lost his senses." But the tenement was made very comfortable and
pleasant; and still Joel had four hundred dollars in cash. While he was
thinking what he should do with this money, his father reproached him
for his extravagance, and told him he ought to have built a house,
instead of fooling away his money on "fancy tables and chairs," as he
insisted upon calling the plain articles which his son had purchased.
The idea made a strong impression upon Joel, and he immediately paid a
hundred dollars for half an acre of land in what was then an outskirt of
the village. He wanted to build at once, and his father was finally
