and walked away in silence. She let her hands fall 
into her lap, and sat in an attitude of expectation. 
As Don Ippolito came near her again he paused a 
second time. 
" It is in this house that I forget my priesthood," 
he began, " and it is the first of your kindnesses 
that you suffer me to do so, your good mother, 
there, and you. How shall I repay you ? It cut 
me to the heart that you should ask forgiveness of 
me when you did, though I was hurt by your 
rebuke. Oh, had you not the right to rebuke me 
if I abused the delicate unreserve with which you 
had always treated me ? But believe me, I meant 
no wrong, then." 
His voice shook, and Florida broke in, " You did 
nothing wrong. It was I who was cruel for no 
cause." 
" No, no. You shall not say that," he returned. 
" And why should I have cared for a few words, 
when all your acts had expressed a trust of me that 
is like heaven to my soul ? " 
She turned now and looked at him, and he went 
on. " Ah, I see you do not understand ! How 
 
could you know what it is to be a priest in this 
most unhappy city ? To be haunted by the strict 
espionage of all your own class, to be shunned as a 
spy by all who are not of it ! But you two have 
not put up that barrier which everywhere shuts me 
out from my kind. You have been willing to see 
the man in me, and to let me forget the priest." 
" I do not know what to say to you, Don Ippolito. 
I am only a foreigner, a girl, and I am very igno- 
rant of these things," said Florida with a slight 
alarm. " I am afraid that you may be saying 
what you will be sorry for." 
" Oh never ! Do not fear for me if I am frank 
with you. It is my refuge from despair." 
The passionate vibration of his voice increased, as 
if it must break in tears. She glanced towards the 
other room with a little movement or stir. 
" Ah, you needn 't be afraid of listening to me ! " 
cried the priest bitterly. 
klgt; I will not wake her," said Florida calmly, after 
an instant. 
" See how you speak the thing you mean, always, 
always, always ! You could not deny that you 
meant to wake her, for you have the life-long habit 
of the truth. Do you know what it is to have the 
life-long habit of a lie ? It is to be a priest. Do 
you know what it is to seem, to say, to do, the 
thing you are not, think not, will not ? To leave 
what you believe unspoken, what you will undon , 
what you are unknown ? It is to be a priest ! " 
 
Don Ippolito spoke in Italian, and he uttered 
these words in a voice carefully guarded from every 
listener but the one before his face. " Do you 
know what it is when such a moment as this comes, 
and you would fling away the whole fabric of false 
hood that has clothed your life do you know what 
it is to keep still so much of it as will help you 
to unmask silently and secretly? It is to be a 
priest ! " 
His voice had lost its vehemence, and his manner 
was strangely subdued and cold. The sort of 
gentle apathy it expressed, together with a certain 
sad, impersonal surprise at the difference between 
his own and the happier fortune with which he con 
trasted it, was more touching than any tragic dem 
onstration. 
As if she felt the fascination of the pathos which 
she could not fully analyze, the young girl sat silent. 
After a time, in which she seemed to be trying to 
think it all out, she asked in a low, deep murmur : 
" Why did you become a priest, then ? " 
" It is a long story," said Don Ippolito. " I will 
not trouble you with it now. Some other time." 
" No ; now," answered Florida, in English. " If 
you hate so to be a priest, I can 't understand why 
you should have allowed yourself to become one. 
We should be very unhappy if we could not respect 
you, not trust you as we have done ; and how 
could we, if we knew you were not true to yourself 
in being what you are ? " 
" Madamigella," said the priest, " I never dared 
believe that I was in the smallest thing necessary to 
your happiness. Is it true, then, that you care for 
my being rather this than that ? That you are in 
the least grieved by any wrong of mine ? " 
" I scarcely know what you mean. How could 
we help being grieved by what you have said to 
me ? " 
"Thanks ; but why do you care whether a priest 
of my church loves his calling or not, you, a Prot 
estant ? It is that you are sorry for me as an un 
happy man, is it not ? " 
" Yes ; it is that and more. I am no Catholic, 
but we are both Christians " 
Don Ippolito gave the faintest movement of his 
shoulders. 
" and I cannot endure to think of your doing 
the tilings you must do as a priest, and yet hating 
to be a priest. It is terrible ! " 
" Are all the priests of your faith devotees ? " 
" They cannot be. But are none of yours so ? " 
" Oh, God forbid that I should say that. I have 
known real saints among them. That friend of 
mine in Padua, of whom I once told you, became 
such, and died an angel fit for Paradise. And I 
suppose that my poor uncle is a saint, too, in his 
way." 
" Your uncle ? A priest ? You have never 
mentioned him. to us." 
" No," said Don Ippolito. After a certain pause 
 
he began abruptly, " We are of the people, my 
family, and in each generation we have sought to 
honor our blood by devoting one of the race to the 
church. When I was a child, I used to divert my 
self by making little figures out of wood and paste 
board, and I drew rude copies of the pictures I saw 
at church. We lived in the house where I live now, 
and where I was born, and my mother let me play 
in the small chamber where I now have my forge ; 
it was anciently the oratory of the noble family 
that occupied the whole palace. I contrived an 
altar at one end of it ; I stuck my pictures about 
the walls, and T ranged the puppets in the order of 
worshippers on the floor ; then I played at saying 
mass, and preached to them all day long. 
" My mother was a widow. She used to watch 
me with tears in her eyes. At last, one day, she 
brought my uncle to see me : I remember it all far 
better than yesterday. " Is it not the will of 
God ? she asked. My uncle called me to him, 
and asked me whether I should like to be a priest 
in good earnest, when I grew up ? Shall I then 
be able to make as many little figures as I like, 
and to paint pictures, and carve an altar like that 
