“He does not like our looks,” said Sara.
“He takes his time; not for him any of the light friendships of an
hour,” replied John. “Cranie is a bird of unlimited aspirations, and
both literary and æsthetic tastes; he has been discovered turning over
with his bill the leaves of Tennyson’s poems left lying on the
window-sill; he invariably plucks the finest roses in the garden; and he
has been seen walking on the sea-wall alone in the moonlight,
meditating, no doubt, on the vanities of mankind, with whom he is
compelled reluctantly to associate.”
“Do you hear the sound of the breakers, Martha?” said Sara, waking me up
in the middle of the night. We had the balconied room up stairs, and the
sound of the distant surf came in through the open window in the intense
stillness of the night. “It makes me feel young again,” murmured my
companion; but I fell asleep and heard no more.
Before breakfast, which is always late in Florida, John Hoffman took us
to see a wonderful rose-tree.
“You must have sprays of bloom by the side of your coffee-cups,” he
said, “and then you will realize that you are really ‘away down upon the
Swannee Ribber.’”
“Do you mean to tell me that the Suwannee is in ambush somewhere about
here?” began Sara, in her lead-pencil voice. She always declared that
her voice took a scratching tone when she asked a manuscript question.
“Not directly here, seeing that it flows into the Gulf of Mexico, but it
is in Florida, and therefore will do for melodious comparisons. You will
hear that song often enough, Miss St. John; it is the invariable
resource of all the Northern sailing parties on the inlet by moonlight.
What the Suwannee means by keeping itself hidden away over in the
western part of the State I can not imagine. I am sure we Northerners
for years have mentioned that ‘dar’s whar our hearts am turning ebber,’
in every key known to music.”
“The tune has a sweet melody of its own,” I said. “Nilsson herself sang
it as an encore last winter.”
We walked out St. George Street, the principal avenue of the Ancient
City, with the proud width of fifteen feet; other streets turning off to
the right and the left were not more than ten and twelve feet wide. The
old Spaniards built their coquina houses close together, directly upon
the narrow streets, so that from their overhanging balconies on opposite
sides they could shake hands with each other if so disposed. I do not
think they were so disposed; probably they were more disposed to stab
each other, if all accounts are true; but the balconies were near enough
for either purpose. They had gardens, too, those old Dons, gardens full
of fig, orange, guava, and pomegranate trees, adorned with fountains and
flowers; but the garden was behind the house, and any portion of it on
the street was jealously guarded by a stone wall almost as high as the
house. These walls remain even now the most marked feature of the St.
Augustine streets.
“What singular ideas!” I said. “One would suppose that broad shaded
streets and houses set far back among trees would be the natural
resource of this tropical climate.”
“On the contrary, Miss Martha, the Spaniards thought that their narrow
walled-in streets would act like so many flues to suck in every current
of air, while their overhanging balconies would cast a more reliable
shade than any tree.”
“There is something in that,” said Sara. “What a beautiful garden!”
“Yes; that is the most picturesque garden in St. Augustine, in my
opinion,” said John. “Notice those two trees; they are date-palms. Later
in the spring the star-jasmine covers the back of the house with such a
profusion of flowers that it becomes necessary to close the windows to
keep out the overpowering sweetness. That little street at the corner is
Treasury Street, and part of the walls and arches of this house belonged
to the old Spanish Treasury Buildings.”
A few blocks beyond, and the houses grew smaller; little streets with
odd names branched off--St. Hypolita, Cuna, Spanish, and Tolomato--all
closely built up, and inhabited by a dark-eyed, olive-skinned people,
who regarded us with calm superiority as we passed.
“All this quarter is Minorca Town,” said John, “and these people are the
descendants of the colonists brought from the Greek islands, from
Corsica, and Minorca, in 1767, by a speculative Englishman, Dr.
Turnbull. Originally there were fourteen hundred of them, and Turnbull
settled them on a tract of land sixty miles south of here, near Mosquito
Inlet, where, bound by indentures, they remained nine years cultivating
indigo and sugar, and then rising against the tyranny of their governor,
they mutinied and came here in a body. Land was assigned to them, and
they built up all this north quarter, where their descendants now live,
as you see, in tranquil content, with no more idea of work, as a
Northerner understands the word, than so many oysters in their own bay.”
“The Greek islands, did you say?” asked Sara. “Is it possible that I see
before me any of the relatives of Sappho, she of ‘the Isles of
Greece--the Isles of Greece?’”
“Maybe,” said John. “You will see some dark almond-shaped eyes, now and
then a classical nose, often a mass of Oriental black hair; but
unfortunately, so far, I have never seen the attractions united in the
same person. Sometimes, however, on Sunday afternoons, you will meet
young girls walking together on the Shell Road, with roses in their
glossy hair, and as their dark eyes meet yours, you are reminded of
Italy.”
“I have never been in Italy,” said Sara, shortly.
The reflection of an inward smile crossed John Hoffman’s face.
“But where is the rose-tree?” I said.
“Here, madam. Do you see that little shop with the open window? Notice
the old man sitting within at the forge. He is a fine old Spanish
gentleman and lock-smith, and my very good friend. Señor Oliveros, may
we see the rose-tree?”
The old man looked up from some delicate piece of mechanism, and, with a
smile on his fine old face, waved us toward the little garden behind the
shop. There it stood, the pride of St. Augustine, a rose-tree fifteen
feet high, seventeen feet in circumference, with a trunk measuring
fifteen inches around and five inches through, “La Sylphide,” yielding
annually more than four thousand beautiful creamy roses.
“What a wealth of bloom!” said Sara, bending toward a loaded branch.
“‘La Sylphide,’ like other sylphs, is at her best when only half
opened,” said John, selecting with careful deliberation a perfect rose
just quivering between bud and blossom, and offering it to Sara.
“No; I prefer this one,” she answered, turning aside to pluck a passée
flower that fell to petals in her hand. An hour later I saw the perfect
rose in Iris Carew’s hair.
“Niece Martha,” said Aunt Diana energetically, appearing in my room
immediately after breakfast, “I do not approve of this division of our
party; it is not what we planned.”
“What can I do, aunt? Sara ought not to pay hotel prices--”
“I am not speaking of Miss St. John; she can stay here if she pleases,
of course, but you must come to us.”
“Sara might not like to be left alone, aunt. To be sure,” I continued,
not without a grain of malice, “Mr. Hoffman is here, so she need not, he
too lonely, but--”
“John Hoffman here?”
“Yes; we came here at his recommendation.”
Aunt Di bit her lips in high vexation; next to Mokes she prized John,
who, although a person of most refractory and fatiguing ways, was yet
possessed of undoubted Knickerbocker antecedents. She meditated a
moment.
“On the whole you are right, Niece Martha,” she said, coming to surface
again; “but we shall, of course, keep together as much as possible. For
this morning I have planned a visit to the old Spanish fort; Captain
Carlyle will accompany us.”
“And who is Captain Carlyle?”
“A young officer stationed here; he introduced himself to the Professor
last evening, and afterward mistook me for Mrs. Van Auden, of
Thirty-fourth Street. It seems he knows her very well,” continued Aunt
Di, with a swallow of satisfaction. (Ah, wise young Captain! Mrs. Van
Auden’s handsome face was at least ten years younger than Aunt Diana’s.)
“I saw Iris glancing after a uniform last night as we came around the
Plaza,” I said, smiling.
But Aunt Di was true to her colors, and never saw or heard any thing
detrimental to her cause.
It was a lovely February morning; the telegraph reported zero weather in
New York, but here the thermometer stood at seventy, with a fresh
sea-breeze. We stepped up on to the sea-wall at the Basin, where the
sail-boats were starting out with pleasure parties for the North Beach.
Iris had her Captain; Aunt Diana followed closely arm in arm with Mokes;
