
“You look at the graveyards; that tells the tale. Trees won’t grow 
worth shucks in a Cincinnati graveyard, but in a Sent Louis graveyard they 
grow upwards of eight hundred foot high. It’s all on account of the water 
the people drunk before they laid up. A Cincinnati corpse don’t richen a 
soil any.” 

And they talked about how Ohio water didn’t like to mix with Missis- 
sippi water. Ed said if you take the Mississippi on a rise when the Ohio is 
low, you’ll find a wide band of clear water all the way down the east side of 
the Mississippi for a hundred mile or more, and the minute you get out a 
quarter of a mile from shore and pass the line, it is all thick and yaller the 
rest of the way across. Then they talked about how to keep tobacco from 
getting mouldy, and from that they went into ghosts and told about a lot 
that other folks had seen; but Ed says: 

“ Why don’t you tell something that you’ve seen yourselves ? Now let 
me have a say. Five years ago I was on a raft as big as this, and right 
along here it was a bright moonshiny night, and I was on watch and 
boss of the stabboard oar forrard, and one of my pards was a man named 

Dick Allbright, and he come along to where I was sitting, forrard — gaping 
and stretching, he was — and stooped down on the edge of the raft and 
washed his face in the river, and come and set down by me and got out his 
pipe, and had just got it filled, when he looks up and says: 

" Why looky-here,’ he says, " ain’t that Buck Miller’s place, over 
yander in the bend?’ 

“ Yes," says I,  " it is — why?  He laid his pipe down and leant his 
head on his hand, and says: 

" I thought we’d be furder down." I says: 

" I thought it, too, when I went off watch* — we was standing six 
hours on and six off —  but the boys told me, 9 I says, ‘that the raft didn’t 
seem to hardly move, for the last hour,’ says I, " though she’s a-slipping 
along all right now,* says I. He give a kind of a groan, and says: 

" I’ve seed a raft act so before, along here,* he says, " ’pears to me the 
current has most quit above the head of this bend durin’ the last two years, 
he says. 

"Well, he raised up two or three times, and looked away off and 
around on the water. That started me at it, too. A body is always doing 
what he sees somebody else doing, though there mayn’t be no sense in it. 
Pretty soon I see a black something floating on the water away off to stab* 
board and quartering behind us. I see he was looking at it, too, I says: 

" What’s that ? ’ He says, sort of pettish: 

"‘Tain’t nothing but an old empty bar’L’ 

" An empty bar’ll ’ says I, " why,’ says I, " a spy-glass is a fool to 
your eyes. How can you tell it’s an empty bar’l? ’ He says: 

" I don’t know; I reckon it ain’t a bar’l, but I thought it might be,* 
says he. 

" Yes,* I says, " so it might be, and it might be anything else, too; a 
body can’t tell nothing about it, such a distance as that,’ I says. 

"We hadn’t nothing else to do, so we kept on watching it. By and 
oy I says: 

" Why looky-here, Dick Allbright, that thing’s a-gaining on us, I 
believe.* 

"He never said nothing. The thing gained and gained, and I judged 
it must be a dog that was about tired out. Well, we swung down into the 
crossing, and the thing floated across the bright streak of the moonshine, 
and, by George, it was a bar’l. Says I: 

" Dick Allbright, what made you think that thing was a bar’], when it 
was half a mile off ? ’ says I. Says he: 


“ I don’t know. Says I : 

“ ‘You tell me, Dick Allbright.* Says he: 

'Well, I knowed it was a bar’l; I’ve seen it before; lots has seen it; 
they says it’s a ha’nted bar’l. 5 

“ I called the rest of the watch, and they come and stood there, and I 
told them what Dick said. It floated right along abreast, now, and didn’t 
gain any more. It was about twenty foot off. Some was for having it 
aboard, but the rest didn’t want to. Dick Allbnght said rafts that had 
fooled with it had got bad luck by it. The captain of the watch said he 
didn’t believe in it. He said he reckoned the bar’l gained on us because it 
was m a little betier current than w’hat we was. He said it would leave 
by and by. 

“ So then we went to talking about other things, and we had a song, 
and then a breakdown; and aftei that the captain of the watch called for 
another song; but it was clouding up now, and the bar’l stuck right thar 
in the same place, and the song didn’t seem to have much warm-up to it, 
somehow, and so they didn’t finish it, and there warn’t any cheers, but it 
sort of dropped fiat, and nobody said anything for a minute. Then every- 
body tried to talk at once, and one chap got off a joke, but it warn’t no 
use, they didn’t laugh, and even the chap that made the joke didn’t laugh 
at it, which ain’t usual. We all just settled down glum, and watched the 
bar’l, and was oneasy and oncomfortable. Well, sir, it shut down black 
and still, and then the wind began to moan around, and next the lightning 
began to play and the thunder to grumble. And pretty soon there was a 
regular storm, and in the middle of it a man that was running aft stumbled 
and fell and sprained his ankle so that he had to lay up. This made the 
boys shake their heads. And every time the lightning come, there was that 
bar’l with the blue lights winking around it. We was always on the look- 
out for it. But by and by, toward dawn, she was gone. When the day 
come we couldn’t see her anywhere, and we warn’t sorry, either. 

“ But next night about half-past nine, when there was songs and high 
jinks going on, here she comes again, and took her old roost on the stab- 
board side. There warn’t no more high jinks. Everybody got solemn; 
nobody talked; you couldn’t get anybody to do anything but set around 
moody and look at the bar’l. It begun to cloud up again. When the 
watch changed, the off watch stayed up, ’stead of turning in. The storm 
ripped and roared around all night, and in the middle of it another man 
tripped and sprained his ankle, and had to knock off. The bar’l left toward 
day, and nobody see it go. 


“ Everybody was sober and down in the mouth all day. I don’t mean 
the kind of sober that comes of leaving liquor alone — not that. They was 
quiet, but they all drunk more than usual — not together, but each man 
sidled off and took it private, by himself. 

“After dark the off watch didn’t turn in; nobody sung, nobody talked; 
the boys didn’t scatter around, neither; they sort of huddled together, fur- 
raid; and for two hours they set there, perfectly still, looking steady in the 
one direction, and heaving a sigh once in a while. And then, heie comes 
the bar’l again. She took up her old place. She stayed there all night; 
nobody turned in. The storm come on again, after midnight. It got awful 
dark; the rain poured down; hail, too; the thunder boomed and roared 
and bellowed; the wind blowed a hurricane; and the lightning spread over 
everything in big sheets of glare, and showed the whole raft as plain as day; 
and the river lashed up white as milk as far as you could see for miles, and 
there was that bar’l jiggering along, same as ever. The captain ordered 
the watch to man the after sweeps for a crossing, and nobody would go — 
