know of this? 
He was not a man to puzzle or conjecture, he had no 
taste for plunging into secrets, or arranging difficult 
details from a slight clue. He could make nothing 
much out of the papers, neither could he remember the 
story he had heard, so he hurried his business into shape, 
and left for New York at the earliest possible moment. 
He had no desire to look in upon Edith and her 
mother, first of all. The hours seemed interminable- 
long, until he could set to work, and reach some fact, 
that would aid him to unravel the whole. And most of 
all, a desperate fear for Dora's safety and comfort nearly 
drove him wild. What if she were ill, neglected and 
suffering? Oh, why had he resigned her to the care of 
this plausible, treacherous villain ? Why had he not 
insisted upon hearing the truth from her own lips? 
Now, he could see his mistakes, his blindness and fail- 
ures. What if she had deceived him about her mar- 
riage? — he felt now, as he had that first night, that 
she could explain it all in a dozen words, were he to see 
her. 
He went stumbling about, through the ill lighted 
streets, not heeding the cold and cloudy November 
evening, with a mist that penetrated like a storm. Mrs. 
Mildred Cameron. At last he found her, and was 
ushered into the chilly parlor. 
"Have you any connection, by the name of Jasper 
Cameron?" he asked, abruptly, before he was seated. 
And then he glanced at her worn and anxious face — 
what if she were his mother ! 
The woman coughed and hesitated. "Jasper Cam- 
eron," she said, slowly. "What might you want of 
him." 
" Nothing of him. And if any one cared for him, 
if he were dear to any person — I bring the last tidings 
he or she will ever hear — for Jasper Cameron is dead." 
She staggered back to the wall, with a cry. " No, 
you do not mean it!" she moaned. "My Jasper! 
My brave, handsome boy ! No mother could have 
loved him better than I, but he was mine, mine ! " 
It was pitiful to see the poor creature wring her 
hands, and ramble from one unintelligible sentence to 
another. Tremaine tried to soothe her, and lead her to 
reason, and more than once almost despaired. 
"Do you know anything about his — wife?" he 
asked, at length, halting a little at the word. 
u Do I? The base, heartless creature ! For, when 
he would have brought her into a fortune, she turned 
her back upon him, and went off with her grand rela- 
tives. But he had his revenge ! Madame will never 
know that he poisoned her husband's mind, and made 
him believe that she had gone to live with him. Yes, 
he had his revenge ! " 
Ralph Tremaine was utterly astounded, for a moment. 
And then a strange, bewildering rush of joy, that half 
strangled him! Yet, where was Dora to be found? 
His own, true-hearted Dora ! 
The old woman maundered on, her brain and story 
alike confused with passionate bursts of grief. And 
Tremaine, from the tangled mass, gathered a few facts. 
That Dora was not Mrs. Denver's child, not Gilbert 
Verner's niece, that her marriage had been a subject of 
speculation with Jasper Cameron, and his unprincipled 
aunt, that she had kept certain papers very securely, 
but they had not brought her boy to good fortune. 
She denounced Dora in unmeasured terms, and yet, it 
was highest praise to her husband's ears ; and Mr. 
Colby came in for a share of vindictive anger. 
'  Colby." He knew something of the man, Why, he 
had in some way been connected with this Walsinghani 
fortune ! Perhaps it would be better to apply to him? 
He said nothing about the papers, but delivered to 
her the money that had been found on her nephew's 
body. Then he proposed to depart, for it was grow- 
ing late. 
"You will come again, and tell me about him, my 
poor, dear Jasper ! " she said, brokenly. ' ' And perhaps 
I will remember more of the story — how they all 
wronged him, and she most of all. For he was her 
lawful, wedded husband, and not the other. My mind 
does not seem clear to-night, and I am a lonely old 
. woman ! " 
He did pity her sincerely. Suffering alwaj-s touched 
his heart, and this feeble, trembling creature seemed so 
broken by the shock. Ah, Jasper Cameron! if you 
had spent your life, in ministering to her, and she had 
sinned less, for you both, accounts would have been 
fairer, at the judgment day. 
Tremaine took lodgings at a hotel, for the remainder 
of the night ; but though he was weary, he could not 
sleep. Would another day see the matter explained? 
But why Dora had not made one appeal to him, all 
this time, was a profound mystery. 
If you could have seen his vigil, fair Edith, on your 
downy pillow, your dreams would have been less sweet. 
For, already, in j-our f&noy, you reign mistress over this 
pleasant home. 
But he has well-nigh forgotten that there is any- 
thing to forgive, before he takes the wife he loves 
back to his heart. 
FACE TO FACE, AT LAST. 
Rfnlll. TREMAINE had not been able to decide, 
Hran the preceding evening, on which side Mr. 
Colby had arrayed himself. He had a very 
strong distaste for discussing his private and finer feel- 
ings, with people, who could have little interest in them, 
beyond curiosity ; and he did desire that Dora should 
make her own explanations ; otherwise, he could have 
gone at once to Catherine Dawson. Neither did he 
wish to see the lawyer. After some consideration, he 
despatched a note to Mr. Colby, requesting Mrs. Dora 
Tremaine's address. 
"Ross," he said, to his cashier, as he sauntered 
around in the interim of waiting, "do you remember 
the particulars of the Walsingham fortune ? Colby was 
connected with it in some way." 
"Why — yes. It was settled, about the time }-ou 
went to Europe, I think. Everybody believed Colby 
to be pretty well off, but it seems thi& fortnne was not 
his own, at all, only if the heirs did not make their ap- 
pearance, by a certain time, it was to revert to him. 
Unfortunately for Colby, they came to light, at the very 
last moment, and he was compelled to retire from his 
elegant brown*stone mansion. He always was rather 
pompous and consequential, though." 
But these other people ?" said Tremaine, impatiently. 
" How many were there ?" 
 The fortune had to be divided between a son and 
a daughter. It seems this Mr. Walsingham ran off to 
Europe, with a pretty girl, a foreigner and poor, so his 
father disowned him, but relented, on his death-bed, 
and made this curious will. It was odd that they 
should return to America just in time, and so little to 
spare ! It must have been a great blow to Colby. 
The son is a fine looking young fellow, and the mother 
was pointed out to me, in the street, one daj T — a girl- 
ish little thing, with a very foreign air. Eastman had 
the case." 
A very respectable story indeed. He did not care to 
ask about the daughter, and felt thankful that she was 
