world, had seen, as she said, through the whole matter.
"Mr. St. John is just like all the rest of them, my dear," she said to
Miss Vapors, "he will flirt, if a girl will only let him. I saw him
just now with that Angie Van Arsdel. Those Van Arsdel girls are famous
for drawing in any man they happen to associate with."
"You don't say so," said Miss Vapors; "what did you see?"
"Oh, my dear, I sha'n't tell; of course, I don't approve of such
things, and it lowers Mr. St. John in my esteem,--so I'd rather not
speak of it. I did hope he was above such things."
"But do tell me, did he say anything?" said Miss Vapors, ready to
burst in ignorance.
"Oh, no. I only saw some appearances and expressions--a certain manner
between them that told all. Sophronia Vapors, you mark my words:
there is something going on between Angie Van Arsdel and Mr. St. John.
I don't see, for my part, what it is in those Van Arsdel girls that
the men see; but, sure as one of them is around, there is a flirtation
got up."
"Why, they're not so very beautiful," said Miss Vapors.
"Oh, dear, no. I never thought them even pretty; but then, you see,
there's no accounting for those things."
And so, while Mr. St. John and Angie were each wondering secretly over
the amazing world of mutual understanding that had grown up between
them, the rumor was spreading and growing in all the band of Christian
workers.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
THEREAFTER?
According to the view of the conventional world, the brief, sudden
little passage between Mr. St. John and Angelique among the
Christmas-greens was to all intents and purposes equivalent to an
engagement; and yet, St. John had not actually at that time any
thought of marriage.
"Then," says Mrs. Mater-familias, ruffling her plumage, in high moral
style, "he is a man of no principle--and acts abominably." You are
wrong, dear madam; Mr. St. John is a man of high principle, a man
guided by conscience, and who would honestly sooner die than do a
wrong thing.
"Well, what does he mean then, talking in this sort of way to Angie,
if he has no intentions? He ought to know better."
Undoubtedly, he ought to know better, but he does not. He knows
at present neither his own heart nor that of womankind, and is
ignorant of the real force and meaning of what he has been saying
and looking, and of the obligations which they impose on him as
a man of honor. Having been, all his life, only a recluse and
student, having planned his voyage of life in a study, where rocks
and waves and breakers and shoals are but so many points on paper, it
is not surprising that he finds himself somewhat ignorant in actual
navigation, where rocks and shoals are quite another affair. It is
one thing to lay down one's scheme and law of life in a study, among
supposititious men and women, and another to carry it out in life
among real ones, each one of whom acts upon us with the developing
force of sunshine on the seed-germ.
In fact, no man knows what there is in himself till he has tried
himself under the influence of other men; and if this is true of
man over man, how much more of that subtle developing and revealing
power of woman over man. St. John, during the first part of his life,
had been possessed by that sort of distant fear of womankind which
a person of acute sensibility has of that which is bright, keen,
dazzling, and beyond his powers of management, and which, therefore,
seems to him possessed of indefinite powers for mischief. It was
something with which he felt unable to cope. He had, too, the common
prejudice against fashionable girls and women as of course wanting in
earnestness; and he entered upon his churchly career with a sort of
hard determination to have no trifling, and to stand in no relation
to this suspicious light guerrilla force of the church but that of a
severe drill-sergeant.
To his astonishment, the child whom he had undertaken to drill had
more than once perforce, and from the very power of her womanly
nature, proved herself competent to guide him in many things which
belonged to the very essence of his profession--church work. Angie had
been able to enter places whence he had been excluded; able to enter
by those very attractions of life and gaiety and prettiness which had
first led him to set her down as unfit for serious work.
He saw with his own eyes that a bright little spirit, with twinkling
ornaments, and golden hair, and a sweet voice, could go into the den
of John Price in his surliest mood, could sing, and get his children
to singing, till he was as persuadable in her hands as a bit of wax;
that she could scold and lecture him at her pleasure, and get him to
making all kinds of promises; in fact that he, St. John himself, owed
his entrée into the house, and his recognition there as a clergyman,
to Angie's good offices and persistent entreaties.
Instead of being leader, he was himself being led. This divine child
was becoming to him a mystery of wisdom; and, so far from feeling
himself competent to be her instructor, he came to occupy, as regards
many of the details of his work, a most catechetical attitude towards
her, and was ready to accept almost anything she told him.
St. John was, from first to last, an idealist. It was ideality that
inclined him from the barren and sterile chillness of New England
dogmatism to the picturesque forms and ceremonies of a warmer ritual.
His conception of a church was a fair ideal; such as a poet might
worship, such as this world has never seen in reality, and probably
never will. His conception of a life work--of the priestly office,
with all that pertains to it--belonged to that realm of poetry that
is above the matter-of-fact truths of experience, and is sometimes in
painful conflict with them. What wonder, then, if love, the eternal
poem, the great ideal of ideals, came over him without precise limits
and exact definitions--that when the divine cloud overshadowed him he
"wist not what he said."
St. John certainly never belonged to that class of clergymen who, on
being assured of a settlement and a salary, resolve, in a general way,
to marry, and look up a wife and a cooking-stove at the same time; who
take lists of eligible women, and have the conditional refusal of a
house in their pockets, when they go to make proposals.
In fact, he had had some sort of semi-poetical ideas of a diviner life
of priestly self-devotion and self-consecration, in which woman can
have no part. He had been fascinated by certain strains of writing in
some of the devout Anglicans whose works furnished most of the studies
of his library; so that far from setting it down in a general way that
he must some time marry, he had, up to this time, shaped his ideal
of life in a contrary direction. He had taken no vows; he had as yet
taken no steps towards the practical working out of any scheme; but
there floated vaguely through his head the idea of a celibate guild--a
brotherhood who should revive, in dusty modern New York, some of the
devout conventual fervors of the middle ages. A society of brothers,
living in a round of daily devotions and holy ministration, had been
one of the distant dreams of his future cloud-land.
And now, for a month or two, he had been like a charmed bird,
fluttering in nearer and nearer circles about this dazzling,
perplexing, repellent attraction.
For weeks, unconsciously to himself, he had had but one method of
marking and measuring his days: there were the days when he expected
to see her, and the days when he did not; and wonderful days were
interposed between, when he saw her unexpectedly--as, somehow,
happened quite often.
We believe it is a fact not yet brought clearly under scientific
investigation as to its causes, but a fact, nevertheless, that
young people who have fallen into the trick of thinking about each
other when separated are singularly apt to meet each other in their
daily walks and ways. Victor Hugo has written the Idyl of the Rue
Plumette; there are also Idyls of the modern city of New York. At
certain periods in the progress of the poem, one such chance glimpse,
or moment of meeting, at a street corner or on a door-step, is the
event of the day.
St. John was sure of Angie at her class on Sunday mornings, and
at service afterwards. He was sure of her on Thursday evenings, at
Eva's reception; and then, besides, somehow, when she was around
looking up her class on Saturday afternoons, it was so natural that
he should catch a glimpse of her now and then, coming out of that
house, or going into that door; and then, in the short days of
winter, the darkness often falls so rapidly that it often struck him
as absolutely necessary that he should see her safely home: and, in
