office.
"Is this the boy?" asked the doctor, surveying Sam's companion
attentively.
"Yes, sir."
"I am glad to see you, young man," said the doctor, drily. "Suppose we
settle money matters first of all. How much have you left?"
Jim drew out eight dollars in bills.
"So far, so good. You owe me two dollars."
"Yes, sir."
"I won't ask for your note of hand. I'm afraid I couldn't negotiate
it; but I expect you to pay me back the balance by instalments. If
not, I shall know where to lay hold of you."
Jim had nothing to say.
"Now you can go. Sam, you can stay."
"I suppose he's goin' to send me off," thought Sam.
"You may stay till to-morrow night, Sam," said the doctor, "and I will
pay you what balance I owe you. After that, I think we had better part
company. You are a little too enterprising for me."
Sam made no objection. In fact, he had got tired of the confinement,
and thought it would be an agreeable variety to return to his old life
again. The next evening, therefore, he retired from professional life,
and, with a balance of fifty cents in his possession, set up once more
as a street vagabond. When Jim Nolan paid up his indebtedness, he
would be entitled to two dollars more. Until then he was held for the
debt of his confederate.
CHAPTER XXVI.
PIPKIN'S DINING-ROOMS.
Sunday is a dull day with the street-boys, whatever their business may
be. The boot-blacks lose least, but if the day be unpropitious their
earnings are small. On such a day the Newsboys Lodge is a great
resource. It supplies all that a boy actually needs--lodging and two
meals--for the small sum of eighteen cents, and in cases of need will
trust boys to that amount.
Sam naturally had recourse to this hold on finding himself out of a
situation. He had enough to pay his expenses, and did not feel
compelled to go to work till Monday. Monday morning, however, the
reduced state of his finances compelled him to look for employment. If
he had had a little capital he might have set up as a newsboy or
boot-black, but five cents can hardly be considered sufficient capital
for either of these lines of business. Credit is the next best thing
to capital, but Sam had no credit. He found that out, after an
ineffectual attempt to borrow money of a boot-black, who, having ten
dollars in a savings-bank, was regarded in his own class with high
respect as a wealthy capitalist. The name of this exceptional young
man was William Clark, better known among the boys as Ready Money
Bill.
When twelve o'clock came, and Sam had earned nothing, he bethought
himself of Bill, the capitalist.
"Bill," he said, "I want to borrer a dollar."
"You do!" said Bill, sharply. "What for?"
"To set me up in business."
"What business?"
"Evenin' papers."
"Haven't you got no stamps?"
"No."
"What have you been doin'?"
"I've been in an office."
"Why didn't you stay?"
"The boss thought he wouldn't need me no longer."
"I see," said Bill, nodding. "You got sacked."
"Not exactly."
"Same thing."
"Will you lend me the money?"
"I'd never get it back ag'in."
"Yes, you would."
"I dunno about that. Where'd you get money to pay me back?"
"The boss owes me two dollars."
"Why don't he pay you?"
"One of my friends cheated him out of it, and he won't pay me till
it's paid back."
"May be he won't pay it back."
"Yes, he will. Will you lend me the money?"
"No, I won't. You'd ought to have saved money like I have."
"I'd have had two dollars, if Jim hadn't stolen money."
"That aint my fault. I aint goin' to lose my money for you. You can
save like I do."
Bill was right, no doubt. He was a bee, and Sam was a drone, and the
drones are always ready to avail themselves of the accumulations of
their more industrious brothers.
Sam began to feel hungry. However irregular he might be in other ways,
his appetite was surprisingly regular. He paused in front of a
restaurant, and looked wistfully in at the windows.
"I wish I was a waiter," he thought. "They have all they want to eat
every day."
It will be seen that Sam's ambition was not a lofty one. But then he
was practical enough to see that three square meals a day are more to
be desired than empty fame.
As he was standing at the window a man from within came to the door.
Being without a hat, Sam supposed him to be connected with the
restaurant, as, indeed, he was. Sam drew back, supposing that he was
to be sent off. But here he was mistaken.
"Come here, Johnny," said the proprietor, for it was the owner of the
restaurant who addressed our hero.
Sam approached wondering.
"Have you had dinner?"
"No," said Sam, promptly.
"Would you like some?"
Sam's answer, in the affirmative, was equally prompt.
"But you haven't any money, eh?"
"That's so," said Sam. "Wonder how he found out?" he thought.
"We don't give away dinners, but you can earn one," said Mr. Pipkin,
for it was Pipkin's restaurant.
"Do you want me for a waiter?" asked Sam, hopefully.
"No; you wouldn't do. You haven't had experience. I want a boy to
distribute handbills in front of the saloon. Can you do that?"
"Yes, I can," said Sam, eagerly. "I've done that before."
"All right. Come in."
Sam entered. He hoped that a preliminary dinner would be offered him,
but Mr. Pipkin was not in the habit of paying in advance, and,
perhaps, he was right. He brought forward a pile of circulars about
the same size as Dr. Graham's, and handed them to Sam.
"I've just opened a new saloon," he said, "and I want to invite the
patronage of the public. Stand here, and distribute these to the
passers-by."
"All right," said Sam. "When will you give me some dinner?"
"In about an hour. This is the time when people generally dine, and I
want to catch as many as I can."
Sam read one of the circulars rapidly.
This is the way it read:
"PIPKIN'S DINING-ROOMS.
Unsurpassed for the excellence of cookery, and the
cheapness of prices.
Call once,
And you will be sure to come again."
"I'm goin' to come once, and I'll call again if they'll let me," said
Sam to himself.
In about an hour he was called in. The customers had thinned out, but
there were a few at the tables. Sam was directed to sit down at a
table in the back part of the room.
"Now, then," said the waiter, "hurry up, young 'un, and tell us what
you want."
"Roast turkey and cranberry sauce," ordered Sam.
"All out. Try again," was the laconic reply.
"Roast chicken."
"That's all out too."
Sam looked disappointed.
"Oyster stew."
"All out."
"Is everything out?"
"No; there's some roast veal, unless you prefer hash."
