might as well understand that we 're the masters here." 
"And if ye are the masters, then be just. Give 
the criminal to me; I will myself take him to the 
nearest judge, the nearest jail, and deliver him up." 
" He 'll be more likely to deliver you up, I reck- 
on, Parson." 
"Well, then, send a committee of your own men 
with me " 
" We 've got other things to do besides taking 
long journeys over the ice to 'commodate thieves, 
Parson. Leave the man to us." 
" And to torture ? Men, men, ye would not treat 
a beast so ! " 
"A beast don't steal our food and whiskey," sang 
out a miner. 
" Stand back ! stand back ! " shouted several voices. 
" You 're too little to fight, Parson." 
"But not too little to die," answered the minister, 
throwing up his arms towards the sky. 
 
For an instant his words held the men in check ; 
they looked at each other, then at him. 
" Think of yourselves," continued the minister. 
" Are ye without fault ? If ye murder this man, ye 
are worse than he is." 
But here the minister went astray in his appeal, 
and ran against the views of the border. 
" Worse ! Worse than a sneaking thief ! Worse 
than a praying hypocrite who robs the very men 
that feed him ! Look here, we won't stand that ! 
Sheer off, or take the consequences." And a burn- 
ing brand struck the parson's coat, and fell on the 
head of the crouching figure at his side, setting fire 
to its hair. Instantly the parson extinguished the 
light flame, and drew the burly form closer within 
his arms, so that the two stood as one. "Not one, 
but both of us," he cried. 
A new voice spoke next, the voice of the oldest 
miner, the most hardened reprobate there. "Let go 
that rascal, Parson. He 's the fellow that lamed you 
last spring. He set the trap himself; I seen him 
a doing it." 
Involuntarily, for a moment, Herman Peters drew 
back; the trap set at the chapel door, the deliber- 
ate, cruel intention, the painful injury, and its life- 
long result, brought the angry color to his pale face. 
The memory was full of the old bitterness. 
But Saul, feeling himself deserted, dragged his 
 
miserable body forward, and clasped the parson's 
knees. With desperate hands he clung, and he was 
not repulsed. Without a word the parson drew him 
closer, and again faced the crowd. 
" Why, the man 's a downright fool ! " said the old 
miner. "That Saul lamed him for life, and all for 
nothing, and still he stands by him. The man 's 
mad ! " 
"I am not mad," answered the parson, and his 
voice rung out clear and sweet. "But I am a min- 
ister of the great God who has said to men, 'Thou 
shalt do no murder.' O men! O brothers! look 
back into your own lives. Have ye no crimes, no 
sins to be forgiven ? Can ye expect mercy when ye 
give none ? Let this poor creature go, and it shall 
be counted unto you for goodness. Ye, too, must 
some time die ; and when the hour comes, as it often 
comes, in lives like yours, with sudden horror, ye will 
have this good deed to remember. For charity 
which is mercy shall cover a multitude of sins." 
He ceased, and there was a momentary pause. 
Then a stern voice answered, "Facts won't alter, 
Parson. The man is a thief, and must be punished. 
Your talk may do for women-folks, not for us." 
" Women-folks ! ** repeated the ruffian-faced man 
who had made the women shudder at the chapel 
" He 's a sly fox, this parson ! He didn't go out to 
meet Eosie Eay at the Grotter yesterday, O no ? " 
 
"Liar!" shouted a man, who had been standing 
in the shadow on the outskirts of the crowd, taking, 
so far, no part in the scene. He forced himself to 
the front; it was Steven Long, his face dark with 
passion. 
"No liar at all, Steve," answered the first. "I 
seen 'em there with my own eyes; they had things 
to eat and everything. Just ask the parson." 
" Yes, ask the parson," echoed the others ; and with 
the shifting humor of the border, they stopped to 
laugh over the idea. "Ask the parson." 
Steven Long stepped forward and confronted the 
little minister. His strong hands were clinched, his 
blood was on fire with jealousy. The bull-dog fol- 
lowed his master, and smelled around the parson's 
gaiters, the same poor old shoes, his only pair, 
now wet with melted snow. The parson glanced 
down apprehensively. 
" Traid of a dog ! Traid of a dog ! " shouted the 
miners, again laughing uproariously. The fun was 
better than they had anticipated. 
" Is it true ? " demanded Steven Long, in a hoarse 
voice. "Did you meet that girl at the Grotter yes- 
terday ? " 
"I did meet Eosamond Eay at the Grotto yes- 
terday," answered the parson; "but " 
He never finished the sentence. A fragment of 
iron ore struck him on the temple. He fell, and 
 
died, his small body lying across the thief, whom 
he still protected. even in death. 
The murder was not avenged; Steven Long was 
left to go his own way. But as the thief was also 
allowed to depart unmolested, the principles of bor- 
der justice were held to have been amply satisfied. 
The miners attended the funeral in a body, and 
even deputed one of their number to read the Epis- 
copal burial service over the rough pine coffin, since 
there was no one else to do it. They brought out 
the chapel prayer-books, found the places, and fol- 
lowed as well as they could ; for " he thought a deal 
of them books. Don't you remember how he was 
always carrying 'em backward and forward, poor little 
chap ! " 
The Chapel of St. John and St. James was closed 
for the season. In the summer a new missionary 
arrived; he was not ritualistic, and before the year 
was out he married Eosamond Ray. 
JEANNETTE. 
BEFOEE the war for the Union, in the times of 
the old army, there had been peace through- 
out the country for thirteen years. Kegiments ex- 
isted in their officers, but the ranks were thin, 
the more so the better, since the United States 
possessed few forts and seemed in chronic embar- 
rassment over her military children, owing to the 
flying foot-ball of public opinion, now "standing 
army pro," now " standing army con," with more or 
less allusion to the much-enduring Caesar and his 
legions, the ever-present ghost of the political arena. 
In those days the few forts were full and much 
state was kept up ; the officers were all graduates 
