down. 'And how about your favourite German?' she said, returning 
to the charge against Wych Hazel with equal ire and curiosity.
Wych Hazel answered again, still looking into the fire,
' "No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this 
life; that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier." '
The girl spoke so "at liberty,"there was such freedom in the 
loyalty, the folds of the banner waved so gladly above her head,
Mrs. Coles looked and hesitated. Then, spying as she thought a 
joint in the armour, so to speak, she sent out an arrow.
'And you call that a good marching uniform, I suppose,' she said 
derisively, with a comprehensive glance that went from head to 
foot.
Wych Hazel faced round upon her with eyes wide open at first in 
displeased astonishment. But in a moment another look came, 
startled, wondering, as when one finds a sudden unlooked-for clue. 
Was that it? Wych Hazel said to herself. Had it been left to Mrs. 
Coles to tell her? "A good marching uniform?"Wych Hazel 
thought she knew better now than ever before "what to do about 
dress."
The ladies were going out, and the subject dropped. The morning 
was filled with out-of-door business. At luncheon Mrs. Coles 
declared herself fatigued and disposed to rest at home. She fondly 
hoped the afternoon would be made lively by visiters; and to her 
wish, so it was.
Among others came Miss Annabella Powder. This young lady had 
not been wont to seem so fond of Hazel's society as the other 
members of her family; indeed she rarely made her appearance at 
Chickaree more frequently than civility demanded. To-day, 
however, she made a long visit. It was not that she seemed to be 
enjoying herself; she went languidly through a prolonged 
conversation with Mrs. Coles, who had an endless number of 
questions to ask about the winter, and especially about her pretty 
sister Mrs. Charteris; with a latent view to supplemental 
information also about Rollo and his wife, if such were to be had. 
Annabella answered at random, made Mrs. Coles desperate, was 
bored; and yet did not go away. At last she seized a chance and 
moved to a seat beside Hazel. It was at a time when several other 
people were present and just then engaged more or less with each 
other and a common subject. Annabella had never been intimate 
with Hazel. Therefore it was the more noticeable when with 
depressed voice and somewhat hurried emphasis she said,
'I want to speak to youI want to say a word.How can I?'
'In this window' said Wych Hazel leading the way. 'They are 
miles deep in Miss Burr's engagement.'
In the window was a most beautiful hyacinth. The two ladies 
stood, one on this side and one on the other side, and spoke,not 
about floriculture.
'I have no time here,' Annabella began breathlessly, bending down 
to put her nose to the beautiful buff bells, which were sweet 
enough at a greater distance. 'I want to see you alone, Mrs. Rollo. 
You were always so kindWhen can I? I have a great deal to say. 
Could you go and drive with me by and by? I don't know what 
other way'
'It must be to-morrow, then,' said Hazel, straightening the stick 
which supported the heavy head of flowers. 'To-day I am promised 
to Mrs. Coles.'
'To-morrow, then? You are so kind, Mrs. Rollo!and you are the 
only personAt three o'clock, then? and I will come in mamma's 
carriage. You wont speak of it?'
'I never give such promises,' said Wych Hazel.
'But'Annabella's eye went anxiously to Mrs. Coles.
'Discretion is stronger than bonds.'
'And you are very discreet?' said the girl trying to laugh. 'Well, I 
must trust you. But don't let any one know you are going out with 
me!'
The next day Mrs. Coles was engaged to luncheon with a friend 
and took Primrose with her. They had not returned when Miss 
Powder came for Hazel, and the two ladies drove off in security. It 
was not a day for a pleasure drive. Clouds hung low and grey; the 
air had been keen and raw, with snow in its course somewhere. 
Now it had become suspiciously milder. But neither lady was 
thinking of pleasure.
'You are very good, Mrs. Rollo!' said Annabella, who evidently 
had some difficulty in commanding herself, and was very unlike 
her usual statuesque manner. For she was a handsome girl, of the 
Madonna type, and either by temperament or for policy had long 
adopted a calm style to match. To-day it was broken up.'I am 
very much obliged to you!' she went on. 'I did not know whom to 
speak to, and I must get somebody to help me. And Josephine used 
to think so much of you; I thought she would mind you if anybody. 
I couldn't ask mammamamma don't know. O what shall I do?'
And with this most honest cry of despair, poor Annabella broke 
down.
Hazel asked what was the matter? under the wild idea for a 
moment that Miss Powder had found her heart and then rashly 
broken it. 
'Nobody knows' the girl began again, trying to get the better of 
her agitation; 'it has not come out yet; nobody suspects; and I 
thoughtif you could hinder it! If you cannot, there is no one that 
can. Mamma has no idea. And it would just kill her to know. She 
thinks it is all right. Poor mamma!'
'But what am I to hinder?' said Wych Hazel.
'Have you seen Josephine lately?'
'Yes.'
'Didn't she seem like herself?'
'Extremely like herself.'
'So she did when I saw her. And her house,did you see her 
house?it was so nicely arranged and so pretty; and I thought she 
was so happy'
'I never thought that,' said Wych Hazel.
'I did. I thought she had got what she wanted; we all thought so. 
Nobody married this year had a better establishment than 
Josephine; not one.'
'She got what she married for,' said Hazel; 'but Josephine's "wants" 
were larger than that.'
'Were they?' said Annabella drearily. 'I didn't know it. I don't see 
how they could be.'
Ironical words rose to Wych Hazel's lips; but she sent them back. 
Somehow her own height of happiness made her strangely tender 
and humble even towards such fallacy as this.
'Then you are not troubled about her?' she said enquiringly.
'Troubled!' Annabella echoed. 'Why she has left it all.'
'Left it!'Wych Hazel sat up straight in her place, facing round.
'Nobody knows yet; but she has left it. Mamma don't know. If I 
can only keep it from mamma!'
'Keep it from Mrs. Powder?' Hazel repeated. 'Keep what? Where 
has she gone? What can you be talking of, Miss Powder?'
'She has not gone far yet, but she means never to come back. I 
know where she is; she is hiding. You see, Mr. Charteris is at 
Albany; he has some business about some bill he wants to get 
through the Legislature, and it will keep him there a while; and 
Josey took the opportunity. She ran away; and I should never have 
known where to, only that the person she went to came and told 
me. It is a woman who used to be housekeeper for mamma; a very 
respectable woman; and Josey went to her. Think of it! And she 
won't come back. Not for me. And then I thought, if anybody 
living could have any influence over her, it might be you. She 
always thought all the world of you. Is it very bold in me to ask 
you? But Mrs. Rollo, I was desperate!'
Poor Annabella's looks and tones did not belie her. Wych Hazel sat 
back again, thinking.
'Marry a man,' she said slowly, 'and you may be able to live along 
without an "establishment." But if you marry an establishment, the 
small appendage that goes along with it But she must come 
back, of course! at once,' Hazel exclaimed, retaking her impetuous 
tones. 'Won't come?she must.'
'If you can only make her?' said Annabella. 'Nobody knows 
anything yetand Charteris will not be home for days. But I have 
not told you quite the whole. There is another person concerned. I 
am afraid,'Annabella spoke with bated breath'she means to go 
