The boys were there that night, about the appointed time. They sat in
the shadow waiting. It was a lonely place, and an hour made solemn by
old traditions. Spirits whispered in the rustling leaves, ghosts lurked
in the murky nooks, the deep baying of a hound floated up out of the
distance, an owl answered with his sepulchral note. The boys were
subdued by these solemnities, and talked little. By and by they judged
that twelve had come; they marked where the shadow fell, and began to
dig. Their hopes commenced to rise. Their interest grew stronger, and
their industry kept pace with it. The hole deepened and still deepened,
but every time their hearts jumped to hear the pick strike upon
something, they only suffered a new disappointment. It was only a stone
or a chunk. At last Tom said:
“It ain’t any use, Huck, we’re wrong again.”
“Well, but we  can’t  be wrong. We spotted the shadder to a dot.”
“I know it, but then there’s another thing.”
“What’s that?”.
“Why, we only guessed at the time. Like enough it was too late or too
early.”
Huck dropped his shovel.
“That’s it,” said he. “That’s the very trouble. We got to give this one
up. We can’t ever tell the right time, and besides this kind of thing’s
too awful, here this time of night with witches and ghosts a-fluttering
around so. I feel as if something’s behind me all the time;  and I’m
afeard to turn around, becuz maybe there’s others in front a-waiting for
a chance. I been creeping all over, ever since I got here.”
“Well, I’ve been pretty much so, too, Huck. They most always put in a
dead man when they bury a treasure under a tree, to look out for it.”
“Lordy!”
“Yes, they do. I’ve always heard that.”
“Tom, I don’t like to fool around much where there’s dead people. A
body’s bound to get into trouble with ‘em, sure.”
“I don’t like to stir ‘em up, either. S’pose this one here was to stick
his skull out and say something!”
“Don’t Tom! It’s awful.”
“Well, it just is. Huck, I don’t feel comfortable a bit.”
“Say, Tom, let’s give this place up, and try somewheres else.”
“All right, I reckon we better.”
“What’ll it be?”
Tom considered awhile; and then said:
“The ha’nted house. That’s it!”
“Blame it, I don’t like ha’nted houses, Tom. Why, they’re a dern sight
worse’n dead people. Dead people might talk, maybe, but they don’t come
sliding around in a shroud, when you ain’t noticing, and peep over your
shoulder all of a sudden and grit their teeth, the way a ghost does. I
couldn’t stand such a thing as that, Tom--nobody could.”
“Yes, but, Huck, ghosts don’t travel around only at night. They won’t
hender us from digging there in the daytime.”
“Well, that’s so. But you know mighty well people don’t go about that
ha’nted house in the day nor the night.”
“Well, that’s mostly because they don’t like to go where a man’s been
murdered, anyway--but nothing’s ever been seen around that house except
in the night--just some blue lights slipping by the windows--no regular
ghosts.”
“Well, where you see one of them blue lights flickering around, Tom,
you can bet there’s a ghost mighty close behind it. It stands to reason.
Becuz you know that they don’t anybody but ghosts use ‘em.”
“Yes, that’s so. But anyway they don’t come around in the daytime, so
what’s the use of our being afeard?”
“Well, all right. We’ll tackle the ha’nted house if you say so--but I
reckon it’s taking chances.”
They had started down the hill by this time. There in the middle of the
moonlit valley below them stood the “ha’nted” house, utterly isolated,
its fences gone long ago, rank weeds smothering the very doorsteps, the
chimney crumbled to ruin, the window-sashes vacant, a corner of the roof
caved in. The boys gazed awhile, half expecting to see a blue light flit
past a window; then talking in a low tone, as befitted the time and the
circumstances, they struck far off to the right, to give the haunted
house a wide berth, and took their way homeward through the woods that
adorned the rearward side of Cardiff Hill.
CHAPTER XVI
ABOUT noon the next day the boys arrived at the dead tree; they had come
for their tools. Tom was impatient to go to the haunted house; Huck was
measurably so, also--but suddenly said:
“Lookyhere, Tom, do you know what day it is?”
Tom mentally ran over the days of the week, and then quickly lifted his
eyes with a startled look in them--
“My! I never once thought of it, Huck!”
“Well, I didn’t neither, but all at once it popped onto me that it was
Friday.”
“Blame it, a body can’t be too careful, Huck. We might ‘a’ got into an
awful scrape, tackling such a thing on a Friday.”
“ Might ! Better say we  would ! There’s some lucky days, maybe, but
Friday ain’t.”
“Any fool knows that. I don’t reckon  you  was the first that found it
out, Huck.”
“Well, I never said I was, did I? And Friday ain’t all, neither. I had a
rotten bad dream last night--dreampt about rats.”
“No! Sure sign of trouble. Did they fight?”
“No.”
“Well, that’s good, Huck. When they don’t fight it’s only a sign that
there’s trouble around, you know. All we got to do is to look mighty
sharp and keep out of it. We’ll drop this thing for today, and play. Do
you know Robin Hood, Huck?”
“No. Who’s Robin Hood?”
“Why, he was one of the greatest men that was ever in England--and the
best. He was a robber.”
“Cracky, I wisht I was. Who did he rob?”
“Only sheriffs and bishops and rich people and kings, and such like. But
he never bothered the poor. He loved ‘em. He always divided up with ‘em
perfectly square.”
“Well, he must ‘a’ been a brick.”
“I bet you he was, Huck. Oh, he was the noblest man that ever was.
They ain’t any such men now, I can tell you. He could lick any man in
England, with one hand tied behind him; and he could take his yew bow
and plug a ten-cent piece every time, a mile and a half.”
“What’s a  yew  bow?”
“I don’t know. It’s some kind of a bow, of course. And if he hit that
dime only on the edge he would set down and cry--and curse. But we’ll
play Robin Hood--it’s nobby fun. I’ll learn you.”
“I’m agreed.”
So they played Robin Hood all the afternoon, now and then casting a
yearning eye down upon the haunted house and passing a remark about the
morrow’s prospects and possibilities there. As the sun began to sink
into the west they took their way homeward athwart the long shadows
of the trees and soon were buried from sight in the forests of Cardiff
Hill.
On Saturday, shortly after noon, the boys were at the dead tree again.
They had a smoke and a chat in the shade, and then dug a little in their
last hole, not with great hope, but merely because Tom said there were
so many cases where people had given up a treasure after getting down
within six inches of it, and then somebody else had come along and
turned it up with a single thrust of a shovel. The thing failed this
time, however, so the boys shouldered their tools and went away feeling
that they had not trifled with fortune, but had fulfilled all the
requirements that belong to the business of treasure-hunting.
When they reached the haunted house there was something so weird and
grisly about the dead silence that reigned there under the baking sun,
and something so depressing about the loneliness and desolation of the
place, that they were afraid, for a moment, to venture in. Then they
crept to the door and took a trembling peep. They saw a weedgrown,
floorless room, unplastered, an ancient fireplace, vacant windows,
a ruinous staircase; and here, there, and everywhere hung ragged and
abandoned cobwebs. They presently entered, softly, with quickened
pulses, talking in whispers, ears alert to catch the slightest sound,
and muscles tense and ready for instant retreat.
In a little while familiarity modified their fears and they gave the
place a critical and interested examination, rather admiring their own
boldness, and wondering at it, too. Next they wanted to look upstairs.
This was something like cutting off retreat, but they got to daring
each other, and of course there could be but one result--they threw their
