stairs. Opposite were reception and dining rooms, and 
large airy chambers above. Daisy took the one at the 
head of the stairs, so as to be within call. Mrs. Glyndon 
 
had brought a man and two maids ; so that there really 
was nothing for. Nelly to add in that respect. 
Bertie was delighted with the drive on the beach the 
next morning. Daisy took him out, while Nelly unpacked, 
and put her house in order. She admitted to herself that 
she did feel very languid. Six months of wear and 
anxiety told their story. Where was the blooming girl- 
face of a year ago ? 
Did she regret the service that had taken its roundness 
and color ? No : she was glad to give it, to win the child's 
soul and the child's love, to awaken the chilled pulses into 
new life, to give him back to his father in glad surprise 
as something different and richer than before. 
But she was thankful to have a little rest for a few 
days. . There were so many objects of interest, that Daisy 
quite sufficed the invalid for the present. 
Mrs. Glyndon returned one afternoon, especially impor 
tant, her face radiant with pleasure and success. 
" My dear," she began, " do you mean to get rested 
up, and ever have that pretty peach-bloom again ? I want 
to see you bright and sparkling once more ; for we are 
going to have just the nicest summer imaginable. I am 
so glad we came to Severn Point ! I declare, it has all 
come around like a novel ! " 
" What has? " asked Nelly smilingly. 
" Well, events and people," with a little pause 
between. " Why, I have found a whole settlement of 
old friends ! When I was in New York last winter, I just 
happened upon a charming clique, two or three artists, 
some literary people, and some shall I say strong-minded 
women? Not of the ultra type, though one of them is 
studying medicine, I believe ; and another has a sort of 
professorship or higher teachership in a college at the 
moon, or among the planets. They are cultured and 
refined people, and up in all charming society ways. So, 
just as soon as you are in the humor, I want to give a 
 
little tea, rather Frenchy and enjoyable, with the best 
of it in talk. I hate crowds where people do nothing 
but stuff themselves." 
"You need not wait on my account," returned Nelly. 
" I think I shall not care very much for society." 
"Nonsense! at one and twenty too. You need a 
good mental shaking up and rousing. I should think 
you would have grown rusty and dull ; though, with that 
stiff Aunt Adelaide, and old Mrs. Kinnard, to say noth 
ing of troublesome Bertie No, don't hold up j-ourhand 
in that threatening fashion : it is a pretty white hand, 
and I noticed it long ago. You do not know that Dr. 
Kinnard gave you over into my power, and begged me to 
keep you from getting dull. You must la}^ in a stock of 
roses and ideas for next winter. Perhaps Miss Grove 
will fall and break her back, (who knows ?) and you may 
see a good opening to heap coals of fire upon her head, 
though be careful of her hair. It is growing rather thin, 
I noticed." 
Nelly laughed outright then, amused at her friend's 
manner. 
" There, that is something like it. I am invited over 
to the hotel to-morrow to dinner. If you did not mind, I 
should like to take Daisy, she is so sweet and fresh, 
though she doesn't compare with you in looks. And 
then, as I said, I shall give a little entertainment here." 
Daisy was pleased with her invitation ; and Nelly set 
about making her as pretty as possible. At half-past 
seven they set out, and then it was Bertie's bed-time. 
He said his prayers reverentially, and kissed her many 
times. 
"Won't you stay with me a little while," he asked, 
" since they are all gone out? " and so she sat by the cot, 
and talked until he fell fast asleep. 
It was midnight when the revellers returned. Nellj T had 
been lying on the sofa in a wrapper. She experienced an 
odd, motherly feeling and interest in Daisy, as if she 
were a decade older, rather than three years. And, like 
a child, she came in to talk over her enjoyment. It had* 
been just lovely. 
"And the hero of the evening danced with her: I 
may as well tell you all her triumphs. There, now, not 
another word ! Mrs. Kinnard, you should have been in 
bed two hours ago." 
So Daisy was warmly enlisted in the tea-party. They 
made out a list the next morning, and wrote the invita 
tions. Then, in the afternoon, they were to go to a beach 
picnic, and to-morrow out rowing, which would finish the 
week. 
" And you'll drive with me, mamma? " says Bertie in a 
glow of delight. 
" Then you don't love me best of all? " cries Daisy, 
making a dainty little moue at him. 
" I love you a great deal ; but I don't quite think it is 
best of all. But then, you see, she is my mamma ; " and 
he looks up, much relieved at finding so good and respon 
sible a reason. 
Down on the beach they go in the pony phaeton ; and 
Bertie is allowed to drive. Jenny is as gentle as a road 
side cow. There are not a great many out, mostly elderly 
people and young children, for whom the picnic has no 
charms, or forbidden ones. 
Nelly sits there, and dreams. How long the time 
appears since she parted from her husband ! She has 
heard, and all is going on nicely ; but she misses him 
much more than she would like to admit. She has grown 
to love him very much, and he has come to depend on 
her for so many things. She wondered, a year ago, 
whether she could ever be useful to him, and, ah ! now 
she is quite necessary. Oh ! 
It was all just like a flash. A stj'lish turnout, contain 
ing two very young men with a spirited horse, had borne 
 
down upon them ; and Bertie, in the moment's confusion, 
had checked to the left, instead of the right. A hand had 
been interposed, and there they stood, quiet, out of possi 
ble danger ; but her heart beat rapidly, and her face 
flushed with that lovety, peachy glow so admired by Mrs. 
Glj'ndon. 
"I am very much indebted. Allow me to thank you 
most sincere!y ; ' ' and she bent over a trifle to look at 
their preserver. " It was unpardonably careless in me." 
" The carelessness was on the other side. Do not blame 
yourself in the slightest. I am happy to have been at 
your service, even in this trifle ; " and he bowed. 
She bowed too, then glanced back, and found him doing 
the same thing, as often happens. 
" How handsome he was, mamma ! "as handsome as 
as you are. What was the matter ? " 
" Let me drive a little while. It was nothing much ; " 
for she did not want to stamp the incident with any 
significance. 
A handsome man, Bertie had spoken truly. Tall, 
supple, and graceful, abounding in the tints that are not 
blonde, yet far from the other extreme ; bronze-brown as 
to hair and beard, though at present he wore only a 
mustache, which was silken-soft and fine ; a clear com 
plexion just a trifle sunburnt ; a broad, dimpled chin ; a 
straight, rather haughty nose ; and eyes of so dark a gray 
