“Twenty-two hundred dollars, including the piano, or seventeen hundred
without. I can show you bills for fifteen hundred; and a hundred small
things not included in them.”

“You ask too much. I must pay twenty-five hundred to get possession, at
this rate,” said Mr. Brentbone. He made me various offers, but I was
satisfied that he would give my price, and I did not abate a dollar.
The trade was closed, and he agreed to see me at the bank the next day,
where we were to pass the papers. My landlord consented to endorse the
lease over to the new tenant. Mrs. Brentbone had a talk with Bridget,
and engaged her to remain in the place. Everything was going as well
as I could expect. Lilian and I staid up till midnight packing our
clothes, and preparing for our abrupt departure.

I went to the bank as usual, the next morning. On my way I stopped at
the pianoforte warerooms, and bought the piano in my house which I had
only hired, for however guilty I had been, and intended to be, I still
had a certain sense of worldly honor, which would not permit me to do
what I regarded as a mean action, though I acknowledge that I did not
discriminate very nicely in some portions of my conduct. But I settled
the bill for four hundred dollars.

Mr. Brentbone came according to his promise. I gave him the lease, and
the bill of sale of the furniture for his check. My uncle happened to
come in while we were doing the business. I told him that my losses the
day before had induced me to accept Mr. Brentbone’s offer for my house.
He commended me for my prudence. Mr. Bristlebach also expressed his
approbation of the economical step I had taken, and declared that he
had more confidence in me than before. He liked to see a young man take
counsel of prudence.

I took advantage of his good-nature to put in my request for leave of
absence for a single day, to enable me to visit a friend in Albany
who was sick. The permission was promptly granted. I balanced my cash
for the last time, leaving it thirty-eight thousand dollars short,
to account for which I altered various charges and credits, and made
several fictitious entries. The account was left square, and if no
particular investigation was instituted, my deficit might remain
concealed for some time. With the twenty thousand dollars which I had
just appropriated I left the bank—for the last time.




CHAPTER XXI.

AN EXILE FROM HOME.


I WAS astonished to find that I could commit a crime of such magnitude
with so little remorse. It is true, the sin had become, in a measure,
necessary to my salvation, and that of my wife; but I was only excited,
not burdened with guilt, when I did the deed. I had been traveling
very rapidly on the downward road, and in a few weeks I had acquired
a facility in crime which enabled me to rob the bank of thirty
thousand dollars without considering any thing but the peril of being
discovered. Fatal facility, which can only be avoided by those who
refrain from taking the first step!

I had deluded myself into the belief that principle was only a worldly
sense of honor. Tom Flynn was a man of genuine principle, for his
actions were based upon a religious foundation, which alone can
vitalize principle. A man may be honest because it is safer or more
reputable to be so; but then he would steal if it were not for being
found out, and will be as dishonest as fashion or custom will tolerate.
When I had leisure to think of the matter, I marvelled that I had
fallen so easily; and this was the explanation I made to myself.

Tom Flynn had said as much as this to me, in the way of argument,
assuring me it was quite impossible for a man without the love of God
and the love of man in his heart—which is the epitome of the whole
gospel—to have any genuine principle in his soul. Any thing short
of this is mere sentiment, which is blown aside by the rude blast of
temptation. The hymn he used to sing so much seemed to tell the whole
story:—

  “I want a principle within
    Of jealous, godly fear;
  A sensibility to sin,
    A pain to find it near.”

Worldly honor, the fear of discovery, the bubble of reputation, are
not enough to keep a man in the path of rectitude. But I will not
anticipate the reflections which were forced upon me afterwards. I
did not believe I was much worse than the majority of young men. I
certainly did not mean to steal when I began to take money from the
bank; and even when I found it necessary to flee from the anticipated
consequences of my errors, I had a certain undefined expectation of
being able to restore all I had taken. The fortune of Aunt Rachel still
flitted through my mind as the solution of the difficult problem.

I left the bank struggling to look cool and indifferent. I bowed and
spoke to my acquaintances as naturally as possible. In two or three
hours more I should be out of the city, perhaps never to see it again.
I could not even go down to Springhaven to see my mother—probably
I had seen her for the last time on earth. My blood seemed like ice
as the thought came to my mind. I reflected upon all she had been to
me, all she had done for me. The prayers and the hymns she had taught
me in my childhood came back to me as though I had learned them but
yesterday. I was amazed at my own folly and wickedness. What a blow I
was dealing to that mother! When she heard that her only son had fled
from his home, steeped in crime, and covered with shame how she would
weep! For days months and years she would groan in bitterness of spirit.

What a wretch, what a villain, what an ingrate I was to strike her in
this cruel manner! My sense of worldly honor would have revolted at
the thought of giving her even the slightest blow with my hand; but how
inconceivably more cruel was the blow I was giving her by my conduct!
Could I have sooner realized the anguish which the thought of my mother
would cause me, I think it might have saved me.

I could not make up my mind to doom her who had given me being, who
had watched over me in my childhood, who had loved me as none else but
God could love me, to such awful agony as the revelation of my crime
would cause her. Was there no way to escape? I could restore the thirty
thousand dollars. With the proceeds of my house and furniture I could
make up three thousand more. I was really, then, only five thousand
dollars in debt—the sum which I had lost in copper stocks. The case
seemed not so desperate, after all. I could go to Aunt Rachel, tell
her, with the genuine penitence I then felt what a wicked deed I had
done. She would lend me five thousand dollars, and I could pay all I
owed.

My heart leaped with delight as I thought of this remedy. But then
there might be some delay. Lilian was all ready to start for New
York. It was possible that the deficit might be discovered before I
had raised the money. If it were, I was lost. Still farther, if I paid
the three thousand dollars in my possession into the bank, I should
not have any thing to furnish another house. I should be compelled to
board, and very likely the circumstances would drive me back to Mrs.
Oliphant’s. I shuddered as I considered it.

I thought of my mother again, and had almost resolved to adopt the
suggestion of my better nature, when I was tempted to enter a bar-room.
I drank a glass of whiskey. The effect of strong drink upon me was to
stupefy my faculties and make me reckless. I drank a second and then a
third glass, in as many different saloons. I forgot my mother then. I
was excited, and pictured to myself the delights of foreign travel.

I am almost sure now, so strong was the tendency upon me, that I should
