Take an instance. Lot a leadsman cry, " Half 
twain ! half twain ! half twain ! half twain ! half 
twain !" until it becomes as monotonous as the 
ticking of a clock ; let conversation be going on all 
the time, and the pilot be doing his share of the 
talking, and no longer listening to the leadsman ; 
and in the midst of this endless string: of ha,lf twains 
let a single " quarter twain !" be interjected, with- 
out emphasis, and then the half twain cry go on 
again, just as before : two or three weeks later that 
pilot can describe with precision the boats position 
in the river when that quarter twain was uttered, 
and give you such a lot of head marks, stern- 
marks, and side-marks to guide you, that you 
ought to be able to take the boat there and put her 
in that same spot again yourself! The cry of 
quarter twain did not really take his mind from 
his talk, Tut his trained faculties instantly photo- 
graphed the bearings, noted the change of depth 
and laid up the important details for future refer- 
ence without requiring any assistance from him in 
the matter. If you were walking and talking with 
a friend, and another friend at your side kept up a 
monotonous repetition of the vowl sound A, for a 
couple of blocks, and then in the midst interjected 
an E,, thus. A, A, A, A, A, R, A, A, A, etc., and 
<;avo the R no emphasis, you would not be able to 
state, two or three weeks afterwards, that the R 

had been put in, nor be able to tell what objects 
you were passing at the moment it was done. But 
you C(Mild if your memory had been patiently and 
laboriously tranied to do that sort of thing mechan- 
ically. 

Give a man a tolerably fair memory to start 
with, and piloting will develop) it into a very 
colossus of oapability. But oil in the matters 
it is daily drilled in. A time would come when 
the man's faculties could not help noticing land- 
marks and soundings, and his memory could not 
help holding on to them with the grip of a vice ; 
but if you asked that same man at noon what he 
had for breakfast, it would be ten chances to one 
that he could not tell you. Astonishing things 
can be done with the human memory if you will 
devote it faithfully to one particular line of business. 

At the time that wages soared so high on the 

Missouri River, my chief, Mr. B , went up 

there and learned more than a thousand miles of 
that stream with an ease and rapidity that were 
astonishing. When he had seen each division otce 
in the daytime and once at night, his education 
was so nearly complete that he took out a " day- 
light license , a few trips later he took out a full 
license, and went to piloting day and night — and 
he ranked A 1, too. 

Mr. B placed me as steersman for a while 

under a pilot whose feats of memory were a con- 
stant marvel to me. However, his memory was 
born in him, I think, not built. For instance, 
somebody would mention a name. Instantly Mr. 

J would break in : — 

"Oh, I knew him. Sallow-faced, red-headed 
fellow, with a little scar on the side of his throat 
like a splinter under the ttesh. He was only in the 
Southern trade six months. That was thirteen 
years ago. I made a trip with him. There was 
five feet in the upper river then ; the Honry Blake 
grounded at the foot of Tower Island, drawing four 
and a half ; the George Elliott unshipped her 
rudder on the wreck of the Sunflower " — 
" Why, the Sunflower did'nt sink until " — 
"  know wlien she sunk ; it was three years 
before that, on the 2d of December; Asa Hardy 
was captain of her, and his brother John was first 
clerk; and it was his first trip in her, too; Tom 
Jones told me these things a week afterward in 
New Orleans ; he was first mate of the Sunflower. 
Captain Hardy stuck a nail in his foot the 6th of 
July of the next year, and died of the lock; aw on 
the 15th. His brother John died two years after, — 
3d of March, — erysipelas. I never saw either of the 
Hardys, — they were Alleghany River men, — but 
people who knew them told me all these things. 
And they said Captain Hardy wore yarn socks 
winter and summer just the same, and his first 
wife's name was Jane Shook, — she was from New 
England, — and his second one die in a lunatic 
asylum. It was in the blood. She was from Lexington, 
Kentucky. Name was Horton before she was married." 

And HO on, by the hour, the man's tongue would 
go. He could not forget anything. It was simply 
impossible. The most trivial details remained as 
distinct and luminous in his head, after they had 
lain there for years, as the most memorable 
events. His was not simply a pilot's memory ; its 
grasp was universal. If he were talking about a 
trifling letter he had received seven years before, 
he was pretty sure to deliver you the entire screed 
from memory. And then, witliout observing that 
he was departing from the true line of his talk, he 
was more than likely to hurl in a long-drawn par- 
enthetical biography ol the writer of that letter ; 
and you were lucky indeed if he did not take up 
that writer's relatives, one by one, and give you 
their biographies, too. 

Such a memory as that is a gi'eat misfortune. To 
it, all occurrences are ol the same size. Its posses- 
sor cannot distinguish an interesting circumstance 
from an uninteresting one. As a talker, he is bound 
to clog his narrative with tiresome details and make 
himself an insufferable bore. Moreover, he cannot 
stick to his subject. He picks up every little grain 
of memory he discerns in his way, and so is led 

aside. Mr. J would start out with the honest 

intention of telling you a vastly funny anecdote 
about a dog. He would be " so full of laugh" that 
he could hardly begin ; then his memory would 
start with the dog's breed and personal appearance; 
drift into a history of his owner; of his owner's 
family, with descriptions of weddings and burials 
that had occurred in it, together with recitals of 
congratulatory verses and obituary poetry provoked 
by the same; then this memory would recollect 
that one of these events occurred during the cele- 
brated " hard winter " of such and such a year, and 
a minute description of that winter would follow, 
along with the names of people who were frozen to 
