of sin and exhaustion upon the scene. I do not know exactly how much of
this is owing to the Jewish burying-ground, which occupies so much of
the opposite hill. The slope is thickly shingled with gray stones, that
lie in a sort of regularity which suggests their purpose. You fall to
computing how many Jews there may be in that hill, layer upon layer; for
the most part they are dissolved away into the earth, but you think that
if they were to put on their mortal bodies and come forth, the valley
itself would be filled with them almost to the height of the wall. Out
of these gates, giving upon this valley of death, six hundred thousand
bodies of those who had starved were thrown during the siege, and long
before Titus stormed the city. I do not wonder that the Moslems think of
this frightful vale as Gehenna itself.
From an orifice in the battlemented wall where we sat projects a round
column, mounted there like a cannon, and perhaps intended to deceive
an enemy into the belief that the wall is fortified. It is astride this
column, overhanging this dreadful valley, that Mohammed will sit at
the last, the judgment day. A line finer than a hair and sharper than a
razor will reach from it to the tower on the Mount of Olives, stretching
over the valley of the dead. This is the line Es-Serat. Mohammed will
superintend the passage over it. For in that day all who ever lived,
risen to judgment, must walk this razor-line; the good will cross in
safety; the bad will fall into hell, that is, into Gehenna, this blasted
gulf and side-hill below, thickly sown with departed Jews. It is in view
of this perilous passage that the Moslem every day, during the ablution
of his feet, prays: “O, make my feet not to slip on Es-Serat, on that
day when feet shall slip.”
IV.—NEIGHBORHOODS OF JERUSALEM.
WHEREVER we come upon traces of the Knights of St. John, there a door
opens for us into romance; the very name suggests valor and courtesy
and charity. Every town in the East that is so fortunate as to have any
memorials of them, whatever its other historic associations, obtains an
additional and special fame from its connection with this heroic order.
The city of Acre recalls the memory of their useless prowess in the last
struggle of the Christians to retain a foothold in Palestine; the name
of the Knights of Rhodes brings before every traveller, who has seen it,
the picturesque city in which the armorial insignia of this order have
for him a more living interest than any antiquities of the Grecian Rose;
the island fortress at the gate of the Levant owes all the interest we
feel in it to the Knights of Malta; and even the city of David and of
the Messiah has an added lustre as the birthplace of the Knights of St.
John of Jerusalem.
From the eleventh century to the fifteenth, they are the chief figures
who in that whirlwind of war contested the possession of the Levant with
the Saracens and the Turks. In the forefront of every battle was seen
their burnished mail, in the gloomy rear of every retreat were heard
their voices of constancy and of courage; wherever there were crowns to
be cracked, or wounds to be bound up, or broken hearts to be ministered
to, there were the Knights of St. John, soldiers, priests, servants,
laying aside the gown for the coat of mail if need be, or exchanging
the cuirass for the white cross on the breast. Originally a charitable
order, dwelling in the Hospital of St. John to minister to the pilgrims
to Jerusalem, and composed of young soldiers of Godfrey, who took the
vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience, they resumed their arms upon
the pressure of infidel hostility, and subsequently divided the order
into three classes: soldiers, priests, and servants. They speedily
acquired great power and wealth; their palaces, their fortifications,
their churches, are even in their ruins the admiration and wonder of our
age. The purity of the order: was in time somewhat sullied by luxury,
but their valor never suffered the slightest eclipse; whether the field
they contested was lost or won, their bravery always got new honor from
it.
Nearly opposite the court of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre is the
green field of Muristan, the site of the palace, church, and hospital of
the Knights of St. John. The field was, on an average, twenty-five feet
above the surrounding streets, and a portion of it was known to rest
upon vaults. This plot of ground was given to the Prussian government,
and its agents have been making excavations there; these were going on
at the time of our visit. The disclosures are of great architectural
and historical interest. The entrance through a peculiar Gothic gateway
leads into a court. Here the first excavations were made several years
ago, and disclosed some splendid remains: the apse of the costly church,
cloisters, fine windows and arches of the best Gothic style. Beyond, the
diggings have brought to light some of the features of the palace and
hospital; an excavation of twenty-five feet reaches down to the arches
of the substructure, which rest upon pillars from forty to fifty feet
high. This gives us some notion of the magnificent group of buildings
that once occupied this square, and also of the industry of nature as
an entomber, since some four centuries have sufficed her to bury these
ruins so far beneath the soil, that peasants ploughed over the palaces
of the knights without a suspicion of what lay beneath.
In one corner of this field stands a slender minaret, marking the spot
where the great Omar once said his prayers; four centuries after this,
Saladin is said to have made his military headquarters in the then
deserted palace of the Knights of St. John. There is no spot in
Jerusalem where one touches more springs of romance than in this field
of Muristan.
Perhaps the most interesting and doleful walk one can take near
Jerusalem is that into the Valley of Kidron and through Aceldama, round
to the Jaffa Gate, traversing “the whole valley of the dead bodies,
and of the ashes,” in the cheerful words of Jeremiah.
We picked our way through the filthy streets and on the slippery
cobble-stones,—over which it seems dangerous to ride and is nearly
impossible to walk,—out through St. Stephen’s Gate. Near the gate,
inside, we turned into an alley and climbed a heap of rubbish to see
a pool, which the guide insisted upon calling Bethesda, although it is
Birket Israil. Having seen many of these pools, I did not expect much,
but I was still disappointed. We saw merely a hole in the ground, which
is void of all appearance of ever having been even damp. The fact is,
we have come to Jerusalem too late; we ought to have been here about two
thousand years ago.
The slope of the hill outside the gate is covered with the turbaned
tombs of Moslems; we passed under the walls and through this cemetery
into the deep valley below, crossing the bed of the brook near the tombs
of Absalom, Jehoshaphat, St. James, and Zacharias. These all seem to be
of Roman construction; but that called Absalom’s is so firmly believed
to be his that for centuries every Jew who has passed it has cast a
stone at it, and these pebbles of hate partially cover it. We also added
to the heap, but I do not know why, for it is nearly impossible to hate
any one who has been dead so long.
The most interesting phenomenon in the valley is the Fountain of the
Virgin, or the Fountain of Accused Women, as it used to be called. The
Moslem tradition is that it was a test of the unfaithfulness of women;
those who drank of it and were guilty, died; those who were innocent
received no harm. The Virgin Mary herself, being accused, accepted
this test, drank of the water, and proved her chastity. Since then the
fountain has borne her name. The fountain, or well, is in the side-hill,
under the rocks of Ophel, and the water springs up in an artificial
cave. We descended some sixteen steps to a long chamber, arched with
ancient masonry; we passed through that and descended fourteen steps
more into a grotto, where we saw the water flowing in and escaping by a
subterranean passage. About this fountain were lounging groups of Moslem
idlers, mostly women and children. Not far off a Moslem was saying his
prayers, prostrating himself before a prayer-niche. We had difficulty
in making our way down the steps, so encumbered were they with women.
Several of them sat upon the lowest steps in the damp cavern, gossiping,
filling their water-skins, or paddling about with naked feet.
The well, like many others in Syria, is intermittent and irregular
in its rising and falling; sometimes it is dry, and then suddenly it
bubbles up and is full again. Some scholars think this is the Pool
Bethesda of the New Testament, others think that Bethesda was Siloam,
which is below this well and fed by it, and would exhibit the same
irregular rising and falling. This intermittent character St. John
attributed to an angel who came down and troubled the water; the
Moslems, with the same superstition, say that it is caused by a dragon,
who sleeps therein and checks the stream when he wakes.
On our way to the Pool of Siloam, we passed the village of Si-loam,
which is inhabited by about a thousand Moslems,—a nest of stone huts
and caves clinging to the side-hill, and exactly the gray color of its
stones. The occupation of the inhabitants appears to be begging, and
hunting for old copper coins, mites, and other pieces of Jewish money.
