Rose looked at both and understood why her cousin preferred the
soldierly figure with the sword to the ascetic with his crucifix. One
was riding bravely through the world in purple and fine linen, with
horse and hound and squires at his back; and the other was in a
lazar-house, praying over the dead and dying. The contrast was a strong
one, and the girl’s eyes lingered longest on the knight, though she said
thoughtfully, “Yours is certainly the pleasantest and yet I never heard
of any good deed he did, except divide his cloak with a beggar, while
St. Francis gave himself to charity just when life was most tempting and
spent years working for God without reward. He’s old and poor, and in a
dreadful place, but I won’t give him up, and you may have your gay St.
Martin if you want him.”
“No, thank you, saints are not in my line but I’d like the golden-haired
angel in the blue gown if you’ll let me have her. She shall be my little
Madonna, and I’ll pray to her like a good Catholic,” answered Charlie,
turning to the delicate, deep-eyed figure with the lilies in its hand.
“With all my heart, and any others that you like. Choose some for your
mother and give them to her with my love.”
So Charlie sat down beside Rose to turn and talk over the pictures for
a long and pleasant hour. But when they went away to lunch, if there
had been anyone to observe so small but significant a trifle, good St.
Francis lay face downward behind the sofa, while gallant St. Martin
stood erect upon the chimneypiece.
Chapter 3 MISS CAMPBELL
While the travelers unpack their trunks, we will pick up, as briefly as
possible, the dropped stitches in the little romance we are weaving.
Rose’s life had been a very busy and quiet one for the four years
following the May day when she made her choice. Study, exercise,
housework, and many wholesome pleasures kept her a happy, hearty
creature, yearly growing in womanly graces, yet always preserving
the innocent freshness girls lose so soon when too early set upon the
world’s stage and given a part to play.
Not a remarkably gifted girl in any way, and far from perfect; full of
all manner of youthful whims and fancies; a little spoiled by much love;
rather apt to think all lives as safe and sweet as her own; and,
when want or pain appealed to her, the tender heart overflowed with a
remorseful charity which gave of its abundance recklessly. Yet, with
all her human imperfections, the upright nature of the child kept her
desires climbing toward the just and pure and true, as flowers struggle
to the light; and the woman’s soul was budding beautifully under the
green leaves behind the little thorns.
At seventeen, Dr. Alec pronounced her ready for the voyage around the
world, which he considered a better finishing off than any school
could give her. But just then Aunt Peace began to fail and soon slipped
quietly away to rejoin the lover she had waited for so long. Youth
seemed to come back in a mysterious way to touch the dead face with lost
loveliness, and all the romance of her past to gather around her memory.
Unlike most aged women, her friends were among the young, and at her
funeral the grayheads gave place to the band of loving girls who made
the sweet old maiden ready for her rest, bore her pall, and covered her
grave with the white flowers she had never worn.
When this was over poor Aunt Plenty seemed so lost without her lifelong
charge that Dr. Alec would not leave her, and Rose gladly paid the debt
she owed by the tender service which comforts without words. But Aunt
Plenty, having lived for others all her days, soon rebelled against this
willing sacrifice, soon found strength in her own sincere piety, solace
in cheerful occupation, and amusement in nursing Aunt Myra, who was a
capital patient, as she never died and never got well.
So at last the moment came when, with free minds, the travelers could
set out, and on Rose’s eighteenth birthday, with Uncle Alec and the
faithful Phebe, she sailed away to see and study the big, beautiful
world which lies ready for us all if we only know how to use and enjoy
it.
Phebe was set to studying music in the best schools, and while she
trained her lovely voice with happy industry, Rose and her uncle roamed
about in the most delightful way till two years were gone like a dream
and those at home clamored for their return.
Back they came, and now the heiress must make ready to take her place,
for at twenty-one she came into possession of the fortune she had been
trying to learn how to use well. Great plans fermented in her brain,
for, though the heart was as generous as ever, time had taught her
prudence and observation shown her that the wisest charity is that which
helps the poor to help themselves.
Dr. Alec found it a little difficult to restrain the ardor of this young
philanthropist who wanted to begin at once to endow hospitals, build
homes, adopt children, and befriend all mankind.
“Take a little time to look about you and get your bearings, child. The
world you have been living in is a much simpler, honester one than that
you are now to enter. Test yourself a bit and see if the old ways seem
best after all, for you are old enough to decide, and wise enough to
discover, what is for your truest good, I hope,” he said, trying to feel
ready to let the bird escape from under his wing and make little flights
alone.
“Now, Uncle, I’m very much afraid you are going to be disappointed in
me,” answered Rose with unusual hesitation yet a very strong desire
visible in her eyes. “You like to have me quite honest, and I’ve learned
to tell you all my foolish thoughts so I’ll speak out, and if you find
my wish very wrong and silly, please say so, for I don’t want you to
cast me off entirely, though I am grown up. You say, wait a little, test
myself, and try if the old ways are best. I should like to do that, and
can I in a better way than leading the life other girls lead? Just for a
little while,” she added, as her uncle’s face grew grave.
He was disappointed, yet acknowledged that the desire was natural and
in a moment saw that a trial of this sort might have its advantages.
Nevertheless, he dreaded it, for he had intended to choose her society
carefully and try to keep her unspoiled by the world as long as
possible, like many another fond parent and guardian. But the spirit of
Eve is strong in all her daughters forbidden fruit will look rosier to
them than any in their own orchards, and the temptation to take just one
little bite proves irresistible to the wisest. So Rose, looking out from
the safe seclusion of her girlhood into the woman’s kingdom which she
was about to take possession of, felt a sudden wish to try its pleasures
before assuming its responsibilities, and was too sincere to hide the
longing.
“Very well, my dear, try it if you like, only take care of your health
be temperate in your gaiety and don’t lose more than you gain, if that
is possible,” he added under his breath, endeavoring to speak cheerfully
and not look anxious.
“I know it is foolish, but I do want to be a regular butterfly for a
little while and see what it is like. You know I couldn’t help seeing a
good deal of fashionable life abroad, though we were not in it, and here
at home the girls tell me about all sorts of pleasant things that are to
happen this winter, so if you won’t despise me very much, I should like
to try it.”
“For how long?”
“Would three months be too long? New Year is a good time to take a fresh
start. Everyone is going to welcome me, so I must be gay in spite of
myself, unless I’m willing to seem very ungrateful and morose,” said
Rose, glad to have so good a reason to offer for her new experiment.
“You may like it so well that the three months may become years.
Pleasure is very sweet when we are young.”
“Do you think it will intoxicate me?”
“We shall see, my dear.”
“We shall!” And Rose marched away, looking as if she had taken a pledge
of some sort, and meant to keep it.
It was a great relief to the public mind when it became known that Miss
Campbell was really coming out at last, and invitations to Aunt Plenty’s
party were promptly accepted. Aunt Clara was much disappointed about the
grand ball she had planned, but Rose stood firm, and the dear old lady
had her way about everything.
The consequence was a delightfully informal gathering of friends to
welcome the travelers home. Just a good, old-fashioned, hospitable
housewarming, so simple, cordial, and genuine that those who came to
criticize remained to enjoy, and many owned the charm they could neither
describe nor imitate.
Much curiosity was felt about Phebe, and much gossip went on behind fans
that evening, for those who had known her years ago found it hard to
recognize the little housemaid in the handsome young woman who bore
herself with such quiet dignity and charmed them all with her fine
voice. “Cinderella has turned out a princess,” was the general verdict,
