“I must again call your attention to the magnificent
works of our own Prescott. I hope you will all read
them, for I have not time to mention a score of topics
which are treated in these volumes, such as the Inquisition,
the Spanish Rule in Naples, the Conquest of
Granada, the Great Captain, the Cardinal Ximines,
and the Spanish Rule in the Netherlands. I commend
to you also the works of Motley and Washington Irving;
of the latter, especially ‘The Life of Columbus,’ ‘The
Alhambra,’ and ‘The Conquest of Granada.’”

“Charles II., as he had no children, and there was no
heir to the throne, signed an instrument, before his
death, declaring Philip, Duke of Anjou, grandson of
the grand monarch Louis XIV., his successor. This
king was Philip V., the first of the Spanish branch of
the Bourbon family, to which Isabella II., the late
queen of Spain, belonged. England, Holland, and
Germany objected to this arrangement, because it
placed both France and Spain under the rule of the
same family; and for twelve years resisted the claim of
Philip to the throne. This was ‘the war of the Spanish
succession,’ in which Prince Eugene and the Duke of
Marlborough won several great victories. But Philip
retained the throne, though he lost the Spanish possessions
in Italy and the Netherlands, and was obliged to
cede Gibraltar and Minorca to England. Under Philip
V. and his successors, the prosperity of Spain revived;
and the kingdom flourished till the French Revolution.

“Philip was followed by his son Ferdinand VI. in
1748; but he was mentally unfit to take an active part
in the government, and was succeeded by his stepbrother
Charles III. in 1759. He was a wise prince,
and greatly promoted the prosperity of his country.
Charles IV., who came to the throne in 1788, began his
reign by following the wise policy of his father; but he
soon placed himself under the influence of Godoy, his
prime minister, who led him into several fruitless wars
and expensive alliances, which reduced the country to
a miserable condition. In 1808 an insurrection compelled
him to abdicate in favor of his son, who ascended
the throne as Ferdinand VII. A few days later the
ex–king wrote a letter to Napoleon, declaring that he
had abdicated under compulsion; and he revoked the
act. Napoleon offered to arbitrate between the father
and son, and he met them at Bayonne for this purpose.
He induced both of them to resign their claims to
the throne, and then made his brother Joseph king of
Spain. The new king started for his dominion; but
the Spaniards were not satisfied with this little arrangement,
and insurrections broke out all over the country.
England decided to take a hand in the game, made
peace with Spain, acknowledged Ferdinand VII. as
king of Spain, and formed an alliance with the government.
Thus began the peninsular war, in which the
Duke of Wellington prepared the way for the destruction
of Napoleon’s power. As you travel, you will visit
the battle–fields of this great conflict, and your guide–book
will contain full accounts of the struggle in various
places.

“In 1812, while Ferdinand was a prisoner in France,
and the war was still raging, the Cortes, driven from
Madrid to Seville, and then to Cadiz, drew up a written
constitution, the first of the kind known in the peninsula.
The regency acting for the absent monarch,
recognized by England and Russia, took an oath to
support it. In 1814 Ferdinand was released, and
came back to Spain. He declared the constitution
null and void, and the Cortes that adopted it illegal.
He ruled the nation in an arbitrary manner, and even
attempted to restore the inquisition, which had been
abolished, and to annul the reforms which had been for
years in progress. But in 1820 the patience of the
people was exhausted, and a revolution was undertaken.
The king was deserted by his troops; and the royal
palace was surrounded by a multitude of the people,
who demanded his acceptance of the constitution of
1812. The humbled monarch appeared at a balcony,
holding a copy of the instrument in his hand, as an
indication that he was ready to accept it, and take the
oath to support it. In a few months the Cortes met; and
the king formally swore to obey the constitution, and
accept the new order of things. But this did not suit
France, Austria, Russia, and Prussia: they had no
stomach for liberal constitutions; and these powers
sent a French army into Spain, which soon overpowered
the resistance offered; and Ferdinand was again in condition
to rule as absolutely as ever. It was during this
period that the Spanish–American colonies, which had
begun to revolt in 1808, secured their independence.

“Even those who favored the king’s views were not
wholly satisfied with the king, and believed he was not
energetic enough for the situation. Many of the people
wished to dethrone Ferdinand, and elevate his
brother Carlos, or Charles, to his place. Several insurrections
broke out, but they were failures. Of
course this state of things did not create the best of
feeling between Ferdinand and Carlos. The Bourbon
family were governed by the Salic law, which excludes
females from the throne. In 1830, the year in which
Isabella the late queen, who was the daughter of Ferdinand
VII., was born, Maria Christina induced her
husband, the king, to abolish the Salic law. Two years
later, when the king was very sick, the Church party
compelled him to revoke the act; but he got better;
and, as the Cortes had sanctioned the annulling of the
Salic law, he destroyed the documents which had been
extorted from him on his sick–bed. His queen had
been made regent during his illness. When Ferdinand
died, his daughter was proclaimed queen, in accordance
with the programme, as Isabella II. Don Carlos had
protested against his exclusion from the throne, and
now he took up arms to enforce his right. In the
Basque provinces he was proclaimed king, as Charles
V. His arms were successful at first; but, though the
war lasted seven years, it was a failure in the end.

“While the Carlist war was still raging, in 1836, a
revolution in favor of a constitution broke out; and
the next year that of 1812, with important amendments,
was adopted by the Cortes, and ratified by the
queen regent, for Isabella was a child of only six
years. In 1841, Maria Christina having resigned, Espartero
was appointed regent, by the Cortes, for the
rest of the queen’s minority. He was a progressive
man, and his administration very largely promoted
the prosperity of the country. The government had
abolished convents, and confiscated the revenues of
the Church; and this awakened the hostility of the
clergy, who, for a time, prevented the sale of the property
thus acquired. This question finally produced a
rupture between Espartero and the clergy, resulting in
a general insurrection. The regent fled to England,
and the Cortes declared the queen to be of age when
she was only thirteen years old. Espartero was recalled
a few years later, and has since held many high offices.
The pope eventually permitted the Church property to
