“So I told you, you know,” said Valentin raising his finger at Newman.
“The novelty has not quite worn away, I confess,” the marquis went on;
“perhaps it never will, entirely. But possibly that is not altogether
to be regretted,” and he gave his thin smile again. “It may be that the
time has come when we should make some concession to novelty. There
had been no novelties in our house for a great many years. I made the
observation to my mother, and she did me the honor to admit that it was
worthy of attention.”
“My dear brother,” interrupted Valentin, “is not your memory just
here leading you the least bit astray? Our mother is, I may say,
distinguished for her small respect of abstract reasoning. Are you
very sure that she replied to your striking proposition in the gracious
manner you describe? You know how terribly incisive she is sometimes.
Didn’t she, rather, do you the honor to say, ‘A fiddlestick for your
phrases! There are better reasons than that?’”
“Other reasons were discussed,” said the marquis, without looking
at Valentin, but with an audible tremor in his voice; “some of them
possibly were better. We are conservative, Mr. Newman, but we are not
also bigots. We judged the matter liberally. We have no doubt that
everything will be comfortable.”
Newman had stood listening to these remarks with his arms folded and his
eyes fastened upon M. de Bellegarde, “Comfortable?” he said, with a sort
of grim flatness of intonation. “Why shouldn’t we be comfortable? If you
are not, it will be your own fault; I have everything to make me so.”
“My brother means that with the lapse of time you may get used to the
change”--and Valentin paused, to light another cigarette.
“What change?” asked Newman in the same tone.
“Urbain,” said Valentin, very gravely, “I am afraid that Mr. Newman does
not quite realize the change. We ought to insist upon that.”
“My brother goes too far,” said M. de Bellegarde. “It is his fatal want
of tact again. It is my mother’s wish, and mine, that no such allusions
should be made. Pray never make them yourself. We prefer to assume
that the person accepted as the possible husband of my sister is one
of ourselves, and that he should have no explanations to make. With a
little discretion on both sides, everything, I think, will be easy. That
is exactly what I wished to say--that we quite understand what we
have undertaken, and that you may depend upon our adhering to our
resolution.”
Valentin shook his hands in the air and then buried his face in them. “I
have less tact than I might have, no doubt; but oh, my brother, if you
knew what you yourself were saying!” And he went off into a long laugh.
M. de Bellegarde’s face flushed a little, but he held his head higher,
as if to repudiate this concession to vulgar perturbability. “I am sure
you understand me,” he said to Newman.
“Oh no, I don’t understand you at all,” said Newman. “But you needn’t
mind that. I don’t care. In fact, I think I had better not understand
you. I might not like it. That wouldn’t suit me at all, you know. I want
to marry your sister, that’s all; to do it as quickly as possible, and
to find fault with nothing. I don’t care how I do it. I am not marrying
you, you know, sir. I have got my leave, and that is all I want.”
“You had better receive the last word from my mother,” said the marquis.
“Very good; I will go and get it,” said Newman; and he prepared to
return to the drawing-room.
M. de Bellegarde made a motion for him to pass first, and when Newman
had gone out he shut himself into the room with Valentin. Newman had
been a trifle bewildered by the audacious irony of the younger brother,
and he had not needed its aid to point the moral of M. de Bellegarde’s
transcendent patronage. He had wit enough to appreciate the force
of that civility which consists in calling your attention to the
impertinences it spares you. But he had felt warmly the delicate
sympathy with himself that underlay Valentin’s fraternal irreverence,
and he was most unwilling that his friend should pay a tax upon it.
He paused a moment in the corridor, after he had gone a few steps,
expecting to hear the resonance of M. de Bellegarde’s displeasure; but
he detected only a perfect stillness. The stillness itself seemed a
trifle portentous; he reflected however that he had no right to stand
listening, and he made his way back to the salon. In his absence several
persons had come in. They were scattered about the room in groups,
two or three of them having passed into a small boudoir, next to the
drawing-room, which had now been lighted and opened. Old Madame de
Bellegarde was in her place by the fire, talking to a very old gentleman
in a wig and a profuse white neck cloth of the fashion of 1820. Madame
de Cintré was bending a listening head to the historic confidences of
an old lady who was presumably the wife of the old gentleman in the
neckcloth, an old lady in a red satin dress and an ermine cape, who
wore across her forehead a band with a topaz set in it. Young Madame
de Bellegarde, when Newman came in, left some people among whom she was
sitting, and took the place that she had occupied before dinner. Then
she gave a little push to the puff that stood near her, and by a glance
at Newman seemed to indicate that she had placed it in position for him.
He went and took possession of it; the marquis’s wife amused and puzzled
him.
“I know your secret,” she said, in her bad but charming English; “you
need make no mystery of it. You wish to marry my sister-in-law. C’est
un beau choix. A man like you ought to marry a tall, thin woman. You
must know that I have spoken in your favor; you owe me a famous taper!”
“You have spoken to Madame de Cintré?” said Newman.
“Oh no, not that. You may think it strange, but my sister-in-law and
I are not so intimate as that. No; I spoke to my husband and my
mother-in-law; I said I was sure we could do what we chose with you.”
“I am much obliged to you,” said Newman, laughing; “but you can’t.”
“I know that very well; I didn’t believe a word of it. But I wanted you
to come into the house; I thought we should be friends.”
“I am very sure of it,” said Newman.
“Don’t be too sure. If you like Madame de Cintré so much, perhaps you
will not like me. We are as different as blue and pink. But you and I
have something in common. I have come into this family by marriage; you
want to come into it in the same way.”
“Oh no, I don’t!” interrupted Newman. “I only want to take Madame de
Cintré out of it.”
“Well, to cast your nets you have to go into the water. Our positions
are alike; we shall be able to compare notes. What do you think of my
husband? It’s a strange question, isn’t it? But I shall ask you some
stranger ones yet.”
“Perhaps a stranger one will be easier to answer,” said Newman. “You
might try me.”
“Oh, you get off very well; the old Comte de la Rochefidèle, yonder,
couldn’t do it better. I told them that if we only gave you a chance you
would be a perfect talon rouge. I know something about men. Besides,
you and I belong to the same camp. I am a ferocious democrat. By birth
I am vieille roche; a good little bit of the history of France is
the history of my family. Oh, you never heard of us, of course! Ce que
c’est que la gloire! We are much better than the Bellegardes, at any
rate. But I don’t care a pin for my pedigree; I want to belong to my
time. I’m a revolutionist, a radical, a child of the age! I am sure I go
beyond you. I like clever people, wherever they come from, and I take my
amusement wherever I find it. I don’t pout at the Empire; here all the
world pouts at the Empire. Of course I have to mind what I say; but I
expect to take my revenge with you.” Madame de Bellegarde discoursed
for some time longer in this sympathetic strain, with an eager abundance
which seemed to indicate that her opportunities for revealing her
esoteric philosophy were indeed rare. She hoped that Newman would never
be afraid of her, however he might be with the others, for, really,
she went very far indeed. “Strong people”--le gens forts--were in
her opinion equal, all the world over. Newman listened to her with an
attention at once beguiled and irritated. He wondered what the deuce
she, too, was driving at, with her hope that he would not be afraid of
her and her protestations of equality. In so far as he could understand
her, she was wrong; a silly, rattling woman was certainly not the equal
of a sensible man, preoccupied with an ambitious passion. Madame de
Bellegarde stopped suddenly, and looked at him sharply, shaking her fan.
“I see you don’t believe me,” she said, “you are too much on your guard.
You will not form an alliance, offensive or defensive? You are very
wrong; I could help you.”
Newman answered that he was very grateful and that he would certainly
ask for help; she should see. “But first of all,” he said, “I must help
myself.” And he went to join Madame de Cintré.
“I have been telling Madame de la Rochefidèle that you are an American,”
 she said, as he came up. “It interests her greatly. Her father went over
with the French troops to help you in your battles in the last century,
