Diana stood like a statue, but looking at him now. 
What is it in little things which has such power over 
us ? As Diana stood there looking, it was little things 
which stabbed her as if each were a sharp sword. The set 
of Evan's shoulders, the waves of his hair, the very gold 
shoulder straps on the well remembered blue uniform un- 
dress ; his cap which lay on her table, with its service symbols. Is it that the sameness of these material trifles seems 
to assert that nothing is changed, and so makes the change 
more incredible and dreadful ? I cannot describe the 
woeful pain which the sight of these things gave Diana. 
With them came the fresh remembrance of all the manly 
 
beauty and grace of Evan in which she had once sunned 
herself, and the contrast of her husband. Not that Basil's 
personal appearance was ever to be despised, any more 
than himself ; his figure 'was good and his face had a beauty 
of its own, possibly a higher kind of beauty ; but it was not 
the type of a hero of romance ; and Evan's, to Diana's fancy, 
was ; and it had been her romance. She stood still, motionless, breathless. If anybody spoke, it must be he. But at 
last she trembled too much to stand, and she sat down too. 
' How has it happened, Diana ? ' Evan asked without 
looking up. 
' I don't know ' she said just above her breath. 
' How could you do so ? ' 
Well, it suited him well to reproach her ! What matter ? 
Things could not be more bitter than they were. She did 
not try to answer. 
' You have ruined both our lives. Mine is ruined ; I 
am ruined. I shall never be worth anything now. I don't 
care what becomes of me.' 
As she still did not answer, he looked up, and their eyes 
met. Once meeting, they could not quit each other. 
Diana's gaze was sad enough, but eager with the eagerness 
of long hunger. His was sharp with pain at first, keen 
with unreasonable anger ; one of the mind's resorts from 
unbearable torment. Then as he looked it changed and 
grew soft ; and finally, springing up, he went over to where 
she sat, dropped on his knees before her, and seizing her 
hands kissed them one after the other till tears began to 
mingle with the kisses. She was passive ; she could not 
drive him off ; she felt that she and he must have this one 
moment to bury their past in ; it was only when her hands 
were growing wet with his tears that she roused herself to 
an effort. 
' Evan Evan listen to me I You mustn't remember, 
I am a man's wife.' 
' How could you ? ' 
' I did not know what I was doing.' 
' Have you given up loving me ? ' 
' What is the use of talking of it, Evan ? I am another 
man's wife.' 
' But there are such things as divorces.' 
' Hush ! Do not speak of such a thing.' 
' I must speak of it. Whom do you love ? tell me that first.' 
' No one has a right to ask me such a question.' 
' I have a right,' cried the young man ; 'for I have been 
deceived, cheated, robbed of my own ; and I have a right 
to get back my own. Diana, speak! do you love me less 
than you used to do ? Tell me that.' 
' I do not change, Evan.' 
' Then you have no business to be anybody's wife but 
mine. Nothing can hinder that, Diana.' 
' Stop. You are not to speak so. I will not hear it.' 
'You are mine, Diana.' 
' I was yours, Evan ! ' she said tenderly, bending her 
head over him till her lips touched his hair. 'We have 
been parted, and it is over over for this world. You 
must go your way, and I must go mine. And you must 
not say, I am ruined.' 
' Do not you say it ? ' 
' I must not.' 
' It is the truth for me, if I do not have you with me.' 
' It is not the truth,' she said with infinite tenderness in 
her manner. ' Not ruined, Evan. We can go our way and 
do our work, even if we are not happy. That is another 
thing.' 
' Then you are not happy ? ' he said eagerly. 
Diana did not reply. 
' Why should we not be happy ? ' he went on passionately, looking up now into her face. ' You are mine, Diana 
you belonged to rue first, you have been mine all along; 
only I have been robbed of you ; pure robbery ; nothing 
else. And has not a man a right to his own, wherever and 
and whenever he finds it ? You had given yourself first to 
me. That is irrevocable.' 
' No ' she said with the same gentleness, in every tone 
of which lurked an unutterable sorrow ; it would have 
broken her husband's heart to hear her ; and yet she was 
quiet, so quiet that she awed the young officer a little. 
' No I had promised to give myself to you ; that is all.' 
' You gave me your heart, Di ? ' 
She was silent, for at the moment she could not speak 
' Di ! ' he insisted. 
' Yes' 
' That is enough. That is all.' 
' It is not all. Since then I have ' 
' How could you do it, Diana ? how could you do it, 
after your heart was mine ? while your heart was mine ! ' 
' I was dead,' she said in the same low, slow, impressive way. ' I thought I was dead, and that it did not 
matter any more what I did, one way or another. I thought 
I was dead ; and when I found out that there was life in me 
yet, it was too late.' A slight shudder ran over her shoul- 
ders, which Evan however did not see. 
' And you doubted me ! ' said he. 
' I heard nothing ' 
' Of course ! and that was enough to make you think I 
was nothing but a featherhead ! ' 
' I thought I was not good enough for you,' she said 
softly. 
 
' Not good enough ! ' cried Evan. ' When you are just 
a pear of perfection a diamond of loveliness more than 
all I knew you would be like a queen rather than like a 
common mortal. And I could have given you a place fit 
for you ; and here you are ' 
' Hush ! ' she said softly, but it stopped him. 
' Why did you never hear from me ? I wrote, and wrote, 
and oh Diana, hew I looked for something from you ! I 
walked miles on the way to meet the wagon that brought 
our mails ; I could hardly do my duty, or eat, or sleep, at 
last. I would ride then to meet the post carrier, though it 
did not help me, for I could not open the bags till they 
were brought into the post ; and then I used to go and 
gallop thirty miles to ride away from myself. Why did 
you never write one word ? ' 
' I did not know your address,' she said faintly. 
' I gave it you, over and over.' 
' You forget, I never got the letters.' 
' What became of them ? ' 
' I don't know.' 
' What was her motive ? ' 
' I suppose I don't know.' 
' What do you suppose ? ' 
' What is the use of talking about it, Evan ? ' 
' My poor darling ! ' said he looking up in her face 
again ' it has been hard on you too. Oh Di, my Di ! I 
cannot lose you ! ' 
He was still kneeling before her, and she put her two 
hands on his head, smoothing or rather pushing back 
the short locks from his temples on either side, looking as 
one looks one's last on what one loves. Her eyes were 
