 
with high aims and heaven-rising aspirations, 
walked onward side by side in duty and love, 
and not a heart-throb beat in discord. Could an 
idle, sorrowing, self-afflicting life have so crowned 
the years of Mrs. Fielding with blessing ? It is 
only along the path of usefulness that the Lord 
can lead to life 's best fruitions here, and tht 
happiness of heaven hereafter. 
 
X. 
OUR HEAVENLY GOMES. 
" A LITTLE while longer," and the speaker 
lifted her eyes upwards with a pious air 
" only a little while longer, and then I shall put 
off this vile body, and go upwards to my home !" 
" Where the wicked cease from troubling, and 
the weary are at rest." The response came from 
a sad-looking person, on whose face discontent 
and weariness of life were strongly written. 
"Only a little while longer," she added, repeating the words of her who had first spoken. 
" There are some of us who would bless God if 
our feet were as near their journey 's end as 
yours. The ordeal of this life is not an easy one. 
Toil, sorrow, weariness, disappointments from 
cradle to grave the path is rugged ; and out of the 
 
depths of its pain and darkness the soul cries out, 
Lord, shorten the way ! " 
"Ay, shorten the way," groaned a third of the 
group which had surrounded the bed of a sick 
sister. u We have no house here no abiding 
place no continuing city. Open, Lord, the 
pearly gates of the new Jerusalem, and let our 
feet move down the golden streets." 
Pious responses fell from tremulous lips, and 
pious eyes went upwards. 
"Going home." One who had not, till now, 
spoken, let her voice steal out in a low, but firm 
utterance. She was a woman who had passed the 
summit of life, and was now stepping downwards 
on the graveward side. Her face was placid, 
though pain marks were on her forehead, and 
pain shadows on her lips. "Going home. Home 
is a sweet word, my sisters ! But to what kind of 
homes are we going ? That is worth a thought." 
"To heavenly homes," was answered by one. 
" To the paradise of God." 
" In my Father 's house are. many mansions," 
 
said another, repeating the sweet assurance of our 
Lord. 
" We are in exile wanderers from home 
waiting and longing for the time of our return," 
sighed out a third. 
" Did it never occur to you," said the one who 
had asked as to the kind of homes to which they 
were going, " that our dwelling-places in the 
other life will be just what we make them ?" 
Eyes full of questions and doubts were turned 
upon the speaker. 
" I go to prepare a place for you, that where T 
am ye may be also." It was the sick sister 's an 
swer. " The Lord prepares and makes beautiful 
our heavenly homes. The mansions are ready 
and waiting our arrival." 
"And we do nothing towards the work?" 
asked the last speaker. 
We must be meet for the habitation of an 
gels." 
" Vague all, my sisters," was answered. " Let 
us look inward, and study the movements and re- 
 
suits of our own lives. We build, each for him 
self, our eternal dwelling-places, and when we 
come into their manifest occupation, we shall find 
them beautiful or deformed, according as we have 
made them. It is so in this life ; and the order 
will not be changed. As we feel and think, and 
thence act, so are our surroundings here; and 
such will be the law of our surroundings in the 
life to come. Can it be otherwise ? We should 
be . indeed strangers and aliens, if the homes in 
which we dwelt did not correspond with our 
states of thought and feeling. The mind makes 
for itself a habitation, and peoples it with compa 
nions, among which it loves to abide. This is its 
home. Death cannot change these companion 
ships ; but, by the removal of external and inter 
vening things, renders them closer and more inti 
mate. Turn your thoughts inward; think calmly, 
closely, seriously ; and your convictions will as 
sent to what I have said." 
A few moments of silence, but no reply. The 
speaker went on. 
 
* We are too much inclined to look at death as 
the producer of some great change in our inner 
lives. We talk as though we expected to put off 
discontent and selfishness; hardness towards the 
neighbor; jealousies and anger; all the evil 
things we cherish in our minds and to rise into 
some vaguely conceived states of celestial blessed 
ness, purity and peace. My sisters, this is all a 
vain delusion. Simply and nakedly as we are 
when we die, shall we rise into a perception of 
our existence in the spiritual world. There are 
two worlds, remember the spiritual and the na 
tural ; one interior, the other exterior ; and we 
live in both of them at the same time : in the 
outer or natural world as to our bodies and 
senses ; in the inner or spiritual world as to our 
souls and mental consciousness. Now we dwell 
as to our bodies in material homes, among visible 
companions ; and at the same time, as to our spi 
rits in homes not made with hands, among invisi 
ble companions, with whom our minds hold inter 
course. And of what quality are these compa- 
 
nions ? Ah, that is the significant question ! Do 
they lift our thoughts heavenward, or hold us near 
the earth ? Do they stimulate pride or teach us 
lessons of humility ? Are they ministers of dis 
content or resignation ? Do they inspire love of 
self and the world, or love of God and the neigh 
bor ? We do not part company with these com 
panions at death they belong to our inner habita 
tion ; to the dwelling-places that we are building 
for our souls. God cannot take us out of ourselves, 
for that would be to destroy us. He can only pro 
vide for our happiness according to the free deter 
mination of our lives, and give of the good things 
of his love and wisdom in the degree that we are 
capable of receiving them. The measure can be 
no greater and will be no less. All that we can 
receive, he will give for he is the good Giver." 
No one ventured a reply, for the sister 's words 
had penetrated the region of conviction. 
" And so, my sisters, let us not turn our eyes 
longingly away to an imaginary home beyond the 
