CONSTANCE, MRS. WYATT, BARTLETT, and CUM- 
MINGS. 

Constance, with a quick, violent arrest, "Ah! 
Oh!" 

Mrs. Wyatt: "Constance, Constance, darling! 
What ? H the matter ? " 

Constance: " Oh, nothing nothing." She 
laughs, nervously. " I thought there was nobody 
here; and it startled me. How do you do, 
Mr. Cummings?" She goes quickly up to that 
gentleman, and gives him her hand. " Don't you 
think it wonderful to find such a day as this, 
up here, at this time of year?" She struggles 
to control the panting breath in which she speaks. 

Gumming s : "Yes, I supposed I had come quite 
too late for anything of the sort. You must make 
haste with your Ponkwasset, Miss Wyatt, or you'll 
have to paint him with his winter cap on." 



 

Constance : " Ah, yes ! My picture. Mr. Bart- 
lett has been telling you." Her eyes have already 
wandered away from Cummings, and they now 
dwell, with a furtive light of reparation and im- 
ploring upon Bartlett's disheartened patience : 
" Good morning.'  It is a delicately tentative salu- 
tation, in a low voice, still fluttered by her nervous 
agitation. 

Bartlett, in dull despair : " Good morning." 

Constance : " How is the light on the mountain 
this morning ? " She drifts deprecatingly up to the 
picture, near which Bartlett has stolidly kept his 
place. 

 Bartlett, in apathetic inattention : " Oh, very 
well, very well, indeed, thank you." 

Constance, after a hesitating glance at him : 
" Did you like what I had done on it yesterday ? " 

Bartlett, very much as before : " Oh, yes ; why 
not ? " 

Constance, with meek subtlety : " I was afraid I 
had vexed you by it." She bends an appealing 
glance upon him, to which Bartlett remains im- 
pervious, and she drops her eyes with a faint sigh. 



 

Then she lifts them again : " I was afraid I had 
made the distance too blue." 

Bartlett : " Oh, no ; not at all." 

Constance : " Do you think I had better try to 
finish it?" 

Bartlett: "Oh, certainly. Why not? If it 
amuses you! " 

Constance, perplexedly : " Of course." Then 
with a sad significance : " But I know I am trying 
your patience too far. You have been so kind, so 
good, I can't forgive myself for annoying you." 

Bartlett : " It doesn't annoy me. I 'm very glad 
to be useful to you." 

Constance, demurely : " I didn't mean painting ; 
I meant screaming." She lifts her eyes to Bart- 
lett's face, with a pathetic, inquiring attempt at 
lightness, the slightest imaginable experimental 
archness in her self-reproach, which dies out as 
Bartlett frowns and bites the corner of his mus- 
tache in unresponsive silence. " I ought to be well 
enough now to stop it ; I 'm quite well enough to 
be ashamed of it." She breaks off a miserable 
little laugh. 




Bartlett, with cold indifference : " There 's no 
reason why you should stop it if it amuses you." 
She looks at him in surprise at this rudeness. " Do 
you wish to try your hand at Ponkwasset this 
morning ? " 

Constance, with a flash of resentment : " No ; 
thanks." Then with a lapse into her morbid self- 
abasement : " I shall not touch it again. Mam- 
ma!" 

Mrs. Wyatt: "Yes, Constance." Mrs. Wyatt 
and Cummings, both intent on Bartlett and Con- 
stance, have been heroically feigning a polite in- 
terest in each other, from which pretense they 
now eagerly release themselves. 

Constance : " Oh nothing. I can get it of 
Mary. I won't trouble you." She goes toward 
the door. 

Mrs. Wyatt : " Mary isn't up from her breakfast, 
yet. If you want anything, let me go with you, 
dear." She turns to follow Constance. u Good 
morning, Mr. Cummings ; we shall see you at din- 
ner. Good morning," with an inquiring glance 
at Bartlett. Constance slightly inclines towards 



 

the two gentlemen without looking at them, in 
going out with her mother ; and Cummings moves 
away to the piano, and affects to examine the 
sheet-music scattered over it. Bartlett remains in 
his place near the easel. 



III. 

BARTLETT and CUMMINGS. 

Bartlett, harshly, after a certain silence which 
his friend is apparently resolved not to break : 
