a man. During Friday and Saturday they all made their 
appearance. 
It had been gay before ; but now it was riotous. We 
had a piano hired for a month, and Mr. Wilbur brought 
his flute. One young man in the neighborhood played on 
a violin. We had a yacht, and were gone nearly two days ; 
we gave one brilliant party, taking up the parlor and hall 
carpet that we might dance with no compunctions. And 
so ended our fourth week : at least we came to Saturday. 
The Holworthys would not return until Friday of the 
ensuing week. 
Two of the gentlemen went home on Saturday, two on 
Monday. Then we cleared up, restored every thing to 
its pristine loveliness, and looked over accounts. They 
stood thus: first week, 19.40; second, $17.60; third, 
$18.00 ; fourth, $26.00 : a total of $81.00. We were quite 
amazed at this showing, and unanimously insisted that 
Mrs. Newby’s share should be divided up among the 
others, which, after all, "would only make nine dollars 
apiece. 
“ I wonder that people don’t often agree to do such 
things,” said Miss Wilbur. “ Of course we have paid 
nothing for house-rent or vegetables ; but I think city and 
country people might often change to the advantage of 
both.” 
“ Aunt Holworthy is none the loser,” said Miss 
Newby “ Her butter, eggs, and poultry have been sold ; 
mother has canned and preserved for her ; and much of 
the fruit and vegetables would have gone to waste any- 
how, as there is no near market. They two have had a 
pleasant month visiting ; and nothing here has suffered. 
And We have had a very cheap summering. I hope you 
are all satisfied.” 
We declared that we were. 
Our incidentals for pleasure had been seven dollars ; 
our travelling in all would be eleve». I had not ex- 
ceeded my forty dollars. What a grand, happy time it 
had been ! 
On Wednesday we returned, and were received with 
open arms. Theo looked so much improved, that mamma 
was very happy over it. She had taken the month quite 
liglitly ; but papa was so pale and thin, that it went to my 
heart. 
“ I do feel worried,” mamma admitted. “ I was think- 
ing, after you came home we might go to Medford for a 
week or two. The business and the state of the country 
worry him greatly ! No one can tell what the result will be ; 
and yet it seems as if the North must be victorious. 
There is so little to do, except for those employed upon 
government work ; and the necessaries of life are growing 
higher every week. Now that bounties are paid, the 
indebtedness of cities and towns must add up rapidly. 
What the taxes w'ill be by and by I dread to think.” 
 
“ But some people agree that national debts are bless- 
ings, and bring about a higher state of unity and pros- 
perity.” 
“ I can not think any debt a blessing. We feel the 
interest of our mortgage very sensibly.” 
“ You are not a pohtical economist, little mother,” I 
said gayly. 
“But I am a household economist ; and when the juices 
of some articles are increased a third or a half, while your 
income decreases, it doesn’t seem to me that you get 
rich. Countries may have a different method of calculating. 
“But about going away. We can keep house now; 
and if you could start the last of the week ’ ’ — 
“Yes, I think father ought. If he could leave business- 
cares behind him. I sometimes wish he had let the store 
go last winter ; but it did seem so hard to give up the work 
of ten years.” 
“We’ll hope for better times.” Somehow I couldn’t 
help feeling well and joyous and haj?py, strong enough to 
fight any battle. 
Theo and I persuaded father to go, and we worked on 
Friday like heroes to get them off. Dell went with them. 
Theo and I, with the assistance of the washerwoman, 
cleaned all the house, except the kitchen. It was not so 
very hard wiping off paint ; and there was not very much 
of that, as most of our woodwork had been stained a 
little, and then brightened with a coat of oil and shellac. 
It was kept neat and clean with much less labor than the 
scrubbing of paint. We washed windows, took up one 
or two carpets, swept and dusted, and then began at our 
fall clothes. We made some calls, and had in several of 
our girl-friends to tea. 
“ I wish I knew just what to do,” Theo said one after- 
noon, when she had been sitting in a brown study for ever 
so long. “ About going back to school, I mean, or doing 
something. I shouldn’t like teaching ; but I suppose I 
could do it. Then there is music ; but, oh ! could I endure 
the hammering of children on the piano, and then’ atrO' 
cious blunders ! I know what I would like to do.” 
“ What? ” I glanced up, all attention. 
“ Cultivate my voice, and sing. Chris, I felt, after what 
Miss Wilbur said, that it had a possibility.” 
“O Theo, the very thing! And there is church and 
concert singing.” 
“I suppose I’d like to be a prima donna;” and she 
laughed and blushed, looking prettier than ever. “ I 
would really, Chris, and have an admiring world at my 
feet. But of course I cannot aim at any thing so high as 
that. If I could earn a little money, and do it easily, and 
stay home to help mother for a while.” 
“ Dear Theo, let us call on Miss Wilbur, and see what 
a little good training would cost. I’ll pay for the lessons.” 
“ You dear, darling old Chris ! ” And spools, scissors, 
and work flew in every direction, while she kissed me 
rapturously. 
“ If I could earn some money of my own, Chris, and 
if we could take little tours together ! You have not been 
to Niagara yet, you know, and if you could save it until I 
was rich enough ! I don’t know why ; but somehow we 
do enjoy every thing in so much the same fashion. Oh, 
if papa only was rich ! He ought to be : he has worked 
so hard, and been so saving ! Chris, I’m getting to be 
awfully heterodox. I am afraid the hand of the diligent 
doesn’t always gather riches. Isn’t there something like 
that in the Bible? And you know Lu Gidding’s father 
failed in the spring, and she and her mother are at Sara- 
toga. Could we have so many indulgences if papa failed? 
Oh my ! what a rambling sermon ! To return to thq 
text, it seems as if I ought to do something ; and whether 
it is best to go to school again ” — 
“Yes, I thinli I would, Theo. There would be only
 
about three months of real studjung, and then you would 
have your diploma.” 
‘ ‘ But the headaches were so horrible ; and I feel so 
well now ! Still it will be very easy all winter, going over 
the old things. Maybe it would be better.” 
We called on Miss Wilbur. She was alone, and insisted 
upon Theo’s trying her voice according to method and 
scale. Oh, how beautiful it was in those rich, soft, flow- 
ing notes ! and half sauce" and defiant in the clear, crisp 
staccato. 
“ Yes, I should advise you to study music. You can 
make a charming singer ; and a contralto voice is something 
to be proud of. Now, Miss Theo, I am a good deal inter- 
ested in you, and I will make you an offer. My terms are 
