tion. But to-day her irritation had a peculiar 
keenness ; it appeared to feed upon itself. It 
urged her to do something ; but it suggested no 
particularly profitable line of action. If she could 
have done something at the moment, on the spot, 
she would have stepped upon a European steamer 
and turned her back, with a kind of rapture, upon 
that profoundly mortifying failure, her visit to her 
American relations. It is not exactly apparent 
why she should have termed this enterprise a fail- 
ure, inasmuch as she had been treated with the 
highest distinction for which allowance had been 
made in American institutions. Her irritation 
came, at bottom, from the sense, which, always 
present, had suddenly grown acute, that the social 
soil on this big, vague continent was somehow not 
adapted for growing those plants whose fragrance 
she especially inclined to inhale and by which she 
liked to see herself surrounded a species of vege- 
tation for which she carried a collection of seed- 
lings, as we may say, in her pocket. She found 
her chief happiness in the sense of exerting a cei 
tain power and making a certain impression ; and 
now she felt the annoyance of a rather wearied 
swimmer who, on nearing shore, to land, finds a 
smooth straight wall of rock when he had counted 
upon a clean firm beach. Her power, in the Amer- 
   
lean air, seemed to have lost its prehensile attri- 
butes ; the smooth wall of rock was insurmount- 
able. "Surely je n'en suis pas la," she said to 
herself, " that I let it make me uncomfortable that 
a Mr. Robert Acton shouldn't honor me with a 
visit ! " Yet she was vexed that he had not come ; 
and she was vexed at her vexation. 
Her brother, at least, came in, stamping in the 
hall and shaking the wet from his coat. In a 
moment he entered the room, with a glow in his 
cheek and half-a-dozen rain-drops glistening on 
his mustache. " Ah, you have a fire," he said. 
" Les beaux jours sont passes," replied the Bar- 
oness. 
" Never, never ! They have only begun," Felix 
declared, planting himself before the hearth. He 
turned his back to the fire, placed his hands be- 
hind him, extended his legs and looked away 
through the window with an expression of face 
which seemed to denote the perception of rose- 
color even in the tints of a wet Sunday. 
His sister, from her chair, looked up at him, 
watching him ; and what she saw in his face was 
not grateful to her present mood. She was puz- 
zled by many things, but her brother's disposition 
was a frequent source of wonder to her. I say 
frequent and not constant, for there were long 
periods during which she gave her attention to 
 
other problems. Sometimes she had said to herself that his happy temper, his eternal gayety, was 
an affectation, a pose ; but she was vaguely con- 
scious that during the present summer he had been 
a highly successful comedian. They had never 
yet had an explanation ; she had not known the 
need of one'. Felix was presumably following the 
bent of his disinterested genius, and she felt that 
she had no advice to give him that he would un- 
derstand. With this, there was always a certain 
element of comfort about Felix the assurance 
that he would not interfere. He was very deli- 
cate, this pure-minded Felix ; in effect, he was her 
brother, and Madame Miinster felt that there was 
a great propriety, every way, in that. It is true 
that Felix was delicate ; he was not fond of ex- 
planations with his sister ; this was one of the very 
few things in the world about which he was un- 
comfortable. But now he was not thinking of 
anything uncomfortable. 
" Dear brother," said Eugenia at last, " do stop 
making Us yeux doux at the rain." 
" With pleasure. I will make them at you ! " 
answered Felix. 
" How much longer," asked Eugenia, in a mo- 
ment, " do you propose to remain in this lovely 
spot? " 
 
   
Felix stared. "Do you want to go away already ? " 
" ' Already ' is delicious. I am not so happy as 
you." 
Felix dropped into a chair, looking at the fire. 
" The fact is I am happy," he said in his light, 
clear tone. 
" And do you propose to spend your life in 
making love to Gertrude Wentworth ? " 
" Yes ! " said Felix, smiling sidewise at his 
sister. 
The Baroness returned his glance, much more 
gravely; and then, " Do you like her? " she asked. 
" Don't you ? " Felix demanded. 
The Baroness was silent a moment. "I will 
answer you in the words of the gentleman who 
was asked if he liked music : Je ne la crams 
pas!'" 
" She admires you immensely," said Felix. 
" I don't care for that. Other women should 
not admire one." 
" They should dislike you ? " 
Again Madame Minister hesitated. " They 
should hate me ! It 's a measure of the time I 
have been losing here that they don't." 
" No time is lost in which one has been happy ! " 
said Felix, with a bright sententlousness which 
may well have been a little irritating. 
 
" And in which," rejoined his sister, with a 
harsher laugh, " one has secured the affections of 
a young lady with a fortune ! " 
Felix explained, very candidly and seriously. 
" I have secured Gertrude's affection, but I am by 
no means sure that I have secured her fortune. 
That may come or it may not." 
" Ah, well, it may I That's the great point." 
" It depends upon her father. He does n't 
smile upon our union. You know he wants her 
to marry Mr. Brand." 
" I know nothing about it ! " cried the Baroness. 
" Please to put on a log." Felix complied with 
her request and sat watching the quickening of 
the flame. Presently his sister added, " And you 
propose to elope with mademoiselle ? " 
" By no means. I don't wish to do anything 
that 's disagreeable to Mr. Wentworth. He has 
been far too kind to us." 
" But you must choose between pleasing your- 
self and pleasing him." 
" I want to please every one ! " exclaimed 
Felix, joyously. " I have a good conscience. I 
made up my mind at the outset that it was not 
my place to make love to Gertrude." 
" So, to simplify matters, she made love to 
you!" 
