ALMOND BLANC-MANGE.

  1 quart of milk.
  1 oz. Cooper’s gelatine.
  ¼ lb. of almonds, blanched and pounded, with 1 tablespoonful of
          rose-water to prevent oiling.
  ¾ cup of sugar.

Soak the gelatine one hour in a cup of the milk. Heat the rest; add the
almond-paste, and stir over the fire three minutes, then put in the
sugar and gelatine, and stir five minutes more. Strain through thin
muslin, pressing hard. When cool, pour into a wet mould, and set upon
ice, or in cold water to form. Eat with cream and sugar. It is a good
plan to blanch the almonds the day before they are to be pounded.


WHITE CAKE.

Please see “COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD” Series No. 1., “General
Receipts,” page 334.



  Fourth Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Okra and Tomato Soup.
  Beef’s Heart.      Ramakins.
  Potatoes à la Crème.      Lima Beans.
  ——
  Newark Pudding.
  ——


OKRA AND TOMATO SOUP.

  6 lbs. of coarse beef.
  2 lbs. of mutton bones.
  Two slices of corned ham, or a ham bone, or bones of salt pork.
  1 can okra and tomatoes.
  6 quarts of cold water.
  Large bunch of sweet herbs.
  Pepper and salt.
  1 lump of white sugar.

Crack the bones into splinters. Cut the meat into strips and mince the
herbs. Put on in the water, and cook slowly, four hours. Strain off
the liquor, and divide into two portions. Season the meat, bones, etc.,
highly, put them back into that portion designed for Sunday, and set
aside in a cold place. Pour the stock for to-day’s soup back into the
pot; season with salt and pepper; boil up, and skim, and add the okra,
tomatoes, and sugar. Simmer half an hour, boil briskly one minute. Skim
and serve.


BEEF’S HEART.

Choose a fine, fresh one. Wash well, lay in salt and water an hour,
then wipe dry. Stuff with a force-meat of crumbs, minced salt pork,
pepper, salt, and chopped parsley with a little onion. Pack this in
tightly, sew the heart up in coarse net, fitted well to it, and stew
one hour and a half in weak broth. (A cupful can be taken from your
soup stock.) At the end of this time, take it out, undo the cloth, and
return the heart to the saucepan with enough gravy to half cover it.
Add to this a tablespoonful of butter cut up in as much flour; pepper
and salt to taste. Cover closely, and simmer half an hour, turning
the heart as it browns. Dish it; add the juice of half a lemon to the
gravy, boil once, and pour over the heart.


RAMAKINS.

  Rounds of lightly toasted bread.
  3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese.
  2 eggs, beaten light.
  1 tablespoonful melted butter.
  1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce.
  1 teaspoonful of flour, wet with cream.
  A little salt and cayenne.

Beat eggs, butter, and seasoning together; then the cheese, lastly,
the flour. Work all to a cream; spread thickly upon the bread, and
brown lightly.


POTATOES À LA CRÈME.

Heat a cupful of milk; stir in a heaping tablespoonful of butter cut up
in as much flour. Stir until smooth and thick; pepper and salt, and add
two cupfuls of cold boiled potatoes, sliced, and a little very finely
chopped parsley. Shake over the fire until the potatoes are hot all
through, and pour into a deep dish.


LIMA BEANS.

Open the can an hour before it is needed, and empty into a bowl. When
ready for the beans drain off the liquor and cook in boiling water
twenty-five minutes. Drain, butter, pepper and salt, and serve.


NEWARK PUDDING.

  1 quart of milk.
  5 eggs.
  1 large cup fine crumbs.
  2 tablespoonfuls of rice-flour.
  ½ lb. of raisins cut in two, seeded and dredged with flour.
  2 teaspoonfuls vanilla, or other extract. (If possible get your
          flavoring extracts from COLGATE & CO., 53 AND 55 JOHN
          STREET, NEW YORK. They are good from first to last,
          which is more than I can say for many others.)
  2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter.
  ½ teaspoonful of soda.

Beat the yolks. Add the crumbs soaked in a pint of the milk. Stir
in the rice-flour, wet in cold milk; the reserved pint of milk; the
butter, flavoring, the fruit, and lastly, the whisked whites. Bake one
hour in a well-greased mould; turn out and eat with hard sauce.




MAY.



  First Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Clear Soup.
  Roast Lamb.      Green Peas.
  Mint Sauce.      Asparagus on Toast.
  Potato Eggs.
  ——
  Rice and Tapioca Pudding.
  ——


CLEAR SOUP.

Take all the fat from the stock reserved for to-day, and pour the
