with those ladies to the dome of St. Paul 's and 
where was the other place ? to the Thames 
Tunnel." 
" If all their knowledge is as accurate as that, 
it must be very valuable," said Lord Lambeth. 
" Well, at any rate, they know that you have 
been visiting the sights of the metropolis. They 
think very naturally, as it seems to me that 
when you take to visiting the sights of the me 
tropolis with a little American girl, there is serious 
cause for alarm." Lord Lambeth responded to this 
intimation by scornful laughter, and his companion continued, after a pause : " I said just now I 
didn 't want to know any thing about the affair ; 
but I will confess that I am curious to learn 
whether you propose to marry Miss Bessie Alden." 
On this point Lord Lambeth gave his interlocutor no immediate satisfaction ; he was musing, with a frown. " By Jove," he said, " they go 
rather too far. They shall find me dangerous 
I promise them." 
Percy Beaumont began to laugh. " You don 't 
redeem your promises. You said the other day 
you would make your mother call." 
Lord Lambeth continued to meditate. " I 
asked her to call," he said, simply. 
" And she declined ?" 
" Yes ; but she shall do it yet." 
" Upon my word," said Percy Beaumont, " if 
she gets much more frightened I believe she 
will." Lord Lambeth looked at him, and he went 
on. " She will go to the girl herself." 
" How do you mean she will go to her?" 
" She will beg her off, or she will bribe her. 
She will take strong measures." 
Lord Lambeth turned away in silence, and his 
companion watched him take twenty steps and 
then slowly return. " I have invited Mrs. Westgate and Miss Alden to Branches," he said, " and 
this evening I shall name a day." 
"And shall you invite your mother and your 
sisters to meet them ?" 
"Explicitly!" 
" That will set the Duchess off," said Percy 
Beaumont. " I suspect she will come." 
" She may do as she pleases." 
Beaumont looked at Lord Lambeth. " You do 
really propose to marry the little sister, then?" 
" I like the way you talk about it !" cried the 
young man. " She won 't gobble me down ; don 't 
be afraid." 
" She won 't leave you on your knees," said 
Percy Beaumont. " What is the inducement ?" 
"You talk about proposing: wait till I have 
proposed," Lord Lambeth went on. 
  
" That 's right, my dear fellow ; think about it," 
said Percy Beaumont. 
" She 's a charming girl," pursued his lordship. 
" Of course she 's a charming girl. I don 't 
know a girl more charming, intrinsically. But 
there are other charming girls nearer home." 
"I like her spirit," observed Lord Lambeth, 
almost as if he were trying to torment his cousin. 
" What 's the peculiarity of her spirit ?" 
"She 's not afraid, and she says things out, 
and she thinks herself as good as any one. She 
is the only girl I have ever seen that was not 
dying to marry me." 
" How do you know that, if you haven 't asked 
her ?" 
" I don 't know how ; but I know it." 
" I am sure she asked me questions enough 
about your property and your titles," said Beaumont. 
" She has asked me questions, too ; no end of 
them," Lord Lambeth admitted. " But she asked 
for information, don 't you know." 
"Information? Ay, I'll warrant she wanted 
it. Depend upon it that she is dying to marry 
you just as much and just as little as all the rest 
of them." 
" I shouldn 't like her to refuse me I shouldn 't 
like that." 
" If the thing would bo so disagreeable, then, 
both to you and to her, in Heaven 's name leave 
it alone," said Percy Beaumont. 
Mrs. "Westgate, on her side, had plenty to say 
to her sister about the rarity of Mr. Beaumont 's 
visits and the non-appearance of the Duchess of 
Bayswater. She professed, however, to derive 
more satisfaction from this latter circumstance 
than she could have done from the most lavish 
attentions on the part of this great lady. " It is 
most marked," she said " most marked. It is 
a delicious proof that we have made them miserable. The day we dined with Lord Lambeth 
I was really sorry for the poor fellow." It will 
have been gathered that the entertainment offered by Lord Lambeth to his American friends had 
not been graced by the presence of his anxious 
mother. He had invited several choice spirits to 
meet them ; but the ladies of his immediate family 
were to Mrs. Westgate 's sense a sense possibly 
morbidly acute conspicuous by their absence. 
" I don 't want to express myself in a manner 
that you dislike," said Bessie Alden ; " but I don 't 
know why you should have so many theories 
about Lord Lambeth 's poor mother. You know 
a great many young men in New York without 
knowing their mothers." 
Mrs. Westgate looked at her sister, and then 
  
turned away. " My dear Bessie, you are superb !" 
she said. 
" One thing is certain," the young girl continued. "If I believed I were a cause of annoy 
ance however unwitting to Lord Lambeth 's 
family, I should insist " 
" Insist upon my leaving England," said Mrs. 
Westgate. 
"No, not that. I want to go to the National 
Gallery again ; I want to see Stratford-on-Avon 
and Canterbury Cathedral. But I should insist 
upon his coming to see us no more." 
" That would be very modest and very pretty 
of you ; but you wouldn 't do it now." 
" Why do you say now ? " asked Bessie Alden. 
" Have I ceased to be modest ?" 
" You care for him too much. A month ago, 
when you said you didn 't, I believe it was quite 
true. But at present, my dear child," said Mrs. 
Westgate, "you wouldn 't find it quite so simple 
a matter never to see Lord Lambeth again. I 
have seen it coming on." 
" You are mistaken," said Bessie. " You don 't 
understand." 
" My dear child, don 't be perverse," rejoined 
her sister. 
" I know him better, certainly, if you mean 
that," said Bessie. " And I like him very much. 
But I don 't like him enough to make trouble for 
him with his family. However, I don 't believe 
in that." 
"I like the way you say however, " Mrs. 
Westgate exclaimed. "Come; you would not 
marry him ?" 
" Oh no," said the young girl. 
