patience, and to our patience long-suffering, and prob- 
ably all the Christian virtues would have been devel- 
oped in us if the descent had been long enough. 
Before we reached the bottom of Caribou Pass, the 
w^ater burst out from the rocks in a clear stream that 
was as cold as ice. Shortly after, we struck the roar- 
ing brook that issues from the Pass to the south. It 
is a stream full of character, not navigable even for 
trout in the upper part, but a succession of falls, cas- 
cades, flumes, and pools, that would delight an artist. 
It is not an easy bed for anything except water to de- 
scend ; and before we reached the level reaches, where 
the stream flows with a murmurous noise through 
open woods, one of our party began to show signs of 
exhaustion. 
This was Old Phelps, whose appetite had failed the 
day before, — his imagination being in better working 
order than his stomach : he had eaten little that day, 
and his legs became so groggy that he was obliged to 
rest at short intervals. Here was a situation ! The 
afternoon was wearing away. We had six or seven 
miles of unknown wilderness to traverse, a portion of 
it swampy, in which a progress of more than a mile 
an hour is difficult, and the condition of the guide 
compelled even a slower march. What should we do 
in that lonesome solitude if the guide became disabled ? We couldn't carry him out ; could we find 
our own way out to get assistance ? The guide himself had never been there before ; and although he 
knew the general direction of our point of egress, and 
was entirely adequate to extricate himself from any 
position in the woods, his knowledge was of that occult 
sort possessed by woodsmen which it is impossible to 
communicate. Our object was to strike a trail that 
led from the Au Sable Pond, the other side of the 
mountain range, to an inlet on Mud Pond. We knew 
that if we travelled southwestward far enough we 
must strike that trail, but how far ? No one could tell. 
If we reached that trail, and found a boat at the inlet, 
there would be only a row of a couple of miles to the 
house at the foot of the lake. If no boat was there, 
then we must circle the lake three or four miles far- 
ther through a cedar-swamp, with no trail in partic- 
ular. The prospect was not pleasing. We were short 
of supplies, for we had not expected to pass that 
night in the woods. The pleasure of the excursion 
began to develop itself. 
We stumbled on in the general direction marked 
out, through a forest that began to seem endless as 
hour after hour passed, compelled as we were to make 
long detours over the ridges of the foot-hills to avoid 
the swamp, which sent out from the border of the lake 
long tongues into the firm ground. The guide became 
more ill at every step, and needed frequent halts and 
long rests. Food he could not eat ; and tea, water, 
and even brandy, he rejected. Again and again the 
old philosopher, enfeebled by excessive exertion and 
illness, would collapse in a heap on the ground, an 
almost comical picture of despair, while we stood and 
waited the waning of the day, and peered forward in 
vain for any sign of an open country. At every brook 
we encountered, we suggested a halt for the night, 
while it was still light enough to select a camping- 
place, but the plucky old man wouldn't hear of it i 
the trail might be only a quarter of a mile ahead, and 
we crawled on again at a snail's pace. His honor as 
a guide seemed to be at stake ; and, besides, he con- 
fessed to a notion that his end was near, and he didn't 
want to die like a dog in the woods. And yet, if this 
was his last journey, it seemed not an inappropriate 
ending for the old woodsman to lie down and give up 
the ghost in the midst of the untamed forest and the 
solemn silences he felt most at home in. There is a 
popular theory, held by civilians, that a soldier likes 
to die in battle. I suppose it is as true that a woods- 
man would like to " pass in his chips," — the figure 
seems to be inevitable, — struck down by illness and 
exposures in the forest solitude, with heaven in sight 
and a tree-root for his pillow. 
The guide seemed really to fear that, if we did not 
get out of the woods that night, he would never go 
out ; and, yielding to his dogged resolution, we kept 
on in search of the trail, although the gathering of 
dusk over the ground warned us that we might easily 
cross the trail without recognizing it. AYe were trav= 
elling by the light in the upper sky, and by the forms 
of the tree-stems, which every moment grew dimmer. 
At last the end came. We had just felt our way over 
what seemed to be a little run of water, when the old 
man sunk down, remarking, " I might as well die hero 
as anywhere," and was silent. 
Suddenly night fell like a blanket on us. We 
could neither see the guide nor each other. We be- 
came at once conscious that miles of night on all sides 
shut us in. The sky was clouded over : there wasn't 
a gleam of light to show us where to step. Our first 
thought was to build a fire, which would drive back 
the thick darkness into the woods, and boil some 
water for our tea. But it was too dark to use the axe. 
We scraped together leaves and twigs to make a 
blaze, and, as this failed, such dead sticks as we could 
find by groping about. The fire was only a tempo- 
rary affair, but it sufficed to boil a can of water. 
The water we obtained by feeling about the stones of 
the little run for an opening big enough to dip our 
cup in. The supper to be prepared was fortunately 
simple. It consisted of a decoction of tea and other 
leaves which had got into the pail, and a part of a loaf 
of bread. A loaf of bread which has been carried in 
a knapsack for a couple of days, bruised and handled 
and hacked at with a hunting-knife, becomes an unin- 
teresting object. But we ate of it with thankfulness, 
washed it down with hot fluid, and bitterly thought of 
the morrow. Would our old friend survive the 
night? Would he be in any condition to travel in 
the morning ? How were we to get out with him or 
without him? 
The old man lay silent in the bushes out of sight, 
and desired only to be let alone. We tried to tempt 
him with the offer of a piece of toast : it was no temp- 
tation. Tea, we thought, would revive him ; he re- 
fused it. A drink of brandy would certainly quicken 
his life : he couldn't touch it. We were at the end of 
our resources. He seemed to think, that, if he were 
at home, and could get a bit of fried bacon, or a piece 
of pie, he should be all right. We knew no more 
how to doctor him than if he had been a sick bear. 
He withdrew within himself, rolled himself up, so to 
speak, in his primitive habits, and waited for the heal- 
ing power of nature. Before our feeble fire disap- 
peared, we smoothed a level place near it for Phelps 
to lie on, and got him over to it. But it didn't suit
it was too open. In fact, at the moment some drops 
of rain fell. Eain was quite outside of our pro- 
gramme for the night. But the guide had an instinct 
about it ; and, while we were groping about some yards 
distant for a place where we could lie down, he 
crawled away into the darkness, and curled himself 
up amid the roots of a gigantic pine, very much as a 
bear would do, I suppose, with his back against the 
trunk, and there passed the night comparatively dry 
and comfortable ; but of this we knew nothing until 
