"You will leave my service at the end of the week, Mr. Haynes," said his
employer, "and during next week you must attend to the transfer."
"How did he find out?" said Haynes to himself, as with grave face he
went about the duties of the place he was so soon to leave. "If I could
find out, I would have my revenge."
CHAPTER XXIV.
AN OPEN ENEMY.
Frank remained with Mr. Hartley till the guilty clerk left the
establishment. This was at the special request of the merchant, who did
not care to let Mr. Haynes suspect who had been instrumental in bringing
his guilt to light.
"I suppose you have no further use for me, now, Mr. Hartley?" said the
telegraph boy.
"Not at present, Frank," said his employer, kindly.
"Then I will report for duty at the telegraph office."
"Wait a moment. You have done me a great service."
"I am glad of that sir," answered Frank, modestly.
"You have shown uncommon shrewdness and intelligence."
Frank looked gratified, and expressed his thanks for the compliment.
"I want to make you a present, in addition to the wages which you
receive from the office," said Mr. Hartley.
"Thank you, sir."
Mr. Hartley drew from his desk a five-twenty government bond, of one
hundred dollars, and handed it to our hero.
"Do you mean all this for me?" asked Frank, quite overwhelmed by the
magnitude of the gift.
"It is not more than you deserve. I might have given you the money value
of the bond; but I give it to you in this shape, because I hope you will
keep it as an investment. It will yield you six dollars interest
annually in gold. I hope the time will come when you will have more
interest in the same way."
"I hope I shall, sir. I shall feel quite rich now."
"You are richer in the qualities which have won you this acknowledgment.
How do you like the telegraph service?"
"Very well, sir, for the present. It is much better than being a
newsboy."
"Exactly; but there are positions you would prefer?"
"Yes, sir; I would like to be in some mercantile business, where I might
work my way up. In a few years I shall be too old for a telegraph boy,
and then I shall be out of place."
"I will relieve your fears on that score. In six months I shall make
some changes in the list of employees. When that time comes I will find
a place for you."
"There is nothing I should like better, sir," said Frank, his face
flushing with pleasure.
"I am satisfied that you will make a useful and intelligent clerk. Until
I want you, remain where you are. The discipline of your present office
will do you no harm, but will help qualify you for usefulness and
success in the mercantile career."
"Thank you, sir. Now I have something to look forward to I shall work
much more cheerfully."
Frank went back to the office, and resumed his ordinary duties. One day
he was riding down Broadway in a stage, when he became sensible that he
had attracted the attention of a gentleman sitting opposite. This led
him to scan the face of the man who was observing him. He at once
recognized Mr. Haynes.
The stage was not full, and the latter came over, and took a seat next
to the telegraph boy.
"Isn't your name Frank Kavanagh?" he asked, abruptly.
"Yes, sir."
"Were you not for a short time in the employ of Mr. Hartley?"
"Yes," answered Frank, feeling embarrassed, for he knew that he was
suspected.
"I infer from your uniform that you have left Mr. Hartley."
"Yes."
"Why did you leave him?" asked Haynes, sharply.
"Because he had no further occasion for my services. Why did you
leave him?" asked Frank, in turn.
James Haynes colored, and looked angry. However, he answered the
question.
"I have other business views," he said, briefly.
"So have I."
The next question was also of an embarrassing character.
"Were you a telegraph boy before you entered Mr. Hartley's employ?"
"I was," answered Frank.
"Were you detailed for duty there?"
Our hero thought that he had answered questions enough by this time, and
signified as much to his questioner.
"If I had been," he said, "I shouldn't be permitted to inform a
stranger."
"I have particular reasons for asking the question," said Haynes.
"Then you can ask Mr. Hartley, or the superintendent of my office.
Good-morning, sir, I get out here."
Frank pulled the strap, and got out. But he was not rid of his
questioner. Haynes got out too, and walked beside our hero.
"I believe," he said, sternly, "that you were sent for to act as a spy
on me."
"What makes you think so?" asked the telegraph boy, looking him in the
eye.
"There was a difficulty between Mr. Hartley and myself, occasioned by a
base and groundless charge, concocted by some enemy. I believe that you
had something to do with this."
"I have brought no groundless charge against any one," said Frank.
"Did you make any report to Mr. Hartley in regard to me?"
"I must refer you to Mr. Hartley for information," said Frank. "I have
an errand in here;" and he entered a store in the lower part of
Broadway.
"There is no doubt about it," thought Haynes.
"That boy was a spy upon me. I have learned all I cared to. I owe you a
debt of gratitude for this, Frank Kavanagh, and mean to pay the debt."
When Frank came out he thought it possible that Haynes might be waiting
for him; but the disgraced clerk was gone.
"I suppose he would injure me if he had a chance," thought the telegraph
boy. "I won't give him the chance if I can help it."
CHAPTER XXV.
WHAT THE OLD TRUNK CONTAINED.
Mention has been made of an old trunk belonging to Frank's father,
which, had been forwarded to him from the country by his Uncle Pelatiah.
It may be mentioned here that our hero's father had been agent of a
woollen mill in a large manufacturing town. For a considerable number of
years he had been in receipt of a handsome salary, and had lived in good
style, but still within his income. He was naturally supposed to possess
a comfortable property.
His death was sudden. He was thrown from a carriage, and, striking his
head upon the curbstone, was picked up senseless, and died unconscious.
Upon examining into his affairs his administrator was unable to find any
property beyond what was needed to pay the few debts he left behind him.
So it came about that Frank was left a penniless orphan. His Uncle
Pelatiah was his nearest relative, and to him he was sent. Pelatiah
Kavanagh was not a bad man, nor was he intentionally unkind; but he was
very close. All his life he had denied himself, to save money; and in
this he had been ably assisted by his wife, who was even closer and
meaner than her husband. It may readily be supposed that it was very
disagreeable to both husband and wife to have a penniless nephew thrown
upon their care and protection.
"How could your brother be so thoughtless and inconsiderate as to use up
all his money, and leave his son destitute? Didn't he have a handsome
income?"
"Yes," said Pelatiah. "He got two thousand dollars a year, and maybe
more."
"You don't say so!" ejaculated his wife. "He'd ought to have saved
two-thirds of it. I declare it's scandalous for a man to waste his
substance in that way."
"My brother was allus free with his money. He wasn't so keerful as you
and I be."
"I should think not, indeed. We don't begin to spend half as much as he
did, and now he comes upon us to support his child."
"It don't seem right," said Pelatiah.
"Right? It's outrageous!" exclaimed Mrs. Kavanagh, energetically. "I
declare I have no patience with such a man. It would only be right to
