acquaintance in coming out of church. But an old 
lady, who supported herself with a cane, pushed 
 
through the crowd to where they stood aloof, and, 
without speaking to Mrs. Erwin, put out her hand 
to Lydia ; she had a strong, undaunted, plain face, 
in which was expressed the habit of doing what she 
liked. " My dear,'* she said, " how wonderfully you 
sing ! Where did you get that heavenly voice ? 
You are an American ; I see that by your beauty. 
You are Mrs. Erwin's niece, I suppose, whom she 
expected. Will you come and sing to me ? You 
must bring her, Mrs. Erwin." 
She hobbled away without waiting for an an- 
swer, and Lydia and her aunt got into their gon- 
dola. " Oh ! How glad I am ! " cried Mrs. Erwin, 
in a joyful flutter. " She 's the very tip-top of the 
English here ; she has a whole palace, and you 
meet the very best people at her house. I was 
afraid when you were singing, Lydia, that they 
would think your voice was too good to be good 
form, — that 's an expression you must get ; it 
means everything, — it sounded almost professional. 
I wanted to nudge you to sing a little lower, 
or different, or something ; but I could n't, every- 
body was looking so. No matter. It 's all right 
now. If she liked it, nobody else will dare to 
breathe. You can see that she has taken a fancy 
to you ; she 'll make a great pet of you." 
" Who is she ? " asked Lydia, bluntly. 
" Lady Fenleigh. Such a character, — so ec- 
centric ! But really, I suppose, very hard to live 
with. It must have been quite a release for poor 
Sir Fenleigh Fenleigh." 
 
" She didn 't seem in mourning," said Lydia. 
" Has lie been dead long ? " 
" Why, he isn 't dead at all ! He is what you 
call a grass-widower. The best soul in the world, 
everybody says, and very, very fond of her ; but 
she couldn 't stand it ; he was too good, don't you 
understand ? They 've lived apart a great many 
years. She 's lived a great deal in Asia Minor, — 
somewhere. She likes Venice ; but of course there 's 
no telling how long she may stay. She has another 
house in Florence, all ready to go and be lived in at 
a day's notice. I wish I had presented you ! It 
did go through my head ; but it didn 't seem as if 
I could get the Blood out. It is a fearful name, 
Lydia ; I always felt it so when I was a girl, and I 
was so glad to marry out of it ; and it sounds so 
terribly American. I think you must take your 
mother's name, my dear. Latham is rather flattish, 
but it 's worlds better than Blood." 
" I am not ashamed of my father's name," said 
Lydia. 
" But you 'll have to change it some day, at any 
rate, — when you get married." 
Lydia turned away. " I will be called Blood till 
then. If Lady Fenleigh " — 
" Yes, my dear," promptly interrupted her aunt, 
" I know that sort of independence. I used to 
have whole Declarations of it. But you 'll get over 
that, in Europe. There was a time — just after 
the war — when the English quite liked our stick- 
 
ing up for ourselves ; but that 's past now. They 
like us to be outlandish, but they don't like us to 
be independent. How did you like the sermon ? 
Didn 't you think we had a nicely-dressed congre- 
gation ? " 
" I thought the sermon was very short," answered 
Lydia. 
" Well, that 's the English way, and I like it. 
If you get in all the service, you must make the 
sermon short." 
Lydia did not say anything for a little while. 
Then she asked, "Is the service the same at the 
evening meeting;? " 
" Evening meeting ? " repeated Mrs. Erwin. 
" Yes, — the church to-night." 
" Why, child, there isn't any church to-night! 
What are you talking about ? " 
" Didn 't uncle — didn 't Mr. Erwin say he would 
go with us to-night ? " 
Mrs. Erwin seemed about to laugh, and then she 
looked embarrassed. " Why, Lydia," she cried at 
last, " he didn 't mean church ; he meant — opera ! " 
" Opera ! Sunday night ! Aunt Josephine, do 
you go to the theatre on Sabbath evening ? " 
There was something appalling in the girl's stern 
voice. Mrs. Erwin gathered herself tremulously 
together for defense. " Why, of course, Lydia, I 
don't approve of it, though I never was Orthodox. 
Your uncle likes to go ; and if everybody 's there 
that you want to see, and they will give the best 
operas Sunday night, what are you to do ? " 
 
Lydia said nothing, but a hard look came into 
her face, and she shut her lips tight. 
" Now you see, Lydia," resumed her aunt, with 
an air of deductive reasoning from the premises, 
" the advantage of having a bonnet on, even if it 's 
only a make-believe. I don't believe a soul knew 
it. All those Americans had hats. You were the 
only American girl there with a bonnet. I 'm sure 
that it had more than half to do with Lady Fen- 
leigh's speaking to you. It showed that you had 
been well brought up." 
" But I never wore a bonnet to church at home," 
said Lydia. 
" That has nothing to do with it, if they thought 
you did. And Lydia," she continued, " I was think- 
ing while you were singing there that I wouldn't 
say anything at once about your coming over to 
cultivate your voice. That 's got to be such an 
American thing, now. I 'll let it out little by little, 
— and after Lady Fenleigh 's quite taken you under 
her wing. Perhaps we may go to Milan with you, 
or to Naples, — there 's a conservatory there, too ; 
and we can pull up stakes as easily as not. Well ! " 
said Mrs. Erwin, interrupting herself, "I'm glad 
Henshaw wasn 't by to hear that speech. He 'd 
have had it down among his Americanisms in- 
stantly. I don't know whether it is an American- 
ism ; but he puts down all the outlandish sayings 
he gets hold of to Americans ; he has no end of 
English slang in his book. Everything has opened 
 
beautifully, Lydia, and I intend you shall have the 
best time ! " She looked fondly at her brother's 
child. " You 've no idea how much you remind me 
of your poor father. You have his looks exactly. 
I always thought he would come out to Europe be- 
fore he died. We used to be so proud of his looks 
at home ! I can remember that, though I was the 
youngest, and he was ten years older than I. But 
I always did worship beauty. A perfect Greek, 
Mr. Rose-Black calls me : you 'll see him ; he 's an 
English painter staying here ; he comes a great 
