eyes.
"Because I don't choose to, Miss Impertinence! Don't be cross now, and
torment me to death with your perverse ways."
"You surely need not be tormented."
"Sylvie, you are exasperating."
"Why do you ask me, then, or tease me to do any of these things? I would
rather stay at home to-day, and paint."
"But I shall not give you up. I'll stay here, and talk so that your wits
will wander!"
And so at last Sylvie would consent to her friend's demands.
One evening she came over to discuss a costume for a fancy-dress
garden-party. Mrs. Eastman had brought some fashion-plates up from New
York, but they did not altogether suit her fancy: so the carriage was
ordered, and in a few moments it rolled to Sylvie's door.
Sylvie and Jack were at the piano. There was a soft, drizzling,
summer-night rain, that made all the air fragrant without any noisy
patter. It was just the evening for an old Latin hymn; and Sylvie was
playing the strong, rich chords that had in them mysterious hints of
heavenly joy, coming up through waves of passionate suffering. Jack's
voice seemed toned to these sympathetic vibrations, and the grand old
words rolled out simply, with none of the vicious taste of the more
modern fashionable school. So engrossed were they, that they did not
hear the carriage stop; but Sylvie caught her aunt's voice.
They had reached the end of a verse. "Let me see what auntie wants,"
said Sylvie, running into the next room; and then it was, "Oh, Irene!
oh, Sylvie!"
"Singing to yourself in the twilight!" laughed Irene. "How romantic! I'm
going to interrupt you now, and put you in better business. I am just
loaded down with the excellent fripperies of this world, and unable to
make a choice. And the grand occasion is Mrs. Avery Langton's
garden-party. Now, be good-natured, and help me decide."
Uttering this in a rapid breath, she had walked through the sitting-room
to the parlor, and tumbled her parcel down on the great antique sofa,
whose edges everywhere were studded with brass nails. And there stood
Jack, thinking, if he had been quicker, he could have stepped out of the
window into Miss Sylvie's pretty flower-bed, now purple with odorous
heliotrope. But, as he had not, there was nothing to do but to stand his
ground manfully.
He had often seen Irene Lawrence in the carriage and on horseback; but
as she stepped into the room now, and stood there rather surprised, she
might have been a daughter of Juno. Tall, slender, arrowy straight, but
lithe and faultlessly rounded, her fleecy white shawl like a gossamer
web falling off her shoulders, her haughty carriage, her wealth of
purple-black hair coiled about her shapely head, a hundred times
handsomer than any artifice of dressing, her brilliant complexion, her
large eyes with their long sweeping lashes that veiled their depth, but
seemed to add a certain imperiousness, her coral-red lips that shaped
differently with every breath, her straight nose, with the nostrils thin
as a bit of shell, and the softly rounded chin, made her a picture that
Jack Darcy never forgot.
"Oh!" in a tone of surprise, "I thought you were alone: pardon me."
Sylvie was bringing in another lamp, and placed it on the great clawfoot
centre-table. Then it occurred to her that Irene might not know Jack.
She should recognize him here socially, anyhow.
"My friend Miss Lawrence," she said with a world of dignity, "Mr.
Darcy."
Jack bowed, in no wise abashed by this proud and handsome Miss Lawrence,
though as a child she had snubbed him many a time. And she glanced him
over with a sudden interest. It was a manly face and a manly figure; and
she wondered from what remote corner of the earth Sylvie Barry had
summoned this fair, stout giant, who made her think of the Norse gods of
her childish romances. She always liked strength: Sylvie was for
tenderness, pathos, and beauty.
"Good-evening," inclining her proud head. "Did I interrupt? You were
singing?"
"That is finished," returned Sylvie, with her peculiar manner, as if,
being hostess here, she should have proper respect paid to her position;
and each guest should be as deferent to the other as if she were a
little queen, and this her court.
She picked up a stray piece of music that had fallen to the floor,
seated Irene, and half turned to Jack. Any other woman might have been
awkward.
"I will leave you two ladies to yourselves," began Jack; but Irene
interrupted,--
"No, Mr. Darcy: I shall think I have driven you away;" with a beguiling
smile. "If you understand music, you may have a taste in the fine arts
of dress as well. At all events, look over these elegant women in their
party-gowns, and tell me which is fairest and rarest."
The honesty of the glance, although it was coquettish, told Jack that
Miss Irene did not remember him. For, of all the haughty Lawrence women,
she had the name of being the haughtiest. She gathered up her skirts in
other people's houses when the plebeian element came too near. Now she
waved him to a chair, and gently sank into another, her trailing robe of
thin filmy black with golden flecks falling about her like clouds in a
gusty sky.
He took the seat indicated. Some strange feeling moved him, an
enchantment that he had never before experienced. The very air about her
was filled with a subtle, indescribable perfume that he should always
associate with a tall, dark-eyed woman,--a glimpse of the Orient and its
sweetness, he fancied.
Sylvie took her place, and began to tumble over the colored plates.
"I'm so tired of those Watteau things!" began Miss Lawrence
disdainfully. "They all savor of bread-and-butter girls,--a shepherdess
with her crook,--bah! And I've been Marie Stuart so many times. If it
were a masquerade; but garden-parties are beginning to prove bores,
after all. There is nothing new about them, only to out-shine every
other woman. A high ambition, is it not, Mr. Darcy?"
"A temptation perhaps."
The tone had in it a bit of delicate homage. Irene understood. She knew
at once that this man was a little dazed by her beauty, just as many
other men had been. Puny, delicate, namby-pamby men she despised, and
always gave them a cut with her sharp tongue. Where had Sylvie picked up
this Saul among his peers?
They were all interested in the pictures, and soon fell to making merry
comments on them. Sylvie had a quick eye and a bright wit, and something
made Jack Darcy brilliant. They selected bits of fine taste here, they
made an elegant costume of no particular style, and Irene was struck
with what she knew would be its becomingness.
"Mr. Darcy, are you an artist?" She remembered just then what an odd way
the Barrys had of picking up people with some gift or grace.
"No," and Jack flushed boyishly.
"Then you must have a houseful of sisters."
"No, I never had a sister."
"When all things else fail with you, you can set up opposition to Worth.
I shall come to you for designs. Now, this will be a peculiar source of
gratification to me, because no one can possibly have the same
combination. And you never can depend upon a modiste. Mr. Darcy, what
makes women so faithless to one another?"
"Are they?" he asked with a man's simplicity.
She laughed gayly, and met Jack's fun-loving, shady blue eyes. How
handsome they were!
Miss Barry entered the room, and joined in the pleasant chat: then a
rumble of carriage-wheels was heard.
"It has stopped raining," said Sylvie, going to the window. "A few soft,
melancholy stars have come out."
"You have been very obliging, Sylvie," said Miss Lawrence. "Miss Barry,
I shall send the carriage over to-morrow. Good-night."
Jack Darcy handed her out, pushing aside a trailing rose that it might
not catch her shawl. Then she half turned, and said "Good-night" in a
softer tone.
Sylvie was standing on the porch. "It has been as good as a play, Jack,"
she said with her gay-humored laugh. "I don't believe she ever
thought"--
"That I worked in her father's mill!" and Jack laughed; but it was a
rather pained, jarring sound.
"Jack--why do you? You are a puzzle to me!" and Sylvie's voice sharpened
unconsciously. "You do not like it. Why did you not go on at the
academy, or"--
"Raise myself in the social scale? That's what you mean, Sylvie;
although we pass just as pleasant hours as if I were a prince, and you
