she tried to keep him longer ; it was almost a strug- 
gle. " Think of what I have done !" she broke out. 
u Morris, I have given up everything." 
" You shall have everything back." 
" You wouldn't say that if you didn't mean some- 
thing. What is it? what has happened ? what 
have I done ? what has changed you ?" 
" I will write to you that is better," Morris stam- 
mered. 
" Ah, you won't come back !" she cried, bursting 
into tears. 
" Dear Catherine," he said, " don't believe that. 
I promise you that you shall see me again." And 
he managed to get away, and to close the door be- 
hind him. 
 
XXX 
IT was almost the last outbreak of passion of her 
life ; at least, she never indulged in another that the 
world knew anything about. But this one was long 
and terrible ; she flung herself on the sofa and gave 
herself up to her grief. She hardly knew what had 
happened ; ostensibly she had only had a difference 
with her lover, as other girls had had before, and 
the thing was not only not a rupture, but she was 
under no obligation to regard it even as a menace. 
Nevertheless, she felt a wound, even if he had not 
dealt it ; it seemed to her that a mask had suddenly 
fallen from his face. He had wished to get away 
from her; he had been angry and cruel, and said 
strange things, with strange looks. She was smothered and 
stunned ; she buried her head in the cushions, 
sobbing and talking to herself. But at last 
she raised herself, with the fear that either her fa- 
ther or Mrs. Penniman would come in ; and then she 
sat there, staring before her, while the room grew 
darker. She said to herself that perhaps he would 
come back to tell her he had not meant what he 
said ; and she listened for his ring at the door, try- 
ing to believe that this was probable. A long time 
passed, but Morris remained absent ; the shadows 
gathered ; the evening settled down on the meagre 
elegance of the light, clear -colored room; the fire 
went out. When it had grown dark, Catherine 
went to the window and looked out ; she stood there 
for half an hour, on the mere chance that he would 
come up the steps. At last she turned away, for 
she saw her father come in. He had seen her at 
the window looking out, and he stopped a moment 
at the bottom of the white steps, and gravely, with 
an air of exaggerated courtesy, lifted his hat to her. 
The gesture was so incongruous to the condition 
she was in, this stately tribute of respect to a poor 
girl despised and forsaken was so out of place, that 
the thing gave her a kind of horror, and she hurried 
away to her room. It seemed to her that she had 
given Morris up. 
She had to show herself half an hour later, and 
she was sustained at table by the immensity of her 
desire that her fathei should not perceive that any- 
thing had happened. This was a great help to her 
afterward, and it served her (though never as much 
as she supposed) from the first. On this occasion 
Doctor Sloper was rather talkative. He told a great 
many stories about a wonderful poodle that he had 
seen at the house of an old lady whom he visited 
professionally. Catherine not only tried to appear 
to listen to the anecdotes of the poodle, but she en- 
deavored to interest herself in them, so as not to 
think of her scene with Morris. That perhaps was 
an hallucination; he was mistaken, she was jealous; 
people didn't change like that from one day to an- 
other. Then she knew that she had had doubts be- 
fore strange suspicions, that were at once vague 
and acute and that he had been different ever since 
her return from Europe : whereupon she tried again 
to listen to her father, who told a story so remarka- 
bly well. Afterward she went straight to her own 
room ; it was beyond her strength to undertake to 
spend the evening with her aunt. All the evening, 
alone, she questioned herself. Her trouble was ter- 
rible ; but was it a thing of her imagination, engen- 
dered by an extravagant sensibility, or did it repre- 
sent a clear-cut reality, arid had the worst that was 
possible actually come to pass ? Mrs. Penniman, 
with a degree of tact that was as unusual as it was 
commendable, took the line of leaving her alone. 
The truth is, that her suspicions having been aroused, 
she indulged a desire, natural to a timid person, that 
the explosion should be localized. So long as the 
air still vibrated she kept out of the way. ' 
She passed and repassed Catherine's door several 
times in the course of the evening, as if she expected 
to hear a plaintive moan behind it. But the room 
remained perfectly still; and accordingly, the last 
thing before retiring to her own couch, she applied 
for admittance. Catherine was sitting up, and had 
a book that she pretended to be reading. She had 
no wish to go to bed, for she had no expectation of 
sleeping. After Mrs. Penniman had left her she 
sat up half the night, and she offered her visitor no 
inducement to remain. Her aunt came stealing in 
very gently, and approached her with great solem- 
nity. 
" I am afraid you are in trouble, my dear. Can I 
do anything to help you ?" 
" I am not in any trouble whatever, and do not 
need any help," said Catherine, fibbing roundly, and 
proving thereby that not only our faults, but our 
most involuntary misfortunes, tend to corrupt our 
morals. 
" Has nothing happened to you ?" 
" Nothing whatever." 
" Are you very sure, dear ?" 
"Perfectly sure." 
"And can I really do nothing for you?" 
" Nothing, aunt, but kindly leave me alone," said 
Catherine. 
Mrs. Penniman, though she had been afraid of too 
warm a welcome before, was now disappointed at so 
cold a one ; and in relating afterward, as she did to 
many persons, and with considerable variations of 
detail, the history of the termination of her niece's 
engagement, she was usually careful to mention that 
the young lady, on a certain occasion, had "hustled" 
her out of the room. It was characteristic of Mrs. 
Penniman that she related this fact, not in the least 
out of malignity to Catherine, whom she very suffi- 
ciently pitied, but simply from a natural disposition 
to embellish any subject that she touched. 
Catherine, as I have said, sat up half the night, as 
if she still expected to hear Morris Townsend ring 
at the door. On the morrow this expectation was 
less unreasonable ; but it was not gratified by the 
reappearance of the young man. Neither had he 
written ; there was not a word of explanation or re- 
assurance. Fortunately for Catherine, she could take 
refuge from her excitement, which had now become 
intense, in her determination that her father should 
see nothing of it. How well she deceived her fa- 
