could get an engagement that suited, and for the rest, lived 
by his wits. He was of average height, but rather slender, 
with dark curling locks and a thin pale face, intellectual in 
his estimation. The world had given him scant apprecia- 
tion, he thought, but he managed to dress well, and often 
fared sumptuously at other people's expense. He had 
dangled in the train of several rising actresses, and made 
love to a score of others, but nothing just suitable in the 
matrimonial line had come within his reach. 
" If you want a friend, or a favor, Madame Barretti, don't 
hesitate to call upon me," he said, with his most gracious 
air, as he rose to depart. 
She always felt elated to be called Madame Barretti. 
" I am sure I don't know what to do, and it will be very 
good to have a friend to call on. Dick always managed 
everything himself. He insisted that I had no head for 
business ; but I don't see then why a man can't instruct his 
wife. I shall stay in the city for some time to come, and 
I am sure I shall be glad to see you as often as you have 
time to drop in. I shall miss Dick dreadfully. We were 
always on the go, and I like changing about." 
" Good-night, little Queen Titania. I suppose it will be 
some time before we see you on the boards again ? Haven't 
you a kiss for me ? " 
The child pushed away his face, and her eyes flashed, 
though she said nothing. 
" Good-night, my dear madame," and he bowed low over 
the lady's hand. "Remember your promise. I shall be 
glad to serve you." 
So Signer Barretti, being in the grave, soon passed out 
of mind. His place was filled by another, though a 
few of his feats remained unattainable to his would-be suc- 
cessors. But the world had to be amused, and could not 
stop to moan over it's dead favorite. 
Gilbert Chippenham speculated somewhat on the va- 
cancy. Professionally he had no desire of filling it, but 
was there not another way in which he might succeed, 
quite to his expectations ? What with the property and 
a life insurance, Madame Barretti was not such a poor 
prize. The fact of her being five or six years his senior 
was nothing to him, and she would, no doubt, be delighted 
with the attentions of a good-looking young man. In his 
heart he knew she was weak and easily flattered, and he 
might .is well have the money as any other man. So he 
became quite assiduous in his attentions, and she confided 
her business troubles to his keeping. There was a will 
made some ten years before, which gave everything to her. 
Madame Barretti was so delighted with her liberty, that 
after a month or so she scarcely regretted Dick. She went 
to a stylish, but rather second-rate, hotel, and had Dick's 
handsome team stabled in the city. As for living on that 
dreary farm, with a man and a maid, she should never 
think of that again. 
" I should offer it for sale," advised Mr. Chippenham. 
He would never care to live there either. 
Madame Barretti drove through Broadway, Fifth Ave- 
nue, and frequented the Park, with her pretty adopted 
daughter by her side, who had come to be considered 
Dick's daughter, but not hers. It was her great amusement, 
for in her heavy sables she could not seek congenial 
society. 
Deep mourning makes a fright of nearly every one," she 
declared to Titania, "When spring fairly opens I shall 
take to lilac. I wonder if it would do for me to wear my 
diamonds ? They are not exactly color, like rubies, you 
know, and I hate all this black jewelry." 
Titania stared a little. Kate was used to asking advice 
on subjects quite beyond the child's comprehension. So 
much black was not cheerful, most assuredly. It would be 
pleasant to go to the theatre again, to be asked out to 
dainty suppers, and have the stir of active life. 
Titania enjoyed it ; how could she help when it had been 
daily food. Yet she indulged in moments of passionate 
weeping for Dick, when Kate was out of sight. Though 
too young to discriminate, she felt, and vaguely understood, 
the shallowness of Kate's nature. Already Titania had 
grown prematurely wise in some respects. 
" I may as well tell you," began Kate, as they were sun- 
ning themselves in the Park one brilliant morning, late in 
May, " that I am engaged ; " and a conscious smirk over 
spread her face. " Mr. Chippenham asked me last night." 
"Oh ! " Titania cried, and it was like a sound of pain. 
Could Dick be so soon forgotten ? 
Kate looked surprised. 
"You don't seem to like him very much, and yet it is 
really ungrateful in you, Titania. I am sure he does a 
great many nice things for you ; and he adores me. I sup- 
pose I did love Dick when I first married him, but he was 
always very masterful, and thought I did not know 
anything. Now dear Gilbert is so different. He always 
consults me, and calls me an angel instead of a fool. And 
he wants to be married very soon. He doesn't consider it 
worth while to wait a whole year." 
" And you are going to put him in Dick's place give 
him all Dick's money, love him, and kiss him ; " and 
Titania's eyes dilated with something like horror, as well 
as disgust. 
" How you do talk ! You forget that I love him," said 
Kate, much aggrieved. 
" It is very strange," faltered Titania, turning away to 
hide her tears. 
" Why, no, it isn't strange at all. You are a little girl, 
and don't know anything about love. But you are so 
pretty that you will soon have lovers of your own. I wish 
you could grow tall faster. And about the money, Gil- 
bert isn't going to take it, under any circumstances. It is 
to be all settled on myself, and I am to give him power of 
something, I've forgotten what, and he is to invest it, 
and pay me the interest. And so we are going right on to 
sell everything. I think we shall go to Paris for our bridal 
tour." 
Titania said no more, but Kate rambled on in her foolish 
fashion, supremely happy and content. The child won- 
dered why she should have disliked Mr. Chippenham so, 
from the very first, and she experienced an undefined mis- 
giving for Kate. Of herself she scarcely thought. 
Kate had received one very advantageous offer for her, 
a fortnight after Dick's death ; but, to her credit, she had 
refused it. Dick had loved the child so well that she 
seemed a sacred trust to her. But to Mr. Chippenham 
nothing had any sacredness. He viewed Titania as a part 
of the property the dead man had left. 
Altogether he was quite elated with his engagement. 
Kate was somewhat older than himself, and lacked the re- 
finement of taste that he admired in a woman ; but she 
was easily flattered and easily led, and there was the 
money. He was quite surprised when he came to learn 
the amount. Kate trusted him implicitly. One of the 
executors of the will was dead, the other declined serving, 
so the whole business fell to Kate and her lover. There 
would be no check to the ignorance of the one, or the sel- 
fish cupidity of the other. 
And Gilbert Chippenham determined to become a great 
man. Hitherto he had been repressed, and not appreciated. 
A winter in Paris, with certain stage associations, would 
give him position. Managers would not dare snub him 
after that, and with a bound he expected to leap into the 
arena of fame. 
The farm and its belongings were disposed of, and cer- 
tain stocks turned into ready money. Kate and Titania 
