authority, that Blanche Evers had returned to New 
York with her mother. He wondered whether Cap- 
tain Lovelock was still in pawn at the Hotel de 
Hollande. If he did, not allow himself to wonder 
too curiously whether he had done a harm to Gordon, 
it may be af&rmed that he was haunted by the recur- 
rence of that other question, of which mention has 
already been made. Had he done a harm to Angela 
Vivian, and did she know that he had done it ? This 
inquiry by no means made him miserable, and it was 
far from awaiting him regularly on his pillow. But 
it visited him at intervals, and sometimes in the 
strangest places — suddenly, abruptly, in the stillness 
of an Indian temple, or amid the shrillness of an 
Oriental crowd. He became familiar with it at last ; 
he called it his Jack-in-the-box. Some invisible 
touch of circumstance would press the spring, and 
the little image would pop up, staring him in the 
face and grinning an interrogation. Bernard always 
clapped down the lid, for he regarded this phenomenon 
as strikingly inane. But if it was more frequent than 
any pang of conscience connected with the remem- 
brance of Gordon himself, this last sentiment was 
certainly lively enough to make it a great relief to 
hear at last a rumor that the excellent fellow was 
about to be married. The rumor reached him at 
Athens; it was vague and indirect, and it omitted 
the name of his betrothed. But Bernard made the 
most of it, and took comfort in the thought that his 
friend had recovered his spirits and his appetite for 
matrimony. 
XVI. 
It was not till our hero reached Paris, on his re- 
turn from the distant East, that the rumor I have just 
mentioned acquired an appreciable consistency. HerQ, 
indeed, it took the shape of authentic information. 
Among a number of delayed letters which had been 
awaiting him at his banker's he found a communica- 
tion from Gordon Wright. During the previous year 
or two his correspondence with this trusted — and 
trusting — friend had not been frequent, and Bernard 
had received little direct news of him. Three or four 
short -letters had overtaken him in his wanderings — 
letters as cordial, to all appearance, if not as volumi- 
nous, as the punctual missives of an earlier time: 
Bernard made a point of satisfying himself that they 
were as cordial ; he weighed them in the scales of im- 
partial suspicion. It seemed to him on .the whole 
that there was no relaxation of Gordon's epistolary 
tone. If he wrote less often than he used to do, thati 
was a thing that very commonly happened as men 
grew older. The closest intimacies, moreover, had 
phases and seasons, intermissions and revivals, and 
even if his friend had, in fact, averted his countenance 
from him, this was simply the accomplishment of a 
periodical revolution which would bring them in due 
order face to face again. Bernard made a point, him- 
self, of writing tolerably often and writing always in 
the friendliest tone. He made it a matter of con- 
science — he liked to feel that he was treating Gordon 
generously, and not demanding an eye for an eye. 
The letter he found in Paris was so short that I may 
give it entire. 
" My dear Bernard (it ran), I must write to you 
before I write to any one else, though unfortunately 
you are so far away that you can't be the first to con- 
gratulate me. Try and not be the last, however. I 
am going to be married — as soon as possible. You 
know the young lady, so you can appreciate the situ- 
ation. Do you remember little Blanche Evers, whom 
we used to see three years ago at Baden-Baden ? Of 
course you remember her, for I know you used often 
to talk with her. You will be rather surprised, per- 
haps, at my having selected her as the partner of a 
life-time ; but we manage these matters according to 
our lights. I am very much in love with her, and I 
hold that an excellent reason, I have been ready 
any time this year or two to fall in love with some 
simple, trusting, child-like nature. I find this in per- 
fection in this charming young girl. I find her so 
natural and fresh. I remember telling you once that 
I didn' t wish to be fascinated — that J -ypanted to 
estimate scientifically the woman I should marry. I 
have altogether got over that, and I don't know how 
I ever came to talk such nonsense. I am fascinated 
now, and I assure you I like it ! The best of it is 
that I find it doesn 't in the least prevent my estimat- 
ing Blanche. I judge her very fairly — I see just 
what she is. She 's simple — that 's what I want ; 
she 's tender — that 's what I long for. You will 
remember how pretty she is ; I needn 't remind you 
of that. She was much younger then, and she has 
greatly developed and improved in these two or three 
years. But she will always be young and innocent— 
I don't want her to improve too much. She came 
back to America with her mother the winter after we 
met her at Baden, but I never saw her again till three 
months ago. Then I saw her with new eyes, and I 
wondered I could have been so blind. But I wasn 't 
ready for her till then, and what makes me so happy 
now is to know that I have come to my present way 
of feeling by experience. That gives me confidence 
— you see I am a reasoner still. But I am under the 
charm, for all my reason. We are to be married in a 
month — try and come back to the wedding. Blanche 
sends you a message, which I will give you verbatim. 
' Tell him I am not such a silly little chatterbox as I 
used to be at Baden. I am a great deal wiser ; I am 
almost as clever as Angela Vivian.' She has an idea 
yon tbeuglit Miss Yivian very clever — but it is not 
true that she is equally so. I am very happy ; come 
home and see." 
Bernard went home, but he was not able to reach 
the United States in time for Gordon's wedding, 
which took place at midsummer. Bernard, arriving 
late in the autumn, found his friend a married man 
of some months' standing, and was able to judge, 
according to his invitation, whether he appeared 
happy. The first effect of the letter I have just 
quoted had been an immense surprise; the second 
had been a series of reflections which were quite the 
negative of surprise ; and these operations of Bernard's 
mind had finally merged themselves in a simple sen- 
timent of jollity. He was delighted that Gordon 
should be married; he felt jovial about it; he was 
almost indifferent to the question of whom he had 
chosen. Certainly, at first, the choice of Blanche 
Evers seemed highly incongruous ; it was difficult to 
imagine a young woman less shaped to minister to 
Gordon's strenuous needs than the light-hearted and 
empty-headed little flirt whose inconsequent prattle 
had remained for Bernard one of the least importu- 
nate memories of a charming time. Blanche Evers 
was a pretty little goose — the prettiest of little 
geese, perhaps, and doubtless the most amiable ; but 
she was not a companion for a peculiarly serious 
man, who would like his wife to share his view of 
human responsibilities. What a singular selection — 
what a queer infatuation ! Bernard had no sooner 
committed himself to this line of criticism than he 
