displayed when the snow melted. Molly never guessed that her own efforts
were at the bottom of the change, or knew that a few words not meant for
her ear had shamed Miss Bat into action. Coming home from prayer-meeting
one dark night, she trotted along behind two old ladies who were
gossiping in loud voices, as one was rather deaf, and Miss Bat was both
pleased and troubled to hear herself unduly praised.
“I always said Sister Dawes meant well; but she’s getting into years,
and the care of two children is a good deal for her, with her cooking
and her rheumatiz. I don’t deny she did neglect ‘em for a spell, but
she does well by ‘em now, and I wouldn’t wish to see better-appearing
children.”
“You’ve no idee how improved Molly is. She came in to see my girls, and
brought her sewing-work, shirts for the boy, and done it as neat and
capable as you’d wish to see. She always was a smart child, but dreadful
careless,” said the other old lady, evidently much impressed by the
change in harum-scarum Molly Loo.
“Being over to Mis Minot’s so much has been good for her, and up to Mis
Grant’s. Girls catch neat ways as quick as they do untidy ones, and them
wild little tykes often turn out smart women.”
“Sister Dawes has done well by them children, and I hope Mr. Bemis
sees it. He ought to give her something comfortable to live on when she
can’t do for him any longer. He can well afford it.”
“I haven’t a doubt he will. He’s a lavish man when he starts to do a
thing, but dreadful unobserving, else he’d have seen to matters long
ago. Them children was town-talk last fall, and I used to feel as if it
was my bounden duty to speak to Miss Dawes. But I never did, fearing I
might speak too plain, and hurt her feelings.”
“You’ve spoken plain enough now, and I’m beholden to you, though you’ll
never know it,” said Miss Bat to herself, as she slipped into her own
gate, while the gossips trudged on quite unconscious of the listener
behind them.
Miss Bat was a worthy old soul in the main, only, like so many of us,
she needed rousing up to her duty. She had got the rousing now, and
it did her good, for she could not bear to be praised when she had not
deserved it. She had watched Molly’s efforts with lazy interest, and
when the girl gave up meddling with her affairs, as she called the
housekeeping, Miss Bat ceased to oppose her, and let her scrub Boo, mend
clothes, and brush her hair as much as she liked. So Molly had worked
along without any help from her, running in to Mrs. Pecq for advice, to
Merry for comfort, or Mrs. Minot for the higher kind of help one often
needs so much. Now Miss Bat found that she was getting the credit and
the praise belonging to other people, and it stirred her up to try and
deserve a part at least.
“Molly don’t want any help about her work or the boy: it’s too late for
that; but if this house don’t get a spring cleaning that will make it
shine, my name ain’t Bathsheba Dawes,” said the old lady, as she
put away her bonnet that night, and laid energetic plans for a grand
revolution, inspired thereto not only by shame, but by the hint that
“Mr. Bemis was a lavish man,” as no one knew better than she.
Molly’s amazement next day at seeing carpets fly out of window, ancient
cobwebs come down, and long-undisturbed closets routed out to the great
dismay of moths and mice, has been already confided to the cats, and as
she sat there watching them lap and gnaw, she said to herself,--
“I don’t understand it, but as she never says much to me about my
affairs, I won’t take any notice till she gets through, then I’ll admire
everything all I can. It is so pleasant to be praised after you’ve been
trying hard.”
She might well say that, for she got very little herself, and her trials
had been many, her efforts not always successful, and her reward seemed
a long way off. Poor Boo could have sympathized with her, for he had
suffered much persecution from his small schoolmates when he appeared
with large gray patches on the little brown trousers, where he had worn
them out coasting down those too fascinating steps. As he could not
see the patches himself, he fancied them invisible, and came home much
afflicted by the jeers of his friends. Then Molly tried to make him a
new pair out of a sack of her own; but she cut both sides for the same
leg, so one was wrong side out. Fondly hoping no one would observe it,
she sewed bright buttons wherever they could be put, and sent confiding
Boo away in a pair of blue trousers, which were absurdly hunchy behind
and buttony before. He came home heart-broken and muddy, having been
accidentally tipped into a mud-puddle by two bad boys who felt that such
tailoring was an insult to mankind. That roused Molly’s spirit, and she
begged her father to take the boy and have him properly fitted out,
as he was old enough now to be well-dressed, and she wouldn’t have him
tormented. His attention being called to the trousers, Mr. Bemis had a
good laugh over them, and then got Boo a suit which caused him to be the
admired of all observers, and to feel as proud as a little peacock.
Cheered by this success, Molly undertook a set of small shirts, and
stitched away bravely, though her own summer clothes were in a sad
state, and for the first time in her life she cared about what she
should wear.
“I must ask Merry, and may be father will let me go with her and her
mother when they do their shopping, instead of leaving it to Miss
Bat, who dresses me like an old woman. Merry knows what is pretty and
becoming: I don’t,” thought Molly, meditating in the bushel basket, with
her eyes on her snuff-colored gown and the dark purple bow at the end of
the long braid Muffet had been playing with.
Molly was beginning to see that even so small a matter as the choice of
colors made a difference in one’s appearance, and to wonder why Merry
always took such pains to have a blue tie for the gray dress, a rosy one
for the brown, and gloves that matched her bonnet ribbons. Merry never
wore a locket outside her sack, a gay bow in her hair and soiled cuffs,
a smart hat and the braid worn off her skirts. She was exquisitely neat
and simple, yet always looked well-dressed and pretty; for her love of
beauty taught her what all girls should learn as soon as they begin
to care for appearances--that neatness and simplicity are their best
ornaments, that good habits are better than fine clothes, and the most
elegant manners are the kindest.
All these thoughts were dancing through Molly’s head, and when she left
her cats, after a general romp in which even decorous Granny allowed her
family to play leap-frog over her respectable back, she had made up
her mind not to have yellow ribbons on her summer hat if she got a pink
muslin as she had planned, but to finish off Boo’s last shirt before she
went shopping with Merry.
It rained that evening, and Mr. Bemis had a headache, so he threw
himself down upon the lounge after tea for a nap, with his silk
handkerchief spread over his face. He did get a nap, and when he waked
he lay for a time drowsily listening to the patter of the rain, and
another sound which was even more soothing. Putting back a corner of the
handkerchief to learn what it was, he saw Molly sitting by the fire with
Boo in her lap, rocking and humming as she warmed his little bare feet,
having learned to guard against croup by attending to the damp shoes
and socks before going to bed. Boo lay with his round face turned up to
hers, stroking her cheek while the sleepy blue eyes blinked lovingly at
her as she sang her lullaby with a motherly patience sweet to see. They
made a pretty little picture, and Mr. Bemis looked at it with pleasure,
having a leisure moment in which to discover, as all parents do sooner
or later, that his children were growing up.
“Molly is getting to be quite a woman, and very like her mother,”
 thought papa, wiping the eye that peeped, for he had been fond of the
pretty wife who died when Boo was born. “Sad loss to them, poor things!
But Miss Bat seems to have done well by them. Molly is much improved,
and the boy looks finely. She’s a good soul, after all;” and Mr. Bemis
began to think he had been hasty when he half made up his mind to get
a new housekeeper, feeling that burnt steak, weak coffee, and ragged
wristbands were sure signs that Miss Bat’s days of usefulness were over.
Molly was singing the lullaby her mother used to sing to her, and her
father listened to it silently till Boo was carried away too sleepy for
anything but bed. When she came back she sat down to her work, fancying
her father still asleep. She had a crimson bow at her throat and one on
the newly braided hair, her cuffs were clean, and a white apron hid the
shabbiness of the old dress. She looked like a thrifty little housewife
as she sat with her basket beside her full of neat white rolls, her
spools set forth, and a new pair of scissors shining on the table. There
was a sort of charm in watching the busy needle flash to and fro, the
anxious pucker of the forehead as she looked to see if the stitches were
even, and the expression of intense relief upon her face as she surveyed
the finished button-hole with girlish satisfaction. Her father was wide
awake and looking at her, thinking, as he did so,--
“Really the old lady has worked well to change my tomboy into that nice
