off, put in your vegetables. These should be:—
    2 carrots.
    3 turnips.
    Half a head of white cabbage.
    1 pt. green corn—or dried Shaker corn, soaked over night.
    1 head celery.
    1 qt. tomatoes.
These should be prepared for the soup by slicing them very small, and
stewing them in barely enough water to cover them, until they break to
pieces. Cook the cabbage by itself in two waters—throwing the first
away. The only exception to the general dissolution, is in the case
of a single carrot, which should likewise be cooked alone and whole,
until thoroughly done, and set aside to cool, when the rest of the
vegetables, with the water in which they were boiled, are added to the
soup. Return the pot to the fire with the vegetables and stock, and
boil slowly for half an hour from the time ebullition actually begins.
Strain without pressing, only shaking and lightly stirring the contents
of the cullender. The vegetables having been added with all their
juices already cooked, much boiling and squeezing are not needed, and
only make the soup cloudy. Cut the reserved carrot into dice and drop
into the clear liquor after it is in the tureen,—also, if you like,
a handful of vermicelli, or macaroni which has been boiled tender in
clear water.
The seasoning of this excellent soup is a matter of taste. Some use
only salt and white pepper. Others like with this a few blades of mace,
and boil in the stock a handful of sweet herbs. And others fancy that,
in addition to these, a glass of brown sherry imparts a flavor that
renders it peculiarly acceptable to most palates. Send to table very
hot, and have the soup-plates likewise heated.
VEAL SOUP WITH MACARONI. 
    3 lbs. of veal knuckle or scrag, with the bones broken and meat
        cut up.
    3 qts. water.
    ¼ lb. Italian macaroni.
Boil the meat alone in the water for nearly three hours until it is
reduced to shreds; and the macaroni until tender, in enough water to
cover it, in a vessel by itself. The pieces should not be more than an
inch in length. Add a little butter to the macaroni when nearly done.
Strain the meat out of the soup, season to your taste, put in the
macaroni, and the water in which it was boiled; let it boil up, and
serve.
You can make macaroni soup of this by boiling a pound, instead of a
quarter of a pound, in the second vessel, and adding the above quantity
of veal broth. In this case, send on with it a plate of grated cheese,
that those who cannot relish macaroni without this accompaniment may
put it into their soup. Take care that the macaroni is of uniform
length, not too long, and that it does not break while stewing. Add
butter in proportion to the increased quantity of macaroni.
BEEF SOUP (brown).
    3 lbs. beef cut into strips.
    3 onions.
    3 qts. water.
Put beef and water into the saucepan and boil for one hour. Meanwhile,
slice the onions and fry them in butter to a light brown. Drop into the
pot with a teaspoonful of cloves, half as much pepper, same quantity
of mace as pepper, a pinch of allspice, and a teaspoonful of essence
of celery, if you cannot get a head of fresh celery; also half a
teaspoonful of powdered savory or sweet marjoram, and a teaspoonful of
Worcestershire sauce. Stew all for two hours more, or until the beef
has boiled to pieces. Strain the soup and return to the fire. Salt to
taste, and just before taking it off, pour in a glass of brown sherry
or Madeira wine.
MUTTON OR LAMB BROTH. 
    4 lbs. mutton or lamb—lean—cut into small pieces.
    1 gallon water.
    ½ teacupful rice.
Boil the unsalted meat for two hours, slowly, in a covered vessel.
Soak the rice in enough warm water to cover it, and at the end of this
time add it, water and all, to the boiling soup. Cook an hour longer,
stirring watchfully from time to time, lest the rice should settle and
adhere to the bottom of the pot. Beat an egg to a froth and stir into a
cup of cold milk, into which has been rubbed smoothly a tablespoonful
rice or wheat flour. Mix with this, a little at a time, some of the
scalding liquor, until the egg is so far cooked that there is no danger
of curdling in the soup. Pour into the pot, when you have taken out the
meat, season with parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt. Boil up fairly, and
serve. If allowed to stand on the fire, it is apt to burn.
This soup may be made from the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been
boiled, provided too much salt was not put in with it. It is especially
good when the stock is chicken broth. For the sick it is palatable and
nutritious with the rice left in. When strained it makes a nice white
table soup, and is usually relished by all.
VERMICELLI SOUP. 
    4 lbs. lamb, from which every particle of fat has been removed.
    1 lb. veal.
    A slice of corned ham.
    5 qts. water.
Cut up the meat, cover it with a quart of water, and set it back on the
range to heat very gradually, keeping it covered closely. At the end
of an hour, add four quarts of boiling water, and cook until the meat
is in shreds. Season with salt, sweet herbs, a chopped shallot, two
teaspoonfuls Worcestershire sauce, and when these have boiled in the
soup for ten minutes, strain and return to the fire. Have ready about
a third of a pound of vermicelli (or macaroni), which has been boiled
tender in clear water. Add this; boil up once, and pour out.
MOCK-TURTLE OR CALF’S HEAD SOUP. 
    1 large calf’s head, well cleaned and washed.
    4 pig’s feet, well cleaned and washed.
This soup should always be prepared the day before it is to be served
up. Lay the head and feet in the bottom of a large pot, and cover with
a gallon of water. Let it boil three hours, or until the flesh will
slip easily from the bones. Take out the head, leaving in the feet,
and allow these to boil steadily while you cut the meat from the head.
Select with care enough of the fatty portions which lie on the top of
the head and the cheeks to fill a teacup, and set them aside to cool.
Remove the brains to a saucer and also set aside. Chop the rest of the
meat with the tongue very fine, season with salt, pepper, powdered
marjoram and thyme, a teaspoonful of cloves, the same of mace, half
as much allspice, and a grated nutmeg, and return to the pot. When the
flesh falls from the bones of the pig’s feet, take out the latter,
leaving in the gelatinous meat. Let all boil together slowly, without
removing the cover, for two hours more; take the soup from the fire
and set it away until the next day. An hour before dinner, set on the
stock to warm. When it boils strain carefully, and drop in the meat you
have reserved, which, when cold, should be cut into small squares. Have
these all ready as well as the force-meat balls. To prepare these, rub
the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs to a paste in a Wedgewood mortar,
or in a bowl, with the back of a silver tablespoon, adding gradually
the brains to moisten them, also a little butter and salt. Mix with
these two eggs beaten very light, flour your hands, and make this paste
into balls about the size of a pigeon’s egg. Throw them into the soup
five minutes before you take it from the fire; stir in three large
tablespoonfuls of browned flour rubbed smooth in three great spoonfuls
of melted butter, let it boil up well, and finish the seasoning by the
addition of a glass and a half of good wine—Sherry or Madeira—and
the juice of a lemon. It should not boil more than half an hour on the
second day. Serve with sliced lemon. Some lay the slices upon the top
of the soup, but the better plan is to pass to the guests a small dish
containing these.
If the directions be closely followed, the result is sure to be
satisfactory, and the task is really much less troublesome than it
appears to be.
GIBLET SOUP.
    Feet, neck, pinions, and giblets of three chickens, or of two
        ducks or two geese.
    1½ lb. veal.
    ½ lb. ham.
    3 qts. water.
Crack the bones into small pieces, and cut the meat into strips. Put
all together with the giblets over the fire, with a bunch of sweet
