Rouse all thy strength, and all thy skill, 
Carolina ! 
Tell how the patriot's soul was tried, 
And what his dauntless breast defied ; 
How Rutledge ruled and Laurens died, 
Carolina ! 
HENRY TIMROD. 
Do you know the cotton country the country of broad 
levels open to the sun, where the ungainly, ragged bushes 
stand in long rows, bearing the clothing of a nation on their 
backs ? Not on their backs either, for the white wool is scat 
tered over the branches and twigs, looking, not as if it grew 
there, but as if it had been blown that way, and had caught 
and clung at random. When I first came to the cotton coun 
try, I used to stand with my chin on the top-rail of the fences, 
trying to rid my eyes of that first impression. I saw the fields 
only when the cotton was white, when there were no green 
leaves left, and the fleecy down did not seem to me a vege 
table at all. Starved cows passed through the half-plucked 
rows untempted, and I said to myself : " Of course. Cows 
do not eat cotton any more than they eat wool ; but what 
bush is there at the North that they would not nibble if starv 
ing ? " Accustomed to the trim, soldierly ranks of the West 
ern corn-fields, or the billowy grace of the wheat, I could 
think of nothing save a parade of sturdy beggarmen unwill 
ingly drawn up in line, when I gazed upon the stubborn, un 
even branches, and generally lop-sided appearance of these 
plants plants, nevertheless, of wealth, usefulness, and his 
toric importance in the annals of our land. But after a while 
I grew accustomed to their contrary ways, and I even began 
to like their defiant wildness, as a contrast, perhaps, to the 
languorous sky above, the true sky of the cotton country, with 
its soft heat, its hazy air, and its divine twilight that lingers so 
long. I always walked abroad at sunset, and it is in the sun 
set-light that I always see the fields now when far away. No 
doubt there was plenty of busy, prosaic reality down there in 
the mornings, but I never saw it ; I only saw the beauty and 
the fancies that come with the soft after-glow and the shadows 
of the night. 
Down in the cotton country the sun shines steadily all day 
long, and the earth is hot under your feet. There are few 
birds, but at nightfall the crows begin to fly home in a long 
line, going down into the red west as though they had im 
portant messages to deliver to some imprisoned princess on 
the edge of the horizon. One day I followed the crows. I 
said to myself : " The princess is a ruse ; they probably light 
not far from here, and I am going to find their place. The 
crows at home that would be something worth seeing." 
Turning from the path, I went westward. " What ! " said a 
country-woman, meeting Wordsworth on the road, " are ye 
stepping westward, sir ? " I, too, stepped westward. 
Field after field I crossed ; at last the fences ceased, and 
only old half-filled ditches marked the boundary-lines. The 
land sloped downward slightly, and after a while the ridge 
behind me seemed like a line of heights, the old cotton-plants 
on its top standing out as distinctly as single pine-trees on a 
mountain-summit outlined against the sky ; so comparative is 
height. The crows still flew westward as I came out upon a 
second level lower down than the first, and caught a golden 
gleam through the fringe of bushes in the middle of the plain. 
I had unwittingly found the river at last, that broad, brown 
river that I knew was down there somewhere, although I had 
not seen it with my bodily eyes. I had full knowledge of 
what it was, though, farther south toward the ocean ; I knew 
the long trestles over the swamps and dark canebrakes that 
stretched out for miles on each side of the actual stream 
trestles over which the trains passed cautiously every day, the 
Northern passengers looking nervously down at the quaking, 
spongy surface below, and prophesying accidents as certain 
some time when they were not on board. Up here in the 
cotton country, however, the river was more docile; there- 
were no tides to come up and destroy the banks, and with the 
exception of freshets the habits of the stream were orderly. 
The levels on each side might have been, should have been, 
rich with plenty. Instead, they were uncultivated and deso 
late. Here and there a wild, outlawed cotton-bush reared its 
head, and I could trace the old line of the cart-road and cross- 
tracks ; but the soil was spongy and disintegrated, and for a 
long time evidently no care had been bestowed upon it. I 
crossed over to the river, and found that the earth-bank which 
had protected the field was broken down and washed away in 
many places ; the low trees and bushes on shore still held the 
straws and driftwood that showed the last freshet's high- 
water mark. 
The river made an irregular bend a short distance below, 
and I strolled that way, walking now on the thick masses of 
lespedeza that carpeted the old road-track, and now on the 
singularly porous soil of the level, a soil which even my inex 
perienced eyes recognized as worthless, all its good particles 
having been drained out of it and borne away on the trium 
phant tide of the freshets. The crows still evaded me, cross 
ing the river in a straight line and flying on toward the west, 
and, in that arbitrary way in which solitary pedestrians make 
compacts with themselves, I said, " I will go to that tree at 
the exact turn of the bend, and not one step farther." I 
went to that tree at the exact turn of the bend, and then I 
went farther ; for I found there one solemn, lonely old house. 
Now, if there had been two, I should not have gone on ; I 
should not have broken my compact. Two houses are so 
ciable and commonplace ; but one all alone on a desolate 
waste like that inspired me with let us call it interest, and I 
went forward. 
It was a lodge rather than a house ; in its best day it could 
never have been more than a very plain abode, and now, in its 
worst, it seemed to have fallen into the hands of Giant De 
spair. " Forlorn " was written over its lintels, and " without 
hope " along its low roof-edge. Raised high above the 
ground, in the Southern fashion, on wooden supports, it 
seemed even more unstable than usual to Northern eyes, be 
cause the lattice-work, the valance, as it were, which generally 
conceals the bare, stilt-like underpinning, was gone, and a 
thin calf and some melancholy chickens were walking about 
underneath, as though the place was an arbor. There was a 
little patch of garden, but no grass, no flowers ; everything 
was gray, the unpainted house, the sand of the garden-beds, 
and the barren waste stretching away on all sides. At first I 
thought the place was uninhabited, but as I drew nearer a 
thin smoke from one of the chimneys told of life within, and 
I said to myself that the life would be black-skinned life, of 
course. For I was quite accustomed now to finding the fami 
lies of the freedmen crowded into just such old houses as 
this, hidden away in unexpected places ; for the freedmen 
hardly ever live up on the even ground in the broad sunshine 
as though they had a right there, but down in the hollows or 
out into the fringes of wood, where their low-roofed cabins, 
numerous though they may be, are scarcely visible to the 
passer-by. There was no fence around this house ; it stood 
at large on the waste as though it belonged there. Take 
away the fence from a house, and you take away its respecta- 
bility ; it becomes at once an outlaw. I ascended the crazy, 
sunken steps that led to the front door, and lifted the knocker 
that hung there as if in mockery; who ever knocked there 
now save perhaps a river-god with his wet fingers as he hur 
ried by, mounted on the foaming freshet, to ravage and lay 
waste again the poor, desolate fields ? But no spirit came to 
the door, neither came the swarm of funny little black faces I 
had expected ; instead, I s?w before me a white woman, tall, 
thin, and gray-haired. Silently she stood there, her great, 
dark eyes, still and sad, looking at me as much as to say, 
" By what right are you here ? " 
