A file of forty or fifty state barges drew up to the 
steps. They were richly gilt, and their lofty prows 
and stems were elaborately carved. Some of them' 
were decorated with banners and streamers; some 
with cloth-of-gold and arras embroidered with coats 
of arms; others with silken flags that had number- 
less little silver bells fastened to them, which shook 
out tiny showers of joyous music whenever the 
breezes fluttered them; others of yet higher preten- 
sions, since they belonged to nobles in the prince s 
immediate service, had their sides picturesquely 
fenced with shields gorgeously emblazoned with 
armorial bearings. Each state barge was towed by 
a tender. Besides the rowers, these tenders carried 
each a number of men-at-arms in glossy helmet and 
breastplate, and a company of musicians. 
The advance-guard of the expected procession .now 
appeared in the great gateway, a troop of hal- 
berdiers. “They were dressed in striped hose of 
black and tawny, velvet caps graced at the sides with 
silver roses, and doublets of murrey and blue cloth, 
embroidered on the front and back with the three 
feathers, the prince’s blazon, woven in gold. Their 
halberd staves were covered with crimson velvet, 
fastened with gilt nails, and ornamented with gold 
tassels. Filing off on the right and left, they formed 
two long lines, extending from the gateway of the 
palace to the water’s edge. A thick, rayed cloth or 
carpet was then unfolded, and laid down between 
them by attendants in the gold-and-crimson liveries 
of the prince. This done, a flourish of trumpets 
resounded from within. A lively prelude arose from 
the musicians on the water; and two ushers with 
white wands marched with a slow and stately pace 
from the portal. They were followed by an officer 
bearing the civic mace, after whom came another 
carrying the city’s sword; then several sergeants of 
the city guard, in their full accoutrements, and with 
badges on their sleeves; then the Garter king-at- 
arms, in his tabard; then several knights of the 
Bath, each with a white lace on his sleeve; then 
their esquires; then the judges, in their robes of 
scarlet and coifs; then the Lord High Chancellor of 
England, in a robe of scarlet, open before, and 
purfled with minever; then a deputation of aider- 
men, in their scarlet cloaks; and then the heads of 
the different civic companies, in their robes of state. 
Now came twelve French gentlemen, in splendid 
habiliments, consisting of pourpoints of white 
damask barred with gold, short mantles of crimson 
velvet lined with violet tafifeta, and carnation-colored 
hauts-de-chausses, and took their way dowm the 
steps. They were of the suite of the French ambassador, 
and were followed by twelve cavaliers of 
the suite of the Spanish ambassador, dothed in 
black velvet, unrelieved by any ornament. Following 
these came several great English nobles with 
their attendants.” 
There was a flourish of trumpets within; and the 
prince’s unde, the future great Duke of Somerset, 
emerged from the gateway, arrayed in a “doublet 
of black cloth-of-gold, and a doak of crimson satin 
flowered with gold, and ribanded with nets of 
silver.” He turned, doffed his plumed cap, bent his 
body in a low reverence, and began to step back- 
ward, bowing at each step. A prolonged trumpet- 
blast followed, and a proclamation, “Way for the 
high and mighty, the Lord Edward, Prince of Wales !” 
High aloft on the palace walls a long line of red 
tongues of flame leaped forth with a thunder-crash; 
the massed world on the river burst into a mighty 
roar of welcome; and Tom Canty, the cause and 
hero of it all, stepped into view, and slightly bowed 
his princely head. 
He was “magnificently habited in a doublet of 
white satin, with a front-piece of purple cloth-of- 
tissue, powdered with diamonds, and edged with 
ermine. Over this he wore a mantle of white cloth- 
of-gold, pounced with the triple-feather crest, lined 
with blue satin, set with pearls and precious stones, 
and fastened with a clasp of brilliants. About his 
neck hung the order of the Garter, and several 
princely foreign orders”; and wherever light fell 
upon him jewels responded with a blinding flash. 
0, Tom Canty, bom in a hovel, bred in the gutters 
of London, familiar with rags and dirt and misery, 
what a spectacle is this! 
CHAPTER X 
THE PRINCE IN THE TOILS 
WE left John Canty dragging the rightful prince 
into Offal Court, with a noisy and delighted 
mob at his heels. There was but one person in it 
who offered a pleading word for the captive, and he 
was not heeded; he was hardly even heard, so great 
was the turmoil. The prince continued to struggle 
for freedom, and to rage against the treatment he 
was suffering, imtil John Canty lost what little 
patience was left in him, and raised his oaken cudgel 
in a sudden fury over the prince’s head. The single 
pleader for the lad sprang to stop the man’s arm, 
and the blow descended upon his own wrist, Canty 
roared out; 
“Thou’lt meddle, wilt thou? Then have thy 
reward. ” 
His cudgel crashed down upon the meddler’s 
head; there was a groan, a dim form sank to the 
ground among the feet of the crowd, and the next 
momrait it lay there in the dark alone. The mob 
pressed on, their enjoyment nothing disturbed by 
this episode. 
Presently the prince found himself in John Canty’s 
abode, with the door closed against the outsiders. 
By the vague light of a tallow candle which was 
thrust into a bottle, he made out the main features 
of the loathsome den, and also of the occupants of it. 
Two frowsy girls and a middle-aged woman cowered 
against the wall in one comer, with the aspect of 
animals habituated to harsh usage, and expecting 
and dreading it now. Prom another comer stole a 
withered hag with streaming gray hair and malignant 
eyes. John Canty said to this one : 
“Tarry! There’s fine mummeries here. Mar 
them not till thou’st enjoyed them; then let thy 
hand be heavy as thou wilt. Stand forth, lad. 
Now say thy foolery again, an thou’st not forgot 
it. Name thy name. Who art thou?” 
The insulted blood mounted to the little prince’s 
cheek once more, and he lifted a steady and indignant 
gaze to the man’s face, and said: 
“’Tis but ill-breeding in such as thou to command 
me to speak. I tell thee now, as I told thee 
before, I am Edward, Prince of Wales, and none 
other.” 
The stunning surprise of this reply nailed the 
hag’s feet to the floor where she stood, and almost 
took her breath. She stared at the prince in stupid 
amazement, which so amused her ruffianly son that 
he burst into a roar of laughter. But the effect 
upon Tom Canty’s mother and sisters was different. 
Their dread of bodily injury gave way at once to 
