" Guess you 'll  have to come earlier next time. 
Most folks doos that wants to take it." 
Bartley now heard the despairing moan of a woman : 
he had already divined the sex of the futile questioner 
whom the station-master was bullying ; but he had 
divined it without compassion, and if he had not him 
self been a sufferer from the man 's insolence he might 
even have felt a ferocious satisfaction in it. In a 
word, he was at his lowest and worst when the door 
opened and the woman came in, with a movement at 
once bewildered and daring, which gave him the im 
pression of a despair as complete and final as his own. 
He doggedly kept his place ; she did not seem to care 
for him, but in the uncertain light of the lamp above 
them she drew near the stove, and, putting one hand 
to her pocket as if to find her handkerchief, she flung 
aside her veil with her other, and showed her tear- 
stained face. 
He was on his feet somehow. " Marcia ! " 
 
" Oh ! Bartley " 
He had seized her by the arm to make sure that 
she was there in verity of flesh and blood, and not by 
some trick of his own senses, as a cold chill running 
over him had made him afraid. At the touch their 
passion ignored all that they had made each other 
suffer ; her head was on his breast, his embrace was 
round her ; it was a moment of delirious bliss that 
intervened between the sorrows that had been and 
the reasons that must come. 
" What what are you doing here, Marcia ? " he 
asked at last. 
They sank on the benching that ran round the 
wall ; he held her hands fast in one of his, and kept 
his other arm about her as they sat side by side. 
" I don 't know I - She seemed to rouse her 
self by an effort from her rapture. " I was going to 
see Nettie Spaulding. And I saw you driving past 
our house ; and I thought you were coming here ; and 
I couldn 't bear I couldn 't bear to let you go away 
without telling you that I was wrong ; and asking - 
asking you to forgive me. I thought you would do it, 
I thought you would know that I had behaved that 
way because  I cared so much for yon. I thought 
- I was afraid you had gone on the other train " 
She trembled and sank back in his embrace, from 
which she had lifted herself a little. 
" How did you get here ? " asked Bartley, as if 
willing to give himself all the proofs he could of the 
every-day reality of her presence. 
"Andy Morrison brought me. Father sent him 
from the hotel. I didn 't care what you would say 
to me. I wanted to tell you that I was wrong, and 
not let you go away feeling that that you were 
all to blame. I thought when I had done that you 
might drive me away, or laugh at me, or anything 
you pleased, if only you would let me take back " 
 
" Yes," lie answered dreamily. All that wicked 
hardness was breaking up within him ; he felt it melt 
ing drop by drop in his heart. This poor love- tossed 
soul, this frantic, unguided, reckless girl, was an an 
gel of mercy to him, and in her folly and error a 
messenger of heavenly peace and hope. " I am a bad 
fellow, Marcia," he faltered. " You ought to know 
that. You did right to give me up. I made love to 
Hannah Morrison; I never promised to marry her, 
but I made her think that I was fond of her." 
"I don 't care for that," replied the girl. "I told 
you when we were first engaged that I would never 
think of anything that had gone before that ; and 
then when I would not listen to a word from you, 
that day, I broke my promise." 
"When I struck Henry Bird because he was jeal 
ous of me, I was as guilty as if I had killed him." 
" If you had killed him, I was bound to you by my 
word. Your striking him was part of the same thing, 
part of what I had promised I never would care 
for." A gush of tears came into his eyes, and she saw 
them. " Oh, poor Bartley ! Poor Bartley ! " 
She took his head between her hands and pressed 
it hard against her heart, and then wrapped her arms 
tight about him, and softly bemoaned him. 
They drew a little apart when the man came in 
with his lantern, and set it down to mend the fire. 
But as a railroad employee he was far too familiar 
with the love that vaunts itself on all railroad trains 
to feel that he was an intruder. He scarcely looked 
at them, and went out when he had mended the fire, 
and left it purring. 
" Where is Andy Morrison ? " asked Bartley. " Has 
he gone back ? " 
" No ; he is at the hotel over there. I told him to 
wait till I found out when the train went north." 
" So you inquired when it went to Boston," said 
 
Bartley, with a touch of his old raillery. " Come," 
he added, taking her hand under his arm. He led 
her out of the room, to where his cutter stood outside. 
She was astonished to find the colt there. 
" I wonder I didn 't see it. But if I had, I should 
have thought that you had sold it and gone away ; 
Andy told me you were coming here to sell the colt. 
When the man told me the express was gone, I knew 
you were on it." 
They found the boy stolidly waiting for Marcia on 
the veranda of the hotel, stamping first upon one 
foot and then the other, and hugging himself in his 
great-coat as the coming snow-fall blew its first flakes 
in his face. 
" Is that you, Andy ? " asked Bartley. 
" Yes, sir," answered the boy, without surprise at 
finding him with Marcia. 
" Well, here ! Just take hold of the colt 's head a 
minute." 
As the boy obeyed, Bartley threw the reins on the 
dashboard, and leaped out of the cutter, and went 
within. He returned after a brief absence, followed 
by the landlord. 
" Well, it ain 't more n a mile n a half, if it 's that. 
You just keep straight along this street, and take 
your first turn to the left, and you 're right at the 
house ; it 's the first house on the left-hand side." 
" Thanks," returned Bartley. " Andy, you tell the 
Squire that you left Marcia with me, and I said I 
would see about her getting back You needn 't 
hurry." 
" All right;" said the boy, and he disappeared round 
the corner of the house to get his horse from the 
barn. 
" Well, I 'll  be all ready by the time you 're here," 
said the landlord, still holding the hall-door ajar. 
" Luck to you ! " he shouted, shutting it. 
 
Marcia locked both her hands through Bartley 's 
arm, and leaned her head on his shoulder. Neither 
spoke for some minutes ; then he asked, " Marcia, do 
you know where you are ? " 
" With you," she answered, in a voice of utter peace. 
" Do you know where we are going ? " he asked, 
