“Then who would live at home idly,” he exhorts his countrymen, “or think
in himself any worth to live, only to eat, drink and sleep, and so die;
or by consuming that carelessly his friends got worthily, or by using
that miserably that maintained virtue honestly, or for being descended
nobly, or pine with the vain vaunt of great kindred in penury, or to
maintain a silly show of bravery, toil out thy heart, soul and time
basely; by shifts, tricks, cards and dice, or by relating news of other
men’s actions, sharke here and there for a dinner or supper, deceive
thy friends by fair promises and dissimulations, in borrowing when thou
never meanest to pay, offend the laws, surfeit with excess, burden thy
country, abuse thyself, despair in want, and then cozen thy kindred,
yea, even thy own brother, and wish thy parent’s death (I will not say
damnation), to have their estates, though thou seest what honors and
rewards the world yet hath for them that will seek them and worthily
deserve them.”
“I would be sorry to offend, or that any should mistake my honest
meaning: for I wish good to all, hurt to none; but rich men for the most
part are grown to that dotage through their pride in their wealth, as
though there were no accident could end it or their life.”
“And what hellish care do such take to make it their own misery and
their countrie’s spoil, especially when there is such need of their
employment, drawing by all manner of inventions from the Prince and his
honest subjects, even the vital spirits of their powers and estates; as
if their bags or brags were so powerful a defense, the malicious could
not assault them, when they are the only bait to cause us not only to
be assaulted, but betrayed and smothered in our own security ere we will
prevent it.”
And he adds this good advice to those who maintain their children
in wantonness till they grow to be the masters: “Let this lamentable
example [the ruin of Constantinople] remember you that are rich (seeing
there are such great thieves in the world to rob you) not grudge to lend
some proportion to breed them that have little, yet willing to learn how
to defend you, for it is too late when the deed is done.”
No motive of action did Smith omit in his importunity, for “Religion
above all things should move us, especially the clergy, if we are
religious.” “Honor might move the gentry, the valiant and industrious,
and the hope and assurance of wealth all, if we were that we would seem
and be accounted; or be we so far inferior to other nations, or our
spirits so far dejected from our ancient predecessors, or our minds
so upon spoil, piracy and such villainy, as to serve the Portugall,
Spaniard, Dutch, French or Turke (as to the cost of Europe too many do),
rather than our own God, our king, our country, and ourselves; excusing
our idleness and our base complaints by want of employment, when here
is such choice of all sorts, and for all degrees, in the planting and
discovering these North parts of America.”
It was all in vain so far as Smith’s fortunes were concerned. The
planting and subjection of New England went on, and Smith had no part in
it except to describe it. The Brownists, the Anabaptists, the Papists,
the Puritans, the Separatists, and “such factious Humorists,” were
taking possession of the land that Smith claimed to have “discovered,”
 and in which he had no foothold. Failing to get employment anywhere,
he petitioned the Virginia Company for a reward out of the treasury in
London or the profits in Virginia.
At one of the hot discussions in 1623 preceding the dissolution of the
Virginia Company by the revocation of their charter, Smith was present,
and said that he hoped for his time spent in Virginia he should receive
that year a good quantity of tobacco. The charter was revoked in 1624
after many violent scenes, and King James was glad to be rid of what he
called “a seminary for a seditious parliament.” The company had made
use of lotteries to raise funds, and upon their disuse, in 1621, Smith
proposed to the company to compile for its benefit a general history.
This he did, but it does not appear that the company took any action on
his proposal. At one time he had been named, with three others, as a
fit person for secretary, on the removal of Mr. Pory, but as only three
could be balloted for, his name was left out. He was, however, commended
as entirely competent.
After the dissolution of the companies, and the granting of new
letters-patent to a company of some twenty noblemen, there seems to have
been a project for dividing up the country by lot. Smith says: “All this
they divided in twenty parts, for which they cast lots, but no lot
for me but Smith’s Isles, which are a many of barren rocks, the most
overgrown with shrubs, and sharp whins, you can hardly pass them;
without either grass or wood, but three or four short shrubby old
cedars.”
The plan was not carried out, and Smith never became lord of even these
barren rocks, the Isles of Shoals. That he visited them when he sailed
along the coast is probable, though he never speaks of doing so. In the
Virginia waters he had left a cluster of islands bearing his name also.
In the Captain’s “True Travels,” published in 1630, is a summary of the
condition of colonization in New England from Smith’s voyage thence till
the settlement of Plymouth in 1620, which makes an appropriate close to
our review of this period:
“When I first went to the North part of Virginia, where the Westerly
Colony had been planted, it had dissolved itself within a year, and
there was not one Christian in all the land. I was set forth at the sole
charge of four merchants of London; the Country being then reputed by
your westerlings a most rocky, barren, desolate desart; but the good
return I brought from thence, with the maps and relations of the
Country, which I made so manifest, some of them did believe me, and they
were well embraced, both by the Londoners, and Westerlings, for whom I
had promised to undertake it, thinking to have joyned them all together,
but that might well have been a work for Hercules. Betwixt them long
there was much contention: the Londoners indeed went bravely forward:
but in three or four years I and my friends consumed many hundred pounds
amongst the Plimothians, who only fed me but with delays, promises, and
excuses, but no performance of anything to any purpose. In the interim,
many particular ships went thither, and finding my relations true, and
that I had not taken that I brought home from the French men, as had
been reported: yet further for my pains to discredit me, and my calling
it New England, they obscured it, and shadowed it, with the title of
Canada, till at my humble suit, it pleased our most Royal King Charles,
whom God long keep, bless and preserve, then Prince of Wales, to confirm
it with my map and book, by the title of New England; the gain thence
returning did make the fame thereof so increase that thirty, forty or
fifty sail went yearly only to trade and fish; but nothing would be done
for a plantation, till about some hundred of your Brownists of England,
Amsterdam and Leyden went to New Plimouth, whose humorous ignorances,
caused them for more than a year, to endure a wonderful deal of misery,
with an infinite patience; saying my books and maps were much better
cheap to teach them than myself: many others have used the like
good husbandry that have payed soundly in trying their self-willed
conclusions; but those in time doing well, diverse others have in small
handfulls undertaken to go there, to be several Lords and Kings of
themselves, but most vanished to nothing.”
XVII. WRITINGS-LATER YEARS
If Smith had not been an author, his exploits would have occupied
a small space in the literature of his times. But by his unwearied
narrations he impressed his image in gigantic features on our plastic
continent. If he had been silent, he would have had something less
than justice; as it is, he has been permitted to greatly exaggerate his
relations to the New World. It is only by noting the comparative silence
of his contemporaries and by winnowing his own statements that we can
appreciate his true position.
For twenty years he was a voluminous writer, working off his superfluous
energy in setting forth his adventures in new forms. Most of his
writings are repetitions and recastings of the old material, with such
reflections as occur to him from time to time. He seldom writes a book,
or a tract, without beginning it or working into it a resume of his
life. The only exception to this is his “Sea Grammar.” In 1626 he
published “An Accidence or the Pathway to Experience, necessary to all
Young Seamen,” and in 1627 “A Sea Grammar, with the plain Exposition of
Smith’s Accidence for Young Seamen, enlarged.” This is a technical work,
and strictly confined to the building, rigging, and managing of a ship.
He was also engaged at the time of his death upon a “History of the
Sea,” which never saw the light. He was evidently fond of the sea, and
we may say the title of Admiral came naturally to him, since he used
it in the title-page to his “Description of New England,” published in
1616, although it was not till 1617 that the commissioners at Plymouth
agreed to bestow upon him the title of “Admiral of that country.”
In 1630 he published “The True Travels, Adventures and Observations of
