" Oh yes, I am. I remember perfectly how distinctly you let 
me know you didn't like it. I was very glad when he went 
away." 
" Leave him alone then. Don't run after him." 
Isabel turned her eyes away from him ; they rested upon his 
little drawing. 
" I must go to England," she said, with a full consciousness 
that her tone might strike an irritable man of taste as stupidly 
obstinate. 
" I shall not like it if you do," Osmond remarked. 
" Why should I mind that ? You won't like it if I don't. 
You like nothing I do or don't do. You pretend to think 
I lie." 
Osmond turned slightly pale ; he gave a cold smile. 
" That's why you must go then ? Not to see your cousin, but 
to take a revenge on me." 
" I know nothing about revenge." 
" I do," said Osmond. " Don't give me an occasion." 
" You are only too eager to take one. You wish immensely 
that I would commit some folly." 
" I shall be gratified then if you disobey me." 
" If I disobey you ? " said Isabel, in a low tone, which had 
the effect of gentleness. 
" Let it be clear. If you leave Borne to-day it will be a piece 
of the most deliberate, the most calculated, opposition." 
" How can you call it calculated ? I received my aunt's 
telegram but three minutes ago." 
" You calculate rapidly ; it's a great accomplishment. I 
don't see why we should prolong our discussion ; you know 
my wish." And he stood there as if he expected to see her 
withdraw. 
But she never moved ; she couldn't, move, strange as it may 
seem ; she still wished to justify herself ; he had the power, in 
an extraordinary degree, of making her feel this need. There 
was something in her imagination that he could always appeal 
to against her judgment. 
" You have no reason for such a wish," said Isabel, " and I 
 
have every reason for going. I can't tell you how unjust you 
seem to me. But I think you know. It is your own opposition 
that is calculated. It is malignant." 
She had never uttered her worst thought to her husband 
before, and the sensation of hearing it was evidently new to 
Osmond. But he showed no surprise, and his coolness was 
apparently a proof that he had believed his wife would in fact 
be unable to resist for ever his ingenious endeavour to draw 
her out. 
"It is all the more intense, then," he answered. And he 
added, almost as if he were giving her a friendly counsel 
" This is a very important matter." She recognised this ; she 
was fully conscious of the weight of the occasion ; she knew 
that between them they had arrived at a crisis. Its gravity 
made her careful; she said nothing, and he went on. " You 
say I have no reason ? I have the very best. I dislike, from 
the bottom of my soul, what you intend to do. It's dishonour- 
able ; it's indelicate ; it's indecent. Your cousin is nothing 
whatever to me. and I am under no obligation to make conces- 
sions to him. I have already made the very handsomest. Your 
relations with him, while he was here, kept me on pins and 
needles ; but I let that pass, because from week to week I 
expected him to go. I have never liked him and he has never 
liked me. That's why you like him because he hates me," said 
Osmond, with a quick, barely audible tremor in his voice. " I 
have an ideal of what my wife should do and should not do. 
She should not travel across Europe alone, in defiance of my 
deepest desire, to sit at the bedside of other men. Your cousin 
is nothing to you ; he is nothing to us. You smile most express- 
ively when I talk about us ; but I assure you that we, we, is all 
that I know. I take our marriage seriously ; you appear to have 
found a way of not doing so. I am not aware that we are 
divorced or separated ; for me we are indissolubly united. You 
are nearer to me than any human creature, and I am nearer to 
you. It may be a disagreeable proximity ; it's one, at any rate, 
of our own deliberate making. You don't like to be reminded 
of that, I know; but I am perfectly willing, because because " 
And Osmond paused a moment, looking as if he had something 
to say which would be very much to the point. " Because I 
think we , should accept the consequences of our actions, and 
what I value most in life is the honour of a thing ! " 
He spoke gravely and almost gently ; the accent of sarcasm 
had dropped out of his tone. It had a gravity which checked 
nis wife's quick emotion ; the resolution with which she had 
 
entered the room found itself caught in a mesh of fine threads. 
His last words were not a command, they constituted a kind of 
appeal ; and though she felt that any expression of respect on 
Osmond's part could only be a refinement of egotism, they 
represented something transcendent and absolute, like the sign 
of the cross or the flag of one's country. He spoke in the 
name of something sacred and precious the observance of a 
magnificent form. They were as perfectly apart in feeling as 
two disillusioned lovers had ever been ; but they had never 
yet separated in act. Isabel had not changed ; her old passion 
for justice still abode within her ; and now, in the very thick 
oi her sense of -her husband's blasphemous sophistry, it began 
to throb to a tune which for a moment promised him the 
victory. It came over her that in his wish to preserve appear- 
ances he was after all sincere, and that this, as far as it went, 
was a merit. Ten minutes before, she had felt all the joy 
of irreflective action a joy to which she had so long been a 
stranger ; but action had been suddenly changed to slow renun- 
ciation, transformed by the blight of her husband's touch. If 
she must renounce, however, she would let him know that she 
was a victim rather than a dupe. " I know you are a master of 
the art of mockery," she said. " How can you speak of an 
indissoluble union how can you speak of your being contented ? 
"Where is our union when you accuse me of falsity ? Where is 
your contentment when you have nothing but hideous suspicion 
in your heart ? " 
" It is in our living decently together, in spite of such 
drawbacks." 
" We don't live decently together ! " Isabel cried. 
" Indeed we don't, if you go to England." 
" That's very little; that's nothing. I might do much more." 
Osmond raised his eyebrows and even his shoulders a little ; 
he had lived long enough in Italy to catch this trick. " Ah, if 
you have come to threaten me, I prefer my drawing," he said, 
walking back to his table, where he took up the sheet of paper 
on which he had been working and stood a moment examining 
his work. 
" I suppose that if I go you will not expect me to come back," 
said Isabel. 
He turned quickly round, and she could see that this move- 
ment at least was not studied. He looked at her a little, and 
then " Are you out of your mind ? " he inquired. 
" How can it be anything but a rupture ? " she went on ; 
" especially if all you say is true   " She was unable to see how 
 
it could be anything but a rupture ; she sincerely wished .to 
know what else it might be. 
Osmond sat down before his table. " I really can't argue with 
you on the hypothesis of your defying me," he said. And he 
took up one of his little brushes again. 
Isabel lingered but a moment longer ; long enough to embrace 
with her eye his whole deliberately indifferent, yet most express- 
ive, figure ; after which she quickly left the room. Her faculties, 
her energy, her passion, were all dispersed again ; she felt as 
if a cold, dark mist had suddenly encompassed her. Osmond 
possessed in a supreme degree the art of eliciting one's weakness. 
On her way back to her room she found the Countess Gemini 
