open.
"I have never been on board of your steamer yet, Captain Alick," said
he, with a sort of ghastly grin, which I could not understand. "I
wanted to get out this afternoon to make a visit to her."
"She can be seen by everybody who chooses to visit her, and I shall be
glad to see you on board of her," I replied. "All hands are on shore
now, except Cobbington, who is acting as ship-keeper. He will show you
all over the Sylvania, if I am not on board."
"Where are you going from here in her?" asked Nick.
"We shall run down the coast of Florida, then across the Gulf of
Mexico, and then up the Mississippi," I replied.
"I wish I was going with you," added Nick.
I did not wish he was going with me, and so I said nothing. I had taken
leave of the captain and his son, and was about to depart when Mrs.
Boomsby came into the saloon from the front entry.
"You here, Sandy," said she, bestowing a look of disgust upon me.
"I leave early to-morrow morning, and I dropped in to say good-bye. I
will say the same to you, Mrs. Boomsby," I added, moving towards the
door.
"You needn't trouble yourself to say good-bye to me, for sakes knows I
don't keer whether I ever see you again or not," replied the amiable
lady, with a frown on her countenance which was enough to prevent me
from saying anything more. I bowed and moved towards the door.
"I s'pose you think you are mighty grand, sailin' about in a steam
yacht; but you'll come to a bad end yet," continued Mrs. Boomsby.
That was just what her husband had said to me, and I concluded they had
talked the matter over again. I did not wait to hear any more. I
entered the saloon on a friendly mission; I had forgiven my worst
enemies,--I could conceive of none worse than the Boomsbys,--and I was
not willing to have any words with the most virulent one of the family.
I walked out of the saloon. I heard some further uncomplimentary
allusions to myself as I closed the door behind me; but I believed that
was the last I should ever see of any of the Boomsby family.
I walked up to Colonel Shepard's house, and found all the family, as
well as Owen there. They were evidently engaged in the discussion of
some topic of interest when I entered. I had come up to press their
acceptance of the invitation I had given them to continue the yachting
excursion with me up the Mississippi; but before I had time to say
anything about it, Owen told me the Shepards had concluded to decline
the invitation. I was rather taken aback by this announcement, for the
party were exceedingly pleasant company, and I knew that Margie Tiffany
would enjoy being with her friend, Edith Shepard.
"You have treated us exceedingly well, Captain Alick, on board of the
Sylvania, and we shall all be grateful to you as long as we live, for
all the pleasure you have afforded us," said Colonel Shepard.
"I shall be greatly disappointed, sir, if your family do not go with
us," I answered, wondering at his decision. "We can accommodate you
very well, and the more the merrier, you know."
"You forget that I am the owner of a steam yacht like the Sylvania,"
continued Colonel Shepard, smiling. "I expected to send her to New
York, but I concluded not to do so until we were ready to go
ourselves."
"I knew that the Islander was still here, and she can take you anywhere
you wish to go as comfortably as the Sylvania; but I should be very
glad to have you continue to be our passengers."
"As you have your father with you now, I think you will get along very
well without us," laughed the colonel. "I only wish I had you and your
crew to run the Islander for me."
"Thank you; you are very kind, sir. I am afraid we shall not be able to
leave the Sylvania. But where are you going?"
"It is still an open question whether we proceed directly to New York,
cruise awhile in the vicinity of Florida, or go with you. I am not
quite willing to leave the State until I have pulled in a few more
red-fish, black bass, and other fish such as we caught in Indian
River."
"I suppose you don't propose to take Captain Boomsby with you as
captain of the Islander. You remember that he came to Florida in
command of her," I added.
"I don't propose to take any such person. I retain the captain and crew
I engaged to take the Islander to New York," replied Colonel Shepard.
"Captain Blastblow has seen service in a yacht, and has commanded a
steamer."
"I have no doubt he is entirely competent."
"I think he is, or I would not trust my family to his care. While we
were up the St. Johns, he put the Islander in first-rate condition. He
has had her boiler and machinery overhauled, and declares she has the
best engine he ever saw in a steamer. I went down to see her as soon as
we arrived. He has engaged a steward, waiters, and others, and I think
we shall be ready to sail as soon as you are," continued the colonel.
"We are off early to-morrow morning," I added.
"Captain Blastblow told me at noon he should be ready to sail to-night.
I expect a letter to-day from New York, and that will enable me to
decide where we go."
I soon took my leave, for I had to engage a steward before night. I was
amazed at the decision of Colonel Shepard, and I could not help
thinking he had some motive for his course which did not appear on the
surface. I decided to call upon my father on my way to the wharf, for
he was staying at the Carlton with the Tiffanys. I had gone but a few
steps before Owen caught up with me.
"I want you to understand, Alick, that I am not concerned in this
business," said he, in a deprecatory tone. "I had no idea what the
colonel intended to do until I went to his house this afternoon."
"O, I don't blame you for it, Owen," I replied.
"But I think they would have gone with us if I had held the charter of
the vessel as before," he added.
"I think that need make no difference. I suppose you will go in the
Islander now," I continued, laughing, for I did not think he would be
able to break away from Miss Edith.
"I don't know, Alick. To tell the truth, I have had no invitation to go
in the Islander; and without one I surely shall not go in her."
This seemed to me to be a little odd, and I was thinking of it when we
came to the Carlton, where I found my father on the piazza. We told him
the whole story. To my astonishment, he said he was glad to hear it. I
told him Owen had no invitation to go in the Islander.
"And he will have none," added my father, bluntly. "Owen, if you accept
any such invitation, should one be given, the Sylvania will part
company with the Islander as soon as we get out of the river."
"That is very odd, uncle Bent," answered Owen.
"I have a very great respect for Colonel and Mrs. Shepard; and what he
has done, probably by the counsel of his wife, removes the only doubt I
had of him. Owen, you are a perfect spoon! It is not quite proper that
you and Miss Edith should be spooning all the time, night and day; and
to my mind, Colonel Shepard has decided to go in his own yacht to
prevent this thing, as well as to retain his own self-respect. I dare
say he is no longer willing to be the guests, with his whole family, of
Alick or yourself. That's the whole of it. It is better for you to
visit the young lady occasionally than to spend weeks or months with
her in a little steam-yacht."
I thought my father was rather severe upon my cousin, and I determined
to speak to him about the matter when we were alone. I told my father
that Peeks had been obliged to leave, and that I must look up a steward
at once.
He told me I need not go far to find one, and recommended me to give
the place to Cobbington. I had not thought of such a thing, and I
hastened on board to consider the matter.
CHAPTER IV.
NICK BOOMSBY HAS ASPIRATIONS.
When I reached Market Wharf I found that the Islander had hauled out
into the stream from the wharf where she had been undergoing repairs.
Captain Blastblow had certainly done his work well. The twin sister of
the Sylvania had been painted, and she looked as though she had just
come out of the ship-yard for the first time. She was moored off the
yacht-club house, and the American flag was flying at her peak, as
though she had just gone into commission.
I earnestly hoped that Colonel Shepard would conclude to make the trip
up the Mississippi, for I was very confident we should enjoy yachting
on the great river much more in company with the Islander, and the
pleasant party on board of her, than we could alone.
I took a shore boat to board the Sylvania, for as this was our last
chance on shore for the present, all hands had been allowed to spend
