" Well," he says, " did our travelled truant surprise you 
yesterday ? He is  bearded like a pard,' and has lost that 
air of fastidious and exclusive over-civilization. On the 
whole, I think him improved. He is coming up to the 
height of his years. Grave as St. George has been since 
his father's death, he has seemed in many ways extremely 
young to me." 
" He is changed in some mysterious manner," Miss Or- 
miston responds absently, as if she had not quite assimi- 
lated the whole truth about him. " And I have changed, 
too," she goes on frankly. " I wonder if I have not 
made myself intensely disagreeable at times? I shall 
 
 
 
have to admit you were right in this as in many other 
things. I have been holding fast to an nnreasoning and 
I fear, unreasonable prejudice ; but henceforward we shall 
be friends." 
Donaldson laughs softly, but magnanimously forbears 
to triumph. 
" It is partly about him that I have come. I wanted to 
ask you — I spoke inadvertently last evening about the trus- 
teeship of the estate — " And she pauses in some embar- 
rassment. " I thought of this before, but should have 
consulted you first. Could you, wotUd you take it? " 
Donaldson is greatly surprised. Has she any deep rea- 
son that she does not wish to confess? 
'' But it would seem so curt to push him out ; just as 
if, knowing we could get along without him, we turn the 
cold shoulder, offer him thanks and a dismissal.'' 
Her face is in a flush of distressful scarlet. 
" It is nothing like that," she exclaims hurriedly. * ' But 
he may settle himself elsewhere ; he may want to devote 
his time to art, and he has been most generous ; while you 
are here, and the little more, — oh, am I aeMng too much 
from you?" 
"Not too much," with a gesture of the hand. "If 
there were any real need, I would gladly take all the re- 
sponsibility ; and as it is, I am honored by the trust you 
repose in me. But it doesn't seem quite kind, friendly, 
unless he suggested it." 
" I spoke to him about it," she says with a cool reserve 
in her tone. "I fancied it wovM relieve him. Then I 
wanted you to know it before he came to explain." 
Is there something beneath all this? Would she rather 
feel free from all bonds to Leighton St. George, because 
she has a dim shadow of some crisis impending? 
" Well," he replies rather reluctantly, " I will do what- 
ever you two think best. If he really desires to give it up 
—but there maybe some legal aspects that we have not con* 
 
 
Bidered. The trustee, you know, is a continual check upon 
me, that I may not have the opportunity to walk in Mr. 
Treverton's footsteps." 
She faces him indignantly at this, and looks most su- 
perb in her anger. 
" You see," he says rather gayly, " the law does try to 
keep men out of temptation by various safeguards. We 
are all quite certain of our own honesty, but we cannot be 
sure until temptation has touched us with her 'electric fin- 
ger in some weak spot, and it may prove us too weak for 
the task set before us. But if you like, we will consider 
the point." 
She evidently feels annoyed, disappointed. She fan- 
cied it a matter so easily settled, and now her good sense 
shows her that it is hardly possible. 
"Well," she makes answer, "I wanted you to know 
why I came to speak of it." 
She turns then. He does not know the why, but affects 
to treat it as a thing of not much moment, after all. Then 
with a little smile he says, — 
" While you are so considerate here. Miss Ormiston, 
extend your kindly care a little further. Do not let that 
pretty siren, Miss Allaire, make big eyes at our friend and 
turn his brain." 
A vivid scarlet flashes up in her face. Are his half- 
suspicions correct? 
Christmas goes home much disquieted. There is but one 
thing to do, make Dolly announce her engagement ; and 
oddly enough, this comes about before she even has an 
opportunity to try persuasion. 
Dolly comes down in a ravishing toilet of the most 
xnginue simplicity. The morning has been warm, but the 
sun grows more intense in its rays. The two ladies choose 
the shady porch where there is a breeze, and the light is 
filtered tiirough leaves of coolest green. Bamboo chairs 
in white and red, or brown and gilt, some with cushions 
 
 
 
of ease, others inyitingly without, make it a second edi« 
tion of the drawing-room seen through the vista of French 
windows with the draperies drawn aside. 
Carriages and dainty carts go leisurely along. Evi- 
dently there are people who brave a midsummer heat; 
but the great trees of the country road were preserved on 
one side when it was made into a more pretentious 
avenue, and there is some shade. One of the carts, 
very handsome in its way, stops at the drive a moment, 
then winds leisurely up. 
The owner and occupant is a fair young woman, sty* 
lishly dressed, a Mrs. Brundage, who made Miss Ormistoi"s 
acquaintance the summer before, and is settled again at 
the Cliff House. She ties her pony and entreats that they 
will not disturb themselves, for it is delightful out here. 
Surely Miss Ormiston is to be envied in the summer, but 
she cannot imagine one braving the dreariness of the 
winter. 
Mrs. Brundage has some business beyond the mere 
compliment of a call, and she presently unfolds it. The 
ladies at Cliff House have resolved upon a somewhat 
grand undertaking, amateur theatricals, with a play of 
some merit, not merely a show of elegant gowns and 
jewels. And' to give it the real flavor, tickets must be 
sold and the proceeds put to some useful purpose. 
"AU this is sort of siib rosa"' she explains, with a 
discreet nod of her head in its dainty chip hat, nearly 
covered with white silk mull and two brilliant poppies. 
"We want a charitable object, and knowing you were 
interested in the new Orphans' Home, we thought of that. 
Do you suppose the committee would not only accept the 
money, but allow us to state the object? It gives a kind 
of eclat, you know." 
" I am not on the committee, but I see no reasonable 
objection," returns Miss Ormiston, thoughtfully. 
" Some people are so queer about such tilings ! " and a 
 
 
toacb of contempt curls the pretty mouth. " In the city, 
you know, we should choose our own audience ; but we do 
not want to act to empty chairs " ; and she laughs lightly. 
"We may be of some real service, if the people are not 
too straitlaced. And if you wovM be kind enough to 
learn whether they would be pleased to accept the pro- 
ceeds of our united talent ! " she entreats. 
" With pleasure," Miss Ormiston replies, most cordially. 
Dolly meanwhile has been growing interested and ea- 
ger-eyed. Mrs. Bmndage has given her several glances 
