"But I cannot do that," said Rotha, with the nearest approach to a laugh 
that she had made since the previous Friday. 

"Yes, you can. First, be a good woman; and then, get all the knowledge 
and all the accomplishments, and all the acquirements, that come in your 
way. Drawing, certainly, for you have a true love for that. How is it 
with music? Are you fond of it?" 

"I don't know," Rotha said low. "Mr. Digby, can I not--some time--do 
something for you?" 

"Yes," said he, looking up at her with a laughing glance, "you can do all 
these things for me. I want you to be as good a woman, and as wise a 
woman, and as accomplished a woman, as you are able to become." 

"Then I will," said Rotha very quietly. 

The carriage came. Rotha covered up her old dress as well as she could 
under her silk mantle, very ill satisfied with the joint effect, She 
behaved very well, however; was perfectly quiet during the drive, and 
only once asked, 

"Mr. Digby, you said I might write to you?" 

"As often as you like. But you will see me too, Rotha, though not every 
day. If anything goes wrong with you, let me know." 

That was all; and then the carriage turned a corner and stopped in a 
street of high, regular, stately houses, with high flights of doorsteps. 
Poor Rotha felt her gown dreadfully out of place; but her bearing did not 
betray her. She was trying hard to form herself on Mr. Digby's model, and 
so to be even and calm and unimpassioned in her manners. Not easy, when a 
young heart beats as hers was beating then. They entered the house. Mrs. 
Busby was not in, the servant said; at the same time she opened the door 
of the parlour, and Mr. Digby and Rotha went in. 

Nobody was there; only the luxurious presence of warmth and colour and 
softness and richness, whichever way the girl looked. She tried not to 
look; she fixed her eyes on the glowing grate; while a keen sense of 
wrong and a bitter feeling of resentment and opposition swelled her 
heart. This was how her aunt lived! and her mother had done sewing for 
her bread, and not got it. If the flowers in the carpet had been living 
exotics, they would have thriven in the warm air that surrounded them, 
and feared no frost; and her mother's fire had been fed by charity! It 
was to the credit of Rotha's budding power of self-command that she 
shewed nothing of what she felt. She was outwardly calm and impassive. 

Then the heavy door was pushed inward and a figure appeared for which she 
was scarcely prepared. A young girl of about her own age, also a 
contrast. There was nothing but contrasts here. She was excessively 
pretty, and as lively as a soap bubble. Something of her mother's 
hardness of outlines, perhaps; but in that fifteen must needs be far 
different from fifty; and this face was soft enough, with a lovely 
tinting of white and red, charming little pearly teeth, a winning smile, 
and pretty movements. She was not so tall as Rotha; and generally they 
were as unlike as two girls could be. In dress too, as in everything 
else. This new-comer on the scene was as bright as a flower; in a new 
cashmere, fashionably made, of a green hue that set off the fresh tints 
of her skin, edged with delicate laces which softened the lines between 
the one and the other. She came in smiling and eager. 

"Mr. Southwode! how long it is since we have seen you! What made you stay 
away so? Mamma is out; she told me if you came I must see you. I am so 
sorry she is out! No, I am very glad to see you; but I know you wanted to 
see mamma. I'll do as well as I can." And she smiled most graciously on 
him, but hitherto had not looked at Rotha, though Mr. Digby knew one 
glance of her eye had taken her all in. 

"Miss Antoinette," said he, shaking hands with her, "this is your 
cousin." 

The eyes came round, the smile faded. 

"Oh!--" said she. "I knew it must be you. How do you do? Mamma is out; 
she'll be so sorry. But your room is ready. Would you like to go up to it 
at once, and take off your things?"--Then without waiting for an answer, 
she pulled the bell twice, and springing to the door cried out, "Lesbia! 
Lesbia!--Lesbia, where are you? O here you are. Lesbia, take this young 
lady--up stairs and shew her her room--you know, the little room that you 
put in order yesterday. Take her up there and shew her where things are; 
and then take her to mamma's room; do you understand? Miss Carpenter what 
is her name, Mr. Southwode? Rotha? O what a lovely name! Rotha, if you 
will go up stairs with the girl, she will shew you your way." 

"I will not go yet, thank you," said Rotha. 

Antoinette looked at her, seemingly taken aback at this. 

"Don't you want to go up and take off your things?" she said. "I think 
you will be more comfortable." 

"I would rather stay here." 

Mr. Digby suppressed a smile, and had also to suppress a sigh. This by-
play was very clear to him, and gave him forebodings. He hoped it was not 
clear to Rotha. However, he did not much prolong his stay after that. He 
knew it was pain to Rotha and better ended; she must learn to swim in 
these new waters, and the sooner she was pushed from her hold the kinder 
the hard service would be. So he took leave of Miss Antoinette, and then, 
taking Rotha's cold hand, he did what he had never done before; stooped 
down and kissed her. He said only one word, "Remember!"--and went away. 

He had thought to give the girl a little bit of comfort; and he had not 
only comforted her, but lifted her up into paradise, for the moment. A 
whole flood tide of pleasure seemed to pour itself into Rotha's heart, 
making her deaf and blind to what was around her or what Antoinette said. 
She went up stairs like one on wings, with the blood tingling in every 
corner of her frame. If she had known, or if Mr. Digby had guessed, what 
that kiss was to cost her. But that is the way in this life; we start and 
shiver at the entrance of what is to be a path of flowers to our feet; 
and we welcome eagerly the sugared bait which is to bring us into a 
network of difficulty. 

There was an under current of different feeling however, in Rotha's mind; 
and the two girls as they went up stairs were as great a contrast to each 
other as could be imagined. The one carried a heart conscious of a secret 
and growing weight; the other had scarce gravity enough to keep her to 
the earth's surface. So the one tripped lightly on ahead, and the other 
mounted slowly, rebelling inwardly at every step she set her foot upon. 
What a long flight of stairs! and how heavily carpeted; and with what 
massive balusters framed in. Nothing like it had Rotha ever seen, and she 
set her teeth as she mounted. Arrived at last at the second floor, 
Antoinette passed swiftly along to the foot of another flight. "There is 
mamma's room," said she, pointing to an open door; "and that is mine," 
indicating a small room adjoining; "now here is yours." She had got to 
the top, and preceded Rotha into the small room off the hall at the head 
of the stairs. 

It was very small, of course; furnished with sufficient neatness, but 
certainly with old things. It was not like the rest of the house. That 
was no matter; the furniture was still as good as Rotha had been 
accustomed to in her best days, at home; yet she missed something. It 
looked poor and bare, and very cramped. Perhaps one reason might be, that 
the day was chill and dark and here were no signs of a fire, nor even a 
place to make one; and that luxury Rotha had never missed. Her mother  
and she had kept scant fires at one time, it is true; but since Mr. Digby  
had taken the oversight of their affairs, their rooms had been always 
deliciously warm. Anyhow, the place made a cheerless impression on Rotha. 
She took off her hat and mantle. 

