with his second one. They got their own looks from the first. Well,” he
added, “I hope she’s a tough one. She’s got either to bend or to break.”

“They say,” said Cap’n George Wray, like one rising from the dead to say
it, so dumb and motionless had he been till now, “that Mis’ Mulbridge
was too much for the old doctor.”

“I don’t know about that,” Cap’n Billy replied, “but I guess her son’s
too much for her: she’s only Gardiner, and he’s Gardiner and Mulbridge
both.”

No one changed countenance, but a sense of Cap’n Billy’s wit sparely
yet satisfyingly glimmered from the eyes of Cap’n George and the
storekeeper, and Cap’n Jabez closed his knife with a snap and looked up.
“Perhaps,” he suggested, “she’s seen enough of him to know beforehand
that there would be too much of him.”

“I never rightly understood,” said Hackett, “just what it was about him,
there in the army--coming out a year beforehand, that way.”

“I guess you never will,--from him,” said Cap’n Jabez.

“Laziness, I guess,--too much work,” said old Cap’n Billy. “What he
wants is a wife with money. There ain’t a better doctor anywhere.
I’ve heard ‘t up to Boston, where he got his manifest, they thought
everything of him. He’s smart enough, but he’s lazy, and he always was
lazy, and harder’n a nut. He’s a curious mixtur’. ‘N’ I guess he’s been
on the lookout for somethin’ of this kind ever sence he begun practising
among the summer boarders. Guess he’s had an eye out.”

“They say he’s poplar among ‘em,” observed the storekeeper thoughtfully.

“He’s been pooty p’tic’lar, or they have,” said Cap’n Jabez.

“Well, most on ‘em’s merried women,” Hackett urged. “It’s astonishin’
how they do come off and leave their husbands, the whole summer long.
They say they’re all out o’ health, though.”

“I wonder,” said old Cap’n Billy, “if them coaliers is goin’ to make a
settled thing of haulin’ inside before they signal a pilot.”

“I know one thing,” answered Cap’n Jabez, “that if any coalier signals
me in the channel, I’ll see her in hell first” He slipped his smooth,
warm knife into his pocket, and walked out of the store amid a general
silence.

“He’s consid’ble worked up, about them coaliers,” said old Cap’n Billy.
“I don’t know as I’ve heard Jabez swear before--not since he was mate of
the Gallatin. He used to swear then, consid’able.”

“Them coaliers is enough to make any one swear,” said Cap’n George. “If
it’s any ways fair weather they won’t take you outside, and they cut you
down from twenty-five dollars to two dollars if they take you inside.”

Old Cap’n Billy did not answer before he had breathed awhile, and then,
having tried his cigar and found it out, he scraped a match on his
coat-sleeve. He looked at the flame while it burned from blue to yellow.
“Well, I guess if anybody’s been p’tic’lar, it’s been him. There ain’t
any doubt but what he’s got a takin’ way with the women. They like him.
He’s masterful, and he ain’t a fool, and women most gen’ly like a man
that ain’t a fool. I guess if he ‘s got his eye on the girl’s prop’ty,
she’ll have to come along. He’d begin by havin’ his own way about her
answer; he’d hang on till she said Yes, if she did n’t say it first-off;
and he’d keep on as he’d begun. I guess if he wants her it’s a match.”
 And Cap’n Billy threw his own into the square box of tobacco-stained
sawdust under the stove.

Mrs. Maynard fully shared the opinion which rocked Dr. Mulbridge’s
defeat with a belief in his invincible will. When it became necessary,
in the course of events which made Grace and Libby resolve upon a
short engagement, to tell her that they were going to be married, she
expressed a frank astonishment. “Walter Libby!” she cried. “Well, I
am surprised. When I was talking to you the other day about getting
married, of course I supposed it was going to be Dr. Mulbridge. I did
n’t want you to marry him, but I thought you were going to.”

“And why,” demanded Grace, with mounting sensation, “did you think
that?”

“Oh, I thought you would have to.”

“Have to?”

“Oh, you have such a weak will. Or I always thought you had. But perhaps
it’s only a weak will with other women. I don’t know! But Walter
Libby! I knew he was perfectly gone upon you, and I told you so at the
beginning; but I never dreamt of your caring for him. Why, it seems too
ridiculous.”

“Indeed! I’m glad that it amuses you.”

“Oh no, you’re not, Grace. But you know what I mean. He seems so much
younger.”

“Younger? He’s half a year older than I am.”

“I did n’t say he was younger. But you’re so very grave and he’s so very
light. Well, I always told Walter Libby I should get him a wife, but you
were the last person I should have thought of. What’s going to become
of all your high purposes? You can’t do anything with them when you’re
married! But you won’t have any occasion for them, that’s one comfort.”

“It’s not my idea of marriage that any high purpose will be lost in it.”

“Oh, it is n’t anybody’s, before they get married. I had such high
purposes I couldn’t rest. I felt like hiring a hall, as George says,
all the time. Walter Libby is n’t going to let you practise, is he? You
mustn’t let him! I know he’d be willing to do anything you said, but a
husband ought to be something more than a mere & Co.”

Grace laughed at the impudent cynicism of all this, for she was too
happy to be vexed with any one just then. “I’m glad you’ve come to think
so well of husbands’ rights at last, Louise,” she said.

Mrs. Maynard took the little puncture in good part. “Oh, yes, George
and I have had a good deal of light let in on us. I don’t suppose my
character was much changed outwardly in my sickness,” she suggested.

“It was not,” answered Grace warmly. “It was intensified, that was all.”

Mrs. Maynard laughed in her turn, with real enjoyment of the conception.
“Well, I wasn’t going to let on, unless it came to the worst; I did
n’t say much, but I kept up an awful thinking. It would have been easy
enough to get a divorce, and George would n’t have opposed it; but I
looked at it in this way: that the divorce wouldn’t have put us back
where we were, anyway, as I had supposed it would. We had broken into
each other’s lives, and we couldn’t get out again, with all the divorces
under the sun. That’s the worst of getting married: you break into each
other’s lives. You said something like it to me, that day when you came
back from your sail with Walter Libby. And I just concluded that there
could n’t be any trial that would n’t be a great deal easier to bear
than getting rid of all your trials; and I just made up my mind that
if any divorce was to be got, George Maynard might get it himself; a
temporary separation was bad enough for me, and I told him so, about the
first words I could speak. And we’re going to try the new departure
on that platform. We don’t either of us suspect we can have things
perfectly smooth, but we’ve agreed to rough it together when we can’t.
We’ve found out that we can’t marry and then become single, any more
than we could die and come to life again. And don’t you forget it,
Grace! You don’t half know yourself, now. You know what you have been;
