"O " she gave him a direct, full look ; and he thought 
once more that she was a beautiful woman. 
" Believe," he said earnestly, "that I am grate 
ful to you, madam." 
 
She smiled indulgently, bowed, and left him. 
He heard her quick step in the hall, and her voice 
speaking to Mrs. Butterwell ; then he heard her 
chirrup to her pony, and the sound of wheels. 
She drove rapidly, and was soon gone. 
The day passed in the faint, sweet, hazy way 
that only the convalescent knows. No other crea 
ture ever gets behind that glamour. Returning life 
paces towards one so solemnly that the soul would 
keep upon its knees, were it not so weak ; one 
dares not pray ; one ventures only to see the frolic 
in the eyes of the advancing power, and dashes 
into joy as bees into rhythm, or as flowers into 
color. Waldo Yorke was very happy. He thought 
of his mother ; his heart was full. He looked at 
the block of yellow light upon the carpet ; at the 
apple-blossoms in the vase ; at the patch of June 
sky that burned beyond that one open window. 
Life and light, he thought, are here. 
Mrs. Isaiah Butterwell, however, was there too. 
She was extremely kind. She entertained the 
young man with a graphic account of his accident 
and its consequences. Mr. Butterwell himself 
came in, for a moment, and briefly considei ed it 
(although the Bangor horse was killed) a lucky 
thing. 
" When he brought you home," observed the 
 
lady, " I said, He 's dead. I must say I hoped 
you were, for I said to my husband, He 'll be an 
idiot if he lives. It always seems to me as if the 
Creator was thinking he hadn't  made enough of 
em, after all, and was watching opportunities to 
increase the stock. But our doctor 's been a match 
for him this time ! " added Mrs. Isaiah, with a 
snap of her soft eyes. 
" Why, Sar-ah ! " rebuked her husband, 
gently. 
" Well, she has ! " insisted Sarah ; " and I don't 
see the harm. He made her, too, I suppose, didn't  
he ? I think he ought to be proud of her. I 've 
no doubt he is, not the least in the world." 
" Why, /Sarah ! " repeated Mr. Butterwell. He 
had the air of being just as much surprised by 
these little conversational peculiarities in his con 
sort as if he had not wintered and summered them 
for better and worse for forty years. This amused 
the? invalid. He liked to hear them talk. He was 
so happy that day that Mrs. Isaiah seemed to him 
really very witty. He drew her out. She dwelt a 
good deal upon the doctor. She explained to him 
her difficulty in concealing the fact of the physi 
cian 's sex from him those first few days. 
" I would not tell a fib for you, Mr. Yorke, even 
if you did die. And when you ran on so about 
 
seeing the doctor, I was hard up. I couldn't  say 
she, and I wouldn't  say he, for she wasn't  a 
he, now was she ? Once I got stuck in the mid 
dle of a sentence ; and Mr. Butterwell was here, 
and I said, Sh Isaiah ! he ; so I cut the 
word in two, don't you see ? Only I spelled it 
with an extra h. But I *d rather sacrifice my 
spellin than my conscience And Isaiah asked 
me afterwards what I sh-shd him up for, when he 
hadn't  opened his mouth. He didn't  open it 
very often while you were sick, Mr. Yorke. But 
he spoke about your uncle, and was blue enough. 
I had to make up my mind to do the talking for 
two when I married Mr. Butterwell. What time 
did Doctor Zay say she should look in again, Mr. 
Yorke?" 
" Doctor Zay ?" repeated the young gentleman 
blankly. 
" Oh, we call her Doctor Zay. You see there 
were two of them, she and the old man ; and, as 
luck would, they must have the same name. I 
suppose he was ashamed of his, Adoniram ; I 
don't blame him. At any rate, there 's the sign, 
Dr. A. Lloyd. And she has some kind of a 
heathen name herself ; I never can pronounce it ; 
so she takes to Dr. Z. A. Lloyd, and that 's how 
we come by it. Everybody calls her Doctor Za. 
 
But she spells it with a y herself. We love the 
sound of it," added Mrs. Butterwell gently. " So 
would you, if you 'd been a woman Down East, 
and she the first one, of all you 'd read about and 
needed, you 'd ever seen." 
"But I'm not a woman," interrupted the 
patient, laughing. " I can't call her Doctor Zay. 
The young lady has done admirably by me ; I 'll 
admit that. How much I must have troubled her, 
to come here so often ! " 
" I wouldn't  waste your feelings, sir," observed 
Mrs. Butterwell, dryly. " Feelings are too rich 
cream to be skimmed for nothing. Doctor would 
have done her duty by you, anyhow ; but it 's 
been less of a sacrifice, considering she lives here." 
The subsiding expression of weariness on the 
sick man 's face rose to one of interest. He repeated, "Lives here?" not without something 
like energy. 
" Yes, I 've had her a year. She was starving 
at the Sherman Hotel, and I took her in. I used 
to go to school with some connections of hers, so I 
felt a kind of responsibility for her. And then 
I in always glad of society, as I told you when I 
took you. I'm social in my nature. I suppose 
that 's why Providence went out of his way to 
marry me to Mr. Butterwell. If my lot had been 
 
cast in Portland, or Bangor, I'm afraid I should 
have been frivolous, as I said to Doctor Zay, the 
first time I saw her, it was chilblains ; I thought 
I could trust her; I didn't know her then, you 
see. Do you mean to say you didn't  notice her 
sign? Then, if she 'd got sick at the hotel they 'd 
have said she was A WOMAN. I had the cause to 
consider," added Mrs. Butterwell, solemnly. 
The physician came again at night, as she had 
promised. She was later than usual. Yorke 
listened for her wheels, and got restless. It made 
him nervous when the country wagons rolled up 
and rumbled by. He had flushed with the end of 
the day, and was feverish and miserable. He at 
tended to his sensations anxiously. He wished she 
would come. It was quite dark when the low 
wheels of the phaeton came smoothly and sud 
denly to a stop in the great back yard; he heard 
the doctor 's voice speaking cheerily to her boy. 
" Handy," she called him. Handy took the horse ; 
a light step passed the corner of the house, and 
vanished. " She must have gone on to the office 
door," thought Yorke. He found himself ab 
sorbed in a little uneasiness ; he wondered if she 
