chill, it was like the touch of an all-enveloping sadness, which would
not pass away. Her fear left her; it seemed to her then that it would
never come back.
As she looked at him she saw that he was greatly changed; her one glance
in the court-room had not told her how greatly. Part of it was due
doubtless to the effects of his wound, to the unaccustomed confinement
in the heats of a lowland summer; his face, though still bronzed, was
thin, his clothes hung loosely from his broad shoulders. But the marked
alteration was in his expression. This was so widely different from
that of the brown-eyed lounger of Caryl's, that it seemed another man
who was standing there, and not the same. Heathcote's eyes were still
brown; but their look was so changed that Gregory Dexter would never
have occasion to find fault with it again. His half-indolent
carelessness had given place to a stern reticence; his indifference, to
a measured self-control. And Anne knew, as though a prophetic vision
were passing, that he would carry that changed face always, to his
life's end.
Miss Teller had related to him their plan, their womans' plan. He was
strongly, unyieldingly, opposed to it. Miss Teller came home every day,
won over to his view, and then as regularly changed her mind, in talking
with Anne, and went back--to be converted over again. But he knew that
Anne had persisted. He knew that he was now expected to search his
memory, and see if he could not find there something new. Miss Teller,
with a touching eagerness to be of use and business-like, arranged pen,
paper, and ink upon the table, and sat down to take notes. She was still
a majestic personage, in spite of her grief and anxiety; her height,
profile, and flowing draperies were as imposing as ever. But in other
ways she had grown suddenly old; her light complexion was now
over-spread with a net-work of fine small wrinkles, the last faint
blonde of her hair was silvered, and in her cheeks and about her mouth
there was a pathetic alteration, the final predominance of old age, and
its ineffective helplessness over her own mild personality.
But while they waited, he found that he could not speak. When he saw
them sitting there in their mourning garb for Helen, when he felt that
Anne too was within the circle of this grief and danger and pain, Anne,
in all her pure fair youth and trust and courage, something rose in his
throat and stopped utterance. All the past and his own part in it
unrolled itself before him like a judgment; all the present, and her
brave effort for him; the future, near and dark. For Heathcote, like
Dexter, believed that the chances were adverse; and even should he
escape conviction, he believed that the cloud upon him would never be
cleared away entirely, but that it would rest like a pall over the
remainder of his life. At that moment, in his suffering, he felt that
uncleared acquittal, conviction, the worst that could come to him, he
could bear without a murmur were it only possible to separate Anne--Anne
both in the past and present--from his own dark lot. He rose suddenly
from the bench where he had seated himself, turned his back to them,
went to his little grated window, and stood there looking out.
Miss Teller followed him, and laid her hand on his shoulder. "Dear
Ward," she said, "I do not wonder that you are overcome." And she took
out her handkerchief.
He mastered himself and came back to the table. Miss Teller, who, having
once begun, was unable to stop so quickly, remained where she was. Anne,
to break the painful pause, began to ask her written questions from the
slip of paper she had brought.
"Can you recall anything concerning the man who came by and spoke to you
while you were bathing?" she said, looking at him gravely.
"No. I could not see him; it was very dark."
"What did he say?"
"He asked if the water was cold."
"How did he say it?"
"Simply, 'Is the water cold?'"
"Was there any foreign accent or tone, any peculiarity of pronunciation
or trace of dialect, no matter how slight, in his voice or utterance?"
"I do not recall any. Stay, he may have given something of the sound of
g to the word--said 'gold,' instead of 'cold.' But the variation was
scarcely noticeable. Country people talk in all sorts of ways."
Miss Teller hurriedly returned to her chair, after wiping her eyes,
wrote down "gold" and "cold" in large letters on her sheet of paper, and
surveyed them critically.
"Is there nothing else you can think of?" pursued Anne.
"No. Why do you dwell upon him?"
"Because he is the man."
"Oh, Anne, is he?--is he?" cried Miss Teller, with as much excitement as
though Anne had proved it.
"There is no probability. They have not even been able to find him,"
said Heathcote.
"Of course it is only my feeling," said the girl.
"But what Anne feels is no child's play," commented Miss Teller.
This remark, made in nervousness and without much meaning, seemed to
touch Heathcote; he turned to the window again.
"Will you please describe to me exactly what you did from the time you
left the inn to take the first walk until you came back after the
river-bath?" continued Anne.
He repeated his account of the evening's events as he had first given
it, with hardly the variation of a word.
"Are you sure that you took two towels? Might it not be possible that
you took only one? For then the second, found at the end of the meadow
trail, might have been taken by the murderer."
"No; I took two. I remember it because I put first one in my pocket, and
then, with some difficulty, the other, and I spoke to Helen laughingly
about my left-handed awkwardness." It was the first time he had spoken
his wife's name, and his voice was very grave and sweet as he pronounced
it.
Poor Miss Teller broke down again. And Anne began to see her little
paper of questions through a blur. But the look of Heathcote's face
saved her. Why should he have anything more to bear? She went on quickly
with her inquiry.
"Was there much money in the purse?"
"I think not. She gave me almost all she had brought with her as soon as
we met."
"Is it a large river?"
"Rather deep; in breadth only a mill-stream."
Then there was a silence. It seemed as if they all felt how little there
was to work with, to hope for.
"Will you let Miss Teller draw on a sheet of paper the outline of your
left hand?" continued Anne.
He obeyed without comment.
"Now please place your hand in this position, and let her draw the
finger-tips." As she spoke, she extended her own left hand, with the
finger-tips touching the table, as if she was going to grasp something
which lay underneath.
But Heathcote drew back. A flush rose in his cheeks. "I will have
nothing to do with it," he said.
"Oh, Ward, when Anne asks you?" said Miss Teller, in distress.
"I do not wish her to go to Timloesville," he said, with emphasis; "I
have been utterly against it from the first. It is a plan made without
reason, and directly against my feelings, my wishes, and my consent. It
is unnecessary. It will be useless. And, worse than this, it may bring
her into great trouble. Send as many detectives as you please, but do
not send her. It is the misfortune of your position and hers that at
such a moment you have no one to control you, no man, I mean, to whose
better judgment you would defer. My wishes are nothing to you; you
override them. You are, in fact, taking advantage of my helplessness."
He spoke to Miss Teller. But Anne, flushing a little at his tone,
answered him.
"I can not explain the hope that is in me," she said; "but such a hope I
certainly have. I will not be imprudent; Miss Lois shall do everything;
I will be very guarded. If we are not suspected (and we shall not be;
women are clever in such things), where is the danger? It will be
but--but spending a few weeks in the country." She ended hesitatingly,
ineffectively. Then, "To sit still and do nothing, to wait--is
unendurable!" broke from her in a changed tone. "It is useless to oppose
me. I shall go."
Heathcote did not reply.
"No one is to know of it, dear Ward, save ourselves and Miss Hinsdale,"
said Miss Teller, pleadingly.
"And Mr. Dexter," added Anne.
Heathcote now looked at her. "Dexter has done more for me than I could
have expected," he said. "I never knew him well; I fancied, too, that he
