"He is good company," said Lois. "He has seen a great deal and read a
great deal, and he knows how to talk. That makes him pleasant."
"Well, he's a great deal more improving to be with than anybody I know
in Shampuashuh."
"In one way."
"Why shouldn't one have the pleasure, then, and the good, if he isn't a
Christian?"
"The pleasanter he is, I suppose the more danger, grandmother would
think."
"Danger of what?"
"You know, Madge, it is not my say-so, nor even grandmother's. You
know, Christians are not of the world."
"But they must see the world."
"If we were to see much of that sort of person, we might get to wishing
to see them always."
"By 'that sort of person' I suppose you mean Mr. Dillwyn? Well, I have
got so far as that already. I wish I could see such people always."
"I am sorry."
"Why? You ought to be glad at my good taste."
"I am sorry, because you are wishing for what you cannot have."
"How do you know that? You cannot tell what may happen."
"Madge, a man like Mr. Dillwyn would never think of a girl like you or
me."
"I am not wanting him to think of me," said Madge rather hotly. "But,
Lois, if you come to that, I think I--and you--are fit for anybody."
"Yes," said Lois quietly. "I think so too. But they do not take the
same view. And if they did, Madge, we could not think of them."
"Why not?--if they did. I do not hold quite such extreme rules as you
and grandmother do."
"And the Bible."--
"Other people do not think the Bible is so strict."
"You know what the words are, Madge."
"I don't know what the words mean."
Lois was brushing out the thick masses of her beautiful hair, which
floated about over her in waves of golden brown; and Madge had been
thinking, privately, that if anybody could have just that view of Lois,
his scruples--if he had any--would certainly give way. Now, at her
sister's last words, however, Lois laid down her brush, and, coming up,
laid hold of Madge by the shoulders and gave her a gentle shaking. It
ended in something of a romp, but Lois declared Madge should never say
such a thing again.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
TWO SUNDAY SCHOOLS.
Lois was inclined now to think it might be quite as well if something
hindered Mr. Dillwyn's second visit. She did not wonder at Madge's
evident fascination; she had felt the same herself long ago, and in
connection with other people; the charm of good breeding and gracious
manners, and the habit of the world, even apart from knowledge and
cultivation and the art of conversation. Yes, Mr. Dillwyn was a good
specimen of this sort of attraction; and for a moment Lois's
imagination recalled that day's two walks in the rain; then she shook
off the impression. Two poor Shampuashuh girls were not likely to have
much to do with that sort of society, and--it was best they should not.
It would be just as well if Mr. Dillwyn was hindered from coming again.
But he came. A month had passed; it was the beginning of December when
he knocked next at the door, and cold and grey and cloudy and windy as
it is December's character in certain moods to be. The reception he got
was hearty in proportion; fires were larger, the table even more
hospitably spread; Mrs. Barclay even more cordial, and the family
atmosphere not less genial. Nevertheless the visit, for Mr. Dillwyn's
special ends, was hardly satisfactory. He could get no private speech
with Lois. She was always "busy;" and at meal-times it was obviously
impossible, and would have been impolitic, to pay any particular
attention to her. Philip did not attempt it. He talked rather to every
one else; made himself delightful company; but groaned in secret.
"Cannot you make some excuse for getting her in here?" he asked Mrs.
Barclay at evening.
"Not without her sister."
"With her sister, then."
"They are very busy just now preparing some thing they call 'apple
butter.' It's unlucky, Philip. I am very sorry. I always told you your
way looked to me intricate."
Fortune favoured him, however, in an unexpected way. After a day passed
in much inward impatience, for he had not got a word with Lois, and he
had no excuse for prolonging his stay beyond the next day, as they sat
at supper, the door opened, and in came two ladies. Mr. Dillwyn was
formally presented to one of them as to "my aunt, Mrs. Marx;" the other
was named as "Mrs. Seelye." The latter was a neat, brisk little body,
with a capable air and a mien of business; all whose words came out as
if they had been nicely picked and squared, and sorted and packed, and
served in order.
"Sorry to interrupt, Mrs. Armadale" she began, in a chirruping little
voice. Indeed, her whole air was that of a notable little hen looking
after her chickens. Charity assured her it was no interruption.
"Mrs. Seelye and I had our tea hours ago," said Mrs. Marx. "I had
muffins for her, and we ate all we could then. We don't want no more
now. We're on business."
"Yes," said Mrs. Seelye. "Mrs. Marx and I, we've got to see everybody,
pretty much; and there ain't much time to do it in; so you see we can't
choose, and we just come here to see what you'll do for us."
"What do you want us to do for you, Mrs. Seelye?" Lois asked.
"Well, I don't know; only all you can. We want your counsel, and then
your help. Mr. Seelye he said, Go to the Lothrop girls first. I didn't
come first, 'cause there was somebody else on my way here; but this
is our fourth call, ain't it, Mrs. Marx?"
"I thought I'd never get you away from No. 3," was the answer.
"They were very much interested,--and I wanted to make them all
understand--it was important that they should all understand--"
"And there are different ways of understanin'," added Mrs. Marx; "and
there are a good many of 'em--the Hicks's, I mean; and so, when we
thought we'd got it all right with one, we found somebody else was in a
fog; and then he had to be fetched out."
"But we are all in a fog," said Madge, laughing. "What are you coming
to? and what are we to understand?"
"We have a little plan," said Mrs. Seelye.
"It'll be a big one, before we get through with it," added her
coadjutor. "Nobody'll be frightened here if you call it a big one to
start with, Mrs. Seelye. I like to look things in the face."
"So do we," said Mrs. Armadale, with a kind of grim humour,--"if you
will give us a chance."
"Well, it's about the children," said Mrs. Seelye.
"Christmas--" added Mrs. Marx.
"Be quiet, Anne," said her mother. "Go on, Mrs. Seelye. Whose children?"
"I might say, they are all Mr. Seelye's children," said the little
lady, laughing; "and so they are in a way, as they are all belonging to
his church. He feels he is responsible for the care of 'em, and he
don't want to lose 'em. And that's what it's all about, and how the
plan came up."
"How's he goin' to lose 'em?" Mrs. Armadale asked, beginning now to
knit again.
"Well, you see the other church is makin' great efforts; and they're
goin' to have a tree."
"What sort of a tree? and what do they want a tree for?"
"Why, a fir tree!"--and, "Why, a Christmas tree!" cried the two ladies
who advocated the "plan," both in a breath.
"Mother don't know about that," Mrs. Marx went on. "It's a new fashion,
mother,--come up since your day. They have a green tree, planted in a
tub, and hung with all sorts of things to make it look pretty; little
candles especially; and at night they light it up; and the children are
tickled to death with it."
"In-doors?"
"Why, of course in-doors. Couldn't be out-of-doors, in the snow."
"I didn't know," said the old lady; "I don't understand the new
fashions. I should think they would burn up the house, if it's
in-doors."
"O no, no danger," explained Mrs. Seelye. "They make them wonderfully
pretty, with the branches all hung full with glass balls, and candles,
and ribbands, and gilt toys, and papers of sugar plums--cornucopia, you
know; and dolls, and tops, and jacks, and trumpets, and whips, and
everything you can think of,--till it is as full as it can be, and the
