prosperous young man. Dory left the room.
He kept one hand in his pocket on the wallet which contained the
treasure that was to open up the brilliant scheme by which he hoped to
support his mother and sister. He went out of the hotel without any
definite idea of where he intended to go. It was ten o'clock by this
time. He was not penniless now, as he had been before. He was rich
enough to spend the night, or even a week or a month, at the Witherill
House; but the idea of going there, or to any other public house, did
not occur to him.
Though he had five dollars for "expenses," he could not think of paying
out a dollar, or even half a dollar, for a night's lodging. That would
do very well for Mr. Vanderbilt, but not for him. It would be throwing
money away. He walked down to the lake. He was not so sleepy as he had
been. Stirring himself had waked him up. As he came to the wharf, his
brilliant scheme leaped into his head again.
During his stop at Plattsburgh the day before, he had seen a sailboat,
which was to be sold at auction with other effects of its deceased
owner. He had looked the craft over, and asked a great many questions
about her. Though she was twenty-five feet long, and was handsomely
fitted up, the knowing ones said she would not bring a hundred dollars
at auction.
She could not have cost less than five or six hundred, but she had a bad
name. Her late owner had been drowned in consequence of her upsetting.
People said it was the fault of the boat. She carried a lee helm, and
upset when there was no excuse for her doing so. She had been known to
tip over three times, and she was sure to drown whoever bought her.
Dory looked her over very carefully. He had been about all sorts of
boats ever since he was a small boy. In fact, he was a natural
water-bird, almost as much so as a duck. He was a born mechanic, and his
taste not less than his associations had led him to apply his mechanical
genius to boats and boating.
The name of the boat was the Goldwing. Dory had examined her the day
before, and he "took no stock" in her bad name. He was very sure that
any boat would behave badly if rigged and ballasted as the Goldwing was.
He wished he owned her, or that he could obtain the use of her for the
season. He was confident that he could redeem her reputation.
In connection with this boat had bubbled up his brilliant scheme. If he
had her at Burlington, or at several other points on the lake, he could
make five dollars a day, if not six or eight, by taking out parties.
Such a business was more to his taste, and afforded a better field for
his talents, than tending table in the cabin of a steamer.
But it was no use to think of the Goldwing. If five dollars would have
bought her, he had not the money to invest in the enterprise. He had no
friend upon whom he could call for aid in such a speculation. He might
as well think of buying and running one of the large steamers on the
lake.
But since dark that evening the whole aspect of his fortunes had
changed. He had over a hundred dollars in his pocket, and the Goldwing
was to be sold the next day. He did not wish to put all his little
fortune into a boat; but he was determined to have the boat, if she was
knocked down for a sum within his means.
The Goldwing lay at the wharf. Dory surveyed her as well as he could in
the darkness, and then he stepped on board of her. She had been built
on purpose for her late owner, on a model somewhat different from her
class of boats on the lake; and this created a prejudice against her in
the boating fraternity. Dory had seen her frequently under sail, and he
was delighted with her.
She was decked over forward, and had a little cabin in this part of the
craft. The doors which opened into this apartment were not locked, and
Dory went into it. He lighted a match, and discovered a lantern hanging
from a deck-beam. He lighted it, and found that the cabin was furnished
with two berths, in each of which was a berth-sack. As he looked over
this part of the fitting-up of the boat, he gaped again.
He might as well sleep there as in any other place. He had no fear that
the ghost of the late owner would disturb him. He arranged the doors so
that they could not be opened without waking him, and then lay down in
one of the berths. He was going to think over his brilliant scheme; but,
before he had done much thinking, he fell asleep.
He did not wake till the swash of the night boat from the south caused
the Goldwing to bump against the wharf. It was five o'clock in the
morning. He felt in his pocket, and found that his money was safe. He
slept another hour after this, and then went on shore. He got his
breakfast at a restaurant, and then started to deliver the letter.
He reached his destination in about an hour. He inquired for Pearl
Hawlinshed, and found him without any difficulty. He was about
twenty-two years old. He did not look like the ferocious being he
expected to find in a man who was wicked enough to fire a gun at his
father. He was pale, thoughtful in his look, and was rather inclined to
melancholy. Dory thought he had enough to think about, and that it was
his duty to be melancholy.
Pearl asked him where he got the letter, and Dory said it had been given
him by a man in Plattsburgh to bring out to him. He did not wait to
answer any questions; and he felt in honor bound not to inquire into any
thing relating to Mr. Hawlinshed, father or son.
He returned in season to attend the auction. It was like a funeral
party. Dory made the second bid for the boat.
CHAPTER V.
A BOAT WITH A BAD REPUTATION.
People looked at the boy as he continued to bid on the Goldwing. The
auctioneer asked him some questions touching his ability to pay for the
boat if she should be knocked off to him. Dory declared he would pay for
the Goldwing on the spot if she was sold to him, and his bid was
accepted.
There was only one other bidder, and he looked daggers at Dory every
time he increased upon his bid. This man evidently expected to buy the
boat for fifteen or twenty dollars, and that there would be no one to
bid against him. When the figures reached thirty dollars, the other
bidder protested that he was bidding against nothing, for no one
supposed that a mere boy could pay for the boat. Until this time Dory
had not seen the other person who wanted the Goldwing.
"If he don't pay, Mr. Hawlinshed," said the auctioneer, "we will put it
up again, and then you can get the boat at your own price; for there
don't appear to be anybody else that wants the craft."
When Dory heard the name of the other bidder, he turned, and saw that it
was Pearl Hawlinshed. He was greatly surprised, and in his confusion he
came very near letting the auctioneer knock off the boat to his rival in
the contest for the Goldwing. But he put in another bid; and Pearl
followed him up sharply until forty dollars was reached, when he
declared that he would not give any more for the boat. Then it was
knocked off to Dory at forty-two dollars.
Pearl Hawlinshed looked at the purchaser very savagely, as though he had
done him an ill turn in bidding for the boat. But there was still a hope
that he could not pay for it. Dory went into the cabin of the Goldwing,
and counted out the money; for he did not care to show all he had in his
wallet. He was out of sight but a moment; for his money was all in
ten-dollar bills, except the five which he had changed to pay for his
breakfast.
"Here is the money," said Dory, tendering the amount to the auctioneer.
"Please to give me a receipt."
"You have lost the boat, Hawlinshed," said the auctioneer, as he took
the money. "If you will come into the steamer office, I will give you a
receipt, young man. What is the name?"
"Theodore Dornwood."
"Do you live in Plattsburgh?"
"No, sir: in Burlington."
"Are you buying the boat for yourself?"
"You may make the receipt out to me," replied Dory.
"He is buying her for some other person," said Pearl Hawlinshed. "I
should like to know who it is."
The auctioneer did not ask any more questions, but led the way into the
steamboat office, where he gave the required receipt. Dory felt that he
was now the owner of the Goldwing. If he had owned one of the Champlain
steamers, he would not have felt any better. He was anxious to get on
board of her, and start her on the way to Burlington. As he went out of
the office, he found Pearl Hawlinshed at the door.
"Are you not the boy that brought me a letter this morning?" asked he,
looking at the new owner of the Goldwing with a scowl.
"I carried a letter to you this morning," replied Dory, not particularly
pleased with the manner of Pearl.
"Where did you get that letter?" demanded Pearl in a very lordly and
