"She is taking steps to find this Dewey, who is somewhere at the mines,
though she would not tell me what they were. He may turn up any time,
and then good-bye to all my hopes."
"You want to marry her yourself, Mr. Orton?"
"Of course. Otherwise I wouldn't have come so far in search of her."
"The young lady is very rich, isn't she?" asked Jones, shrewdly.
"She has a moderate fortune," replied Orton, guardedly; "but that
doesn't influence me."
"Of course not," said Jones; but there was something in his tone which
made Campbell eye him sharply.
"I am no fortune-hunter," said he, stiffly.
"You'd want to marry her just the same if she hadn't a cent?"
"Of course I would," snapped Orton.
"Now, that's what I call real love," said Jones. "To be sure, you're
rich yourself, and needn't mind."
"Precisely so. I may not be rich, but I can support a wife."
"As the young lady prefers some one else, I suppose we may as well go
home?"
"That's what I want to talk to you about, Jones. Very likely this Dewey
is dead; at any rate, he's a mere fortune-hunter. Now, although Florence
doesn't care to marry me now, if our marriage could be brought about she
would no doubt be reconciled to it after a while. Now, Jones, have you
anything to suggest?"
Orton Campbell threw himself back in his chair and eyed Jones. He had
formed a plan, but, if possible, he wanted the proposal to come from
Jones.
Jones was not over-scrupulous; he had never been so, and the months he
had spent in the mines in the company of adventurers of all kinds had
not improved him. Even law-abiding citizens often lost their regard for
law in California, and Jones had fewer scruples to overcome than most.
He suggested a plan which met with the approval of his employer, and
promised his co-operation on the understanding that if successful
Campbell should properly reward him.
It may be added that of the thousand dollars which he was to receive for
his information he had actually received but three hundred, Orton
Campbell having on various pretexts put off paying him. He received the
assurance that this also should be paid him without further delay as
soon as the plan referred to was successfully carried out.
CHAPTER XXIV.
MISS DOUGLAS RECEIVES A MESSAGE.
Florence Douglas felt somewhat uneasy after the visit of Orton Campbell.
Though he had no legal right to interfere with her, even as the
representative of his father, she knew the unscrupulous character of the
man, and that he would not have spent time and money in a visit to
California unless he had a strong hope of carrying her back with him.
Her chief fear was that he would carry out his father's threat and try
to have her pronounced of unsound mind, in which case he could have her
confined in an asylum.
"If I could only hear from Richard Dewey!" she fervently ejaculated. "If
he were here I would have nothing to fear."
Two days passed, and, considerably to her relief, she heard nothing from
Campbell. She began to hope that he had given up his purpose and made
arrangements to return to the East. She was determined to refuse him an
audience if he should call upon her again, either with or without
companions. That she might feel more secure, she took her landlady, Mrs.
Armstrong, into her confidence.
This lady had become much attached to her guest, and listened with great
indignation to the account which Florence gave her. "My dear Miss
Douglas," she said, "if that man Campbell calls, leave me to deal with
him."
"How would you propose to do it?" asked Florence, smiling.
"I would give him a piece of my mind, you may depend upon that."
"He would be rude to you."
"In that case I would order him out of the house," said Mrs. Armstrong,
resolutely. "The man needs a lesson, and I should like to be the one to
give it to him."
"I shall be very glad to have you meet him in my place," said the young
lady. "An interview with him is something which I would gladly avoid."
"That you shall! I only hope he'll come soon. He'll find one woman that
isn't afraid of him."
"I am not afraid of him, Mrs. Armstrong, but I own that I am
apprehensive of what he may do. It would not surprise me at all if he
should make his appearance with some needy physician who for a fee will
be ready to pronounce me insane."
"Don't be alarmed, Miss Florence. I'll send the doctor packing, as well
as his employer. Perhaps he will pronounce me insane. If he does, he is
welcome to. I think he would find me an unsatisfactory patient."
"I think so too," said Florence, smiling, as she scanned the firm,
determined face and the tall and muscular form of her hostess, who
certainly would never be classed as a weak or timid woman.
On the afternoon of the third day a knock was heard at the door, for as
yet it was unprovided with a bell.
Mrs. Armstrong and Florence were sitting together.
The two glanced at each other, and the same thought came to each.
"It may be Orton Campbell," said Florence, who was the first to speak.
"Then let me go to the door. Stay where you are, Miss Douglas; I will
receive the gentleman."
But when the landlady opened the door she saw a man who looked like a
coachman. A covered carriage was at the gate, which he had evidently
driven.
"Well, sir, what can I do for you?" demanded the landlady, sharply.
"Is there a young lady living with you named Florence Douglas?" asked
the man.
"Miss Florence Douglas boards here," answered Mrs. Armstrong.
"I've got a message for her, ma'am."
"If it's from Mr. Orton Campbell, you can go back and tell him that she
won't receive any messages from him," said the landlady, resolutely.
"I don't know who you mean, ma'am," replied the man, in apparent
surprise. "I don't know any such gentleman."
"Then who sent you?" inquired the landlady, whose turn it was to be
surprised.
"It's a man just come from the mines," said the driver--"a Mr. Dewey."
Florence had drawn near to the head of the stairs in her interest to
hear who had called, and she caught the name of her lover. She came
flying down stairs, and demanded breathlessly, "What about Richard
Dewey? I am Miss Douglas, and your message is for me."
Jones, for it was he, touched his hat respectfully, and held out a note
penned on rough paper and written in pencil.
"This will explain everything, miss," he said.
Florence took the paper, and with some difficulty read it. It ran thus:
     "DEAR FLORENCE: I have struggled to reach you, but
     have been struck down by fever when I was nearly at
     the end of my journey. I have had bad luck at the
     mines, and was almost discouraged, when I learned
     that you were in San Francisco. Poor as I was, I
     determined to come to you, even at the risk of your
     misjudging me. I am not able to write much, and must
     defer particulars till I see you. I am staying at
     the house of a kind stranger a few miles from the
     city. The man whom I send with this note is
     trustworthy. If you will trust yourself to his
     guidance, he will bring you to me. I know that I am
     asking a great deal of you, but I think you will not
     fail me.
     "Yours, with love,
     "RICHARD DEWEY."
The writing was hurried--indeed, it was hardly more than a scrawl.
"He must be very weak," thought Florence, her heart swelling with
painful emotions.--"My good friend," she said to the landlady, "Richard
is sick and poor. He asks me to come to him. I must go."
"But can you trust that man? Is the letter genuine?" asked Mrs.
Armstrong, suspiciously.
"I am sure it is genuine. It is written as Richard would write."
"But don't be in haste, Miss Douglas--Florence. Make some inquiries, and
find out whether this news can be depended upon."
"Would you have me hesitate when Richard needs me?" asked Florence,
reproachfully. "No, Mrs. Armstrong, I must go, and at once. I have
waited so long to see him!"
"He will be very glad to see you, miss," said Jones respectfully. "He
has been talking about you constant."
