Dory had been running for Garden Island, where he brought up on his
long tack. He understood the situation, and feared that some of the
party might be drowned if Oscar Chester got the control of the boat.
He heard the centre-board scraping on the sands at the bottom, though
the water was nearly two hundred feet deep only a short distance from
the shore of the island.
The skipper realized that his rebel passenger was about to make an
assault of some kind upon him, and he put the helm hard down. The boat
came up into the wind with every thing shaking. Oscar sprang upon him
as he did so, but Dory was on his feet at the same instant. The waves
beat smartly upon the shore of the island, and the centre-board was
still grating upon the bottom.
“Do you confess that you insulted me?” demanded the bully, as he
seized Dory by the collar.
“I do not confess,” replied Dory. At the same instant he sprang like a
tiger upon his assailant.
The skipper was accustomed to the motion of the boat, while Oscar was
not. The assailant had evidently not expected so vigorous a defence.
Dory shook off the grasp of Oscar, a sharp struggle ensued, and it
ended almost the instant it began in a heavy splash in the water.
Dory had tumbled the bully over the stern of the boat into the lake.
Those who looked on could hardly tell how it was done, for the defeat
of Oscar had been accomplished almost like a flash. On the land it
might have been different in the result, but in the uneasy boat the
experienced hand won a quick victory.
“He is in the water again!” shouted the boys.
But he was in the water not more than half a minute, for there was not
ten feet between the stern of the schooner and the island. Oscar
scrambled to the shore, and made his way to the level of the island.
The wind had filled the sails on the other tack, and the boat began to
move ahead.
Dory saw that Oscar had made a landing on the island. Attending to the
sheets, he filled away on the port tack. The Goldwing dashed ahead as
though she was glad to be rid of the bully who had made so much trouble
on board of her.
“Are you going to leave him there, Dory?” asked Lew Shoreham.
“Of course I am going to leave him there. He can’t drown on the
island; and, if I take him on board again, he may destroy the whole of
us,” replied Dory rather warmly. “He is the most unreasonable fellow I
ever met in my life.”
“But what will he do on that island?” asked Ben Ludlow.
“Repent of his folly the first thing he does, I hope,” answered Dory.
“Does any one live on the island?” inquired Jim Alburgh.
“No one lives there. If any one did, that fellow would get up a
quarrel with him in fifteen minutes. Captain Gildrock may settle his
case, though I fancy he will go for me the first chance he gets.”
“He is sure to do that,” added Bob Swanton.
“He may get a thrashing if he does,” replied Dory.
“Don’t be too sure of that, Dory. He is a fighting character, and has
been turned out of three academies, to say nothing of half a dozen
other schools. He rules the roost wherever he goes,” continued Bob.
“He won’t do it at Beech Hill,” said Dory confidently.
“If he don’t he will run away.”
“He won’t run a great ways before my uncle gets his paw upon him. I am
going down to Burlington this afternoon, in the steamer, after my
uncle. We shall pass the island, and he can do what he pleases with
the fellow. I don’t think I am any more afraid of him than he is of
me.”
During the rest of the passage the events we have narrated were fully
discussed, and Dory learned more about the antecedents of Oscar
Chester. Doubtless he was the worst fellow in the party; but, if the
truth had been known, Dory would have understood that some of the
others were not much better. In three hours from Burlington the
Goldwing arrived at the little lake on which Beech Hill was located.
Mr. Brookbine, a very intelligent carpenter, who had been engaged as
an instructor in this department, was on the wharf; and the new pupils
were handed over to him. He marched them to the dormitory, where the
boys deposited what little baggage they brought. The Sylph lay at the
wharf, and the smoke was pouring out of her smoke-stack; for Jepson
had received a telegraph-message from Captain Gildrock.
The boys were more interested in the steam-yacht than in any thing
else; and they immediately asked permission of Mr. Brookbine, as they
had before of Dory, to go to Burlington in her. The master-carpenter
was willing; but he decided to go with them, after the experience
which Dory had had with them on the passage up.
Dory was the pilot, and he took his place in the pilot-house. He was
perfectly at home there; and the Sylph was really under his command,
for the carpenter knew nothing about boats or navigation. In a
discussion in regard to Oscar Chester, Mr. Brookbine thought he had
better be taken on board, for it would be late before they returned
from Burlington. A boat was sent for him, and he was brought on board.
CHAPTER XI.
THE MASTER-CARPENTER DISPOSES OF HIS PRISONER.
Oscar Chester had been on Garden Island over two hours, and had had
time enough to cool off. It was plain that he did not like the looks
of Mr. Brookbine, who was a stalwart Vermonter, over six feet in
height. He had gone on shore with one of the men from the estate, who
acted as a deck-hand, to bring off the rebel.
Oscar said nothing when he went on board of the steamer, and the other
boys were not inclined to make any talk with him. He walked from one
end of the Sylph to the other, taking a hasty survey of the
steam-yacht. He did not appear to be looking for any thing in
particular.
When he was on the forward deck he discovered Dory in the pilot-house.
He did not even bestow a second glance upon him, and went aft in a few
minutes. He looked sullen and obstinate, and it was clear that he was
disgusted with his experience on the lake.
“No use, Oscar,” said Williston Orwell, as the rebel approached him at
the stern of the boat. “You haven’t made out any thing, and I don’t
believe you will.”
“The end of the world hasn’t come yet,” replied Oscar with a heavy
sneer. “There is time enough yet, and you know I never back down.”
“But you might as well. You began too soon,” added Will Orwell.
“I didn’t begin at all: I was civil enough to Dory till he began to
put on airs. He talked to me just as though I were a little child, and
he were the Grand Mogul. I told him I wanted to steer the boat, and he
told me to sit down. He insulted me.”
“I don’t think he did, Oscar. None of us were ever in a sailboat
before; and I think he did just right in not letting you steer, for it
wouldn’t have taken much to upset that boat with so many in her.”
“Then you think I am a spring chicken, do you, Will?” demanded Oscar
with a curl of the lip.
“You know I don’t think any such thing; but you don’t know how to
steer a sailboat any more than I do. You were a little too fast to
think of doing it so soon,” reasoned Orwell with proper deference,
though he ventured to speak the truth as he understood it.
“If the fellow hadn’t put on airs, and ordered me about as though I
had been his servant, I wouldn’t say a word,” continued Oscar. “As it
is, he insulted me, and pitched me into the lake.”
“He didn’t pitch you into the lake, Oscar. You are not used to a boat
tossed about by the waves, and you fell overboard.”
“Didn’t he make the boat tip more when I stood up on purpose to pitch
me into the lake?” demanded Oscar angrily.
“I don’t know whether he did or not. I don’t understand a boat.”
“I know he did! And then he tumbled me into the water at the island.”
“But you pitched into him then; and, as he could stand up better than
you could in the boat, he threw you overboard.”
“I shall get even with him; and if I don’t throw him into the lake, it
will be because I can’t do it,” blustered the rebel. “I see you are on
his side.”
“I am not on his side; but I don’t expect a fellow to stand still,
and let you thrash him. I advise you to let him alone for a while, and
your time will come before many days have gone by. Don’t touch him
while he is handling the boat,” added the politic companion.
“I shall go for him the first moment I can get at him, and I know
where he is now,” said the intemperate rebel.
“Don’t do it: Dory is the pilot of the steamer, and the engineer just
told me that they can do nothing without him. Didn’t you hear Captain
Gildrock read the telegraph-message, that Dory was away, and for that
reason he could not go down to Burlington to convey us to Beech Hill?”
