occupied with what Bruce called the weightier matters of 
pleasure. On such days she declared she studied German 
and geography. 
They went up the Baltic Sea and coast of Sweden as 
far as Stockholm. Winter was coming on, and though 
St. Petersburg was their next point, it was a question 
whether the ladies could take any pleasure in so rigorous 
a climate ; but Bruce thought half the delight would be 
wanting if they were not there to share it, and Kathie 
declared it would be a great pity to miss one of the grand- 
est capitals in the world. They would be sure to take 
good care of Aunt Ruth, and she was not afraid of the 
cold. 
They felt well repaid for their daring. The wonderful 
city filled them with amazement. Long quays of massive 
granite hide the marshy shores of the Neva, that must 
have looked formidable to even such a conqueror as Peter 
the Great. But he saw with the eye of genius that there 
was no other place so well disposed for both safety and 
menace, and he rescued the land from the grip of the sea, 
and laid a foundation of such durability that palaces, 
churches, bridges, and obelisks stand securely and bid 
defiance to the forces of nature. 
Bruce and Kathie had many excursions to themselves, as 
the General was quite occupied at first. They never tired 
of the wonderful winter palace, the churches and obelisks, 
and the Hermitage, with its accumulation of pictures, 
sculptures, and gems ; and though its royal founder, 
Catherine, had long since passed away, there were many 
reminders of her lavish expenditure. 
' ' I think the term ' barbaric splendor ' is just right 
when applied to Russia," said Kathie: "it is so magnifi- 
cent, and it is full of Eastern luxury as well. But now we 
seem right in the heart of foreign travel, do we not?" 
"You will seem almost in the heart of the East when 
you get to Moscow," the General returned. " St. Peters- 
burg is quite Europeanized in comparison." 
The Mackenzies stumbled over some old military men 
who had been through our own war. Bruce received sev- 
eral very complimentary invitations, and went with his 
father to different places where it would have been incon- 
venient for ladies. But Kathie had a great deal of pleas- 
ure ; operas and theatres were extremely brilliant, and 
the Kibitka sledging very exhilarating when it was not 
too cold. Aunt Ruth enjoyed the opera, and several din- 
ners that she attended with the General, but most of the 
out-door excursions were impossible for her. She was 
very happy, however, in the enjoyment of the young peo- 
ple, and proud of her fine-looking step-son. Kathie and 
he settled to very friendly ways, and occasionally some 
one, in speaking of her, said, " Your sister." 
" I am not sure but I shall have to adopt you," the Gen- 
eral remarked with a smile. 
" I don't always explain," said Aunt Ruth : " it makes 
such a little difference." 
CHAPTER II. 
IT was as the General said, Moscow seemed indeed a 
collection of cities, the past, the present, the old world and 
the new, and was like nothing, Kathie declared, so much 
as the " Arabian Nights." The Tartar impress seemed 
everywhere with its glittering crescent, the minaret, and 
the swelling dome. The muezzin still called to prayer 
from the roof of his mosque ; but by its side were pagodas 
of China, Byzantine churches, and the triumphant Greek 
cross, Grecian temples, French palaces, Turkish bazaars 
and German beer-houses, every variety of costume and 
feature, bizarre and picturesque, every nation under the 
sun it seemed. 
They soon became comfortably domesticated, and with 
the experience of the last two months quite prepared to 
feel at home. Gen. Mackenzie regretted they could not 
have had this part of their tour in the summer, when gar- 
dens and fields were in their glory, instead of continuous 
snow and ice. 
But they had some gay times skating and sledging ; and 
the Kremlin was a source of unfailing interest and wonder. 
They visited the point from which Napoleon's army 
advanced on the silent glittering city, shrouded in snow, 
with its mosques and minarets sparkling as now, but with 
the more subtle fire at its heart that was to subdue and 
dishearten its conqueror. Then they ascended the tower 
of Ivan Veliki, the great belfry, and had all of Moscow at 
their feet, with the Moskva winding in and out, and 
almost doubling upon itself. 
The cathedral of St. Basil, with its many towers, each 
one enclosing a chapel, the cathedral of St. Michael, and 
the church of the Assumption held them spell-bound with 
dazzling altars and shrine pictures set with jewels. Then 
the grand halls, with their inlaid floors and the soft gleam 
of many tinted marbles, the jewelled thrones of the great 
Russian monarchs with their crowns, the treasures and 
emblems of conquered and subjugated kingdoms, the treas- 
ures that make the Kremlin, beside its historic associa- 
tions, the Mecca of the Russians, for within it is gathered 
all that is most venerated in religion and the most cher- 
ished in historical tradition. 
They remained so long in Moscow that they made some 
friends and began to feel very much at home, though it 
seemed to Kathie that they might go on making discover- 
ies for a lifetime. But it was decided at length to go on 
to Warsaw, and from thence presently to Berlin. 
After some months of pleasant wandering through Ger- 
man cities and towns, of studying picture galleries and 
churches, highways and byways, mountains and lakes, our 
travellers came on to Rome, where they were to meet the 
Merediths presently. Bruce's recall found them here, 
and as he had exceeded his year, it was deemed advisible 
for him to return. It would hardly have been possible for 
any young man of Bruce's tastes and habits of thought 
not to have admired his girl companion, and for the reason 
of the familiar association, Gen. Mackenzie distrusted a lit- 
tle the true temper of the regard : both were so young, and 
the intimacy had been that of brother and sister ; besides, 
Kathie certainty was unconscious of any warmer regard. 
That evening he discussed the matter with his wife. 
" I think you were very shall I say heroic? Spartan- 
like is better, I believe." And she glanced up with a wist- 
ful smile. " Was it not hard to refuse your own?" 
"You don't mean, Ruth, that and it seemed like tak- 
ing an advantage of your sister," he ended abruptly 
" Dora would not have been displeased, of that I am 
quite sure. Still, Kathie is such a mere child she would 
hardly know what love meant." 
"And it is not right to bind her by an engagement 
until she does know what it means. I think she would 
assent, and make herself at home in the new strange feel- 
ing, and come in time to love with her whole heart ; but 
would it not be anticipating the bloom and newness of 
love, trying for it? And it would of necessity change the 
current of her thoughts, her enjoyments " 
' ' How odd that you should think most of Kathie's wel- 
fare, while I lean to that of Bruce ! Yet I do not know 
as it would be best for either of them, and I am not much 
of a believer in children's engagements, only I have a 
woman's fondness for lovers." And she smiled softly 
again. 
' Yet I do dread to lay a burden on her. To my mind 
she is still a sweet, innocent child, and as such she ought 
to go on for another year or two. Let them be friends, 
let them correspond as he proposes ; and if Kathie's time 
