old Josiah Crawford, (I follow the statement of Mr. Lamon, rather than
of Dr. Holland, who says it was Master Crawford, his teacher). When not
reading it, he laid it away in a part of the cabin where he thought it
would be free from harm, but it so happened that just behind the shelf
on which he placed it was a great crack between the logs of the wall.
One night a storm came up suddenly, the rain beat in through the
crevice, and soaked the borrowed book through and through. The book was
almost utterly spoiled. Abe felt very uneasy, for a book was valuable
in his eyes, as well as in the eyes of its owner.
He took the damaged volume and trudged over to Mr. Crawford’s in some
perplexity and mortification.
“Well, Abe, what brings you over so early?” said Mr. Crawford.
“I’ve got some bad news for you,” answered Abe, with lengthened face.
“Bad news! What is it?”
“You know the book you lent me--the ‘Life of Washington’?”
“Yes, yes.”
“Well, the rain last night spoiled it,” and Abe showed the book, wet to
a pulp inside, at the same time explaining how it had been injured.
“It’s too bad, I vum! You’d ought to pay for it, Abe. You must have been
dreadful careless.”
“I’d pay for it if I had any money, Mr. Crawford.”
“If you’ve got no money, you can work it out,” said Crawford.
“I’ll do whatever you think right.”
So it was arranged that Abe should work three days for Crawford,
“pulling fodder,” the value of his labor being rated at twenty-five
cents a day. As the book had cost seventy-five cents this would be
regarded as satisfactory. So Abe worked his three days, and discharged
the debt. Mr. Lamon is disposed to find fault with Crawford for exacting
this penalty, but it appears to me only equitable, and I am glad to
think that Abe was willing to act honorably in the matter.
CHAPTER V.
ABE AND HIS NEIGHBORS.
If Abe’s knowledge had increased in proportion to the increase in his
stature, he would have been unusually learned at the age of seventeen,
for he stood at that time nearly six feet four inches in his stockings,
and, boy as he was, was taller than any man in the vicinity.
I must not omit to state that he had a remarkable memory, and this was
of great service to him in his early efforts at oratory. Mr. Lamon tells
us that:
“He frequently amused his young companions by repeating to them long
passages from the books he had been reading. On Monday mornings he would
mount a stump and deliver, with a wonderful approach to exactness, the
sermon he had heard the day before. His taste for public speaking
appeared to be natural and irresistible.”
Let me describe one of the scenes in which Abe often took part.
Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln have gone to church, for it is Sunday morning. The
children are excused on account of the distance, and are left at home to
fill up the time as they may.
“Come in,” said Abe, appearing at the door of the cabin, “I’m going to
preach.”
With more willingness, perhaps, than if the services were to be
conducted by a grown-up minister, the other young people in the family
enter and sit down in decorous style, while Abe pulls down the Bible,
reads a passage, and gives out a hymn. This is sung with more
earnestness than musical taste, and then the young preacher begins his
sermon.
I am sure we should all like to have been present, and should have
listened with interest while the gaunt, awkward boy, gesticulating with
his long arms, delivered a homily not original with himself, but no
doubt marked by some of his peculiarities.
We are told that this young audience, the girls probably, were sometimes
affected to tears. One might have been tempted to predict that the boy
would develop into a preacher when he grew to man’s estate. But Abe did
not confine himself to “preaching.” He was just as fond of other kinds
of public speaking. Sometimes in the harvest field he mounted a stump
and began to talk on political subjects.
More than once Thomas Lincoln, going out to the field, found work at a
standstill, and a little group collected at one point, Abe being the
central figure.
“What’s all this?” he would ask angrily.
“It’s Abe,” one of the hands would answer. “He’s givin’ us a rousin’
speech on politics.”
“I’ll rouse him!” said the incensed father. “Only let me get at him!”
So he would push his way into the crowd unseen by Abe, and would
suddenly seize his son by the collar and drag him from his extemporized
rostrum.
“Now go to work!” he would exclaim in irritation. “You can’t make your
living by talking.”
Abe, with a comical smile, would close his speech, to resume it on some
more auspicious occasion.
I have already said that Thomas Lincoln was a carpenter, though a poor
one. Abe sometimes worked with him in the shop, but had no idea of
learning the trade. He preferred to work in the field, and, as he could
not fill up his time on the four acres his father cultivated, he hired
out to any one of the neighbors who required his services.
No prediction could have surprised his employers more than that the
tall, awkward youth, who had grown out of his clothes, would hereafter
hold in his hands the destinies of the country, and guide it
triumphantly to the end of a protracted and bloody struggle.
The career of Lincoln is a striking illustration of the often-repeated
saying that “Truth is stranger than fiction.”
While there is room for suspicion that Abe was not fond of physical
labor, he is said to have worked very satisfactorily for those who
employed him. He had no troublesome pride, but was willing to do
anything that was asked, and pleased the women especially by never
objecting when called upon “to make a fire, carry water, or nurse a
baby.”
I am tempted to quote from Mr. Lamon’s interesting volume an account
furnished him by Mrs. Elizabeth Crawford of the people among whom Abe
lived and some of their peculiarities. It throws light upon the homely
side of the future President’s character and speech:
“You wish me to tell you how the people used to go to meeting--how far
they went. At that time we thought it nothing to go eight or ten miles.
The old ladies did not stop for the want of a shawl, or cloak, or
riding-dress, or two horses in the winter-time; but they would put on
their husbands’ old overcoats, and wrap up their little ones, and take
one or two of them on their beasts, and their husbands would walk, and
they would go to church, and stay in the neighborhood until the next
day, and then go home. The old men would start out of their fields from
their work, or out of the woods from hunting, with their guns on their
shoulders, and go to church. Some of them dressed in deer-skin pants and
moccasins, hunting-shirts, with a rope or leather strap around them.
They would come in laughing, shake hands all around, sit down and talk
about the game they had killed, or some other work they had done, and
smoke their pipes together with the old ladies. If in warm weather, they
would kindle up a little fire out in the meeting-house yard to light
their pipes.
“If in winter-time, they would hold church in some of the neighbors’
houses. At such times they were always treated with the utmost of
kindness; a bottle of whisky, a pitcher of water, sugar, and glass were
set out, or a basket of apples or turnips, or some pies and cakes.
Apples were scarce them times. Sometimes potatoes were used for a treat.
(I must tell you that the first treat I ever received in old Mr.
Linkhern’s house--that was our President’s father’s house--was a plate
of potatoes, washed and pared very nicely, and handed ’round. It was
something new to me, for I had never seen a raw potato eaten before. I
looked to see how they made use of them. They took off a potato, and ate
them like apples).
“Thus they spent the time till time for preaching to commence, then they
would all take their seats; the preacher would take his stand, draw his
coat, open his shirt-collar, and commence service by singing and prayer;
take his text and preach till the sweat would roll off in great drops.
Shaking hands and singing then ended the service. The people seemed to
enjoy religion more in them days than they do now. They were glad to see
each other, and enjoyed themselves better than they do now.”
Such is the testimony of an old lady, who, like old people generally, is
prone to praise the past at the expense of the present.
The ladies in Abe’s early days wore “corn-field bonnets, scoop-shaped,
flaring in front, and long, though narrow behind.” They were as fond of
dancing as our city ladies, but did not find an elaborate toilet so
