the landing? You never told me."
She did not answer, but lay quite still.
"Dear one," he murmured, bending down, "are you so tired?
Leonora--sweetheart--speak to me!"
But the strain had been too strong, and Leonora lay in his arms, whiter
than death under the white moon, unconscious of Julius or of the sea.
Julius saw that she had fainted.
CHAPTER XVIII.
At half past eight on the following morning Temistocle found Leonora's
maid at the door of her mistress's room with an expression of blank
astonishment on her face that made him laugh. He often laughed, quietly,
without the least noise.
"You look exactly like a lay figure in a milliner's shop," he remarked.
"Except, indeed, that you look much more stupid."
The maid glared at him.
"The signora"--she began, and then trembled and looked round timidly.
"What about her?" inquired Temistocle, pricking up his ears.
The maid let her voice drop to a low whisper.
"She is not there," said she.
"Ebbene," said Temistocle with a grin, "what has happened to you? She is
probably gone out--gone to church. A good place for heretics, too."
"Macchè," whispered the woman, "she has not slept in her bed, and
everything is upside down in the room."
"May the devil carry you off!" said Temistocle, suddenly changing his
voice, and whispering hoarsely. "Let me see--let me pass." He put down
the can of hot water he was taking to his master, and pushed past the
maid, into Leonora's bedroom.
"Bada," said the woman, going after him cautiously, "take care! The
signore might come in and find you."
"What harm is there?" asked the servant. And then he made a careful
survey of the premises, locking all the doors except the one by which
they had entered.
"It is true, what you said," he remarked, pushing the maid out of the
room. "An apoplexy on these foreigners who go away without telling one.
Fuori! Go along with you, my child. Ci penso io--I will look after all
this." And he locked the door behind him, put the key in his pocket, and
took up his water-can.
"What are you doing?" asked the maid. Temistocle had seen a chance, and
took it.
"Look here," said he, rubbing the thumb and forefinger of his hand
together before the girl's eyes,--which means "money" in gesture
language--"look here. The signore accompanied the signora to the early
train from Castellamare this morning at half past four. They had a hired
carriage. She went away and forgot her jewels on the table. She is gone
to Rome on business,--they were talking about it last night. Do you
understand?"
"No," answered the woman looking puzzled, "you said she had gone out"--
"I said so to you," he answered with a sly grin, "but I will not say so
to any one else, nor you either. Remember that she went to Rome this
morning. It will be worth your while to remember that."
The woman smiled a cunning smile. She had hated her mistress, and would
have liked to make a scandal before all the other servants, but
Temistocle's advice would be more profitable. So they arranged the
matter between them and parted.
Marcantonio was seated at his writing-table when Temistocle entered. He
always got up very early, and did a great many things before he dressed.
Temistocle busied himself a moment about the room, and when he was ready
to go he came to the table and laid the key he had taken from Leonora's
door at his master's elbow.
"What is that?" asked Marcantonio, looking up.
"It is the key of the Signora Marchesa's bedroom, eccellenza," answered
Temistocle, edging away toward the door. "Her excellency must have gone
away very early, and she left her room open and all her jewelry strewed
about. So I locked the doors and brought you the key."
He was very near the door and could escape in a moment.
But Marcantonio did not move; his jaw dropped, and his colour changed to
a yellow waxen hue, which terrified the servant. But he did not move.
Temistocle continued.
"I told the servants not to be astonished, as you had accompanied the
Signora Marchesa to the early train for Rome before daybreak," he said,
putting his hand on the latch.
Marcantonio made as though he would rise. Temistocle slipped nimbly
through the door and closed it behind him, running away as though the
police were after him. But he knew that when Carantoni had recovered, he
would be amply rewarded for his wisdom. It often chances that villains
play a good and sensible part in life, which is quite as profitable as
villainy, and is always safer.
Marcantonio struggled to rise, and at last got upon his feet, staggering
like a man stunned by a physical blow. The door to Leonora's
sitting-room was open, but, beyond, the one to her bedroom was locked.
He had to go round by the passage, feeling his way as though he were
blind. At last he found the lock,--the key turned, and he entered.
It was just as she had left it. The white peignoir she had taken off
when she dressed for her flight lay in a heap upon the floor where she
had thrown it in her haste. The dismal, half-burned candles stood on the
dressing-table. The drawer from which she had taken the handkerchiefs
was half open. The windows were thrown back, and the blinds had not been
closed, so that the strong glare of the morning poured rudely in on the
confusion, and the flies buzzed about the scented soap and the bottle of
lavender and the pot of carnations in the corner.
Marcantonio dragged himself from one part of the room to another till he
stumbled against the table on which Leonora had left her scattered
jewelry,--all the things he had given her. He stood staring down at the
glittering gold and precious stones, unconsciously realising that they
were all his presents that she had left behind her. There was a strange
old Maltese cross of diamonds and sapphires among them, mounted in
silver. It had belonged to his mother, and he had given it to Leonora
with other things when he married her. His eyes fastened upon it, and
his hand crept across the table and took it.
He raised it to his white lips and kissed it once--twice; he would have
kissed it again, but the bow of his strength was bent too far and
snapped asunder. With a short, fierce cry he threw up his hands, and
fell prostrate on the smooth tiled floor, as a dead man might have
fallen.
He lay entirely unconscious for hours, so that when he at last came to
himself and struggled to move till he could sit up and stare about him,
the midday sun was pouring in, and the flies angrily tormented his
ghastly face, as though in derision of anything so miserable. For some
minutes he sat upon the floor, dazed and stupid with the oppression of
returning grief, as well as stunned from the physical pain resulting
from his fall. He was not hurt seriously, but he was bruised and weak.
At last he got to his feet, steadying himself by the table. He would
not see what was about him any more, for he knew it all, and the full
consciousness of his misfortune was on him. He regained his own room,
carefully locking Leonora's door behind him, and taking with him his
mother's diamond cross.
But the mere sense of grief could not long hold the mastery with a man
like Marcantonio. He had loved his wife too well not to resent the
injury and scorn, as well as weep over it. As he pondered, lying on his
bed, there arose in his breast a desperate and concentrated anger
against the man who had deprived him of what he best loved in the world,
the anger of a mind that has never reasoned much about anything, and
will carry unreason to any length when it comes. He must find his enemy;
that was the principal thought in his mind. That he would kill him when
he found him was a conclusion that seemed a matter of course.
But, in order to find him, it was necessary to move, to search, and turn
everything over. He turned on his pillow, feeling the first restless
stirrings of the demon that would by and by give him no peace by day or
night till the man was found and the blow struck. He turned over and
rang a bell by his bedside.
"Give me some coffee, and order the carriage," he said to the servant.
At the end of an hour, he found himself in the town, and inquired for
Batiscombe. It seemed as though fate favoured Carantoni at the outset,
for he found his name at once on the register of the hotel, and found
also the man who had waited on Julius. This servant had been told that a
lady had come in great haste soon after seven on the previous evening,
and had stayed more than half an hour. As soon as she was gone, Mr.
Batiscombe had sent for his bill and had ordered his boat to be ready at
eleven,--the servant had heard the order. The man guessed there was
something wrong from Marcantonio's face, but Batiscombe's sudden
