Ercole's house for his singing, and this is what happened there. 
De Pretis knew perfectly well that Nino had only 
asked for the extra lesson in order to get a chance 
of talking about the Contessina di Lira, and so, to 
tease him, as soon as he appeared, the maestro made 
a great bustle about singing scales, and insisted upon 
beginning at once. Moreover, he pretended to be in 
a bad humour ; and that is always pretense with him. 
"Ah, my little tenor," he began; "you want a lesson at seven in the morning, do you ? That is the 
time when all the washerwomen sing at the fountain I Well, you shall have a lesson, and by the 
body of Bacchus it shall be a real lesson! Now, 
then ! Andiamo Do-o-o ! " and he roared out a 
great note that made the room shake, and a man who 
was selling cabbage in the street stopped his hand 
cart and mimicked him for five minutes. 
" But I am out of breath, maestro," protested Nino, 
who wanted to talk. 
" Out of breath ? A singer is never out of breath. 
Absurd! What would you do if you got out of 
breath, say, in the last act of Lucia, so Bell alma 
 
ado Then your breath ends, eh ? Will you stay 
with the * adored soul between your teeth? A fine 
singer you will make ! Andiamo ! Do-o-o ! " 
Nino saw he must begin, and he set up a shout, 
much against his will, so that the cabbage-vender 
chimed in, making so much noise that the old woman 
who lives opposite opened her window and emptied 
a great dustpan full of potato peelings and refuse 
leaves of lettuce right on his head. And then there 
was a great noise. But the maestro paid no atten 
tion, and went on with the scale, hardly giving Nino 
time to breathe. Nino, who stood behind De Pretis 
while he sang, saw the copy of Bordogni's solfeggi 
lying on a chair, and managed to slip it under a pile 
of music near by, singing so lustily all the while 
that the maestro never looked round. 
When he got to the end of the scale, Ercole began 
hunting for the music, and as he could not find it 
Nino asked him questions. 
" Can she sing, this contessina of yours, maestro ? " De Pretis was overturning everything in his 
search. 
" An apoplexy on those solfeggi and on the man 
who made them!" he cried. "Sing, did you say? 
Yes, a great deal better than you ever will. Why 
can you not look for your music, instead of chattering?" Nino began to look where he knew it was 
not. 
"By the bye, do you give her lessons every day?" 
asked the boy. 
"Every day? Am I crazy, to ruin people's voices 
like that?" 
 
" Caro maestro, what is the matter with you, this 
morning ? You have forgotten to say your prayers ! " 
" You are a donkey, Nino ; here he is, this blessed 
Bordogni, now, come." 
"Sor Ercole mio," said Nino in despair, "I must 
really know something about this angel, before I sing 
at all." 
Ercole sat down on the piano stool, and puffed up 
his cheeks, and heaved a tremendous sigh, to show 
how utterly bored he was by his pupil. Then he 
took a large pinch of snuff, and sighed again. 
"What demon have you got into your head?" he 
asked, at length. 
"What angel, you mean," answered Nino, de 
lighted at having forced the maestro to a parley. " I 
am in love with her crazy about her," he cried, 
running his fingers through his curly hair, " and you 
must help me to see her. You can easily take me to 
her house to sing duets, as part of her lesson. I tell 
you I have not slept a wink all night for thinking of 
her, and unless I see her I shall never sleep again as 
long as I live. Ah ! " he cried, putting his hands 
on Ercole's shoulders, "you do not know what it is 
to be in love ! How everything one touches is fire, 
and the sky is like lead, and one minute you are cold 
and one minute you are hot, and you may turn and 
turn on your pillow all night, and never sleep, and 
you want to curse everybody you see, or to embrace 
them, it makes no difference anything to express 
the" 
"Devil, and may he carry you off!" interrupted 
Ercole, laughing. But his manner changed. "Poor 
 
fellow," he said presently, "it appears to me you are 
in love." 
" It appears to you, does it ? Appears a beau 
tiful word, in faith. I can tell you it appears to 
me so, too. Ah ! it appears to you very good 
indeed! " and Nino waxed wroth. 
"I will give you some advice, Ninetto mio. Do 
not fall in love with any one. It always ends 
badly." 
"You come late with your counsel, Sor Ercole. 
In truth, a very good piece of advice, when a man is 
fifty, and married, and wears a skull-cap. When I 
wear a skull-cap and take snuff, I will follow your 
instructions." He walked up and down the room, 
grinding his teeth and clapping his hands together. 
Ercole rose and stopped him. 
"Let us talk seriously," he said. 
"With all my heart; as seriously as you please." 
"You have only seen this signorina once." 
" Once ! " cried Nino, " as if once were not " 
"Diavolo! let me speak. You have only seen her 
once. She is noble, an heiress, a great lady worse 
than all, a foreigner; as beautiful as a statue, if you 
please, but twice as cold. She has a father who 
knows the proprieties, a piece of iron, I tell you, 
who would kill you just as he would drink a glass 
of wine, with the greatest indifference, if he suspected you lifted your eyes to his daughter." 
"I do not believe your calumnies," said Nino, 
still hotly. "She is not cold, and if I can see her 
she will listen to me. I am sure of it." 
" We will speak of that by and by. You what 
 
are you ? Nothing but a singer, who has not even 
appeared before the public, without a baiocco in the 
world, nor anything else but your voice. You are 
not even handsome." 
"What difference does that make to a woman of 
heart? " retorted Nino angrily. "Let me only speak 
to her" 
" A thousand devils ! " exclaimed De Pretis, impatiently ; " what good can you do by speaking to her ? 
Are you Dante, or Petrarca, or a preacher what 
are you ? Do you think you can have a great lady's 
hand for the asking? Do you flatter yourself you 
are so eloquent that nobody can withstand you ? " 
"Yes," said Nino boldly. "If I could only speak 
to her " 
"Then, in Heaven's name, go and speak to her. 
Get a new hat and a pair of lavender gloves, and 
walk about the Villa Borghese until you meet her, 
and then throw yourself on your knees and kiss her 
feet, and the dust from her shoes ; and say you are 
dying for her, and will she be good enough to walk 
so far as Santa Maria del Popolo and be married to 
you ! That is all ; you see it is nothing you ask a 
mere politeness on her part oh, nothing, nothing." 
