own property ! And I had made it mine no one else 
had studied it as I had, no one else understood it. 
What does that stick of a Casamassima know about it at 
this hour ? I should like to see it just once more ; it 's 
the only thing in the world of which I can say so. " 
"I would not advise it," Rowland repeated. 
" That 's right, my dear fellow," said Roderick; "don 't 
advise ! That 's no use now." 
The dusk meanwhile had thickened, and they had not 
perceived a figure approaching them across the open 
space in front of the house. Suddenly it stepped into 
the circle of light projected from the door and windows, 
and they beheld little Sam Singleton stopping to stare 
at them. He was the giant whom they had seen de 
scending along the rocks. When this was made apparent 
Roderick was seized with a fit of intense hilarity it was 
the first time he had laughed in three months. Singleton, 
who carried a knapsack and walking-staff, received from 
Rowland the friendliest welcome. He was in the serenest 
possible humour, and if in the way of luggage his knap 
sack contained nothing but a comb and a second shirt, 
he produced from it a dozen admirable sketches. He 
had been trudging over half Switzerland, and making 
everywhere the most vivid pictorial notes. They were 
mostly in a box at Interlaken, and in gratitude for Row 
land 's appreciation he presently telegraphed for his box, 
which, according to the excellent Swiss method, was 
punctually delivered by post. The nights were cold, 
and our friends, with three or four other chance sojourners, 
sat in-doors over a fire of great logs. Even with Roderick 
sitting moodily in the outer shadow, they made a sym 
pathetic little circle, and they turned over Singleton 's 
drawings, while he perched in the chimney-corner, 
 
blushing and explaining, with his feet on the rounds of 
the chair. He had been pedestrianising for six weeks, 
and he was glad to rest a while at Engelthal. It was 
an economic repose, however, for he sallied forth every 
morning with his sketching tools on his back, in search 
of material for new studies. Roderick 's hilarity, after 
the first evening, had subsided, and he watched the little 
painter 's serene activity with a gravity that was almost 
portentous. Singleton, who was not in the secret of his 
personal misfortunes, still treated him with timid frank 
ness as the rising star of American art. Roderick had 
said to Rowland at first that Singleton reminded him of 
some curious little insect with a remarkable mechanical 
instinct in its antenna ; but as the days went by it was 
apparent that the modest landscapist 's unflagging industry 
grew to have an oppressive meaning for him. It pointed 
a moral, and Roderick used to sit and con the moral as 
he saw it figured in Singleton 's bent back, on the hot 
hillsides, protruding from beneath his white umbrella. 
One day he wandered up a long slope and overtook him 
as he sat at work ; Singleton related the incident after 
wards to Rowland, who, after giving him in Rome a 
hint of Roderick 's aberrations, had strictly kept his own 
counsel. 
"Are you always like this ?" said Roderick, in almost 
sepulchral accents. 
" Like this ?" repeated Singleton, blinking confusedly, 
with an alarmed conscience. 
"You remind me of a watch that never runs down. 
If one listens hard one hears you always tic-tic, tic-tic. " 
"Oh, I see," said Singleton, beaming ingenuously. 
" I am very equable." 
"You are very equable, yes. And do you find it 
pleasant to be equable?" 
Singleton turned and smiled more brightly, while he 
sucked the water from his camel s-hair brush. Then, 
with a quickened sense of his indebtedness to a Providence 
 
that had endowed him with intrinsic facilities, " Oh, de 
lightful !" he exclaimed. 
Roderick stood looking at him a moment. " Dam 
nation !" he said at last, solemnly, and turned his back. 
Later in the week Rowland and Roderick took a long 
walk. They had walked before in a dozen different 
directions, but they had not yet crossed a charming little 
wooded pass which shut in their valley on one side and 
descended into the vale of Engelberg. In coming from 
Lucerne they had approached their inn by this path, and 
feeling that they knew it had hitherto neglected it in 
favour of untrodden ways. But at last the list of these 
was exhausted, and Rowland proposed the walk to 
Engelberg as a novelty. The place is half bleak and 
half pastoral ; a huge white monastery rises abruptly 
from the green floor of the valley and complicates its 
picturesqueness with an element rare in Swiss scenery. 
Hard by is a group of chalets and inns, with the usual 
appurtenances of a prosperous Swiss resort lean brown 
guides in baggy homespun, lounging under carved wooden 
galleries, stacks of alpenstocks in every doorway, sun- 
scorched Englishmen without shirt - collars. Our two 
friends sat a while at the door of an inn, discussing a 
pint of wine, and then Roderick, who was indefatigable, 
announced his intention of climbing to a certain rocky 
pinnacle which overhung the valley, and, according to 
the testimony of one of the guides, commanded a view of 
the Lake of Lucerne. To go and come back was only 
a matter of an hour, but Rowland, vdth the prospect of 
his homeward trudge before him, confessed to a preference 
for lounging on his bench or, at most, strolling a trifle 
farther and taking a look at the monastery. Roderick 
went off alone, and his companion after a while bent his 
steps to the monasterial church. It was remarkable, 
like most of the churches of Catholic Switzerland, for a 
hideous style of devotional ornament ; but it had a certain 
cold and musty picturesqueness, and Rowland lingered 
there with some tenderness for Alpine piety. While he 
was near the high altar some people came in at the west 
door, but he did not notice them, and was presently 
engaged in deciphering a curious old German epitaph 
on one of the mural tablets. At last he turned away, 
wondering whether its syntax or its theology were 
the more uncomfortable, and, tc his infinite surprise, 
found himself confronted with Prince and Princess 
Casamassima. 
The surprise on Christina 's part, for an instant, was 
equal, and at first she seemed disposed to turn away 
without letting it give place to a greeting. The Prince, 
however, saluted gravely, and then Christina in silence 
put out her hand. Rowland immediately asked whether 
they were staying at Engelberg, but Christina only looked 
at him without speaking. The Prince answered his 
questions, and related that they had been making a 
month 's tour in Switzerland, that at Lucerne his wife 
had been somewhat obstinately indisposed, and that the 
physician had recommended a week 's trial of the tonic 
air and goat 's milk of Engelberg. The scenery, said the 
Prince, was stupendous, but the life was terribly sad 
and they had three days more ! It was a blessing, he 
urbanely added, to see a good Roman face. 
Christina 's attitude, her solemn silence and her pene 
trating gaze, seemed to Rowland at first to savour of 
affectation ; but he presently perceived that she was 
deeply agitated, and was afraid of betraying herself. 
" Do let us leave this hideous edifice," she said ; " there 
are things here that set one 's teeth on edge." They 
moved slowly to the door, and when they stood outside, 
