show me the way out of this horrible place ! " 
He helped her back into the corridor ; Roderick 
followed after a short interval. Of course, as they were 
decending the steps, came questions for Rowland to 
answer, and more or less surprise. Where had he come 
from? how happened he to have appeared at just that 
moment ? Rowland answered that he had been ram 
bling overhead, and that, looking out of an aperture, he 
had seen a gentleman preparing to undertake a prepos 
terous gymnastic feat, and a lady swooning away in con 
sequence. Interference seemed justifiable, and he had 
made it as prompt as possible. Roderick was far from 
hanging his head like a man who has been caught in the 
perpetration of an extravagant folly ; but if he held it 
more erect than usual Rowland believed that this was 
much less because he had made a show of personal daring 
 
than because he had triumphantly proved to Christina 
that, like a certain person she had dreamed of, he too 
could speak the language of decision. Christina de 
scended to the arena in silence, apparently occupied 
with her own thoughts. She betrayed no sense of the 
privacy of her interview with Roderick needing an ex 
planation ; she seemed to imply that Rowland had seen 
stranger things in New York. The only evidence of her 
recent agitation was that oh being joined by her maid 
she declared that she was unable to walk home she 
must have a carriage. A fiacre was found resting in the 
shadow of the Arch of Constantine, and Rowland sus 
pected that after she had got into it she disburdened her 
self under her veil of a few natural tears. 
Rowland had played eavesdropper to so good a pur 
pose that he might justly have omitted the ceremony of 
denouncing himself to Roderick. He preferred, however, 
to let him know that he had overheard a portion of his 
talk with Christina. 
"Of course it seems to you," Roderick said, "a proof 
that I am thoroughly infatuated." 
" Miss Light seemed to me to know very well how 
far she could go," Rowland answered. "She was twist 
ing you round her finger. I don't think she exactly 
meant to defy you ; but your preposterous attempt to 
pluck the flower was a proof that she could go all lengths 
in the way of making a fool of you." 
"Yes," said Roderick, meditatively ; "she is making 
a fool of me." 
" And what do you expect to come of it ?" 
" Nothing good !" And Roderick put his hands into 
his pockets, and looked as if he had announced the most 
colourless fact in the world. 
" And in the light of your late interview, what do you 
make of your young lady?" 
" If I could tell you that, it would be plain sailing. 
But she will not tell me again I am weak !" 
 
" Are you very sure you are not weak?" 
" I may be, but she shall never dare she shall never 
care to say it !" 
Rowland said no more until they reached the Corso, 
when he asked his companion whether he were going to 
his studio. 
Roderick started out of a reverie, and passed his 
hands over his eyes. "Oh no, I can't settle down to 
work after such a scene as that. I was not afraid of 
breaking my neck then, but I feel in a devil of a 
tremor now. I will go I will go and sit in the sun 
on the Pincio !" 
"Promise me this first," Said Rowland, very solemnly 
" that the next time you meet Miss Light it shall be 
on the earth and not in the air !" 
Since his return from Frascati Roderick had been work 
ing doggedly at the statue ordered by Mr. Leavenworth. 
To Rowland 's eye he had made a very fair beginning, 
but he had himself insisted from the first that he liked 
neither his subject nor his patron, and that it was impos 
sible to feel any warmth of interest in a work which was 
to be incorporated into the ponderous personality of Mr. 
Leavenworth. It was all against the grain ; he wrought 
without love. Nevertheless after a fashion he wrought, 
and the figure grew beneath his hands. Miss Blanchard 's 
friend was ordering works of art on every side, and his 
purveyors were in many cases persons whom Roderick 
declared it was an infamy to be associated with. " There 
had been famous tailors," he said, "who declined to make 
you a coat unless you should get the hat you were to 
wear with it from an artist of their own choosing." It 
seemed to him that he had an equal right to exact that 
his statue should not form part of the same system of 
ornament as the "Pearl of Perugia," a picture by an 
American confrere who had, in Mr. Leavenworth 's opinion, 
a prodigious eye for colour. As a liberal customer, Mr. 
Leavenworth used to drop into Roderick 's studio to see 
 
how things were getting on, and give a friendly hint, or 
exert an enlightened control. He would seat himself 
squarely, plant his gold-topped cane between his legs, 
which he held veiy much apart, rest his large white 
hands on the head, and enunciate the principles of 
spiritual art a species of fluid wisdom which appeared 
to rise in bucketfuls, as he turned the crank, from the 
well-like depths of his moral consciousness. His benig 
nant and imperturbable pomposity gave Roderick the 
sense of suffocating beneath an immense feather-bed, and 
the worst of the matter was that the good gentleman 's 
placid vanity had an integument impenetrable to sarcastic 
shafts. Roderick admitted" that in thinking over the 
tribulations of struggling genius the clanger of dying of 
too much attention had never occurred to him. 
The deterring effect of the episode of the Coliseum 
was apparently of long continuance ; if Roderick 's nerves 
had been shaken his hand needed time to recover its 
steadiness. He cultivated composure upon principles of 
his own ; by frequenting entertainments from which he 
returned at four o clock in the morning, and lapsing into 
habits which might fairly be called irregular. He had 
hitherto made few friends among the artistic fraternity ; 
chiefly because he had taken no trouble about it, and 
there was in his demeanour an elastic independence of 
the favour of his fellow-mortals which made social advances 
on his own part peculiarly necessary. Rowland had 
told him more than once that he ought to fraternise a 
trifle more with the other artists, and he had always 
answered that he had not the smallest objection to frater 
nising ; let them come ! But they came on rare occasions, 
and Roderick was not punctilious about returning their 
visits. He declared there was not one of them the fruits 
of whose genius gave him the least desire to delve in the 
parent soil. For Gloriani he professed an ineffable con 
tempt, and having been once to look at his wares never 
crossed his threshold again. The only one of the 
 
fraternity for whom by his own admission he cared a 
straw was little Singleton ; but he took an exclusively 
facetious view of this humble genius whenever he en 
countered him, and quite forgot his existence in the 
intervals. He had never been to see him, but Singleton 
edged his way from time to time timidly into Roderick 's 
studio, and agreed with characteristic modesty that brilliant 
fellows like Hudson might consent to receive homage 
but could hardly be expected to render it. Roderick 
