constitutionally expressing his choice for a governor of the State.
Wasn't it awful?"
"I should say that it was an outrage, as you called it in the beginning.
But why was he debarred from his right?" asked the orator.
"He was shut up in the house of correction," laughed the fat
committee-man.
"Oh, for some crime!" exclaimed the representative of the rebels.
"That depends upon how you look at it. He did not regard that for which
he was shut up as a crime; in fact, he was acting on principle,"
chuckled the jolly disputant. "He claimed that it was right to sell
liquor, though the law of the State made it a crime. At any rate, his
business was such that he could not leave, even to vote. His case was
just like yours, only a great deal worse, Mr. Shoreham."
The students indulged in a round of hearty applause, and the orator
found it utterly impossible to meet the argument contained in this
parallel case. He subsided. Captain Gildrock was satisfied with the
decision of the committee, and so were all the students, with the
possible exception of Shoreham. The papers that covered the characters
on the two rolls were removed by Mr. Darlingby, and the same one
appeared on both of them.
"Both prizes have been awarded to the same student, I see," said the
principal, while the instructor went for the envelopes.
The character was the Greek letter Beta, and the two envelopes, thus
indorsed, were handed to the principal. There was intense excitement
when he opened them.
"Bolingbroke Millweed," Captain Gildrock read from the enclosures of
both, and a round of applause followed.
CHAPTER XXII.
BOLLY EXPLAINS HIS PLANS FOR THE BOAT-HOUSE AND WHARF.
Bolingbroke Millweed was a good scholar and a fair mechanic, but both
instructors and students were astonished when both prizes were awarded
to him. He had formerly been a "swell," but he had entirely recovered
from the malady which made him such. Only a few weeks before he was too
proud to work with his hands.
His pride, or rather vanity, had kept down his manhood, and made of him
what the genuine boy called a "donkey." His father had become the "head
of the family," at home, and introduced a new order of things. The two
sons were in the Beech Hill School, and the two girls were not only
earning their own living, but were doing a great deal towards the
support of the family.
The new order of things had placed Bolly, as everyone called him, on his
own proper level. It had developed faculties which had been dormant,
and made him a useful as well as a sensible young man. The result of the
competition proved that he had talent of a high order, and that the
industrial school was bringing it out.
Bolly was fairly popular among his associates, though there was nothing
magnetic about him. He was not likely to become a leader among men, but
Mr. Plint thought he had the right kind of ability to make a good
architect. The practical education he was now receiving was exactly what
he needed. While he was learning to draw, he was also obtaining a
knowledge of practical carpentry and work in metals, as well as an
insight into other trades.
The boys had given the successful competitor a liberal demonstration of
applause, which proved that they had no ill-will or jealousy; of if they
had, they were ashamed to manifest it. The excitement had been intense,
and it did not seem to moderate after the prizes had been awarded. The
students wanted to know all about the plans and the location, and how
the wharf was to be built.
Captain Gildrock took from his pocket a couple of fifty-dollar bills,
and laid them on the desk, and Bolly was called to the platform. Another
round of applause greeted him, and the principal did not object to it.
The victor was formally introduced to each of the visitors, who took him
by the hand and congratulated him upon his success. Mr. Bridges said he
could not help laughing when he thought of the triumphant architect
doing duty as third fireman in the hold of the Sylph.
"If this boy should happen to become an architect in the future, do you
suppose that what he learns in the fireroom of the steamer will be any
disadvantage to him?" said the principal.
"On the contrary, I think what he learns in any capacity will be of
immense value to him," replied the civil engineer earnestly. "In fact,
it would be worth all it cost in any calling."
"I noticed that this young gentleman's brother was first cook," added
Mr. Plint. "I have often had to get up designs and make drawings for
hotels, prisons, insane asylums, and other buildings in which a kitchen
was a very important apartment. Now, I am sure, if I had ever been a
cook I should have been better fitted to manage the details of such a
department."
"An eminent surgeon told me he was sorry he had not learned to be a
carpenter or a machinist after he graduated from college, for a
knowledge of these arts would make him a better surgeon," Mr. Bridges
remarked.
"Now, Millweed," continued the principal, "the students want to know all
about your plans,"--and this observation was greeted with a clapping of
hands. "I propose that you shall tell them yourself, and explain your
plans in full." This remark was applauded. "There is a large, clean
blackboard behind you, and you may do it in your own way."
"I am no orator, as Brutus is," replied Bolly, blushing.
"Brutus Shoreham!" exclaimed one of the boys, and all the assembly
laughed; and from that time the last of the rebels was called Brutus by
the students oftener than anything else.
"I am afraid I can't speak well enough to make myself understood," said
Bolly, as he looked nervously at the blackboard and then at the
students.
"You need not declaim it; only tell what your plans are, just as you
would explain them to one of your companions over in the grove," added
Captain Gildrock, encouragingly.
"I will try, sir. Shall I explain the building, or the location first,"
asked Bolly.
"Suit yourself, Millweed."
"Then I will begin with the location," replied the successful
competitor, as he took a crayon and turned to the blackboard, where he
rapidly sketched the shore-line of the northeast corner of Beech Hill
Lake.
This part of the lake formed a considerable bay, abreast of which was
the school building and shops, while the dormitory was near the rocks at
the foot of Beech Hill. About one third of the way across the lake was a
low peninsula, whose surface was nearly flat, and not more than three
feet above the usual level of the lake. This point projected out into
the lake about ten rods, and formed the western shore of the
bay,--called by the boys Hornet Bay, on account of a quarrel some of
them had had with insects of that name, in which the hornets got the
better of them.
"This is Chowder Point," Bolly began, indicating with the pointer the
projection of rocks, which had formerly been much used for picnic
purposes. "This is the location I have chosen for the boat-house."
"Why didn't you put it on the other side of the lake?" asked one of the
students, who thought it was too far from the old wharf.
"Chowder Point is just the same distance from the shop and schoolroom
as the old wharf, and only half the distance from the dormitory,"
replied Bolly, with patient dignity.
"And about the same distance from the mansion-house," added the
principal. "I must ask the students not to interrupt the speaker, and
not to ask any more questions until he has finished his explanation."
While the captain was making this remark, Bolly dashed off a
parallelogram, rather more than twice as long as it was wide. It covered
the end of Chowder Point, the extremity of which extended a short
distance outside of it.
"This figure represents the location of the boat-house," continued
Bolly, using the pointer. "You observe that about one third of the
building is on the land, or rocks, and the rest of it is over the
water."
"But where does the wharf come in?" asked an excited student.
"No questions!" interposed the principal. "You need not answer it,
Millweed."
"I shall come to the wharf in a few minutes," replied Bolly. "The main
building, represented by this parallelogram, is to be ninety-one feet
long by thirty-one feet wide,--rather narrow for the length, you will
say; but the proportions will be improved a little before I finish."
The speaker took the crayon and marked off the docks for the barges.
They opened at the south end of the structure, into Hornet Bay. He had
