an agreeable one to so thin a man, even on the warmest day.
Mrs. Penelope Moore was a brave woman. And she knew that she was brave.
Not being able, on account of her delicate health, to take part
personally in the social entertainments of Gracias, she sent her husband
in her place. And this was her bravery; for he was without doubt the
most agreeable as well as the handsomest of men, and anybody with sense
could foretell what must follow: given certain conditions, and the
results all the world over were the same. Other people might say that
quiet little Gracias was safe, Mrs. Penelope Moore knew better. Other
people, again, might be blind; but Mrs. Penelope Moore was never blind.
She knew that such a man as her Middleton passed, must pass, daily
through temptations of the most incandescent nature, all the more
dangerous because merged inextricably with his priest's office; but he
passed unscathed, he came out always, as she once wrote triumphantly to
her mother, "without so much as a singe upon the hem of his uttermost
garment." And if, on the other hand, it might have seemed that so little
(blessedly) that was inflammable had been included in this good man's
composition that he might have passed safely through any amount of
incandescence, even all that his wife imagined, here again, then, others
were most decidedly mistaken; Mrs. Moore was convinced that her
Middleton was of the fieriest temperament. Only he kept it down.
Gracias-รก-Dios was certainly quiet enough. But Mistress Penelope, like
many good women before her, could believe with ease in a degree of
depravity which would have startled the most hardened of actual
participants. Having no standards by which to gauge evil, no personal
experience of its nature, she was quite at sea about it. As Dr. Kirby
once said of her (when vexed by some of her small rulings), "If people
don't come to Friday morning service, sir, she thinks it but a small
step further that they should have poisoned their fathers and beaten
their wives."
On the present occasion this lady set her husband's hat straight upon
his amiable forehead, and gave him his butterfly net; then from her
Gothic windows (the rectory of St. Philip and St. James' was of the same
uncertain Gothic as the church), she watched him down the path and
through the gate, across the plaza out of sight, going back to her sofa
with the secure thought in her heart, "I can trust him--anywhere!"
The party on the yacht was composed of the same persons who had taken
part in most of the entertainments given for the northern ladies, save
that Manuel and Torres were absent. Torres had not been allowed to
"address" Garda, after all, Mrs. Thorne having withheld her permission.
The young Cuban was far too punctilious an observer of etiquette to
advance further without that permission; he had therefore left society's
circle, and secluded himself at home, where, according to Manuel, he was
engaged in "consuming his soul."
"His cigars," Winthrop suggested.
Whereupon Manuel, who was not fond of the northerner, warmly took up
the cause of the absent Adolfo (though ordinarily he declared himself
tired to death of him), and with his superbest air remarked, "It is
possible that Mr. Wintup does not understand us."
"Quite possible," Winthrop answered.
Mrs. Thorne had consulted him about the request of Torres. Not formally,
not (at least it did not appear so) premeditatedly; she alluded to it
one afternoon when he had found her alone at East Angels. Winthrop was
very severe upon what he called the young Cuban's "presumption."
"Presumption--yes; that is what I have been inclined to consider it,"
said Mrs. Thorne, with her little preliminary cough. But she spoke
hesitatingly, or rather there seemed to be hesitation in her mind behind
her words, for her words themselves were carefully clear.
Winthrop looked at her, and saw, or fancied he saw, a throng of
conflicting possibilities, contingencies, and alternatives in the back
part of her small bright eyes. "Your daughter is too young to be made
the subject of any such request at present," he said, curtly. For it
seemed to him a moment when a little masculine brevity and masculine
decision were needed in this exclusively feminine atmosphere.
Mrs. Thorne accepted his suggestion. "Yes, Garda is young," she
murmured, emerging a little from her hesitations. "Quite too young," she
repeated, more emphatically. Winthrop had given her a formula, and
formulas are sometimes as valuable as a life-raft.
Torres, therefore, being engaged in the consumption of his soul, and
Manuel having haughtily declined the northerner's invitation, the party
on the yacht consisted, besides Winthrop, of Mrs. Rutherford and
Margaret Harold, Mrs. Carew, Garda, Dr. Kirby, and the Rev. Mr. Moore,
Mrs. Thorne having been detained at home by the "pressing domestic
engagements" which Winthrop had been certain would lift their heads as
soon as the day for the Emperadora's little voyage had been decided
upon. Wind and tide were both in their favor; they had a swift run down
the Espiritu, and landed on Patricio a number of miles below Gracias,
where there was a path which led across to the ocean beach. This path
was narrow, and the gallant Dr. Kirby walked in the bushes all the way,
suffering the twigs to flagellate his plump person, in order to hold a
white umbrella over Mrs. Rutherford, who, arm in arm with her Betty,
took up the entire track. Patricio, which had first been a reef, and
then an outlying island, was now a long peninsula, joining the main land
some forty miles below Gracias in an isthmus of sand; it came northward
in a waving line, slender and green, lying like a ribbon in the water,
the Espiritu on one side, the ocean on the other. When the ocean beach
of the ribbon was reached, Mrs. Rutherford admired the view; she admired
it so much that she thought she would sit down and admire it more. Dr.
Kirby therefore bestirred himself in arranging the cushions and rugs
which Winthrop's men had brought across from the yacht, to form an
out-of-door sofa for the ladies; for Betty, of course, decided to remain
with Katrina. The Doctor said that he should himself bear them company,
leaving the "younger men" to "fume and fluster and explore."
The Rev. Mr. Moore was, in actual years, not far from Dr. Reginald's own
age. But the Rev. Mr. Moore was perennially young; slender and light,
juvenile in figure, especially when seen from behind, his appearance was
not that of an elderly man so much as of a young man in whom the
progress of age has been in some way arrested, like the young peaches,
withered and wrinkled and yet with the bloom of youth about them still,
which have dropped to the ground before their prime. He now stood
waiting on the beach, armed with his butterfly net; as his butterfly net
was attached to a long green pole, one end of which rested on the
ground, he had the air of a sort of marine shepherd with a crook.
The Rev. Mr. Moore always carried this entomological apparatus with him
when he went upon pleasure excursions; his wife encouraged him in the
amusement, she said it was a distraction for his mind; the butterflies
also found it a distraction, they were in the habit of laughing (so some
persons declared) all down the coast whenever the parson and his net
appeared in sight.
"You are going to explore, aren't you?" said Garda to Margaret Harold;
"it's lovely, and we shall not fume or fluster in the least, in spite of
the Doctor; we shall only pick up shells. Over these shells we shall
exclaim; Mr. Winthrop will find charming ones, and present them to us,
and then we shall exclaim more; we shall dote upon the ones he gives us,
we shall hoard them away carefully in our handkerchiefs and pockets; and
then, to-morrow morning, when the sun comes up, he will shine upon two
dear little heaps of them outside our bedroom windows, where, of course,
we shall have thrown them as soon as we reached home."
Mr. Moore listened to these remarks with surprise. Upon the various
occasions when he had visited Patricio he had always, and with great
interest, picked up shells for the ladies present, knowing how much they
would value them. He now meditated a little upon the back windows
alluded to by Garda; it was a new idea.
"Oh, how delightful it is to go marooning!" said Mrs. Carew, who,
beginning to recover from the terrors of the voyage, had found her voice
again. Her feet were still somewhat cramped from their use as brakes;
she furtively extended them for a moment, and then, unable to resist the
comfort of the position, left them extended. Her boots were the
old-fashioned thin-soled all-cloth gaiters without heels, laced at the
side, dear to the comfort-loving ladies of that day; her ankles came
down into their loose interiors without any diminishing curves, as in
the case of the elephant.
"Are you going, Margaret?" said Mrs. Rutherford, in her amiably
patronizing voice. "Don't you think you will find it rather warm?" Mrs.
Rutherford inhabited the serene country of non-effort, she could
therefore maintain without trouble the satisfactory position of
criticising the actions of others; for whether they succeeded or whether
they failed, success or failure equally indicated an attempt, and
anything like attempt she was above. "People who try" was one of her
phrases; she would not have cared to discover America, for undoubtedly
