The sense of her sister's helplessness was too much 
for the tease ; she broke down in a fit of smothered 
laughter, which convinced her victim that it was 
nothing but an ill-timed joke. 
" Well, Pen, I wouldn't use you so," she whim 
pered. 
Penelope threw herself on the bed beside her. 
" Oh, poor Irene ! He is here. It 's a solemn, 
fact." And she caressed and soothed her sister, 
while she choked with laughter. " You must get 
up and come out. I don't know what brought him 
here, but here he is." 
" It 's too late now," said Irene desolately. Then 
she added, with a wilder despair : " What a fool I 
was to take that walk !" 
" Well," coaxed her sister, " come out and get some 
tea. The tea will do you good." 
" No, no ; I can't come. But send me a cup 
here." 
" Yes, and then perhaps you can see him later in 
the evening." 
" I shall not see him at all." 
An hour after Penelope came back to her sister's 
room and found her before her glass. " You might 
as well have kept still, and been well by morning, 
'Rene," she said. " As soon as we were done father 
said, ' Well, Mr. Corey and I have got to talk over 
a little matter of business, and we'll excuse you, 
ladies.' He looked at mother in a way that I guess 
was pretty hard to bear. 'Eene, you ought to have 
heard the Colonel swelling at supper. It would 
have made you feel that all he said the other day 
was nothing." 
Mrs. Lapham suddenly opened the door. 
" Now, see here, Pen," she said, as she closed it 
behind her, " I Ve had just as much as I can stand 
from your father, and if you don't tell me this instant 
what it all means ' 
She left the consequences to imagination, and 
Penelope replied with her mock soberness 
" Well, the Colonel does seem to be on his high 
horse, ma'am. But you mustn't ask me what his 
business with Mr. Corey is, for I don't know. All 
that I know is that I met them at the landing, and 
that they conversed all the way down on literary 
topics." 
"Nonsense ! What do you think it is ?" 
" Well, if you want my candid opinion, I think 
this talk about business is nothing but a blind. It 
seems a pity Irene shouldn't have been up to receive 
him," she added. 
Irene cast a mute look of imploring at her mother, 
who was too much preoccupied to afford her the 
protection it asked. 
" Your father said he wanted to go into the busi 
ness with him." 
Irene's look changed to a stare of astonishment 
and mystification, but Penelope preserved her im 
perturbability. 
" Well, it 's a lucrative business, I believe." 
 
" Well, I don't believe a word of it ! " cried Mrs. 
Lapham. " And so I told your father." 
" Did it seem to convince him ? " inquired Pene 
lope. 
Her mother did not reply. " I know one thing,' 
she said. " He 's got to tell me every word, or 
there 'll be no sleep for him this night." 
" Well, ma'am," said Penelope, breaking down in 
one of her queer laughs, " I shouldn't be a bit sur 
prised if you were right." 
" Go on and dress, Irene," ordered her mother, 
" and then you and Pen come out into the parlour. 
They can have just two hours for business, and 
then we must all be there to receive him. You 
haven't got headache enough to hurt you." 
" Oh, it 's all gone now," said the girL 
At the end of the limit she had given the Colonel, 
Mrs. Lapham looked into the dining-room, which 
she found blue with his smoke. 
" I think you gentlemen will find the parlour 
pleasanter now, and we can give it up to you." 
" Oh no, you needn't," said her husband. 
" We 've got about through." Corey was already 
standing, and Lapham rose too. " I guess we can 
join the ladies now. We can leave that little point 
till to-morrow." 
Both of the young ladies were in the parlour 
when Corey entered with their father, and both 
were frankly indifferent to the few books and the 
many newspapers scattered about on the table 
where the large lamp was placed. But after Corey 
 
had greeted Irene he glanced at the novel under his 
eye, and said, in the dearth that sometimes befalls 
people at such times : "I see you 're reading 
Middlemarch. Do you like George Eliot ? " 
" Who ? " asked the girl. 
Penelope interposed. " I don't believe Irene 's 
read it yet. I 've just got it out of the library ; I 
heard so much talk about it. I wish she would let 
you find out a little about the people for yourself," 
she added.' But here her father struck in 
" I can't get the time for books. It 's as much as 
I can do to keep up with the newspapers ; and 
when night comes, I 'm tired, and I 'd rather go out 
to the theatre, or a lecture, if they 've got a good 
stereopticon to give you views of the places. But 
I guess we all like a play better than 'most anything 
else. I want something that 'll make me laugh. I 
don't believe in tragedy. I think there 's enough ot 
that in real life without putting it on the stage. 
Seen ' Joshua Whitcomb ' ? " 
The whole family joined in the discussion, and it 
appeared that they all had their opinions of the 
plays and actors. Mrs. Lapham brought the talk 
back to literature. " I guess Penelope does most of 
our reading." 
" Now, mother, you 're not going to put it all on 
me ! " said the girl, in comic protest. 
Her mother laughed, and then added, with a 
sigh : " I used to like to get hold of a good book 
when I was a girl ; but we weren't allowed to read 
many novels in those days. My mother called 
 
them all lies. And I guess she wasn't so very far 
wrong about some of them." 
" They 're certainly fictions," said Corey, smiling. 
" Well, we do buy a good many books, first and 
last," said the Colonel, who probably had in mind 
the costly volumes which they presented to one 
another on birthdays and holidays. " But I get 
about all the reading I want in the newspapers. 
And when the girls want a novel, I tell 'em to get 
it out of the library. That 's what the library 's for. 
Phew ! " he panted, blowing away the whole unpro 
fitable subject. " How close you women-folks like 
to keep a room ! You go down to the sea-side or 
up to the mountains for a change of air, and then 
you cork yourselves into a room so tight you don't 
