about in London with him to guide and explain 
things could opportunity be more favourable to 
finish the work which last summer left undone? 
Betty's heart jumped at it; she knew she would 
say yes to Mrs. Dallas; she could say nothing but 
yes; and yet, questions did come up to her. Would 
it not be putting herself unduly forward? would 
it not look as though she went on purpose to see 
not London but somebody in London ? That 
would be the very truth, Betty confessed to her 
self with a pang of shame and humiliation; the 
pang was keen; yet it did not change her resolution. What if? Nobody knew, she argued, and 
nobody would have cause to suspect. There was 
reason enough, ostensible, why she should go to 
England with Mrs. Dallas; if she refused to visit 
all the old ladies who had sons, her social limits 
would be restricted indeed. But Mrs. Dallas her 
self? would not she understand? Mrs. Dallas understood enough already, Betty said to herself 
defiantly; they were allies in this cause. It was 
very miserable that it should be so ; however, not 
now to be undone or set aside. Lightly she had 
gone into Mrs. Dallas's proposition last summer; if 
it had grown to be life and death earnest with her, 
there was no need Mrs. Dallas should know that. 
It ivas life and death earnest; and she must go to 
London. It was a capital plan. To have met Pitt 
Dallas again at Seaforth and again spent weeks in 
his mother's house while he was there, would have 
been too obvious ; this was better every way. Of 
course she could not refuse such an invitation; 
such a chance of seeing something of the world; 
she who had always been too poor to travel. Pitt 
could not find any matter of surprise nor any 
ground for criticism in her doing that. And it 
would give her all the opportunity she wished for. 
Here, most inopportunely, came before her the 
image of Esther. How those two would suit each 
other. How infallibly Pitt would be devoted to 
her if he could see her. But Betty said to herself 
that she had a better right. They did not know 
each other; he was nothing to Esther, Esther was 
nothing to him. She set her teeth, and wrote to 
Mrs. Dallas that she would be delighted to go. 
And then, having made her choice, she put away 
thought. All through the voyage she was a most 
 
delightful companion. A little stifled excitement, 
like forcing heat in a greenhouse, made all her 
social qualities blossom out in unwonted brilliancy. 
She was entertaining, bright, gay, witty, graceful ; 
she was the admiration and delight of the whole" 
company on board; and Mrs. Dallas thought to 
herself with proud satisfaction, that Pitt could find 
nothing better than that, nor more attractive ; and 
that she need wish nothing better than that at the 
head of her son's household and by his side. That 
Pitt could withstand such enchantment was impossible. She was doing the very best thing she could 
do, in coming to England and in bringing Betty 
with her. 
Having meditated this journey for months, Mr. 
Dallas had made all his preparations. Eooms had 
been engaged in a pleasant part of the city; and 
there very soon after landing the little party found 
themselves comfortably established and quite at 
home. 
" Nothing like England ! " Mr. Dallas grumbled 
with satisfaction. " You couldn't do this in New 
York ; they understand nothing about it, and they 
are too stupid to learn. I believe there isn't a lodging house in all the little Dutch city over there; 
you could not find a single house where they let 
lodgings in the English fashion." 
"Mr. Dallas, it is not a Dutch city ! " 
" Half Dutch, and that's enough. Have you let 
Pitt know we are here, wife ? " 
Mrs. Dallas had done that; but the evening 
passed away nevertheless without any news of 
him. They made themselves very comfortable; 
had an excellent dinner, and went to rest in rooms 
pleasant and well-appointed; but Betty was in a 
state of feverish excitement which would not let 
her be a moment at ease. Now she was here, she 
almost was ready to wish herself back again. How 
would Pitt look at her ; how would he receive her ? 
and yet, what affair was it of his, if his mother 
brought a young friend with her, to enjoy the 
journey and make it agreeable ? It was nothing 
to Pitt ; and yet, if it were nothing to him, Betty 
would want to take passage in the next packet 
ship sailing for New York or Boston. She drew her 
breath short, until she could see him. 
He came about the middle of the next morning. 
Mr. Dallas had gone out, and the two ladies were 
alone, in a high state of expectancy ; joyous on one 
part, most anxious and painful on the other. The 
first sight of him calmed Betty's heart-beating; at 
the same time it gave her a great thrill of pain. 
Pitt was himself so frank and so quiet, she said to 
herself there was no occasion for her to fear any 
thing in his thoughts; his greeting of her was 
entirely cordial and friendly. He was neither surprised nor displeased to see her. At the same 
time, while this was certainly comforting, Pitt 
looked too composedly happy for Betty's peace of 
mind. Apparently he needed neither her nor any 
body; "do men ever?" said Betty to herself bitterly. And besides, there was in his face and 
 
manner a nobleness and a pureness which at one 
blow drove home as it were the impressions of the 
last year. Such a look she had never seen on any 
face in her life; except yes, there was one exception, and the thought sent another pang of pain 
through her. But women do riot shew what they 
feel; and Pitt, if he noticed Miss Frere at all, saw 
nothing but the well-bred quiet which always be 
longed to Betty's demeanour. He was busy with 
his mother. 
" This is a pleasure, to have you here I " he was 
saying heartily. 
" I thought we should have seen you last night. 
My letter was in time. Didn't you get it ? " 
"It went to my chambers in the Temple; and I 
was not there." 
" Where were you ? " 
"At Kensington." 
" At Kensington ! With Mr. Strahan." 
" Not with Mr. Strahan," saift Pitt gravely. " I
have been with him a great deal these last weeks. 
You got my letter in which I told you he was ill ? " 
" Yes, and that you were nursing him." 
" Then you did not get my letter telling of the 
end of his illness? You left home before it arrived." 
" You do not mean that uncle Strahan is dead? " 
" It is a month ago, and more. But there is noth 
ing to regret, mother. He died perfectly happy." 
Mrs. Dallas passed over this sentence, which she 
did not like, and asked abruptly, 
" Then what were you doing at Kensington ? " 
" There was business. I have been obliged to 
give some time to it. You will be as much surprised as I was, to learn that my old uncle has left 
all he had in the world to me." 
" To you! " Mrs. Dallas did not utter a scream of 
delight, or embrace her son, or do anything that 
