in the afternoon, early in the morning.
When the sponge is light sift a quart and a cup of flour into a bowl or
tray with two teaspoonfuls of salt. Into a hollow, like a crater in the
middle of the flour, empty your sponge-bowl, and work the flour down
into it. Wash out the bowl with a little lukewarm water and add this to
the dough. If it should prove too soft, work in, cautiously, a little
more flour. If too stiff, warm water, a spoonful at a time until you
can handle the paste easily. The danger is in getting it too stiff.
Now, knead and set for risings first and second, as you have already
been instructed. This sponge will be found especially useful in making
Graham Bread.
    One quart of Graham flour, one cup of white flour.
    One half cup of Indian meal.
    One half cup of molasses.
    Two teaspoonfuls of salt.
    Soda, the size of a pea.
    Half the quantity of sponge given in preceding receipt.
    Warm water for rinsing bowl—about half a cup.
Put the brown or Graham flour unsifted into the bread-bowl. Sift
into it white flour, meal and salt, and stir up well while dry. Into
the “crater” dug out in the middle, pour the sponge, warm water, the
molasses, and soda dissolved in hot water. Knead as you would white
bread, and set aside for the rising. It will not swell so fast as the
white, so give yourself more time for making it.
When light, knead well and long; make into two loaves, then put into
well-greased pans and leave for an hour, or until it becomes more than
twice the original size of the dough.
Take care that it does not burn in baking. The molasses renders it
liable to scorching. The oven must be steady, but not so hot as for
white bread, nor will the Graham bread be done quite so soon as that
made of bolted flour. Turn the pans once while baking, moving them as
gently as possible. If rudely shaken or jarred, there will be heavy
streaks in the loaves.
Graham bread is wholesome and sweet, and ought to be eaten frequently
in every family, particularly by young people whose bones and teeth are
in forming.
The phosphates which the process of “bolting” removes to a large extent
from white flour, go directly to the manufacture of bone, and these
also tend to nourish and strengthen the brain.
Tea-Rolls.
After mixing your bread in the morning either with sponge or with
yeast, divide the kneaded dough into two portions. Mould one into a
round ball, and set aside for a loaf as already directed. Make a hole
in the middle of the other batch and pour into it a tablespoonful of
butter, just melted, but not hot. Close the dough over it, dust your
hands and kneading-board with flour and work in the shortening until
the dough is elastic and ceases to be sticky. Put it into a floured
bowl, cover with a cloth and set away out of draught and undue heat,
for three hours. Knead it again, then, and wait upon its rising for
another three hours. The dough should be as soft as can be handled.
When it is light for the second time flour your board, rubbing in the
flour and blowing lightly away what does not adhere to the surface.
Toss the lump dough upon it and knead thoroughly for five minutes.
Flour a rolling-pin and roll the dough into a sheet not more than half
an inch thick. Cut this into round cakes with a biscuit-cutter or a
sharp-edged tumbler and fold, not quite in the middle, in the form of
turnovers, pinching the corners of the fold pretty hard to hinder the
flap of dough from flying up as the rising proceeds. Rub the bottom and
sides of a baking-pan with sweet lard or butter. Do this with a bit of
clean soft rag or tissue-paper, visiting every corner of the pan, but
not leaving thick layers and streaks of grease after it. Arrange the
rolls in regular rows in the pan about a quarter of an inch apart.
Cover with a cloth and set nearer the fire than you dared trust the
dough, and let them rise for an hour. Peep under the cloth two or three
times to see whether they rise evenly, and turn the pan around once
that all may be equally exposed to the heat.
When the time is up and the rolls are puffy and promising, set them in
a pretty quick oven and bake half an hour, turning the pan once in this
time, and covering with clean—never printed—paper, should they brown
too fast. Break the rolls apart from one another and eat warm. They are
also good cold, and if the directions be followed implicitly, very good
always.
Graham Rolls
Are made by treating the dough mixed for Graham bread as above and
following the foregoing receipt in every section, but allowing more
time for rising and baking. They are even better when cold than hot.
Breakfast Biscuit.
    Two cups of fresh milk slightly warmed.
    One quart and a cup of flour sifted.
    Five tablespoonfuls of yeast.
    One even tablespoonful of white sugar.
    One even teaspoonful of salt.
    Bit of soda as large as a pea, dissolved in hot water.
    One tablespoonful of butter, just melted, not hot.
    Yolk of one egg beaten light.
Sift the flour, salt and sugar into a bowl, hollow the heap in the
centre and pour in the milk, working down the flour into the liquid
with a spoon or your hands until it is thoroughly melted. Into a second
hollow pour the yeast and knead thoroughly for fifteen minutes. Wrap
bowl and biscuit in a thick cloth and set to rise where it will neither
become chilled nor sour over night. (Study the temperature in different
parts of the kitchen and kitchen closets to the end of finding the best
places for raising dough and sponge.)
Do all this at bedtime. Early in the morning turn out the dough upon
a floured board, work it for a minute into manageable shape; drill
several finger-holes in it and fill them with the melted butter, the
dissolved soda and the beaten yolk of egg. Pinch the dough hard to stop
the mouths of these cavities, and knead for ten minutes, carefully at
first, lest the liquids should be wasted, and more boldly when they are
absorbed by the paste. Roll out into a sheet half an inch thick with a
floured rolling-pin; cut into round cakes, set these closely together
in a well-greased pan; prick each with a fork and let them rise near
the fire for half an hour, covered with a light cloth.
Bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes in a quick oven, turning the
pan around once, quickly and lightly. Break apart from one another and
pile on a plate, throwing a clean doily or a small napkin over them.
Break open at table. Hot rolls and muffins should never be cut.
One word with regard to getting up early in order to give dough a
chance for the second rising. It is not a wholesome practice for any
woman—least of all a young girl to be out of bed two hours before she
eats her breakfast. Studying upon an empty stomach provokes dyspepsia
and injures the eyes. Active exercise in like circumstances tempts
debility and disease. Yet our bread and rolls must be looked after
at the proper time. Have yourself called on biscuit mornings an hour
earlier than usual. Rise, wash face and hands, rinse the mouth out and
brush back the hair. Put on stockings and slippers, such underclothing
as may be needed to prevent cold, a wrapper and the kitchen apron.
Cover your hair entirely with a handkerchief or sweeping cap. Before
beginning operations down-stairs eat a half-slice of dry bread or a
biscuit. You will not relish it, but take it all the same to appease
the empty, discontented stomach. Having made out your rolls and tucked
them up snugly for the final rise, return to your chamber for a
comfortable bath and toilet. When habited for the day in all except the
outer gown, collar, etc., slip on the wrapper again and run down to
put the biscuits in the oven. Unless it is too hot, they will get no
harm while you finish dressing in ten minutes, just in season to turn
the pan.
From the beginning of your apprenticeship in housewifery, learn how to
“dovetail” your duties neatly into one another. A wise accommodation of
parts and angles, and compactness in the adjustment of “must-be-dones”
are better than mere personal strength in the accomplishment of such
tasks as fall to women to perform. Master these, and do not let them
master you. Weave the little duties in and under and among what seem
to be the greater. While your bread is taking a three hours’ rise, you
are free in body and mind for other things. The grand secret of keeping
house well and without worry, lies in the art of packing and fitting
different kinds of work and in picking up the minutes. Other things
besides rising dough get on quite as well without your standing by to
watch them.
3
