“Nathan!”
“Well, my dear count?”
“Where and when is your next drama?”
“It will be given at the opening of the Ambigu-Comique.”
“Will you send me a box?”
“Your name is already on the list.”
“Du Bruel!”
“What is it?”
“You are becoming lazy, now that you are a member of the Académie.”
“I? I have five acts in rehearsal at the Vaudeville and two at the
Variétés.”
“That is not so bad, then. But where is your wife?”
“Tullia? She is in the third box to the left.”
“Alone?”
“With La Palférine.”
“Bixion, your last caricatures were infamous.”
“Bah! I would like to see you try your hand at them, with the censure
at your heels.”
“How are you, Lou de Lora? How are you, Stedman? Your exposition is
superb. Ah, my friends, you are the princes of the Musée. But I say,
Stedman, Pradier has just died: there is a fine place open.”
“Yes; but then, alas, there are men who can never be replaced.”
All these questions and answers bounded like the balls which two clever
players serve and receive in a well-played game of tennis.
M. de Rastignac turned to me. “Are you as incredulous as before?” he
smilingly inquired.
“I? God forbid, sir, that I should doubt your word.”
In reality, however, I knew neither what to think nor what to believe,
for I had curiously examined all these people whom my celebrated
compatriot had addressed, and who, through M. de Balzac, as well as
through their own achievements, were known and liked throughout
civilized Europe. With the exception of Bixion, who was thin, poorly
dressed, and not decorated, all the others appeared to be in the most
flourishing state of health and fortune. Madame Tullia du Bruel was as
appetizing as ever, and La Palférine, familiarly leaning on the back of
her chair, exposed an ideal shirt and an impossible vest.
“Does M. de la Palférine no longer visit Madame de Rochegude?” I
inquired.
“He is now entirely devoted to Tullia, and asserts that, after all, Du
Bruel’s cook is the finest artist in Paris.”
“Is Madame de Rochegude still living?”
“She sits in that second box to the right.”
“Who is with her?”
“Conti.”
“The celebrated musician?”
“Yes, indeed. You remember the song,—
                       ‘Et l’on revient toujours,
                        A ses premiers amours.’”
It was with the greatest eagerness that I had turned to look at this
artificial blonde, who had been so greatly beloved by the young Baron
Calyste du Guénic. (Vide Béatrix.) A lace scarf was twisted about her
neck in such a way as to diminish its length. She appeared worn and
fatigued; but her figure was a masterpiece of composition, and she
offered that compound of light and brilliant drapery, of gauze and
crimped hair, of vivacity and calm, which is termed the je ne sais quoi.
Conti was also an object of great interest to me. He looked vexed, out
of sorts, and bored, and seemed to be meditating on the eternal truth
of that aphorism, profound and sombre as an abyss, which teaches that a
cigar once out should never be relighted, and an affection once buried
should never be exhumed.
“Is the Baron de Nucingen here?” I asked.
“Nucingen is confined to his bed with the gout; he has not two good
months out of the twelve.”
“And his wife?”
“The baroness no longer goes to the theatre. Religion, charity, and
sermons occupy every instant of her time. Her father, Père Goriot, has
now a white marble tomb and a perpetual resting-place in the cemetery
of Père La Chaise.”
“Where is her sister, Madame de Restaud?”
“She died a few years ago, legally separated from her husband.”
“Pardon my insatiable curiosity,” I said, “but ever since I was old
enough to read and think I have not ceased to live with the personages
of the ‘Comédie Humaine.’”
“I am glad indeed,” he courteously replied, “to be able to answer your
questions. Is there anything that you still care to know?”
“What has become of the ex-minister of agriculture and commerce, the
Comte Popinot, whom we called the little Anselme Popinot, in the days
of the greatness and decadence of César Birotteau?”
“He followed the exiled princes to England.”
“And Du Tillet?”
“Du Tillet is no longer in France.”
“Did he leave for political reasons?”
“Is it possible that you did not hear of his failure! He absconded one
day, with the till, ruined by Jenny Cadine and Suzanne du Val-Noble.”
“Where are the children of Madame de Montsauf, that celestial creature,
so justly called le Lys dans la Vallée?”
“Jacques died of consumption, leaving Madeleine sole mistress of an
enormous fortune. In spite of what M. de Balzac said, I always supposed
that she was secretly in love with Félix de Vandernesse. She is in that
first avant-scène. She is an old maid now, but is none the less an
adorable woman, and the true daughter of her mother.”
“Do you know the name of that individual who has just entered her box?”
“That is Canalis.”
“Canalis, the great poet, who played such an important part in the life
of Modeste Mignon?”
“Precisely.”
“I had thought that he was younger.”
“He has grown quite old during these last few years. He has turned his
attention to politics, and you may notice how politics hollows the
cheeks and silvers the hair of poetry. He would bankrupt Golconda,
however, and he is now attempting to win Mlle. de Montsauf and her
millions. But look to the left, in that first box from the door of the
gallery, and see whether you do not recognize one of the most curious
physiognomies of the ‘Comédie Humaine.’”
“Do you mean that stout woman?”
“Yes; it is Madame Nourrisau.”
“Vautrin’s aunt?”
“In flesh and blood, especially in flesh. There is the formidable hag
who went one day to the son of the Baron Hulot and proposed, for fifty
thousand francs, to rid him of Madame Marneffe. You must have read
about it in ‘La Cousine Bette.’”
“She is not alone, I see.”
“She is with her husband.”
“Her husband? Is it possible that she found one?”
“You forget that she is five or six times millionaire, and also the
general rule that where it rains millions husbands sprout. Her name is
now Madame Gaudessart, née Vautrin.”
“Is it the illustrious Gaudessart who is the husband of that horrible
creature?”
“Legally so, I beg you to believe.”
“Speaking of the ‘Cousine Bette,’ can you tell me anything of Wencelas
Steinbock and his wife?”
“They are perfectly happy. It is young Hulot who misbehaves; his wife
is in that box over there, with the Steinbocks. Hulot has told them
that he will join them later, and has probably stated that he had some
urgent law business to attend to; but the truth is that he is behind
the scenes at the opera. Hulot is not his father’s son for nothing.”
At this point M. de Rastignac smiled affectionately at a white-haired
musician, who was tuning his violin.
“Is that the Cousin Pons?” I asked.
“You forget two things: first, that the Cousin Pons is dead; and
secondly, that in his lifetime he always wore a green velvet coat. But
though Orestes is no more, Pylades still lives. Damon has survived
Pythias. It is Schmucke who sits before you. He is very poor; he has
nothing but the fifty francs a month which he earns here, and the
payment of a few piano lessons at seventy-five centimes each; but he
will not accept any assistance, and, for my part, I have never seen
tatters more proudly worn.”
“Can you not,” I asked, “show me M. Maxime de Trailles?”
“De Trailles no longer lives in Paris. When the devil grows stout he
