care."
To this conclusion the optimist will naturally object, but he does so
in the face of history and experience, either of which is quite
competent to prove that this world is far from being the best one
possible. If neither of them succeeds in so doing, then let him wander
through the hospitals, the cholera slums, the operating-rooms of the
surgeon, the prisons, the torture-chambers, the slave-kennels, the
battlefields, or any one of the numberless haunts of nameless misery;
or, if all of these are too far, or too inconvenient, let him take a
turn into one of the many factories where men and women, and even
infants, work from ten to fourteen hours a day at mechanical labor,
simply that they may continue to enjoy the exquisite delight of living.
Moreover, as Schopenhauer asks with grim irony, "Where did Dante find
the materials for his 'Inferno' if not from this world; and yet is not
his picture exhaustively satisfactory? To some minds it is even a
trifle overcharged; but look at his Paradise; when he attempted to
depict it he had nothing to guide him, this pleasant world could not
offer a single suggestion; and so, being obliged to say something, and
yet not knowing what to say, he palms off in place of a celestial
panorama the instruction and advice which he imagines himself as
receiving from Beatrice and the Saints."
Briefly, then, life, to the pessimist, is a motiveless desire, a
constant pain and continued struggle, followed by death, and so on, in
secula seculorum, until the planet's crust crumbles to dust.
Since, therefore, life is so deplorable, the deduction seems to follow
that it is better to take the poet's advice:--
     "Count o'er the joys thine hours have seen,
         Count o'er thy days from anguish free,
     And know, whatever thou hast been,
         'Tis something better--not to be."
But here the question naturally arises, how is this annihilation to be
accomplished? Through a vulgar and commonplace suicide? Not at all.
Schopenhauer is far too logical to suggest a palliative so fruitless
and clap-trap as that. For suicide, far from being a denial of the will
to live, is one of its strongest affirmations. Paradoxical as it may
seem, the man who takes his own life really wants to live; what he does
not want are the misery and trials attendant on his particular
existence. He abolishes the individual, but not the race. The species
continues, and pain with it.
In what manner, then, can we decently rid ourselves, and all who would
otherwise follow, of the pangs and torments of life? Schopenhauer will
give the receipt in a moment; but to understand the method clearly, it
is necessary to take a glance at the metaphysics of love.
We are told by Dr. Frauenstadt that Schopenhauer considered this
portion of his philosophy to be "a pearl." A pearl it may be, but as
such it is not entirely suited to an Anglo-Saxon setting; nevertheless,
as it is important to gain some idea of what this clear-eyed recluse
thought of the delicate lever which disturbs the gravest interests, and
whose meshes entwine peer and peasant alike, a brief description of it
will not be entirely out of place.
By way of preface it may be said that, save Plato, no other philosopher
has cared to consider a subject so simple yet complex as this, and of
common accord it has been relinquished to the abuse of the poets and
the praise of the rhymesters. It may be, perhaps, that from its nature
it revolted at logic, and that the seekers for truth, in trying to
clutch it, resembled the horseman in the familiar picture who, over
ditches and dykes, pursues a phantom which floats always before him,
and yet is ever intangible. La Rochefoucauld, who was ready enough with
phrases, admitted that it was indefinable; a compatriot of his tried to
compass it with the epigram, "C'est l'égoïsme à deux." Balzac gave it
an escutcheon. Every one has had more or less to say about it; and as
some have said more than they thought, while others thought more than
they said, it has been beribboned with enough comparisons to form an
unportable volume, while its history, from Tatterdemalia to Marlborough
House, is written in blood as well as in books.
Love, however, is the basis of religion, the mainstay of ethics, as
well as the inspiration of lyric and epic verse. It is, moreover, the
principal subject of every dramatic, comic, and classic work in India,
Europe, and America, and the inexhaustible spring from whose waters the
fecund lands of fiction produce fresh crops more regularly than the
seasons. It is a subject never lacking in actuality, and yet one to
which each century has given a different color. It is recognized as a
disease, and recommended as a remedy. And yet what is it? There are
poets who have said it was an illusion; but however it may appear to
them, it is no illusion to the philosopher: far from it; its reality
and importance increase in the ratio of its ardor, and whether it turns
to the tragic or the comic, a love affair is to him, above all other
early aims, the one which presents the gravest aspects, and the one
most worthy of consideration; for all the passions and intrigues of
to-day, reduced to their simplest expression and divested of all
accompanying allurements, are nothing more nor less than the
combination of the future generation.
"It is through this frivolity," Schopenhauer says, "that the dramatis
personæ are to appear on the stage when we have made our exit. The
existence of these future actors is absolutely conditioned on the
general instinct of love, while their nature and characteristics depend
on individual choice. Such is the whole problem. Love is the supreme
will to live, the genius of the species, and nature, being highly
strategic, covers itself, for the fulfillment of its aims, with a mask
of objective admiration, and deludes the individual so cleverly
therewith, that he takes that to be his own happiness which, in
reality, is but the maintenance of the species."
The love affairs of to-day, therefore, instead of representing
questions of personal joy or sorrow, are simply and solely a series of
grave meditations on the existence and composition of the future
generation. It is this grand preoccupation that causes the pathos and
sublimity of love. It is this that makes it so difficult to lend any
interest to a drama with which the question is not intermingled. It is
this that makes love an every-day matter, and yet an inexhaustible
topic. It is this that explains the gravity of the rôle it plays, the
importance which it gives to the most trivial incidents, and above all,
it is this that creates its measureless ardor. To quote Madame
Ackermann:--
     "Ces délires sacrés, ces désirs sans mesure,
     Déchaînés dans vos flancs comme d'ardents essaims,
     Ces transports, c'est déjà l'humanité future
                 Qui s'agite en vos seins."
However disinterested and ideal an affection may seem, however noble
and elevated an attachment may be, it is, from Schopenhauer's
standpoint, simply Will projecting itself into the creation of another
being; and the moment in which this new being rises from chaos into the
punctum saliens of its existence is precisely that moment in which
two young people begin to fancy each other. It is in the innocent union
and first embrace of the eyes that the microbe originates, though, of
course, like other germs, it is fragile and prompt to disappear. In
fact, there are few phenomena more striking than the profoundly
serious, yet unconscious, manner in which two young people, meeting for
the first time, observe one another. This common examination, this
mutual study, is, as has been stated, the meditation of the genius of
the species, and its result determines the degree of their reciprocal
inclination.
In comedy and romance the sympathies of the spectator are invariably
excited at the spectacle of these two young people, and especially so
when they are discovered defending their affection, or, to speak more
exactly, the projects of the genius of the species, against the
hostility of their parents, who are solely occupied with their
individual interests. It is unquestionably for this reason that the
interest in plays and novels centres on the entrance of this serene
spirit, who, with his lawless aims and aspirations, threatens the peace
of the other actors, and usually digs deep graves for their happiness.
As a rule, he succeeds, and the climax, comformably with poetic
justice, satisfies the spectator, who then goes away, leaving the
lovers to their victory, and associating himself in the idea that at
last they are happy, whereas, according to Schopenhauer, they have, in
spite of the opposition of their parents, simply given themselves up as
a sacrifice to the good of the species.
In tragedies in which love is the mainspring, the lovers usually die,
because, as follows from the foregoing logic, they have been unable to
triumph over those designs of which they were but the instruments.
As Schopenhauer adds, however, a lover may become comic as well as
