reputation was none of the best.
"If you will come to the shore, I will row you all about the bay," Walk
insisted. "I will make it as pleasant for you as possible."
"No, I thank you," replied the damsel decidedly.
"What's the matter with you? I hope you don't think I mean to do you any
harm."
"I am not afraid of you, but I choose to be alone in the boat."
With this she pulled away from the shore, though he continued to call
out to her as long as she was within hearing. She did not like the young
man at all, but rather despised than feared him. He had often thrown
himself in her way, and exerted himself to please her. She was civil to
him, and that was all.
Lily remained in the boat, pulling about the little bay for over an
hour. Walk had stood upon the beach for at least half an hour, waiting
for her return to the shore. Then he had retired, and the fair maiden
supposed he had gone back to the institute. When she had taken all the
air and exercise she thought she needed, she rowed back to the shore.
Just as she had driven the bow of the flatboat as far as she could on
the sand, Walk Billcord rushed out from the bushes, where he had
concealed himself, and prevented her from getting out of the boat.
She had put the oars under the thwarts, and arranged everything inside
of the boat, which had delayed her a few moments. But as soon as she saw
her tormentor running to the waterside, she attempted to leap out of the
boat.
"No, you don't, my pretty maiden!" exclaimed Walk, as he seized her by
the shoulders, and crowded her back to her seat in the stern.
Under the impetus of the force applied to her by the young man, Lily
dropped into the seat, and was obliged to grasp the gunwale of the boat
to avoid being thrown into the water. The fair face of the young lady
was flushed with anger, as well it might have been, for she had not
suspected that her tormentor would resort to violence.
She was not inclined to submit quietly to the will of Walk, for she
immediately drew out one of the oars from under the thwarts, and poised
it in the air, as though she intended to defeat the intentions of the
reckless young gentleman even by meeting force with force.
Walk Billcord stood for a moment holding on at the prow of the boat, as
though he was undecided as to his next step. Doubtless he felt that he
had already passed the bounds of propriety, and appeared to be
considering whether it was prudent to proceed any further. A glance at
the glowing and indignant face of Lily increased his interest in the
adventure, and he was not willing to leave her in the moment of her
heightened beauty.
Lily was the daughter of a poor dependent of his father: at least, he so
regarded her, and thought he had some right to subject her to his own
whim. He wanted to row her about the bay, and talk with her; and this
was the extent of his present wishes. It was only a "bit of a lark," a
harmless pleasantry, on his part, as he afterward explained it, and he
had not the slightest intention of injuring her.
The fair maiden did not regard herself as a proper subject for the young
gentleman's pleasantry, and she was prepared to bring down the blade of
the oar upon his head if the occasion should require. In the attitude of
defence she waited for his next demonstration. The upraised oar rather
tempted Walk to proceed, and he pushed the bow of the boat from the
sand, springing into the foresheets as he did so.
As this was not a direct assault upon her, Lily did not bring down the
oar upon his head, as she would under greater provocation, but she
dropped it into the water at the stern of the boat. The water was shoal;
and, setting the blade upon the sand at the bottom, she dexterously
whirled the craft about, bringing the stern within a few feet of the dry
sands on the shore.
Mr. Walk Billcord did not object to this movement, as it was necessary
to head the boat away from the shore; but he deemed it prudent to secure
the other oar before his fair companion could do so. He stooped down and
got hold of the blade end of it. It required a little tact to remove it
from its position under the thwarts; and, while he was engaged in doing
it, Lily gave the oar another push, forcing the boat close up to the
shore.
Without waiting for her tormentor to get the second oar over the forward
thwart, she leaped lightly upon the dry sand, effecting her landing
without wetting the soles of her shoes. She still held the oar in her
hand, and stood on the shore, waiting for the next move of her
unwelcome companion.
She was too proud to run away from such a contemptible being as she
considered Mr. Walk Billcord. She looked as though she felt abundantly
able to defend herself from any attack on the part of the unmanly
persecutor. She evidently believed that he had no serious intention to
harm her, but was simply making her the sport of his whim.
The moment she leaped ashore, Walk realized that she had got the better
of him. Whatever he intended, he did not like to be outdone by a feeble
girl. It was not pleasant for him, even in fun, to be outwitted by a
weak maiden. He felt that he had not been smart, and he was annoyed at
the situation. His vanity demanded that he should do something to get
"even" with his intended victim.
The confident look and attitude of Lily on the shore disconcerted him,
and invited further action on his part. He had not yet obtained
possession of the oar, for it had to be shoved back before it could be
passed over the forward thwart. But he had no present need of the
implement, and he abandoned it to survey the position of Lily. He
interpreted her looks and attitude as a defiance.
The boat, detached from the sand, was floating away from the shore.
With a long leap he planted his feet on the land, and the effect of his
movement was to drive the boat farther from the beach. A gentle breeze
from the westward was driving it farther away, and Lily saw that it
would soon be out of her reach.
She rushed to the water's edge, and, reaching out as far as she could,
she succeeded in placing the end of the blade on the prow. She began to
draw the truant craft toward the shore, when Walk put himself at her
side. He took the oar from her hand, and pulled the craft up till its
bottom grated on the sand.
Lily took a stick, and tried to get hold of the painter. As soon as she
had it in her hand, Walk took it from her. He not only took the rope,
but the hand which held it. He grasped her wrist with one hand, while he
tried to drag the boat ashore with the other. He soon found that he had
his hands full, both literally and figuratively.
Lily attempted to shake him off; but Walk tightened his hold upon her
wrist, though he had to drop the painter of the boat, which, having no
hold upon the land, began to float off into the open lake. The fair
maiden turned and twisted in her efforts to escape, but the young
ruffian held on like a vise.
In a moment or two she was exhausted with the violence of her exertions,
and by this time she was thoroughly frightened. Very likely Walk had no
worse intentions than at first, and was simply engaged in the business
of getting "even" with the weak maiden who had outwitted him.
"What do you mean, you wretch? Let go of me!" gasped Lily, her chest
heaving with terror and emotion.
"Don't make a fuss, my pretty one; I will not harm you," replied Walk.
"Let go of me, Mr. Billcord! I thought you claimed to be a gentleman!
Let go, or I will scream," panted Lily.
"I only want to take a little row with you, and I shall, you may depend
upon that," added Walk, picking up the oar which had fallen on the
beach. "Don't make a fuss, and I won't hurt you."
But Lily again renewed the struggle with all her might. Just at that
moment, Paul Bristol and his mother came out of the cottage. The boy was
a stout youth of fifteen, and, the moment he saw what was going on, he
broke into a run.
CHAPTER II.
THE SON OF TOIL FIGHTS HIS OWN BATTLE.
Paul Bristol seemed to have made only a couple of bounds before he had
covered the distance between the cottage and the shore. He saw his
sister struggling to release herself from the grasp of Walk Billcord.
All the indignation Nature had portioned out to him was roused, and he
did not stop to ask any questions. He did not even utter a word of
warning or reproach.
His two fists were clinched in hard knots before he reached the scene of
the encounter, and, without waiting to consider the situation, he
planted a blow with his right fist between the two eyes of his sister's
persecutor, and then did the same with the left. The effect was instant
and decisive. Walk went over backwards upon the sand, and his hold upon
the fair maiden was released.
By this time Mrs. Bristol had come to the spot, and, putting her arm
