one, his aching back; and the other, a boyish longing to climb the wall
and see what was on the other side, for it seemed a most wonderful and
delightful place to the poor child, shut up in that dismal court, with
no playmates and few comforts.

He amused himself with imagining how it looked over there, and nearly
every night added some new charm to this unseen country, when his mother
told him fairy tales to get him to sleep.  He peopled it with the dear
old characters all children know and love.  The white cat that sat on
the wall was Puss in Boots to him, or Whittington’s good friend.
Blue-beard’s wives were hidden in the house of whose upper windows the
boy could just catch glimpses. Red Riding-hood met the wolf in the grove
of chestnuts that rustled over there; and Jack’s Beanstalk grew up just
such a wall as that, he was sure.

But the story he liked best was the "Sleeping Beauty in the Wood;" for
he was sure some lovely creature lived in that garden, and he longed to
get in to find and play with her.  He actually planted a bean in a bit
of damp earth behind the water-barrel, and watched it grow, hoping for
as strong a ladder as Jack’s.  But the vine grew very slowly, and Johnny
was so impatient that he promised Patsey his best book "for his
ownty-donty," if he would climb up and report what was to be seen in
that enchanted garden.

"Faix, and I will, thin."  And up went good-natured Pat, after laying an
old board over the hogshead to stand on; for there were spikes all along
the top of the wall, and only cats and sparrows could walk there.

Alas for Johnny’s eager hopes, and alas for Pat’s Sunday best!  The
board broke, and splash went the climber, with a wild Irish howl that
startled Johnny half out of his wits and brought both Mrs. Morris and
the cobbler to the rescue.

After this sad event Pat kept away for a time in high dudgeon, and
Johnny was more lonely than ever.  But he was a cheery little soul; so
he was grateful for what joys he had, and worked away at his wall,--for
the March winds had brought him many treasures, and after April rains
were over, May sunshine made the court warm enough for him to be out
nearly all day.

"I ’m so sorry Pat is mad, ’cause he saw this piece and told me about
it, and he ’d like to help me put up these pictures," said Johnny to
himself, one breezy morning, as he sat examining a big poster which the
wind had sent flying into his lap a few minutes before.

The play was "Monte Cristo," and the pictures represented the hero
getting out of prison by making holes in the wall, among other
remarkable performances.

"This is a jolly red one!  Now, where will I put it to show best and not
spoil the other beauties?"

As he spoke, Johnny turned his chair around and surveyed his gallery
with as much pride and satisfaction as if it held all the wonders of
art.

It really was quite splendid; for every sort of picture shone in the
sun,--simpering ladies, tragic scenes, circus parades, labels from tin
cans, rosy tomatoes, yellow peaches, and purple plums, funny
advertisements, and gay bills of all kinds.  None were perfect, but they
were arranged with care; and the effect was very fine, Johnny thought.

Presently his eyes wandered from these treasures to the budding bushes
that nodded so tantalizingly over the wall.  A grape-vine ran along the
top, trying to hide the sharp spikes; lilacs tossed their purple plumes
above it, and several tall chestnuts rose over all, making green tents
with their broad leaves, where spires of blossom began to show like
candles on a mammoth Christmas tree.  Sparrows were chirping gayly
everywhere; the white cat, with a fresh blue bow, basked on the coping
of the wall, and from the depths of the enchanted garden came a sweet
voice singing,--

    "And she bids you to come in,
    With a dimple in your chin,
      Billy boy, Billy boy."


Johnny smiled as he listened, and put his finger to the little dent in
his own chin, wishing the singer would finish this pleasing song.  But
she never did, though he often heard that, as well as other childish
ditties, sung in the same gay voice, with bursts of laughter and the
sound of lively feet tripping up and down the boarded walks.  Johnny
longed intensely to know who the singer was; for her music cheered his
solitude, and the mysterious sounds he heard in the garden increased his
wonder and his longing day by day.

Sometimes a man’s voice called, "Fay, where are you?" and Johnny was
sure "Fay" was short for Fairy.  Another voice was often heard talking
in a strange, soft language, full of exclamations and pretty sounds.  A
little dog barked, and answered to the name Pippo.  Canaries carolled,
and some elfish bird scolded, screamed, and laughed so like a human
being, that Johnny felt sure that magic of some sort was at work next
door.

A delicious fragrance was now wafted over the wall as of flowers, and
the poor boy imagined untold loveliness behind that cruel wall, as he
tended the dandelions his mother brought him from the Common, when she
had time to stop and gather them; for he loved flowers dearly, and tried
to make them out of colored paper, since he could have no sweeter sort.

Now and then a soft, rushing sound excited his curiosity to such a pitch
that once he hobbled painfully up the court till he could see into the
trees; and once his eager eyes caught glimpses of a little creature, all
blue and white and gold, who peeped out from the green fans, and nodded,
and tried to toss him a cluster of the chestnut flowers.  He stretched
his hands to her with speechless delight, forgetting his crutches, and
would have fallen if he had not caught by the shutter of a window so
quickly that he gave the poor back a sad wrench; and when he could look
up again, the fairy had vanished, and nothing was to be seen but the
leaves dancing in the wind.

Johnny dared not try this again for fear of a fall, and every step cost
him a pang; but he never forgot it, and was thinking of it as he sat
staring at the wall on that memorable May day.

"How I should like to peek in and see just how it all really looks!  It
sounds and smells so summery and nice in there.  I know it must be
splendid.  I say, Pussy, can’t you tell a feller what you see?"

Johnny laughed as he spoke, and the white cat purred politely; for she
liked the boy who never threw stones at her, nor disturbed her naps.
But Puss could not describe the beauties of the happy hunting-ground
below; and, to console himself for the disappointment, Johnny went back
to his new picture.

"Now, if this man in the play dug his way out. through a wall ten feet
thick with a rusty nail and a broken knife, I don’t see why I could n’t
pick away one brick and get a peek.  It’s all quiet in there now; here’s
a good place, and nobody will know, if I stick a picture over the hole.
And I ’ll try it, I declare I will!"

Fired with the idea of acting Monte Cristo on a small scale, Johnny
caught up the old scissors in his lap, and began to dig out the mortar
around a brick already loose, and crumbling at the corners.  His mother
smiled at his energy, then sighed and said, as she clapped her laces
with a heavy heart,--

"Ah, poor dear, if he only had his health he ’d make his way in the
world.  But now he ’s like to find a blank wall before him while he
lives, and none to help him over."
