the carriage as it glides into the station, revisit my 
invidious dreams! The paternal porter and the re 
sponsive hansom are among the best gifts of the Eng 
lish genius to the world. I hasten to add, faithful 
to my habit (so insufferable to some of my friends) of 
ever and again readjusting the balance after I have 
given it an honest tip, that the bouillon at Lyons, 
which I spoke of above, was, though by no means an 
ideal bouillon, much better than any I could have 
obtained at an English railway station. After I had 
imbibed it, I sat in the train (which waited a long 
time at Lyons) and, by the light of one of the big 
lamps on the platform, read all sorts of disagreeable 
things in certain radical newspapers which I had 
bought at the book-stall. I gathered from these sheets 
that Lyons was in extreme commotion. The Rhone 
and the Saone, which form a girdle for the splendid 
town, were almost in the streets, as I could easily be 
lieve from what I had seen of the country after leav 
ing Orange. The Rhone, all the way to Lyons, had 
been in all sorts of places where it had no business 
to be, and matters were naturally not improved by 
its confluence with the charming and copious stream 
which, at Macon, is said once to have given such a 
happy opportunity to the egotism of the capital. A 
visitor from Paris (the anecdote is very old), being 
asked on the quay of that city whether he didn 't ad 
mire the Saone, replied good-naturedly that it was 
  
very pretty, but that in Paris they spelled it with 
the ei. This moment of general alarm at Lyons had 
been chosen by certain ingenious persons (I credit 
them, perhaps, with too sure a prevision of the rise 
of the rivers) for practising further upon the appre 
hensions of the public. A bombshell filled with 
dynamite had been thrown into a cafe", and various 
votaries of the comparatively innocuous petit verre 
had been wounded (I am not sure whether any one 
had been killed) by the irruption. Of course there had 
been arrests and incarcerations, and the "Intransi- 
geant" and the "Rappel" were filled with the echoes 
of the explosion. The tone of these organs is rarely 
edifying, and it had never been less so than on this 
occasion. I wondered, as I looked through them, 
whether I was losing all my radicalism; and then I 
wondered whether, after all, I had any to lose. Even 
in so long a wait as that tiresome delay at Lyons I 
failed to settle the question, any more than I made 
up my mind as to the probable future of the militant 
democracy, or the ultimate form of a civilization which 
should have blown up everything else. A few days 
later, the waters went down at Lyons; but the de 
mocracy has not gone down. 
I remember vividly the remainder of that evening 
which I spent at Macon, remember it with a chatter 
ing of the teeth. I know not what had got into the 
place; the temperature, for the last day of October, 
was eccentric and incredible. These epithets may 
also be applied to the hotel itself, an extraordinary 
structure, all facade, which exposes an uncovered rear 
to the gaze of nature. There is a demonstrative, 
voluble landlady, who is of course part of the fagade; 
but everything behind her is a trap for the winds, 
with chambers, corridors, staircases, all exhibited to 
the sky, as if the outer wall of the house had been 
lifted off. It would have been delightful for Florida, 
but it didn 't do for Burgundy, even on the eve of 
November ist, so that I suffered absurdly from the 
rigor of a season that had not yet begun. There was 
something in the air; I felt it the next day, even on 
the sunny quay of the Saone, where in spite of a fine 
southerly exposure I extracted little warmth from the 
reflection that Alphonse de Lamartine had often trod 
den the flags. Macon struck me, somehow, as suffer 
ing from a chronic numbness, and there was nothing 
exceptionally cheerful in the remarkable extension of 
the river. It was no longer a river, it had become 
a lake; and from my window, in the painted face of 
the inn, I saw that the opposite bank had been moved 
back, as it were, indefinitely. Unfortunately, the various 
objects with which it was furnished had not been 
moved as well, the consequence of which was an 
extraordinary confusion in the relations of things. 
There were always poplars to be seen, but the poplar 
had become an aquatic plant. Such phenomena, 
however, at Macon attract but little attention, as the 
Saone, at certain seasons of the year, is nothing if not 
expansive. The people are as used to it as they ap 
peared to be to the bronze statue of Lamartine, which 
  
is the principal monument of the place, and which, re 
presenting the poet in a frogged overcoat and top- 
boots, improvising in a high wind, struck me as even 
less casual in its attitude than monumental sculpture 
usually succeeds in being. It is true that in its pre 
sent position I thought better of this work of art, which 
is from the hand of M. Falquiere, than when I had 
seen it through the factitious medium of the Salon of 
1876. I walked up the hill where the older part of 
Macon lies , in search of the natal house of the amant 
d Elvire, the Petrarch whose Vaucluse was the bosom 
of the public. The Guide- Joanne quotes from "Les 
Confidences" a description of the birthplace of the 
poet, whose treatment of the locality is indeed poetical. 
It tallies strangely little with the reality, either as re 
gards position or other features; and it may be said 
to be, not an aid, but a direct obstacle, to a discovery 
of the house. A very humble edifice, in a small back 
street, is designated by a municipal tablet, set into its 
face, as the scene of Lamartine 's advent into the world. 
He himself speaks of a vast and lofty structure, at the 
angle of a place, adorned with iron clamps, with a 
porte haute et large and many other peculiarities. The 
house with the tablet has two meagre stories above 
the basement, and (at present, at least) an air of ex 
treme shabbiness; the place, moreover, never can have 
been vast. Lamartine was accused of writing history 
incorrectly, and apparently he started wrong at first: 
it had never become clear to him where he was born. 
Or is the tablet wrong? If the house is small, the 
tablet is very big. 
XXXVIII. 
THE foregoing reflections occur, in a cruder form, 
as it were, in my note-book, where I find this remark 
appended to them: "Don't take leave of Lamartine on 
that contemptuous note; it will be easy to think of 
something more sympathetic!" Those friends of mine, 
mentioned a little while since, who accuse me of always 
tipping back the balance, could not desire a paragraph 
more characteristic; but I wish to give no further evi 
dence of such infirmities, and will therefore hurry away 
from the subject, hurry away in the train which, very 
early on a crisp, bright morning, conveyed me, by way 
of an excursion, to the ancient city of Bourg-en-Bresse. 
Shining in early light, the Saone was spread, like a 
smooth, white tablecloth, over a considerable part of 
the flat country that I traversed. There is no provision 
made in this image for the long, transparent screens 
of thin-twigged trees which rose at intervals out of 
the watery plain; but as, under the circumstances, 
