You don't suppose Mrs. Bowen would be unkind to 
any one she disliked ? " 
"Ah, I didn't know," sighed Colville. 
" The more she disliked them, the better she would 
use them. It 's because our engagement is so dis- 
tasteful to her that she 's determined to feel that she 
did nothing to oppose it." 
" But how can you tell that it 's distasteful, then ?" 
" She lets you feel it by — not saying anything 
about it." 
" I can't see how " 
"She never speaks of you. I don't believe she 
 ever mentions your name. She asks me about the 
 
places where I 've been, and about the people — every 
one but you. It 's very uncomfortable." 
"Yes," said Colville, ''it's uncomfortable." 
" And if I allude to letters from home, she merely 
presses her lips together. It's perfectly wretched." 
" I see. It 's I whom she dislikes, and I would 
do anything to please her. She must know that," 
mused Colville aloud. " Imogene ! " he exclaimed, 
with a sudden inspiration. " Why shouldn't I go 
away ? " 
"Go away?" she palpitated. "What should I 
do?" 
The colours faded from his brilliant oroposal. 
" Oh, I only meant till something was settled — de- 
termined — concluded ; till this terrible suspense was 
over." He added hopelessly, " But nothing can be 
done !" 
" I proposed," said Imogene, " that we should all 
go away. " I suggested Via Reggio — the doctor 
said she ought to have sea air — or Venice ; but she 
wouldn't hear of it. No ; we must wait." 
" Yes, we must wait," repeated Colville hollowly. 
" Then nothing can be done ?" 
"Why, haven't you said it ?" 
" Oh yes — yes. I can't go away, and you can't. 
But couldn't we do something — get up some- 
thing ? " 
" I don't know what you mean." 
" I mean, couldn't we — amuse her somehow ? help 
her to take her mind off herself V 
Imogene stared at him rather a long time. Then, 
 
as if she had satisfied herself in her own mind, she 
shook her head. " She -wouldn't submit to it." 
" No ; she seems to take everything amiss that I 
do," said Colville. 
" She has no right to do that," cried Imogene. 
" I 'm sure that you 're always considering her, and 
proposing to do things for her. I won't let you 
humble yourself, as if you had wronged her.'' 
" Oh, I don't call it humbling. I — I should only 
be too happy if I could do anything that was agree- 
able to her." 
"Very well, I will tell her," said the girl 
haughtily. " Shall you object to my joining you 
in your amusements, whatever they are ? I assure 
you I will be very unobtrusive." 
"I don't understand all this," replied Colville. 
" Who has proposed to exclude you t Why did you 
tell me anything about Mrs. Bowen if you didn't 
want me to say or do something ? I supposed you 
did ; but I 'll withdraw the offensive proposition, 
whatever it was.'' 
" There was nothing offensive. But if you pity 
her so much, why can't you pity me a little ? " 
" I didn't know anything was the matter with 
you. I thought you were enjoying yourself " 
" Enjoying ? Keeping you up at dances till you 
drop asleep whenever you sit down? And then 
coming home and talking to a person who won't 
mention your name! Do you call that enjoying? 
I can't speak of you to any one ; and no one speaks 
to me " 
 
" If you like, I will talk to you on the subject," 
Colville essayed, in dreary jest. 
"Oh, don't joke about it ! This perpetual joking, 
I believe it 's that that 's -wearing me out. When I 
come to you for a little comfort in circumstances that 
drive me almost distracted, you want to amuse Mrs. 
Bowen, and when I ask to be allowed to share in the 
amusement, you laugh at me ! If you don't under- 
stand it all, I'm sure J don't.'' 
" Imogene ! " 
" No ! It 's very strange. There 's only one ex- 
planation. You don't care for me." 
"Not care for you!" cried Colville, thinking of 
his sufferings in the past fortnight. 
" And I would have made any — any sacrifice for 
you. At least I wouldn't have made you show your- 
self a mean and grudging person if you had come to 
me for a little sympathy." 
" poor child ! " he cried, ancLhjsheart ached 
with the sense that she really was nothing but an 
unhappy child . " i do sympathise witiryou, and I 
see how hard it is for you to manage with Mrs. 
Bowen's dislike for me. But you mustn't think of 
it. I dare say it will be different ; I 've no doubt 
we can get her to look at me in some brighter light. 
I " He did not know what he should urge next; 
but he goaded his invention, and was able to declare 
that if they loved each other they need not regard 
any one else. This flight, when accomplished, did 
not strike him as of very original effect, and it was 
with a dull surprise that he saw it sufficed for her. 
 
" No ; no one ! " she exclaimed, accepting the 
platitude as if it were now uttered for the first 
time. She dried her eyes and smiled. " I will tell 
Mrs. Bowen how you feel and what you 've said, and 
I know she will appreciate your generosity." 
" Yes," said Colville pensively ; " there 's nothing 
I won't propose doing for people." 
She suddenly clung to him, and would not let him 
go. " Oh, what is the matter ? " she moaned afresh. 
"I show out the worst that is in me, and only the 
worst. Do you think I shall always be so narrow- 
minded with you ? I thought I loved you enough 
to be magnanimous. You are. It seemed to me 
that our lives together would be grand and large ; 
and here I am, grovelling in the lowest selfishness ! 
I am worrying and scolding you because you wish 
to please some one that has been as good as my own 
mother to me. Do you call that noble ? " 
Colville did not venture any reply to a demand 
evidently addressed to her own conscience. 
But when she asked if he really thought he had 
better go away, he said, " Oh no ; that was a mis- 
take." 
"Because, if you do, you shall — to punish 
me." 
" My dearest girl, why should I wish to punish 
you ? " 
" Because I 've been low and mean. Now I want 
you to do something for Mrs. Bowen — something to 
amuse her ; to show that we appreciate her. And I 
