
same course, or even of founding a system of mystical 
study. The object of mankind must be the welfare 
of mankind, and a set of priests who should shut 
themselves off from their fellow-men to pursue esoteric studies and to acquire knowledge beyond the 
reach of common humanity, must necessarily forget 
humanity itself in their effort to escape from it. The 
only possible scheme upon which a religion for the 
world could be based — especially for such a world as 
the empire of Darius — -must be one where the broad 
principle of common good living stood foremost, and 
where the good of all humanity should be the good 
of each man's soul. 

The vast influence of Zoroaster's name grew day 
by day, as from the palace of Stakhar he sent forth 
priests to the variois provinces, full of his own ideas, 
bearing with them a simple form of worship and a 
rigid rule of life, which the iron laws of Darius began 
at once to enforce to the letter. The vast body of 
existing hymns, of which many were by no means 
distinctly Mazdayashnian, were reduced to a limited 
number containing the best and purest; and the 
multifarious mass of conflicting caste practices, partly 
imported from India, and partly inherited by the 
pure Persians from the Aryan home in Sogdiana, was 
simplified and reduced to a plain rule. The endless 
rules of purification were cut down to simple meas- 
ures of health ; the varying practices in regard to the 
disposal of the dead were all done away with by a 
great royal edict commanding the building of Dakh- 
mas, or towers of death, all over the kingdom ; within 
which the dead were laid by persons appointed for 



 

the purpose, and which were cleansed by them, at 
stated intervals. Severe measures were taken to pre- 
vent the destruction of cattle, for there were evident 
signs of the decrease of the beasts of the field in con- 
sequence of the many internal wars that had waged 
of late ; and special laws were provided for the safety 
of dogs, which were regarded, for all reasons, as the 
most valuable companions of men in those times, as a 
means of protection to the flocks in the wilderness, 
and as the scavengers and cleansers of the great 
cities. Human life was protected by the most rigorous laws, and the utmost attention was given to providing for the treatment of women of all classes. It 
would have been impossible to conceive a system better fitted to develop the resources of a semi-pastoral 
country, to preserve peace and to provide for the increasing wants and the public health of a multiplying 
people. 

As for the religious rites, they assumed a form and 
a character which made them seem like simplicity 
itself by the side of the former systems ; and which, 
although somewhat complicated by the additions and 
alterations of a later and more superstitious generation, have still maintained the noble and honourable 
characteristics imparted to them by the great reformer 
and compiler of the Mazdayashnian religion. 

The days flew quickly by, and Zoroaster's power 
grew apace. It was as though the whole court and 
kingdom had been but waiting for him to come and 
be the representative of wisdom and justice beside 
the conquering king, who had in so short a time 
reduced so many revolutions and fought so many 



 

fields in the consolidation of his empire. Zoroaster 
laid hold of all the existing difficulties with a master- 
hand. His years of retirement seemed to have given 
him the accumulated force of many men, and the 
effect of his wise measures was quickly felt in every 
quarter of the provinces ; while his words went forth 
like fire in the mouths of the priests he sent from 
Stakhar. He had that strange and rare gift, whereby 
a man inspires in his followers the profoundest confidence and the greatest energy to the performance 
of his will. He would have overthrown a world had 
he found himself resisted and oppressed, but every 
one of his statutes and utterances was backed by the 
royal arms and enforced by decrees against which 
there was no appeal. In a few months his name was 
spoken wherever the Persian rule was felt, and spoken 
everywhere with a high reverence ; in which there 
was no fear mixed, such as people felt when they 
mentioned the Great King, and added quickly: 
" May he live for ever ! " 

In a few months the reform was complete, and the 
half-clad ascetic had risen by his own wisdom and by 
the power of circumstances into the chiefest position 
in all Persia. Loaded with dignities, treated as the 
next to the Great King in all things, wearing the 
royal chain of office over his white priest's robes, and 
sitting at the right hand of Darius at the feast, Zoro- 
aster nevertheless excited no envy among the cour- 
tiers, nor encroached in any way upon their privileges. 
The few men whom Darius trusted were indeed rarely 
at Stakhar, — the princes who had conspired against 
Smerdis, and Hydarnes and a few of the chief officers 



 

of the army, — they were mostly in the various provinces, in command of troops and fortresses, actively 
employed in enforcing the measures the king was 
framing with Zoroaster, and which Avere to work such 
great changes in the destinies of the empire. But 
when any of the princes or generals were summoned 
to the court by the king and learned to know what 
manner of man this Zoroaster was, they began to 
love him and to honour him also, as all those did 
who were near him. And they went away, saying 
that never king had so wise and just a counsellor as 
he was, nor one so worthy of trust in the smallest as 
in the greatest things. 

But the two queens watched him, and watched his 
growing power, with different feelings. Nehushta 
scarcely ever spoke to him, but gazed at him from 
her sad eyes when none saw her; pondering over his 
prophecy that foretold the end so near at hand. She 
had a pride in seeing her old lover the strongest in 
the whole land, holding the destinies of the kingdom 
as in a balance ; and it was a secret consolation to 
her to know that he had been faithful to her after 
all, and that it was for her sake that he had with- 
drawn into the desert and given himself to those 
meditations from which he had only issued to enjoy 
the highest power. And as she looked at him, she 
saw how he was much changed, and it hardly seemed 
as though in his body he were the same man she had 
so loved. Only when he spoke, and she heard the 
even, musical tones of his commanding voice, she 
Si^metimes felt the blood rise to her cheeks with the 
