work well; in support of which assertion he said that he had never done
such good things by the comfortable fire in the study at Billingsfield
vicarage as he did afterwards on winter nights by the light of a tallow
candle, high up in Neville's Court. Moreover, if any one argued that it
was better for an extremely poor man not to go to Trinity, but to some
much smaller college, he answered that as far as he himself was concerned
he could not have done better, which was quite true and therefore
perfectly unanswerable. Where the competition was less, he would have
been satisfied with less, he said; where it was greatest a man could only
be contented when he had reached the highest point possible. But before
he attained his end he suffered more than any one knew, especially during
those first months. For when he had got his first scholarship, he
insisted upon sending back the little sums of hard-earned money his
father sent him from time to time, and he consequently had nearly as hard
work as before to keep himself warm and to keep oil in his lamp during
the long winter's evenings. But he succeeded, nevertheless.
CHAPTER III.
In the month of October of that year, a short time after John had taken
up his abode in Trinity College, an event occurred which shook
Billingsfield to its foundations; no less an event than the occupation of
the dwelling known as the "cottage." What the cottage was will appear
hereafter. The arrival of the new tenants occurred in the following
manner.
The Reverend Augustin Ambrose received a letter, which he immediately
showed to his wife, as he showed most of his correspondence; for he was
of the disposition which may be termed wife-consulting. Married men are
generally of two kinds; those who tell their wives everything and those
who tell them nothing. It is evident that the relative merits of the two
systems depend chiefly upon the relative merits of the wives in question.
Mr. Ambrose had no doubt of the advantages of his own method and he
carried it to its furthest expression, for he never did anything whatever
without consulting his better half. On the whole the plan worked well,
for the vicar had learning and his wife had common sense. He therefore
showed the letter to her and she read it, and read it again, and finally
put it away, writing across the envelope in her own large, clear hand the
words--Goddard, Cottage--indicative of the contents.
       *       *       *       *       *
"MY DEAR SIR--It is now nearly five months since I saw you last. Need I
tell you that the sense of your kindness is still fresh in my memory? You
do not know, indeed you cannot know, what an impression your goodness
made upon me. You showed me that I was acting rightly. It has been so
hard to act rightly. Of course you quite understand what I mean. I cannot
refer to the great sorrow which has overtaken me and my dear innocent
little Nellie. There is no use in referring to it, for I have told you
all. You allowed me to unburden my heart to you during my brief visit,
and ever since that day I have felt very much, I may say infinitely,
relieved.
"I am again about to ask you a favour; I trust indeed that I am not
asking too much, but I know by experience how kind you are and so I am
not afraid to ask this too. Do you remember speaking to me of the little
cottage? The picture you drew of it quite charmed me, and I have
determined to take it, that is, if it is still to be let and if it is not
asking quite too much of you. I mean, if you will take it for me. You
cannot think how grateful I shall be and I enclose a cheque. I am almost
sure you said thirty-six pounds. It was thirty-six, was it not? The
reason I venture to enclose the money is because you are so very kind,
but of course you do not know anything certain about me. But I am sure
you will understand. You said you were sure I could live with my little
girl in Billingsfield for three hundred a year. I find I have a little
more, in fact nearly five hundred. If you tell me that I can have the
cottage, I will come down at once, for town is very dreary and we have
been here all summer except a week at Margate. Let me thank you again,
you have been so very kind, and believe me, my dear sir, very sincerely
yours,
"MARY GODDARD."
       *       *       *       *       *
"Augustin, my dear, this is very exciting," said Mrs. Ambrose, as she
handed the cheque to her husband for inspection and returned the
letter to its envelope, preparatory to marking it for future reference;
and when, as has been said, she had written upon the outside the
words--Goddard, Cottage, and had put it away she turned upon her husband
with an inquiring manner peculiar to her. Mr. Ambrose was standing before
the window, looking out at the rain and occasionally glancing at the
cheque he still held in his hand.
"Just like a woman to send a cheque to 'bearer' through the post," he
remarked, severely. "However since I have got it, it is all right."
"I don't think it is all right, Augustin," said his wife. "We are taking
a great responsibility in bringing her into the parish. I am quite sure
she is a dissenter or a Romanist or something dreadful, to begin with."
"My dear," answered the vicar, mildly, "you make very uncharitable
suppositions. It seems to me that the most one can say of her is that she
is very unhappy and that she does not write very good English."
"Oh, I have no doubt she is very unhappy. But as you say we must not be
uncharitable. I suppose you will have to write about the cottage."
"I suppose so," said Mr. Ambrose doubtfully. "I cannot send her back the
money, and the cottage is certainly to let."
He deposited the cheque in the drawer of his writing-table and began to
walk up and down the room, glancing up from time to time at his wife who
was lifting one after another the ornaments which stood upon the
chimney-piece, in order to ascertain whether Susan had dusted underneath
them. She had many ways of assuring herself that people did their work
properly.
"No," said she, "you cannot send her back the money. But it is a very
solemn responsibility. I hope we are doing quite right."
"I certainly would not hesitate to return the cheque, my dear, if I
thought any harm would come of Mrs. Goddard's living here. But I don't
think there is any reason to doubt her story."
"Of course not. It was in the Standard, so there is no doubt about it.
I only hope no one else reads the papers here."
"They read them in the kitchen," added Mrs. Ambrose presently, "and they
probably take a paper at the Duke's Head. Mr. Boosey is rather a literary
character."
"Nobody will suppose it was that Goddard, my dear," said the vicar in a
reassuring tone of voice.
"No--you had better write about the cottage."
"I will," said the vicar; and he forthwith did. And moreover, with his
usual willingness to give himself trouble for other people, he took a
vast deal of pains to see that the cottage was really habitable. It
turned out to be in very good condition. It was a pretty place enough,
standing ten yards back from the road, beyond the village, just opposite
the gates of the park; a little square house of red brick with a high
pointed roof and a little garden. The walls were overgrown with creepers
which had once been trained with considerable care, but which during the
last two years had thriven in untrimmed luxuriance and now covered the
whole of the side of the house which faced the road. So thickly did they
grow that it was with difficulty that the windows could at first be
opened. The vicar sighed as he entered the darkened rooms. His daughter
had lived in the cottage when she first married the young doctor who had
now gone to London, and the vicar had been, and was, very fond of his
daughter. He had almost despaired of ever seeing her again in
Billingsfield; the only glimpses of her he could obtain were got by going
himself to town, for the doctor was so busy that he always put off the
projected visit to the country and his wife was so fond of him that she
refused to go alone. The vicar sighed as he forced open the windows upon
the lower floor and let the light into the bare and empty rooms which had
once been so bright and full of happiness. He wondered what sort of
person Mrs. Goddard would turn out to be upon nearer acquaintance, and
made vague, unconscious conjectures about her furniture as he stumbled
up the dark stairs to the upper story.
He was not left long in doubt. The arrangements were easily concluded,
for the cottage belonged to the estate in Chancery and the lawyer in
charge was very busy with other matters. The guarantee afforded by the
vicar's personal application, together with the payment of a year's rent
in advance so far facilitated matters that four days after she had
written to Mr. Ambrose the latter informed Mrs. Goddard that she was at
liberty to take possession. The vicar suggested that the Billingsfield
carrier, who drove his cart to London once a week, could bring her
furniture down in two trips and save her a considerable expense; Mrs.
Goddard accepted this advice and in the course of a fortnight was
installed with all her goods in the cottage. Having completed her
