loved each other and we said so. And that is the truth. So you had
better get a pig of iron from the ballast and knock me on the head, for
I have betrayed my brother and I do not want to live any more, and I
shall say nothing."
Then Ruggiero who had not laughed much for some time, felt that his
mouth was twitching raider his yellow beard, and presently his great
shoulders began to move, and his chest heaved, and his handsome head
went back, and at last it came out, a mighty peal of Homeric laughter
that echoed and rolled down the pier and rang clear and full, up to the
Marchesa's terrace. And it chanced that Beatrice was there, and she
looked down and saw that it was Ruggiero. Then she sighed and drew back.
But Bastianello did not understand, and when the laugh subsided at last,
he said so.
"I laughed--yes. I could not help it. But you are a good brother, and
very honest, and when you want to marry Teresina, you may have my
savings, and I do not care to be paid back."
"But I do not understand," repeated Bastianello, in the greatest
bewilderment. "You loved her so--"
"Teresina? No. I never loved Teresina, but I never knew you did, or I
would not have let you believe it. It is much more I who have cheated
you, Bastianello, and when you and Teresina are married I will give you
half my earnings, just as I now put them in the bank."
"God be blessed!" exclaimed Bastianello, touching his cap, and staring
at the same vessel that had attracted Ruggiero's attention.
"She carries royal studding-sails," observed Ruggiero. "You do not often
see that in our part of the world."
"That is true," said Bastianello. "But I was not thinking of her, when I
looked. And I thank you for what you say, Ruggiero, and with my heart.
And that is enough, because it seems that we know each other."
"We have been in the same crew once or twice," said Ruggiero.
"It seems to me that we have," answered his brother.
Neither of the two smiled, for they meant a good deal by the simple
jest.
"Tell me, Ruggiero," said Bastianello after a pause, "since you never
loved Teresina, who is it?"
"No, Bastianello. That is what I cannot tell any one, not even you."
"Then I will not ask. But I think I know, now."
Going over the events of the past weeks in his mind, it had suddenly
flashed upon Bastianello that his brother loved Beatrice. Then
everything explained itself in an instant. Ruggiero was such a
gentleman--in Bastianello's eyes, of course--it was like him to break
his heart for a real lady.
"Perhaps you do know," answered Ruggiero gravely, "but if you do, then
do not tell me. It is a business better not spoken of. But what one
thinks, one thinks. And that is enough."
A crowd of brown-skinned boys were in the water swimming and playing, as
they do all day long in summer, and dashing spray at each other. They
had a shabby-looking old skiff with which they amused themselves,
upsetting and righting it again in the shallow water by the beach beyond
the bathing houses.
"What a boat!" laughed Bastianello. "A baby can upset her and it takes a
dozen boys to right her again!"
"Whose is she?" enquired Ruggiero idly, as he filled his pipe.
"She? She belonged to Black Rag's brother, the one who was drowned last
Christmas Eve, when the Leone was cut in two by the steamer in the Mouth
of Procida. I suppose she belongs to Black Rag himself now. She is a
crazy old craft, but if he were clever he could patch her up and paint
her and take foreigners to the Cape in her on fine days."
"That is true. Tell him so. There he is. Ohè! Black Rag!"
Black Rag came down the pier to the two brothers, a middle-aged,
bow-legged, leathery fellow with a ragged grey beard and a
weather-beaten face.
"What do you want?" he asked, stopping before them with his hands in his
pockets.
"Bastianello says that old tub there is yours, and that if you had a
better head than you have you could caulk her and paint her white with a
red stripe and take foreigners to the Bath of Queen Giovanna in her on
fine days. Why do you not try it? Those boys are making her die an evil
death."
"Bastianello always has such thoughts!" laughed the sailor. "Why does he
not buy her of me and paint her himself? The paint would hold her
together another six months, I daresay."
"Give her to me," said Ruggiero. "I will give you half of what I earn
with her."
Black Rag looked at him and laughed, not believing that he was in
earnest. But Ruggiero slowly nodded his head as though to conclude a
bargain.
"I will sell her to you," said the sailor at last. "She belonged to that
blessed soul, my brother, who was drowned--health to us--to-day is
Saturday--and I never earned anything with her since she was mine. I
will sell her cheap."
"How much? I will give you thirty francs for her."
Bastianello stared at his brother, but he made no remark while the
bargain was being made, nor even when Ruggiero finally closed for fifty
francs, paid the money down and proceeded to take possession of the old
tub at once, to the infinite and forcibly expressed regret of the lads
who had been playing with her. Then the two brothers hauled her up upon
the sloping cement slip between the pier and the bathing houses, and
turned her over. The boys swam away, and Black Rag departed with his
money.
"What have you bought her for, Ruggiero?" asked Bastianello.
"She has copper nails," observed the other examining the bottom
carefully. "She is worth fifty francs. Your thought was good. To-morrow
she will be dry and we will caulk the seams, and the next day we will
paint her and then we can take foreigners to the Cape in her if we have
a chance and the signori do not go out. Lend a hand, Bastianello; we
must haul her up behind the boats."
Bastianello said nothing and the two strong men almost carried the old
tub to a convenient place for working at her.
"Do you want to do anything more to her to-night?" asked Bastianello.
"No."
"Then I will go up."
"Very well."
Ruggiero smiled as he spoke, for he knew that Bastianello was going to
try and get another glimpse of Teresina. The ladies would probably go to
drive and Teresina would be free until they came back.
He sat down on a boat near the one he had just bought, and surveyed his
purchase. He seemed on the whole well satisfied. It was certainly good
enough for the foreigners who liked to be pulled up to the cape on
summer evenings. She was rather easily upset, as Ruggiero had noticed,
but a couple of bags of pebbles in the right place would keep her steady
enough, and she had room for three or four people in the stern sheets
and for two men to pull. Not bad for fifty francs, thought Ruggiero. And
San Miniato had asked about going after crabs by torchlight. This would
be the very boat for the purpose, for getting about in and out of the
rocks on which the crabs swarm at night. Black Rag might have earned
money with her. But Black Rag was rather a worthless fellow, who drank
too much wine, played too much at the public lottery and wasted his
substance on trifles.
Ruggiero's purchase was much discussed that evening and all the next day
by the sailors of the Piccola Marina. Some agreed that he had done well,
and some said that he had made a mistake, but Ruggiero said nothing and
paid no attention to the gossips. On the next day and the day after that
he was at work before dawn with Bastianello, and Black Rag was very much
surprised at the trim appearance of his old boat when the brothers at
last put her into the water and pulled themselves round the little
harbour to see whether the seams were all tight. But he pretended to put
a good face on the matter, and explained that there were more rotten
planks in her than any one knew of and that only the nails below the
water line were copper after all, and he predicted a short life for
Number Fifty Seven, when Ruggiero renewed the old licence in the little
harbour office. Ruggiero, however, cared for none of these things, but
ballasted the tub properly with bags of pebbles and demonstrated to the
crowd that she was no longer easy to upset, inviting any one who pleased
to stand on the gunwale and try.
"But the ballast makes her heavy to pull," objected Black Rag, as he
looked on.
"If you had arms like the Children of the King," retorted the Cripple,
"you would not trouble yourself about a couple of hundredweight more or
less. But you have not. So you had better go and play three numbers at
