The combined effort of Mr. Filer and Selah Tarrant to 
pacify the public had not, apparently, the success it 
deserved ; the house continued in uproar and the volume 
of sound increased. ' Leave us alone, leave us alone for a 
 
single minute!' cried Verena; 'just let me speak to him, 
and it will be all right ! ' She rushed over to her mother, 
drew her, dragged her from the sofa, led her to the door of 
the room. Mrs. Tarrant, on the way, reunited herself with 
Olive (the horror of the situation had at least that com- 
pensation for her), and, clinging and staggering together, 
the distracted women, pushed by Verena, passed into the 
vestibule, now, as Ransom saw, deserted by the policeman 
and the reporter, who had rushed round to where the battle 
was thickest. 
'Oh, why did you come why, why?' And Verena, 
turning back, threw herself upon him with a protest which 
was all, and more than all, a surrender. She had never yet 
given herself to him so much as in that movement of 
reproach. 
' Didn't you expect me, and weren't you sure ?' he asked, 
smiling at her and standing there till she arrived. 
'  I didn't know it was terrible it's awful ! I saw you 
in your place, in the house, when you came. As soon as 
we got here I went out to those steps that go up to the 
stage and I looked out, with my father from behind him 
and saw you in a minute. Then I felt too nervous to 
speak ! I could never, never, if you were there ! My father 
didn't know you, and I said nothing, but Olive guessed as 
soon as I came back. She rushed at me, and she looked 
at me oh, how she looked ! and she guessed. She didn't 
need to go out to see for herself, and when she saw how I 
was trembling she began to tremble herself, to believe, as I 
believed, we were lost. Listen to them, listen to them, in 
the house ! Now I want you to go away I will see you 
to-morrow, as long as you wish. That's all I want now ; if 
you will only go away it's not too late, and everything will 
be all right !' 
Preoccupied as Ransom was with the simple purpose of 
getting her bodily out of the place, he could yet notice her 
strange, touching tone, and her air of believing that she 
might really persuade him. She had evidently given up 
everything now every pretence of a different conviction 
and of loyalty to her cause ; all this had fallen from her as 
soon as she felt him near, and she asked him to go away 
 
just as any plighted maiden might have asked any favour of 
her lover. But it was the poor girl's misfortune that, what- 
ever she did or said, or left unsaid, only had the effect of 
making her dearer to him and making the people who were 
clamouring for her seem more and more a raving rabble. 
He indulged not in the smallest recognition of her 
request, and simply said, ' Surely Olive must have believed, 
must have known, I would come.' 
'She would have been sure if you hadn't become so 
unexpectedly quiet after I left Marmion. You seemed to 
concur, to be willing to wait' 
'  So I was, for a few weeks. But they ended yesterday. 
I was furious that morning, when I learned your flight, and 
during the week that followed I made two or three attempts 
to find you. Then I stopped I thought it better. I saw 
you were very well hidden ; I determined not even to write. 
I felt I could wait with that last day at Marmion to think 
of. Besides, to leave you with her awhile, for the last, 
seemed more decent. Perhaps you'll tell me now where 
you were.' 
'  I was with father and mother. She sent me to them 
that morning, with a letter. I don't know what was in it. 
Perhaps there was money,' said Verena, who evidently now 
would tell him everything. 
'And where did they take you?' 
' I don't know to places. I was in Boston once, for a 
day ; but only in a carriage. They were as frightened as 
Olive; they were bound to save me !' 
' They shouldn't have brought you here to-night then. 
How could you possibly doubt of my coming?' 
' I don't know what I thought, and I didn't know, till I 
saw you, that all the strength I had hoped for would leave 
me in a flash, and that if I attempted to speak with you 
sitting there I should make the most shameful failure. 
We had a sickening scene here I begged for delay, for 
time to recover. We waited and waited, and when I heard 
you at the door talking to the policeman, it seemed to me 
everything was gone. But it will still come back, if you 
will leave me. They are quiet again father must be 
interesting them/ 
 
'I hope he is !' Ransom exclaimed. 'If Miss Chan- 
cellor ordered the policeman, she must have expected me.' 
' That was only after she knew you were in the house. 
She flew out into the lobby with father, and they seized him 
and posted him there. She locked the door ; she seemed 
to think they would break it down. I didn't wait for that, 
but from the moment I knew you were on the other side of 
it I couldn't go on I was paralysed. It has made me feel 
better to talk to you and now I could appear,' Verena 
added. 
'My darling child, haven't you a shawl or a mantle?' 
Ransom returned, for all answer, looking about him. He 
perceived, tossed upon a chair, a long, furred cloak, which 
he caught up, and, before she could resist, threw over her. 
She even let him arrange it and, standing there, draped from 
head to foot in it, contented herself with saying, after a 
moment : 
' I don't understand where shall we go ? Where will 
you take me?' 
' We shall catch the night-train for New York, and the 
first thing in the morning we shall be married.' 
Verena remained gazing at him, with swimming eyes. 
' And what will the people do ? Listen, listen !' 
' Your father is ceasing to interest them. They'll howl 
and thump, according to their nature.' 
' Ah, their nature's fine !' Verena pleaded. 
' Dearest, that's one of the fallacies I shall have to woo 
you from. Hear them, the senseless brutes !' The storm 
was now raging in the hall, and it deepened to such a point 
that Verena turned to him in a supreme appeal 
' I could soothe them with a word !' 
' Keep your soothing words for me you will have need 
of them all, in our coming time,' Ransom said, laughing. 
He pulled open the door again, which led into the lobby, 
but he was driven back, with Verena, by a furious onset 
from Mrs. Tarrant. Seeing her daughter fairly arrayed for 
departure, she hurled herself upon her, half in indignation, 
half in a blind impulse to cling, and with an outpouring of 
tears, reproaches, prayers, strange scraps of argument and 
iterations of farewell, closed her about with an embrace 
 
which was partly a supreme caress, partly the salutary 
castigation she had, three minutes before, expressed the 
wish to administer, and altogether for the moment a check 
upon the girl's flight. 
' Mother, dearest, it's all for the best, I can't help it, I 
love you just the same; let me go, let me go!' Verena 
stammered, kissing her again, struggling to free herself, and 
holding out her hand to Ransom. He saw now that she 
only wanted to get away, to leave everything behind her. 
Olive was close at hand, on the threshold of the room, and 
as soon as Ransom looked at her he became aware that the 
weakness she had just shown had passed away. She had 
