and the lakes, Peschiera, Verona, Padua, Venice. They 
are a little off of the crowded routes, but will be delight- 
ful. You read Shakespeare, Miss Hawthorne?" 
" No," Doris answers simply, but with that wondering 
look. How rich the world is ! How many treasures there 
are for her ; that they are not for every one, she cannot 
comprehend at this stage. 
"And you've never seen a play? I should like to be 
with you at your very first one. Verona, you know, is 
famed for Romeo and Juliet ; and Padua," — he laughs, 
— " the wise young lawyer came from Padua, who settled 
about the pound of flesh." 
Doris is mystified. Now her face is simply delicious. 
"Doris has not been outside of school walls, remem- 
ber," Mrs. Gilbert remarks, sharply. She is not certain 
of Wentworth's honesty; he may be thinking Doris 
shockingly ignorant. 
" And she has it all to see, all to learn. Mrs. Gilbert, 
you are to be envied." 
 
 
He can make himself Doris's instructor very easily. 
She is quite ready to resign her envied position. 
Madame sends up to know if the signorina is ready for 
her walk. 
"I ought to go," Doris admits, reluctantly. ''It 
pleases madame so much.'' But she looks inquiringly at 
her aunt. 
'' Yes, child," is the hasty response. 
Doris rises obediently and puts up her lace-work. She 
is just a very little near-sighted, and that adds to her 
piquant carefulness. 
Under other circumstances, Wentworth would be sorry 
to have her go. He has been revolving an idea in his 
mind. In some things, Mrs. Gilbert is a delightful com- 
panion ; in all positions, Doris would be charming. 
''Yes," he continues, when they are alone, " why not 
improve your summer, instruct your niece, and perform 
a kindly act for me ? Rambling about alone is not nearly 
so pleasant. Let us join forces ; and there will be Martin 
to take all the vexatious part off your shoulders." 
It is simply maddening. He will not speak to Doris 
before he goes. He is not in love with her, though 
pleased, interested ; but another month may bring it about, 
or there may be some one else ; and to stay cooped up 
here — 
"Have I offended you?" Lloyd Wentworth crosses 
the room and takes the end of the sofa, so he can face 
her where she has dropped into a chair, looking much 
annoyed over something. " You know it is not at all as 
if we were strangers. You have done rae the greatest of 
kindnesses ; as the doctor says, I owe ray life to you, and 
how can I repay the debt, — the generous sympathy? 
Then — I am still an invalid — there would be nothing 
improper — " he is about to say, "your niece is but a 
child," yet he refrains. 
" It is not that " Mrs. Gilbert has been in many straits 
 
 
 
in her life, and a door of extrication has always been 
opened. Perhaps she has aided somewhat to open it 
herself. "With the last effort of desperation, she con- 
tinues : " It is a humiliating confession, but Mr. Gilbert 
has been extremely unfortunate in some business transac- 
tions, — he does a little for one or two American houses 
in a confidential way. I think he was not quite pleased 
that I should so readily accept the care of my niece. 
Girls study so much for artists and doctors and every- 
thing. If he had been prosperous, you see he would not 
have thought of it. So now he feels that he can do no 
better than to keep us in this cheap little place all sum- 
mer ; but it will be so dreary for Doris." 
Mrs. Gilbert has not posed before the world for years 
not to know the most effective manner of telling a story. 
She goes to her point with dramatic rapidity, and when it 
does not need softening touches, she leaves it in its almost 
crude force. Now her face flushes ; her eyes are full of 
tears. 
" My dear Mrs. Gilbert ! " "Wentworth paces the room 
softly, down and up, then stops before her, and begins, 
in a pleading, persuasive manner : " Let me be like a son 
to you. Let me ask this as a favor to myself. Accept 
of me as a banker for the present. Take it as a loan, 
and don't worry about repayment. You can make that 
any time, at your leisure ; but you would please me better 
by not making it at all. I 've been studying what gift I 
could proffer, what kindness I could do." 
" But your own people — your — " 
" Let me tell you a little about myself." Wentworth is 
very much in earnest, and takes his seat on the sofa again. 
'' There is a large family fortune; it should have been 
divided, but it all came to me. My father was the favorite 
son, and my grandfather entailed it as far as American 
laws allow. My uncle died without heirs ; my aunt has 
quite a large family, but I have planned to make it aU 
 
 
 
right when I go. I do not begin to spend the income ; 
in fact, a certain part is set aside for my cousin to man- 
age the estate with. I shall need it only a brief while 
longer," and he sighs a little. " So, no one can be 
harmed by any extravagance of mine ; and they want 
me to take all the enjoyment I can. I wish you would 
consider me a son, with a son's rights, for the next month 
or two. Think how much pleasanter it will be for me ! " 
He smiles in a very winning manner. Ah, Lloyd Went- 
worth ! the wisdom of your less than a quarter of a cen- 
tury is not to be compared with what one gains in the 
next two or three decades, especially if one has had to 
depend largely upon one's wits. He is very much in earnest, 
and a good deal afraid there may be some hitch of im- 
propriety. But, then, who need know? 
'' It would be ever so much nicer for you to take it now 
than for me to add a bequest to my will ; and, of course, 
I should remember your goodness ; you couldn't prevent 
that. Dear Mrs. Gilbert, do be indulgent. It is only 
such a little while that I can enjoy all these delights." 
She is not silent so much from consideration, as amaze- 
ment that she should have been so simple as not to have 
questioned before concerning his prospects. He has in a 
manner signed his own warrant for the future. Hardly 
will she let him out of her sight now. 
But she allows herself to need considerable persuasion. 
She makes some faint objections, which are, of course, 
overruled ; and then she promises to take the matter into 
consideration, explicitly stipulating that it shall be a loan, 
and she allowed to repay it without the first demur on his 
part. Then Doris returns, and nothing more is said. 
In the evening they look up routes. Mrs. Gilbert is an 
old traveller, and makes many useful suggestions. Went- 
worth considers himself extremely lucky. Doris is puz- 
zled at her aunt's high spurits and tender demeanor toward 
herself. 
 
'' I have decided to make a change," she says to Doris, 
as they are about retiring. " I have had a little bit of good 
fortune to-day, and your uncle will send me some money 
shortly. So we may as well go on and see something of 
