to keep it off his own concerns, and he was surprised at her 
continued avoidance of the slums and the question of her 
intended sacrifices. She mentioned none of her friends by 
name, but she talked of their character, their houses, their 
manners, taking for granted, as before, that Hyacinth would 
always follow. So far as he followed he was edified, but 
he had to admit to himself that half the time he didn't 
know what she was talking about. At all events, if he had 
been with the dukes (she didn't call her associates dukes, 
but Hyacinth was sure they were of that order), he would 
have got more satisfaction from them. She appeared, on 
the whole, to judge the English world severely ; to think 
poorly of its wit, and even worse of its morals. 'You 
know people oughtn't to be both corrupt and dull,' she 
said; and Hyacinth turned this over, feeling that he 
certainly had not yet caught the point of view of a person 
for whom the aristocracy was a collection of bores. He 
had sometimes taken great pleasure in hearing that it was 
fabulously profligate, but he was rather disappointed in the 
bad account the Princess gave of it. She remarked that 
she herself was very corrupt she ought to have mentioned 
that before but she had never been accused of being 
stupid. Perhaps he would discover it, but most of the 
people she had had to do with thought her only too lively. 
The second allusion that she made to their ulterior designs 
(Hyacinth's and hers) was when she said, ' I determined to 
see it' she was speaking still of English society 'to 
learn for myself what it really is, before we blow it up. I 
have been here now a year and a half, and, as I tell you, 
I feel that I have seen. It is the old regime again, the 
rottenness and extravagance, bristling with every iniquity 
and every abuse, over which the French Revolution passed 
like a whirlwind ; or perhaps even more a reproduction of 
Roman society in its decadence, gouty, apoplectic, depraved, 
gorged and clogged with wealth and spoils, selfishness and 
scepticism, and waiting for the onset of the barbarians. 
You and I are the barbarians, you know.' The Princess 
was pretty general, after all, in her animadversions, and 
regaled him with no anecdotes (he rather missed them) that 
would have betrayed the hospitality she had enjoyed. She 
couldn't treat him absolutely as if he had been an ambas- 
sador. By way of defending the aristocracy he said to her 
that it couldn't be true they were all a bad lot (he used that 
 
expression because she had let him know that she liked 
him to speak in the manner of the people), inasmuch as 
he had an acquaintance among them a noble lady who 
was one of the purest, kindest, most conscientious human 
beings it was possible to imagine. At this she stopped 
short and looked at him ; then she asked, ' Whom do you 
mean a noble lady ? ' 
' I suppose there is no harm saying. Lady Aurora 
Langrish.' 
' I don't know her. Is she nice ? ' 
' I like her ever so much. 
' Is she pretty, clever ? ' 
' She isn't pretty, but she is very uncommon,' said 
Hyacinth. 
' How did you make her acquaintance ? ' As he hesi- 
tated, she went on, ' Did you bind some books for her ? ' 
' No. I met her in a place called Audley Court.' 
'Where is that?' 
' In Camberwell.' 
' And who lives there ? ' 
' A young woman I was calling on, who is bedridden.' 
'And the lady you speak of what do you call her, 
Lydia Languish ? goes to see her ? ' 
' Yes, very often.' 
The Princess was silent a moment, looking at him. 
' Will you take me there ? ' 
; With great pleasure. The young woman I speak of 
is the sister of the chemist's assistant you will perhaps 
remember that I mentioned to you.' 
' Yes, I remember. It must be one of the first places 
we go to. I am sorry,' the Princess added, walking on. 
Hyacinth inquired what she might be sorry for, but she 
took no notice of his question, and presently remarked, 
' Perhaps she goes to see him.' 
' Goes to see whom ? ' 
'The chemist's assistant the brother.' She said this 
very seriously. 
' Perhaps she does,' Hyacinth rejoined, laughing. ' But 
she is a fine sort of woman.' 
The Princess repeated that she was sorry, and he again 
asked her for what for Lady Aurora's being  of that sort ? 
To which she replied, ' No ; I mean for my not being the 
first what is it you call them ? noble lady that you have 
encountered.' 
' I don't see what difference that makes. You needn't 
be afraid you don't make an impression on me.' 
' I was not thinking of that. I was thinking that you 
might be less fresh than I thought.' 
' Of course I don't know what you thought,' said Hya- 
cinth, smiling. 
' No j how should you ? ' 
XXIII 
HE was in the library, after luncheon, when word was 
brought to him that the carriage was at the door, for 
their drive; and when he went into the hall he found 
Madame Grandoni, bonneted and cloaked, awaiting the 
descent of the Princess. ' You see I go with you. I am 
always there,' she remarked, jovially. ' The Princess has 
me with her to take care of her, and this is how I do it. 
Besides, I never miss my drive.' 
' You are different from me ; this will be the first I have 
ever had in my life.' He could establish that distinction 
without bitterness, because he was too pleased with his 
prospect to believe the old lady's presence could spoil it. 
He had nothing to say to the Princess that she might not 
hear. He didn't dislike her for coming, even after she had 
said to him, in answer to his own announcement, speaking 
rather more sententiously than was her wont, 'It doesn't 
surprise me that you have not spent your life in carriages. 
They have nothing to do with your trade.' 
' Fortunately not,' he answered. ' I should have made 
a ridiculous coachman.' 
The Princess appeared, and they mounted into a great 
square barouche, an old-fashioned, high-hung vehicle, with 
a green body, a faded hammer-cloth and a rumble where 
the footman sat (the Princess mentioned that it had been 
let with the house), which rolled ponderously and smoothly 
along the winding avenue and through the gilded gates 
(they were surmounted with an immense escutcheon) of the 
park. The progress of this oddly composed trio had a 
high respectability, and that is one of the reasons why 
Hyacinth felt the occasion to be tremendously memorable. 
There might still be greater joys in store for him he was 
by this time quite at sea, and could recognise no shores 
but he would never again in his life be so respectable. 
The drive was long and comprehensive, but very little was 
said while it lasted. ' I shall show you the whole country : 
it is exquisitely beautiful; it speaks to the heart.' Of so 
much as this his hostess had informed him at the start ; and 
she added, in French, with a light, allusive nod at the rich, 
humanised landscape, ' Voila ce que faime en Angleterre.' 
For the rest, she sat there opposite to him, in quiet fairness, 
under her softly-swaying, lace-fringed parasol : moving her 
eyes to where she noticed that his eyes rested; allowing 
them, when the carriage passed anything particularly 
charming, to meet his own ; smiling as if she enjoyed the 
