get away alive." 
By this time all the blackguard audience were 
sharing, unchecked, the amusement of the bar. 
The judge put up his hand to hide a laugh. Then 
he said to Lemuel, " Do you wish to question the 
plaintiff ]" 
The two young things looked at each other, and 
both blushed. " No," said Lemuel. 
The girl looked at the judge for permission, and 
at a nod from him left the stand and sat down. 
The officer who had arrested Lemuel took the 
stand on the other side of the rail from him, and 
corroborated the girl 's story ; but he had not seen 
 
the assault or robbery, and could not swear to either. 
Then Lemuel was invited to speak, and told his 
story with the sort of nervous courage that came 
to him in extremity. He told it from the beginning, 
and his adventure with the two beats in the Com 
mon made the audience laugh again. Even then, 
Lemuel could not see the fun of it ; he stopped, and 
the stout ushers in blue flannel sacks commanded 
silence. Then Lemuel related how he had twice 
seen one of the beats since that time, but he was 
ashamed to say how he had let him escape out of 
that very room half an hour before. He told how 
he had found the beat in the crowd before the saloon, 
and how he was chasing him up the street when he 
heard the young lady hollo out, "There they go 
now ! " and then the officer arrested him. 
The judge sat a moment in thought ; then said 
quietly, "The charge is dismissed;" and before 
Lemuel well knew what it meant, a gate was opened 
at the stand, and he was invited to pass out. He 
was free. The officer who had arrested him shook 
his hand in congratulation and excuse, and the 
lawyers and the other policemen gave him a friendly 
glance. The loafers and beats of the audience did 
not seem to notice him. They were already intent 
upon a case of coloured assault and battery which 
had been called, and which opened with the promise 
of uncommon richness, both of the parties being 
women. 
Lemuel saw that girl who had accused him passing 
down the aisle on the other side of the room. She 
 
was with another girl, who looked older. Lemuel 
walked fast, to get out of their way ; he did not 
know why, but he did not want to speak to the girl. 
They walked fast too, and when he got down the 
stairs on to the ground floor of the court-house they 
overtook him. 
" Say ? " said the older girl, " I want to speak to 
you. I think it 's a down shame, the way that you've 
been treated ; and Statira, she feels jus 's I do about 
it ; and I tell her she 's got to say so. It 's the least 
she can do, I tell her, after what she got you in for. 
My name 's Manda Grier ; I room th S tira ; V I 
come th her this mornin't help keep her up ; b t I 
didn't know t was goin to be 's ch a, perfect flat-out ! " 
As the young woman rattled on she grew more 
and more glib ; she was what they call whopper- 
jawed, and spoke a language almost purely conson 
antal, cutting and clipping her words with a rapid 
play of her whopper-jaw till there was nothing but 
the bare bones left of them. Statira was crying, and 
Lemuel could not bear to see her cry. He tried to 
say something to comfort her, but all he could think 
of was, " I hope you'll get your book back," and 
Manda Grier answered for her 
" Oh, I guess t ain't the book t she cares for. S 
far forth 's the book goes, I guess she can afford to 
buy another book, well enough. B t I tell her she 's 
done n awful thing, and a thing t she'll carry to her 
grave th her, n't she'll remember to her dyin day. 
That 's what / tell her." 
"She ha n't got any call to feel bad about it," 
 
said Lemuel clumsily. "It was just a mistake." 
Then, not knowing what more to say, he said, being 
come to the outer door by this time, " Well, I wish 
you good morning." 
" Well, good morning," said Manda Grier, and 
she thrust her elbow sharply into Statira Dudley 's 
side, so that she also said faintly 
" Well, good morning ! " She was fluent enough 
on the witness-stand and in the police station, but 
now she could not find a word to say. 
The three stood together on the threshold of the 
court-house, not knowing how to get away from one 
another. 
Manda Grier put out her hand to Lemuel. He 
took it, and, " Well, good morning," he said again. 
" Well, good morning," repeated Manda Grier. 
Then Statira put out her hand, and she and 
Lemuel shook hands, and said together, " Well, 
good morning," and on these terms of high civility 
they parted. He went one way and they another. 
He did not look back, but the two girls, marching 
off with locked arms and flying tongues, when they 
came to the corner, turned to look back. They 
both turned inward, and so bumped their heads to 
gether. 
" Why, you coot ! " cried Manda Grier, and they 
broke out laughing. 
Lemuel heard their laugh, and he knew they were 
laughing at him ; but he did not care. He wandered 
on, he did not know whither, and presently he came 
to the only place he could remember. 
VII. 
THE place was the Common, where his trouble 
had begun. He looked back to the beginning, and 
could see that it was his own fault. To be sure, 
you might say that if a fellow came along and offered 
to pay you fifty cents for changing a ten-dollar bill, 
you had a right to take it ; but there was a voice in 
Lemuel 's heart which warned him that greed to 
another 's hurt was sin, and that if you took too much 
for a thing from a necessitous person, you oppressed 
and robbed him. You could make it appear other 
wise, but you could not really change the nature of 
the act. He owned this with a sigh, and he owned 
himself justly punished. He was still on those 
terms of personal understanding with the eternal 
spirit of right which most of us lose later in life, 
when we have so often seemed to see the effect fail 
to follow the cause, both in the case of our own 
misdeeds and the misdeeds of others. 
He sat down on a bench, and he sat there all day, 
except when he went to drink from the tin cup 
dangling by the chain from the nearest fountain. 
His good breakfast kept him from being hungry for 
 
 
,a while, but he was as aimless and as hopeless as 
ever, and as destitute. He would have gone home 
now r if he had had the money ; he was afraid they 
would be getting anxious about him there, though he 
had not made any particular promises about the time 
of returning. He had dropped a postal card into a 
