hour, that no time might be lost in her new course of study, Carrie
sent Wanda and her finery up the chimney in a lively blaze, and, as
she watched the book burn, decided to take her blue and gold volume
of Tennyson with her on her next trip to Nahant, in case any
eligible learned or literary man’s head should offer itself as a
shining mark. Since a good marriage was the end of life, why not
follow Mrs. Warburton’s example, and make a really excellent one?
When they all met at dinner-time the old lady was pleased to see a
nosegay of fresh pansies in the bosoms of her three youngest guests,
and to hear Alice whisper, with grateful eyes,--
“We wear your flower to show you that we don’t mean to forget the
lesson you so kindly gave us, and to fortify ourselves with ‘noble
thoughts,’ as you and she did.”
WATER-LILIES
A PARTY of people, young and old, sat on the piazza of a seaside
hotel one summer morning, discussing plans for the day as they
waited for the mail.
“Hullo! here comes Christie Johnstone,” exclaimed one of the young
men perched on the railing, who was poisoning the fresh air with the
sickly scent of a cigarette.
“So ‘tis, with ‘Flucker, the baddish boy,’ in tow, as large as
life,” added another, with a pleasant laugh as he turned to look.
The new-comers certainly looked somewhat like Charles Reade’s
picturesque pair, and every one watched them with idle interest as
they drew nearer. A tall, robust girl of seventeen, with dark eyes
and hair, a fine color on her brown cheek, and vigor in every
movement, came up the rocky path from the beach with a basket of
lobsters on one arm, of fish on the other, and a wicker tray of
water-lilies on her head. The scarlet and silver of the fish
contrasted prettily with the dark blue of her rough dress, and the
pile of water flowers made a fitting crown for this bonny young
fish-wife. A sturdy lad of twelve came lurching after her in a pair
of very large rubber boots, with a dilapidated straw hat on the back
of his head and a pail on either arm.
Straight on went the girl, never turning head or eyes as she passed
the group on the piazza and vanished round the corner, though it was
evident that she heard the laugh the last speech produced, for the
color deepened in her cheeks and her step quickened. The boy,
however, returned the glances bent upon him, and answered the smiles
with such a cheerful grin that the youth with the cigarette called
out,--
“Good-morning, Skipper! Where do you hail from?”
“Island, yender,” answered the boy, with a gesture of his thumb over
his shoulder.
“Oh, you are the lighthouse-keeper, are you?”
“No, I ain’t; me and Gramper’s fishermen now.”
“Your name is Flucker Johnstone, and your sister’s Christie, I
think?” added the youth, enjoying the amusement of the young ladies
about him.
“It’s Sammy Bowen, and hern’s Ruth.”
“Have you got a Boaz over there for her?”
“No, we’ve got a devil-fish, a real whacker.”
This unexpected reply produced a roar from the gentlemen, while the
boy grinned good-naturedly, though without the least idea what the
joke was. Pretty Miss Ellery, who had been told that she had “a
rippling laugh,” rippled sweetly as she leaned over the railing to
ask,
“Are those lilies in your pails? I want some if they are for sale.”
“Sister’ll fetch ‘em round when she’s left the lobs. I ain’t got
none; this is bait for them fellers.” And, as if reminded of
business by the yells of several boys who had just caught sight of
him, Sammy abruptly weighed anchor and ran before the wind toward
the stable.
“Funny lot, these natives! Act as if they owned the place and are as
stupid as their own fish,” said the youth in the white yachting
suit, as he flung away his cigarette end.
“Don’t agree with you, Fred. I’ve known people of this sort all my
life and a finer set of honest, hardworking, independent men I never
met,--brave as lions and tender as women in spite of their rough
ways,” answered the other young man, who wore blue flannel and had a
gold band on his cap.
“Sailors and soldiers always stand by one another; so of course you
see the best side of these fellows, Captain. The girls are fine
creatures, I grant you; but their good looks don’t last long, more’s
the pity!”
“Few women’s would with the life they lead, so full of hard work,
suspense, and sorrow. No one knows till one is tried, how much
courage and faith it takes to keep young and happy when the men one
loves are on the great sea,” said a quiet, gray-haired lady, as she
laid her hand on the knee of the young man in blue with a look that
made him smile affectionately at her, with his own brown hand on
hers.
“Shouldn’t wonder if Ben Bowen was laid up, since the girl brings
the fish. He’s a fine old fellow. I’ve been to No Man’s Land many a
time blue-fishing with him; must ask after him,” said an elderly
gentleman who was pacing to and fro yearning for the morning papers.
“We might go over to the island and have a chowder-party or a
fish-fry some moonlight night. I haven’t been here for several
years, but it used to be great fun, and I suppose we can do it now,”
 suggested Miss Ellery with the laugh.
“By Jove, we will! And look up Christie; ask her when she comes
round,” said Mr. Fred, the youthful dude, untwining his languid legs
as if the prospect put a little life into him.
“Of course we pay for any trouble we give; these people will do
anything for money,” began Miss Ellery; but Captain John, as they
called the sailor, held up his hand with a warning, “Hush! she’s
coming,” as Ruth’s weather-beaten brown hat turned the corner.
She paused a moment to drop the empty baskets, shake her skirts, and
put up a black braid that had fallen down; then, with the air of one
resolved to do a distasteful task as quickly as possible, she came
up the steps, held out the rough basket cover, and said in a clear
voice,--
“Would any of the ladies like some fresh lilies? Ten cents a bunch.”
A murmur from the ladies expressed their admiration of the beautiful
flowers, and the gentlemen pressed forward to buy and present every
bunch with gallant haste. Ruth’s eyes shone as the money fell into
her hand, and several voices begged her to bring more lilies while
they lasted.
“I didn’t know the darlings would grow in salt water,” said Miss
Ellery, as she fondly gazed upon the cluster Mr. Fred had just
offered her.
“They don’t. There’s a little fresh-water pond on our island, and
they grow there,--only place for miles round;” and Ruth looked at
the delicate girl in ruffled white lawn and a mull hat, with a
glance of mingled pity for her ignorance and admiration for her
beauty.
“How silly of me! I am SUCH a goose;” and Miss Ellery gurgled as she
hid her face behind her red parasol.
“Ask about the fish-fry,” whispered Mr. Fred, putting his head
behind the rosy screen to assure the pretty creature that he didn’t
know any better himself.
“Oh yes, I will!” and, quite consoled, Miss Ellery called out,
“Girl, will you tell me if we can have chowder-parties on your rocks
as we used to a few seasons ago?”
“If you bring your own fish. Grandpa is sick and can’t get ‘em for
you.”
“We will provide them, but who will cook them for us? It’s such
horrid work.”
“Any one can fry fish! I will if you want me to;” and Ruth half
smiled, remembering that this girl who shuddered at the idea of pork
and a hot frying-pan, used to eat as heartily as any one when the
crisp brown cunners were served up.
“Very good; then we’ll engage you as cook, and come over to-night if
it’s clear and our fishing prospers. Don’t forget a dozen of the
finest lilies for this lady to-morrow morning. Pay you now, may not
be up;” and Mr. Fred dropped a bright silver dollar into the basket
with a patronizing air, intended to impress this rather too
independent young person with a proper sense of inferiority.
Ruth quietly shook the money out upon the door-mat, and said with a
sudden sparkle in her black eyes,--
