to keep them, I guess.” Boardman finished his task, and came back to
Dan.

“I guess I’ve got it now,” said Mavering, lifting the lid of his desk,
and taking out a large stiff envelope, in which a set of photographic
views had come.

“Seems to have been made for it,” Boardman exulted, watching the
envelope, as it filled up, expand into a kind of shapely packet. Dan
put the things silently in, and sealed the parcel with his ring. Then he
turned it over to address it, but the writing of Alice’s name for this
purpose seemed too much for him, in spite of Boardman’s humorous support
throughout.

“Oh, I can’t do it,” he said, falling back in his chair.

“Let me,” said his friend, cheerfully ignoring his despair. He
philosophised the whole transaction, as he addressed the package, rang
for a messenger, and sent it away, telling him to call a cab for ten
minutes past two.

“Mighty good thing in life that we move by steps. Now on the stage, or
in a novel, you’d have got those things together and addressed ‘em, and
despatched ‘em, in just the right kind of paper, with just the right
kind of string round it, at a dash; and then you’d have had time to go
up and lean your head against something and soliloquise, or else think
unutterable things. But here you see how a merciful Providence blocks
your way all along. You’ve had to fight through all sort of sordid
little details to the grand tragic result of getting off Miss Pasmer’s
letters, and when you reach it you don’t mind it a bit.”

“Don’t I?” demanded Dan, in as hollow a voice as he could. “You’d joke
at a funeral, Boardman.”

“I’ve seen some pretty cheerful funerals,” said Boardman. “And it’s this
principle of steps, of degrees, of having to do this little thing, and
that little thing, that keeps funerals from killing the survivors. I
suppose this is worse than a funeral--look at it in the right light. You
mourn as one without hope, don’t you? Live through it too, I suppose.”

He made Dan help get the rest of his things into his bag, and with one
little artifice and another prevented him from stagnating in despair.
He dissented from the idea of waiting over another day to see if Alice
would not relent when she got her letters back, and send for Dan to come
and see her.

“Relent a good deal more when she finds you’ve gone out of town, if she
sends for you,” he argued; and he got Dan into the cab and off to
the station, carefully making him an active partner in the whole
undertaking, even to checking his own bag.

Before he bought his own ticket he appealed once more to Dan.

“Look here! I feel like a fool going off with you on this expedition. Be
honest for once, now, Mavering, and tell me you’ve thought better of it,
and don’t want me to go!”

“Yes--yes, I do. Oh yes, you’ve got to go. I I do want you. I--you make
me see things in just the right light, don’t you know. That idea of
yours about little steps--it’s braced me all up. Yes--”

“You’re such an infernal humbug,” said Boardman, “I can’t tell whether
you want me or not. But I’m in for it now, and I’ll go.” Then he bought
his ticket.




XLV.

Boardman put himself in charge of Mavering, and took him into the
smoking car. It was impossible to indulge a poetic gloom there without
becoming unpleasantly conspicuous in the smoking and euchre and
profanity. Some of the men were silent and dull, but no one was
apparently very unhappy, and perhaps if Dan had dealt in absolute
sincerity with himself, even he would not have found himself wholly
so. He did not feel as he had felt when Alice rejected him. Then he was
wounded to the quick through his vanity, and now; in spite of all, in
spite of the involuntary tender swaying of his heart toward her through
the mere force of habit, in spite of some remote compunctions for his
want of candour with her, he was supported by a sense of her injustice,
her hardness. Related with this was an obscure sense of escape, of
liberation, which, however he might silence and disown it, was still
there. He could not help being aware that he had long relinquished
tastes customs, purposes, ideals, to gain a peace that seemed more and
more fleeting and uncertain, and that he had submitted to others which,
now that the moment of giving pleasure by his submission was past, he
recognised as disagreeable. He felt a sort of guilt in his enlargement;
he knew, by all that he had, ever heard or read of people in his
position, that he ought to be altogether miserable; and yet this
consciousness of relief persisted. He told himself that a very tragical
thing had befallen him; that this broken engagement was the ruin of
his life and the end of his youth, and that he must live on an old
and joyless man, wise with the knowledge that comes to decrepitude and
despair; he imagined a certain look for himself, a gait, a name, that
would express this; but all the same he was aware of having got out of
something. Was it a bondage, a scrape, as Boardman called it? He thought
he must be a very light, shallow, and frivolous nature not to be utterly
broken up by his disaster.

“I don’t know what I’m going home for,” he said hoarsely to Boardman.

“Kind of a rest, I suppose,” suggested his friend.

“Yes, I guess that’s it,” said Dan. “I’m tired.”

It seemed to him that this was rather fine; it was a fatigue of the soul
that he was to rest from. He remembered the apostrophic close of a novel
in which the heroine dies after much emotional suffering. “Quiet, quiet
heart!” he repeated to himself. Yes, he too had died to hope, to love,
to happiness.

As they drew near their journey’s end he said, “I don’t know how I’m
going to break it to them.”

“Oh, probably break itself,” said Boardman. “These things usually do.”

“Yes, of course,” Dan assented.

“Know from your looks that something’s up. Or you might let me go ahead
a little and prepare them.”

Dan laughed. “It was awfully good of you to come, Boardman. I don’t know
what I should have done without you.”

“Nothing I like more than these little trips. Brightens you up to sere
the misery of others; makes you feel that you’re on peculiarly good
terms with Providence. Haven’t enjoyed myself so much since that day in
Portland.” Boardman’s eyes twinkled.

“Yes,” said Dan, with a deep sigh, “it’s a pity it hadn’t ended there.”

“Oh, I don’t know. You won’t have to go through with it again. Something
that had to come, wasn’t it? Never been satisfied if you hadn’t tried
it. Kind of aching void before, and now you’ve got enough.”

“Yes, I’ve got enough,” said Dan, “if that’s all.”

When they got out of the train at Ponkwasset Falls, and the conductor
and the brakeman, who knew Dan as his father’s son, and treated him with
