had the tact to start " Rescue the perishing," as the 
fisherman strode down the broad aisle. He did not go 
again. The poor young convert followed him up for a 
week or two, and gave him an expensive Testament, 
bought out of an almost invisible personal income, in 
vain. 

"I've no objections to you," said Jack candidly; 
" I 'm much obliged to ye for yer politeness, sir. But 
them churches that sub-leases to a rum-seller, I don't 
think they onderstand a drinkin' man. Hey ? Well, 
ain't he their biggest rooster, now ? Don't he do the 
heft of the payin', and the tallest of their crowin', 
consequent ? Thought so. Better leave me go, sir. 
I ain't a pious man ; I 'm a fisherman." 

" Fishes," said Jack, " is no fools." 

He gave voice to this remark one day in Boston, 
when he was twenty-five years old. He was trying to 
entertain a Boston girl ; she was not familiar with Fairharbor
or with the scenery of his calling ; he wanted to 
interest her ; he liked the girl. He had liked a good 
many girls, it need not be said ; but this one had laid 
upon the fisherman — she knew not how, he knew not 




why, and what man or woman of us could have told 
him ? — the power that comes not of reason, or of time, 
or of trying, or of wisdom, or of Tightness, but of the 
mystery to which, when we are not speaking of Jack, 
we give the name of love. It seems a sacrilege, admit, 
to write it here, and of these two. But there, again, it 
would be easy to be wrong. The study of the relativity 
of human feeling is a delicate science; it calls for a fine 
moral equipment. If this were the high-water mark of 
nature for Jack — and who shall say ? — the tide shall 
have its sacred clue, even clown among those weeds and 
in that mud. He liked that girl, among them all, and 
her he thought of gently. He had known her a long 
time ; as much as three months. When the vessel came 
into Boston to sell halibut, he had a few days there, 
drifting about as seamen do, homeless and reckless ; 
clashing out the wages just paid off, in ways that some- 
times he remembered and sometimes he forgot, and that 
usually left him without a dollar toward his next fine 
when he should be welcomed by the police court of his 
native city on returning home. 

Jack thought, I say, gravely of this girl. He never 
once took her name in vain among the fellows ; and she 
had not been a very good girl either. But Jack re- 
flected that he was not very good himself, if you came 
to that. His downright, honest nature stood him in 
stead in this moral distinction ; there was always a 
broad streak of generosity in him at his worst ; it goes 
with the temperament, we say, and perhaps we say it 
too often to give him half the credit of it. 

She was a pretty girl, and she was very young. She 
had told Jack her story, as they strolled about the 
bright Boston streets on comfortable winter evenings ; 




when he took her to the variety show, or to the oystershop, 
and they talked together. Jack pitied her. Per- 
haps she deserved it ; it was a sad little story — and she 
was so very young ! She had a gentle way, with Jack ; 
for some reason, God knows why, she had trusted him 
from the first, and he had never once been known to dis- 
turb her trust. That was the pleasant part of it. 

On this evening that we speak of, Jack was sober. 
He was often sober when he had an evening to spend 
with the Boston girl ; not always — no ; truth must be 
told. She looked as pretty as was in her that night ; 
she had black eyes and a kind of yellow hair that Jack 
had never seen crinkled low on the forehead above black 
eyes before ; he thought her as fine to look at as any 
actress he ever saw ; for the stage was Jack's standard 
of the magnificent, as it is to so many of his sort. The 
girl's name was Teen. Probably she had been called 
Christine once, in her country home ; she even told Jack 
she had been baptized. 

"I wasn't, myself," said Jack; "I roared so, they 
darsen't do it. My mother got me to church, for she 
was a pious woman, and I pummeled the parson in the 
face with both fists, and she said she come away, for she 
was ashamed of me. She always said that christenin' 
wasn't never legal. It disappointed her, too. I was an 
awful baby." 

"I should think likely," said Teen with candor. " Do 
you set much by your mother ? " 

" She 's dead," said Jack in a subdued voice. Teen 
looked at him ; she had never heard him speak like 
that. 

" I 'most wished mine was," said the girl ; "she 'd 'a' 
ben better off — alonsc of me." 




" That 's so," said Jack. 

The two took a turn in silence up and down the 
brightly lighted street ; their thoughts looked out 
strangely from their marred young faces ; they felt as 
if they were in a foreign country. Jack had meant to 
ask her to take a drink, but he gave it up ; he could n't, 
somehow. 

"Was you always a fisherman?" asked Teen, feeling, 
with a woman's tact, that somebody must change the 
current of the subject. 

" I was a fisherman three generations back," Jack an- 
swered her ; " borned a fisherman, you bet ! I couldn't 
'a' ben nothin' else if I 'd drownded for it. It 's a smart 
business. You hev to keep your wits about you. Fishes 
is no fools." 

"Ain't they?" asked the girl listlessly. She was 
conscious of failing in conversational brilliancy ; but the 
truth was, she couldn't get over what they had been 
saying : it was always unfortunate when she remembered 
her mother. Jack began to talk to her about his business 
again, but Teen did not reply ; and when he looked 
down at her to see what ailed her, there were real tears 
rolling over her pretty cheeks. 

" Why, Teen ! " said Jack. 

