Together, what would matter death and silence 
and everlasting unrest ? All would be forgot, 
all but the exquisite pain of the regret for the 
years he had wasted on earth, and for the 
solitary heritage he had left the world. Those 
children of his brain ! They were with him still. 
Would that he had left them below to sing his 
name down through the ages ! They were a 
torment to him here, in their futility and inaction. 
They could not sing to these shapeless ghosts 
about him; their voices would be unheeded 
music; nor would any strain sweep downward to 
that world whose tears he might have drawn, 
whose mirth provoked, whose passions played 
upon at his will. The one grand thing he had 
done must alone speak for him. There was in 
it neither pathos nor mirth; it had sprung to the 
cloud-capped point of human genius, and its
sublimity would prove its barrier to the world's 
approval. But it would give him fame when — 
God ! what was that thought ? The manuscript 
of that poem had lain in the room where he had 
met his death. Had the hand that had slain him 
executed a more terrible vengeance still ? Oh, 
it could not be ! No man would be so base. 
And yet, what mercy had he the right to expect ? 
And the nature of the man — cold — relentless — 
To consign the man who had wronged him to 
eternal oblivion — would he not feel as he watched 
the ashes in the brazier, that such vengeance 
was sweeter than even the power to kill ? And 
he was impotent ! He was a waif tossed about 
in the chaos of eternity, with no power to smite 
the man whose crime had — perhaps — been greater 
than the thrusting of two lives from existence a 
few years before their time. He was as pow- 
erless as the invisible beggar who floated at his 
side. And that man was on earth yet, perchance, 
coldly indifferent in his proud position, inwardly 
gloating at the fullness of his revenge. . . . 
Years, years, years! They slipped from his 
consciousness like water from the smooth 
surface of a rock. And yet each had pressed more 
heavily and stung more sharply than the last. 
Oh, if he could but know that his poem had been 
given to the world — that it had not been blotted 
from existence! This was what was meant by 
Hell. No torture that man had ever pictured 
could approach the torments of such regret, such 
uncertainty, such pitiable impotence. Truly, if 
his sin had been great, his punishment was 
greater. 
 
But why was he going downward ? What
invisible hand was this which was resistlessly 
guiding him through the portals of the shadow land, 
past the great sun and worlds of other men, and 
down through this quivering ether ? What ? 
He was to be Jaorn again ? A bit of clay needed 
an atom of animate force to quicken it into life, 
and he must go again ? And it was to the planet 
Earth he was going ? Ah ! his poem ! his 
poem ! He could write it again, and of what 
matter the wasted generations ? And Sioned — 
they would meet again. Sooner or later, she too 
must return, and on Earth they would find what 
had been denied them above. What was that ? 
His past must become a blank ? His soul must 
be shorn of its growth ? He must go back to 
unremembering, unforseeing infancy, and grow 
through long, slow years to manhood again ? Still, 
his genius and his intelligence in their elements 
would be the same, and with development would 
come at last the fruition of all his fondest hopes. 
And Sioned ? He would know her when they met. 
Their souls must be the same as when the great 
ocean of Force had tossed them up; and evolu- 
tion could work no essential change. Ah ! they 
had entered the blue atmosphere. And, yes — 
there lay the earth below them. How he 
remembered its green plains and white cities and blue 
waters! And that great island — yes, it was 
familiar enough. It was the land which had 
 
given him birth, and which should have knelt at 
his feet and granted him a resting-place amidst 
its illustrious dead. And this old castle they 
were descending upon ? He did not remember 
it. Well, he was to be of the chosen of 
earth again. He would have a proud name to 
offer her, and this time it should be an unsullied 
one. This time the world should ring with his 
genius, not with his follies. This time — Oh, 
what was this ? Stop ! Stop ! No; he could 
not part with it. The grand, trained intellect of 
which he had been so proud — the perfected 
genius which had been his glory — they should 
not strip them from him — they were part of 
himself; they were his very essence; he would not 
give them up ! Oh, God ! this horrible 
shrinking ! This was Hell; this was not re-birth. 
Physical torture ? The words were meaningless 
beside this warping, this tearing apart of spirit 
and mind — those precious children of his brain 
— limb from limb. Their shrieks for help ! — their 
cries of anguish and horror ! their clutches ! 
their last spasmodic — despairing — weakening 
embrace ! He would hold them ! His clasp 
would defy all the powers of Earth and Air ! 
No, they should not go — they should not. Oh ! 
this cursed hand, with its nerves of steel. It 
would conquer yet, conquer and compress him 
down into an atom of impotence — There ! it had 
wrenched them from him; they were gone — 
 
gone — forever. But no, they were there beside 
him; their moans for help filled the space about 
him; yes, moans — they were cries no longer — 
and they were growing fainter — they were 
fading — sinking — dying — and he was shrink- 
ing 
X. 
Harold opened his eyes. The night had 
gone; the sun was struggling through the heavy 
curtains; the lamps and the fire had gone out, 
and the room was cold. He was faint and 
exhausted. His forehead was damp with horror, and 
his hands were shaking. That terrible struggle 
in which intellect and its attainments had been 
wrenched apart, in which -the spirit and its 
memories had been torn asunder ! He closed his 
eyes for a moment in obedience to his exhausted 
vitality. Then he rose slowly to his feet, went 
into his bedroom, and looked into the glass. 
Was it HaroldDartmouth or the dead poet who was 
reflected there ? He went back, picked up the 
locket, and returned to the glass. He looked at 
the picture, then at his own face, and again at 
the picture. They were identical; there was not 
a line or curve or tint of difference. He returned 
