in its precipitate flights and vertiginous descents disclosing
landscapes riotous with flowers, rich with perfume, sentient with
beauty, articulate with love; a voice voluptuous as an organ and
languorous as the consonance of citherns and guitars.
Tristrem, as one led in leash, moved from the table and passed into the
outer room. Miss Raritan was at the piano. Beyond, a group of women sat
hushed and mute; and still the resilient waves of song continued. One by
one the men issued noiselessly from the inner room. And then, soon, the
voice sank and died away like a chorus entering a crypt.
Miss Raritan rose from the piano. As she did so, Weldon, as it becomes a
host, hastened to her. There was a confused hum, a murmur of applause,
and above it rose a discreet and prolonged brava that must have come
from the novelist. Weldon, seemingly, was urging her to sing again. The
women had taken up anew some broken thread of gossip, but the men were
at the piano, insisting too. Presently Miss Raritan resumed her seat,
and the men moved back. Her fingers rippled over the keys like rain. She
stayed them a second, and then, in a voice so low that it seemed hardly
human, and yet so insistent that it would have filled a cathedral and
scaled the dome, she began a ballad that breathed of Provence:
    "O Magali, ma bien aimée,
    Fuyons tous deux sous la ramée
    Au fond du bois silencieux...."
When she had finished, Tristrem started. The earliest notes had sent the
blood pulsing through his veins, thrilling him from finger-tips to the
end of the spine, and then a lethargy enveloped him and he ceased to
hear, and it was not until Miss Raritan stood up again from the piano
that he was conscious that he had not been listening. He had sat near
the entrance to the dining-room, and when the applause began afresh he
passed out into the hall, found his coat and hat, and left the house.
As he walked down Irving Place he fell to wondering who it was that he
had heard complain of being obliged to give up cigarettes, not on
account of parental interference but because of a tournament. Yet, after
all, what matter did it make? Certainly, he told himself, the Weldons
seemed to live very well. Royal must be making money. Mrs.
Weldon--Nanny, as Royal called her--was a nice little thing,
somewhat--h'm, somewhat--well, not quite up to Royal. She looked like
that girl in Munich, the girl that lived over the way, only Mrs. Weldon
was prettier and dressed better, much better. Du hast die schönsten
Augen. Munich wasn't a bad place, but what a hole Innsprück was. There
was that Victoria Cross fellow; whatever became of him? He drank like a
fish; it must have caught him by this time. H'm, he would give me the
address of his shoemaker. I ought to have taken more from that man in
Paris. Odd that the Cenerentola was the last thing I should have heard
there. The buffo was good, so was the contralto. She sings much
better. What a voice! what a voice! Now, which was the more perfect, the
voice or the girl? Let me see, which is the better fulfilled, the odor
of the lily or the lily itself? Tulips I never cared for.... That is it,
then. I wonder, though----
Tristrem had reached the house in Waverley Place. He let himself in with
a latch-key, and went to his room. There he sat a while, companioned
only by his thoughts. Before he fell asleep, his patriotism was riveted.
A land that could produce such a specimen of girlhood outvalued Europe,
Asia, and Africa combined--aye, a thousand times--and topped and
exceeded creation.
III.
Among the effects and symptoms of love, there is an involuntary action
of the mind which, since the days of Stendhal, has been known as
crystallization. When a man becomes interested in a woman, when he
pictures her not as she really is, but as she seems to him--as she ought
to be, in fact--he experiences, first, admiration; second, desire;
third, hope; and, behold, love or its counterfeit is born.
This crystallization affects the individual according to his nature. If
that nature be inexperienced, unworn--in a word, if it be virginal, its
earliest effects are those of a malady. On the other hand, if the nature
on which it operates has received the baptism of fire, its effect is
that of a tonic. To the one it is a fever, to the other a bugle-call. In
the first instance, admiration is pursued by self-depreciation, desire
is pinioned before conventional obstacles, and hope falters beneath a
weight of doubt. In the second, admiration, desire, and hope are fused
into one sentiment, the charm of the chase, the delight of the
prospective quarry. As an example, there is Werther, and there is also
Don Juan.
Now Tristrem Varick had never known a mother, sisters he had none, the
feminine had been absent from his life, but in his nature there was an
untarnishable refinement. During his student-days at Harvard, and
throughout his residence abroad, there had been nothing of that which
the French have agreed to denominate as bonnes fortunes. Such things
may have been in his path, waiting only to be gathered, but, in that
case, certain it is that he had passed them by unheeded. To use the
figurative phrase, he was incapable of stretching his hand to any woman
who had not the power of awakening a lasting affection; and during his
wanderings, and despite, too, the example and easy morals of his
comrades, no such woman having crossed his horizon, he had been innocent
of even the most fugitive liaison. Nevertheless, the morning after the
dinner in Gramercy Park, crystallization had done its work. He awoke
with the surprise and wonder of an inexperienced sensation; he awoke
with the consciousness of being in love, wholly, turbulently, absurdly
in love with a girl to whom he had not addressed a single word.
The general opinion to the contrary notwithstanding, there are, after
all, very few people who know what love really is. And among those that
know, fewer there are that tell. A lexicographer, deservedly forgotten,
has defined it as an exchange of fancies, the contact of two epiderms.
Another, wiser if less epigrammatic, announced it as a something that no
one knew what, coming no one knew whence, and ending no one knew how.
But in whatever fashion it may be described, one thing is certain, it
has been largely over-rated.
In the case of Tristrem Varick it appeared in its most perfect form. The
superlative is used advisedly. Love has a hundred aspects, a thousand
toilets. It may come at first sight, in which event, if it be enduring,
it is, as Balzac has put it, a resultant of that prescience which is
known as second sight. Or, it may come of the gradual fusion of two
natures. It may come of propinquity, of curiosity, of sympathy, of
hatred. It may come of the tremors of adolescence, the mutual attraction
of one sex for the other; and, again, it may come of natural selection,
of the discernment which leads a man through mazes of women to one in
particular, to the woman who to him is the one woman in the world and
manacles him at her feet. If Tristrem Varick had not met Miss Raritan,
it is more than probable that he never would have known the meaning of
the word.
When the first surprise at the discovery waned, delight took its place.
He saw her amber eyes, he recalled as she had crossed the room the
indolent undulation of her hips, he breathed the atmosphere of health
which she exhaled, and in his ears her voice still rang. The Non più
mesta of her song seemed almost a promise, and the O Magali an
invitation. He recalled the movement of her lips, and fell to wondering
what her name might be. At first he fancied that it might be Stella; but
that, for some occult reason which only a lover would understand, he
abandoned for Thyra, a name which pleasured him awhile and which he
repeated aloud until it became sonorous as were it set in titles. But
presently some defect presented itself, it sounded less apt, more suited
to a blue-eyed daughter of a viking than to one so brune as she.
Decidedly, Thyra did not suit her. And yet her name might be something
utterly commonplace, such as Fanny, for instance, or Agnes, or Gertrude.
But that was a possibility which he declined to entertain. When a girl
is baptized, the mother, in choosing the name, should, he told himself,
think of the lover who will one day pronounce it. And what had her
mother chosen? It would be forethought indeed if she had selected Undine
or even Iseult; but what mother was ever clairvoyant enough for that?
He thought this over awhile and was about to give the query up, when
suddenly, without an effort on his part, he was visited by a name that
announced her as the perfume announces the rose, a name that pictured
and painted her, a name that suited her as did her gown of canary, a
name that crowned her beauty and explained the melancholy of her lips.
"It is Madeleine," he said, "it can be nothing else."
And into the syllables he threw the waving inflection of the French.
"It is Madeleine," he continued, "and when I see her I will tell in what
way I divined it."
The possibility that she might be indifferent to such homage did not,
for the moment, occur to him. He was loitering in the enchanted gardens
of the imagination, which have been visited by us all. It was the
