doesn't mean to let the law trip him up. That is the hold we shall have
upon him."
"I believe you there," said Bob. "He has already tried to swindle my
mother, and he is scheming now to get possession of our ranch. It is
partly on that account that I started on this trip down the river."
"Do you carry freight, then?"
"Yes, sir; I carry a thousand bushels of wheat--rather more, in
fact--intending to sell them in St. Louis."
"Couldn't you have sent them?"
"Yes, sir; but by taking the wheat to market myself I shall save the
heavy expense of freight, and commission for selling."
"You seem to be a smart boy," said Robert Granger, eying Bob with
interest.
"I hope you are right," Bob answered, with a laugh.
"My young cousin accompanies you to help, I suppose?"
"He came on board at the last moment, having determined to run away from
Aaron Wolverton."
"I wish you could spare him; I should like to take him home to talk over
family matters with myself and my lawyer, and we would concert some way
of forcing Aaron Wolverton to give up his property. I have some children
of my own, who would be glad to make his acquaintance."
"Would you like to accept Mr. Granger's invitation, Sam?" asked Bob.
"But I am afraid you will need me, Bob."
"No; I have Clip. I think it will be well for you to stay. I will call
on my way back."
So it was arranged that Sam should leave the boat and stay over. Bob
returned to the boat alone.
The next day proved to be an eventful one.
CHAPTER XXIX.
ROCKY CREEK LANDING.
Twenty miles further down the river, at a point called Rocky Creek, two
men of questionable appearance were walking slowly along the bank. One
of them has been already introduced as visiting the boat, and displaying
a great deal of curiosity about the cargo. The other, also, had the look
of one who preferred to live in any other way than by honest industry.
"Suppose the boy doesn't touch here?" said one.
"Our plan would in that case be put out," said his companion; "but I
don't think there is any doubt on that point. Last night he was at
Sheldon, and this would naturally be the next stopping-place."
"He is drawing near the end of his cruise. It won't do to delay much
longer."
"You are right, there."
"I wasn't in favor of delaying so long. We have risked failure."
"Don't worry, Minton. I'm managing this affair. I've got just as much at
stake as you."
"If all comes out right, I shall be satisfied; but I need the money I am
to get for it from old Wolverton."
"That's a trifle. I am playing for a larger stake than that."
"What, then?"
"The paltry fifty dollars divided between two would not have tempted me.
Do you know, Minton, how large and valuable a cargo there is on that old
ferry-boat?"
"No; do you?"
"Not exactly; but I know this much, that there are at least a thousand
bushels of wheat, which will easily fetch, in St. Louis, two thousand
dollars."
"How will that benefit us?"
"You seem to be very dull, Minton. When we have once shut up young
Burton in the place arranged, you and I will take his place, drift down
the river, and dispose of the cargo, if necessary, at a point below the
market price, and retire with a cool thousand apiece."
"You've got a head, Brown!" said Minton, admiringly.
"Have you just found that out?" returned Brown, complacently.
"Do you really think there is a chance of our succeeding?"
"Yes; of course we must be expeditious. Two or three days, now, ought to
carry us to St. Louis. Then, by selling below the market price, we can
command an immediate sale. Then, of course, we will clear out; go to
California, or Europe, or Canada."
"But we must get Wolverton's money."
"If we can without risk. It won't be worth that."
"I don't like the idea of the old man escaping scot-free."
"He won't; you may be sure of that," said Brown, significantly. "He has
placed himself in our power, and we will get a good deal more than fifty
dollars out of him before we get through, or my name isn't Brown."
"What a head you've got!" repeated Minton, with cordial admiration of
the sharper rascal.
"Then there's the other affair, too!" said Brown. "We are safe to make a
good round sum out of that."
"Yes; but how can we look after the other? It won't be safe for us to
remain anywhere in this locality if we sell the cargo."
"Leave that to me, Minton. I will get Joe Springer to negotiate for us."
By this time the reader will have guessed that these two men were those
already referred to as having stopped Wolverton on the night preceding
Bob's departure. The arrangement then made, Brown had improved upon. He
had engaged to remove the boys from the boat, and set it adrift. But it
had occurred to him, after ascertaining the value of the cargo, to sell
it for the joint benefit of his confederate and himself. It was the most
promising job he had undertaken for a long time, and he was sanguine of
ultimate success. He had followed the boat down the river, and had
finally selected Rocky Creek as the point most favorable to the
carrying out of his design.
Meanwhile Bob and Clip were on their way down the river. Sam, as already
described, had left them at Sheldon, and was enjoying himself as the
guest of Captain Granger, as he found his kinsman was called. Bob missed
him, not finding Clip, though improved, as reliable as Sam. But he was
drawing near the end of his voyage and was willing to make the
sacrifice, since it seemed to be so favorable to Sam's prospects. The
information which had been communicated to them touching Aaron
Wolverton's breach of trust did not, on the whole, surprise him, except
by its audacity; for Wolverton had thus far been careful not to place
himself within reach of the law and its penalties. He was delighted to
think Sam had found a new friend and protector, who would compel the
unfaithful guardian to account for his dishonesty.
Clip heartily sympathized with Bob in his feeling upon the subject. He
liked Sam, but disliked Wolverton as much as one of his easy, careless
disposition was capable of doing.
"It seems lonely without Sam," said Bob, while standing at the helm,
with Clip sitting on deck whistling just beside him.
"Dat's so, Massa Bob."
"But I am glad he has found a relation who will help him to get his
money."
"I'd like to see ol' man Wolverton when Sam come back with Massa
Granger."
"Probably you will have a chance to see him. If he hadn't driven Sam
away by his bad treatment he would never have found out how he had been
cheated."
"Dat's so, Massa Bob. I'd like to be in Sam's shoes."
"You'd have to make your feet smaller, then, Clip!"
"Yah! yah!" laughed Clip, who enjoyed a joke at his own expense.
Bob found his work harder now that Sam was not on board to relieve him
of a part of his duty. But they were making good speed, and there seemed
a chance of reaching St. Louis within three days. All was going well,
yet an indefinable anxiety troubled Bob. Why, he could not explain.
"Clip," he said, "I don't know how it is, but I feel as if something
were going to happen."
"What can happen, Massa Bob? De boat is all right."
"True, Clip. I suppose I am foolish, but I can't get rid of the feeling.
Clip, I want you to be very careful to-night. Don't let any mysterious
passenger come on board."
"No, Massa Bob. I won't do dat agin."
"We shall soon be in St. Louis, and then our care and anxiety will be
over."
"Where will we stop to-night?"
"At Rocky Creek."
It was a quarter to five when Bob reached the place where he had decided
to tie up. There was a village of about five hundred inhabitants
situated a little distance from the river-side. A small knot of loungers
was gathered at the landing, and with languid interest surveyed the
river craft and the young crew.
Among them Bob recognized the man who had visited them two or three
