the Garibaldians the result could not have been doubtful, for 
the vigour and energy displayed by the rioters would in 
evitably have attracted any similarly disposed crowd to join 
in a fray, when the weight of a few hundreds more would 
have turned the scale at any point. There was not a French 
soldier in the city at the time, and of the Zouaves and native 
troops a very large part were employed upon the frontier. 
Rome was saved and restored to order by a handful of 
soldiers, who were obliged to act at many points simul 
taneously, and the insignificance of the original movement 
may be determined from this fact. 
It is true that of the two infernal schemes, plotted at 
once to destroy the troops in a body and to strike terror 
into the inhabitants, one failed in part and the other al 
together. If the whole of the gunpowder which Giuseppe 
Monti and Gaetano Tognetti had placed in the mine under 
the Serristori barracks had exploded, instead of only one- 
third of the quantity, a considerable part of the Borgo 
Nuovo would have been destroyed ; and even the disaster 
which actually occurred would have killed many hundreds 
of Zouaves if these had chanced to be indoors at the time. 
But it is impossible to calculate the damage and loss of life 
which would have been recorded had the castle of Sant' 
Angelo and the adjacent fortifications been blown into the 
air. A huge mine had been laid and arranged for firing in 
the vaults of one of the bastions, but the plot was betrayed 
at the very last moment by one of the conspirators. I may 
add that these men, who were tried, and condemned only to 
penal servitude, were liberated in 1870, three years later, 
by the Italian Government, on the ground that they were 
merely political prisoners. The attempt in which they had 
been engaged would, however, even in time of declared war, 
have been regarded as a crime against the law of nations. 
Eome was immediately declared under a state of siege, 
and patrols of troops began to parade the streets, sending 
all stragglers whom they met to their homes, on the admir 
able principle that it is the duty of every man who finds 
himself in a riotous crowd to leave it instantly unless he 
can do something towards restoring order. Persons who 
found themselves in other people's houses, however, had 
some difficulty in at once returning to their own, and as it 
has been seen that the disturbance began precisely at the 
time selected by society for holding its confabulations, there 
were many who found themselves in that awkward situation. 
As the sounds in the street subsided, the excitement in 
the drawing-room at the Palazzo Saracinesca diminished like 
wise. Several of those present announced their intention of 
departing at once, but to this the old prince made serious 
objections. The city was not safe, he said. Carriages 
might be stopped at any moment, and even if that did not 
occur, all sorts of accidents might arise from the horses 
shying at the noises, or running over people in the crowds. 
He had his own views, and as he was in his own house it 
was not easy to dispute them. 
' The gates are shut,' he said, with a cheerful laugh, ' and 
none of you can get out at present. As it is nearly dinner 
time you must all dine with me. It will not be a banquet, 
but I can give you something to eat. I hope nobody is gone 
already.' 
Every one, at these words, looked at everybody else, as 
though to see whether any one were missing. 
' I saw Monsieur Gouache go out,' said Flavia Monte- 
varchi 
' Poor fellow ! ' exclaimed the princess, her mother. ' I 
hope nothing will happen to him ! ' She paused a moment 
and looked anxiously round the room. ' Good Heavens ! ' 
she cried suddenly, ' where is Faustina ? ' 
' She must have gone out of the room with my wife,' said 
Sant' Ilario, quietly. ' I will go and see.' 
The princess thought this explanation perfectly natural 
and waited till he should return. He did not come back 
however, so soon as might have been expected. He found 
his wife just leaving the nursery. Her first impulse had 
been to go to the child, and having satisfied herself that he 
had not been carried off" by a band of Garibaldians but was 
sound asleep in his cradle, she was about to rejoin her 
' Where is Faustina Monte varchi ? ' asked Giovanni, as 
though it were the most natural question in the world. 
' Faustina ? ' repeated Corona. ' In the drawing-room, 
to be sure. I have not seen her.' 
' She is not there,' said Sant' Ilario, in a more anxious 
tone. 'I thought she had come here with you.' 
' She must be with the rest. You have overlooked her 
in the crowd. Come back with me and see your son he 
does not seem to mind revolution in the least ! ' 
Giovanni, who had no real doubt but that Faustina was 
in the house, entered the nursery with his wife, and they 
stood together by the child's cradle. 
' Is he not beautiful ? ' exclaimed Corona, passing her arm 
affectionately through her husband's, and leaning her cheek 
on his shoulder. 
' He is a fine baby,' replied Giovanni, his voice expressing 
more satisfaction than his words. ' He will look like my 
father when he grows up.' 
' I would rather he should look like you,' said Corona. 
' If he could look like you, dear, there would be some 
use in wishing.' 
Then they both gazed for some seconds at the swarthy 
little boy, who lay on his pillows, his arms thrown back above 
his head and his two little fists tightly clenched. The rich 
blood softly coloured the child's dark cheeks, and the black 
lashes, already long, like his mother's, gave a singularly 
expressive look to the small face. 
Giovanni tenderly kissed his wife and then they softly 
left the room. As soon as they were outside Sant' Hario's 
thoughts returned to Faustina. 
' She was certainly not in the drawing-room,' he said, ' I 
am quite sure. It was her mother who asked for her and 
everybody heard the question. I dare not go back without 
her.' 
They stopped together in the corridor, looking at each 
other with grave faces. 
' This is very serious,' said Corona. ' We must search 
the house. Send the men. I will tell the women. We 
will meet at the head of the stairs.' 
Five minutes later, Giovanni returned in pursuit of his wife. 
'She has left the house,' he said, breathlessly. 'The 
porter saw her go out.' 
' Good Heavens ! Why did he not stop her ? ' cried 
Corona. 
' Because he is a fool ! ' answered Sant' Ilario, very pale 
in his anxiety. ' She must have lost her head and gone 
home. I will tell her mother.' 
When it was known in the drawing-room that Donna 
Faustina Montevarchi had left the palace alone and on foot 
every one was horrorstruck. The princess turned as white as 
death, though she was usually very red in the face. She 
was a brave woman, however, and did not waste words. 
' I must go home at once,' said she. ' Please order my 
carriage and have the gates opened.' 
Giovanni obeyed silently, and a few minutes later the 
princess was descending the stairs, accompanied by Flavia, 
who was silent, a phenomenon seldom to be recorded in con 
nection with that vivacious young lady. Giovanni went 
also, and his cousin, San Giacinto. 
' If you will permit me, princess, I will go with you,' said 
the latter as they all reached the carriage. ' I may be of 
some use.' 
Just as they rolled out of the deep archway, the ex 
plosion of the barracks rent the air, the tremendous crash 
