as you do. Therefore if there is to be any comfort 
for either of us we had both much better just go 
on as we are." She did not however on this 
occasion, meet her sister with this syllogism, 
because there happened to be a certain fascination 
in the way Delia set forth the great truth that the 
star of matrimony, for the American girl, was now 
shining in the east in England and France and 
Italy. They had only to look round anywhere to 
see it : what did they hear of every day in the 
week but of the engagement of one of their own 
compeers to some count or some lord ? Delia 
insisted on the fact that it was in that vast, vague 
section of the globe to which she never alluded 
save as " over here " that the American girl was 
now called upon to play, under providence, her 
part. When Francie remarked that Mr. Probert 
was not a count nor a lord her sister rejoined that 
she didn 't care whether he was or not. To this 
Francie replied that she herself didn 't care but 
that Delia ought to, to be consistent. 
" Well, he s a prince compared with Mr. Flack," 
Delia declared. 
" He hasn 't the same ability ; not half." 
" He has the ability to have three sisters 
who are just the sort of people I want you to 
know." 
" What good will they do me ? " Francie asked. 
" They 'll hate me. Before they could turn round 
I should do something in perfect innocence 
that they would think monstrous." 
"Well, what would that matter if he liked 
you ? " 
" Oh, but he wouldn t, then ! He would hate 
me too." 
" Then all you've  got to do is not to do it," 
Delia said. 
" Oh, but I should every time," her sister 
went on. 
Delia looked at her a moment. " What are 
you talking about ? " 
" Yes, what am I ? It s disgusting ! " And 
Francie sprang up. 
" I'm sorry you have such thoughts," said Delia, 
sententiously. 
"It s disgusting to talk about a gentleman 
and his sisters aiid his society and everything 
else before he has scarcely looked at you." 
"It s disgusting if he isn 't just dying; but it 
isn 't if he is." 
" Well, I 'll make him skip ! " Francie went on. 
" Oh, you're worse than father ! " her sister 
cried, giving her a push as they went to bed. 
They reached Saint-Germain with their com 
panions nearly an hour before the time that had been 
fixed for dinner ; the purpose of this being to enable 
them to enjoy with what remained of daylight 
a stroll on the celebrated terrace and a study of 
the magnificent view. The evening was splendid 
and the atmosphere favourable to this entertain 
ment; the grass was vivid on the broad walk 
beside the parapet, the park and forest were fresh 
and leafy and the prettiest golden light hung over 
the curving Seine and the far-spreading city. The 
hill which forms the terrace stretched down among 
the vineyards, with the poles delicate yet in their 
bareness, to the river, and the prospect was 
spotted here and there with the red legs of the 
little sauntering soldiers of the garrison. How it 
came, after Delia s warning in regard to her 
carrying on (especially as she had not failed to feel 
the force of her sister s wisdom), Francie could not 
have told herself: certain it is that before ten 
minutes had elapsed she perceived, first, that the 
evening would not pass without Mr. Flack s taking 
in some way, and for a certain time, peculiar 
possession of her ; and then that he was already 
doing so, that he had drawn her away from the 
others, who were stopping behind them to exclaim 
upon the view, that he made her walk faster, and 
that he ended by interposing such a distance that 
she was practically alone with him. This was 
what he wanted, but it was not all ; she felt that 
he wanted a great many other things. The large 
perspective of the terrace stretched away before 
them (Mr. Probert had said it was in the grand 
style), and he was determined to make her walk 
to the end. She felt sorry for his determinations ; 
they were an idle exercise of a force intrinsically 
fine, and she wanted to protest, to let him know 
that it was really a waste of his great cleverness 
to count upon her. She was not to be counted on ; 
she was a vague, soft, negative being who had 
never decided anything and never would, who had 
not even the merit of coquetry and who only 
asked to be let alone. She made him stop at last, 
telling him, while she leaned against the parapet, 
that he walked too fast ; and she looked back at 
their companions, whom she expected to see, under 
pressure from Delia, following at the highest speed. 
But they were not following; they still stood there, 
only looking, attentively enough, at the absent 
members of the party. Delia would wave her 
parasol, beckon her back, seod Mr. Waterlow to 
bring her ; Francie looked from one moment to 
another for some such manifestation as that. But 
no manifestation came ; none at least but the odd 
spectacle, presently, of the group turning round 
and, evidently under Delia s direction, retracing its 
steps. Francie guessed in a moment whatwas meant 
by that : it was the most definite signal her sister 
could have given. It made her feel that Delia 
counted on her, but to such a different end, just as 
poor Mr. Flack did, just as Delia wished to per 
suade her that Mr. Probert did. The girl gave a 
sigh, looking up at her companion with troubled 
eyes, at the idea, of being made the object of con 
verging policies. Such a thankless, bored, evasive 
little object as she felt herself ! What Delia had 
said in turning away was " Yes, I am watching 
you, and I depend upon you to finish him up. 
Stay there with him go off with him (I 'll give 
you half an hour if necessary), only settle him 
once for all. It is very kind of me to give you 
this chance ; and in return for it I expect you 
to be able to tell me this evening that he has got 
his answer. Shut him up ! " 
Francie did not in the least dislike Mr. Flack. 
Interested as I am in presenting her favourably to 
the reader I am yet obliged as a veracious his 
torian to admit that he seemed to her decidedly a 
brilliant being. In many a girl the sort of appre 
ciation she had of him might easily have been 
converted by peremptory treatment from outside 
into something more exalted. I do not misrepre 
sent the perversity of women in saying that our 
young lady might at this moment have replied to 
her sister with : " No, I was not in love with him, 
but somehow since you are so very prohibitive I 
foresee that I shall be if he asks me." It is doubt 
