green sea, and the sun smiled as if he said,--
"Here’s the sort of thing I like to see.  Why don’t I find more of it?"
Lizzie’s face looked like a daisy, it was so full of light as she stood
looking up, with the wide brim of her new hat like the white petals all
round it.  She did not run nor shout, but went slowly wading through the
grass, feeling the flowers touch her hands, yet picking none, for it was
happiness enough to know that they were there.  Presently she sat down
and let them tap her cheeks and rustle about her ears as though telling
secrets that made her smile. Then, as if weary with so much happiness,
she lay back and let the daisies hide her with their pretty coverlet.
Miss Grace was watching over her, but left her alone, and by and by,
like a lark from its nest in the grass, the blind girl sent up her
little voice, singing so sweetly that the children gathered around to
hear, while they made chains and tied up their nosegays.
This was Lizzie’s first concert, and no little prima donna was ever more
pelted with flowers than she; for when she had sung all her songs, new
and old, a daisy crown was put upon her head, a tall flower for a
sceptre in her hand, and all the boys and girls danced around her as if
she had been Queen of the May.
A little feast came out of the baskets, that they might be empty for the
harvest to be carried home, and while they ate, stories were told and
shouts of laughter filled the air, for all were as merry as if there was
no darkness, pain, or want in the world.  Then they had games; and
Lizzie was taught to play,--for till now she never knew what a good romp
meant.  Her cheeks grew rosy, her sad little face waked up, she ran and
tumbled with the rest, and actually screamed, to Minna’s great delight.
Two or three of the children could see a little, and these were very
helpful in taking care of the little ones.  Miss Grace found them
playing some game with Lizzie, and observed that all but she were
blindfolded.  When she asked why, one whispered, "We thought we should
play fairer if we were all alike."  And another added, "It seems somehow
as if we were proud if we see better than the rest."
Lizzie was much touched by this sweet spirit, and a little later showed
that she had already learned one lesson in the school, when she gathered
about her some who had never seen, and told them what she could remember
of green fields and daisy-balls before the light went out forever.
"Surely my little lark was worth saving, if only for this one happy
day," thought Miss Grace, as she watched the awakened look in the blind
faces, all leaning toward the speaker, whose childish story pleased them
well.
In all her long and useful life, Lizzie never forgot that Daisy Day, for
it seemed as if she were born anew, and like a butterfly had left the
dark chrysalis all behind her then.  It was the first page of the
beautiful book just opening before the eyes of her little mind,--a
lovely page, illustrated with flowers, kind faces, sunshine, and happy
hopes.  The new life was so full, so free, she soon fell into her place
and enjoyed it all.  People worked there so heartily, so helpfully, it
was no wonder things went as if by magic, and the poor little creatures
who came in so afflicted went out in some years independent people,
ready to help themselves and often to benefit others.
There is no need to tell all Lizzie learned and enjoyed that summer, nor
how proud her mother was when she heard her read in the curious books,
making eyes of the little fingers that felt their way along so fast;
when she saw the neat stitches she set, the pretty clay things she
modelled, the tidy way she washed dishes, swept, and dusted, and helped
keep her room in order. But the poor woman’s heart was too full for
words when she heard the child sing,--not as before, in the dreary room,
sad, soft lullabies to Billy, but beautiful, gay songs, with flutes and
violins to lift and carry the little voice along on waves of music.
Lizzie really had a great gift; but she was never happier than when they
all sang together, or when she sat quietly listening to the band as they
practised for the autumn concert.  She was to have a part in it; and the
thought that she could help to earn money for the Kindergarten made the
shy child bold and glad to do her part.  Many people knew her now, for
she was very pretty, with the healthful roses in her cheeks, curly
yellow hair, and great blue eyes that seemed to see.  Her mates and
teachers were proud of her, for though she was not as quick as some of
the pupils, her sweet temper, grateful heart, and friendly little ways
made her very dear to all, aside from the musical talent she possessed.
Every one was busy over the fair and the concert; and fingers flew,
tongues chattered, feet trotted, and hearts beat fast with hope and fear
as the time drew near, for all were eager to secure a home for the poor
children still waiting in darkness.  It was a charity which appealed to
all hearts when it was known; but in this busy world of ours, people
have so many cares of their own that they are apt to forget the wants of
others unless something brings these needs very clearly before their
eyes.  Much money was needed, and many ways had been tried to add to the
growing fund, that all might be well done.
"We wish to interest children in this charity for children, so that they
may gladly give a part of their abundance to these poor little souls who
have nothing.  I think Lizzie will sing some of the pennies out of their
pockets, which would otherwise go for bonbons.  Let us try; so make her
neat and pretty, and we ’ll have a special song for her."
Mr. Constantine said this; and Miss Grace carried out his wish so well
that when the time came, the little prima donna did her part better even
than they had hoped.
The sun shone splendidly on the opening day of the fair, and cars and
carriages came rolling out from the city, full of friendly people with
plump purses and the sympathetic interest we all take in such things
when we take time to see, admire, and reproach ourselves that we do so
little for them.
There were many children; and when they had bought the pretty handiwork
of the blind needle-women, eaten cake and ices, wondered at the strange
maps and books, twirled the big globe in the hall, and tried to
understand how so many blind people could be so busy and so happy, they
all were seated at last to hear the music, full of expectation, for "the
pretty little girl was going to sing."
It was a charming concert, and every one enjoyed it, though many eyes
grew dim as they wandered from the tall youths blowing the horns so
sweetly to the small ones chirping away like so many sparrows, for the
blind faces made the sight pathetic, and such music touched the hearts
as no other music can.
"Now she’s coming!" whispered the eager children, as a little girl
climbed up the steps and stood before them, waiting to begin.
A slender little creature in a blue gown, with sunshine falling on her
pretty hair, a pleading look in the soft eyes that had no sign of
blindness but their steadfastness, and a smile on the lips that trembled
at first, for Lizzie’s heart beat fast, and only the thought, "I ’m
helping the poor little ones," gave her courage for her task.
But when the flutes and violins began to play like a whispering wind,
she forgot the crowd before her, and lifting up her face, sang in clear
sweet tones.
    THE BLIND LARK’S SONG.
    We are sitting in the shadow
      Of a long and lonely night,
    Waiting till some gentle angel
      Comes to lead us to the light;
    For we know there is a magic
      That can give eyes to the blind.
    Oh, well-filled hands, be generous!
      Oh, pitying hearts, be kind!
    Help stumbling feet that wander
      To find the upward way;
    Teach hands that now lie idle
      The joys of work and play.
    Let pity, love, and patience
      Our tender teachers be,
    That though the eyes be blinded,
      The little souls may see.
    Your world is large and beautiful,
      Our prison dim and small;
    We stand and wait, imploring,
      "Is there not room for all?
    Give us our children’s garden,
      Where we may safely bloom,
    Forgetting in God’s sunshine
      Our lot of grief and gloom."
    A little voice comes singing;
      Oh, listen to its song!
    A little child is pleading
