forest. To-morrow he would leave Greifenstein and go to his lawyer 
 
iu the city. Half of his fortune should be Hilda's, and she should 
restore Sigmundskron and marry whomsoever she would. Then 
he would be free, and he would go away with Rex to some distant 
country, not to return for half a lifetime, if he ever returned at 
all. 
The plan was simple, comprehensive and satisfactory. Nothing 
remained but to put it into immediate execution. He had given 
the necessary orders on the previous night and, as soon as Frau von 
Sigmundskron was ready, they would start upon their drive. He 
finished dressing and went in search of Rex. The latter looked 
even more pale and disturbed than Greif himself, though with 
characteristic determination he was attempting to eat his breakfast. 
' I am going to Sigmundskron,' said Greif entering the room. 
' Will you wait for me here ? To-morrow we will go away, or to- 
night, if you like.' 
' I will wait willingly. Where should I go ? ' Rex rose, pushing 
the silver salver away from him. 
' Very good. I shall be back at dusk. Good-bye.' Greif held 
out his hand in evident anxiety to get away, for he did not want 
to hear any more of his cousin's plausible reasoning, and dreaded 
lest Rex should broach the subject of his errand. But the latter 
detained him in spite of himself. 
' Do nothing rash or hasty, Greif,' he said earnestly. c A life's 
happiness is easily thrown away, and hardly found again when you 
have parted with it and more than half of life's happiness is the 
love of woman. Good-bye.' 
Greif made his escape as quickly as he could, but Rex had 
found time and words to touch the strongest cord in his heart. 
As he descended the stairs he felt again something of the influence 
that had visited him in the night, and he wished that he had not 
gone to Rex's room before leaving the house. 
The sight of Frau von Sigmundskron, wrapped in her dark mantle 
for the journey, recalled him to himself. Her kind eyes looked at 
him almost lovingly from beneath the hood that covered her white 
hair, as he bent and kissed her hand. Neither spoke as they gained 
the court and got into the carriage, but while Greif was wrapping 
her in the heavy furs and arranging a cushion behind her, he felt 
that she meant to do all she could to dissuade him from his intention 
on the way, and he knew that the real struggle was yet to come. 
Then Rex appeared again, bareheaded, to bid farewell to the 
baroness and to say a few words of heartfelt thanks. He alone 
knew how much both he and Greif owed to her discretion ; far more 
than she dreamed of, as she answered him and gave him her hand. 
 
The horses plunged forward, their hoofs clashing noisily upon 
the pavement of the court ; out of the bright light the carriage 
disappeared into the darkness of the gateway and as quickly rolled 
out again upon the dazzling snow beyond. After that there would 
be snow and trees and rocks, and rocks and trees and snow, until 
the grey towers of Sigmundskron loomed up above the tops of the firs. 
Greif leaned back in silence, as they spun over the white road. 
Every moment now was a moment gained, provided that nothing 
were said to weaken his"prarpose. He braced himself in his seat, 
with his feet and his back, as though he expected the carriage to 
upset, and closed his lips tightly as if to meet a physical accident. 
Frau von Sigmundskron glanced at him once or twice and 
noticed his expression, and his resolution to look straight before 
him. Had she possessed Rex's penetration, she would have 
guessed what was passing in his mind. As it was, she vaguely 
suspected that he had not altogether given up his plan, and the 
thought made her uneasy. She could see the clearly cut out- 
line of his handsome face without turning her head. He had put 
on a fur coat, and she thought that fur was singularly becoming 
to fair men who had good complexions a frivolous observation, 
apparently, but in reality not so worthless as it appeared. She 
was thinking of the impression Greif would make upon Hilda, and 
wondering whether the girl would find him greatly changed or 
not. She was woman enough to suppose that much would depend 
upon the first moments of the meeting which was about to take 
place, and upon the look Greif should first see in Hilda's eyes. 
If he found her sad, pale, ready to pity him, his nature would 
be hardened, partly because he hated to be pitied by any one, 
partly because that same irritation would help him to execute his 
purpose. But if, on the contrary, Hilda met him with an ill- 
concealed joy, if there were light in her bright eyes and colour in 
her cheeks, if her voice spoke sympathy in his sorrows while her 
face told him of her gladness in the meeting, then things might 
turn out very differently. After all, thought Frau von Sigmund- 
skron, Greif was only a man, and could not be expected to act 
altogether wisely unless a woman helped him. 
She had certainly not always held such beliefs, but in latter 
years they had grown upon her. Sigmundskron was a women's 
establishment and naturally independent. The baroness had grown 
to think that, after all, women, when thrown entirely upon their 
own resources, can manage better than men. She was sure that 
no three men could have lived so decently and fairly well upon as 
little as sufficed for herself, Hilda and Berbel. It is true that the 
 
distance from such daily forethought and hourly prudence as she 
needed in her life, to such wisdom as Rex, for instance, possessed 
so abundantly, was considerable ; but the baroness looked upon 
that as an insignificant argument, if indeed it presented itself to 
her mind at all. She thought little of Greif's determination to 
persist, if only Hilda could seem more glad to see him, than 
sympathising in his misfortunes. With a woman's wholesale faith 
in woman, she believed utterly in the power of one of Hilda's 
glances to keep Greif at Sigmundskron for ever. Especially good 
women believe in all other women, more than those who are 
neither notably good nor notably bad. A man's faith in his fellows 
bears little or no relation to his own moral character, the best men 
being often the most distrustful, and not always the most agree- 
able companions. But the better a woman is, the more she 
believes all other women to be both good and wise, a phenomenon 
not hitherto explained, though very frequently observed. The 
baroness held views of this sort concerning Hilda and old Berbel. 
It was characteristic of her that, as soon as her generosity had got the 
better of her hesitation in regard to the marriage, she began to consider 
Greif in the light of a well-beloved adversary, whom the feminine 
powers of Sigmundskron must vanquish for his own good. It was 
characteristic, too, that in all her uncertainty she had never con- 
sidered for a moment the great worldly advantages to be gained 
or lost. 
'We might have sent word that we were coming,' she said, 
when they had driven more than a mile without speaking. ' Hilda 
would have come to meet us on the road.' 
' It is better so,' answered Greif mournfully. 
' I do not see why it would have given the child such pleasure,' 
remarked his companion, glancing at his face to see whether his 
expression would change or not. 
' Would it, do you think ? ' asked Greif in an indifferent tone, 
though a very slight colour rose in his pale face. 
'Indeed it would. It is wrong in you to doubt it. Poor 
Hilda ! She has not too many pleasures of any sort, and meeting 
you is one of the greatest.' 
The blush in Greif s cheek deepened. Again he set his feet 
firmly before him and braced himself in his seat as though to 
resist a shock. He hated himself for betraying his feeling in his 
face, and wished it were night. The baroness continued to speak 
in gentle tones, determined to obtain an answer from him, and if 
possible to make him engage in argument, for she believed that if 
he argued he was lost. 
 
' Yes,' she said. 'It is a lonely life she leads up there. I am 
too old to be a real companion, and there is only old Berbel besides. 
It is pathetic to see her begin to count the days as soon as you 
are gone, and to watch her face as it gradually turns less grave 
when more than half the score is marked away.' 
' Does she do that ? ' asked Greif, conscious that he was growing 
