told us that their laws expressly forbade them to teach Christians
their language. We never, however, received permission to take walks
again, but in order that we might enjoy the fresh air, the governor
ordered the doors of our dwelling to be left open from morning until
evening.
In this manner, with all our wants gratified, but with time hanging
heavy on our hands, we lived until the sixth of September. On that day
we were again conducted to the castle, and received the joyful
intelligence that the Diana was again at Kumachir, and treating with
the Japanese government for our liberation. Our joy, however, was of
short duration, for we received information in a letter from the
commander of the vessel, that in order to satisfy the Japanese, he was
obliged to return to Russia to procure from the government the
required avowal, that the acts of violence perpetrated in Japanese
territory, was done without their knowledge or consent. We were,
therefore, obliged to remain for another year, but during that time we
were treated with the greatest consideration.
In September following, word was brought to us that a Russian vessel
had again arrived in the Japanese waters, and a few days afterwards we
were informed that the negotiations had been successfully terminated,
and that we would soon begin our journey to Khakodade. From this time
forward, we were most hospitably entertained. Several officers, with
their children, visited us, and heartily wished us joy at our
liberation. The mayor of the town, also came to see us, and presented
us with a beautifully lacquered casket, filled with confectionary, as
a token of remembrance. On the following morning, amid the rejoicing
of the inhabitants, we left Matsmai, and after a journey of three
days, reached Khakodade, where the Diana soon afterwards arrived,
accompanied by a multitude of Japanese boats, tastefully ornamented.
On the morning of the fifth of October, an officer, in the most
respectful manner, presented me with my hat and sword, which, during
our imprisonment, had been carefully preserved. I was, however,
obliged to dress myself as the Japanese wished, namely, in a jacket,
and wide breeches of costly silk, which had been made expressly for
the occasion. The hat and sword must have made this dress appear
strange enough in the eyes of Europeans, but as it was all the same to
the Japanese, and since they had returned our arms, they had ceased to
regard us as prisoners. I willingly complied with their wishes, and
determined to present myself before my countrymen, in a costume in
which they would have some difficulty in recognizing me.
As every thing was ready for our departure, we went down to the shore,
accompanied by the governor and all the officers. Here we found a
magnificently decorated barge waiting for us, in which we embarked,
after having taken leave of a crowd of people, who wished us a
pleasant journey. A multitude of boats, laden with every thing
belonging to us, and numerous presents besides, shot from the shore,
and accompanied us to the vessel.
On board the Diana, the officers and men received us with a joy which
only brothers or bosom friends feel under such circumstances. As for
ourselves, when after an imprisonment of two years, two months, and
twenty-six days, we again found ourselves on board an imperial vessel
of war, and surrounded by our countrymen, we felt what can only be
felt, and not described. On the tenth of October we weighed anchor,
and with a favorable wind left the land of our sufferings, whose
inhabitants, nevertheless, we had learned to esteem and love.
So ends the narrative of Golownin. He resumed the command of his
vessel, sailed for Kamtschatka, and from there went to St. Petersburg,
where he and his rescued companions were richly rewarded by the
Emperor.
A Sea-Fight on the Cuban Coast.
By the orders of the British government, I cruised for a season in the
Cuban waters, for the express purpose of aiding in the suppression of
the slave trade, which, in spite of all treaties and efforts to put an
end to it, was still carried on with the most unblushing boldness. I
had under my command a small, but well-armed schooner, with a crew of
picked men, and sailed for my destination with the most positive
orders to sink or capture all suspected vessels. We cruised about for
some time without making any prizes, and the weary and monotonous life
I led, became almost unbearable to me, driving me from the cabin to
the deck, and from the deck to the cabin, seeking in vain for some
relief from the ennui I suffered.
One very dark evening, it might have been about eight o'clock, I went
on deck depressed in spirits, and completely out of sorts. Here I
found Timothy Tailtackle, who had the watch, gazing into the
surrounding darkness so intently that he did not perceive me until I
was standing close to him.
"Any thing in sight, Master Tailtackle?" asked I, eagerly.
"Not exactly, sir, but I have just been begging for your glass. See
there! once, twice; but it is as dark as pitch Pray, sir, tell me how
far are we from the Hole in the Wall?"
The Hole in the Wall is a very remarkable rock forming the southern
promontory of the island of Abaco, one of the Bahamas. As its name
signifies, it resembles, either, from the action of the waves, or from
the cannonadings it has received, a perforated wall. It rises some
forty feet above the surface of the water.
"We are ten miles distant, at least," said I.
"Then," cried Tailtackle, in a sharp tone, "there must be a sail to
windward, and not far off either."
"Where?" asked I, eagerly; "quick, get my glass."
"Here it is, sir."
"Let me see, then."
I looked through the glass until my eyes ached, but as I could
perceive nothing, I resumed my walk on deck, satisfied in my own mind
that Timothy had been mistaken. The latter, however, continued to look
through the glass, and when I approached him, a few minutes
afterwards, said:
"Well, sir, now that it brightens a little, I see what it is that has
been puzzling me."
"The deuce you do! give me the glass." In a moment I saw it also.
"By Jove, Tailtackle, you're right. Send the men to their posts, get
the long guns ready, and clear the deck for action."
These orders of mine quickly changed our hitherto quiet vessel into a
scene of bustle and confusion. I kept my eyes steadily fixed on the
object which had attracted the watchful gaze of Timothy Tailtackle,
but all that I could make out was that it was a strange sail. On
account of the distance, and unusual darkness of the night, I could
distinguish neither its size nor rig. All this time a fine breeze was
driving us rapidly towards the coast of Cuba.
"Give the glass to the boatswain, Master Tailtackle, and come forward
here."
The long gun was now swung round, and the other pieces run into the
opened ports. They were all double shotted and carefully primed, and
the whole crew, even to a negro we had on board, stood at their posts
ready for action.
"I see her now, sir, plain enough," cried Tailtackle.
"Good! What does she look like?"
"A large brig, sir, hard up against the wind. You can see her now
without the glass."
I looked in the direction indicated by Tailtackle, and sure enough,
there was a dark mass towering above the surface of the water, dim and
black like a spirit from the deep.
"She's a large vessel, sir," said Tailtackle, "there's no doubt of
that; there goes her lower sails, and now they're furling her topsail;
ha! she's crossing our bows; look out, sir, here comes a shot."
"The devil!" ejaculated I. I now saw the vessel plain enough, scudding
before the wind.
"Keep her close to the wind--ease her a little--that's right--now give
that fellow a shot across his bows--we'll find out what he's made of.
Reefpoint," continued I, to one of the midshipmen, "show our signal."
"Aye, aye, sir."
The shot was fired and the lights shown, but still our ghostly friend
remained silent and dark.
"Scarfemwell," said I to the gunner, "go forward to the long gun;
Tailtackle, I've no great liking for that chap, open the magazine."
The stranger had now neared us considerably, and he shortened sail;
but when he found that his endeavors to cross our bows in order to
rake us, were unsuccessful, as we ran with him before the wind,
broadside to broadside, he hastily let go his topsail, as he was now
not more than a cable's length from us. At this moment, Tailtackle, in
his shirt, pantaloons, and shoes, put his head out of the hatchway,
