so-called independent sects have a position they have not in England.
In the total population of 4,324,810, given by the census of 1881,
the Protestants were put down at 2,436,554 and the Roman Catholics at
1,791,982. The larger of the Protestant denominations were, Methodists,
742,981; Presbyterians, 676,165; Church of England, 574,818; Baptists,
296,525. Taking as a specimen of the north-west the province of
Manitoba, census of 1886, we get these statistics of the larger sects:
Presbyterians, 28,406; Church of England, 23,206; Methodists, 18,648;
Roman Catholics, 14,651; Mennonites, 9112; Baptists, 3296; Lutherans,
3131.
Some statistics of general education in the Dominion show the popular
interest in the matter. In 1885 the total number of pupils in the
Dominion, in public and private schools, was 908,193, and the average
attendance was 555,404. The total expenditure of the year, not including
school buildings, was $9,310,745, and the value of school lands,
buildings, and furniture was $25,000,000. Yet in the province of Quebec,
out of the total expenditure of $3,102,410, only $353,077 was granted by
the provincial Legislature. And in Ontario, of the total of $3,904,797,
only $267,084 was granted by the Legislature.
The McGill University at Montreal, Sir William Dawson principal, is
a corporation organized under royal charter, which owes its original
endowment of land and money (valued at $120,000) to James McGill. It
receives small grants from the provincial and Dominion governments, but
mainly depends upon its own funds, which in 1885 stood at $791,000. It
has numerous endowed professorships and endowments for scholarships and
prizes; among them is the Donalda Endowment for the Higher Education of
Women (from Sir Donald A. Smith), by which a special course in separate
classes, by University professors, is maintained in the University
buildings for women. It has faculties of arts, applied sciences, law,
and medicine—the latter with one of the most complete anatomical museums
and one of the best selected libraries on the continent. It has several
colleges affiliated with it for the purpose of conferring
University degrees, a model school, and four theological colleges, a
Congregational, a Presbyterian, an Episcopalian, and a Wesleyan, the
students in which may supplement their own courses in the University.
The professors and students wear the University cap and gown, and
morning prayers are read to a voluntary attendance. The Redpath Museum,
of geology, mineralogy, zoology, and ethnology, has a distinction
among museums not only for the size of the collection, but for splendid
arrangement and classification. The well-selected library numbers about
30,000 volumes. The whole University is a vigorous educational centre,
and its well-planted grounds and fine buildings are an ornament to the
city.
Returning to the French element, its influence is not only felt in the
province of Quebec, but in the Dominion. The laws of the Dominion and
the proceedings are published in French and English; the debates in
the Dominion Parliament are conducted indifferently in both languages,
although it is observed that as the five years of any Parliament go on
English is more and more used by the members, for the French are more
likely to learn English than the English are to learn French. Of course
the Quebec Parliament is even more distinctly French. And the power of
the Roman Catholic Church is pretty much co-extensive with the language.
The system of tithes is legal in provincial law, and tithes can be
collected of all Roman Catholics by law. The Church has also what is
called the fabrique system; that is, a method of raising contributions
from any district for churches, priests’ houses, and conventual
buildings and schools. The tithes and the fabrique assessments make a
heavy burden on the peasants. The traveller down the St. Lawrence sees
how the interests of religion are emphasized in the large churches
raised in the midst of humble villages, and in the great Church
establishments of charity and instruction. It is said that the farmers
attempted to escape the tithe on cereals by changing to the cultivation
of pease, but the Church then decided that pease were cereals. There is
no doubt that the French population are devout, and that they support
the Church in proportion to their devotion, and that much which seems
to the Protestants extortion on the part of the Church is a voluntary
contribution. Still the fact remains that the burden is heavy on land
that is too cold for the highest productiveness. The desire to better
themselves in wages, and perhaps to escape burdens, sends a great many
French to New England. Some of them earn money, and return to settle in
the land that is dear by tradition and a thousand associations. Many do
not return, and I suppose there are over three-quarters of a million
of French Canadians now in New England. They go to better themselves,
exactly as New Englanders leave their homes for more productive farms in
the West. The Church, of course, does not encourage this emigration,
but does encourage the acquisition of lands in Ontario or elsewhere
in Canada. And there has been recently a marked increase of French
in Ontario—so marked that the French representation in the Ontario
Parliament will be increased probably by three members in the next
election. There are many people in Canada who are seriously alarmed at
this increase of the French and of the Roman Catholic power. Others look
upon this fear as idle, and say that immigration is sure to make the
Protestant element overwhelming. It is to be noted also that Ontario
furnishes Protestant emigrants to the United States in large numbers. It
may be that the interchange of ideas caused by the French emigration
to New England will be an important make-weight in favor of annexation.
Individuals, and even French newspapers, are found to advocate it. But
these are at present only surface indications. The political leaders,
the Church, and the mass of the people are fairly content with things as
they are, and with the provincial autonomy, although they resent federal
vetoes, and still make a “cry” of the Riel execution.
The French element in Canada may be considered from other points of
view. The contribution of romance and tradition is not an unimportant
one in any nation. The French in Canada have never broken with their
past, as the French in France have. There is a great charm about
Quebec—its language, its social life, the military remains of the last
century. It is a Protestant writer who speaks of the volume and
wealth of the French Canadian literature as too little known to
English-speaking Canada. And it is true that literary men have not
realized the richness of the French material, nor the work accomplished
by French writers in history, poetry, essays, and romances. Quebec
itself is at a commercial stand-still, but its uniquely beautiful
situation, its history, and the projection of mediævalism into existing
institutions make it one of the most interesting places to the tourist
on the continent. The conspicuous, noble, and commodious Parliament
building is almost the only one of consequence that speaks of the modern
spirit. It was the remark of a high Church dignitary that the object of
the French in Canada was the promotion of religion, and the object
of the English, commerce. We cannot overlook this attitude against
materialism. In the French schools and universities religion is not
divorced from education. And even in the highest education, where modern
science has a large place, what we may call the literary side is very
much emphasized. Indeed, the French students are rather inclined to
rhetoric, and in public life the French are distinguished for the
graces and charm of oratory. It may be true, as charged, that the public
schools of Quebec province, especially in the country, giving special
attention to the interest the Church regards as the highest, do little
to remove the ignorance of the French peasant. It is our belief that
the best Christianity is the most intelligent. Yet there is matter for
consideration with all thoughtful men what sort of society we shall
ultimately have in States where the common schools have neither
religious nor ethical teaching.
Ottawa is a creation of the Federal Government as distinctly as
‘Washington is. The lumber-mills on the Chaudière Falls necessitate a
considerable town here, for this industry assumes gigantic proportions,
but the beauty and attraction of the city are due to the concentration
here of political interest. The situation on the bluffs of the Ottawa
River is commanding, and gives fine opportunity for architectural
display. The group of Government buildings is surpassingly fine. The
Parliament House and the department buildings on three sides of a square
are exceedingly effective in color and in the perfection of Gothic
details, especially in the noble towers. There are few groups of
buildings anywhere so pleasing to the eye, or that appeal more strongly
to one’s sense of dignity and beauty. The library attached to the
Parliament House in the rear, a rotunda in form, has a picturesque
exterior, and the interior is exceedingly beautiful and effective.
The library, though mainly for Parliamentary uses, is rich in Canadian
history, and well up in polite literature. It contains about 90,000
volumes. In the Parliament building, which contains the two fine
legislative Chambers, there are residence apartments for the Speakers
