to enclose all the roots, and I don't believe they 
ever realized they had "moved." Then we drove 
down stakes ; and when the sun shone again, we had 
awnings of cheap unbleached muslin that had been 
given a coat of oil, which we stretched over them, 
and the currants as well. I had used this to cover 
my chickens' coops in a storm, and found it admirable 
protection for young chicks. 
We had on our place one very late peach. Half 
of it was dead the year we came ; but I trimmed it, 
put wood-ashes about the root, and gave it two or 
three baths of hot soda-water. It bore about a 
peck of the most magnificent peaches I ever saw, 
ripening from the first until the middle of October. 
I planted all the pits, but only ten of them germi 
nated. The second year I sold from it a basket of 
peaches for which I obtained two dollars and a half. 
I had learned that very early fruit and the very late 
commanded the best prices. I had budded several 
stray peach-trees, and also planted again. I had 
what might be called a swamp of young peach- 
trees; so Hildreth and I decided that we would 
devote one acre to a peach-farm, with rows of 
 
strawberries set between. There were fifty young 
grapevines Riker had planted out, but they had 
not been well cared for ; and a few fruit-trees of 
various kinds. Two cherries were dying. Some 
of the dwarf-pears looked thrifty. We wanted to 
raise enough fruit to pay the tax on the whole 
place. Later on in the season we would transplant 
the peaches, raspberries, and blackberries. 
We decided to devote one house exclusively to 
roses, and make those a specialty. We had 
received a catalogue from one famous rose-grower, 
and Hildreth had resolved to visit him in prefer 
ence to sending an order by mail. I had numbers 
of roses, and some rarely beautiful, both in slips I 
had raised, and others from roots divided. We 
should take from our place all we could spare 
without impoverishing it, even if we sold. 
The week Hildreth was away, young Benson came 
over. I let him see my poultry account, and im 
parted various bits of experience. To make hens 
lay in winter, to raise chicks of breeds that grew 
rapidly and could be put on the market early, 
and to keep some choice kinds, pure, of course, 
from which one could sell eggs for hatching, seemed 
about the greatest points. As for the rest, good 
diet, cleanliness, and care in season, light and 
warmth, were about all the grand secrets. So far 
I had kept mine free from vermin, had no contagious 
diseases, and very few cases of gapes. When my 
chickens were first hatched out, I put some kerosene 
under the mother's wings, and now and then a sprin 
kling of sulphur around them. While I had them in 
the loft, I took up a sod every day or two, and let 
them peck at the tender roots, and scratch off the dirt. 
I also fed them bits of meat and worms occasionally. 
Walter had given the subject a good deal of study ; 
but he said, 
" Why, how simple you make it all ! It would be 
splendid to have an adviser like you. I wonder if 
you would be willing to counsel me occasionally, 
if I did get into a bad fix ? " 
" Certainly," I returned. " I do not pretend to be 
over-wise, but you are quite welcome to all that 
I have learned by experience." 
Eve gave him the daintiest lunch, and then played 
an hour for him, making him sing a little. He had 
a sweet, but not very strong, voice. 
" I should like to come here because you are not 
going away," he confessed, with a kind of wistful 
frankness. "People seem so nice and cordial at 
Athens. I like Mr. Pryor, and that Mr. Crawford is 
so bright and merry. It almost seems in the air." 
" I think it is," replied Eve. " Athens always was 
a famous place, you know." 
 
Pryor offered to take him up to see his friend Van- 
duyne, and drive him about a little, if he would 
come over again. 
" You and Eve are bound to sell the place," I said. 
They we all, I think settled upon a plan for 
the hotel. It was to be built so that a wing could be 
added any time ; and would contain on the two floors 
above the first story thirty-two nice sleeping-cham 
bers, with good closet-room, baths, and so arranged 
that rooms could be thrown into suites for family pur 
poses. There was a handsome long drawing-room, 
two small reception-rooms, a reading and smoking 
room for gentlemen, besides the dining-rooms, which 
were arranged in three sections, with sliding doors, 
and could thus be converted into one large apart 
ment. The kitchens were below; though the ground 
sloped somewhat toward the rear, which made them 
only a step or two below the ground at the back. 
Mr. Palmer and Mr. Wilbur were to advance the 
money for the building, leaving Pryor the more free 
with what he had, and in no immediate danger of 
foreclosure, since the mortgage was to run five 
years. 
The first of August they broke ground, and began 
the foundation. There was to be a driven well and 
two large cisterns with force-pumps ; as at present 
there were no water-pipes in Athens, although the 
 
matter had been discussed. Our greenhouses had 
been arranged with leaders to catch the rain-water, 
and lead it into tanks ; and an old well had been 
cleared out and put in order, so we were tolerably 
well provided for. f 
Hildreth remained away five days, and came home 
glowing with knowledge and enthusiasm. He had 
invested twenty-five dollars in roses. 
" And such a gorgeous place ! " he declared. " It 
would fill you with envy ! Of course we shall never 
have any thing like that, but I know I should have 
bankrupted myself if there had been any place ready 
to put so much stock. Yet we must not undertake 
more than we can attend to properly, and for the 
present we do not want to hire a regiment of help. 
But I have resolved to finish our other house. I 
have found a better method of heating, considerably 
cheaper than the contract Mr. Riker made." 
This had been something of a bother to us. We had 
given the man notice on our taking possession ; but 
he had come up immediately, and insisted upon doing 
the work at once. When we declined, he threatened 
to sue for breach of contract. This had not alarmed 
Hildreth, however ; but the man had proved curiously 
persistent, and we as much in earnest to get rid of 
him. 
Our cold-frames we went at ourselves. The foun- 
 
dation of one had been so poorly laid that the mortar 
was crumbling out. There was no end of stone and 
rubble ; but I had succeeded so well with my own 
experiment, that I went at it with renewed courage. 
My lime, sand, and such materials, I could get at 
