the Teaser before anything was done. Shove off now, and make things as
lively as you can," said Lonley. "Go to your places in the boats,"
he continued to four men who had assisted in the capture of the two
officers.

By this time Christy had a chance to see that he was a victim of a trick
which was to eventuate in the recapture of the Teaser; and he was sorry
that he was not the only victim, as he looked at Flint. He realized too
that the scheme had been very well planned, though he was really happy
in the belief that it would be a failure in the end. Lonley seemed to
be the leading spirit in the affair, and managed the details. He had
intended that the boats should be sent from the Teaser to a point at
least a mile off.

He had taken it for granted that the steamer would come to pick them
up, or in other words, to capture the forty prisoners. If he was weak
in accepting as the truth Christy's statement that the boats had
been actually sent away, as desired, he could see no reason why the
Yankee officer should try to deceive him. It appeared now that the
privateersmen had two boats, which had been brought across the island
for the purpose. Lonley had naturally wished that only a few men should
be on board, and concluded that it would be an easy matter to capture
the steamer, and then to secure the men in the boats when they returned
from the eastward.

The four men on shore, who had been put in a place where they could
assist Lonley, hastened to the boats, and they shoved off, pulling as
silently as though the oars had been muffled, as probably they had been.
In a moment more they disappeared in the darkness and fog.

"I think I have improved a great deal in the art of persuasion,"
said Lonley, as the boats disappeared. "I suppose I persuaded you
as effectually as you did Captain Folkner."

"You have done very well, Mr. Lonley," replied Christy, in a patronizing
tone, for he was determined that his companion should derive no
satisfaction from seeing him cast down by his misfortune.

"You informed me a little while ago that Captain Folkner was on board
of the Teaser; and I wish to ask if you are uniformly in the habit of
speaking the truth?" continued Lonley.

"Well, that depends upon circumstances. If I have not done so, you
cannot expect me to contradict myself."

"You claimed that you were Captain Gilder."

"Hardly, my excellent friend: when Captain Folkner addressed me by that
name, I did not object to it."

"That was just as much a lie as though you had claimed it in so many
words," protested Lonley.

"I admit it; and I hardly expect a true patriot to tell the truth to
the enemy. If I remember rightly, you told me yourself that your men
had gone to the eastward where they had left their bags. I don't believe
that your conscience reproached you when they showed themselves in the
boats."

At this moment pistol shots were heard on the water.




CHAPTER XXVI

THE ACTION ON THE DECK OF THE TEASER


As the Teaser was but a short distance from the shore, Christy had no
doubt that the attempt to board her had been made by this time. Mr.
Blowitt had quite as many men on board of the steamer as could have been
contained in the two boats, and he was not much concerned about the
result of the attack, especially as he knew that the second lieutenant
was fully prepared and on the lookout for it. The only thing that
Christy regretted was that he was not on board of the Teaser to take
part in the affair of repelling boarders.

"There seems to be some music in the air," said Lonley, after he had
listened for a few moments to the sounds that came from the direction of
the steamer.

"To return to the subject of the morality of telling stories, your men
do not seem to be a mile to the eastward, where their bags were left,"
added Christy good-naturedly.

"You had a glance at them in the boats, though the darkness and fog were
rather too thick for you to count them," replied Lonley, chuckling over
the deception he had practised upon the lieutenant of the Bellevite.

"Yes, I saw them, and I concluded that they could not be where their
bags were."

"All is fair in war."

"That seems to be the generally received maxim, and he is the smartest
man who the most thoroughly deceives the enemy," added Christy, who
found himself tolerably well satisfied with the situation, though he was
a prisoner.

"That is so, and of course I can find no fault with you for deceiving
me," returned Lonley, chuckling as though he was even better satisfied
with the situation than his companion.

"Thank you, Mr. Lonley; you are magnanimous, and with equal sincerity
I can say that I have no fault to find with you," replied the Union
officer. "But I have my doubts whether, after this, either of us will be
likely to believe what the other says. But, for my part, I wish to say
that I don't believe in telling anything but necessary and patriotic
lies."

"That is my view of the matter exactly; and if there is any man that
despises a liar, I am that man," said Lonley warmly. "But it seems to
me they are making a good deal of a racket off there," he added, as the
noise of pistol shots and the clash of cutlasses came over the smooth
waters of the gulf.

"They seem to be at it quite earnestly," replied Christy.

"By the way, how many men did you leave on board of the Teaser?" asked
the privateersman, whose manner seemed to have suddenly become
considerably changed.

"How many men?" repeated the lieutenant of the Bellevite.

"That is the question I asked," replied the lieutenant of the Teaser.

"I suppose you would not believe me if I should tell you," answered
Christy.

"I judge that you can speak the truth if you try," added Lonley, with
more asperity than the occasion seemed to require.

"I know that I could," said Christy, very decidedly; "and I may add that
I was in the habit of doing so on all occasions before this cruel war
began."

"Then suppose you try to do so just now, and tell me how many men your
people had on board of the Teaser."

