hum of insects still sounded, and to his unheeding eyes the stars danced
their saraband. The sea seemed to beckon and the night to wait.
Thus far his life had been precisely like that of any other
well-nurtured lad of twenty-two. He had been educated at Concord, he was
a graduate of Harvard; but during his school and college days the
refinement of his own home had accompanied him afar. He was one of those
young men, more common now than a few years since, who find it awkward
to utter one word that could not be said aloud in a ball-room. And in
this he was guided less perhaps by good breeding--for breeding, like
every varnish, may cloak the coarsest fibre--than by native comeliness
of thought. He shrank from the distasteful as other men shrink from the
base. His parents had had the forethought to provide him with two
sisters, one a year older than himself, one a year his junior; and these
girls, who at the present hour suggest in our metropolitan assemblies
the charm and allurements of a politer age, had taken their brother in
hand. They had taught him what is best left undone, the grace of
self-effacement, and they had given him some breath of the aroma which
they themselves exhaled. To this his parents had added a smile of
singular beauty, and features clear-cut and sure. In short, his people
had done their best for him. And now that he was seeing the world in
that easiest way, which consists in travelling around it, his letter of
credit was not only in his pocket, but in his face and manner as well.
"I must go to-morrow," he continued. And as he tried to map his
departure, the tinkle of a footfall across the hall routed and disturbed
his thoughts. Unsummoned there visited him a melody, heard long since,
the accompaniment of a song of love. With a gesture he forced it back.
Had he not understood--? No; he remembered now there was no boat from
Siak for several days. He might engage a prahu, though, and in it effect
a crossing to Perang; he could even take the train and journey to
another place. Indeed, he reflected, he might readily do that. And as he
told himself this, from across the hall a tinkle fainter than before
reached his ear. He heard a whispering voice, a door closed, and some
one beat upon a gong of wood. It was midnight, he knew.
He threw his coat aside and stared at the stars. They were taciturn
still, yet more communicative than ever before. One in particular, that
shone sheer above the balé-balé, seemed instinct with lessons and
sayings of sooth. And to the precepts it uttered, its companions
acquiesced, and smiled. Everything, even to the immaterial, the surge
of the sea, the trail of the fire-flies, and the glint of a moonbeam,
now aslant at his feet, conspired to coerce his will. The very air was
alive with caresses, redolent with the balm and the odors of bamboo.
Slowly he undid the lachets of a shoe.
"It is wrong," he muttered, and a breeze that loitered answered, "It is
right." "I will go," he continued, and the great stars chorused, "You
will stay."
Meditatively still he continued to disrobe; but in spite of the stars
and the moonbeams the light must have been insufficient, for presently
he lit a candle, monologuing to himself the while. And as he monologued
he was aware of that fettering, overmastering force which visits youth
but once--the abnegation of self before that which is.
In that struggle in which we lay our arguments down and rejoice in
defeat he had wrestled with all the weakness of his years. And now, as
he flung himself on the bed, he clasped a pillow in his arms and sighed.
He hoped for nothing, he expected nothing; but it was bliss to be
conquered and enchained. The contest was done. During the coming week
his captor would move before him, a luring melody, a clear accord
sounded for his own delight, and then he would go, leaving the melody
undisturbed, yet bearing a strain of it to feed on, a memory of enduring
joy.
From without the hum of insects still persisted, and the waves were
noisier than before. His eyes closed, and he smiled. For a moment that
may have outlasted an hour he dreamed of the fabulous days in which
goatherds dared to fall in love with goddesses. And such is the
advantage of a classical education, that he mumbled a line from a Greek
pedant, another from a Roman bore. In the dactyls and the spondees he
caught the rhythm of tinkling feet; and as the measures sank him into
deeper sleep a monstrous beetle shot through the casement and put the
candle out.
The whir of wings disturbed him ever so little. For an instant he was
bending over sandals, caressing a peplum's hem. Then all was blank.
"Tuan! Tuan!"
It was a Malay servant, hailing the foreign lord, admonishing him to
rise.
The room was filled with sunlight, and on a palm tree opposite Tancred
caught a glimpse of a red monkey scratching his knee, chattering and
grimacing at a paroquet.
II.
At tiffin, that noon, the general was absent. It was usually so, his
daughter explained; the duties of the consulate at Siak claimed the
clearer hours of the day, and it was only now and then, on high days and
festivals, that he permitted himself the surcease of a siesta at home.
"He is indefatigable," she added, and shook her peerless head.
During the morning Tancred had explored the grounds; he had idled on the
red-road and lost himself among the invitations of a green ravine. A
grove of tamarinds had called to him, a stretch of aroids had entreated
him that way, the sky had imprisoned him beneath a palm, a brook had
murmured to him, a lake had coaxed him to its cool embrace. And then,
Zut sniffing at his heels, he had returned in time for luncheon at the
bungalow.
In pauses of the stroll he had promised himself that during the
afternoon he would endeavor to find an opportunity in which to say
something of that which was on his mind. This, however, an accident
prevented. Miss Van Lier announced that she and her future step-mother
were obliged to attend the funeral of a neighbor, a function at which of
course it were idle for him to assist. He watched their departure
without a protest, and gave a few more hours to the wonders of the
woods. When the sun went down his forbearance was rewarded. The general
was detained at Siak. Tancred and the ladies dined as they had
lunched--alone.
That evening Mrs. Lyeth seemed even more magnificent than the night
before. And beside her the sultry insouciance of the maiden heightened
the matron's charm. They were sheerly dissimilar, daughters of antipodal
climes and race--the one loquacious and at ease, the other taciturn and
absorbed. But it was in eyes they differed most. Those of the general's
bride-elect were moist as some blue flower plucked at dawn; the dew
seemed still upon them. Those of the general's daughter were sidereal,
not white nor cobalt, but something that combined the two. To a lapidary
they would have suggested gems.
As Tancred's attention wavered between the charm of the one and the
beauty of the other, Mrs. Lyeth had been describing some of the
surprises in which Sumatra abounds; but her speech had been lost to him,
and it was only the rising inflection with which she terminated a phrase
that prompted him to reply.
"In the States, I fancy, you have nothing like it?"
"In the States, no; but in Mexico I believe--"
And Tancred was about to draw on his imagination when a servant offered
him some sweets. He would have let them pass, but this Mrs. Lyeth
prevented.
"You should try one," she said. "Liance"--and at this she glanced at the
girl--"Liance is the inventor; she will be offended if you--"
And, as she again glanced, Liance arched her brows. At the moment it
occurred to Tancred that the relations between Mrs. Lyeth and her
future step-child might be a trifle strained.
With the aid of a silver prong Tancred helped himself to a confection.
It was yellow of hue, and, he presently discovered, agreeable to the
mouth. It had the flavor of honey and of meal, but it was slightly acid,
as though the rind of a lemon had been mixed therewith.
"I will give one to Zut, if I may," he said, and thereat he tossed one,
which the dog caught on the fly and swallowed with the discreetest
blink. And then, with the appreciation of a gourmet, Tancred added:
"It is excellent; may I have another?"
The dish again was passed to him. Before he rose from the table the
majority of the sweets had disappeared. It was evident that both master
and dog had a taste for just such comestibles as these. As he devoured
one and then another, he noticed that Liance was watching him.
"The general was in Mexico some years ago," Mrs. Lyeth added,
inconsequently. "I have heard him speak of the beauty of the women. But
in New York they are more beautiful still, are they not?"
"Yes, they are pretty enough," Tancred answered.
"I hear they propose to the men," Liance interjected.
