and put her arms round her, excitedly--"supposing that he is better than
we think,--supposing that I should go to him and tell him the whole, and
that he should come here and say: 'What difference does that make, Eve?
We will be married to-morrow.'" And she looked up at Eve, her dark
little face flushed for the moment with unselfish hopefulness.
"No," answered Eve, slowly, "he couldn't, he loved Ferdie so!" She
raised her right hand and looked at it. "He would see me holding
it--taking aim--"
Cicely drew away, she struck Eve's hand down with all her force. Then
she ran sobbing to the bed, where Jack, half dressed, had fallen asleep
again, and threw herself down beside him. "Oh, Ferdie! Ferdie!" she
sobbed, in a passion of grief.
Eve did not move.
After a while Cicely dried her eyes and rose; she woke Jack, and
finished dressing him in silence; kneeling down, she began to put on his
shoes.
The child rolled his little wooden horse over her shoulder. Then he
called: "Old Eve! old Eve! Pum here, an' det down; I want to roll de
hortie on you, too."
Eve obeyed; she took up the other little shoe.
"Oh, well," said Cicely, her voice still choked with sobs, "we can't
help it, Eve--as long as we've got him between us; he's a tie. We shall
have to make the best of each other, I suppose."
"May I go with you to Romney?" Eve asked, in a low tone.
"How can you want to go there?" demanded Cicely, her eyes beginning to
flash again.
"I know.--But I don't want to leave Jack and you. If you would take
me--"
They said but a few words more. Yet it was all arranged; they would go
to Romney; Paul was to know nothing of it.
XXX.
Cicely thought of everything, she ordered everything; she and Eve had
changed places. It was decided that they should take a North Shore
steamer; this would carry them eastward to the Sault by a route far away
from Port aux Pins. Mrs. Mile was to be sent back to that flourishing
town on the day of their own departure, but preceding it in time by
several hours; she would carry no tidings because she would know none.
Hollis was to be taken into their confidence in a measure--he was to be
informed that this change of plan was a necessity, and that Paul must
not hear of it.
"He will do what we tell him to do," Cicely remarked.
"Oh, yes," said Eve, assentingly.
The first North Shore steamer would not pass before the morning of the
third day. For twenty-four hours Eve remained inert, she did nothing.
The judge, troubled, but inexpressibly excited at the prospect of never
seeing Port aux Pins again; of getting away from these cold woods, and
in a few days from these horrible great lakes; of soon breathing once
more the air of his dear, warm, low-lying country, with its old
plantations, its old towns, its old houses and old friends, hurried
about wildly, trotting hither and thither on many errands, but without
accomplishing much. On the second day Eve's mood changed, and a feverish
activity took possession of her also; she was up and out at dawn, she
did everything she could think of, she worked incessantly. By noon there
was nothing more left to do, and there still remained the whole half of
the day, and the night.
"I think I'll go out on the lake," she said to Cicely.
"Yes, row hard; tire yourself," Cicely answered.
She spoke coldly, though the advice she offered was good. She was trying
hard to be kind to Eve during these difficult last hours when Paul was
still so near; but though she did her best, she often failed. "You'd
better not come back until nearly dark," she added; "we've got to be
together through the long journey, you know."
"Very well," Eve replied.
It was a brilliant afternoon, the air was clear; already the woods had
an autumn look. Eve paddled eastward for some time; then she came back
and went out to Jupiter Light. Beaching her canoe, she strolled to and
fro for a while; then she sat down. The water came up and laved the reef
with a soft, regular sound, the Light loomed above her; presently a man
came out of the door and locked it behind him.
"Good-afternoon, mum," he said, pausing on his way to his boat. "From
the camp down below, ain't yer?"
"Yes."
"Well, I'm going the other way myself. Want to be light-keeper for an
hour or two?" This jocularly.
It was the man who had come down with a lantern and preceded her and
Paul up the stairs to the little room at the top.
"There's some one else above, isn't there?" she asked.
"No, mum; all three of us off ter-day. But me and John Rail'll be back
afore dark; you won't tell on us, I guess?" He gave a toothless smile
and pushed off, nodding slightly in farewell as the distance between
them increased. He went eastward round the point; his boat was soon out
of sight.
Eve sat gazing at the Light; she recalled the exact tones of Paul's
voice as he said, "Don't you want to go up?" Then they had climbed up,
and down again; and how sweet and strange and exciting it was! Then he
had rowed the canoe home; how delightful it had been to sit there and
feel the boat dart forward under his strong strokes in the
darkness!--for night had come on while they lingered on the reef. Then
she remembered her anger when he said, as he was helping her out, "I saw
how much you wanted to go!" It seemed so strange that she should ever
have been angry with him; she could never be so again, no matter what he
might do. She tried to think of the things he might do; for instance, he
might marry (she had almost said "marry again"). "I ought to wish that
he might find some one--" But she could go no further, that was the end
of that line of thought; she could not wish anything of the kind. She
pressed her hands together in bitter, hot rebellion. But even her
rebellion was without hope. She had been sitting with her feet crossed
before her; she drew up her knees, put her arms upon them, and her head
on her arms. She sat thus a long time.
A voice said, "Eve!"
With a start she raised her head. Paul stood there beside her.
"You did not expect to see me. But I had word. Hollis got one of the men
off secretly as soon as he could; he was ashamed to see me treated so."
"No," said Eve; "he wanted to give me a pleasure." Nothing could have
been more dreary than her tone, more desperate than her eyes, as she
looked at him.
"Oh, why did you come here?" she went on.
"I didn't believe it, Eve; I thought it was all gammon."
"No; it's true."
"That you were going to leave me?--Going off without letting me know?"
"Yes."
"Who has been talking to you? Cicely--now that she is herself again?
She's a murderous little creature."
"I talked to her, I asked her to take me with her."
"What is the matter with you?" said Paul. He bent and took her hands,
and drew her to her feet. "Now I can look at you.--Tell me what you
mean."
"Baby came near being drowned. And it was my fault. That brought me to
my senses."
"It took you out of them!"
"I saw then that I had been thinking only of myself, my own happiness."
"Oh, it would have been some happiness, would it?" said Paul, with a
touch of sarcasm. He took her in his arms.
"Have you the least doubt about my love for you?" Eve asked.
He looked deep into her eyes, so near his own. "No, I haven't." And he
rested his lips on hers.
She did not resist, she returned his kiss. Then she left him. "It's like
death to me, but I must. I shall never marry you." She went towards her
canoe.
Paul gave a laugh. "That's a nice way to talk when I've been slaving
over the house, and got all sorts of suffocating things you'll like." He
came and took her hands off the boat's edge. "Why, Eve," he said, with
sudden passion, "a week from to-day we shall be living there together."
"Never together."
"Why?"
"I can't tell you, because it's against myself.--I haven't the strength
to tell you."
"Because it will make me think less of you? Not so much so as your
trying to slip away from me unawares."
"You think it wouldn't. But it would."
