the anguish of yesterday, is the moan : " Since 
death is a good, and since Virginia is happy, 
I would die, too, and be united to Virginia." 
Science has given us a past. Too long has 
she left it to faith to give us a future. Hu- 
man love cannot be counted out of the forces 
of nature ; and earth-bound human knowledge 
turns to lift its lowered eyes toward the firma- 
ment of immortal life. 
VII. 
THE PSYCHICAL WAVE. 
Truth is terrible. She will have her way. 
One law is as inexorable as another law, and 
the mind that fails, from infatuation with one, 
to keep in relation to another, is brought up 
short, somewhere, by the very constitution of 
things. 
One thinks of this not for the first time 
nor for the last one, but explicitly, in watch- 
ing the course of the current of progress with 
which it is our fortune to be contemporaneous. 
No alert observation would deny that investi- 
gation of psychical phenomena has gone above 
the level of a craze or a fashion. It has 
reached the dignity of an intellectual current. 
All momentum has its equivalent force. What 
is the philosophy working beneath the psy- 
chical wave ? 
When Herbert Spencer wrote the famous 
pages which he entitled " The Rhythm of 
Motion," he gave to the busy world which has 
no time to be scholarly, but which is eager to 
follow the trail of scholarship too great not to 
be comprehensible, a phrase for which we are 
all deep debtors. This term expresses better 
than any of which we have the use, the nature 
of one of the most powerful laws known to the 
universe — the law of vibration. Every cre- 
ated thing oscillates ; this is the amount of 
it. Though we wrought ourselves blind to 
ask the reason, we have not to go beyond the 
timing of our own pulses to learn the fact. 
The petty beat of the pendulum in the kitchen 
clock sways within the majestic diurnal revo- 
lution of the globe. The wave ebbs upon the 
shore ; the tide flows beneath the moon. Your 
telephone message is a shallop set adrift upon 
the ripples of sound. Poetry uses no meta- 
phor when it speaks of the floods of light. 
If a child draw the tip of. a pencil lightly 
across a paper the line will be undulatory. If 
a cannon-ball were uninterrupted by any im- 
peding body, it would return to the spot 
whence it started. A baby's cry rises and 
drops from insistence to subsidence. An 
American storm, spanning the continent from 
Montana to Maine, begins as a " blizzard " 
and ends as a zephyr. A weed growing at 
the bottom of a brook undulates. The use of 
the telescope teaches that every pulsation of 
the heart jars the room. Both lateral and 
vertical oscillations beset the motion of a 
railway train. The songs that muse of " wind- 
ing rivers " sing above the law of conflict be- 
tween the current and the channel. A leaf 
trembles in the wind, and the climate of the 
earth is affected by changes of position " tak- 
ing twenty-one thousand years to complete." 
Sleep visits the blessed once in twenty-four 
hours, and awful periodicities control the jaws 
of earthquakes which swallow cities. An in- 
termittent fever and a variable star obey the 
same authority. Sunrise and sunset, season 
and season, life and decay, are the throbs of 
one mighty circulation poured from an unseen 
Heart. 
These things we are taught as the alphabet 
of modern philosophy. We are told that 
the law leans over, far beyond the scope of 
physics ; that the human mind, like the ulti- 
mate atom, serves the large decree ; and that 
human experience itself is a slave to the eter- 
nal rhythm. We are reminded that grief and 
joy and hope and anguish alternate as much 
as the budding and the fading of a wind- 
flower* We are asked to observe that misery 
has its paroxysms as well as neuralgia ; and 
that mourners smile because they have wept, 
and weep again, since they did smile. We are 
reminded that crime and pestilence pulsate in 
epidemics across the globe. We are called 
upon to record the throbs of the pendulum of 
history, whose swing sweeps from civilization 
to ruin, from the people to the throne, from 
tyranny to riot, from confusion to order, from 
morality to madness, from atheism to bigotry, 
from despair to faith. 
We are asked, in short, to see for ourselves, 
by a review of that close collation of facts 
which the philosophy as well as the science 
of our day delights to honor, that vibration is 
the condition of motion, and that motion is the 
condition of life. 
But we are asked to remember yet another 
thing. The figure of the cone of history is 
almost as old as historical philosophy ; but the 
youngest of our thinkers would fall back upon 
it, who told us to-day that spiral law holds 
over or holds into rhythmic law. A thing or 
a thought works to and fro, but that is not 
all ; it works spirally to and fro. For growth 
or for decline, to the base or to the apex — in 
the phrase of modern thought, to evolution or 
to dissolution — it is in the nature of motion 
to tend. Rhythm is not a simple affair. It 
is a complication. There is rhythm within 
rhythm, motion over against motion ; move- 
ment double, quadruple, complex — if we do 
not say infinite, it is because we are too finite 
to follow the coil. 
The vibration of the violin string seems a 
simple affair of molar disturbance producing 
sound-waves. Who shall say what was the 
rhythm started in the soul of the peasant who 
heard Ole Bull play in a tavern, and, amid the 
hush of his fellows — moved beyond them all 
— brought his hand down thunderously upon 
a table and cried : " This is a lie ! " 
Materialism is not the best word in the 
world to define an aspect of modern thought, 
for which, on the whole, for our purposes, 
there may be no better. It stands, at least in 
the minds of most of us, for something defi- 
nite, in the press of many indefinite views 
as to the nature or the outcome of a conflict 
which is sweeping us all along, soldier and 
civilian, whither we would, or whither we 
would not. The thing which is represented 
in a measure by this word has carried a 
high hand, and had a merry day of it. The 
