the pensive pleasure of lapsing into the melancholy 
of unfulfilled aspirations ; but he did not see that if 
he had abandoned them, it had been for what he 
held dearer; generally he felt as if he had turned 
from them with a high altruistic aim. The practical 
expression of his life was that it was enough to 
provide well for his family ;   to have cultivated 
tastes, and to gratify them to the extent of his 
means ; to be rather distinguished, even in the 
simplification of his desires. He believed, and his 
wife believed, that if the time ever came when he 
really wished to make a sacrifice to the fulfilment of 
the aspirations so long postponed, she would be 
ready to join with lieart and hand. 

When he went to her room from his library, 
where she left him the whole evening with the 
children, he found her before the glass thoughtfully 



 

removing the first dismantling pin from Iicr Lack 
hair. 

" I can't lielp feeling," she grieved into the mirror, 
" that it 's I who keep you from accepting that oiTer. 
I know it is ! I could go West with you, or into a 
new country — anywhere ; but New York terrifies 
me. I don't like New York, I never did ; it dis- 
heartens and distracts me ; I can't find myself in it ; 
I shouldn't know how to shop, I know I 'm foolish 
and naxTOW and provincial, ' she went on ; " but I 
could never have any inner quiet in New Yoik ; I 
couldn't live in the spirit there. I suppose people 
do. It can't be that all those millions " 

"Oh, not so bad as that!" March interposed, 
laughing. " There aren't quite two." 

"I thought there were faur or five. Well, no 
matter. You see what I am, Basil. I 'm terribly 
limited. I couldn't make my sympathies go round 
two million people ; I should be wretched. I sup- 
pose I 'm standing in the way of your highest 
interest, but I can't help it. We took each other 
for better or worse, and you must try to bear with 
me " She broke off and began to cry. 

''Sbjyitl" shouted March. "I tell you I never 
cared anything for Fulkerson's scheme or enter- 
tained it seriously, and I shouldn't, if he 'd pro- 
posed to carry it out in Boston." This was not 
quite true ; but in the retrospect it seemed suffi- 
ciently so for the purposes of argument. "Don't 
say another word about it. The thing 's over now, 
and I don't want to think of it any more. We 



 

couldn't change its nature if we talked all night. 
But I want you to understand that it isn't your 
limitations that are in the way. It 's mine. I 
shouldn't have the courage to take such a place ; 
I don't think I'm fit for it; and that's the long 
and short of it." 

"Oh, you don't know how it hurts me to have you 
say that, Basil." 

The next morning, as they sat together at break- 
fast, without the children, whom they let lie late on 
Sunday, Mrs. March said to her husband, silent over 
his fish-balls and baked beans : " We will go to New 
York. I 've decided it." 

" Well, it takes two to decide that," March re- 
torted. '  We are not going to New York." 

" Yes, we are. I 've thought it out. Now, listen." 

" Oh, I 'm willing to listen," he consented airily. 

" You 've always wanted to get out of the insur- 
ance business, and now with that fear of being 
turned out which you have, you mustn't neglect 
this offer, I suppose it has its risks, but it's a, 
risk keeping on as we are ; and perhaps you will 
make a great success of it. I do want j-ou to trj', 
Basil. If I could once feel that you had fairly seen 
what you could do in literature, I should die happy." 

" Not immediately after, I hope," he suggested, 
taking the second cup of coffee she had been pour- 
ing out for him. "And Boston ] " 

"we needn't make a complete break. We can 
keep this place for the present, anyway ; we could 



 

let it for the winter, and come back in the summer 
next year. It would Le change enough from New 
York." 

" Fulkerson and I hadn't got as far as to talk of a 
vacation." 

" No matter. The children and I could come. 
And if you didn't like New York, or the enterprise 
failed, you could get into something in Boston 
again ; and we have enough to live on till you did. 
Yes, Basil, I 'm going." 

" I can see by the way your chin trembles that 
nothing could stop you. You may go to New York 
if you wish, Isabel, but I shall stay here." 

" Be serious, Basil. I 'm in earnest." 

" Serious ? If I were any more serious I should 
shed tears. Come, my dear, I know what you mean, 
and if I had my heart set on this thing — Fulkerson 
always calls it ' this thing ' — I would cheerfully 
accept any sacrifice you could make to it. But I 'd 
rather not offer you up on a shrine I don't feel any 
particular faith in. I 'm very comfortable where I 
am ; that is, I know just where the pinch comes, and 
if it comes harder, wh)', I 've got used to bearing that 
kind of pinch. I 'm too old to change pinches." 

"Now, that does decide me." 

"It decides me, too." 

