rescued and flogged most severely. 

As I was effectually cured of all desire of throwing my- 
self into the sea, I grew somewhat more contented, and 
employed myself in observing every thing around me. 
The ship's charts and instruments, especially, provoked 
my wonder and admiration, and when the men allowed me 
to look through a spy-glass, and I saw the clouds approach 
and vanish, I was overcome with amazement, and believed 
most firmly that I was in another world, and that every 
thing around me was supernatural. 

III. 

At last we came in sight of land ; the whites on board 
shouted loudly, and gave us to understand by signs that 
they rejoiced greatly. We knew not what to think until 
we ran into a harbor among quantities of vessels of all 
shapes and sizes. Although it was evening, many people 
came on board, and examined us carefully, sorting us out 
into different groups. They made us leap, and sing, and 
pointed to the land, signifying that we were to be taken 
from the vessel. In our simplicity we imagined that these 
monsters were now really about to eat us, and when we 
were again shut up for the night, we commenced shrieking 
and lamenting our cruel fate, refusing to desist until two 
or three old negroes were sent to us from the land, who 
told us that we should not be eaten, but would only be 
obliged to work hard, and that we should find many of our 




countrymen on shore. This quieted us, and wLen we 
landed on the following day, we found ourselves indeed 
surrounded by negroes of every race and tongue. 

We were immediately carried to the market house, and 
shut up like sheep in a pen. As every thing was new to 
me, I was filled with astonishment. The houses, built of 
stone, and several stories high, struck me with wonder. I 
had never seen such in Africa. But when I saw men on 
horseback, I could scarcely believe my senses, and thought 
that it must be the effect of the most skilful magic. 

In a few days we were put up for sale. Notice was 
given with drum and trumpet, and buyers flocked to the 
market-place, and selected those that they liked. The 
noise and confusion, and the evil expression on the coun- 
tenances of our purchasers, terrified us greatly ; we again 
thought that our last hour was near. The purchases were 
made without pity or consideration. Mothers were torn 
from sisters, husbands fi:om wives. Mends from friends. I 
remember the forcible separation of several brothers, who 
had been always together during the voyage, which was 
heart-rending indeed. 

I did not remain long upon this island, which I after- 
wards learnt was called Barbadoes, but was shipped for 
Virginia, with several others of my companions, who were 
too weak and emaciated to find a purchaser. We were 
much better treated than we had been on the voyage from 
Africa, and had plenty of rice and fat pork. We landed 
on the banks of a broad river, some distance from the 
ocean, where I saw very few blacks, and none with whom 
I could talk. I was set to work on a plantation, at weed- 




ing, and my companions were sent in different directions, 
so that I was quite alone. There I was wretched, indeed, 
for I could neither understand or make myself understood 
by any one, and I did indeed long for death. 

While I remained here, the master of the plantation 
was taken ill, and I w£.s sent for to fan him. When I 
entered the room where he lay, I saw much to surprise 
and frighten me. At the door I was met by a black girl 
bringing his dinner, who was loaded with several strange 
iron machines. Among others, she wore one on her head 
that shut her mouth so closely that she could neither eat 
nor drink, and could speak only with the greatest difficulty. 
I afterwards learned that this ingenious invention was call- 
ed a jaw-basket, and was a punishment for talkativeness or 
improper exclamations. I had no time to recover from 
my astonishment, when they put a fan into my hand, and 
bade me fan my sleeping master. When he slept soundly, 
I looked around the splendidly furnished apartment where 
every thing was so new to me. The first object that 
enchained my attention, was a clock that hung over the 
mantel-piece; the movement of the pendulum, and the 
loud ticking, was inexplicable to me, and I was sure that 
it would tell my master if I did any thing wrong. But I 
was still more impressed by a portrait that was looking 
steadily at me ; I had never seen any thing like it in my 
life, and I believed that here, too, magic was in play. As 
the figure remained perfectly quiet, I concluded that these 
whites had discovered a means of preserving their great 
men after death, that they might be offered up as sacrifices 
to the good spirits. Awed and terrified, I sat still until 




  

my master awoke, and sent me away, to my great joy, for 
I was but ill at ease with these people, who appeared to 
me to live in an atmosphere of unholy magic. At this 
place they called me Jacob; on board of the vessel they 
had called me Michael, but my real name at home was 
Olandah Equiand. 

Tn this miserable situation, where I had no one to speak 
with, life became every day more burdensome, and I should 
certainly have died of grief if the Almighty had not 
pleased to deliver me from such distress. A young man 
came one day to see my master on business, and saw me by 
chance in the house ; I pleased him, and he bought me for 
about four pounds. He was, as I learned afterwards, a 
lieutenant in the British navy, but was at present com- 
manding a merchant vessel, which was anchored further 
down the river. An elderly negro immediately took me 
before him on horseback — a new and most delightful way 
of travelling to me, and carried me down the river's bank 
to where the beautiful vessel lay at anchor. I was carried 
on board, and we soon set sail. 

My fortune had now taken the most favorable turn ; I 
had a hammock, in which I slept, and had plenty to eat 
and drink ; every one on board treated me kindly, very 
differently from any of the other whites whom I had seen, 
and I began to think that they were not all of the same 
stamp. I had already learnt a few words of Enghsh, and 
after we had been several days upon the sea, I inquired of 
one and another where we were going. Some told me, either 
to make sport of me or from a desire to please me, that 
they were going to take me to my home ; this gave me the 

