and though she willingly gave the recipe, no one could imitate them
exactly. "It is about the child. It hath been a matter of conscience
with me whether I ought to expose her to the temptations of the world,
but since I cannot by law keep her altogether----" And he hesitated a
moment.
"We have not quarreled about her since the judges made the decision,
though thou knowest I would like to have her altogether," and Madam
Wetherill smiled amicably, sipping her ale to keep him company. "It
seems folly, like the man's two wives who plucked at his hair, the first
to take out the white ones and the other the black."
"There was the illness last summer, and I think my wife hath not been
so strong since, and we have two girls----"
"And since good fortune brought them to thee and I have none, I shall
beseech thee to waive thy claim, and let me keep the child. I know our
ways are different, but if presently she should choose thy faith,--and
we have many of thy persuasion dropping in,--and desire to return to
thee, I will be quite as generous and kindly as thou hast been, and not
oppose her."
"That is as fair as one can expect," the man said with a sigh. "I would
my brother had lived and managed the matter. Friend Chew thinks there
will be hard times before us all, especially those who have laid up
treasure in perishable money."
"But, whatever comes, I shall care for her to my last penny."
"And if thou shouldst die, as we are but mortal, the best of us, wilt
thou transfer her back to us?"
"Her guardians will do that. I promise no will of mine shall be left to
oppose it."
"And that she shall visit us now and then."
"I agree to that."
"We are busy now--thou knowest the many things that press in the
summer--and two children of an age are troublesome unless brought up
together. So we thought it best to return her just now."
"And I am glad to have her. There is so much help here that a child's
trouble is scarcely noted."
But on his way home James Henry wondered if he had not given in too
easily to the worldly and pleasing way of Madam Wetherill.
She smiled a little to herself as she called Primrose from the summer
house to say good-by, and to receive some sage advice.
"Thou naughty little moppet," she said when the stout Quaker had ridden
away, as she caught the little girl's hand in hers and gave her a swing,
"what didst thou do that thou wert sent home in disgrace?"
"Was it disgrace?" The color deepened on the rose-leaf cheek. "Aunt Lois
found no fault, only to call me an idle girl. Faith is busy from morning
to night and cannot even take a walk nor haunt the woods for flowers.
Rachel is very stern and hath sharp eyes----"
Should she confess last night's misdemeanor? But what right had Rachel
to condemn it? Cousin Andrew had kissed her in this house. Oh, was so
sweet a thing as a kiss wrong?
"Truly thou must be set about some task. I think I will have thee taught
to work flowers in thy new silk petticoat, for we shall have no more
fine things from England in a long while. And that would be vanity in
the eyes of thy Uncle James."
"I should not like to work every moment."
"Thou art a spoiled and lazy little girl. Does Faith read and spell and
repeat Latin verses, and write a fair hand?"
Primrose laughed. "She reads in the Bible slowly. And the Latin Uncle
James thinks wicked. I have half a mind to think so myself, it is so
bothersome. And the French----"
"Thou mayst marry a great man some time and go to the French Court.
Perhaps thou wouldst rather spin and churn, and make cheese and soap.
But when there are so many glad to live by doing these things it seems
kindness to pay them money for it. And so thy Aunt Lois did not really
take thee to task?"
"She did not set me about anything. And Rachel would not let me go to
feed the chickens, nor gather up eggs, which is such fun."
"And what didst thou do?"
"Nothing but sit under the tree as the old grandmother used. It was very
tiresome. And a walk in the orchard. Then I found a cornfield where Penn
was plowing, and I waited to see him come out of the rows and get lost
in them again."
"And did you like this Master Penn?"
"He was very pleasant. He showed me a nest with tiny birds in it that
were naked and ugly, but they grow beautiful presently. And he picked a
great dock leaf of berries, so that I should not get my hands scratched,
and we sat down on a stone to eat them. But I like my own cousin Andrew
better. Penn is not my cousin--Rachel said so."
Madam Wetherill nodded with piquant amusement. Perhaps there had been a
little jealousy.
"Well, I am glad to get thee back. I am afraid I spoil thee; Mistress
Kent insists that I do. But there will be time enough to learn to work.
And if this dreadful war should sweep away all our fortunes, we shall
have to buckle to, and, maybe, plant our own corn and husk it, and dig
our potatoes as our fore-mothers helped to when they lived in the cave
houses by the river's edge, before they built the real ones."
"Caves by the river's edge? Did the river never overflow them? And is
that where the Penny Pot stands----"
"Who told thee about that?"
"I walked there once with Patty. She knows a great many things about the
town. And she said I ought to learn them as I was born here, lest the
British come and destroy them."
Madam Wetherill smiled at the sweet, earnest face.
"They did not destroy New York, but I should be sorry to see them here.
And I will tell thee: in that cave was born the first child to the
colonists. He was named John Key, and good Master Penn presented him
with a lot of ground. But I think he should have been called William
Penn Key, to perpetuate the incident and the great founder. There are
many queer old landmarks fading away."
"And where were you born?" asked Primrose, deeply interested.
"Not here at all, but in England. And I grew up and was married there.
Then my husband put a good deal of money in the new colony and came
over, not meaning to stay. But I had some relatives here, and no near
ones at home, being an only child. The Wardours did not run to large
families. My husband was much older than I, and when his health began to
fail, instructed me in many things about the estate. So, when I lost
him, I was interested to go on and see what a woman could do. There was
a cousin who was a sea captain and had been to strange places, the
Indies it was called then, and the curious ports on the Mediterranean,
and brought home many queer things."
"Oh, that is the portrait hanging in the big room at Arch Street, and is
Captain Wardour?" exclaimed Primrose. "And where did he go at last?"
"To a very far country, across the great sky. He was lost at sea."
Madam Wetherill sighed a little. How long ago it seemed, and yet,
strange contradiction, it might have been not more than a month since
Captain Wardour bade her good-by with the promise that it should be his
last voyage and then he would come home for good and they would marry.
This love and waiting had bound her to the New World. She had made many
friends and prospered, and there had been a sweet, merry young girl
growing up under her eye, which had been a rather indulgent one, and who
had fallen in love with Philemon Henry, and perhaps coquetted a little
until she had the Quaker heart in her net he did not care to break if
she could come over to his faith. It had disappointed Madam Wetherill at
first, but having had business dealings with him, she had learned to
respect his integrity.
But as if there seemed a cruel fate following her loves, just as it was
settled for Bessy to come back with her little Primrose, death claimed
her. And Madam Wetherill had tried to keep a fair indifference toward
the child since she could not have her altogether, but the little one
had somehow crept into her heart. And now that there were two girls at
James Henry's farm, the wife's own nieces, she could see they would the
more readily relinquish her. The sending back of the child seemed to
indicate that, though she had only gone for a visit.
"Art thou sad about Captain Wardour?" And the little maid looked up with
lustrous and sympathetic eyes, wondering at the long silence. "And do
you think he could find my mother and my father? It must be a beautiful
world, that heaven, if it is so much finer and better than this, and
flowers bloom all the time and the trees never get stripped by the cruel
autumn winds and the birds go on singing. I shall love to listen to
them. But, aunt, what will people do who are like Rachel and think
listening idle and sinful, and that flowers are fripperies that spoil
the hay and prevent the grass from growing in that space?"
