made no scruple of going every night for a week. Rather, 
perhaps I should say, he made a scruple ; but it was a part of 
the pleasure of his life during these arbitrary days to overcome 
it. The only way to prove to himself that he could overcome 
it was to go ; and he was satisfied, after he had been seven 
times, not only with the spectacle on the stage but with his 
own powers of demonstration. There was no satiety however 
with the spectacle on the stage, inasmuch as that only pro- 
duced a further curiosity. Miriam's performance was a living 
thing, with a power to change, to grow, to develop, to beget 
new forms of the same life. Peter Sherringham contributed to 
it in his amateurish way, watching with solicitude the fate 
of his contributions. He talked it over in Balaklava Place, 
suggested modifications, variations worth trying. Miriam 
professed herself thankful for any refreshment that could be ad- 
ministered to her interest in " Yolande," and, with an effective- 
ness that showed large resource, touched up her part and drew 
several new airs from it. Sherringham's suggestions bore 
upon her way of uttering certain speeches, the intonations 
that would have more beauty or make the words mean more. 
Miriam had her ideas, or rather she had her instincts, which 
she defended and illustrated, with a vividness superior to 
argument, by a happy pictorial phrase or a snatch of mimicry ; 
but she was always for trying ; she liked experiments and 
caught at them, and she was especially thankful when some 
one gave her a showy reason, a plausible formula, in a case 
where she only stood upon an intuition. She pretended to 
despise reasons and to like and dislike at her sovereign 
pleasure ; but she always honoured the exotic gift, so that 
Sherringham was amused with the liberal way she produced 
it, as if she had been a naked islander rejoicing in a present 
of crimson cloth. 
Day after day he spent most of his time in her society, and 
Miss Laura Lumley's recent habitation -became the place in 
London to which his thoughts were most attached. He was 
highly conscious that he was not now carrying out that prin- 
ciple of abstention which he had brought to such maturity 
before leaving Paris ; but he contented himself with a much 
cruder justification of this inconsequence than he would have 
thought adequate in advance. It consisted simply in the idea 
that to be identified with the first public steps of a young 
genius was a delightful experience. What was the harm of 
it, if the genius were real ? Sherringham's main security was 
now that his relations with Miriam had been frankly placed 
under the protection of the idea of legitimate extravagance. 
In this department they made a very creditable figure and 
required much less watching and pruning than when it was 
his effort to fit them into a worldly plan. Sherringham had a 
sense of real wisdom Avhen he said to himself that it surely 
should be enough that this momentary intellectual participa- 
tion in the girl's dawning fame was a charming thing. Charm- 
ing things, in a busy man's life, were not frequent enough to 
be kicked out of the way. Balaklava Place, looked at in this 
philosophic way, became almost idyllic : it gave Peter the 
pleasantest impression he had ever had of London. 
The season happened to be remarkably fine ; the temperature 
was high, but not so high as to keep people from the theatre. 
Miriam's " business " visibly increased, so that the question of 
putting on the second play underwent some reconsideration. 
The girl insisted, showing in her insistence a temper of which 
Sherringham had already caught some splendid gleams. It 
was very evident that through her career it would be her 
expectation to carry things with a high hand. Her managers 
and agents would not find her an easy victim or a calculable 
force : but the public would adore her, surround her with the 
popularity that attaches to a humorous, good-natured princess, 
and her comrades would have a kindness for her because she 
wouldn't be selfish. They too would form in a manner a 
portion of her affectionate public. This Avas the way Sherring- 
ham read the signs, liking her whimsical tolerance of some of 
her vulgar playfellows almost well enough to forgive their 
presence in Balaklava Place, where they were a sore trial to 
her mother, who wanted her to multiply her points of contact 
only with the higher orders. There were hours when Sherring- 
ham thought he foresaw that her principal relation to the 
proper world would be to have, within two or three years, a 
grand battle with it, making it take her, if she let it have her 
at all, absolutely on her own terms : a picture which led our 
young man to ask himself, with a helplessness that was not 
exempt, as he perfectly knew, from absurdity, what part he 
should find himself playing in such a contest and if it would 
be reserved to him to be the more ridiculous as a peacemaker 
or as a heavy auxiliary. 
" She might know any one she would, and the only person 
she appears to take any pleasure in is that dreadful Miss 
Rover," Mrs. Rooth whimpered, more than once, to Sherring- 
ham, who recognized in the young lady so designated the 
principal complication of Balaklava Place. 
Miss Rover was a little actress who played at Miriam's 
theatre, combining with an unusual aptitude for delicate 
comedy a less exceptional absence of rigour in private life. 
She was pretty and quick and clever, and had a fineness that 
Miriam professed herself already in a position to estimate as 
rare. She had no control of her inclinations ; yet sometimes 
they were wholly laudable, like the devotion she had formed 
for her beautiful colleague, whom she admired not only as an 
ornament of the profession but as a being of a more fortunate 
essence. She had had an idea that real ladies were " nasty " ; 
but Miriam was not nasty, and who could gainsay that Miriam 
was a real lady  ? The girl justified herself to Sherringham, 
who had found no fault with her ; she knew how much her 
mother feared that the proper world wouldn't come in if they 
knew that the improper, in the person of pretty Miss Rover, 
was on the ground. What did she care who came and who 
didn't, and what was to be gained by receiving half the snobs 
in London ? People would have to take her exactly as they 
found her that they would have to learn ; and they would be 
much mistaken if they thought her capable of becoming S, 
snob too for the sake of their sweet company. She didn't 
pretend to be anything but what she meant to be, the best 
general actress of her time ; and what had that to do with her 
seeing or not seeing a poor ignorant girl who had lov "Well, 
she needn't say what Fanny had. She had met her in the way 
of business she didn't say she would have run after her. She 
had liked her because she wasn't a stick, and when Fanny 
Rover had asked her quite wistfully if she mightn't come and 
see her, she hadn't bristled with scandalized virtue. Miss 
Rover was not a bit more stupid or more ill-natured than any 
one else : it would be time enough to shut the door when she 
should become so. 
Sherringham commended even to extravagance the liberality 
of such comradeship ; said that of course a woman didn't go 
into that profession to see how little she could swallow. She 
was right to live with the others so long as they were at all 
possible,. and it was for her, and only for her, to judge how 
long that might be. This was rather heroic on Peter's part, 
for his assumed detachment from the girl's personal life still 
left him a margin, for some forms of uneasiness. It would 
have made, in his spirit, a great difference for the worse that 
the woman he loved, and for whom he wished no baser lover 
than himself, should have embraced the prospect of consorting 
only with the cheaper kind. It was all very well, but Fanny 
Rover was simply a cabotine, and that sort of association was 
an odd training for a young woman who was to have been 
good enough (he couldn't forget that he kept remembering 
it as if it might still have a future vise) to be his wife. 
Certainly he ought to have thought of such things before he 
permitted himself to become so interested in a theatrical 
nature. His heroism did him service however for the hour : 
it helped him by the end of the week to feel tremendously 
