"Is this true, madam?" asked the conductor.
"She can go into the next car."
"Are you paying for two seats?"
"No," snapped the lady.
"I must take your dog into the baggage car. It is against our rules to
have them in the regular cars, and they certainly cannot be allowed to
keep our passengers from occupying seats."
"Don't you dare to touch my dog!"
"Do you go to Jersey City?"
"Yes."
"Then you can call for the dog there," and in spite of the remonstrance
of the dog's owner, and the growling of the poodle, the conductor
removed the animal to the baggage car, much to the secret satisfaction
of the passengers, who had observed with disgust the selfishness of its
owner.
"I am indebted to you for this," said the young lady, with a furious
glance at the train boy.
Fred did not think himself called upon to make any answer. The young
lady scornfully drew aside her dress to avoid contact with her
unwelcome companion, saying audibly, "It is only in America that
servant girls are allowed to thrust themselves in the company of their
betters."
"I am not a servant girl," said the new passenger, "but even if I were
I have paid my fare, and am entitled to a seat."
"Do not address me, girl!" said her seat-mate haughtily.
"I thought your remark was addressed to me."
"I am forced to sit beside you, but I don't care to converse with you."
The other took the hint, and left her undemocratic neighbor to herself.
Fred was naturally a little curious to ascertain the name of the young
lady who had made herself so disagreeable. The mystery was solved in a
way to surprise him.
On reaching the depot at Jersey City all the passengers left the cars.
The young lady looked about her evidently in search of some one whom
she expected to meet her.
Greatly to Fred's surprise, his Cousin Raymond Ferguson turned out to
be the party expected.
"Here you are, sis," he said. "Come right along. It is late."
"I can't go yet. My poor little Fido is in the baggage car. They
wouldn't let me have him in the car with me. Go and get him, and I will
stay here."
"Gracious!" thought Fred, "that must be Cousin Ferguson's daughter
Luella. Well, I can't say I am proud of the relationship."
CHAPTER XVIII.
UNSATISFACTORY RELATIONS.
Miss Ferguson waited till her brother returned with the dog, who seemed
to be in a bad humor.
"My precious Fido!" exclaimed the young lady, as she embraced the
little animal. "Did they put him in the dirty baggage car?" Then,
turning to Fred, who stood by, she said spitefully: "It was all your
work, you impertinent boy. I have a great mind to report you to the
president of the road."
Raymond's attention was directed to Fred by his sister's attack.
"Fred Fenton!" he exclaimed in surprise.
"Yes," answered Fred, amused. "I was not aware that it was your sister
and a relative of mine when I took sides against her."
"What does the boy mean?" demanded Miss Ferguson haughtily.
"It is Fred Fenton," explained Raymond deprecatingly.
"Does he claim relationship with me?" asked the young lady, looking
disgusted.
"No, Miss Ferguson, I don't claim it, though I believe it exists," said
Fred.
"A common train boy!" ejaculated the young lady. "This is altogether
too much. Raymond, let us go!"
As they left the station the other young lady passenger who had
listened eagerly to the conversation asked in a tone of almost painful
excitement, "Is that the daughter of Robert Ferguson?"
"Yes, do you know him?" asked Fred in surprise.
"To my sorrow. When my poor father died Mr. Ferguson was appointed
executor and trustee of his estate. It was not large, but we supposed
it would amount to ten thousand dollars, and perhaps more. Last week my
mother received a letter from him stating that he had satisfied all
claims against the estate, and that only seventy-five dollars was left.
This leaves us well-nigh penniless."
"Is it possible? Do you suspect that any fraud has been practised upon
you?"
"My mother feels sure of it, but what can we do? We are poor, and the
poor are always friendless," continued the girl bitterly.
"Have you come to New York to see Mr. Ferguson?"
"Yes; my mother wishes me to ask full particulars, and to appeal to him
to do us justice. I fear it will be of no avail, but it is the only
thing that we can do."
"Pardon me," said Fred, "but we had better be getting on board the
ferry-boat, or we shall have to wait till the next."
"Thank you! I hardly know what I am doing."
Fred accompanied the young lady to the ladies' cabin and sat down
beside her.
"Can I be of any service to you?" asked the train boy. "It is late for
a young lady to arrive in New York."
"I supposed we should reach the city at nine. That is what a neighbor
told me. I hardly know where to go," she added timidly. "Can you
recommend a cheap hotel or boarding-house?"
"There would be a difficulty about obtaining admission to either this
evening."
"Then what shall I do?" asked the girl, looking distressed.
"I think you had better come home with me for to-night. Our home is a
very humble one but mother will take good care of you. To-morrow you
can make other arrangements if you desire."
"Oh, how kind you are! I should like nothing better, if you really
think your mother would not be annoyed."
Fred smiled.
"She is too kind-hearted for that," he said. "Just wait till you see
her, and you won't feel any doubt."
"How fortunate I am to fall in with such a friend! I now see how unwise
it was for me to take such a late train."
They walked to the Cortlandt Street station of the Sixth Avenue
Elevated Road, and ascended the steps. In spite of her anxieties the
young lady felt interested in the novel means of locomotion, and asked
a variety of questions of the train boy. At Thirty-Third Street they
descended, and walking a short distance up Broadway turned down a side
street, and were soon at the door of Fred's modest home.
Mrs. Fenton was sitting up, and had come to feel anxious.
"How long you have been away, Fred!" she said.
"Not quite three days, mother."
"But you were never away before. Bertie and I have missed you very
much."
"Mother," said Fred, "you don't see that I have company."
Then, for the first time, the widow observed the young lady.
"Who is it, Fred?" she asked, as a wild and improbable suspicion
entered her mind. Could it be that Fred, who was only a boy in years,
had contracted a marriage and brought his wife home?
"I shall have to ask the young lady to introduce herself," said Fred.
"My name is Ruth Patton," said the girl timidly. "I hope you will not
be angry with your son for bringing me here. I am a stranger in the
city, and indeed I did not know that the train arrived so late. Your
son told me that it would be difficult to get into any hotel or
boarding-house at this hour, and I have ventured to throw myself on
your hospitality for to-night."
"You are heartily welcome," said Mrs. Fenton, ready to smile at her
first wild suspicion. "Remove your wraps, and in ten minutes I can
offer you a cup of tea and some eggs and toast. You will sleep the
better for a little supper."
"You are a wise woman, mother," said Fred. "You have guessed what I was
longing for."
"Let me help you, Mrs. Fenton," said Ruth, already looking more
cheerful.
"Then you may toast the bread," said Mrs. Fenton. "I don't dare to
trust Fred. I did once to my sorrow, and the toast turned out to be as
black as my shoe."
"I can promise to do better than that. I have plenty of experience."
She set herself to the task, as if she felt quite at home, and soon
