“He’d wobble.”
“And back down?”
“Every time.”
“Is that to happen with all my--I mean would that happen to all his high
resolutions?”
“Oh certainly--certainly. It’s the Rossmore of it.”
“Then this creature was fortunate to die! Suppose, for argument’s sake,
that I was a Rossmore, and--”
“It can’t be done.”
“Why?”
“Because it’s not a supposable case. To be a Rossmore at your age,
you’d have to be a fool, and you’re not a fool. And you’d have to be a
Wobbler, whereas anybody that is an expert in reading character can see
at a glance that when you set your foot down once, it’s there to stay;
and earthquake can’t wobble it.” He added to himself, “That’s enough to
say to him, but it isn’t half strong enough for the facts. The more I
observe him, now, the more remarkable I find him. It is the strongest
face I have ever examined. There is almost superhuman firmness here,
immovable purpose, iron steadfastness of will. A most extraordinary
young man.”
He presently said, aloud:
“Some time I want to ask your advice about a little matter, Mr. Tracy.
You see, I’ve got that young lord’s remains--my goodness, how you jump!”
“Oh, it’s nothing, pray go on. You’ve got his remains?”
“Yes.”
“Are you sure they are his, and not somebody else’s?”
“Oh, perfectly sure. Samples, I mean. Not all of him.”
“Samples?”
“Yes--in baskets. Some time you will be going home; and if you wouldn’t
mind taking them along--”
“Who? I?”
“Yes--certainly. I don’t mean now; but after a while; after--but look
here, would you like to see them?”
“No! Most certainly not. I don’t want to see them.”
“O, very well. I only thought--hey, where are you going, dear?”
“Out to dinner, papa.”
Tracy was aghast. The colonel said, in a disappointed voice:
“Well, I’m sorry. Sho, I didn’t know she was going out, Mr. Tracy.”
Gwendolen’s face began to take on a sort of apprehensive
‘What-have-I-done expression.’
“Three old people to one young one--well, it isn’t a good team, that’s a
fact.”
Gwendolen’s face betrayed a dawning hopefulness and she said--with a
tone of reluctance which hadn’t the hall-mark on it:
“If you prefer, I will send word to the Thompsons that I--”
“Oh, is it the Thompsons? That simplifies it--sets everything right. We
can fix it without spoiling your arrangements, my child. You’ve got your
heart set on--”
“But papa, I’d just as soon go there some other--”
“No--I won’t have it. You are a good hard-working darling child, and
your father is not the man to disappoint you when you--”
“But papa, I--”
“Go along, I won’t hear a word. We’ll get along, dear.”
Gwendolen was ready to cry with vexation. But there was nothing to do
but start; which she was about to do when her father hit upon an idea
which filled him with delight because it so deftly covered all the
difficulties of the situation and made things smooth and satisfactory:
“I’ve got it, my love, so that you won’t be robbed of your holiday and
at the same time we’ll be pretty satisfactorily fixed for a good time
here. You send Belle Thompson here--perfectly beautiful creature, Tracy,
perfectly beautiful; I want you to see that girl; why, you’ll just go
mad; you’ll go mad inside of a minute; yes, you send her right along,
Gwendolen, and tell her--why, she’s gone!” He turned--she was already
passing out at the gate. He muttered, “I wonder what’s the matter;
I don’t know what her mouth’s doing, but I think her shoulders
are swearing. Well,” said Sellers blithely to Tracy, “I shall miss
her--parents always miss the children as soon as they’re out of sight,
it’s only a natural and wisely ordained partiality--but you’ll be all
right, because Miss Belle will supply the youthful element for you and
to your entire content; and we old people will do our best, too. We
shall have a good enough time. And you’ll have a chance to get better
acquainted with Admiral Hawkins. That’s a rare character, Mr. Tracy--one
of the rarest and most engaging characters the world has produced.
You’ll find him worth studying. I’ve studied him ever since he was a
child and have always found him developing. I really consider that one
of the main things that have enabled me to master the difficult science
of character-reading was the vivid interest I always felt in that boy
and the baffling inscrutabilities of his ways and inspirations.”
Tracy was not hearing a word. His spirits were gone, he was desolate.
“Yes, a most wonderful character. Concealment--that’s the basis of it.
Always the first thing you want to do is to find the keystone a man’s
character is built on--then you’ve got it. No misleading and apparently
inconsistent peculiarities can fool you then. What do you read on
the Senator’s surface? Simplicity; a kind of rank and protuberant
simplicity; whereas, in fact, that’s one of the deepest minds in the
world. A perfectly honest man--an absolutely honest and honorable
man--and yet without doubt the profoundest master of dissimulation the
world has ever seen.”
“O, it’s devilish!” This was wrung from the unlistening Tracy by
the anguished thought of what might have been if only the dinner
arrangements hadn’t got mixed.
“No, I shouldn’t call it that,” said Sellers, who was now placidly
walking up and down the room with his hands under his coat-tails and
listening to himself talk. “One could quite properly call it devilish
in another man, but not in the Senator. Your term is right--perfectly
right--I grant that--but the application is wrong. It makes a great
difference. Yes, he is a marvelous character. I do not suppose that any
other statesman ever had such a colossal sense of humor, combined with
the ability to totally conceal it. I may except George Washington and
Cromwell, and perhaps Robespierre, but I draw the line there. A person
not an expert might be in Judge Hawkins’s company a lifetime and never
find out he had any more sense of humor than a cemetery.”
A deep-drawn yard-long sigh from the distraught and dreaming artist,
followed by a murmured, “Miserable, oh, miserable!”
“Well, no, I shouldn’t say that about it, quite. On the contrary, I
admire his ability to conceal his humor even more if possible than I
admire the gift itself, stupendous as it is. Another thing--General
Hawkins is a thinker; a keen, logical, exhaustive, analytical
thinker--perhaps the ablest of modern times. That is, of course, upon
themes suited to his size, like the glacial period, and the correlation
of forces, and the evolution of the Christian from the caterpillar--any
of those things; give him a subject according to his size, and just
stand back and watch him think! Why you can see the place rock! Ah, yes,
you must know him; you must get on the inside of him. Perhaps the most
extraordinary mind since Aristotle.”
Dinner was kept waiting for a while for Miss Thompson, but as Gwendolen
had not delivered the invitation to her the waiting did no good, and the
household presently went to the meal without her. Poor old Sellers tried
everything his hospitable soul could devise to make the occasion an
enjoyable one for the guest, and the guest tried his honest best to be
cheery and chatty and happy for the old gentleman’s sake; in fact all
hands worked hard in the interest of a mutual good time, but the thing
was a failure from the start; Tracy’s heart was lead in his bosom, there
seemed to be only one prominent feature in the landscape and that was a
vacant chair, he couldn’t drag his mind away from Gwendolen and his hard
luck; consequently his distractions allowed deadly pauses to slip in
every now and then when it was his turn to say something, and of course
this disease spread to the rest of the conversation--wherefore, instead
of having a breezy sail in sunny waters, as anticipated, everybody was
bailing out and praying for land. What could the matter be? Tracy alone
could have told, the others couldn’t even invent a theory.
Meanwhile they were having a similarly dismal time at the Thompson
house; in fact a twin experience. Gwendolen was ashamed of herself for
allowing her disappointment to so depress her spirits and make her
so strangely and profoundly miserable; but feeling ashamed of herself
didn’t improve the matter any; it only seemed to aggravate the
suffering. She explained that she was not feeling very well, and
everybody could see that this was true; so she got sincere sympathy and
commiseration; but that didn’t help the case. Nothing helps that kind of
a case. It is best to just stand off and let it fester. The moment the
