Battleton.
"I can come to no conclusion in regard to it, though I may be able to
do so when I have seen my double," replied Christy, whose curiosity
in regard to the sick officer was strongly excited. "It looks like a
conspiracy of some kind, but I can go no farther in the direction of a
solution."
The commander looked at his watch after they had conversed a little
while longer, and then invited Christy to visit his cabin with him.
The other Lieutenant Passford was seated in an arm-chair at the table.
Christy looked at him with the deepest interest, but the back of the
other was turned to him, and he did not get a full view of his face. The
sick man was dressed in the naval uniform with the shoulder straps of a
lieutenant.
"I wish to introduce a gentleman to you; Lieutenant Passford, let me
make you acquainted with Lieutenant Passford," said the commander as he
led the way into the captain's cabin.
"Thank you, Captain Battleton; I shall be very happy to make the
acquaintance of Lieutenant Passford," said the occupant of the cabin,
rising as he spoke, and approaching Christy. "Corny Passford!" exclaimed
the sick officer. "I did not expect to see you here. This gentleman is
my own cousin, Captain Battleton, though I am sorry to say that he is
a rebel; but for all that he is one of the finest fellows in the known
world, and you will appreciate everything about him except his politics,
which I do not admire myself."
Christy was not stunned or overwhelmed by this impudent speech. He
looked at the speaker, and promptly recognized his cousin Corny. He was
astonished at the brazen assurance of the other, for he had always
seemed to him to be a fairly modest young man. Corny extended his hand
to Christy, and it was accepted.
"I am very glad to see you, Corny," said he of the South, "and not the
less glad because the meeting is so unexpected."
"It is certainly very unexpected on my part, Corny," replied Christy,
who began to comprehend the object of his cousin; but there was
something so ludicrous in the situation that he was more disposed
to laugh than to look upon it seriously.
"I am very glad to see you, Corny," continued he who bore that name in
reality. "I did not expect to find you on board of the Vernon. How are
uncle Homer, aunt Lydia, and Gerty?"
"I have not seen my uncle Homer for several months; but I had not the
remotest idea that you had an uncle Homer," replied Christy, laughing
heartily, for the situation seemed so amusing to him that the serious
part of his cousin's obvious plan had so far hardly dawned upon him.
"I should like to inquire of you, as one good turn deserves another,
in regard to the health of your father and mother and Gerty."
"My father is quite well, but he left Bonnydale last Tuesday to go to
Washington, and had not returned when I left home. My mother is quite
well, and so is Florry," replied the sick officer, who did not appear
to be suffering from a very severe headache just then, for he was quite
cheerful and animated.
"This appears to be a family party," interposed Captain Battleton, who
was very much amused to hear each of the young officers call the other
by the same name, and both of them appeared to be Corny Passford.
"It is a family party, captain," replied the sick officer, smiling as
cheerfully as though he had never had any practical knowledge of
headache and pains in the bones, which was the description of his malady
given to the surgeon. "As I have hinted before, my cousin Corny is a
rebel of the first order; and you can imagine my astonishment at finding
him in the uniform of a lieutenant on board a United States naval
vessel."
"Good, Corny!" exclaimed Christy, dropping upon the divan of the cabin
and laughing heartily.
"I can easily imagine your astonishment, Mr. Passford, for it seems to
me to be a very remarkable state of things," added the captain, as he
looked from one to the other of the claimants. "One thing seems to be
admitted by both of you, that you are both Passfords, and that you are
cousins."
"So far we do not disagree by the breadth of a hair. My cousin Corny was
raised in the South, while I was raised in the North," continued the
sick passenger.
"I don't like to contradict my cousin, but I was brought up in the
North," said Christy, hoping Captain Battleton would notice the
difference in the phraseology.
"Then you were both brought up in the North," suggested the captain.
"Not at all, for, as I said, my cousin Corny was brought up in the
South, at Glenfield, near Mobile," protested the ailing officer, who
was careful this time not to use the word "raised."
"Where were you yesterday, Corny?" asked Christy, suddenly suppressing
his mirth.
"I was in New York, preparing to come on board of the Vernon."
"Then you were not at Bonnydale?" demanded Christy sharply.
"Of course I was there; but it was a pretty day, and I went to the city
to attend to some affairs of mine," replied the sick man, with the first
signs of embarrassment he had exhibited.
"In spite of the fact that it was a pretty day, I should think you would
have spent your last day on shore with your mother and sister as I did,"
replied Christy.
"I was sick, and I wished to be as near the Vernon as possible. I felt
better in the afternoon and attended to my affairs; but I got bad again
in the afternoon, and I came on board in the evening, for I was afraid I
should not be able to do so in the morning," answered the invalid,
becoming as lively as before.
"Gentlemen, this seems to be a strange muddle," said the captain,
who was not disposed to listen any longer to the sparring between the
cousins. "At the suggestion of the lieutenant who came on board this
forenoon, I have taken the earliest opportunity to settle the question
as to which is the original and genuine Mr. Passford who was ordered on
board of the Vernon as a passenger for the Gulf, and who, I am informed,
is appointed to the command of the Bronx. I have not much time to spare,
and if you do not object, I shall call in the first lieutenant and the
surgeon to take part in this conference. I am perplexed, and I desire
witnesses if not assistants in these proceedings."
"I have not the slightest objection to the presence of as many officers
as you may choose to call in," added the invalid.
"I shall be equally reasonable," said Christy. "The more witnesses there
are the better it will suit me."
Captain Battleton struck a bell on his table, and sent the steward who
answered it to procure the attendance of the officers indicated, and
they soon presented themselves.
"Gentlemen, Lieutenant Salisbury, the executive officer of the Vernon,"
said the captain. "Both of these gentlemen are Lieutenant Christopher
Passford," he added, with a twinkle of the eye. "Dr. Connelly, you have
both met."
"Are we to understand that one of these officers is the double of the
other?" asked the first lieutenant, who seemed to be disposed to take in
the situation as a pleasantry of the commander.
"Hardly; both of them claim to be the same officer, and I have invited
you to assist me in deciding which is the real Mr. Passford."
The entire party then seated themselves at the table.
CHAPTER VI
THE CONFERENCE IN THE CAPTAIN'S CABIN
Captain Horatio Passford lived at Bonnydale on the Hudson. He was rich
in several millions of dollars, but he was richer in the possession of
a noble character, one of the most prominent traits of which was his
patriotism. He had presented his large and fast-sailing steam yacht to
the government of the nation at the beginning of the struggle. His motto
was, "Stand by the Union," and from the first he had done everything in
his power to sustain his country against the assaults of dissolution.
  [Illustration: The Conference in the Captain's Cabin.--Page 70.]
He had a wife, a daughter, and a son, and his family were as patriotic
as he was himself. At sixteen Christy, the son, had gone into the navy.
He had learned to be a sailor and an engineer in his repeated cruises in
the Bellevite, his father's large steam yacht, now a man-of-war in the
navy. In two years the young man had worked his way up to the rank of
lieutenant. He was very large for his age, and his nautical and
mechanical education had prepared him for service to a degree which
made him almost a prodigy, though his courage and skill had been fully
equalled, if not surpassed, by other naval officers not older than
himself.
Homer Passford, the only brother of his father, had early in life
settled in Alabama, and become a planter, where he had made a
