Since she made no will, her part, whatever it was, would go 
to all the heirs, naturally." 
" If she had any separate part." 
"I must get several of Lane's signatures and some of 
McClaymont's and compare them. And I must go down 
to Warwick. This will hit that young Winterburne hard. 
I'm up and down sorry for him." 
Mr. Sayre is deeply interested, and spends his day getting 
together various bits and scraps of information. He 
misses Winterburne, who has gone to a distant town to 
conclude the bargain for a large order. 
At Bradley House there is an unreal sort of atmosphere, 
as if they had all been stunned. Mr. Bradley shows an 
unexpected anxiety for their departure. 'No one has any 
risi;ht in the plaoe, never has had, he declares in an authori- 
tative manner. Regina hastens the packing ; they will 
t;ike none of the articles that have been set aside for them. 
And have not the rest been purchased with the Bradley 
money ? 
On the morning of the second day after the cataclysm 
they take their household belongings, Dolly and the phae- 
ton, and, with a brief, indifferent farewell, wind slowly 
down the well-kept drive. Mrs. Hardin comes to her gar- 
den gate to exchange a few words with Cynthia. 
" I'm awful sorry," she says sympathetically. " That 
old man's half crazy, and there's no sense in his having all 
the money. Lucky that your sister married the young 
man : there'll be some of it in the family." 
" I really wouldn't believe," Mrs. Halford comments, as 
she and Regina drive along the beautiful ways, " I really 
wouldn't believe Cousin Bradley could be so selfish and — 
mean, that is just the word. He fairly gloats over the 
discovery, and is so confident, so arrogant ! I always con- 
sidered him a gentleman, but he has behaved shamefully. 
Do you suppose they will take back everything, Regina ? " 
" If they have the right," she says with bitter emphasis. 
She remembers the apothegm that great poverty and great 
wealth bring to the surface heroic virtues and contempti- 
ble weaknesses. Morton Bradley has displayed a great 
deal of the latter during the forty-eight hours. Surely 
some unseen power must have directed her in this step, yet 
she feels so strange and confused that she can hardly de- 
fine any guiding sensation. It is being utterly at sea. 
" Mr. Winterburne will stand up for his rights,'' says the 
elder lady with intense satisfaction. 
" If the will is proved, no one else has any rights." 
" I do'h't think it ought to be proved. I don't believe 
Uncle Silas meant it to stand. He wouldn't have hidden 
it away in that eld escritoire. And to be hurried out of 
the house in that indecent fashion ! I couldn't have done 
it if I'd had millions." 
 
Eegina and Cytithia bestir themselves, and by night the 
new home takes on a certain friendly aspect. It has a 
sense of neighborliness. The street is wide, and the 
houses opposite cheerful looking, especially when the 
lamps are lighted. One of their neighbors they have 
known quite well, and both have proffered kindly services. 
There is a pleasant stir of people going to and fro, and 
already they have had some tender sympathy from friends 
who all agree that the thing is unprecedented, and that 
some flaw will be found to restore matters to their proper 
equilibrium. The .excitement has not been a bad thing, 
and their indignation at Mr. Bradley's cavalier treatment 
has bridged over what might have been a sentiment of 
regret at leaviiig Bradley House. 
There have been property difficulties and will contests at 
Beverly, as in all county towns, but it is the more exciting 
as all parties have been objects of interest from the first, 
and as the previous disposition of the estate has appeared 
efiuitable. Mr. Sayre has written to the son of old Squire 
I'aulin, and visited the existing branches of the Lane fam- 
ilies, questioning them closely as to whether they ever 
lizard any mention of the will. None of them can recall 
a single fact. 
Winterburne comes up to Beverly at once on his return. 
TTe questions Mr. Sayre with lawyer-like acuteness, and 
t ikes in every fact with a resolute look in his eyes that 
indicates a disposition not to submit tamely. 
"After all," he says, "it is not so much the effect it can 
have upon me, though that will be bad enough at this 
]uncture, as the future of Mrs. Halford and her daughters. 
If one could help them out ! " 
"Mrs. Halford has a little money very judiciously in- 
vested. They are not extravagant. I am thankful they 
had decided upon this change, for I regret to say that Mr. 
Bradley's behavior has been anything but friendly. He 
was very much incensed at the beginning, and wanted to 
fontest the whole thing in a high-handed way, claiming 
that he had been defrauded. I confess to a certain admira- 
tion for the young man tliroiigli it all. He has, I am sure, 
some secret power over his father, and he used it kindly, 
judiciously, and restored hini to a more equable frame of 
mind. But I can't help feeling that the money will soon 
slip through the young man's fingers. He is very improvi- 
dent." 
" Fight it as far as you can," advises Winterburne. " It 
will make me a good deal of trouble, but it will not exactly 
be ruin ; " and a light in his face seems to promise a smile, 
yet hardly dawns. 
" You are lucky in your new mine. I heard it lay 
mostly on the Finter ground." 
"Yes, fortunately. There's enough iron to last half a 
lifetime, excellent quality too. Are the Halfords at all 
settled ? " suddenly veering round. 
" They are very comfortable. Mrs. Halford is a good 
deal shaken up, and really hurt by Mr. Bradley's behavior. 
I'm afraid there will be a difference between them and 
young Mrs. Bradley. I sincerely wish she had not married 
Jasper." 
" Do the best you can for all of us. You need not spare 
any money." 
Mr. Sayre glances up into the fine, honest face. Why 
could not this young man have stood in Jasper Bradley's 
place ! Still he will make his way, and there may be finer 
blood on his father's side. 
They shake hands in a friendly fashion as they part. 
Winterburne strolls across the park. The merry squir- 
rels are chasing each other up and down the trees and glance 
at him fearlessly out of shrewd, almost laughing eyes. 
The swallows are making darting flights. There is such a 
different fragrance in the air from that early sweetness he 
remembers the May-day when the grass was newly out, and 
apple blooms raining pink and white showers. He goes 
down a street, scanning the houses. Yes. Here it is. He 
cannot forego the delight of seeing them, even if the talk 
must be mostly of the misfortune. 
Cynthia opens the door for him. 
 
" Oh ! " with a glad little cry. « How good of you to 
come ! Mother will be delighted. You are the brother 
that — my quotation begins at the wrong end. But we are 
all so tumbled up and down." 
" That may be useful in adversity. Let us make adages 
to suit ourselves ; " and he smiles brightly. That one little 
word brother has set all his pulses aflame. Of course he 
was confident all along, he tells himself, that Eegina never 
could have cared for Jasper Bradley. 
Mrs. Halford comes to meet him with a touching glad- 
ness. She has a somewhat strained and anxious look, and 
