Abdullah. He was, indeed, not far distant, and before many days he rode
into the city towards evening, attended by a few slaves and two
Bedouins, his wife Almasta riding in the midst of them upon a camel. His
face was not hidden and the two beggars who were watching recognised him
immediately. They both followed him, until he entered his own house, and
then the one sat down in the street to watch until he should come out,
asking alms of those who accompanied him, until they also went in, with
the beasts. But the other made haste to find the Sheikh and to inform
him that Abdullah had come and was now in his own dwelling.
'It is well,' said the blind man. 'The cat is now asleep, and dreams of
mice, but he shall wake in the midst of dogs. Abdullah will not leave
his house to-night, for it is late, and though he is not afraid in the
daytime, he will not go out much at night, lest a secret messenger from
Khaled, bearing evil in his hand, should meet him by the way. But
to-morrow before dawn, some of us will wait in the neighbourhood of his
house, and two or three score of others feigning to be all blind, as I
am, must always be near at hand, watching us. We will then begin to
importune him for alms, flattering him with fine language, as though we
knew his plans. And this we will do continually, when he is abroad,
until one day to escape from us he will turn quickly into a narrow
street, supposing that we cannot see him. For he will not wish to be
pursued by our cries in the bazar lest he be obliged for shame to give
something to each. Then those who can see will open their eyes and we
will catch him in the lane, and bind rags over his head so that he
cannot cry out, and lead him away to my dwelling by the Yemamah gate.
And if any meet us by the way and inquire whom we are taking with us, we
will say that he is one of ourselves, who is an epileptic and has fallen
down in a fit, and that we are taking him to the farrier's by the gate,
to be burned with red-hot irons for his recovery, as the physicians
recommend in such cases. Surely we have now foreseen most things, but if
we have forgotten anything, Allah will doubtless provide.'
All the beggars in council approved this plan, for they saw that it
could be easily carried out, if they could only catch Abdullah in a
lonely street at the hour of prayer when few persons are passing.
But Abdullah himself was ignorant of the evil in store for him, and
feared nothing, having been secretly informed that most of the better
sort of people were ready to support him if he would strike the blow;
for they suspected Khaled of being a traitor, especially since he had
last addressed the chief men and refused to tell the name of his father.
Abdullah therefore came and went openly in the city.
In the meantime, however, Khaled was informed of his presence and was
warned of the danger. The aged Kadi came secretly by night to the palace
and desired to be received by the Sultan in order to communicate to him
news of great importance, as he said. Khaled immediately received him,
and the Kadi proceeded to give a full account of Abdullah's designs; but
the Sultan expressed no astonishment.
'Let him do what he will,' he answered, 'for I care little and, after
all, what must be will be.'
'But I beseech you to consider,' said the Kadi, 'that by acting promptly
you could easily quell this revolution, in which I, by Allah, have no
part and will have none. For though many persons may just now desire
your overthrow, because they expect to get a share of the treasure in
the confusion, yet few are disposed to accept such a man as Abdullah ibn
Mohammed el Herir in your place. Even his own tribe are not all faithful
to him, and I am credibly informed that many look upon him as an
intruder, and would prefer the son of Abdul Kerim for sheikh, as would
be just, if the rights of birth were considered. And it would be an easy
matter to remove this Abdullah. I implore you to think of the matter.'
'Would this not be a murder?' asked Khaled, looking curiously at the
venerable preacher.
'Allah is merciful and forgiving,' replied the old man, looking down and
stroking his beard. 'And moreover, if you suffer Abdullah to go about a
few days longer he will certainly destroy you, whereas it is an easy
matter to give him a cup of such good drink as will save him from thirst
ever afterwards, and you would obtain quiet and the kingdom would be at
peace.'
'They shall not find me sleeping,' said Khaled, 'and so that I may only
slay a score of them first, I care not how soon I perish.'
'This is indeed a new kind of madness!' exclaimed the Kadi. 'I cannot
understand it. But I have done what I could, and I can do nothing more.'
'Nor is there anything more to be done,' said Khaled. 'But I thank you,
for it is clear that you have spoken from a good intention.'
So the Kadi went away again, and Khaled returned to Zehowah, caring not
at all whether he lived or died. But Zehowah began to watch him
narrowly.
'If this man were a Persian, an enemy and a traitor,' she thought, 'he
would now begin to take measures for his own safety, seeing that he is
threatened on every side. Yet he does not lift a hand to defend himself.
This can proceed only from one of two causes. Either he is a Jinn, as
he has told me, and they cannot kill him, and so he does not fear them;
or else he desires death, out of a sort of madness which has grown up in
him through this love of which he is always speaking.'
CHAPTER XI
In these days many of the Bedouin tribes came near the city and encamped
in great numbers within half a day's journey and less. Abdullah was
exceedingly busy with his preparations, and spent much time in talking
with other sheikhs, hardly making any concealment of his movements or
plans. For by this time it seemed clear to him that the greater part of
the people were with him, and every one spoke of the coming overthrow of
Khaled as an open matter. Khaled himself, too, was reported to be in
fear of his life, and he was no longer seen in the streets as formerly,
nor in the courts of the palace, nor even every day in the hall, but
remained shut up in the harem, and none saw him except the women and a
few slaves. Men said aloud that he was in great fear and distress, and
as this story gained credence, so Abdullah's importance increased, since
it was he who had brought such terror upon Khaled. All this was open
talk in the bazar, but Abdullah was himself somewhat suspicious,
supposing that Khaled must have a plan in reserve for defending his
possession of the throne. Abdullah, however, kept secret the manner in
which he intended to enter the palace, though he promised his adherents
to open to them the gates of the castle, and the doors of the treasure
chambers on a certain day, which he named, at the time of the first call
to prayer in the morning, warning all those who were with him to come
together in the great square before that hour in order to be ready to
help him, if necessary, and to overwhelm the guards of the palace if
they should make any resistance. But he did not know that the man of his
tribe who was kinsman to the chief of the beggars had overheard his talk
with his wife.
Meanwhile the beggars seemed to be multiplied exceedingly in Riad, for
whenever Abdullah went out of his house they came upon him, sometimes by
twos and threes and sometimes in scores, pressing close to him and
begging alms. They also cried out a great deal, praising his generosity
and praying for blessings upon him.
'Behold the sheikh of sheikhs!' they exclaimed. 'He bears gold in his
right hand and silver in his left. Yallah! Send him a long life and
prosperity, for he loves the poor and his name is the Alms-giver. He is
not El Herir but Er Rahman and his heart over-flows with mercy as his
purse does with small coins. Come, O brothers, and taste of his
charity, which is a perpetual spring of good water beside a palm tree
full of sugar-dates! Ya Abdullah, Servant of Allah, we love you! You are
our father and mother. Your kefiyeh is the banner which goes before our
pilgrimage. Come, O brothers, and taste of his charity.'
Abdullah was not dissatisfied with these words, and the beggars said
much more to the same effect, which he regarded as signs of his
popularity, so that he opened his purse from time to time and threw
handfuls of money into the crowd, not counting the cost since he
expected to be master of all the treasure in Riad within a few days. But
the beggars were disappointed, for they had hoped that he would turn out
to be avaricious, and endeavour to elude them by walking through narrow
and lonely streets, where they might catch him. So they pressed more and
more upon him every day, trying to exhaust his patience and his charity.
In this however they failed, not understanding that the vanity of such a
man is inexhaustible and knows no price. Abdullah, too, chose rather to
be abroad during the daytime than in the evening or the early morning,
for he desired to be seen by the multitude and spoken of as he went
through the market-place. Yet on the last evening of all he fell into
the hands of the Sheikh of the beggars, and evil befell him.
The hour of prayer was passed and it was almost the time when lights are
extinguished. Then Abdullah took his sword under his aba, and also a
good knife, which he had proved in battle, and which in his hand would
