In a moment all was open between them, and they knew each other's
meaning. "Yes," said Northwick, and he felt the wish to trust in the
priest and to be ruled by him well up like a tide of hot blood from his
heart. It sank back again. This pure soul was too innocent, too unversed
in the world and its ways to know his offence in its right proportion;
to know it as Northwick himself knew it; to be able to account for it
and condone it. The affair, if he could understand it at all, would
shock him; he must blame it as relentlessly as Northwick's own child
would if her love did not save him. With the next word he closed that
which was open between them, a rift in his clouds that heaven itself had
seemed to look through. "I have a letter--a letter that I wish you would
take and mail for me in Rimouski."
"I will take it with great pleasure," said the priest, but he had the
sadness of a deep disappointment in his tone.
Northwick was disappointed, too; almost injured. He had something like a
perception that if Père Étienne had been a coarser, commoner soul, he
could have told him everything, and saved his own soul by the
confession.
About a month after the priest's departure the first steamboat came up
the Saguenay from Quebec. By this time Bird was a desperate man.
Northwick was still there in his house, with all that money which he
would not employ in any way; at once a temptation and a danger if it
should in any manner become known. The wandering poor, who are known to
the piety of the habitans as the Brethren of Christ, were a terror to
Bird, in their visits, when they came by day to receive the charity
which no one denies them; he felt himself bound to keep a watchful eye
on this old Yankee, who was either a rascal or a madman, and perhaps
both, and to see that no harm came to him; and when he heard the tramps
prowling about at night, and feeling for the alms that kind people leave
out-doors for them, he could not sleep. The old hunter neglected his
wild-beast traps, and suffered his affairs to fall into neglect; but it
was not his failing appetite, or his broken sleep alone that wore upon
him. The disappointment with his guest that was spreading through the
community, involved Bird, and he thought his neighbors looked askance at
him: as if they believed he could have moved Northwick to action, if he
would. Northwick could not have moved himself. He was like one benumbed.
He let the days go by, and made no attempt to realize the schemes for
the retrieval of his fortunes that had brought him to that region.
The sound of the steamboat's whistle was a joyful sound to Bird. He rose
and went into Northwick's room. Northwick was awake; he had heard the
whistle, too.
"Now, Mr. Warwick, or what you' name," said Bird, with trembling
eagerness, "that is the boat. I want you take you' money and go hout my
'ouse. Yes, sir. Now! Pack you' things. Don't wait for breakfast. You
get breakfast on board. Go!"
VIII.
The letter which Père Étienne posted for Northwick at Rimouski was
addressed to the editor of the Boston Events, and was published with
every advantage which scare-heading could invent. A young journalist
newly promoted to the management was trying to give the counting-room
proofs of his efficiency in the line of the Events' greatest
successes, and he wasted no thrill that the sensation in his hands was
capable of imparting to his readers. Yet the effect was disappointing,
not only in the figure of the immediate sales, but in the cumulative
value of the recognition of the fact that the Events had been selected
by Northwick as the best avenue for approaching the public. The
Abstract, in copying and commenting upon the letter, skilfully stabbed
its esteemed contemporary with an acknowledgment of its prime importance
as the organ of the American defaulters in Canada; other papers, after
questioning the document as a fake, made common cause in treating it as
a matter of little or no moment. In fact, there had been many
defalcations since Northwick's; the average of one a day in the
despatches of the Associated Press had been fully kept up, and several
of these had easily surpassed his in the losses involved, and in the
picturesqueness of the circumstances. People generally recalled with an
effort the supremely tragic claim of his case through the rumor of his
death in the railroad accident; those who distinctly remembered it
experienced a certain disgust at the man's willingness to shelter
himself so long in the doubt to which it had left not only the public,
but his own family, concerning his fate.
The evening after the letter appeared, Hilary was dining one of those
belated Englishmen who sometimes arrive in Boston after most houses are
closed for the summer on the Hill and the Back Bay. Mrs. Hilary and
Louise were already with Matt at his farm for a brief season before
opening their own house at the shore, and Hilary was living en garçon.
There were only men at the dinner, and the talk at first ran chiefly to
question of a sufficient incentive for Northwick's peculations; its
absence was the fact which all concurred in owning. In deference to his
guest's ignorance of the matter, Hilary went rapidly over it from the
beginning, and as he did so the perfectly typical character of the man
and of the situation appeared in clear relief. He ended by saying: "It
isn't at all a remarkable instance. There is nothing peculiar about it.
Northwick was well off and he wished to be better off. He had plenty of
other people's money in his hands which he controlled so entirely that
he felt as if it were his own. He used it and he lost it. Then he was
found out, and ran away. That's all."
"Then, as I understand," said the Englishman, with a strong impression
that he was making a joke, "this Mr. Northwick was not one of your
most remarkable men."
Everybody laughed obligingly, and Hilary said, "He was one of our
least remarkable men." Then, spurred on by that perverse impulse which
we Americans often have to make the worst of ourselves to an Englishman,
he added, "The defaulter seems to be taking the place of the self-made
man among us. Northwick's a type, a little differentiated from thousands
of others by the rumor of his death in the first place, and now by this
unconsciously hypocritical and nauseous letter. He's what the
commonplace American egotist must come to more and more in finance, now
that he is abandoning the career of politics, and wants to be rich
instead of great."
"Really?" said the Englishman.
Among Hilary's guests was Charles Bellingham, a bachelor of pronounced
baldness, who said he would come to meet Hilary's belated Englishman, in
quality of bear-leader to his cousin-in-law, old Bromfield Corey, a
society veteran of that period when even the swell in Boston must be an
intellectual man. He was not only old, but an invalid, and he seldom
left town in summer, and liked to go out to dinner whenever he was
asked. Bellingham came to the rescue of the national repute in his own
fashion. "I can't account for your not locking up your spoons, Hilary,
when you invited me, unless you knew where you could steal some more."
"Ah, it isn't quite like a gentleman's stealing a few spoons," old Corey
began, in the gentle way he had, and with a certain involuntary
sibilation through the gaps between his front teeth. "It's a much more
heroic thing than an ordinary theft; and I can't let you belittle it as
something commonplace because it happens every day. So does death; so
does birth; but they're not commonplace."
"They're not so frequent as defalcation with us, quite--especially
birth," suggested Bellingham.
"No," Corey went on, "every fact of this sort is preceded by the slow
and long decay of a moral nature, and that is of the most eternal and
tragical interest; and"--here Corey broke down in an old man's queer,
whimpering laugh, as the notion struck him--"if it's very common with
us, I don't know but we ought to be proud of it, as showing that we
excel all the rest of the civilized world in the proportion of decayed
moral natures to the whole population. But I wonder," he went on, "that
it doesn't produce more moralists of a sanative type than it has. Our
bad teeth have given us the best dentists in the world; our habit of
defalcation hasn't resulted yet in any ethical compensation. Sewell,
here, used to preach about such things, but I'll venture to say we shall
have no homily on Northwick from him next Sunday."
The Rev. Mr. Sewell suffered the thrust in patience. "What is the use?"
he asked, with a certain sadness. "The preacher's voice is lost in his
sounding-board nowadays, when all the Sunday newspapers are crying aloud
from twenty-eight pages illustrated."
"Perhaps they are our moralists," Corey suggested.
"Perhaps," Sewell assented.
"By the way, Hilary," said Bellingham, "did you ever know who wrote that
article in the Abstract, when Northwick's crookedness first appeared?"
"Yes," said Hilary. "It was a young fellow of twenty-four or five."
"Come off!" said Bellingham, in a slang phrase then making its way into
merited favor. "What's become of him? I haven't seen anything else like
