to meet Laura Arden, it became very hard to find evenings when any one
chanced to be free to accept an invitation to the Palazzo Braccio.
Incredible as it may seem, Laura was almost ostracised. No one who has
not seen the social ruin which such a reputation as hers brings with it,
could believe how complete it can be. Ghisleri ground his teeth in
impotent anger against the stupid and cruel superstition which possessed
his fellow-citizens, and which in a year or two would inevitably drive
Laura to leave Rome, as it had driven others before then. He could do
nothing, for the thing was never mentioned before him, and moreover he
would be far more careful now than he had ever been not to be drawn into
a quarrel on Laura's account.
For he was well aware that his position towards her was anomalous and
might very easily be misunderstood in a society where almost all were
prejudiced against her. He supposed that the world expected him to marry
her when a little more time had passed, and he knew that nothing was
further from his thoughts. It was at this time, just two years after
Herbert Arden's death, that he began to torment himself, perhaps with
better reason than in former days. Knowing as he did what might be said,
and what in all likelihood was said about his friendship for Laura, the
advisability of discontinuing his visits almost altogether presented
itself for consideration, and would not be summarily annihilated by any
specious argument. It had formerly seemed to him treacherous even to
think of loving Arden's wife, though the thought had rarely crossed his
mind even as the wildest hypothesis until some time after his friend had
been dead and buried. It now seemed as impossible as ever to love her,
but he was obliged by the commonest of common sense considerations to
admit that such an affection would not imply the smallest breach of
faith to Arden's memory. She was a widow, and any man who knew her had a
right to love her and to ask her hand if he so pleased. That right,
then, was his also, if ever he should need to avail himself of it. But
it was precisely because he did not love Laura Arden that the doubt as
to his own conduct arose. As he had no intention of asking her to marry
him, could he and should he put her in such a position as to favour
speculation in regard to her? Unquestionably he should not. But in that
case, what was he to do? The old, ignoble, worldly instinct told him to
create a diversion by causing gossip in other directions, where scandal
would be easily manufactured, and then to procure himself the liberty of
doing what he pleased behind the world's back, so to say. But to his
credit it must be admitted that he did not entertain the idea for a
moment. It disgusted him and he sought for a solution elsewhere, trying,
in his imagination, every conceivable expedient by which he fancied that
he might enjoy Laura's society without compromising her in any way. In
such cases, however, it is hard to find a stratagem which shall at once
satisfy the exigencies of the situation, and an honest man's conscience
and sense of honour. He had long given up the custom of going to see
Laura every other day, and when she was at her mother's house he was
rarely invited, on account of the Princess's prejudice against him, and
which no good conduct on his part seemed capable of destroying. To give
up seeing Laura altogether was a sacrifice so great that he did not feel
strong enough to make it; nor, perhaps, would Laura herself have
understood it. Yet, unless he kept away from her for a long time, he
knew that the all-wise world would continue to say that he saw her
every day. The more he thought about it, the harder he found it to come
to any decision. Considering the terms on which he now saw her, and that
in former times they had more than once spoken of the same matter, he at
last reluctantly resolved to lay the question before her, and to let her
decide what he should do. He hated to ask advice of any one, and he
detested even the appearance of shifting responsibility upon another.
But he could see no other way.
Laura found it as hard to come to a determination as he had. During the
last six months he had become almost a necessary part of her life, and
she would have turned to him as naturally as he now turned to her for
counsel in any difficult situation. Her own character was too simple and
straightforward to demand the elaborate explanations of the nature of
friendship, which he required of himself; but when he put the difficulty
before her she saw it plainly enough.
"For myself, I am perfectly indifferent," she said at last. "I do not
see why I should sacrifice anything because there are people bad enough
to imagine evil where there is none. You and I need no justification of
our friendship, and as I cannot see that I, at least, am much in debt to
the world, it is not clear to me why I should care what it says. But I
have to consider my mother."
"And yourself, in spite of what you say," answered Ghisleri. "You
yourself are first--your mother next."
"Of course you, as a man, look at it in that light. But if it were not
for my mother, do not imagine that I should take any notice of what
people choose to say. They have said such vile things of me already that
they can hardly invent anything worse. If it were perfectly indifferent
to you, I do not say but that I might prefer to be careful."
"If what were indifferent?" asked Ghisleri, who did not understand the
rather enigmatic speech.
"If you were quite an indifferent person to me--which you are not."
Her eyes met his frankly, and she smiled as she spoke. There was not a
trace of timidity or shyness in the speech. She had no reason whatever
for concealing the fact that she liked him. But he, on his part,
experienced an odd sensation, the meaning of which was by no means clear
to him. He could not have told whether it partook more of satisfaction
or of disappointment, but it was a distinct emotion of a kind which he
had never expected to feel in her presence.
"I am glad you like me," he said. "I should be very unhappy if you did
not. I value your friendship more than anything in the world."
"You have earned it if ever a man did," she answered.
"It is enough that I have it. I do not know how I have deserved anything
half so precious."
"I know more of what you have done for me than you suppose," said Laura.
"Never mind that. The facts are simple enough. We are good friends; we
depend, for a certain amount of happiness, upon seeing one another
often; because the world does not understand, it expects us to sacrifice
our inclinations. For my part, I refuse. There is only one person to be
consulted--my mother, who is dearer to me than any friend can be. I will
speak to her and make her see the truth. In the mean time do nothing,
and forget all this absurd complication. It is only the unreal shadow of
an artificial morality which has no foundation nor true existence
whatever. You know that better than I."
Ghisleri laughed.
"When you choose to express yourself strongly, you do not lack force,"
he said. "In the old days I used to fancy that if you spoke out plainly,
your sentiments would take the form of a prayer, or a hymn, or something
of that sort."
"I am much more human than you think me," Laura answered. "I told you so
once, and you would not believe me."
Laura therefore took the matter into her own hands, and spoke to her
mother about it. But the Princess was not easily persuaded, and when the
summer came the two were still at variance. A woman like Laura's mother
is hard to move when she has allowed a prejudice to take firm root in
her mind, and becomes altogether obstinate when that prejudice is
tolerably well founded. It was an unquestionable fact that Ghisleri had
always been considered a dangerous and rather fast man, whose
acquaintance did not improve a woman's reputation, and the Princess of
Gerano had no means of understanding his real character. It was a
constant wonder to her that Laura should like him. The excellent lady
never at all realised that the blood of poor Jack Carlyon was in his
daughter's veins, and that, sooner or later, it might make itself felt
and produce rather unexpected results. Carlyon's chief characteristic
had been his recklessness of consequences. If the Princess had
remembered that, she would have understood better why Laura had married
Herbert Arden in spite of his deformities, and why she made an intimate
friend of Pietro Ghisleri in spite of his reputation. But Laura had
never shown any subversive tendencies in childhood or early youth, and
her fearless truthfulness, her rather melancholy and meditative nature
when a young girl, and her really charitable heart had combined with her
pale beauty and saintly eyes to make her mother suppose her infinitely
more submissive, obedient, and nun-like than she actually was. After
long and patient discussion Laura turned rather suddenly.
"I am not a child, mother," she said. "I know Signor Ghisleri very much
better than you, and better than most people can. I know enough of his
past life to understand that, although he has done many foolish things
and some cruel ones, he is not what I call a bad man, and he has changed
very much for the better during the last two years. I will not give up
his friendship for the sake of pleasing a set of people who do not even
