



 



It would have been interesting to 
have seen that young man, the mask 
removed, frightening the senate into 
caUing Rome Commodia, and then 
in a hnen robe promenading in the attributes of a priest of Anubis through 
a seraglio of six hundred girls and 
mignons who prostituted themselves 
as he passed. There was a speetacle, 
which in its monstrosity Nero had 
not surpassed. But Nero was vieux 
Jeu. Commodus outdid him, first in 
debauchery, then in the arena, Nero 
had died while in training to kill a 
lion; Commodus did not take the 
trouble to train. It was the lions that 
were trained, not he, A skin on his 
shoulders, a club In his hand, he descended naked into the ring, and there 
felled beasts and men. Then, acclaimed as Hercules, he returned to 
the pulvinar, and a mignon on one 
side, a mistress on the other, ordered 







 


the giiard to massacre the spectators 
and set fire to Rome. After entering the arena six or seven hundred 
times, and there vanquishing men 
whose eyes had been put out and 
whose legs were tied, the colossal 
statue which Nero had made after his 
own image was altered; to the top 
came the bust of Commodus, to the 
base this legend : The victor of tea 
Ihousavd gladiators, Commodus-Her- 
rules, Iiiiperator. 

Meanwhile conspirators were at 
work. Like Nero, Commodus could 
have sought in vain for a friend. His 
life was attempted again and again; 
he escaped, but never tlie plotters; 
only when they had gone there were 
more. He knew he was doomed. 
There was the usual comet; the statue 
of Hercules hnd perspired visibly; an 
owl had been caught above his bed- 
room, and once he had wiped in his 
hair the hand which he had plunged 
in the warm wound of a gladiator, 
dead at his feet. These omens could 
mean but one thing. None the less, if 
he were doomed, so were others. 
One day one of those miserable children th;it the emperors kept about 
them found a tablet. It was as good as 
anything else to play with; and, as 
the child tossed it through the hall, 
the one woman that had loved Commodus caught it and read on it that 
she and all the household were to die. 
Within an hour Commodus was killed. 
There is a page in Lampridus, 
which he quotes as coming from the 
lost chronicles of Marius Maximus, 
and which contains the joy of the 
senate at the news. It is too long for 
transcription, but as a bit of realism 
it is unique. There is a shiver in 
every line. You hear the voices of 
hundreds, drunk with fury, frenzied 
with deiicc'it; the fierce welcome that 
greeted Pertinax — a slave's grandson, 
who was emperor for a miniitf— the 
joy of hate assuaged. 

The dehght of the senate was not 
shared by the pretorians. Pertinax 
was promptly massacred ; the throne 
was put up at auction; there were two 
or three emperors at once, and presently the purple was seized by Septimus Severus, a rigid, white-haired 
disciplinarian, who in his admiration 
for Marcus Aurelius, founded that 
second dynasty of the Antonias with 
which antiquity may be said to end. 

When he had gone, his elder son, 
Bastian, renamed Aurelius Antonin, 
and because of a cloak he had invented nicknamed Caracalla, bounded , 
like a panther on the throne. In 
a moment he was gnawing at his 
brother's throat, and immediately 
there occurred a massacre such 



 



Rome h.id never seen, Xiphilin says 
the nights Were not long enough to 
kill all of the condemned. Twenty 
thousand people were slaughtered in 
twenty hours. The streets were 
emptied, the theatres closed. 

The blood that ran then must have 
been in rillets too thin to slake Caracalla's thirst, for simultaneously almost, he was in Gaul, in Dacia — 
wherever there was prey. African by 
his father, Syrian on his mother's 
side, Caracalla was not a panther 
merely; he was a herd of them. He 
had the cruelty, the treachery and 
guile of a wilderness of tiger-cats. 
No man, said a thinker, is wholly 
base, Caracalla was. He had not a 
taste; not a vice, even, which was not 
washed and rewashed in blood. In a 
moment of excitement Commodus set 
his guards on the spectators in the 
amphitheatre; the damage was slight. 



 



