“I suppose so. There’ll probably be more Chinamen than New Yorkers
there. They know a great deal more about art.”
“You’re getting deucedly sarcastic, Griggs,” observed Crowdie. “You’d
better tell Miss Lauderdale more about the life to come. Your hobby
can’t be tired yet, and if you ride him industriously, it will soon be
time for luncheon.”
“We’d better have it at once if you two are going to quarrel,” suggested
Hester, with a laugh.
“Oh, we never quarrel,” answered Crowdie. “Besides, I’ve got no soul,
Griggs says, and he sold his own to the printer’s devil ages ago--so
that the life to come is a perfectly safe subject.”
“What do you mean by saying that Walter has no soul?” asked Hester,
looking up quickly at Griggs.
“My dear lady,” he answered, “please don’t be so terribly angry with me.
In the first place, I said it in fun; and secondly, it’s quite true; and
thirdly, it’s very lucky for him that he has none.”
“Are you joking now, or are you unintentionally funny?” asked Crowdie.
“I don’t think it’s very funny to be talking about people having no
souls,” said Katharine.
“Do you think every one has a soul, Miss Lauderdale?” asked Griggs,
beginning to walk about again.
“Yes--of course. Don’t you?”
Griggs looked at her a moment in silence, as though he were hesitating
as to what he should say.
“Can you see the soul, as you did the defect in my eyes?” asked
Katharine, smiling.
“Sometimes--sometimes one almost fancies that one might.”
“And what do you see in mine, may I ask? A defect?”
He was quite near to her. She looked up at him earnestly with her pure
girl’s eyes, wide, grey and honest. The fresh pallor of her skin was
thrown into relief by the black she wore, and her features by the rich
stuff which covered the high back of the chair. There was a deeper
interest in her expression than Griggs often saw in the faces of those
with whom he talked, but it was not that which fascinated him. There was
something suggestive of holy things, of innocent suffering, of the
romance of a virgin martyr--something which, perhaps, took him back to
strange sights he had seen in his youth.
He stood looking down into her eyes, a gaunt, world-worn fighter of
fifty years, with a strong, ugly, determined but yet kindly face--the
face of a man who has passed beyond a certain barrier which few men ever
reach at all.
Crowdie dropped his hand, holding his brush, and gazing at the two in
silent and genuine delight. The contrast was wonderful, he thought. He
would have given much to paint them as they were before him, with their
expressions--with the very thoughts of which the look in each face was
born. Whatever Crowdie might be at heart, he was an artist first.
And Hester watched them, too, accustomed to notice whatever struck her
husband’s attention. A very different nature was hers from any of the
three--one reserved for an unusual destiny, and with something of fate’s
shadowy painting already in all her outward self--passionate, first, and
having, also, many qualities of mercy and cruelty at passion’s command,
but not having anything of the keen insight into the world spiritual,
and material, which in varied measure belonged to each of the others.
“And what defect do you see in my soul?” asked Katharine, her exquisite
lips just parting in a smile.
“Forgive me!” exclaimed Griggs, as though roused from a reverie. “I
didn’t realize that I was staring at you.” He was an oddly natural man
at certain times. Katharine almost laughed.
“I didn’t realize it either,” she answered. “I was too much interested
in what I thought you were going to say.”
“He’s a very clever fellow, Miss Lauderdale,” said Crowdie, going on
with his painting. “But you’ll turn his head completely. To be so much
interested--not in what he has said, or is saying, or even is going to
say, but just in what you think he possibly may say--it’s amazing!
Griggs, you’re not half enough nattered! But then, you’re so spoilt!”
“Yes--in my old age, people are spoiling me.” Griggs smiled rather
sourly. “I can’t read souls, Miss Lauderdale,” he continued. “But if I
could, I should rather read yours than most books. It has something to
say.”
“It’s impossible to be more vague, I’m sure,” observed Crowdie.
“It’s impossible to be more flattering,” said Katharine, quietly. “Thank
you, Mr. Griggs.”
She was beginning to be tired of Crowdie’s observations upon what Griggs
said--possibly because she was beginning to like Griggs himself more
than she had expected.
“I didn’t mean to be either vague or flattering. It’s servile to be the
one and weak to be the other. I said what I thought. Do you call it
flattery to paint a beautiful portrait of Miss Lauderdale?”
“Not unless I make it more beautiful than she is,” answered the painter.
“You can’t.”
“That’s decisive, at all events,” laughed Crowdie. “Not but that I agree
with you, entirely.”
“Oh, I don’t mean it as you do,” answered Griggs. “That would be
flattery--exactly what I don’t mean. Miss Lauderdale is perfectly well
aware that you’re a great portrait painter and that she is not
altogether the most beautiful young lady living at the present moment.
You mean flesh and blood and eyes and hair. I don’t. I mean all that
flesh and blood and eyes and hair don’t mean, and never can mean.”
“Soul,” suggested Crowdie. “I was talking about that to Miss Lauderdale
the last time she sat for me--that was on Wednesday, wasn’t it--the day
before yesterday? It seems like last year, for some reason or other.
Yes, I know what you mean. You needn’t get into such a state of frenzied
excitement.”
“I appeal to you, Mrs. Crowdie--was I talking excitedly?”
“A little,” answered Hester, who was incapable of disagreeing with her
husband.
“Oh--well--I daresay,” said Griggs. “It hasn’t been my weakness in life
to get excited, though.” He laughed.
“Walter always makes you talk, Mr. Griggs,” answered Mrs. Crowdie.
“A great deal too much. I think I shall be rude, and not stay to
luncheon, after all.”
“Nonsense!” exclaimed Crowdie. “Don’t go in for being young and
eccentric--the ‘man of genius’ style, who runs in and out like a hen in
a thunder-storm, and is in everybody’s way when he’s not wanted and
can’t be found when people want him. You’ve outgrown that sort of
absurdity long ago.”
Katharine would have liked to see Griggs’ face at that moment, but he
was behind her again. There was something in the relation of the two
men which she found it hard to understand. Crowdie was much younger than
Griggs--fourteen or fifteen years, she fancied, and Griggs did not seem
to be at all the kind of man with whom people would naturally be
familiar or take liberties, to use the common phrase. Yet they talked
together like a couple of schoolboys. She should not have thought,
either, that they could be mutually attracted. Yet they appeared to have
many ideas in common, and to understand each other wonderfully well.
Crowdie was evidently not repulsive to Griggs as he was to many men she
knew--to Bright and Miner, for instance--and the two had undoubtedly
been very intimate in former days. Nevertheless, it was strange to hear
the younger man, who was little more than a youth in appearance,
comparing the celebrated Paul Griggs to a hen in a thunder-storm, and
still stranger to see that Griggs did not resent it at all. An older
woman might have unjustly suspected that the elderly man of letters was
in love with Hester Crowdie, but such an idea could never have crossed
Katharine’s mind. In that respect she was singularly unsophisticated.
She had been accustomed to see her beautiful mother surrounded and
courted by men of all ages, and she knew that her mother was utterly
indifferent to them except in so far as she liked to be admired. In some
books, men fall in love with married women, and Katharine had always
been told that those were bad books, and had accepted the fact without
question and without interest.
But in ordinary matters she was keen of perception. It struck her that
there was some bond or link between the two men, and it seemed strange
to her that there should be--as strange as though she had seen an old
wolf playing amicably with a little rabbit. She thought of the two
animals in connection with the two men.
While she had been thinking, Hester and Griggs had been talking together
in lower tones, on the divan, and Crowdie had been painting
industriously.
“It’s time for luncheon,” said Mrs. Crowdie. “Mr. Griggs says he really
must go away very early, and perhaps, if Katharine will stay, she will
