Miss MERRY GOROND assuredly was no 
Professor 's daughter. If a social critic had 
observed that she belonged to the "gay set," 
Miss Gorond could hardly have brought a 
case of slander against him. Neither would 
she have cared to ; the term would not have 
troubled her ; perhaps, indeed, she took a 
certain pride in it ; such girls do. 
Merry Gorond welcomed Marcy with 
expressive hospitality at her little dance, that 
night. 
Her mother 's parlors were full of young 
people ; but Mrs. Gorond was not visible. 
Miss Merry said she had a headache, and 
added : " What 's the odds ? Better time 
without old folks, don't we, Marcy? So 
glad to see you ! Haven't seen you at a 
hop for a perfect age. How low you look ! 
You need something lively. I 'll put you 
clown for a waltz and two polkas, directly. 
Won't that chirk you up ? " 
 
" I am honored, I'm sure." Donald, a 
graceful fellow in his evening suit, bowed 
low, but looked at Miss Gorond with eyes 
that did not smile. But his lips did. His 
laugh rang out heavily if not heartily. He 
had come to have a good time at Merry 
Gorond 's gay house, and he meant to get it. 
He was surprised that it came so hard. 
Merry Gorond called herself a young 
lady, and she meant in a careless, 
good-natured way, to deserve the name. But she was 
the kind of girl whom a fellow smokes a 
cigarette with, or takes too long drives with, 
too late, alone, on dark nights ; the sort of 
girl whose hand a man would feel at liberty 
to hold without asking ; and when he had 
got home would wish he hadn't. 
Miss Gorond was a handsome girl; a 
very handsome girl. Don remembered that 
he had forgotten how striking she was. She 
was a brilliant, blazing beauty, black of hair 
and eye, solid of figure, large and imposing 
at sight. On acquaintance, she did not 
seem so imposing ; dignity she had none ; 
her manners frothed over in that pert viva 
city which a certain kind of girl takes for 
cleverness. She wore a red satin dress (a 
scarlet red), much a-glitter with white bead 
trimmings. The music went to Donald 's 
head like light wine ; there was always good 
music at Merry Gorond s. He began to 
feel in better spirits. What a jolly place 
it was ! Don was glad to forget everything 
outside of it. 
She talked to him in merry snatches as 
they waltzed : 
" So sorry Heard of your scrape 
Mean of the faculty  said it was. 
Oh ! Do you think that 's too tall a word ? 
But when a girl is worked up about a 
friend Suspended ? Why, you poor 
fellow! You don't deserve it. Handsome, 
gentlemanly boy like you, and such a 
dancer ! So glad you came straight here to 
be comforted ! I'll cheer you up, Marcy ! 
Awfully good friends, ain't we ? Always 
depend on Merry Gorond ! She 's your girl 
every time ! Come into the reception- 
room, do. Let 's elope out of the 
madding crowd. Bring me an ice and cham 
pagne, Don, that 's a good fellow." 
When Donald had brought the ices, and 
they had eaten, and cooled, and played with 
the champagne, and chatted confidentially, 
he was a little troubled to find how 
confidential he was becoming with Merry ; he 
 
didn't mean to ; he had never confided in 
Merry, the young lady suggested another 
glass ; " she had danced too hard," she said. 
So they had another glass ; and so they had 
another. And Donald told her all about 
the hazing scrape, for she asked, and she 
was very much interested in the affair ; and 
why had he never known she was such a 
sympathetic girl ? 
It was very pleasant to be told that he was 
an abused fellow ; that he was the victim of 
some sort of jealousy. Who could suspend 
him for a little college fun like that, without 
a motive ? Miss Gorond was sure there was 
a motive. So mean of them ! 
" And I'm so sorry ! " added Merry ten 
derly. " I'm the best friend you have, Don. 
I'd do more for you than any other fellow 
I know." 
She turned her handsome face, uplifted 
like a large flower ; her dark eyes swam with 
something that looked like tears. His own 
head turned light and strange. Why had 
he never realized what a wonderful girl she 
was? 
Somebody came into the reception-room 
just then and called Merry Gorond away. 
Don sat on, alone, for a few minutes. He felt 
strangely. What had he done ? He was not 
in the habit of kissing young ladies. The 
girls he liked were well-bred, and no man 
ever thought of taking a liberty with them. 
His head swam. He was giddy and be 
wildered. 
" I'd better go home," thought Donald, 
in a confused way. He glided out into the 
hall, found his hat, and got away without 
making his adieus. There was no hostess 
but Merry. How could he go up and shake 
hands with Merry ? A sudden sick distaste 
of her filled his whole nature. 
He dashed out into the cold night air, mis 
erably, and got home as fast as he could. 
When he reached his room, he heard 
voices. Jamie Fleet was talking to some 
one, not one of the fellows. Don looked 
in, reluctant to be seen, he felt so unlike 
himself. 
His father sat there before the fire, with 
Jamie. 
CHAPTER X. 
A MISERABLE BOY. 
"WHY, father! " said Donald, with the 
accent which expresses so much surprise 
that it is not easy to determine how much 
pleasure it contains. 
" Well, Donald, I thought I'd come on. 
What have you been up to now, anyhow ? I 
thought it was about time I looked into 
it. I've got let me see " Mr. Marcy 
pulled out a three-hundred-dollar watch, at 
