Wilson told them to keep heart, and promised to do his best in their
defense when the case should come to trial. Justice Robinson came
presently, and with him Constable Blake. They examined the room
thoroughly. They found the knife and the sheath. Wilson noticed that
there were finger-prints on the knife-handle. That pleased him, for the
twins had required the earliest comers to make a scrutiny of their hands
and clothes, and neither these people nor Wilson himself had found any
blood-stains upon them. Could there be a possibility that the twins had
spoken the truth when they said they found the man dead when they ran
into the house in answer to the cry for help? He thought of that
mysterious girl at once. But this was not the sort of work for a girl to
be engaged in. No matter; Tom Driscoll's room must be examined.
After the coroner's jury had viewed the body and its surroundings,
Wilson suggested a search up-stairs, and he went along. The jury forced
an entrance to Tom's room, but found nothing, of course.
The coroner's jury found that the homicide was committed by Luigi, and
that Angelo was accessory to it.
The town was bitter against the unfortunates, and for the first few days
after the murder they were in constant danger of being lynched. The
grand jury presently indicted Luigi for murder in the first degree, and
Angelo as accessory before the fact. The twins were transferred from the
city jail to the county prison to await trial.
Wilson examined the finger-marks on the knife-handle and said to
himself, "Neither of the twins made those marks." Then manifestly there
was another person concerned, either in his own interest or as hired
assassin.
But who could it be? That, he must try to find out. The safe was not
open, the cash-box was closed, and had three thousand dollars in it.
Then robbery was not the motive, and revenge was. Where had the murdered
man an enemy except Luigi? There was but that one person in the world
with a deep grudge against him.
The mysterious girl! The girl was a great trial to Wilson. If the motive
had been robbery, the girl might answer; but there wasn't any girl that
would want to take this old man's life for revenge. He had no quarrels
with girls; he was a gentleman.
Wilson had perfect tracings of the finger-marks of the knife-handle; and
among his glass-records he had a great array of finger-prints of women
and girls, collected during the last fifteen or eighteen years, but he
scanned them in vain, they successfully withstood every test; among them
were no duplicates of the prints on the knife.
The presence of the knife on the stage of the murder was a worrying
circumstance for Wilson. A week previously he had as good as admitted to
himself that he believed Luigi had possessed such a knife, and that he
still possessed it notwithstanding his pretense that it had been stolen.
And now here was the knife, and with it the twins. Half the town had
said the twins were humbugging when they claimed that they had lost
their knife, and now these people were joyful, and said, "I told you
so!"
If their finger-prints had been on the handle--but it was useless to
bother any further about that; the finger-prints on the handle were not
theirs--that he knew perfectly.
Wilson refused to suspect Tom; for first, Tom couldn't murder
anybody--he hadn't character enough; secondly, if he could murder a
person he wouldn't select his doting benefactor and nearest relative;
thirdly, self-interest was in the way; for while the uncle lived, Tom
was sure of a free support and a chance to get the destroyed will
revived again, but with the uncle gone, that chance was gone, too. It
was true the will had really been revived, as was now discovered, but
Tom could not have been aware of it, or he would have spoken of it, in
his native talky, unsecretive way. Finally, Tom was in St. Louis when
the murder was done, and got the news out of the morning journals, as
was shown by his telegram to his aunt. These speculations were
unemphasized sensations rather than articulated thoughts, for Wilson
would have laughed at the idea of seriously connecting Tom with the
murder.
Wilson regarded the case of the twins as desperate--in fact, about
hopeless. For he argued that if a confederate was not found, an
enlightened Missouri jury would hang them, sure; if a confederate was
found, that would not improve the matter, but simply furnish one more
person for the sheriff to hang. Nothing could save the twins but the
discovery of a person who did the murder on his sole personal
account--an undertaking which had all the aspect of the impossible.
Still, the person who made the finger-prints must be sought. The twins
might have no case with him, but they certainly would have none without
him.
So Wilson mooned around, thinking, thinking, guessing, guessing, day and
night, and arriving nowhere. Whenever he ran across a girl or a woman he
was not acquainted with, he got her finger-prints, on one pretext or
another; and they always cost him a sigh when he got home, for they
never tallied with the finger-marks on the knife-handle.
As to the mysterious girl, Tom swore he knew no such girl, and did not
remember ever seeing a girl wearing a dress like the one described by
Wilson. He admitted that he did not always lock his room, and that
sometimes the servants forgot to lock the house doors; still, in his
opinion the girl must have made but few visits or she would have been
discovered. When Wilson tried to connect her with the stealing-raid, and
thought she might have been the old woman's confederate, if not the very
thief herself disguised as an old woman, Tom seemed stuck, and also much
interested, and said he would keep a sharp eye out for this person or
persons, although he was afraid that she or they would be too smart to
venture again into a town where everybody would now be on the watch for
a good while to come.
Everybody was pitying Tom, he looked so quiet and sorrowful, and seemed
to feel his great loss so deeply. He was playing a part, but it was not
all a part. The picture of his alleged uncle, as he had last seen him,
was before him in the dark pretty frequently, when he was awake, and
called again in his dreams, when he was asleep. He wouldn't go into the
room where the tragedy had happened. This charmed the doting Mrs. Pratt,
who realized now, "as she had never done before," she said, what a
sensitive and delicate nature her darling had, and how he adored his
poor uncle.
CHAPTER XX.
The Murderer Chuckles.
Even the clearest and most perfect circumstantial evidence is likely to
be at fault, after all, and therefore ought to be received with great
caution. Take the case of any pencil, sharpened by any woman: if you
have witnesses, you will find she did it with a knife; but if you take
simply the aspect of the pencil, you will say she did it with her
teeth.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
The weeks dragged along, no friend visiting the jailed twins but their
counsel and Aunt Patsy Cooper, and the day of trial came at last--the
heaviest day in Wilson's life; for with all his tireless diligence he
had discovered no sign or trace of the missing confederate.
"Confederate" was the term he had long ago privately accepted for that
person--not as being unquestionably the right term, but as being at
least possibly the right one, though he was never able to understand why
the twins did not vanish and escape, as the confederate had done,
instead of remaining by the murdered man and getting caught there.
The court-house was crowded, of course, and would remain so to the
finish, for not only in the town itself, but in the country for miles
around, the trial was the one topic of conversation among the people.
Mrs. Pratt, in deep mourning, and Tom with a weed on his hat, had seats
near Pembroke Howard, the public prosecutor, and back of them sat a
great array of friends of the family. The twins had but one friend
present to keep their counsel in countenance, their poor old sorrowing
landlady. She sat near Wilson, and looked her friendliest. In the
"nigger corner" sat Chambers; also Roxy, with good clothes on, and her
bill of sale in her pocket. It was her most precious possession, and she
never parted with it, day or night. Tom had allowed her thirty-five
dollars a month ever since he came into his property, and had said that
he and she ought to be grateful to the twins for making them rich; but
had roused such a temper in her by this speech that he did not repeat
the argument afterward. She said the old Judge had treated her child a
thousand times better than he deserved, and had never done her an
unkindness in his life; so she hated these outlandish devils for killing
him, and shouldn't ever sleep satisfied till she saw them hanged for it.
She was here to watch the trial, now, and was going to lift up just one
"hooraw" over it if the County Judge put her in jail a year for it. She
gave her turbaned head a toss and said, "When dat verdic' comes, I's
gwine to lif' dat roof, now, I tell you."
