expected that. I've an idea you can tell me where I've gone wrong, if I
have; it's all a great while ago. Have you ever been at the County Fair
at Pymantoning since----"
He stopped, and Cornelia perceived that it was with doubt whether it
might not still be a tender point with her.
"Oh, yes, I've forgiven the Fair long ago." She laughed, and he laughed
with her.
"It's best not to keep a grudge against a defeat, I suppose. If we do,
it won't help us. I've had my quarrel with the Pymantoning County Fair,
too; but it wasn't with the Fine Arts Committee."
"No, I didn't suppose you wanted to exhibit anything there," said
Cornelia.
"Why, I don't know. It might be a very good thing for me. Why not? I'd
like to exhibit this very picture there. It's an impression--not just
what I'd do, now--of the trotting-match I saw there that day."
"Yes," said Cornelia, letting her eyes fall, "Mrs. Burton said you had
painted it, or you were going to."
"Well, I did," said Ludlow, "and nobody seemed to know what I was
after. I wonder if they would in Pymantoning! But what I wanted to ask
was that you would try to look at it from the Pymantoning point of
view. I hope you haven't lost that yet?"
"Well, I haven't been away such a great while," said Cornelia, smiling.
"No; but still, one sophisticates in New York very soon. I'll tell you
what I've got a notion of! Well, it's all very much in the air, yet,
but so far as I've thought it out, it's the relation of our art to our
life. It sounds rather boring, I know, and I suppose I'm a bit of a
theorist; I always was. It's easy enough to prove to the few that our
life is full of poetry and picturesqueness; but can I prove it to the
many? Can the people themselves be made to see it and feel it? That's
the question. Can they be interested in a picture--a real work of art
that asserts itself in a good way? Can they be taught to care for my
impression of the trotting-match at the Pymantoning County Fair, as
much as they would for a chromo of the same thing, and be made to feel
that there was something more in it perhaps?"
He sat fronting her, with his head down over the hat he held between
his hands; now he lifted his face and looked into hers. She smiled at
his earnestness, and for a little instant felt herself older and wiser
in her practicality.
"You might send it out to the next County Fair, and see."
"Why, that's just what I thought of!" he said, and he laughed. "Do you
suppose they would let me exhibit it in the Fine Arts Department?"
"I don't believe they would give you the first premium," said Cornelia.
"Well, well, then I should have to put up with the second! I should
like to get the first, I confess," Ludlow went on seriously. "The
premium would mean something to me--not so much, of course, as a
popular recognition. What do you think the chance of that would be?"
"Well, I haven't seen the picture yet," Cornelia suggested.
"Ah, that's true! I forgot that," he said, and they both laughed. "But
what do you think of my theory? It seems to me," and now he leaned back
in his chair, and smiled upon her with that bright earnestness which
women always found charming in him, "it seems to me that the worst
effect of an artist's life is to wrap him up in himself, and separate
him from his kind. Even if he goes in for what they call popular
subjects, he takes from the many and gives to the few; he ought to give
something back to the crowd--he ought to give everything back. But the
terrible question is whether they'll have it; and he has no means of
finding out."
"And you've come to one of the crowd to inquire?" Cornelia asked. Up to
that moment she had been flattered, too, by his serious appeal to her,
and generously pleased. But the chance offered, and she perversely
seized it.
He protested with a simple "Ah!" and she was ashamed.
"I don't know," she hurried on to say. "I never thought about it in
that way."
"Well, it isn't so simple any more, after you once begin. I don't
suppose I shall be at peace quite till I try what I can do; and seeing
you Sunday brought Pymantoning all so freshly back, that I've been
wondering, from time to time, ever since, whether you could possibly
help me."
"I will try, as the good little boy said," Cornelia assented.
"It makes me feel like a good little boy to have asked it." Ludlow did
not profit by the chance which the conclusion of their agreement
offered him, to go. He stayed and talked on, and from time to time he
recurred to what he had asked, and said he was afraid she would think
he was using her, and tried to explain that he really was not, but was
approaching her most humbly for her opinion. He could not make it out,
but they got better and better acquainted in the fun they had with his
failures. It went on till Cornelia said, "Now, really, if you keep it
up, I shall have to stand you in the corner, with your face to the
wall."
"Oh, do!" he entreated. "It would be such a relief."
"You know I was a teacher two winters," she said, "and have actually
stood boys in corners."
That seemed to interest him afresh; he made her tell him all about her
school-teaching. He stayed till the bell rang for dinner, and he
suffered a decent moment to pass before he rose then.
"After all," he said at parting, "I think you'd better decide that it's
merely my Manet you're coming to see."
"Yes, merely the Manet," Cornelia assented. "If I choose, the Ludlows
will all be stood in the corners with their faces to the wall."
She found her own face very flushed, when she climbed up to her room
for a moment before going in to dinner, and her heart seemed to be
beating in her neck. She looked at Mrs. Westley's note. It stated
everything so explicitly that she did not see why Mr. Ludlow need have
come to explain. She remembered now that she had forgotten to tell him
she was not going.
XXI.
Cornelia thought Mrs. Westley would come for Charmian and herself in
her carriage; but when they went down to her in the Synthesis office,
they found that she had planned to walk with them to Ludlow's studio.
She said it was not a great way off; and she had got into the habit of
walking there, when he was painting her; she supposed they would rather
walk after their work. Cornelia said "Oh, yes," and Charmian asked, at
her perfervidest, Had Mr. Ludlow painted her? and Mrs. Westley
answered calmly. Yes; she believed he did not think it very successful;
her husband liked it, though. Charmian said, Oh, how much she should
like to see it, and Mrs. Westley said she must show it her some time.
Cornelia thought Mrs. Westley very pretty, but she decided that she did
not care to see Ludlow's picture of her.
His studio stood a little back from the sidewalk; it was approached by
a broad sloping pavement, and had two wide valves for the doorway. He
opened the door himself, at their ring, and they found themselves in a
large, gray room which went to the roof, with its vaulted ceiling; this
was pierced with a vast window, that descended half-way down the
northward wall. "My studio started in life as a gentleman's stable;
then it fell into the hands of a sculptor, and then it got as low as a
painter." He said to Charmian, "Mr. Plaisdell has told me how
ingeniously you treated one of your rooms that you took for a studio."
Charmian answered with dark humility, "But a studio without a painter
in it!" and there were some offers and refusals of compliment between
them, which ended in his saying that he would like to see her studio,
and her saying that Mrs. Maybough would always be glad to see him. Then
he talked with Mrs. Westley, who was very pleasant to Cornelia while
the banter with Charmian went on, and proposed to show his pictures; he
fancied that was what he had got them there, for; but he would make a
decent pretence of the Manet, first.
The Manet was one of that painter's most excessive; it was almost
insolent in its defiance of the old theory and method of art. "He had
to go too far, in those days, or he wouldn't have arrived anywhere,"
Ludlow said, dreamily, as he stood looking with them at the picture.
"He fell back to the point he had really meant to reach." He put the
picture away amidst the sighs and murmurs of Mrs. Westley and Charmian,
and the silence of Cornelia, which he did not try to break. He began to
show his own pictures, taking them at random, as it seemed, from the
ranks of canvasses faced against the wall. "You know we impressionists
are nothing if not prolific," he said, and he kept turning the frame on
his easel, now for a long picture, and now for a tall one. The praises
of the others followed him, but Cornelia could not speak. Some of the
pictures she did not like; some she thought were preposterous; but
there were some that she found brilliantly successful, and a few that
