remaining home daughter having gone to visit a 
married sister. She gave them a hearty welcome, 
though she could not forbear bantering her sister 
on " trapesing about as if she were not more than 
twenty,'
"I've almost gone back to twenty," declared 
Mrs. Herrick. " I never felt so young and so re- 
solved to make the best of what remains to life. 
'To whom much is given' — you remember, Mar- 
tha ? I feel as if the whole storehouse of God's 
beautiful earth had been opened to me." 
And if she felt so, how ought it to be with 
herself, Sabrina Eastwood asked in the thinking 
fashion so much her wont of late. 
Stacy had planned to return to Chester House 
with Sabrina. But she had unconsciously learned 
some lessons she thought she had all by heart, from 
sheer necessity, long ago. Sabrina's unassuming 
solicitude had put even her best efforts to shame. 
The two were sitting on the old porch in the 
soft light of the new moon. A neighbor had 
come in, and the elders were having an old-time 
chat in the sitting-room. 
Stacy had said, "Must you go to-morrow.?" and 
Sabrina had answered. 
"You won't mind if I don't return to Greenfields 
with you — will you.?" Stacy began hesitatingly. 
"Why!" Sabrina exclaimed, "I thought" — 
"Yes, I meant to. I was quite tired of this 
place every summer. But I have changed even 
to myself. I can't explain, only I seem to have 
grown out of my careless girlhood, the complacent 
satisfaction with myself that I look back to with 
a feeling of shame. I have always thought if I 
wanted a lovely pattern for my life, I should take 
Pearl Disbrowe" — 
"There could not be a purer or sweeter one," 
Sabrina subjoined softly, in a pause. 
Stacy's hand slipped gently over Sabrina's, and 
in the vague light she could see the shine of the 
beautiful fire opal on the white finger. 
"I want to say something" — her voice had a 
hurried, half-tremulous sound, as if she were try- 
ing to gather courage as she went along. " I have 
never done you full justice. I have looked at you 
from my own narrow point of view. I think I have 
been secretly envious. I didn't want to accept 
your lovely invitation — can you understand that.? 
It was my own pride, because I could not give you 
anything back." 
"O Stacy, as if" — Sabrina's tone showed the 
wound. 
"Yes. Pearl set it before me in its true light. 
You see I am confessing my evil-mindedness. I 
want to say now that it has been one of the les- 
sons, and one of the delights of my life, that I 
shall always treasure. Thanking you for it won't 
express anything. And I am more than grateful 
for Aunt Jane's pleasure."
"It was a pleasure to me; you must believe 
that. And when I recall the many kindnesses in 
my childhood" — Sabrina's voice trembled with 
tender remembrance. 
"I didn't half do you justice. I was afraid you 
might be secretly mortified because we did not 
come up to the modern standards of style. I 
meant to watch over her and check any exuber- 
ance; but you made her appear so simply at home 
everywhere, so at ease, so absolutely ladylike and 
pretty — I must tell you what two ladies said," 
and Stacy repeated the incident of their first day's 
journey. 
" If you hold in such esteem your small debt to 
her," the girl went on, "what must mine be.^ In 
a general way I have been grateful, but these days 
have been like an unfolding to me. I said I could 
never be the careless girl again. I have gone into 
a new world. And though one side of me longs 
to be with you and Pearl, and watch you tti your 
generous work, it would really hurt Aunt Matt 
to have me go, and I know it would delight Aunt 
Jane to think I cared enough to stay when there 
was another plea§ure at hand. And if I mean 
to be brave and better from this time henceforth, 
here is the place to begin." 
"You are heroic, Stacy. Yet Pearl will feel 
very much disappointed. She loves you" — 
"And I am going to be worthier of her love. 
There was another thing" — Stacy's face was 
scarlet in the fragrant dusk — "I was rude to you 
one day. I had no right to speak of such sacred 
matters. And now I think there isn't any place 
or position that you couldn't fill with a winsome 
charm. I hope all that is best in life will come 
to you. You can do so many sweet and gracious 
deeds ; you can make others feel that money is not 
the mere setting, but that it can help to enhance 
every other gift. To-night I am very glad that 
you are really rich." 
"Thank you," Sabrina answered, and the pres- 
sure on the hand indicated still more than the 
words. "I am trying a little, too. Perhaps we 
are both taking the path Pearl has made more 
beautiful — to the 'King's Country.'" 
Then they sat a long while in silence. 
CHAPTER XIII 
TO THE UTTERMOST FARTHING 
Sabrina Eastwood reached the station late in 
the afternoon. The sun was making long shad- 
ows, and already a dewy-like fragrance pervaded 
the air. Pearl was awaiting her with a face of 
welcome, and caught the outstretched hand. 
"But Stacy?" she asked. 
"Stacy decided to remain. She is well and 
happy. We had a lovely time, and have settled 
to a real friendship. And how has it fared with 
you all.?" 
"Here is the phaeton ; jump in. I am very glad 
to get you back," and Pearl's smile touched Sa- 
brina. "We have all been as well as usual, and 
have increased our boarders. Brentford has been 
unfortunate. Some of the mills have stopped for 
repairs. And did you see the accident noticed in 
any papers?" 
"An accident?" 'Miss Eastwood started and 
turned pale. 
"At the Winchester Works. For two days 
they thought Mr. Winchester fatally injured. 
No one is clear whether the explosion occurred 
first, or part of the building fell, but one end 
is in ruins. There were only a few men at work. 
There had been a strike, and he was intending 
to shut down as soon as the last order was 
finished. The few hands at work went in at 
some back entrance, it seemed, so as not to be 
waylaid by the strikers. Mr. Winchester had 
just gone up and urged them to hurry out of 
the building, but they didn't understand; and in 
trying to save them, as he was the last, he was 
caught in the ruins. Two men were injured; 
