"All alone, Dolly?" asked Mrs. Willoughby, entering the library.
"Yes," answered Dolly. "I am all alone, and I am tired, and I want some
tea, and Marion is lying down, and everything is perfectly horrid. Do
sit down and let us have a cosy talk, all by ourselves."
"Why will people scramble through life at such a rate?" And Mrs.
Willoughby installed her gray self in an easy-chair. "I have told
Marion fifty times since last summer that she will break down unless
she gives herself a rest."
"My dear Mrs. Willoughby," said Dolly. "Marion is a very sensible woman
and manages her existence on scientific principles. She really gets
much more rest than you or I, not to mention the fact--well, I suppose
I ought not to say it."
"What? Why not?"
"Well, I was thinking that since poor Mr. Darche was drowned, life
must have seemed like one long rest to Marion."
"Oh Dolly, how unkind!" exclaimed Mrs. Willoughby, and then paused a
moment before she continued. "But I suppose there is some truth in it.
What is that proverb? 'De--de--mort--'"
"'De mortuis nil nisi--something like bones,'" answered Dolly with a
laugh.
"What? What is that?"
"Oh nothing. It only means that everybody should say the nicest
possible things when people are dead. That was what you meant. But I
should think the living would appreciate them more."
"Yes, yes," assented Mrs. Willoughby vaguely. "I daresay he would."
"He? Who is he?" asked Dolly with affected surprise.
"Oh I do not mean anything, my dear. I hardly think that Marion will
marry again."
"I suppose they are admirably suited to each other?"
"Who?"
"Who? Why Marion and Mr. Vanbrugh. Who else?" Dolly watched Mrs.
Willoughby's face.
"Oh, I was not thinking of that. I meant Mr.--hm--" She interrupted
herself in fear of indiscretion. "Your dress will be complete now with
the lace, will it not, Dolly?"
"Oh yes," answered Dolly in a careless tone. "It was just like Mr.
Vanbrugh, was it not, to take all that trouble to find the very thing I
wanted?"
"A man will take a great deal of trouble, my dear, when he wants to
please somebody he is fond of."
"Yes--but me," suggested Dolly, just to see what Cousin Annie thought.
"Why not you? Should you like some tea, Dolly?"
"Why not me? I suppose because I am Marion's friend," Dolly answered.
"Oh yes, if you put it in that way--"
Mrs. Willoughby was interrupted by the appearance of Stubbs bringing in
the tea.
"Is Mrs. Darche at home if any one calls, Stubbs?" she inquired.
"No, madam. Mrs. Darche is upstairs and not at home." He paused a
moment to see whether Mrs. Willoughby meant to say anything more, and
then left the room.
"Dear Mrs. Willoughby, I do so want to ask you a question," said Dolly,
beginning to pour the tea.
"What is it, my dear?"
"One lump or two?" inquired Dolly with hesitation.
"Is that all?" asked Mrs. Willoughby with a slight laugh.
"Not quite," answered Dolly. "Do you take milk?"
"Please, and one lump. What is the question, child?"
"No," said Dolly, laughing herself. "It was foolish and inquisitive,
and all sorts of horrid things. I think I had better not ask it."
"About Marion and Mr. Brett?"
"Why?" Dolly asked, looking up quickly, and then hesitating. "Is there
anything? I mean--yes, that is what I meant to ask."
"Well, my dear," answered Mrs. Willoughby in a confidential tone, "to
tell the truth I am glad to talk to somebody about it, for it is on my
mind, and you know that Marion does not like to answer questions."
"Yes, I know. Well, so you think there is something between them?"
"My dear, of course there is," said Mrs. Willoughby without hesitation.
"And I am quite sure that something has happened lately. In fact, I
believe they are engaged to be married."
"Do you really? And--and--where does Mr. Vanbrugh come in?"
"Mr. Vanbrugh? I am sure I do not know. Perhaps he will be Harry
Brett's best man."
"If they could see themselves as others see them," reflected Dolly
under her breath, before she answered the remark. "They would make a
handsome couple, would they not? But you are quite mistaken, dear Mrs.
Willoughby--oh, you are quite--quite mistaken." She looked down and
sipped her tea.
"How do you know that?" asked Mrs. Willoughby. "How can you be so sure?
Do you not see how they go on together, always sitting in corners and
talking in undertones?"
"Do you not see how Marion spoils Mr. Vanbrugh, and gets his special
brand of cigarettes for him, and always asks him to dinner to fill up a
place, and altogether behaves like an idiot about him? You must be
blind if you do not see that. Let me give you another cup of tea?"
"Thanks, I have not finished," said Cousin Annie. "Of course, my dear
child, no two people ever look at things from the same point of view,
but I was thinking--"
Stubbs opened the door again.
"Mr. Vanbrugh," he announced.
"He knew you were here, my dear," said Mrs. Willoughby in a whisper.
"He has come to see you."
"Will you be good-natured and forgive my spoiling your tea?" asked
Vanbrugh, as he entered the room.
"We will try," said Dolly.
"Sit down," said Mrs. Willoughby, "and have some with us."
"Thanks," answered Vanbrugh. "I am even ruder than I seem, for I am in
a hurry. Do you think I could see Mrs. Darche? For a minute?"
"I daresay," replied Cousin Annie, doubtfully.
"Of course you can. She is upstairs and not at home." Dolly laughed.
"So Stubbs told me," said Vanbrugh, "and I came in to ask you to help
me. I am very glad I have seen you first. I know it is late and I will
not keep you a moment. There is something that I must say. I have just
been at the club for a moment and Brown came in and four or five
others. There is certainly an impression that John Darche has really
come back again."
"Good heavens!" cried Mrs. Willoughby, thoroughly startled.
"Oh, how awful!" exclaimed Dolly in real distress. "But you were all
saying after luncheon that it was impossible."
"I know," said Vanbrugh. "I know we were. But it looks otherwise now.
There was so much talk about it that I proposed to Brown to try and
find the man. We have been down town since then, to Mulberry Street.
There certainly is a man knocking about under the name of John Darche,
who landed from an Italian vessel last night."
"Have you seen him?" asked Dolly. "Oh, poor Marion!"
"Dreadful, dreadful!" repeated Mrs. Willoughby, staring at Vanbrugh.
"No," answered the latter in reply to Dolly's question, "we have not
seen him, but we shall have him this evening."
"Here?" exclaimed Mrs. Willoughby, looking round nervously.
"Here in this house?"
"Yes--or at least, under our hand," said Vanbrugh. "Brown is waiting
for information at the Mulberry Street Station."
"To bring him here to-night?" asked Cousin Annie, with increasing
anxiety.
"No, to keep him from coming."
"And you have come to warn Marion?" inquired Dolly.
"Yes, in a way," answered Vanbrugh. "But not to tell her, of course. I
want her to give strict orders about any odd-looking persons who may
present themselves. I mean to tell her that I am afraid some reporter
may try to get in, and that the man at the door must be very careful."
"I will go to her," said Mrs. Willoughby, rising. "Mr. Vanbrugh--if he
comes, if it is really he, he cannot be turned away from what was his
own house."
"No, but he shall be stopped at the door, and I will go out and talk to
him and persuade him to escape, or to come and see me in the morning,
if he is mad enough to stay."
"Yes, that is sensible," answered Cousin Annie. "Shall I speak to my
niece myself, or shall I make her come down?"
Vanbrugh hesitated a moment and looked at Dolly, who answered by an
almost imperceptible nod.
"I think," said Vanbrugh, "that to put her to any inconvenience would
