H61ene Rotscheff, the famous wife of the 
governor, asking him to spend the following 
week at Fort Ross ; but he was so tired that 
even the image of Chonita was dim ; the note 
barely caused a throb of anticipation. After 
supper he flung himself on a couch before the 
fire and slept until morning, then went to bed 
and slept until afternoon. By that time he was 
himself again. He sent a vaquero ahead with 
his evening clothes, and an hour or two later 
started for Fort Ross, spurring his horse with 
a lighter heart over the cliffs. His ranchos ad- 
joined the Russian settlement; the journey 
from his house to the military enclosure was 
not a long one. He soon rounded the point of 
a sloping hill and entered the spreading cove 
formed by the mountains receding in a semi- 
circle above the cliffs, and la whose shelter L.y 
Fort Ross. The fort was surrounded by a 
stockade of redwood beams, bastions in the 
shape of hexagonal towers at diagonal corners. 
Cannon, mounted on carriages, were at each of 
the four entrances, in the middle of the enclos- 
ure, and in the bastions. Sentries paced the 
ramparts with unremitting vigilance. 
Within were the long low buildings occupied 
by the governor and officers, the barracks, and 
the Russian church, with its belfry and cupola. 
Beyond was the "town,"a collection of huts 
accommodating about eight hundred Indians 
and Siberian convicts, the workingmen of the 
company. All the buildings were of redwood 
logs or planed boards, and made a very different 
picture from the white towns of the South. 
The curving mountains were sombrous with 
redwoods, the ocean growled unceasingly. 
Estenega threw his bridle to a soldier and 
went directly to the house. A servant met him 
on the veranda and conducted him to his room ; 
it was late, and every one else was dressing 
for dinner. He chang;ed his riding-clothes for 
the evening dress of modern civilization, and 
went at once to the drawing-room. Here all 
was luxury, nothing to suggest the privations 
of a new country. A thick red carpet covered 
the floor, red arras the walls ; the music of 
Mozart and Beethoven was on the grand piano. 
The furniture was rich and comfortable, the 
large carved table was covered with French 
novels and European periodicals. 
The candles had not been brought in, but 
logs blazed in the open fireplace. As Estenega 
crossed the room, a woman, dressed in black, 
rose from a deep chair, and he recognized 
Chonita. He sprang forward impetuously and 
held out his arms, but she waved him back. 
"No, no," she said, hurriedly. "I want to 
explain why I am here. I came for two rea- 
sons. First, I could refuse the Princess Helene 
no longer ; she goes so soon. And then — I 
wanted to see you once more before I leave 
the world." 
" Before you do what ? " 
" I am not going into a convent; I cannot 
leave my father. I am going to retire to the 
most secluded of our ranchos, to see no more 
of the world or its people. I shall take my 
father with me. Reinaldo and Prudencia will 
remain at Casa Grande." 
 
''Nonsense!" he exclaimed, impatiently. 
" Do you suppose I shall let you do anything 
of the sort ? How little you know me, my love ! 
But we will discuss that question later. We 
shall be alone only a few moments now. Tell 
me of yourself. How are you ? " 
"I will tell you that, also, at another time." 
And at the moment a door opened, and the 
governor and his wife entered and greeted 
Estenega with cordial hospitality. The gover- 
nor was a fine-looking Russian, with a spontane- 
ous warmth of manner; the princess a woman 
who possessed both elegance and vivacity, 
both coquetry and dignity ; she could sparkle 
and chill, allure and suppress in the same 
moment. Even here, rough and wild as her 
surroundings were, she gave much thought to 
her dress ; to-night her blonde harmonious 
loveliness was properly framed in a toilette of 
mignonette greens, fresh from Paris. A moment 
later Reinaldo and Prudencia appeared, the 
former as splendid a caballero as ever, al- 
though wearing the chastened air of matri- 
mony, the latter pre-maternally consequential. 
Then came the officers and their wives, all 
brilliant in evening dress ; and a moment later 
dinner was announced. 
Estenega sat at the right of his hostess, and
that trained daughter of the salon kept the table 
in a light ripple of conversation, sparkling her- 
self, without striking terror to the hearts of her 
guests. She and Estenega were old friends, and 
usually indulged in lively sallies, ending some 
times in a sharp war of words, for she was a very 
clever woman ; but to-night he gave her absent 
attention : he watched Chonita furtively, and 
thought of little else. 
Her eyes had darker shadows beneath them 
than those cast by her lashes ; her face was 
pale and slightly hollowed. She had suffered, 
and not for her mother. " She shall suffer no 
more, "he thought. 
" We hunt bear to-night," he heard the gov- 
ernor say at length. 
"I should like to go," said Chonita, quickly. 
"I should like to go out to-night." 
Immediately there was a chorus from all the 
other women, excepting the Princess H^l^ne 
and Prudencia ; they wanted to go too. Rots- 
cheff, who would much rather have left them 
at home, consented with good grace, and 
Estenega's spirits rose at once. He would 
have a talk with Chonita that night, something 
he had not dared to hope for, and he suspected 
that she had promoted the opportunity. 
The men remained in the dining-room after 
the ladies had withdrawn, and Estenega, re- 
stored to his normal condition, and in his 
natural element among these people of the world, 
expanded into the high spirits and convivial in- 
terest in masculine society which made him 
as popular with men as he was fascinating, 
through the exercise of more subtle faculties, to 
women. Reinaldo watched him with jealous 
impatience ; no one cared to hearken to his 
eloquence when Estenega talked ; and he had 
come to Fort Ross only to have a conversa- 
tion with his one-time enemy. As he listened 
to Estenega, shorn, for the time-being, of his 
air of dictator and watchful ambition, a man of 
