and am not to be trifled with."
"That's right, pa," said Joel approvingly.
"Five hundred dollars will give us quite a lift," said Mrs. Fox
thoughtfully.
"So it will, so it will, my dear. Of course, I'm sorry to hear of the
poor boy's death, but I shall insist upon my rights, all the same."
Mrs. Fox warmly approved of her husband's determination, being quite as
mean and money-loving as he.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
A HEART-BROKEN RELATIVE.
Late in the afternoon, John Fox knocked at the door of Benjamin Howard,
in the town of Ferguson. It was a hundred miles distant from Colebrook,
his own residence, and he grudged the three dollars he had spent for
railroad fare; still he thought that the stake was worth playing for.
"I am John Fox of Colebrook," he said, when Mr. Howard entered the room.
"You may have heard of me."
"I have," answered Mr. Howard, slightly smiling.
"I am the only living relative of Harry Vane, that is, I and my
family."
"I have heard Harry speak of you," said Mr. Howard, non-committally.
"Yes, poor boy! I wish he were alive;" and Mr. Fox drew out a red
bandanna handkerchief and covered his eyes, in which there were no
tears.
"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Howard, startled.
"Then you haven't heard?"
"Heard--what?"
"That he sailed in the ship Nantucket, which was lost, with all on
board, in the Southern Ocean?"
It so happened that Mr. Howard had received a letter from Harry after
his arrival in Australia, and so knew that Harry was not lost. For a
moment he thought Mr. Fox might have later information, but saw that it
was not so. He decided to draw Mr. Fox on, and ascertain his object in
calling.
"I hope that this is not so," he said gravely.
"There is not a doubt of it," answered Fox. "There's an account of the
loss of the vessel in the New York Herald. I cut it out, and have it
in my pocket-book. Would you like to see it?"
"If you please."
Mr. Fox produced the scrap, and asked triumphantly, "Doesn't that settle
it?"
"Suppose that it does, what then?"
"What then? It follows that Harry's money comes to me and my family, as
the only surviving relatives. You've got money of his, the boy told
me."
"Yes."
"About how much?"
"About three hundred dollars."
"So I thought. That money ought to be handed over to me."
"I don't see that, Mr. Fox."
"You don't see that?" interrogated Fox sharply. "Do you mean to keep it
yourself?"
"Not for my own use; I am not that kind of a man, Mr. Fox. But I have no
authority to hand the money over in the unceremonious way you expect."
"Why not? Isn't the boy dead?"
"I have no proof of it."
"What better proof do you want than the New York Herald?"
"The account in the Herald may contain errors."
"Perhaps you think the boy could swim to shore a few hundred miles,"
suggested John Fox with sarcasm.
"No, I don't think that likely."
"Then what possible chance had he to escape?"
"He might have been rescued by a passing vessel."
"Look here, Mr. Howard," said Fox indignantly, "you don't mean what you
say. You evidently mean to keep that money from the lawful claimants. I
am not much surprised. I expected it. But I can tell you here and now
that John Fox isn't a man to be cheated and imposed upon. I mean to have
my rights."
"Are you aware, Mr. Fox, that your language is offensive and
insulting?"
"I don't care. I came here for justice. That money ought not to be in
your hands, who are no kith nor kin to Harry Vane. It ought to go to me,
and I mean to sue you for it."
"Mr. Fox, I propose to obey the law, but it appears to me that you are
taking it for granted that Harry Vane is dead without sufficient
proof."
"What more proof do you want than this paragraph? The fact is, you don't
want to believe it."
"No!" answered Mr. Howard in a tone of emotion, "I don't want to believe
that poor Harry is dead."
"Nor I," said John Fox. "If the boy hadn't been foolish and left my
happy home, he'd have been alive to-day. But we can't alter facts. He's
dead, and all our grief won't bring him back."
Benjamin Howard looked at the man curiously. "His grief doesn't seem to
be very profound," he thought. "I will test him."
"Even if I were convinced that poor Harry was dead," he said, "I should
not deliver up the money till you had established a legal claim to it."
"So you mean to put all possible obstacles in my way," said John Fox,
provoked. "I thought so. But, Mr. Howard, let me tell you that you can't
rob the orphan."
"Meaning yourself?"
"No, I mean the dead boy--that is the orphan's estate--without settling
with me. I am a man of influence, I'd have you know, and I'll put the
matter in the hands of the lawyer right off."
"It might be well, first, to listen to what I have to say."
"Aha! he's scared!" thought John Fox.
"I'm ready to hear what you've got to say," he answered, "but it won't
influence me a particle."
"I think it will. Harry Vane is alive!"
"What!" ejaculated John Fox, his face expressing his dismay. "It's a
lie. I don't believe it."
"Georgie," said Mr. Howard to his little son, who just then entered the
room, "go to my desk and bring me Harry Vane's letter."
This was done at once, John Fox meanwhile sitting in painful suspense.
"This letter," said Mr. Howard, taking it in his hand, "was posted, as
you see, at Melbourne, Australia. Harry was shipwrecked on an island,
from which he finally escaped, and was carried to Melbourne. He writes
me that he has gone to the mines, and is hoping to find some gold
there."
"Is this true?" asked Fox in a hollow voice.
"I will read you the letter, and show you the signature."
"I think it's a forgery."
"No chance of that. I know Harry Vane's handwriting well. But you don't
look well, Mr. Fox. I thought you would be pleased to hear that Harry
had escaped from the perils of shipwreck and is alive."
John Fox did not reply, but after examining the letter he rose with a
rueful countenance, and departed unceremoniously, a badly disappointed
man.
"It'll cost me three dollars to get back," he groaned, "and I shall have
to stop at a hotel, for there is no train till to-morrow. 'Most ten
dollars gone altogether--just thrown away! I'm a very unlucky man."
The news he carried home brought grief to Mrs. Fox and Joel. Only Sally
seemed glad that Harry was still living. For so expressing herself she
was severely rebuked by her mother.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
HOME AGAIN.
It was a bright, beautiful morning when our three friends landed in New
York. Their voyage had been a favorable one, and they had made some
pleasant acquaintances, but they were overjoyed to tread once more the
familiar streets and see the familiar sights of the American
metropolis.
They registered at a quiet hotel on the European system, intending to
remain in the city a few days. They sought out a prominent broker and
asked his advice about the investment of their money. He received them
in a friendly manner, and gave them the best advice in his power. Each
reserved three hundred dollars for present use.
It was a novelty to all of them to be free from anxiety on the score of
money, and it may well be believed that all enjoyed the feeling.
The second morning, as they were walking down Broadway, their eyes fell
upon a familiar figure. Directly in front of them they beheld a slender
young man, dressed in the extreme of fashion, swinging a light cane. As
