afear’d it was like thim things Patsey told about, when you raised the
han’kercher they wasn’t there!”
“But they’re here.” She laughed with soft exultation. “Le’s go in, Dil.
I never went shoppin’ in my life! You could hide the things away from
mammy. There’d be no use givin’ it to her. She’s got enough for gin an’
to go to Cunny Island an’ MacBride’s. But jinky! wouldn’t she crack our
skulls if she did know it. O Dil, let’s never, never tell.”
“She couldn’t make me tell if she killed me.”
“Le’s go in. Can you carry me?”
She drew the wagon up by the corner of the show-window, and, taking Bess
in her arms, entered the store and seated her on a stool, standing so
she could brace the weak little back. Of the few dreams that had found
lodgment in Dil’s prosaic brain, was this of indulging her motherly,
womanly instinct, shopping for Bess. She felt dazed to have it come
true. Her face flushed, her breath came irregularly, her heart beat with
a delicious, half-guilty pleasure.
There was no one else in the store. A pale, tired, but kindly-looking
woman came to wait on her. Dil tried on caps with laces and ribbons, and
Bess looked so angelic it broke her heart to take them off. But the
plain ones were less likely to betray them. Then they looked at dresses
and the coveted “flannils,” and one nice soft petticoat, and oh, some
new stockings.
A shrewd little shopper was Dil. She counted up every purchase, and laid
aside the sum, really surprised at her bargains and the amount she had
left. The attendant was very sympathetic, and inquired what had befallen
Bess. Dil said she had been hurted by a bad fall, that her mother was
’most always out to work, and that they hadn’t any father. She was
afraid her mother might be washing somewhere, and hear the story, if she
was too explicit.
“Le’s buy a han’kercher for Patsey,” suggested Bess, her pale face in a
glow.
They chose one with a pink border, thinking of the wild roses that had
brought such great good luck.
“And here is a blue belt ribbon for the little girl,” said the lady.
“It’s been in the window, and has two faded places, but you can tie them
in the bow.”
Dil had been struggling between economy and a belt ribbon. She raised
her brown eyes so full of delight that words were hardly needed.
They packed up their goods and departed. Bess wore her cap, and held up
her head like a real lady. I doubt if there were two happier children in
the whole city.
Dusk was beginning to fall; but all the stores were in a glow, and now
people were coming out again after supper. They seldom stayed this late,
but to-night they were quite safe. And oh, how splendid it all was! the
happiness of a lifetime.
Bess kept turning partly round and talking out her delight. Pain and
weariness were forgotten. They laughed in sheer gladness. If John Travis
could have seen them, he would have said he had never in his life made
such an investment of five dollars.
“And we’ve only spent a little over two. Oh, what a lot of things you
can buy when you have some money! An’, Dil, we’ll put away a good bit,
so’s when there ain’t many babies mother won’t bang you. Oh, she’d kill
us both dead an’ take the money if she knew, wouldn’t she?”
“She would that,” subjoined Dil grimly.
Poor Dil had been banged pretty severely in her short day. Last spring
Mrs. Quinn had been complained of, as the “banging” had been so severe
that Dil had fainted, and had to keep her bed several days.
“Oh, I wisht we wasn’t ever going home,” sighed Bess. “If I had two good
legs we’d run away like that Mullin girl. An’ now that I’ve got some
clo’es, I’m sorry we can’t go right off. Nex’ spring—how many months,
Dil?”
August was almost ended. Seven long, weary months at the best.
“There’s Thanksgivin’ an’ Christmas, an’—an’ St. Patrick’s; that’s in
March, I know. An’ after that it gen’ally comes warm. Oh, it seems as if
I couldn’t wait! But the man will come with Christiana, an’ then we’ll
find how to go without gettin’ lost or makin’ a mistake. Ain’t it queer?
I should think everybody’d want to go.”
The big eyes were full of wonder.
“Well, you see the people who have money an’ things an’ flowers an’
journeys an’ live in grand houses don’t need to be in a hurry. ’Tain’t
of so much account to them. An’ I guess people haven’t got the straight
of it, someway.”
Poor Dil! She wasn’t very straight in her own mind. If God could give
people so much, why didn’t he do it now? Or if they had to go to heaven
for it, why wasn’t it made plain, and you could be let to start whenever
you desired?
Bess’s confidence gave her a curiously apprehensive feeling. Suppose
there wasn’t any heaven? The mystery was incomprehensible.
It was late when they reached home. Oh, the sickening heat and smells!
But at this hour on Saturday night the court was comparatively quiet.
The revelry began later.
Dan sat on the stoop crying. He had been in a fight, and the under dog
at that, and had one black eye, and his jacket torn to ribbons.
“An’ mother’ll wollop me for the jacket,” he whimpered.
“Come an’ have yer eye tied up with cold water. I did a bit of work this
afternoon, an’ got some goodies, an’ you shall have some. Oh, it’s
pritty bad, Dan. Take my penny an’ go buy an oyster,—that’ll help get
the black out.”
Dan was mightily tempted to spend the penny otherwise, but the thought
of the goodies restrained him. Dil took Bess and the “treasures”
up-stairs, and laid her gently on the old lounge. She had everything put
away when Dan returned, so she washed his face and bound up his eye.
He ceased sniffling, and cried, “O golly!” at the sight of two luscious
bananas. “Dil, ye wor in luck! I didn’t even see a chance to snivy on an
apple. Store folks is mighty s’picious, watchin’ out.”
“O Dan! It’s wicked to steal!”
“None o’ yer gals’ gaff!” said Dan with his mouth full. “Snivyin’
somethin’ ter eat ain’t no stealin’. An’ I’m hungry as an elefunt.”
Dil fixed him some supper, and he devoured it with the apparent capacity
of the elephant. Then, as he was very tired and used up, he tumbled on
his straw pallet in his mother’s room, and in five minutes was asleep.
Now the young conspirators had to consider about a hiding-place for
their unaccustomed treasures.
“I’ll tell you,” and Bess laughed shrewdly, “we’ll make a bank under the
cushion of the wagon.” At the risk of smothering Dan, they had shut his
door. “Mother wouldn’t dast to tumble me out, and no one knows. An’
we’ll call it somethin’ else. We’ll never say m——”
“Yes.” Dil put it in the paper bag, and then she made the night bed on
top of it. What a fortune it was! They glanced furtively at each other,
as if questioning their right to it.
“Mammy seldom does look round,” said Dil; “an’ I’ll clear the room up
on Fridays, I sometimes do. An’ I’ll tell her I made the dress, if she
spies it out. No, that would be a lie, an’ tellin’ lies roughs you up
inside, though sometimes it’s better than bein’ banged. Bess, dear, I
wish it was all true ’bout heaven.”
“It is true, I feel it all over me.”
Poor Dil sighed softly. She wasn’t so sure.
Then she bathed Bess, and threw away the ragged garments. Bess was
tired, but bright and happy. They stowed away their purchases, and were
all settled when Owen came in. No one would have guessed the rare
holiday.
Barker’s Court was beginning its weekly orgy—singing, swearing, dancing,
fighting, and fortunate if there was not an arrest or two. But Dil was
so tired that she slept through it all, forgetting about the money, and
not even haunted by dreams.
It was past midnight when Mrs. Quinn returned, to find everything still
within. She tumbled across her bed, and slept the sleep of a drunken
woman until Sunday noon.
Dil looked after the breakfast. Dan’s eye was much improved. Out of an
old bundle she found a jacket a size or two beyond him, but the children
of the slums are not critical. The boys went out to roam the streets.
Patsey sidled in with a knowing wink towards Mrs. Quinn’s chamber door.
It was nearly always safe on Sunday morning. He had a handful of
flowers.
They gave him his “hankercher.” But somehow they couldn’t tell him of
their adventure.
“But yous oughtn’t ’er spend yer tin on me,” he said with awkward
gratefulness. “Yous don’t have much look fer scrapin’ it up.”
“But you’re alwers so good to us,” returned Bess, in her sweet,
plaintive tone.
