others?”
“No. We should regard that as the worst incivism.”
“What is incivism?”
I interpreted, “Bad citizenship.”
“Well, then, if you will excuse me, Mr. Homos,” she said, “I think that is
simply impossible. There must be rich and there must be poor. There
always have been, and there always will be. That woman said it as well as
anybody. Didn’t Christ Himself say, ‘The poor ye have always with you’?”
VII
The Altrurian looked at Mrs. Makely with an amazement visibly heightened
by the air of complacency she put on after delivering this poser: “Do you
really think Christ meant that you ought always to have the poor with
you?” he asked.
“Why, of course!” she answered, triumphantly. “How else are the sympathies
of the rich to be cultivated? The poverty of some and the wealth of
others, isn’t that what forms the great tie of human brotherhood? If we
were all comfortable, or all shared alike, there could not be anything
like charity, and Paul said, ‘The greatest of these is charity.’ I believe
it’s ‘love’ in the new version, but it comes to the same thing.”
The Altrurian gave a kind of gasp, and then lapsed into a silence that
lasted until we came in sight of the Camp farm-house. It stood on the
crest of a road-side upland, and looked down the beautiful valley, bathed
in Sabbath sunlight, and away to the ranges of hills, so far that it was
hard to say whether it was sun or shadow that dimmed their distance.
Decidedly, the place was what the country people call sightly. The old
house, once painted a Brandon red, crouched low to the ground, with its
lean-to in the rear, and its flat-arched wood-sheds and wagon-houses
stretching away at the side of the barn, and covering the approach to it
with an unbroken roof. There were flowers in the beds along the
underpinning of the house, which stood close to the street, and on one
side of the door was a clump of Spanish willow; an old-fashioned June rose
climbed over it from the other. An aged dog got stiffly to his feet from
the threshold stone and whimpered as our buckboard drew up; the poultry
picking about the path and among the chips lazily made way for us, and as
our wheels ceased to crunch upon the gravel we heard hasty steps, and
Reuben Camp came round the corner of the house in time to give Mrs. Makely
his hand and help her spring to the ground, which she did very lightly;
her remarkable mind had kept her body in a sort of sympathetic activity,
and at thirty-five she had the gracile ease and self-command of a girl.
“Ah, Reuben,” she sighed, permitting herself to call him by his first
name, with the emotion which expressed itself more definitely in the words
that followed, “how I envy you all this dear, old, homelike place! I never
come here without thinking of my grandfather’s farm in Massachusetts,
where I used to go every summer when I was a little girl. If I had a place
like this, I should never leave it.”
“Well, Mrs. Makely,” said young Camp, “you can have this place cheap, if
you really want it. Or almost any other place in the neighborhood.”
“Don’t say such a thing!” she returned. “It makes one feel as if the
foundations of the great deep were giving way. I don’t know what that
means exactly, but I suppose it’s equivalent to mislaying George’s hatchet
and going back on the Declaration generally; and I don’t like to hear you
talk so.”
Camp seemed to have lost his bitter mood, and he answered, pleasantly:
“The Declaration is all right, as far as it goes, but it don’t help us to
compete with the Western farm operations.”
“Why, you believe every one was born free and equal, don’t you?” Mrs.
Makely asked.
“Oh yes, I believe that; but--”
“Then why do you object to free and equal competition?”
The young fellow laughed, and said, as he opened the door for us: “Walk
right into the parlor, please. Mother will be ready for you in a minute.”
 He added: “I guess she’s putting on her best cap for you, Mr. Homos. It’s
a great event for her, your coming here. It is for all of us. We’re glad
to have you.”
“And I’m glad to be here,” said the Altrurian, as simply as the other. He
looked about the best room of a farm-house that had never adapted itself
to the tastes or needs of the city boarder, and was as stiffly repellent
in its upholstery and as severe in its decoration as hair-cloth chairs and
dark-brown wall-paper of a trellis pattern, with drab roses, could make
it. The windows were shut tight, and our host did not offer to open them.
A fly or two crossed the doorway into the hall, but made no attempt
to penetrate the interior, where we sat in an obscurity that left the
high-hung family photographs on the walls vague and uncertain. I made a
mental note of it as a place where it would be very characteristic to have
a rustic funeral take place; and I was pleased to have Mrs. Makely drop
into a sort of mortuary murmur, as she said: “I hope your mother is as
well as usual this morning?” I perceived that this murmur was produced by
the sepulchral influence of the room.
“Oh yes,” said Camp, and at that moment a door opened from the room across
the hall, and his sister seemed to bring in some of the light from it to
us where we sat. She shook hands with Mrs. Makely, who introduced me to
her, and then presented the Altrurian. She bowed very civilly to me, but
with a touch of severity, such as country people find necessary for the
assertion of their self-respect with strangers. I thought it very pretty,
and instantly saw that I could work it into some picture of character; and
I was not at all sorry that she made a difference in favor of the
Altrurian.
“Mother will be so glad to see you,” she said to him, and, “Won’t you come
right in?” she added to us all.
We followed her and found ourselves in a large, low, sunny room on
the southeast corner of the house, which had no doubt once been the
living-room, but which was now given up to the bedridden invalid; a door
opened into the kitchen behind, where the table was already laid for the
midday meal, with the plates turned down in the country fashion, and some
netting drawn over the dishes to keep the flies away.
Mrs. Makely bustled up to the bedside with her energetic, patronizing
cheerfulness. “Ah, Mrs. Camp, I am glad to see you looking so well this
morning. I’ve been meaning to run over for several days past, but I
couldn’t find a moment till this morning, and I knew you didn’t object to
Sunday visits.” She took the invalid’s hand in hers, and, with the air of
showing how little she felt any inequality between them, she leaned over
and kissed her, where Mrs. Camp sat propped against her pillows. She had a
large, nobly moulded face of rather masculine contour, and at the same
time the most motherly look in the world. Mrs. Makely bubbled and babbled
on, and every one waited patiently till she had done, and turned and said,
toward the Altrurian: “I have ventured to bring my friend, Mr. Homos, with
me. He is from Altruria.” Then she turned to me and said: “Mr. Twelvemough
you know already through his delightful books”; but, although she paid me
this perfunctory compliment it was perfectly apparent to me that in the
esteem of this disingenuous woman the distinguished stranger was a far
more important person than the distinguished author. Whether Mrs. Camp
read my perception of this fact in my face or not I cannot say, but she
was evidently determined that I should not feel a difference in her. She
held out her hand to me first, and said that I never could know how many
heavy hours I had helped to lighten for her, and then she turned to the
Altrurian and took his hand. “Oh!” she said, with a long, deep-drawn sigh,
as if that were the supreme moment of her life. “And are you really from
Altruria? It seems too good to be true!” Her devout look and her earnest
tone gave the commonplace words a quality that did not inhere in them, but
Mrs. Makely took them on their surface.
“Yes, doesn’t it?” she made haste to interpose, before the Altrurian could
say anything. “That is just the way we all feel about it, Mrs. Camp. I
assure you, if it were not for the accounts in the papers and the talk
about it everywhere, I couldn’t believe there was any such place as
Altruria; and if it were not for Mr. Twelvemough here--who has to keep all
his inventions for his novels, as a mere matter of business routine--I
might really suspect him and Mr. Homos of--well, working us, as my
husband calls it.”
The Altrurian smiled politely, but vaguely, as if he had not quite caught
her meaning, and I made answer for both: “I am sure, Mrs. Makely, if you
could understand my peculiar state of mind about Mr. Homos, you would
never believe that I was in collusion with him. I find him quite as
incredible as you do. There are moments when he seems so entirely
subjective with me that I feel as if he were no more definite or tangible
than a bad conscience.”
“Exactly!” said Mrs. Makely, and she laughed out her delight in my
illustration.
The Altrurian must have perceived that we were joking, though the Camps
all remained soberly silent. “I hope it isn’t so bad as that,” he said,
“though I have noticed that I seem to affect you all with a kind of
