"Help! Help!"

This call for assistance came from a small house, poorly constructed by
those who had little skill in the art of carpentry. It stood near the
Spring Road, in a field of about ten acres of land, under cultivation,
though the rank weeds among the useful plants indicated that it had been
sorely neglected.

Those familiar with the locality would have recognized it as the abode
of one of those small farmers found all over the country, who were
struggling to improve their worldly condition on a very insufficient
capital. The house was hardly finished, and the want of skill was
apparent in its erection from sill to ridgepole.

Swinburne Pickford was the proprietor of the dwelling and land. He
worked for farmers, planters, and mechanics, for any one who would give
him employment, in addition to his labor in the cultivation of his land;
and with the sum he had been able to save from his wages, he had bought
the land, and started the small farm on his own account. He had a wife
and two small children; and, as his time permitted, he had built the
house with his own hands alone.

The section of the State of Kentucky in which this little place was
located had been sorely disturbed by the conflicts and outrages of the
two parties at the beginning of the War of the Rebellion, one struggling
to drag the State out of the Union, and the other to prevent its
secession. As in the other States of the South, the advocates of
disunion were more violent and demonstrative than the loyal people, and
after the bombardment of Fort Sumter appeared to be in the ascendant for
this reason.

The entire South had been in a state of excitement from the inception of
the presidential campaign which resulted in the election of Abraham
Lincoln, and the industries of this region suffered in consequence; and
it looked as though Pickford's house would never be entirely finished.
With the exception of the chimney, placed outside of the building, after
the fashion of the South, he had done all the work himself. Titus Lyon,
the mason of the village of Barcreek, had done this portion of the
labor, and the bill for its erection was still unpaid.

Inside of the house two young men, the older about eighteen and the
younger sixteen, both armed with muskets, had dragged the proprietor of
the house to the floor. One of them had his foot on the chest of the
fallen farmer, and the other was pointing his gun at him. Pickford had
evidently endeavored to protect himself from the assault of his two
assailants, who had got the better of him, and had only given up the
battle when pinned to the floor by the foot of one of them.

"Will you pay the bill I have brought to you?" demanded Sandy Lyon, who
was the principal aggressor in the assault. "Dr. Falkirk paid you over
fifty dollars to-day, and you have got the money to pay the bill, which
has been standing two years."

Swin Pickford made no reply to this statement; but just at that moment
he heard the clippetty-clip of a galloping horse in the road in front of
the house. With the foot of one of his assaulters on his chest, and the
other with an old gun in his hand at his side, Pickford realized that
nothing could be done but submit. Shooting in that locality and at that
time was no uncommon occurrence; for there seemed to be no law in the
land, and men generally settled their own grievances, or submitted to
them.

"Help! Help!" shouted the victim of the present outrage, with all the
strength of his lungs, which gave him voice enough to make him heard a
quarter of a mile distant.

"Shut up your head!" savagely yelled Sandy Lyon, as he pressed his foot
down with all his might by throwing all his weight upon the breast of
the prostrate farmer.

The sound of the horse's feet in the road seemed to give the victim a
new hope, and he tried to shout again. But Sandy flew at his throat like
a wolf, and choked him into silence.

"Find a couple of ropes or cords, Orly, and we will tie his hands behind
him!" called Sandy to his brother.



The younger brother hastened to obey the order. Finding nothing of the
description required, he rushed into the rear room of the house. The
pressure of the assailant's hands upon his throat, and the hope of
assistance from outside, stimulated the victim to further resistance,
for the gun in the hands of Orly no longer threatened him. With a
desperate struggle he threw Sandy over backwards, and sprang to his
feet. His persecutor picked himself up, and was about to throw himself
upon him again. Pickford, who was nearly exhausted by the struggle and
the choking, rushed to the open door; and as he was about to pass out he
encountered a young man in the uniform of a cavalryman, with a sabre
dangling at his side, and a carbine slung on his back.

At the moment when the cry for help came from the house, the young man,
mounted on a spirited horse, was riding along the Spring Road. He was a
stout fellow, not more than eighteen years old, with a pleasant face,
though a physiognomist would have observed upon it a look of
determination, indicating that he could not be trifled with on a serious
occasion. Neither the house nor the man who occupied it would have
tempted the soldier to enter it for any other reason than the call that
had just come from it.

The cavalryman reined in his steed, and halted him with his head to a
post in front of the dwelling. Dismounting in haste, he threw the reins
over the hitching-hook and hurried to the front door, just in time to
encounter Pickford as he was rushing out. The victim of the outrage was
gasping for breath, and presented a really pitiable aspect to the young
soldier, to whom he was not a stranger, though they had met as enemies
and not as friends.

"What's the trouble?" asked Deck Lyon, the cavalryman, as he encountered
the owner of the miniature plantation.

"I have been set upon, and nearly killed by your cousins, Sandy and Orly
Lyon, and one of them has nearly choked me to death," gasped Pickford.

"By my cousins!" exclaimed Deck Lyon, astonished at the reply of the
victim.

"Yes; both on 'em," groaned Swin, as he was generally called.

"I supposed you had gone to the county town with the Home Guards," added
Deck.

"No; I never 'listed, 'cause I have a family to take care on."

"Come in, and let me see what the trouble is," continued Deck, as he
pushed Swin in ahead of him.

Sandy had been in the act of throwing himself upon his victim again,
when he discovered his cousin in the person of the cavalryman. The sight
of him caused the angry young man to fall back; and Deck entered the
room just as Orly appeared at the rear door with a piece of bed-cord in
his hand.

"Good-morning, Sandy," said Deck, as pleasantly as though nothing had
called for his interference. "There seems to be some trouble here."

"Trouble enough," replied Sandy in a sulky tone.

"Swin Pickford calls for help as though you intended to murder him,"
continued Deck, as he looked from one to the other of the belligerents,
