all but as to one thing to know. 

" Yes, Miss Attersol was at home," he 
learned from the serwant ; and from coats in 
the hall, that Miss Attersol was not alone. 
How he entered the room he could not afterward recall. He was conscious merely that 
Melanchthon Stitt spoke to him, Bancroft 
as well, that he hated them both, and that 
for a second he held Myrrha's hand in his. 

"Yes, it was most odd," Stitt was saying. 
" Have you heard, Quain ? " the novelist interrupted himself to ask. " That little rival 
of mine, Mrs. Fordyce, has committed suicide. I was just telling Miss Attersol. Suicide always seems to me such a poor climax, 
particularly as life is well enough, agreeable 
even, if you let it have its own way. Of 
course, if you try to oppose it with all sorts 
of ideas you have got you don't know how, 





you make a mess of the whole thing. Life 
is a current. Of your conceptions of right 
or wrong, of your likes and dislikes, it takes 
no account at all. Drift with it, don't op- 
pose it. It is a guide that won't be guided ; 
you must yield to it or drown." 

The novelist stood up. The little speech 
was just so much " copy " which he pro- 
posed to amplify at leisure. 

" But how did she do it ? " Myrrha asked. 

"Who? Mrs. Fordyce? How did she 
kill herself, do you mean ? Oh, she just 
threw a glance out of the window and followed it. By the way, I wanted to tell you, 
Miss Attersol, how much I enjoyed your entirely charming affair the other day." 

And the novelist smiled and bowed. 
"Bancroft," he added, for the lawyer had 
also risen, " if you are going my way, you 
can give me a lift." 

A moment, and Quain and the girl were 
alone. 

"Myrrha," he began at once, "that idiot 
gave you his views of life, at second-hand, 





too, I dare say. What are your views of 
love ? " 

He must have looked a very fierce wooer 
as he spoke, for the girl shrank ; he saw it 
and moved closer. 

" Shall I tell you his, Bancroft's, all the 
world's ? To them love is the affection of 
some one else. But to you, what is it to 
you ? What does it imply ? Answer me. 
You must tell me." 

He was staring into her eyes ; there was a 
pathos in them, a dread, a wonder too. But 
they were not in his ; they looked rapt yet 
startled. When a girl first stands face to 
face with love, it may allure, but always 
it alarms. 

" Tell me," he repeated ; and at the moment, awkwardly, as men will do such things, 
he attempted to take her hand.. But she 
freed herself and moved a little. The effort 
presumably aroused her. 

" I do not know that I know what love is ; 
but if the feeling which I have experienced 
since yesterday be that, then then" 





She hesitated and paused. Her eyes now 
seemed set on some vista visible only to 
herself, and she added slowly, with the air 
of one returning from some inordinate distance : 

" Then it is the sweetest shape of pain." 

As she said this, for the first time she 
turned to him and she smiled. Yet was it a 
smile ? On her lips there was a gladness, 
but in her eyes were the phantoms of twin 
tears. She ran a hand across them, and for 
a moment held it so. 

"Oswald," she continued, the hand still 
raised, " let me tell you, or rather let me 
try to tell, for as yet I myself do not understand. Perhaps you can make it clear. I 
think I love you " and at the avowal she 
blushed divinely "yet again, in some way 
which I cannot explain to myself, I think it 
may not be love at all. For love should 
bring happiness, should it not ? And it is 
not happiness that I feel, it is a dread and 
of what ? Of myself or of you ? " 

The hand dropped to her side, the flush 





had gone, her face was pale, and she turned 
to him again. 

" Shall I tell you? How shall I? Os- 
wald, I am as one bewitched ; you fascinate 
and repel." 

As she said this there came to him the 
look of a beaten dog that crouches, fearing 
another blow. She divined his thought at 
once and shook her head almost angrily. 

" No, no ; no, no," she cried. " Not 
that, Oswald, it is your soul I fear " 

" My soul ! Myrrha, I did not know I had 
one till I saw it mirrored in your eyes. I 
used to deny that such a thing could be. 
I was as an idiot at the sea-shore ; the 
infinite was before me, and I was uncon- 
scious of it. My soul ! But, Myrrha, it is 
