couldn't imagine how the birds could notice such a 
little thing so far off. 
It was strange and unnatural to see lion eat 
lion, and we thought maybe they warn't kin. But 
Jim said that didn't make no difference. He said 
a hog was fond of her own children, and so was a 
spider, and he reckoned maybe a lion was pretty 
near as unprincipled, though maybe not quite. He 
thought likely a lion wouldn't eat his own father, if 
he knowed which was him, but reckoned he would 
eat his brother-in-law if he was uncommon hungry, 
and eat his mother-in-law any time. But reckon- 
ing don't settle nothing. You can reckon till the 
cows comes home, but that don't fetch you to no 
decision. So we give it up and let it drop. 
Gener'ly it was very still in the Desert, nights, 
but this time there was music. A lot of other 
animals come to dinner; sneaking yelpers that 
Tom allowed was jackals, and roached-backed ones 
that he said was hyenas ; and all the whole b'iling 
of them kept up a racket all the time. They made 
a picture in the moonlight that was more different 
than any picture I ever see. We had a line out 
and made fast to the top of a tree, and didn't stand 
no watch, but all turned in and slept ; but I was up 
two or three times to look down at the animals and 
hear the music. It was like having a front seat at 
a menagerie for nothing, which I hadn't ever had 
before, and so it seemed foolish to sleep and not 
make the most of it : I mightn't ever have such a 
chance again. 
We went a-fishing again in the early dawn, and 
then lazied around all day in the deep shade on an 
island, taking turn about to watch and see that 
none of the animals come a-snooping around 
there after erronorts for dinner. We was going 
to leave next day, but couldn't— it was too lovely. 
The day after, when we rose up towards the sky 
and sailed off eastward, we looked back and watched 
that place till it warn't nothing but just a speck in 
the Desert, and I tell you it was like saying good- 
bye to a friend that you ain't ever going to see 
any more. 
Jim was thinking to himself, and at last he 
says : 
' Mars Tom, we's mos' to de end er de Desert 
now, I speck.' 
' Why ? ' 
' Well, hit stan' to reason we is. You knows 
how long we's been a-skimming over it. Mus' be 
mos' out o' san'. Hit's a wonder to me dat it's 
hilt out as long as it has.' 
' Shucks ! there's plenty sand, you needn't 
worry.' 
' Oh, I ain't a- worry in', Mars Tom, only won- 
derin', dat's all. De Lord's got plenty san', I ain't 
doubtin' dat, but nemmine, He ain't gwyne to was'e 
it jist on dat account ; en I allows dat dis Desert's 
plenty big enough now, jist de way she is, en you 
can't spread her out no mo' 'dout was'in' san'.' 
'Oh, go 'long ; we ain't much more than fairly 
started across this Desert yet. The United States 
is a pretty big country, ain't it ? Ain't it, Huck ? ' 
' Yes,' I says ; ' there ain't no bigger one, I don't 
reckon.' 
' Well,' he says, ' this Desert is about the shape 
of the United States, and if you was to lay it down 
on top of the United States, it would cover the land 
of the free out of sight like a blanket. There'd be 
a little corner sticking out, up at Maine, and away 
up north-west, and Florida sticking out like a 
turtle's tail, and that's all. We've took California 
away from the Mexicans two or three years ago, so 
that part of the Pacific coast is ours now ; and if 
you laid the Great Sahara down with her edge on 
the Pacific, she would cover the United States and 
stick out past New York six hundred miles into the 
Atlantic Ocean.' 
I says : 
' Good land ! have you got the documents for 
that, Tom Sawyer ? ' 
'Yes, and they're right here, and I've been 
studying them. You can look for yourself. From 
New York to the Pacific is 2,600 miles ; from one 
end of the Great Desert to the other is 3,200. The 
United States contains 3,600,000 square miles ; the 
Desert contains 4,162,000. With the Desert's bulk 
you could cover up every last inch of the United 
States, and in under where the edges projected out 
you could tuck England, Scotland, Ireland, France, 
Denmark, and all Germany. Yes, sir, you could 
hide the home of the brave and all of them coun- 
tries clean out of sight under the Great Sahara, 
and you would still have 2,000 square miles of sand 
left.' 
' Well I says, ' it clean beats me. Why, Tom, 
it shows that the Lord took as much pains making 
this Desert as He did to make the United States 
and all them other countries. I reckon He must 'a' 
been a- working at this Desert two or three days 
before He got it done.' 
Jim says: 
 Huck, dat doan' stan' to reason. I reckon dis 
Desert wan't made at all. Now, you take en look at 
it like dis — you look at it, and see if I's right. 
What's a desert good for ? 'Tain't good for nuthin'. 
Dey ain't no way to make it pay. Hain't dat so, 
Huck?' 
' Yes, I reckon.' 
' Hain't it so, Mars Tom ? ' 
'I guess so. Go on.' 
' Ef a thing ain't no good, it's made in vain, 
ain't it ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' Now, den ! Do de Lord make anything in vain ? 
You answer me dat.' 
' Well, no, He don't.' 
' Den how come He make a desert ? ' 
' Well, go on. How did He come to make it ? ' 
' Mars Tom, it's my opinion He never made it at 
all ; dat is, He didn't plan out no Desert, never sot 
out to make one. Now I's gwyne to show you, den 
you kin see. J b'lieve it uz jes' like when you's 
buildin' a house ; dey's allays a lot o' truck en 
rubbish lef over. What does you do wid it? 
Doan' you take en k'yart it off en dump it into a 
ole vacant back lot ? 'Course. Now, den, it's my 
opinion hit was jes' like dat. When the Lord uz 
gwyne to buiP de worl', He tuck en made a lot o' 
rocks en put 'em in a pile, en made a lot o' yearth 
en put it in a pile handy to de rocks, den a lot o' 
san', en put dat in a pile, handy, too. Den He 
begin. He measure out some rocks en yearth en 
san', en stick 'em together en say, " Dat's Ger- 
many," en paste a label on it, en set it out to dry ; 
en measure out some mo' rocks en yearth en san', 
en stick 'em together, en say, " Dat's de United 
States," en paste a label on it, and set it out to dry ; 
en so on, en so on, tell it come supper time Sataday, 
en He look roun' en see dey's all done, en a mighty 
