counsel would not allow them to tell whose week of 
power the current week was. The Judge insisted 
upon their answering, and proposed to compel them, 
but even the prosecution took fright and came to 
the rescue then, and helped stay the sturdy jurist's 
revolutionary hand. So the case had to go to the 
jury with that important point hanging in the air. 
They were out an hour and brought in this verdict: 
"We the jury do find: 1, that an assault was 
committed, as charged; 2, that it was committed by 
one of the persons accused, he having been seen to 
do it by several credible witnesses; 3, but that his 
identity is so merged in his brother's that we have 
not been able to tell which was him. We cannot 
convict both, for only one is guilty. We cannot 
acquit both, for only one is innocent. Our verdict 
is that justice has been defeated by the dispensation 
of God, and ask to be discharged from further 
duty." 
This was read aloud in court and brought out a 
burst of hearty applause. The old ladies made a 
spring at the twins, to shake and congratulate, but 
were gently disengaged by Mr. Wilson and softly 
crowded back into their places. 
The Judge rose in his little tribune, laid aside his 
silver-bowed spectacles, roached his gray hair up 
with his fingers, and said, with dignity and solemnity, 
and even with a certain pathos: 
"In all my experience on the bench, I have not 
seen justice bow her head in shame in this court 
until this day. You little realize what far-reaching 
harm has just been wrought here under the fickle 
forms of law. Imitation is the bane of courts — I 
thank God that this one is free from the contamina- 
tion of that vice — and in no long time you will see 
the fatal work of this hour seized upon by profligate 
so-called guardians of justice in all the wide circum- 
stance of this planet and perpetuated in their perni- 
cious decisions. I wash my hands of this iniquity. 
I would have compelled these culprits to expose 
their guilt, but support failed me where I had most 
right to expect aid and encouragement. And I was 
 
confronted by a law made in the interest of crime, 
which protects the criminal from testifying against 
himself. Yet I had precedents of my own whereby 
I had set aside that law on two different occasions 
and thus succeeded in convicting criminals to whose 
crimes there were no witnesses but themselves. 
What have you accomplished this day? Do you 
realize it? You have set adrift, unadmonished, in 
this community, two men endowed with an awful 
and mysterious gift, a hidden and grisly power for 
evil — a power by which each in his turn may com- 
mit crime after crime of the most heinous character, 
and no man be able to tell which is the guilty or 
which the innocent party in any case of them all. 
Look to your homes — look to your property — look 
to your lives — for you have need! 
"Prisoners at the bar, stand up. Through sup- 
pression of evidence, a jury of your — our — country- 
men have been obliged to deliver a verdict con- 
cerning your case which stinks to heaven with the 
rankness of its injustice. By its terms you, the 
guilty one, go free with the innocent. Depart in 
peace, and come no more ! The costs devolve upon 
the outraged plaintiff — another iniquity. The court 
stands dissolved." 
Almost everybody crowded forward to overwhelm 
the twins and their counsel with congratulations; 
but presently the two old aunties dug the duplicates 
out and bore them away in triumph through the 
hurrahing crowd, while lots of new friends carried 
Pudd'nhead Wilson off tavern ward to feast him 
and "wet down" his great and victorious entry into 
 
the legal arena. To Wilson, so long familiar with 
neglect and depreciation, this strange new incense 
of popularity and admiration was as a fragrance 
blown from the fields of paradise. A happy man 
was Wilson. 
CHAPTER VI 
THE AMAZING DUEL 
A deputation came in the evening and conferred upon Wilsou 
the welcome honor of a nomination for mayor; for the village 
has just been converted into a city by charter. Tom skulks 
out of challenging the twins. Judge Driscoll thereupon chal' 
lenges Angelo (accused by Tom of doing the kicking); he de- 
clines, but Luigi accepts in his place against Angelo's timid 
protest. 
JT was late Saturday night — nearing eleven. 
The Judge and his second found the rest of 
the war party at the further end of the vacant 
ground, near the haunted house. Pudd'nhead Wil- 
son advanced to meet them, and said anxiously: 
"I must say a word in behalf of my principal's 
proxy, Count Luigi, to whom you have kindly 
granted the privilege of fighting my principal's 
battle for him. It is growing late, and Count Luigi 
is in great trouble lest midnight shall strike before 
the finish." 
"It is another testimony," said Howard, approv- 
ingly. "That young man is fine all through. He 
wishes to save his brother the sorrow of fighting on 
the Sabbath, and he is right; it is the right and 
maniy feeling and does him credit. We will make 
all possible haste." 
Wilson said: "There is also another reason — a 
consideration, in fact, which deeply concerns Count 
 
Luigi himself. These twins have command of their 
mutual legs turn about. Count Luigi is in command 
now; but at midnight, possession will pass to my 
principal, Count Angelo, and — well, you can foresee 
what will happen. He will march straight off the 
field, and carry Luigi with him." 
"Why! sure enough!" cried the Judge, "we have 
heard something about that extraordinary law of 
their being, already — nothing very definite, it is 
true, as regards dates and durations of power, but I 
see it is definite enough as regards to-night. Of 
course we must give Luigi every chance. Omit all 
the ceremonial possible, gentlemen, and place us in 
position." 
The seconds at once tossed up a coin; Howard 
won the choice. He placed the Judge sixty feet 
from the haunted house and facing it ; Wilson placed 
the twins within fifteen feet of the house and facing 
the Judge — necessarily. The pistol-case was opened 
and the long slim tubes taken out; when the moon- 
light glinted from them a shiver went through 
Angelo. The doctor was a fool, but a thoroughly 
well-meaning one, with a kind heart and a sincere 
disposition to oblige, but along with it an absence of 
tact which often hurt its effectiveness. He brought 
his box of lint and bandages, and asked Angelo to 
feel and see how soft and comfortable they were. 
Angelo's head fell over against Luigi's in a faint, 
and precious time was lost in bringing him to; 
which provoked Luigi into expressing his mind to 
