round.
"It is only the echo," said Gabriel, leading her away.
They went out into the late afternoon light, and sat upon a stone seat
behind the chapel, which was built across the end of the east wing. It
was very still, not a breath stirred, and there was no sound near them.
Only far off in the park a song-bird was whistling the high prelude to
the evening chorus.
"It is very lonely here," said Evelyn, taking Gabriel's hand nervously,
and speaking as if she dreaded to disturb the silence. "If it were dark,
I should be afraid."
"Of what? Of me?" Gabriel's sad eyes turned to her.
"Oh no! How could I be afraid of you? But of the old Ockrams--they say
they are just under our feet here in the north vault outside the chapel,
all in their shrouds, with no coffins, as they used to bury them."
"As they always will--as they will bury my father, and me. They say an
Ockram will not lie in a coffin."
"But it cannot be true--these are fairy tales--ghost stories!" Evelyn
nestled nearer to her companion, grasping his hand more tightly, and the
sun began to go down.
"Of course. But there is the story of old Sir Vernon, who was beheaded
for treason under James II. The family brought his body back from the
scaffold in an iron coffin with heavy locks, and they put it in the
north vault. But ever afterwards, whenever the vault was opened to bury
another of the family, they found the coffin wide open, and the body
standing upright against the wall, and the head rolled away in a corner,
smiling at it."
"As Uncle Hugh smiles?" Evelyn shivered.
"Yes, I suppose so," answered Gabriel, thoughtfully. "Of course I never
saw it, and the vault has not been opened for thirty years--none of us
have died since then."
"And if--if Uncle Hugh dies--shall you----" Evelyn stopped, and her
beautiful thin face was quite white.
"Yes. I shall see him laid there too--with his secret, whatever it is."
Gabriel sighed and pressed the girl's little hand.
"I do not like to think of it," she said unsteadily. "O Gabriel, what
can the secret be? He said we had better not marry--not that he forbade
it--but he said it so strangely, and he smiled--ugh!" Her small white
teeth chattered with fear, and she looked over her shoulder while
drawing still closer to Gabriel. "And, somehow, I felt it in my own
face--"
"So did I," answered Gabriel in a low, nervous voice. "Nurse
Macdonald----" He stopped abruptly.
"What? What did she say?"
"Oh--nothing. She has told me things--they would frighten you, dear.
Come, it is growing chilly." He rose, but Evelyn held his hand in both
of hers, still sitting and looking up into his face.
"But we shall be married, just the same--Gabriel! Say that we shall!"
"Of course, darling--of course. But while my father is so very ill, it
is impossible----"
"O Gabriel, Gabriel, dear! I wish we were married now!" cried Evelyn in
sudden distress. "I know that something will prevent it and keep us
apart."
"Nothing shall!"
"Nothing?"
"Nothing human," said Gabriel Ockram, as she drew him down to her.
And their faces, that were so strangely alike, met and touched--and
Gabriel knew that the kiss had a marvellous savour of evil, but on
Evelyn's lips it was like the cool breath of a sweet and mortal fear.
And neither of them understood, for they were innocent and young. Yet
she drew him to her by her lightest touch, as a sensitive plant shivers
and waves its thin leaves, and bends and closes softly upon what it
wants; and he let himself be drawn to her willingly, as he would if her
touch had been deadly and poisonous; for she strangely loved that half
voluptuous breath of fear, and he passionately desired the nameless evil
something that lurked in her maiden lips.
"It is as if we loved in a strange dream," she said.
"I fear the waking," he murmured.
"We shall not wake, dear--when the dream is over it will have already
turned into death, so softly that we shall not know it. But until
then----"
She paused, and her eyes sought his, and their faces slowly came nearer.
It was as if they had thoughts in their red lips that foresaw and
foreknew the deep kiss of each other.
"Until then----" she said again, very low, and her mouth was nearer to
his.
"Dream--till then," murmured his breath.
CHAPTER II
Nurse Macdonald was a hundred years old. She used to sleep sitting all
bent together in a great old leathern arm-chair with wings, her feet in
a bag footstool lined with sheepskin, and many warm blankets wrapped
about her, even in summer. Beside her a little lamp always burned at
night by an old silver cup, in which there was something to drink.
Her face was very wrinkled, but the wrinkles were so small and fine and
near together that they made shadows instead of lines. Two thin locks of
hair, that was turning from white to a smoky yellow again, were drawn
over her temples from under her starched white cap. Every now and then
she woke, and her eyelids were drawn up in tiny folds like little pink
silk curtains, and her queer blue eyes looked straight before her
through doors and walls and worlds to a far place beyond. Then she slept
again, and her hands lay one upon the other on the edge of the blanket;
the thumbs had grown longer than the fingers with age, and the joints
shone in the low lamplight like polished crab-apples.
It was nearly one o'clock in the night, and the summer breeze was
blowing the ivy branch against the panes of the window with a hushing
caress. In the small room beyond, with the door ajar, the girl-maid who
took care of Nurse Macdonald was fast asleep. All was very quiet. The
old woman breathed regularly, and her indrawn lips trembled each time as
the breath went out, and her eyes were shut.
But outside the closed window there was a face, and violet eyes were
looking steadily at the ancient sleeper, for it was like the face of
Evelyn Warburton, though there were eighty feet from the sill of the
window to the foot of the tower. Yet the cheeks were thinner than
Evelyn's, and as white as a gleam, and the eyes stared, and the lips
were not red with life; they were dead, and painted with new blood.
Slowly Nurse Macdonald's wrinkled eyelids folded themselves back, and
she looked straight at the face at the window while one might count ten.
"Is it time?" she asked in her little old, faraway voice.
While she looked the face at the window changed, for the eyes opened
wider and wider till the white glared all round the bright violet, and
the bloody lips opened over gleaming teeth, and stretched and widened
and stretched again, and the shadowy golden hair rose and streamed
against the window in the night breeze. And in answer to Nurse
Macdonald's question came the sound that freezes the living flesh.
That low-moaning voice that rises suddenly, like the scream of storm,
from a moan to a wail, from a wail to a howl, from a howl to the
fear-shriek of the tortured dead--he who has heard knows, and he can
bear witness that the cry of the banshee is an evil cry to hear alone in
the deep night. When it was over and the face was gone, Nurse Macdonald
shook a little in her great chair, and still she looked at the black
square of the window, but there was nothing more there, nothing but the
night, and the whispering ivy branch. She turned her head to the door
that was ajar, and there stood the girl in her white gown, her teeth
chattering with fright.
"It is time, child," said Nurse Macdonald. "I must go to him, for it is
the end."
She rose slowly, leaning her withered hands upon the arms of the chair,
and the girl brought her a woollen gown and a great mantle, and her
crutch-stick, and made her ready. But very often the girl looked at the
window and was unjointed with fear, and often Nurse Macdonald shook her
head and said words which the maid could not understand.
"It was like the face of Miss Evelyn," said the girl at last, trembling.
But the ancient woman looked up sharply and angrily, and her queer blue
eyes glared. She held herself by the arm of the great chair with her
left hand, and lifted up her crutch-stick to strike the maid with all
her might. But she did not.
"You are a good girl," she said, "but you are a fool. Pray for wit,
child, pray for wit--or else find service in another house than Ockram
Hall. Bring the lamp and help me under my left arm."
The crutch-stick clacked on the wooden floor, and the low heels of the
woman's slippers clappered after her in slow triplets, as Nurse
