Food,' I'm sure. You look exactly like one of the prize health-babies."
"Oh no!" cried Mrs. Kip, in terror, "I'm not at all well, Maud Muriel.
Don't tell me so, or I shall be ill directly! Neither Evangeline Taylor
nor I are in the least robust; we are both pulmonic."
At this moment Evangeline herself appeared at the door, accompanied by
her inseparable Miss Green, a personage who was the pride of Mrs. Kip's
existence. This was not for what she was, but for her title: "Evangeline
Taylor and her governess"--this to Mrs. Kip seemed almost royal. She now
hurried forward to meet her child, and, taking her arm, led her away
from the torso to the far end of the barn, where two new busts were
standing on a table, one of them the likeness of a short-nosed,
belligerent boy, and the other of a dreary, sickly woman. "Come and look
at these sweet things, darling."
And then Ruth broke into a second laugh.
"Mrs. Chase," said Maud Muriel, suddenly, "I wish you would sit to
me."
"No. Ask her husband to sit," suggested Dolly. "You know you like to do
men best, Maud Muriel."
"Well, generally speaking, the outlines of a man's face are more
distinct," the sculptress admitted. "And yet, Dolly, it doesn't always
follow. For, generally speaking, women--"
"Maud Muriel, I am never generally speaking, but always particularly,"
Dolly declared. "Do Mr. Chase. He will come like a shot if you will
smoke your pipe; he has been dying to see you do it for three years."
"I have given up the pipe; I have cigars now," explained Maud, gravely.
"But I do not smoke here; I take a walk with a cigar on dark nights--"
"Sh! Don't talk about it now," interrupted Mrs. Kip, warningly. For
Evangeline Taylor, having extracted all she could from the "sweet
things," was coming towards them. There was a good deal to come. Her
height was now six feet and an inch. Her long, rigid face wore an
expression which she intended to be one of deep interest in the works of
art displayed before her; but as she was more shy than ever, her eyes,
as she approached the group, had a suppressed nervous gleam which, with
her strange facial tension, made her look half-mad.
"Dear child!" said the mother, fondly, as Ruth, to whom the poor young
giant was passionately devoted, made her happy by taking her off and
talking to her kindly, apart. "She has the true Taylor eyes. So
profound! And yet so dove-like!" Here the head of Achilles Larue
appeared at the open door, and Lilian abandoned the Taylor eyes to
whisper quickly, "Oh, Maud Muriel, do cover that dreadful thing up!"
"Cover it up? Why--it is what he has come to see," answered the intrepid
Maud.
The ex-senator inspected the torso. "Most praise-worthy, Miss
Mackintosh. And, in execution, quite--quite fairish. Though you have
perhaps exaggerated the anatomical effect--the salient appearance of the
bones?"
"Not at all. They are an exact reproduction from life," answered Maud,
with dignity.
Lilian Kip, still apprehensive as to the influence of the torso upon a
young mind, sent her daughter home to play "battledoor and shuttlecock,
dear" (Evangeline played "battledoor and shuttlecock, dear," every
afternoon for an hour with her governess, to acquire "grace of
carriage"); Larue was now talking to Ruth, and Lilian, after some
hesitation, walked across the barn and seated herself on a bench at its
far end (the only seat in that resolute place); from this point she
gazed and gazed at Larue. He was as correct as ever--from his straight
nose to his finger-tips; from his smooth, short hair, parted in the
middle, to his long, slender foot with its high in-step. Dolly, tired of
standing, came after a while and sat down on the bench beside the widow.
They heard Achilles say, "No; I decided not to go." Then, a few minutes
later, came another "No; I decided not to do that."
"All his decisions are not to do things," commented Dolly, in an
undertone. "When he dies, it can be put on his tombstone: 'He was a verb
in the passive voice, conjugated negatively.' Why, what's the matter,
Lilian?"
"It's nothing--I am only a little agitated. I will tell you about it
some time," answered Mrs. Kip, squeezing Dolly's hand. Ruth, tired of
the senator, looked across at Dolly. Dolly joined her, and they took
leave.
Maud Muriel followed them to the door. "I should like to do your head,
Ruth."
"No; you are to do Mr. Chase's," Dolly called back from the phaeton.
"She has been in love with your husband from the first," she went on to
her sister, as she turned her pony's head towards the Swannanoa. And
then Ruth laughed a third time.
But though Dolly thus made sport, in her heart there was a pang. She
knew--no one better--that her sister's face had changed greatly during
the past three months. Now that his wife was well again, Chase himself
noticed nothing. And to the little circle of North Carolina friends Ruth
was dear; they were very slow to observe anything that was unfavorable
to those they cared for. To-day, however, Maud Muriel's unerring scent
for ugliness had put her (though unconsciously) upon the track, and, for
the first time in all their acquaintance, she had asked Ruth to sit to
her. It was but a scent as yet; Ruth was still lovely. But the elder
sister could see, as in a vision, that with several years more, under
the blight of hidden suffering, her beauty might disappear entirely; her
divine blue eyes alone could not save her if her color should fade, if
the sweet expression of her mouth should alter to confirmed
unhappiness, if her face should grow so thin that its irregular
outlines would become apparent.
Two hours later there was a tap at Miss Billy Breeze's door, at the Old
North Hotel.
"Come in," said Miss Billy. "Oh, is it you, Lilian? I am glad to see
you. I haven't been out this afternoon, as it seemed a little coolish!"
Mrs. Kip looked excited. "Coolish, Billy?" she repeated, standing still
in the centre of the room. "Ish? Ish? And I, too, have said it; I
don't pretend to deny it. But it is over at last, and I am free! I have
been--been different for some time. But I did not know how different
until this very afternoon. I met him at Maud Muriel's barn, soon after
two. And I sat there, and looked at him and looked at him. And
suddenly it came across me that perhaps after all I didn't care
quite so much for him. I was so nervous that I could scarcely speak,
but I did manage to ask him to take a little stroll with me. For you see
I wanted to be perfectly sure. And as he walked along beside me,
putting down his feet in that precise sort of way he does, and every now
and then saying 'ish'--like a great light in the dark, like a falling
off of chains, I knew that it was at last at an end--that he had
ceased to be all the world to me. And it was such an enormous relief
that when I came back, if there had been a circus or a menagerie in
town, I give you my word I should certainly have gone to it--as a
celebration! And then, Billy, I thought of you. And I made up my mind
that I would come right straight over here and ask you--Is he worth
it? What has Achilles Larue ever done for either of us, Billy, but just
snub, snub, snub? and crush, crush, crush? If you could only feel what a
joy it is to have that tiresome old ache gone! And to just know that
he is hateful!" And Lilian, much agitated, took Billy's hand in hers.
But Billy, dim and pale, drew herself away. "You do him great injustice,
Lilian. But he has never expected the ordinary mind to comprehend him.
Your intentions, of course, are good, and I am obliged to you for them.
But I am not like you; to me it is a pleasure, and always will be, as
well as a constant education, to go on admiring the greatest man I have
ever known!"
"Whether he looks at you or not?" demanded Lilian.
"Whether he looks at me or not," answered Billy, firmly.
"If you had ever been married, Wilhelmina, you would know that you
could not go on forever living on shadows!" declared the widow as she
took leave. "Shadows may be all very well. But we are human, after all,
and we need realities." Having decided upon a new reality, her step
was so joyous that Horace Chase, coming home from his long ride to
Crumb's, hardly recognized her, as he passed her in the twilight. At
L'Hommedieu he found no one in the sitting-room but Dolly. "Ruth is
resting after our drive," explained the elder sister. "I took her first
to the barn to see Maud Muriel's torso, and that made her laugh
tremendously. Well, is The Lodge in order?"
"Yes, it's all right; Nick's friends can come along as soon as they
like," Chase answered.
"And are none of the Willoughbys to be there this summer?" Dolly went
on.
"No; Nick has gone to Carlsbad--he isn't well. And Richard is off
yachting. Walter has taken a cottage at Newport."
