"Or less, judging from your costume," said 
her mother. "Schicksalsee isn't Rangely, you 
know. I only hope the good people in the little 
ducal court won't call you theatrical." 
"A theatrical stunner!" mused Ruth, in her 
clearest tones. "It is good to know how one 
strikes one's friends." 
"The disciplining of this young person is to 
be left to me," said the colonel. "Daisy, every 
thing else about you is all wrong, but your frock 
is all right." 
"That is simple, and comprehensive and reassuring," murmured Ruth absently, as she bent 
over the fly-book with Gethryn. 
After much consultation, and many thought 
ful glances at the bit of water which glittered 
and dashed through the narrow meadow in front 
of the house, they arranged the various colored 
lures and leaders, and standing up, looked at 
Colonel Dene, reading his novel. 
"What? Oh! Come along, then!" said he, 
on being made aware that he was waited for, 
and standing up also, he dropped the volume 
into his creel, and lighted a cigar. 
"Are you going to take that trash along, 
dear?" asked his daughter. 
"What trash? The work of fiction? That's 
literature, as the gentleman said about Dante." 
"Rex," said Mrs. Dene, buttoning the colonel's coat over his snowy collar, "I put this expedition into your hands. Take care of these 
two children." 
She stood and watched them until they passed 
the turn beyond the bridge. Mr. Blumenthal 
watched them too, from behind the curtains in 
his room. His leer went from one to the other, 
but always returned and rested on Rex. Then, 
as there was a mountain chill in the morning 
air, he crawled back into bed, hauling his night 
 
cap over his generous ears, and rolling himself 
in a cocoon of featherbeds, until he should emerge 
about noon, like some sleek, fat moth. 
The anglers walked briskly up the wooded 
road, chatting and laughing, with now and then 
a sage and critical glance at the water, of which 
they caught many glimpses through the trees. 
Gethryn and Ruth were soon far ahead. The 
colonel sauntered along, switching leaves with 
his rod, and indulging in bursts of Parisian mel 
ody. 
"Papa," called Ruth, looking back, "does your 
hip trouble you to-day, or are you only lazy?" 
"Trot along, little girl; I'll be there before you 
are," said the colonel airily, and stopped to 
replace the wild hyacinth in his coat by a prim 
little pink and white daisy. Then he lighted a 
fresh cigar and started on, but their voices were 
already growing faint in the distance. Observing this, he stopped and looked up and down 
the road. No one was in sight. He sat down 
on the bank with his hand on his hip. His face 
changed from a frown to an expression of sharp 
pain. In five minutes he had grown from a 
fresh elderly man into an old man, his face drawn 
and gray, but he only muttered "the devil!" and 
sat still. A big bronze-winged beetle whizzed 
past him, z-z-ip! "like a bullet," he thought, 
and pressed both hands now on his hip. "Twenty- 
five years ago pshaw! I'm not so old as that!" 
But it was twenty-five years ago when the blue- 
capped troopers, bursting in to the rescue, found 
the dandy th, scorched and rent and black 
ened, still reeling beneath a rag crowned with a 
gilt eagle. The exquisite befeathered and gold 
laced th. But the shells have rained for hours 
among the "Dandies" and some are dead, 
and some are wishing for death, like that young 
ster lying there with the shattered hip. 
Colonel Dene rose up presently and re-lighted 
his cigar; then he flicked some dust from the 
new tweeds, picked a stem of wild hyacinth, 
and began to whistle. "Pshaw! I'm not so old 
as all that!" he murmured, sauntering along the 
pleasant wood-road. Before long he came in 
sight of Ruth and Gethryn, who were waiting. 
But he only waved them on laughing. 
"Papa always says that old wound of his does 
not hurt- him, but it does. I know it does," 
said Ruth. 
 
Rex noted what tones of tenderness there 
were in her cool, clear voice. He did not answer, for he could only agree with her, and 
what could be the use of that? 
They strolled on in silence, up the fragrant 
forest road. Great glittering dragon flies drifted 
along the river bank, or hung quivering above 
pools. Clouds of lazy sulphur butterflies 
swarmed and floated, eddying up from the road 
in front of them, and settling down again in 
their wake like golden dust. A fox stole across 
the path, but Gethryn did not see him. The 
mesh of his landing net was caught just then in 
a little gold clasp that he wore on his breast. 
"How quaint!" cried Ruth; "let me help you; 
there! One would think you were a French 
legitimist, with your fleur-de-lis." 
"Thank you" was all he answered, and 
turned away, as he felt the blood burn his 
face. But Ruth was walking lightly on and had 
not noticed. The fleur-de-lis, however, reminded her of something she had to say, and she be 
gan again, presently 
"You left Paris rather suddenly, did you not, 
Rex?" 
This time he colored furiously, and Ruth 
turning to him saw it. She flushed too, fearing 
to have made, she knew not what blunder, but 
she went on seriously, not pausing for his an 
swer: 
"The year before, that is three years ago now, 
we waited in Italy, as we had promised to do, 
for you to join us. But you never even wrote 
to say why you did not come. And you haven't 
explained it yet, Rex." 
Gethryn grew pale. This was what he had 
been expecting. He knew it would have to 
come; in fact he had wished for nothing more 
than an opportunity for making all the amends 
that were possible under the circumstances. 
But the possible amends were very, very inade 
quate at best, and now that the opportunity 
was here his courage failed, and he would have 
shirked it if he could. Besides, for the last five 
minutes, Ruth had been innocently stirring 
memories that made his heart beat heavily. 
And now she was waiting for her answer. 
He glanced at the clear profile, as she walked 
beside him. Her eyes were raised a little; they 
seemed to be idly following the windings of a 
 
path that went up the opposite mountain side; 
her lips rested one upon the other in quiet curves. 
He thought he had never seen such a pure, 
proud looking girl. All the chivalry of a gener 
