house-keeping such a coadjutor as this. Carmela was scrupulously neat,
and she was even more scrupulously honest, never abstracting so much as
a pin; she economized for her mistress with her whole soul, and kept
watch over every detail; she told the truth, she swept the corners, she
dusted under everything; she worked conscientiously, in one way and
another, all day long. Even Peter, who did not like foreign servants,
liked Carmela; he said she was "so spry!"
"Is everything ready?" inquired Miss Senter, as she met her deputy.
"Yes, signorina, everything," answered Carmela, briskly. She was looking
her very best and tightest, all black and white, with black silk
stockings showing above her little high-heeled shoes. As she spoke she
put her hands in their black lace mitts in the pockets of her apron,
and, middle-aged though she was said to be, she looked at that moment
like a smart French soubrette of the stage.
"I am going to the kitchen to have a word with Giorgio," said the
Consuless, passing on.
"If the signorina permits, I carry the train," answered Carmela, lifting
the satin folds from the floor. Thus they went on together, mistress and
maid, through various rooms and corridors, until finally the kitchen was
reached. It was a large, lofty place, brilliantly lighted, for Giorgio
was old and needed all the radiance that could be obtained to aid his
failing sight. He was a small man with a melancholy countenance. But
this melancholy was an accident of expression; in reality, old Giorgio
was cheerful and amiable, with a good deal of mild wit. He was the most
skilful cook in Venice. But his health had failed some years before, and
he had now very little strength; the Consul, who liked good dinners,
paid him high wages, and gave him a young assistant.
"Well, Giorgio, all promises well, I trust?" said Miss Senter as she
entered, her steps somewhat impeded by the tightness with which Carmela
held back her train. "The Consul is particular about having the hot
things really hot, and constantly renewed, as it is such a cold night.
The three men from Florian's will have charge of the ices and the other
cold things, and will do all that is necessary in the supper-room. But
for the hot dishes we depend upon you."
Giorgio, who was dressed entirely in white, bowed and waved his hand.
"Mademoiselle need give herself no uneasiness," he said in French. For
Giorgio had learned his art in Paris, and whenever Carmela was present
he invariably answered his mistress in the language of that Northern
capital, even though her question had been couched in Italian; it was
one of his ways--and he had but few--of standing up, as it were, against
the indefatigable little deputy. For, clever though Carmela was, she had
never been out of her native land, and could speak no tongue but her
own.
"Are you feeling well, Giorgio?" continued Miss Senter. "I see that you
look pale. I am afraid you have been doing too much. Where is Luigi?"
(Luigi was the cook's assistant.)
"He has gone home; ten minutes ago. I let him go, as it is a festival.
He is young, and we can be young but once. Che vuole! In addition, all
was done."
"No," said Miss Senter, who was now speaking French also; "there is
still much to do, and it was not wise to let Luigi go. You are certainly
very tired, Giorgio."
"Let not mademoiselle think of it," said the old man, straightening
himself a little.
"But I shall think of it," said Miss Senter, kindly. "Carmela," she
continued, speaking now in Italian, "go to my room and get my case of
cordials."
Carmela divined that the cordial was for the cook. "And the signorina's
train?" she said. "Surely I cannot leave it on this dirty floor! Will
not the signorina return to the drawing-room to take her cordial? Eh--it
is not for her? It is for Giorgio? A man? A man to be faint like a
girl? Ha, ha! it makes me laugh!"
"Go and get it," repeated Miss Senter, taking the train over her own
arm. She knew that Carmela did not like the cook. Jealousy was the one
fault the hard-working little creature possessed. "She has tried to make
me dismiss Giorgio more than once," she said to her brother, in
confidence; "but I always pretend not to see the feeling that influences
her. It is only Giorgio she is jealous of; she gets on perfectly well
with Luigi, and with Assunta and Beppa; while for Ercole she can never
do enough. She is devoted to Ercole!"
Giorgio had not taken up the slur cast upon his immaculate floor. All he
said was, "Comme elle est méchante!" with a shrug.
"Where is Ercole?" said Miss Senter, while she waited.
"He is dressing," answered Giorgio. "He makes himself beautiful for the
occasion."
Ercole was the chief gondolier--a tall, athletic young man of thirty,
handsome and clever. Miss Senter had chosen Ercole to assist her with
the Christmas-tree. The second gondolier, Andrea, was to be stationed at
the end of the little quay or riva down below, outside of their own
water-door; for here on the small canal were the steps used by arriving
and departing gondolas, and here also floated the handsome gondola of
the Consul, with its American flag. The two gondoliers also had
picturesque costumes of white (woollen in winter, linen in summer), with
blue collars, blue stockings, blue caps, and long fringed red sashes,
the combination representing the American national colors. To-night
Ercole, having to appear in the drawing-room, was making a longer stay
than usual before his little mirror.
Carmela returned with the cordial-case. "Ah, yes, our cook is
pale--pale as a young virgin!" she commented, as Miss Senter, unlocking
the box, poured into one of the little glasses it contained a generous
portion of a restorative whose every drop was costly.
Giorgio, taking off the white linen cap which covered his gray hair,
made a bow, and then drank the draught with much appreciation. "It is
true that I am pale," he remarked, slyly, in Italian. "I might, perhaps,
try some rouge?"
And then the Consuless, to avert war, hastily bore her deputy away.
Half an hour later the guests had arrived; they included all the
Americans in Venice, with a sprinkling of English, Italians, and
Russians. The grown people assembled in the drawing-room. And presently
they heard singing. Through the anterooms came the children, entering
with measured step, two and two, led by three little boys in Oriental
costumes. These three boys were singing as follows:
    "We three Kings of Orient are,
     Bearing gifts we've travelled from far,
     Field and fountain, moor and mountain,
     Following yonder star."
Here, from the high top branch of the Christmas-tree which rose above
the concealing curtain, blazed out a splendid star. And then all the
procession took up the chorus, as they marched onward:
    "Oh, star of wonder,
       Star of might,
     Star with royal
       Beauty bright!"
Ercole, who was behind the curtain, now drew it aside, and there stood
the tree, blazing with fairy-lamps and glittering ornaments, while
beneath it was a mound composed entirely of toys. The children behaved
well; they kept their ranks and repeated their carol, as they had been
told to do, ranging themselves meanwhile in a half-circle before the
tree.
    "We three Kings of Orient are,"
chanted the three little kings a second time, though their eyes were
fixed upon a magnificent box of soldiers, with tents and flags and
cannon. The carol finished, Miss Senter, with the aid of her gondolier,
distributed the toys and bonbons, and the room was filled with happy
glee. When Ercole had detached the last package of sweets from the
sparkling branches he disappeared. His next duty was to conduct the
musicians up to their cage.
Miss Senter had allowed an hour for the inspection and trial of the toys
before the dancing should begin. It was none too much, and the clamor
was still great as this hour drew towards its close, so great that she
herself was glad that the end was near. Looking up to see whether her
musicians had assembled on their shelf, she perceived some one at the
drawing-room door; it was Carmela, hiding herself modestly behind the
portière, but at the same time unmistakably beckoning to her mistress as
soon as she saw that she had caught her eye. Miss Senter went to the
doorway.
"Will the signorina permit? A surprise of Ercole's," whispered Carmela,
eagerly, standing on tiptoe to reach her mistress's ear. "He has dressed
himself as a clown, and he is of a perfection! He has bells on his cap
and his elbows, and if the signorina graciously allows, he will come in
