kiss the nose of a mule. For certain disorders one 
carried about a peculiar species of small snake re- 
ported to possess the accomplishment of traveling 
backwards. The cuttings of vines not four years 
old, burned in seven ditches, were believed to con- 
tain peculiar therapeutic virtues, provided one sat 
in the smoke of the seven ditches, each in turn. 
Such a materia medica was the offering of the 
regular schools to suffering humanity. At such a 
stage and into such a phase of medical science, the 
THE HEALER 153 
healing gift of the Nazarene entered quietly. Its 
simplicity, its good sense, its delicacy, its efficacy, 
its amazing results threatened to overturn the thera- 
peutics of his time. The physicians were derisive, 
then disgruntled, then alarmed. Their consultations 
were neglected; their clienteles thinned out; their 
patients deserted them for the new healer. The 
danger was that the sick public would go over en 
masse to the courageous and singular man whose 
prescriptions required of his patients only clean 
lives and faith in himself. The most learned and 
fashionable physicians in Palestine were set at 
naught. A growing uneasiness ran through their 
ranks. Before he had aroused the serious opposi- 
tion of the clergy to which the heretic preacher was 
inevitably fated, the humane and gentle man who 
began his life's work by such a love of the sick and 
such a sorrow for their sufferings as has never been 
equaled in the records of human sympathy, brought 
down upon himself the enmity of one of the most 
jealous classes in society* He had to meet the an- 
tagonism of the whole medical profession. 
The absence of superstition in the nature of 
Jesus was something that never ceases to astonish. 
Simply reared in a mountain village, in a secluded 
youth, in a devout family, how easy for him to have 
conformed, to have believed, like other men ! But 
freedom of thought was the condition of existence to 
him. Far above his contemporaries, looking off and 
away at an altitude in which they could not breathe, 
he quickly took the broadest view of any practical 
question. He never did an ignorant thing. 
164 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 
Against the medical superstitions of his times he 
directed himself with a progressive independence 
which commands the keenest admiration. Perceiv- 
ing that the people who appealed to him suffered 
more from the abuses of the profession than from 
the effects of disease, he took high ground. He 
antedated by two thoiisand years the efforts of mod- 
ern science to reduce the abominations of a be- 
nighted past in the practice of medicine. He threw 
away all drugs, all nostrums, all nauseous traditions, 
all the disgusting superstitions of the age, and 
brought his patients up to pure living and high 
thinking as his simple code of therapeutics. 
It is never to be forgotten tihat he added to these 
principles in the control of disease the forces of a 
personality that stands apart, beyond reduplica- 
tion. The wisest and most courageous of the mod- 
ern schools does not hope for a similar professional 
success ; only the purest dwells upon it. But he 
who studies that supreme achievement learns his 
subtle formula, if he will, from the " irregular " 
Hebrew physician whose manly faith in God was 
the first and last condition of curing, and whose 
patients found that something not unlike it was the 
inexorable condition of cure. 
An opportunity presented itself for an interest- 
ing thrust at a favorite popular superstition involv- 
ing both medicine and theology, and requiring a 
double amount of courage on the part of him who 
dared to attack it. 
The successes of many healers are largely con- 
fined to disorders of the nervous system. 
THE HEALEB 155 
cures of Jesus were not limited at all to these, but 
lie had performed his share of such. An impres- 
sive and dramatic scene had taken place in Galilee* 
at the home of his friend Peter, a man in comfort- 
able circumstances, whose house was of some size, 
and accommodated both audiences and patients in 
considerable numbers. The R-abbi had preached in 
the house, under the gallery, and the crowd over- 
flowed into the street. Suddenly, in the middle of 
his sermon, there descended at his feet, mysteri- 
ously let down from overhead, a paralyzed person, 
whose muscular and ingenious friends had carried 
him up the outside stairs of the house, or had taken 
" the road of the roofs " from a neighbor's ; so they 
stole a march upon the healer's attention, perhaps 
by tearing up the earth and the brush from the 
gallery roof, and forcing a space large enough for 
their purpose. As this image of woe fell flat at his 
feet, the preacher's voice hushed. Only the eyes of 
the patient could move, and these clasped the per- 
son of the most merciful man whom Galilee had ever 
known or heard of. The entreaty was so piteous 
that the lip of Jesus trembled. He could not go on 
with his discourse till he had cured tne patient. 
The memory of this scene occurred to him poign- 
antly one Sabbath, when, being in Jerusalem at 
an ecclesiastical feast, he walked out alone to one 
of the "wells of healing" in which the East 
abounded. This spot was not far from the market, 
and easily accessible. It was eminent for its legen- 
dary cures, and sure to be frequented by people 
suffering from those forms of nervous disease which 
156 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 
forbid a patient to get too far from home, but 
are sure to take him somewhere in a whimsical 
search for health. The place went by the name of 
Bethesda, and was a pretty pool, picturesquely 
guarded by porches. It was one of the intermit- 
tent springs whose rise and fall was attributed by 
the ignorance of the times to supernatural agency. 
The waters were disturbed at irregular intervals, 
and only the poor wretch who pushed his way in at 
the expense of his weaker companions, and at the 
precise moment when the spring began to swell, had 
any chance* 
Jesus stood beside Bethesda, and it was the Sab- 
bath, the awful Sabbath, in which a man was 
forbidden to carry fuel, a rug, a bundle, or to lift 
the sick upon their beds. Only the dying could 
be carried by good Jews. A medical cure was for- 
bidden. Jesus stood watching the mass of misery 
that had accumulated at the pool. His now prac- 
ticed eye perceived among those wretched people a 
large proportion of nervous patients, and among 
them he readily recognized the worst and most 
genuine case. A helpless man, disabled for thirty- 
eight years, and deserted by his friends who had 
grown tired of taking care of him, lay sadly in one 
of the porches by himself. The ruder and more 
restless sick complained and quarreled around him. 
He alone lay quite still and acquiescent. The pa- 
tience born from long-accepted despair had settled 
upon him. His drawn face demanded nothing ; his 
