This was the most agreeable speech I had heard from her since our
acquaintance commenced.
Nothing more was said till I found myself walking by her side toward
Broadway.
"Now?" she said, expectantly.
"I am going to take a liberty," I said. "I am going to try to interest
you in a poor family. I of course know nothing of your means, but my own
are so limited that in spite of my profound sympathy I can only give my
medical services, while more is needed."
"Go on, doctor," she said, and there was unwonted kindness in her tone.
I told her the story in brief words, and she seemed interested.
"Your young patient has no organic disease?" she inquired.
"None whatever. She is ill-nourished, and works too hard. That is the
whole story."
"They are very poor."
"You can judge. Their income cannot be more than seven dollars and a
half, and of this the girl earns six dollars. Her sickness will entail
some outlay, and there is only the boy to earn money now."
"It is very sad, doctor. How little we whose wants are provided for
know of the sufferings of the poor! But fortunately," she added, and a
rare smile lighted up her features and made her positively attractive,
in spite of her name, "fortunately there is a remedy. When do you see
this poor family again?"
"I shall call to-morrow morning after breakfast."
"And in the meantime do you think they will suffer for the lack of
food?"
"It may be so. I don't think they have much money in the house?"
"Do you think you could make it convenient to call there this evening?"
"Yes, I am sure I could. Their poor home is less than half a mile
distant from our boarding-house."
"Then, doctor, be kind enough to hand them this."
She drew out her purse and handed me a five dollar bill.
I suppose I showed the joy I felt.
"Miss Blagden," I said, "you could not give me a more agreeable
commission."
"I believe it, doctor."
There was an unwonted softness in her tone, and her smile was positively
attractive.
How could we call her the "Disagreeable Woman?"
CHAPTER XIII.
MRS. WYMAN'S CURIOSITY.
I was passing our boarding-house on my return from the walk with Miss
Blagden when Mrs. Wyman tapped on the window, and opened it.
"I saw you!" she said, in a bantering tone.
"At supper?"
"No, I saw you walking away with Miss Blagden. So you are smitten at
last!"
I smiled.
"I assure you," I said, "there is nothing between us."
"You seem uncommonly attentive," and I thought there was something of
pique in her tone.
"What can I do?" I answered. "You have forsaken me, and devote yourself
to the Count."
"As if I could forget you!" she said, in a sentimental tone.
If she had known how utterly indifferent I was to her favor or disfavor
she would hardly have been complimented. She had transferred her
attentions to Count Penelli, but she still wished to retain her hold
upon me.
"By the way," she said, suddenly, "are you going to hear Patti during
her present engagement?"
"Do you take me for a millionaire?"
"Her prices are frightful!" she said, thoughtfully. "Of course I cannot
go without an escort."
"If you will secure two tickets, I will accompany you."
"Thank you, but I am so poor. Still I dote on music, and I would buy my
own ticket."
I shrugged my shoulders, and declined to take the hint.
"Very probably the Count will wish to go. He is an Italian, you know,
and would have the advantage of understanding the language."
"True."
"As a nobleman he is doubtless above money considerations."
"You are mistaken. He is the heir to great estates, but he is out of
favor with his father, and has to live on a very small allowance. It is
a pity, isn't it?"
"He might work at some business, and replenish his purse."
"But you must remember he is a nobleman. His rank debars him from many
positions that would be open to a common man."
"I am glad that I am not a nobleman, then."
"Ah, he might not object to being a doctor if he were trained to that
profession. I wish there were any way of getting a ticket to Patti,
without such a monstrous outlay. Can't you think of any way?"
"Mr. Blake is connected with a morning paper. Perhaps he may be entitled
to a Press ticket."
"Thank you, Dr. Fenwick. That is an excellent suggestion. I will speak
to him to-morrow morning. Where are you walking, if I may ask?"
"To see a poor patient. Will you accompany me?"
"No, no, I should be afraid of catching some horrid fever or something."
"The family is poor, and stands very much in need of assistance."
"How will they pay you, then?"
"They won't pay me. I shall not ask any compensation."
"I think you are foolish to waste your time on such people. They can't
benefit you."
"I can help them."
"You will never get rich in that way."
"I do not expect to. I shall be satisfied if I can make a living. If
you feel inclined to be charitable, I can recommend Mrs. Mills as
deserving all the help you are inclined to bestow."
"I positively haven't a cent to spare. Besides it would make it all the
more difficult to hear Patti."
Mrs. Wyman closed the window. The conversation had taken a turn which
she did not relish.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE QUALITY OF MERCY.
When I knocked again at the door of Mrs. Mills, she opened it and
regarded me in some surprise.
"Did you think Alice would be worse?" she asked.
"No, but I am commissioned by a charitable lady, one of my fellow
boarders, to give you this."
She took the bill which I offered her, and her face lighted up with joy.
"It is a godsend," she said. "I was feeling very anxious. We had but
twenty-five cents in the house."
"This will help along."
"Indeed it will. How kind you are, doctor," and her eyes filled with
grateful tears.
"I would like to be kind, but my ability is limited."
"And who is this lady to whom I am indebted?"
"We call her the Disagreeable Woman."
She looked very much surprised.
"Surely you are jesting, doctor."
"No; she is a social mystery. She is very blunt and says many sharp
things."
"But she sends me this money. She must have a good heart."
"I begin to think so. It would surprise all at the table if they knew
she had done this."
"I shall think of her as the Agreeable Woman."
"Now, Mrs. Mills, I am going to give you some advice. What your daughter
needs is nourishing food. Use this money to provide it not only for her
but for yourself."
"I will--but when this is gone," she hesitated.
"We will appeal to the Disagreeable Woman. What has your daughter
taken?"
"I have given her some beef tea."
"That is good as far as it goes. Do you think she could eat a bit of
steak?"
"I will ask her."
Alice seemed so pleased at the suggestion that Frank was dispatched to
the butcher's for a pound of sirloin steak, and a few potatoes. Soon the
rich and appetizing flavor of broiled steak pervaded the apartment, and
a smile of contentment lighted up the face of the sick girl.
"Now mind that you and Frank eat some too," I said. "I will see you
