introduced you to Clare. We might have started upon a more formal
footing, then. You have chosen to say that we are old friends. It's an
odd expression to use--but let it stand. I won't quarrel with it. It
does well enough. As for the position, it's not pleasant for me, but it
must be worse for you. There's not much to choose. But I don't want you
to think that I expect you to talk about old times unless you like. If
you have anything which you wish to say, I'll hear it all without
interrupting you. But I do wish you to believe that I won't do anything
nor say anything which could touch your wife. She seems to be happy with
you. I hope she always has been and always will be. She knew what she
was doing when she married you. God knows, there was publicity enough.
Was it my fault? I suppose you've always thought so. Very well,
then--say that it was my fault. But don't tell your wife who I am unless
she forces you to it out of curiosity."
"Do you think I should wish to?" asked Sir Adam, bitterly.
"No--of course not. But she may ask you who I was and when we met, and
all about it. Try and keep her off the subject. We don't want to tell
lies, you know."
"I shall say that you were Lucy Waring. That's true enough. You were
christened Lucy Waring. She need never know what your last name was.
That isn't a lie, is it?"
"Not exactly--under the circumstances."
"And your daughter knows nothing, of course? I want to know how we
stand, you see."
"No--only that we have met before. I don't know what she may suspect.
And your son?"
"Oh, I suppose he knows. Somebody must have told him."
"He doesn't know who I am, though," said Mrs. Bowring, with conviction.
"He seems to be more like his mother than like you. He couldn't conceal
anything long."
"I wasn't particularly good at that either, as it turned out," said Sir
Adam, gravely.
"No, thank God!"
"Do you think it's something to be thankful for? I don't. Things might
have gone better afterwards--"
"Afterwards!" The suffering of the woman's life was in the tone and in
her eyes.
"Yes, afterwards. I'm an old man, Lucy, and I've seen a great many
things since you and I parted, and a great many people. I was bad
enough, but I've seen worse men since, who have had another chance and
have turned out well."
"Their wives did not love them. I am almost old, too. I loved you, Adam.
It was a bad hurt you gave me, and the wound never healed. I married--I
had to marry. He was an honest gentleman. Then he was killed. That hurt
too, for I was very fond of him--but it did not hurt as the other did.
Nothing could."
Her voice shook, and she turned away her face. At least, he should not
see that her lip trembled.
"I didn't think you cared," said Sir Adam, and his own voice was not
very steady.
She turned upon him almost fiercely, and there was a blue light in her
faded eyes.
"I! You thought I didn't care? You've no right to say that--it's wicked
of you, and it's cruel. Did you think I married you for your money,
Adam? And if I had--should I have given it up to be divorced because you
gave jewels to an actress? I loved you, and I wanted your love, or
nothing. You couldn't be faithful--commonly, decently faithful, for one
year--and I got myself free from you, because I would not be your wife,
nor eat your bread, nor touch your hand, if you couldn't love me. Don't
say that you ever loved me, except my face. We hadn't been divorced a
year when you married again. Don't say that you loved me! You loved your
wife--your second wife--perhaps. I hope so. I hope you love her now--and
I dare say you do, for she looks happy--but don't say that you ever
loved me--just long enough to marry me and betray me!"
"You're hard, Lucy. You're as hard as ever you were twenty years ago,"
said Adam Johnstone.
As he leaned forward, resting an elbow on his knee, he passed his brown
hand across his eyes, and then stared vaguely at the white walls of the
old hotel beyond the platform.
"But you know that I'm right," answered Mrs. Bowring. "Perhaps I'm
hard, too. I'm sorry. You said that you had been mad, I remember--I
don't like to think of all you said, but you said that. And I remember
thinking that I had been much more mad than you, to have married you,
but that I should soon be really mad--raving mad--if I remained your
wife. I couldn't. I should have died. Afterwards I thought it would have
been better if I had died then. But I lived through it. Then, after the
death of my old aunt, I was alone. What was I to do? I was poor and
lonely, and a divorced woman, though the right had been on my side.
Richard Bowring knew all about it, and I married him. I did not love you
any more, then, but I told him the truth when I told him that I could
never love any one again. He was satisfied--so we were married."
"I don't blame you," said Sir Adam.
"Blame me! No--it would hardly be for you to blame me, if I could make
anything of the shreds of my life which I had saved from yours. For that
matter--you were free too. It was soon done, but why should I blame you
for that? You were free--by the law--to go where you pleased, to love
again, and to marry at once. You did. Oh no! I don't blame you for
that!"
Both were silent for some time. But Mrs. Bowring's eyes still had an
indignant light in them, and her fingers twitched nervously from time to
time. Sir Adam stared stolidly at the white wall, without looking at his
former wife.
"I've been talking about myself," she said at last. "I didn't mean to,
for I need no justification. When you said that you wanted to say
something, I brought you here so that we could be alone. What was it? I
should have let you speak first."
"It was this." He paused, as though choosing his words. "Well, I don't
know," he continued presently. "You've been saying a good many things
about me that I would have said myself. I've not denied them, have I?
Well, it's this. I wanted to see you for years, and now we've met. We
may not meet again, Lucy, though I dare say we may live a long time. I
wish we could, though. But of course you don't care to see me. I was
your husband once, and I behaved like a brute to you. You wouldn't want
me for a friend now that I am old."
He waited, but she said nothing.
"Of course you wouldn't," he continued. "I shouldn't, in your place. Oh,
I know! If I were dying or starving, or very unhappy, you would be
capable of doing anything for me, out of sheer goodness. You're only
just to people who aren't suffering. You were always like that in the
old days. It's so much the worse for us. I have nothing about me to
excite your pity. I'm strong, I'm well, I'm very rich, I'm relatively
happy. I don't know how much I cared for my wife when I married her, but
she has been a good wife, and I'm very fond of her now, in my own way.
It wasn't a good action, I admit, to marry her at all. She was the
beauty of her year and the best match of the season, and I was just
divorced, and every one's hand was against me. I thought I would show
them what I could do, winged as I was, and I got her. No; it wasn't a
thing to be proud of. But somehow we hit it off, and she stuck to me,
and I grew fond of her because she did, and here we are as you see us,
and Brook is a fine fellow, and likes me. I like him too. He's honest
and faithful, like his mother. There's no justice and no logic in this
world, Lucy. I was a good-for-nothing in the old days. Circumstances
have made me decently good, and a pretty happy man besides, as men go. I
couldn't ask for any pity if I tried."
"No; you're not to be pitied. I'm glad you're happy. I don't wish you
any harm."
"You might, and I shouldn't blame you. But all that isn't what I wished
to say. I'm getting old, and we may not meet any more after this. If
you wish me to go away, I'll go. We'll leave the place tomorrow."
"No. Why should you? It's a strange situation, as we were to-day at
table. You with your wife beside, and your divorced wife opposite you,
and only you and I knowing it. I suppose you think, somehow--I don't
know--that I might be jealous of your wife. But twenty-seven years make
a difference, Adam. It's half a lifetime. It's so utterly past that I
sha'n't realise it. If you like to stay, then stay. No harm can come of
it, and that was so very long ago. Is that what you want to say?"
"No." He hesitated. "I want you to say that you forgive me," he said, in
a quick, hoarse voice.
His keen dark eyes turned quickly to her face, and he saw how very pale
she was, and how the shadows had deepened under her eyes, and her
