'That does not make my advice bad, does it?' asked old Saracinesca,
turning upon his son, for the least approach to contradiction still
roused his anger instantly.
'Oh no!' answered Giovanni. 'It is very good advice.'
'Of course it is,' growled the old gentleman, discontentedly. 'I never
gave anyone bad advice in my life. But you boys are always contradicting
me.'
Giovanni smiled rather sadly. It was not in the nature of things that
men over ninety years old should live much longer, but he felt what a
break in the household's life the old man's death must one day make,
when the vast vitality should be at last worn out.
CHAPTER IX
Orsino travelled down to Naples with San Giacinto in that peculiar state
of mind in which an unsentimental but passionate man finds himself when
he is leaving the woman he loves in order to go and do something which
he knows must be done, which he wishes to do, and which involves danger
and difficulty.
San Giacinto did not say much more about brigands, or the mafia, but he
talked freely of the steps to be taken on arriving in Messina, in order
to get a proper escort of soldiers from Piedimonte to Camaldoli, and it
was perfectly clear that he anticipated trouble. Orsino was surprised to
find that he expected to have four or five carabineers permanently
quartered at Camaldoli, by way of protection, and that he had already
applied in the proper quarter to have the men sent to meet him. Then he
began to talk of the projected railway and of the questions of
engineering involved.
Orsino felt lonely in his society, and it was a sensation to which he
was not accustomed. It was long since he had known what it was to miss a
woman's eyes and a woman's voice, and he had not thought that he should
know it again. As the train ran on, hour after hour, he grew more
silent, not wondering at himself, but accepting quite simply the fact
that it hurt him to leave Vittoria far behind, and that he longed for
her presence more and more. He could not help thinking how easy it would
be for him to refuse to go on, and to take the next train back from
Naples to Rome, and to see her to-morrow. He would not have done such a
thing for the world, but he could not escape from the rather
contemptible pleasure of thinking about it.
Late in the afternoon the steamer that was to take them to Messina got
under way--an old-fashioned, uncomfortable boat, crowded with people of
all kinds, for the vessel was to go on to Malta on the next day. At the
bad dinner in the dim cabin the tables were full, and many of the people
were talking in the Maltese dialect, which is an astonishing compound of
Italian and Arabic, perfectly incomprehensible both to Arabs and
Italians. They stared at San Giacinto because he was a giant, and
evidently talked about him in their own language, which irritated
Orsino, though the big man seemed perfectly indifferent. Neither cared
to speak, and they got through their abominable dinner in silence and
went up to smoke on deck.
Orsino leaned upon the rail and gazed longingly at the looming
mountains, behind which the full moon was rising. He was not
sentimental, for Italian men rarely are, but like all his
fellow-countrymen he was alive to the sensuous suggestions of nature at
certain times, and the shadowy land, the rising moon, the gleaming
ripple of the water, and the evening breeze on his face, brought
Vittoria more vividly than ever to his mind. He looked up at San
Giacinto, and even the latter's massive and gloomy features seemed to be
softened by the gentle light and the enchantment of the southern sea.
Unconsciously he was more closely drawn to the man of his own blood,
after being jostled in the crowd of doubtful passengers who filled the
steamer.
It was not in his nature to make confidences, but he wished that his
friend and kinsman knew that he was in love with Vittoria and meant to
marry her. It would have made the journey less desolate and lonely. He
was still young, as San Giacinto would have told him, with grim
indifference, if Orsino had unburdened his heart at that moment. But he
did not mean to do that. He leaned over the rail and smoked in silence,
looking from the moon to the rippling water and back again, and wishing
that the night were not before him, but that he were already in Messina
with something active to do. To be doing the thing would be to get
nearer to Vittoria, since he could return with a clear conscience as
soon as it should be done. At last he spoke, in a careless tone.
'My grandfather gave me some advice last night,' he said. 'Never to
marry a Sicilian girl, and always to shoot first if there were any
shooting to be done.'
'Provided that you do not marry the Corleone girl, I do not see why you
should not take a Sicilian wife if you please,' answered San Giacinto,
calmly.
'Why should a man not marry Vittoria d'Oriani?' enquired Orsino,
startled to find himself so suddenly speaking of what filled him.
'I did not say 'a man' in general. I meant you. It would be a bad match.
It would draw you into relationship with the worst blood in the country,
and that is a great objection to it. Then she is a niece, and her
brothers are nephews, of that old villain Corleone who married one of
the Campodonico women. She died of unhappiness, I believe, and I do not
wonder. Have you noticed that none of the Campodonico will have anything
to do with them? Even old Donna Francesca--you know?--the saint who
lives in the Palazzetto Borgia--she told your mother that she hoped
never to know a Corleone by sight again. They are disliked in Rome. But
you would never be such an arrant fool as to go and fall in love with
the girl, I suppose, though she is charming, and I can see that you
admire her. Not very clever, I fancy,--brought up by a museum of old
Sicilian ladies in a Palermo convent,--but very charming.'
It was an unexpectedly long speech, on an unexpected theme, and it was
fortunate that it contained nothing which could wound Orsino's feelings
through Vittoria; for, in that case, he would have quarrelled with his
cousin forthwith, not being of a patient disposition. As it was, the
young man glanced up sharply from time to time, looking out for some
depreciatory expression. He was glad when San Giacinto had finished
speaking.
'If I wished to marry her,' said Orsino, 'I should not care who her
relations might be.'
'You would find yourself caring a great deal afterwards, if they made
trouble with your own people. But I admit that the girl has charm and
some beauty, and it is only fools who need clever wives to think for
them. Good night. We may have a long day to-morrow, and we shall land
about seven in the morning. I am going to bed.'
Orsino watched the huge figure as it bent low and disappeared down the
companion, and he was glad that San Giacinto had taken himself off
without talking any more about Vittoria. He stayed on deck another hour,
watching the light on the water, and then went below. He and his cousin
had a cabin together, and he found the old giant asleep on the sofa,
wrapped in a cloak, with his long legs resting on a portmanteau and
extending half across the available space, while he had widened the
transom for his vast shoulders by the help of a camp stool. He slept
soundly, almost solemnly, under the small swinging oil-lamp, and there
was something grand and soldier-like about his perfect indifference to
discomfort. In a corner of the cabin, among a quantity of traps, the two
rifles stood upright in their leathern cases. It was long before Orsino
fell asleep.
He was glad when they got ashore at last in the early morning. Messina
has the reputation of being the dirtiest city in all Italy, and it has
the disagreeable peculiarity of not possessing a decent inn of any sort.
San Giacinto and Orsino sat down in a shabby and dirty room to drink
certain vile coffee which was brought up to them on little brass trays
from a café at the corner of the street. San Giacinto produced a silver
flask and poured a dose of spirits into his cup, and offered Orsino
some; but the younger man had not been bred in the country and had never
acquired the common Italian habit of strengthening bad coffee with
alcohol. So he consoled his taste with cigarettes.
San Giacinto found that it would be impossible to proceed to Camaldoli
till the following day, and the two men spent the morning and most of
the afternoon in making the necessary arrangements. It was indispensable
to see the officer in command of the carabineers and the prefect of the
province, and San Giacinto knew that it would be wiser to send certain
supplies up from Messina.
'I suppose that someone is there to hand the place over?' said Orsino.
'Tebaldo Pagliuca said that we should make enquiries of an old notary
called Basili, in Randazzo, as his brother, being displeased with the
sale, would probably refuse to meet us. Basili is to have the keys and
will send a man with us. We shall have to rough it for a day or two.'
