ankles shrank in the damp stockings which he had 
not been able to change since he came in out of the 
storm, because, owing to some personal preference 
of the laundress, he could not find any dry ones. 
His worn slippers flapped upon his cold feet when 
he moved. But he had on his flowered dressing- 
gown of ancient pattern and rustic cut ; his high 
arm-chair was cushioned in chintz and excelsior 
behind his aching head ; the green paper shade was 
on his study-lamp ; his best-beloved books (for the 
old saint was a student) lay within reach upon the 
table ; piled upon them were his manuscript sermons ; 
and he sighed with the content of a man who 
feels himself to be, although unworthy, in the loving 
arms of luxury. A rap at the door undeceived him. 
His landlady put in her withered face. 
" Sir," she said, " the widder Peek's a-dying. 
It's just like her to take a night like this but 
she's sent for you. I must say I don't call you fit 
to go." 
" A man is always fit to do his duty," said the 
old clergyman, rising. "I will go at once. Did 
she send any conveyance ? " 
"Catch her!" retorted the landlady. "Why, 
she hain't had the town water let in yet and she 
wuth her fifteen thousand dollars; nor she won't 
have no hired girl to do for her, not that none of 
em will stay along of her a week, and Dobson's 
boy's at the door, a drippin and cussin to get you, 
for he's nigh snowed under. She's a wuthless old 
heathen miser, the widder Peek." 
" Then there is every reason why I should not 
neglect her," replied the clergyman, in his authoritative, 
clerical voice. " Pray call the lad in from 
the weather, and tell him I will accompany him at 
once." 
He did look about his study sadly while he was 
making ready to leave it. The fire in the base- 
burner was quite warm, now, and his wet, much- 
darned stockings were beginning to dry. The room 
looked sheltered and pleasant ; his books ran to the 
ceiling, though his floor was covered with straw 
matting, with odd pieces of woolen carpet for rugs ; 
his carpet-covered lounge was wheeled out of the 
draft ; his lamp with the green shade made a little 
circle of light and coziness ; his Bible and prayer- 
book lay open within it, beside the pile of sermons. 
He had meant to devote the evening to the agreeable 
duty of selecting his discourse for Saint Agatha s. 
His mind and his heart were brimming over with 
the excitement of that great event. He would have 
liked to concentrate and consecrate his thoughts 
upon it that evening. As he went, coughing, into 
the cold entry, it occurred to him that the spot in 
his lung was more painful than he had supposed ; 
but he pulled his old cap over his ears, and his thin 
overcoat up to meet it, and tramped out cheerfully 
into the storm. 
" Well, well, my lad ! " he said in his warm 
hearted way to Dobson's boy ; " I'm  sorry for you 
that you have to be out a night like this." 
The boy spoke of this af terwards ? and remembered 
it long for a boy. But at the time he did but 
stare. He stopped grumbling, however, and plunged 
on into the drifts, ahead of the old rector, kicking 
a path for him to right and left in the wet, packed 
snow ; for the widow Peek lived at least a mile away, 
and the storm was now become a virulent thing. 
What passed between the unloved, neglected, 
dying parishoner and her pastor was not known to 
any but themselves, nor is there witness now to tes 
tify thereof. Neither does it in any way concern 
the record of this narrative, except as the least may 
concern the largest circumstance in human story. 
For, in view of what came to pass, it is impossible 
not to put the old, judicial question : Did it pay ? 
Was it worth while ? When the miser's soul went 
out, at midnight, on the wings and the rage of that 
blind, black storm, did it pass gently, a subdued, 
forgiven spirit, humble to learn how to live again, 
for Christ's sake and his who gave himself as his 
Master had before him to comfort and to save? 
Did it pay? Do such things pay? God knows. 
But as long as men do not know, there will always 
be found a few among them who will elect to dis 
regard the doubt, to wear the divinity of 
uncalculating sacrifice, and to pay its price. 
For the soul of the widow Peek the price was 
large, looked at in our mathematical way ; for, when 
the old clergyman, having shrived her soul and 
closed her eyes, started to come home at one o'clock 
of the morning, the storm had become a malignant 
force. Already wet through and through his thin 
coats and worn flannels, weak from the exposure, the 
watching, and the scene of death, every breath a 
sword athwart his inflamed lungs, with fire in his 
brain, and ice at his heart, he staggered against the 
blizzard. 
Dobson's boy had long since sought the shelter 
of his own home, and the old man was quite unattended. 
True, the neighbor who watched with the 
dead woman suggested that he remain till morning ; 
but the widow Peek's house was cold (she was 
always especially "near" about fuel), and he thought 
it more prudent to get back to his own stove and 
his bed. 
Whether he lost his way ; whether he crossed and 
recrossed it, wandering from it in the dark and 
drift; whether he fell and lay in the snow for a 
time, and rose again, and staggered on, and fell 
again, and so pushed on again, cannot be known. 
It is only known that at half-past two on Saturday 
morning his landlady put her wrinkled face out of 
the window, for the twentieth time, in search of him 
(for she had a thought for him in her own hard- 
featured way), and saw him fallen, and feebly trying 
to crawl on his hands and knees up the drifted 
steps. 
She got him in to his warm study, past the chair 
where the flowered dressing-gown and old slippers 
awaited him, and as far as the carpet-covered lounge, 
Beyond this he could not be taken. 
By morning the whole parish rang the door-bell ; 
the hands and hearts and horses, the purses, the 
nurses, the doctors, the watchers, the tears, and the 
prayers of the village, were his for he was dearly 
beloved and cherished in that parish. But he lay 
on his old lounge in his study among his books, and 
asked of them nothing at all. The kerosene lamp, 
behind its green shade, went out; and the Bible, 
with the pile of sermons on the table, looked large 
in the snow-light of a day when the storm ceases 
without sun. He did not talk; but his thoughts 
were yet alive. He remembered Saint Agatha's, 
and the sermon which he was to preach to-morrow. 
He knew that not one of his people (ignorant of 
such matters) would understand how to get word 
to the city vestry. He tried to give directions, but 
his voice refused his bidding. He knew that he 
would be supposed to have failed to meet his
