"I must cut your hair. I ought to do it this very night, tired as I
am. Now brush your clothes and go out to your father. I'll be thinking
up what I want. Pepper is one thing. Go down to the old man's and get
some horseradish. If there is anything else I'll come out and tell you."
Charles went reluctantly out to the front stoop.
"Hillo!" said his father cheerfully. "You through?"
That did not sound very threatening.
"We are to get pepper and horseradish."
Mr. Reed nodded, folded his paper and, slipping it into his pocket,
settled his hat.
"Mother may think of something else."
She positively couldn't. She considered that it saved time to do errands
when you were going out, and she spent a great deal of time trying to
think how to save it.
They walked down First Avenue past Houston Street. Almost at the end of
the next block there was a barber-pole with its stripes running round.
The barber-pole and the Indian at the cigar shops were features of that
day, as well.
"Wouldn't you like to have your hair cut, Charles?" inquired his father.
The world swam round so that Charles was minded to clutch the
barber-pole, but he bethought himself in time that it was dusty. He
looked at his father in amaze.
"Oh, don't be a ninny! No one will take your head off. Come, you're big
enough boy to go to the barber's."
The palace of delight seemed opening before the boy. No one can rightly
understand his satisfaction at this late day. The mothers, you see, used
to cut hair as they thought was right, and nearly every mother had a
different idea except those whose idea was simply to cut it off.
They had to wait awhile. Charles sat down in a padded chair, had a large
white towel pinned close up under his chin, his hair combed out with the
softest touch imaginable. The barber's hands were silken soft; his
mother's were hard and rough. Snip, snip, snip, comb, brush, sprinkle
some fragrance out of a bottle with a pepper-sauce cork--bulbs and
sprays had not been invented. Oh, how delightful it was! He really did
not want to get down and go home.
Mr. Reed had been talking to an acquaintance. The other chair being
vacant, he had his beard trimmed. He was not sure whether he would have
it taken off this summer, though he generally did. He turned his head a
little and looked at his son. He wasn't as poetical looking, but really,
he was a nice, clean, wholesome, and--yes--manly boy. But he blushed
scarlet.
"That looks something like," was his father's comment. What a nice broad
forehead Charles had!
"He's a nice boy," said the barber in a low tone. "Boy to be proud of. I
wish there were more like him."
Mr. Reed paid his bill and they went to the store. Then they strolled on
down the street. But Charles was in distress lest the pungent berry and
odoriferous root should take the barber's sweetness out of him. He was
puzzled, too. It seemed to him he ought to say something grateful to his
father. He was so very, very glad at heart. But it was so hard to talk
to his father. He always envied Jim and Ben Underhill their father. He
had found it easy to talk to him on several occasions.
"I must say you are improved," his father began presently. "You mother
has too much to do bothering about household affairs. And you're getting
to be a big boy. Why don't you find some boys to go with? There are
those Underhills. You're too big to play with girls."
"But mother doesn't like boys," hesitatingly.
"You should have been a girl!" declared his father testily. "But since
you're not, do try to be a little more manly."
The father hardly knew what to say himself. And yet he felt that he did
love his son.
They were just at the area gate. Charles caught his father's hand. "I'm
so glad," breathlessly. "The boys have laughed at me, and you--you've
been so good."
Mr. Reed was really touched. They entered the basement. Mrs. Reed, like
Mrs. Gargery, still had on her apron. Charles put the pepper in the
canister, his mother took care of the horseradish. Then he sat down with
his history.
"For pity's sake, Abner Reed, what have you done to that child! He looks
like a scarecrow! He's shaved thin in one place and great tufts left in
another. I was going to cut his hair this very evening. And I'll trim it
to some decency now."
She sprang up for the shears.
"You will let him alone," said Mr. Reed, in a firm, dignified tone. "He
is quite old enough to look like other boys. When I want him to go to
the barber's I'll take him. You will find enough to do. Charles, get a
lamp and go up to your own room."
"I don't allow him to have a lamp in his room. He will set something
a-fire."
"Then go up in the parlor."
"The parlor!" his mother shrieked.
"I'll go to bed," said Charles. "I know my lesson."
There was a light in the upper hall. On the second floor were the
sleeping-chambers. Charles' was the back hall room. He could see very
well from the light up the stairway.
What happened in the basement dining-room he could not even imagine. His
father so seldom interfered in any matter, and his mother had a way of
talking him down. But Charles was asleep when they came to bed.
Still, he had a rather hard day on Sunday. His mother was coldly severe
and captious. Once she said:
"I can't bear to look at you, you are so disfigured! If that is what
your father calls style----" and she shook her head disapprovingly.
He went to church and Sunday-school, and then his father took him up to
Tompkins Square for a walk. It seemed as if they had never been
acquainted before. Why, his father was real jolly. And it was a nice
week at school after the boys got done asking him "Who his Barber was?"
He could see the big B they put to it.
On Saturday afternoon Mrs. Reed had to go out shopping with a cousin.
She was an excellent shopper. She could find flaws, and beat down, and
get a spool of cotton or a piece of tape thrown in. When Charles came
home from singing-school he was to go over to the Deans and play in the
back yard. He was not to be out on the sidewalk at all.
They were going to have a splendid time. Elsie and Florence Hay would
bring their dolls. Even Josie envied the pretty names, though she
confessed to Hanny that she didn't think Hay was nice, because it made
you think of "hay, straw, oats" on the signs at the feed stores. But the
girls were very sweet and pleasant. Nora had come in with the cat
dressed in one of her own long baby frocks.
Hanny ran in to get her doll. It was still her choice possession, and
had been named and unnamed. Her mother began to think she was too big to
play with dolls, but Margaret had made it such a pretty wardrobe.
Ben sat at the front basement window reading. Mr. and Mrs. Underhill had
gone up to see Miss Lois, who was far from well. Margaret was out on
"professional rounds," which Ben thought quite a suggestive little
phrase. Martha was scrubbing and of course he couldn't talk to her. He
had cut the side of his foot with a splinter of glass, and his mother
would not allow him to put on his shoe.
Hanny brought down her doll. Ben looked rather wistfully at her.
"I wish you'd come in too. We're going to have such a nice time," she
said in a soft tone.
"I'd look fine playing with dolls."
"But you needn't really play with dolls. Mrs. Dean doesn't. She's the
grandmother. We go to visit her, and she tells us about the old times,
just as Aunt Nancy and Aunt Patience do. Of course she wasn't there
really, she makes believe, you know. And you might be the--the----"
"Grandfather who had lost his leg in the war."
Ben laughed. He had half a mind to go.
"Oh, that would be splendid. And you could be a prisoner when the
British held New York. There'd be such lots to talk about. You could
wear John's slipper, you see----"
She smiled so persuasively. She would never be as handsome as Margaret,
but she had such tender, coaxing eyes, and such a sweet mouth.
"Well, I'll bring my book along." It was one of Cooper's novels that
boys were going wild over just then. "Do you really think they'd like to
have me?"
"Oh, I know they would," eagerly.
Ben had to walk rather one-sided. Joe said he must not bear any weight
on the outside of his foot to press the wound open.
"I've brought Ben," announced the little girl. "And he's going to be a
Revolutionary soldier."
