' And the pauper King ? ' 
' He will mount his throne— he will wear his crown.' 
' Well, of a truth this makes one's head dizzy. Why 
if I could believe that in thirty years from now the English 
domination would be broken and the French monarch's 
head find itself hooped with a real crown of sovereignty—' 
' Both will have happened before two years are sped.' 
' Indeed ? and who is going to perform all these sublime 
possibilities ? ' 
'God.' 
It was a reverent low note, but it rang clear. 
What could have put those strange ideas in her head  
This question kept running in my mind during two or three 
days. It was inevitable that I should think of madness. 
What other way was there to account for such thing-s ? 
Grieving and brooding over the woes of France had weak- 
ened that strong mind, and filled it with fantastic phan- 
toms—yes, that must be it. 
But I watched her, and tested her, and it was not so 
Her eye was clear and sane, her ways were natural, her 
speech direct and to the point. No, there was nothing 
the matter with her mind ; it was still the soundest in the 
village, and the best. She went on thinking for others 
planning for others, sacrificing herself for others, just as 
always before. She went on ministering to her sick and 
to her poor, and still stood ready to give the wayfarer her 
bed and content herself with the floor. There was a secret 
somewhere, but madness was not the key to it. This was 
plain. 
Now the key did presently come into my hands, and 
the way that it nappened was this. You have heard all 
the world talk of this matter which I am about to speak 
of, but you have not heard an eye-witness talk of it be- 
was coming from over the ridge, one day-it was 
May IS, 28-and when I got to the edge of the oak forest 
and'wi; about to step out of it upon the turfy P-JPa
in which the haunted beech-tree stood, I happened to cast 
a glance from cover, first-then I took a step backward, 
and stood in the shelter and concealment of the foliage_ 
For I had caught sight of Joan, and thought would 
devise some sort of playful surprise for her. Thmk of it- 
that trivial conceit was neighbour, with but a scarcely 
measurable interval of time between, to an event destined 
to endure for ever in histories and songs. 
The day was overcast, and all that grassy space wherein 
the Tree stood lay in a soft rich shadow. Joan sat on a 
natural seat formed by gnarled great roots of the Tree. 
Her hands lay loosely, one reposing in the other, in her 
Ian Her head was bent a little toward the ground, and 
her air was that of one who is lost in thought, steeped in 
dreams, and not conscious of herself or of the world. And 
now I saw a most strange thing, for I saw a shadow 
come slowly gliding along the grass toward the Tree. It 
waTo grand proportions-a robed form, with wings-and 
The whiteness of this shadow was not like any other white- 
ness that we know of, except it be the whiteness of the 
lightnings ; but even the lightnings are not so intense as it 
was for one can look at them without hurt, whereas this 
brilliancy was so blinding that it pained my eyes and 
broueht the water into them. I uncovered my head, per- 
ce°ving that I was in the presence of something not of this 
world My breath grew faint and difficult, because of the 
terror and the awe that possessed me. 
Another strange thing. The wood had been silent- 
smitten with that deep stillness which comes when a 
storm-cloud darkens a forest, and the wild creatures lose 
heart and are afraid ; but now all the birds burst forth my 
song, and the joy, the rapture, the ecstasy of it was beyond 
belief ; and was so eloquent and so moving, withal, that it 
was plain it was an act of worship. With the first note of 
those birds Joan cast herself upon her knees, and bent her 
head low and crossed her hands upon her breast. 
She had not seen the shadow yet. Had the song of the 
birds told her it was coming ? It had that look to me. 
Then the like of this must have happened before. Yes, 
there might be no doubt of that. 
The shadow approached Joan slowly ; the extremity of 
it reached her, flowed over her, clothed her in its awful 
splendour. In that immortal light her face, only humanly 
beautiful before, became divine ; flooded with that trans- 
forming glory, her mean peasant habit was become like to 
the raiment of the sun-clothed children of God as we see 
them thronging the terraces of the Throne in our dreams 
and imaginings. 
Presently she rose and stood, with her head still bowed 
a little, and with her arms down and the ends of her fingers 
lightly laced together in front of her ; and standing so, all 
drenched with that wonderful light, and yet apparently not 
knowing it, she seemed to listen — but I heard nothing. 
After a little she raised her head, and looked up as one 
might look up toward the face of a giant, and then clasped 
her hands, and lifted them high, imploringly, and began to 
plead. I heard some of the words. I heard her say — 
' But I am so young ! oh, so young to leave my mother 
and my home, and go out into the strange world to under- 
take a thing so great ! Ah, how can I talk with men, be 
comrade with men ? — soldiers ! It would give me over to 
insult, and rude usage, and contempt. How can I go to 
the great wars, and lead armies? — I, a girl, and ignorant 
of such things, knowing nothing of arms, nor how to 
mount a horse, nor ride it. . . . Yet — if it is com- 
manded — ' 
Her voice sank a little, and was broken by sobs, and I 
made out no more of her words. Then I came to myself. 
I reflected that I had been intruding upon a mystery of 
God — and what might my punishment be ? I was afraid, 
and went deeper into the wood. Then I carved a mark in 
the bark of a tree, saying to myself, it may be that I am 
dreaming, and have not seen this vision at all. I will come 
again, when I know that I am awake and not dreaming, 
and see if this mark is still here ; then I shall know. 
CHAPTER VIII 
I HEARD my name called. It was Joan's voice. It startled 
me, for how could she know I was there ? I said to myself, 
it is part of the dream ; it is all dream — voice, vision and 
all ; the fairies have done this. So I crossed myself and 
pronounced the name of God, to break the enchantment. 
I knew I was awake now and free from the spell, for no 
spell can withstand this exorcism. Then I heard my name 
called again, and I stepped at once from under cover, and 
there indeed was Joan, but not looking as she had looked 
in the dream. For she was not crying, now, but was 
looking as she had used to look a year and a half before, 
when her heart was light and her spirits high. Her old- 
time energy and fire were back, and a something like ex- 
altation showed itself in her face and bearing. It was 
almost as if she had been in a trance all that time and had 
come awake again. Really, it was just as if she had been 
away and lost, and was come back to us at last ; and I 
was so glad that I felt like running to call everybody and 
have them flock around her and give her welcome. I ran 
to her excited, and said — 
' Ah, Joan, I've got such a wonderful thing to tell you 
about ! You would never imagine it. I've had a dream, 
and in the dream I saw you right here where you are 
standing now, and — ' 
But she put up her hand and said — 
' It was not a dream.' 
It gave me a shock, and I began to feel afraid again. 
' Not a dream ? ' I said, ' how can you know about it, 
