"Three!"
"Hurrah!"
"And long may it wave!" added Uncle Ben heartily, as he put the flag
back in its place. "Boys, can't you sing?"
"We sing in school," replied several.
"Sing me a song, then, before we get under way."
"What shall we sing?"
"Anything you please."
"'Canadian Boat Song,'" suggested Frank.
"Ay, ay, give us that."
Fred Harper was a good singer, and started the song. The boys all
joined in; and Uncle Ben was so pleased when they had finished it, that
he begged them to sing it again. They cheerfully complied, and the old
man listened to the repetition with the most intense delight.
"Now, boys, I will sing you a sea song."
"Hurrah! do, Uncle Ben," exclaimed Charles.
Uncle Ben's voice was somewhat cracked; but he rendered with tolerable
effect the song,--
    "'Twas in the good ship Rover,
      I sailed the world around;
    For twenty years and over,
      I ne'er touched British ground."
"Bravo, Uncle Ben. Fred Harper, can't you give us Ben Bolt and Sweet
Alice? I am sure Uncle Ben will like it."
"I will try," replied Fred.
"We will join the chorus."
The song was sung, and the old sailor shed a tear over "Sweet Alice, so
young and so fair."
"Here comes father in the sailboat," cried Frank, as he discovered
Captain Sedley approaching in his pleasure yacht.
"Ay, beating up agin the wind."
"Can't we have a race with him?" asked Charles Hardy.
"Sartin, if you like. There is a fresh breeze springing up."
The boys waited patiently until Captain Sedley reached the spot.
"How do you like your craft, boys?" asked he, as he threw his boat up
into the wind, alongside the Zephyr.
"First-rate!" they exclaimed with one voice.
"Three cheers for Captain Sedley," cried Tony Weston, taking off his
cap and swinging it round above his head. "One!"
"Hurrah!"
"Two!"
"Hurrah!"
"Three!"
"Hurrah!" and the boys all clapped their hands for several moments.
Captain Sedley took off his hat, and politely returned his
acknowledgments. When boys get to cheering, they hardly know where to
stop; and when Fred Harper proposed three for Uncle Ben, there was a
prompt and hearty response to the call.
"I'm much obleeged to you, boys, for the compliment," said the veteran,
pulling off his tarpaulin.
"Now for the race," cried Charles.
Uncle Ben explained the wishes of the boys to Captain Sedley; and he
readily agreed to a trial of speed, with the remark that he should
expect to be beaten.
"Let me get my boat under good headway before you start," continued he,
as he hauled aft his jib-sheet, and brought the boat before the wind.
The boat's crew waited till he had got nearly the eighth of a mile from
them, and then, with all the forms, the Zephyr got under way. Uncle Ben
had taught them to keep time in rowing by the swaying back and forth of
the coxswain's body.
"Don't get excited, boys; the wind is freshening," said Uncle Ben.
"Steady, now."
The Zephyr darted like an arrow through the water under the impetus of
the twelve oars. Frank, in his anxiety to win the race, began to sway
to and fro so rapidly that Uncle Ben was obliged to caution him several
times to keep cool.
"We are overhauling him very rapidly," said he; "if you pull regular,
and save your strength, you will pass him before you get half way to
the beach. Steady, Frank; don't hurry them."
The boys pulled steadily; and, as the old sailor had predicted, they
passed Captain Sedley's boat long before they came to the beach. As the
Zephyr shot past him, a long, loud cheer burst from her crew.
"Isn't this fun!" exclaimed Charles Hardy.
"Glorious!" replied Phil Barker, who was at the next oar before him.
"What do you think the Bunkers would say if they should see us about
this time?"
"Wouldn't they stare!"
"Way enough!" said Frank; and the boys ceased rowing, while the boat
continued to shoot through the water with scarcely diminished velocity.
"There are the Bunkers on their raft," said Tony Weston, pointing down
the lake.
All eyes were turned in the direction indicated by the speaker.
"You can pull down by them, if you like," added Uncle Ben.
"Give way!" said Frank.
The Zephyr darted down the lake, and in a few moments was within hail
of the raft.
"Not a word to them," said Uncle Ben.
"Can't we cheer them once?" asked Charles.
"Yes, if you can keep good-natur'd about it."
"We can."
The club boat shot by the raft, on which the wondering Bunkers stood
like so many statues.
"Way enough!" said Frank. "Now for three cheers."
They were given; but the Bunkers were too much bewildered by the
appearance of the gorgeous boat, with its silken flags and bright
colors, its gilded name and its graceful shape, to heed the cheers of
the club.
"Give way!" said Frank; and under the direction of Uncle Ben, he
managed the helm so as to make the Zephyr describe a graceful
semicircle round the raft.
"Five o'clock," said the old sailor; "we must go ashore."
Frank steered for the rock, and they came alongside in due form; Tony
"fended off" with the boat-hook when they reached it, and the club
separated for the night, leaving the boat in charge of Uncle Ben.
CHAPTER IX
THE STOLEN WALLET
At school the next day, the club boat was the principal topic of
conversation among the boys. Those who had been invited to join the
club were regarded as especially fortunate. Frank Sedley was a
distinguished personage, and even Tim Bunker unbent himself in some
measure from his ferocious dignity in his attempts to conciliate him.
"I say, Frank, you will give me a sail in your boat, won't you?" said
Tim.
"I should be very glad to accommodate you, but I don't think my father
will let me take any boys who do not belong to the club."
"Can't I join the club?"
"It is full now."
"You can just make room for one more if you have a mind to."
"There are only twelve oars."
The school-bell rang then, and Frank was glad to escape further
importunity on the subject. Tim Bunker was dissatisfied with himself
and everybody else. He had seen the magnificent boat which Frank owned,
and in which he and his companions had had such a glorious time on the
preceding afternoon. He envied them the possession of the Zephyr, and
he would have given anything to be permitted to join the club. Perhaps
he would even have promised to become a better boy, for he keenly felt
the weight of those moral obliquities which excluded him from the
society of Frank and his friends.
But more especially did he envy Tony Weston his good luck in getting
into the club; for Tony's admission was abundant evidence that the
social standing of the boys had not been taken into consideration.
There was no rich and poor about it; it was good and evil entirely. And
Tim had always cherished a strong feeling of dislike, and even hatred,
towards the poor widow's son, undoubtedly because he was a good boy,
and everybody liked him. He had not forgotten Tony's interference on
the island, when he was about to thrash Frank Sedley; and among the
Bunkers he expressed his intention to be fully revenged.
At recess Frank, Charles, and Tony went up to a neighbor's house close
by to get some water. When they had drunk, and were passing through the
wood-house to return, Charles observed an old wallet lying on a bench.
