among phantoms, I was borne along. 
Incredulous of the facts and dubious of my own iden 
tity, I whirled through readjustments of scene, 
of society, of purposes, of hopes, and now, at 
last, of ambitions ; and always of hard work 
and plenty of it. Really, I think the gospel of 
work then, as always, and to all of us, was 
salvation from a good deal of nonsense incident 
to the situation. 
I have been told that the American circulation
of the book, which has remained below 
one hundred thousand, was outrun by that in 
Great Britain. Translations, of course, were 
manifold. The French, the German, the Dutch, 
the Italian have been conscientiously sent to 
the author; some others, I think, have not. 
More applications to republish my books have 
reached me from Germany than from any other 
country. For awhile, with the tenderness of 
a novice in such experience, I kept all these 
foreign curiosities on my book-shelves ; but the 
throes of several New England " movings " 
have scattered their ashes. 
Not long ago, I came across a tiny pamphlet, 
in which I used to feel more honest pride than 
in any edition of "The Gates Ajar" which it 
has ever been my fortune to handle. It is a 
sickly yellow thing, covered with a coarse de 
sign of some kind, in which the wings of a par 
ticularly sprawly angel predominate. The print 
is abhorrent, and the paper such as any respect 
able publisher would prepare to be condemned 
for in this world and in that to come. In fact, 
the entire book was thus given out by one of 
the most enterprising of English pirates as an 
advertisement for a patent medicine. I have 
never traced the chemical history of the drug ; 
but it has pleased my fancy to suppose it to be 
the one in which Mrs. Holt, the mother of
Felix, dealt so largely ; and whose sale Felix put 
forth his mighty conscience to suppress. 
Of course, owing to the state of our copy 
right laws at that time, all this foreign 
publication was piratical ; and most of it brought no 
visible consequence to the author, beyond that 
cold tribute to personal vanity on which our 
unlucky race is expected to feed. I should 
make one exception. The house of Sampson 
Low and Company honorably offered me at a 
very early date a certain recognition of their 
editions. Other reputable English houses since, 
in the case of succeeding books, have passed 
contracts of a gentlemanly nature, with the 
disproportionately grateful author; who was, 
of course, entirely at their mercy. When an 
American writer compares the sturdy figures 
of the foreign circulation with the attenuated 
numerals of such visible returns as reach him, 
he is more puzzled in his mind than surfeited 
in his purse. But the relation of foreign
publishers to " home talent " is an ancient and 
honorable conundrum, which it is not for this 
paper or its writer to solve. 
Nevertheless, I found the patent medicine 
Gates Ajar delicious, and used to compare it 
with Messrs. Fields and Osgood's edition 
deluxe with an undisguised delight which I found 
it difficult to induce the best of publishers to 
share. 
Like most such matters, the first energy of 
the book has its funny and its serious side. A 
man coming from a far Western village, and 
visiting Boston for the first time, is said to have 
approached a bar-tender in an exclusive hotel 
thus confidentially : 
" Excuse me but I am a stranger in this 
part of the country, and I want to ask a 
question. Everywhere I go, I see posted up like 
this The Gates Ajar! The Gates Ajar! 
I'm sick to death of the sight of the durn thing ; 
I haven't darst to ask what it is. Do tell a 
fellar ! Is it a new kind of drink ? " 
There was a Gates Ajar tippet, for sale in 
the country groceries ; I have fancied that it 
was a knit affair of as many colors as the jewels 
in the eternal portals, and extremely openwork. 
There was a Gates Ajar collar paper, I fear 
loading the city counters. Ghastly rumors 
have reached me of the existence of a Gates 
Ajar cigar; I have never personally set my eyes 
upon these tangible forms of earthly fame. If 
the truth must be told, I have kept a cowardly 
distance from them. Music, of course, took 
her turn at the book, and popular "pieces" 
warbled under its title. One of these, I think, 
is sung in Sunday-schools to this day. Then 
there was, and still exists, the Gates Ajar 
funeral piece. This used to seem to me the 
least serious of them all ; but, by degrees, when 
I saw the persistence of force in that elaborate 
symbol, and how many mourning people were 
so constituted as to find comfort in it, I came 
to have a tolerance for it which even grows 
into a certain tenderness. I may frankly ad 
mit that I have begun to love it, since I heard 
about the two ragged little newsboys who came 
to the eminent city florist, with all their savings 
clenched in their grimy fists, and thus made 
known their case : 
" Ye see Larks he was our pardner, him an 
us sold on the same beat, an he jes got run 
over by a lectric, and it went over his back, so 
they tuk him to the horspittle, n Larks he up 
an died there yestiddy. So us fellars were 
goin to give Larks a stylish funeril, you bet. 
We liked Larks an it went over his back. 
Say, mister, there ain't nothin mean bout us, 
come to buryin of Larks ; n we've voted to 
settle on one them Gates Ajar pieces made 
o flowers, doncherknow. Some n him an 
the other fellars we've saved up all our
property, for we re a-goin ter give Larks a stylish 
funeril an here it is, mister. I told the kids 
ef there was more n enough, you's trow in a 
few greens, anyhow. Make up de order right 
away, mister, and give us our money's worf 
now, sure for Larks." 
The gamin proudly counted out upon the 
marble slab of that fashionable flower store 
the sum of seventy-five cents. The florist 
blessings on him ! is said not to have unde 
ceived the little fellows, but to have duly hon 
ored their "order;" and the biggest and most 
costly Gates Ajar piece to be had in the market
went to the hospital and helped to bury 
Larks. 
Of course, as is customary in the case of all 
authors who have written one popular book, re 
quests for work at once rained in on the new 
study on Andover Hill ; for it soon became 
