Never fail to remember the great and irreparable loss which these
children have suffered in the death of the only person in the wide
world who could thoroughly understand them. If you had a mother to
help you in your childhood, you will know what they miss, or, if you,
too, were a lonely little being, let the memory of that loneliness
make you lovingly pitiful towards the children who suffer in the same
way. Such pity soon leads to an unconquerable love.
Bear in mind in justification of what may seem like unreasonable
prejudice, that all children have heard many stories, some of which
are true, of the cruelties of step-parents. Doubtless, you in your own
life, have known of more than one second wife who was jealous of her
husband's love for the first wife's children. When women are heartless
they are desperately cruel, and do not hesitate to vent their hatred
upon the little ones whose look, Mrs. Browning tells us,--
                        "is dread to see,
For they mind you of their angels in high places,
        With eyes turned on Deity."
She also reminds those whose consciences are so hardened by
selfishness that they dare be cruel to the mere babies in their care
that--
"The child's sob in the darkness curses deeper
  Than the strong man in his wrath."
We have not to do in this Talk with this type of woman, but with
beings of the mother-sex who would, if they were allowed, make life
brighter for the bereaved little ones.
One way to keep step-children's affection is to talk to them often and
reverently of their own mother. This is due to them and to her who
bare them. Do not allow them to forget her, and guard against the
entrance of any jealous feeling into this sacred duty of keeping her
memory fresh. The children were hers, and in the eternal home will be
hers again. They are only lent to you as a sacred trust. It is not
sacrilegious to believe that their mother knows of your efforts to
make them good men and women, and that she, as their guardian angel,
will not forget to bless her who gives her life to the children who
were once "the sweetest flowers" her own "bosom ever bore."
CHAPTER XIX.
CHILDREN AS HELPERS.
A correspondent inquires whether or not children ought to be trained
to do housework and to make themselves useful in the numerous ways in
which the young hands and feet can save the older ones.
Unless you expect to be a millionaire many times over, and in
perpetuity--emphatically Yes!
It is not necessary that your little daughter should become a drudge;
that she should have imposed upon her tasks beyond her strength, or
which interfere with out-door exercise and merry in-door play. But
through all her childhood must be borne in mind the fact that she is
now in training for womanhood, that should she ever marry and have a
home of her own, the weight of unaccustomed household tasks will bend
and bruise the shoulders totally unaccustomed to burdens of any kind.
If you have a colt that in years to come you intend using as a
carriage-horse, you will not let him stand idle in the stable eating
and fattening until he is old enough for your purpose. He would then
be, in horse-parlance, so "soft" that the lightest loads would weary
and injure him. Instead of that, while still young, he is frequently
exercised, and broken in, judiciously, first to the harness, then to
draw a light vehicle, and so on, until he himself does not know when
the training ceases and the actual work begins.
The college-boy, looking forward to "joining the crew," trains for
months beforehand, walking, running, rowing, until the flaccid muscles
become as firm and hard as steel.
In America, where fortunes are made, lost, and made and lost again in
a day, we can never say confidently that our children will inherit so
much money that it will always be unnecessary for them to work. And,
even could we be sure that our daughters will marry wealthy men, we
should, for their own happiness and comfort, teach them that there is
work for everyone in this world, and certain duties which every man
and woman should perform in order to preserve his or her self-respect.
By the time your child can walk, he may begin to make himself useful.
One little boy, three years old, finds his chief delight in "helping
mamma." He has his own "baby duster" with which he assiduously rubs
the rungs of the parlor chairs until his little face beams with the
proud certainty that he is of some use to humanity, and that "dear
mamma" could not possibly have dusted that room without her little
helper. He brings her boots and gloves when she is preparing for a
walk, and begs to be allowed to put her slippers on her feet when she
returns home. Often when she is writing and he has grown weary of
play, the tender treble asks,--
"Dear Mamma, you are vewy busy. Can't I help you?"
Of course it is an interruption, and he cannot be of the least
assistance; but is not that request better than the fretful whine of
the child who is sated with play and still demands more?
"She missed the little hindering thing."
says one line of a heart-breaking old poem descriptive of a bereaved
mother's loneliness.
Eugene Field strikes the same chord, until she who has laid a child
under the sod thrills with remorseful pain:
   "No bairn let hold until her gown,
      Nor played upon the floore,--
   Godde's was the joy; a lyttle boy
   Ben in the way no more!"
Ah, impatient mother! as you put aside the affectionate officiousness
of the would-be assistant, with frown or hasty word, bethink yourself
for one moment of the possible time when, in the dreary calm of a
well-ordered house, you will hearken vainly for shrilly-sweet prattle
and pattering feet!
There are ways in which even the toddlers can make work lighter for
the mothers. When your small daughter has finished with her toys, she
should be obliged to put them away in a box kept for that purpose. The
mother and nurse will thus be spared the bending of the back and
stooping of the knees to accomplish this light task, and the child
will enjoy the occupation, and feel very important and "grown-up" in
putting her doll to bed, and dolly's furniture, clothes, etc., in
their proper place.
When making the beds, allow the little girl to hand you the pillows;
and, even should you stumble over her and them, sometimes, you will do
well to maintain the pious pretence that she lightens your work by
assisting in tucking in the covers, and in gathering up soiled
articles of clothing and putting them in the clothes-bag or hamper.
She will soon learn to dust chair-rungs and legs, and to wipe off the
base-board,--and do it more conscientiously than hireling Abigail. She
may pick bits of thread, string and paper from the carpet, and clean
door-handles and window-sills. One mother, when making pies, places
her four-year old daughter in a chair at the far end of the kitchen
table, and gives her a morsel of dough and a tiny pan. The little one
watches the mother and attempts to handle her portion of pastry as
mamma does. After it is kneaded, it is tenderly deposited, oftentimes
a grayish lump, in spite of carefully washed hands (for little hands
will somehow get dirty, try sedulously though you and their owner may
to prevent it), in the small tin, and it is placed in the oven with
the other pies. It serves admirably at a doll's tea-party, and the
meddlesome fingers have been kept busy, the restless mind contented,
while the housewife's work is accomplished.
By the time your girl is ten years old, she should be equal to making
her own bed, some older person turning the mattresses for her that the
young back may not be strained by lifting, and to dust and keep her
own little room in order. Of course you will have to watch carefully,
and teach her little by little, line upon line. A model housekeeper
used to say that one should "cultivate an eye for dirt." Bear this in
mind, and cultivate your daughter's eye for dust, dirt and cobwebs.
You will find, unless she is a phenomenal exception to the majority of
young people, that she will not see when the soap-cup needs washing,
or that there are finger-smears on the doors, and "fluff" in the
corners. But with the blessed mother-gift of patience, point out to
her, again and again, the seemingly small details, the "hall-marks"
of housewifery, which, heeded, make the thrifty, neat housekeeper,
and, when neglected, the slattern. As she grows older, let her
straighten the parlors every morning, make the cake on Saturdays, and
show her that you regard her as your right-hand woman in all matters
pertaining to domestic affairs. Give her early to understand that it
is to her interest to keep her father's house looking neat, that it is
