the ample sky, and we went back again 
through the heather. There were seven 
hours of it in all before home and rest : 
seven hours without food. But we had 
eaten the air and thriven mightily. 
From Lynton to Simonsbath (still on 
the way to Dulverton) the road affords 
you truly typical Exmoor scenery, — 
bare, waste, and desolate. This is the 
county of the red deer, where he is yet 
hunted with the madness of enthusiasm 
described by Kingsley and Whyte-Mel- 
ville ; and the knowing tourist will scan 
the far sinuous horizon ,f or one glimpse 
of a delicate antlered head. Vain desire ! 
He is lying somewhere in covert, de- 
 
veloping his tactics for the next meet 
Then perchance he will slink into the 
lair of a young stag, and send him forth 
with a cruel push of resistless horns, to 
draw the sportsman's eye. If that avail 
not, he will seek some still watercourse, 
and there cool him in the stream before 
picking his dainty way over moss and 
pebble, — every step a move in the game 
of outwitting the hounds, his enemies to 
the death. But lay it not to heart, dear 
pilgrim, if the only four-footed beasties 
you find on Exmoor are ponies cropping 
the homely herbage : the deer are meat 
for our masters. 
Simonsbath is dignified by the usual 
quota of legend, though it happens to 
be of a rather fragmentary and common- 
place nature. The name is taken, says 
one tale, from a deep pool in the Barle, 
where Simon, an Exmoor outlaw of some 
unknown period, was accustomed to 
bathe. Another folk tradition connects 
it with King Sigmund, the dragon-slayer. 
But sufficient be it for us to remember, 
when we draw up in front of the William 
Rufus, a tavern in good and respectable 
standing to-day as it was two centuries 
ago, that this was the scene of one mar- 
 
velous escape ascribed to Tom Faggus. 
Here was he one night reveling when 
the authorities suddenly pounced upon 
him, — only to be outwitted, however; 
for Tom had but to leap on his half- 
human strawberry mare and ride away. 
J. LI. W. Page, lover of the moors of 
Exe and Dart, quotes, for the benefit of 
the imaginative, the tradition that the 
bog known as Claren Rocks, not far 
from Simonsbath, was the instrument of 
Carver Doone's tragic ending ; but, as he 
justly adds, a certain wet patch upon the 
side of Dunkery may, with equal likeli- 
hood, receive the popular vote. As in 
more vital matters, doctors disagree; 
and the hoarder of such uncertain detail 
might as well look about him, within the 
proper radius, and fix upon any bog even 
approximately answering the require- 
ments of fancy. The verdict has been 
given, the case dismissed: circumstan- 
tial evidence can do no harm. Beyond 
Simonsbath, the road becomes somewhat 
tame, in comparison with its previous 
mood; and at Dulverton itself, entered 
by a street so narrow that the houses 
seem inhospitably to elbow the passing 
coach, there is scanty interest for anti- 
quary and for "tripper." You may climb 
the hill behind the church and overlook 
the valley of the Barle, or you may drive 
through the wooded luxury of Earl Car- 
narvon's park ; but it must be confessed 
that the chief glory of the place lies now 
in the memory of John Fry's " hot moot- 
ton pasty' Not far away are the Tor 
Steps, near which Mother Melldrum set 
up her summer residence. A rude bridge 
made of stone slabs, placed upon piers 
and guiltless of cement, — this, it seems, 
was built by the devil for his own ex- 
clusive use. He threatened destruction 
to the first living creature crossing it, 
whereupon the parson, who was amaz- 
ingly clever in those days at outwitting 
the fiend, broke the spell by sending 
over " a harmless necessary cat." Pussy 
was torn piecemeal ; and then the parson 
himself crossed in safety, billingsgating 
the devil as he went. The dialogue on 
this memorable occasion must have been 
of the tu quoque order, inasmuch as the 
parson was called a "black crow," and 
avenged himself for the indignity offered 
his garb by retorting that he was "no 
blacker than the devil." Shrewd in 
tactics, it is evident that this good gentleman 
was yet a dullard at repartee, else 
would he have chosen some more biting 
rejoinder than " You 're another ! " 
Let no one contemplating the coach- 
ing trip to Dulverton be deceived by 
the announcement that the Doone Valley 
is among the attractions of the route; 
for this beguiling statement merely indi- 
cates that the driver, at a certain stage 
of the trip, will point vaguely into the 
purple distance, and remark that the 
Doone Valley is " there/' The greedy 
traveler, however, hardly needs to be 
told that he should take a carriage at 
Lynmouth, and make a canny bargain 
for a drive to the valley itself, — prefer- 
ably by the Countisbury Road, to return 
by way of Watersmeet, where the Combe 
Park and Farley Waters join the East 
Lyn with many sparkles of delight at 
the meeting and much pomp of fern- 
embroidered garment. (This, however, 
applies only to those who, like the 
Queen of Spain, have no legs. A 
walker will make it a day's excursion, 
thanking his luck for the chance.) Up 
and out into the clear air of heaven leads 
the Countisbury Road, skirting the very 
brow of sheer cliffs on one side, and 
 
smiled on by Exmoor from the inland 
distance. The blue sea and the shad- 
owy coast of Wales are the wayfarer's 
treasure-trove. Every breath is exhil- 
arating, sweet, instinct with beauty. 
