Dennis Vidal dropped her hand ; both his own 
went into his pockets, and he gave a kick to the 
turned-up corner of a rug. " Mr. Bream the 
Doctor? Oh, they know what they're about!" 
" The Doctor doesn't at all want him to be there. 
Something has happened," Rose declared as she 
left the door. 
 
Her companion said nothing for a moment. 
" Do you mean the poor lady's gone ? " he at last 
demanded. 
" Gone ? " Rose echoed. 
"Do you mean Mrs. Bream is dead?" 
His question rang out so that Rose threw her 
self back in horror. " Dennis God forbid ! " 
" God forbid too, I say. But one doesn't know 
what you mean you're too difficult to follow. 
One thing, at any rate, you clearly have in your 
head that we must take it as possibly on the 
cards. That's enough to make it remarkably to 
the point to remind you of the great change that 
would take place in your situation if she should 
die." 
" What else in the world but that change am I 
thinking of ? " Rose asked. 
" You're not thinking of it perhaps so much in 
the connection I refer to. If Mrs. Bream goes, 
your 'anchorage,' as you call it, goes." 
"I see what you mean." She spoke with the 
softest assent ; the tears had sprung into her eyes 
and she looked away to hide them. 
" One may have the highest possible opinion of 
her husband and yet not quite see you staying 
on here in the same manner with him" 
Rose was silent, with a certain dignity. " Not 
quite," she presently said with the same gen 
tleness. 
" The way therefore to provide against every 
thing is as I remarked to you a while ago to 
settle with me this minute the day, the nearest 
one possible, for our union to become a reality." 
She slowly brought back her troubled eyes. 
"The day to marry you?" 
" The day to marry me, of course ! " He gave 
a short, uneasy laugh. " What else ? " 
She waited again, and there was a kind of fear 
in her face. "I must settle it this minute?" 
Dennis stared. " Why, my dear child, when in 
the world if not now?" 
" You can't give me a little more time ? " she 
asked. 
" More time?" His gathered stupefaction broke 
out. " More time after giving you years ? " 
" Ah, but just at the last here this news, this 
rush is sudden." 
" Sudden ! " Dennis repeated. " Haven't you 
known I was coming, and haven't you known for 
what?" 
She looked at him now with an effort of resolu 
tion in which he could see her white face harden ; 
 
as if by a play of some inner mechanism some 
thing dreadful had taken place in it. Then she 
said with a painful quaver that no attempt to 
be natural could keep down : " Let me remind 
you, Dennis, that your coming was not at my 
request. You've come yes; but you've come 
because you would. You've come you've come 
in spite of me." 
He gasped, and with the mere touch of her tone 
his own eyes filled. " You haven't wanted me ? " 
"I'm delighted to see you." 
" Then in God's name what do you mean ? 
Where are we, and what are you springing on 
me?" 
" I'm only asking you again, as I've asked you 
already, to be patient with me to let me, at 
such a critical hour, turn round. I'm only ask 
ing you to bear with me I'm only asking you 
to wait." 
" To wait for what ? " he snatched the word out 
of her mouth. " It's because I have waited that I'm 
here. What I want of you is three simple words 
that you can utter in three simple seconds." He 
looked about him in his helpless dismay, as if to 
call the absent to witness. " And you look at me 
like a stone. You open up an abyss. You give 
me nothing, nothing." He paused, as it were, for 
a contradiction, but she made none ; she had low 
ered her eyes and, supported against a table, stood 
there rigid and passive. Dennis sank into a chair 
with his vain hands upon his knees. " What do 
you mean by my coming in spite of you? You 
never asked me not to you've treated me well 
till now. It was my idea yes ; but you perfectly 
accepted it." He gave her time to assent to this 
or to deny it, but she took none, and he continued : 
" Don't you understand the one feeling that has 
possessed me and sustained me ? Don't you under 
stand that I've thought of nothing else every hour 
of my way ? I arrived here with a longing for you 
that words can't utter; and now I see though I 
couldn't immediately be sure that I found you 
from the first constrained and unnatural." 
Rose, as he went on, had raised her eyes again ; 
they seemed to follow his words in sombre sub 
mission. " Yes, you must have found me strange 
enough." 
"And don't again say it's your being anx 
ious ! " Dennis sprang up warningly. " It's 
your being anxious that just makes my right." 
His companion shook her head slowly and am 
biguously, "I am glad you've come." 
 
" To have the pleasure of not receiving me ? " 
" I have received you," Rose replied. " Every 
word I've spoken to you and every satisfaction I've 
expressed is true, is deep. I do admire you, I do 
respect you, I'm proud to have been your friend. 
Haven't I assured you of my pure joy in your pro 
motion and your prospects ? " 
" What do you call assuring me ? You utterly 
misled me for some strange moments ; you mysti 
fied me ; I think I may say you trifled with me. 
The only assurance I'm open to is that of your 
putting your hand in mine as my wife. In God's 
name," the young man panted, "what has hap 
pened to you and what has changed you ? " 
" I'll tell you to-morrow," said Rose. 
"Tell me what I want?" 
She cast about her. "Tell you things I can't 
now." 
He sounded her with visible despair. "You're 
not sincere you're not straight. You've noth 
ing to tell me, and you're afraid. You're only 
gaining time, and you've only been doing so 
from the first. I don't know what it's for 
you're beyond me ; but if it's to back out, I'll 
be hanged if I give you a moment." 
Her wan face, at this, showed a faint flush; 
