down. He's got a way with him, you know, when 
you're with him, that makes you like him. He may 
have a knife in your ribs the whole while, but so long's 



 

he don't turn it, you don't seem to know it, and you 
can't help likin' him. Why, I hadn't been with JeflE five 
minutes before I made up my mind to sell to him. I 
told him about the other offer — felt bound to do it — 
and he was all on fire. ' I want that place, Mr. Whit- 
well,' s'd he. ' Name your price.' Well, I wa'n't 
goin' to take an advantage of the feller, and I guess 
he see it. 'You've offered me three thousand,' s'd I, 
' 'n' I don't want to be no ways mean about it. Five 
thousand buys the place.' ' It's mine,' s'd he ; just 
like that. I guess he see he had a gentleman to deal 
with, and we didn't say a word more. Don't you 
think I done right to sell to him ? I couldn't 'a' got 
more'n thirty-five hundred out the other feller, to 
save me, and before Jeff begun his improvements I 
couldn't 'a realized a thousand dollars on the prop'ty." 

" I think you did right to sell to him," said West- 
over, saddened somewhat by the proof Whitwell al- 
leged of his magnanimity. 

" Well, sir, I'm glad you do. I don't believe in 
crowdin' a man because you got him in a corner, an' I 
don't believe in bearin' malice. Never did. All I want- 
ed was what the place was wo'th — to Mm. 'Twa'n't 
wo'th nothin' to me ! He's got the house and the 
ten acres around it, and he's got the house on Lion's 
Head, includin' the Clearin', that makes the poottiest 
picnic-ground in the mountains. Think of goin' up 
there this summer?" 

" No," said Westover, briefly. 

" Well, I some wish you did. I sh'd like to know 
how Jeff's improvements strjick you. Of course, I 



 

can't judge of 'em so well, but I guess he's made a 
pootty sightly thing of it. He told me he'd had one 
of the leadin' Boston architects to plan the thing out 
for him, and I tell you he's got  something nice. 
'Tain't so big as old Lion's Head, and JefE wants to 
cater to a different style of custom, anyway. The 
buildin's longer'n what she is deep, and she spreads 
in front so's to give as many rooms a view of the 
mountain as she can. Know what ' runnaysonce ' is ? 
Well, that's the style Jeff said it was ; it's all pillars 
and pilasters ; and you ride up to the office through 
a double row of colyums, under a kind of a portico. 
It's all painted like them old Colonial houses down on 
Brattle Street, buff and white. Well, it made me 
think of one of them old pagan temples. He's got 
her shoved along to the south'ard, and he's widened 
out a piece of level for her to stand on, so 't that piece 
o' wood up the hill there is just behind her, and I tell 
you she looks nice, backin' up ag'inst the trees. I 
tell you, Jeff's got a head on him ! I wish you could 
see that dinin'-room o' his: all white colyums, and 
frontin' on the view. Why, that devil's got a regular 
little theaytre back o' the dinin'-room for the young 
folks to act ammyture plays in, and the shows that 
come along, and he's got a dance-hall besides ; the 
parlors ain't much — folks like to set in the office ; and 
a good many of the rooms are done off into soots, 
and got their own parlors. I tell you, it's swell, as 
they say. You can order what you please for break- 
fast, but for lunch and dinner you got to take what 
Jeff gives you ; but he treats you well. He's a Dur- 



 

gin, when it comes to that. Served in coii'ses, and 
dinner at seven o'clock. I don't know where he gpt 
his money for 't all, but I guess he put in his insur- 
ance first, and then he put a mortgage on the build- 
in' ; he as much as owned it ; said he'd had a splen- 
did season last year, and if he done as well for a cou- 
ple of seasons more he'd have the whole prop'ty free 
o' debt." 

Westover could see that the prosperity of the un- 
just man had corrupted the imagination and con- 
founded the conscience of this simple witness, and he 
asked, in the hope of giving his praises pause, " What 
has he done about the old family burying-ground in 
the orchard ?" 

" Well, there ! " said Whitwell. " That got me more 
than any other one thing. I naturally expected that 
Jefi 'd had 'em moved, for you know and I know, Mr. 
Westover, that a place like that couldn't be very pop'- 
la' with summer folks ; they don't want to have any- 
thing to kind of make 'em serious, as you may say. 
But that devil got his architect to treat the place, as 
he calls it, and he put a high stone wall around it, and 
planted it to bushes and evergreens so 't looks like a 
piece of old garden, dovin there in the corner of the 
orchard, and if you didn't hunt for it you wouldn't 
know it was there. Jeff said 't when folks did happen 
to find it out, he believed they liked it; they think 
it's picturesque and ancient. Why, some on 'em 
wanted him to put up a little chapel alongside and 
have services there ; and JefE said he didn't know but 
he'd do it yet. He's got dark-colored stones up for 
Co 



 

Mis' Durgin and Jackson, so 't they look as old as any 
oi 'em. I tell you, lie knows how to do things." 

"It seems so," said Westover, with a bitterness 
apparently lost upon the optimistic philosopher. 

" Yes, sir. I guess it's all worked out for the best. 
So long's he didn't marry Cynthy, I don't care who 
he married, and I guess he's made out first-rate, and 
he treats his wife well, and his mother-in-law too. 
You wouldn't hardly know they was in the house, 
they're so kind of quiet ; and if a guest wants to see 
Jeff, he's got to send and ask for him; clerk does 
everything, but I guess JefE keeps an eye out, and 
knows what's goin' on. He's got an elegant soot of 
appartments, and he lives as private as if he was in 
his own house, him and his wife. But when there's 
