"What am I to do with it?" he asked.
"I will tell you in a moment. Jasper Kent," said his step-mother,
turning to him, "you have rebelled against my just authority, you have
insulted me in my own house, you have made a brutal attack upon my son
in my presence, and now I am going to have you punished. Tom, I order
you to give Jasper half a dozen lashes with your whip."
It is hard to tell which looked the more surprised at this brutal
command, Jasper or the hired man. They looked at each other in
amazement, but Tom did not stir.
"Did you hear me?" asked Mrs. Kent, sharply, impatient of the delay.
"Yes, ma'am, I heard you," answered Tom, slowly.
"Why don't you obey, then?" she continued, in the same tone.
"Because," said Tom, with manly independence, "I didn't hire out to do
anything of the kind."
"Do you refuse?"
"Yes, I do. You may do your own dirty work."
"It seems you are not only disobedient, but insolent," said Mrs. Kent,
angrily.
"You must be crazy, ma'am!" said the hired man, bluntly.
"No more of this. I discharge you from my employment."
"What! for not flogging Master Jasper?"
"For not obeying me."
"I'll follow your directions, ma'am, so far as they are in the line of
duty, but I won't do that."
"I discharge you."
"As to that, ma'am, if I go, I'll let everybody in the village know why
you sent me away."
For this Mrs. Kent was not altogether prepared. She knew that it was not
prudent to defy public opinion. Perhaps she had already gone too far.
She put a great constraint upon herself, and said:
"Go back to your work. I will speak of this matter hereafter."
Tom withdrew at once, glad of the opportunity. Thus far Mrs. Kent had
been foiled, and she knew it. She could scarcely conceal her
mortification.
Jasper, who had been passive thus far, now spoke. He felt outraged and
disgusted by his step-mother's brutal purpose, though it had failed.
"Mrs. Kent," he said with quiet resolution, "after the scene of this
morning I cannot remain in the same house with you. My father has not
been dead a week, yet you have treated me in a manner which, though I
never liked you, I could not have thought possible. You are left my
guardian. I do not wish to remain another day in this house. Have I your
permission to return to school?"
"No," said his step-mother.
"Why not?"
"Because you wish it. I do not mean to let you have your own way."
"I am willing to go to another school, if you insist upon it."
"You will go to no school. You will stay here."
"In this house?"
"Yes."
"With the opinion which you have of me, Mrs. Kent, I should hardly think
this would be very agreeable to you."
"It will not. I hate the sight of you!" said his step-mother, with
energy.
"I am sorry for that, but I am not surprised. From the way you have
treated me, I should think so. Won't it be better for as both to be
separated?"
"It will gratify your wishes, and therefore I order you to remain here."
"That we may have more such scenes as yesterday and to-day?"
"No; I am determined to break your rebellious will, and teach you to
obey me implicitly."
"I have only to ask if you have fully made up your mind," said Jasper,
quietly, but with suppressed excitement.
"I mean precisely what I say."
"Then, madam, I shall have to leave this house and go out into the
world. I shall find more kindness among strangers than here."
"I have heard boys talk like this before," said Mrs. Kent, with
contemptuous incredulity.
"Boys sometimes mean what they say," retorted Jasper.
He took his hat and left the room without another word.
"I say, mother," said Nicholas, "suppose he don't come back?"
"There's no fear of that," said Mrs. Kent, coldly.
"But I say, mother, he's pretty plucky, Jasper is."
"He won't run away from me as long as I have charge of his property, you
may be sure of that. He'll be coming back and apologizing pretty soon."
"Suppose he doesn't?"
"Then it'll be his own fault."
"You may as well let him go back to school, mother. He'll be out of our
way, and we can enjoy ourselves."
"I am not going to gratify him so far. He has defied me and insulted me,
and he must take the consequences," said Mrs. Kent, with a compression
of her thin lips.
On the whole, Jasper's prospects could not be said to be very
flattering.
CHAPTER XIV.
MEDIATION.
When Jasper left the house he bent his steps to the dwelling of a friend
of his father, Otis Miller, a man of considerable property and good
position. He found Mr. Miller at home.
"I am glad to see you, Jasper," said he, cordially.
"Thank you, sir."
"You have met with a great loss," said Mr. Miller, attributing Jasper's
serious expression to his father's death.
"Yes, sir; I am only just beginning to understand how much."
"A father's place cannot be supplied."
"No, sir; but this is not the extent of my trouble."
"Can I do anything to help you?"
"Yes, sir. I am very much in need of advice."
"I shall be glad to give you the best I can, Jasper. I was your father's
friend, and I shall be glad to be yours also."
"Thank you, sir. My troubles are connected with my step-mother, who
treats me like an enemy."
"Can this be so?" asked Mr. Miller, in surprise.
"I will tell you all, and then ask your advice."
"Do so."
Jasper told the story briefly and without excitement. It was only in his
step-mother's presence that he felt disturbed.
"I have met your step-mother, but I know very little of her," said Mr.
Miller. "She never impressed me very favorably, but I never dreamed that
she would act in such an unreasonable manner. Perhaps even now matters
are not as bad as you think. Sometimes people say things in anger which
they repent of in their cooler moments."
"I don't think it is the case with Mrs. Kent."
"It is unfortunate, since she is your guardian."
"I wish you were my guardian, Mr. Miller."
"For your sake, Jasper, I wish I were. I don't think we should quarrel."
"I know we should not."
"You wish to know what to do?"
"Yes."
"You are quite sure you cannot stay at home?"
"I should be subject to constant persecution from Mrs. Kent."
"You think she would not allow you to go back to school?"
"She has refused to do so."
"There is one thing she cannot do, and that is, keep your portion of the
estate from you when you become of age."
"No, I suppose not."
"You will then be rich."
"But the money won't do me any good now, will it?"
"In this way it will. Suppose I agree to pay your expenses at
school--that is to say, advancing the money, to be repaid when you
obtain yours?"
"That would be very kind, Mr. Miller; but I shouldn't like to subject
you to that risk."
"You mean that a minor's promise would be invalid? Well, Jasper, I have
too much confidence in you to have any doubt of your integrity."
"Thank you, Mr. Miller; but suppose I should die before attaining my
majority?"
"Then I should probably lose the money."
"That is what I thought of. I should not like to have you run the risk."
"But I am willing to do so. However, it may be as well to ascertain
definitely your step-mother's intentions first. I will call upon her in
