Verses ; until such times as King James 
taking notice of the pregnancy of his 
Wit, was a means that he betook him 
to the study of Divinity, and thereupon 
proceeding Doctor, was made Dean of 
Pauls ; and became so rare a Preacher, 
that he was not only commended, but 
even admired by all who heard him." 
The times of Elizabeth and James 
were visited by some awful casualties 
and portents. From December, 1602, to 
the December following, the plague de- 
stroyed 30,518 persons in London; the 
same disease that in the sixth year of 
Elizabeth killed 20,500, and in the 
thirty-sixth year 17,890, besides the lord 
mayor and three aldermen. In Jan- 
uary, 1606, a mighty whale came up the 
Thames within eight miles of London, 
whose body, seen divers times above 
water, was judged to be longer than the 
largest ship on the river ; " but when she 
tasted the fresh water and scented the 
Land, she returned into the sea." Not 
so fortunate was a vast whale cast upon 
the Isle of Thanet, in Kent, in 1575, 
which was " twenty Ells long, and thirteen foot broad from the belly to the 
backbone, and eleven foot between the 
eyes. One of his eyes being taken out 
of his head was more than a cart with 
six horses could draw; the Oyl being 
boyled out of his head was Parmacittee." Nor the monstrous fish cast ashore 
in Lincolnshire in 1564, which measured 
six yards between the eyes and had a tail 
fifteen feet broad ; " twelve men stood 
upright in his mouth to get the Oyl." 
In 1612 a comet appeared, which in the 
opinion of Dr. Bainbridge, the great 
mathematician of Oxford, was as far 
above the moon as the moon is above 
the earth, and the sequel of it was that 
 
infinite slaughters and devastations followed it both in Germany and other coun- 
tries. In 1613, in Standish, in Lanca- 
shire, a maiden child was born having 
four legs, four arms, and one head with 
two faces — the one before, the other be- 
hind, like the picture of Janus. (One 
thinks of the prodigies that presaged 
the birth of Glendower.) Also, the same 
year, in Hampshire, a carpenter, lying 
in bed with his wife and a young child, 
" was himself and the childe both burned 
to death with a sudden lightning, no 
fire appearing outwardly upon him, and 
yet lay burning for the space of almost 
three days till he was quite consumed to 
ashes." This year the Globe playhouse, 
on the Bankside, was burned, and the 
year following the new playhouse, the 
Fortune, in Golding Lane, " was by negligence of a candle, clean burned down 
to the ground." In this year also, 1614, 
 
the town of Stratford -on -Avon was 
burned. One of the strangest events, 
however, happened in the first year 
of Elizabeth (1558), when " dyed Sir 
Thomas Cheney, Lord Warden of the 
Cinque Ports, of whom it is reported for 
a certain, that his pulse did beat more 
than three quarters of an hour after he 
was dead, as strongly as if he had been 
still alive." In 1580 a strange apparition happened in Somersetshire — three 
score personages all clothed in black, a 
furlong in distance from those that be- 
held them ; " and after their appearing, 
and a little while tarrying, they van- 
ished away, but immediately another 
strange company, in like manner, color, 
and number appeared in the same place, 
and they encountered one another and 
so vanished away. And the third time 
appeared that number again, all in bright 
armour, and encountered one another, 
 
and so vanished away. This was ex- 
amined before Sir George Norton, and 
sworn by four honest men that saw it, 
to be true." Equally well substantiated, 
probably, was what happened in Here- 
fordshire in 1 571 : "A field of three 
acres, in Blackmore, with the Trees 
and Fences, moved from its place and 
passed over another field, travelling in 
the highway that goeth to Heme, and 
there stayed." Herefordshire was a fa- 
vorite place for this sort of exercise of 
nature. In 1575 the little town of Kin- 
naston was visited by an earthquake : 
" On the seventeenth of February at six 
o'clock of the evening, the earth began 
to open and a Hill with a Rock under it 
(making at first a great bellowing noise, 
which was heard a great way off) lifted 
itself up a great height, and began to 
travel, bearing along with it the Trees 
that grew upon it, the Sheep-folds, and 
 
Flocks of Sheep abiding there at the 
same time. In the place from whence 
it was first moved, it left a gaping distance forty foot broad, and forescore Ells 
long ; the whole Field was about twenty Acres. Passing along, it overthrew a 
Chappell standing in the way, removed 
an Ewe-Tree planted in the Churchyard, 
from the West into the East ; with the 
like force it thrust before it High-wayes, 
Sheep-folds, Hedges, and Trees, made 
Tilled ground Pasture, and again turned 
Pasture into Tillage. Having walked 
in this sort from Saturday in the evening, till Monday noon, it then stood 
still." It seems not improbable that 
Birnam wood should come to Dunsinane. 
It was for an age of faith, for a people 
whose credulity was fed on such prodigies and whose imagination glowed at 
such wonderful portents, that Shakespeare wrote, weaving into the realities 
of sense those awful mysteries of the 
supernatural which hovered not far away 
from every Englishman of his time. 
Shakespeare was born in 1564, when 
Elizabeth had been six years on the 
throne, and he died in 1616, nine years 
before James I., of the faulty spleen, 
was carried to the royal chapel in West- 
minster, " with great solemnity, but with 
greater lamentation." Old Baker, who 
says of himself that he was the unwor- 
thiest of the knights made at Theobald's, 
condescends to mention William Shake- 
speare at the tail end of the men of note 
of Elizabeth's time. The ocean is not 
