better, and make you happy, for God’s sake give me another chance before
you take any step. Give me one more chance, Helen, for the sake of old
times.  You used to like me once, and we were very happy at first.
Then--well, it was all my fault, it was every bit of it my fault, and I
would give my soul to undo it.  If you will forgive me, we can try
together and begin over again, and it shall all be different, for I will
be different.
Can we not try?  Will you try?  It will be easy if you will only let us
begin.  It is not as if we should have other troubles to deal with, for
we have plenty of friends and plenty of money, and I will do the rest.
I solemnly promise that I will, if you will forgive me and begin over
again.  I know it must seem almost impossible. It would be quite
impossible for any other woman, though you can do it if you will.
I shall wait for your answer, before I write again, though it will seem
a very long time, and I am very anxious about it.  If it is what I hope
it will be, perhaps you will cable a few words, even one word.
’Forgiven’ is only one word.  Will you not say it?  Will you not give me
one chance more?  Oh, Helen dear, for God’s sake, do!  H.
Helen read the letter to the end, through every phrase and every
repetition.  Then the fight began, and it was long and bitter, a battle
to death, of which she could not see the issue.
The man wrote in earnest, and sincerely meant what he said.  No one
could read the words and doubt that.  Helen believed all he had written,
so far as his intention was concerned, but she could not cut his life in
two and leave out of the question the man he had been, in order to
receive without fear or disgust the man he professed himself to be.
That was too much to ask of any woman who had suffered what she had of
neglect, of violence, of shame.
’No one could tell,’ the doctor wrote, ’whether a return to the world
might not mean also a return to the unfortunate habit’--no one could
tell that.  And Harmon himself wrote that most men could not give it up,
that it was a disease, and that no woman could understand it.  What
possible surety could he give that it should never get hold of him
again? None.  But that was only a small matter in the whole question.
If she had ever loved him, perhaps if she could have felt that he had
ever loved her truly, it would have been different.  But she could not.
Why had he married her?  For her beauty.  The shame of it rose in her
eyes as she sat alone, and she could not help turning her face from the
light.
For love’s sake, even for an old love, outraged long ago and scarred
past recognizing, she could have forgiven much.  Old memories, suddenly
touched, are always more tender than we have thought they were, till the
tears rise for them, and the roots of the old life stir in the heart.
Helen had nothing of that.  She had made the great mistake of marrying a
man whom she had not loved, but whom she had admired, and perhaps
believed in, more than she understood. She had married him because he
seemed to love her very much, and the thought of being so loved was
pleasant.  She had soon found out what such love meant, and by and by
she had seen how traces of it survived in Henry Harmon, when all thought
of honouring her, or even of respecting her, was utterly gone.
A bitter laugh rang through the quiet room, and she started, for it was
her own voice.  She was to forgive!  Did he know what he was asking, and
for what things he was praying forgiveness?  Yet when he was sober he
had generally remembered what he had done when he had been drunk.  That
is to say, he had seemed to have the faculty of remembering what he
chose to recall, and of forgetting everything else.  She was to forgive
what he chose to remember!
’Oh, Helen dear, for God’s sake, do!’  She could see the last written
words of his letter before her eyes, though the sheet was folded and
bent double in her tightly closed hand.  He meant it, and it was an
appeal for mercy.  She hated herself for having laughed so cruelly a
moment earlier.  There was a cry in the words, quite different from all
he had written before them.  It did not touch her, it hardly appealed to
her at all, but somehow it gave him the right to be heard, for it was
human.
Then she went over all he said, though it hurt her.  She was not a woman
of quick impulses, and she knew that what was left of her life was in
the balance.  Even he seemed to acknowledge that, for he spoke of a
possibility of freedom for her by divorce.  To speak so easily of it, he
must have thought of it often, and that meant that it was really an easy
matter, as Colonel Wimpole had said.  It was in her power, and she had
free will.  He knew that she had a choice, and that she could either
take him back, now that he was cured, or make it utterly out of the
question for him to approach her.  He said as much, when he implored her
to give him one more chance ’before taking any step.’  She went over and
over it all, for hours. In the cool of the evening she opened the
blinds, collected her letters, and then sat down again, no nearer to a
decision than she had been at first.  A servant came and told her that
Colonel Wimpole was downstairs.  He had written a word on his card,
asking to see her again.
Her first impulse was the natural one.  She would let him come in and
she would lay the whole matter before him, as before the best friend she
had in the world, and ask him how she should act.  There was not in all
the world a man more honourable and just.  She would let him come to
her.
The words were on her lips, while the servant stood in the open door,
waiting for her answer. She checked herself with an effort.  She wrote a
line and gave it to the man.
She would not see Wimpole just then, for it would not be fair to him nor
perhaps quite just to Harmon.  Wimpole loved her, though he was quite
unaware that she knew it.  She believed firmly that when he had advised
her that very afternoon to divorce her husband, he was thinking only of
her happiness; but he had advised it, all the same, just because he
believed that Harmon might recover.  He could not change his mind now
that what he feared for her was taking place.  How could he?  He would
use every argument in his power, and he would find many good ones,
against her returning to her husband.  He could influence her against
her free will, and far more than he could guess, because she loved him
secretly as much as he loved her.  It was bitter not to see him, and
tell him, and ask his help; it was desperately hard, but as soon as she
saw that it was right, she wrote the words that must send him away,
before she could have time to hesitate.  Deep in her heart, too, there
was a thought for him. Loving her as he did, it would not be easy for
him, either, to go into the whole matter.  His honour and his love would
have to fight it out. So she sent him away.
Then Archie came into the room, vague and childish at first, but with an
odd look in his eyes, and he began to talk to her about Sylvia Strahan
in a way that frightened her, little by little, as he went on.
"Marry me to her, mother," he said at last, as though asking for the
simplest thing.  "I want to be married, and I want Sylvia.  I never saw
any other girl whom I wanted."
                              CHAPTER VII
There are times when trouble accumulates as an avalanche, or like water
in one of those natural intermittent springs that break out plentifully,
and dry up altogether in a sort of alternation.  But the spring has its
regular period, and trouble has not, and in an avalanche of disasters it
is impossible to say at any moment whether the big boulders have all
passed in the sliding drift of smaller stuff, or whether the biggest of
all may not be yet coming.
There are days in a lifetime which decide all the rest, and sometimes
explain all that has gone before, happy days, or days of tears, as the
case may be.  Perhaps they are the most interesting days to describe,
after all, for they are the ones which generally terminate a period in
existence.  But many say that in real life situations, as they are
called, never have any satisfactory termination, and that the story
which is most true of men and women is that one which has neither
beginning nor end.  The fact is that what appears to be the beginning is
often in reality the termination of a long series of events.  Novels
often end in marriage, yet real life frequently begins there.  There is
a very old proverb to that effect.
On such days all sorts of things happen that never occurred before and
perhaps never occur again, and every one who has had one or two such
short and eventful periods of confusion can remember how a host of
unforeseen trifles thrust themselves forward to disturb him.  It was as
though nothing could turn out right, as if nobody could take a message
without a mistake, as if the post and the telegraph had conspired
together to send letters and telegrams to wrong addresses, and
altogether all things, including the most sober and reliable
institutions, seem to work backwards against results instead of for
them.  Those are bad times. When they last long, people come to grief.
