Blarcom brought over from Holland because she 
was sure there could be no water good to drink in 
the new country. 
Already she was coming to have a great interest 
in people who wrote books and stories. It seemed 
such a wonderful gift. 
Dr. Hoffman paid the cousins the compliment 
of a visit. Afterward there were mysterious com- 
munings between the sisters. 
Wedding presents were gifts of real preference 
and affection in those days. A girl had her "set- 
ting out" from home, and perhaps some one gave 
her an heirloom for her name, or because she was 
an especial favourite. 
'Dr. Hoffman 's well-to-do," said Joanna; "and 
Margaret's folks won't let her go empty-handed. 
But I 'd like to have some of our things go where 
they would be appreciated. We 've no one of our 
very own to leave them to," and Miss Morgan 
sighed. "Margaret doesn't consider store arti- 
cles so much better than those made long ago. 
Let 's each give her a pair of linen sheets. I 've 
a dozen good ones now, and, land sakes! we 
sha'n't wear out half our bedding. And my 
 
tablecloth of the basket pattern, and two towels. 
And - - let me see - - that white wool blanket of 
Aunt Hetty's. It was spun and woven in 1800; 
and the sheep were raised here on the old farm. 
Some peculiar kind they were, with long, soft 
fleece." 
"Well," said Famie, slowly, "there's my 
snowball tablecloth and two towels. 'Rastus's 
wife won't ever care for them with her fine Paris 
things. But we won't give away the silver, nor 
the old pewter flagon, nor the basin and cups. 
They've the crown mark on them, 1710 for a 
date. Deary me, they 'll outlast us," and she 
sighed also. 
Roseann agreed. Six sheets and pillow-cases, 
three tablecloths and half-a-dozen towels, and 
two blankets, one spun and woven by their own 
mother. The initials and date were marked on 
them in old-fashioned cross-stitch, which was a 
little more ornate than regular sampler-stitch. 
Aunt Hetty's blanket had been made from the 
wool of an especial cosset lamb that had lost its 
mother and been brought up by hand. The little 
girl was very much interested. 
" Did it follow her about ? ' she asked. 
"Dearsakes!' and Aunt Famie laughed. "I 
just guess it did. It grew very troublesome, 
I 've heard tell, and was quite quality, always 
wanting to come into the sitting-room. And it 
would curl down at Aunt Hetty's feet like a dog. 
She saved the wool every year, and spun it, and 
laid it away until she had enough. But I don't 
 
believe it went to school, although it could spell 
one word.' : 
"One word!' cried the little girl, in amaze. 
"What was that?" 
" Why b-a ba, of course. They said it could 
spell through the whole lesson, and I don't see 
why not. I 've heard lambs make a dozen differ- 
ent sounds.' 1 
The little girl laughed. She was very fond of 
listening to what Aunt Famie did when she was 
little; and they went to call upon some curious 
old people who kept to the Dutch ways and wore 
the old costume. Some of them had wooden clo<rs 
for rainy weather. When they talked real Dutch, 
Hanny found it was quite different from German. 
They had a picture of some old ancestor's house 
with the windmill in the front yard. 
The drives about were beautiful then, and so 
many places had queer old legends. Dr. Hoff- 
man was very much interested, and it seemed to 
Hanny as if she had strayed over into Holland. 
She resolved when she went home to ask Ben to 
get her a history of Holland, so she and her father 
might read it together. Her mother never had 
any time. 
Margaret was much surprised at her gifts, and 
thanked the cousins with warmest gratitude. 
Even Grandmother Van Kortlandt had hinted 
"that she wasn't going to save up everything for 
Haneran. ' But the elder people in those days 
were fond of holding on to their possessions until 
the very last. 
 
Uncle David came up for them and took them 
to White Plains, where they had a nice visit; and 
grandmother selected some articles from her store 
for the prospective bride. 
Hanny remembered what Cousin Archer had 
said about the mittens, and asked Uncle David. 
He found his hook, and, sure enough, it was some- 
thing like a crochet-needle. He took what the 
little girls called single stitch. But he admitted 
that Hanny' s pretty edgings and tidies were 
quite wonderful. 
" I thought the Germans must have brought 
the knowledge to the country," she said. "How 
long have you known it ? ' 
"Oh, since my boyhood," and he gave a smile. 
" I heard a very old man say once that Noah set 
his sons to work in the Ark making fishing-nets. 
Perhaps Mrs. Noah set her daughter-in-laws to 
crocheting, as you call it. Forty days was a 
pretty long spell of rainy weather, when they had 
no books or papers to read, and couldn't go out 
to work in the garden. " 
" Didn't they have any books ? ' Hanny't eyes 
opened wide. 
"All their writing was done on stone tablets, 
and very little of that. ' : 
"I think I wouldn't have liked living then. 
Books are so splendid. And you get to know 
about so many people. But there was the Bible," 
and the child's voice dropped to a reverent tone. 
"Still, if Moses wrote the first books, that was 
a long while after the Flood.'
 
Hanny's vague idea was that the Bible had been 
created in the beginning, like Adam and Eve. 
Cousin Ann and Aunt Eunice were as much in 
love with the little girl as ever, but were tremen- 
dously surprised at her stock of knowledge. It 
didn't seem possible that one little girl could 
know so much. That she could play tunes on the 
piano, and repeat ever so many French words, then 
explain what they meant in English, was a marvel. 
But the child never seemed spoiled by the admi- 
ration. 
They had to come down to Yonkers, for Uncle 
Paid and Aunt Crete would have been hurt and 
jealous. Only it did not seem now to Hanny as 
if she had ever lived there. The old kitchen, the 
creek that went purling along, bearing fleets of 
