course was very difficult.

She graduated with flying colours, and Miss Tremont was so proud and
excited that she took a day’s vacation. A week later Patience hinted
that she thought she should be earning her own living; but Miss Tremont
would not even discuss the subject. She fell into a rage every time it
was broached, and Patience, who would have rebelled, had Miss Tremont
been younger and stronger, submitted: she knew it would not be for long.


                                  XII

Patience was languid all summer, and lay about in the woods, when she
could, reading little and thinking much. Her school books put away
forever, she felt for the first time that she was a woman, but did not
take as much interest in herself as she had thought she should. She
speculated a good deal upon her future career as a newspaper woman, and
expended two cents every morning upon the New York “Day.” But she forgot
to study it in the new interest it created: she had just the order of
mind to succumb to the fascination of the newspaper, and she read the
“Day’s” report of current history with a keener pleasure than even the
great records of the past had induced. She longed for a companion with
whom to talk over the significant tendencies of the age, and gazed upon
Beverly Peele’s dome-like brow with a sigh.

Once, in the Sunday issue, she came upon a column and a half devoted to
Rosita, “The Sweetheart of the Public,” “The Princess Royal of Opera
Bouffe.” The description of the young prima donna’s home life, personal
characteristics, and footlight triumphs, was further embellished by a
painfully décolleté portrait, a lace night gown, a pair of wonderfully
embroidered stockings, and a rosary.

Patience read the article twice, wondering why fame realised looked so
different from the abstract quality of her imagination.

“Somehow it seems a sort of tin halo,” she thought. Then her thoughts
drifted back to Monterey, and recalled it with startling vividness.
“Still even if I haven’t forgotten it, it is like the memory of another
life. Its only lasting effect has been to make me hate what is coarse
and sinful; and dear auntie, even if she hasn’t converted me, has
developed all my good.

“I wonder if Rosita has been in love, and if that is the reason she has
forgotten me. But she hasn’t married, so perhaps it’s only adulation
that has driven everything else out of her head.” And then with her eyes
on the river, which under the heavy sky looked like a stream of
wrinkling lead from which a coating of silver had worn off in places,
she fell to dreaming of Beverly Peele and an ideal existence in which
they travelled and read and assured each other of respectful and
rarefied affection.

Early in the winter the influenza descended upon America. Mr. Peele, his
wife wrote, was one of the first victims, and the entire family took him
to Florida. One night, a month later, Miss Tremont returned from Hog
Heights and staggered through her door.

“Oh,” she moaned, as Patience rushed forward and caught her in her arms,
“I feel so strangely. I have pains all over me, and the queerest feeling
in my knees.”

“It’s the grippe,” said Patience, who had read its history in the “Day.”
She put Miss Tremont to bed, and sent for the doctor. The old lady was
too weak to protest, and swallowed the medicines submissively. She
recovered in due course, and one day slipped out and plodded through the
snow to Hog Heights. She was brought home unconscious, and that night
was gasping with pneumonia.

There was no lack of nurses. Miss Beale and Mrs. Watt, who had helped to
care for her during the less serious attack, returned at once, and many
others called at intervals during the day and night.

Patience sat constantly by the bed, staring at the face so soon to be
covered from all sight. She wanted to cry and scream, but could not. Her
heart was like lead in her breast.

At one o’clock on the second night, she and Miss Beale were alone in the
sick room. Mrs. Watt was walking softly up and down the hall without.

Miss Tremont was breathing irregularly, and Patience bent over her with
white face. Miss Beale began to sob.

“Is it not terrible, terrible,” she ejaculated, “that she
should die like this, she whose deathbed should have been so
beautiful,—unconscious, drugged—morphine, which is as accursed as
whisky—”

“I am glad of it. It would be more horrible to see her suffer.”

“I don’t want to see her suffer—dear, dear Miss Tremont. But she should
have died in the full knowledge that she was going to God. Oh! Oh!” she
burst out afresh. “How I envy her! It’s my only, only sin, but I can’t
help envying those who are going to heaven. I can’t wait. I do so want
to see the beautiful green pastures and the still waters—and oh, how I
want to talk with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob!”

Patience flung her head into her lap and burst into a fit of laughter.


                                  XIII

An hour later she went downstairs and turned up all the lights. Mrs.
Watt had gone to the next house to telephone for the undertakers. When
she returned she went upstairs to Miss Beale. Patience could hear the
two women praying. That was the only sound in the terrible stillness.
She paced up and down, wringing her hands and gasping occasionally. Her
sense of desolation was appalling, although as yet she but half realised
her bereavement.

Suddenly she heard the sound of runners on the crisp snow. They stopped
before the gate. She ran shuddering to the window. The moon flooded the
white earth. Two tall black shadows came down the path. They trod as if
on velvet. Even on the steps and porch they made no sound. They knocked
as death may knock on a human soul, lightly, meaningly. Patience dragged
herself to the door and opened it. The long narrow black men entered and
bent their heads solemnly. Patience raised her shaking hand, and pointed
to the floor above. The men of death bowed again, and stole upward like
black ghosts. In a few moments they stole down again and out and away.
Patience rushed frantically through the rooms to the kitchen, where she
fell upon Ellen, dozing by the fire, and screamed and laughed until the
terrified woman flung a pitcher of water on her, then carried her
upstairs and put her to bed.


                                  XIV

A week later Patience wandered restlessly about the lonely house. The
hundreds of people that had thronged it had gone at last, even Miss
Beale and Mrs. Watt.

She had cried until she had no tears left, and rebelled until reason
would hear no more. Her nerves felt blunt and worn down.

Yesterday Miss Tremont’s lawyer had told her that after a few
unimportant bequests she was to have the income of the dead woman’s
small estate until she married, after which she would have nothing and
the Temperance cause all. She was therefore exempt from the pettiest and
severest of life’s trials. Miss Tremont had also left a letter, begging
her to devote herself to a life of charity and reform. But Patience had
at last revolted. She realised how empty had been her part, how
torrential the impulsion of Miss Tremont.
