of her region. 

Miss Helen Otis was a trifle surprised as well. 
She had come to Westhorpe to bury sorrow. She 
would have no taste for gayeties, for this great 
grief of her life had changed everything. 

She was only ten when her mother died, who 
had been the youngest Miss Brooke, much 



 

younger than the two sisters. Helen had been 
at school, and sometimes spent her vacations 
with them. Indeed, their house was her real 
home ; but now and then she took a journey with 
her father. He was a fine looking man, only 
forty now, an intelligent and polished business 
man, finding some time for the social amenities 
of life, and being very fond of his daughter. 

Helen had graduated from her boarding-school 
the year before. She had been fired with some 
girlish ambitions, and had a secret longing to 
enter college. But her father said : 

" Helen, I shall have to go abroad the first 
of July. We three partners take turns. Of 
course there will be a good deal of business for 
the first two months, but I shall no doubt find 
some friends in Paris and on the Continent who 
can keep you from feeling neglected. After that 
we can take a pleasure tour. What say you ? " 

Of course she was delighted. She had a splen 
did time, and adored her father more than ever. 
In Berlin they met quite a circle of her father's 
acquaintances. Among them a Miss Carew of 
three or four and thirty, a music teacher, who 
had given up this year for the restoration of her 
health and energy, and was looking into new 
methods of teaching. She proved a very attrac 
tive companion. 



 

Mr. Otis returned the last of December, leaving 
his daughter to go to Egypt with some friends in 
whom he had every confidence. Oddly enough 
Miss Carew crossed on the same vessel. She had 
been summoned home on the death of a relative 
and was to receive a considerable legacy. 

Beside her musical ability she was well read and 
very attractive. He had been thinking it was 
time now to give up his half bachelor ways, his 
suite of rooms at the hotel, and make a home for 
his daughter. He began to feel quite fatherly. 
And why not put this sweet, well-bred woman at 
the head of it, and give Helen several charming 
years before she would want to marry ? She must 
have a chaperon of some sort. Her aunts were 
quite out of touch with the modern world, and 
Miss Esther was too frail to undertake any dissipa 
tion. A younger woman, who understood the 
ways and needs of girls but it was not likely 
Miss Carew would come, except in one capacity. 

He continued the acquaintance after they were 
in New York, and found that he was really in love 
with her. She accepted him, but would not be 
married until Helen returned. That was in May. 

Helen's first feeling was indignation. Her 
father was a good deal surprised, but he pointed 
out the advantages, to which she was blind. She 
felt herself deceived and injured, and with a girl's 



 

unreason, blamed Miss Carevv. Aunt Margaret 
tried to reason with her. " Nothing is more 
natural, my dear. Your mother has been dead 
almost eight years, and few men respect a memory 
that long. Beside, at his time of life he needs a 
home, and, really, a wife." 

" But I could have made his home," sobbed 
Helen, between sorrow and anger. "I had counted 
on it ; I meant to devote my life to it." 

" My dear," returned Aunt Margaret, gravely, 
but with a certain persuasive sweetness, "that 
would hardly have been possible. You are too 
inexperienced. You know nothing about ordering 
a house. You could not entertain your father's 
friends without some older lady " 

" But you and Aunt Esther might have come," 
interrupted the girl. 

Aunt Margaret sighed. She had always liked 
her brother-in-law very much, but they were 
almost at the opposite ends of the society scale. 
He was still a fashionable man, much admired 
and much sought after, and had kept his place 
without a break. They tried to do honor to a few 
occasions among relatives and older friends, but 
they had cheerfully "stepped out of the swim." 
Miss Esther's poor health, and her own age, her 
disinclination for gayeties would make her a poor 
chaperon. 




" My child, you need a younger person, who is 
fresh in society ways. We have been much 
pleased with Miss Carew. Your father desires a 
home and a wife, and you will no doubt marry." 

" I meant to devote my whole life to him. We 
had such a delightful time abroad. And his letters 
since have been so charming ! I had learned to 
love him so ! Why, every thought of his heart 
seemed mine, and instead, he was loving another. 
He has deceived me ! And she has crept in " 

" My dear, do not say that," entreated Aunt 
Margaret. " It was a delicate subject to write 
about. And I do think you will find her a kind 
and appreciative friend. She is still young enough 
to enjoy the things of youth without being worried 
by them." 
