of being abandoned by her mother. Familiar 
as she had become with the idea of the great 
alternative to the proper, she felt that her 
governess and her father would have a sub- 
stantial reason for not emulating that detach- 
ment. At the same time she had heard 
somehow of little girls of exalted rank, it 
was true whose education was carried on 
by instructors of the other sex; and she 
knew that if she were at school at Brighton 
it would be thought an advantage to her to 
be more or less in the hands of masters. 
She meditated on these mysteries and she 
at last remarked to Miss Overmore that if 
she should go to her mother perhaps the 
gentleman might become her tutor. 
"The gentleman ?" The proposition 
was complicated enough to make Miss Over- 
more stare. 
" The one who 's with mamma. Might n't 
that make it right as right as your being my 
governess makes it for you to be with papa? " 
Miss Overmore considered. She colored 
a little; then she embraced her ingenious 
disciple. "You're too sweet! I 'm a real 
governess. " 
"And couldn't he be a real tutor?" 
" Of course not. He 's ignorant and bad." 
"Bad ? " Maisie echoed with wonder. 
Her companion gave a queer little laugh at 
her tone. " He 's ever so much younger " 
But here she paused. 
" Younger than you ? " 
Miss Overmore laughed again. It was 
the first time Maisie had seen her approach 
so nearly to a giggle. " Younger than no 
matter whom ! I don't know anything about 
him, and I don't want to ! " she rather incon- 
sequently added. "He's not my sort, and 
I 'm sure, my own darling, he 's not yours." 
And she repeated the embrace with which 
her colloquies with Maisie almost always 
terminated and which made the child feel 
that her affection at least was a gage of 
safety. Parents had come to seem preca- 
rious, but governesses were evidently to be 
trusted. Maisie' s faith in Mrs. Wix, for 
instance, had suffered no lapse from the fact 
that all communication with her was tempo- 
rarily at an end. During the first weeks of 
their separation Clara Matilda's mamma had 
repeatedly and dolefully written to her, and 
Maisie had answered with an excitement 
qualified only by orthographical delays ; but 
this correspondence had been duly submitted 
to Miss Overmore, with the final conse- 
quence of incurring a lively disapproval. It 
was this lady's view that Mr. Farange 
would n't care for it at all ; and she ended by 
confessing since her pupil pushed her 
that she didn't care for it herself. She was 
furiously jealous, she said; and that circum- 
stance was only a new proof of her disinter- 
ested affection. She pronounced Mrs. Wix's 
effusions moreover illiterate and unprofit- 
able, and made no scruple of declaring it 
extraordinary that a woman in her senses 
should have placed the formation of her 
daughter's mind in such ridiculous hands. 
Maisie was well aware that the proprietress 
of the old brown dress and the old odd head- 
gear was a very different class of person from 
Miss Overmore; but it was now brought 
home to her with pain that she was educa- 
tionally quite out of the question. She was 
buried for the time beneath a conclusive 
remark of Miss Overmore' s " She 's really 
beyond a joke! " This remark was made as 
that charming woman held in her hand the 
last letter that Maisie was to receive from 
Mrs. Wix; it was fortified by a decree 
abolishing the preposterous tie. "Must I 
then write and tell her ? " the child 
bewilderedly inquired. She grew pale at 
the image of the dreadful things it appeared 
to be prescribed to her to say. " Don't dream 
of it, my dear '  write; you may trust 
me ! " cried Miss Overmore, who indeed 
wrote to such purpose that a hush in which 
you could have heard a pin drop descended 
upon poor Mrs. Wix. She gave for weeks 
and weeks no sign whatever of life. It was 
as if she had been as effectually disposed of 
by Miss Overmore's communication as her 
little girl, in the Harrow Road, had been dis- 
posed of by the terrible hansom. Her very 
silence became, after this, one of the largest 
elements of Maisie's consciousness ; it proved 
a warm and habitable air, into which the 
child penetrated further than she dared ever 
to mention to her companions. Somewhere 
in the depths of it the dim straighteners 
were fixed upon her ; somewhere out of the 
troubled little current Mrs. Wix was in- 
tensely waiting. 
VII 
IT quite fell in with this intensity that 
one day, on returning from a walk with the 
housemaid, Maisie should have found her 
in the hall, seated on the stool usually 
occupied by the telegraph-boys who haunted 
Beale Farange's door and kicked their heels 
while, in his room, answers were concocted 
with the aid of smoke-puffs and growls. It 
had seemed to her on their parting that 
Mrs. Wix had reached the last limits of the 
squeeze; but she now felt those limits to be 
transcended and that the duration of her 
visitor's hug was a direct reply to Miss 
Overmore's act of abolition. She under- 
stood in a flash how the visit had come to be 
possible that Mrs. Wix, watching her 
chance, must have slipped in under protec- 
tion of the fact that papa, always tormented, 
in spite of her arguments, with the idea of a 
school, had for a three days' excursion to 
Brighton absolutely insisted on the attend- 
ance of her adversary. It was true that when 
Maisie explained their absence and their 
important motive Mrs. Wix wore an expres- 
sion so peculiar that it could only have had 
its origin in surprise. This contradiction, 
however, peeped out only to vanish, for at 
the very moment that, in the spirit of it, 
she threw herself afresh upon her young 
friend a hansom crested with neat luggage 
rattled up to the door and Miss Overmore 
bounded out. The shock of her encounter 
with Mrs. Wix was less violent than Maisie 
had feared on seeing her and didn't at all 
