
The ceremonies were not tedious. The prince strode to his 
throne with the port and majesty — and the sternness — of a 
Julius Caesar coming to receive and receipt for a back-country 
kingdom and have it over and get out, and no fooling. There 
was a throne for the young prince, too, and the two sat there, 
side by side, with their oiRcers grouped at either hand and 
most accurately and creditably reproducing the pictures which 
one sees in the books — pictures which people in the prince's 
line of business have been furnishing ever since Solomon re- 
ceived the Queen of Sheba and showed her his things. The 
chief of the Jain delegation read his paper of congratulations, 
then pushed it into a beautifully engraved silver cylinder, which 
was delivered with ceremony into the prince's hands and at 
once delivered by him without ceremony into the hands of an 
officer. I will copy the address here. It is interesting, as 
showing what an Indian prince's subject may have opportunity 
to thank him for in these days of modern English rule, as 
contrasted with what his ancestor would have given them 
opportunity to thank him for a century and a half ago — the 
days of freedom unhampered by English interference. A cen- 
tury and a half ago an address of thanks could have been put 
into small space. It would have thanked the prince — 

1. For not slaughtering too many of his people upon mere caprice ; 

2. For not stripping them bare by sudden and arbitrary tax levies, and 
bringing famine upon them ; 

3. For not upon empty pretext destroying the rich and seizing their 
property ; 

4. For not killing, blinding, imprisoning, or banishing the relatives of the 
royal house to protect the throne from possible plots ; 

5. For not betraying the subject secretly, for a bribe, into the hands of 
bands of professional Thugs, to be murdered and robbed in the prince's back lot. 

Those were rather common princely industries in the old 

times, but they and some others of a harsh sort ceased long 

ag-o under Eng'lish rule. Better industries have taken their 

place, as this Address from the Jain community will show : 

"Your Highness, — We the undersigned members of the Jain community 
of Bombay have the pleasure to approach your Highness with the expression 
of our heartfelt congratulations on the recent conference on your Highness 
of the Knighthood of the Most Exalted Order of the Star of India. Ten 
years ago we had the pleasure and privilege of welcoming your Highness to 
this city under circumstances which have made a memorable epoch in the 
history of your State, for had it not been for a generous and reasonable spirit 
that your Highness displayed in the negotiations between the Palitana Durbar 
and the Jain community, the conciliatory spirit that animated our people 
could not have borne fruit. That was the first step in your Highness's ad- 
ministration, and it fitly elicited the praise of the Jain community, and of the 
Bombay Government. A decade of your Highness's administration, combined 
with the abilities, training, and acquirements that your Highness brought to 
bear upon it, has justly earned for your Highness the unique and honourable 
distinction — the Knighthood of the Most Exalted Order of the Star of India, 
which we understand your Highness is the first to enjoy among Chiefs of 
your Highness's rank and standing. And we assure your Highness that for 
this mark of honour that has been conferred on you by Her Most Gracious 
Majesty, the Queen-Empress, we feel no less proud than your Highness. 
Establishment of commercial factories, schools, hospitals, etc., by your High- 
ness in your State has marked your Highness's career during these ten years, 
and we trust that your Highness will be spared to rule over your people with 
wisdom and foresight, and foster the many reforms that your Highness has 
been pleased to introduce in your State. We again offer your Highness our 
warmest felicitations for the honour that has been conferred on you. We 
beg to remain your Highness's obedient servants." 

Factories, schools, hospitals, reforms. The prince propa- 
gates that kind of things in the modern times, and gets knight- 
hood and guns for it. 

After the address the prince responded with snap and 

brevity ; spoke a moment with half a dozen guests in English, 

and with an official or two in a native tongue; then the 

garlands were distributed as usual, and the function ended. 


CHAPTEK XLII. 

Each person is born to one possession whicli outvalues all bis others — bis last 
breath. — Puddnhead Wilsson's New Calendar. 



TOWARD midnight, that night, there was another function. 
This was a Hindoo wedding — no, I think it 
was a betrothal ceremony. Always before, we had 
driven through streets that were multitudinous and tumultuous 
with picturesque native life, but now there was nothing of that. 
"We seemed to move through a city of the dead. There was 
hardly a suggestion of life in those still and vacant streets. 
Even the crows were silent. But everywhere on the ground 
lay sleeping natives — hundreds and hundreds. They lay 
stretched at full length and tightly wrapped in blankets, heads 
and all. Their attitude and their rigidity counterfeited death. 
The plague was not in Bombay then, but it ig devasting the 
city now. The shops are deserted, now, half of the people 
have fled, and of the remainder the smitten perish by shoals 
every day. No doubt the city looks now in the daytime as it 
looked then at night. When we had pierced deep into the na- 
tive quarter and were threading its narrow dim lanes, we had 
to go carefully, for men were stretched asleep all about and 
there was hardly room to drive between them. And every 
now and then a swarm of rats would scamper across past the 
horses' feet in the vague light — the forbears of the rats that 
are carrying the plague from house to house in Bombay now. 
The shops were but sheds, little booths open to the street ; and 
the goods had been removed, and on the counters families were 
sleeping, usually with an oil lamp present. Recurrent dead- 
watclies, it looked like.


But at last we turned a corner and saw a great glare of light 
ahead. It was the home of the bride, wrapped in a perfect 
conflagration of illuminations, — mainly gas-work designs, 
gotten u]) specially for the occasion. Within was abundance of 
brilliancy — flames, costumes, colors, decorations, mirrors — it 
was another Aladdin show. 

The bride was a trim and comely little thing of twelve 
years, dressed as we would dress a boy, though more expen- 
sively than we should do it, of course. She moved about very 
much at her ease, and stopped and talked with the guests and 
allowed her wedding jewelry to be examined. It was very fine. 
Particularly a rope of great diamonds, a lovely thing to look 
at and handle. It had a great emerald hanging to it. 

The bridegroom was not present. He was having betrothal 
festivities of his own at his father's house. As I understood it, 
he and the bride were to entertain company every night and 
nearly all night for a week or more, then get married, if alive. 
