Tony came down the road singing "Oh, Susannah;" Ben answered "Hillo!"
and shook himself like a great bear. The two baskets were put into the
waggon.
"Now you girls who are too delicate for a long walk, or too much worn
out by your day's toil, had better hop in. Ann, you go and keep an eye
on Hanny. Now who else?"
They were all pretty tired with their racing about, and the three
smallest ones were picked out, as there was but one horse. The others
formed the rear-guard, and marched on behind, with their arms about
each other. They were too tired for even the tempting game of "tag," or
the ambition of running races.
Mr. Odell was waiting at the uncle's, having come around the other way.
Supper was ready; but he thought they had better be "gettin' on," as
mother would wait supper for them.
Hanny was very tired, and went to bed immediately after the meal.
They had some splendid clam-fritters for breakfast. Ben had proposed to
divide the crabs; but Mr. Odell reckoned, "He'd go crabbing the first
leisure day," and was satisfied with part of the clams.
And then, unexpected delight, Stephen and Dolly and the two babies came
up to dinner. Little Stevie captured everybody, he was so merry and
cunning; and Polly wished they could keep him.
"When he gets to be a big boy, and has a school vacation, I'll be very
glad to send him up, I dare say," was the response.
"But, dear me, we'll be big too," said Polly; "and it won't be any fun."
Dolly told her little sister-in-law all the news, and what everybody was
doing. It seemed as if she had been away so long. Mother had spent a day
with Martha, which she had been promising to do ever since Martha was
married.
The little girl almost wanted to go home with them; but no one invited
her, and she would not have been so silly or ungracious as to plead
homesickness, for she really wasn't homesick a bit.
Then, on Tuesday, Joe came up with a letter from Daisy, who had gone to
some German baths, and was drinking water twice as horrid as that at
Saratoga. The things you had to eat were so very queer; but the music
everywhere was perfectly bewitching. Everything was so different. She
was taking lessons of a Fräulein, and had to talk German at the table.
They had been through several churches, and one picture gallery that was
magnificent. A little withered-up old German was giving her some
painting lessons. If Hanny could only be there, she would be quite
content; yet she did think she loved America best.
Hanny was so delighted that her eyes shone, and her cheeks were pink as
a rose-leaf.
But Mrs. Odell said she could notice that her appetite was better, and
she was doing her best to fat her up a little, and make her look like a
country girl.
Mr. Odell took her about with him when he could. There were so many
beautiful places up and down the valley of the Bronx. They went up to
White Plains, and took everybody by surprise. Grandmother up there was
quite feeble now.
Then it happened, rather oddly, that when Cousin Jennie came down for
her, as there was no one scarcely at Fordham but the regular family,
Mrs. Odell was going to have a houseful of relatives from the West. She
just wished they had their new house at such times as these. She could
make a bed on the floor for Janey and Polly, and that would give her two
spare rooms.
The girls didn't feel so badly, as there were two Western cousins of
their age, and they would bring them up to Fordham.
The little girl was not at all tired of her pleasant hosts; but there
was a romantic side to the coming visit that she could not talk over
with Polly and Janey; and she was most famished for reading, as the
Odells were not of the intellectual sort. Mrs. Odell didn't like the
children to handle her parlour books, in their red morocco bindings,
that were spread around on the centre-table.
Hanny's favourite place at the Fordham house was up on the high piazza.
To be sure, it was sunny in the morning; but then Doctor Joe said
sunshine was good for her, and one corner soon grew shady. There was
some one passing up and down continually: the priests from St. John's
College, in their long black coats and queer hats, generally reading as
they walked; the labourers who worked on the railroad; the people going
to the station; and the girls out calling in the afternoons in their
pretty white gowns. There was no Jerome Park for stylish driving.
Indeed, it was a plain little country village, and most of the life
centred about the corner grocery and the blacksmith shop, where men
talked politics and the discovery of California, and discussed the
merits of the heroes of the Mexican War.
She sewed some patchwork for Cousin Jennie, who was making several
bed-quilts, and who had a lover,--a tall, bright-eyed young man who
drove a very handsome horse. Hanny felt quite wise on the subject of
lovers; and though no one said anything special, she understood what the
preparations meant.
"Now," Cousin Jennie said the next afternoon, "I am going up to Mr.
Poe's, to return some books and get others. Will you go along?"
Hanny was very glad. She had seen Mr. N. P. Willis and General Morris,
and some others, on the street; but that wasn't like going to their
houses. The dead young wife lent him a glamour of romance, to her
girlish imagination.
Mrs. Clemm sat on the farther end of the porch. It almost seemed as if
she had not stirred since Hanny caught the first glimpse of her. She
rose, a tall, rather thin woman with a sad, quiet face and a grave
smile; and the two had a little chat.
There was no hall to the house, at least the door opened into the front
room. A half closet stood at one side of the chimney, piled with books
and papers, an old sofa and some chairs, a table in the centre, strewn
with pamphlets and writing-materials, and the poet sitting beside it in
a melancholy pose, marking passages in a book.
He glanced up and spoke. The little girl had an impression of a pallid
face framed in dark, tumbled hair, and luminous eyes that seemed to be
of some other world in their abstracted light.
"You are quite welcome to any of the books, as you well know," said the
poet. "I am glad to have some one interested in them."
Then the white hand went on turning pages and making notes. The little
girl stood by the window, almost expecting the frail ghost to walk down
from the graveyard and enter the door again. Later on, she understood
the impression of weirdness, the almost ghostly stillness of the room;
and she found herself thinking over the poem that had so impressed her.
Fordham, in those days, was neither poetical nor intellectual. That a
man should starve on writing poetry, when there was other work to be
done in the world, seemed rather absurd. In some of the centres,
literature was becoming an honourable employment; but country places had
not emerged from the twilight of respect for brawn rather than brain.
Jennie made her selections, and expressed her obligation. The poet
nodded absently.
Mrs. Clemm rose, as they emerged from the door, and walked to the end of
the porch with them. There was something wonderfully pathetic in the
care-worn face, the reticent air, and gentle voice.
"I wonder if you have a few eggs to spare," she asked, in a hesitating
manner. "My poor Edgar's appetite is so wretched. He has had a bad
spell, and eats next to nothing."
"Yes, I can find you half-a-dozen, I know. Our hens are afflicted a
little with summer laziness," and Jennie smiled. "We have been baking
to-day, and I wish you would accept a loaf of bread. I'll send this
little cousin up with them."
"Oh, don't trouble! I will come down."
"I shall be glad to do it," said Hanny, with a gentle eagerness.
Cousin Jennie put the bread and the eggs,--she found seven,--and part of
a cake, in a little basket, and said, "Run along, Little Red Riding
Hood. There are no wolves to catch you."
They teased Cousin Jennie a little because the tall young man with
bright eyes was named Woolf.
Mrs. Clemm received the little girl's parcel with her usual quiet air,
and thanked her for coming. And before she could hunt up her ever-scanty
purse the child had said Good-evening, and vanished.
Hanny heard the "spells" rather rudely explained a day or two after, and
understood the melancholy shadow that hung about the house. People were
not any more delicate in gossiping about their neighbour's short-comings
then than now, when all the little faults and frailties of heroes are
paraded to the public gaze and comment.
But the exquisite care with which the mother watched over the son of her
heart, made her one of the little girl's heroines later on, when she
could fully appreciate the tender solicitude that tried to shield him
