in, according to the side of the narrow 
counter on which the human lot was cast, the 
duskiest corner of a shop pervaded not a lit 
tle, in winter, by the poison of perpetual gas 
and at all times by the presence of hams, 
cheese, dried fish, soap, varnish, paraffin and 
other solids and fluids that she came to know 
perfectly by their smells without consenting 
to know them by their names. 

The barrier that divided the little post- 
and-telegraph-office from the grocery was a 
frail structure of wood and wire; but the 
social, the professional separation was a gulf 
that fortune, by a stroke quite remarkable, 
had spared her the necessity of contributing 
at all publicly to bridge. When Mr. Cocker 's 
young men stepped over from behind the 
other counter to change a five-pound note 
and Mr. Cocker 's situation, with the cream 
of the "Court Guide" and the dearest furnished 
apartments, Simpkin's, Ladle's, 
Thrupp's, just round the corner, was so 
select that his place was quite pervaded by 
the crisp rustle of these emblems she 
pushed out the sovereigns as if the applicant 
were no more to her than one of the mo 
mentary appearances in the great proces 
sion ; and this perhaps all the more from the 
very fact of the connection only recognised 
outside indeed to which she had lent her 
self with ridiculous inconsequence. She 
recognised the others the less because she 
had at last so unreservedly, so irredeemably 
recognised Mr. Mudge. But she was a little 
ashamed, none the less, of having to admit 
to herself that Mr. Mudge 's removal to a 
higher sphere to a more commanding position, 
that is, though to a much lower neighborhood 
would have been described still 
better as a luxury than as the simplification 
that she contented herself with calling it. 
He had, at any rate, ceased to be all day 
long in her eyes, and this left something a 
little fresh for them to rest on of a Sunday. 
During the three months that he had 
remained at Cocker 's after her consent to 
their engagement, she had often asked her 
self what it was that marriage would be able 
to add to a familiarity so final. Opposite 
there, behind the counter of which his 
superior stature, his whiter apron, his more 
clustering curls and more present, too 
present, h 's had been for a couple of years 
the principal ornament, he had moved to and 
fro before her as on the small sanded floor 
of their contracted future. She was conscious now of the improvement of not having 
to take her present and her future at once. 
They were about as much as she could 
manage when taken separate. 

She had, none the less, to give her mind 
steadily to what Mr. Mudge had again 
written her about, the idea of her applying 
for a transfer to an office quite similar she 
couldn't yet hope for a place in a bigger 
under the very roof where he was foreman, 
so that, dangled before her every minute of 
the day, he should see her, as he called it, 
"hourly," and in a part, the far N. W. 
district, where, with her mother, she would 
save, on their two rooms alone, nearly three 
shillings. It would be far from dazzling to 
exchange Mayfair for Chalk Farm, and it 
was something of a predicament that he so 
kept at her; still, it was nothing to the old 
predicaments, those of the early times of 
their great misery, her own, her mother 's 
and her elder sister 's the last of whom had 
succumbed to all but absolute want when, 
as conscious, incredulous ladies, suddenly 
bereaved, betrayed, overwhelmed, they had 
slipped faster and faster down the steep 
slope at the bottom of which she alone had 
rebounded. Her mother had never rebounded 
any more at the bottom than on 
the way; had only rumbled and grumbled 
down and down, making, in respect of caps 
and conversation, no effort whatever, and 
too often, alas, smelling of whisky. 



II 

It was always rather quiet at Cocker 's 
while the contingent from Ladle 's and 
Thrupp 's and all the other great places 
were at luncheon, or, as the young men used 
vulgarly to say, while the animals were 
feeding. She had forty minutes in advance 
of this to go home for her own dinner ; and 
when she came back, and one of the young 
men took his turn, there was often half an 
hour during which she could pull out a bit of 
work or a book a book from the place where 
she borrowed novels, very greasy, in fine 
print and all about fine folks, at a ha penny 
a day. This sacred pause was one of the 
numerous ways in which the establishment 
kept its finger on the pulse of fashion and 
fell into the rhythm of the larger life. It 
had something to do, one day, with the particular vividness marking the advent of a 
lady whose meals were apparently irregular, 
yet whom she was destined, she afterwards 
found, not to forget. The girl was blaste; 
nothing could belong more, as she perfectly 
knew, to the intense publicity of her profession ; but she had a whimsical mind and 
wonderful nerves ; she was subject, in short, 
to sudden flickers of antipathy and sympathy, 
red gleams in the grey, fitful awakings and 
followings, odd caprices of curiosity. She 
had a friend who had invented a new career 
for women that of being in and out of 
people 's houses to look after the flowers. 
Mrs. Jordan had a manner of her own of 
sounding this allusion; "the flowers," on 
her lips, were, in happy homes, as usual as 
the coals or the daily papers. She took 
charge of them, at any rate, in all the rooms, 
at so much a month, and people were quickly 
finding out what it was to make over this 
delicate duty to the widow of a clergyman. 
The widow, on her side, dilating on the 
initiations thus opened up to her, had been 
splendid to her young friend over the way 
she was made free of the greatest houses, 
the way, especially when she did the dinner- 
tables, set out so often for twenty, she felt 
that a single step more would socially, would 
