"No, sir, except an empty purse."
"Permit me to act as your banker."
Mr. Novarro drew from his pocket two hundred and fifty francs in
gold and paper and handed them to Ben.
To our hero it seemed like a fairy-tale, in which he was playing
the leading part. He half-feared that the gold would turn into brass
and the bank-notes into withered leaves; but, strange though it was,
he saw good reason to think that his good fortune was real.
"How can I thank you, sir, for your liberality?" he said, gratefully.
"You forget that this is your own money; I am only advancing it
to you, and shall be repaid speedily. Will you accept me as your
guardian to protect your interests and compel your uncle to disgorge
his ill-gotten gains?"
"Thankfully, sir, if you are willing to take the trouble."
"Then you will sail with me for New York by the next steamer. Have
you your luggage with you?"
"I have nothing, sir, except what I have on my back. I had to leave
the asylum without a change, and I have not been able to change my
clothes for a week or more."
"I had forgotten. This must be looked to at once. We will take
lunch, and then go out and purchase a new supply of under-clothing."
Once more Ben had fallen on his feet. At what appeared to be the
darkest moment light had suddenly fallen across his path, and he
had stumbled upon the one man who was able to bring him into the
sunshine. Before night his wardrobe had been quite replenished, and
he breathed a deep sigh of relief as he found himself in fresh and
clean attire.
He sought out the tramp who had escorted him to the hotel, and
liberally rewarded him.
"I shall telegraph for passage in the Havre line of steamships,"
said Mr. Novarro. "A steamer is to sail on Saturday, so that we
shall not have long to wait."
"I fear, Mr. Novarro, you are interrupting your own plans in order
to befriend me," said Ben to his new patron.
"I have no plans. I am--perhaps unfortunately for myself--a rich
man, under no necessity of labor. Indeed, my chief aim has been to
pass my time as pleasantly as possible. Now I find something to
do, and I find myself happier for having some object in life. I am
rejoiced that we have met. It has brought to my life a new interest;
and even after I have redeemed your wrongs I shall hope to keep
up my acquaintance with you, and to make the acquaintance of your
mother."
"You may be sure, sir, that my mother will be only too glad to know
so true a friend."
The Cuban regarded Ben with a look of interest and affection. He
was beginning to be attracted to him for his own sake. He was a man
of energetic temperament, though a large inheritance had hitherto
prevented any display of energy. At length the occasion had arisen,
and he looked forward with eagerness to the struggle with the New
York merchant to secure the rights of his new friend.
On the next day Ben and his guardian left Lyons for Paris. They
had two days in this lovely city, and late on Friday evening they
reached Havre, the point where they were to embark for America.
"The first act is over, Ben," said the Cuban. "Our ocean trip is a
long wait between the first and second acts. When the curtain next
rises it will be in New York, and there will be other actors to take
an unwilling part in our drama, which is devoted to the detection
and punishment of guilt."
                          CHAPTER XXXIV.
                       ROSE MAKES AN ENEMY.
Leaving Ben and his new guardian on their passage across the
Atlantic, we will precede them to New York, and inquire after the
welfare of some of our other characters.
The Beauforts seemed to have entered on a new and prosperous career.
Rose continued to give lessons in music, and to receive liberal
compensation. She was really an accomplished musician, and had
the happy knack of making herself agreeable to her young pupils.
Besides, she was backed by the influence of Miss Wilmot, and that
helped her not a little. Her sister Adeline, too, gave lessons in
art, and thus contributed to the family purse.
My readers will not have forgotten the young man who rescued
Rose from the disagreeable attentions of her elderly lover, Mr.
Parkinson. More than once Rose had thought of Clinton Randall, and,
though she scarcely admitted it to herself, cherished the hope that
they would some day meet again. The young man's frank, chivalrous
manners, and handsome face and figure, had impressed her most
favorably, and she suffered herself to think of him more than she
would have liked to admit. Had she known that Clinton Randall had
been equally attracted by her, and had made strenuous efforts to
find her ever since their first meeting, she would have been much
gratified.
Some weeks passed, however, before she saw him again. One afternoon,
as she was walking through Madison Square on her way home from Mrs.
Tilton's, where she had given her customary lessons, she met the
young man in the walk.
His face glowed with unmistakable joy as he hurried forward, with
hand extended.
"I am very glad to meet you again, Miss Beaufort," he said, eagerly.
"Where have you been? Not out of the city?"
"Oh, no!" answered Rose, successfully concealing her own pleasure
at the meeting. "You can't expect a poor music-teacher to break away
from her work at this season?"
"But I did not know you were a music-teacher."
"No, I suppose not," answered Rose, smiling.
"Do you give lessons on the piano?"
"Yes, it is my only instrument."
"I have for a long time thought of taking lessons on the piano,"
said Randall, who had never thought of it before, "if I could only
find a teacher who would not be too strict. Do you--take gentlemen?"
"I am afraid I could not venture upon a pupil of your age, Mr.
Randall," said Rose, amused. "Suppose you proved refractory?"
"But I never would."
"I am afraid my time is fully occupied. I will promise, however, to
take you, if I agree to take any gentlemen."
"Thank you. I shall not forget your promise."
Clinton Randall, though he had been walking in a different
direction, turned and accompanied Rose, both chatting easily and
familiarly. It never occurred to Rose that she might meet any one
who would comment upon her and her escort. But at the corner of
Eighteenth street and Broadway she met a tall young lady, who made
her the slightest possible nod, while she fixed eyes of scorn and
displeasure upon the two. Clinton Randall raised his hat, and they
parted.
"You know Miss Jayne, then, Miss Beaufort," said Randall.
"Yes, slightly, and you?"
"I have met her in society."
"She is a niece of Mrs. Tilton, to whose daughters I am giving
music-lessons."
"Indeed! I know Mrs. Tilton--I am to attend her party next week.
Shall you be there?"
"I believe so--not as a guest, however. She has invited me to play
on the piano for the entertainment of the guests. You will probably
dance to my music."
"I would rather dance with you to the music of another player, Miss
Beaufort."
"You forget, Mr. Randall, that I am a poor music-teacher."
"I don't think of it at all. It makes no difference in your claims
to consideration."
"The world does not agree with you, Mr. Randall."
"Then it ought. By the way, Miss Beaufort, has your elderly admirer
renewed his proposals?"
"Mr. Parkinson? No, I have not met him since."
"You are sure you won't relent, and make him a happy man?"
"I don't think it at all likely," said Rose, laughing.
Meanwhile Rose had made an enemy without being aware of it.
Miss Arethusa Jayne had long looked upon Clinton Randall with
eyes of partiality, not alone on account of his good looks, but
because he was wealthy, socially distinguished, and in all respects
a desirable parti. In her vanity she had thought that he was not
indifferent to her attractions. When, therefore, she saw him walking
