The knight's brow darkened, for that a churl's 
hands should touch a high-born lady's face seemed 
to him something monstrous and against nature ; but 
in the moment he had forgotten something. 
" She is quite dead," he tried to say. 
Then Dunstan spoke sadly, kneeling down beside 
her. 
"This lady is half my sister," he said. "I have 
some skill with half-drowned persons. Let me save 
her, sir, unless we are to let her die before our eyes. 
A gipsy taught me what to do." 
The cloud passed from Gilbert's face, but still he 
did not believe. 
" In heaven's name, do what you can, try what you 
know, and quickly ! " he said. 
" Help me, then," said Dunstan. 
So he did as all skilled persons know how to do 
with half-drowned people, though only the gipsies 
knew it then. They turned her body gently so that 
the clear water ran from her parted lips, and laying her 
down again, they took her arms and drew them over 
her head, stretched them out, and brought them down 
to her sides, again and again, so as to make her 
breathe, and the breath was drawn in and breathed 
out again with a delicate foam that clung to her lips. 
Still Sir Gilbert &id not believe, and though he 
helped his man, in the despair of the instant, and in 
the horror of losing the least chance of life, it all 
seemed to him a desecration of the most dear dead, 
and more than once he would have let the poor little 
arm rest, rather than make it limply follow the 
motion Dunstan gave to the other. 
" She is quite, quite dead," he said again. 
" She is alive," answered Dunstan ; " stop not now 
one moment, or we shall lose her." 
His dark face glowed, and his unwinking eyes 
watched her face for the least sign of life. Ten 
minutes, a quarter of an hour, passed, and time 
seemed facing death — the swift against the immov- 
able and eternal. Gilbert, the strong and master- 
ful in fight, humbly and anxiously watched his 
man's looks for the signs of hope, as if Dunstan had 
been the wisest physician of all . mankind ; and 
indeed in that day there were few physicians who 
knew how to do what the man was doing. And 
at last the glow in his face began to fade, and Gil- 
bert's heart sank, and the horror of so disturbing 
the dead came upon him tenfold, so that he let the 
slender arm rest on the stones, and sighed. But 
Dunstan cried out fiercely to him. 
" For your life, go on ! She is alive I See ! 
See I " 
And even as Gilbert sadly shook his head in the 
last collapse of belief, the long lashes quivered a 
little with the lids and were still, and quivered 
again, and then again, and the eyes opened wide 
and staring, but broad awake; and then the deli- 
cate body shook and was half convulsed by the 
miracle of life restored, and the slight arms quick- 
ened with nervous strength, resisting the men's 
strong hands, and a choking cough brought the 
bright colour to the pale cheeks. 
Then Gilbert lifted her from the pavement to the 
stone rim of the well, that she might breathe better, 
and presently the choking ceased, so that she lay 
quite still with her head against his breast, and her 
weight in his arms. But still she did not speak, 
and the man's heart beat furiously with joy, and 
then stood still in fear, lest the worst should come 
again, whereof there was no danger ; but he did not 
know, and Dunstan and Alrio were suddenly gone, 
seeking wine in the house. Just when the girl 
seemed to be sinking into a swoon they brought a 
short draught of Syrian wine in an earthen cup ; for 
little Alric was not wise, but he would have found 
wine in the sandy desert, and he had gone straight to 
a corner where a leathern bottle with a wooden plug 
was hung up in a cool place. 
Beatrix drank, and revived again, and looked up 
to Gilbert. 
" I knew you would come," she said faintly, and 
she smiled, but Gilbert could not speak. 
By this time the Jewish boy had brought his 
mother, and they carried the girl into a room, and the 
woman took care of her kindly, fearing lest a Chris- 
tian should die in her husband's house, and also 
lest she should not be paid the value of the rent, 
but with womanly gentleness also, wrapping her 
in dry clothes of her own before she laid her to rest. 
For Arnold de Curboil's servants had been all 
Greeks, and when they had learned that their 
master had been killed in the night, they had 
bolted and barred the house, and had bound Beatrix 
and her Norman tirewoman hand and foot and 
gagged their mouths with cloths, in order that they 
might carry o£E the rich plunder, but at first they 
had not meant to kill the women. Only when they 
were just about to slip away, one at a time, so as to 
escape notice, they held a council, and the most of 
them said that it would be better to throw the 
women into the well, lest either of them should help 
the other, and getting loose, escape from the house 
and cause a pursuit. So they threw the Norman 
woman down first, and when they saw that she sank 
the third time, being drowned, they threw Beatrix 
after her. But the well was not so deep as they 
had thought, and was narrow, so that Beatrix had 
 
kept her head above the water a long time, her feet 
just touching the body of her drowned servant. 
And in this way the faithful woman had saved her 
mistress after she was dead. When this was known, 
they took her from the well and bore her to burial 
without the city, while Beatrix was asleep. 
That night Gilbert and Dunstan lay on their cloaks 
within the half -broken door of the house, which could 
not be bolted, for they were tired, having watched 
by the Sepulchre all the night before that ; and little 
Alric kept watch in the courtyard, walking up and 
down lest he should sleep, for the Syrian wine might 
have made him drowsy, and he had the whole bottle 
to himself. But he drank slowly and thoughtfully, 
and when he felt that his head was not clear, he 
let the wine alone, and walked up and down a long 
time talking to himself and warning himself to 
keep sober. This being accomplished, he swallowed 
another draught, wisely sipping it by half mouthfuls, 
and then walked again ; and so all night, and in the 
dawn he was as fresh and rosy and sober as ever, but 
the big leathern bottle lay quite flat and disconsolate 
on the pavement ; for he came of the old English 
archers, who were good men at a bowl, and steady on 
their legs. 
In the morning Gilbert awoke and sat up, on the 
pavement, and as Alric came near he made a sign that 
he should not wake Dunstan, but let him rest. He 
looked at the sleeper's face, and thought how much 
this servant of his had suffered, being quite half as 
gentle by birth as he himself ; and he remembered 
how the man had fought ever bravely, and had shed 
