"Yes, and he looked uneasy."
"Ernest," said Luke Robbins, with a sudden inspiration, "I know the
man."
"Who is it?"
"Don't you recall any man at Oak Forks with whom you had trouble?"
"Tom Burns?"
"Yes. That's the man."
"Why didn't we recognize him then?"
"Because he has grown a full beard."
"That's so, Luke. I understand now why he looked so familiar. I am
sorry to see him here."
"He'd better not undertake any of his rascalities or he will find
himself in hot water."
CHAPTER XXIX.
TOM BURNS MAKES A CALL.
When Burns left the store he walked to the outskirts of the mining
settlement, not wishing to attract attention. He wished especially to
avoid encountering Luke Robbins, with the strength of whose arm he was
disagreeably familiar.
He proposed to keep out of sight until night, and then make a visit to
the store. It would go hard with him if he did not make a raise there
either in the shape of money or articles of value.
He came to a cabin standing by itself, at a considerable distance from
the homes of the other miners. Sitting in front of it was a man with
grizzled beard whose appearance indicated advanced age. There were
lines upon his face that betrayed ill health.
"I wonder if anything can be got out of him," thought Tom Burns. "I'll
see."
"Good day, sir," he said affably.
The old man looked up.
"Good day," he replied. "Who are you?"
"I'm an unfortunate man, in search of employment."
"When people are unfortunate there is generally a reason for it. Are
you intemperate?"
"No, sir," answered Burns, as if horror-stricken. "I hate the taste of
liquor."
"I'm glad to hear it."
"I belong to three temperance societies," continued Tom, by way of
deepening the favorable impression he thought he had made.
"And still you are poor?"
"Yes," answered Burns. "Once I was prosperous, but I was ruined by
signing notes for an unprincipled man who took advantage of my
friendship. Do you think I can find work here?"
"I don't know. Probably you can get a chance to work on one of Mr.
Ames claims."
"Is it Mr. Ames who owns the store?"
"Yes."
"I called there to buy some tobacco. Is the boy there his son?"
"No; he is a recent arrival in Oreville. He is a very smart boy."
"Is he? Mr. Ames trusts him, I suppose?"
"Yes. Why shouldn't he?"
"I--I would rather not answer that question."
"Have you ever met the boy before? Do you know him?"
"Yes; I met him at the East," answered Burns.
"Since you have said so much, you must say more. I am a cousin of Mr.
Ames, and if you know anything unfavorable of the boy it is your duty
to tell me."
"I have nothing against the boy, and would prefer not to speak."
"I insist upon your doing it."
"It is only this. When I knew him he was employed in a store. He was
trusted, as he appears to be here. One night the store was robbed,
that is some money disappeared, and the boy claimed it was broken into
by thieves, who took the money, whereas he took it himself."
"That seems bad. Was it proved that he took the money?"
"Yes. That's why he was compelled to leave the place. That is why he
is now in Oreville."
"Did you come here to expose him?"
"No; I didn't know he was here. I was very much taken by surprise when
I saw him in the store."
"This is important, if true. Mr. Ames ought to be informed."
"Don't tell him while I am here. The boy is very revengeful, and he
might try to do me an injury."
"Are you afraid of a boy?"
"I am a man of peace. I don't want to get into any difficulty."
"I suppose you wonder that I am sitting here while others are at
work."
"Well, it did cross my mind."
"My spine is affected. I look well, but I cannot walk. I hope to be
better after a while, but at present I am comparatively helpless."
"Can't I help you?"
"You may go into the cabin, and bring me a bottle of medicine which
you will find in the cupboard."
Burns entered the cabin gladly. He thought that he might find
something worth taking.
On the wall, hanging from a nail, was a gold watch. It was too good a
chance to be lost. It might or it might not be valuable, but at any
rate it was worth something.
So, while securing the bottle, Burns slyly possessed himself of the
watch, which he slipped into his inside breast pocket.
"Here is the bottle, sir," he said, meekly.
"Thank you. Now bring a spoon, which you will find on the table."
Burns did so.
"Now pour out a teaspoonful, which I will take."
"I am glad to be of service to you. Don't you want a kind attendant,
while you are sick, to take care of you?"
"There would not be enough for you to do. I have a son at work in the
mines who is here morning and night, and he gives me all the care I
require."
"I am sorry to hear that," thought Burns. "The son may be dangerous."
"Then, sir, I will bid you good-by. I will pray for your recovery."
"Thank you. The prayers of the righteous avail much. Are you
righteous?"
"It isn't for me to say, sir. I don't want to boast."
"That is creditable to you. By the way, are you hungry?"
"I haven't broken my fast since morning."
"You will find some cold meat and a loaf of bread in the cupboard. It
is plain, but if you are hungry you will enjoy it."
"Thank you, sir. I will accept your kind invitation."
Tom Burns was really hungry, and he did justice to the food offered
him.
When his lunch was over he came outside.
"Thank you," he said, "for your kindness. I am sure you will be
rewarded."
"I don't want any reward. Out here we are always glad to give a meal
of victuals to a stranger who needs it. Are you going to stay long in
Oreville?"
"If I can get anything to do I may. You see I am a poor man, and stand
in pressing need of employment."
"Keep up your courage! Something will turn up for you. I will ask my
son if he cannot find something for you to do."
"Thank you, sir. I will bid you good-by, with thanks for your
kindness."
"If you are not pressed for time, I will send you on an errand."
"All right, sir. I shall be glad to be of service to you."
"Here is a Mexican dollar. You may go to the store and bring me a
dozen eggs. If there is any change you may keep it."
"Thank you, sir."
"A dollar in!" thought Burns, as he turned away from the cabin. "I
think I can turn it to a better use than spending it in eggs. That was
a profitable call. I made a gold watch and a dollar by it. The old man
can't pursue me, that's one comfort, thanks to his spinal complaint."
"That is a very clever fellow," reflected the old man when Burns had
started on his errand. "A bit too religious to suit my taste. Still he
seemed grateful for the little I did for him. If he had a little more
push and get-up-and-get about him he would succeed better. Why, he
isn't more than forty, and he confesses himself a failure. Why, at
forty I considered myself a young man, and was full of dash and
enterprise. Now I am sixty and tied to my seat by this spinal trouble.
However, I've got something laid by, and, old as I am, I feel
independent, as far as money goes."
