core, and the memories came forth, wanting only a breath to dust them.
Yes, he should like to have these girls about him. And Magdaléna had
lived the life of a hermit. It was time for her to enjoy her girlhood.
"Yes," he said, "alway I like the music. Si the piano need tune, I send
one man down. You can dance, too, si you like it. Always I like see the
young peoples dance."
Tiny clapped her hands. Ila leaned forward and patted his hand.
"What an inspiration!" she exclaimed. "This will be a simply gorgeous
house to dance in. Don Roberto, you certainly are an angel!"
Don Roberto had never been called an angel before, but he smiled
approvingly. "Some night this week we have the dance," he said. "My wife
write you to-night."
"I am on the verge of nervous prostration," whispered Rose, as his
attention was claimed by Mrs. Cartright. "The effort of keeping my
countenance--but the way you handle a trowel, Tiny, is a new chapter in
diplomacy. Butter and molasses for fifty and after; a vaporiser and
peau d'espagne for the sharp young things. I was just saying," she
added hastily, as Don Roberto reclined suddenly and turned to her, "that
young men are a nuisance. I am thinking of writing a book of advice--"
"A book!" cried Don Roberto, his brows rushing together. "You no write
the books?"
"Of course she would never publish," interposed Tiny. "She would just
write it for our amusement. I think it would be so horrid to publish the
cleverest book," she said, turning to Magdaléna, unmistakable
sincerity in her voice. "It has always seemed to me so--so--horrid for
women to write things to print--for anybody to read."
Magdaléna did not answer her. She was staring at her father, breathless
for his next words.
"The ladies never write," announced that grandson of old Spain. "Nor the
gentlemens. Always the common peoples write the books."
"Oh, it's better now, really," said Rose. "Some people that write are
said to be quite nice. Of course, one doesn't meet them in society,--in
San Francisco society, at least,--but that may be the fault of society."
"Of course," said Tiny. "I do not mean that people who write must be
horrid. But I think I couldn't know a woman who made her name so
public,--I mean if I hadn't been fond of her before; but I should really
hate to see a friend's name in print. You are not really thinking of
writing a book, are you, Rose, dear?"
"I have not the slightest idea of writing a book--for the very good
reason that I haven't brains enough. You needn't worry about any of us
adding to the glory of California--unless, to be sure, 'Léna should be
clever enough."
She spoke at random, and Magdaléna's face did not betray her; but she
almost hated the girl who was forcing her to another of her mental
crises.
"My daughter write!" shouted Don Roberto. "A Yorba! She make a fool de
my name like the play-actor that do the monkey tricks on the stage? Si
she do that--"
"Here comes Mr. Trennahan," said Magdaléna, standing up. "Mamma is not
here. I must go to meet him."
Trennahan threw the reins to his groom and sprang out of the cart. "I
could not wait till evening, you see," he said, as he came up the steps.
"What is the matter? Something has gone wrong with you."
She shivered. "Yes. Something. I cannot tell you."
"Can we have our ride to-morrow?"
"Yes, I can ride with you. Don't, d-don't--"
"Yes?"
"Don't talk to me when you get round there."
"I won't; and I won't let them talk to you."
Something has gone wrong, he thought. She looks like a condemned
criminal.
XXV
The next morning when Trennahan rode up, Magdaléna was already on her
horse, and they cantered off at once.
"I must teach you to trot," he said. "This is very old-fashioned. You
must not be behind your friends, who would scorn to canter."
"Very well. You can teach me."
The next half-hour was given up to the lesson. Magdaléna did not like
the new method, but persevered heroically. A half-hour was all she could
endure, and they cantered across the meadows to the back woods.
Magdaléna was as pale as a swarthy person can be. Her eyes were heavy
and shadowed.
"You did not sleep last night," said Trennahan, abruptly. "And something
had happened yesterday before I came. What was it?"
"I don't think I can tell you. I don't like to talk about things--about
myself."
"Then let me tell you that no human being can go through life without
help. With all your brain and your natural reticence, you are no
exception to the rule. I am much older than you are. I know a great deal
of the world. You know nothing of it. I can help you if you will let
me."
He was interested, and thought it probable that her trouble came from
the depths of her nature. Nevertheless, she was very young, and he
prayed that her grief were not the sequence of a rejected manuscript.
Magdaléna flushed, then paled again. She remembered that she had wanted
to speak out to him; but face to face with the prospect, the levelling
of lifelong barriers appalled her. If she could only tell part and
conceal the rest! But she was no artist in words. She drew a deep sigh
and opened her lips, but closed them again.
"It will be easier here in the woods," he said, as they rode into the
deep shade. "The world always seems quite different to me in a wood." It
did not in the least, but he knew that it did to her.
"I should have to go back," she said finally. "I cannot begin with
yesterday. And I talk so badly."
"The longer the story, the more interested I shall be. And I like your
direct simplicity. Let us walk the horses."
"When I was a child I was very religious,--a Catholic. It was a very
great deal to me. When I prayed to the Virgin about my wants and
troubles, I felt quite happy and hopeful. I lost it a year or two ago. I
had read a great many scientific books; and my religion fell to pieces
like--like--There was a beautiful old tree on the edge of the woods
once. It looked as if it would stand a century longer. One day there was
a terrible wind, and it fell down. Its sap and roots were almost gone. I
felt dreadfully--about the religion, I mean. I felt, somehow, as if my
backbone had been taken out. I knew that one must have some sort of
moral ideal. I thought a great deal, and finally I determined to make my
conscience my religion. I made a resolution that I would never do, and
try not even to think, what I believed to be wrong. When I was little, I
followed Helena into a great many of her naughty escapades,--though
nothing so bad as the fire,--and I did not tell my parents, as a rule,
because I could not see that it did any good. When my New England
conscience, as Helena calls it, got the best of me and I confessed about
the fire, the consequences were so terrible that I made up my mind that
I would do as I chose and say nothing about it. I kept to that until I
lost my religion. Then I was careful about every little thing. It was
easy enough for a year. Then--I don't think I can go on."
"Then you wrote a book and your conscience hurts you because you have
not told your parents."
Magdaléna dropped her reins and stared at him. Had a voice leapt down
from heaven, she could not have been more dumfounded.
"I never told you," she said helplessly. "Can all the others know too?"
"I am positive that no one suspects but myself. Do go on."
"You have guessed something, but not all. I have only begun a book; and
I am so ignorant, and my mind is so slow, that I know it will be years
before I shall be able to write a book that anybody would read. At first
this dismayed me. Now I do not care, so long as I succeed in the end;
and it will be a pleasure to see myself improve. I have not thought it
wrong not to tell my parents, so long as what I did could not affect
them in any way. Do you not think I was right in that?"
"Assuredly."
"I believed that when I had done something excellent, if that time ever
came, they would be proud of it. My mother was a school-teacher, you
know; and I did not see why my father should care. He hates to hear
women talk, but writing is different. At least I thought so. Yesterday,
just before you came, the subject came up. Rose said she believed I
could write a book, and papa was furious at the mere thought. I knew
nothing about old-world prejudices, but it seems that a lady would be
thought to have disgraced herself in Spain if she wrote a book: and papa
is as Spanish as if he had never learned a word of English, although he
would be ready to beat anyone that told him so. He did not have a chance
