Roldan made a funnel of his hand. 
" Surely, surely ! " he cried. " What luck ! 
I hate walking. They are probably wild, 
but I never saw the mustang I could not 
lasso." 
" Yes, you can do the lassoing," said 
Adan, grimly. " My thumb nearly went 
off last night, and is twice its size." 
" Adan," said his friend, laying his hand 
on his comrade's knee. " I haven't 
thanked you. I haven't mentioned it ; but 
it is because well I lay awake an hour 
last night trying to think of something to 
say and and thinking that I loved 
you better than my own brothers " 
" That will do, then," said Adan, gruffly. 
" We'll be kissing each other in a minute 
as we did at the Hacienda Perez ; and I 
think that we are getting too big for that. 
I hear that American boys never kiss each 
other." 
 
"Don't they? "asked Roldan, pricking 
up his ears. " How I should like to know- 
some American boys. They must know 
so many things that we do not. Who 
told you?" 
" Antonio Scarpia has been in America, 
you know in Boston. He came back 
last month and rode over a few days ago 
for the night. I asked him many ques 
tions. He says they never show any 
feeling except when they get mad, and 
that they walk and row and play ball 
with the feet, caramba ! and run about 
in the snow. He says they would think 
we were like girls with our fine clothes 
and our hammocks " 
"Girls!" cried Roldan, indignantly. 
" I'd like to see American or any other 
boys do better with that bear than we did, 
or lasso a friend in the midst of a boiling 
river as you did. And if they come here 
to laugh at us they'll find one pair of fists 
that are not soft if they do have lace 
ruffles over them. And I'd like to see 
them live all day on a horse as we do."
" True, true, you are always right," said 
Adan, soothingly. u Ay, I think those 
horses are coming this way. Better get up. 
He moved back onto the aquera and 
Roldan sprang to his place and unwound 
the lariat. Like all of its kind, it was a 
slender woven cord about eighteen feet in 
length and made of tough strips of untanned hide. 
It was an admirable weapon 
in skilled hands, but not to be trifled with by 
the amateur. Many a careless Californian 
had lost a finger or thumb, and more than 
one had owed it lockjaw. 
The wild horses advanced rapidly for a 
time, but when they saw that the brother 
to which curiosity had attracted them was 
apparently of an eccentric build they sud 
denly paused and scattered. Roldan 
raised the bridle and dashed in pursuit; 
but the others were unincumbered, fleet of 
foot and terrified. They fled like the 
wind. 
"Drop off!" commanded Roldan, reining 
in. "Quick! I will have one." 
Adan slid to the ground and the mus 
tang sprang lightly forward. Roldan had 
 
singled out a well-built black, a little 
heavier than his mates and consequently 
somewhat in their rear. The mustang, 
who had slept off his fatigue, had no need 
of spur; he seemed to enter into the spirit 
of the chase possibly realised that if the 
chase failed he might have a double load 
to carry. He dashed over the rough adobe 
plain, Roldan holding the bridle high in 
his left hand, the coiled lasso in his right. 
Adan waddled after, far in the rear. 
The other horses had fled to the four 
winds, but the pursued, occasionally duck 
ing his head and kicking up his hind legs 
as if in contempt of the pretensions of 
mere man, made straight for the hills. 
Being undisciplined, however, he got over 
the ground clumsily, stumbled once or 
twice in the wide cracks of the adobe soil, 
and finally stopped short for want of wind. 
He swung about and glared defiantly at 
his pursuers out of injected eyes. He had 
never seen a lasso before, possibly not a 
man ; but his instinct told him that the 
horse and rider behind him were not
roving the plain in his own aimless fashion. 
 
He stood pawing the ground and shaking 
his great red nostrils. Suddenly to his 
surprise the part of the horse new to him 
lifted itself, and a black coiling something, 
graceful and swift as a rattlesnake, sprang 
through the air with a sharp audible rush. 
A quarter of a moment later he neighed 
with rage and terror: his neck was in a 
vice. 
He gave a leap that nearly dragged 
Roldan from his saddle ; but that expert 
young gentleman had secured the lariat to 
the high pommel of his saddle in a trice, 
and Don Jose Perez's mustang had there 
after to bear the brunt of the strain. 
The wild animal pulled and tugged and 
tore up the ground ; but finding that he 
but increased his own discomfort, he
gradually subsided, and when Roldan finally 
turned about and rode slowly toward Adan 
he followed meekly enough. 
When Adan saw the procession start in 
his direction he sat down on a stone to 
rest, and when it reached him he obeyed 
orders and sprang on the mustang's back 
as Roldan slipped off.
" That was well done, my friend," he 
said approvingly. " I could see it all ; but 
I thought my eyes would fly out of my 
head." 
Roldan walked cautiously up to his prize 
and attempted to pat it gently on the head. 
But it was some moments before he was 
able to touch the beast, who was sulky, 
cross, and frightened. When he did he 
swiftly loosened the lariat, and this 
procured him a meed of favour. The horse 
then allowed himself to be patted all down 
the side and back, nor once raised his 
