the sun struck past the man in the doorway and glorified the murky
interior.
I rushed through the yard, heedless of manure heaps, and young pigs and
calves scattered by my impetuous approach.
"Oh, Spotswoode!" in a voice that cracked and went to pieces as I ran,
"somebody has stolen my beet! You can tell father--"
A hot valve closed in my windpipe and shut out the rest.
Spotswoode's jaw hung more loosely; his eyes were utterly vacant.
"Ya-as, little Mistis!" he drawled, and slunk back into the stable.
"What do you mean, sir? Come back here, this minute!" called his master.
When he reappeared, he carried in both hands, extended, after the
similitude of a pre-historic monkey making a votive offering--something
dark-red and pot-bellied, and more immense than I had dreamed it could
look. A cluster of cropped leaves crowned it, a taper root, a foot
long, depended from the bottom.
"I done been dig it up fo' you an' wash it, dis ebenin', 'stid o'
termorrer," drawled my vindicator. "So's ter hab it all ready fur the
Fyar."
Mute and triumphant, I received it in a rapturous embrace, set it on a
bench by the stable door, and passed the hem of my muslin apron about
it. The ends just met.
"That's how I knew how big it was," I said simply. "Mother told me that
my apron was a yard wide. I measured it while it was in the ground."
The beet--and its history--went to the Fair, and a prize was awarded to
"Miss Mary Hobson Burwell, For best specimen of Mangel Wurzel, raised
by Herself."
[Illustration]
Chapter XIII
Two Adventures
[Illustration]
In a country neighborhood where half the people were cousins to the
other half, gossip could not but spring up and flourish as lushly as
pursley,--named by the Indians, "the white man's foot."
The gossip was usually kindly; sometimes it was captious, now and then
it was almost malicious. Everything depends upon the medium through
which the floating matter in the air is strained.
Cousin Molly Belle's best friends thought and said that she chose
judiciously in marrying the clean-lived, high-minded gentleman who had
loved her before she was grown and whom she loved dearly in return. Her
next best friends intimated that the most popular girl in the county
might have done better for herself than to take Frank Morton, as fine a
fellow as ever lived, but whose share of his father's estate was a small
plantation with a tolerable house upon it, a dozen "hands" and, maybe, a
thousand dollars or so in bonds and stocks. The girls she had
out-belled, the girls' mothers, and sundry youths to whom Mrs. Frank
Morton had given the mitten in her singlehood, said openly that she had
quite thrown herself away in settling down to house-keeping,
poultry-raising, and home-making in an out-of-the-way farmstead, with
little society except that of a man ten years older, and thirty years
soberer, than herself.
What a different story I could have told to those who doubted, and those
who pitied! Nowhere in all our broad and bonny State did human lives
flow on more smoothly and radiantly than in the white house nestled
under the great oak that was a landmark for miles around. It had but
five rooms, kitchen, store-room, smoke-house, and other domestic offices
being in detached buildings, as was the custom of the region and times.
If there had been fifty they could not have held the happiness that
streamed through the five as lavishly as the sunshine, and, like the
sunshine, was newly made every day.
I was going on ten years old when my sweet mother gave a little sister
to Bud and me. She had been with us but three days when Cousin Molly
Belle drove over for me and the small hair trunk that meant a visit of
several days when it went along. This time it signified four of the very
loveliest weeks of my life, and two Adventures.
The blessèd grandchildren, at whose instance these tales of that
all-so-long-ago are written with flying pen and brimming heart, and
sometimes eyes so moist that the lines waver and swim upon the page,
will have it--as their parents insisted before them--that "we never,
never can have such good times and so many happenings as you had when
you were new."
If I smile quietly in telling over to myself the simple elements and
few, out of which the good times were made, and how tame the happenings
would be to modern young folk, I cannot gainsay the truth that my daily
life was full and rich, and that every hour had a peculiar interest.
For one thing, there was a baby at Oakholme, a bouncing boy, sturdy of
limb and of lung, and so like both his parents in all the good qualities
possible to a baby, as to leave nothing to be desired by the best
friends aforesaid, and no room for criticism on the part of the
malcontents. Out-of-doors were chickens, ducks, turkeys, guinea-fowls,
pigs, calves, pigeons, and a couple of colts,--all, like the baby boy,
the best of their kind. What time was left on our hands after each had
had its meed of attention, was more than consumed by a library such as
few young planters had collected in a county where choice literature was
as much household plenishing as beds, tables, and candlesticks.
It was July, and the days were at their longest according to the
Warrock's Almanac that hung over Cousin Frank's desk in a corner of the
dining room. They were never so short to me before.
Adventure No. 1 befell us one forenoon, as Cousin Molly Belle and I were
topping and tailing gooseberries for tarts, on the side porch. Baby
Carter was on the mat at our feet, bulging his eyes and swelling his
cheeks in futile efforts to extort a squeak from a chinquapin whistle
his father had made for him. The kind that, as you may recollect, kept
the whistle in them over night, and did not shrivel up.
"It's there, old fellow, if you really know how to get it out," Cousin
Frank told his son and heir. "Everything depends upon yourself."
"Like other things that people fret for," moralized the mother.
Nevertheless, she reached down for the whistle, wiped the mouthpiece
dry, and sent the baby into ecstasies by executing "Yankee Doodle"
flourishingly upon it. A chinquapin fife lends itself more readily to
the patriotic, step-and-go-fetch-it melody than to any other in the
national répertoire. Carter crowed, opened his mouth wide, and beat
his fat pink palms together.
"Just as they applaud the clown at the circus!" said the performer. "He
already recognizes his mother's talents."
"If he ever fails to do that, I'll flog him out of his boots!" retorted
the father.
A wild commotion at "the quarters" cut his speech short. Women shrieked,
children bellowed, men roared, and two words disentangled themselves
from the turmoil.
"Mad dog! mad dog!" pronounced, as the warning cry is spoken
everywhere at the South, with a heavy accent on the first word.
Cousin Frank whipped up the baby; Cousin Molly thrust her hand under the
collar of Hector, a fine pointer who lay on the floor, and, urging me
before them, they hustled us all into the house in the half twinkle of
an eye. In another, Cousin Frank was driving a load of buckshot into his
gun faster than it was ever loaded before, even by him, and he was a
hunting expert.
"Dear!" his wife caught the hand laid on the door-knob; her eyes were
wild and imploring.
"Yes, my darling!"
He was out and the door was shut.
We flew to the window. Right up the path leading by the quarters from
the spring at the foot of the hill, trotted an enormous bull dog. Half a
dozen men were pelting him with stones from a respectful distance. He
paid no attention to stones or shouts. Keeping the straight path, his
brute head wagging drunkenly, he was making directly for the open
yard-gate, from which a gravel walk led to the porch where we had been
sitting. Snap, his master's favorite hunter, and the petted darling of
his mistress, was hitched to the rack by the gate, ready-saddled for
Cousin Frank's morning round of the plantation. At the noise behind him,
the intelligent creature threw up his handsome head, glanced over his
shoulder, and began to plunge and snort, as if aware of the danger. His
master spoke soothingly as he planted his own body between him and the
ugly beast.
"Steady, old boy! steady!"
In saying it he raised the gun to his shoulder. It was all done so
quickly that I had hardly seen the livid horror in Cousin Molly Belle's
face when the good gun spoke, the muzzle within ten yards of the dog's
head, and he rolled over in the path.
"What if you had missed him! He would have been upon you before you
