Mrs. Brook went on, "really and honestly, and as I trusi 
you, to give it. But the comfort of you is that you'll d( 
so if you promise." 
Mitchy was infinitely struck. " But I haven't prom- 
ised, eh ? Of course I can't till I know what it is. 
" It's to put before him—" 
" Oh, I see : the situation." 
" What has happened here to-day. Van's marked retreat, and how, with the time that has passed, it makes
 
us at last know where we are. You of course, for your- 
self," Mrs. Brook wound up, ''see that.'' 
" Where we are ?" Mitchy took a turn and came back. 
" But what then did Van come for ? If you speak of a 
retreat, there must have been an advance." 
''Oh," said Mrs. Brook, "he simply wanted not to 
look too brutal. After so much absence he could come." 
"Well, if he established that he wasn't brutal, where 
was the retreat ?" 
" In his not going up to Nanda. He came — frankly — 
to do that, but made up his mind on second thoughts 
that he couldn't risk even being civil to her." 
Mitchy had visibly warmed to his work. " Well, and 
what made the difference ?" 
She wondered. " What difference ?" 
" Why, of the effect, as you say, of his second thoughts. 
Thoughts of what ?" 
" Oh," said Mrs. Brook suddenly and as if it were 
quite simple — " I know that! Suspicions." 
" And of whom ?" 
" Why, of you, you goose. Of your not having done — " 
" Well, what ?" he persisted as she paused. 
" How shall I say it ? The best thing for yourself. 
And of Nanda's feeling that. Don't you see ?" 
In the effort of seeing, or perhaps indeed in the full 
act of it, poor Mitchy glared as never before. "Do you 
mean Van's jealous of me ?" 
Pressed as she was, there was something in his face that 
momentarily hushed her. " There it is !" she achieved, 
however, at last. 
" Of me?" Mitchy went on. 
What was in his face so suddenly and strangely was 
the look of rising tears — at sight of which, as from a com- 
punction as prompt, she showed a lovely flush. " There 
it is, there it is," she repeated. " You ask me for a rea- 
son, and it's the only one I see. Of course if you don't 
  
care she added, "he needn't come up. He can 
straight to Nanda." 
Mitchy had turned away again as with the impulse of 
hiding the tears that had risen and that had not wholly 
disappeared even by the time he faced about. "Did 
Nanda know he was to come ?" 
" Mr. Longdon ?" 
"No, no. Was she expecting Van — ?" 
" My dear man' Mrs. Brook mildly wailed, "  when 
can she have not been ?" 
Mitchy looked hard for an instant at the floor. " I 
mean does she know he has been and gone ?" 
Mrs. Brook, from where she stood and through the 
window, looked rather at the sky. " Her father will 
have told her." 
" Her father ?" Mitchy frankly wondered. " Is he 
in it ?" 
Mrs. Brook, at this, had a longer pause. "You as- 
sume, I suppose, Mitchy dear," she then quavered, " that 
I put him up — " 
" Put Edward up ?" he broke in. 
" No — that of course. Put Van up to ideas — " 
He caught it again. "About me — what you call his 
suspicions ?" He seemed to weigh the charge, but it end- 
ed, while he passed his hand hard over his eyes, in weari- 
ness and in the nearest approach to coldness he had ever 
shown Mrs. Brook. " It doesn't matter. It's every one's 
fate to be, in one way or another, the subject of ideas. 
Do then," he continued, " let Mr. Longdon come up." 
She instantly rang the bell. " Then I'll go to Nanda. 
But don't look frightened," she added as she came back, 
"as to what we may — Edward or I — do next. It's only 
to tell her that he'll be with her." 
"Good. I'll tell Tatton," Mitchy replied. 
Still, however, she lingered. "' Shall you ever care for 
me more ?" 
 
He had almost the air, as he waited for her to go, of 
the master of the house, for she had made herself before 
him, as he stood with his back to the fire, as humble as a 
relegated visitor. "Oh, just as much. Where's the dif- 
ference ? Aren't our ties in fact rather multiplied ?" 
" That's the way  I  want to feel it. And from the mo- 
ment you recognize with me — " 
" Yes ?" 
"Well, that he never, you know, really luould — " 
He took her mercifully up. " There's no harm done ?" 
Mitchy thought of it. 
It made her still hover. " Nanda will be rich. Toward 
that you can help, and it's really, I may now tell you, 
what it came into my head you should see our friend 
here." 
He maintained his waiting attitude. "Thanks, thanks." 
" You're our guardian angel !" she exclaimed. 
At this he laughed out. " AVait till you see what Mr. 
Longdon does !" 
But she took no notice, "I want you to see before I 
go that I've done nothing for myself. Van, after all — " 
she mused. 
"Well?" 
" Only hates me. It isn't as with you," she said. "I've 
really lost him." 
Mitchy, for an instant, with the eyes that had shown 
his tears, glared away into space. "He can't, very posi- 
tively, you know, now like any of us. He misses a fort- 
une." 
" There it is !" Mrs. Brook once more observed. Then 
she had a comparative brightness. "I'm so glad you 
don't !" He gave another laugh, but she was already 
facing Mr. Tatton, who had again answered the bell. 
"Show Mr. Longdon up." 
"I'm to tell him, then, it's at your request ?" Mitchy 
asked when the butler had gone. 
  
" That you receive him. ? Oh yes. He'll be the last 
quarrel with that. But there's one more thing." 
It was something over which, of a sudden, she had one 
of her returns of anxiety.  '' I've been trying for months 
and months to remember to find out from you — " 
'  Well, what ?" he inquired, as she looked odd. 
 '' Why, if Harold ever gave back to you, as he swore to 
me on his honor he would, that five-pound note — " 
'  But which, dear lady ?" The sense of other incon- 
gruities than those they had been dealing with seemed to 
arrive now for Mitchy's aid. 
" The one that, ages ago, one day when you and Van 
were here, we had the joke about. You produced it, in 
sport, as a   fine ' for something, and put it on that table ; 
after which, before I knew what you were about, before 
I could run after you, you had gone off and ridiculously 
left it. Of course, the next minute — and again before I 
could turn round — Harold had pounced on it, and I tried 
in vain to recover it from him. But all I could get him 
to do—" 
