the vice-consul from her balcony coming, as it seemed 
to her, with another figure in his gondola, and a 
thousand conjectures whirled through her mind, and 
then centred upon one idea. After the first glance 
she kept her eyes down, and would not look again 
while she told herself incessantly that it could not 
be, and that she was a fool and a goose and a perfect 
coot, to think of such a thing for a single moment. 
When she allowed herself, or forced herself, to look 
a second time, as the boat drew near, she had to cling 
to the balcony parapet for support, in her disappoint 
ment. 

The person whom the vice-consul helped out of the 
gondola was an elderly man like himself, and she took 
a last refuge in the chance that he might be Hinkle 's 
father, sent to bring her to him because he could not 
come to her ; or to soften some terrible news to her. 
Then her fancy fluttered and fell, and she waited 
patiently for the fact to reveal itself. There was 
something countrified in the figure of the man, and 
something clerical in his face, though there was noth 
ing in his uncouth best clothes that confirmed this 
impression. In both face and figure there was a vague 
resemblance to some one she had seen before, when 
the vice-consul said : 

" Miss Claxon, I want to introduce the Rev. Mr. 
James B. Orson, of Michigan." Mr. Orson took 
Clementina 's hand into a dry, rough grasp, while he 
peered into her face with small, shy eyes. The vice- 
consul added with a kind of official formality, " Mr. 
Orson is the half-nephew of Mr. Lander," and then 




ONE DAY SHE SAW THE VICE-CONSUL FROM HER BALCONY. 



 

Clementina now knew whom it was that he resembled. 
u He has come to Venice," continued the vice-consul, 
" at the request of Mrs. Lander ; and he did not know 
of her death until I informed him of the fact. I 
should have said that Mr. Orson is the son of Mr. 
Lander 's half-sister. He can tell you the balance 
himself." The vice-consul pronounced the conclud 
ing word with a certain distaste, and the effect of 
gladly retiring into the background. 

" Won 't you sit down ? " said Clementina, and she 
added with one of the remnants of her Middlemount 
breeding, " Won 't you let me take your hat ? " 

Mr. Orson in trying to comply with both her invi 
tations, knocked his well worn silk hat from the hand 
that held it, and sent it rolling across the room, where 
Clementina pursued it and put it on the table. 

" I may as well say at once," he began in a flat ir- 
resonant voice, " that I am the representative of Mrs. 
Lander 's heirs, and that I have a letter from her 
enclosing her last will and testament, which I have 
shown to the consul here " 

"Vice-consul," the dignitary interrupted with an 
effect of rejecting any part in the aifair. 

" Vice-consul, I should say, and I wish to lay them 
both before you, in order that " 

" Oh, that is all right," said Clementina sweetly. 
" I 'm glad there is a will. I was afraid there wasn 't 
any at all. Mr. Bennarn and I looked for it every - 
whe e." She smiled upon the Rev. Mr. Orson, who 
silently handed her a paper. It was the will which 
Milray had written for Mrs. Lander, and which, with 



 

whatever crazy motive, she had sent to her husband 's 
kindred. It provided that each of them should be 
given five thousand dollars out of the estate, and that 
then all should go to Clementina. It was the will 
Mrs. Lander told her she had made, but she had never 
seen the paper before, and the legal forms hid the 
meaning from her so that she was glad to have the 
vice-consul make it clear. Then she said tranquilly, 
" Yes, that is the way I supposed it was." 

Mr. Orson by no means shared her calm. He did 
not lift his voice, but on the level it had taken it be 
came agitated. " Mrs. Lander gave me the address 
of her lawyer in Boston when she sent me the will, 
and I made a point of calling on him when I went 
East, to sail. I don 't know why she wished me to 
come out to her, but being sick, I presume she nat 
urally wished to see some of her own family." 

He looked at Clementina as if he thought she 
might dispute this, but she consented at her sweetest, 
" Oh, yes, indeed," and he went on : 

" I found her affairs in a very different condition 
from what she seemed to think. The estate was 
mostly in securities which had not been properly 
looked after, and they had depreciated until they were 
some of them not worth the paper they were printed 
on. The house in Boston is mortgaged up to its full 
value, I should say ; and I should say that Mrs. Lan 
der did not know where she stood. She seemed to 
think that she was a very rich woman, but she lived 
high, and her lawyer said he never could make her 
understand how the money was going. Mr. Lander 



 

seemed to lose his grip, the year he died, and engaged 
in some very unfortunate speculations ; I don 't know 
whether he told her. I might enter into details" 

" Oh, that is not necessary," said Clementina, po 
litely, witless of the disastrous quality of the facts 
which Mr. Orson was imparting. 

" But the sum and substance of it all is that there 
will not be more than enough to pay the bequests to 
her own family, if there is that." 

Clementina looked with smiling innocence at the 
vice-consul. 

"That is to say," he explained, "there won 't be 
