talks were so delightful, not over any one's head. And 
just at the last, Mrs. Murray came in. I think she was 
disappointed at not finding you there." 
Princess' heart gave a sudden, violent beat. 
Then they had a cozy luncheon and talked over the 
plans again. 
"You see we are leaving Eric quite out," said Mrs. 
Kenneth. "I am sorry to do it, but he does want a 
place to himself, and I can't saddle Margaret with every- 
body. But he has grown much more socially inclined. 
He and Bertram might set up bachelor lodgings." 
"And you would have to come and keep house for 
them, Princess," said Ruth, with curious inadvertence, 
which she did not remark herself. " Your uncle has 
found a housekeeper." 
She was busy just then dishing some pudding and 
frosting it over with whipped cream. Princess' face had 
been drenched in scarlet, and Mrs. Kenneth pretended to 
hunt for her handkerchief, to give her time to recover 
herself. 
"Yes, I have lost my position," Princess subjoined, 
with all the merriment she could put into her voice, 
though her hostess detected the tremble. " Mrs. Kenneth, 
do you think I have grounds for a breach of promise ? I 
can substantiate my claim in black and white." 
"It depends upon whether you want to be held to 
your bargain. If the damage involved was consider- 
able, he might keep you to your part of the agreement." 
" And I guess I don't quite want to be kept." 
While Mrs. Kenneth took her rest afterward, Ruth 
and Princess had a girl's talk. There were so many 
subjects that had come up in letters. Ruth was very 
happy about the new plans, and reaching out into the 
future without any thought of what had troubled Prin- 
cess. She referred to the professor quite often, too, re- 
echoing Mrs. Kenneth's pride in him. It was just as 
one might talk about a brother. 
Princess was strangely confused, and some inexplicable 
power seemed to keep her pulses athrob with the trouble- 
some rush of color flying from cheek to brow since she 
could not help seeing distinctly before her his look at 
the night of the lecture. She could plead ignorance no 
longer ; she was aware of its significance, and she was 
frightened at standing on the threshold of a great mys- 
tery. 
They would fain have kept her to dinner, but she would 
not stay. Mrs. Kenneth's manner was so tenderly caress- 
ing that even this gave her a vague, delicious uneasiness. 
Mr. Murray had been out of the city on business most 
of the day. He had taken Gertrude to his bachelor 
rooms until the house could be made ready. He was 
late, and dinner was announced at once as he declared 
himself famished. Then he laid down some slips of 
paper and took out a blue pencil, which indicated press- 
ing business. 
" Did you look at carpets to-day? " 
" Yes," Gertrude replied, briefly. She knew the ques- 
tion was asked more from politeness than interest, and 
she had learned already not to feel jealous of paper and 
pencil. 
"Is the stained glass window in? " presently. 
"Yes, and it is beautiful." 
The papers were finished and sent away when the 
dessert came in. Then they had a little talk. When he 
went over to his easy-chair he lighted a cigar and stretched 
himself out. He had hardly imagined a woman with 
rights everywhere, could be so comfortable to get along 
with in rather crowded bachelor-quarters. She was so 
deft, too. He watched her as she put the cloth on the 
table, stood the drop light in the centre, laid papers and 
magazines to one's very hand. 
" Shall I light it? " she asked. 
"No — not yet. Come here and talk. Let us con- 
sider household .ways and be wise — or extravagant as the 
mood overtakes us. Did you have a good time with 
Princess? What did she say? " 
" I did not have Princess." 
" Why, I thought " 
" She was not quite sure, at least she did not promise." 
" O, will you go to-morrow? Bring her in to dinner. 
Or perhaps I can join you, and we will all air our opin- 
ions. And if there is a nice play we can go in the 
evening." 
Gertrude was considering. She felt certain something 
had happened to disturb Princess. 
" Well, what conspiracy are you hatching? " 
She had been leaning on the corner of the chair and 
he moved so that he could see her face. She felt a rising 
color and tried to laugh. 
" Suppose I should not see Princess to-morrow ? There 
are so many relatives with claims." 
"I will tell you where you could have found her — at 
Mrs. Drayton's. The talk and the music was very fine, 
our reporter said, and the woman extremely handsome. 
I wish you had dropped in there." 
"I did," she returned, after a pause. 
"Why — that is queer, too. I thought you were the best 
of friends and all was serene. What has gone wrong ? " 
"I am not quite sure anything has. But if I shouldn't 
see her to-morrow I shall have a misgiving " 
" O, you do not suppose that idiotic boy has confided 
his grievance to her ? And now I come to think of it I 
scarcely saw her last evening. I didn't suppose Sher- 
burne would come, but if he is going to stir up a family 
feud he will find he has me to settle with, and I shall 
stand no nonsense." 
" Con, dear," she leaned over and kissed him on the 
forehead. How like his mother's voice that sounded, 
his mother who had been gentle and a peacemaker all 
her life — " Con, dear, do not be hasty about anything. 
I should be sorry if my coming in the family led to any 
trouble or disagreement." 
" But it has not. I am sure the Amorys and all of 
them were most cordial. The judge admired you, and 
Tessy gave you a sister's welcome. Princess had gotten 
over all that little feeling, in fact I think she would have 
been very much affronted if you had not listened to my 
suit. Indeed " — he leaned his head back and laughed 
heartily — "I can just imagine the consternation if you 
had been foolish enough to consent to that young man's 
wishes." 
She laughed too, but not very cordially. 
"After all," reflectively, " it would have been a temp- 
tation to some girls. He is a handsome and attractive 
fellow. I will grant that even if his present prospects 
are not brilliant. And you are young, you know." 
"I wonder if you will ever come to think it was the 
prospect that tempted me?" 
" I wonder if you will ever come to be sorry that you 
have married a man so much older ? There ought to be 
something to equalize it." 
" That isn't answering my question." 
" I have the self-appreciation of my sex. I think you 
fell in love with me. But there was no fascinating young 
rival. And I should have insisted upon your marrying 
me out of hand that night on the boat when we rather 
stumbled over each other's preferences, if I had not pos- 
sessed a little grain of conscience about the disparity. 
If you had been a shrewd young woman of the world 
you would have captured me then and there." 
