ionaire heiress in regard to this fortune, he would 
have approved or comprehended them as little 
as did her mother. 

Evelyn had lived hitherto with little compre- 
hension of her peculiar position. That the world 
went well with her, and that no obstacle was 
opposed to the gratification of her reasonable 
desires, or to her impulses of charity and pity, 
was about all she knew of her power. But she 




 

was now eighteen and about to appear in the 
world. Her mother, therefore, had been enlight- 
ening her in regard to her expectations and the 
career that lay open to her. And Carmen 
thought the girl a little perverse, in that this 
prospect, instead of exciting her worldly am- 
bition, seemed to affect her only seriously as a 
matter of responsibility. 

In their talks Mrs. Mavick was in fact becom- 
ing acquainted with the mind of her daughter, 
and learning, somewhat to her chagrin, the limi- 
tations of her education produced by the policy 
of isolation. To her dismay, she found that the 
girl did not care much for the things that she 
herself cared most for. The whole world of so- 
ciety, its strifes, ambitions, triumphs, defeats, re- 
wards, did not seem to Evelyn so real or so im- 
portant as that world in which she had lived with 
her governess and her tutors. And, worse than 
this, the estimate she placed upon the values of 
material things was shockingly inadequate to her 
position. 

That her father was a very great man was one 
of the earliest things Evelyn began to know, ex- 
terior to herself. This was impressed upon her 
by the deference paid to him not only at home 
but wherever they went, and by the deference 
shown to her as his daughter. And she was 
proud of this. He was not one of the great men 





 

whose careers she was familiar with in litera- 
ture, not a general or a statesman or an orator 
or a scientist or a poet or a philanthropist— she 
never thought of him in connection with these 
heroes of her imagination — but he was certainly 
a great power in the world. And she had for 
him a profound admiration, which might have 
become affection if Mavick had ever taken the 
pains to interest himself in the child's affairs. 
Her mother she loved, and believed there could 
be no one in the world more sweet and graceful 
and attractive, and as she grew up she yearaed 
for more of the motherly companionship, for 
something more than the odd moments of pet- 
ting that were given to her in the whirl of the 
life of a woman of the world. What that life 
was, however, she had only the dimmest compre- 
hension, and it was only in the last two years, 
since she was sixteen, that she began to under- 
stand it, and that mainly in contrast to her own 
guarded life. And she was now able to see that 
her own secluded life had been unusual. 

Not till long after this did she speak to any 
one of her experience as a child, of the time when 
she became conscious that she was never alone, 
and that she was only free to act within certain 
limits. To McDonald, indeed, she had often 
shown her irritation, and it was only the strong 
good sense of the governess that kept her from 




 

revolt. It was not until very recently that it 
could be explained to her, without putting her 
in terror hourly, why she must always be watched 
and guarded. 

It had required all the tact and sophistry of 
her governess to make her acquiesce in a system 
of education — so it was called — that had been de- 
vised in order to give her the highest and purest 
development. That the education was mainly 
left to McDonald, and that her parents were 
simply anxious about her safety, she did not 
learn till long afterwards. In the first years 
Mrs. Mavick had been greatly relieved to be 
spared all the care of the baby, and as the years 
went on the arrangement seemed more and more 
convenient, and she gave little thought to the 
character that was being formed. To Mr. Ma- 
vick, indeed, as to his wife, it was enough to see 
that she was uncommonly intelligent, and that 
she had a certain charm that made her attrac- 
tive. Mrs. Mavick took it for granted that Avhen 
it came time to introduce her into the world she 
would be like other girls, eager for its pleasures 
and susceptible to all its allurements. Of the di- 
rection of the undercurrents of the girl's life she 
had no conception, until she began to unfold to 
her the views of the world that prevailed in her 
circle, and what (in the Carmen scheme of life) 
ought to be a woman's ambition. 




 

That she was to be an heiress Evelyn had long 
known, that she Avould one day have a great 
fortune at her disposal had indeed come into her 
serious thought, but the brilliant use of it in re- 
lation to herself, at which her mother was always 
lately hinting, came to her as a disagreeable 
shock. For the moment the fortune seemed to 
her rather a fetter than an opportunity, if she 
was to fulfil her mother's expectations. These 
hints were conveyed with all the tact of Avhich 
her mother was master, but the girl was never- 
theless somewhat alarmed, and she began to re- 
gard the " coming out " as an entrance into servi- 
tude rather than an enlargement of liberty. One 
