"Goin' to give it away?"
"No, I ain't," returned Amelia, again with that sharp, remonstrant note
in her voice. "What makes you think I'd do such a thing as that?"
"Law, I didn't mean no harm. You said you was repairin' on 't,--that's
all."
Amelia was ashamed of her momentary outbreak. She looked up and smiled
sunnily.
"Well, I suppose it is foolish," she owned,--"too foolish to tell. But
I've been settin' all his clothes in order to lay 'em aside at last. I
kind o' like to do it."
Aunt Ann wagged her head, and ran a knitting-needle up under her cap on
a voyage of discovery.
"You think so now," she said wisely, "but you'll see some time it's
better by fur to give 'em away while ye can. The time never'll come when
it's any easier. My soul, 'Melia, how I should like to git up into your
chambers! It's six year now sence I've seen 'em."
Amelia laid down her work and considered the possibility.
"I don't know how in the world I could h'ist you up there," she
remarked, from an evident background of hospitable good-will.
"H'ist me up? I guess you couldn't! You'd need a tackle an' falls. Amos
has had to come to draggin' me round by degrees, an' I don't go off the
lower floor. Be them chambers jest the same, 'Melia?"
"Oh, yes, they're just the same. Everything is. You know he didn't like
changes."
"Blue spread on the west room bed?"
"Yes."
"Spinnin'-wheels out in the shed chamber, where his gran'mother Hooper
kep' 'em?"
"Yes."
"Say, 'Melia, do you s'pose that little still's up attic he used to have
such a royal good time with, makin' essences?"
Amelia's eyes filled suddenly with hot, unmanageable tears.
"Yes," she said; "we used it only two summers ago. I come across it
yesterday. Seemed as if I could smell the peppermint I brought in for
him to pick over. He was too sick to go out much then."
Aunt Ann had laid down her work again, and was gazing into vistas of
rich enjoyment.
"I'll be whipped if I shouldn't like to see that little still!"
"I'll go up and bring it down after dinner," said Amelia soberly,
folding her work and taking off her thimble. "I'd just as soon as not."
All through the dinner hour aunt Ann kept up an inspiring stream of
question and reminiscence.
"You be a good cook, 'Melia, an' no mistake," she remarked, breaking
her brown hot biscuit. "This your same kind o' bread, made without
yeast?"
"Yes," answered Amelia, pouring the tea. "I save a mite over from the
last risin'."
Aunt Ann smelled the biscuit critically. "Well, it makes proper nice
bread," she said, "but seems to me that's a terrible shif'less way to go
about it. However 'd you happen to git hold on 't? You wa'n't never
brought up to 't."
"His mother used to make it so. 'T was no great trouble, and 't would
have worried him if I'd changed."
When the lavender-sprigged china had been washed and the hearth swept
up, the room fell into its aspect of afternoon repose. The cat, after
another serious ablution, sprang up into a chair drawn close to the
fireplace, and coiled herself symmetrically on the faded patchwork
cushion. Amelia stroked her in passing. She liked to see puss
appropriate that chair; her purr from it renewed the message of domestic
content.
"Now," said Amelia, "I'll get the still."
"Bring down anything else that's ancient!" called aunt Ann. "We've
pretty much got red o' such things over t' our house, but I kind o' like
to see 'em."
When Amelia returned, she staggered under a miscellaneous burden: the
still, some old swifts for winding yarn, and a pair of wool-cards.
"I don't believe you know so much about cardin' wool as I do," she said,
in some triumph, regarding the cards with the saddened gaze of one who
recalls an occupation never to be resumed. "You see, you dropped all
such work when new things come in. I kept right on because he wanted me
to."
Aunt Ann was abundantly interested and amused.
"Well, now, if ever!" she repeated over and over again. "If this don't
carry me back! Seems if I could hear the wheel hummin' an' gramma Balch
steppin' back an' forth as stiddy as a clock. It's been a good while
sence I've thought o' such old days."
"If it's old days you want"--began Amelia, and she sped upstairs with a
fresh light of resolution in her eyes.
It was a long time before she returned,--so long that aunt Ann exhausted
the still, and turned again to her thrifty knitting. Then there came a
bumping noise on the stairs, and Amelia's shuffling tread.
"What under the sun be you doin' of?" called her aunt, listening, with
her head on one side. "Don't you fall, 'Melia! Whatever 't is, I can't
help ye."
But the stairway door yielded to pressure from within: and first a rim
of wood appeared, and then Amelia, scarlet and breathless, staggering
under a spinning-wheel.
"Forever!" ejaculated aunt Ann, making one futile effort to rise, like
some cumbersome fowl whose wings are clipped. "My land alive! you'll
break a blood-vessel, an' then where'll ye be?"
Amelia triumphantly drew the wheel to the middle of the floor, and then
blew upon her dusty hands and smoothed her tumbled hair. She took off
her apron and wiped the wheel with it rather tenderly, as if an ordinary
duster would not do.
"There!" she said. "Here's some rolls right here in the bedroom. I
carded them myself, but I never expected to spin any more."
She adjusted a roll to the spindle, and, quite forgetting aunt Ann,
began stepping back and forth in a rhythmical march of feminine service.
The low hum of her spinning filled the air, and she seemed to be wrapped
about by an atmosphere of remoteness and memory. Even aunt Ann was
impressed by it; and once, beginning to speak, she looked at Amelia's
face, and stopped. The purring silence continued, lulling all lesser
energies to sleep, until Amelia, pausing to adjust her thread, found her
mood broken by actual stillness, and gazed about her like one awakened
from dreams.
"There!" she said, recalling herself. "Ain't that a good smooth thread?
I've sold lots of yarn. They ask for it in Sudleigh."
"'Tis so!" confirmed aunt Ann cordially. "An' you've al'ays dyed it
yourself, too!"
"Yes, a good blue; sometimes tea-color. There, now, you can't say you
ain't heard a spinnin'-wheel once more!"
Amelia moved the wheel to the side of the room, and went gravely back to
her chair. Her energy had fled, leaving her hushed and tremulous. But
not for that did aunt Ann relinquish her quest for the betterment of the
domestic world. Her tongue clicked the faster as Amelia's halted. She
put away her work altogether, and sat, with wagging head and eloquent
hands, still holding forth on the changes which might be wrought in the
house: a bay window here, a sofa there, new chairs, tables, and
furnishings. Amelia's mind swam in a sea of green rep, and she found
herself looking up from time to time at her mellowed four walls, to see
if they sparkled in desirable yet somewhat terrifying gilt paper.
At four o'clock, when Amos swung into the yard with the oxen, she was
remorsefully conscious of heaving a sigh of relief; and she bade him in
to the cup of tea ready for him by the fire with a sympathetic sense
that too little was made of Amos, and that perhaps only she, at that
moment, understood his habitual frame of mind. He drank his tea in
silence, the while aunt Ann, with much relish, consumed doughnuts and
cheese, having spread a wide handkerchief in her lap to catch the
crumbs. Amos never varied in his rôle of automaton; and Amelia talked
rapidly, in the hope of protecting him from verbal avalanches. But she
was not to succeed. At the very moment of parting, aunt Ann, enthroned
in her chair, with a clogging stick under the rockers, called a halt,
just as the oxen gave their tremulous preparatory heave.
"Amos!" cried she, "I'll be whipped if you've spoke one word to 'Melia
this livelong day! If you ain't ashamed, I be! If you can't speak, I
can!"
Amos paused, with his habitual resignation to circumstances, but Amelia
sped forward and clapped him cordially on the arm; with the other hand,
she dealt one of the oxen a futile blow.
"Huddup, Bright!" she called, with a swift, smiling look at Amos. Even
