"Oh, they do at court! If I could make you understand----" his boyish
face full of perplexity.
"I think I do understand when I see Washington in ruins. And I shall
be glad when every Englishman goes back. We don't go over to England
and burn and destroy."
He had a vague idea there was something to be said for his side, but
he did not just know what. It seemed rather ungrateful, too, as he was
a pensioner on the hospitality of her brother-in-law. It was extremely
mortifying, since his cousin had been intrusted with money for him. So
he was silent, but that did not suit the little lady, who enjoyed the
warfare like a born soldier.
She was always "saving up" disgraceful incidents she heard, to tell him.
"You are pretty hard on the young fellow," Roger said to her one day.
"We must forgive him a good deal for his devotion to Ralston."
"But think how you and doctor brother went out and gathered up the
wounded, and there were some British among them as well. He ought to
be very grateful."
"I think he is. And he is a nice lad."
Their skirmishes were very amusing to the family. Patty really admired
the young fellow, he seemed such a big, innocent-hearted boy; but she
enjoyed posting Annis as to her side of the argument.
"Are you going?" Captain Ralston said to Marian as they were making
preparations for departure.
"You--you do not need me," she murmured as, holding her hand, he drew
her down nearer the pillow.
"I suppose everybody else does," he declared pettishly. "You never
considered me. You did not really care----"
There were tears in her eyes as she tried to turn away.
"Perhaps when the others are all dead and gone, and I am an old man,
you may remember what you confessed those two blessed days. Or you may
recall it over my grave."
"I deserve it all," she returned meekly. "I tried--oh, yes, I did; but
I was weak----"
"Is it too late to go back?"
"Come, Polly!" cried Jaqueline. Sukey, the general factotum at the
Carringtons', called Marian "Miss Polly." "Can't be boddered wid no
sech outlandish name as Miss Ma'yan--dat kinks my tongue up like a bit
a 'yalum,'" she declared.
"Polly--you will come to-morrow?"
"Yes--yes," with a scarlet face. "If you want me."
"I want you. I have a great deal to say to you."
But it took many to-morrows to get it all said. There were rough places
and doubts, intensified by the experiences Ralston had gone through,
and the nervous strain of not only the long illness, but the almost
certainty there had been at one time of his losing his leg. That danger
was really over, but a great deal of carefulness had to be observed.
And few indeed can bring back the sparkle to the cup of youth, when the
freshness is no longer there.
Marian grew more girlish, as if the hands of time were running the
other way. The force that had impelled her to middle life was removed.
She had gained a certain experience, quite different from the man who
had been mixing with the world. But what mattered when they came back
to the level of love?
Congress held its session at Blodgett's Hotel. It is true there were
heated discussions on the terms of peace, contradictions, and dogmatic
assertions. Perhaps the meetings at the Octagon House, and the sweet,
affable mistress had much to do with softening asperities. Everybody,
it seemed, came, and it was conceded that we had gained a good deal in
the respect of foreign nations. Commerce took on a brisk aspect. War
vessels came into port, and though they did not lay aside all their
defenses,--for the high seas were still infested with privateers,--they
took on the cargoes of industry instead of munitions of war. It was
found now that we had made strides in manufacturing ordinary goods,
though women were delighted with the thought of once more procuring
silks, satins, velvets, and lace without extraordinary risks.
Eustace Stafford spent much of his time exploring Washington, taking
long walks and numerous drives with the doctor. The beautiful Potomac,
the towns along its edge, the falls that in a cold spell had just
enough ice to make them wonderful and fairy-like, Port Tobacco that
had once been a thriving place, the inlets and creeks and the fine
and varied Virginia shore, and the magnificent Chesapeake dotted with
islands. And there was Annapolis, destined to grow more famous as years
went on.
He had not half explored the country when word came from his father,
inclosing a draft to bring him home and reimburse the friends who had
sheltered him with such cordiality.
"I am sorry enough to leave you," he said with deep emotion. "I feel
like becoming an out-and-out American, but I shall never be a soldier."
"Not in case of necessity?" said Patty with charming archness.
"Of course if I had a home here I should defend it to the last drop of
blood in my veins--yes, even against my own kindred," and he blushed
with a feeling akin to ardent patriotism that surprised himself. "I
think we only need to understand each other's governments better to be
good friends. There is something grand here. It may be the largeness of
everything, and the aspirations, the sense of freedom, and--well, that
certain equality. You are not bound about by rigid limits."
Mr. Carrington said Stafford must go to one levee, though that there
were such throngs now that it was hardly comfortable. Ralston insisted
that he also must pay his respects to Mrs. Madison, for now he could
get about on crutches, but it was not considered safe to bear any great
weight upon his injured limb as yet.
It was quite a fine scene, Stafford admitted. There was a great variety
in dress, the older men keeping to the Continental style largely, with
flowing frills to their shirt fronts and lace ruffles at their wrists,
velvet smallclothes and silk stockings, and hair tied with a black
ribbon or fastened in a small silk bag.
Some of the younger men wore their hair curling over their shoulders.
There were gorgeous waistcoats, the upper part flowered satin, and
then a finishing of scarlet that came halfway to the knee, the coats
turned back and faced with bright colors. Mrs. Madison was resplendent
in her red turban, with nodding ostrich plumes, and the row of short
black curls across her white forehead, and her gown of cream satin, of
so deep a tint as to be almost yellow, with its abundant trimming of
scarlet velvet.
Ralston was quite a hero for his misfortunes and his counsels, which
had averted some disaster and would have saved much more if they had
been followed. Everybody could see the blunders and the supineness that
had really invited such a catastrophe. But peace had softened many of
the animadversions, and the charming sweetness of the first lady of
the land healed many differences. It was true that the two later years
of the administration went far toward redeeming the mistakes of the
earlier part.
Annis had plead hard to go, but Jaqueline had not thought it best.
"You and Mr. Stafford will be sure to get in a quarrel," she said
laughingly. "There will be plenty of levees for you to attend when you
are older. And the Octagon House has not the room of the poor burned
mansion. It is always crowded."
Then Eustace Stafford said good-by with great grief to the people he
had come to fight, and found among them the warmest of friends. He had
not been alone in his experience.
Before Congress adjourned a bomb was thrown into the camp. Since
Washington was a heap of ruins and would have to be rebuilt, why not
remove it to some more advantageous location?
CHAPTER XXI.
ANNIS.
How near the Capital City came to be handed down in history as Old
Washington its denizens of to-day will never know. There were many
cogent reasons for changing it. It had grown so slowly; it would
require an immense amount of money to rebuild it; the place had never
taken root in the affections of the whole country.
But, then, it was the city of Washington and the old worthies who had
made the country. There was Florida for the southern point, as well
as Maine for the north-eastern; there were the great Mississippi and
Louisiana, as well as the lake countries. Was it not nearly the center?
Men like Arthur Jettson set about retrieving their fortunes and
showing their faith in the place. Mrs. Madison made it as agreeable as
possible to foreign ministers and their wives, and guests from the more
important cities. Colonel and Mrs. Monroe added to the attractions.
The Capitol was repaired slowly, but it was two years before the White
House was undertaken.
