claim a share of it, and instead of returning, the two would very
likely continue their journey.”
Under the influence of these feelings Mr. Wentworth wrote the following
letter:
  “MR. ARTHUR GRIGSON:
 “You have done me the honor to write me suggesting that I should
 telegraph money to my son, who took the bold step of leaving
 the school, where I had placed him, without my permission. Your
 letter contains no expression of regret for this flagrant act of
 disobedience, and I assume that neither you nor Victor feels any. No
 doubt you find it inconvenient to be without money, and it naturally
 occurs to you to apply to me. You may say to Victor that as he appears
 to think himself independent of me, and has shown a disregard for my
 wishes, I think it may be well for him to keep on a little longer. I
 do not feel under any obligation to help him home from Kansas City,
 since he went there without my permission. Whenever he returns home,
 and shows proper regret for his disobedience I will consider what I
 may be disposed to do for him.
  “BRADLEY WENTWORTH.”
Hard as his nature was Bradley Wentworth did not send away this letter
without momentary compunction. So far as he was capable of affection
he was attached to his son. But he was a man who required implicit
obedience, and Victor’s flight had excited his sternest indignation. He
was a proud man, and was not willing to show signs of softening though
he really yearned to see his absent son.
He held the letter in his hands undecided whether to send it or not,
but pride finally gained the ascendency, and he dropped it into the box
in which he deposited his outgoing mail.
“He will see that I am not to be trifled with,” he soliloquized, as he
closed his lips firmly.
So the letter went on its cruel mission.
CHAPTER XXXI.
THE YOUNG RUNAWAYS.
IN a small, plainly furnished room in Kansas City sat two boys of
sixteen and seventeen. One of them was Victor Wentworth, the other his
schoolmate and the companion of his flight, Arthur Grigson.
Victor looked despondent. He had a pleasant but weak face, in which
little or no resemblance could be traced to his father. The latter’s
hard nature was wholly wanting in Victor. He resembled his mother, now
dead, who had been completely under the domination of her husband.
“I wonder if our letters will come to-day, Arthur,” he said anxiously.
“I hope so. I expected before this that your father would telegraph
money.”
“You don’t know my father, Arthur,” said Victor sadly. “No doubt he is
very angry with me, and I am not sure that he will send me any money at
all.”
“You are an only son, are you not?”
“Yes.”
“And your father is very rich?”
“Yes.”
“Then he won’t be such a beast as to refuse. Isn’t he rather close with
you?”
“Yes.”
“Rather mean, in fact. It costs money to telegraph. I presume it is on
this account that he has written you by mail.”
“If he doesn’t write, what shall I do?” said Victor. “I have only
twenty-five cents left, and that will barely buy my dinner.”
“I haven’t much more,” said Arthur, “but I don’t worry.”
“No, for you have money of your own, and are sure to get something.”
“I am not one of the worrying kind,” said Arthur. “I wouldn’t be as
nervous as you are on any account.”
“I can’t help it.”
“If your father is like you he will be so worried about you that he
will be sure to send the money, or else come on himself. Perhaps he
will do that.”
Victor shook his head.
“He isn’t like me at all, Arthur. He is a very stern man. Oh, how
foolish I was to leave school, but you persuaded me to do it!”
“Oh, you throw all the blame on me, do you?” returned Arthur in an
unpleasant tone. “You were in for it as much as I was.”
“I didn’t know what I was doing,” said Victor in an unsteady voice.
“Do try to be more manly! One would think you were in danger of going
to prison!” exclaimed the stronger-minded Arthur, in ill-concealed
disgust.
“I don’t know but I shall. I can’t starve, and I may have to steal when
my money is gone.”
“You’d better get a place and work. That will be better than to starve
or go to jail.”
“That is true. I didn’t think of that,” said Victor, brightening up.
“But I don’t know what I can do. I never did any kind of work. I am
afraid no one will employ me.”
“Then set up in business for yourself. You can sell papers if you can’t
do anything else. That is, if you are not too proud to do it.”
“I am not too proud to do anything,” said the miserable Victor, “if I
can make a living!”
“Good for you! That shows that you are not a snob, any way. What do you
think your rich and aristocratic father would say if he should learn
that his son was a newsboy?”
“He wouldn’t like it, and I don’t like it myself, but I shall not be
ashamed to do it, if it is necessary.”
“I admire your spunk, Victor.”
“I am afraid I haven’t got much,” said Victor, shaking his head. “Oh,
what a fool I have been! If I were only out of this scrape, I’ll never
get into another.”
“It may all come right. It’s time we got letters. When we do we’ll
start for home.”
At this instant there was a knock at the door, and the landlady, a
stout woman with a red face, appeared.
“Here’s two letters just come!” she said.
Both boys sprang to their feet in excitement.
“One for each of us!” said Victor gladly.
“No; they are both for Mr. Grigson.”
Victor dropped into his seat in despondency.
“None for me!” he murmured.
“Better luck next time!” said the landlady. Meanwhile Arthur had torn
open one of his letters.
“Hurrah!” he said. “There’s fifty dollars inside.”
“Who is the other from?”
“It is postmarked Seneca. It must be from your father.”
CHAPTER XXXII.
ARTHUR GRIGSON’S TREACHERY.
“OPEN the letter, quick!” cried Victor in feverish anxiety. “I don’t
see why father didn’t write to me.”
The letter was opened. The reader is already acquainted with
its contents. Arthur read it aloud, and Victor turned sick with
disappointment.
“Well,” ejaculated Arthur, “if that isn’t a cold-blooded message for a
man to send to his own son! And he rolling in wealth!”
“I was afraid he would refuse to send me some money,” said Victor.
“What is that last sentence?”
“He says if you will come home he will see whether he will forgive
you—that’s the upshot of it.”
“But I can’t go home without money unless you will pay my way. You
will, won’t you, Arthur? I’ll pay you back just as soon as I can.”
“But you can’t, you know,” returned Arthur coldly. “Your father has
always given you a very small allowance, and you can’t save anything
out of that.”
“I will be sure to pay you some way.”
“You are very ready with your promises, but promises ain’t cash. Look
here, Victor, I’ve got only fifty dollars.”
“That’s a big sum.”
“It’s got to last me some time. As for giving you fifteen or twenty
dollars, I can’t do it, and that settles it.”
“Are you going home?”
“I shall take the next train for Chicago.”
“And leave me here?” faltered Victor, turning pale.
“I don’t see what else I can do,” returned Arthur, his face hardening.
“But I shall starve.”
“No; I will leave you two or three dollars, and I advise you to buy
some papers if you can’t get any other position.”
