The boy directed her attention to the following advertisement:
    "Wanted.--A governess for a girl of twelve. Must be a good
    performer on the piano, and able to instruct in French and
    the usual English branches. Terms must be moderate. Apply to
    Mrs. Leighton, at 127 W. ---- Street."
"There, Florence, what do you say to that? That's better than sewin'."
"I don't know, Dodger, whether I am competent."
"You play on the pianner, don't you?"
"Yes."
"Well enough to teach?"
"I think so; but I may not have the gift of teaching."
"Yes, you have. Haven't you been teachin' me every evenin'? You make
everything just as clear as mud--no, I don't mean that. You just
explain so that I can't help understandin'."
"Then," said Florence, "I suppose I am at liberty to refer to you."
"Yes; you can tell the lady to call at the office of Dodger, Esq., any
mornin' after sunrise, and he'll give her full particulars."
Florence did not immediately decide to apply for the situation, but
the more she thought of it the more she felt inclined to do so. The
little experience she had had with Dodger satisfied her that she
should enjoy teaching better than sewing or writing.
Accordingly, an hour later, she put on her street dress and went
uptown to the address given in the advertisement.
No. 127 was a handsome brown-stone house, not unlike the one in which
Florence had been accustomed to live. It was a refreshing contrast to
the poor tenement in which she lived at present.
"Is Mrs. Leighton at home?" inquired Florence. "Yes, miss," answered
the servant, respectfully. "Whom shall I say?"
"I have come to apply for the situation of governess," answered
Florence, feeling rather awkward as she made the statement.
"Ah," said the servant, with a perceptible decline in respect. "Won't
you step in?"
"Thank you."
"Well, she do dress fine for a governess," said Nancy to herself.
"It's likely she'll put on airs."
The fact was that Florence was dressed according to her past social
position--in a costly street attire--but it had never occurred to her
that she was too well dressed for a governess.
She took her seat in the drawing-room, and five minutes later there
was a rustling heard, and Mrs. Leighton walked into the room.
"Are you the applicant for the position of governess?" she asked,
surveying the elegantly attired young lady seated on the sofa.
"Yes, Mrs. Leighton," answered Florence, easily, for she felt more at
home in a house like this than in the tenement.
"Have you taught before?"
"Very little," answered Florence, smiling to herself, as she wondered
what Mrs. Leighton would say if she could see Dodger, the only pupil
she ever had. "However, I like teaching, and I like children."
"Pardon me, but you don't look like a governess, Miss----"
"Linden," suggested Florence, filling out the sentence. "Do
governesses have a peculiar look?"
"I mean as to dress. You are more expensively dressed than the average
governess can afford."
"It is only lately that my circumstances required me to support
myself. I should not be able to buy such a dress out of my present
earnings."
"I am glad to hear you say that, for I do not propose to give a large
salary."
"I do not expect one," said Florence, quietly. "You consider yourself
competent to instruct in music, French and the English branches?"
"Oh, yes."
"Do you speak French?"
"Yes, madam."
"Would you favor me with a specimen of your piano playing?"
There was a piano in the back parlor. Florence removed her gloves, and
taking a seat before it, dashed into a spirited selection from
Strauss.
Mrs. Leighton listened with surprised approval.
"Certainly you are a fine performer," she said. "What--if I should
engage you--would you expect in the way of compensation?"
"How much time would you expect me to give?"
"Three hours daily--from nine to twelve."
"I hardly know what to say. What did you expect to pay?"
"About fifty cents an hour."
Florence knew very well, from the sums that had been paid for her own
education, that this was miserably small pay; but it was much more
than she could earn by sewing.
"I will teach a month on those terms," she said, after a pause.
Mrs. Leighton looked well pleased. She knew that she was making a
great bargain.
"Oh, by the way," she said, "can you give references?"
"I can refer you to Madam Morrison," naming the head of a celebrated
female seminary. "She educated me."
"That will be quite satisfactory," said Mrs. Leighton, graciously.
"Can you begin to-morrow?"
"Yes, madam."
"You will then see your pupil. At present she is out."
Florence bowed and withdrew.
She had been afraid Mrs. Leighton would inquire where she lived, and
she would hardly dare to name the humble street which she called home.
She walked toward Fifth Avenue, when, just as she was turning the
corner, she met Mr. Percy de Brabazon, swinging a slender cane, and
dressed in the extreme of the fashion.
"Miss Linden!" he exclaimed, eagerly. "This is--aw--indeed a pleasure.
Where are you walking this fine morning? May I--aw--have the pleasure
of accompanying you?"
Florence stopped short in deep embarrassment.
Chapter XII.
A Friend, Though A Dude.
Percy de Brabazon looked sincerely glad to meet Florence, and she
herself felt some pleasure in meeting one who reminded her of her
former life.
But it was quite impossible that she should allow him to accompany her
to her poor home on the East Side.
"Thank you, Mr. de Brabazon, but my engagements this morning will
hardly permit me to accept your escort," she said.
"I suppose that means that you are going shopping; but I don't mind
it, I assure you, and I will carry your bundles," he added,
magnanimously.
"That would never do. What! the fashionable Mr. de Brabazon carrying
bundles? You would lose your social status."
"I don't mind, Miss Florence, as long as you give me--aw--an approving
smile."
"I will give it now, as I bid you good-morning."
"May I--aw--have the pleasure of calling upon you to-morrow evening,
Miss Linden?"
"It is evident that you have not heard that I am no longer residing
with my uncle."
Mr. de Brabazon looked surprised.
"No, I had not heard. May I ask--aw--where you are wesiding?"
"With friends," answered Florence, briefly. "As you are a friend and
will be likely to hear it, I may as well mention that my uncle is
displeased with me, and has practically disowned me."
"Then, Miss Florence," said Mr. de Brabazon, eagerly, "won't you
accept--aw--my heart and hand? My mother will be charmed to receive
you, and I--aw--will strive to make you happy."
"I appreciate your devotion, I do, indeed, Mr. de Brabazon," said
Florence, earnestly; "but I must decline your offer. I will not marry
without love."
"I don't mind that," said Percy, "if you'll agree to take a feller;
you'll learn in time to like him a little. I am wich--I know you don't
care for that--but I can give you as good a home as your uncle. If you
would give me hope--aw----"
"I am afraid I cannot, Mr. de Brabazon, but if you will allow me to
look upon you as a friend, I will call upon you if I have need of a
friend's services."
"Will you, weally?"
"Yes, there is my hand on it. I ought to tell you that I must now earn
my own living, and am to give lessons to a young pupil in West ----
Street, three hours daily."
