to be noticed by a pretty woman.
"I had no end of trouble of finding out where Beverly was," he said
after a minute.
"Oh! And how did you find out?"
"I didn't until I backed into Bailey, yonder.... Do you know that I had
a curious sort of presentiment that I should find you in this sleigh?"
"That is strange," she said. "When did you have it?"
"In the car--long before you got off."
She thought it most remarkable--rather listlessly.
"Those things happen, you know," he went on; "like thinking of a person
you don't expect to see, and looking up and suddenly seeing that very
person walking along."
"How does that resemble your case?" she asked.
It didn't. He realised it even before he began to try to explain the
similarity. It really didn't matter one way or the other; it was nothing
to turn red about, but he was turning. Somehow or other she managed to
say things that never permitted that easy, graceful flow of language
which characterised him in his normal state. Somehow or other, he felt
that he was not doing himself justice. He could converse well enough
with people as a rule. Something in that topsy-turvy and maddeningly
foolish colloquy with those Germans must have twisted his tongue or
unbalanced his logic.
"As a matter of fact," he said, "there's no similarity between the two
cases except the basic idea of premonition."
She had been watching him disentangle himself with bright eyes in which
something was sparkling--perhaps sympathy and perhaps not. It may have
been the glimmer of malice. Perhaps she thought him just a trifle too
ornamental--for he certainly was a very good-looking youth--perhaps
something in the entire episode appealed to her sense of mischief.
Probably even she herself could not explain just why she had thought it
funny to see him running for his train, and later entangling himself in
a futile word-fest with the conductor and the large mottled man.
"So," she said thoughtfully, "you were obsessed by a premonition."
"Not--er--exactly obsessed," he said suspiciously. Then his face
cleared. How could anybody be suspicious of such sweetly inquiring
frankness? "You see," he admitted, "that I--well, I rather hoped you
would be going to the Austins'."
"The Austins'!" she repeated.
"Yes. I--I couldn't help speculating----"
"About me?" she asked. "Why should you?"
"I--there was no reason, of course, only I k-kept seeing you without
trying to----"
"Me?"
"Certainly. I couldn't help seeing you, could I?"
"Not if you were looking at me," she murmured, pressing her muff to her
face. Perhaps she was cold.
Again it occurred to him that there was something foolish in her reply.
Certainly she was a little difficult to talk to. But then she was
young--very young and--close enough to being a beauty to excuse herself
from any overstrenuous claim to intellectuality.
"Yes," he said kindly and patiently, "I did see you, and I did hope that
you were going to the Austins'. And then I bumped into somebody and
there you were. I don't mean," as she raised her pretty eyebrows--"mean
that you were Bailey. Good Lord, what is the matter with my tongue!"
he said, flushing with annoyance. "I don't talk this way usually."
"Don't you?" she managed to whisper behind her muff.
"No, I don't. That conductor's jargon seems to have inoculated me. You
will probably not believe it, but I can talk the English tongue
sometimes----"
She was laughing now--a clear, delicious, irrepressible little peal that
rang sweetly in the frosty air, harmonising with the chiming
sleigh-bells. And he laughed, too, still uncomfortably flushed.
"Do you think it would help if we began all over again?" she asked,
looking wickedly at him over her muff. "Let me see--you had an obsession
which turned into a premonition that bumped Bailey and you found it
wasn't Bailey at all, but a stranger in chinchillas who was going
to--where did you say she was going? Oh, to the Austins'! That is
clear, isn't it?"
"About as clear as anything that's happened to me to-night," he said.
"A snowy night does make a difference," she reflected.
"A--a difference?"
"Yes--doesn't it?" she asked innocently.
"I--in what?"
"In clearness. Things are clearer by daylight?"
"I don't see--I--exactly how--as a matter of fact I don't follow you at
all," he said desperately. "You say things--and they sound all
right--but somehow my answers seem queer. Do you suppose that German
conversation has mentally twisted me?"
Her eyes above the fluffy fur of her muff were bright as stars, but she
did not laugh.
"Suppose," she said, demurely, "that you choose a subject of
conversation and try to make sense of it. If you are mentally twisted
it will be good practice."
"And you will--you won't say things--I mean things not germane to the
subject?"
"Did you say German?"
"No, germane."
"Oh! Have I been irrelevant, too?"
"Well, you mixed up mental clarity with snowy nights. Of course it was a
little joke--I saw that soon enough; I'd have seen it at once, only I
am rather upset and nervous after that German experience."
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
CHAPTER X
CHANCE
She considered him with guileless eyes. He was too good-looking, too
attractive, too young, and far too much pleased with himself. That was
the impression he gave her. And, as he was, in addition, plainly one of
her own sort, a man she was likely to meet anywhere--a well-bred,
well-mannered and agreeable young fellow, probably a recent
undergraduate, which might account for his really inoffensive
breeziness--she felt perfectly at ease with him and safe enough to
continue imprudently her mischief.
"If you are going to begin at the beginning," she said, "perhaps it
might steady your nerves to repeat your own name very slowly and
distinctly. Physicians recommend it sometimes," she added seriously.
"My name is John Seabury," he said, laughing. "Am I lucid?"
"Lucid so far," she said gravely. "I knew a Lily Seabury----"
"My sister. She's in Paris."
"Yes, I knew that, too," mused the girl, looking at him in a different
light--different in this way that his credentials were now
unquestionable, and she could be as mischievous as she pleased with the
minimum of imprudence.
"Do you ever take the advice of physicians," he asked naïvely, "about
repeating names?"
"Seldom," she said. "I don't require the treatment."
"I was only wondering----"
"You were wondering what C. G. stood for on my satchel? I will be very
glad to tell you, Mr. Seabury. C stands for Cecil, and G for Gay;
Cecil Gay. Is that lucid?"
"Cecil!" he said; "that's a man's name."
"How rude! It is my name. Now, do you think your mental calibre
requires any more re-boring?"
"Oh, you know about calibres and things. Do you shoot? I can talk
about dogs and guns. Listen to me, Miss Gay." The subject shifted from
shooting to fishing, and from hunting to driving four-in-hand, and
eventually came back to the horses and the quaint depot-sleigh which was
whirling them so swiftly toward their destination.
"Jack Austin and I were in Paris," he observed.
"Oh--recently?"
"Last year."
"I thought so."
"Why?" he asked.
"Oh, I suppose it was one of those obsessed premonitions----"
"You are laughing at me, Miss Gay."
"Am I? Why?"
"Why? How on earth is a man to know why? I don't know why you do it,
but you do--all the time."
"Not all the time, Mr. Seabury, because I don't know you well enough."
"But you know my sister!"
