was a triple row of lights. He should have been 
behind those lights and he was not. For the moment 
she hated politics. 
She closed the window and wrote the following 
letter : 
DEAR MR. NORTH, I am home, you see. Don't 
reply and tell me that the Tariff Bill surrounds you 
like a fortress wall. I am going for a walk at five o'clock 
on Saturday morning, and I expect to meet you somewhere 
in the forest above the north end of the lake. You can 
reach it by the path on your side. I shall row there. Do 
not labor over an excuse, my friend. I know how you 
hate to write letters, and you know that I am a tyrant 
whose orders are always obeyed. 
BETTY MADISON. 
" That should not worry him," she thought, " and it 
should bring him." 
As soon as she awoke next morning, she dressed and 
went downstairs. A woman stood in the lower hall, 
and from Sally's description Betty recognized Miss 
Trumbull. The woman's large mouth expanded in a 
smile, which, though correct enough, betrayed the 
self-satisfaction which pervaded her being. She was 
youngish-looking, and not as ugly as Miss Carter's bald 
description had implied. 
 
" Good-mornin'," she drawled. "I had a mind to 
set up for you last night, but I was tired. You like 
to get up early, don't you ? It 's just six. Miss Walker 
and Miss Carter don't git up till eight, Mr. Emory till 
nine fifteen, and your ma till eleven. The Major 's 
uncertain. But I'm real glad you like gittin' up 
early " 
"Will you kindly send me a boy?" interrupted 
Betty. " I wish a letter taken to the post-office." 
The woman came forward and extended her hand. 
" I'll give it to him," she said. 
" Send the boy to me. I have other orders to give 
him." 
As the woman turned away, Betty thought she detected a shade of disappointment on her face. " Has 
she that most detestable vulgarity of her class, curiosity?" she thought. " She seems to have observed 
the family very closely." 
The boy came, accompanied by Miss Trumbull, who 
made a slight but perceptible effort to see the address 
of the letter as Betty handed it to him. 
"Take this at once and bring me back a dollar's 
worth of stamps ; and go also to the village store and 
bring me some samples of worsted." 
She thought of several other things she did not 
want,- reflecting that she must in the future herself 
take to the post-office such letters as she did not wish 
Miss Trumbull to inspect and possibly read. The boy 
went his way, and Betty turned to the housekeeper and 
regarded her sharply. 
" I 'm afraid you'll find this a lonely situation," she 
said. "We are only here for a few months in the 
 
Well, of course I like the society of nice people, 
but I guess I can stand it. Poor folks can't pick and 
choose, and I suppose you wouldn't.mind my havin' 
a friend with me in the winter, would you ? " 
"Certainly not," said Betty, softening a little. But 
she did not like the woman, who was not frankly 
plebeian, but had buttered herself over with a coat of 
third-rate pretentiousness. And her voice and method 
of speech were irritating. She had a fat inflection and 
the longest drawl Betty had ever heard. Upon every 
fourth or fifth word she prolonged the drawl, and accomplished the effect of smoothing down her voice 
with her tongue. Capable as she might be, Betty 
wondered if she could stand Miss Trumbull through 
the summer. But the position was a very difficult one 
to fill. Even an old couple found it lonely, and a 
woman with a daughter never had been permitted to 
remain for two consecutive years. If the woman 
could be kept in the background, it might be worth 
while to give her a trial. 
Betty went out of doors and down to the lake. It 
lay in the cup of a peak, and about it towered higher 
peaks, black with pine forests, only a path here and 
there cutting their primeval gloom. Betty stepped 
into a boat and rowed beyond sight of her house and 
the hotel. Then she lay down, pushed a cushion 
under her head, and drifted. It had been a favorite 
pastime of hers since childhood, but this morning her 
mind for the first time opened to the danger of a 
wild and brooding solitude, still palpitating with the 
passions which had given it birth, for those whose 
own were awake. 
" Civilization does wonders for us," she said aloud 
 
she could have raised her voice and been unheard, 
and she revelled in her solitude. " It makes us really 
believe that conventions are the only comfortable conditions in the world, certainly indispensable. Up 
here " 
" If he and I were here alone for one week," she 
continued uncompromisingly and aloud to the mountains, " the world would cease to exist as far as we 
both were concerned. And I wish he were here and 
the Adirondacks adrift in space ! " 
She sat up suddenly after this wish; but although 
it had flushed her face, she had said the words deliberately and made no haste to unsay them. She 
looked ahead to the north end of the lake and the 
dark quiet aisles above. And when she met him there 
on Saturday morning, she must hold down her passion 
as she would hold down a mad dog. She must look 
with bright friendly eyes at the man to whose arms her 
imagination had given her unnumbered times. It 
seemed to her that she was an independent intellect 
caught and tangled in a fish-net of traditions. To 
violate the greatest of social laws was abhorrent to 
every inherited instinct. Her intellect argued that 
man was born for happiness and was a fool to put it 
from him. The social laws were arbitrary and had 
their roots in expediency alone ; man and his needs 
were made before the community. But the laws had 
been made long before her time, and they were bone 
of her bone. 
She knew that he would not be the one to break 
down the barrier, that he would leave her if she 
manifested uncontrollable weakness, not from the 
highest motives only, but because he had long since 
 
ceased to court ruin by folly; his self-control was 
many years older than herself. Doubtless he would 
never betray himself to her, no matter how much he 
might love her, unless she so tempted him that passion 
leaped above reason. And she knew that this was 
possible. There was no mistaking the temperament of 
the man. He was virile and sensual, but he had 
ordered that his passions should be the subjects of his 
brain; and so no doubt they were. 
Betty had no intention of forcing any such crisis, 
often as she might toy with the idea in her mind. 
But for the first time she compelled herself to look 
beyond the present, beyond the time when she could 
no longer sit in her boudoir and play to him, and 
shake him lightly by the hand as he left her. Perhaps 
she could not even get through this summer without 
betraying the flood that shook her nerves. If the 
barriers went down she must look into what? She 
gave her insight its liberty, and turned white. It 
