mischievously to herself; “and I suppose she’s picked out the worst
musician first, so as to build up a climax.”
It seemed as if that might have been the plan for a fact; the
performer sang part of Gluck’s “J’ai perdu mon Eurydice,” in strange
French, and in a mournful voice which served very well to display
the incompatibility of the melody and the words. As it happened,
however, Mistress Helen heard not a word of the song, for it had
scarcely begun before she turned her eyes towards the doorway and
caught sight of a figure that drove all other ideas from her mind.
Mr. Harrison had come at last.
He was a tall, dignified man, and Helen’s first feeling was of
relief to discover that he was neither coarse-looking, nor even
plain. He had rather too bright a complexion, and rather too large a
sandy mustache, but his clothes fitted him, and he seemed to be at
ease as he glanced about him and waited in the doorway for the young
lady at the piano to finish. While the faint applause was still
sounding he entered with Mrs. Roberts, moving slowly across the
room. “And now!” thought Helen, “now for it!”
As she expected, the two came towards her, and Mr. Harrison was
presented; Helen, who was on the watch with all her faculties,
decided that he bore that trial tolerably, for while his admiration
of course showed itself, he did not stare, and he was not
embarrassed.
“I am a little late, I fear,” he said; “have I missed much of the
music?”
“No,” said Helen, “that was the first selection.”
“I am glad of that,” said the other.
According to the laws which regulate the drifting of conversation,
it was next due that Helen should ask if he were fond of singing;
and then that he should answer that he was very fond of it, which he
did.
“Mrs. Roberts tells me you are a skillful musician,” he added; “I
trust that I shall hear you?”
Helen of course meant to play, and had devoted some thought to the
selection of her program; therefore she answered: “Possibly; we
shall see by and by.”
“I am told that you have been studying in Germany,” was the next
observation. “Do you like Germany?”
“Very much,” said Helen. “Only they made me work very hard at music,
and at everything else.”
“That is perhaps why you are a good player,” said Mr. Harrison.
“You ought to wait until you hear me,” the girl replied, following
his example of choosing the most obvious thing to say.
“I fear I am not much of a critic,” said the other.
And so the conversation drifted on for several minutes, Mr.
Harrison’s remarks being so very uninspiring that his companion
could find no way to change the subject to anything worth talking
about.
“Evidently,” the girl thought, during a momentary lull, “he has
learned all the rules of talking, and that’s why he’s at ease. But
dear me, what an awful prospect! It would kill me to have to do this
often. But then, to be sure I shan’t see him in the day time, and in
the evenings we should not be at home. One doesn’t have to be too
intimate with one’s husband, I suppose. And then--”
“I think,” said Mr. Harrison, “that your aunt is coming to ask you
to play.”
That was Aunt Polly’s mission, for a fact, and Helen was much
relieved, for she had found herself quite helpless to lift the
conversation out of the slough of despond into which it had fallen;
she wanted a little time to collect her faculties and think of
something clever to start with again. When in answer to the request
of Aunt Polly she arose and went to the piano, the crushed feeling
of course left her, and her serenity returned; for Helen was at home
at the piano, knowing that she could do whatever she chose, and do
it without effort. It was a stimulus to her faculties to perceive
that a general hush had fallen upon the room, and that every eye was
upon her; as she sat down, therefore, all her old exultation was
back.
She paused a moment to collect herself, and gave one easy glance
down the room at the groups of people. She caught a glimpse as she
did so of Mr. Howard, who was still seated upon the sofa, leaning
forward and resting his chin in his hand and fixing his eyes upon
her. At another time the sight of his wan face might perhaps have
annoyed the girl, but she was carried beyond that just then by the
excitement of the moment; her glance came back to the piano, and
feeling that everyone was attentive and expectant, she began.
Helen numbered in her repertoire a good many pieces that were
hopelessly beyond the technic of the average salon pianist, and she
had chosen the most formidable with which to astonish her hearers
that evening. She had her full share of that pleasure which people
get from concerning themselves with great things: a pleasure which
is responsible for much of the reading, and especially the
discussing, of the world’s great poets, and which brings forth many
lofty sentiments from the numerous class of persons who combine
idealism with vanity. Helen’s selection was the first movement of
the “Sonata Appassionata,” and she was filled with a pleasing sense
of majesty and importance as she began. She liked the first theme
especially because it was striking and dignified and never failed to
attract attention; and in what followed there was room for every
shading of tone, from delicate softness that showed much feeling and
sympathy, to stunning fortissimos that made everyone stare. The girl
was relieved of any possible fear by the certainty that the
composition was completely beyond her hearers’ understanding, and so
she soon lost herself in her task, and, as her excitement mounted,
played with splendid spirit and abandon. Her calculations proved
entirely well made, for when she stopped she received a real
ovation, having genuinely astonished her hearers; and she crossed
the room, beaming radiantly upon everyone and acknowledging their
compliments, more assured of triumph than ever before. To cap the
climax, when she reached her seat she found Mr. Harrison betraying
completely his profound admiration, his gaze being riveted upon the
glowing girl as she sat down beside him.
“Miss Davis,” he said, with evident sincerity, “that was really
wonderful!”
“Thank you very much,” said Helen, radiantly.
“It was the most splendid piano playing I have ever heard in my life,”
 the other went on. “Pray what was it that you played--something new?”
“Oh, no,” was the answer, “it is very old indeed.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Harrison, “those old composers were very great men.”
“Yes,” said Helen, demurely.
“I was astonished to see with what ease you played,” the other
continued, “and yet so marvelously fast! That must be a fearfully
hard piece of music to play.”
“Yes, it is,” said Helen; “but it is quite exciting,” she added,
fanning herself and laughing.
Helen was at the top of her being just then, and in perfect command
of things; she had no idea of letting herself be dragged down into
the commonplace again. “I think it’s about time I was fascinating
him,” she said to herself, and she started in, full of merriment and
life. Taking her last remark as a cue, she told him funny stories
about the eccentricities of the sonata’s great composer, how he
would storm and rage up and down his room like a madman, and how he
hired a boy to pump water over his head by the hour, in case of
emergency.
Mr. Harrison remarked that it was funny how all musicians were such
queer chaps, but even that did not discourage Helen. She rattled on,
quite as supremely captivating as she had been at the dinner table,
and as she saw that her companion was yielding to her spell, the
color mounted to her cheeks and her blood flowed faster yet.
It is of the nature of such flame to feed itself, and Helen grew the
more exulting as she perceived her success,--and consequently all
the more irresistible. The eyes of the man were soon riveted upon
the gorgeous vision of loveliness before him, and the contagion of
the girl’s animation showed itself even in him, for he brightened a
little, and was clever enough to startle himself. It was a new
delight and stimulus to Helen to perceive it, and she was soon swept
away in much the same kind of nervous delight as her phantasy with
the thunderstorm. The sofa upon which the two were seated had been
somewhat apart from the rest, and so they had nothing to disturb
them. A short half hour fled by, during which Helen’s daring
