Doctor!  Doctor!"
"I find it--difficult," replied the experienced physician, with
embarrassment.  "The case is--unusual.  Mrs. Avery"--
"Give me the worst!" cried the tortured man.
"That is impossible," said Esmerald Thorne, in a deep voice.  He turned
away and went to the window, where he stood looking out into the back
yard.  Kate was hanging out some sheets and other bedding.  Avery
noticed this circumstance--he had got up and stood behind the
doctor--as people notice the pettiest items in the largest crises of
their lives.  A small fluttering white thing on the line arrested his
attention.  It was the silk Spanish shawl which he had given his wife.
He put out his hand--groped, as a seeing man suddenly smitten blind
will grope--and, fumbling, found the doctor's arm and clutched it.
Then he toppled; his weight came heavily, and the physician caught him
before he struck the floor.
He pushed the brandy away from his lips and struggled up.  Even at that
moment it occurred to him that Esmerald Thorne looked at him with
something like aversion.
"When did she die?"
"Yesterday."
"What time?"
"At the ebb of the tide.  It was eleven o'clock in the morning."
"Who was with her?"
"The servants."
"Oh, my God, Thorne!  Nobody else?  Were n't you there?"
"I got there....  I doubt if she knew it....  It was only twenty
minutes before the end.  Hush!  Avery, hush!  Don't groan like that,
man.  Nobody is to blame.  If only--you"--  Dr. Thorne checked himself,
savagely, as he did when he was moved beyond endurance.
"Oh, I take it all!" cried Avery.  He stooped as if he bent his broad
shoulders to receive some mighty burden.  "I shall carry it all ...
forever.  Men have gone mad," he added, more calmly, "for much less
than I have got to face."
"If you find yourself strong enough," said the physician, "I shall try
to put you in possession of the facts."  Again, as before, Avery
thought he noticed an expression of aversion on the countenance of his
old friend.  Cowering, he bowed before it.  It was part of his
punishment; and he had already begun to feel that nothing but a
consciousness of punishment could give him any comfort now.
"Will you go up and see her first?" asked Dr. Thorne, as if to gain
time.  "She looks very lovely," he added, with quivering lip.
But the room rang to such a cry as the man of mercy--used to human
emergency, and old before his time in the assuagement of human
anguish--had never heard.
It softened Dr. Thorne a little, and he tried to be more gentle.  He
did not succeed altogether.  Iron and fire were in the doctor's nature,
and the metal did not melt for Marshall Avery.
He began quietly, with a marked reserve.  Mrs. Avery, he said, had been
very ill on the morning that her husband started.  He had hurried to
the house, as requested; her condition was so alarming that, after
doing what he could to relieve her, he had driven rapidly to the
river-wall back of the club, hoping to signal the yacht before it was
out of reach; he had even dispatched some one in a row-boat, and some
one else on a bicycle, hoping to overtake the Dream at the draw.  The
patient must have been low enough all night; and being subject to such
attacks--
"I had warned you," said the physician coldly.  "I explained to you the
true nature of her condition.  I have done my best for a year to
prevent just this catastrophe....  No.  I don't mean to be a brute.  I
don't want to dwell on that view of it.  You don't need my reproaches.
Of course you know how she took that trip of yours.  When the storm
came up, she--well, she suffered," said the doctor grimly.  "And the
wreck got into the papers.  We did our best to keep them from her.  But
you know she was a reading woman.  And then her anxiety....  And you
hadn't given us any address to telegraph to.  When she began to sink,
we could not notify you.  I should have sent a tug after you if it had
n't been for the gale--  What do you take me for?  Of course I
provided a nurse.  And my wife would have been here, but she was out of
town.  She only returned last night.  Helen did n't get here in time,
either.  It was most unfortunate.  I sent the best woman I could
command.  My regular staff were all on duty somewhere.  That was the
infernal part of it.  I had to take this stranger.  I gave her every
order.  But Mrs. Avery seemed to rally that morning.  She deceived us
all.  She deceived me; I admit it.  The woman must needs take her two
hours off just then--and Mrs. Avery got hold of the paper.  That's the
worst of it.  She read the account of the wreck all through.  You see,
the reporters gave the party up.  She was unconscious when I got here.
Once she seemed to know me.  But I cannot honestly say that I believe
she did.  I don't think I have anything more to say.  Not just now,
anyhow."  Esmerald Thorne turned away and looked out of the window
again, tapping on the sill with his fingers--scornfully one might have
said.
"We made the best arrangements we could.  Some relatives telegraphed.
And the interment"--
"Oh, have some mercy, Thorne!  I have borne all I can--from you." ...
"Esmerald?"  As if a spirit had stirred it, the library door opened
inwards slowly.  A womanly voice embodied in a fair and stately
presence melted into the room.
"Oh, my dear! my dear!" said Helen Thorne.  "Leave him to me."
As the stricken man lifted his face from the lash of his fellow-man,
the woman put out her hands and gathered his, as if he had been a
broken child.
"Oh," she said, "don't take it so!  Don't think of it that way.  It
would break Jean's heart....  She loved you so! ... And she knew you
did n't know how sick she was.  Any wife would know that--if her
husband loved her, and if she loved him.  And you did love her.  And
she knew you did.  She used to tell me how sure she was of your true
love--and how precious it was to her, and how much she ... cared for
you."
Helen's voice faltered on these last three words; she pronounced them
with infinite tenderness; it was the pathos of woman pleading for
womanhood, or love defending love.
"And she would n't want you to be tortured so--now.  Oh, she would be
the first of us all to forgive you for any mistake you made, or any
wrong you did.  She would understand just how it all came about, better
than any of us can--better than you do yourself.  Jean always
understood.  She wanted nothing, nothing in this world, but for you to
be happy.  She was so grieved because she was sick, and could not go
about with you, and make it as cheerful for you at home as she used to
do.  She used to tell me--oh, she used to tell me so many things about
how she felt, and every feeling she ever had was purer and tenderer and
truer than the feeling of any other woman that I ever knew!  She was
the noblest woman--the loveliest, ... and she loved you....  Why, she
could n't bear it--she could n't bear it, dead up there as she is, if
we let you suffer like this, and did not try ... if I did not try to
comfort you."
Helen's own tears broke her choking words.  But the heart-break of the
man's sobs came now at last; and they had such a sound that the doctor
covered his eyes, and stood with bowed head, as if he had been the
culprit, not the judge, before the awful courts of human error,
remorse, and love, in which no man may doom his fellow, since God's
verdict awaits.
"Come, Mr. Avery," said Helen.  She stooped and picked up the
tea-roses, which had fallen and were scattered on the floor, put them
into his cold hand--and then drew away.  "She 'd rather you would go up
alone," said Helen Thorne.
He passed out through the open door.  His two friends fell back.  The
children could be heard in the dining-room: Molly was trying to keep
them quiet there.  It seemed to him as if he waded through hot-house
flowers, the air was so thick with their repugnant scent.  He crawled
upstairs, steadying himself by the banister.  The hall below looked
small and dark, like a pit.  His head swam, and it occurred to him that
if he fell he would fall to a great depth.  He clung to the wretched
tea-roses that he had brought her.  He remembered that this was the
last thing he could ever do for her.
Outside the door of her room he stopped.  His lips stirred.  He found
himself repeating the old, commonplace words wrung from the despair of
mourners since grief was young in the story of the world:--
"It is all over.  This is the end."
"No," said a distinct voice near him, "it is not the end."
