Venier at the glass-house on the following morning. Indolent, tired of
his existence, sick of what amused and interested his companions, but
generous, true and kind-hearted, he had been sorry to hear that Zorzi
had suffered by an accident, and he felt impelled to go and see whether
the young fellow needed help. Venier did not remember that he had ever
resisted an impulse in his life, though he took the greatest pains to
hide the fact that he ever felt any. He perhaps did not realise that
although he had done many foolish things, and some that a confessor
would not have approved, he had never wished to do anything that was
mean, or unkind, or that might give him an unfair advantage over others.
He fancied Zorzi alone, uncared for, perhaps obliged to work in spite of
his lameness, and it occurred to him that he might help him in some way,
though it was by no means clear what direction his help should take. He
did not know that Beroviero was absent, and he intended to call for the
old glass-maker. It would be easy to say that he was an old friend of
Jacopo Contarini and wished to make the acquaintance of Marietta's
father before the wedding. He would probably have an opportunity of
speaking to Zorzi without showing that he already knew him, and he
trusted to Zorzi's discretion to conceal the fact, for he was a good
judge of men.
It turned out to be much easier to carry out his plan than he had
expected.
"My name is Zuan Venier," he said, in answer to Pasquale's gruff
inquiry.
Pasquale eyed him a moment through the bars, and immediately understood
that he was not a person to be kicked into the canal or received with
other similar amenities. The great name alone would have awed the old
porter to something like civility, but he had seen the visitor's face,
and being quite as good a judge of humanity as Venier himself, he opened
the door at once.
Venier explained that he wished to pay his respects to Messer Angelo
Beroviero, being an old friend of Messer Jacopo Contarini. Learning that
the master was absent on a journey, he asked whether there were any one
within to whom he could deliver a message. He had heard, he said, that
the master had a trusted assistant, a certain Zorzi. Pasquale answered
that Zorzi was in the laboratory, and led the way.
Zorzi was greatly surprised, but as Venier had anticipated, he said
nothing before Pasquale which could show that he had met his visitor
before. Venier made a courteous inclination of the head, and the porter
disappeared immediately.
"I heard that you had been hurt," said Venier, when they were alone. "I
came to see whether I could do anything for you. Can I?"
Zorzi was touched by the kind words, spoken so quietly and sincerely,
for it was only lately that any one except Marietta had shown him a
little consideration. He had not forgotten how his master had taken
leave of him, and the unexpected friendliness of old Pasquale after his
accident had made a difference in his life; but of all men he had ever
met, Venier was the one whom he had instinctively desired for a friend.
"Have you come over from Venice on purpose to see me?" he asked, in
something like wonder.
"Yes," answered Venier with a smile. "Why are you surprised?"
"Because it is so good of you."
"You have solemnly sworn to do as much for me, and for all the
companions of our society," returned Venier, still smiling. "We are to
help each other under all circumstances, as far as we can, you know. You
are standing, and it must tire you, with those crutches. Shall we sit
down? Tell me quite frankly, is there anything I can do for you?"
"Nothing you could ever do could make me more grateful than I am to you
for coming," answered Zorzi sincerely.
Venier took the crutches from his hands and helped him to sit on the
bench.
"You are very kind," Zorzi said.
Venier sat down beside him and asked him all manner of questions about
his accident, and how it had happened. Zorzi had no reason for
concealing the truth from him.
"They all hate me here," he said. "It happened like an accident, but the
man made it happen. I do not think that he intended to maim me for life,
but he meant to hurt me badly, and he did. There was not a man or a boy
in the furnace room who did not understand, for no workman ever yet let
his blow-pipe slip from his hand in swinging a piece. But I do not wish
to make matters worse, and I have said that I believed it was an
accident."
"I should like to come across the man who did it," said Venier, his eyes
growing hard and steely.
"When I tried to hop to the furnace on one leg to save myself from
falling, one of the men cried out that I was a dancer, and laughed. I
hear that the name has stuck to me among the workmen. I am called the
'Ballarin.'"
The ignoble meanness of Zorzi's tormentors roused Venier's generous
blood.
"You will yet be their master," he said. "You will some day have a
furnace of your own, and they will fawn to you. Your nickname will be
better than their names in a few years!"
"I hope so," answered Zorzi.
"I know it," said the other, with an energy that would have surprised
those who only knew the listless young nobleman whom nothing could amuse
or interest.
He did not stay very long, and when he went away he said nothing about
coming again. Zorzi went with him to the door. He had asked the
Dalmatian to tell old Beroviero of his visit. Pasquale, who had never
done such a thing in his life, actually went out upon the footway to the
steps and steadied the gondola by the gunwale while Venier got in.
Giovanni Beroviero saw Venier come out, for it was near noon, and he had
just come back from his own glass-house and was standing in the shadow
of his father's doorway, slowly fanning himself with his large cap
before he went upstairs, for it had been very hot in the sun. He did not
know Zuan Venier by sight, but there was no mistaking the Venetian's
high station, and he was surprised to see that the nobleman was
evidently on good terns with Zorzi.
CHAPTER XIV
Zorzi had not left the glass-house since he had been hurt, but he
foresaw that he might be obliged to leave the laboratory for an hour or
more, now that he was better. He could walk, with one crutch and a
stick, resting a little on the injured foot, and he felt sure that in a
few days he should be able to walk with the stick alone. He had the
certainty that he was lame for life, and now and then, when it was dusk
and he sat under the plane-tree, meditating upon the uncertain future,
he felt a keen pang at the thought that he might never again walk
without limping; for he had been light and agile, and very swift of foot
as a boy.
He fancied that Marietta would pity him, but not as she had pitied him
at first. There would be a little feeling of repulsion for the cripple,
mixed with her compassion for the man. It was true that, as matters were
going now, he might not see her often again, and he was quite sure that
he had no right to think of loving her. Zuan Venier's visit had recalled
very clearly the obligations by which he had solemnly bound himself, and
which he honestly meant to fulfil; and apart from them, when he tried to
reason about his love, he could make it seem absurd enough that he
should dream of winning Marietta for his wife.
But love itself does not argue. At first it is seen far off, like a
beautiful bird of rare plumage, among flowers, on a morning in spring;
it comes nearer, it is timid, it advances, it recedes, it poises on
swiftly beating wings, it soars out of sight, but suddenly it is nearer
than before; it changes shapes, and grows vast and terrible, till its
flight is like the rushing of the whirlwind; then all is calm again, and
in the stillness a sweet voice sings the chant of peace or the
melancholy dirge of an endless regret; it is no longer the dove, nor the
eagle, nor the storm that leaves ruin in its track--it is everything, it
is life, it is the world itself, for ever and time without end, for good
or evil, for such happiness as may pass all understanding, if God will,
and if not, for undying sorrow.
Zorzi had forgotten his small resentment against Marietta, for not
having given him a sign nor sent one word of greeting. He knew only that
he loved her with all his heart and would give every hope he had for the
pressure of her hand in his and the sound of her answering voice; and he
dreaded lest she should pity him, as one pities a hurt creature that one
would rather not touch.
It would not be in the hope of seeing her that he might leave the
laboratory before long. He felt quite sure that Giovanni would make some
further attempt to get possession of the little book that meant fortune
