believe, if you back out, that there's suddenly someone you want to
protect. Weak man," she exclaimed with an assurance from which, I
confess, I was to take alarm, "something has happened to you since we
separated! Weak man," she repeated with dreadful gaiety, "you've been
squared!"
I literally blushed for her. "Squared?"
"Does it inconveniently happen that you find you're in love with her
yourself?"
"Well," I replied on quick reflection, "do, if you like, call it that;
for you see what a motive it gives me for being, in such a matter as
this wonderful one that you and I happened to find ourselves for a
moment making so free with, absolutely sure about her. I am absolutely
sure. There! She won't do. And for your postulate that she's at the
present moment in some sequestered spot in Long's company, suffer me
without delay to correct it. It won't hold water. If you'll go into the
library, through which I have just passed, you'll find her there in the
company of the Comte de Dreuil."
Mrs. Briss stared again. "Already? She was, at any rate, with Mr.
Long, and she told me on my meeting them that they had just come from
the pastels."
"Exactly. They met there--she and I having gone together; and they
retired together under my eyes. They must have parted, clearly, the
moment after."
She took it all in, turned it all over. "Then what does that prove but
that they're afraid to be seen?"
"Ah, they're not afraid, since both you and I saw them!"
"Oh, only just long enough for them to publish themselves as not
avoiding each other. All the same, you know," she said, "they do."
"Do avoid each other? How is your belief in that," I asked, "consistent
with your belief that they parade together in the park?"
"They ignore each other in public; they foregather in private."
"Ah, but they don't--since, as I tell you, she's even while we talk
the centre of the mystic circle of the twaddle of M. de Dreuil; chained
to a stake if you can be. Besides," I wound up, "it's not only that
she's not the 'right fool'--it's simply that she's not a fool at all.
We want the woman who has been rendered most inane. But this lady hasn't
been rendered so in any degree. She's the reverse of inane. She's in
full possession."
"In full possession of what?"
"Why, of herself."
"Like Lady John?"
I had unfortunately to discriminate here. "No, not like Lady John."
"Like whom then?"
"Like anyone. Like me; like you; like Brissenden. Don't I satisfy you?"
I asked in a moment.
She only looked at me a little, handsome and hard. "If you wished to
satisfy me so easily you shouldn't have made such a point of working me
up. I daresay I, after all, however," she added, "notice more things
than you."
"As for instance?"
"Well, May Server last evening. I was not quite conscious at the time
that I did, but when one has had the 'tip' one looks back and sees
things in a new light."
It was doubtless because my friend irritated me more and more that I met
this with a sharpness possibly excessive. "She's perfectly natural. What
I saw was a test. And so is he."
But she gave me no heed. "If there hadn't been so many people I should
have noticed of myself after dinner that there was something the matter
with her. I should have seen what it was. She was all over the place."
She expressed it as the poor lady's other critic had done, but this
didn't shut my mouth. "Ah, then, in spite of the people, you did notice.
What do you mean by 'all over the place'?"
"She couldn't keep still. She was different from the woman one had last
seen. She used to be so calm--as if she were always sitting for her
portrait. Wasn't she in fact always being painted in a pink frock and
one row of pearls, always staring out at you in exhibitions, as if she
were saying 'Here they are again'? Last night she was on the rush."
"The rush? Oh!"
"Yes, positively--from one man to another. She was on the pounce. She
talked to ten in succession, making up to them in the most extraordinary
way and leaving them still more crazily. She's as nervous as a cat. Put
it to any man here, and see if he doesn't tell you."
"I should think it quite unpleasant to put it to any man here," I
returned; "and I should have been sure you would have thought it the
same. I spoke to you in the deepest confidence."
Mrs. Brissenden's look at me was for a moment of the least
accommodating; then it changed to an intelligent smile. "How you are
protecting her! But don't cry out," she added, "before you're hurt.
Since your confidence has distinguished me--though I don't quite see
why--you may be sure I haven't breathed. So I all the more resent your
making me a scene on the extraordinary ground that I've observed as well
as yourself. Perhaps what you don't like is that my observation may be
turned on you. I confess it is."
It was difficult to bear being put in the wrong by her, but I made an
effort that I believe was not unsuccessful to recover my good humour.
"It's not in the least to your observation that I object, it's to the
extravagant inferences you draw from it. Of course, however, I admit I
always want to protect the innocent. What does she gain, on your theory,
by her rushing and pouncing? Had she pounced on Brissenden when we met
him with her? Are you so very sure he hadn't pounced on her? They had,
at all events, to me, quite the air of people settled; she was not, it
was clear, at that moment meditating a change. It was we, if you
remember, who had absolutely to pull them apart."
"Is it your idea to make out," Mrs. Brissenden inquired in answer to
this, "that she has suddenly had the happy thought of a passion for my
husband?"
A new possibility, as she spoke, came to me with a whirr of wings, and I
half expressed it. "She may have a sympathy."
My interlocutress gazed at space. "You mean she may be sorry for him? On
what ground?"
I had gone too far indeed; but I got off as I could. "You neglect him
so! But what is she, at any rate," I went on, "nervous--as nervous as
you describe her--about?"
"About her danger; the contingency of its being fixed upon them--an
intimacy so thoroughgoing that they can scarcely afford to let it be
seen even as a mere acquaintance. Think of the circumstances--her
personal ones, I mean, and admit that it wouldn't do. It would be too
bad a case. There's everything to make it so. They must live on pins and
needles. Anything proved would go tremendously hard for her."
"In spite of which you're surprised that I 'protect' her?"
It was a question, however, that my companion could meet. "From people
in general, no. From me in particular, yes."
In justice to Mrs. Brissenden I thought a moment. "Well, then, let us be
fair all round. That you don't, as you say, breathe is a discretion I
appreciate; all the more that a little inquiry, tactfully pursued, would
enable you to judge whether any independent suspicion does attach. A
little loose collateral evidence might be picked up; and your scorning
to handle it is no more than I should, after all, have expected of you."
"Thank you for 'after all'!" My companion tossed her head. "I know for
myself what I scorn to handle. Quite apart from that there's another
matter. You must have noticed yourself that when people are so much
liked----"
"There's a kind of general, amiable consensus of blindness? Yes--one can
think of cases. Popularity shelters and hallows--has the effect of
making a good-natured world agree not to see."
My friend seemed pleased that I so sufficiently understood. "This
evidently has been a case then in which it has not only agreed not to
see, but agreed not even to look. It has agreed in fact to look straight
the other way. They say there's no smoke without fire, but it appears
there may be fire without smoke. I'm satisfied, at all events, that one
wouldn't in connection with these two find the least little puff. Isn't
that just what makes the magnificence of their success--the success that
reduces us to playing over them with mere moonshine?" She thought of it;
seemed fairly to envy it. "I've never seen such luck!"
"A rare case of the beauty of impunity as impunity?" I laughed. "Such
a case puts a price on passions otherwise to be deprecated? I'm glad
indeed you admit we're 'reduced.' We are reduced. But what I meant to
say just now was that if you'll continue to join in the genial
conspiracy while I do the same--each of us making an exception only for
the other--I'll pledge myself absolutely to the straight course. If
