back ! I did not think it would be so hard. There are 
all those Indian tribes, with horrid names, who scalp 
every one or burn them at the stake. Oh, poor Ger- 
vaise! And now I wish we had never seen that M’sieu 
Norton. Did he send that beautiful hound? I shall hate 
it, I know.” 
“Zenobie Lavalette goes wild over it. We can let her 
take it.” 
Something like a flash crossed the weary blue eyes. 
“I would rather Hortense should have it,” she made 
answer. 
“He may have taken it with him. It is not here, and 
he said nothing about it when he went away.” 
Angelique colored consciously, with the recollection of 
what he did say. 
“I want Viny to come and hold me,” she insisted, 
rather fretfully. 
Viny came, and took her on her lap in the great reed 
rocking-chair, and crooned out songs in her soft voice, 
that was like a rushy rivulet and had no high notes. 
The next day, and the next day, Sylvie lay on the small 
white cot, or was in Viny’s arms. She wanted nothing to 
eat — she would not even talk. Her eyes seemed to grow 
larger and more wistful, and the color went out of her 
cheeks. 
“What shall we do ?” Barbe kept saying. “Poor petite 
lamb. She looks like her mother.” 
“Is that Telano crying?” she asked of Viny on the 
eve of the second day. 
“Poor Telano. He has done nothing but mourn all 
day little Missy. He will not eat anything.” 
“That is like me.” She smiled faintly. “Do you 
think he would starve?” 
“He looks so sorrowful, and shakes his head.” 
“And he might die. Oh, Viny, I shouldn’t like to die. 
It must be horrid to be shut up in one of those stone 
vaults and never see any one again. All the world is 
so lovely ! The magnolias are coming out — I smell 
them — and the jasmin. Yes, it is pleasanter to live even 
if — the people you love do go away. Viny, carry me 
downstairs, and let me comfort poor Telano.” 
Viny took her down and sat her in the hammock. 
Telano ran awkwardly from the crape-myrtle allee where 
he had been bemoaning his sorrows to the birds of the air. 
The sun was almost down, and the soft red and purplish 
lights were tinted with lavender and green. 
“Poor Telano!” He laid his head in the lap of his 
little mistress and uttered strange, pathetic cries, some of 
them not unlike a turkey’s gobble. When he had gone 
through the whole gamut of sounds, he looked up in 
Sylvie’s face. 
“Yes, Telano, two whole long days! I wasn’t asleep 
nor quite awake, but in some queer sort of atmosphere — 
and I know how it seems.” She patted his head, and 
he arched his neck, then took a few steps away and came 
slowly back. 
“No, I can’t take a run with you. But you shall have 
some bread. All the run has gone out of me, and I just 
want to sit still. I haven’t gone entirely away from you, 
so you can’t understand, though you do know so much. It 
may be a whole long year before Gervaise comes back, 
and a hundred things may happen to him. Nothing 
much happens to little girls, only they grow and grow 
and get to be women ; but it takes a long while,” with a 
sigh. 
Viny returned with some bread. Sylvie crumbed it, 
but Telano did not eat ravenously, as if he had be»rn 
neglected or as if the pond had refused its usual suste- 
nance. Then he came and stood on one foot beside her, 
rubbing her shoulder occasionally, with sympathetic in- 
telligence, while she talked on in a caressing strain. 
Angelique appeared at the edge of the court. 
“Monsieur Norton has sent the dog,” she began stiffly. 
“A slave has him. What shall we do, Sylvie? You do 
not want him.” 
Sylvie was a little offended at the tone. “Send him 
here to me,” she returned. 
“But ” in a hesitating tone. 
“I want to see him,” rather pettishly. 
The slave, a young fellow belonging to the barber, had 
him in charge. He had brought him up the day before, 
but Jaques had dismissed him rather summarily, with the 
tidings that Mam’selle was ill, and could not be bothered 
with the dog. 
He bowed most obsequiously, having met with a 
rather cool reception from Angelique. 
“M’sieu Norton ordered that I should bring him to 
you,” he began in a rather deprecating tone. “He is a 
mos’ beautiful creature. Mademoiselle, and so gentle, so 
loving, so true. If you were to go away at any time, or 
tire of him, I am to keep him until M’sieu comes back.” 
He had the dog in leash — a magnificent, fawn-colored 
hound with a long slender head, fine pink nostrils, and 
most beautiful, entreating eyes. He halted in a question- 
ing attitude. 
“Hylas, come here,” Sylvie said, gently. 
Hylas obeyed, and stood before her a sort of proud 
suppliant. There was a whole story in his glance — the 
story Roger Norton had told more than once. Sylvie 
had made the dog’s acquaintance before, and admired 
him. 
‘T wonder if you would like to live here, Hylas? I 
have Telano, and you would have to be good friends with 
him.” She hugged the crane up closer, who rather glared 
at the new-comer, and the pink rim of his eyes grew 
fiery. 
Hylas gave his tail several emphatic twirls, and his 
eyes said, ‘T have been told to obey. Your will must be 
mine.” 
'‘You are so very handsome and strong, and would take 
care of me, I know.” 
“As for killing snakes, Mam’selle, he’s a master. He 
never lets one get way.” 
Hylas assented to that, emphatically, and came a step 
nearer. 
“Oh, what a pretty collar ! Let me see ” 
He put his nose in her lap. Telano gave a hiss, but 
he looked steadily at the crane. No doubt he would have 
enjoyed twisting his neck with a good strong shake. 
“Hylas! Sylvie Perrier,” she read. “Oh, yes, I must 
keep him, then. Everybody will know he belongs to me.” 
She smiled with delight. “Take off that ugly rope, and 
— I am obliged to you for bringing him. I wonder if he 
will be content? I do not like dogs, generally, but I 
i
like him already. He looks so wise. Hylas, will you 
like to stay here ?” 
Did the dog understand? How much the brute crea- 
tion responds to, as if it surely did. He gave a curious 
sound, not a whine, not a bark, but it appeared to have a 
note of satisfaction in it. He touched the little hand with 
his tongue, caressingly ; his eyes seemed to overflow with 
promise. 
“You may come to-morrow and see if he feels at home 
and would like to stay,” and Sylvie smiled dismissingly. 
The man murmured thanks, and touched his hat, 
braided of the young river reeds — an art learned from the 
Indian squaws. 
Telano did not take very kindly to the head in his 
mistress’s lap. He would have been delighted to make 
