been mentioned. Then she asked the Abbe to communicate with Father
Rameau for particulars and had been answered. Here was a new work for
her, to snatch this child from evil ways and bring her up safely in the
care of the Church. She gained permission to go for her, and here again
circumstances seemed to play at cross purposes.
The Sieur Angelot understood in a little while that whatever love had
inspired her that night she had besought him to rescue her from a life
that looked hateful to her young eyes, the passion that influenced her
then was utterly dead, abhorrent to her. Better, a thousand times
better, that it should be so. He could not make that eager, impetuous
girl, whose voice trembled with emotion, whose kisses answered his,
whose soft arms clung to his neck, out of this pale, attenuated,
bloodless woman. Perhaps it was heroic to give all to her Church. Even
men had done this.
"And thou art happy and satisfied in this calling, Mignonne," he half
assumed, half inquired.
Did the old term of endearment touch some chord that was not quite dead,
after all? A faint flush brought a wavering heat to her face.
"It is my choice. And if I can have my child to train, to keep from
evil--" her voice trembled.
He shook his head. "Nay, I cannot have her bright young life thrust into
the shadow for which she has no taste. She would pine and die."
"I thought so once. I should have died sooner in the other life. It is
God and his holy Son who give grace."
"She will not forsake her duty to the one who has taken such kindly care
of her, the Pani woman."
"She can come, too. Give me my child, it is all I ask of you. Surely you
do not need her."
Her voice was roused to a certain intensity, her thin hands worked. But
it seemed to him there was something almost cruel in the motion.
"I cannot force her will. It is as she shall choose."
And seeing Jeanne all eager interest in the doorway of the old cottage,
he knew that she would never choose to shut herself out of the radiant
sunlight.
"Here is the old gift for you, my child;" and he clasped the chain with
its little locket round her neck.
Pani came and looked at it. "Yes, yes," she said. "It was on thy baby
neck, little one. And there are the two letters--"
"It was cruel to prick them in the soft baby flesh," the Sieur said,
smilingly. "I wonder I had the courage. They alone would prove my right.
And now there is no time to waste. Will you make ready--"
"I am not often asked among the quality," and her face turned scarlet.
"I have no fine attire. Wilt thou be ashamed of me?"
She looked so radiant in her girlish beauty, that it seemed to him at
the moment there was nothing more to desire. And the delicious archness
in her tone captivated him anew. Consign her to convent walls--never!
Mam'selle Fleury took charge of Jeanne at once and led her through the
large hall to a side chamber. Not so long ago she was a gay, laughing
girl, now she was a gravely sweet woman, nursing a sorrow.
"It was a sudden summons," she explained. "And we could not expect to
know just when the child grew into a maiden. Therefore you will not feel
hurt, that I, having a wider experience, prepared for the occasion. Let
me arrange your costume now. I had this frock when I was of your age,
though I was hardly as slim. How much you are like your father, child!"
"I think he was a little hurt that I had nothing to honor you with,"
Jeanne said, simply.
"Monsieur Loisel was saying that you needed a woman's hand, now that you
were outgrowing childhood."
She drew off Jeanne's plain gown; and though this was simple for the
fashion of the day, it transformed the child into a woman. The long,
pointed bodice, the square neck, with its bordering of handsome lace,
showing the exquisite throat sloping into the shoulders and chest, the
puffings that fell like waves about the hips and made ripples as they
went down the skirt, the sleeves ending at the elbow with a fall of
lace, and her hair caught up high and falling in a cascade of curls,
tied with a great bow that looked like a butterfly, changed her so that
she hardly knew herself.
"O, Mam'selle, you have made me beautiful!" she cried, in delight. "I
shall be glad to do you honor, and for the sake of M. St. Armand; but my
father would love me in the plainest gown."
Mam'selle smiled over her handiwork. But Jeanne's beauty was her own.
She had grown many shades fairer during the winter, and had not rambled
about so much nor been on the water so often. Her slim figure, in its
virginal lines, was as lissome as the child's, but there was an
exquisite roundness to every limb and it lent flexibility to her
movements. A beautiful girl, Mademoiselle Fleury acknowledged to
herself, and she wondered that no one beside M. St. Armand had seen the
promise in her.
The Sieur Angelot had been presented to the guest so lately returned
from abroad.
"I desire to thank you most heartily, Monsieur St. Armand," M. Angelot
began, "for an unusual interest in my child that I did not know was
living until a few weeks ago. She is most enthusiastic about you.
Indeed, I have been almost jealous."
St. Armand smiled, and bowed gracefully.
"I believe I shall prove to you that I had a right, and, if my discovery
holds good, we are of some distant kin. When I first heard her name a
vague memory puzzled me, and when I went to France I resolved to search
for a family link almost forgotten in the many turns there have been in
the old families in my native land. Three generations ago a Gaston de la
Touchê Angelot gave his life for his religious faith. Those were
perilous times, and there was little chance for freedom of belief."
"He was my grandfather," returned the Sieur Angelot gravely. "We have
been Huguenots for generations. More than one has died for his faith."
"And he was a cousin to my father. I am, as you see, in the generation
before you. And I am glad fate or fortune, as you will, has brought
about this meeting. When I learned this fact I said: 'As soon as I
return to America I shall search out this little girl in Old Detroit and
take her under my care. There will be no one to object, no one who will
have a better right.' I am all curiosity to know how on your side you
made the discovery."
There was a rustle of silken trains in the hall. Madame Fleury entered
in a stiff brocade and a sparkle of jewels, Mam'selle in a softer,
though still elegant attire, and Jeanne, who stood amazed at the eyes
bent upon her; even her father was mute from very surprise.
"Oh, my sweet Jeanne," began M. St. Armand, smilingly, "thou hast
strangely outgrown the little girl I used to know. Memory hath cheated
me in the years. For the child that kept such a warm place in my heart
hath grown into a woman, and not only that, but hath a new friend and
will not need me."
"Monsieur, no one with remembrance in her heart can so easily give up an
old friend who made life brighter and happier for her, and who kindled
the spark of ambition in her soul. I think even my father owes you a
great debt. I might still have been a wild thing, haunting the woods and
waters Indian fashion, and, as one might say, despising civilized life,"
smiling with a bewitching air. "I thank you, Monsieur, for your interest
in me. For it has given me a great deal of happiness, and no doubt saved
me from some foolish mistakes."
She had proffered him her dainty hand at the beginning of her speech,
and now with a charming color she raised her eyes to her father. One
could trace a decided likeness between them.
"Monsieur St. Armand has done still more," subjoined her father. "He has
taken pains while in France to hunt up bygone records, and found that
the families are related. So you have not only a friend but a relative,
and I surely will join you in gratitude."
"I am most happy." She glanced smilingly from one to the other.
Mam'selle Fleury watched her with surprise. The grace, ease, and
presence of mind one could hardly have looked for. "It is in the blood,"
she said to herself, and she wished, too, that she had made herself a
friend of this enchanting girl.
Then they moved toward the dining room. M. Fleury took in Jeanne as the
honored guest, and seated her at his right. The Sieur Angelot was beside
the hostess. The conversation in the nature of the startling incidents
was largely personal and between the two men. Mam'selle Fleury was
deeply interested in the adventures of the Sieur Angelot, detailed with
spirit and vivacity. Jeanne's varying color and her evident pride in her
father was delightful to witness. That he and this elegant St. Armand
should have sprung from the same stock was easy to believe. While the
gentlemen sat over their wine and cigars Mam'selle took Jeanne to the
pretty sitting room that she had once visited with such awe. It was
