"Has Miss Croy meanwhile written to our friend?"
"Oh," Mrs. Stringham amended, "her friend also. But not a single word
that I know of."
He had taken it for certain she hadn't--the thing being after all but a
shade more strange than his having himself, with Milly, never for six
weeks mentioned the young lady in question. It was for that matter but
a shade more strange than Milly's not having mentioned her. In spite of
which, and however inconsequently, he blushed anew for Kate's silence.
He got away from it in fact as quickly as possible, and the furthest he
could get was by reverting for a minute to the man they had been
judging. "How did he manage to get at her? She had only--with what
had passed between them before--to say she couldn't see him."
"Oh she was disposed to kindness. She was easier," the good lady
explained with a slight embarrassment, "than at the other time."
"Easier?"
"She was off her guard. There was a difference."
"Yes. But exactly not the difference."
"Exactly not the difference of her having to be harsh. Perfectly. She
could afford to be the opposite." With which, as he said nothing, she
just impatiently completed her sense. "She had had you here for six
weeks."
"Oh!" Densher softly groaned.
"Besides, I think he must have written her first--written I mean in a
tone to smooth his way. That it would be a kindness to himself. Then on
the spot--"
"On the spot," Densher broke in, "he unmasked? The horrid little beast!"
It made Susan Shepherd turn slightly pale, though quickening, as for
hope, the intensity of her look at him. "Oh he went off without an
alarm."
"And he must have gone off also without a hope."
"Ah that, certainly."
"Then it was mere base revenge. Hasn't he known her, into the
bargain," the young man asked--"didn't he, weeks before, see her, judge
her, feel her, as having for such a suit as his not more perhaps than a
few months to live?"
Mrs. Stringham at first, for reply, but looked at him in silence; and
it gave more force to what she then remarkably added. "He has doubtless
been aware of what you speak of, just as you have yourself been aware."
"He has wanted her, you mean, just because--?"
"Just because," said Susan Shepherd.
"The hound!" Merton Densher brought out. He moved off, however, with a
hot face, as soon as he had spoken, conscious again of an intention in
his visitor's reserve. Dusk was now deeper, and after he had once more
taken counsel of the dreariness without he turned to his companion.
"Shall we have lights--a lamp or the candles?"
"Not for me."
"Nothing?"
"Not for me."
He waited at the window another moment and then faced his friend with a
thought. "He will have proposed to Miss Croy. That's what has
happened."
Her reserve continued. "It's you who must judge."
"Well, I do judge. Mrs. Lowder will have done so too--only she, poor
lady, wrong. Miss Croy's refusal of him will have struck him"--Densher
continued to make it out--"as a phenomenon requiring a reason."
"And you've been clear to him as the reason?"
"Not too clear--since I'm sticking here and since that has been a fact
to make his descent on Miss Theale relevant. But clear enough. He has
believed," said Densher bravely, "that I may have been a reason at
Lancaster Gate, and yet at the same time have been up to something in
Venice."
Mrs. Stringham took her courage from his own. "'Up to' something? Up to
what?"
"God knows. To some 'game,' as they say. To some deviltry. To some
duplicity."
"Which of course," Mrs. Stringham observed, "is a monstrous
supposition." Her companion, after a stiff minute--sensibly long for
each--fell away from her again, and then added to it another minute,
which he spent once more looking out with his hands in his pockets.
This was no answer, he perfectly knew, to what she had dropped, and it
even seemed to state for his own ears that no answer was possible. She
left him to himself, and he was glad she had declined, for their
further colloquy, the advantage of lights. These would have been an
advantage mainly to herself. Yet she got her benefit too even from the
absence of them. It came out in her very tone when at last she
addressed him--so differently, for confidence--in words she had already
used. "If Sir Luke himself asks it of you as something you can do for
him, will you deny to Milly herself what she has been made so
dreadfully to believe?"
Oh how he knew he hung back! But at last he said: "You're absolutely
certain then that she does believe it?"
"Certain?" She appealed to their whole situation. "Judge!"
He took his time again to judge. "Do you believe it?"
He was conscious that his own appeal pressed her hard; it eased him a
little that her answer must be a pain to her discretion. She answered
none the less, and he was truly the harder pressed. "What I believe
will inevitably depend more or less on your action. You can perfectly
settle it--if you care. I promise to believe you down to the ground if,
to save her life, you consent to a denial."
"But a denial, when it comes to that--confound the whole thing, don't
you see!--of exactly what?"
It was as if he were hoping she would narrow; but in fact she enlarged.
"Of everything."
Everything had never even yet seemed to him so incalculably much. "Oh!"
he simply moaned into the gloom.
IV
The near Thursday, coming nearer and bringing Sir Luke Strett, brought
also blessedly an abatement of other rigours. The weather changed, the
stubborn storm yielded, and the autumn sunshine, baffled for many days,
but now hot and almost vindictive, came into its own again and, with an
almost audible paean, a suffusion of bright sound that was one with the
bright colour, took large possession. Venice glowed and plashed and
called and chimed again; the air was like a clap of hands, and the
scattered pinks, yellows, blues, sea-greens, were like a hanging-out of
vivid stuffs, a laying-down of fine carpets. Densher rejoiced in this
on the occasion of his going to the station to meet the great doctor.
He went after consideration, which, as he was constantly aware, was at
present his imposed, his only, way of doing anything. That was where
the event had landed him--where no event in his life had landed him
before. He had thought, no doubt, from the day he was born, much more
than he had acted; except indeed that he remembered thoughts--a few of
them--which at the moment of their coming to him had thrilled him
almost like adventures. But anything like his actual state he had not,
as to the prohibition of impulse, accident, range--the prohibition in
other words of freedom--hitherto known. The great oddity was that if he
had felt his arrival, so few weeks back, especially as an adventure,
nothing could now less resemble one than the fact of his staying. It
would be an adventure to break away, to depart, to go back, above all,
to London, and tell Kate Croy he had done so; but there was something
of the merely, the almost meanly, obliged and involved sort in his
going on as he was. That was the effect in particular of Mrs.
Stringham's visit, which had left him as with such a taste in his mouth
of what he couldn't do. It had made this quantity clear to him, and yet
had deprived him of the sense, the other sense, of what, for a refuge,
he possibly could.
It was but a small make-believe of freedom, he knew, to go to the
station for Sir Luke. Nothing equally free, at all events, had he yet
turned over so long. What then was his odious position but that again
and again he was afraid? He stiffened himself under this consciousness
as if it had been a tax levied by a tyrant. He hadn't at any time
proposed to himself to live long enough for fear to preponderate in his
life. Such was simply the advantage it had actually got of him. He was
afraid for instance that an advance to his distinguished friend might
prove for him somehow a pledge or a committal. He was afraid of it as a
current that would draw him too far; yet he thought with an equal
aversion of being shabby, being poor, through fear. What finally
prevailed with him was the reflexion that, whatever might happen, the
great man had, after that occasion at the palace, their young woman's
brief sacrifice to society--and the hour of Mrs. Stringham's appeal had
brought it well to the surface--shown him marked benevolence. Mrs.
