book-store?"

He was silent. His face was answer enough--a terrible answer.

"Monsieur Eyre, speak to me! Is it true? Did they--did you not know
that I made an error--that I did go on Monday at the same hour?"

His haggard face lighted up; she saw it, and caught his hands in
hers.

"Did you think I knew?" she stammered. "Did you think I could do
that? They told me at the usine that you had gone away--I thought
you had forgotten--that you did not care--"

"Care!" he groaned, and bowed his head, crushing her hands over his
face.

Then she broke down, breathless with terror and grief.

"I was not a spy then--truly I was not, Kelly. There was no harm in
me--I only--only asked for the sketches because--because--I cared for
you. I have them now; no soul save myself has ever seen them--even
afterward, when I drifted into intrigue at the Embassy--when everybody
knew that Bismarck meant to force war--everybody except the French
people--I never showed those little sketches! They were--were mine!
Kelly, they were all I had left when you went away--to a
fortress!--and I did not know!--I did not know!"

"Hush!" he groaned. "It is all right--it is all right now."

"Do you believe me?"

"Yes, yes. Don't cry--don't be unhappy--now."

She raised her head and fumbled in her corsage with shaking fingers,
and drew from her bosom a packet of papers.

"Here are the sketches," she sobbed; "they have cost you dear! Now
leave me--hate me! Let them come and take me--I do not want to live
any more. Oh, what punishment on earth!"

Her suffering was unendurable to the man who had suffered through her;
he turned on me, quivering in every limb.

"We must start," he said, hoarsely. "Give me your revolver."

I drew it from my hip-pocket and passed it to him.

"Scarlett," he began, "if we don't reach--"

A quick rapping at the door silenced him; the young Countess stood in
the hallway, bright-eyed, but composed, asking for me.

"The red and the white lights are gone," she said. "There are four
green lights on the tower and four blue lights on the halyards."

I turned to Eyre. "This is interesting," I said, grimly. "I set
signals for the Fer-de-Lance to land in force. Somebody has changed
them. You had better get ready to go."

Sylvia had shrunk away from Eyre. The Countess looked at her blankly,
then at me.

"Madame," I said, "there is little enough of happiness in the
world--so little that when it comes it should be welcomed, even by
those who may not share in it."

And I bent nearer and whispered the truth.

Then I went to Sylvia, who stood there tremulous, pallid.

"You serve your country at a greater risk than do the soldiers of
your King," I said. "There is no courage like that which discounts a
sordid, unhonored death. You have my respect, mademoiselle."

"Sylvia!" murmured the young Countess, incredulously; "you a
spy?--here--under my roof?"

Sylvia unconsciously stretched out one hand toward her.

Eyre stepped to her side, with an angry glance at Madame de Vassart.

"I--I love you, madame," whispered Sylvia. "I only place my own
country first. Can you forgive me?"

The Countess stood as though stunned; Eyre passed her slowly,
supporting Sylvia to the door.

"Madame," I said, "will you speak to her? Your countries, not your
hearts, are at war. She did her duty."

"A spy!" repeated the Countess, in a dull voice. "A spy! And she
brings this--this shame on me!"

Sylvia turned, standing unsteadily. For a long time they looked at
each other in silence, their eyes wet with tears. Then Eyre lifted
Sylvia's hand and kissed it, and led her away, closing the door
behind.

The Countess still stood in the centre of the room, transfixed, rigid,
staring through her tears at the closed door. With a deep-drawn breath
she straightened her shoulders; her head drooped; she covered her face
with clasped hands.

Standing there, did she remember those who, one by one, had betrayed
her? Those who first whispered to her that love of country was a
narrow creed; those who taught her to abhor violence, and then failed
at the test--Bazard, firing to kill, going down to death under the
merciless lance of an Uhlan; Buckhurst, guilty of every crime that
attracted him; and now Sylvia, her friend, false to the salt she had
eaten, false to the roof above her, false, utterly false to all save
the land of her nativity.

And she, Éline de Trécourt, a soldier's daughter and a Frenchwoman,
had been used as a shield by those who were striking her own
mother-land--the country she once had denied; the country whose
frontiers she knew not in her zeal for limitless brotherhood; the
blackened, wasted country she had seen at Strasbourg; the land for
which the cuirassiers of Morsbronn had died!

"What have I done?" she cried, brokenly--"what have I done that this
shame should come upon me?"

"You have done nothing," I said, "neither for good nor evil in this
crisis. But Sylvia has; Sylvia the spy. That a man should give up his
life for a friend is good; that a woman offer hers for her country is
better. What has it cost her? The friendship of the woman she
worships--you, madame! It has cost her that already, and the price may
include her life and the life of the man she loves. She has done her
duty; the sacrifice is still burning; I pray it may spare her and
spare him."

I walked to the door and laid my hand on the brass knob.

"The world is merciless to failures," I said. "Yet even a successful
spy is scarcely tolerated among the Philistines; a captured spy is a
horror for friends to forget and for enemies to destroy in righteous
indignation. Madame, I know, for I have served your country in Algiers
as a spy,... not from patriotism, for I am an alien, but because I was
fitted for it in my line of duty. Had I been caught I should have
