" I 'm willing to wait for Ellen." 
" She seems," said Mrs. Kenton, " to have more 
sense than both the other children put together, and 
I was afraid " 
" She might easily have more sense than Boyne, 
or Lottie, either." 
" Well, I don 't know," Mrs. Kenton began. But 
she did not go on to resent the disparagement which 
she had invited. "What I was afraid of was her 
goodness. It was her goodness that got her into 
the trouble, to begin with. If she hadn 't been so 
good, that fellow could never have fooled her as 
he did. She was too innocent." 
 
The judge could not forbear the humorous view. 
" Perhaps she 's getting wickeder, or not so innocent. 
At any rate, she doesn 't seem to have been taken 
in by Trannel." 
" He didn 't pay any attention to her. He was 
all taken up with Lottie." 
" Well, that was lucky. Sarah," said the judge, 
" do you think he is like Bittridge ?" 
" He 's made me think of him all the time." 
" It 's curious," the judge mused. " I have always 
noticed how our faults repeat themselves, but I 
didn 't suppose our fates would always take the 
same shape, or something like it." Mrs. Kenton 
stared at him. " When this other one first made up 
to us on the boat my heart went down. I thought 
of Bittridge so." 
"Mr. Breckon?" 
" Yes, the same lightness ; the same sort of tri 
fling Didn 't you notice it?" 
" No yes, I noticed it. But I wasn 't afraid for 
an instant. I saw that he was good." 
"Oh!" 
"What I 'm afraid of now is that Ellen doesn 't 
care anything about him." 
"He isn 't wicked enough?" 
"I don 't say that. But it would be too much 
happiness to expect in one short life." 
The judge could not deny the reasonableness of 
her position. He could only oppose it: "Well, I 
don 't think we ve had any more than our share of 
happiness lately." 
XXV 
No one except Boyne could have made Trannel 's 
behavior a cause of quarrel, but the other Kentons 
made it a cause of coldness which was quite as ef 
fective. In Lottie this took the form of something 
so active, so positive, that it was something more 
than a mere absence of warmth. Before she came 
down to breakfast the next morning she studied 
a stare in her mirror, and practised it upon Trannel 
so successfully when he came up to speak to her 
that it must have made him doubt whether he had 
ever had her acquaintance. In his doubt he vent 
ured to address her, and then Lottie turned her 
back upon him in a manner that was perfectly con 
vincing. He attempted a smiling ease with Mrs. 
Kenton and the judge, but they shared neither 
his smile nor his ease, and his jocose questions 
about the end of yesterday 's adventures, which he 
had not been privy to, did not seem to appeal to the 
American sense of humor in them. Ellen was not 
with them, nor Boyne, but Trannel was not asked to 
take either of the vacant places at the table, even 
when Breckon took one of them, after a decent ex 
change of civilities with him. He could only saun 
ter away and leave Mrs. Kenton to a little pang. 
 
 
Tchkl" she made. " I 'm sorry for him." 
" So am I," said the judge. " But he will get 
over it only too soon, I 'm afraid. I don 't believe 
he 's very sorry for himself." 
They had not advised with Breckon, and he did 
not feel authorized to make any comment. He seem 
ed preoccupied, to Mrs. Kenton 's eye, when she turn 
ed it upon him from Trannel 's discomfited back, 
lessening in the perspective, and he answered vague 
ly to her overture about his night 's rest. Lottie 
never made any conversation with Breckon, and she 
now left him to himself, with some remnants of the 
disapproval which she found on her hands after 
crushing Trannel. It could not be said that Breckon 
was aware of her disapproval, and the judge had no 
apparent consciousness of it. He and Breckon tried 
to make something of each other, but failed, and 
it all seemed a very defeating sequel to Mrs. Ken- 
ton after the triumphal glow of the evening before. 
When Lottie rose, she went with her, alleging her 
wish to see if Boyne had eaten his breakfast. She 
confessed, to Breckon 's kind inquiry, that Boyne did 
not seem very well, and that she had made him take 
his breakfast in his room, and she did not think 
it necessary to own, even to so friendly a witness 
as Mr. Breckon, that Boyne was ashamed to come 
down, and dreaded meeting Trannel so much that 
she was giving him time to recover his self-respect 
and courage. 
As soon as she and Lottie were gone Breckon 
began, rather more formidably than he liked, but 
 
helplessly so: "Judge Kenton, I should be glad of 
a few moments with you on on an important on 
a matter that is important to me." 
"Well," said the judge, cautiously. Whatever 
was coming, he wished to guard himself from the 
mistake that he had once so nearly fallen into, and 
that still made him catch his breath to think of. 
" How can I be of use to you ?" 
"I don 't know that you can be of any use I 
don 't know that I ought to speak to you. But I 
thought you might perhaps save me from save my 
taking a false step." 
He looked at Kenton as if he would understand, 
and Kenton supposed that he did. He said, "My 
daughter once mentioned your wish to talk with 
me." 
"Your daughter?" Breckon stared at him in 
stupefaction. 
" Yes ; Ellen. She said you wished to consult me 
about going back to your charge in New York, when 
we were on the ship together. But I don 't know 
that I 'm very competent to give advice in such " 
"Oh!" Breckon exclaimed, in a tone of immense 
relief, which did not continue itself in what he went 
on to say. "That! I ve quite made up my mind 
to go back." He stopped, and then be burst out, 
" I want to speak with you about her." The judge 
sat steady, still resolute not to give himself away, 
and the young man scarcely recovered from what 
had been a desperate plunge in adding: "I know 
that it 's usual to speak with her with the lady 
 
herself first, but I don 't know ! The circumstances 
are peculiar. You only know about me what you ve 
seen of me, and I would rather make my mistakes 
in the order that seems right to me, although it 
