"After she had been to see you. It was my fault, then."
"What was your fault?"
"When we went downstairs, I thought I should never see her again, and I
never meant to. How could I know what she felt? She never betrayed
herself by a glance or a tone of her voice. I loved her with all my
heart, and when you had both told me that everything was quite over
between you, I wanted her to know that I did. Was that disloyal to you,
since you had definitely given up the hope of marrying her, and since I
did not expect to see her again for years and thought she was quite
indifferent?"
"No," Guido answered, after a moment's thought. "But you should have
told me at once."
"When I came upstairs the Countess was still there, and you were quite
worn out. I put you to bed, meaning to tell you that same evening, after
you had rested. When I came back you had brain fever, and did not know
me. So I have had to wait until to-day."
"And you have seen each other constantly while I have been ill, of
course," said Guido, with some bitterness. "It was natural, I suppose."
"Since that day when we spoke on the staircase we have only been alone
together once, for a moment. I asked her then if I should tell her
mother, and she said 'Not yet.' Excepting that, we have never exchanged
a word that you and her mother might not have heard, nor a glance that
you might not have seen. We both knew that we were waiting for you to
get well, and we have waited."
Guido looked at him with a sort of wonder.
"That was like you," he said quietly.
"You understand, now," Lamberti continued. "You and I met her on the
same day at your aunt's, and when I saw her, I felt as if I had always
known her and loved her. No one can explain such things. Then by a
strange coincidence we dreamt the same dream, on the same night."
"Was it she whom you met in the Forum, and who ran away from you?" asked
Guido, in astonishment.
"Yes. That is the reason why we always avoided each other, and why I
would not go to their house till you almost forced me to. We had never
spoken alone together till the garden party. It was then that we found
out that our dreams were alike, and after that I kept away from her more
than ever, but I dreamt of her every night."
"So that was your secret, that afternoon!"
"Yes. We had dreamt of each other and we had met in the Forum in the
place we had dreamt of, and she ran away without speaking to me. That
was the whole secret. She was afraid of me, and I loved her, and was
beginning to know it. I thought there was something wrong with my head
and went to see a doctor. He talked to me about telepathy, but seemed
inclined to consider that it might possibly be a mere train of
coincidences. I think I have told you everything."
For a long time they sat side by side in silence, each thinking his own
thoughts.
"Is there anything you do not understand?" Lamberti asked at last.
"No," Guido answered thoughtfully. "I understand it all. It was rather a
shock at first, but I am glad you have told me. Perhaps I do not quite
understand why she wishes to see me."
"We both wish to be sure that you bear us no ill-will. I am sure she
does, and I know that I do."
There was a pause again.
"Do you think I am that kind of friend?" Guido asked, with a little
sadness. "After what you have done, too?"
"I am afraid my mere existence has broken up your life, after all,"
Lamberti answered.
"You must not think that. Please do not, my friend. There is only one
thing that could hurt me now that it is all over."
"What is that?"
"I am not afraid that it will happen. You are not the kind of man to
break her heart."
"No," Lamberti answered very quietly. "I am not."
"It was only a dream for me, after all," Guido said, after a little
while. "You have the reality. She used to talk of three great questions,
and I remember them now as if I heard her asking them: 'What can I know?
What is it my duty to do? What may I hope?' Those were the three."
"And the answers?"
"Nothing, nothing, nothing. Those are my answers. Unless----"
He stopped.
"Unless--what?" Lamberti asked.
Guido smiled a little.
"Unless there is really something beyond it all, something essentially
true, something absolute by nature."
Lamberti had never known his friend to admit such a possibility even
under a condition.
"At all events," Guido added, "our friendship is true and absolute.
Shall we go home? I feel a little tired."
Lamberti helped him to the carriage and drew the light cover over his
knees before getting in himself. Then they drove down towards the city,
by the long and beautiful drive, past the Acqua Paola and San Pietro in
Montorio.
"You must go and see her this evening," Guido said gently, as they came
near the Palazzo Farnese. "Will you tell her something from me? Tell
her, please, that it would be a little hard for me to talk with her now,
but that she must not think I am not glad that she is going to marry my
best friend."
"Thank you. I will say that." Lamberti's voice was less steady than
Guido's.
"And tell her that I will write to her from the Tyrol."
"Yes."
It was over. The two men knew that their faithful friendship was
unshaken still, and that they should meet on the morrow and trust each
other more than ever. But on this evening it was better that each should
go his own way, the one to his solitude and his thoughts, the other to
the happiest hour of his life.
                             CHAPTER XXVIII
On the following afternoon Lamberti waited for Cecilia at the Villa
Madama, and she came not long after him, with Petersen. He had been to
the Palazzo Massimo in the evening, and a glance and a sign had
explained to her that all was well. Then they had sat together awhile,
talking in a low tone, while the Countess read the newspaper. When
Lamberti had given Guido's brave message, they had looked earnestly at
each other, and had agreed to tell her mother the truth at once, and to
meet on the morrow at the villa, which was Cecilia's own house, after
all. For they felt that they must be really alone together, to say the
only words that really mattered.
The head gardener had admitted Lamberti to the close garden, by the
outer steps, but had not let him into the house, as he had received no
orders. When Cecilia came, he accompanied her with the keys and opened
wide the doors of the great hall. Cecilia and Lamberti did not look at
each other while they waited, and when the man was gone away Cecilia
told Petersen to sit down in the court of honour on the other side of
the little palace. Petersen went meekly away and left the two to
themselves.
They walked very slowly along the path towards the fountain, and past
it, to the parapet at the other end, where they had talked long ago. But
as they passed the bench, they glanced at it quietly, and saw that it
was still in its place. Cecilia had not been at the villa since the
afternoon before Guido fell ill, and Lamberti had never come there since
the garden party in May.
They stood still before the low wall and looked across the shoulder of
the hill. Saving commonplace words at meeting, they had not spoken yet.
Cecilia broke the silence at last, looking straight before her, her lids
low, her face quiet, almost as if she were in a dream.
"Have we done all that we could do, all that we ought to do for him?"
she asked. "Are you sure?"
"We can do nothing more," Lamberti answered gravely.
"Tell me again what he said. I want the very words."
"He said, 'Tell her that it would be a little hard for me to talk with
her now, but that she must not think I am not glad that she is going to
marry my best friend.' He said those words, and he said he would write
to you from the Tyrol. He leaves to-morrow night."
"He has been very generous," Cecilia said softly.
"Yes. He will be your best friend, as he is mine."
She knew that it was true.
"We have done what we can," Lamberti continued presently. "He has given
all he has, and we have given him what we could. The rest is ours."
He took her hand and drew her gently, turning back towards the fountain.
